--- Page 2 ---
ONT

H

HIGH CO

LY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
MMISSIONER FOR GERMANY -

--- Page 3 ---
Denmark’s Harbors Modernized,
Trade Boosted by ECA Funds

American lift trucks, first imported into Denmark under
the Marshall Plan, so impressed Danish industry that
$1,000,000 worth were ordered. Top left, little trucks speed
port operations at Copenhagen. Top right, jeep-hauled
trucks replace old, horse-drawn farm wagons, Center left,
skeptical fishermen watch installation of depth recorders
for locating fish, but soon were convinced. Center right,
Denmark's new generation benefits by building made
possible through ECA aid to economy. Little Aase Nielsen
smiles happily as she helps family move into new house.
Right, the Hotel Codan, overlooking Copenhagen harbor,
is one of six hotels built to help Denmark appreciably
boost tourist accommodation by 1951 ‘and thus earn an
estimated additional $10,000,000 a year in hard currencies.

--- Page 4 ---
el de nd

ee ‘AUG 16 1951 Re i

ms! Ay op ages,
Information , > au

Bulleti

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupa-
tion in Germany.

Editorial Offices
Headquarters Building, Room 263-A
Frankfurt, Germany

Editor H. Warner Waid
Editorial Writer Aileen S, Miles
Editorial Writer Beth MacVicar

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted with credit
to the Information Bulletin and the
author or source cited with the article.

COVER PICTURE

HIS FIRST REAL SHOES—This six-
year-old Berlin schoolboy, who had
worn only wooden shoes before, grins
with delight as he gets his first pair
of leather shoes—a service of UNICEF,
the United Nations’ organization for
aiding needy children. The story of
UNICEF and its work in Germany as
well as other European countries be-
gins on page 22. (UNICEF photo)

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

January 1950

Our German Problem Today . 3
Statement by Henry A. Byroade

Labor Picture . i A
Article by Harvey w. Brown

Courage to Love. .
Address by Dr. Phieodor ens

Constitutional Development of German Federal Republic
Review by Anton Pabsch and S. L. Wahrhaftig

Esslingen Youth Week . .
Picture Story by Nicholas Semaschko, Jr.

Housing Survey .
Employee Morale . 3
Article by Chester E. Beunan®

Returned Masterworks
Article by Theodore Allen. Héintich

Radio Institute . .
Address by Ralph Nicholson

Holy Year Pilgrimage . “
UNICEF—United Nations’ Aid for py Children .
Patents System

Article by Victor L. Billings.

Resident Officers
Summary of Zonal Collerences

Rehabilitation of Communications :
Pictorial Article by Eugene H. Merrill.

Free Tuition .
Article by Dr. eerie ait ‘Oliner!

Ambassadors in Khaki . . .
Article by Dr. W. P. Shotstall

Local Self-Rule . . .
Broadcast by Dr. ‘Albert C. Schweizés

Penicillin—Produced in Germany
Article by Walter E. Burkhard

Report to The People ‘
Text of AFN Broadcast

Personnel Notes

Winter Tourists

Communist Party
Fifth in Political Parties Series

German Editorials
Official Notices Rigtah Waiter aeresban e
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS ~
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

10

12
13

15

19

21

27

29

36

37

39

Al

43

46
48
49

58

68

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

APO 757, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Our German Problem Today

By HENRY A. BYROADE ‘
Director, Bureau of German Affairs
US Department of State

N ALL OUR PLANS for Germany, one fact stands out. We can never succeed in our mission unless
the German people can be brought wholly within the family of free nations, and can accept of

their own will the principles by which free people live. Whether we were right or wrong in our
endeavor to assist in the rehabilitation of Germany as a nation will depend ultimately upon the spirit
which the new Germany demonstrates in thought and action.

We have sought to reduce the conditions of economic misery and political frustration which were
the heritage of the war and amidst which democracy could never flourish. It is our further duty to
do all which legitimately may be done to sway German thinking in the direction of democracy, of
respect for the free individual, of peace.

There have been recently some vigorous expressions of concern lest this government has renounced
this vital part of its mission, now that we have voluntarily curbed our own powers and delegated far-
reaching authority to a new German government. To our ears—those of us engaged in the daily business
of shaping United States policy in Germany—these expressions of concern were sweet music. For they
were a clear indication that important elements of the American people understand the tremendous
importance of a continued and augmented effort to influence German thinking and are apparently
willing to support their government in this effort by giving what assistance they can...

E REALIZE that no conquering power can “reeducate” another people; it can at best assist in

creating those conditions which make reeducation possible. We are not deterred by the thoughtless
charge that our German policy is a failure because in four short years we have failed to convert
the German people to a love of democracy and freedom and the ways of peace. Such a task is
one not of years but of a generation.

We are encouraged in this effort by the realization that there is much of true greatness and worth
in the German cultural heritage which may furnish inspiration to all Germans of good will. The cele-
bration throughout the world this year (1949) of the bicentennial of Goethe's birth is a reminder that there
are great resources in Germany's intellectual tradition which may be drawn upon in the work before us.

But it may be asked, what can we actually do, in view of the situation created by the Occupation
Statute? It is true that, with the establishment of the High Commission and of the new German govern-
ment, we will no longer seek to enforce educational reform by coercion, nor to curb free expression
of ideas by censorship, license or direct control. May not the Germans misuse their new freedom to
disseminate Nazi or other anti-democratic concepts?

The danger exists. At this delicate transition stage the occupying powers are maintaining a close
watch to see that German schools, the press and other information media do not succumb to revived
Nazi influence. If necessary the emergency powers provided for by the Occupation Statute may be
invoked to prevent such a development. However, we hope that emergency measures will not prove
necessary...

OU CAN HELP by making possible, through your own initiative and assistance, many “exchange”
or orientation visits of German leaders of opinion to this country (United States). This government
plans to expand this program considerably and relies on your support for its success.

You can help your government with its job in Germany by making available information, material
equipment and, above all, trained personnel—all badly needed at the present time... You can help
by presenting and interpreting the German problem fully and fairly to the American public. The State
Department and the Office of the High Commissioner will make readily accessible to the press all the
information that it is possible to disclose...

This government has undertaken in Germany perhaps the most difficult single task in the whole
field of its foreign policy. It is a job which demands the utmost of us all, in patient effort and under-
standing. The interests of many other nations are deeply involved, and these we must consider most
carefully in the development of our own policies. I trust that through our concerted efforts Germany
may be enabled to become a stronghold of peace in Europe and a worthy member of the brotherhood
of democratic peoples. +END

This is a digest of the address delivered by Mr. Byroade at the meeting of the Southern Newspaper
Publishers Association on Oct. 31.

INFORMATION BULLETIN > JANUARY 1950

--- Page 6 ---
Labor Picture

—— Impressions of First-Hand Survey

: By HARVEY W. BROWN
Director, Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG

N AN EFFORT to get a first-hand knowledge of the

problems facing German labor, German business and
industry, and the German government, I have been
making, since my arrival here in August, a series of
orientation trips to the various industrial and govern-
mental centers in the states of the US Zone.

I have traveled the length and breadth of western
Germany in an attempt to “get the feel” of West Ger-
many and its people. I have visited such cities as Berlin,
Bremen, Hanover, Frankfurt, Wiesbaden, Darmstadt, Stutt-
gart and Munich, and have talked to German workers,
labor leaders, industrialists, businessmen, professional
people and government leaders.

As a result of my travels, conversations and observa-
tions, I have gained the following impressions:

1, That the growing unemployment problem is one of
the greatest facing both the government and organized
labor.

2, That the serious refugee and expellee problem is
part and parcel of the larger unemployment picture and
is a constantly growing threat to the economic well-
being of the western state.

3. That one of the greatest needs in the field of labor-
management relations is for management and trade union
leaders to get together for conferences regularly and
frequently.

4, That dne of the greatest problems of industry is the
reducing of production costs in order to widen the do-
mestic market and to enable German goods to compete
in foreign markets.

5, That the major needs of the German economy are:

a) A larger and more general domestic market for

German goods,

b) A tax reform to distribute the burden of government

more equitably.

c) An extensive program for housing.

d) Low cost credit for home building.

e) Extension of credit for industrial enterprise at a

reasonable cost.

f) Development of international

markets.

trade and foreign

Labor Affairs Director for HICOG Harvey W. Brown gets
@ first-hand briefing on labor conditions in the field as
he confers with experts on the German labor situation.
(L to R), Francis E, Sheehan, Deputy State Commissioner
for Hesse, Dr. James R. Newman, State Commissioner for
Hesse, Mr. Brown, Joseph Arndgen, Hessian Minister of
Labor, and E.K.Neumann, Director of Public Affairs, OLCH.

JANUARY 1950

NEMPLOYMENT RECENTLY has taken a turn for the

worse with the passing of the high employment
period of the summer and fall. I have gained the im-
pression that much too little is being done on this problem
and that the problem is spread very unevenly throughout
the western areas.

In the Bizonal Area in October there were 94 unem-
ployed to every 1,000 in the working force. A similar
proportion of unemployment in the United States would
mean that 6,000,000 would be out of work.

Because of the more favorable employment picture in
the French Zone, the figure for the unemployed in the
Trizonal Area in October was 88 to every 1,000 in the
working force.

Unemployment varied from state to state and city to
city. In the French states it ran from 22 to 52 per 1,000
while in the Bizonal Area—UK and US Zones—it ran
from 43 per 1,000 in North Rhine-Westphalia to 222 per
1,000 in Schleswig-Holstein, both in the British Zone, In
the American Zone, it was from 47 per 1,000 in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden to 129 per 1,000 in Bavaria. In Lower Saxony
139 per 1,000 were unemployed, in Hamburg 95 per 1,000,
and in Bremen 86 per 1,000, The greatest and most acute
unemployment is in Berlin, where 263 out of every 1,000
in the work force were jobless,

ROM THE ABOVE figures, one realizes that unem-

ployment is a tremendous problem and a growing
threat to the economy both from the loss of the useful
work and from the cost of social insurance and relief
payments. This is particularly true in Berlin, Schleswig-
Holstein, Lower Saxony and Bavaria,

In the latter three areas the problem has been magni-
fied to even more serious proportions by the constant
influx of refugees from the eastern areas of Europe. This
fact makes the so-called “refugee problem" just another
phase of the larger unemployment problem. I am con-
vinced that the two cannot be separated.

In Bavaria, where the refugee and expellee problems
are especially acute, I saw the need to know the talents

--- Page 7 ---
and skills of the people so as to be able to plan for
their use in other areas.

In the areas where chances of work are best, as a
rule, I found that the housing problem was most acute.

In a number of cities one finds that many natives
have been forced to live in the outlying villages because
their homes were destroyed during the war; this while
thousands of refugees have been housed in those same
cities. Bremen is an example, where it is estimated that
about 30,000 Bremenites have been forced to live outside
the city although their work is still in the city. This
situation makes for much dissatisfaction.

There is great need to find more work-places in order
to give these people employment. One way of doing this
is to furnish credit and other aid to enable the refugees
themselves to set up new refugee industries and thus to
utilize the skills which they have brought with them
into western Germany, or the new skills many of them
have learned while they have been awaiting a chance
for settlement.

HAVE FELT that the managements of industry are

missing much in not meeting more frequently with the
Jeaders of labor—not only with those from their own
plants, but with trade union general officers.

I have been gratified to find a few plants where the
tendency seemed to be growing for management and the
union to work out the problems of the industry for
themselves around a conference table rather than to rely
on government machinery or labor courts. It seems im-
portant to me for management and labor in their relations
to rely on themselves to work out their mutual problems
on a basis of cooperative understanding ‘of one another's
objectives; for we all know that “what the government
gives it can also easily take away.”

One of the greatest opportunities for gain on the part
of both management and labor, from such a program of
cooperative and consultative effort, it seems to me, lies
in the chance for improving the efficiency of industrial
processes and production through cooperation on @
plant by plant basis. Labor and management, working
together, can eliminate waste and inefficiencies and can
find improved methods of production without workers
having to work harder, The fruits of such saving should
pe shared by workers, consumers and management.

I was impressed by the fact that none of the employers
whom I talked to in Germany feels that wages are too
high; that most of them feel the present tax rate is
exorbitant; that most of them are worried about how to
recoup foreign markets so that by the time ERP aid ends,
German exports would balance the minimum import
requirements; that many of them are concerned about
Communist agitation among their workers.

ANY EMPLOYERS agreed that a larger volume of

production at lower prices would increase the
internal market to the advantage of management, con-
sumers and workers, and would also strengthen the com-
petitive position of German exporters in the world
markets. They admitted that their costs were too high
and would have to be reduced to expand sales; but said

INFORMATION BULLETIN

that the greatest impediment to lower production costs
was the exorbitant tax rate.

One industrialist claimed one effect of high taxes was
that they made the individual workers impervious to
production incentives.

In Hesse, I was told that employers and trade unions
are becoming aware of the importance of the political
complexion of trade unions; and that the main political
parties are realizing that they must concern themselves
with trade union activities, and with the political makeup
of the works councils in industrial plants, if they are
successfully to compete with the Communist Party, which
directs much of its effort toward gaining dominance in
the works councils and influencing trade union policies.

Employers in Stuttgart, Frankfurt, Wiesbaden, Bremen,
Berlin and Munich generally expressed some doubts
about economic co-determination, i.e., a voice in eco-
nomic questions, by the works councils while generally
agreeing to the riglit of co-determination in regard to
social questions.

S I HAVE COME more and more into contact with

the German trade unions, their leaders and the rank
and file workers, I have been gratified to see the ten-
dency for the trade unions to develop more and more
self-reliance, to depend less upon the government or the
state for aid in settling differences with management, and
in accomplishing other union objectives. I have felt this
self-reliance is necessary in the interest of developing a
truly independent, democratic trade union movement.

I have also felt that the democratic character of the
unions would grow, and the movement would gain in
strength, stature and influence if they encourage and
gain greater and greater participation of the rank and
file in the activities and the determination of the policies
of the organization.

The unions, I found, support the system of works coun-
cils in manufacturing and commercial establishments,
elected annually by all the employees regardless of their
trade union membership.

I have been informed that the only influence the Com-
munists have among the workers in western Germany is in
these same works councils. I have been told that the Com-
munists hold no position of any moment in any general
labor federation—state or federal, in western Germany,
nor in the trizonal organization of the industrial unions.

ERMAN UNION leaders have told me they see no

disadvantage to their organization in the practice
of extending to all workers in a plant or industry, the
wage increases or improvements in working conditions
obtained solely through the efforts of the trade unions.
They do not favor a closed shop or any form of auto-
matic union membership.

The trade unions support the idea of co-decision
(Mitbestimmungsrecht). A Bavarian trade union leader
explained that the major concern of the trade unions has
been greater participation in the planning and direction
of the over-all economy. He interpreted this as meaning
that the trade unions must have a voice as equals in the
economic policy deliberations of the industry and handi-

(Continued on page 26)

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 8 ---
Courage to Love
—— Test for Christian-Jewish Relations

. By DR. THEODOR HEUSS
President of the Federal Republic of Germany

HE PRESENT TRANSITION period offers almost no
escape from the conflict between rationalistic
pragmatism and instinctive emotion, but the climate of
opinion we find ourselves in when discussing the issue
of Christian-Jewish disputation is not a new one, The
same climate prevailed once before, in the much-maligned
18th century. It is part of the tawdriness of our times and
of our country that we belittle the 18th century, whereas
the Americans are proud that their strength was and is
drawn from it. The very word “enlightenment” has
become a term of scorn among the German intelligentsia.
There is no point in beating about the bush. We must
speak up about the fiendish injustice meted out to the
Jewish people, asking ourselves: ‘Because we lived in
Germany, are we also guilty of this fiendish injustice?
Am I? Are you?” Four years ago this question agitated
people, here and abroad. It prompted the talk of the
German people's “collective guilt.”

The term “collective guilt" and its implications are an
oversimplification, a distortion of the kind pounded home
by the Nazis in talking about the Jews, In their eyes the
mere fact that someone was a Jew automatically proved
him guilty. But something like “collective shame’ did
grow up in that time and has remained with us, Hitler
injured us in many ways, but that he drove us to the point
of being ashamed of calling ourselves Germans in the
same breath with him and his henchmen, that was the
foulest blow of all,

I am well aware that some people will be annoyed by
these words . . . In the weeks to come I shall receive
letters, including anonymous and open ones. To be the
recipient of such missives has, in a manner of speaking,
become one of the passive functions of my office, and
what I am saying is not intended to swell their flow. But
even if that were to be its effect, it would not deter me.

E MUST NOT simply choose the way of least re-

sistance and forget the things which people would
like to forget. We must neither forget the Nuremberg
Racial Laws nor the Star of David which Jews had to
display on their person, neither the burning of the
Synagogues nor the deportation of the Jews into disaster
and death. Those are facts which we should not forget,
which we must not forget, because

when such things happened in Russia and Rumania, but to
the cold-blooded cruelty of pseudo-legalistic premeditation.
It would have been bad enough if they had been due to
an outburst of emotion. But the nightmarish and specific
German contribution to this phenomenon was precisely
that no emotion was involved, Instead there was a show
of sham legalism and a pretense that long-range ideological
considerations were at stake, What kind of ideology? It
was biological materialism, devoid of mora] standards but
claiming to have supplanted them, and completely ignorant
of each man's individual merit.

We all live from the fullness of our experiences, Permit
me, therefore, to make a few personal observations about
the problem of Jews and Germans, of Judaism and
‘Christianity. I have very many Jewish acquaintances.
When I look back to the four or five closest friends I
have, those who shared my life and helped to shape it,
then I note that two or three of them were Jews, Was Ia
friend of theirs because they were Jews, or in spite of it?
I was a friend of theirs because our contacts kindled the
spark of human love, There were other Jews whom I
avoided, not because they were Jews but because they
did not seem congenial. Even today there are some people
whom I avoid and who are, let us use the word just this
once, Aryans,

OW THE ERUPTION of benightedness forced us at

the time to accept this nefarious system of categoriza-
tion is best shown by this very word “Aryan.” Why do
I say this? Because, even when we have to deal with
far-reaching problems, we must shake off this lazy habit
of using sweeping evaluations to appraise human beings.
We must not keep saying: “It's because he is an English-
man,” or a Frenchman, a German, or a Jew, No, that simply
will not do. In our relations with our fellow-men we
must once again esteem each one dispassionately for
what he is worth,

Even though the Jews in Germany no longer constitute
a physical problem, we are still confronted by the Jewish
problem as a moral issue.

I believe I am familiar enough with the so-called Jewish
question, if there be such a thing. During my student
days I formed friendships with Zionists that have lasted

to this day. We discussed the problem

‘we must not follow the path of least
resistance.

The horror of these events, of
which we are speaking frankly, is
that they were not due to the aroused
fanaticism of the pogroms, about

This article is a digest of a
translation from the German of
the address which Dr. Heuss
delivered at a meeting of the
Wiesbaden Council of Christians
and Jews Dec. 7.

whether people who are nationals of
many countries can, by virtue of their
common faith, form a new nation.
I had friends among other Jews who
wanted to divest Judaism of its
historical traditions without casting
off the ties of ritual and belief.

which we used to read in the papers

JANUARY 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
Then we are faced with a problem which we previously
never considered as such—the position of Christians of
Jewish descent who were thrust back into a tragic
situation, I should really not say “thrust back,” however.
They were thrust into this tragic situation because, secure
in their Christianity and their German identity, they were
without guile and ignorant of their Jewish extraction,
which had suddenly become a crime, It is an unprecedented
stream of suffering and desperation and insecurity that
has flown from this source,

T IS REMARKABLE that many Germans were inclined

. to visualize a Jew in the pattern of national socialist
terminology. People of good will who had known Jews
did not accept that stereotype, but even they were
usually unaware of the grand colorfulness and the fruitful
tension of Judaism, or of the social structure of German
Jewry, for instance,

I know something about all this. I have known about
the good Jewish petty-bourgeois citizenry whose mode of
life seemed to have survived from the picturesque Bieder-
meier era at the beginning of the last century. Side by side
with and in contrast to them, I also knew what was
described, and later misrepresented, as the Jewish in-
telligentsia—brilliant, sometimes possessed of corrosive
wit, but almost always fascinating. I know the intellectual
stimulation for good and bad ends that could be derived
from such contacts. From these tensions I—and not I
alone—have gained much, Unless we want to deceive
ourselves, we should not permit all this to slip into
oblivion, For a time Germans permitted themselves to be
deceived, even when they did not deceive themselves.

Let me give you an example, During the Nazi period a
German “History of Art during the 19th Century" was
published, Naturally, Max Liebermann was not included
in it, but even Marees and Hildebrand who belong among
the eight greatest Germans, were omitted because
they were the sons of Jewish mothers, For that reason
the value of their achievement was automatically drowned
in a sea of stupidity and brutality,

F THE NOBEL PRIZE winners in the field of science,

more than one-fourth bore German-Jewish names, It
actually came to pass that a German professor was
obtuse enough to write a mathematics textbook ex-
pounding the thesis that no concepts first discovered by
Jews were acceptable. Those are things about which we
should speak freely, so as to avoid the path of least
resistance that skirts the problem. Germany has lost im-
measurably through this madness, through this towering
madness,

The many letters that reach me from all corners of the
globe are part of the experience of this age which I
have been privileged to gather. Many of them were
written by Jews deprived of their homeland, If I may be
permitted a personal remark, I would like to say that it
almost seems to me as if the entire Jewish community
of Heilbronn* were rather proud that a local boy has
made good, even though they themselves are certainly
not responsible for it,

% Dr. Heuss grew up in the Swabian city of Heilbronn.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

It is very touching how the thoughts of these people
go back to their home town, where the memories of their
youth are rooted, where the soil was their soil. We must
feel something of that which goes on in the minds of these
people who were robbed of their homes, only because
they were Jews or half-Jews. It is very difficult to
imagine ourselves in the place of people who carried a
piece of German. history and of German intellect away
with them and who do not know what their attitude should
be to the country that has given them their native tongue
and the memories of their youth. Of all the letters which
I received only one contained a bitter observation. There
were the graves of their parents—and then they suddenly
read in the papers that these gravestones had been
overturned, that desecrations of Jewish cemeteries still
occur today,

RECENTLY SAID that each desecration of a cemetery
means a lost battle in Germany's struggle for inter-
national rehabilitation, But these desecrations are not a
manifestation of anti-Semitism. Rather, they are the
deliberate political’ mischievousness of individuals who
wish to endanger Germany's position among the nations.

Once upon a time there was the tragic problem of the
conscious Jew who was part and parcel of German culture
and contributed to its advancement. How I would love to
carry on a conversation with a man like Martin Buber
in Israel, a conscious Jew who has exalted the spiritual
heritage of Judaism and who has been an integral part
of German intellectual history during the past 40 or 50
years. With his exquisite language, he also enriched the
German heritage,

While these questions are our special problem in
Germany, they concern the entire world, We must be the
first to grapple with them in all seriousness, But it is also
incumbent upon the rest of the world to consider these
questions—and not just as an inescapable task one must
deal with as a consequence of German bungling and mal-
evolence,

I believe that in saying this I correctly interpret the
words of President Truman of a few weeks ago, He said
that next February this problem of Judaism and
Christianity, of nationality and religious particularism will
be discussed in that great country, the United States, It
concerns all peoples and all churches, It must evoke a
response in the soul of each individual.

And now the last point. To me it would appear to be
an injustice if... a mame were not mentioned which
belongs here if we have a sense of gratitude and of
dignity. It is the name of Victor Gollancz, I do not know
him, I have read some of his writings, People have told
Me about him, But no matter what the quality and
originality of his intellect, I considered him a symbol when
I first heard of him, a symbol] that there stil] exists
something I would like to call “the courage to love."

The courage to love? Does that require courage? Yes.
Hate stems from the sluggishness of the heart. It is cheap
and easy. Love is always a venture, but if nothing is
ventured, nothing will be gained. +END

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 10 ---
Constitutional Development
of the Federal Republic of Germany

By ANTON F. PABSCH
of Political. Affairs Liaison Office in Bonn
and
S. L. WAHRHAFTIG

of Internal Political & Governmental Affairs Division
Office of Political Affairs, HICOG

ON MAY 8, 1949, exactly four years after the capitu-
lation of the Third Reich, a new provisional constitu-
tion was adopted by the Parliamentary Council -for the
Federal Republic of Germany. Thus, the groundwork was
laid for one of the major objectives of the occupation—the
organization of a democratic and representative govern-
ment in Germany.

Unfortunately, due to the negative position of the USSR
on all questions pertaining to the fusion of all zones, only
the three Western zones are for the time being affected
by the unification. The constitution provides, however, for
its own extension to other areas of Germany as soon as
these declare their adherence to the basic principles of
democracy contained therein.

The need for a unified administration in Germany, at
least in the economic field, was apparent even during the
first days of the occupation, and theoretically recognized
by all four Occupying Powers. The Potsdam Agreement of
Aug. 2, 1945 envisaged an economically united Germany
as a first step toward the rehabilitation of what was lett
of Hitler's Reich after the war. Under its terms Allied
controls were to be imposed upon the German economy
to the extent necessary to insure an equitable distribution
of essential commodities between the several zones so as
to produce a balanced economy throughout Germany and
reduce the need for imports.

di Ng EFFORTS to carry out these provisions of the Pots-

dam Agreement culminated in the Foreign Ministers’
Conference which took place in Moscow in the spring of
1947, No agreement was reached at that conference on
either the creation of central German agencies or on the
preparatory steps to be undertaken for the establishment
of a German government.

However, the attempts to provide a minimum of eco-
nomic unity for Germany continued. On July 20, 1946, the
United States Military Governor informed the three other
members. of the Control Council that pending final agree-
ment on the economic unification of Germany, the United
States was prepared to enter into an agreement with any
or all of the other powers for the economic fusion of their
zones, This proposal was accepted only by the United
Kingdom for the British Zone and resulted in the conclusion
of a bizonal fusion agreement on Dec. 2, 1946 in Washing-
ton. The agreement provided for the establisment of bizonal
agencies with jurisdiction over specific economic matters

JANUARY 1950

in the British and US Zones, with appreciable administra-
tive functions.

By this time, the internal political organization of the
two zones was almost completed. The states in the US
Zone were fully organized on the bases of constitutions
adopted by popular referenda, In the British Zone, the
states were reorganized and governments responsible to
popularly elected legislatures formed. In both zones cen-
tral zonal bodies were developed, the Laenderrat (Council
of States) in the US Zone and the Zonal Advisory Council
in the British Zone, with coordinating functions extending
to interstate affairs.

The bizonal agencies soon proved inadequate, Within
the framework of the states and through national parties,
German political leaders pressed for greater self-deter-
mination and for the formation of a representative body
to supervise and make policy for the bizonal economic
administration, On the international scene the European
Recovery Program, prepared by Secretary of State Mar-
shall, began to take shape and the realization grew that
the inclusion of Germany in such a program was one of
the prerequisites for its success,

N JUNE 1947 the first ‘reorganization of the bizonal

agencies took place. The US and British Military
Governors with the approval of their governments, issued
proclamations within their.respective zones providing for

(a) a coordinated administration in the various economic
fields;

(b) the establishment of an executive committee to
supervise the work of the economic administration, and

(c) the formation of a council with legislative functions
consisting of representatives elected by the legislatures
in the various states on the basis of one representative
for 750,000 population,

In February 1948 the Bizonal Economic Administration
was again reorganized: The Economic Council was doubled
in membership, A Laenderrat, representing the state gov-
ernments and functioning as a second chamber, was
formed. Provisions were also made for the establishment
of a high court to pass on the legality of legislation and
for a central bank to coordinate the financial activities of
the zones.

Up to this point all efforts to reconstruct the German
administration were limited to economic matters, Until
the spring of 1948 it was obvious that neither the Soviet

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Profiles of Top Officials of Federal Republic

Head of the
Industrial and Market Research (1933-45),
he then became minister of economics in

Dr. Theodor Heuss (FDP), federal presi-
dent, is chairman of his party and a
member of the Parliamentary Council.
Born in 1884, Heuss majored in political
economy in Munich and Berlin and edited
several magazines before entering politics.
A member of the Democratic Party, he
was on the Berlin City Council and a
member of the Reichstag. After 1933
Heuss wrote under a pseudonym in the
Frankfurter Zeitung, and after 1945 edited
the Rhein-Neckar Zeitung and served as
minister of culture and member of the
state legislature in Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Karl Arnold (CDU), president of the
Bundesrat (upper house), was, before
Hitler, a leading figure in the Catholic
trade-union movement and after the capi-
tulation was active in rebuilding trade
unions on a non-denominational basis.
Co-founder of the CDU in Duesseldorf
and later in the Rhineland, he was unani-
mously elected mayor of Duesseldorf
in 1946 and the following year was
elected unanimously as minister president
of North Rhine-Westphalia, which position
he still holds, Arnold was a member of
the constitution drafting committee for
the three western zones and was ap-
pointed Germany's representative for
Ruhr questions, He was born in 1901.

Dr. Erich Koehler (CDU), president of
the Bundestag (lower house), majored in
political science at the Universities of
Marburg, Berlin, Leipzig and Kiel. Re-
moved from political office by the Nazis
in 1933 he was sentenced to a concen-
tration camp in 1945 but ill health
prevented carrying out of the order,
Koehler was one of the founders of his
party in Hesse and held numerous CDU
posts, including membership in the
Hessian state legislature. In 1947 he joined
the Bizonal Economic Council, of which
he was elected president. He was born
in 1892.

Dr. Konrad Adenauer (CDU), federal
chancellor, was born in 1876 and after
studying political economy at Munich,
Freiburg and Bonn, was elected deputy
mayor and later mayor of Cologne. As
a member of the Center Party, Adenauer
held various posts under the Kaiser's
government. Arrested twice by the Nazis,
Adenauer was elected party chairman of
the CDU for the British Zone in 1945 and
in 1948 became a member and president
of the Parliamentary Council.

Franz Bluecher (FDP), vice-chancellor
and ERP minister, was born in 1896 and

cial policy. After 1945 he became a
member of the Essen town council and
a member of the Zonal Advisory Council
in the British Zone. He is deputy chair-
man of the FDP in West Germany,
served on the Bizonal Economic Council
and as finance minister in the fourth
cabinet of North Rhine-Westphalia.

Dr. Gustav Heinemann (CDU), minister
of the interior, was born in 1899 and
studied at Goettingen, Munich, Marburg,
Muenster and Berlin. Managing director
of the Rhenish Steelworks in Essen, he
was elected mayor of Essen in 1946. A
prominent member of the Confessional
Church, he is president of the Synod of
Protestant Churches in Germany.

Hans Schuberth (CSU), postmaster
general, has a wide background in postal
service. He served as vice-president of
the Postal Administration in the Munich
region (1945-47) and then became presi-
dent. He also served as under secretary
of state of the Ministry of Transport in
Bavaria and director of the Bizonal
Administration of Posts and Telecom-
munications, He was born in 1897,

Heinrich Hellwege (DP), liaison minister
with the Bundesrat, was born in 1908 and
entered the import-export business in
Hamburg, One of the founders of the
German Party and its chairman, Hell-
wege was a member of the Zonal
Advisory Council and a member of the
Lower Saxony state legislature.

Jakob Kaiser (CDU), minister for
questions on all Germany, began work
as a bookbinder’s apprentice and was
active in the Catholic trade unions.
Active against Hitler, he was forced to
flee after the July plot in 1944. In 1945
he became chairman of the Soviet Zone
CDU but was dismissed in 1947. In 1948
he was a member of the Berlin City
Council and one of the Berlin re-
presentatives in the Parliamentary Council.
He was born in 1888,

Dr. Wilhelm Niklas (CSU), minister of
food, was born in 1887 and studied
agriculture and veterinary surgery. During
the first World War he served in the
War Food Office and later in the
Bavarian Agricultural Ministry. Removed
from office by the Nazis, he became
deputy Bavarian minister for food and
agriculture in 1945. In 1948 he became
director of the Administration for Food,
Agriculture and Forestry in the British
and US Zones,

Dr. Ludwig Erhard (CDU), minister of

as head of a banking concern in Essen economics, became, early in life, an
was extremely critical of the Nazi finan- outstanding expert in the field of
srecmeneReRiEe ws

INFORMATION BULLETIN

economics. Institute for

Bavaria. In March 1948 he served as
director of the Economic Administration
in Frankfurt.

Dr. Fritz Schaeffer (CSU), minister of
finance, was born in 1888 and was
employed in the Bavarian civil service.
In 1931 he became Bavarian finance
minister but resigned in 1933. He was
nominated minister president of Bavaria
by Military Government in 1945 but was
removed four months later and forbidden
political activity. Cleared of Nazi charges
in 1947, he again entered politics but
left the CSU after strong differences of
opinion, He reentered the party shortly
before election,

Anton Storch (CDU), minister of labor,
was born in 1892 and worked as a
carpenter. Active in Catholic trade unions,
he became head of the social-political
department of the trade unions’ executive
in the British Zone in 1945. He served
as a member of the zonal advisory council
and of the Bizonal Economic Council.

Dr. Hans Lukaschek (CDU), minister
for refugees, held various political posts
before he was dismissed by the Nazis
in 1933. From 1940-44 he was director of
the food and agriculture department in the
Thuringian government until dismissed
by the Soviet authorities. In 1948 he
became vice president of the Bizonal
High Court. He was a co-founder of the
CDU in Berlin, Born in 1885.

Eberhard Wildermuth (FDP), minister
of reconstruction, was born in 1890 and
held a number of posts in economic
affairs, A soldier in both World Wars,
Wildermuth became head of the Ministry
of Economics in Tuebingen in 1946.

Dr. Thomas Dehler (FDP), minister of
justice, was from 1933-42 a member of
an opposition group, He was arrested
in 1938 and sent to a forced labor camp
in 1944, Chairman of the FDP in Bavaria,
he was appointed chief prosecutor for
serious denazification cases in 1946 but
resigned after the nomination of Alfred

Loritz as denazification minister. Dehler
was born in 1897.
Dr. Hans C. Seebohm (DP), minister

of transport, was born in 1903 and served
for five years as deputy director of
mines in Upper Silesia. After holding
various commercial posts, he became,

in 1946, reconstruction and labor minister
in Lower Saxony. He was a member of
the Lower-Saxony state legislature and
of the Parliamentary Council,

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 12 ---
Union nor the Communist Party which it controlled were
interested in a unified and reconstructed Germany. It be-
came apparent that they desired the prolongation of a
status of economic disintegration not only in Germany,
but also throughout Western Europe. Russia and its satel-
lite countries rejected the European Recovery Program
and embarked on policies and propaganda which deepened
the chasm between East and West.

For Germany it meant that unless Soviet demands were
accepted neither its unification nor its participation as a
whole in the European Recovery Program was possible,
and that for the sake of western Europe and western Ger-
many the separation of the Soviet Zone must be accepted
as a basic factor in future planning.

ROM FEBRUARY to May a series of talks were held

in London between the governments interested in
Germany with a view to achieving agreement on the
administration of Germany. The conference resulted in
the London Agreement, which lays down the principles
according to which the western German government was
to be formed and the procedures under which it was to
be established. Aside from matters primarily of concern
to the Allies, like the protection of foreign interests and
the association of the Benelux countries with the program,
and aside from important matters of control like the Ruhr
Agreement and the Occupation Statute, these agreements
covered the political organization of Germany in its broad
aspects and in some constitutional detail, as well as terri-
torial reorganization of the German states in the western
zones. The latter was necessitated by frequent German

Dr. Konrad Adenauer,
Republic of Germany, presents his cabinet at the cere-
mony at Petersberg Sept. 21 on proclaiming the formation

as chancellor of the Federal

of his new government. (photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

JANUARY 1950

criticism of the boundaries of the existing states and the
still more frequent proposals for their reorganization,

The question of the reorganization of the states was left
entirely to the state ministers president. The latter, how-
ever, failed to come forth with any definite suggestion
within the time limit set forth and no internal administra-
tive changes have been effected to date. (Changes in
boundaries may, of course, still be undertaken by the
Germans in accordance with the appropriate articles of
the Basic Law.)

The question of the reorganization of the states was left
entirely to the state ministers president. The latter, how-
ever, failed to come forth with any definite suggestion
president of the states were to work out the procedural
steps required for their accomplishment, The instructions
given to the Military Governors and passed on to the
ministers president were general in outline, calling for
“a democratic constitution which will establish for the
participating states a governmental structure of federal
type which is best adapted to the eventual reestablish-
ment of German unity at present disrupted, and which
would protect the rights of the participating states, pro-
vide adequate central authority and contain guarantees
of individual rights and freedom.”

The Military Governors also informed the ministers
president of their intention, with the submission of the
constitution to the states for ratification, simultaneously
to publish an Occupation Statute which would define the
relationship between the German government and the
Allied authorities.

First official information on the London decision was
given to the ministers president on July 1, 1948, They
were requested by the Military Governors to submit
their comments and authorized to execute the decisions
of the London Agreement in so far as it contained proce-
dures requiring German cooperation, namely, to make
the necessary preparations for the convocation of the
constituent assembly and subsequently to hold the elec-
tions for the legislative bodies.

HE FIRST REACTION of the Germans to the London
Agreement was one of disappointment, They had
hoped that Germany's position would be more speci-
fically clarified and that a more definite step towards
conclusion of peace with Germany would be taken by the
Westem Allies. In the conferences held between the
ministers president and the Military Governors between
July 1 and 22, 1948, this opinion was naturally reflected,
From the very beginning, however, it was clear that
neither the ministers president nor any sizeable political
movement in Germany was inclined to reject the London
Agreement. The political parties, with the exception of
the Communists, did by and large accept the London
Agreement as the least of many evils and accompanied
their statements with lengthy criticisms.

After the first conference with the Military Governors,
the problem faced by the ministers president was how to
elicit, within the framework of the agreement, the
maximum number of advantages for the future German
state. The heads of the states themselves were not in a
very enviable position. The German political parties

(Continued on page 53)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

Youth Week

— — Democracy at Work .

By NICHOLAS SEMASCHKO, JR.
County Resident Officer

HE OLD ADAGE that children should be seen and
not heard did not apply in Esslingen last summer
when for the first time in the county's history the young
people celebrated an “All Youth Week" devoted to the
achievements, plans and aims of the younger generation.
Under the sponsorship of the county youth committee
the week. of activities ranged from costume parades to
serious forums with 17 youth organizations staging events
before 50,000 persons.

Throughout the planning stage the appointed working
committees demonstrated a spirit of cooperation and com-
promise which enabled arrangements to proceed smoothly
despite radical differences. In the week of festivities
Esslingen youth showed their ability to knit together
various and diverse groups in a common cause.

LTHOUGH LIMITED in funds, the committee printed

40,000 programs, leaflets and pamphlets promoting the
week. Apprentice type setters were used to save printing
bills, posters were designed by youthful art students, while
apprentice electricians, using equipment provided by the
city, floodlighted Esslingen’s ancient castle and key- his-
torical buildings with more than 1,000 light bulbs.

Demonstrations of camping techniques, sports events,
group singing, historical parades and mummery,.and a
variety of social events highlighted the week.

JANUARY “1950

--- Page 14 ---
From bottom left, clockwise: 1, Art students prepare
designs for Youth Week. 2. Youth in Town Guard's costumes
lead guests to opening ceremonies. 3, Youngsters stage
a Swabian folk dance in the market place. 4. Youth
leader answers questions at forum meeting, 5. Working
commiitee confers on its plans, 6. Closing ceremonies in
Esslingen's market place.

A youth forum devoted to youth problems related to
the area was acclaimed by visiting American officials
as a model in public meetings for the older generation.
A forum panel of youth group representatives offered
concise and direct answers with the exception of those
given by the Freie Deutsche Jugend (Free German Youth)
member who floundered when explaining the precise af-
filiation of his organization with that in the Soviet Zone.

program in which all participating youth groups were

given an eight-minute opportunity to explain their
programs and aims climaxed the events. Groups vied with
one another in developing techniques for “selling” their
story. The Nature Friends introduced themselves with
flowers and a song glorifying nature, while the Red Cross
youth displayed first aid equipment and the singing groups
presented a series of songs explaining their aims.

The week was officially closed on Sunday by church
services commemorating youth and by a special non-
sectarian service in the State Theater at which youth
groups recited famous old German poems and sang well-
known German hymns.

An elaborate costume parade followed the services
terminating at the market place where young boys in top
hats and false mustaches danced with girls dressed as
famous heroines in popular fairy tales. +END

JANUARY 1950

11

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
3.000.000 Homes Needed

— — Coordination in Reconstruction Urged

EED OF COORDINATION among building groups,

development of new approaches involving the use of
new methods and new techniques, and the establishment
of building centers where architects, engineers and con-
tractors may obtain information on new materials and
techniques were urged by Lawrence H. Cox, US housing
expert, who recently conducted a two-week study of
building and city planning in the US Zone and Berlin.

At the present rate of construction, he emphasized, it
will take Western Germany between 25 and 30 years to
build the 5,000,000 homes which are needed today to
relieve the overcrowding which has resulted from war
damage and the influx into western Germany of millions
of refugees from the Soviet Zone and former German
territory east of the Oder-Neisse line.

Mr. Cox, president of the National Association of
Housing Officials and director of the Norfolk, Va.,
Redevelopment and Housing Authority, visited Germany
recently as an expert consultant for the Governmental
Institutions Branch of the Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.
He returned to the United States following a survey of
housing and construction conditions in Frankfurt, Berlin,
Stuttgart, Munich and other large German cities, While
in Europe he also visited Geneva to attend a conference
of the United Nations Economic Commission for Germany,

R. COX STRESSED THAT the building industry needs
to find new approaches to the housing problem to
evolve new methods and new techniques, He added that
German architects, engineers and building contractors
should find it profitable to study new methods developed

European Study Mission of the Foreign Affairs Committee
of the House of Representatives made a week's stay in
Germany in mid-November. Photo taken at Rhine-Main
shows 1. to r., C. B. Marshall, committee staff consultant;
Carl Morcy, State Dept. representative; Col. Ralph C.
Bing, Army Dept. representative; Rep. Joseph L. Pfeifer,
New York, mission chairman; Lt. Thomas U. Pfeifer, US
Army; and Rep. Thomas S. Gordon, Ii], (PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

not only in the US but also in some of the European
countries.

“In Sweden, for example,” he said, “they have developed
new ‘techniques in the building trades which deserve
study. Also in the Netherlands, they have made quite a
lot of progress in rebuilding destroyed cities.”

Mr. Cox observed that German architects, engineers and
building contractors are proceeding with the reconstruct-
ion independent of each other and there is apparently
little or no coordination among building groups, There
are as many financing rlans for building houses as there
are Laender (states) in the US Zone and there are wide
differences, he said.

“For instance,” Mr. Cox said, “in Hesse the government
will lend up to 50 percent of the cost of construction or
reconstruction and under certain circumstances at no
interest and a minimum of one percent a year, whereas
in Berlin ona may borrow up to 100 percent of the cost of
construction but at an interest rate of three percent plus
a two percent annual amortization of the loan.”

Mr. Cox declared the degree of effective planning
varies “from one pole to the other.” He found the planning
program good in certain cities but in general the effort to
preserve existing street patterns “is often warping many
good planning projects,” and putting too many people
in too limited a space. The use of standing walls of
bombed out buildings results in many instances in false
economies,

N GERMANY," he said, “there seems to be a lack of

appreciation for the need of adequate open areas for
neighborhood play grounds for children, The emphasis
in the big cities is to provide a few large parks
throughout the city for recreational purposes.”

The expert stated there is little evidence of zoning with
few safeguards against the establishment of undesirable
industrial and commercial activities in purely residential
areas. He also mentioned the need for modernization of
the building codes.

He also cited the need for an educational program to
make the public realize the value of adequate planning.
“The people that hold the purse strings could do a lot to
encourage good planning,” he said, “Whether or not the
money is going into planned projects is not a matter of
prime concern to most of the state government. I think
the state governments in some cases need to be convinced
of the value of sound planning.”

The expert recommended the establishment of a building
center in Germany, such as exists in Rotterdam, where
architects, engineers and contractors could obtain in-
formation on newly-developed materials and techniques.

+ END

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 16 ---
Employee Morale
— — Assistance Given by Personnel Branch
By CHESTER E. BEAMAN

Chief, Employee Relations and Services Branch
Personnel Division, Office of Administration, HICOG

AFFLING AND DISHEARTENING problems bob up

constantly to torment the HICOG employee. For

example:

An employee has a complaint that his billet does not
have heat; can he get another billet?

Another has heard something regarding Foreign
Service personnel being able to order articles at a
discount from the United States; does that apply to
HICOG employees, too?

A young man wants to marry a German girl; what
effect does that have on his HICOG employment?

A girl receives word tlat her mother is seriously ill
and not expected to live; how can she take emergency
leave?

A woman finds she needs immediate medical treat-
ment in the States; what is offered by the Foreign
Service medical program?

A HICOG employee is killed in an accident; who
must notify the next of kin?

Then there is the man who is “griped” about his
working conditions and just wants to talk it over
with someone,

HE TROUBLE-SHOOTERS for these problems affecting

the morale of the HICOG employee are the experi-
enced counselors of the Employee Relations and Services
Branch, Personnel Division, Office of Administration. They
know the answers, know where to get the answers, or can
talk the problem over. That is their job.

To develop and maintain a high level of morale among
HICOG employees rests largely with this branch. It is con-
cerned with providing preventive and remedial assistance
for the more personal problems of the employee on the
premise that high morale means better production, and
morale is strongly affected by conditions outside the per-
sonnel administration's concern for the qualification,
ability and assignment of the individual employee.

The quality of an employee's performance depends
largely upon the general state of his mind and the phys-
ical conditions of his daily life; whether he is happy or
unhappy; whether he is mentally at ease or disturbed;
whether he lives and works under comfortable physical
conditions and with congenial people or whether he has
a sense of frustration and discomfiture,

Miss Marie Benoit, personnel technician, helps William
A. Fagan, of the Office of Economic Affairs, to peel
some fruit while he is hospitalized. (PRD, HICOG photo)

JANUARY 1950

HOSE ARE INDIVIDUAL employee problems with

which the Employee Relations and Services Branch
deals. But often the branch is called on to assist with
group problems. For example:

One of the field installations needs a dispensary
and needs it badly; ER&S takes the matter up with
the Army, and a nurse and assistant are recruited,

A couple of isolated field offices have inadequate
banking facilities; arrangements are made with local
American banking institutions to provide the neces-
sary service.

An Army post office is needed; this is arranged.

The State Department wants a complete report on
living conditions in Germany for presentation to a
Congressional committee; a meeting is arranged with
administrative officers at headquarters and state
levels to gather and consolidate complete material.

Several employees show an interest in foreign
language classes; the Foreign Service Institute is con-
tacted to determine what material is available,

The EUCOM dependent school officer requests
information whether a regular school is needed at a
certain field installation; a survey is made to determine
the number of dependent school-age children at the
installation and their ages.

A group of riding enthusiasts needs transportation
to the riding stables; coordinated action with the
Operating Facilities Division results in a special bus
service.

OWEVER, THE ATTENTION of the ER&S Branch is
first directed toward the new employees, arriving
from the United States or from other State Department
posts throughout the world. A staff member or HICOG
representative meets new personne] at the plane or train.

--- Page 17 ---
interviews a
Frankfurt dependent on availability of food items at the

Peter Szluk, deputy chief, ER&S Branch,

Post Commissary. (PRD, HICOG photo)
The new arrival is assisted with his or her baggage, given
transportation, provided with a temporary billet until
more permanent arrangements can be made, advised re-
garding conversion of currency to military scrip, and
guided to the Placement Branch where formal job pro-
cessing is initiated.

During this processing period ER&S provides the new
employee with information concerning living conditions
at his future station, and the services and recreational
facilities which are available.

Any immediate personal problems are discussed with
the employee and an attempt made to solve such problems
at once. In event the employee requires funds, an
emergency loan of up to $50 without interest is quickly
made. It is at this point usually that complaints regarding
the trip over or the reception are solicited in an effort to
eliminate procedural defects in either. Prior to actual
job assignment the employee is supplied with a PX card
and with letters requesting assignment of permanent
billets, ration cards, commissary privileges and other
necessities.

To give the employee the answer or service he or she
needs when problems occur, ER&S specialists find them-
selves hopping to keep ahead. Actually through their
questions and requests for assistance, it can almost be
said that HICOG employees have themselves set the pat-
tern for their personal service program.

| be REPLY to numerous miscellaneous questions, the
HICOG Daily Bulletin, edited by the members of the
branch, was developed to keep the employees informed
of current regulations and policies affecting him, of the
latest educational, cultural and recreational activities, and
of any other general points concerning his work and
living conditions.

The branch is responsible for the operation of a sug-
gestion and cash award program wherein the employee
may add his bit in improving his surroundings, work con-
ditions or safety.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Implementation of the Foreign Service efficiency rating
program and the employee grievance procedure are branch
responsibilities,

In event the employee desires a Stateside automobile
or some item for the household, the ER&S Branch helps
him through the Department of State’s Welfare Purchase
Program, which it administers locally.

Other plans are being formulated to offer HICOG
employees, and more particularly their dependents, the
benefits! of prepaid hospital, medical and surgical pro-
tection plans, Low cost life and accidental death insurance
plans will likewise be offered.

Much of the branch's personnel service activity has to
do with presenting employee problems and complaints
to the appropriate HICOG or EUCOM service agency with
a view toward remedial action. In many cases the branch
formulates the policy by which services will be rendered.

It is responsible for formulating policy for the assign-
ment of quarters and billets, for establishing a medical
administration procedure consistent with that which
covers other Foreign Service personnel, for negotiating
with various EUCOM units concerning commissary privi-
leges, postal service, movie and other recreational
facilities, and for arranging transportation for home leave.

The branch arranges for adequate banking and com-
mercial transportation facilities,

S AN INDIVIDUAL service, a member of the staff

pays weekly visits to HICOG employees and their
dependents confined to the 97th General Hospital in Frank-
furt in order to render any assistance.

If an employee has something on his or her mind which
is causing worry, unhappiness, confusion or frustration,
a qualified counselor is available for “talking over" the
problem, All counseling discussions are kept a matter
of strict confidence. Cases dealt with thus far have cover-
ed such problems as marriage, emergency leave, financial
difficulties, troubles between roommates, health and wel-
fare of dependents, friction between employees and super-
visors, and delinquency reports.

Out of individual problems discussed have grown full-
scale projects for defining procedures, providing neces-
sary services or improving existing services, During the
interview the counselor provides a willing ear, and all
aspects of the problem presented are completely in-
vestigated. After the facts of the case are fully established
the branch either seeks action on behalf of the employee
or gives him an explanation of management's point of
view.

INALLY, BEHIND the scenes, the ER&S Branch is con-
cerned with a number of activities which generally
contribute to employee morale, such as serving on wel-
fare boards, cultural groups, parent-teacher committees,
safety councils and youth activity committees.
Most of the direct day-to-day contact between the branch
and the individual employee, of couse, concerns those
HICOG employees in the Frankfurt area. Staff members,

however, give advice and assistance to the field offices
(Continued on page 26)

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 18 ---
By THEODORE ALLEN HEINRICH
Cultural Adviser, Property Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

PPROXIMATELY 10,000 persons are making a pil-
grimage to Wiesbaden each month simply to look
at some old pictures,

The pictures, ranging from an altar piece painted by
an unknown artist in Westphalia shortly after 1250 to
Manet's “In the Conservatory” of 1879 by way of van
Eycks, Botticellis, Titianms and 15 Rembrandts, represent
some of the loftiest peaks of western artistic achievement
over the past six centuries and together form a collection
of almost unparalleled splendor,

The significance of this exhibition, however, represents
something above and outside the purely aesthetic and
emotional richness of the paintings themselves, The Wies-
baden art collection today represents the fulfillment of a
promise by the United States Government that these
works of art, sent to the United States for safekeeping,
would be returned to Germany as soon as conditions
warranted, and a challenge to any nation which loots
the art treasures of a defeated country and retains them
as war booty.

IHE PROMISE had its roots in the discovery, shortly
after Easter 1945, by forward troops of the US Third
Army of two great caches of treasure hidden in sealed
caverns deep in salt mines on the Thuringian border east
of Kassel. These Nibelungen caves, taken under immediate
supervision by Military Government's Monuments, Fine
Arts an Archives officers, held the principal part of the
art treasures of the former Prussian state museums and
palaces in Berlin as well as the gold reserves of the
Reichsbank,

Expert restorer and assistant examine Filippino Lippi’s “Allegory of Music”

The treasures were evacuated to places of safekeeping
in Frankfurt and Marburg, the latter being the site of the
first of the three great art collecting points subsequently
operated by Military Government. The works of art from
the palaces went to Marburg and the vast quantities of
Berlin museum properties were transferred during the
summer from Frankfurt to Wiesbaden upon establishment
of the collecting point there. Meanwhile, reports of
destroyed museum buildings and generally chaotic con-
ditions in Germany immediately following the war aroused
great concern in America for the safety of the unique
works of art.

Shipment of a selected group of paintings from the
Kaiser Friedrich Museum and the National Galerie
collections to the National Gallery in Washington, there-
fore, was ordered by the secretary of war and 202 of the
1,200 Berlin paintings held in Wiesbaden reached
Washington under heavy guard in December 1945,

HE SHIPMENT aroused strong reaction in the United
States lest it be thought that the US Government
intended to hold these precious objects as war booty in
violation of the Hague Convention which expressely
exempts works of art from such treatment, Despite the
fact that the Germans themselves practiced cultural
looting on an unparalleled scale, the British and French
joined with the United States in determining that there
must be an immediate cessation of the sacking of valuable
art treasures from defeated nations.
In direct answer to the questions and uneasiness raised
by the shipment, President Truman issued a statement

Wg

for condition during the unpacking. Right,

Hessian Minister President Christian Stock accepts custody for the returned masterworks as trustee for the German
People from Deputy State Commissioner Frank Sheehan. Extreme right, Theodore Allen Heinrich, author of this article.

JANUARY 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
explaining the reasons for placing the paintings in the
safety of the air-conditioned National Gallery vaults and
explicitly promised their return to Germany as soon as
conditions warranted.

German criticism remained sharp even after President
Truman's 1945 statement. Many Germans believed that
their priceless pictures had been stolen from them and
others shrugged off their worst fears with the rationa-
lization that such was only a natural consequence of war.

HEN THE UNITED STATES commitment was fulfilled

and the art treasures returned in full accordance
with previously announced schedules, Dr. James R. New-
man, US state commissioner for Hesse, in May 1949,
handed the custodial responsibility for the paintings to
Christian Stock, minister president of Hesse, as trustee
for the German people, and said:

“It is our earnest hope that our act of faith in honoring
our covenantal obligations to your works of art will not
only have increased our understanding and respect for
each other, but that it will serve to establish as an
active principle in the future conduct of international
affairs the idea so hopefully and unequivocally expressed
in the Hague Convention."

The fulfillment of the United States pledge made a
profound impression on the Germans—an impression
heightened by events of a different stamp which had
occurred in the East zone,

There during the first winter following the war, a
Soviet “Trophy Commission" visited the principal art
centers in the Eastern zone and shipped to Russia, ac-
cording to the best available information, more than
960,000 cultural objects, including the Sistine Madonna
of Raphael and the original marbles from the great
reconstructed Pergamon Altar. No accounting of works
removed by the Trophy Commission has been given the
Germans nor any statement on present condition or
future disposition of the art treasures has been made by
the Soviets.

When, in February 1948, it was decided by Washington
that the German-owned paintings in the United States

Vittore Carpaccio's “Burial of Christ" (ca.

1455-1625)

Andrea del Verrocchios'‘s ,,Madonna and Child’ (1436—1488)

could be returned to Germany in the near future, public
opinion demanded that these visiting treasures be brought
out of their vaults and exhibited to the American nation.
It was agreed to show them in the National Gallery in
Washington for three weeks, The response was so
overwhelming that a bill was introduced in the Senate
calling for temporary further retention of the collection
in America and its circulation to the larger cities of the
country.

Meanwhile, it was necessary to extend the showing
at the National Gallery to a total of six and a half weeks.
Military police were pressed into service to handle the
crowds which on one Sunday alone exceeded 67,000 per-
sons. Attendance in Washington attained the total of
964,970 visitors, including a group of art students who
arrived by chartered bus from Kansas City. This figure
established an all-time high for a single museum ex-
hibition,

When the exhibit closed, a committee of experts
selected 52 paintings which in their opinion were least
likely to withstand the strain of transcontinental ex-
hibition and these were returned immediately to Germany.

The American tour which opened at the Metropolitan
Museum in New York on May 17, drew 146,322 visitors

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 20 ---
during its 26 days. From New York on, most of the
12 other cities included in the tour averaged 17 days
apiece. In Portland, Ore., which showed the pictures for
only eight days, 64,160 persons crowded the galleries.
Philadelphia, where the exhibit competed with a national
political convention, drew 38,280 visitors, while Chicago
responded with 144,785 and Boston with 127,546.

T THIS TIME, 52 more pictures were removed from
the exhibit and shipped directly to Wiesbaden where,
together with the first shipment, they went on view in
the galleries of the Wiesbaden Collecting Point on
Oct. 16* under the title of “Returned Masterworks, Part I.”

During the rest of the winter and early spring, while
attendance records continued to pile up for the other half
of the exhibit in America, a disappointing total of only
36,614 visitors to Wiesbaden was attained. The Germans,
however, attributed this to currency reform and sharply
increased rail fares rather than to lack of enthusiasm.

From Boston the remaining half to the collection moved
to Detroit (84,073 visitors), then to Cleveland (84,634),
Minneapolis (108,008), San Francisco (86,047), Los Angeles
(161,141), St. Louis (227,414), Pittsburgh (58,574) and finally

* See “US Returns German Art’ in Information Bulletin, Issue
No. 147, Nov. 2, 1948. -

Sandro Boiticelli's “Giuliano De'Medici" (1444-1510)

JANUARY 1950

Peter Paul Rubens' “Saint Cecelia” (1577-1640)

Toledo (101,828). By this time the official figures reached
the total of 2,397,784 persons.

Public interest was so intense that one of the German
curators, traveling with the exhibit, was flown to Honolulu
to deliver illustrated lectures,

HE AMERICAN TOUR of the Berlin paintings served

four purposes: 1. It earned $303,605 through entrance
fees and voluntary contributions for the benefit of German
children.

2. It brought to the doorsteps of nearly 2,500,000 Ameri-
cans the opportunity to see a first-rate collection of
great masters which most of them would never otherwise
have seen,

3, It provided Military Government, ahead of the
exchange program, a chance to send four outstanding
German museum officials as traveling curators to America
where they gained a knowledge of museum practices and
philosophy developed far beyond those prevailing in
Germany.

4, The tour demonstrated how precious, fragile and
irreplaceable works of art can be brought to vast
numbers of people in a large number of widely separated
places without undue risk, and produced the invention
of a new and highly superior packing technique.

The opening of the current exhibition in Wiesbaden on
May 14, 1949 has aroused public interest among Germans,
occupation personnel and art circles of Holland, Belgium,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Jean Fouguel's “Etienne Chevalier with St. Stephen”

(ca, 1420-ca, 1430)

Israel, Britain and France, More than 23,093 children have
visited the exhibit and more than 2,391 art students as
well as art history students from nearly every university
in western Germany have availed themselves of the
opportunity, to view the masterworks while the Bayer
dye factory in Leverkusen, North Rhine-Westphalia, is
sending one or two busloads of employees weekly.

It is anticipated that before the exhibition closes about
Feb. 1, approximately 60,000 people will have made the
Wiesbaden pilgrimage. + END

Law Requiring Licenses
For Political Parties Repealed

Repeal of former US Military Government requirements
that German political parties be licensed was announced
by HICOG. Repeal of licensing requirements, which have
existed since 1945, became effective Nov, 28.

HICOG officials said that repeal of licensing require-
ments was in accordance with provisions of the Occu-
pation statute which turn over control of German internal
governmental matters to German authorities except in
certain specific fields,

From now on formation and operation of German po-
litical parties will be governed entirely by whatever Ger-
man law may exist in the various states in the US Zone.

“It has been known for some time that the High Com-
missioner's Office was considering this step,” Kenneth
Dayton, chief of the Internal Political and Governmental
Affairs Division, Office of Political Affairs, said.

“Great interest has been evinced by individuals and
groups who wished for new political parties. It will be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

recalled that at the time of the election of the Bundes-
‘tag (lower house) in 1949, there was a very heavy vote
for independent candidates in some localities. This in-
dicated that there were important groups within the body
politic who did not agree with the policies of the current
political parties and wished to establish political represen-
tation of their own interests.

“They will now be free to do so. It is hoped, however,
that the cessation of licensing will not mean the growth
of numerous splinter parties which wil] make the problem
of effective government more difficult.”

Germans Learning Self-Help

There is an “unbelievable readiness" among the Ger-
mans, particularly the younger generation, to work hard
and help themselves, according to Dr. Reinhold Schairer,
who has been an expert consultant on self-help projects
with the Education and Cultural Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs.

This is especially true, he remarked, in the half of
the population born after 1918. Among the older people,
too, he found a deep understanding of the meaning of
self-help,

“Portrait
(1410-1461)

Domenico Veneziano's

of a Young Lady”

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 22 ---
Radio Institute

Returned to German Management

By RALPH NICHOLSON
Director, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

HE RADIO TECHNICAL Institute is the last of the

broadcasting organizations in the US Zone of Oc-
cupation to be returned to German hands. Having reached
this point we can turn our eyes for a moment to the past
with just pride in the achievements which these last four
years have witnessed.

I was not in Germany when the occupation began, but no
‘one, I think, who surveyed in 1945 the chaos and disrup-
tion in German radio could have foreseen how radically
the picture would have improved by 1949. In 1945 there
seemed to be almost nothing to build on. The physical
plant was largely destroyed, studio buildings in ruins,
transmitters wrecked and towers down. Even more far-
reaching was what I may call the spiritual destruction
left by 12 years of tyranny and six years of war.

But the slow, arduous task of reconstruction was begun.
Under the direction of the occupying powers, the buildings
were again made habitable, the transmitters repaired and
the men and women found who could launch German
broadcasting on a new path and carry it through the
various stages of its rebirth until the tutelage and guardian-
ship of an occupation power were no longer neces-
sary. German radio has reached the point at which we
find ourselves today, when the last of these important
public information instruments has been surrendered into
the capable hands of those Germans who followed this
road of reconstruction and responsibility.

The Radio Technical Institute played an important role
in the progress that has been made. Created in 1945 in
Bad Homburg by a small group of radio engineers, it soon
attracted the attention and support of American Military
Government which made Signal Corps equipment avail-
able to it and took steps to integrate its work with that
of the four American zone radio stations, distributing the
financial burden equitably among them, and, as the
stations progressed on the road toward independence,
appointed their intendants to the board of governors of
the Institute.

T FIRST, in view of the extensive

recerding techniques, electro-acoustics
modulation.

The constitution of the Radio Technical Institute as a
limited corporation under German law is evidence of our
recognition that these matters are in competent hands and
that the Institute is a body in which we can place our
confidence.

This does not mean that the United States will henceforth
discontinue its interest in and assistance to the work that
you are doing. On the contrary, several members of my
staff are in the United States at this very moment to
represent German interests at an international conference
on European frequencies, They will persist in efforts to
secure for Germany the frequencies which are needed for
a decentralized and independent radio.

Let me the stress the words “decentralized” and “in-
dependent.” The attainment of this decentralization and
this independence from political or other control or
coercion is really the main achievement of the last four
years during which German broadcasting facilities have
been rebuilt and German broadcasting organizations re-
constituted. Just as the German government has been taken
from the hands of usurpers and returned to the people,
so German radio has been wrested from the hands of the
men who misused it, spreading hatred and misinformation,
and has been placed in the service of the people and of
truth.

O TRULY SERVE the people and to forestall any new
danger of regimentation, German radio was de-
centralized. In order to serve the truth, I think that radio
must be kept independent, because only in this way can
misuse by political or other interested parties be prevented.
Independence of your information media, in my mind,
is the strongest protection against the danger of every
brand of totalitarianism. Maintaining this independence
demands vigilance and honesty.
When Radio Munich was turned over to German authori-
ties. General Hays* said: “The moral rehabilitation of
German radio is incomparably the

and frequency

destruction of physical facilities,
the Institute served primarily as a
source of manufactured equipment.
Later, as conditions improved and
the minimum technical requirements
were met, fuller use was made of the
institute laboratory for the advance-
ment of the technical phases of radio
broadcasting in such fields as high
frequency transmission, studio and

This

article is a condensed
text of the address delivered by
Mr. Nicholson at the ceremony
in Nuremberg Nov. 18 for the
formal transfer of the Radio
Technica] Institute from the oc-
cupation supervision to German
management as a joint enterprise
of the US Zone radio stations for
technical developments.

larger task. To build an institution
that will not fall prey again to
special perverted interests, to assure
its continuance as a vital agency in
a democratic community, this is not
a task of which one can ever say—t
is done, complete.’ This is a continu-

* — Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, the deputy
military governor. See “Germans Get Free
Radio“ in Information Bulletin, Issue No. 154,
Feb. 8, 1949.

JANUARY 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
ing task day by day for the whole community.” And, gentle-
men, it is particularly your task.

I cannot impress upon you profoundly enough the heavy
responsibility that devolves upon the members of the
broadcast councils who are the representatives of the
people, their activities, their interests and their thoughts,
and upon the intendants of the stations, in whose hands
rests the actual conduct and administration of the stations,
to guard faithfully the trust that has been placed in you,
to uphold the principles upon which the whole structure
of democratic German radio is based, and above all to
serve the community through the dissemination of truth-
ful information.

This means avoidance of conscious bias. This means
the presentation, so far as possible, of the whole story,
the principle of letting the other man speak and truth-
fully present his side, the repudiation of deliberate mis-
information, the allegiance to certain criteria of human
decency that tell us what is good and what is evil —
I believe that we all know the general direction in which
truth lies and what it is made of. It is something that the
people deserve, it is something that you have pledged
yourselves to give them. As you know, I am a newspaper
man by profession, and long associated with radio. In my
country, the media of public information are in the hands
of private enterprise; they are dependent upon the people
for their existence, since without public support they
go bankrupt.

NE OF THE GREAT newspapers in my country carries

over its masthead the slogan, ‘Give the people light
and they will find the way." And, conversely, the people
deprived of this light will stumble and go down. When
a nation allows itself to lose the right to truth, it is likely
to lose all. I believe that the German people will not
readily relinquish that light again. It is the responsibility
of you gentlemen in radio to keep it burning.

I should not like to conclude my remarks without pay-
ing tribute to the men, both German and American, who
have devoted their energies to rebuilding German radio
on the basis of this philosophy. I congratulate them on
the progress made to date and extend best wishes for the
future. +END

Germany 4th Highest on ECA List

Western Germany's total for all procurement author-
izations since the inception of the European Recovery
Program on April 3, 1948 is shown as $699,300,000, ac-
cording to a report made public by the Economic Cooper-
ation Administration in Washington, .

Only three other countries—United Kingdom, France
and Italy—have received greater amounts of Marshall
Plan aid.

Of the German total aid authorized to date, $487,700,000
was earmarked for food and agricultural commodities,
$142,600,000 for industrial commodities and the remainder,
$69,000,000, for ocean freight.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Marshall Plan Exhibit
Shifts to Duesseldorf Fair

The big Marshall Plan Exhibit building at the Frank-
furt fair grounds, which attracted more than 170,000
visitors during the autumn fair, was moved to Duesseldorf
for its Christmas Fair.

To emphasize ERP aid to the Ruhr and the Ruhr’s role
in the recovery of West Germany and western Europe,
two large murals have been added to the exhibit. They
depict typical Ruhr workers and industries. In addition,
a number of posters entitled “ERP and the Vital Ruhr”
were distributed throughout the Duesseldorf area.

The exhibit has as its main feature a huge relief map
of the eastern United States, Atlantic Ocean and western
half of Europe. Plying the Atlantic is a fleet of merchant
ships carrying Marshall Plan goods to ERP countries.
Small electric railroad systems, operating on both con-
tinents, form a network connecting the major seaports
and industrial centers.

Of the 16 main displays in the original exhibit, 10 are
electrically controlled and may be operated by specta-
tors by means of push buttons and switches. Other,
graphic displays show ERP developments and achieve-
ments in western Europe, Three-dimensional displays
indicate the rate of economic recovery while colored
lighting effects for the models, graphs and charts add
effectiveness,

An invitation has been received by the Visual Pre-
sentation Branch, Office of Administration, HICOG, and
the Office of the ECA Special Mission to Western
Germany, to take the exhibit to Kiel later in 1950.

Handicraft Contest Under Way

The 1950 EUCOM-wide GYA handicraft contest will
be open to all German, DP and refugee girls and boys,
European Command Headquarters disclosed in announc-
ing plans for the annual competition that attracted 35,000
entries this year. The 1949 contest was limited to articles
made by German girls. (see “New Clothes from Old” in
Information Bulletin, Issue No. 159 of April 19, 1949.)

The entries, which must be the exclusive work of the
contestant, may by made between Nov. 15 and May 1.
However, entry blanks obtainable at GYA centers must
be filled at a GYA office or center by Feb. 1.

The contestant ‘has 56 different classifications in which
articles may be entered. These include needlework, tailor-
ing, wood and leather work, painting, block printing,
photography, metal work, puppet or doll making, ceramics,
lace, knitting, and miscellaneous handwork.

Each class is broken down into four age groups.
Children under 12 compete with those of their own age;
those 13 to 15 are in another competitive group; those 16
to 18 are in another class; while those 19 to 25 years
of age will enter their articles in still another classifica-
tion,

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 24 ---
Holy Year Pilgrimage

—— For Germans and Occupation Personnel

UT OF THE EXPECTED 3,000,000 faithful who will

journey to Rome from all parts of the world for the
25th Holy Year of the Roman Catholic Church in 1950,
approximately 50,000 will be western Germans making
the jubilee pilgrimage.

These mass tours for Germans have been made possible
only after almost year-long negotiations between the
German National Committee for the Holy Year and the
three occupation powers. In addition to German par-
ticipation, occupation personnel from the three zones
will swell the throngs converging on Rome during
Anno Santo (Holy Year).

The jubilee is a solemn plenary indulgence granted by
the Pope every 25 years. It has been traced back in
origin to the Old Testament, but in its present form,
Holy Year dates back to 1300 when it was proclaimed by
Pope Boniface VI as a centenary ocvasion for pilgrimages
to Rome. Subsequently the pilgrimages were set for every
five years, then, every quarter of a century, The jubilee
period, which runs from Christmas Eve to Christmas Eve,
is called Holy Year because the Roman church regards
it as a period for the “sanctification of Catholics.”

Twenty-six solemn ‘church ceremonies, including beati-
fications and canonizations will take place in Rome
during the 1950 Holy Year. These will be spaced through-
out the jubilee to enable pilgrims to see either a
canonization, beatification, a solemn dedication of a
church to Pope Pius XII, or some other liturgical festivity.
Pilgrims will be granted a Papal audience and will be
able to visit the four major basilicas.

as THE THOUSANDS of western Germans plan-
ning to make the pilgrimage will be Countess Ellen
von Hohenau, a 52-year-old horsewoman, who has an-
nounced her intention to ride an Arabian mare from
Garmisch to Rome to convey her greetings to Pope
Pius XII. Calculating that her pilgrimage will take about
35 days, the German countess will ride her dapple-gray
mare across Austria via Innsbruck, and over the Brenner
Pass into Italy, stopping at convents en route.

Other Germans will travel under a collective travel
permit which has been arranged by trizonal Religious
Affairs officers in cooperation with the German National
Committee for the Holy Year and the Combined Travel
Board. Agreements have been reached with the Italian,
Swiss and Austrian governments to permit specially
selected Germans to make the pilgrimage as coliective
groups without individual visas,

Feeling that a distinct political and cultural advantage
is to be gained by permitting Germans gradually to
resume foreign travel to Western nations, occupation
Officials viewed the Holy Year Pilgrimage as a worthy
project where a beginning could be made.

Procedure was thereby set up so that local selection
boards in each West German diocese, under the super-

JANUARY 1950

vision of the local bishop, would screen pilgrim applicants
for the trip. An adequate security check will be made
on each pilgrim so that only those who fulfill] both
German and occupation requirements will be permitted
to join the year-long pilgrimage.

On this basis, approximately 2,000 pilgrims will be
selected from each diocese of the three western zones.
After careful selection by each local board the final lists
will be submitted to the German National Committee
which in turn pass on the lists to the Combined Travel
Board in the three zones for checking and approval.

Only the responsible leader of each pilgrim train will
have a normal passport and Italian visa, The leader will
carry the list of names of all pilgrims in his group which
will be shown to frontier officals.

As the majority of pilgrims from Germany will most
likely be drawn from the poor of the dioceses, this system,
in addition to cutting travel red tape, will ease expendi-
tures which otherwise would be laid out for individual
Italian and Swiss or Austrian visas.

Y EXERCISING rigid economy, it is expected that the

cost for a 10-day pilgrimage to the Holy City will be
approximately $40 (DM168) per German pilgrim. This
modest price is possible only because German pilgrims
will be housed in retigious institutions rather than hotels.
The problem of foreign exchange credit to finance the
German pilgrims which plagued both the German National
Committee and Religious Affairs officers was resolved
last fall with the signing of an Italian-German trade
agreement. Under this pact, the Italian government agreed
to set aside for Catholic use during Holy Year $2,000,000
in lire, This means that Italy will have to buy an in-
creased quantity of German goods to create the necessary
credit balance.

Occupation personnel planning the Holy Year Pilgrimage
may join one of the special tours that will be operated
from Germany on frequent schedules or travel indepen-
dently to the Italian capital. Those not joining a tour may
obtain the official “Pilgrim's Envelope’ by mail or in
person from the Catholic post chaplain's office in Frank-
furt, Heidelberg or Munich, or from the Pier Busseti
Travel Service Office in Munich.

Special Service tours have been arranged with the
American Express Company and the Pier Busseti Travel
Service. American Express Company is offering six
different types of tours ranging from nine to seven days
and from $132.60 to $31.70. Pier Busseti offers similar
tours with corresponding prices. Specific information on
tours to Rome may be obtained from EUCOM Post Special
Service officers or from Catholic chaplains.

OT ONLY Roman Catholics, but also pilgrims of other
faiths—Orthodox, Protestant and Moslem—are ex-
pected to make the pilgrimage. The Vatican Central Com-
(Continued on page 57)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
UNICEF

— — United Nations’ Aid to Needy Children

HROUGH STORMY world problems

and scalding political harangues
the United Nations has made news-
paper headlines but through its prac-
tical work carried on by specialized
agencies in many fields the organiza-
tion is reaching into the ordinary daily
life of millions of people throughout
the world.

One of these agencies—the United Schulz.

Material and photographs for
this article were furnished by
the Berlin headquarters of the
UNICEF Mission to Germany.
Photos taken by UN Department
of Public Information, US Army,
Joachim Diederichs,
traschk, Ruth Kull and Hans

Countries which suffered less from
the direct effects of war realized that
the onus of these contributions fell
primarily on them. The United States
government, conscious of this respon-
sibility, offered to match with 72 cents
every 28 cents value contributed by
other governments. In all 34 countries,
many of them devastated and im-
poverished themselves by the war,

K. A. Pe-

Nations’ International Children's Emer-
gency Fund—is servicing underprivileged children in
13 European countries, the Middle and Far East and Latin
America. In Germany alone, UNICEF is touching every
town and village of the country and is helping more than
2,000,000 German children,

UNICEF was established in December 1946 by the
United Nations’ General Assembly to assist the govern-
ments of UN member countries in promoting child health
and welfare greatly depleted by war ravages. Later, at
the request of all four occupying powers in Germany, aid
was extended to Germany and in the middle of 1948 with
a working fund of $1,000,000 a simple program of specific
relief was initiated in the four zones,

HE IMMEDIATE NEEDS confronting UNICEF were

food, clothing and medical supplies, and money to
carry out the program. The residual assets of the old
United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration
were bequeathed to the new enterprise while remaining
funds have been raised by voluntary contributions from
both individuals and governments.

have contributed and those unable to
grant direct financial support have donated valuable re-
sources. Iceland, for instance, with its gifts of cod liver oil
is the greatest contributor per capita to UNICEF.

In each of the areas serviced by the UN agency the
program varies according to the need of that particular
locality. A basic problem in all countries, however, is the
milk supply which, when available, is usually of a poor
quality and unsafe from a sanitary standpoint.

The milk supplied by UNICEF as one of its major
functions is reconstituted from milk powder thus insuring
that the supply is safe for infant feeding. This milk is
distributed to the neediest groups of children and nursing
mothers in all countries in which the agency works and
already has caused a substantial drop in infant mortality
rate, infant tuberculosis and other children's diseases.

PART FROM HELPING the immediate need for milk
in the most vulnerable groups, UNICEF is assisting
12 European countries to develop milk conservation pro-
jects for the better use of local supplies. The countries
themselves are supplying the machinery and the buildings

Left, a war orphan raises her noonday bottle of milk in thanks, Center, children in TB home in South Lichterfelde
borough of Berlin receive daily ration of UNICEF cod liver oil. Right, tot admires her first pair of leather shoes,
made from leather provided by UNICEF. In winter countless children are prevented from going to school regularly
they must

because share what -often is

the family’s one pair of feather

shoes with brothers or sisters.

--- Page 26 ---
for dried milk plants while UNICEF provides expert
advice and parts of the machinery not obtainable in the
country concerned,

Another “first’* on the agency's program is its contri-
butions to the supplementary feeding schemes of many
countries. Since its inception the UN body has distributed
more than 4,500,000 meals or school luncheons daily. These
meals consist of special protective foods such as milk, fats,
meat and fish. The amount of 300 calories per day which
is supplied in this way by UNICEF is matched by the
recipient country through its government or voluntary
agencies with an equal caloric amount of food.

Both its milk and supplementary feeding programs have
helped UNICEF in its third major task—combatting the
increase of tuberculosis resulting from the undernourish-
ment and privations of the war years. Its active campaign
against this prevalent scourge has been carried out on a
world-wide scale, Through the use of BCG (Bacillus Cal-
mette Guerin) vaccine as a preventive immunization, the
campaign is being waged in cooperation with the Scandi-

navian Red Crosses* and under the technical advice of .

the World Health Organization. In the joint enterprise
more than 18,000,000 children have been vaccinated with
the BCG vaccine, which reduces the chances of tubercu-
losis infection by 80 percent,

HE UNCEASING FIGHT against venereal diseases and

meningitis is being aided by UNICEF supplies of
penicillin and streptomycin while in the Far East and
Europe national campaigns against malaria and other
insect-borne diseases are being abetted by DDT and
expert guidance, .

Raw materials supplied by UNICEF for manufacture
into direly needed clothing and shoes are warming the

* Also see “Battle against TB'’ in Information Bulletin, Issue No. 158,
April 5, 1949,

UNICEF field representative explains to-a group of in-
terested children at a Berlin dayhome the meaning of UNO.

shivering children of Europe and special training opportu-
nities for child health personnel, pediatricians and public
health officers are keeping welfare officials abreast of
up-to-the-minute techniques and modern developments
within their field.

The program in Germany is deliberately kept simple
and is aimed at bringing a noticeable relief in a particular
field of need rather than negligible relief to many varied

Infant health centers in each of Berlin's boroughs serve as distribution points for cod liver oil. Open to all children
up to the age of six, they are extensively used by low-income families with infants who are checked periodically for
condition and weight. Left, babies attended by their mothers are lined up in rows by nurses to wait for doctors.

Right, school girls sew UNICEF flannel to provide expectant

mothers with “baby boxes” for the winter.

JANUARY 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
fields, UNICEF maintains a Mission in Germany to ob-
serve the activities and developments of its program, With
headquarters in Berlin and regional offices in Hanover
and Wiesbaden, its representatives study the needs of the
country, coordinate the numerous varied requests submitted
to the Mission and generally serve as a link between the
German authorities and UNICEF European Headquarters
in Paris,

The direct responsibility for the carrying out of the
UNICEF programs, however, rests with the German
authorities. These officials are represented on UNICEF
committees which act as the executive bodies for the
agency's programs.

ITH AN ADDITIONAL $1,000,000 added to the primary

fund for Germany, UNICEF has concentrated on
‘distribution of cod liver oil and concentrated vitamin
capsules for combatting rickets; the supply of wool,
cotton and leather; the provision of streptomycin and in
some parts of the country supplementary feeding.

More than $500,000 worth of cod liver oil has been
made available in the anti-rickets program so that
1,500,000 needy children, mothers and refugee children
are receiving a daily ration during the winter months.
With the aid of the state governments the anti-rickets

Nurses at a German hospital prepare for cod liver oil
distribution among tuberculosis-infected children patients.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

Supplies being unloaded at the district department of
health in Schoeneberg, one of the most densely populated
of the six boroughs in the American sector of Berlin.

cause has been given nationwide publicity and the cod
liver oil is reaching every town and village in all of
Germany,

Out of the leather and wool which UNICEF is now
shipping into Germany, approximately 250,000 pairs of
children’s shoes and 1,000,000 pairs of stockings will be
manufactured, German authorities are matching UNICEF's
allocation of raw materials with the total processing costs
of the supply and auxiliary materials. In this way Germany
is contributing about DM3,500,000 ($833,000) to its under-
privileged children,

Additional leather for still more shoes already has been
requested along with more wool and cotton for overcoating,
bed clothing and diapers which are in short supply in
hospitals, children’s institutions and refugee households.

LTHOUGH NO large scale feeding programs have been

planned under UNICEF as that phase of relief is being
adequately carried out under the Hoover project, 100,000
children in certain localities are receiving a daily sup-
plementary meal under a joint operation with the Swiss
Relief to Europe. The Swiss government is making the
food available to UNICEF as her contribution to the UN
agency.

Enough streptomycin to treat all cases of tuberculous
meningitis in children for a six-month period is now on
hand so that free treatment is available to all. This
treatment is being given in specially designated children’s
clinics and hospitals and is carried out under the super-
vision of German experts fully acquainted with the latest
developments in the use of streptomycin.

Funds as yet have not permitted UNICEF to realize its
original aims in reaching 30,000,000 of the world’s needy
children, but the organization, acting as an international
cooperative for children, has established the basis of a
world-wide body for promoting child health and welfare
on a global level. ++ END

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 28 ---
Private cots were just as scarce as equipment and medicines in many countries of postwar Europe and made necessary
doubling up, such as shown above, left, Right, often a bow! of noodle soup, made with milk, was the only hot dish many
European boys like these could count on for the day. Too often they had never tasted it before. They are being
made acquainted with it at a school-feeding center supplied by UNICEF. Below, left, two posters drawn by grateful
students of the Darmstadt Technical School. Below, right, little boy at UNICEF center cried when inoculated for the
first time. He found the anticipation worse than the “shot” itself. He is one of some 20,000,000 children in Europe
alone who are now being vaccinated with BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin) against the dreaded threat of tuberculosis.

Shipments of UNICEF medicines, including Streptomycin, Penicillin and Tuberculin as well as equally scarce BCG
Vaccine (against TB) make their way not only into Germany but also behind the Iron Curtain to Hungary, Poland,
Czechoslovakia and‘ other Soviet-satellite countries. Right, leather earmarked for the Rhineland and Hohenzollern
areas of the French Zone and for Bavaria, in the US Zone of Germany, there to be made up into children's shoes.

--- Page 29 ---
(Continued from page 4)

Labor Picture

craft associations. He indicated that the unions would
seek to bring this about by legislation. Certainly in the
area of labor-management relations there is a wide field
for cooperation between unions and employers.

HAVE SENSED that a very touchy area in labor

relations in Germany exists in the labor-management
practices and relations of the US Occupying Forces in
regard to their native German employees. I have found
that the unions are much concerned with the difficulty
in arriving at wage scales and in dealing with the griev-
ances, problems and practices involving their members
working for the Occupation Forces.

Grievances have tended to pile up without prompt
resolution. The workers, I found, seem to feel they are
operating in a no-man’s land in comparison to other
German workers who have the full benefit and use of
the machinery set up by the labor laws and courts to
take care of their grievances.

I have been gratified by the fact that Occupation
Forces authorities are aware of the delicacy of this area
of operation, and of the importance of good personnel
practices, and have shown a growing disposition to work
out promptly the problems as they arise.

HE CULTURAL and welfare work of the unions is

impressive. Many of them have extensive educa-
tional and youth programs. Berlin has a complete educa-
tional program operating in various centers throughout
the western sectors, A number of the industrial unions
have their own schools. The trade union movement is
becoming more and more interested in the curricula of
the universities and in the possibilities of setting up
courses in labor economics and sociological subjects.

The state federations have active educational and
youth departments and certain cultural and welfare
programs. For instatice, in Wuerttemberg-Baden, the

" federation has a book club which offers its members
books at half price on a monthly savings basis; its theater
guild about every two weeks buys out the State Theater
in Stuttgart and theaters in other cities so that the
members can see the best plays at reduced prices; four
mobile movies bring good picures, including documen-
taries, to workers in outlying communities where there
are no regular movie theaters; the youth hall in the
rebuilt labor headquarters building is utilized every
night in the week for lectures and discussions; vocational
courses are conducted in more than a score of crafts
both for beginners and for those who want to improve
their skills.

In Wuerttemberg-Baden, the Military Government has
initiated work in supervisor training, job analysis and
on-the-job training. As a result a number of manu-
facturers claimed they had noted results in greater
efficiency and better morale.

S TO THE PROBLEM industry faces in reducing pro-

duction costs in order to widen the domestic markets
and to enable German products to compete in foreign
markets, it seems to me that German industry and

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2 6

business are overlooking the tremendous potential of the
domestic market.

There is a great need for enlarging the domestic
market in order to raise the German standard of living,
to furnish more employment, and to make it easier for
common people to buy more. There is insufficient buying
power in the hands of the common people. Some means
must be found for reducing the great margin between
the wages being paid to workers and the prices they
have to pay for the things they buy.

International trade must be encouraged by the Western
Allies, or the Germans might be forced into turning to
the East for an outlet for their goods, some of the
employers pointed out.

Manufacturers at Wiesbaden, Bremen and Berlin
pointed out that one of the main difficulties with German
industry is the fact that many products can be imported
into Germany more cheaply than they can be produced
in the German plants.

I found employers afraid of what might happen in the
export market when the Marshall Plan ends in 1952.

Unionists feel that not enough of Marshall Plan aid
has gone into workers’ housing. The unions want a
greater voice in the distribution of ERP funds.

EARLY ALL the problems which face western Ger-

many are in concentrated form in Berlin. There it
seems that nearly every problem is more urgent than
it is anywhere else in Germany. I have been impressed
by the courage of the working people, the union
leaders, the industry leaders and the government leaders
of Berlin in giving their best and all their energies to
operate in the face of seemingly hopeless odds.

The fact that the people in the western sectors of
Berlin keep fighting make Berlin a symbol of courage
in the face of adversity to the whole free world.

The conflict between two currencies, the great un-
employment, the heavy payments of the city for un-
employment and for relief, the great and urgent need
for credit, the need for markets and orders from the
West, the cooperation between employers and the
unionists in an effort to solve their own and community
problems learned in the face of the blockade of the city,
all make Berlin a place for especial mention. -+END

(Continued from page 14)

Employee Morale

through staff visits, telephone calls and correspondence.
Their objective is to provide the best possible service
to both HICOG and consular employees, to assigned Ger-
man personnel and to the dependents of US personnel.
As varied as are its present activities, the Employee Re-
lations and Service Branch feels that there are many
other ways in which it can be of service and assistance.
After two months of operation new and different problems
are presented daily for the staff's attention and action.
So, if you have a problem, call the branch or pay a
personal visit to Room 452, Headquarters Building in
Frankfurt. The branch is well established to serve you
in many ways. +END

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 30 ---
By VICTOR L. BILLINGS
Legal Advice Division
Office of the General Counsel, HICOG

ESUMPTION OF GERMAN participation in four

international organizations in the field of industrial
property — patents, trade marks and designs — was
authorized by the Allied High Commission in Bonn last
December.

The Commission approved a request from the chan-
cellor of the Federal Republic to inform the Swiss
government, which administers the International Bureau
at Berne, of the establishment of the German Patent
Office at Munich with competency for the federal area,
thus insuring that the provisions of four conventions in
the field of industrial property could again be applied
to their full extent.

The principal reciprocal benefits of the international
associations are the reciprocal granting of the same
protection to citizens of other signatory countries as are
granted to its own nationals in the field of industrial
property rights; recognition of the priority date on
applications for patents, trade marks and designs filed in
the other member countries; international registration of
trade marks, designs and models, and suppression of false
indications of origin on goods.

Participation in these international organizations, the
main one of which has 52 members and covers most of
the territory of the world, marks an important step
forward in world cooperation by the Federal Republic.
Before this action could be taken, however, much pre-
paration had been required since 1945 in the restoration
of the patent system in Germany.

N THE LAST MONTHS of the war the valuable tech-

nical records located in the Reich Patent Office in
Berlin had been widely dispersed throughout Germany.
One set of copies of the 180,000 pending patent applications

Al leit, newly-opened Patent Office in Deutsches Museum library in Munich. Right, ruins of the same hall, 1945.

was taken into eastern Germany where it was later lost
by fire.

The technical library of 300,000 volumes and the records
of the secret patents were moved to Heringen, near
Kassel, and 3,000 valuable reference books were sent
through Czechoslovakia to Bavaria, Part of the trade-
mark records were moved to another building in Berlin
where they were lost also by fire.

Some of the technical personnel remained at the Patent
Office in Berlin, some went to Heringen and others were
scattered throughout Germany. The Patent Office building
in Berlin was about one-third destroyed by a heavy bom-
bing attack on Feb 3, 1945.

US and British representatives reached Heringen in
May 1945 and found some 50 former patent employees
at work restoring and classifying the patent indexes and
examination material. The library and the register of
secret patents were located in a potash mine in Heringen,
However, the files of the secret applications and patents
had been burned upon orders of the German government
shortly prior to the arrival of the US troops,

In June 1945 a considerable amount of material was
seized and removed from the Patent Office in Berlin,
including part of the files of granted patents, chemical
indexes, photographic apparatus, typewriters and tele-
phones,

N JULY 18, 1945 the Legal Division of OMGUS

assumed custody of the Patent Office building,
located in the US Sector of Berlin, for the purpose of
preserving and restoring the building and records and
reassembling the technical staff. Duplicate copies of
180,000 pending patent applications, the patent and trade
mark registers, the files of granted patents, a consider-

--- Page 31 ---
able amount of examination material and 16,000,000
copies of German patent specifications were found in the
Berlin Patent Office.

Within a short time 220 officials and employees had
been politically screened and were making preparations
for the early reopening of the office. Supplementary
rations were furnished from US sources to help in
maintaining the health of the employees. A considerable
amount of building material was obtained from US and
British sources and the Berlin Magistrate paid the salaries
and financed the necessary repair work.

Quadripartite discussions were started in September
1945 on the revision of the German patent and trade-
mark laws and preparation of a law authorizing the
reopening of the Patent Office in Berlin. These dis-
cussions were continued throughout 1946 and 1947, How-
ever, in view of the impossibility of obtaining agreement
on a quadripartite basis, instructions were issued to the
bizonal officials in October 1947 to make preparations
and enact the necessary legislation for the establishment
of a Bizonal Patent Office.

S THE FIRST STEP in compliance with these in-

structions, Economic Council Ordinance No. 31 was
enacted establishing a Bizonal Patent Filing Office at
Darmstadt, effective Oct. 1, 1948. Under this ordinance
a branch filing office was also established in Berlin, This
ordinance authorized the filing of applications in order
to obtain a priority date, but the offices were not
authorized to grant patents and register designs or trade
marks. During the ensuing year the filing offices
received 125,000 applications, of which 60,000 were for
patents.

A committee of German patent and trade mark spec-
jialists, appointed by the bizonal officials, continued to
study the revision of the German patent and trade-mark
Jaws in preparation for the establishment of a patent
office and submitted several ordinances which were
enacted by the Bizona] Economic Council and approved
by the Bipartite Board.

Economic Council Ordinance No. 117 was enacted and
approved in June 1949, This important ordinance amended
the German laws in the field of industrial property
(patents, designs and trade marks) and adapted them to
present conditions, cancelled several wartime ordinances,

Left. Portion of 12 miles of new metal shelves for 500,000

volumes. Right, entrance to new Patent Office in Munich.

Patent Office personnel witnessing opening of office in

Munich Oct.1. In front row, second from left is Mr.
Billings, author of this article; at right is Dr, Eduard
Reimer, president of the office, next to Dr. Josef Mueller
Bavarian minister of justice. (Photos furnished by author,

prohibited secret applications and patents and provided
for the granting of compulsory licenses if required in the
interest of the public.

The ordinance required the payment of fees on the
Reich patents in order to maintain their legal. effect in
the Bizonal Area and provided for the reinstatement of
the patent and trade-mark applications which were
pending in the Reich Patent Office at the end of the war.
The ordinance authorized the Bizonal Patent Office to
take over the functions of the filing offices and to grant
patents and register designs and trade marks,

CONOMIC COUNCIL Ordinance No, 118, enacted and
approved in June 1949, amended the German Patent
Agents Law of 1936 which regulated the practicing of
the profession in Germany, The ordinance eliminated
from the old law certain discriminatory provisions and
cancelled several wartime regulations. The ordinance
required the reinstatement of attorneys who had been
struck off the register for racial or political reasons and
authorized persons. possessing the necessary legal quali-
fications to practice before the Bizonal Patent Office.
Economic Council Ordinance No. 78, which was passed
Dec. 17, 1948 and approved by the Bipartite Board Aug. 4,
1949, established the German Patent Office at Munich.
The ordinance provided that the filing offices should be
dissolved and their functions assumed by the Patent
Office. The ordinance further authorized branches of
the Patent Office but no such branches have been
established to date.

E@nomic Council Ordinances Nos. 78, 117 and 118
became effective on Oct, 1, 1949 and were extended to
the states in the French Zone by Ordinance No. 1 of the
Federal Republic of Germany, which was also made
effective on the same date,

Thus was established the basis for the opening of the
German Patent Office at Munich on Oct. 1. The office
occupies the library building of the Deutsches Museum
which is located on an island in the Isar River in the
heart of the city, The filing offices which had been

(Continued on page 42)

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 32 ---
Portion of assembly hall at HICOG headquarters during conference of Resident Officers.

Re

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

sident Officers

—— Summary of Zonal Conference

U RESIDENT OFFICERS, as the officials in closest

contact with the German people, are the most
important element in US relations with the Germans, John
J. McCloy, US High Commissioner for Germany, told
HICOG's field representatives Dec, 12 in urging them to
set “most exacting standards for themselves in ac-
complishing their occupation tasks.

Opening a two-day zone-wide conference of the 166
Resident Officers of the US Zone at HICOG headquarters
in Frankfurt, Mr, McCloy said that many Germans form
their opinions of Americans through their observations
of the local Resident Officer and his family.

“Each Resident Officer must acquire a position of real
prestige, dignity and value in the community to which
he is attached,” the High Commissioner said, “Since each
Resident Officer is seeking to imbue certain basic prac-
tices and principles in the Germans,

understand them, their many virtues and their many
faults,” he continued, “To officials in your position, this
means that you must see much of the German people not
only officially but personally and socially.

“You must get away from the office and the conference
table. Then you will have a better chance of under-
standing the reasons why the projects you are advancing
are failing or succeeding.”

That Germans are aware of the qualifications of the
Resident Officers is indicated by the many letters he has
received, Mr, McCloy said. Most of these letters from
Germans ate favorable and many carry a request for
retention of some officer who was about to be moved or
expressed gratitude for some service he had rendered the
community.

Mr. McCloy said Resident Officers must have a sound

knowledge of all HICOG policies and

he must be recognized by them as a
man whose advice and aid is val-
uable—something to be sought.”

He added that their tasks were
much more difficult with the transfer
of more responsibility to the Ger-
mans. Where once officers acted,
they must now use advice and
persuasion, he said.

Office of
public release.

“I believe strongly that you can
deal successfully with the German
people only if you know them and

This summary was prepared
by the Public Relations Division,
Public

The conference, held in Frank-
furt Dec. 12 and 13, was arranged
by the Field Division, HICOG, to
explain policies,
operations to the 166 US Resi-
dent Officers stationed in the
cities and counties throughout the
US-occupied area of Germany.

objectives, and that headquarters
would increase the flow of informa-
tion to them, He hoped the zone-
wide-conferences could be held as
often as every six months.

AJ. GEN. GEORGE P, HAYS, de-

puty US high commissioner, in
citing the US objective of promoting
democracy and preventing the rise
of Nazism, Communism and other
totalitarian tendencies in Germany,
said, “we have made vast strides in

Affairs, for

functions and

JANUARY 1950

29 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
the prevention of the spread of Communism during the
past year.”

He added that there was much misinformation on the
revival of Nazism and similar forms of nationalism,

“The best way to evaluate the return of Nazism within
Germany is to study the trends that have taken place
since 1945," he said. “When you consider the 402 mem-
bers recently elected to the Bundestag (federal assembly),
the Bundesrat (federal council), the chancellor, president
and cabinet members elected and appointed to the German
Federal Republic it is significant that not one single person
who was closely affiliated with the Nazi party has been
elected or appointed."

The return of lesser Nazi officials and followers to the
civil service was usually due to economic reasons, he
said, in that they had been cleared, paid their penalties,
and under the civil service code had to be reemployed
or pensioned.

“The fact that they are being reemployed instead of
being pensioned does not necessarily mean that there is

director

Col. Gordon E. Textor,
HICOG, supervised arrangements for the conference and

of Field Division,

introduced the speakers. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)
a desire on the part of the people in western Germany to
adhere to or promote again the growth of Nazism,” he said.

He said that the federal government had shown its
willingness to adopt democratic principles and to co-
operate in the prevention of anti-Semitism and the revival
of totalitarian tendencies, The recent Petersberg agreement
‘was a major step in this direction, he added.

HEPARD STONE, deputy director of the Office of

Public Affairs, surveyed the major objectives and
problems in public affairs and emphasized the importance
of youth in the reorientation of Germany.

“There can be no doubt that the youth of Germany is
our greatest opportunity, and, if we fail, our greatest
defeat,” he said, He explained that the Education and
Cultural Relations Divisions was concerned with the
reorientation of German youth through the establishment
of a democratic education system, and a restudy of the
entire situation was to be made to see what could be
done about “the great reluctance for reform.”

Describing the work of the Office of Public Affairs’
Exchanges Division, he said some 1,500 Germans were
expected to go to the United States and other countries

INFORMATION BULLETIN

under the exchange program during the fiscal year. The
rewards of the program have been great, Mr. Stone added,
citing as examples the case of Dr, Eugen Kogon, a
German magazine editor, who said his visit to the
United States “has meant a turning point in his life,"
and Werner Hilpert, deputy minister president of Hesse,
who stated that he had discovered how democracy really
works by visiting a New England town meeting.

The Information Services Division is now working on
such problems as attempts of nationalistic groups to break
the leases drawn up to protect the licensed press, and
the evidence of an “army barracks spirit” coming back
at certain radio stations, he stated,

Following Mr. Stone, Thomas P. Headen, chief of the
Information Services Division; Phillip Mettger, deputy
chief of Education and Cultural Relations Division; Dr.
Ralph A. Burns, chief of the Exchanges Division, and
Jack M. Fleischer, deputy chief of the Public Relations
Division, explained in greater detail the work of their
agencies and aid which Resident Officers can render.

ESCRIBING THE POLICIES and operations of the

three-power Military Security Board, Maj. Gen. James
P. Hodges, chief of the US Element, said that the board
works through three main divisions, scientific research,
industrial and military.

The first of these exercises surveillance over Germany's
1,600 scientific institutes and 7,000 scientists by scrutiniz-
ing scientific publications which carry reports of all new
and important discoveries and through spot checks of
these institutes by a small but highly specialized staff,
he stated. The Industrial Division also uses spot checks
and unannounced inspections in the five major industrial
fields, chemicals, electronics, mechanics, metallurgy and
shipbuilding, embracing more than 1,000 plants, to prevent
rearmament.

In distinguishing between normal national pride and
aggressive militarism, the Military Division makes note
of German public opinion and official statements because
“their tenor and frequency indicate trends and by plotting
these trends it should not be difficult to detect a
significant resurgence of militarism, he stated.

Judge William Clark, presiding judge of the US Court
of Appeals, described the development of the HICOG
courts from the former court system comprised of military
and civilian personnel under direction of state Military
Government directors, to the current status of an inde-
pendent judiciary, guaranteeing impartiality to all
litigants. He emphasized that the courts in addition to
administering justice were instrumental in orienting
German legal personnel in the fundamentals of a demo-
cratic court system. He said that legal seminars held by
the Court of Appeals for members of the German bar
had been very helpful in orienting them in the US court's
ordinances and regulations and Anglo-American proc-
edure,

PENING THE afternoon session, John K,. Dunlop,

regional officer for Hamburg, and Pierre Julitte,
delegate for the Trier District, representing the British
and French field staffs respectively, spoke briefly on the
operations in their zones. Both officials emphasized that
their organizations were similar to those in the US Zone,
JANUARY 1950

30

--- Page 34 ---
and that the information and advice passed on to the US
Resident Officer during the conference could apply as
well to their own personnel.

Reporting, observation, and reorientation were cited
by James W. Riddleberger, director of the Office of Poli-
tical Affairs, af the major functions of the Resident
Officers who are stationed in the key counties and cities
of the US Zone. He indicated that the field officers’
observation and reporting of the political, social and
economic tendencies in their communities and how the
Basic Law and the Occupation Statute are being carried
out would contribute in large measure to the development
of US policy towards Germany.

Referring to reorientation, he said that HICOG planning
of this program would reflect the ideas and suggestions
of field officers,

Kenneth E, Dayton, chief of the Internal Political and
Governmental Affairs Division, said that the civil service
was an example of how undemocratic traditions can be
continued in modern Germany. He added, however, that
experience had shown that the average citizen was in
favor of civil service reform and other reform programs
once he understood their necessity. The reorientation
program is designed to provide the citizen with guidance
in achieving these reforms, he said.

ARNING RESIDENT OFFICERS not to spread their

efforts too thin, Mr, Dayton cited several major
areas in which the reorientation program should be
concentrated.

There should be more local autonomy, allowing cities
and counties more jurisdiction over local affairs, he said.

“The tax structure should be revised to make it pos-
sible for cities and towns to control their own incomes
and expenditures to a much greater extent Locai
control of police is already required by the High Com-
mission. Hiring and firing of the local public servants
should be brought more directly under the control of the
town or city government. He urged more local control
over schools, building programs, local transportation and
other community activities.

Encouraging greater citizen participation in govern-
mental affairs was a second major function of-reorien-
tation, Mr. Dayton said. Town meetings and public forums
have already been very successful, he added, and the
next step “is to try to formalize the idea behind them
through the creation of local citizen associations on a
more permanent footing. He suggested that the Resident
Officers aid German citizens in making these forums more
effective by organizing definite programs, such as a series
of meetings on local government, which would orient
citizens and explore all avenues to improvement.

Another field of reorientation is that of civil liberties,
Mr. Dayton said, and urged the Resident Officers to aid
in the formation of civil liberty unions and other asso-
ciations to guard against excesses of government,
arbitrary police action, etc,

Political party relationships constituted another problem
of reorientation, he stated, in getting local citizens to
“take a more responsive role in party affairs and to insist
that their party leaders be responsive to rank and file
JANUARY 1950

31

party member demands. Voters should hold their parlia-
mentary. delegates personally accountable to them, and
should question secret ballots in state and federal legis-
latures.

“The success of the program .... will depend to a
greater extent upon the efforts of the Resident Officers
than any other branches of the entire High Commission's
structure in Germany, he concluded. “Our approach
should in general be to encourage Germans who them-
selves are inclined to press for reform to do the job, and
do it effectively. We should keep in mind that we are
in a European country and that we are seeking political
reform of a democratic nature which has as many roots
as possible in the best of the German past rather than
reform which conforms in detail to the American ideal
or practice.”

UY J. SWOPE, chief of the Displaced Populations

Division, urged the Resident Officers to follow closely
the political aspects of the refugees, explaining that these
8,000,000 newcomers have tended to withdraw from the
main stream of German life, and formed a number of
refugee organizations now demanding recognition as
political parties. He said this indicated that the refugees
considered themselves a minority, discriminated against,
and unable to find political expression through the tradi-
tional political parties.

Citing the danger of this situation, Mr, Swope urged
Resident Officers to use their “detached position" in their
communities to aid in the assimilation of refugees by
encouraging their representation in local government and
civil groups.

Robert M. Hanes, director of the Office of Economic
Affairs, and chief of the ECA Mission to Western Germany,
said that Resident Officers could render valuable service
to the Marshall Plan program by explaining to Germans
in their area the objectives of ECA and the contribution
they could make.

“Make calls on your small businessmen,” Mr, Hanes
said. ‘‘We intend to emphasize aid for small business in
the next few months, so establish contacts with your little
businessman and give him tangible proof that ERP has
his interests in mind. You might do the same with the
labor unions and explain to them how direct dollar aid
or counterpart fund releases give jobs to their members.
Discuss the agricultural program with the farmer and
farm organizations in your county. Explain to them how
they can make use of such things as technical assistance
programs to increase the productivity of their land."

He pointed out that money would soon be released for
a number of counterpart fund projects and suggested
that Resident Officers look up the managers of firms
receiving money and explain to them their “personal
stake in the Marshall Plan."

IHE ECA CHIEF promised to keep the HICOG field

officers fully informed on what ECA was doing and
why, and in turn asked them to provide accurate and
speedy reports on local conditions,

In surveying the operations of ECA in Germany, Mr.
Hanes said that “if Marshall Plan money had made a
difference to other Europeans, it has made a vaster

(Continued on page 51)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Mannheim Post Office 1945...

a es

Rebuilt building in Marburg 1949,

Tas

INFORMATION BULLETIN 32 JANUARY 1950

--- Page 36 ---
Stuttgart’s telephone office 1945...

Same local automatic telephone oftice 1949.

By EUGENE H. MERRILL
Chief, Communications Branch
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

HE GERMAN AGENCY
munications

responsible for com-
in the US-Occupied Area has made
phenomenal progress since the beginning of occupation
in the rehabilitation and provision of communications
services and facilities. Such has been accomplished by a
denazified and demilitarized organization which has
maintained financial solvency without dollar or other
financial aid, and financed substantially all plant re-
habilitation, additions and other operations out of its
operating 1evenues.

The German communications agency has also made
substantial financial contributions to other German
government activities and earned approximately $14,000,000

Frankturt's teletype exchange 1946...

JANUARY 1950

in foreign currencies for Germany, as a result of its
operations in the US-Occupied Area.

The volume of long distance telephone, telegraph and
letter mail services now rendered in the US Zone are
approximately 180, 250 and 100 percent, respectively, of
the volume of those services rendered during an average
month in the 1937-38 fiscal year,

The accompanying photographs are examples of the
progress made during occupation in the physical re-
habilitation of German communications operating facilities
and communications equipment manufacturing plants.

(Photos continued on pages 34-35)

Same office after reconstruction 1949,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
Reconstructed telecommunications equipment plant in Nuremberg
Pcs co se

Munich's new long distance telephone
office (under construction 1949), This is
most modern office of type in Germany

First line of new boards of trunk
exchange in Frankfurt

Local telephone office in Darmstadt

New international radio telephone and telegraph transmitter equip-
ment in Frankfurt

INFORMATION BULLETIN 34 JANUARY 1950

--- Page 38 ---
RT ee
— i

Radio telephone-telegraph receiver

linking
Berlin with western zones in US Sector, Berlin

Radio antenna and transmitting station for western

zone communications in US Sector, Berlin

Radio telephone and telegraph (Berlin-western
Germany) receiver equipment in Harz Mountains

JANUARY 1950

New internationai radio telegraph receiving station in US
Sector, Berlin

: ‘ ~ he :
Portion of multi-channel radio telephone and telegraph equip-
ment in US Sector, Berlin

Radio antenna of transmitting station for radio telephone
and telegraph circuits between Berlin and western Germany

ty

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
Free Tuition

— — Reduces Waste of Human Talent
By DR. HERMAN L. OFFNER

Educational Adviser
Public Affairs Division, OLC Bavaria

'UITION CHARGES in secondary schools and the re-

sulting lowered school attendance among qualified
students represent a waste of poteniial and available
ability which is a serious loss to the German people.

The intelligence and capability to help solve the world's
and Germany's problems may lie buried in some small
section of the state and be lost forever because schools to
develop it were beyond the reach of all.

Free schools for all economic classes is the necessary
first step in finding that talent and in giving it the oppor-
tunity to develop freely without regard to the financial,
social or geographical situation of the child's parents,

Approximately one-half of the counties in Bavaria have
no secondary schools. Although children in counties hav-
ing no secondary schools can attend schools in other
counties by paying board and lodging and traveling ex-
penses, the expense of attending a secondary school some
distance from home is a major deterrent to attendance.

Free tuition enables many of the children, who would
otherwise be. deprived of their educational rights and
who are highly qualified, to attend secondary school,
developing their natural talents for the benefit of the
whole community.

NOTHER FLAGRANT example of wasted ability is

found in the highly varied opportunities existing in
different types of Bavarian schools. The state secondary
schools are better supported financially by Bavaria than
are the community secondary schools. The state schools,
which are therefore better equipped and staffed, how-
ever, enroll mostly boys whereas the community schools
are predominantly for girls, The talent of Bavarian girls,
therefore, has less opportunity to be discovered and
utilized than that of their brothers—again constituting a
serious loss and waste of ability to Bavaria,

The cost of discovering this talent—which actually
means a larger number of schools and more teachers—is
not too heavy for Bavaria to support. The additional cost
this entails is very small when compared with the entire
budget of the Ministry of Education or with the total
budget for Bavaria itself. In fact, the percentage of addi-
tional money needed for 75 percent free tuition in com-
munity secondary schools in 1949 as against the preceding
year's 50 percent is approximately one-fifth of one percent.

Even if the cost of free tuition were exorbitant, how-
ever, it would still be cheap in the long run. A state's
development has always been closely associated with the
education of its people. One has only to compare social and
economic conditions in various countries throughout the
world to reach the general conclusion that the standards

INFORMATION BULLETIN

of living are highest in those countries which spend most
per person on education.

CHOOL TAXES should not be saddled on parents

directly but made a special tax matter whereby par-
ents and non-parents alike pay a particular school tax, to
be used only for schools. The education of the children
in the state, then, would quickly become a matter of vital
concern to every citizen as the taxpayer can always be
relied upon to be concerned as to how his money is spent.

Basically, free tuition should make it possible for every
child to reach his fullest capacity as an asset to his coun-
try, no matter whether his parents are rich or poor. The
amount of money needed to meet this goal is neither more
nor less, regardless of whether or not tuition is free, If
free, the state merely guarantees the right to each child
to develop its talents regardless of its home situation.
If not free, the state does not guarantee this right and the
home situation will determine “whether the child can
develop.

This naturally will create inequality of educational op-
portunity. The state must collect enough tax money to
meet its obligations for the education of all in order to
insure free education. On the other hand, the state washes
its hands of this tax obligation when it fails to provide free
education. The latter course may appear cheaper since
not as much administrative machinery is required to collect
and distribute school funds at the local level. But, in the
long run it is more wasteful and fails to develop the
state's primary assets—children.

FEW CRITICS of free education hold that it would
create an educated mob more difficult to control than
an uneducated one. This theory is not only ridiculous but
is hazardous to democracy, The child's personality and
ability alone should be the deciding factor in how far
and in what way it develops. When the child is free to
guide its own development with the expert help of
teachers, it will realize that it is making choices concerning
its education which will have life-long effects. If the child
fails to realize this it will have only itself to blame if it
doesn't reach the goal for which it has ihe capabilities.
Instead of mass psychological frustration directed to-
wards a school system, officials or class distinctions, and
the accompanying feeling of inferiority, it will recognize
its own inadequacies in its past decisions, Consequently
the idea of a mob of disgruntled persons, either uneduca-
ted or educated, disintegrates,
Other opponents advance the idea that free tuition will

lower educational standards and is merely a device for
(Continued on page 40)

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 40 ---
By DR. W. P. SHOFSTALL
Adviser to US Armed Forces
GYA Branch, OPOT Division, EUCOM

EARLY 300 AMERICAN soldiers and airmen have

finished a short course given at the European Command
Intelligence School at Oberammergau for intensive training
in leadership in the Armed Forces Assistance Program to
German Youth Activities.

In 1945 and 1946, the American soldier, who had
conquered the Nazis and who had seen many of his buddies
die in the process, found that hate and revenge did not fit
what he had been taught about democracy. His natural
instinct to help German youngsters who were hungry both
physically and spiritually was the reason for the official

establishment of GYA by the US Armed Forces in April
1946.*

Because of conditions at the time, GYA was at the
beginning simply a program in which the soldiers and
airmen solicited other men, officers and their dependents

* see “Three Years of GYA" by Lt. Col. Robert C. Hall in
Information Bulletin, No. 158, April 5, 1949.

JANUARY 1950

for money in order to buy “candy and Coca-Cola” to give
German children, Today, American men in Germany are
no longer asked by those in GYA to play the role of “rich
Uncle Sam,” nor is it asked that the American dependent
should play “Lady Bountiful.”

Instead, GYA seeks to show that the Americans not
only “talk democracy but they “live” it by sharing
physical resources and “know-how” with Germans while
at the same time treating them with the human dignity
with which one believer in democracy treats another. To
carry Out such a program requires good Americans who
are good soldiers and who know their mission — it
requires, above all, training.

HE COURSE for non-commissioned officers (NCO’s) at
Oberammergau has as one of its major objectives “to
make clear the mission of GYA." In fact it was found that
most GYA non-commissioned officers came to the school

**Army photo shows GYA class of enlisted men at Oberammergau school.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
with the idea that they are running a welfare program in
which they are primarily concerned with “scrounging” and
then “giving” something to German youth. Or, that they
are to provide a sort of a school for teaching such things
as English, craftwork and sports. It was taught that both
these are grossly false ideas of GYA and must be replaced
by the “real” idea, namely, “To teach democracy by
example so that it can be learned by experience.”

They are taught that “what” they do with youth is not
as important as “how" they do it. They learn, for example,
that raising money by Americans for Germans is desirable
only if the Germans have a chance to learn how to do the
same thing by and for themselves; or, that such projects
are desirable if while raising the money, German groups
learn the techniques and spirit of cooperation or if the
project builds good publicity for GYA.

They are taught that the principles of good leadership
are the same whether it is a sergeant leading a platoon, a
scout leader with his group, or a GI with a group of
German employees.

They are taught that if German youth are not to be
exploited by adults, there must be a community youth
program supported by the people in the community, and
not just organized and supported by the state or political
or religious groups.

D IFFERENT MONEY-MAKING and supply projects are
discussed also with an emphasis upon their use as
devices whereby “Americans may teach democracy by
example, and Germans may learn it by practicing it.”

The importance of sponsoring community service projects
is stressed along with techniques of organization for such
projects. One example of the community project which
was discussed in great detail was the Community Christmas
program. Some practices of GYA in the past were greatly
criticized as being examples of how a community project
should not be run. It was pointed out that the programs
in the past had often forgotten that Christmas is a
religious holiday and not a commercial enterprise in which
Americans assisted Germans to celebrate their Christmas;
it was too often in the past an expensive “mob scene”
which destroyed rather than built mutual respect.

Each soldier or airman in the school went back to his
unit determined to do his part to see if Christmas in GYA
could not further the mission of the occupation even more
than the programs of years past.

One day of the 10-day course was spent learning to
know and to understand the German people and German
youth better. Emotions and prejudices burned hotter on
this day than any other. The theme of the course was
that we just fought a war to remove from the hearts of
men the concept that the people of one nation, Teligion,
race or creed were the “super-race.”

INCE GYA IS sponsoring nearly 300 youth centers in

the US-occupied areas of Germany much time was
spent with the techniques of running a center so that the
youth using it would have a chance to learn democracy
by practicing it and above all so that the local community
would continue a center for their youth long after the
Americans had left. “Would you send your child to the
center?” was the one standard stressed above others.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

It was made clear that the job of the NCO was not to
run youth centers but to give qualified Germans the
logistical support they need in order to run them. This
function of the soldier and airman as a liaison worker
between Germans and Americans was the one considered
most vital to GYA.

Because the course was short, there was little opportunity
for it to be much more than a combination orientation and
screening process. At the end of the course, a com-
prehensive final examination was given and the results
were reported back to the commanding officer. Included
as part of the comprehensive examination was a short
speech by each man in which he told his colleagues exactly
what he expected to do with the knowledge he had
obtained about GYA to improve his program when he went
back to his unit.

N ORDER TO GIVE an idea of the exact content of the

course, below are seven questions taken from the final.

examination. (Correct answers are given at end of this
article.)

Mark the statement plus (+) if it is more true than
false, Mark it minus (-) if it is more false than true.
1. The main goal of GYA is the mobilization

of material assistance for the betterment of

German Youth... . . 1.—
2. American conceived and American ad-

ministered projects are as to do more

harm than good. ... . 2, ——
3. A background of sociology is necessary for
a GYA officer. . . 3.——

4.Germans more than Americans believe
their countrymen superior to others .

5. Giving parents Deutsche marks at Christmas
time may be better than giving the family
food or clothing. ... . ._.

6. In parliamentary procedure, a large number
of amendments are good, since they help
to clarify the original motion. . . . .

7. Dances sponsored by GYA are very popular
with German parents. ....... 7
Note: The superior GYA worker will get six out of

the seven right. The good worker may miss not more

than two. Anyone who misses three is average or
below.

HE ACTUAL RESULTS of the school have, however,

been more far reaching. They have defined clearly ~
the problems which before were more or less vague. Three
problems which were defined for EUCOM by this school
and which, therefore, constitute the lines for study and
improvement of GYA in the near future, are:

1, There must be more and better supervision of the
hundreds of GYA operations.

2. Both officers and men must be better selected and
trained for GYA work.

3. Americans in Germany, military and civilian, must be -
given more of an opportunity to practice both their religion
and their democracy.

The training of American soldiers and airmen at Ober-
ammergau is not the only aspect of the GYA training

(Continued on page 40)

4, ———

6, ——

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 42 ---
Local Self-Rule

Vital to Democratic Government

By DR. ALBERT C. SCHWEIZER

ITHIN the next few months, the Bavarian state

legislature will consider changes in the present laws
which govern the conduct of district (Regierungsbezirk),
county (Kreis), and community (Gemeinde) governmental
affairs,

In Germany as well as in most European countries, local
governments have heretofore been highly centralized arms
of the state government. They have had almost no
autonomous responsibility. But history has proved that
governments calling themselves democracies, but retaining
centralized control over local governmental functions have
produced appalling failures. On the other hand, in those
countries where local governments have enjoyed great
freedom of action, the democratic form of government has
withstood the test even of great national crisis.

At times in France, Germany, South American nations
and East European states, the local governments have
been characterized by tight control from above. Their
democratic governments were what Adolf Gasser, famous
Swiss authority on governmental matters, calls “sick"
democracies, and they failed.

ASSER'S “HEALTHY” democracies are the Scan-

dinavian nations, Great Britain, the United States,
Canada, Holland and Australia. In each of these countries,
despite their various national characteristics, there exist
vigorous local self-governments,

The only one possible conclusion from these facts is
that when democracy is practiced daily at local level, it
will flourish strongly in all levels right up to the top
of the governmental structure.

With these lessons of history in mind, the people of
Bavaria should be carefully considering the coming
changes in their own local governments, and advising
their state legislature delegates and committees of their
views on this vital subject.

The future success of democratic government in Bavaria,
as well as in Germany, may well rest in the changes in
local Bavarian government laws soon to be voted on in
the state legislature.

Local self government is an important means of
strengthening mutual cooperation. Already in many places
in Bavaria, mutual cooperation is

town meeting, local people, both refugees and natives,
donated time and money to complete the building.

IHIS EXAMPLE points up one of the most desirable

changes that US officials have been advocating for
several years—the permission for community and county
governments to levy specific local tax money in order
to pay for the greater part of local expenditures such
as the cost of the school building and education,

This would permit the different communities to expand
their school program beyond the minimum state require-
ments, if they so desire. The citizens of a community or
county should have a real voice in the selection of
teachers, the buildings used for the schools and any
additional curricular or school projects they want as these
directly affect the children of that community.

It is in such fields, where local inhabitants are directly
affected, that there should be local administration. The
police and civil servants in a community should be
selected and administered by that community. Of course,
in such things as education, policing and civil service,
standards set by the state should be met but the local
government should have the responsibility for their
administration.

The local governments also should retain and levy sub-
stantial enough taxes to meet their own direct needs. This
would bring about the democratic principle of the local
government being financially responsible and accountable
to the local people and stimulate their interest in local
government.

NE OF THE MOST important aspects of current local

government in Bavaria is the present overlapping of
the authority of the chief county administrator (Landraj).
It is an impossible situation in true representative govern-
ment when the county executive is responsible for the
carrying out of state functions and yet is responsible to
the county legislative body (Kreistag) and thus to the
local people for his local functions.

The chief county administrator's authority as a state
official is only too likely to override that of the country
legislature in regard to local matters. The result of this
is loss of local autonomy which is the foundation stone
of true democratic government,

being practiced more and more as the
citizens realize the benefits to their
community which arise from such
neighborliness. For instance, in the
community of Ruhpolding near Traun-
stein, funds for completing a new
school building were wiped out by
currency reform, with no more money
available from the state. Through a

litical
Bavaria.

This article is a digest of the
last broadcast given over the
Bavarian radio to the German
people by the late Dr, Albert
C. Schweizer, who, prior to his
death in an automobile accident
Oct. 10, was director of the Po-
Affairs Division,

The memorandum on Principles of
Local Government Reorganization in
Bavaria prepared by the Ministry of
the Interior advocates that the office
of chief county administrator be filled
by direct votes of the people of the
county. The administrator would then
be responsible to the people, not the

OLC

JANUARY 1950

state, so responsibility for carrying

39 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
out state functions should be placed on the county legis-
lature. The county administrator and his office should
constitute merely the administrative agency for carrying
out the state functions.

NOTHER IMPORTANT aspect of local government is

the office of district (Regierungsbezirk) president. As
now set up this office is inclined to bind governmental
administration with too much red tape and to meddle
unnecessarily in local government matters. The scope of
the work of office should be reconsidered in the interests
of efficiency and in order to prevent the usurping of local
government rights.

Still another vital point in democratic government is
the right of the people té attend all meetings of their local
government councils or committees. The fact that the
present temporary law governing the county council
(Kreisausschuss) states that meetings of this body are to
be secret, is both undemocratic and unnecessary. Only
in the rarest instances, when public security or public
morals might be endangered, should a government com-
mittee or council meet in secret session.

Along these same lines, it should be mandatory for
public reports to be issued on all legislative and official
activities of government at all levels. +END

(Continued from page 38)

Ambassadors in Khaki

program as carried out by the GYA Branch, OPOT Divi-
sion of EUCOM. There is also training of Germans for
youth leadership.

Last spring at the youth leadership school at Ruit, near
Stuttgart (now conducted by HICOG), the training of the
German liaison workers was begun. Since then approxi-
mately 150 Germans have gone through this school. It is
being continued throughout 1950 and supplements the in-
struction given the NCO. For example, at Oberammergau,
the men are taught that they must do their job so that
they can answer to the question ‘Would the GYA program
continue in spirit and methods, if the Armed Forces should
withdraw their support tomorrow?" The Germans at Ruit
are taught so they can give the same answer to this
question.

Both the program at Oberammergau and that at Ruit for
Germans are on a zone-wide or EUCOM basis in that the
student body comes from all over the zone. The exchange
of experience and ideas from all over the zone as well as
the opportunity for zone-wide coordination is considered
essential.

RAINING OF BOTH Germans and Americans on the

local level is a responsibility of the post commander.

In most commands, there is a monthly training conference
of all GYA workers within the area of the post.

Also EUCOM holds semi-annual training conferences for
the officers assigned to GYA. The major purpose of these
conferences is to make clear to all the mission of GYA.
Contrary to the other three types of training this confer-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ence does not stress techniques and operation except at
the policy level. The building of an efficient organization
and its functions are stressed.

Thus, through an extensive and an intensive training
program, every effort is made to guarantee that the
Americans in Germany will truly and effectively re-
present the democratic ideals of Americans in the United
States to the youth of Germany.

Today in Germany, there are 300 NCO'’s who know
better where they are going and how to get there in their
job as “Ambassadors in Khaki.” They have as their guide
the mission:

1. To give Americans a chance to teach democracy by
example, and

2. To give Germans a. chance to learn democracy by
practicing it. .

To these soldiers and airmen, That is GYA (The Armed
Forces Assistance Program to German Youth Activities).

- END

Answers to questions: 1. (-); 2. (+): 3. ()i 4 (i 5. (+)) 6 (0); 7.0)

(Continued from page 36)

Free Tuition

pressing down the mental level of the people. If the child
cannot attain the educational standards set, it obviously
cannot continue in that particular educational program.
But the school in which it failed should take the responsi-
bility of testing in order to discover what particular
talents the child has.

The child's educational path can then be guided to a
free tuition school in which it may succeed and where its
particular talents can be developed. Instead of lowering
educational standards, schools should reach higher standards
because the children would be more carefully selected.

S TO PRESSING DOWN the mental level of the people,
those who make this assertion understand neither
America nor the American occupational aims in Germany.
The American public would never permit their occupation
forces to press down the mental level of any people any-
where, Precisely the opposite is true. The aim of the
United States is to raise the mental level of all children
everywhere by opening to all the doors of educational
opportunity so that they may partake in accordance to
their ability and interest.
The peace, prosperity and education of America are
bound up with the peace, prosperity and education of the
entire world. +END

Less Than 300,000 DP’s in Germany

The displaced person population, comprising all cate-
gories in the US occupied area of Germany, dropped
below 300,000 during October. Of the total of 293,831
listed Nov. 1 by HICOG and IRO 148,926 were living on
the German economy, 134,944 received care and main-
tenance in IRO centers, and 9,961 were members of
civilian labor service units.

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 44 ---
Micro-biologists transferring a culture. Right, model of the penicillin plant now nearing completion at Hoechst.

By WALTER E. BURKHARD
Penicillin Consultant, Merck & Co., Inc.

ENICILLIN, ONE of the most potent and versatile

weapons against disease known to medical science,
is expected to become much more widely available in Ger-
many early in 1950, when Farbwerke Hoechst, a phar-
maceutical manufacturing plant in Hoechst, near Frank-
furt, begins mass production in a new plant designed to
turn out billions of units a month.

The new production facilities at the Hoechst plant, which
is the first major penicillin producer in Germany, have
been made possible by the cooperative efforts of the
Joint Export-Import Agency, Merck & Co., Inc., a major
penicillin producer in the United States, and Farbwerke
Hoechst.

The project, first conceived by Military Government in
1946 with personnel from both the Legal Division of
OMGUS and JEIA acting as advisers, is continuing under
the sponsorship of the Industry Division, Office of Economic
Affairs, HICOG.

Prior to the war penicillin production in Germany lagged
far behind the drug's development in Britain and the
United States, and after V-E Day production facilities
were extremely limited.

Occupation authorities saw a modern German penicillin
plant serving two purposes: first, to help combat a number
of serious diseases which were becoming more and more
prevalent, and second, to help in strengthening the Ger-
man economy, thus relieving the Allies of the financial
burdens of the occupation.

ARIOUS SURVEYS as to the possibility of manufac-
turing penicillin in Germany with the aid of American
manufacturers were made. Despite discouraging prelim-

JANUARY 1950

41

inary reports, Merck & Co. was invited to send a survey
mission to Germany in the spring of 1947 to aid the US
Government in appraising the technical and economic
problems involved.

An agreement, concluded Nov, 16, 1948 between JEIA,
Farbwerke and Merck with bipartite approval, provided
for construction of a modern plant capable of producing
at least 100,000,000,000 units of pure penicillin G a month
at the Hoechst plant. Merck agreed to provide certain
basic drawings, special cultures of the penicillin producing
microbe, and technical assistance in designing and building
the Hoechst plant. Farbwerke was to reimburse Merck on
a royalty basis.

During the initial planning stage it was feared that con-
siderable equipment would have to be purchased outside
Germany, thus partly defeating one of the purposes of the
project. This difficulty was overcome through the assis-
tance of JEIA, and German equipment manufacturers com-
bined with the ingenuity of Hoechst engineers.

Another obstacle was the problem of obtaining in Ger-
many the ‘foodstuffs,’ or media, on which the penicillin
mold feeds while producing the antibiotic. However, the
German dairies, corn starch manufacturers and chemical
plants cooperated in supplying these necessary raw mate-
rials in the quantities and purity required. With these
supplies on hand it is expected that the product will be
entirely “made in Germany” and that the entire project
will be completed in scheduled time.

Penicillin combats one of mankind's bitterest enemies—
microbes that cause pneumonia, syphilis, gonorrhea, many
other diseases and infections. Before 1942, however, it

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
was regarded in Germany as just another drug that would
soon be supplanted by something better. Limited pro-
duction had begun at Farbwerke but the German govern-
ment showed little interest.

HE NEW PLANT is housed in a building erected in

1939, Although the building is modern, many alter-
ations are being made in order to accommodate the peni-
cillin process, which requires a number of unusual pro-
duction techniques, For example, part of the process is
carried out under conditions of cleanliness and sterility
equally as exacting as those of the operating rooms of the
best hospitals.

The process uses large quantities of air, all of which
must be purified to such an extent that no stray bacteria
can be found in it by any test method now available. It
also requires large quantities of pure water, and much
more drastic treatment than simple distillation is necessary
to remove foreign substances from this water. Such re-
quirements demand special equipment and building con-
struction.

Remodeling of the building is well under way. Floors
and walls are being covered with tiles, ultraviolet steri-
lizing lamps installed and huge air filters erected, all of
which is to insure mass production of pure penicillin in
Germany in the immediate future. +END

(Continued from page 28)

Patents System

operating in Berlin and Darmstadt for more than a year
were discontinued.

IHE WAR-DAMAGED library building in Munich has

been repaired and most of the 123,000 square feet of
floor space is now available, The office opened with a
staff of 400 and now has about 800 employees, including
more than 300 examiners, most of whom were formerly
with the Reich Patent Office in Berlin. The technical
library has been moved from the potash mine at Heringen
and is again available to the public. The library is
equipped with 12 miles of new metal shelves which
provide space for about 500,000 volumes,

Dr. Eduard Reimer was appointed president of the
German Patent Office by the federal minister of justice.
He is a specialist in the field of industrial property rights,
has written several commentaries on this subject and
was the editor of “Gewerblicher Rechtsschutz und Ur-
heberrecht” (Industrial Property Rights and Copyrights).
He has practiced as a lawyer and notary since 1924
and has taught at Humboldt University and at the new
Free University in Berlin.

Dr. Johannes Eylau, who was president of the Reich
Patent Office until 1933, is now serving as special adviser
to the president, Dr. Friedrich Reich, formerly a high
official in the Reich Patent Office, is now vice-president.
Several other officials of the former Reich Patent Office
now fill responsible positions in the new federal patent
office.

The establishment of the German Patent Office made
possible the restoration in the Federal Area of Germany
of the Allied-owned industrial, literary and artistic

INFORMATION BULLETIN

42

property rights which were confiscated, cancelled or.
otherwise impaired as a result of the war. This is
provided for in Allied High Commission Law No, 8 which
was promulgated in the Official Gazette of Oct. 27,
effective as of Oct, 1.

HIS LAW AUTHORIZES substantially the same resto-

ration of rights to the Allied nationals as did the
peace treaties with Italy, Finland and the Balkan
countries. However, complete reciprocity could not be
given to German nationals in view of the London Patent
Accord of 1946, which disposed of German-owned prewar
patent rights in the Allied countries.

The law provides for the restoration of such rights to.
those 54 foreign nations and their nationals which were
at war with or occupied by Germany between Sept. 1,
1939 and May 8, 1945. The restoration is made by the
German Patent Office upon request of the Allied owner.

The following restoration of Allied-owned rights may .
be obtained under the law:

Restoration of industrial, literary and artistic pro-
perty rights which were seized or invalidated during
the war.

Reinstatement of patent and trade mark applications
which were pending at the start of or during the war..

Extension of the duration of patents, trade marks
and copyrights for a period corresponding to that from
the start of the war between Germany and the nation
concerned until Oct. 1, 1949.

Extension of the time to Oct, 3, 1950 for claiming
the priority rights accorded by the International Con-
vention for the Protection of Industrial Property.

Preservation of the right of the Allied owner to
institute proceedings within two years against persons
or firms in Germany which infringed his rights during
the war.

The German federal government was recently invited
to become a member of the International Patent Institute
at The Hague and participation therein was authorized
in principle by the Council of the Allied High Commission
Nov. 17. The institute was established in 1947 by France
and the Benelux countries, Consideration is also being
given to the establishment of a European Patent Office
in which the German federal government would par-
ticipate, + END

Hesse Permits Smoking in Prisons

Hessian prisoners, for the first time in the history of
the state, will be permitted to smoke.

The internal prison reform came after a one-year survey
by Hessian prison officials. The directive, issued by the
Hessian Ministry of Justice, specifically prohibits smoking
in the two juvenile institutions in the state and decrees
that all other penal institutions esablish smoking rooms
or separate smokers form non-smokers.

Smoking articles, according to the directive, may not
be given to prisoners as gifts, All such wares must be
purchased by the prisoners themselves from the allowance
given them for work which they perform.

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 46 ---
Report to The People

— — Review of HICOG’s November Activities*

HE BRISK MONTH of November found an equally

brisk activity going on in the US Zone of Germany,
and in the offices of the High Commissioner, Highlights
of the month were visits to western Germany by three
top officials of the American Government, The three men
were Dean Acheson, US secretary of state, Louis A. John-
son, secretary of defense, and Paul G.Hoffman, admin-
istrator of the Marshall Plan program. From their visits
Americans of the occupation got a graphic demonstration
of the interest which the American Government and the
American people at home continue to manifest in the
occupation of Germany,

Nov, 11 marked an important point in German-Allied
relations. Mr. Acheson stopped at Frankfurt, Bonn and
Berlin, conferring with German and Allied officials on
the heels of his conference in Paris with the foreign
ministers of Britain and France, He carried with him a
pledge of continued American aid to the Federal Republic,
but emphasized the Germans’ responsibility to help them-
selves, Western Berliners heard him commend them on
their resistance to Communist domination and took
pleasure in his announcement that the High Commissioners
would begin negotiations with Konrad Adenauer, the
German chancellor, in carrying out the agreements made
at Paris (see December issue of Information Bulletin,
page 38),

This was the signal for a series of three lengthy sessions
extending over the period of 10 days. During that period,
the High Commissioners and Dr. Adenauer reached accord
on some of the thorniest problems which have plagued
the occupation since it began (see page 64). Problem
one—dismantling. The obvious question—what about the
great German factories which had built, supplied and
maintained Hitler's war machine—how many of them
should be knocked down and shipped to other countries?
How much of this industrial structure had to be left to
insure that western Germany would be able to support
its greatly swollen population and at the same time be
able to make some contribution to Europe and its own
Tecovery?

r= AGREEMENT among the High Commissioners
was that dismantling in progress in 18 major German
factories would be halted. These producers included those
dealing in steel, synthetic gasoline, rubber and many other

US Defense Secretary Louis Johnson and Gen. Omar
Bradley, Joint Chiefs of Staft chairman, visited Frankfurt
Nov. 27 to confer with High Commissioner John J. McCloy
before going on to London and Paris for Atlantic Pact
defense conferences. L. to r. above are Gen. Thomas T.
Handy, CG, US Army in Europe; Lt. Gen. John K. Cannon,
CG, USAFE; Mr. McCloy; Rear Adm. John Wilkes, com-
mander, US Naval Forces in Europe; Mr. Johnson and
Gen. Bradley. (US Army photo)

* Broadcast over AFN, Dec. 2, 1949.

JANUARY 1950

types of production. The German shipbuilding industry
was also granted a limited quota. In addition, the High
Commissioners agreed to allow the Federal Republic to
join some international organizations through which it
could contribute to the general welfare of democratic
nations and benefit itself, Another factor was the granting
of the right to gradually set up consulates abroad.

In granting the retention of so much of its industrial
and other capacity, the High Commissioners insisted on
strong guarantees that the federal government would not
use these extensions of authority as a means to return
to a war production economy, Therefore, Dr. Adenauer
bound his government in three pledges. They were:

1, The German government would participate fully
in the International Ruhr Authority, which is the agency
comprised of British, French, American, Dutch, Belgian
and Luxembourgian representatives who control the
vast production of the coal and steel industry of the
Ruhr valley. It is the purpose of this authority to see
that the benefits of its industrial riches are distributed
fairly between Germany and other nations of western
Europe.

2. The federal government pledged itself to prevent
actively the re-institution of armed forces of any kind
in western Germany, This means that the government
also cooperates with the Military Security Board, which
is an Allied “watch dog agency" set up to expose and
eliminate any attempt to rebuild the German army or
to convert German industry and scientific skill and
knowledge to military purposes,

3. Dr. Adenauer’s government agreed to eliminate
all traces of national socialism and/or any other total-
itarian tendencies which might raise their heads in
Germany. In this same vein, Dr. Adenauer would
institute legislation in the German Bundestag (federal
assembly) to break up the great cartels and industrial
combines, which once supported Hitler and throttled
democracy after World War I.

ERE AT LAST was concrete reality. By living up to
these pledges, the federal government could inspire
a new trust and confidence in Germany throughout the

--- Page 47 ---
democratic world. With these guarantees the people of
Europe, who had suffered from German aggression, could,
at long last, see the full economic recovery of Germany
without fear of another Blitzkrieg (lightning war), These
same nations would also benefit from the expanded Ger-
man industrial activity. Coincidentally, the way was now
opened for Germany to return to the society of freedom-
loving nations,

One indication of the possibility of a new democratic
spirit being evidenced by the German people was demon-
strated in Hesse during the month. It centered around
Dr. Herbert Lewin, a Jewish physician, who was elected
head of the local hospital by the city council of Offen-
bach. However, under pressure from the acting mayor of
the city, the counci] revoked its own decision because
of the doctor's Jewish origin,

An alert German newspaper splashed the action on its
pages, pulling no punches in its expose. Resultant public
indignation was so strong that the state government of
Hesse suspended the official who had demonstrated this
anti-Semitism, In a new election, Dr. Lewin.was returned
to the hospital post. Said US Commissioner for Hesse,
Dr, James Newman:

“This is a tribute to the democratic forces in Hesse
who refused to accept a dictatorial mandate from a self-
appointed autocrat.”

GERMAN POLITICAL hot potato, still being warmed

by Frankfurt diehards, was settled on Nov.3 when
the federal parliament chose the city of Bonn as the
republic's capital. The Petersberg, a resort hotel a few
miles up the Rhine river from the federal capital, will be
the permanent Allied High Commission headquarters, It
will be used for all tripartite functions while each power
will occupy separate headquarters nearby,

Auxiliary headquarters for Mr. John J. McCloy, US High
Commissioner, will be in a large building being renovated
in the nearby village of Mehlem. There Mr. McCloy and
his advisers will meet during their frequent visits to High
Commission headquarters and the deputy US high com-
missioner, Maj.Gen. George P. Hays, will have his main
headquarters,

Early November also saw the visit of Mr. Paul G. Hoff-
man, the American administrator of the Marshall Plan
program (see December page 43). He congratulated Ger-
man authorities on their cooperation in the effort to revive
free trade in Europe. Mr. Hoffman pointed out that one of
our major aims in spending billions* of dollars in the
Economic Cooperation Administration program is to urge
European government to eliminate their many barriers to
free trade, The ECA director complimented West German
authorities for the lifting of restrictions on a large number
of commodities and, in addition, cited new liberalized
trade agreements which western Germany had signed with
half a dozen European countries.

The Germans made a substantial stride forward in their
foreign trade on Nov.10, when the High Commission
announced that German authorities would now be allowed
to negotiate foreign trade and payment agreements with
other countries, subject only to general Allied supervision.

*in the American sense of ‘‘thousand-millions."*

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the United Automobile
Workers’ Union, spent a weekend in Germany at the end
of November after attending the international conference
of the Metal Workers’ Union in Ziirich, He is shown
with his uncle, Ernst Stoker, and family in Ruit, near
Stuttgart. Stoker is holding a CARE parcel he recently

Walter Reuther, president of

received from the US, (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)
The Commission also reiterated that the goal of German
foreign trade policy should be to render the Republic
independent of outside economic aid as soon as possible.

HILE MANY PROGRAMS were being pressed forward

on governmental and international levels, Mr.McCloy’'s
staff was not forgetting the value of individual contact
between Germans in the US Zone and the Western demo-
cracies from which they have been isolated for 13 years.
According to Dr.Ralph Burns, chief of the HICOG Ex-
changes Division, more than 600 German specialists and
professional personnel had visited the United States since
the first of the year.

Included in this category were professors, teachers,
political leaders, governmental and civic affairs specialists,
labor officials and journalists. There were also many
technical experts sent to study the latest technological
developments in industry, agriculture amd other fields.
These visitors are expected not only to bring back new
ideas for improving German production, but also to return
carrying with them an appreciation of American principles
of freedom and tolerance.

This HICOG Exchange Program also operates in reverse
with numerous experts coming from America and other
democratic nations to study the most critical problems,
advise German officials and lecture to German groups.
Two such experts provided reports of their findings which
should give German civic leaders pause for serious
thought,

Lawrence M. Cox, US housing expert, reported after a
conscientious survey that it would take up to 30 years at
the present rate to build the 5,000,000 homes needed in
western Germany today (see page 12). According to
Mr. Cox, this is due in a large part to the facts that
various building agencies were working independently
without coordinating their plans and that German builders
insist on adhering to the same old street patterns among

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 48 ---
the ruins. Mr. Cox also noted that they are trying to
crowd too many people into too limited a space in their
reconstruction,

MERICAN EDUCATOR and labor leader Erwin R.
£4 Kuenzli urged German trade unions to give active
support to the reform of public schools which, as he
pointed out, provide the greatest benefits to the children
of workers (see December, page 18). He emphasized that
there should be not only a program of HICOG but also
an earnest desire on the part of German labor leaders
themselves, and that only through their active cooperation
in school system reform could the children of the poor
classes have the same educational opportunities as the
wealthy.

Cheering note on the health front in Germany was the
announcement that mass production of penicillin is at
last being readied for Germany (see page 41). With the
cooperation of the Joint Export-Import Agency and the
Merck company, one of the American firms which
pioneered penicillin production, a German pharmaceutical
firm near Frankfurt is being reconditioned to produce
100,000,000,000 units of pure Penicillin G monthly, Thus,
the most potent and powerful weapon of modern medicine
will soon be available in plenty for doctors’ use in
Germany.

Congressional groups have been well represented among
the visitors to Germany this month. There have been
observers from the Senate Armed Services Committee,
the House Appropriations and Foreign Affairs Committees,
and individual congressmen who have conferred with
officials and inspected American, activities in Frankfurt,
Bonn, other West German centers, and Berlin (see below
and page 12 and December, page 37).

| Bears NOVEMBER the last radio organization in the
US Zone still under American administration was

transferred to German control. This was the Radio

Technical Institute, an agency which provides research
facilities for improving German broadcasting. In a formal
ceremony of incorporation at Nuremberg, Ralph Nicholson,
director of the HICOG Office of Public Affairs, commended
this institute for its service to German radio and urged
his audience to keep German radio free and independent
of political control (see page 19). Today only RIAS, a
Berlin station built and operated with American funds,
still remains in US hands. .

Two distinguished visitors landed at Frankfurt Rhine-
Main airbase Nov. 16 for a two-day visit to the US Zone
and Berlin, They were Louis A, Johnson, US secretary
of defense, and Gen. Omar N. Bradley, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff. Before his departure, Mr. Johnson
said that he had verified for himself the glowing reports
of the high state of morale and training among US Armed
Forces in Germany.

A major change in the HICOG cabinet occurred in
November when Norman H. Collisson, chief of the ECA
Mission and HICOG economic director, resigned Nov. 16
to return to the United States. His successor is Robert
M. Hanes, former chief of the ECA Mission to Belgium.
Mr. Collisson received warmest praise from US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy for doing a superlative job.

+ END

Belgians Returning 900 Dead Home

A Belgian Graves Registration team is repatriating the
bodies of some 900 Belgian concentration camp victims,
prisoners of war and displaced persons from the US Zone,
it was announced by the Office of the Executive Secre-
tary, HICOG, The Belgians were recently authorized by
HICOG to operate in the US Zone after they had
complied with HICOG regulations for graves registration
operations.

A sub-committee of the House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations landed at Rhine-Main airbase Dec, 2
for a two-day visit to Frankfurt after visiting Rome. Photo at left shows, 1. to r., Representatives Lowell Stockman,
R-Ore.; Michael J. Kirwan, D-Ohio; Daniel J. Flood, D-Penn.; John J. Rooney, D-N.Y., chairman; John E, Fogarty,
D-R.I., and Erland H. Hedrick, D-W.Va. Another House appropriations committee group which visited Frankfurt in
November included, I. to t., Rep. Christopher McGrath, D-N.Y., sub-committee chairman; Dr. W. Motz, food and

agriculture expert accompanying group; Rep. Walt Horan,

R. Coudert, Jr., R-N.Y.

JANUARY 1950

45

R-Wash.; Rep, Sidney R. Yates, D-IIl., and Rep. Frederic

(Photos by PRD HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Personnel Notes

4 State Observers Named

The appointment of four of the seven US Land (state)
observers to be attached to the Land Commissions in the
British and French Zones, was announced by John J.
McCloy, US High Commissioner. The four observers and
the states to which they are assigned are:

Ulrich E, Biel, Lower Saxony (British Zone);

Joseph W. Darling, North Rhine-Westphalia (British
Zone);

Roy I. Kimmel, Schleswig-Holstein (British Zone), and

Robert R. Hutton, Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern (French
Zone),

As provided in the Allied High Commission charter, each
Occupation Power will send observers with small staffs
to the Land commissioners of the other two zones for the
purposes of consultation and advice. Responsible directly
to the US High Commissioner, the American Land
observers will also provide information to HICOG on
developments in the respective states. The exchange of
Land observers among the three occupation zones is
designed primarily to promote uniformity of operations of
the Occupation Powers in western Germany.

Dr. Biel practiced law in Berlin for three years until the
Nazis came to power. He emigrated to the United States
in 1933, He was connected with the investment banking
business in New York until entering the army in July
1942. During the war, Dr. Biel was a Military Government
officer in the European Theater, and following the war

Seventeen officers and German employees of the State Dept. Foreign ‘Service
were awarded certificates and medals for long and meritorious service by
High Commissioner John J. McCioy at a ceremony in HICOG headquarters
Dec. 7. L. to r., Erich W. A. Hoffman, Elsie Linde, Marianne von Constant,
Erna Kasparek, Archibald E. Gray, Hans K. Bork, Ida Haferman, Casimir T.
Zawadzki, Francis A. Lane, Mr. McCloy, E. Allen Lightner, Jr., Elsa T, Speier,
Walter Maassen, Marshall M. Vance, Eric C. Wendelin and Helen Nufer Winc-
kel. Absent were J. W. Riddleberger and B. A. Gufler. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

was chief ot the Political Affairs Branch, OMG Berlin
Sector, until his current appointment.

Mr. Darling, of Philadelphia, was formerly deputy chief
of the Economics Branch, OMG Berlin Sector. Prior to
joining the Berlin Sector office he was with the OMGUS
Economics Division as chief of the Requirements and Allo-
cations Branch. During the war Mr. Darling served as a
lieutenant colonel in the Ordnance Corps.

Mr. Kimmel served as assistant to the director of the
School of International Affairs at Princeton University,
1931—1935. He held various executive posts with the
Department of Agriculture from 1935 to 1942. During the
war he served as Chief of the US Lend-Lease Mission to
New Zealand, and later entered the army, attaining the .
rank of lieutenant-colonel. Following the war he joined
the State’ Department foreign service as an attache,
serving in London and Berlin.

Mr. Hutton was European manager for an American
firm prior to the war. A director of supply for the Amer-
ican Red Cross in London, 1942—47, he came to OMG
Hesse as an I. G. Farben control officer in late 1947, and
served as French adviser to OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden
from July 1948 until his new appointment.

Hanes New ECA Mission Chief

Robert M. Hanes became chief of the ECA Special
Mission to western Germany and director of the Office of
Economic Affairs Nov. 16, succeeding N. H. Collisson, the
first chief of the ECA Mission, who has held that post.
since September 1948. ‘

In a short ceremony in High Commissioner's office in
the Frankfurt Headquarters Building, Mr. McCloy formally
installed Mr. Hanes. Mr. McCloy warmly commended Mr.
Collisson for his work both as ECA
chief of mission and director of the
Office of Economic Affairs, posts he
has held simultaneously since Oct. 15.

“Mr. Collisson*, said Mr. McCloy,
“greatly deserves our thanks, He
has done a superlative job and has
won the admiration and respect of
all of us who have worked with
him, The manner in which he orga-
nized the ECA Mission here and the
speed and the efficiency with which
he got it operating are well known.

“There was little precedent for the
establishment, organization and oper-
ation of ECA Missions in Europe.
There certainly was no precedent
for Germany. The problems here
were of a nature vastly different
from ihose in other missions. He
dealt with general economic prob-
lems as efficiently and thoroughly
as he headed the ECA Mission. Mr.
Collisson ably guided and directed
his organization through a trying
and difficult period. Mr. Collisson

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 50 ---
Major Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US commander of Berlin,
conferred with German labor leaders at UGO (labor
union) headquarters Nov. 25, when he was informed by
Ernst Scharnowski, UGO executive, regarding progress
made by the union's various departments in recent months.

(US Amy photo)

has given me much valuable advice and assistance and I
thank him on my own behalf and that of the HICOG
organization.”

Before coming to Germany, Mr. Collisson served as
Special Assistant to the Secretary of the Interior in
Washington. During the war he served in the Navy, and
was discharged with the rank of captain in December
1947, During the war he was appointed as coal mines
administrator when the United States seized the bitumi-
nous coal mines and operated them for the Department of
the Interior.

Mr. Hanes, who has been working with Mr. Collisson
since October, was previously chief of the ECA Special
Mission to Belgium. A North Carolina banker and business
executive, he was appointed chief of the Belgium-Luxem-
bourg Mission in April of this year. Previously he served
as special consultant to ECA in Europe.

Egypt Honors Judge Ericsson

The Order of the Nile has been bestowed by the Royal
Egyptian Government on H. Lloyd Ericsson, temporary
special assistant to the General Counsel, HICOG, and a
former judge of the Egyptian Mixed Court according to
information received in Frankfurt from the American
Embassy in Cairo. The Mixed Courts, established by
treaty in 1887, had jurisdiction over matters involving
foreign interests. The order was awarded to Judge Erics-
son for services to the Royal Egyptian government.

2 Professors Leave

Dr. Marie Schnieders and Dr. Franz Montgomery,
veteran members of the Education and Cultural Affairs
Branch in Hesse, have relinquished their positions to
return to the United States.

Miss Schnieders, former university officer and exchange
officer for OMG Hesse and OLC Hesse, is returning to

JANUARY 1950 47

her duties as an associate professor at Smith College,
Northampton, Mass. She came to Germany in January
1948 to join the Education Division, OMG Hesse.

Formerly deputy chief of education for OMG Hesse, Dr.
Montgomery is returning to his post as assistant professor
of English literature at the University of Minnesota.

2 Die in Car Crash

Two HICOG employees returning to Bonn after the
Thanksgiving holidays were fatally injured in a collision
Nov. 28 of the official automobile in which they were
riding and a trailer of a German truck on the main
highway about 20 miles south of the German capital.

Witold P, Izdebsky, 31, of Paris, a French interpreter
in the US Element of the Allied General Secretariat, died
almost instantly. John J. Harte, 29, of Scranton, Pa.,
deputy US archivist, died the following day.

Miss Inez Darin, a secretary in the Allied General
Secretariat, who was also a passenger in the car, was not
seriously injured. She was removed to the 97th General
Hospital in Frankfurt.

ECA Mission Controller

Richard L. Johnson has assumed his duties as controller
of the ECA Special Mission to Western Germany and of
the Office of Economic Affairs. He came to his post direct
from Athens, Greece, where he had served as controller
of the ECA Mission to Greece since last January.

District Attorney at Bremen

James S. Phelps, formerly district attorney at the US
District Court in Wuerzburg, has been appointed acting
District Attorney at the US Court for Germany, First
Judicial District, in Bremen. He replaces Maurice Lubore,
who has returned to the United States.

Heads Governmental Affairs

Victor Gruder has been named to the position of chief
of governmental affairs in the Political Affairs Division,
OLC Hesse. Mr. Gruder, formerly in the Legal Division,
OMG Hesse, replaces Milton M. Mayer, who returned to
the United States.

Supervises HICOG Billetting

Jack H. Lennon has been appointed special assistant to
the director of the Office of Administration, assigned to
supervision of billetting for HICOG personnel and their
families during the transitional period in which many new
employees are being settled in the Frankfurt area. He was
formerly with OMG Bavaria, first as a trade and industry
officer in the Nuremberg area and later as chief of the
OMG Property Control Branch. Since last July Mr. Lennon
had been special assistant to the State Commissioner for
Bavaria.

Correction

Hans Lamm, who prepared the pictorial story, “Youth
Forums Maturing,” in the December issue of the Informa-
tion Bulletin, should have been identified as a member
of the staff of the Board of Review, and not as a member
of the board.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Winter Tourists

—— Ski Resorts, Hotels Ready for Influx

ERMAN TOURIST groups, hotels and transportation

agencies are expecting a record-breaking influx of
tourists during the current winter season, according to
teports received by the ECA Special Mission to Western
Germany. x

In the various winter sports areas, particularly in
Bavaria, ski trails have been cleared, rest houses and
lodges repaired and reequipped. Many of the prewar ski
instructors are back at their posts, Ski lifts have been
overhauled and new cables installed and tested. A number
of German travel agencies, the American Express Com-
pany and Thomas Cook are organizing special winter
sightseeing and sports tours.

In line with the tourist development program of the
Marshall Plan, a number of state and municipal adminis-
trations have established special offices to promote
tourism, with particular emphasis on “off-season” tourism,
The effect of the work of these groups is just beginning
to be felt, especially in the establishment and publication
of uniform rates for hotel rooms, meals and other services.

The German Federal Railroads have under consideration
a plan to offer reduced fares for tourists during the
winter season, At the present time, the railroads have a
special reduced rate for tour groups organized by travel
agencies, The federal railroad system is now meeting its
schedules, the roadbeds are in good shape, and war-
damaged rolling stock is being repaired.

Large Marshall Plan display in window of showrooms of
Main-Gaswerke A.G., Frankfurt, shows main items of
food imports, with percentages furnished by ERP aid while
illuminated panel illustrates what Germany must do to
increase production, expand trade and become economic-
ally self-sufficient. Tables in foreground carry actual
samples of items Germans now are able to get in their
basic diet. (Heilmann photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

48

ERMAN HOTELS in western Germany and the three

western sectors of Berlin, under the urging of the
semi-official Hotelkeepers' Association are paying more
attention to slanting their services toward the needs of
the foreign visitor. In all three zones, a number of
extensive repairs and remodelings have been completed
and a continuing program is in effect to bring the hotels
and guest houses to a standard exceeding that of prewar
limes.

Average prices for board and meals at a de luxe hotel
are from DM 15 to 20 ($3.57 to $4.76) a day, at a first
class hotel from DM 10 to 15 ($2.38 to $3.57) a day, with
rates lower en pension. Rooms without meals range from
DM 5 to 8 ($1.19 to $1.90). Prices at medium class hotels
are approximately 20 percent lower.

German hoteliers claim that the variety and quality
of foods available are now on a par with other European
countries. Nearly all restaurants and hotels have available
a representative variety of German wines of every
vintage, and a number of first class hotels stock a limited
variety of French wines. For the American palate the
hotel bars have a wide range of American, Scotch and
Canadian whiskies and American and English gins,

OURIST OFFICIALS are looking to the United States

to furnish the greater percentage of their winter
tourist traffic. With the devaluation of the mark, reduced
air travel fares from the United States and fine ski areas,
they hope for a record winter season,

American Overseas Airlines has a 60-day excursion
rate of $531.80 from New York to Frankfurt. AOA offices
in the United States now have a plan whereby they can
arrange hotel reservations in Germany and get confir-
mation the same day.

For the tourist who wants to come by ship and bring
his own car, gasoline is now available up to 52.8 US
gallons a week at 52 cents a gallon.

Also for the first time since the end of the war, German
drive-yourself cars are available to the foreign visitor.
Rentals range from DM 25 ($5.95) per day for a Volks-
wagen to DM 35 ($8.33) for larger cars.

The United States customs authorities have recently
raised the limit on the amount of duty-free goods the
returning traveler may bring in to $500. With the in-
creasing amount and quality of consumer goods on the
shelves of German stores, German merchants expect to
get a fair share of the tourists’ money. +END

Denazification Cases ‘Down to 5,400
By the end of last September, only 5,466 denazification
cases remained in the US Zone to be tried, according to
the monthly denazification report released by the Public
Safety Branch, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG,

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 52 ---
Communist Party

—— Part V in Series on Political Parties

HE COMMUNIST PARTY of Germany (KPD) is an

offshoot of the Social Democratic Party (SPD) and
the earlier history of the KPD has been outlined in the
history of the SPD.

The German Communist Party is a direct development
of the Spartacus Union, which was founded during World
War I by Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg in. order
to conduct an illegal campaign against the war and the
Imperial German government, The Spartacists originally
formed the left wing of the Independent Socialists who
had broken off from the Majority Socialists, But while
the Independents were satisfied with the peaceful policy
of parliamentary opposition the Spartacists were trying
to promote a revolution.

The birth of the KPD occurred on Dec. 30, 1918, when
the Spartacus Union broke away from the Independents
and took up a separate position as the German Commu-
nist Party. Its original program, drafted by Rosa Luxem-
burg, declared that the party “refuses to share the task
of government with the puppets of the bourgeoisie, with
men like Scheidemann or Ebert, It would regard such
cooperation as treason to the principles of socialism, as
playing into the hands of counter-revolutionaries and as
paralyzing the revolution.”

By a vote of 62 to 23, the Communists refused to take
part in the elections to the Weimar National Assembly
of 1919,

ARLY IN JANUARY 1919, the Communists seized the

principal newspaper offices in Berlin in protest
against the dismissal of Leftist Berlin Police Chief Eich-
horn, German troops were called out to evict them and,
in bloody street fighting that took place between Jan, 6
and 12, the Communist uprising was suppressed. Three
days later, Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg, the
founders of the KPD, were kidnaped and murdered by
officers of the reactionary Free Corps,

The hatred sown by these events, henceforth, made the
union of the two German workers’ parties impossible and
the division between the two proletarian parties was one
of the main factors that contributed unintentionally to the
success of Hitler.

As an example of how the split in the working class
weakened the Weimar Republic, the presidential election
of 1925 may be cited. The victory of Hindenburg was then
made possible by the refusal of the

In 1920 the Communists, who until] then had remained
mote or less a splinter party, became for the first time
a force to be reckoned with when the KPD, as a result
of the split which occurred in the ranks of the Indepen-
dent Socialists at their meeting at Halle, suddenly made
considerable gains by absorbing the left wing of the
Independents Socialists, comprising more than 1,000,000
workers who, headed by Daeumig, now joined the KPD.

if uae GREAT PARTIES of organized German workers
now confronted each other, The larger group, the
SPD, accepted the Weimar Republic and was prepared to
fight for socialism with legal weapons, The smaller and
more radical group, the KPD, aimed at a second and purely
socialist revolution.

In the Reichstag election of June 1920, the KPD had
polled only 589,000 votes, representing 2.1 percent of the
electorate, but now obtained 3,693,000 votes or 12.6 per-
cent of the poll in the May election of 1924, The year
1923 was likewise important in the history of the KPD:
Russian domination was then formally clamped on the
party and has not been relinquished to this day.

In the spring of that year, Paul Levi, the leader of the
KPD, dared to publish a pamphlet severely criticizing the
Soviet Russian leaders for the failure of Communism in
Germany. But Lenin was determined to preserve his ex-
treme authority within the Third International and Levi
was punished for his audacity by expulsion from the KPD,

These Moscow tactics destroyed permanently all in-
dependent political life for the KPD. Russian influence
imposed on leaders of the German Communist Party a
submissive bureaucracy composed of men who obeyed
every suggestion from Moscow, who did not dare to call
their souls their own, and who were willing overnight to
reverse their position on any issue upon a note from the
Kremlin.

AVORED BY constantly deteriorating economic con-

ditions, the KPD nevertheless gained steadily in
strength at the expense of the SPD, and its popular vote
mounted from 589,000 in 1920 to 6,000,000 in the Reichs-
tag election of 1932, when the party returned 100 deputies
to the German parliament.

The KPD was the first party to be suppressed by the
Nazis, The burning of the Reichstag building on Feb. 27,
1933 was declared by the Nazi government to be the
work of the Communists. Ernst Torgler,

Communists to withdraw their leader
and candidate, Ernst Thaelmann, from
the race. If, in the second run-off
election, the Communists had with-
drawn Thaelmann, the Republic can-
didate, Wilhelm Marx of the Catholic
Party would in all probability have
been elected in place of Hindenburg.

background,

Parties

political groups.

The salient facts regarding the history,
aims, organization, leader-
ship and membership of the German
political parties of today,
drawn from a volume on the “Pol tical
in Western Germany” issued
by the Civil Affairs Division, OMGUS.
This month's article will be followed
by others dealing with the other lesser

the KPD Reichstag leader, was ar-
rested and tried before the German
Supreme Court at Leipzig on the
charge of having started the fire,

In the Reichstag election of March 5,
1933, the Communists’ vote fell off
to 4,800,000. Eighty-one Communist

have been

JANUARY 1950

deputies were elected to the Reichstag

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
but were never allowed to take their seats. Most of their
leaders were arrested or fled abroad, Many of them, like
Walter Ulbricht and Wilhelm Pieck, now the first “pre-
sident” of the new Soviet puppet state, the East German
Republic; fled to Moscow and were schooled in Soviet-
Russian methods and tactics during the Nazi era. The KPD
leader and presidential candidate Thaelmann was arrested
in 1933 and subsequently killed in Buchenwald concen-
tration camp by the Nazis in August 1944,

HE COMMUNIST PARTY (KPD) is organized through-

out Western Germany today on a highly cen-
tralized basis and is particularly strong in the urban in-
dustrial centers such as the Ruhr and Mannheim,

Its voting strength in the trizonal area is, however, less
than 10 percent and, as demonstrated by the elections
held in 1948 and again in 1949, is still declining.

Aware of this growing unpopularity, the Communist
leaders in the West have made great efforts to drop the
name KPD and substitute for it SED, which is the name
under which the party already functions in the Soviet
Zone. Their application to make the change was rejected
however by both the US and the British Military Govern-
ments on the ground that the name, SED (Socialist Unity
Party of Germany), constitutes a palpable fraud since it
implies a voluntary merger of Socialists and Communist
followers that does not in reality exist, The West Ger-
man Communist leaders were equally unsuccessful in
changing their name from KPD to SVD (Socialist People’s
Party),

It was doubtless because of the unpopularity of its
Russian connection that the KPD, at a meeting of the
party's executive committee held at Herne on Jan. 2,
1949, announced the organizational separation of the party
from the Soviet-sponsored Socialist Unity Party (SED) in
the Eastern zone. Members of the KPD who belonged to
the executive committee of the SED were ordered to
withdraw and KPD headquarters in Frankfurt announced
that this decision was reached because “the special require-
ments of the Communist Party in the Western zone make
necessary an independent line.”

It is generally believed, however, that in taking this step
the KPD was trying to drop the odium of its link with the
SED, The KPD executive committee added, nevertheless,
that there remained complete agreement between the SED
and the KPD on all fundamental questions of policy.

HE KPD IS EVEN more tightly disciplined than the
SPD. Its members are expected not merely to pay
dues, but to work actively for the organization.

The KPD is inspired by the success of the Bolshevist
Revolution in overthrowing the Russian Provisional Gov-
ernment in 1917 and Soviet Russia is the model for all
that it strives to attain in Germany, Many of its present
leaders were schooled in Moscow during the Hitler era.
Although the German Communists are not yet directly
represented in the Cominform, they can be counted upon
as loyal and obedient followers of the Kremlin, according
to statements of prominent SED leaders,

Following the war, Communists have been members of
coalition governments in Hesse, Wuerttemberg-Baden and

INFORMATION BULLETIN 50

Bavaria. This is no longer true today. The last KPD
cabinet minister in Western Germany, Minister of Labor
Kohl in Wuerttemberg-Baden, quit office in May 1948,
when his colleagues forced him to resign in protest
against his party's defense of the Russian hunger blockade
of western Berlin,

The KPD, as also the Communist Parties in other coun-
tries, holds that socialism can only be achieved by the
dictatorship of the proletariat, It has as its goal a political,
economic and social revolution based on the concept of
the class struggle and aimed at destroying the economic
basis of the capitalistic system of free enterprise and
private ownership of the means of production,

But while these are the long range objectives of the
party, the immediate aims of the KPD were outlined in a
program drawn up particularly for the first election to
the Bundestag (lower house of parliament) of Western
Germany, This document, drafted by the executive com-
mittee of the KPD at Frankfurt and dated June 24, 1949,
contained 16 demands along the long familiar Communist
party line. -+-END

Hybrid Corn Tests Successful

Western Germany's experiments with hybrid corn
imported from the United States are proving successful,
according to Kenneth Beachley of the Food and Agriculture
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG. The best
adapted hybrid varieties are yielding as much as 50 per-
cent in grain and 30 percent in green fodder above local
German varieties,

Last year was the third in which hybrid corn varieties
were imported from the United States and tested in the
three western zones, Results have been fairly consistent,
although there are certain variations because of climate
and soil differences.

Experiments are being conducted at six western German
experiment stations, at Rosenhof, Wachenheim, Wehrden,
Voldagsen, Heuchelhof and Weihenstephan. Approximately
20 varieties of hybrid seed corn were planted side by
side with open pollenated European varieties. Early
varieties of hybrid corn were received from the US
Department of Agriculture, state agricultural experiment
stations and private US seed sources.

The technique of producing hybrid corn was
demonstrated during the past summer at five of the six
experiment stations. Single crosses of stock seed were
imported and crossed, producing hybrid corn to be used
for farm planting next season.

As more suitable varieties of hybrid corn for German
growing conditions are found, it is expected that the area
planted with this crop will be increased for grain and
green fodder purposes. High yielding varieties for green
fodder would partially replace root crops for livestock
feeding and at the same time reduce the cost of production
through saving in hand labor. This shift in crop production
would result in larger quantities and better quality feed
for livestock.

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 54 ---
(Continued from page 31)

Resident Officers

difference here in Germany, where we faced the task of
pulling together the shattered and dormant economy of
a defeated country. I do not underestimate the effects
of currency reform in Germany but without foreign aid,
currency reform could have been nothing but the ex-
change of one type of worthless money for another.”

He said that the main emphasis of the ECA program
had been on raw materials — “food for the human
workers and commodities for Germany's industries.” The
conversion of raw materials into finished goods must be
accelerated, he said, to pay for vital food imports since
western German food production would hardly cover
more than 60 percent of the needs,

Chester A. McLain, director of the Office of General
Counsel, said that his office was responsible for compli-
ance by occupation agencies with the guarantees of the
civil rights of all persons in Germany and urged Resident
Officers to report any cases requiring corrective measures
or conditions and trends warranting preventive action.

Turning to the reorientation program, Mr. McLain said
that the General Counsel's office was seeking to pro-
mote democracy in the German judicial system through
the cultural exchanges program. Fifteen prominent German
jurists and four prison officials have been sent to the
United States to study judicial and penal systems, he
said. His office is now selecting 40 young Germans to
study one semester in American law schools next year,
he added.

T THE SECOND-DAY'S morning session on Dec, 13,

Glenn G. Wolfe, director of the Office of Adminis-
tration, emphasizing that this office would execute its
functions with a maximum of service and a minimum of
control and red tape, cited the new services soon to be
instituted for Resident Officers.

HICOG is now preparing to take over the adminis-
tration of all German employees, formerly handled by
EUCOM, and expects to be able to employ the highest
caliber of personnel and through current studies of wage
tariffs may be able to offer better salary rates.

A new training program for Resident Officers in the
German language has been organized by Dr. Henry L.
Smith, Assistant Director of the State Department's
Foreign Service Institute, who also addressed the confer-
ence briefly. The program will allow Resident Officers
who need language instruction to hire German tutors
locally to provide them with up to nine months of
training. State Department funds will be available for
Payment of teachers.

Mr. Wolfe said all US vehicles now being used by
Resident Officers will be replaced with new German
vehicles, and they will be permitted to use local German
garages for maintenance rather than military post ord-
hance sections as formerly. Resident Officers will soon
be given commissary privileges regardless of marital
Status. To defray necessary “representation expenses” in
their contacts with German officials, and in carrying out

JANUARY 1950

local reorientation programs, the Resident Officers will
soon be granted a special fund amounting up to DM 225
monthly, :

ENJAMIN R, SHUTE, Director of the Office of In-

telligence, emphasized the importance of speedy,
accurate and objective reports on significant develop-
ments to provide the US High Commissioner and his staff
with the necessary background material and information
for directing HICOG activities.

“The contribution we can make to the wisdom of our
leaders is one of our greatest contributions to the
progress of the occupation,” he said, explaining that the
reporting functions of Resident Officers were similar, on
a smaller scale, to the reporting of Foreign Service
officers all over the world to the State Department in
Washington.

He emphasized that the Office of Intelligence was not
running “a spy operation,” but that its activities were
of an overt nature designed to collect and analyze the
information necessary for HICOG.

NCOURAGING ALL the elements of democracy and

discouraging manifestations of authoritarianism are
the fundamental missions of the Office of Labor Affairs,
said its deputy director, John K. Meskimen.

“German labor organizations have actively and success-
fully resisted extremist infiltration from the right and
the left at every level and show every evidence of being
able to continue to do so," he said. The trade union
leadership of today recognizes that extremist penetration
would swiftly and inevitably destroy the democratic
character of their unions.”

He said that his office was helping to strengthen trade
union democracy by facilitating contacts between German
labor organizations and other national and international
democratic labor groups, as well as sending German labor
leaders to America for education and bringing foreign
experts to Germany. Resident Officers could aid this
program by acquainting themselves with those Germans
who have returned from the United States and reporting
on the benefits of their training to the community and
the individual.

Referring to labor disputes, Mr. Meskimen said that the
HICOG program was twofold: “First and foremost, to
observe danger spots in the economy which may result in
economic action on the part of labor organizations, Second
and scarcely less important, to advise all parties con-
cerned of the situation, together with suggested remedial
action,” He added that the Labor Affairs Office conducts
a program to educate the concerned parties in mediation
and conciliation machinery developed in other countries,

Of special concern to the Manpower Division of the
Labor Affairs Office is the welfare and standard of living
of workers and their families, he continued. To plan its
programs realistically and advise German officials as well
as other HICOG agencies, Mr. Meskimen said that his
office needed information from the Resident Officers
on a variety of social problems, such as the efforts made
to overcome housing shortages and high prices, adequacy
of job placement by local labor offices, and measures

INFORMATION BULLETIN

51

--- Page 55 ---
to prevent discrimination against refugees, disabled
persons, women etc., adequate training of apprentices,
overpopulation in agricultural areas, and the freedom of
workers to enter new occupations and new enterprises
without discrimination by entrenched groups.

OME OF THE 1,200 questions raised by Resident

Officers on subjects ranging from HICOG policies on
reorientation to hunting and fishing regulations were
answered at the closing afternoon session on Dec, 13 by
representatives of the major offices of HICOG.

High Commissioner McCloy, in closing the conference,
said “the stimulation his staff received in answering the
questions and the stimulation Resident Officers displayed
in digging them up have justified their coming" to the
conference. He emphasized that the “time and season
are now here for putting out your extreme efforts in the
solutions of the German problems. Six months or a year
from now, when the Germans have become subject to a
new mold, may be too late... The time is better now
than it was two years ago when Germany was knee-deep
in poverty.” He added that Resident Officers must use
leadership and not a club to gain the objectives of the
occupation.

This theme also was stressed by other HICOG officials
in response to questions concerning HICOG's authority to
require reform of internal German institutions and tradi-
tions, such as the education systems, local government,
labor laws and the law on insult of public officials. HICOG

Swedish medical team is vaccinating Berlin school children
againt tuberculosis at rate of 1,800 a day. The anti-TB
vaccinations also are being given, children too young to

attend school. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN 52

officials pointed out that US control over these and
similar German internal affairs were not within the
reserved powers of the Occupation Statute, and that it
was now up to the Resident Officers to encourage and
influence Germans to effect democratic changes through
their own pressure on government.

Mr. Mettger, during the question-answer session, said
“we could not have accomplished more in the long run
if we had ordered Germans to change their thinking on
school reforms and such matters. We must influence them
to accomplish these changes of their own volition if they
are to be lasting.”

EPLYING TO a question concerning HICOG power to

order changes in government to allow more local
autonomy, Mr, Dayton said this was outside of the
reserved powers under the Occupation Statute, and added
that no persuasion would affect the federal and state
governments until the “people of the communities and
counties learned to stand on their own feet and demand
these changes through influence on their parliamentary
respresentatives.”

Mr. Meskimen, in reply to a question on the US attitude
toward labor unions with Communists among their
leaders, said Resident Officers would be expected to
encourage such unions in spite of the Communist officials.
He said past experience had shown that the workers
constituted one of the most politically mature groups
in Germany, and where leaders had followed the Com-
munist line the union membership had recalled them or
ousted them at the next election. He cited as example
the coal miners union where Communist influence had
once been strong, and the membership had eventually
removed all Communists from key positions,

The Resident Officers showed considerable interest in
controls over rearmament and militarism, From US
officials of the Military Security Board they learned that
the board maintains inspections and controls of industrial
explosive plants and factories producing component parts
of explosives, and the board had conducted no discussion
of German rearmament, and, if rearmament were per-
mitted, the board would “go out of business. In
reference to fencing clubs, the board was now considering
regulations permitting the use of epees but banning sabers
—bows, arrows and crossbows not being considered
weapons, There was no prohibition against military toys.

O QUESTIONS on the future of HICOG employees,

Mr. Wolfe replied that there was a great deal of
talent among the personnel of the organization and his
office had urged the State Department to comb Germany
and consider the temporary Foreign Service employees
of HICOG before looking elsewhere for new appointments
to the permanent Foreign Service,

He pointed out, however, that there were only about
5,000 members of the career service all over the world
and since there were some 1,500 temporary employees in
HICOG the chances were not too encouraging, HICOG
employees would be given an opportunity to take State
Department examinations for Foreign Service appoint-
ments, he said. + END

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 56 ---
(Continued from page 9)

Constitutional Development

questioned their authority to speak for the German people
and demanded that right for themselves. Furthermore,
the ministers president feared the charge by the future
historians of complicity in the division of Germany. No
wonder that throughout the negotiations with the Military
Governors the representatives of the states acted so
cautiously, They did not make their views known at
once and requested time for deliberation,

During the weeks that followed the ministers president
held a number of conferences in which, for all intents
and purposes, the major political parties participated.
During the conferences it became apparent that both the
SPD and the CDU were determined to prejudge the de-
cisions of the ministers president and, secondly, that the
Germans were unwilling to establish a formal and per-
manent state. During the period that followed, the differ-
ences between the ministers president and the Military
Governors arose primarily over terminology. The Ger-
mans wished to use terminology designed to belittle
their work while, in fact, they were drafting a constitution.

N THEIR FIRST answer to the Military Governors, they

proposed a postponement of the convocation of the
constituent assembly until an election for all of Germany
was possible and until German sovereignty was suffi-
ciently restored, They declared themselves ready, however,
to recommend to their respective state legislatures to
elect representatives to a Parliamentary Council which
would have the task of drafting a basic law for the
uniform administration of the occupation zones of the
Western Powers and the enactment of an electoral law
for a popular representation which is to supervise the
administration of the western zones. They also opposed
popular referendum as a means of ratification of the
Basic Law.

During subsequent meetings with the ministers presi-
dent the Military Governors made certain concessions
on terminology and the question of ratification. The
German nomenclature “Parliamentary Council, instead
of “constituent assembly,” and “Basic Law," instead of
“constitution,” was accepted by the Military Governors.
The question of ratification, it was agreed, would be
submitted to the respective governments for decision.

Once the agreement had been reached, the ministers
president lost no time in making necessary preparations
for the convocation of the Parliamentary Council. The
legislatures in the 11 states of the western zones chose
their deputies in proportion to the strengths of the
factions in the respective legislatures.

The SPD and CDU/CSU thus obtained equal represen-
tation, 27 each; the FDP, five, and the DP, ZP and KPD,
two each, Subsequently the Military Governors approved
a request for five representatives from Berlin to attend
the Council in an advisory capacity. Thus the Council
had a definite right-wing tinge.

Minister President Christian Stock addresses the inaugural
session of the Parliamentary Council in Bonn on Sept. 1,

1948, (Dena photo)

JANUARY 1950

N ANTICIPATION of the work of the Parliamentary

Council, the ministers president had called a con-
ference of experts to draft a proposal for a constitution
for submission to the Parliamentary Council as a working
paper. It met in Chiemsee on Aug, 10 and completed
its work in two weeks, These efforts of the ministers
president though criticized by the leading members of
the Council as interference with the work which properly
belongs to the jurisdiction of the Council proved very
fruitful.

The Chiemsee draft was used by all the committees as
a working paper and its influence on the completed work
of the Council was considerable. In addition to the
ministers president, the various political parties published
their proposed drafts. They were, however, only of
historical value, revealing the positions of the parties
on various constitutional questions.

On Sept. 1, 1948, Minister President Christian Stock,
as chairman of the Conference of Ministers President
formally opened the first meeting of the Parliamentary
Council in a short ceremony at the Koenig Museum in
Bonn. Immediately following this ceremony, the Council
held its first plenary session in its assigned headquarters,
the Teachers College in Bonn. Dr. Konrad Adenauer,
(CDU/CSU), who later became the chancellor of the Ger-
man Republic (candidate of the conservative majority of
the Council), was elected president of the Assembly.
After holding a genera] debate, which gave the several
parties an opportunity to announce their policies, seven
working committees were established and began with
the actual drafting of the Basic Law.

It was originally expected that the Council would
complete its task in eight to 10 weeks, However, con-
troversial issues soon emerged which delayed for eight
months the final passage of the Basic Law.

HE INTERNAL GERMAN controversies began with
matters of procedure, A large section of the CDU,
for instance, opposed quick and vigorous work in
the Parliamentary Council because its leaders believed it
would be wiser to await results of the then pending
Moscow talks. Furthermore, it was considered advisable
to await the results of the presidential elections in the
United States and settlement of the political situation in
France, since it was believed that the German position
with the Allies would be subject to change (it was hoped
for the better) and that negotiations with a “lame duck”
regime should be avoided.
The prolongation of the debate on substantive con-
stitutional questions automatically solved the problems

--- Page 57 ---
ensuing from the above mentioned considerations for by
the end of 1948 the members of the Parliamentary
Council were so deeply enmeshed in constitutional con-
troversies that they failed to notice the fact that the
political situation, both in the United States and France,
had settled.

The most important issues which disturbed the har-
monious spirit in which the Council opened were the
composition and function of the second chamber, the
division of competence between the federation and the
states, and the administration of finance. These, however,
were only the symptoms of the main problem which the
Parliamentary Council had to face, namely, to achieve
a compromise between the prevailing centralistic and
federalistic tendencies in the Council and in Germany.

The members of the Council realized from the begin-
ning that the Basic Law in order to gain popular prestige
must be passed by a comfortable majority. The two major
parties, the SPD and the CDU/CSU, had an equal number
of seats on the Council and, therefore, in the absence
of a compromise the voting. on all important issues was
very close. For this reason, the functional committees
which worked on sections of the draft prior to pre-
sentation to the plenary session of the Council developed
a tendency to postpone decisions or draft alternate pro-
posals on controversial issues and to concentrate instead
on matters concerning which all parties were in
agreement.

By the middle of October, therefore, though it appeared
that the committees had finished most of their work and
the second stage of the constitution making, deliberation
by the entire Council was ready to begin; the Council
was actually no further than it was during the early days.

FIRST PUBLIC debate on the work of the com-
mittees took place on Oct. 20-21. The speeches of the
parties centered about the preamble of the Basic Law,
the powers and the composition of the Upper House, and
the finance provisions, These public statements, however,
were only repetitions of the well-known positions taken
by the parties during committee discussions,

The CDU policy called for a second chamber with equal
legislative powers, It should consist of cabinet represen-
tatives and senators. The former should be appointed by
the state governments but not bound by their instructions,
the latter elected by the state parliaments. The second
chamber would have a continuous life, one-third of its
membership retiring every two years. State represen-
tation in the second chamber was to be in proportion to
size, The second chamber was also to have a more im-
portant role in the supervision of the federal adminis-
tration. The CDU opposed a centralized finance ad-
ministration and advocated state control over tax
collections,

The SPD preferred the senate-type Upper House with
veto powers only on legislation passed by the Lower
House. The prestige of the Lower House was to be
enhanced by having its president assume the functions
normally exercised by a state president. The party,
furthermore, favored strong powers for the federal
government, especially in the field of finance,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

,in regard to other

T\URING THE WEEKS following the debate, the
functional committees completed their work and the
Main Committee began its readings of the Basic Law.
The Military Governors considered it, at that time,
advisable in view of the advanced state now reached in
the drafting of the constitution to give the Council some
indication of the interpretation they would apply to
general principles set out in the London document.

In an aide memoire transmitted to the president of the
Parliamentary Council, they informed the Council that
although they would consider the provisions of the Basic
Law in its entirety they, nevertheless, believed that it
should, to the maximum extent possible, provide for a
bicameral legislative system; that the executive must
have only those powers definitely delegated to it by the
constitution; and that the executive emergency powers,
if any, must be so limited as to insure prompt legislative
and judicial review.

The powers of the federation should not include
education, cultural and religious affairs, local government
and public welfare (except in the last case to secure such
coordination as is essential to safeguard the health of
the people in the several states), that its powers in the
field of public welfare be limited to those necessary for
the coordination of social security, that its powers in
the police field be limited to those which were approved
by Military Government during the period of occupation.

The powers of the federal government in the field of
public finance should be limited to the disposal of monies,
including the raising of revenue for purposes for which
it is responsible, Although the federation could set rules
and legislation on the general principles of assessment
taxes for which uniformity was
essential, the collection and utilization of such taxes
should be left to the individual states.

The constitution should provide for a judiciary to review
federal legislation and exercise of federal executive
power, to adjudicate conflicts between federal and state
authorities as well as between state authorities, and to
protect the civil rights and freedom of the individual.

The powers of the federal government to establish
federal agencies for the execution and administration of
its responsibilities should be clearly defined and should
be limited to those fields in which it was clear that state
implementation was not practicable.

Each citizen must have access to public office with
appointment and promotion based solely on his fitness
to discharge the responsibility of the position and that
civil servants should be non-political in character. Public
servants if elected to the federal legislature must resign
their office with the agency where they are employed
before accepting election.

T= AIDE MEMOIRE caused dissatisfaction in the
tanks of the centralists, who felt that the Military
Governors were unduly seeking to prejudge the case
in favor of the federalists. However, a serious rift in
the Main Committee was avoided by the adoption of a
placatory resolution which characterized the aide memoire
as a detailed explanation of the London document and
that the Council was willing to carry on its work in

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 58 ---
accordance with the mandate given it by the German
people,

In the subsequent months, forces outside the Parlia-
mentary Council began exerting their influence on the
various. factions in the Council. The SPD leadership
insisted on a more stern opposition to the CDU/CSU and
on a more firm defense of certain centralistic principles.
The CDU/CSU, on the other hand, pressed by its ultra-
federalistic wing from Bavaria, clung fast to its demands.
No side in the Council was willing to force the issue to
a head because none desired to take upon itself the
responsibility of forcing through the Basic Law with a
narrow majority.

On March 2-3 the Military Governors reviewed the
draft of the Basic Law in its existing form and agreed to
communicate, by memorandum, with the Parliamentary
Council. This memorandum indicated that: The powers
of the federal government as set forth in the draft are
not sufficiently defined adequately to safeguard the
position of the states; the Military Governors retain
ultimate responsibility for security; that the provisions
regarding finance powers do not conform with the criteria
agreed upon in London; the independence of the judiciary
is not sufficiently safeguarded; and that the Military
Governors, while appreciating the solicitude which the
Parliamentary Council had shown for Berlin, suspended
provisions dealing with the inclusion of Berlin as the
twelfth state for the time being in view of the existing
situation. There would be no objection to the appointment
by responsible Berlin authorities of a small number of
representatives to attend meetings of the Parliament.

MILITARY GOVERNORS’ communication resulted
in more activity in the Parliamentary Council, The
Committee met and sought to iron out differences, The
ministers president also met in Koenigstein on March 26
with representatives of the Parliamentary Council. They
passed three resolutions. The first requested the Par-
liamentary Council to bring its work in Bonn to a speedy
conclusion in the interests of reconstruction and the
realization of the Marshall Plan. The second asked the
Parliamentary Council to provide an electoral law which
would have the approval of at least two-thirds of its
members and requested the Military Governors to agree
that such an electoral law could serve as a uniform law
for the first federal elections, The third requested the
Military Governors to approve the proposal of the
ministers president for boundary changes in southwestern
Germany.

Party differences, however, were still strong. A
CDU/CSU resolution dated March 30, 1949 contended that
basically disagreements exist only on the question of
administration of finance. German political leaders, the
resolution claimed, could not assume the responsibility
of permitting the Basic Law to fail on account of this
question and must, therefore, seek a compromise. The
SPD on the other hand in a resolution adopted the same
day stated that it would stick to its proposed draft and
would press for a speedy decision in the plenary session.

Several international events also induced delay in the
work of the Parliamentary Council. The succession of
Secretary of State George C. Marshall by Mr. Dean

JANUARY 1950

Acheson in the United States and of Deputy Prime Minis:
ter Viacheslav Molotov as Foreign Minister by Mr.
Andrei Vishinsky in the Soviet Union, and the proposed
meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the United States,
Great Britain and France on April 4, caused a number of
members of the constitutional body to consider it
advisable to postpone final passage of the law until the
effects of these events became known,

NN APRIL 5 the Foreign Ministers of the United States,

Great Britain and France, in a note addressed to the
Presidium of the Parliamentary Council, commented on
the work of the Assembly, saying they trusted that the
Parliamentary Council. and the responsible German party
leaders would give due consideration to the recommenda-
tions of the Military Governors, which conform with the
provisions of the London Agreement.

The Foreign Ministers also expressed their desire that
the decision of the Parliamentary Council would be taken
in the spirit of facilitating a mutually cooperative attitude
between the future German federal authorities and the
Occupying Powers, which was one of the important
objectives being sought in the current talks in Washington
regarding Germany,

In a document presented to the Council on April 22,
the Council was informed that the Foreign Ministers were
unable to agree at this time that Berlin should be included
as a state in the initial organization of the German Federal
Republic; that any provisions put forward by the Par-
liamentary Council in the direction of securing financial
independence and adequate strength for both the state
and federal governments in operating in their respective
fields would receive sympathetic consideration by the
Foreign Ministers; that on the distribution of legislative
powers they would also give sympathetic consideration
to any formula which eliminated from the federal powers
those matters definitely excluded by the London Agree-
ment; assured the states sufficient powers to enable them
to be independent and vigorous governmental bodies; and
assured the federal government sufficient powers in the
important fields of government to enable it to deal
effectively with those fields in which the interests of
more than one state were substantially and necessarily
involved; finally, that the Foreign Ministers were ready
to contemplate a suggestion for the right of the federal
state to supplement from its own revenue appropriations
made by the states from revenues from their own taxes
levied and collected by them, by grants for education,

‘health and welfare purposes, subject in each case to a

specific approval of the Bundesrat (Upper House).

N THE COURSE of the deliberations of the Parliamen-
tary Council, other issues occupied the attention of
the Assembly. Some of these were clearly outside its
jurisdiction, In this category belongs also the electoral
law which the Parliamentary Council sought to enact and
attach to the constitution, The Military Governors in their
March memorandum informed the Council that such a law
could not be attached to the Basic Law. The Parliamentary
Council could, however, determine the number of deputies
and their apportionment among the states. All other
functions were the responsibility of the ministers president
and their respective legislatures, They were free, of course,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
Members of the Parliamentary Council group, during the drafting of the Basic Law, meet with the three Military

Governors in Frankfurt, May 12, to discuss controversial sections of the draft.

to use a Parliamentary Council draft as a model if they
so desired,

In its May 8 session, the Parliamentary Council was
ready for the final passage of the Basic Law. Before
the final vote on the entire draft was taken, the CSU
spokesman made a statement pointing out that certain
features of the Basic Law were unacceptable to his party
in their present form and that others placed doubts on
its federal character. While he hoped that last minute
negotiations would lead to improvements which would
enable the CSU to support it in the final reading, his
party, as well as the DP (German Party) and the Zentrum
(Centralist Party) would abstain from voting on the
present draft,

The individual articles of the Basic Law were passed
with varying majorities, In its final reading, however, the
constitution was adopted with a 53 to 12 vote: six members
of the CSU, and two members each from the DP, the
Zentrum and the KPD voting against it.

N ANNOUNCING approval of the Basic Law, the

Military Governors simultaneously promulgated the
Occupation Statute with the proviso that it would enter
into force when, with the convening of the legislative
bodies provided for in the Basic Law, the election of the
federal president and appointment of the chancellor and
ministers, a federal government was established.

Also, on May 12, the Military Governors authorized
the ministers president to submit the Basic Law for ratifi-
cation to the legislatures of the participating states in
accordance with Article 144 of the document.

During the week of May 18-22, the legislatures in the
11 states of the western zones met and decided upon the
ratification of the Basic Law. Ten of the legislatures passed
it with comfortable majorities. Bavaria was the only
legislature which, on the basis of a recommendation by
the Bavarian government, voted to disapprove the Basic
Law but to recognize it as binding on Bavaria if ratified
by two-thirds of all other states. The City Assembly of
Berlin, although not one of the participating states,
unanimously approved the Basic Law.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

56

(US Army photo)

The Parliamentary Council convened again on May 23
for the purpose of finally adopting, engrossing and pro-
mulgating the final law. Upon completion of this solemn
act, the president of the Parliamentary Council, in
accordance with Article 145 of the Basic Law, announced
its promulgation and ordered its publication in the
Federal Gazette.

HE BASIC LAW begins with a preamble which

declares that the German people in the different
states, prompted by a desire for peace and international
cooperation, has given unto itself this law, The next
chapter deals with civil rights and covers the classical
tights extending some, however, to include modern con-
ditions. Thus religious and confessional freedom is
extended to include the right to refuse to bear arms. It
denies constitutional protection to persons who utilize
the rights granted therein to undermine it.

The Basic Law, while applicable for the time being to
the 11 states of western Germany, may be extended
to other areas. The federation may delegate functions
to international bodies. The constitutional provisions of
each of the states must comply with a republican,
democratic and social state in accordance with the prin-
ciple of this Basic Law.

The legislative functions are exercised by a Bundestag
(Assembly) and a Bundesrat (Council). The Bundestag
members are directly elected by the people for a period
of four years, The Bundesrat members are selected by
the respective state governments and are subject to
recall, Each state has at least three votes in the Bundes-
tat; states with populations of more than 2,000,000 have
four, and those with more than 6,000,000 have five. Each
state delegation in the Bundesrat votes as a unit.

The executive consists of the chancellor who is elected
by absolute majority of the Bundestag. The chancellor
selects the Cabinet, which is responsible to him and
which does not require a vote of confidence from the
Bundesrat, The candidate for the chancellorship is
nominated by the federal president. The federal president
is elected by the Bundesversammlung (federal convention),

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 60 ---
which consists of the members of the Bundestag and an
equal number of representatives from the states.

The federal government exercises jurisdiction only in
the fields specifically enumerated in the Basic Law, All
other fields belong to ‘the states.

CCORDING TO a decision reached by the ministers

president, Aug. 14, 1949 was set as election day for the
Bundestag. The election law previously drafted by the
Parliamentary Council was adopted by the states. It repre-
sented a combination of the single member district system
with proportional representation.

The election campaign centered primarily on economic
questions, (Constitutional issues played some role only in
Bavaria.) The main issue was free economy as advocated
by the CDU/CSU and the FDP versus the planned economy
supported by the SPD, The election resulted in the follow-
ing composition of the Bundestag:

Political Party Seats
CDU/CSU . . 1 we we ee ee ee 189
SPD . oo 131

52
15
17
17
5
1
12
ZP 10

Independents —

Total .
EANWHILE THE CABINETS of the state governments
had appointed the 43 members of the Bundesrat or
Upper Chamber of the Federal Republic; and the ministers
president set Sept. 7 as the date for the first meeting of
the legislative bodies.

The two houses held their constitutive meetings in the
provisional headquarters, the Bundeshaus, in Bonn. Dr. Erich
Koehler (CDU) of Hesse was chosen as president or
speaker for the Lower House, Prof. Carlo Schmid (SPD) of
Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern as first vice-president and
Dr. Fritz Schaefer (CSU) of Bavaria as second vice-
president. The Bundesrat elected Minister President Kar]
Arnold (CDU) of North Rhine-Westphalia as its president
and Minister President H. W. Kopf (SPD) of Lower Saxony
and Dr. Gebhard Mueller (CDU) of Wuerttemberg-Hohen-
zollern as first and second vice-presidents respectively.

The Federal Convention (Bundesversammlung) convened
in Bonn on Sept. 12, Dr. Theodor Heuss of Wuerttemberg-
Baden, chairman of the Free Democrats, was chosen on the
second ballot with 416 votes of a total of 804 votes as
president of the German Federal Republic.

In accordance with Article 63 of the Basic Law, the
federal president, in a letter to the president of the
Bundestag, dated Sept. 14, proposed Dr. Konrad Adenauer
of North Rhine-Westphalia, leader of the Christian Demo-
crats, the strongest party in the Bundestag, as chancellor
of the federal government. On Sept. 15 the Bundestag
accepted the nomination by an absolute majority. The
chancellor-elect proceeded immediately to form his
Cabinet, which he based on the three parties which
supported him in his election, the CDU/CSU, FDP and DP.

On Sept. 21 the chancellor informed the High Commissivn
that the federal organs provided for in the Basic Law had

JANUARY 1950

been established. The High Commission then announced
the Occupation Statute to be in force.

Thus the formalistic stage of the organization of the
German Government is finished. The major task is still
ahead: to make of the democratic constitution a living
thing, more than a mere historical document embodying
the wishes of the 65 German representatives in the
Parliamentary Council. -+END

(Continued from page 21)

° °
Holy Year Pilgrimage
mittee for the Holy Year will offer the “Pilgrim's
Envelope” to all those attending the jubilee. This contains
the pilgrim’s card which entitles the holder to certain
travel privileges and reductions, an official Holy Year
insignia and a guide of Rome.

The Italian railroads have granted a special 40 percent
reduction for pilgrim tickets and a 60 percent reduction
for groups of pilgrims numbering more than 750 persons,
Bearers of the pilgrim’s card will be granted by the
French railroads a 30 percent reduction and a 40 percent
reduction to parties of at least 400 third-class travelers.

Swiss railroads have offered a 25 percent reduction for
parties of six to 14 persons, 35 percent for groups of
15 to 93, 40 percent for groups of 100 to 249, and 45 per-
cent to larger groups in transit. The reductions apply
only to round trip tickets.

OR THOSE INTERESTED in visiting the Holy Land

after making the trip to Rome, the Israel government
has announced that a special service will be set up
either between Haifa and Brindisi or between Haifa and
Taranto, to take care of this flow.

Vatican authorities have made provisions for accom-
modating 20,000 pilgrims at very moderate prices. By
making available these lodgings, church authorities hope
to keep private enterprises from buccaneering among
the pilgrims and deriving excessive profits.

Holy Year pilgrims will find lodging accommodations
in Italy more plentiful this year on the whole as the
result of new facilities to be financed out of the ECA
Italian counterpart fund. Present war damaged hotel
facilities have been termed inadequate to take care of
the several million visitors expected to crowd Italy and
approximately $3,000,000—1,800,000,000 counterpart lire—
has been released to provide an additional 15,000 beds
for tourists. Part of the funds will be used to provide
permanent tourist accommodations. The remainder—
1,050,000,000 lire—will be released as a loan for the modi-
fication and furnishing of temporary facilities + END

Hard Coal Output Hits New High
Hard coal production in the Northern Area of Germany
in November established a new postwar record of
9,189,751 tons — 199,681 tons greater than in October.
The daily average in November, exclusive of holiday and
Sunday production, was 361,567 tons.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
The publishing of these German edi-
torials is intended to inform the Ameri-
can readers of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, without interpre-
tation. The inclusion of any statement
from the German press does not give
concurrence to the view or opinion.

German Editorials

This section is compiled from a summary prepared by the Press & Publications
Branch, Information Services Division, HICOG, of editorials in the German press.

EMILITARIZATION WAS the outstanding topic in the

press during the month under review. The question
stirred a great flurry and brought forth widely-divergent
views which ranged from forthright opposition and bitter
condemnation through cautious restraint and conser-
vatism to hot-under-the-collar support and open oppor-
tunism, The discussions filled the editorial columns
through December even when crowded by numerous other
subjects, including the all-important approach of Christ-
mas, the holiday closest to the hearts of all Germans.

The Bundestag clash in November between Chancellor
Adenauer and Opposition Leader Schumacher continued
to elicit comment, most of which was _ reproachful,
critical or condemnatory. There was a general feeling of
regret over the “undignified proceedings’ in western
Germany’s lower house and the “unparliamentary
language” employed. The subsequent rapprochement
between the two political leaders was viewed with some
skepticism, it being felt that it was all ‘too likely to be
short-lived.

Wide publicity was accorded the conclusion of the
Marshall Plan agreement, which one paper headlined “13
Billion Mark Debt" while another pointed out that the
debt, which it said constituted a first mortgage by the
US on the German state, may well turn out to Germany's
advantage inasmuch as it will take precedence over all
other claims at a future peace conference.

In the field of labor, the press observed with growing
interest the relations between the labor unions and the
SPD, which show signs of suffering from chill. The unions‘
views obviously differed from those of Schumacher's
party. The newspapers regarded SPD threats of ‘“‘a general

strike to enforce social demands” with displeasure and
acidiy commented on “demagogy.”

In spite of the regard in which Adenauer is generally
held by the German press, another wave of anxious
criticism was noticeable over his method of conducting
foreign policy. Many newspapers held that “something
must be wrong when, as so often happens with Aden-
auer,“—and as occurred again in his remilitarization inter-
view with two American correspondents—a government
spokesman found it necessary the next day to “pick up
the pieces” by clearing up “misunderstandings” caused by
Dr. Adenauer's statements on German policy. It was held
that while the views he voiced ostensibly represented
merely his personal views, the fact of his high office
made it impossible to dissociate such statements from an
official character in the public mind. Many papers urged
restraint upon the federal chancellor.

Remilitarization

Europa Kurier (Aachen, NR-W, Nov. 18) says that
Germans will only participate in war against the East if
they are treated as full equals and get corresponding
equipment:

“The talk about building German divisions has passed
beyond the stage of mere rumor... As far as we Germans
are concerned, however, such action would only make
sense if the defense line is on the Elbe, backed by
adequate Allied forces in West Europe and if Germany
gets umrestricted political and strategic equality in
everything, including armament... Any other form would
meet flat refusal on the part of German government and
population...

German Opinion in Cartoons

Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, NR-W, Nov. 15)

»Nur Mut, wir werden Dich schon schiitzen*

Rearmament for Germany
“Here are your weapons, Keep your
chin up, we'll protect you.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN 58

(Fraenkischer Tag, Bamberg, Nov. 19)

gdnntiouirion i

Tréume am Kamin .. -

Pipe Dreams
The West: Counter-Revolution. in
the U.S.S. R.
The East: Depression in USA.

(Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, NR-W,
Nov. 17)

le J , wa

aden

WIRTIHAFTS
“ae IN

Pp

ced
f

« « und soll die Hochzeit in aller Stille
stattfinden ...

The wedding of German and French
heavy industry: “It's to be a quiet
wedding.”

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 62 ---
(Echo der Woche, Munich, Bav., Nov. 18)

»»So Fritz, jetst spielt ihr mal ein bifchen zusammen!«

Acheson: “So Fritz, now you can play together.”

“It has been suggested that such military service would
be one way for us to repay Marshall Plan help... But
if we risk our skins it must be on clear and indubitable
terms...”

The Road of Errors

The Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt, Dec. 15) edit-
orially scrutinizing the reaction of the German people
to remilitarization, thinks that the reason why the
Germans do not want it lies in the fact that during the
first part of the last war the German soldier was abused
for aims of conquest; during the second part his military
abilities had a completely suicidal effect for the nation
“because, instead of resisting Bolshevism in the East, the
last reserves were sacrificed during the Battle of the Bulge
in the West.

“This abuse of military virtues consciously or un-
consciously still lies heavy on the German mind, and the
memory remains, and is combined with the spectacle of
the destroyed towns, and the anti-militaristic propaganda.”

“Total” War

Echo der Woche (Munich, Dec. 2) is suspicious of the
sincerity of the Western Powers’ intentions regarding
Germany:

“'Since war has become total, involving entire popu-
lations, peace treaties are outmoded in favor of agree-
ments among the victors.’

“These words aren't from Adolf Hitler's ‘Mein Kampf
but from High Commissioner Francois-Poncet's ‘From
Versailles to Potsdam.’

“They prove that totalitarian ideas by no means died
with Hitler, as propaganda would have us believe... We
do not wish to fall into the neo-Nazi error of denying
our own guilt and only seeing that of others, because
we realize full well that the Western Powers could only
answer Hitler's total war with total war... but the fact
is that Hitler could not have ‘invented’ total war if it had
not been the natural expression of unnatural conditions
prevailing in the world...

‘It is well-known that even the American Civil War
of 1861-1865 showed ‘total’ aspects... In pointing out
that the victors too are infected -with Hitler's spirit. we

JANUARY 1950

do so not to call for revenge but in order to show the
danger confronting the entire world... We detest the
attempted Bolshevization of East Germany, but we suspect
that the splitting up of Germany in 1945 was not entirely
unwelcome to some Western States...

“The illusions that the Occupation Powers can ‘reedu-
cate’ the German people is also based on the ideas of
totalitarianism, which sought to realize its visions by
‘reeducation’ and even cross-breeding of humans... In
view of the Russian generals who attended the Acheson
reception in‘Berlin and the continuing UN talks with
Vishinsky one can almost say that Adenauer is more
American than the Americans in rejecting parleys with
the East...

“The important question right now is not whether we
are to be permitted to produce 1,000,000 tons of steel more
or less, but whether the West is making us concessions
because of an honest desire to cooperate with Germany or
because it still uses us as an object to be treated accord-
ing to the current state of negotiations between East and
West..."

War Criminals

Die Zeit (Hamburg, Nov. 17), under the headline ‘The
Hangman of East Prussia," demands that Gauleiter Erich
Koch be brought before the bar of German justice:

“Erich Koch, Reichs commissar for the Ukraine, Reichs
defense commissar for East Prussia, one of the big poli-
tical bosses of the Third Reich and for a time next to
Hitler the most important man in the Nazi Politbuero,
recently stood before the Extradition Court in Hamburg.

“Poland and Russia seek to call him to account for
the numberless crimes that took place under his juris-
diction... Never was an extradition demand so justified;
never did anyone more deserve the certain death that
awaits him in the East, whereas we have no death penalty.
But we are of the opinion that this criminal, who has the
deaths and sufferings of uncounted Germans on his con-
science, belongs: primarily before a German court...

“We demand that Erich Koch be brought before a
German court. We have an account to settle with him
first of all.”

(Die Zeit, Hamburg, Br. Zone, Nov. 17)

SSM

K. Wry
IS Ze ey,
= mee
H Hints
i 4 om: A =
il a ;
t p.-t

Die Osthymne: ,,Und die Sonne schin wie nie iiber Deutschland scheint*

From. the East German national hymn:
“And the sun shines over Germany as never before,”

INFORMATION. BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
(Braunschweiger Zeitung, Brunswick
British Zone, Nov. 23)

ERP Agreement
The Frankfurter Rund-

and cry about “enslave-
ment of German economics”

on ERP
Western

deliveries to
Germany

December.)

Lili Marleen 1949

. European countries, but
Germany and the EuropeanCouncil: were termed as “claims”
Lily Marlene 1949! for special reasons, The

Marshall
amounted to $435,000,000, while other deliveries were

covered from GARIOA and other funds. Already General

Clay had promised a respite of German liabilities until
the year 1959. Claims up to date were practically annulled
by the existing counterfund.

During the negotiations preceding the signing of the ERP
contract the Germans had opposed these claims, fearing
obligations in the future. From the American side it was
pointed out that this special formula had been chosen to
forestall and meet other eventual claims on the Federal

Republic in case a peace treaty were concluded.

The paper points out that the political importance of the
new agreement was likely to have far-reaching results,
as it safeguards the Federal Republic's entry into the
European economic sphere as an equal partner. For that

reason no time should be lost to have the new contract
ratified by the Federal Parliament.

“Barbaric" Bonn
Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg, W-B, Dec. 5) joins the

press chorus lamenting the “barbaric’’ atmosphere in the
Bonn Parliament:

schau's (Frankfurt, Dec. 14)
economic editor maintains
that contrary to the hue

and the “towering debt of
13,000,000,000 Marks,” the
(then) impending contract

was
from every point of view
a favorable one. (The con-
tract was signed in mid-

Deliveries to Germany

consisted not in “donations
and grants,’ as for other

Plan deliveries

“Most of our legislators have academic degrees, but the
animal-like ferocity which they occasionally display
makes it hard to imagine them as one-time lighthearted
students... There must be a radical change...

“As for Bundestag President Koehler, he ought to devote
his undoubtedly great gifts to another job... Governing
debates in the Bundestag is much more difficult and com-
plicated than is the case in a state parliament...”

Democracy's Grave

Europa Kurier (Aachen, NR-W, Dec. 8) declares that the
saddest feature of the Adenauer-Schumacher passage at
arms was that the charge of being “Chancellor of the
Allies” contained a large element of truth:

“Dr. Schumacher’s remark was stupid and tactless...
but in using it he touched this Republic on its sorest
spot, namely, its pseudo-sovereignty. In insulting
Adenauer, he insulted himself, his party and the Parlia-
ment to which he belongs...

“It is no secret that the German Republic came to pass
on the Western Allies’ initiative, is largely dependent
upon and is controlled by them... The fact is, not only
the Chancellor, but all of us, including Dr. Schumacher,
are puppets of the Allies... Nevertheless, Schumacher's
remark was insulting because the Allies are not popular
here although they must be greeted with smiles on
official occasions, since they won the war. We don’t like
them because of Potsdam, because of dismantlings, Occu-
pation costs and all the unpleasantness and inconvenience
to which they have subjected us since the war...

“But what our representatives ought to aim for is coop-
eration among themselves to lead us from dependence
to equality in Europe... and that cannot be achieved by
flinging around humorless remarks such as Schumacher's,
which only serve to make Parliament ridiculous and
undignified... By such action the parties dig their own
graves and that of democracy as well...”

False Illusions

The Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frankfurt, Dec. 14)
editorially scrutinizes the Federal Government's vague
promises regarding the economic and social program,

(Sonntagsblatt, Hamburg,
British Zone, Nov. 1949)

(Giessener Anseiger, Giessen, Dec. 2)

“It is with sadness that we compare the atmosphere
which prevailed in the British House of Commons on
the occasion of Winston Churchill's 75th birthday with
that in our own Parliament at Bonn... The re-establish-
ment of peace between Adenauer and Schumacher must
not remain merely superficial. There must follow new
conditions of cooperation between Government and
Opposition...

“The overworked and harassed chancellor ought not to
make such frequent use of his right to take part in
debates... and Dr. Schumacher ought to take serious
thought on how far some of his views have begun to
diverge from those of the workers and general population...

Adenauer: ,,Nein,
Schumacher, viele Koeche ver-
derben den Breil

Man kann ihn wohl nicht mehr
als Baby behandeln

Helpess Postwar Foreign Policy
Germany: Adenauer: “No, my dear Schu-
“Guess we just can't treat macher, too many cooks spoil
it like a baby any more.’ the broth.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN 60 JANUARY 1950

--- Page 64 ---
(Nuernberger= Nachrichten,
Nuremburg, Dec. 3)

»Atomkontrollausschuf oder
nicht — das letste Wort spreche
icht«

“Atom Control or not, I'll

(Frankenpost, Hof, Oct. 22)

Bevin im Unterhaus: ,,Ich stimme der Einstel-
lung der Demontagen nicht zu, solange die Welt
vor Deutschland nicht voellig sicher ist.

Bevin in the House of Commons:
“I won't agree to stop dismantling
until the world is secure against

poration of Germany in a Western entity must
proceed step by step... But we must not lose sight
of the goal, which remains the restoration of Ger-
many's sovereignty and voluntary entrance into
the European community on an equal basis...

“In the meantime, Adenauer's concessions to the
West go too far... He underestimates the strength
of the hand that Germany can play in the present
political game of cards..."

“From Hitler to Hedler“

Stuttgarter Zeitung (Stuttgart, W-B, Dec. 15),
commenting on a speech delivered by a Bundestag
member in Schleswig-Holstein, minces no words in
heading its editorial “From Hitler to Hedler:”

“The difference in spirit is just as insignificant
as the difference in name. The only divergence is
in Hedler’s view that there can be ‘two minds’ on

speak the last word.” German aggression.”
which was apparently made to win popular support.
Subsidies or education from “equalization of burdens”
funds, household help, the new tax reform — everything
has been postponed by ihe government, also the expected
300 Deutsche Mark tax-exempt Christmas gratuity has
been rejected.

The esteem for the “sovereign” voter who has been
given generous promises is forgotten in Bonn the moment
he appears as taxpayer. Concluding, the paper says: “We
are too young a republic to be able to afford a permanent
lack of consideration towards the voter... It is to be
wished that this perception would be the best Christmas
present for official Bonn."

Game of Cards

Echo der Woche (Munich, Nov. 18) advocates a stiffer

Adenauer attitude in world affairs affecting Germany.
It does not believe that Acheson's visit will show
immediate results:

“It is an exaggeration to regard Acheson's visit as a
‘turning point’... Byrnes’ 1946 visit resulted in Germany
being slowly freed from some of its chains, but this took
place very gradually... This time results will have to be
quicker but they certainly will not strike like lightning
because the fiction that Germany is a
potential threat is still being used as a

Der Tag, Berlin, Br. Sector, Nov. 30)
c 8

the expediency of gassing 6,000,000 Jews whereas
Hitler had only one opinion on the subject.
“It is entirely possible that this anti-Semitic ghoul at
the same time besmirches the memory of those executed
in connection with the July 20 (1944) resistance plot..

“It is to be hoped that the Bundestag (Federal assembly)
will lose no time in ridding itself of this vermin. The ex-
pressions of this cad hurt Germany more than can be made
good by 100 Heuss speeches. (see page 5.) It is important
that the Bundestag express itself and act so clearly and
drastically that no decent person can be left in any doubt
that our Bundestag, putting aside every political consider-
ation, is determined not to tolerate a defender of mass
murder in its membership, After that let the public pro-
secutor carry on, Let him see to it that people of Hedler's
stripe are put in places more suitable to them than the
Parliament of our Republic.”

Another Battle Lost

Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frankfurt, Dec. 15) says:

“President Heuss recently said that every desecration of
a Jewish cemetery is a battle lost for Germany, but has
nothing to do with general anti-Semitism. If Hedler said
what is charged, Germany has lost another battle...

“Hedler denies part of the allegations. Anything said
about the case at the moment has necessarily a hypotheti-
cal character; all parliamentary groups have made it clear
that they emphatically condemn such
expression and there has been a whole-

figleaf to cover up post-1945 mistakes...

“The US wants quick results...
Therefore Acheson's Bonn visit was
more than merely a gesture, Never-
theless, the Paris conference took good
care that Washington's steps were held
within comfortable bounds... It must
be acknowledged that in a democracy
sudden changes, even for the better, are

sale public reaction.

“It is unfair to say the case, still
unproven, is symptomatic for the
German people, We are not condoning
anything; but to use a black sheep: as
occasion to pass collective judgment
on the German people is evidence of
ill-will.”

Action Demanded

not always feasible. As a matter of
fact a sudden change now would not be

to Germany's benefit... The incor-

JANUARY 1950

Tu’s nicht Fritschen
Democracy or Nationalism.
Don't do

61

it, Fritz!

Allgemeine Koelnische Rundschau
(Cologne, NR-W, Dec. 15) comments:
“No words need be lost over the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
shock we all feel. It is obvious that the Hedler case must
be thoroughly investigated: public opinion demands a
clean-cut explanation, If the charges are true, a drastic
example must be made.”

Practical Reason?

The Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt, Dec. 15) critic-
izing Professor Carlo Schmid for his statement made in
Geneva that “for practical reasons’ the German language
is not suitable as a means of international understanding,
says that “in Europe German is spoken by approximately
80,000,000 people, and it is understood by a great many
educated people in other countries, too.”

The paper asks whether because of the present great
unpopularity of all things German, including the language,
Schmid considers it necessary “to give up this German
position too?”

“After all that. happened it is no wonder when in other
countries German is no longer taught but some day it will
again be realized that the German language too is quite
useful as a means of understanding, and it is doubtful
whether the Germans themselves should block the road to
this perception.”

“Made in England”

The Schwaebische Donau Zeitung (Ulm, W-B, Dec. 15)
complains that the new German five-mark bills to be
issued in January were printed in England,

“Was it necessary that the Anglo-Saxon style be forced
upon us once again.., After all, don't we have enough
artists in our own country able to offer us a design more
pleasant to our eyes?...”

The paper points out that “thanks to the accurate and
careful work of German printing shops banknotes made
in Germany were once preferred by the most prosperous
countries and now our own banknotes are made in Eng-
land. Every time we hold such bills in our hand... we
will have the feeling of...
living in a crown colony.”

“What About It?’

Die Strasse (Hamburg, Dec.4)
is critical of the way Bonn is
handling the press today:

“Who would have thought
it!... In 1949 the press gets
kicked around... We see Eco-
nomic Minister Erhard, as well
as the federal chancellor him-
self, continually assuring the
press and public that they will
be frankly and thoroughly in-
formed on everything that is
planned and done in Bonn...

“We take you at your
word, Herr Minister!... Who
then issued the order that
no member of the Ministry of
Economics may give direct or
indirect information to the

(Sueddeutsche Zeitung,
Munich, Dee. 2)

Familienstreit

Heuss: ,,Kinder, mufies denn eine
oeffentliche Vorstellung sein?«

Heuss to Adenauer and
Schumacher; ‘Children,
must it be in public?”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Telegraf, Berlin, British Sector, Nov. 14)

Der westdeutsche Ehemann: ,,Vielleicht ist doch was an ihr dran,
wenn sich fremde Manner fiir sie interessieren!«

The West German husband:
“Maybe you've got something, after all, if strange
men follow you about.”

press and threatened punishment for violations? How
often does one see signs on the doors: ‘No admittance
for the press!’ Only the press bureaus may give informa-
tion!... Just as in the Third Reich, if on a somewhat
smaller, suaver scale...

“What about it, Herr Minister?”

Germany and the World

Echo der Woche (Munich, Dec. 9) supports Adenauer in
his advocacy of a European army with a German con-
tingent but declares that the West Allies must take
measures to restore German confidence in them if Ger-
many and Europe are to be secure:

“If the Atlantic Powers surrender Germany up to the
Rhine, Stalin will arm all Germany and set it against the
West...There can be no real recovery as long as, there
is no security ...There continue to be psyghological handi-
caps, to wholehearted German cooperation with the Allies
...They continue to treat us as second-class humans...

“A united Europe will only be able to maintain itself
if it is unified economically as well as culturally and if
its security and system of justice are indivisible.” ++ END

(Aachener Nachrichten,
British Zone, Dec. 8)

(Kasseler Zeitung, Dec. 7)

Arms for Germany
“General, I've invent-
ed an ideal weapon
for the Germans. It

only shoots east.”

Germania: ,,Nein! Das Spiel hat mich schon
allsuviele meiner Kinder gekostet . . .«

New German Army?
Germania: “No, no! That game has
already cost me too many sons!"

62 JANUARY: 1950

--- Page 66 ---
Books and Pamphlets

The Galley (Die Galeere) by Bruno E. Werner. Published
by \Suhrkamp Verlag, Franktiurt,

HIS BOOK is a genuine and factual description of the
life of a middle-class German intellectual in the
period 1932 to 1945. In style and form it is more a report
than a novel. The author does not indulge in reflection
and moralizing. He lets events speak for themselves,
The chief character, a Berlin newspaperman, returning
from a carefree trip to Italy, finds himself in a world
that has gone politically topsy-turvy. He, who had
always carefully avoided implication in any form of
political activity, feels himself overtaken by a catastrophe
of nature. His life of simple joys and contentment is
disturbed by alarming and terrifying news reports. He
has to resign himself to brutal governmental interference
in his private affairs and finally he is drawn willy-nilly
into the maelstrom of war events.
The "galley" therefore becomes a symbol of the political
condition of middle-class intellectuals in Hitler's Reich.

The author does not fail to point out, however, how
very much this class was still imbued with the ideas
and illusions of pre-World War I days. It lived in a
cultural dream world which disregarded the political
realities by which it was surrounded. Therefore, as Werner
shows, its very lack of interest served to exclude it from
responsible cooperation and hence influence on its polit-
ical environment.

After being shattered by the course of events that
rolled over it, the only refuge that remained to this
intellectual class was a withdrawal into a close and
strictly private circle of family and friends.

(Sueddeutsche Zeitung,

(Sueddeutsche Zeitung,
Munich, Nov. 16)

Munich, Nov. 19/20)

Dean Acheson: ,— Und nimm

nicht mehrere Stufen auf ein-
mal — sie mégen das nicht
gerne ..

The way to a German
heaven
Acheson: “But don't take
too many steps at once.
The others (France and
England) don't like it.”

JANUARY 1950

Mutter Britania:
»Ja, muft du ihm denn unbe-
dingt gleich das ganze Kalb
schlachten le
The return of the prodigal
son (Germany)
Mother Britannia: “Do you
have to slaughter the
whole calf(Dismantling)?"

Fateful Years in Africa (Afrikanische Schicksalsjahre)
by H. G. von Esebeck. Published by. Limes Verlag, Wies-
baden.

HE AUTHOR was an officer on Rommel's staff and

took part in the North Africa campaign. He describes
the changing phases of this campaign in great detail, from
German and British notes. He gives a vivid picture of
how, even in the highly-developed civilization of our
century, the face of war is still largely determined by
topographical factors.

This war report makes very clear the discrepancy
between soldierly performance and the dilettantism of the
High Command on the German side. Due to this factor
Rommel's tactical successes remained strategically in-
effective. His army was crushed by numerical and
material superiority on the part of the enemy, He fought
a hopeless struggle against inefficiency in his rear in
respect to supplies and reinforcements and against the
illusions of the High Command. Hitler had no sense of
proportion as regards the possible and the necessary. He
had no idea of how to coordinate the various Wehrmacht
sections and their functions and believed that the anti-
quated defensive strategy of World War I could be
applied to desert warfare.

Thus the Africa Corps landed in a situation which
Rommel himself characterized as comparable to a man
in a car from a museum trying to outrace the latest model
automobile.

Krieg und Frieden (War and Peace) by Hermann Hesse,
winner of the Nobel and Goethe prizes, 1946. Published
by Suhrkamp Verlag, Berlin,

EDICATING HIS BOOK “to the memory of my dear

Romain Rolland,” this well-known German author,
who became a Swiss citizen in 1923, sums up his reflec-
tions upon war and peace from the years 1914-1948,

The book is primarily directed at youth, which thereby
could be educated in a supra-national spirit and would
realize that it is humanity's task to serve peace and
reconciliation rather than war and destruction.

Hesse's essays from the year 1914 are just as timely as
those of 1948; his thoughts are sober and realistic. He
has never grown tired of raising a warning voice enjoin-
ing respect for the holy principles of humanitarianism.

It seems such a simple thing to recognize “that. all men
are brothers and of divine origin,” the author says. But
the way to this plain truth is long. Once it has taken
root in humanity's hearts, the task to which Hesse dedi-
cated his life will have been fulfilled and the world "will
no longer relapse into the feverish dream of a mentality
which evokes wars, racial persecution and strife between
brothers.”

His optimism that this aim may eventually be reached
is based on those men who harbor the secret power of
faith in a better future, "the homines bonae voluntatis,
the men of good will,” as he calls them in his “speech in
the first hour of the year 1946."

INFORMATION BULLETIN

63

--- Page 67 ---
Official Communiques

Protocol of Agreements Reached
between the Allied High Commissioners
and the Chancellor of the German Federal Republic
at Petersberg on Nov. 22, 1949,

Following the meeting of the three foreign ministers in Paris on
Nov. 9 and 10, the UK, French and US High Commissioners were
authorized to discuss with the federal chancellor the letters which
he had addressed to them on the subject of dismantling with a view
to a fimal settlement of this problem. The instructions to tke High
Commissioners also covered a wider field and required them to examine
with the chancellor other points to be included in a general settlement.
Discussions took place accordingly on Nov. 15, 17 and 22 at Petersberg.

The discussions were animated throughout by the desire and the
determination of both parties that their relations should develop pro-
gressively upon a basis of mutual confidence. Meanwhile, their
primary objective is the incorporation of the Federal Republic as a
peaceful member of the European community and to this end German
association with the countries of western Europe in all fields should
be diligently pursued by means of her entry into the appropriate
international bodies and the exchange of commercial and consular
representation with other countries.

Both the High Commissioners and the chancellor appreciate that
progress towards this objective must depend upon the re-establishment
of a true sense of security in western Europe and they have addressed
themselves particularly to this end. In all these matters they have
been encouraged to find a wide community of ideas and intention and
they have in particular agreed upon the following:

I. The High Commission and the Federal Government are agreed to
promote the participation of Germany in all those international
organizations through which German experience and support can
contribute to the general welfare.

They record their satisfication at the various steps already achieved
in this direction, including German participation in OEEC, the desire
expressed on both sides that the Federal Republic should be promptly
admitted to the Council of Europe as an associate member and the
Proposed signature of a bilateral agreement with the government of
the United States of America covering ECA assistance.

II, The Federal Government, appreciating the desirability of the
closest possible cooperation by Germany in the rehabilitation of
western European economy, declares its intention of applying for
membership of the International Authority for the Ruhr in which, at
Present, the Federal Government is only represented by an observer.
it being understood between both parties that German accession will
not be subject to any special conditions under Article 31 of the
agreement for the establishment of the Authority.

Ill. The Federal Government further declares its earnest determination
to maintain the demilitarization of the federal territory and to
endeavor by all means in its power to Prevent the recreation of
armed forces of any kind. To this end the Federal Government will
cooperate fully with the High Commission in the work of the
Military Security Board. p

Iv. It is further agreed between them that the Federal Government
shall now initiate the gradual re-establishment of consular and com-
mercial relations with those countries where such Telations appear
advantageous.

V. The Federal Government affirms its resolve as a freely elected
democratic body to pursue unreservedly the principles of freedom,
tolerance and humanity which unite the nations of western Europe
and to conduct its affairs according to those principles. The Federal
Government is firmly determined to eradicate all traces of Nazism
from German life and institutions and to Prevent the revival of
totalitarianism in this or any form. It will seek to liberalize the
structure of government and to exclude authoritarianism.

VI. In the field of decartelization and monopolistic practices the
Federal Government will take legislative action corresponding to
decisions taken by the High Commission in accordance with Article 2 (b)
of the Occupation Statute.

VIL, The High Commission has communicated to the chancellor the
terms of an agreement reached by the threa powers for the relaxation
of the present restrictions on German shipbuilding.

The main provisions now agreed are as follows

The construction of ocean-going ships, excluding those primarily
designed for passengers, and tankers up to 7,200 tons, fishing vessels
up to 650 tons and coastal vessels up to 2,700 tons not exceeding 12 knots
service speed may begin forthwith. The number of such ships to be
constructed shall not be limited.

The Federal Government may, with the approval of the High
Commission, acquire or construct before Dec. 31, 1950 six special
ships exceeding there limitations cf size and speed. ‘Further particulars
on this point were communicated to the chancellor.

The federal chancellor raised the'question of the construction and
repair of ships in German shipyards for export. The High Com-
missioners informed him that this matter was not discussed by the
Committee of Experts and that they were not in a position to give him
a final decision on it. However, they will meanwhile cuthorize
German shipyards to construct for export ships of the types and
within such limits of numbers as are applicable to construction for
the German economy; they will authorize repair of foreign ships
without restriction.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

VIII. On the question of dismantling, the High Commission has
reviewed the present position in the light of the assurances given
by the Federal Government and has agreed to the following modi-
fication of the program. The following plants will be removed from
the reparations list and dismantling of their equipment will cease
forthwith.

a, Synthetic oil and rubber plants,

Farbenfabriken Bayer, Leverkusen;

Chemische Werke, Huls; 7

(Note attached to above two: except for certain research equipment
at these plants involving an important security element)

Gelsenberg Benzin, A. G., Gelsenkirchen;

Hyarierwerke Scholven, A. G., Gelsenkirchen-Buer;

Ruhroel G. m. b. H., Bottrop;

Ruhrchemie, A. G., Oberhausen-Holten;

Gewerkschaft Viktor, Castrop-Rauxel;

Krupp Treibstoff-Werke Wanne-Eickel;

Steinkohlenbergwerk, Rhein PreuBen, Moers;

Dortmunder Paraffin Werke, Dortmund;

Chemische Werke Essener Steinkohle, Bergkamen;

b. Steel plants

August Thyssen Huette, Duisburg, Hamborn;

Huettenwerke Siegerland, A.G., Charlottenhuette,

Deutsche Edelstahlwerke, Krefeld;

Huettenwerk Niederrhein, A.G., Duisburg;

Kloeckner-Werke, A.G., Duesseldorf;

Ruhrstahl, A. G., Henrichshuette, Hattingen i
Bochumer Verein, A.G., Gusstahlwerke, Bochum
except that electric furnaces not essential to the functioning of the

works will continue to be dismantled or destroyed.

c. Further dismantling at the I. G. Farben plant at Ludwigshafen-
Oppau will not take place except for the removal of the equipment
for the production of synthetic ammonia and methanol to the extent
provided for in the reparations program.

d. All dismantling in Berlin will cease and work in the affected
plants will be again rendered possible.

It is understood that equipment already dismantled will be made
available to IARA except in the case of Berlin. The present modifi-
cation of the reparations list will not affect the existing prohibitions
and restrictions upon the production of certain materials. Dismantled
plants may be reconstructed or reequipped only as permitted by the
Military Security Board and those plants at which dismantling has
been stopped will be subject to suitable control to insure that the
limitation on the production of steel (11,100,000 tons per annum) is
not exceeded.

IX. The question of the termination of the state of war was
discussed, Although such termination may be regarded as consistent
with the spirit of this protocol, it presents considerable legal and
practical difficulties which need to be examined.

X. The High Commissioners and the federal chancellor have signed
this protocol with the joint determination to carry into effect the
Purposes stated in the preamble hereof and with the hope that their
understandings will constitute a notable contribution to the incor-

poration of Germany into a peaceful and stable European community
of nations, ,

B. H. Robertson
A. Francois-Poncet
J. J. McCloy

Niederschelden;

K. Adenauer

Nov. 17 Meeting of HICOM

Direct German participation in two more intemational organizations
Was authorized in principle by the Council of the Allied High Com-
mission at its sixth meeting, held at Petersberg, near Bonn, Nov, 17.
The organizations are the International Patent Institute, the Hague,
and the European Customs Union Study Group, Brussels.

Present at the Nov. 17 meeting were Sir Brian Robertson, United
Kingdom High Commissioner (chairman), My. André Francois-Poncet,
French High Commissioner, and Mr. John J. McCloy, United States
High Commissioner.

The International Patent Institute was established in June 1947, by
Tepresentatives of France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg.
The Council decided to forward ito the federal government a letter
from the board of directors of the institute inviting German participa-
tion on an equal footing with other members and indicating the
board's readiness to call upon German technicians and administrators
for assistance in operation and organization of the institute,

Associating itself with the invitation, the Council noted the im-
portant potentialities of the institute in fostering European coopera-
tion and its importance as a factor in world Peace, (see ‘'Patents
System” on page 27.)

The Council also decided it would interpose no- objection to possible
future full German membership in the European Customs Union Study
Group which was established Sept. 12, 1947 by the European Recovery
Program (ERP) countries. Its task is to investigate the problems
connected with European Customs Union [one of the objectives of the
European Economic Cooperation Agreement (OEEC) of April 16, 1948]
and to consider measures necessary to create a customs union or
several customs unions among European governments,

German representation to the group has been limited to observers
serving since March 1948 with Military Government delegates, The
German observers, however, have frequently been called in as ade
visers and have effectively cooperated in a number of committees.

Financial problems arising from the subsidies and associated ex-
penditures employed to stimulate the German coal industry between
May 1945 and March 1948 received a preliminary discussion by the

JANUARY 1950

--- Page 68 ---
Council. After a general survey of the problems, the Council decided
to direct Allied financial experts to exchange information and views
with German representatives.

The Council also discussed the setting up of a uniform system for
the definition, presentation and accounting of Occupation Costs to
begin operation for the financial year 1950/51. Much preparatory work
on a uniform system has been completed by a Twipartite Committee
of Experts who began work on Sept. 2, 1949. After an examination
of the work so far, the Council directed its financial advisers to
complete their systematization,

The nullification of German nationality of Luxembourgers who had
been made German citizens by Nazi legislation was provided for by
the Council's decision to extend the scope of Allied High Commission
Law No. 12 (text in December issue), which was signed at the fifth
meeting of the Council. In relation to French and Luxembourg nationals
the Law nullifies the Reich Ordinance of Aug. 23, 1942 (RGB 1. 1. 533)
and the Fuehrer’s decree of May 19, 1943 (RGB 1, 1. 315).

Finally, the French and United Kingdom High Commissioners asso-
ciated themselves with a warm tribute by the United States High
Commissioner to the valuable contribution to the work of the High
Commission made by Sir Eric Coates, former UK financial adviser
who has recently relinquished his appointment.

Nov. 25 Meeting of HICOM

The seventh meeting of the Council of the Allied High Commission
was held at the Petersberg near Bonn Nov. 25. Present at the meeting
were Sir Brian Robertson, United Kingdom High Commissioner (chair-
man); Mr. André Fwran¢ois-Poncet, French High Commissioner; and
Maj. Gen. G, P, Hays, United States Deputy High Commissioner,
acting for Mr. John J. McCloy, United States High Commissioner,

The Council approved and signed two laws of the Allied High Com-
mission. The first was a law on Allied judicial powers in reserved
fields; the second, a law concerning offenses against interests of the
occupation, (text in ‘Laws and Regulations’’.)

The Council decided that in December, because of the Christmas
recess, a departure would be made from the normal practice whereby
meetings are held only on the last three Thunsdays of each.month.
The first meeting during December will be on the ist, when the
French High Commissioner will assume the chairmanship.

Dec. 1 Meeting of HICOM

At its eighth meeting held at Petersberg, near Bonn, Dec. 1, the
Council of the Allied High Commission received a letter from the
government of the German Federal Republic requesting admission to
membership of the International Authority for the Ruhr. The Council
decided to transmit the request, which was signed by the federal
chancellor, Dr. Konrad Adenauer, on behalf of the German government,
to_the International Authority for the Ruhr.

The chancellor's letter was handed to representatives of the Ruhr
Authority at a meeting with the High Commission held at Petersberg
during the afternoon, following the formal session of the Council, The
Ruhr Authority was represented by Mr, Henry Parkman, chairman
(US), and the executive secretary, M. G. Kaeccenbeek.

Present at the Dec. 1 meeting of the Council were Mr. André
Frangois-Poncet, French High Commissioner (chairman), Mr. John J.
McCloy, Unitted States High Commissioner, and Mr. C. E. Steel, United
Kingdom Deputy High Commissioner, representing Sir Brian Robertson.

In connection with the tramsfer of the responsibilities for frontier
control to the federal government, the Council decided to invite the
federal government to assume control over the admission of German
refugees into the federal territory. In this connection, it will be for
the federal government to consider the problem of insuring that the
number of refugees to be admitted shall be determined having regard to
the overcrowding and accommodation difficulties prevailing in western
Germany, while retaining the principle of asylum for genuine political
refugees enunciated in the Basic Law,

The Council accepted requests presented by the following foreign
missions for aconeditation and took note of the names of the heads
of these missions:— .

South Africa, Maj. Gen. W. H. E. Poole.

Switzerland, Mr. Albert Hubner.

Spain, Don Eduardo Garcia Comin.

These names are in addition to those already accepted at the fifth
meeting of the Council of Nov. 10. The ceremony of presentation to
the Council of the credentials of the heads of missions will be held
on Dec. 15,

The question of the elimination of the effects of discriminatory trade
practices and dumping was also discussed by the Council. The Council
considered a report by Allied experts who have completed an extensive
study of this question, undertaken since the revaluation of the Deutsche
mark. The Council decided that it would be advisable to bring to the
knowledge of German experts the report of the Allied experts and to
request them for their remarks on the subject. The federal chancellor
will be so informed and will be asked to designate his experts.

The Council decided to request the federal government to inform the
High Commission, sufficiently in advance, of any intended modi-
fications im the field of prices, rationing and allocations, Powers in
this field have already been handed over to the federal government.
The High Commission, however, has to insure that such modifications
will not result in an increase of German needs in funds, food and
other supplies. The High Commission's decision pertains to products
which are still rationed or the prices of which are still controlled
(coal, gasoline, steel, iron, crude oil, diesel oil, electricity and gas,
Hid and fodder grains including derivatives, fats, sugar and live
cattle),

JANUARY 1950

HICOM Police Policy

State commissioners of the Allied High Commission 1n Germany have
recently communicated to ministers president of the 11 states of the
federal republic the terms of High Commission policy regarding the
organization, control and administration of state policy. The text of
the policy statement is now published so that there shall be no
misunderstanding of the Allied High Commission's attitude in the
matter. Text follows:

It is the desire of the Allied High Commission that the constituent
Laender (states) of the Federal Republic of Germany shall have full
authority to organize and administer their respective police agencies,
subject to the provisions of the Occupation Statute, and in accordance
wilth the Basic Law and their respective constitutions.

Nevertheless, the Allied High Commission considers that it has a
continuing responsibility that the organization and administration of the
police within the Laender shall not assume the characteristics of para-
military formations and that the organization of police shall not be so
centralized as to constitute a threat to democratic government or to
the security of the Occupation Forces. Any departure from the
following principles shall be brought to the attention of the High Com-
mission for such action as it may direct.

Functions, The primary duties of the police within the Land are
to insure the maintenance of public order and safety, the prevention
of crime and the bringing of offenders to justice. It shall also be the
duty of the German police to keep the Allied authorities at all levels
informed of matters affecting their security. The police shall not be
assigned nor shall they perform any functions not directly related to
these primary duties. They shall not enact ordinances, regulations or
orders having the effect of law, nor assume functions which properly
belong to the judicial authorities. They shall not deprive any person
of life, liberty or property, except as empowened by law.

Organization, The organization of the police shall be decentralized
below Land level unless specific approval for Land police has been
given by the High Commission. Independently governed municipalities
shall have the right to maintain thein own independent police forces.
Two or more municipalities may combine voluntarily in suitable
geographic areas to form one umified police force for mutual service
to the participating areas, provided that no such police force shall
number more than 2,000 effectives, and provided further that no such
combined area shall be larger than a Regierungsbezirk (administrative
district of several counties), The head of each police force shall be
solely responsible for its technical functions and discipline. He shall
be appointed and shall be removable by the competent authority on
the basis of his technical qualifications and experience, and not on
political grounds, save in a case where his political attitude is one
of disloyalty to the democratic organization of government.

Numbers and armaments. The number of executives within any
police force and their armament shall not exceed those authorized
and determined in accordance with the needs of the population as
approved by elected representatives of the area served by the force.
The number of such effectives and their armament shall be subject to
reduction upon direction of the Allied High Commission whenever in
its opinion they may constitute a threat to democratic government
within the Land or to the security of the occupation forces.

Mergers. Any proposed or contemplated merger or amalgamation of
police forces beyond that specified in sub-paragraph 2 (b) above
(organization) must be approved by the High Commission. No merger
or amalgamation of the police forces of two or more of the several
Laender shall be permitted.

Administration. Members of the police of the Laender shall be
prohibited from engaging in political activity beyond the exercise of
the right of franchise. Professional associations of members of the
police shall be prohibited from affiliating with non-police associations.
Members of the police shall not be permitted to strike,

Inspection of police organizations and operations within the Laender
will be conducted under the authority of the Land commissioner and
reports from such organizations will be requined to determine com-
pliance with these principles.

Each Land commissioner is responsible for reporting to the High
Commission any legislative ov administrative action by the German
authorities of his Land which is inconsistent with the provisions of
these instructions. Action under the reserved powers of the Occupation
Statute in cases of violation of these instructions will be taken only
upon direction of the High Commission,

Copies of this letter of instruction will be furnished to the minister
president of your Land for his information and guidance.

Laws and Ordinances

Law on Judicial Powers in the Reserved Fields

The Council of the Allied High Commission enacts as follows:
Article 1
Except when expressly authorized, either generally or in specific
cases, by the High Commissioner of the zone in which the court is
located, German courts shall not exercise criminal jurisdiction:—
(a) {i) over the Allied Forces;
(iiJ over persons accredited to the Allied High Commission, a
High Commissioner or a commander of any of the Occupation
Forces and the members of their families:
(b) in respect of any offense alleged:—

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
(i) to have been committed against the person or the property of
any person or organization included in sub-paragraph (a) hereof;
(ii) to have been committed against enactments of the Occupation
Authorities;
) to have arisen out of or in the course of performance of
duties or services with the Allied Forces.
Article 2

Except when expressly authorized, either generally or in specific
cases, by the High Commissioner of the zone in which the court is
located, German courts shall not exercise jurisdiction in any non-
criminal case:

(a) in which any of the parties is within the purview of Article 1 (a);

(b) in which the issues to be decided include any matter arising out
of or in the course of performance of duties or services with the
Allied Forces.

Article 3

1. No German court shall render a decision which impeaches the
validity or legality of any legislation, regulation, directive, decision
or order published by the Occupation Authorities or of any authority
to which they have succeeded.

2. Whenever any question as to the existence, terms, validity or
intent of any order of the Occupation Authorities or Forces or of any
authority to which they have succeeded or as to the applicability of
Articles 1 or 2 of this law to any person or property must be decided,
the German authorities concerned shall forthwith suspend further
action and cefer such question to the Occupation Authorities. The
appropriate Occupation Authorities or any Occupation court to which
they may refer such question shall issue a certificate determining it.
Such certificate shall be binding on the German authorities.

Article 4

1. All proceedings and every decision taken by a German court on
any matter excluded from its jurisdiction shall be null and void.

2, A High Commissioner may validate retroactively any judicial or
extra-judicial act taken in his zone in contravention of the provisions
of Article V of Military Government Law No. 2 or of Article 2 of
Ordinance No. 173 of the French Commander-in-Chief in Germany.

Article 5

Where the German authorities require the production of any do-
cument in the possession or under the control of any person or
organization within the purview of Article 1 (a) or the presence of
any such person as a witness, they shall make application to the
authority designated for this purpose by the Council of the Allied
High Commission.

Article 6

The Occupation Authorities may require the production of any German
court records, files and other documents and attend the hearing of any
case in any German court, whether or not heard in public, whenever such
authorities consider the interests of the Occupation to be involved.

Article 7

1. The Occupation Authorities may, either generally or in specific
cases, withdraw from a German court, any proceeding directly affect-
ing any of the persons or matters within the purview of paragraph 2
of the Occupation Statute.

2. The Occupation Authorities may suspend any decision of a Ger-
man court directly affecting any of the persons or matters within the
purview of paragraph 2 of the Occupation Statute or of article 1 (a)
of this law.

3. The Occupation Authorities may take such measures as they may
deem necessary for the determination of cases withdrawn from the
jurisdiction of German courts pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
article, In particular, they may transfen such cases to Occupation
courts.

4. An Occupation court exercising jurisdiction under this article
shall have the power;

(a) to confirm, nullify on modify any proceeding, decision, judgment,
sentence or execution order of a German court;

(c) to direct a trial or retrial of the case in a German court.

5. Every judgment or decision of an Occupation court in any case
withdrawn from a German court shall be binding on all German courts
and authorities and shall not be subject to review by German courts.

Article 8

In cases outside the jurisdiction of German courts under this law,
no German authority may, except when expressly authorized either
generally or in specific cases by the Occupation Authorities, impose
any penalty or coercive measure of any description.

Article 9

1, The powers vested in the Occupation Authorities by Article 3,
paragraph 2, and Articles 6, 7 and 8 of this law will be exercised:

(a) by the Allied High Commission in cases coming before a
federal court of authority;

(b) by the High Commissioner in cases coming before any other
court: or authority in his zone.

2. The Allied High Commission and each High Commissioner may
delegate the exercise of their respective powers under this law to
any person or authority designated for such purpose,

Article 10

In every case, both criminal and non-criminal, the period during
which the German courts have been deprived of jurisdiction by reason
of the provisions of any legislation of the Occupation Authorities or
of any authority to which they have succeeded shall not be included
in calculating any legal time limit.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Article 11
Each High Commissioner may take such measures as he may deem
necessary to provide for the determination of cases which under this
law will not be within the jurisdiction of the German courts.
Article 12
The Allied High Commission or the authority designated by it shall
exercise the powers of a High Commissioner, under this law with
respect to the special area directly under the Allied High Commission
at the seat of the German federal government.
Article 13
The Occupation Authorities may issue regulations
this law.

implementing

Article 14

1. The provisions of Control Council Law No, 4 (Reorganization of
the German Judicial System) are hereby deprived of effect in the
territory of the Federal Republic.

2. The following legislation is hereby repealed:

British Military Government Law No. 2 (German Courts).

British Military Government Ordinance No. 20 (Jurisdiction of the
German Courts in respect of Offenses against Military Government
Enactments) and Regulations thereunder.

British Military Government Ordinance No. 29 (Limitation upon the
Jurisdiction of German Courts).

British Military Government Ordinance No. 104 (Advisory Opinions
of Control Commission Courts. of Appeal),

British Military Government Ordinance No.
Military Government Orders).

Article 119 of British Military Government Ordinance 165 and the
Schedule to the Ordinance (Jurisdiction of Administrative Courts in
the British Zone). :

Article XXVIII of British Military Government Ordinance No. 175
and the Schedule to the Ordinance (Re-establishment of Finance Courts).

Ordinance No. 173 of the French Commander-in-Chief in Germany
(Distribution of Jurisdiction between Occupation Courts and German
Courts and Regulation of the Control of German Justice).

United States Military Government Law No. 2, as amended, and all
regulations and authorizations issued thereunder (German Courts).

3. Cases in which action has been taken by the Occupation Authori-
thes prior to the effective date of this law pursuant to any of the
legislation repealed thereunder may be disposed of in accordance
with such legislation.

174 (Interpretation of

Article 15
This law shall come into force on Jan. 1, 1950.

Law on Offenses against the Interests
of the Occupation
The Council of the Allied High Commission enacts as follows:

PartI
Special Provisions
Article I

The following offenses are punishable by the penalties specified in
one or both of the following clauses: (a) death or imprisonment for
a term of any duration, including life imprisonment; (b) fine not
exceeding DM 500,000:

1, Espionage committed in order to prejudice the security or inter-
ests of the Occupation Authorities or Occupation Forces;

2, Unauthorized communication of information which may be
dangerous to the security or property of the Allied Forces; un-
authorized possession of such information without promptly reporting
it to the Occupation Authorities;

3. Sabotage in any form committed for the purpose of interfering
with or obstructing the Allied Forces in carrying on their functions
or missions;

4, Armed attack on or armed resistance to the Allied Forces;

5. Assault on any member of the Allied Forces causing death or
permanent disability.

Article II

The following offenses are punishable by the penalties specified in
one or both of the following clauses: (a) imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 10 years; (b) fine not exceeding DM 50,000:

1. Endeavoring to obtain, without authority, information the dis-
closure of which is likely to be prejudicial to the security or interests
of the Occupation Authorities or Occupation Forces;

2. Incitement to or participation in rioting or public disorder;
promoting, actively participating in or attending any public gathering
which has been prohibited by the Occupation Authorities or which is
held for the purpose of sabotage, insurrection, subversion or otherwise
to the prejudice of the Allied Forces;

3. Acts or conduct in aid or support of any person, group or govern-
ment hostile to the interests of the Allied Forces, or intended to.
accomplish the reconstitution in any form whatsoever of any prohibited
organization;

4 The theft, unauthorized acquisition, possession or disposition of
property belonging to the Allied Forces;

5. Counterfeiting or altering any Occupation scrip; knowingly
possessing or uttering any such counterfeit or altered scrip; knowingly
possessing or disposing of any property intended for such counterfeit-
ing or altering.

Article IIL

The following offenses are punishable by the penalties specified in
one or both of the following clauses; (a) imprisonment for a term
not exceeding five years; (b) fine not exceeding DM 25,000:

JANUARY 1950

66

--- Page 70 ---
1. Assault on any member of the Allied Forces which does not fall
under the provisions of Article I, paragraph 5;

2. The unauthorized making, delivery, possession or use of any
permit, identity card or other document, seal or‘stamp which may be
made or issued only by the Occupation Authorities or on their behalf.

3. The unauthorized delivery, alteration, possession or use of any
permit, identity card or other document, seal or stamp which has
been made or issued by the Occupation Authorities or on their behalf;

4. Falsely pretending to be a member of the Allied Forces or false
assumption of authority from the Occupation Authorities;

5, The failure, without lawful excuse, upon written demand by or
on behalf of the Occupation Authorities or Occupation Forces, to
furnish statistics, reports, documents or other information to which
such Authorities or Forces are entitled or the furnishing to such
Authorities or Forces or any agent thereof, of false statistics, reports,
documents or other information, knowing such statistics, reports,
documents or other information to be false or misleading ; the ob-
struction of investigations conducted by or under the authority of
such Authorities or Forces;

6. Unless authorized by the Occupation Authorities, the wilful
destruction, alteration or concealment of any file, plan, record or
report, whether public or private;

a. Belonging to an Allied authority or to an organization operating
on behalf of the Occupation Authorities or under their control, or

b. Which relates to any subject specifically neserved to the Occu-
pation Authorities, or

c. The preservation or production of which has been ordered by the
Occupation Authorities, or

d. Which concerns property rights or interests of a non-German
State or its nationals;

7. Corruption or intimidation of any member of, or person acting
under the authority of, the Allied Forces;

8. Offering or receiving a bribe for non-performance by anyone
a duty owed to the Occupation Authorities or the Occupation

forces; :

9. Resisting arrest by anyone acting under the authority of the
Occupation Authorities or Occupation Forces or escaping from arrest
or detention imposed pursuant to the authority of such Authorities
or Forces;

10, Harboring or concealing any person, knowing or having reasonable
grounds to believe that such person has committed or is about to
commit an offense under any legislation of the Occupation Authorities
or against an order of the Occupation Forces;

11, Issuing or disseminating any false or deliberately distorted
information concerning any act or policy of the Occupation Authorities
or Occupation Forces, or of anyone acting under their authority, with
the intent of inciting or provoking distrust or hostility against such
Authorities or Forces;

12, Instigating, initiatmg or carrying out any criminal prosecution
or disciplinary measure or any form of punishment, victimization or
boycotting, against any person for cooperating with the Allied Forces
or with any person acting under their authority;

13 Violation of any Occupation legislation or of any regulation issued
under: such legislation where no penalty is provided for such violation;
disobedience of any directive or order issued by the Occupation
Authorities or Occupation Forces,

Article IV

The following offenses are punishable by the penalties specified
in one or both of the following clauses: (a) imprisonment for a term
not exceeding one year; (b) fine not exceeding DM 5,000:

1, Defacement or unauthorized removal of writtem or printed matter
posted undér the ‘authority of the Occupation Authorities;

2. Acts hostile or disrespectful to the Allied Forces;

3. Failure to produce a legally valid identity document on demand
of a competent authority of the Allied Forces;

4, Wilfully interfering with or misleading any member of the Allied
Forces’ or person acting on the instructions of the Occupation Authorities
in the performance of his duties or obligations;

5. The display of any flag or emblem of an organization prohibited
by the Occupation Authorities.

Part II
General Provisions
. Article V

The provisions of this article shall apply to all offenses under
legislation of the Occupation Authorities;

1, The court may order the confiscation of any property which is
the subject matter or proceeds of an offense or was used in the
commission thereof,

2, Property so confiscated shall be disposed of as the Occupation
Authorities may direct.

3. In default of payment of a fine within such time as may be
determined by the court, the convicted person. shall, unless the judg-
ment qtherwise provides, be imprisoned on the application of the
appropriate authorities and shall undergo one day's imprisunment for
every DM 10 so unpaid provided, however, that such imprisonment
shall not exceed two years.

4. Every director, official, partner or employee of any association
of persons, whatever its legal form, who in any such capacity know-
ingly takes. any part whatsoever in an offense committed by such
association, may, be prosecuted therefor as though such offense. had
been committed by him in his personal capacity.

5. A person who, at the date of the commission of the offense for
which he fs convicted, has not attained the age of 18 years, shall not
be subject to the death penalty therefor.

6. A person who, at the date of the commission of any offense for
which he is convicted, has not attained the age of 14 years, shall not
be subject to imprisonment therefor.

JANUARY 1950

7. Upon conviction of an offense a iuristic per:on shall not be liable
to the fines and confiscations provided for such offense.

8. An attempt is punishable. in the same manner as the offense.

9. A person who aids, abets or conspires with another to commit an
offense or who counsels or procures the commission of an offense
shall be subject to the penalties provided for the offense.

Article V1

The following legislation is hereby repealed:

British Military Government Ordinance No. 1 (Crimes and Offenses).

British Military Government Ordinance No. 53 (Identity Cards).

Notice on Property of the Allied Forces published at page 70 of
British Miltary Government Gazette No. 5.

Nctice on Reporting and Surrender of Firearms, Warlike Materials
and Stores published at page 70 of British Military Government Gazette
No. 5.

Notice on_Use of Cameras. Binoculars and Telescopes published at
page 73 of British Military Government Gazette No. 5.

Notice on Curfew published at page 209 of British Military Govern-
ment Gazette No. 9.

United States Military Government Ordinance No.1 (Crimes and
Oifenses) )Amendment No. 1 to Military Goveinment Ordinance No. 1).

United States Military Government Ordinance No. § (Curfew).

United States Military Government Ordinance No. 24 (Amending
Military Government Ordinance No. 1).

French Military Government Ordinance No. 176 (Offenses affecting
the Interests of the Occupying Power).

Official Announcements

Statutory Leave

Statutory leave is leave to visit the continental limits of the United
States, whereby the government bears the cost of transportation.
Transit time, incidental expense and per diem are authorized.

Eligibility: An officeror employee is eligible for statutory leave
when he meets the following eligibility criteria:

a) He must be a permanent officer or employee who is serving on
an appointment with no limitation, or a limited officer or employee
who is serving on an appointment with a limitation of four years.
Persons whose appointments are limited to one year or less, are not
eligible for statutory leave.

b) He must have had a minimum of two years continuous service
abroad with any agency of the Federal Government, or in the Armed
Forces of the United States uninterrupted by a break in. service of
more than one working day, or by a period of leave or assignment
to the United States, other than a temporary duty assignment
including a period of six months on the Foreign Service rolls. Leave
granted under Department of the Army Civilian Personnel Regulations
150.6 or L 1.6—5. constitutes leave in the United States, as does any
other leave authorized while on temporary duty or consultation in
the United States while serving abroad.

Emergency return to the United States: if an officer or employee
must return to the United States for emergency reasons he may be
required to furnish Red Cross or other verification of the emergency.
If the emergency occurs during off-duty hours the HICOG duty officer
can be contacted by calling (Frankfurt) 8188.

a) If the employee has had two years continuous service abroad
but is not eligible for statutory leave he may be separated and travel
on orders to the United States. After the period of time necessary
to attend to the emergency has elapsed he may be rehired in the
United. States and proceed on orders to his post of assignment overseas.

b) If an employee has served less than two years’ continuous
service abroad, the Personnel Division will negotiate with the
Department of the Army in an attempt to obtain transportation to and
from the United States on a space available basis.

c) Unless the provisions cited above are met, leave to the United
States will be at the expense of the officer or employee.—from HICOG
Daily Bulletin.

Argentine Ban Lifted

Restrictions which had been imposed on imports into Argentina
following currency revaluation and other reorganizations have now
been lifted, according to information received by the Office of Trade
Negotiations, Joint Export Import Agency.

According to a communication which JEIA received. from the
Argentine consulate general in Frankfurt, the Argentine Ministry of
Economy has now “established the necessary rules to allow interested
parties to participate in the distribution of import quotas for goods
from Western Germany“.—from Tripartite Announcement.

Use of Foreign Terms

The use of foreign language terms such as Bahnhof, Autobahn,
Gasthaus, etc., although commonplace in this command affords
opportunity for misinterpretation by personnel not conversant with
the German language and will be avoided in line of duty investigations,
casualty, or other reports which ultimately are forwarded to the
Department of the Army.—from EUCOM Weekly Directive No. 47.

Communications Responsibility

Under tripartite agreement, complete management and control
responsibility for international transit communications circuits in
western Germany has been transferred to the’ West German Ministry

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Sixteenth Report of the Public Advisory Board of the Economic
Cooperation Administration, ECA (Paris), Oct. 19, 1949.

Industry Highlights Report No. 2, PRD HICOG, Oct. 31, 1949. Covers
week ending Oct. 27.

Industry Highlights Report No. 3,
Covers week ending Nov. 3.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 15, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 83, ISD HICOG, Nov. 15, 1949.

Monthly Report of the Control Commission for Germany (British
Element), Vol. 4, No. 10, Nov. 16, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 16, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No, 84, ISD HICOG, Nov.. 16, 1949.

Industry Highlights Report No. 4, PRD HICOG, Nov. 17,
Covers week ending Nov. 10.

Law No. 12, (Amended), Allied High Commission, Nov. 17, 1949.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 197, ISD HICOG, Nov. 17, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 17, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 85, ISD HICOG, Nov. 17, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 18, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 86, ISD HICOG, Nov. 18, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 19, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 87, ISD HICOG, Nov. 19, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 21, 1949.

Daily Press Review, No. 88, ISD HICOG, Nov. 21, 1949.

PRD HICOG, Nov. 10, 1949.

1949,

Industry Highlights Report No. 5 PRD HICOG, Nov. 22, 1949.
Covers week ending Nov. 17.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 198, ISD HICOG, Nov. 22, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 22, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 89, ISD HICOG,
Nov. 22, 1949,

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 23, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 90, ISD HICOG,
Nov. 23, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 25, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 91, ISD HICOG,

Nov. 25, 1949.

Law on Judicial Powers in Reserved Fields, Allied High Commission,
Nov. 26, 1949.

Law Concerning Offenses against Interests of the Occupation, Allied
High Commission, Nov. 26, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 26, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 92, ISD '‘HICOG,
Nov. 26, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 28, 1949.

Daily. Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 93, ISD HICOG,
Nov. 28, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 29, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 9, ISD HICOG,

Nov. 29, 1949.
Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Nov. 30, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 95, ISD HICOG,
Nov. 30, 1949. ‘

Recovery Guides No. 11, ECA, (Washington), Nov. 1949.

Information Bulletia, December issue, PRD HICOG, Dec. 1, 1949.

Industry Highlights Report No. 6, PRD HICOG, Dec. 1, 1949. Covers
week ending Nov. 24.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 199, ISD HICOG, Dec. 1, 1949.
Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 1, 1949.
Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 96, ISD HICOG,

Dec. 1, 1949.
Economic Press Digest, No. 77, PRD HICOG, Dec. 2, 1949.
Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 2, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 97, ISD HICOG,
Dec. 2, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 3, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 98, ISD HICOG,
Dec. 3, 1949, ©

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 5, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 99, ISD HICOG,
Dec. 5, 1949. :

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 6, 1949. .

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 100, ISD HICOG,
Dec. 6, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 7, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 101, ISD HICOG,
Dec. 7, 1949,

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 200, ISD HICOG, Dec. 8, 1949,

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 8, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 102, ISD HICOG,
Dec. 8, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 9, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 103, ISD HICOG,
Dec. 9, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 10, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 104, ISD HICOG,
Dec. 10, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 12, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 105, {SD HICOG,
Dec. 12, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 13, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No, 106, ISD HICOG,
Dec, 13, 1949.

Berlin Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 14, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 107, ISD HICOG,

Dec. 14, 1949.
Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 201, ISD HICOG, Dec. 15, 1949.
Berlin-Press Review, PRB HICOG-BE, Dec. 15, 1949.
Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 108, ISD HICOG,
Dec. 15, 1949.
Monthly Report of the Control Commission for Germany (British
Element), Vol. 4, No. 11, Dec. 16, 1949.

Copies of Instructions listed in the Information Bulletin may be abtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

for Posts..and Telecommunications. The management and control
Tesponsibility includes provision of transit service, and. instalment
und rearrangement of facilities—from HICOG announcement.

Intoxicants Sale Banned

Intoxicants will not be sold to members of the Occupations Forces
riding. Deutsche Bundesbahn (German federal railroad) trains, accord-
ing to an agreement reached between the EUCOM Provost Marshal
Division and Bundesbahn officials.

Operators and employees of railroad station restaurants or refresh-
ment stands are forbidden to sell wines beer or any other alcoholic
liquors to EUCOM military ‘or civilian personnel.

Vendors of intoxicants will not stay on the station platform where
a US duty train is standing, and will not bring their wares into such
trains, or into military coaches attached to German trains.

Train and station. salesmen and waiters have been instructed to
refuse to comply with requests for the purchase of intoxicants made
by EUCOM personnel who are passengers on Bundesbahn trains.

Checks of all US duty trains and military coaches will be made
periodically by military police to see that the restrictions are being
complied with.

The Provost Marshal Division is negotiating with Mitropa: to ‘effect
a similar agreement ‘that will prohibit the sale of intoxicants in
dining cars to passengers of coaches or compartments reserved for
Occupation personnel.—from EUCOM announcement,

Registration of Firearms

Newcomers to the .US Occupation Zone are reminded that all
privately-owned firearms must be registered at the Office of the
Post Provost Marshal within 30 days after the firearm is purchased,
or 30 days .after it is brought into EUCOM. Failure to register it ‘is
considered justification for confiscating the weapon.

Permission must be obtained from the post provost marshal before
Occupation personnel can purchase any firearms.

When firearms with. accessories are being registered, the owner
should request the registrar to list all. extras.on the face of the
registration card. ‘Incfdents have occurred where such items as

scopes have been confiscated at international borders because
documentary proof of ownership could not be produced. EUCOM
directives do not require the accessories to be registered with the
firearm.—from EUCOM announcement,

Travel in Austria

Occupational force travel permits (‘grey passes") with counter
signature of a French liaison officer are required for US military
personnel, US .civilian employes, and their dependents traveling in
or through the French Zone of Austria. The “grey passes” are needed
in addition to the Allied Force permits (three-fold white passes)
previously required. The Occupational force travel-permit may be
obtained from the same commanders authorized to issue the Allied
Force permits and letters of authority to visit Austria—from EUCOM
announcement.

POL Purchases in EUCOM

EUCOM Exchange System POL coupons are not valid ‘for the issue
of gasoline at US Army filling stations in Austria, as sales of motor
fuel in US Forces Austria are handled by the Quartermaster and
not by EES.

EUCOM personnel driving private cars into Austria may buy
USFA Quartermaster POL coupon books in 20-gallon or 100-gallon
denominations from tae area collection officer at Camp Truscott in
Salzburg, Camp McCauley in Linz or the tobacco building in Vienna
-from EUCOM announcement.

Civilian Attorneys in EUCOM

Nineteen qualified US civilian attorneys are now licensed to practise
law in the US area of control in Germany for the benefit of Occupa-
tion personnel. Offices have been established in Frankfurt, Munich,
Nuremberg, Heidelberg, Berlin, Wiesbaden, Bamberg and Berchtesgaden.

The attorneys are licensed to practice law before US District Courts
in Germany, courts-martial, courts of inquiry boards of officers,
investigating’ officers, and employees’ grievance committees. However.
the services.of such attorneys will not. be furnished at Government
expense.— from EUCOM announcement.

DRUCKHAUS TEMPELHOF

--- Page 72 ---
Formation of C-54's over Eschenheimer Tor. GYA children on one of many Freedom floats.

High-ranking officers, families and guests, Frankfurt's mayor drawing raffle numbers,

One of many German floats in pre-game parade, 18th Untantty Drum and Bugle Corps in parade,

--- Page 73 ---
15 22 29.
16 23 30
17 24 31
18 25
19 26
20 27
21 28