--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

&

HICOM Headquarters
Page? :

--- Page 3 ---
ONLY AMERICAN RADIO STATION BE-
HIND THE IRON CURTAIN—Begun in 1946
as a US radio outlet in Berlin when the
Soviets refused to loose their grasp on
Radio Berlin, RIAS today is overwhelmingly
the most popular radio station in the west
sectors of the quartered city. Pictured on
this page are the daily operations of the
station: At top, one of 10 daily newscasts is
delivered, and a four-man cast performs a
popular play. Middle, an afternoon musical
show, and monitoring of newscasts from
European capitals. Lower pictures, (left)
control desk and (right) the station's exten-
sive record library. The Soviet-licensed
Neues Deutschland, Berlin newspaper, takes
a jibe at RIAS in cartoon below.

(PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

“Now tell every-
body how you
were kidnapped
in East Germany!"

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies, regu-
lations, instructions, operations and
activities of the Allied occupation in
Germany.

Editorial Offices:
Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany

Editor: *../ oieaete sate H. Warner Waid
Editorial Writer ...... Aileen S, Miles
Editorial Writer Beth MacVicar

The Information Bulletin is printed
in the plant of the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, located
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution of the Information Bul-
letin is handled by the Mail and
Message Center, Communications Di-
vision, Office of Administration, HICOG,
located in Headquarters Building, Room
060, Frankfurt.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted with credit
to the Information Bulletin and the
author or source cited with the article.

COVER PICTURE

HICOM HEADQUARTERS—A large
white hotel is perched atop a heavily
wooded mountain across the Rhine
from Bonn. This is Petersberg, the
headquarters of the Allied High Com-
mission. An enlightening description of
the Commission and its activities is
given in Haynes Mahoney's article
“Allied Watch on the Rhine,” begin-
ning on page 7. (PRD HICOG photo)

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

March 1950

Stuttgart US Information Center .....°........ eats earanet es
Pictorial Story

German Refugees and Expellees ............5............. 3
Article by Guy J. Swope

Allied Wateli-on the Rhine .3 ic. Se oi aie nly te canes is
Article by Haynes Mahoney

BRP Exhibition. %....: 2 -se sak ent ete 12
Pictorial Story

Agricultural Outlook ................. Tecan s aes ee Besa by
Review by Gwynn Garnett

Germany Calling’/Overseas) 23 <)5-0)o. yc ne tev ERO 17
Article by John D, Ryals

Distorting. Geriian: History. 75.!:-555). en Gace w Je nra nan vie 19
Article by Robert M. W. Kempner

Reactions to’Stuttgart Speech +...66...00 26006 eine 21
Review of World Press Editorials

Dateline: /Germanyyceis.2 «01-6 vance aude Cape Oe,
Review of American Press Corps

Democratization of Education : 30

Power of Public Forums 50030 iss Weg ee ena Regn he 31
Article by Ellis H. McKay

Medical AssoclaWOns:s coc siisc cunts toot Cia aio st tee eu 33
Report by Dr. Franz Goldmann

Youth and: Civic:Responsibility 225% 6-160. 8. si. con 2 ee a5

Voluntary Assistance for Displaced Persons 36
Article by Aileen S. Miles

Women in Industry . . 41
Digest of Labor Survey

HICOG inantaryencs <<. occ eee ese a he Sire sen ee 43
Summary of AFN Report to the People

Bast Zone: Governmoents2os os css 0s cc kt sens Cw an un areas 45
Article by Henry B. Cox

Control by Politburo 47
Report by Berlin Element,

OLCWB State Seminar for Resident Officers....... Thies 53
Report by Cecil Headrich

Public Poltically: WAGKt y 6 asses wig og: eyes 8 dais Boe % 58

International University Theater ........................ 59
Article by Herman Hahn

Democracysin Miaalene aes 35. 5 aig 50s. ov eae 62

Text of High Commissioner's Speeches . . 65
Boston, Jan. 26, 1950 : 65
Stuttgart, Feb.6,1950 . ae Za, 6B:

Personnel Notes o93. is <ites28 «0c oe a se he hn te ea 73

Occupation Log eseGan ccs Cae won a eg Oh

Fire Alerta.o55s ¢s0u tae ih shoves Nee SUR ERES  AE MG Ee ee 82
Pictorial Story

Way of Democracy: 2 ..:3. 0m cet. nc DOME Se es . 84
Speech by Dr. Hans Ehard

German Editorials 85

Official Notices 91

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

APO 757, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
The spacious building housing the new America House is
situated on one of the main streets in downtown Stuttgart.

on their way to the library on opening day of the
new America House. (PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

High Commissioner McCloy inspects the new America
House in Stuttgart which he officially opened on Feb. 6.

In the main reading room the chief attractions for women
are the varied American fashion magazines on display there.

MARCH 19.

--- Page 6 ---
German Refugees and Expellees

By GUY J. SWOPE

Special Assistant to the US High Commissioner
Chief, Displaced Populations Division, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG

ELIABLE ESTIMATES are in substantial agreement
R that there are approximately 12,000,000 German refu-
gees and expellees within the present confines of the
four occupation zones of Germany. Of these, roughly
8,000,000 live in the three western zones which comprise
the territory of the Federal Republic.

The remotest periods of recorded history show that one
of the tragic aftermaths of wars is the forcible uprooting
of populations and transferring them to new areas. At no
time, however, have such expulsions approached the
magnitude of those which followed the close of World
War II.

The inhuman cruelties visited upon minority groups
by Hitler and his followers and the exploitation of foreign
slave labor by them set psychological forces in motion
which had tremendous repercussions when Germany was
defeated. In the Sudetenland of Czechoslovakia, in Hun-
gary, Rumania, the Baltic states, the eastern German pro-
vinces which were to come under Polish administration,
lived millions of people of German blood whose roots in
those areas had been established for many generations,
in some cases as long as 600 to 700 years.

Within those various Germanic islands there were
undoubtedly numerous persons who, as Hitler's star con-
tinued to rise, became ardent advocates of pan-Germanism.
In the Hitler occupation of those areas, at the full height
of his conquests, many of those ethnic Germans willingly
gave their services as members of his occupying forces.

HEN THE GERMAN armies were defeated and those

conquered territories liberated, the smoldering re-
sentment of the non-German citizens immediately mani-
fested itself violently against the ethnic German people
resident there. Millions of these Germans were immedi-
ately driven from their homes and the very terror which
Hitler's legions had visited on countless others was now
directed against them.

The tripartite meeting of the heads of state of the United
States, United Kingdom and the USSR, known as the
Potsdam Conference, which convened in Berlin on July
17, 1945, took official note of this situation and adopted
an agreement thereon in the following language:

Orderly Transfers of German Populations

The conference reached the following agreement
on the removal of Germans from Poland, Czecho-
slovakia and Hungary: The three governments,
having considered the question in all its aspects,
recognize that the transfer to Germany of German
populations, or elements thereof, remaining in Po-
land, Czechoslovakia and Hungary, will have to be
undertaken. They agree that any transfers that take

MARCH 1950

place should be effected in an orderly and humane
manner.

Since the influx of a large number of Germans
into Germany would increase the burden already
resting on the occupying authorities, they consider
that the Allied Control Council in Germany should
in the first instance examine the problem with
special regard to the question of the equitable dis-
tribution of these Germans among the several zones
of occupation. They are accordingly instructing
their respective representatives on the Control
Council to report to their governments as soon as
possible the extent to which such persons have
already entered Germany from Poland, Czecho-
slovakia and Hungary, and to submit an estimate
of the time and rate at which further transfers could
be carried out, having regard to the present situ-
ation in Germany.

The Czechoslovak Government, the Polish Pro-
visional Government and the Control Council in
Hungary are at the same time being informed of
the above, and are being requested meanwhile to
suspend further expulsions pending the examina-
tion by the governments concerned of the report
from their representatives on the Control Council.

ERMANS ARE generally disposed to blame the entire

refugee problem upon this accord. It must be borne
in mind, however, that the Potsdam Agreement recognized
a situation which already existed. Considering the pas-
sions in the countries affected it is doubtful if mass ex-
pulsions could have been stopped; the Potsdam Agree-
ment at least expressed the intention to halt expulsions
until transfers could be effected in an orderly and humane

In overcrowded and congested quarters refugees are often
forced to live in groups rather than integrating with the
German population of larger towns and cities. This camp
is in Munich. The ethnic Germans quartered there — part
of more than 8,000,000 now in Western Germany were
expelled from numerous areas behind “The Iron Curtain."

--- Page 7 ---
manner. In any event, at present, we face a fact and
not a theory.

While these expulsions were largely due to a spirit
of extreme nationalism exhibited by the countries from
which they were made, it is interesting to note that those
countries have virtually lost their separate national in-
dependence by having been forced to become satellites
of the great Russian Bear whose actions are very similar
whether the Kremlin is ruled over by the Czars or by
the Bolshevik elite.

While it is erroneous to consider that Germany’s
refugee problem is only an economic one,. it must be
stressed that the social and political dangers connected
with it will be immeasurably increased if these people
are not given a fair share of the economic benefits avail-
able. Western Germany, which suffered tremendous losses
of domestic housing and industrial potential through war
action, is faced with a population increase of more than
20 percent.

Because war damage was greatest in the cities, many
of the refugees have been housed in rural areas, which
have more housing available, and consequently employ-
ment opportunities for these people are greatly dimin-
ished. To a large extent they have actually been quartered
upon existing households, and this has brought about
much misunderstanding and friction which has militated
against a smooth integration of the newcomers, Since
they had to leave their former homes without money or
substantial property, practically all of them fall into the
welfare group whenever they have no employment.

Great numbers of them, of course, were upper-level
members of business and the professions, and this en-
forced reduction to a lowly and menial station has been
destructive of spirit and morale. Moreover, it has created
a feeling of resentment, which in many cases reaches to
dangerous depths. The German states have provided un-

This inmate of the refugee camp at Dachau, Frau Frisch,
an expellee from Karlsbad, Czechoslovakia, does her
laundry in the single room where she lives with her
husband and two children. Frisch had to perform forced
labor in a coal mine in Czechoslovakia for five years.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

FS
Reve

51026978

Vd ge hes SSA _ me = _ re
Germany's gigantic housing shortage necessitates the use
of old freight cars as homes for refugees who are unable
to find quarters elsewhere. Most are badly overcrowded,

employment compensation and social welfare benefits
which have kept these people from starvation, and private
welfare organizations in and out of Germany have con-
tributed great sums of money and thousands of tons of
relief materials for their use. Also the German states,
in varying degrees, have appropriated funds for use in
guaranteeing approved loans to refugee industries.

N ADDITION, the German federal government, in its

first series of requests to the ECA Mission in Germany
for the release of counterpart funds, has included a
number of projects for the specific benefit of refugees.
Countless small communities have, through the action of
some of their enlightened members, both natives and
refugees, found ways of bringing about substantial allevi-
ation of the problem as it exists in their particular com-
munity. Giving full credit for these constructive efforts,
it must still be said that the German government has not
yet produced a comprehensive plan for the solution of
this problem on the basis of absorption and integration.

Recent declarations made by four federal ministers of
state have alleged that most of Germany's present ills,
especially the alarming increase in unemployment, are
traceable to the Allies for the action which they took
at Potsdam, They have stated that the refugee problem
is one which the German nation alone cannot hope to
solve, and that it behooves those whom Germany holds
responsible for it to bring forth international assistance.

The pattern of these statements matches too closely to
make one think that they are merely coincidental. It
would appear that some central purpose inspires them,
Unemployment in western Germany is approximately
2,000,000 as of Feb, 1, 1950, Of this number, about 700,000
are refugees. On a relative basis there are more than
twice as many refugees unemployed as is true of native
Germans. Even those who are employed are forced to
occupy positions several grades below those of native
Germans on the basis of comparative skills.

It should not be considered unnatural for many Ger-{
mans to place partial blame for the present worsening
of the economic situation upon the refugees, and con-
sequently, to hold the United States partially responsible
because of her participation in the Potsdam accord. It is
another matter, however, when a series of statements

MARCH 1950

--- Page 8 ---
by cabinet ministers during the last 10 days of January,
conform so closely in specific criticism of the Allies,
holding them responsible for the present unemployment

situation because of their agreement to the mass expul- ~

sions at the Potsdam meeting.

T MUST BE POINTED out that in none of these state-
ments was any credit given to the United States for the

approximately $3,000,000,000 to $4,000,000,000 of American
taxpayers’ money which has been poured into Germany
since the end of the war and used largely for economic
rehabilitation. It is hardly likely that Germany can pos-
sibly draw upon the good will and social conscience of
the rest of the world for assistance in solving the refugee
problem by having its official leadership take such a
position on the matter.

The principal economic impact of the refugees at pre-
sent would, therefore, appear to be a heightening of the
unemployment problem. It can hardly be denied, however,
that it is unduly pessimistic to conclude that the presence
of these 8,000,000 refugees in western Germany is bound
to result in permanent unemployment.

During the early 30's in the United States when the
depression was at its worst, there were probably 13,000,000
to 15,000,000 persons out of work. Using the logic which
seems to be prevailing among the German leadership,
one could have said that there was no hope for the
American economy while these surplus millions of people
were there. Nevertheless, as the result of positive meas-
ures which were taken these millions of people, who
might formerly have been corsidered surplus, were turned
into an almost incalculable asset in terms of production.

If the German leadership resolutely took the position
that the refugees, who are, it must be remembered, of
German blood and therefore should be easily assimilable
on that score, can be converted into a strong asset
through establishing conditions under which they can add
to German production, it would be an indication of sound
and sensible planning. If such an attitude were assumed
and the problem still remained partially unsolved, it
would then be far easier to appeal to the world at large
with a reasonable hope that international assistance would
be forthcoming.

NE OF THE BAD social consequences of the refugee

problem is group separation. The refugees tend to
withdraw from the current of normal German life, and
in turn the native Germans develop the feeling that the
refugees represent a social and economic threat to them,
and therefore, the latter also unite, either formally or
informally, against this threatened danger, The refugees,
by and large, are ill housed, with the public health
dangers which such a situation brings. The bare subsist-
ence level upon which they are forced to live also tends
to keep the refugee children from having normal school-
ing which young people are entitled to have. Probably
the worst social consequence is the growing feeling of
hopelessness which is gradually overpowering many of
the refugees and the consequent bitterness of spirit which
results therefrom.

MARCH 1950

ba i a

The one-room “home of a family in a Munich refugee
camp combines bedroom, kitchen and storeroom. Some-
times two and even more families are compelled by
the dire shortage to occupy one such small shack.

Certainly the political dangers seem to be so apparent
as to need very little amplification. Ever since 1946 the
refugees have been forming themselves into organizations,
and this is a perfectly natural consequence of their des-
perate situation. By 1948, in the local elections these
groups had become so well established as to make it
possible for them to run independent candidates for vari-
ous offices. It appears that they elected candidates in a
proportion generally as great or greater than their number
is to the total population.

In 1949 for the first federal election to name members
of the new Bundestag (federal assembly), there were some
indications that these groups were possibly in position
to federate into a larger organization and thus partake
of the nature ofa national political party, The Occupation
laws in the three western zones at that time still required
licensing of political parties by Military Government, and
in all three of the zones permission to compete as a re-
fugee political party was refused. Nevertheless, inde-
pendent candidates, representing refugees, were success-
ful in a number of places, but the refugees lost the benefit
of proportional voting which they could have had if they
had been a recognized political party.

Under the German Basic Law, the right to form political
parties is guaranteed and the American High Commis-
sioner has recently repealed the Military Government
regulation which required political parties to be licensed
in the American zone by the American Occupation
Authority. The British and French licensing laws in their
zones are also to be repealed shortly.

HILE IT IS difficult at this date to appraise the
wisdom of the Military Governments’ denial of
political party status, it is certainly true that the decision
further embittered many refugee leaders and confirmed
their determination to find ways of making themselves
felt politically. It is a fact that a well organized group will
eventually find ways of getting full political expression.
In a county election held on Sunday, Jan. 28, 1950
(Ziegenhain, Hesse), a strictly refugee party, known as
the Independent Democratic Voters League, polled 23

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
percent of the total vote and secured seven of the 30
county assembly seats, Since the leading party won only
13 seats, it is seen that the refugee party holds the balance
of power in this community. It is a further matter of
interest that in a small 100 percent refugee settlement
called Trutzhain, the refugee party polled 163 of the
204 votes cast.

One can hardly draw conclusions on a nation-wide
scale from the results of an election in one county.
However, it would hardly be daring to predict that if and
when a single refugee party is formed on a national basis
to represent all the thousands of small refugee community
groups that party would very likely gain enough votes
in a national election to hold the balance of power in the
federal government, This might not be a matter of serious
consequence if the possible effects of such amalgamation
were confined to internal political matters in western
Germany.

It is a definite possibility that if a strictly refugee party
won a commanding position in the German political area,
it could have serious international political repercussions.
The question of Germany's borders, not only with respect
to Poland but also with respect to Czechoslovakia, is so
completely associated with the German refugee problem
that if they, the refugees, came into considerable political
power, the pressures for border realignment would
become exceedingly great. Furthermore, by that time the
refugee psychology would undoubtedly be quite ripe for
the acceptance of militant radical leadership of the ex-
treme right if not of the extreme left.

While the economic status of refugees might make
them good prospects for Communist propaganda, the fact
that a great many of them blame their present luckless
situation upon the Communist militates against the
likelihood that they will quickly fall victims to Com-
munist promises.

CAREFUL EXAMINATION of the political situation

at present would seem to indicate that there are
many obstacles in the way of early amalgamation of the
refugee organizations into one single national unit. There
are many points of difference between the various
refugees, depending principally upon their places of
origin. Those from the Sudetenland have certain griev-
ances and objections, those from Hungary and Rumania
have others, those from the Baltic states have still others,
and the Germans from the eastern provinces and those
still coming to western Germany from the Soviet Zone
have fairly different objectives again.

One must also keep in mind the difficulty of consolida-
tion because of the jealousies of various leaders of the
smaller groups. However, weighing all these factors, it
is a proper and logical conclusion that sooner or later
most of these obstacles will be swept away and a sub-
stantial consolidation will be achieved unless in the
meantime this perplexing problem can be solved. This
can only be accomplished if the German leadership
decides honestly and sincerely to seek the means by
which the refugees can become absorbed and integrated
into the social and economic fabric of western Germany.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Badly overcrowded liv-
ing conditions are not
beneficial to the health
of refugee children whose
living standards are below
those of their German cou-
sins.Elderly refugee(right),
unable to findemployment
in a town where prefer-
ence is given to native
Germans, spends his time
in securing a stock of fire-
wood for heating his shack
in the camp at Allach on
the outskirts of Munich.

It must be borne in mind that at present almost 100
percent of these people are living on a standard usually
far below that which they enjoyed in their former homes.
Approximately 750,000 of them are completely without
work. If this discrimination continues for any length of
time there is very little doubt that most of the associ-
ations which represent refugees will sooner or later get
together upon one significant platform and that is the
platform of common misery which so many of them are
forced to share. This problem, the German refugees, has
not yet been adequately considered either by the native
German population or by the world at large. -+-END

Queckenborn Keeps Eye on Councilors

The citizens in at least one Hessian community are
telling their legislatures exactly how to vote. 2

Raymond O. Didle, US resident officer for the Giessen;
area, disclosed that all the 1,100 citizens of Queckenborn,
a farm town near Giessen, are invited to attend each
session of the town council. An open discussion is held
on each problem and question, and the local citizens state
their opinion on the issues before the council.

When the council members vote, after the discussion
has been closed, they do so in the presence of their
constituents.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 10 ---
Allied Watch on the Rhine

Article

By HAYNES MAHONEY
Staff Writer, Public Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

N THE LAST three Thursdays of each month, the US
High Commissioner for Germany, John J. McCloy,
and his British and French counterparts, General Sir Brian
H. Robertson and Andre Francois-Poncet, flanked by a
score of their advisers and experts, gather around a large
circular table in the softly-lit “Marble Room” of a moun-
taintop hotel overlooking the Rhine. When they open
discussion on the first point of their agenda, they set in
motion the highest Allied authority in western Germany.
The three high commissioners, their deputies, advisers
amd more than 100 secretariat personnel of the three
countries, form the Allied High Commission for Germany.
A complex organization which overflows the five stories,
the annex and garage of the Petersberg hotel, the High
Commission (HICOM) must consolidate the policies of the
three occupying powers with due consideration to the views
of the German federal government and the changing con-
ditions in Germany as reported through the field organi-
zation of each high commissioner. It must finally produce
the Allied legislation and guidance to the German federal
and state governments necessary to carrying out the terms
of the Occupation Statute.

Symbolic of its supreme authority, High Commission
headquarters in the rambling white Petersberg is visible
for miles up and down the Rhine valley. From its roof
fly the Stars and Stripes, French Tricoleur and British
Union Jack, with the colors of the high commissioner
serving as chairman for the month on the middle staff.

i 5 ewe IN 1886, the Petersberg was formerly an ex-
clusive resort for many distinguished and wealthy
travelers of the world. It is now devoted exclusively to
tripartite operations, Its bedrooms, lounges and dining
rooms have been converted into conference rooms and
offices for the high commissioners, their advisers and
the Allied General Secretariat staff.

The federal German capitol is located a few miles down
the river at Bonn, and the area around Bonn and the
Petersberg is an international enclave administered jointly
by the three Occupation Powers. Each high commissioner
maintains a separate headquarters nearby — the British
at Wahn a few miles to the north, the French in a former
hotel in Dreesen, across the Rhine from the Petersberg,
while the Americans have renovated a large residential
building in the nearby village of Mehlem.

The meetings of the three high commissioners represent
the fruition of Allied policy towards Germany established
nearly two years ago in London, In the winter and spring
of 1948, the foreign ministers of America, Britain, France
and the Benelux countries met in the British capital to
decide what should be done about Germany. The country
Was stagnating economically and creating new financial

MARCH 1950

burdens on the occupying powers. Miserable living con-
ditions were threatening democratic trends which it was
hoped would take root in the ruins of the Third Reich.

The principal reason for this dangerous situation was
the breakdown of four power control due to Soviet in-
transigence, The Russians had refused to join with the
Western Powers in treating the country as an economic
unit; they had balked at currency reform, had turned
down proposals for free elections of a new German gov-
ernment, in short, had completely obstructed the move-
ment to unify Germany except under their own terms,
which would mean Communist domination of the country.

AN LONDON the foreign ministers agreed, and their
governments approved, a new and more constructive
policy for at least the two-thirds of Germany which lay
outside of the Iron Curtain. It was decided that the three
western zones would be unified as a federal republic with
a democratic government until such time as a way could
be found to bring the eastern zone into the federation, At
the same time, to provide security for western Europe, an
International Authority was proposed for the Ruhr, indus-
trial heart of Germany, in which the Western Powers,
Benelux countries and Federal Republic would participate.

As the first step, a drastic currency reform was effected
in the three western zones in June 1948, which gave the
economy a tremendous lift toward recovery. This resulted
in the blockade of Berlin by the Soviets and the Allied
counter-blockade of eastern Germany. While the Anglo-
American airlift was defeating Russian efforts to freeze
the Western Powers out of Berlin, the western German
states convened a constitutional assembly in Bonn. The
“Basic Law” or constitution for the federation was drafted
during the course of six months and ratified by the Ger-
man states in the summer of 1949. In August democratic
elections were held and on Sept. 21 the government of
the Federal Republic of Germany was installed.

On the same date Military Government was ended, the
Allied High Commission was activated, and the Occupa-
tion Statute came into force. Developed by the three
Western Powers while the federal constitution was being
drafted, the Occupation Statute became the basic charter
for Allied operations in Germany, defining the powers of
the Occupation Authorities vis-a-vis those of the federal
government. It granted the Germans more independence
and responsibility for their own affairs than they had had
since the end of the war.

Basically, the statute allows the federal government
full authority over all domestic affairs, with a few excep-
tions in so-called reserved fields, primarily with respect
to disarmament, reparations, decartelization and respect
for the Basic Law and state constitutions. The Occupation

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Map of Bonn and Vicinity

OFFICE OF THE UK HIGH COMMISSIONER

XK
YQ

wn

MEINDORE,
“ie

HANGELAR

HOLZLAR

BRITISH
ACCOMMODATION AREA,

sTieLDORF ¥

/ 4 ;
Fal puisDoRF Ne, OFFICE OF THE FEDERAL OB. KASSEL

t GERMAN GOVERNMENT
‘y ~ ¢ », DOLLENDORF
WITTERSCHUCHS L

PETERSBERG, Q
/, PeEeoen @:.: OF THE ALLIED CU ™.,
A OFFICE OF FRENCH

HIGH COMMISSIONER om

KONIGSWINTER

LANNESDORF
‘MEHLEM,

OFFICE OF DEPUTY
US HIGH COMMISSIONER

Se ——————

an ee INTER-ZONAL BOUNDARY momememeece AREA BOUNDARY
ewes ee ees =I NTER-SECTOR BOUNDARY eevcceeveseeseeee BONN CITY BOUNDARY

--- Page 12 ---
Powers retain the authority to supervise western German
foreign relations, foreign trade and internal economic
activities to the extent necessary to assure the best utili-
zation of German resources with a minimum of external
assistance.

The High Commission also has the right to disapprove
federal or state legislation within 21 days after its trans-
mittal to the Occupation Authorities, and to intervene if
necessary to preserve security or democratic government
or in pursuance of international obligations.

To implement the Occupation Statute, the Allied High
Commission is organized to provide for uniform Allied
policy in all three zones of western Germany. At its head
is the Council, comprised of the three High Commissioners
or, in their absence, their deputies, Maj. Gen. George P.
Hays (US), Christopher E. Steel (British) and Armand
Berard (French),

IHE HIGH COMMISSIONERS and their deputies have

a rich and varied background in government, diplo-
macy and German affairs, US High Commissioner McCloy
was assigned to uncover German responsibility for the
famous “Black Tom" explosion during World War I, be-
coming an authority on German espionage and sabotage.
Having served as assistant secretary of war, he came to
his position in Germany from the presidency of the World
Bank.

General Robertson, Britain's high commissioner, had
served as British military governor for Germany for two
years prior to his present appointment.

A career diplomat, Mr. Francois-Poncet had been
France's ambassador to Germany before the war, now
serves as France's highest authority on the High Com-
mission.

From command of the wartime 10th Mountain Division
which fought its way up through Italy, General Hays
assumed in 1947 the job of deputy military governor under
Gen. Lucius D. Clay, and now serves as Deputy US High
Commissioner. His British counterpart, Christopher Steel,
brings with him a background as British political adviser
to SHAEF in 1945, and as political adviser to the British
Military Government in 1947. French Deputy High Com-
missioner Berard is, like his chief, a long-time diplomat
who had five years’ service in Berlin during the early 1930's.

Beneath the Council are nine permanent tripartite com-
missioners in the respective fields.

HE DEPUTIES SIT as the General Committee to con-
sider procedural and administrative business of the
High Commission and to deal with matters not falling
specifically to the other committees. In some instances,
the General Committee, rather than the Council, is asked
to resolve disagreements arising in the other committees.
The Political Affairs Committee, consisting of the three
political advisers, is concerned with all political and
foreign affairs of the German federal and state govern-
ments coming within the competence of the Council.
A Foreign Trade and Exchange Committee, comprised
of the economic and finance advisers, guides the foreign
trade policies of the German authorities.

MARCH 1950

The committee members are automatically directors of
the Joint Export-Import Agency until its liquidation.

The Economics Committee, comprised of the economic
advisers, observes German economic policies and advises
the Council in exercising its reserved powers in this field,
including decartelization and deconcentration of German
industry.

The three finance advisers form the Finance Committee,
which observes German financial policies and advises the
Council in exercising its powers under the Occupation
Statute in this field.

The Law Committee, comprised of the legal advisers,
provides the Council and its committees with advice on
legal and judicial affairs arising out of the work of the
High Commission.

A Special Committee for the Review of German Legis-
lation (both federal and state) is comprised of representa-
tives of the legal and political staffs of the high com-
missioners. This committee must review all German legis-
lation in sufficient time so that final action can be taken
within 21 days of its receipt from the German authorities.
If disapproval is recommended, the Council itself must
make the decision.

NINTH AGENCY, the Military Security Board,

handles all matters of demilitarization, disarmament,
and prohibitions and limitations on industry and scientific
research, This agency, currently located in Berlin, is
scheduled to move to Coblenz this spring.

The High Commission charter also provides for the
formation of subcommittees and subordinate agencies,
usually concerned with more specific fields under the
permanent committees.

Currently there are about 25 of these subordinate
agencies, such as the Coal and Steel Control Groups
which report through the Economics Committee, the
Combined Travel Board and an Information and Cultural
Affairs Subcommittee under the Political Committee, the
Public Safety Subcommittee, the Civil Aviation Board
under the General Committee, and so on.

Holding the key to smooth operation of the High Com-
mission is the Allied General Secretariat, a three-power
body which receives and dispatches all communications
for the High Commission, prepares agendas, keeps minutes,
provides briefs and background material to the members
of the Council and committees, and acts as the channel
of communications between the High Commission, the
German federal government, the state commissioners,*

sand all outside agencies.

The Secretariat consists of the three national secretaries
and their staffs. Joseph E. Slater, the US secretary, had
previously served as secretary of OMGUS' Economics
Division and assistant US secretary with the Allied Con-
trol Council in Berlin and ‘also with the UN planning
staff. Leo Handley-Derry, the British secretary, had been
secretary of the Bizonal Delegation to the OEEC in Paris.
Lt. Col. G. P. Glain, the French secretary, had been French
secretary with the Allied Control Council.

* The official term is ‘‘Land Commissioners,’ but to avoid confusion
with ‘the American word meaning Earth, the German “Land” is trans-
lated in this article to ‘State.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
IHESE THREE TAKE turns discharging the duties of

secretary-general as the chairmanship of the Coun-
cil rotates monthly. Apart from their duties in servic-
ing tripartite meetings, their primary responsibility is
to coordinate among themselves and with their national
elements every communication issued in the name of the
Allied High Commission. This, of course, involves work
in the French and English languages on all papers and
in German as well on those received from or destined
for German agencies.

The Secretariat includes also a Liaison and Protocol
Section, an Allied Central Statistical Office and a tri-
partite archivist.

Most of the work of the High Commission is referred
first to the appropriate committee or subcommittee for
preliminary discussion. Often these subordinate agencies
reach complete agreement and the decision is referred
to the Council only for formal review and official pro-
mulgation. In less important matters the committee them-
selves may communicate their decisions directly to the
federal government or state commissioner concerned.

In cases of disagreement on the committee level the
subject is passed on to the General Committee or to the
Council with a statement of the positions of the three
powers. Usually the high commissioners, with their
broader authority to modify policy, arrive at agreement.
The majority rule applies on voting except that amend-
ments to the Basic Law must be approved by unanimous
agreement. A dissenting member of the Council may, how-
ever, appeal a decision to his government in certain fields.

In addition to the formal Council meetings on Thurs-
days, the high commissioners often convene for informal
sessions and also meet frequently with the German
chancellor. Committees and subcommittees are usually
in weekly session while the US, British and French heads
of the Secretariat confer at least daily and on many
occasions have several separate meetings daily to direct
the complicated operations of their organization.

Thus some 200 American, British and French officials
are associated weekly in the conferences and meetings

General view of first Berlin meeting of the three Allied
High Commissioners held at Lancaster House, British head-
quarters in Berlin, Jan. 18. In center, background, fourth
from right (wearing horn-rimmed glasses), is US High Com-
missioner John J. McCloy. At extreme right (profile to
camera) is British High Commissioner Sir Brian Robertson.

(Photo by courtesy of United Press)

necessary to exercising efficient and continuous tripartite
control of western Germany. Members of the federal
cabinet and other German experts are consulted from
time to time either formally or informally.

Illustrative of the activity of the Allied High Commis-
sion is the fact that 283 meetings took place in the first
three months, exclusive of Military Security Board and
Secretariat meetings.

N THIS MANNER the major Allied policies in western

Germany are established by the High Commission and
carried out uniformly throughout the three occupation
zones. The zones remain important primarily as areas of
responsibility of the respective high commissioners and
for the location of occupation troops. Each high commis-
sioner is authorized under the Charter to take unilateral
action only in a few reserved fields, such as: maintenance
of law and order if German authorities are unable to do
so; protection of the prestige and security of the Occu-
pation Forces; operation of Allied courts and care of
prisoners sentenced by them. Even in these fields, the high
commissioner is required to coordinate his policies in so
far as possible with those of the other high commissioners.

Significantly, the High Commission charter states that
the High Commission will be represented in each state
of the western zones by an Allied state commissioner
who shall be solely responsible to the Council for in-
suring due compliance on the part of the German state
authorities with the Council's decisions and directives.
In effect, this makes the state commissioner accountable
to the Council for all tripartite matters in his state, rather
than responsible only to his own high commissioner.

As a further guarantee of uniform tripartite operations
in the three zones, each high commissioner is authorized
to delegate state observers with small staffs to state com-
missioners of the other two zones for consultation and
advice.

HE FIRST FEW months of Allied High Commission

operations have been arduous and difficult. A great
amount of Military Government legislation had to be
reviewed and extended or dropped; policies under the
Occupation Statute had to be defined; new procedures,
the authority and responsibilities of the state commis-
sioners, the transfer of most JEIA functions to the federal
government, the establishment of occupation costs budget
and a host of other problems incident to the development
of the new civilian control of Germany confronted the
Allied High Commission during its first months.

In addition to the routine current activities there were
such important problems as the review of federal and
state legislation, the authorization of the federal govern-
ment to join international organizations; the accreditation
of foreign missions; consideration of numerous petitions
from the federal government on dismantling and other
questions, and so on.

Several particularly urgent problems have also con-
fronted the High Commission which required night ses-
sions and frequent contact with Washington, London and
Paris for policy guidance. One of those was the revalu-
ation of the Deutsche mark, and another was the conduct

MARCH 1950

--- Page 14 ---
of negotiations with Dr. Konrad Adenauer, federal chan-
cellor, in carrying out the foreign ministers' agreements
in Paris during November. The latter subsequently re-
sulted in the Petersberg Protocol of Nov, 22.

HIS AGREEMENT is a manifestation of the new spirit
T of occupation policies which is beginning to be felt
uniformly throughout the Federal Republic. The old em-
phasis on restriction and control is now being relaxed
and replaced by the positive policy of aiding Germany
to earn a respected place among the democratic nations.

In accordance with its pledge, the Federal Republic has
now joined the International Authority for the Ruhr. It
has agreed to cooperate with the Military Security Board,
to liberalize the structure of government and to guard
against any revival of totalitarianism. These security
guaranties should serve to calm European fears and give
the high commissioners greater latitude in aiding Ger-
many’s reconstruction and further extending the authority
of the federal government.

The Allies are to permit the re-establishment of con-
sular and commercial relations with other nations, and
plans are already proceeding for the immediate establish-
ment of such consulates in the United States, the United
Kingdom and France.

The participation of Germany in international organi-
zations through which she can contribute to the general
welfare are also to be promoted. Already within recent
weeks the High Commission has allowed Germany to
join the Organization for European Economic Cooperation

(OEEC), the European Customs Union Study Group, to
attend certain International Labor Organization (ILO) con-
ferences, and to consummate a bilateral agreement on
ECA aid with the United States government. Negotiations
are also going forward with regard to membership in
several other international organizations.

NTERNALLY, MOST of the controls over press, politics,
education, labor and economics have been relaxed.

After a year the Occupation Statute will be revised to
determine what further authority may be extended to the
federal government.

‘When the high commissioners meet in the lofty Peters-
berg to render decisions and to issue instructions imple-
menting the new constructive policies, they are not con-
ducting an “ivory tower operation. Through their field
officers, state commissions and headquarters staffs, the
high commissioners will observe the political and eco-
nomic progress of the Federal Republic during the coming
year. Western Germany must prove its allegiance to de-
mocratic principles and its sincerity in contributing to the
recovery of Europe.

From the windows of their offices on the second floor
of the Petersberg, the three Allied leaders can look down
on the broad reaches of the Rhine 1,000 feet below. In
effect they have mounted a new watch on the Rhine—a
cautious but hopeful watch—with the objective that no
military invader or foreign occupier will ever have to
maintain vigil here again. ++ END

Judicial Powers in Reserved Fields Defined

A new directive has been issued by the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany further defining
judicial powers in reserved fields under Allied High
Commission Law No. 13 and allowing German courts
jurisdiction over certain types of minor crimes committed
by Allied personnel and displaced persons,

The directive, issued as HICOG Staff Announcement
No, 73 and signed by Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, deputy
US high commissioner, was made retroactive to Jan. 1
and applies to the US Zone and US Sector of Berlin. It, in
effect, restores the same jurisdiction to German courts
which was granted under Military Government law before
the enactment of High Commission Law No. 13.

The announcement specifies that German courts may,
in accordance with applicable German law, issue penal
orders (Strafbefehle) against American, British and French
personnel who are not members of or accredited to the
Occupation Forces, and displaced persons or persons
with assimilated DP status. Such Allied and displaced
persons may have the case transferred to a US Court of
the Allied High Commission if they file a petition for
such transfer at or before the stage of the proceedings at
which, under German law, objections to such penal order
may be made.

A penal order is a judgment issued by a court for minor
felonies or misdemeanors, such as traffic infractions, petty

MARCH 1950

11

thievery, etc., and may not exceed a small fine or a short
term of confinement, The accused is given a brief period
to object to the order and request an oral hearing

Staff Announcement No. 73 also gives German courts
jurisdiction over cases involving offenses against the
Allied Forces wherein the maximum penalty would not
exceed a fine of DM 150 ($35.70) and confinement of six
weeks, as well as cases involving stolen Allied property
which is not valued at more than $100 or property damage
which does not exceed $100.

In addition, the exercise of the US High Commissioner's
power to authorize German courts to take jurisdiction of
certain cases involving Allied personnel and to withdraw
from German courts cases affecting powers reserved to
the Occupation authorities under the Occupation Statute,
is delegated to the state commissioners under the directive.
This authority must be carried out within the framework
of Military Government and HICOG policies established
prior to Jan. 1, or instructions to be communicated to the
state commissioners.

The Allied Forces, or persons accredited to the High
Commission, or to a high commissioner or a commander of
any of the Occupation Forces and members of their families,
are specifically excluded from jurisdiction of all German
courts by law 13, except when specifically authorized by
the high commissioner or state commissioners.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Above, crowd watches Atlan-
tic model of ERP routes (cir
cle). Below, exhibit building.

Charles Shaw, chief of Visual
P ntation Branch, HICOG, of

--- Page 16 ---
US High Commissioner John
J. McCloy, ECA representa-
tive for Germany, views
show with Elmer Cox, who
directed production of ex-
hibit in Frankfurt (above).
Photo at right is of electri-
cally-operated exhibit ex-
plaining the chronological
story of US aid to Europe
from inception of plan to
its accomplishments to date

4e 1E GADGETRY that excites fair-goers throughout
the world has been harnessed into a publicity ex-
hibit to tell West Germans a comprehensive story of ERP.

One of a series of exhibitions documenting Economic
Cooperation Administration activities, this is no poster-on-
the-wall display. A specially designed building 30 meters
long, 20 meters wide and nearly seven meters high houses
this exhibit on its road tour through west zone cities. And
inside are 20 electrical and mechanical displays and
models, all individually illuminated and nine activated

electrically by the visitors themselves.
Despite the exhibit's massive proportions and weight—
70 tons — it is moved frequently from city to city in the

western zones. Since it was constructed in August and
September 1949, it has been seen by nearly 250,000 Ger-
man citizens, at the 1949 Frankfurt Fall Fair, the Frankfurt
Agricultural Fair, the Christmas Exposition at Duessel-
dorf, and is now en route to Stuttgart, where it will open
on March 18 for a three weeks’ showing. It is also booked
for the annual Kieler Woche (Kiel Week) at Kiel, from

MARCH 1950

USA GIBT ANSTOSs

s re

June 18 to 25. Among other west zone cities bidding for
the exhibition are Hamburg, Cologne, Muenster, Munich
and Nuremberg.

NE OF THE STRONGEST appeals of the exhibit, de-
O signed to tell the story of United States aid to Europe,
and Germany in particular, is in its visitor-participation
scheme. German exhibit-goers have been delighted with
the button-pushing it affords: each electrical gadget tells
an important phase of ERP activities, with far greater
appeal than would a static panel or display.

The largest single display is a model of the Atlantic
ocean, 12!/2 meters long and 5'/2 meters wide. The eastern
portion of the United States and all of Western Europe
are depicted by a large multi-colored relief map; Plying
between the continents are a score of small model ships
which are operated electrically in real water.

As the ships, which are to carry ERP goods to Western
Europe, approach American ports, small model electric
trains start out automatically and travel over two separate

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
circuits. The trains stop as
the vessels leave the harbors.
When the ships touch the
ports of the Marshall Plan
countries, four separate model
railroad lines, operating in
Scandinavia, France, Ger-
many and around Central
Europe, are activated auto-
matically.

ISITORS TO THE exhibit

are guided around the
hall in a clockwise direction.
The various elements tell a
chronological story of US aid
to Europe before ERP was
founded, the inception of the
plan in former Secretary of
State Marshall's speech at
Harvard, the organization of
ECA and OEEC, the accom-
plishments so far recorded,
and a resume of future plans
up to 1952, when ERP is
scheduled to terminate. When the exhibit opens in Stutt-
gart, an array of raw materials received by Wuerttemberg-
Baden through ERP channels, and the finished products
made from them in that state's industries, will be shown in
the display at the main entrance. Fronting this presenta-
tion will be a large revolving and illuminated globe, which
designates the various Marshall Plan countries in color.
Motion pictures relating to the Marshall Plan have been

50 KAM DAS ERP ZUSTANDE

22. SEPTEMBER 1947

5. JUNI 1947

3 APRIL 1948

shown within the hall wher-
ever the exhibit has been on
display. The exhibit” also
contains its own public ad-
dress system, heating system,
water lines for the Atlantic
model, and a master switch-
board.

The electrical equipment
includes 20 large and small
electrical motors, 21 trans-
formers, nearly 200 meters of
neon tubes, 1,500 meters of
wiring and approximately
300 fuses. Exterior illumina-
tion includes a large ERP sign
fashioned from red neon
tubes, and two ERP shields at
either end of the building.

The power required to
operate all of the equipment
is 35 kilowatts per hour.

The exhibit and building
were designed and created
by the Visual Presentations
Branch, Operating Facilities Division, Office of Adminis-
tration, HICOG, at its Exhibition Section in Nuremberg.
Charles M. Shaw is chief of the branch.

A special team of 20 Germans employed by the section
accompanies the exhibit wherever it goes and supervises
dismantling, transportation and setting up operations. The
team includes graphic artists, painters, carpenters and
technicians. -++-END

ANDS WEG INS ERP.

Typical exhibits in the touring ECA exposition are shown on this page. The revolving globe above shows Marshall Plan
participants in illuminated colors. Below, left, is a chart depicting how ERP came about, with inset of George Marshall,
father of ERP.” Chart at right traces, step by step, West Germany's path in the European economic recovery plan.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 14 MARCH 1950

--- Page 18 ---
Agricultural Outlook

By GWYNN GARNETT

IHE PRESENT FOOD situation in western Germany

presents the Federal Republic with a difficult task.
Not only must it earn more foreign exchange to permit the
import of additional food and feed but it must also achieve
a substantial increase in domestic agricultural output
within the next two years, if a serious dollar deficit is
not to result after Marshall Plan aid ends in 1952,

A majority of the US dollars allotted to Germany under
the European Recovery Program are presently being spent
on food and feed imports, In this current year, the sum
allocated for food amounts to more than $500,000,000. The
population of western Germany is one third greater than
in prewar years, and the new country is dependent upon
imports for approximately half the food consumed by its
urban population. Despite the tremendous annual ex-
penditures for food, the German diet is still not up to
the prewar level, particularly in fats and animal products.

Long-term planning for western Germany is dominated
by the threat of an extremely heavy dollar deficit remain-
ing after 1952, What must be done to overcome this threat?

One solution, which can be ruled out at the beginning,
is to reduce food consumption levels. The German food
level this year provides the non-farm population with
less calories than prewar and only about two thirds of
prewar consumption of fats, meats and dairy products.

There are two broad approaches which, if they do not
eliminate the threat of the dollar deficit altogether, at
least reduce it to a manageable size.

The first approach is to buy more food and feed on
the world markets with the proceeds of German exports.
This requires not only an intensified effort to increase
exportable industrial items but also an emphasis on sales
in the United States, other dollar areas, and non-dollar
areas where supplies of the deficit foods are available.

Liberalized trade agreements, in many cases concluded
on Germany's initiative, have been signed during recent
months with eight neighboring countries. These pacts
will permit a flow of industrial goods out in exchange
for basic German requirements, including foods. As a first
step they are highly commendable actions, and may be
the first signs of a strong European economic community
More are needed, however, on a far broader basis.

Sufficient supplies of the cereals, fats and sugar re-
quired to maintain the German diet will be difficult to
obtain outside of the United States. A partial solution
of the German deficit problem, therefore, from the stand-
point of trade, requires the sale of German products in
US markets to an amount far above the

the food deficit so great that an increase in export pro-
ceeds alone cannot procure the food import needs, There-
fore, the second broad approach to the solution of the
German food problem lies in substantial expansion of
food production at home.

The methods for increasing German production are
essentially much the same as in any other country. They
rest upon two basic principles:

(1) Incentive to produce — provided by prices and
incomes to growers.

(2) More modern and efficient production techniques
placed in the hands of the farmers,

German officials are now developing a national food
production program based on these primary principles.

Internal prices are gradually being adjusted to provide
the incentive for increasing agricultural production. Occu-
pation authorities and the Germans themselves have made
excellent progress in providing the necessary requisites
for increasing agricultural production. Agricultural credit
is being provided in part from the Deutsche marks which
accrue through the sale of ECA dollar procured products
in Germany.

ESTERN GERMANY contains 35,000,000 acres of farm

land, but 40 percent of the farms are little more
than large gardens. The representative size is only about
30 acres with an average of six persons trying to earn
a living from it. Furthermore, many of these small farms
have been sub-divided through successive inheritance
into numerous parcels, often 40 to 60 separate tiny bits,
scattered several miles apart. This makes mechanization
impractical, increases production costs, wastes labor, draft
power, and crop land in paths and roadways,

Existing agricultural education institutions and facili-
ties are incommensurate with the needs of the nation.
There exists no extension service as we have come to
know it in the US for quick translation of research results
into farm practices. There is not a single collegiate de-
partment or institute of home economics in western Ger-
many. Important major developments in sciences of agri-
culture and nutrition within the last 15 years are known
only to a thin crust of scientists and agricultural leaders.
To bring to the maximum number of farmers the most
modern techniques in agricultural production a greatly
expanded system of agricultural research, education and
extension is needed.

To help bridge this gap in the development of German
agriculture, large numbers of German

trickle of goods now moving to the US.

ROM MANY ASPECTS, solving the
German food problem by increas-
ing trade would be the most desirable;
however, the postwar concentration of
population in western Germany makes

This article by Gwynn Garnett,
chief of the Food and Agriculture
Division of the Office of Economic
Affairs, HICOC, was written for the
“New Yorker Staatszeitung,” Ger-
man language paper in New York,
where it appeared in February.

scientists have been sent to the US
and many American scientists have
come to Germany during the last four
years. Those Germans influenced by
these exchanges are expected to take
the lead in German agricultural think-

MARCH 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
ing, adapting the knowledge of techniques which they
have learned in foreign countries to German conditions.

Aside from these primary aspects of the problem there
are many corollaries which deserve and require attention.
There are three aspects of German land resources that
need improvement:

(1) The small German farms, further excessively par-
celled into tiny non-contiguous tracts, need to be con-
solidated. Land consolidation is required on nearly half
of the farm area in western Germany. The process consists
of surveying and redistribution, after which farmers retain
their individual holding but will have their farm in one
single tract instead of numerous small plots scattered
around the community.

(2) Forty percent of the land area is presently devoted
to relatively unproductive meadow and pasture, Yet Ger-
man farmers seldom have available the draft power for
heavy plowing or the capital for seed and fertilizer
needed for necessary improvements.

(3) From 300,000 to 500,000 hectares of land could well
be reclaimed for cultivation by drainage, such as has been

done on a large scale in the Netherlands. In some cases
the identical type of land which has been brought into
high production on the Dutch side of the border is left
as practically waste land on the German side.

PPROXIMATELY 10,000,000 refugees and expellees
A ‘rom eastern Europe have settled in western Germany
since the war. Because of the damage in cities these
tended to congregate in rural communities, The problem
of settling these refugees with agricultural backgrounds
is being attempted and supported in part by governmental
subsidy.

As occupation as well as Marshall Plan officials, it is
our task to convince the German people of the vital
importance for them to increase agricultural production,
and that it is equally important for them to do this by
democratic means. Farmers are encouraged to take an
active part in planning and organizing their own pro-
grams. This is a challenge in the direction of increasing
their independence, self-reliance and political alertness.
The programs under way are no less important in their
social aspects than in their economic effects. +END

Radio Aids in Reeducating Women

Ww GERMAN RADIO stations are making an attempt
to broaden women’s interest in public life but their
programs are not as interesting as they might be, accord-
ing to a report of the Radio Branch, Office of Public Affairs.

The report, covering the period of July 1 to Sept. 30,
1949, surveyed women's radio programs presented by sta-
tions in Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart and Bremen.

All stations are recognizing their responsibility in help-
ing German women overcome their apathy toward politi-
cal affairs and their sense of national isolation.

For this reason they emphasize programs that point out
positive trends in political and economic development.
Political re-education of women is considered a primary
task. Characteristic programs appeal to women to interest
themselves in politics, to take a more active part in poli-
tical life, and to make their numerical superiority felt.

This praiseworthy attempt, however, loses impact by
the dullness of the programming. Half the broadcasts are
by a single speaker, a monologue, generally accepted as
the least interesting means for disseminating information.

On the occasion of important events, such as the parlia-
mentary elections in August, women’s radio programs
interviewed women candidates, clarified the platforms and
aims of the individual parties, interviewed women from
abroad, and announced lectures in America Houses en-
couraging listeners to broaden their political horizons.

Other women's programs have attempted to meet the
general sense of social insecurity of German women by
re-educating the women themselves. Interviews with
women making an independent living and demonstrations
of equality of women in other countries also have helped.

On a time allotment basis, most time — 28 percent —
was on “public life," including such subjects as eco-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

nomics and sociology and the work of women in these
fields. Twenty percent of the time was on such practical
matters as tips on housekeeping and marketing; 16 percent
of the available time was on education programs.
Programs on pedagogic and psychological problems,
child welfare and child training were also taken up ex-
tensively. Radio Frankfurt has a 15-minute program on
which parents and editors discuss education. -+END

Voice of America in person — Betty Watson, women's edi-
tor of the Voice of America program, interviews Frankfurt
University students during a European trip for the Depart-
ment of State. The students had written the Department for
information on the German language broadcasts. Shown
with Miss Watson, at left, are Ingeborg Geissner, Rose-
marie Schmaus, Helmuth Geissner, Ursula Gerstner and
Use Reichert.

(PRD HICOG photo by Jacoby)

—_,

--- Page 20 ---
Left, radiotelephone station in Frankfurt. Right, Eschborn radio station with operators connecting calls to South America.

ling Overseas

By JOHN D. RYALS

Communications Branch, Industry Division

Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

E ELLO, SIR, THIS is the overseas operator. Are you
ready for your call to the States? Your party in
Chicago is standing by.”

“Karl Schmidt A.-G.? This is the Deutsche Post. We
have a telegram for you from Buenos Aires. Shall I
read it to you before delivery?”

Such reports are heard many thousands of times each
month by Allied nationals and Germans in Germany as
the Deutsche Post delivers international telegrams from
all countries of the world and connects telephone calls
to more than 50 countries and territories. The Deutsche
Post, under the direction of the Federal Ministry for
Posts and Telecommunications and the City Council's
Department for Posts and Telecommunications in Greater
Berlin, is rapidly regaining its prewar efficiency and is
furnishing Germany with the communications media so
important for the restoration of normal commercial and
social relations with the other nations of the world.

When the German Federal Republic was formed in
the fall of 1949, it inherited from the bizonal adminis-
tration a competent and well-organized postal and
telecommunications system and one of the world’s most
modern and efficient overseas radio communications
systems. From Frankfurt, Berlin and Elmshorn, near Ham-
burg, and from Norddeich on the North Sea coastline of
Lower Saxony, Deutsche Post radio stations span the
Atlantic and the Pacific with telegrams and telephone
calls via direct circuits to the Americas, Japan, the Philip-
pines and Portugal, and by relaying via those points, to
most important countries in the Far East and the principal
Pacific islands.

ADIO FACILITIES are also available for messages to

trans-Atlantic cargo vessels which are the life line
of the export-import trade between the old world and
the new, to fishing craft in the North Sea, and to the
boats and barges on the Rhine River.

MARCH 1950

17

It is true that the Third Reich enjoyed the use of
one of the most efficient and extensive international
radio communications networks with direct contact with
almost all important nations. German submarine cables
connected with those of other countries and formed a great
telegraphic network across the Atlantic,

Unfortunately, however, almost the entire radio system
emanated from Berlin and adjacent locations. The de-
vastating air attacks to which the erstwhile capital was
subjected during the war reduced much of this highly
technical and complicated equipment to useless wreck-
age; most of that which survived the bombings dis-
appeared into the east. Her overseas cable links were
cut early in the war. The damage to some was irrepa-
rable and some were reterminated in other countries.
Repairs or construction of new cables would have cost
many millions of dollars and, more important, would
have required several years.

Germany needed international communications im-
mediately if she was to revive her foreign trade and
achieve a measure of self-sufficiency. Then, too, cables
solve only the problem of telegraph service. Due to
technical limitations submarine cables are not capable
of transmitting the human voice over great distances.
Years of research have failed to produce a practicable
cable suitable for tramsoceanic telephony. Inter-con-
tinental telephone service has developed concurrently
with the advance of the science of radio communications.

HILE THE RE-ESTABLISHMENT of international

communications services to Germany's European
neighbors was admittedly of great importance, and pre-
sented numerous problems in the reconstruction of land-
line cable facilities, the most difficult task was the
reopening of telephone and telegraph services to points
overseas. Emphasis was placed on the restoration of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
service with the United States, which was to play a major
role in the economic recovery program for Germany.
Although service could be made available through the
facilities of other European countries, this solution would
involve payment out of huge amounts of foreign cur-
rencies for the performance of services which could be
rendered by the Deutsche Post if the necessary facilities
were made available — foreign currency which a bank-
rupt and hungry Germany could more usefully employ
for the import of food and other necessities of life.
Therefore, high priority was placed on the construction
of facilities for communications to the western hemisphere.
When international telephone and telegraph services
were authorized for Germany in 1947, service to the
United States and other points in the western hemi-
sphere were established through the facilities of US
commercial companies under a special license agree-
ment whereby they operated the terminals in Germany
on a non-profit basis, with net credits accruing to Ger-
man export funds. Later, radio-telephone equipment was
borrowed from the US Army and operated by the
Deutsche Post. But these were only temporary measures.

IHE CONSTRUCTION of an international radio station

was undertaken by the Deutsche Post and German
manufacturers employing engineers and production faci-
lities in many cities in western Germany and Berlin with
technical advice and assistance from Allied personnel.
Of great importance is the fact that the entire cost was
met with Deutsche mark funds.

By placing the construction of the new station on an
emergency basis, the first radiotelegraph components
were installed at Frankfurt in March 1948 while initial
radiotelephone facilities were delivered in July of that
year, less than 12 months after the first orders were
placed with German firms. This equipment was supple-
mented rapidly during the following months.

Two 20,000 watt transmitters and associated receiving
equipment provide for five simultaneous trans-Atlantic

Antennas and buildings at over-
seas radiotelegraph station in
Norddeich (below, right) provide
direct service with South Ame-
rica. Antennas and transmitter
building (left) at Elmshorn, near
Hamburg provide direct radio-
telephone service with South
America and the Philippines and
direct radiotelegraph_ service
with Japan and the Philippines.

telephone conversations. In addition to service to the
United States, calls are relayed via New York to 18 other
countries and territories. A total of more than 1,500 in-
coming and 3,600 outgoing calls averaging more than
four minutes each were handled through the Frankfurt
station in December 1949.

From the same station three 20,000 watt radiotelegraph
transmitters provide direct circuits with the United States
on a 24-hour-a-day schedule. By relaying through State-
side radio stations, telegrams may be routed over German-
operated radio equipment to some 60 countries and islands
in the Americas, Pacific and Far East. Approximately
20,000 messages now pass over these circuits each month.

To provide direct telegraph service to South Ameri-
can countries, important customers of German industry,
the Deutsche Post is utilizing some of the transmitters
used prior to the war entirely for messages between
Germany and ships at sea and during the war to con-
trol the Nazi fleets. Two 20,000 watt stations at Nord-
deich, in Lower Saxony, maintain daily schedules with San-
tiago, Lima, Bogota, Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro.

Direct telephone service to South America has been
acquired with little cost to the German taxpayer by
the application of technical proficiency and ingenuity.
Two giant 50,000 watt transmitters located at Elms-
horn, near Hamburg — formerly used for propaganda
broadcasts — now maintain daily contact with stations
in Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro.

In December 1949, the activities of the Elmshorn
station were expanded to provide a direct telephone
circuit with the Philippines. At the same time, direct
radiotelegraph service was inaugurated between Ger-
many and the Philippines and Japan.

HE SUCCESS of the program for restoration of Ger-

many's international radio system has resulted in a
saving of hundreds of thousands of dollars in foreign
exchange which would have been paid to other adminis-
trations or private operating companies for handling the
minimum communications requirements for the conduct
of international trade.

It has aided immeasurably in the rapid expansion of
international communications services and has permitted
the maximum relaxation of restrictions imposed on the
use of these services by the German public.

Expansion of Deutsche Post radio facilities to provide
direct service to other major nations will improve the
grade of communications services and will further reduce
expenditures of export credits by the Federal Republic
for those services. +END

--- Page 22 ---
Reprinted from the New York Herald Tribune

Distorting German History

Current Publications in Former Reich Whitewash
The War and Hitlerism

By DR. ROBERT M. W. KEMPNER

The author served from 1945 to 1949 as United States Deputy Chief
Prosecutor at the War Crimes Trials in Nuremberg and guest professor at
German universities.

(ODAY WESTERN GERMANY, our solicitously nur-

tured test-tube democracy, is being swamped with
nationalistic and militaristic literature singing the praises
of the grand old times of the Third Reich. With more or
less outspoken nostalgia, many political writers in Ger-
many are telling their people that Germany would have
been fine if Der Fuehrer had not gotten a little out of
hand. Adolf Hitler should have listened a little more to
the diplomats, to the generals, to the admirals, and Ger-
many would have been the victor in World War II,

Let us take a look at some typical newspapers, periodi-
cals and books now in heavy demand in Germany, and
see how they are treating the recent political past.

From Duesseldorf, Rhineland city near the seat of the
Bonn Federal Republic, the spicy weekly Herzdame (Queen
of Hearts) is distributed over all western Germany. In the
issue of Sept. 10, 1949, we find on the cover page Adolf
Hitler's picture three times, three pictures of his Reichs
Marshal Hermann Goering with his wife, Emmy, and in-
fant daughter Edda, and one picture of the Fuehrer's
sweetheart, Eva Braun; on other pages, a picture of Hitler
with the wife of his architect, a picture of Eva Braun with
Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop, a picture of
Hitler and his deputy, Rudolf Hess.

Munich contributes the periodical Revue (Review)
with a picture of Der Fuehrer smiling somewhat shyly
at the side of his niece, Angelica Reubel, a girl, whom
the records indicate, he later, in a less gracious mood,
had killed by poisoning. Here in the picture niece An-
gelica smiles radiantly out at the postwar public, attired
in a charming dirndl dress, and Adolf's friendly arm is
about her shoulder. Last September, the Review began
serial publication of "The Great Lover, Adolf Hitler," a
story in which movie director Leni Riefenstahl is one of
the leading ladies, Here again Der Fuehrer is humanized,
this time his loves are sung by the con-

love stories. Sentenced in absentia to five years of hard
labor by the Bavarian Denazification Court, he finally
was taken into custody when he went to pick up his
publisher's payments.

HILE THE NATIONALISTIC sentiments of the

women of Germany are roused by moving stories
of Hitler and Goering, the appeal to the men is based
on doughty episodes from the “best time of their lives,"
the military time. This campaign is a bold, whitewashing
attempt on behalf of the military men who, willingly
following their beloved Fuehrer's bidding, led the German
people to disaster. Today their line is: Hitler alone is
responsible for the defeat; if we had been heeded, we
would have waged a better war, and we would have led
the nation to victory!

The militaristic brochures are offered for sale to the
public under the most blatant advertising, and they fill
an enthusiastic demand. Hitler as Feldherr (Hitler as
Strategist), with the picture of Der Fuehrer on the cover,
put out by the chief of his general staff, Franz Halder,
is an apologia for the German generals, who would have
done things better, The contents are in crass contradiction
to Halder’s own diaries from the Nazi time.

The German navy gets its share in recent German
articles on the “Heroic Battle’ of the cruiser Bismarck,
and the miraculous break-through of the Bremen, The
Munich paper “Revue” competes in this theme with the
Stuttgart weekly Christ und Welt (Christ and World),
which otherwise did an excellent job in sponsoring the
integration of refugees from Eastern Germany,

More dangerous for most Germans than these publica-
tions are articles and books of latter-day Hitler enemies.
They call themselves “experts and employ the subtle
venom of quoting each other as proof for their theories.

A typical instance of the ricochet

hoisseur and Hofbrau cavalier, Her-
mann Esser, once state secretary for
Tourism in Goebbels’s propaganda mi-
nistry. After his release from detention
as a suspected war criminal, Hermann
Esser went in hiding and made use
of the time that the German police
were seeking him to compose his great

This article, originally printed in the New
York Herald’ Tribune on Jan. 19, is re-
printed here with special permission of the
Herald Tribune. The views expressed here
are those of the author and not necessarily
those of the Information Bulletin or the Oc-
cupation Authorities. As publishing control
and licensing had been discontinued more
than a year ago, the propriety of the pub-
lishing of most of the books listed in the
article has been a German matter.

self-promotion going on in this mutual
society for muffling the Third Reich
record is the publication of Hitler's
chief interpreter, Paul Otto Schmidt, in
the Sueddeutsche Zeitung (South Ger-
man Newspaper), Munich, on the oc-
casion of the ten-year anniversary of
the outbreak of war in September, 1949,

MARCH 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Instead of placing before the public from the files of
the German Foreign Office, the Fuehrer-loyal diplomatic
preparation of the Second World War, this series of
articles, which is already available in book form, makes
the reader believe that the negotiations with the British
and the Poles were sincerely intended and that the out-
break of war came as a surprise to the same men who
had organized its initiation! Paul Otto Schmidt, eyewitness
of the diplomatic preparations for the murder of the
French General Maurice Mesny and similar acts, has, of
course, the perfect right to suppress the darkest chapters
of his experiences, However, for German publishers to
present Paul Otto Schmidt's stories as the recounting of
an objective historian to their trusting readers, will lead
to dangerous consequences for Germany’s future.

VERY HARMFUL BOOK in the political field has

unfortunately been published by the reputable Nym-
phenburger Publishing House. The book Was Wirklich
Geschah (What Really Happened) claims to be an objective
representation of the German policy, However, it became
a publicizing effort on the exclusive guilt of Hitler and
possibly of a handful of his fanatic henchmen, and a bold
whitewashing of other top officials, no matter how notori-
ously implicated. It is typical of this method of history-
writing that the horrifying diplomatic documents pertain-
ing to the massacre of the prisoners of war and of the
Jews are missing.

Two high Hitler officials who were acquitted of major
war crimes charges in Nuremberg for lack of sufficient
evidence have taken up their pens to give their expert
versions of the past years: Hjalmar Schacht and Hans
Fritzsche. The field of recent German policy is covered
by a book of Hitler's one-time financial wizard, the much
overrated Hjalmar Schacht. With no lack of a bold front
he titles his book Abrechnung mit Hitler (Settling the Bill
with Hitler). Encouraged by his success, Herr Schacht
recently published a sequel volume on his dubious finan-
cial theories.

Hans Fritzsche, the notorious radio boss of Nazi Pro-
paganda Chief Paul Joseph Goebbels, devoted his book
Hier Spricht Hans Fritzsche (Here Speaks Hans Fritzsche)
to his experiences in Hitler and post-Hitler days. The
book, published in Switzerland, enjoys a wide circulation
in Germany and a German publisher is preparing a new
edition,

NDEED, A SURVEY of the books and articles on the Nazi

regime currently offered shows only a fewauthors forth-
right enough to present their experiences in the Third
Reich without too much caution about the roles they
played. One is Werner Stephan, a former councillor of
the Propaganda Ministry, in his book Joseph Goebbels,
Demon of a Dictatorship, in which a sincere account is
given of Goebbels’s personal life and his propaganda
machine. Another open-minded author is Rudolf Diels,
the first chief of the dread Gestapo, preceding Heinrich
Himmler in that office. In his book Lucifer ante Portas
he tells the story of that agency in the first beginnings,
when the groundwork was laid for the abolition of all

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

civil liberties. A third publication giving an accurate
historical account is the book of the general staff officer,
Gerhard Boldt, Die Letzten Tage der Reichskanzlei (The
Last Days of the Reich Chancellory).

In this connection, some books of real resistance fight-
ers should be mentioned, such as general staff officer
Fabian von Schlabrendorff's Offiziere gegen Hitler (Of-
ficers against Hitler); Ambassador Ulrich von Hassel’s
posthumously published diaries, and the excellent Ger-
man edition of Allan Dulles's Germany’s Underground. The
book of the anti-Nazi Bernd Gisevius, Bis zum Bittern Ende
(To the Bitter End) was published in Germany about two
years ago. Today, it would be hard for a German publisher
to take the risk of such a publication.

O THE UTTER DISGUST of the falsifiers of recent

history, a series of well-based articles on Nazi foreign
policy was published by Wanda von Bayer in the maga-
zine Frankfurter Hefte. An objective document collection
on Nazi-Soviet collaboration was published by Dr. Alfred
Seidl in Munich,

What are wé to conclude from the poll of present-day
German publications on recent history? Is the situation
hopeless? In Germany itself we hear such discouraged
voices as that of Friedrich Sieburg in an editorial in the
November issue of the magazine Die Gegenwart (The
Present Day): ‘We are entirely unconvinced that the ever
mounting sensational publications concerned with Hitler
and consorts can be dismissed as mere stupidity... The
incontrovertible fact is that the public is lining up at
the newsstands and asking what there is on Hitler. Of
course, they are not asking with that for any of these
historic records brought to light in the Nuremberg Trials
which are not available even for any one who might show
an interest." Sieburg's comment is very interesting since
he speaks not only as a German but as one who went
through the Nazi mill and is none the less able today to
look the ghosts of the Third Reich in the face.

I myself, during the years from 1945 to 1949, have had
the opportunity to discuss this problem with represen-
tative publishers in Germany, Switzerland and Austria,
and I have come to the conclusion that there are indeed
many publishers who would sincerely prefer to tell the
history of recent years objectively. But they lack the
financial backing to undertake such risks. The market for
objective books and articles on the Third Reich would
have to be developed from scratch, and with long-range
financial backing.

It is high time to publish and place before the German
public the wealth of interesting, factual material that has
come to light in German archives, in the Nuremberg in-
vestigations, and in the clarifying statements of true Ger-
man patriots. This is the only way to combat the system-
atic poisoning of the German mind going on under our
very eyes in the infant German Republic. -++END

Berlin Phones Top 1938 Total

Nearly 2,300,000 telephones are now in operation in
western Germany and the three western sectors of Berlin,
representing an increase of 10 percent over the 1938 total.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 24 ---
REACTIONS OF WORLD PRESS

Stuttgart Speech

More Positive and Stronger Attitude Seen for US Policy; Editorial
Interpretations in German Newspapers Are Mixed

RENDS TOWARD RENASCENT nationalism, historic
denial or indifference toward internal German prob-
lems suffered a stern setback on Feb. 6 when US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy delivered the strongest
definition to date of US occupation policies in Germany.
Speaking at the opening ceremonies for a new US In-
formation Center in Stuttgart, Mr. McCloy had his say
on 1950 Germany in terms that echoed in France, England,
Germany and the United States, and brought answering
cries of criticism and applause.

There was no mistaking the intent of the speech, It
followed by three days Mr McCloy's return from the
United’ States where he had conferred with President Tru-
man, Secretary of State Dean Acheson, the American
press and thousands of citizens. It was not so much a
change as a firm consolidation of US policy; it was a
stand against those who questioned the American right
to mix into German politics.

Mr. McCloy assured Germany of the deep conscience
US citizens felt for its political and economic rebirth; he
proffered firm and continuing assistance, but he underlined
again the terms by which Germany must earn it.

Said the New York Herald Tribune: “The rebuke he
administered was deserved; the timing was right. The
lessons must not go unheeded.”

Press comment from all corners of the United States
rallied to the side of the nation’s highest spokesman in
Germany. Dispatches from London and Paris seconded
the US move for a sharper administration of occupation
policies,

NSIDE GERMANY the reaction see-sawed from praise

to indifference to anger, and headlines emphasized
“The USA Will Help Germany,” “McCloy Warns Govern-
ment” or called it “An Unrestricted Reflection of Ameri-
can Criticism.’ Many papers soft-pedaled the harder-
hitting notes of the speech and leavened their articles
with talk of its most conciliatory features.

Rebuttals by German officials showed resistance to,
rather than acceptance of, Mr. McCloy’s advice that “it
is the highest form of self-respect to admit mistakes and
to make amends for them.” Some leaders of the Christian
Democratic Union said the speech proved the Germans
“have not yet achieved independence with regard to
foreign relations.”

The Frankfurter Rundschau reported the surprise of
Bonn politicians at the critical tenor of the speech, and
Saw it as prelude to a “certain tightening” of the Ameri-
can policy on Germany. Government circles, answering
the US High Commissioner's demands for proof of German

MARCH 1950

21

readiness and sense of responsibility for participation in
a European community, pointed to work already done by
the Federal Republic. They stressed the limited means’
of the Federal Republic, in reply to his insistence on
action in the fields of unemployment, refugees and youth.

SPD leader Kurt Schumacher used the speech as a lever
to reopen his attack on the majority party. His partial
endorsement of Mr. McCloy’s remarks received wide press
coverage, as did his statement that there should be more
appreciation for the “democratic forces in Germany which
stand nearly isolated in their fight against neo-fascism
and national communism.” He interpreted Mr. McCloy's
statements as confirmation of the correctness of the Social
Democratic criticism of the Federal Republic.

At any rate, the spotlight had been turned on Bonn and
domestic issues stood in sharp relief against the back-
ground of the High Commissioner's words. The heated and
highly popular discussions of international relations were
temporarily shunted to the sidelines.

Yet comment came from every city.

A substantial portion of the news outlets exhorted Ger-
man government leaders to pay heed to Mr. McCloy’'s
directives. Der Tagesspiegel (US Sector, Berlin) com-
mented: “There ought to be a different echo from German
politicians than there seemed... they ought to let us hear
some reflections on their own faults and failures. People
who read Mr, McCloy's speech carefully will find that
he has not done wrong to the German nation.”

A Heidelberg editorial (in Rhein Neckar Zeitung) said:
“We feel that ‘certain Germans’ should stop placing the
whole blame on other nations." The Kassel Post com-
mented, “It was positive and contained much that is
encouraging and we should thank him for it."

The Bremen press (Bremer Nachrichten mit Nordsee-
zeitung) called it a “wise, realistic and concrete” speech.

UT NOT ALL THE COMMENT reflected this attitude

of acceptance. From Bamberg, Bavaria (Fraenkischer
Tag) came the defensive reply that no mention was made
of “actual proofs’ of Germany's efforts for international
confidence, of separation of the Saar, of the Ruhr
Agreement, of dismantling, of export difficulties and of
the East-West conflict. It referred to criticism against
German nationalism, with ‘‘one could think of no Ameri-
can government which in the same position... would not
act likewise.” “A hard fact emerges from all these speeches
and documents of the past few days, i.e., that for a long
time we will be reminded that we were the ones that lost

the war.”
(Continued on page 64)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
Richard Weil Will Lang
INS, Berlin Time-Life, Frankfurt

American Press Corps

Many noted bylines appear over stories tell-
ing of the present-day Germany. These men
and women are specially selected and trained
to tell the American people the day-to-day
happenings and implications of developments
in the occupied country. Pictured on this page
are some of the reporters, writers and com-
mentators, who, living in Germany, make up
the American Press Corps.

Kathleen McLaughlin
Ni ork Times, Berlin

William Downs Ernest Leiser
CBS, Berlin ONA, Frankfurt

‘

James Burke James Devlin Thomas Reedy
Indianapolis News AP, Frankfurt AP, Berlin

Robert Hager
UP, Frankfurt

Marguerite Higgt
New York Herald Tribune, Berlin

Richard Kasischke
AP, Frankfurt

--- Page 26 ---
HIS IS THE STORY of the men and women who report

the news from Germany for America and how they
do it. There's high adventure — sure — but a lot of careful
planning and hard work too.

The average correspondent is on call 24 hours a day
and seven days a week with long hours devoted to travel-
ing, routine digging, sifting and checking. Much of his
spare time is spent in cultivating news sources which
may be useful in the future, learning the German lan-
guage, and studying German political and economic
history,

To understand trends and developments in Germany
today, the correspondent must have a basic and working
knowledge of the country’s social history and language.
If he is to help the reader at home in understanding
events abroad he must be qualified to interpret those
events in their correct significance.

Germany has been consistently Europe's top news center
Since the end of the war and continues to capture more
of the American press headlines than any other country on
the continent. This is true for two reasons: Germany is
a tense focal point of the east-west cold war, an arena
in which east and west duel continually for dominance,

MARCH 1950

23

and Germany is the first country in which the United
States has staged a full-scale occupation,

For this reason the American press corps in Germany
today is one of the largest US correspondent groups in
Europe, numbering 80 permanent correspondents repre-
senting US papers and five American correspondents
accredited to foreign papers and news agencies.

All of the great American wire services, radio networks,
photo and newsreel agencies have men permanently sta-
tioned in one or more of the three focal spots — Frank-
furt, Berlin and Bonn — as do several of the leading maga-
zines and daily newspapers. Smaller papers, trade jour-
nals and magazines are often represented by transient
correspondents who spend several weeks a year in Ger-
many on special assignments.

OR AMERICAN correspondents Frankfurt is the news
F axis in Germany at present. With the termination of
the Soviet blockade last year and the establishment of the
Office of the US High Commissioner in Frankfurt, many
correspondents shifted their chief operations from Berlin
to be near [11:COG headquarters. Within a few hours’
drive of the German government at bonn, also seat of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
the Allied High Commission, and an easy swing from
the important Ruhr area and the Saar, Frankfurt is the
pivotal point from which reporters can cover happenings
in all the larger cities of western Germany.

In that city are located the larger German bureaus of
the United Press, Associated Press and International News
Service, the headquarters of Time and Life, Inc., News-
week, American Magazine, and the main offices of lead-
ing American dailies.

For example, it is in Frankfurt where the United Press
maintains its main editorial and relay office for all con-
tinental Europe through which flows in constant stream
incoming copy from Prague, Oslo, Helsinki, Copenhagen,
Zurich, Milan, Rome, Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam and
Vienna and outgoing copy back to these points.

All UP bureaus throughout Germany and Europe are
linked by their own system of leased wires, and as the
chief relay center UP’s Frankfurt Bureau carries a two-
way load of from 80,000 to 90,000 words of news daily.

Incoming copy is edited and processed in Frankfurt
for redistribution to the European capitals and for trans-
mission to London where it may be trimmed in proportion
to news events of the day at home before being forwarded
to United Press in New York by radio teleprinter.

American news agencies are a main source of world
news for the new German press which has established
only a few postwar bureaus in foreign countries. UP’s
German service is an important function of the Frankfurt
Bureau. Here is assembled, edited and translated news
from western Germany along with other incoming news
from the rest of the world, The UP German report dis-
tributed by direct teleprinter circuits to about 110 major
clients — newspapers, radio stations and a number of
smaller subsidiary papers— averages 30,000 words per day.

With bureaus in Frankfurt, Berlin, Hamburg, Duessel-
dorf, Munich and Bonn, UP in Germany is staffed with
13 American correspondents and 110 German personnel,

with scores of stringers scattered throughout the three
zones. An approximate 6,000 words a day is filed out of
western Germany to the United States.

UP manager for Germany is veteran war and foreign
correspondent Walter Rundle who has been with the
United Press for 20 years — eight of them abroad, In
charge of UP in China during the war, he has filed big
stories out of that country, Burma, India and Korea, in-
cluding a feature which set America agog proving that
eggs will stand on end at the arrival of spring as timed
by the Chinese lunar calendar.

Rundle arrived in Germany to take over the Berlin
Bureau the day the Russians imposed the blockade and
worked 16 hours a day with his staff covering all blockade
developments until transferred to Frankfurt as manager
for the entire German operation a year ago.

Although UP staffers may be assigned to cover any-
thing from love nests to German gas rationing, some
concentrate on specific subjects. John McDermott, Berlin
bureau chief, keeps on top of east-west developments and
specializes on cold war trends, Bob Haeger, who was
broken in for his present assignment by spending his
first 23 years in the German-American metropolis of Mil-
waukee, spends a large part of his time in Bonn covering
the German political scene while Jack Meehan concen-
trates on army news and human interest stories.

HE ASSOCIATED PRESS, headed in Germany by Wes

Gallagher, top-flight AP war correspondent selected
by the Junior Chamber of Commerce in 1946 as one of the
10 outstanding young men of the United States, processes
its European report in London from continental copy re-
layed through Frankfurt which is the center of a teletype
network linking the larger European cities.

Edited in London, AP's foreign report is distributed to
its 134 German clients through the Berlin office. Together,
foreign and German AP news distributed in Germany aver-
ages 20,000 words daily while AP bureaus in Berlin, Frank-

PRESS CLUB

The day's news is discussed at lunch in the Frankfurt Press Club by, I.-r., Robert Kleiman of U.S. News and World
Report, Richard O'Regan of Associated Press, Larry Rue of Chicago Tribune and Adher Watt of United Press, Emlyn
Williams of Christian Science Monitor (right) leaving the club, which is maintained by the American correspondents.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

MARCH 1950

--- Page 28 ---
Managers in Germany for Leading Wire Services

Walter Rundle
United Press

furt and Bonn file approximately 6,000 words a day to
the United States.

Among AP bylines familiar to American readers of
German news are those of Donald Doane, rated by news-
men as one of the best allround reporters in the business;
Richard O'Regan, now Frankfurt news editor, and Richard
O'Malley, who was a policeman and a boxer, and played
the piano in a honky-tonk before joining AP as a war
correspondent in the Pacific.

AP Berlin bureau chief, Daniel Deluce has been with
the same agency since 1929. A foreign correspondent for
the past 10 years, Deluce was awarded the Pulitzer Prize
for foreign correspondents in 1944, Another AP veteran
in Berlin, Tom Reedy came to Germany four years ago
to cover the Nuremberg trials, “The blockade brought
me to Berlin," Reedy explains, “and the Russians still
keep my typewriter oiled. I am 39 and married and if
life begins only at 40, I don't know what all that other
stuff was that I've been through.”

British-born Tom Agoston is chief of Hearst's Inter-
national News Service in Germany with an American
assisting him from Berlin. INS services DPA (Deutsche
Presse Agentur), only German news service in the Federal
Republic, with a copy file by radio printer direct from
New York and with German copy through the Frankfurt
bureau.

Agoston's amazing agility which has earned him the
nickname of “Agitated Agoston” among his associates,
has produced a whirling dervish technique which he
employs in his competition with the other larger staffed
agencies. Agoston covering western Germany and _ his
assistant, Richard Weil in Berlin, file 3,000 words daily
to New York.

oie SPECIALS, those working for a single newspaper
or magazine, have on the whole an easier lot in life
than their colleagues on wire services where speed is

MARCH 1950

Wes Gallagher
Associated Press

25

ee

Thomas Agoston
International News Service

of paramount importance in getting a few minutes’ edge
on the competition in spot news coverage, A special sel-

dom tries to vie with the wire agencies on spot news

and can fit his working hours to his paper's deadline,
giving more time to polished writing and background
facts than is allowed in the slap-dash pace of the wire
man.

Except for the larger papers particularly noted for their
foreign coverage, one-man bureaus are the rule and in
these cases a reporter's office is often in his hotel bed-
room or inside his hat.

Dean of the specials is fabled Larry Rue who has
wandered in and out of Europe, the Balkans, Near East
and Africa for the Chicago Tribune for the past 30 years.
Voted by his fellow newsmen the “most unforgettable
character we have ever known," Larry Rue legends abound
among the newspaper crowd in Germany. In 1929, Rue
covered his European assignments in his own airplane
and in the epidemic of personal books by foreign cor-
respondents, he was one of the first to write his own
experiences in "I Fly for News."

Probably the best known names to American news
readers are those of Drew Middleton of The New York
Times, and Don Cook of the New York Herald-Tribune.
Both are high-ranking men in their profession and their
analytical stories out of Germany probe deeply below
the surface of daily events.

As chief correspondent for the Times in Germany,
Middleton maintains his headquarters in Frankfurt but is
away from the city three days out of a normal week.
With three other American correspondents in Germany,
eight Germans and three stringers, The New York Times
files an average of 10,000 words weekly plus mailers to
its home office.

Formerly with the Associated Press, Middleton has
served as war and foreign correspondent since 1939. His
assignment in Russia for the Times in 1946 lends first

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
hand knowledge to his appraisals of Soviet tactics in
Germany today.

Concentrating largely on international aspects of the
Allied occupation and interpretive reporting, Middleton
leaves much of the economic and US High Commission
stories in the competent hands of 31-year-old Jack Ray-
mond, whose questions at press conferences have earned
him a reputation as being among the sharpest of the
younger correspondents.

The best story to come out of Germany in the last few
years, in Middleton's opinion, is the election story in the
East zone last May. “The results prove that one-third
of the people had guts enough to vote against commu-
nism,” he explains.

| MANY of his colleagues in Germany, Don Cook,
chief of the Frankfurt Bureau of the New York Herald
Tribune, was formerly a war correspondent.

His beat is the western zones and he is out of Frank-
furt as much as in it. Spending at least two days a week
in Bonn, he is planning to switch his headquarters there
permanently, finding it easier to keep on top of political
developments from that city.

Frequently Cook gets specific requests from New York
for the Sunday section of his paper but otherwise the
choice of assignments is left in his own hands.

The foreign correspondent must do more than merely
record facts, according to Cook, “His work is selectivity,
picturization and interpretation. Although ‘scoops’ or ex-
clusives are naturally important, they are not necessarily
the distinguishing mark of a good correspondent. A spe-
cial today is hitting high if he can count 10 percent of
his stories as exclusives, This means that there are a lot
of dull days between scoops and that his reputation must
be made on the way in which his other stories are handled
and written.”

With the arrival of Joseph Newman in Berlin, the
Herald-Tribune bureau there is expected to expand be-
yond mere Berlin coverage. Newman, who has covered
three of the world’s hottest news spots for the Tribune —
pre-Pearl Harbor Tokyo, Argentina and Moscow — is
planning to build the bureau into an East European listen-
ing post, With the Soviet-dominated German press car-
rying the propaganda line for the day, a competent
observer can catch Soviet shifts in policy trends which
foreshadow important news events.

CORRESPONDENT'S average day involves plenty of
leg work and routine digging. His tips come prima-
rily from the German press which his secretary checks
each morning making a translated round-up for his perusal.
When a story strikes him as particularly interesting
for US consumption, he then digs out all available back-
ground material and with a few additional telephone calls,
is ready to write his story.

Part of his day is taken up in keeping informed of
scheduled happenings such as High Commission meetings,
press conferences, certain VIP arrivals and important
German meetings.

During a week he makes the rounds of a good dozen
key Allied and German personalities and out of these

INFORMATION BULLETIN

informal office visits he gets a handful of ideas for pos-
sible stories and often invaluable background for other
stories pending developments.

There are news sources aplenty in Berlin, that cut and
quartered five-powered city governed by British, French,
Americans, Russians and Germans and on the surface it
would seem to be an easy beat. But it is for just that
reason that Berlin is one of the toughest news beats on
the continent. Each of the five powers has its own version
of every story — although British, French and Americans
coordinate closely their information services — and the
versions sometimes vary.

Each of the four occupying powers and the German
Berlin City Council has its own press office. Additionally,
there are available two dozen daily newspapers — half
of them East-licensed and the others West-licensed, Fif-
teen accredited military missions have their offices there
and each has a press attache or “spokesman.”

Perhaps the most difficult aspect of Berlin's press
coverage is, as the French put it, ‘C'est Ja ville de I'inat-
tendu” (it is the city of the unexpected). For it is against
this city that is directed the force of Soviet political and
economic pressure, There anything can happen — and,
as the press well knows, there just about everything has
happened — and the oft recurring crises are seldom an-
nounced in advance.

HYSICAL DIFFICULTIES pose one of the greatest
problems to the correspondent covering Bonn where
some of his everyday stories involve a ferryboat ride
across the Rhine and a hairpin climb on a cogwheel
mountain railway.
The reporter assigned to the German capital must keep
his eyes primarily on the German government. Its seat

Husband-wiie team on the job in Berlin—Judy Barden of
NANA and David Nichol of the Chicago Daily News.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 30 ---
Prominent Specials Covering Germany

Larry Rue
Chicago Tribune

is the modern white parliament building overlooking the
Rhine, but the chancellor himself lives some miles south
and across the river, while the president receives official
callers in still another suburb.

Today's German news story is also a story of Allied
relationships so the reporter calls fairly often at French
headquarters up the river from Bonn, at the American
element in another river village, and at the British seat
i4 miles distant, Northwest of Bonn and on the other side
of the barge-dotted Rhine looms the headquarters of the
Allied High Commission on the Petersberg mountain.

A correspondent's day in the federal capital may begin
as late as noon. If he has an extended lunch in the Federal
Parliament building he is likely to catch a minister,
deputy or other news source at a nearby table.

A regular part of his day is to attend the press con-
ference of some key German official. These conferences
are long, smoke-filled and sometimes the scene of a
cross-fire of embarrassing questions in the hottest tradi-
tion of Washington journalism.

If parliament is in session, the newsman faces a long
afternoon and evening. On session days, depending on
the nature of the agenda, the press balcony of the As-
sembly hall either will be crowded with about 150 atten-
live reporters or manned by a few bored-but-brave cor-
respondents for the big news agencies.

In the press balcony, writers relax as best as they can
in the stiff wooden seats, When the activities on the
legislative floor become monotonous, a reporter may read
the daily government handouts or even discreetly play
chess with a colleague.

A= WOMEN reporters in Germany have made
their mark among the press corps both as war and
foreign correspondents, sometimes unmercifully beating
their male competition.

Among the veteran correspondents in Europe today is
Kathleen McLaughlin, now stationed in Berlin for The
New York Times, who has covered various phases of the

MARCH 1950

Donald Cook
New York Herald Tribune

27

Drew Middleton
New York Times

occupation in keeping with the best traditions of Ameri-
can foreign reporting. Now in New York awaiting re-
assignment to Tokyo, 28-year-old Marguerite Higgins has
been chief of the Herald-Tribune Berlin bureau since 1947
and her percentage of exclusives has called forth grudging
admiration from some of the men,

Late of the New York Sun and now with the North
American Newspaper Alliance, Judy Barden is well
known for her human interest stories out of Berlin which
make excellent copy on the dull days between crises.
“In those quiet periods,” says Judy, ‘‘when a Russian
sneezes, I grab a typewriter.”

Among specials accredited in Germany for a single
American newspaper or publication are Ernest Leiser of
Overseas News Agency, Emlyn Williams of Christian
Science Monitor, Gordon Gaskill of American Magazine,
Robert Kleiman of U.S. News and World Report, Kay
Boyle of the New Yorker, Curt Riess of Trans-Radio
Press, John Christie of McGraw-Hill Publishing Com-
pany, Waldo Drake of Los Angeles Times, Harold Wil-
liams of Baltimore Sun, David Nichol of Chicago Daily
News and James Burke of Indianapolis News. Time and
Life has Enno Hobbing, Will Lang and David Richardson.
Among the photographers are Al Cooking of Acme,
Francis Noel of AP and Carl T. Gossett of The New
York Times.

Although the radio correspondents for the three great
American chains also roam the zones and are on the
spot at all important news events, their headquarters are
in Berlin. Consistent ‘clock watchers,” the network men
have a different problem from newspaper men in that
six-hour time variations between Germany and eastern
United States result in irregular hours for their “live”
broadcasts. Lyford Moore of the American Broadcasting
Company, William Downs of the Columbia Broadcasting
System, and Ed Haaker of the National Broadcasting
Company, have gone on the air at all hours, even at
midnight or at 5 a.m. with flashes. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
4 P as
United Press relay operator is shown (leit) moving a perforated paper tape from one transmitter to another in the
process of distributing news received from London and Washington to points in continental Europe, At right, UP
technician cuts in a new line connecting a German newspaper with the UP switchboard, through which flows a daily
average of approximately 90,000 words of world news, UP's main relay point for all continental Europe is in Frankfurt.

PID-accredited correspondents of American Fairchild Publications Indianapolis News

publications, permanently stationed in Ger

many as of Feb, 1, were:
Acme Newspictures
Alvin Cocking, Berlin
American Broadcasting Company
Lyford Moore, Berlin
American Magazine
Gordon Gaskill, Frankfurt
Argosy Magazine
Bernard McGuigan, Frankfurt
Army Times
Henry D. Cohen, Frankfurt.
William Heumann, Frankfurt
Philip Sichel, Frankfurt.
Associated Press
George Boultwood, Bonn
Brack Curry, Frankfurt.
Daniel Deluce, Berlin.
James Devlin, Frankfurt.
Donald Doane, Frankfurt,
Wes Gallagher, Frankfurt.
Richard Kasischke, Frankfurt
Francis Noel, Berlin.
Richard O'Malley, Frankfurt
Richard O'Regan, Frankfurt.
Thomas Reedy, Berlin.
Baltimore Sun
Harold A, Williams, Frankfurt
Chicago Daily News
David Nichol, Berlin
Chicago Tribune

Betty Knorr, Frankfurt.
Larry Rue, Frankfurt.

Christian Science Monitor
John E. Williams, Frankfurt
Olwen Williams, Frankfurt

Cleveland Plain Dealer
John Leacacos, Frankfurt

Cleveland Press
Theodore Andrica, Frankfurt

Columbia Broadcasting System
William Downs, Berlin

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Alice Perkins, Frankfurt
Fortune Magazine

Charles F. Jacobs, Frankfurt

Harold Lehtmann, Frankfurt
Fox Films

Robert Kreier, Frankfurt
Fox Movietone News

Herman Blumenfeld, Munich

Tecla Blumenfeld, Munich
Harpers Magazine

Ben Russak, Frankfurt.
Hearst Metrotone News

Norman Beckett, Frankfurt

28

James Burke, Berlin
International News Service
Isabel Agoston, Frankfurt.
Thomas Agoston, Frankfurt
Morris Holitzer, Frankfurt
Richard Weil, Berlin
Jewish Daily Forward
Ivor Meskauskas, Munich
Jewish Telegraphic Agency
Ernest Landau, Munich
Kansas City Star

Eliot Berkley, Frankfurt.
Marcel Wallenstein, Frankfurt.

Members of the United Press technical staff repair a teletype in the main-
tenance department. The German report is distributed to about 110 major clients.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 32 ---
Life Magazine
Nat Farbman, Frankfurt.
Enno Hobbing, Frankfurt.
Dmitri Kessel, Frankfurt.
Will Lang, Wiesbaden.
Charles Steinheimer, Berlin
Byron Thomas, Frankfurt.

Ralph Goldburgh, Frankfurt
Carl Gossett, Frankfurt.
Michael James, Frankfurt.
Drew Middleton, Frankfurt
Kathleen McLaughlin, Berlin.
Jack Rayinond, Frankfurt.
Lewis G. Taylor, Frankfurt

The Reporter
Edward P. Morgan, Frankfurt
Leland Stowe, Frankfurt,

Saturday Evening Post
James P. O'Donnell, Frankfurt.

Time

Los Angeles Times .
Waldo Drake, Frankfurt
Macnens
Kendall Foss, Munich,

Nan Robertson, Frankfurt.
Philip Whitcomb, Frankfurt.
McGraw Hill Publishing Company

John Christie, Frankfurt.
National Broadcasting Company

Ed Haaker, Berlin.

Robert Reuben, Frankfurt.
New Leader

Frederick Hellin, Frankfurt.
News of the Day-MGM

Gerhard Stindt, Berlin.
Newsweek

Charles H. Brown, Bonn

New Yorske Liste
Svatopluk Boruvka, Frankfurt.
North American Newspaper Alliance
Judy Barden, Berlin.
Gault McGowan, Heidelberg
Novoye Russkoye Slovo
Alexander Alexeeff, Berlin
Overseas News Agency
Caroline Leiser, Frankfurt.
Ernest Leiser, Frankfurt.
Stephen H. Scheuer, Frankfurt.
Mark Strage, Frankfurt.
Readers Digest
John G, Nesbitt, Stuttgart
Paul Thompson, Stuttgart.

David Richardson, Frankfurt.
Transradio Press
Curt Riess, Berlin.

United Press
Helen Fisher, Frankfurt.
Joseph Fleming, Berlin,
Denis Fodor, Frankfurt.
Georges Gaal, Frankfurt.
Robert Hager, Frankfurt.
John McDermott, Berlin.
John Meehan, Frankfurt.
Walter Rundle, Frankfurt
Adher Watt, Frankfurt,
Dale B. White, Frankfurt.
Stephen C. Williams, Munich.

US News and World Report

Jess Jones, Frankfurt.
New Yorker

Kay Boyle, Frankfurt.
New York Herald Tribune

Page 24

Photo Credit

PRD HICOG (3), US Army (3), Acme (2),

Robert Kleiman, Frankfurt.
Wall Street Journal

Warren H. Phillips, Frankfurt.
Warner Pathe Newsreel

Donald P. Cook, Frankfurt AP (2), Stars and Stripes (1), INP (1), a Fi

Leslie Moore, Frankfurt. DENA (1). MOREL SUS his yea

Joseph Newman, Berlin. Page 25 Page 28 Washington Evening Star

Sonia Tomara, Nuremberg. PRD HICOG (1). Acme (1). Marion W. Campbell, Heidelberg.
New York Post Pa

cH ge 26 Page 29 Washington Post
William Attwood, Frankfurt. PRD HICOG (2). PRD HICOG (3). | fs a an
David Perlman, Frankfurt. Page 27 Page 30 re een

New York Times

PRD HICOG (3).
William Freese, Frankfurt.

‘Women's National News Service

PRD HICOG (3).
fe Cherry Cook, Frankfurt.

+END

Clemency Board Established by HICOG

A Clemency Board has been established by HICOG
with authority to grant or deny paroles and commuta-
tions of sentence to prisoners sentenced by the US Mili-
tary Government Courts or their successors, the United
States Courts of the Allied High Commission for Germany.

The Clemency Board has no jurisdiction over prisoners
sentenced by the war crimes tribunals, its jurisdiction be-
ing limited to American civilians, displaced persons and
Germans sentenced for violations of MG laws.

The board consists of approximately 24 persons ap-
pointed by the general counsel of HICOG from the pro-
fessional personnel of the Prisons and Administration of
Justice Divisions and from the US legal advisers in the
States and in the US Sector of Berlin. Panels of three board
members meet at regular periods and have final authority
with respect to the granting, denying and revoking of
paroles and commutations of sentence.

The chief of the Prisons Division is designated chairman
of the Clemency Board and the deputy chief of the division
executive secretary. The chiefs of the Prisons and Ad-
ministration of Justice Divisions are responsible for the
formulation of policy and for the overall functioning of
the board.

The establishment of the board serves to consolidate and
centralize the parole functions of HICOG. Under Military
Government, these functions were performed by US and
German state parole boards. The staff announcement

MARCH 1950

29

abolishes the US state parole boards but provides for the
continuance of the German state parole boards.

The German boards will process and keep current all
applications for parole received from prisoners in German
custody, make recommendations to the Clemency Board
as to granting and revoking paroles, and perform such
other clemency functions as may be required by the gen-
eral counsel or the chairman of the Clemency Board.

The HICOG announcement increased the powers of the
Clemency Board by vesting it with the authority to grant
or deny commutations of sentence in cases of applicants
who have received other than death sentences. In the past,
this power has been exercised only by the Military
Governor. The exercise of the pardon remains a pre-
togative of the US High Commissioner, but the Clemency
Board is directed to receive and transmit all reports and
recommendations in pardon cases to the High Commie-
sioner.

Rail Ticket Forgers Imprisoned

Convicted of printing, possessing and using 2,000
counterfeit rail travel authorizations, Hans von Unruh,
a German national, and Vied Bilajdigozic, a Yugoslav
national, were sentenced Jan. 27 by the US District Court
in Bremerhaven to serve 18 months in prison. Both
defendants had been employees of the Labor Supervision
Company operating under the direction of the US Army
and stationed at Luebberstedt.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Way of Democracy

Speech
By DR. HANS EHARD

Minister-President of Bavaria

— LIVE at a time of antithesis, at a time of contra-

dictory ideas. The Nazi dictatorship demonstrated
to us all too strongly this kind of tyranny with all its
abuses. Then came the collapse with all its consequences.
And after the collapse came the democracy. Perhaps it
was a little bit too emotional of character (Seid um-
schlungen, Millionen) and did not sufficiently show up in
practice, And then came the German principles — prin-
ciples as they were shown in the Bavarian constitution
and in the Basic Law.

We have almost too great an abundance of liberties:
parties may be formed regardless of the people of which
they are composed; meetings may be held freely; we
have freedom of speech and freedom of press and that
to an extent scarcely known any more in democracies
with century-old traditions. One often has the impression
that the Germans are very able in laying down principles,
that the danger exists, however, that they ride these prin-
ciples to death. We are now again at this point. Not only
the political parties but the government, too, watch with
anxiety the first signs which can be seen here and there.

At this point, I must emphasize what has been said
already: This development is not especially bad in
Bavaria — on the contrary, I believe it is not as bad in
Bavaria as in certain other places. This, however, shall
not prevent us from watching these events very carefully.
Certain people obviously cannot use these liberties prop-
erly. And so, let us say it very frankly, they must somehow
and in some way be restricted. What can be done?

Y VIRTUE of the present laws you can scarcely do

anything with police measures because then you
would be blamed for employing arbitrary measures, and
that opinion would not be quite wrong. Therefore re-
‘ strictions must be provided by law. We don't have these
laws at the moment. We will have to try to make them,
for political parties as well as for public meetings, in
the event that abuses spring up against democracy. I hope
that these laws provide an opportunity for action and
do not again lay down principles, leaving it to any
authority to take the responsibility.

It has, furthermore, been said that eventually the case
of self-defense of the state for the protection of democracy
should be proclaimed. I have heard these words with
slight dismay, One cannot say, “Oh, it’s wonderful that
there are so many democrats who want to protect de-
mocracy. Do you at this time of economic and social
tension know who will be at the

reasons not to be foreseen the economic and social
tension may unload in quite another direction. One of
today's speakers already has said, “Democracy needs
democrats who are willing to defend democracy.” One
must only know what democracy really is.

If democracy is considered merely as a formal organi-
zation or as an institute to employ the formal rules of
a game, then democracy can never be saved, built or led
on. For, as the formal rules of a game can be used and
misused, it simply depends whether these people are
diligent enough to use it to their purpose and in their
direction. Democracy is a matter of mental attitude.

If we do not succeed in thus convincing the people and
that they must fight for this mental attitude or give up,
then we will never be able to finish this mental fight for
which continents have fallen in. Let us not deceive our-
selves. On the one side is a mental attitude fighting for
democracy; on the other side, however, is a strong power
fighting for dictatorship — not only a brutal power but also
a mental power for the dictatorship and totalitarian state.

Do not underestimate these mental powers behind them.
If we do not succeed in activating the mental powers
of the West for democracy, then you may call on as many
police troops as you like, you may make as many laws as
you like, you may use threats of force; the question is,
against whom this force will be directed. Because then
force will come from the masses who are pushed in a
certain direction by a mental attitude. From this knowl-
edge we must draw our consequences. Dr. Hoegner
(Dr. Wilhelm Hoegner, minister of justice) has already
made a modest proposition. If only we could arrive at a
point where we are able to do things by joint effort and
not fight each other because we believe that we can win
a few thousands of votes that way!

N MY OPINION we must arrive at the point where
we fight each other objectively, agreeing that we have

the right to believe in different ways by which the goal
may be reached. But we must learn to fight the opponent,
who is also a democrat, in a fair and not odious way.
I am even of the heretical conviction that in politics
honesty is still the better principle than the opposite: the
language is to be used to hide the thought.

Why don't you, ladies and gentlemen of this parliament,
make the attempt to establish such a committee with the
sole task of removing these obstacles. Do that and you
will have achieved more for democracy than through

police. Then the people and especially

helm of affairs at the proper moment
and whom the masses will follow?
That you don't know. We know from
the history of former centuries and
from times not long past that for

This speech, translated from the German,
was delivered by Dr. Ehard at the end
of the debate of the Bavarian state legis-
lature in Munich Jan, 17 on neo-Nazistic
symptoms in Germany. ;

the young people will be convinced
of a mental power which can com-
pete with the other one, which will
succeed if we are willing to go to-
gether on this way. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

MARCH 1950

--- Page 34 ---
Power of Open Forums

By ELLIS H. McKAY
US Resident Officer, Mellrichstadt

AST MONTH the tiny community of Muehlfeld, in
E northern Bavaria, decided that it needed a fire truck.
One afternoon most of the town’s 500 residents assembled
in the market place to inspect a truck which their com-
munity council had decided would fill their needs. That
night a town meeting was called. After much discussion
the people voted to buy the truck, and the contract was
immediately signed.

Such town meetings have become one of democracy’s
most important footholds in rural Bavaria. Following a
pattern being used with similar success in other US Zone
states, the New England institution is now an accepted
part of community life in many Bavarian towns. No one
can accurately predict how long town meetings will re-
main as democratic instruments after US Resident Officers
are withdrawn from the counties. The continual increase
in the popularity of these meetings, among citizens and
officials alike, however, suggests that the idea may take
root and be a stepping-stone to increased German interest
in public affairs at higher levels.

The northernmost county in Bavaria, Mellrichstadt, is
typical of the state's rural areas, with some additional
problems added by its geographical location. Based al-
most entirely on agriculture and lumber, Mellrichstadt’s
economy has suffered acutely from the interzonal border
separating the county from its former principal market
and labor outlet in Thuringia, now part of the Soviet Zone.
Thus today a high percentage of the 25,000 inhabitants
are extremely poor while unemployment and public relief
figures are high. Because of its relative isolation and poor
transportation connections with the west, the rosy eco-
nomic future predicted forWestern Germany via the Marshall
Plan seems still remote to residents of Mellrichstadt.

OR SUCH AN AREA the primary interest of the people

is obtaining the necessities of life, Politics, especially
beyond the local level, is of little concern or interest to
them. The problem of which candidate for the Bundestag
should receive their vote is frequently solved for them
by the local priest. This attitude and political apathy
made the people an easy target for early Nazi political
maneuvers, accompanied as they were by promises of an
easier life for the worker and more money for the farmer.
Similarly this attitude has made the American task of
selling the importance of political responsibility by the
people more difficult than usual.

Then came the town meeting idea. Actually town meet-
ings or Buergerversammlungen were not unknown in
Germany. Since the 19th century it has been the custom
to assemble after Sunday morning church services to hear
the mayor read the latest government directives. But in
the American-introduced version, something new was

MARCH 1950

31

added: the element of open discussion by all citizens on
all local problems, plus the concept of community action.

In the Bavarian towns power had long resided in the
mayor and his council, selected periodically by the people
and then left alone to rule. Now the people began to
realize that if they didn't like something they could do
something about it—or at least have an opportunity to
convince their neighbors in a public discussion that
something should and could be done.

T FIRST the people misunderstood the idea. When the

local Military Government Officer or the mayor ex-
plained that free speech was now a guaranteed right, to
be used by each citizen, it was customary to hear a few
individuals launch into long tirades against the authori-
ties, American and German, Such tirades were usually
devoid of any element of truth or constructive intent. Any
semblance of free speech had been so long suppressed by
the Nazis that it was somewhat natural for some of the
people to rebound toward the opposite extreme of ir-
responsible malignment of authority, while others merely
sat and listened, refusing to express themselves,

It was thus necessary to explain that free speech also
held certain implied responsibilities for the person exer-
cising it; among them, that criticism should be responsible
and, where possible, constructive.

Initial meetings in many communities were held only
at the insistence of and in the presence of the Military
Government Officer, In other towns, however, mayors

Several of the county's mayors discuss plans for a series
of town meetings in the office of the Mellrichstadt Resi-
dent Officer. The speaker is Dr. Werner May, Mellrich-

stadt's Landrat (county administrator). (Photo by H. Raab)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Mellrichstadt citizens listen to the county administrator's
views on a local problem, but while such official views
still are heard they frequently are discarded in favor of
q decision more poptilar with the majority. Third from
left in front row is Mellrichstadt's mayor, Alfons Halbig.
At extreme left, facing camera, is Karl Haaf, butcher and

member of the state legislature. (Photo by H. Raab)

welcomed the idea. Many of both groups have now made
the town meeting an apparently permanent institution.

Prior to the end of 1948, the county of Mellrichstadt had
held less than 10 of the “new style" meetings. In the first
10 months of 1949, the 38 communities in the county held
a total of 140 such meetings. Each town has held at least
one, and several have held as many as 10.

UT THE CRITERION in this case is quality, not quan-

tity, and the quality has been high and constantly im-
proving. The number of citizens attending and taking part
in meetings has become a majority of the adult population
in most towns, with youth participation also increasing.
People are speaking their minds, and the results are en-
couraging. Community work projects of all kinds, with
large-scale public cooperation, have developed in dozens
of cases where difficulties previously seemed insurmoun-
table. Community housing construction, road repairs, a
new water line or solution of a local political squabble,
are reported almost weekly by one or another of the 38
mayors—all coming as a result of town meetings.

Another of the early problems in establishing periodic
town meetings, the status of the community council, has
also been generally solved. Objections to the whole idea
of town meetings—and there were many objections from
many quarters—frequently centered around the idea that
community councils had been democratically elected to
deal with local problems, and that public meetings would
reduce the prestige and importance of the council.

The answer to such objections was that the town
council should be interested to hear the desires of the
people it represents, and that its job would be easier and
more free from criticism if the people expressed their
ideas before the council took action. Now in most of the
communities of the county, the community council insists

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

on a town meeting in advance of any important decision
it is called upon to make; and the leading advocates of and
participants in the meeting are often council members.

HE ATTITUDE of most local officials was expressed

recently by one newly-elected mayor who had just
held his first town meeting. He stated: ‘We will definitely
continue to hold town meetings regularly. I am a farmer,
and I expected to have a difficult time doing the job as
mayor. But these meetings take the responsibility off my .
back, place it directly on the people, and make my job
easier.”

The town meeting is not advertised as a cure-all; and
there are still a few officials who are disbelievers and
prefer to issue orders to the population rather than risk
criticism in a public discussion. And too, it may be argued
that a town’s decision to build a new bakery or to rehire
the local shepherd is not of great consequence. But the
importance lies in the fact that such decisions are arrived
at by uninhibited public discussion, and that a constantly
increasing number of citizens are taking active part in
public affairs.

From this comparative enthusiasm on the part of a
generally politically apathetic area it would seem that
there is a strong possibility that the town meeting as a
public institution has taken firm root in Bavarian soil. It
is also possible that the interests of these people may in
time progress to the higher levels of public affairs, and
that thereby Germany may have a government “by the
people and for the people.’ Meanwhile the town meeting

is a foothold toward this end. +END
New British Information
Center Opened in Frankfurt

The channels of German contacts with the latest

developments in western art, letters, science, politics and
economics are being broadened daily through information
centers, Dr. James Morgan Read, chief of the Education
and Cultural Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG declared Feb, 4, at ceremonies opening the new
British Information Center in Frankfurt.

The center, located at 48 Friedrich Ebertstrasse, was
formally opened to the public by Sir Gordon Macready,
economics adviser to the British high commissioner,

Speaking in German, Dr, Read asserted that it matters
little whether the lectures, films, books and discussions
available at such cultural centers are American, British or
French. Their importance, he emphasized, lies in programs
pointing toward the development in Germany of a
democratic spirit, which suffered in the period when
individual thought and intellectual freedom were sup-
pressed.

“These institutions represent one of our most important
objectives in Germany,” Dr. Read stated, "that of restoring
German art and intellect as an invaluable contributor and
beneficiary in western democratic culture.”

Dr. Read hailed establishment of the first British In-
formation Center in the US Zone for its cultural assistance
to Germans. Other such centers are to be welcomed at
Munich, Stuttgart and elsewhere, he said.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 36 ---
Dr. Franz Goldmann, an associate professor in the Harvard School of Public
Health, came to Germany last summer as a visiting consultant to the Public
Health Branch, OMGUS, to observe the organization of the medical associations
in western Germany. His findings and recommendations were recently made
public by the Public Health and Welfare Branch, Education and Cultural Re-
lations Division, HICOG.A resume of the highlights of the report is published here.

Medieal Associations

LONG LOOK at the organization of the medical pro-

fession in western Germany — its attempts to rebuild
itself as an autonomous and self-respecting profession —
makes plain the need for rapid reform.

Whatever medical associations had existed before the
advent of Hitler have been obliterated, or corrupted to
the point that west zonal medics are starting all over to
organize themselves along lines of high standards and
self-rule. But history — and the leanings of individuals
within the movement — have gotten in the way, and the
reorganization idea is submerged in oceans of controversy.

Here is the situation which makes rapid reorganization
imperative:

Structurally and functionally the societies and agencies
are deficient — many of the good features of earlier or-
ganizations, totally destroyed by the Nazi regime, were
not restored after the end of the war Self-government
within them is obstructed because many members of the
medical profession are strangers to the democratic process.

HE COMPETENCE of many physicians is questionable

-— many of those graduated after 1935 have an in-
adequate medical education, and have since had little
opportunity to overcome their shortcomings by study.
The tremendous overcrowding of the medical profession,
which will result in a plethora of physicians in the next
five years, has created a serious economic problem that
will inevitably lead to a desperate and unscrupulous fight
for survival among doctors.

We must plunge back into history for a look at the
facts which bred the present confusion. First hints of a
voluntary organization of doctors are seen in the 1870's,
when two types of associations were developed.

The first was designed to foster solidarity among
physicians, to promote and safeguard professional in-
terests, and to participate in public health promotion.
Flourishing on a national, state and local level, these
organizations were called Aerztevereine, with their na-
tional representation, the Deutsche Aerztevereinsbund.

A second network of medical societies (Verband der
Aerzte Deutschlands or Hartmannbund) were special local,
State and national units which confined their activities
to the social insurance program, and to the compulsory
Sickness insurance program which had been launched in
the ‘80s. Official bodies, called Aerztekammern, were
established in 1887 in the states to exercise public functions
allotted them by law.

MARCH 1950

33

NTIL 1931, the voluntary medical societies enjoyed a

serene and serviceable existence, They passed count-
less resolutions and took many steps which greatly ad-
vanced the medical profession, the status of physicians
in Germany, and added to their reputation throughout
the world. The 50th annual conference in 1931, renewing
efforts of long-standing, passed a resolution which favored
organization of the profession on the basis of a special
law, so that it would no longer come under laws regu-
lating trades.

Another resolution passed in that year proposed cre-
ation of special administrative agencies which, under state
supervision, would “self-govern” the profession. Legis-
lators then set about to embody these resolutions into a
new and democratic law.

The rise of Nazism shattered their hopes. The draft
prepared by the Weimar Republic was thoroughly altered,
and in 1935 a new Physicians Code was introduced. Special
professional courts of justice were instituted and given
vast powers. In addition, a special centralized agency. was
created, requiring membership of all physicians. -

These new developments were not totally bad — they
included some traditional principles as well as new ones
long advocated in democratic countries. Yet they were
infested with policies and procedures which were levers
for implementation of Nazi policy. And year after year,
the three institutions were abused for political purposes.

HEN NAZISM COLLAPSED, the remnants of the

medical associations tried to exercise the totalitarian
spirit, and formed from the old official. agencies a new
West Germany organization. Another union of physicians
was formed from participants in the sickness insurance
program, and employed physicians relied on their own
organization, the Marburger Bund, to safeguard their own
special interests, No effort was made to revive the old
voluntary agencies — the new organization of official
agencies announced itself the “guardian of the tradition,”
although it differed profoundly.

Since 1945, the agencies have paid much lip service
to democratic principles but have been slow to translate
theory into practice. Lack of democratic leadership, un-
familiarity with the democratic process, failure to aban-
don old practices, and in some instances fear of losing
the grip on power, combined to delay progress. At length,
American Military Government decided to intervene, but

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
the officials of Military Government worked for a few
general principles: they insisted that medical associations
“should not be accorded the status of public law corpora-
tions, should not participate in nor exercise governmental
powers,” should operate on the basis of voluntary mem-
bership, and their policies should be determined and
officials elected by democratic procedures.

These principles were set forth under “Business and
professional associations of economic character," in Mili-
tary Government regulations, This designation set off
new confusions. Medicine, protested the physicians now
as they had in 1931, is a profession, and not a trade;
medical societies are primarily professional societies, and
not associations of an economic character.

ISINTERPRETATION OF Military Government mo-

tives and widespread unrest among German doctors
would have been averted had MG officials emphasized
that they were insisting on the spirit rather than the
letter of the regulations,

But nonetheless, controversial issues arose, among them
the following:

(1) Should the medical profession be organized in volun-
tary associations or in agencies established by law, en-
joying official status and possessing the powers of public
authorities?

(2) Should judicial functions be exercised through spe-
cial courts of and for the profession or by public agencies
and the general system of courts of justice?

(3) Should membership in, and dues payment to, the
bodies representing the medical profession be voluntary
or compulsory?

The grave dangers inherent in a policy of medical
agencies established by law were amply demonstrated
in the period from 1935 until the collapse of Nazism 10
years later; it would be absurd to argue in favor of them.

It is a legitimate function of medical societies to dis-
cipline their own members for violations of constitution
and bylaws, but public agencies and courts should have
jurisdiction when a physician violates public laws gov-
erning medical practices. To aid in technical judgments,
it might be wise to set up a special judiciary unit within
the public agency, of which physicians would be mem-
bers — a unit which would possess such powers as im-
posing fines and recommending suspension of licenses.

ITTERNESS HAS marked the controversy over point
No. 3 — voluntary or compulsory membership in
medical societies.

Proponents of compulsory membership argue that aboli-
tion of this method would produce a myriad of small
societies absorbed in intra-professional squabbles and
without the influence presented by unification. They main-
tain that standards would fall, since less qualified phy-
sicians would not join, and black sheep would be outside
the realm of discipline. The profession's prestige would
suffer a crippling setback,

Opponents insist that compulsory membership is un-
democratic, and that voluntary membership would force
physicians to offer more and better service, Moreover,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

they maintain, it would prove to the public that physi-
cians are capable of self-government. They believe
amended medical practice laws, or a new national law
circumscribing medicine, could insure satisfactory service.

Midway between the all-or-nothing extremists are men
who believe a compromise plan is needed to get the
program under way. A plan is needed, and action im-
perative, to effect a rapid and functional order from the
rather turbulent confusion which now exists. .

Such a plan is outlined below, both as to basic prin-
ciples, and the means of implementation.

“The rights and responsibilities of both the individual
physicians and medical associations should be clearly
defined in statements adopted by a majority vote of all
licensed physicians." These statements should be based
on the concepts that medicine is a profession and not a
trade; that the physician performs a vital social function
by meeting the needs of individuals in health and sick-
ness; that medical associations aim at the promotion of
the science and practice of medicine and public health
through self-government.

ERE OUTLINED are a few of the jobs of such a
medical association: to promote medical ethics, the
quality of medical education, high standards of service,
a consultant service to public and voluntary agencies, and
arbitration in case of controversies involving physicians.
Judicial functions should not be performed by medical
associations. Voluntary membership is highly preferable
for a medical association, with eligibility extended to any
licensed physician in good standing.

To implement these basic principles, it would take a
new array of medical associations, established at county,
state and national levels, with principal responsibility
based in the county groups. Such a recommendation does
not write off the already existing organizations, which
would be permitted to continue if their functions con-
formed to the basic principles.

Each type of association should adopt constitutions and
bylaws clearly defining its powers, rights and responsibili-
ties. Each should provide for the separation of economic
and judicial functions from the association membership.

To offset the arguments against voluntary memberships,
membership campaigns are a positive force. Such a cam-
paign could be staged through dissemination of informa-
tion on the objectives of the organization; by organizing
post-graduate education for association members; by giv-
ing professional advice to fellow-members; by seeking a
public declaration that only those medical societies re-
presenting 51 percent of the physicians in a given area
will be consulted by public health agencies.

Disciplinary measures against violators of medical
ethics or unsatisfactory physicians should be initiated by
a state agency, which would, in the case of members,
turn to the association involved for advice.

The basic principles and the general procedures for
their attainment should be adopted by all states in the
three zones of western Germany or preferably, be em-
bodied in a federal code. + END

MARCH 1950

--- Page 38 ---
Youth and Civie Responsibility

RS. JOHN J. McCLOY, wife of the US High Com-

missioner, told a Nuremberg youth group Feb. 2
that German women should take more interest in political
matters, as they were the first to feel the results of either
good or bad politics,

The statement was made at an informal meeting of the
German-American Youth Club* where Mrs. McCloy
answered questions and asked some herself, She went to
the meeting after attending a rally in the Nuremberg
opera house.

“Women can get into politics by taking an interest in
social problems such as housing, education, hospitaliza-
tion and welfare work,” she said. “This community work
is the best beginning for later political work.

“IT have been very much impressed by some of the Ger-
man women I have met; it seems to me that they have
made a good deal of progress in their participation in
civic affairs,” she added.

Wee ASKED whether civic responsibility was tra-
ditional in America, Mrs. McCloy replied that even
very young people receive citizenship training in the
United States. She said that elementary school children
are taught to elect class officers in democratic elections.
This procedure is continued through high school and
college until the feeling of responsibility for govern-
ment has taken deep root, she added.

The 30 young persons who attended the meeting asked
questions and engaged in lively debates on varied sub-
jects such as American opera, the equality of women, the
exchange program, comic books and film censorship.

Mrs. McCloy attended the youth rally and the meeting
which followed it at the invitation of the German-
American Youth Club. At the rally she spoke briefly on
“Youth and Civic Responsibility.” While in Nuremberg
she conferred with women prominent in civic and labor
affairs. She also visited the Evangelical Mothers Home at
Stein, near Nuremberg.

EXT OF Mrs. McCLOY’S address, translated from
German, at the rally of the German-American Youth
Club in the Nuremberg opera house, follows:

It is a special pleasure for me to be with you today and
to be able to speak to you. You have already a great
teputation as a young group particularly interested in the
happenings of the world. This world puts its hope for the
future largely on you— on your understanding of various
Peoples and their customs and on your ability to make
friends,

No one way is the tight way and your task will be to
choose the road that will most benefit not only your
Country but the whole civilized world.

“see “American, German Youth Cooperate in Nuremberg’ in Informa-

tion Bulletin, Issue No. 150, Dec. 14, 1948, and ‘Youth Forums Matur-
ing’ in December issue, 1949.

MARCH 1950

A well-known German, Albert Schweitzer, says that
in his opinion the only principle on which a stable order
can be built is the reverence for life. You young people
have seen this principle abused. A reverence for life in
simplest terms means a regard for all people about you,
irrespective of political ideas, religion, nationality or race
and a true sense of fair play. These are the principles of
a democracy,

The youngest child, if properly led, must learn fair
play — this deeply implanted in childhood through games
and through group activities one never loses. A philo-
sopher once said: “Give me the child and I will give you
the adult.” Fair play does not mean the absence of com-
petition but competition combined with respect and
friendship. In my country we try our best to develop this
but naturally we sometimes fail.

Together with fair play goes a sense of responsibility.
By this I mean that every young person should have a
sense of pride in and responsibility for the attitude and
performance of its particular group. First it is the school,
the team or the club and later it is the nation, We are
all faced not only with responsibility to our group or our
nation but with responsibility for the group.

A THIS BRINGS me to the point that I think you

young people of Germany must most develop, i.e., the
interest in civic problems and the realization of the
necessity of voicing your ideas and not leaving it all to
us older people. But before you voice an idea it is neces-
sary to give it a lot of thought — thought that is construc-
tive and not only critical—thought that includes reverence
for life, fair play and a sense of responsibility,

I know that I have given you today a very hard assign-
ment. I know, too, that in working toward it there will be
failures and discouragements. But, my dear young friends,
I have such faith in the young people of this world, who
have been through such difficult and bitter times that
I have no fear of your unwillingness to accept this
challenge and gréat hope for the future + END

Youth officers of the US, British and French occupation
meet with representatives of UNESCO and of the World
Assembly of Youth (WAY) in Bad Nauheim. (Left to right
around the conference table) M. J. Moreau, French High
Commission; Laurence E. Norrie, HICOG (French inter-
preter); J. Rovin, educational adviser, French High Com-
mission; Dr. J. W.R. Thompson, UNESCO, Stuttgart; Austin
J. Welch, HICOG. (PRD HICOG photo)

--- Page 39 ---
Aged and unwant-
ed, her resettlement
chances are poor.

Orphanchildren are
tehabilitated and
cared for.

Today aDPcamp,to-
morrow unknown

DP Buddhist priest
ministers to 700 dis-
placed Mongolians
in Germany.

Learning anew crait
to fit him for re-
settlement,

Schools equip the
DP for the future.

All types of trades
are taught.

Voluntary

To Find Homes

By AILEEN MILES

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

HE INTERNATIONAL Refugee Organization's hercu
lean task of aiding Europe's displaced millions has
eived heavy subsidy from the activities and supplies
provided by the 23 voluntary agencies carrying out in-
tens programs of relief, rehabilitation and resettle-

ment within the IRO framework.
These voluntary agencies —

Catholic, Jewish, Pro-

testant and non-sectarian — have substantially bolstered

IRO‘s efforts by an estimated

.000,000 worth of sup-

--- Page 40 ---
plies and equipment plus an inestimable amount of strictly
humanitarian service supplied through their personal
approach,

Although these charitable agencies represent some
world-wide organizations, approximately 95 percent of
their funds are derived from American sources as are
their supplies of books, clothing, food and equipment for
specific projects,

The present success of the US Displaced Persons re-
settlement program is due in large measure to the work
of these agencies, which to date have obtained from 75

to 8
to §

30 percent of the total number of “assurances” neces-

10

11

12
13

14

The old relax in
special homes.

Some learn handi-
crafts for future
profit,

Ex-general in the
Czar’s army retains
his picture of the
Czar.

Head of the Russian
Orthodox Church in
exile is a DP too,

He will stick to his
Jast in America,

Hobbies as well as
work are used in re-
habilitating the DP.

This Cossack at
last has acquired a
horse. (Ha-Loo photos)

--- Page 41 ---
A Displaced Person locates the US city to which he
will soon emigrate on large map in an orientation room.

sary for immigration to the United States, These “assur-
ances” are required under the US DP Act which stipulates
that jobs and homes must be provided each DP without
displacing an American.

S LIVING STANDARDS and care for the Displaced

Person gradually increased in the years following
their liberation, so the programs of the voluntary agencies
shifted from urgently needed relief to a greater emphasis
on resettlement and rehabilitation. Although the agencies
vary widely in their basic programs as a whole, they are
all working toward the ultimate goal of resettlement
and the adjustment of the individual to his new niche
in society after years of fear, deprivation and subnormal
living.

Care of the thousands of mentally and physically in-
jured, the sick, the blind and the aged is provided through
these agencies. Working in close cooperation with IRO,
the agencies are complementing the maintenance care
of that over-all organization with projects of vocational
training, guidance and counseling, religious leadership,
supplementary feeding, schooling and orientation.

Agency personnel are busy in all IRO installations — in
the TB hospitals, children’s centers, old people’s homes,
resettlement centers and the numerous camps which de-
spite the energetic efforts of the DPs and IRO are still
marred by fire, poor sanitation, leaky roofs and gaping
glassless windows. Through these programs of relief and
rehabilitation they are ministering to the thousands of
families who comprise western Germany's still large DP
population and who have waited for years for the pos-
sibility of emigrating, ever hoping for a future and a home.

OST OF THE 23 agencies have been working with the

Displaced Persons since 1945 as single units and
without an integrated program. In 1948 the agencies,
brought together by mutual problems and programs,
formed a “Council of Voluntary Agencies” under IRO as
a means of furthering planning, consultation and coordina-
tion among themselves.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

38

Each agency, as a member of the Council, is approved
by EUCOM and in turn by IRO. Chairmanship of the
Council is switched every six months so that each mem-
ber agency may be represented. Although IRO repre-
sentatives attend Council meetings they have no voting
power within the Council which maintains its pre-
rogative for independent action.

Such action was recently taken by the Council when
it went on record against turning over the responsibili-
ty of the Displaced Persons to the Germans after IRO
phases out on June 30, 1950.

Out of the approximately 70,000 DPs who will remain
in camps at that date, many, already in the emigration
pipeline, will still be cared for in IRO resettlement cen-
ters. Many others who await future chances for resettle-
ment in scattered countries throughout the world along
with those who through sickness, age or other handicaps
will never find welcome in foreign countries, are expected
to be integrated in the German economy.

ROTESTING THIS POLICY, especially in view of the

fact that the German government to date has not
promulgated satisfactory legislation for the protection of
Displaced Persons, the Council of Voluntary Agencies
has asked that Germany's DPs remain under the pro-
tective wing of the United Nations and that these victims
of Nazi persecution not be turned over to the country
responsible for their present plight.

While disapproving return of the DPs to the German
economy, most of the Christian and non-sectarian agen-
cies are retaining a realistic approach to this eventuality
and are so integrating their efforts with those of their
German counterparts that with the withdrawal of IRO
assistance German charitable organizations should be
able to step into the care and maintenance breach.

The Church World Service, for one, which maintains
a home for the aged in Wuerttemberg-Baden housing
about 400 persons, has arranged to shift its responsibilities
to the German Evangelical Church which has agreed to
support the institution along with the state government.

From the beginning some of the agencies have been
seeking a rapprochement between the Germans and their
former slave laborers with the result that in some isolated
instances German and DP youth are living and working
in close harmony.

MONG THE 23 AGENCIES — all struggling in varied

ways for the common target of recognition for these
people whom the world is beginning to forget — are eight
international charitable agencies representing churches
or church interests on a worldwide basis; 12 American
agencies representing church and national groups in the
United States, and one agency each from Canada, Israel
and Poland.

The largest of these are two Jewish agencies — the
American Joint Distribution Committee and ORT (a voca-
tional training organization); the War Relief Services of
the National Catholic Welfare Conference; two Protestant
groups—the Church World Service and the Lutheran
World Federation — and the non-sectarian World's
YMCA/YWCA.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 42 ---
The National Catholic Welfare Conference leads the
agencies in direct resettlement to the United States,
having collected assurances for 47,000 out of a total of
125,000 assurances obtained by the DP Commission and
all other agencies,

With resettlement as its primary function in Germany,
the NCWC's activities are closely paralleled by those of
the agencies whose basic program is emigration. The
behind-the-scenes job of locating an individual in an
[RO installation, pushing him into the resettlement pipe-
line, and seeing him established in a job and home in the
United States isa story of complicated and arduous effort.

HEN FRIENDS or relatives in America request the im-

migration of a Displaced Person in Germany through
their parish or diocesan resettlement director, that assur-
ince is forwarded to NCWC offices in New York
which in turn notify NCWC in Frankfurt and the DP
Commission in Washington,D.C. In Frankfurt the incoming
requests are separated on a geographical basis, numbered
and classified, and then forwarded to local field repre-
sentatives,

When anonymous requests are made — requests for
mechanics, domestics, farmers ——-NCWC -calls upon its
field representatives to locate DPs in IRO installations
who would meet the specific requirements.

Once the individual is found he enters the resettlement
pipeline from which he only emerges after being screened
by the Army's CIC, the DP Commission's own investiga-
tion, the US Public Health Service and the US Immigra-
tion and Naturalization Service, He then boards an IRO
transport for the United States, where he must repeat his
medical and security check before entering the country.

The agency follows the DP throughout the process
giving personal treatment to each case until he reaches

his final objective. Representatives of the agency meet
him at the US port, paying his inland transportation
costs to his sponsor's home in any part of the country.
NCWC estimates that it has spent more than $1,000,000
in ship-to-destination costs alone.

LTHOUGH NCWC leads the resettlement drive to the

United States, the American Joint Distribution Com-
mittee along with the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society is
far ahead in numbers shipped to 44 countries throughout
the world. The AJDC is responsible for 50,000 emigrants
to Israel in one year alone and is daily receiving as-
surances from all points of the globe.

Dedicated to the ‘Three R's" — resettlement, rehabil-
itation and relief — the AJDC is providing treatment for
Jewish DPs in seven IRO medical installations and car-
rying on essential programs of supplementary feeding,
clothing and supplies. In addition to other supplies,
AJDC provides DM 50 monthly to each of its patients in
these institutions, enabling them to purchase the per-
sonal amenities not supplied through regular channels.

More than 20,000 tons of food supplies has been
distributed by AJDC to the Jewish DPs along with
$2,500,000 worth of clothing and an unestimated amount
of medical equipment. Today they are assisting 18,500
people in terms of a monthly ration, 12,000 of whom are
in the American zone.

The days of DP life today are crowded to near
capacity with scores of AJDC-sponsored activities design-
ed to prepare these homeless Jews for life outside DP
camps. A large percentage of the employable ones are
enrolled in work and service projects in the DP camps,
vocational and agricultural training schools. Jewish
DPs serve as teachers, physicians, cooks, firemen, police-
men, sanitation workers and administrators in the camps.

The YMCA/YWCA orientation room (left) offers DPs a wide choice of reading matter. A DP constructed altar (center)
is used for divine services, Wall picture (right) in orientation room attracts children fascinated by American cowboys.

MARCH 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
For those Jews who up to now have
not found emigration possibilities the
resettlement problem is a pressing one.
Although, unlike most other countries,
Israel is opening its door to include the
maimed, halt and blind and the otherwise
handicapped considered liabilities in most
countries’ immigration programs, life in
that country today is rigorous and hard
under an austerity regime, Overcrowded
living quarters, lack of adequate facili-
ties and scarcities do not beckon allur-
ingly to the most heavily scourged
victims of Hitlerism and the war

AJDC has estimated that approxima-
tely 15,000 Jewish DPs may be forced
on the German economy after IRO
withdraws its ward while they wait for
a distant chance to resettle in other
countries. With evidence of anti-
Semitism still rife in Germany, accord-

The camp's youngest
inmate —a tot born in
the reflugeecamp which
is the only home the
child has ever known.

ing to AJDC officials, the prospect is
an ever increasing deterrent to morale.

EANWHILE THE DPs, many of

whom were snatched from their
homelands while still of school age, must be taught a craft
to fit them for jobs and futures when their chance for
resettlement finally comes, Others, who through years
of:mental agony are psychologically unfit to take their
place in a competitive world, must be rehabilitated. ORT,
a worldwide organization with along history of vocational
training work, is in the DP camps not only teaching the
homeless Jews a trade but also helping in moral rehabili-
tation and reconstruction.

Rehabilitation work therapy takes ORT personnel to
the bedsides of DPs in five rehabilitation centers. TB
patients are making dolls and slippers and becoming
experts in knitting. One hundred and forty-seven per-
sons who last year were on their backs in IRO medical
institutions, today through successful

stress is placed on reorientation and morale building.
Orientation for emigres to specific countries is going on
in all IRO resettlement centers through YMCA films,
lectures, visual aid posters, newspapers, maps and books.
Courses in six different languages are enabling the DPs
to understand more thoroughly the country in which they
hope to settle. YMCA-sponsored youth clubs, sport train-
ing, discussion groups and music courses are rehabilitat-
ing the youth

Under this agency's auspices, 6,069 children spent two
weeks in summer camps last year gaining in health and
normal outlook. Particularly active in trying to reconcile
German and DP groups, YMCA offices are staffed by both
while camps mingle the two with complete impartiality.

Special “Y" projects have included a school for dis-
placed orphaned children who followed Allied armies
as mascots and were then left without an anchorage
when the soldiers returned to their homes. The Mascot
School has trained the children in becoming normal
youngsters once again and they are rapidly being re-
settled in good homes in foreign countries.

An international orchestra, representing 18 different
nationalities and culled from among the best musicians
in Europe who are displaced in Germany today, has been
organized under the YMCA’'s leadership and is in great
demand by both Germans and DPs.

NE OF THE SMALLEST of the voluntary agencies, the
American Friends Service Committee is reaching
hundreds of DPs through its program of providing facili-
ties not normally available to DP camp residents, Dis-
cussion groups between German and DP students are
narrowing the gap between the two groups while a
library in Munich is servicing DP university students.
The only agency whose personnel lives with the Dis-
placed Persons, the Friends have a team of six Quaker
workers living in the children's village at Bad Aibling, in
Bavaria, striving to bring stability into the lives of these

500 unaccompanied children.
Among the smaller agencies the

World Student Relief is doing an un-

work therapy are on their way to

WY * 4 Israel The following agencies comprise
PEGs Bie Ase the Council of Voluntary Agen-
Vocational training under ORT is cies:

‘ American Friends Service Committee.
geared for the country to which the American Joint Distribution Committee.
DP is slated to emigrate. Knowledge American National Committee for Aid to
ui Homeless Armenians.
of the history and language of that American Polish War Relief.
; jf : Boy Scouts International Bureau.

country is a prime necessity for the Canadian Catholic Immigrants Aid Society.
DP, ORT conducts classes for indi-
vidual countries in addition to offering Tolstoi Foundation, Inc.

aie i Hebrew Sheltering and Immigrant Aid So-
training in every conceivable manual ciety.

ie a A International Rescue and Relief Committee.
sie machine shop, carpentry, Jewish Agency for Palestine.
radio, electricity, dental mechanics, Lutheran World Federation.

Bis : National Catholic Welfare Conference.
chémistry, optics, masonry, dressmak- ORT (World ORT Union),
Fi <40% Polish Red Cross,
ing, leather goods, corsetry, millinery. United Lithuanian Relief Fund of America.
In .27*schools ORT is teaching trades United Ukrainian American Relief Committee.
to 12,000 people.
- Classes are also run by the YMCA/
YWCA but with this organization

usual service in helping students to
resettle with scholarships in colleges
and universities throughout the world.
Through their effort 300 students have
been offered scholarships in numerous
countries with 206 students going to
US colleges.

Through these different programs
the voluntary agencies of varied faiths
are working together to offer hope
for the future to the Displaced Person.
The success of IRO’s mission in Ger-
many has largely depended on the
gigantic contributions these charitable
agencies have made in resettlement,
supplies, moral rehabilitation and
humanity. : ++END

Church World Service.
Baptist World Alliance.

US Committee for Care of European Children.
World Council of Churches.

World Student Relief.

World's YMCA/YWCA.

Mennonite Central Committee.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 40 MARCH 1950

--- Page 44 ---
Women in Industry

HE DOMESTIC LIFE — children, church and kitchen —

may be sufficient to keep German women happy, but
it will not, in years to come, be enough to make German
economy self-sufficient.

Women, without asking it, have become the pivot
around which revolve the most crucial issues of the
renascent German nation, Circumstance has lured them
out of the kitchen into the fields, community organizations,
legislatures and the factory.

For most of them, it's a new life where new responsibili-
ties and new rules of conduct apply. How are they
performing, and how are they being received?

Two women labor-management experts from the United
States recently undertook a survey of the place of women
in German industry, and their findings illuminated not
only the problems of female workers, but of women as
elements in a democratic experiment.

Sara Southall utilized 28 years in the personnel depart-
ment of the International Harvester Company of Chicago
in her examination of the German woman's status;
Pauline M, Newman has been an executive since 1924 in
the International Ladies Garment Workers Union,
American Federation of Labor (AFL), and brought to
bear the viewpoint of labor. The two Americans, working
as a team, set about to discover the part women played
in the labor-management relationship of German industry.
Their findings were published in a brochure entitled
“Women in German Industry,” which has as its basis
painstaking interviews with employer representatives,
trade union officials and works councillors in major
American zone cities. Produced in both languages, the
report will find wide circulation in the United States as
well as in Germany.

i he TWO FIRST obtained the following statistics
about the US Zone of Germany, to acquaint them-
selves with the present industrial patterns:

(1) Women share liberally in the unemployment
problem which today hexes all US Zone wage-seekers:
about 161,000 women were reported jobless. The number
has recently risen (January 15, 1950) to 197,000,

(2) Although trade union membership represents 39
percent of the total wage and salary earners, just 24
percent of all female workers have joined a union.

(3) Women earn substantially less on an average than
do men. In June 1949, the average hourly gross earnings
stood at DM 1.30 for males and DM .83 for women.

(4) The number of hours worked by each sex has risen
considerably from 1946 — from 40.6 hours weekly for
men and 35,2 for women, the work schedule had been
upped to 47.1 and 43.5 respectively by June 1949,

(5) Some social legislation circumscribes the activities
of German working women. They are limited as a rule to
an eight-hour working day, a 48-hour week. They are
forbidden to work at night (8 pm. until 6 a.m.) except
in service, transportation and public utilities.

MARCH 1950

41

RMED WITH THESE facts, the Misses Southall and

Newman devised a scheme they hoped would reap
a maximum of information and communication with
German employers and women in trade unions, Conferen-
ces were arranged in the cities of Frankfurt, Darmstadt,
Kassel, Stuttgart, Munich, Berlin and Nuremberg with
representative women in trade unions and works councils,
and with employers whose firms employed a comparatively
large number of women.

Here are their findings pertaining to women’s position
in industry:

Although apprenticeship practices are deeply rooted in
German industrial tradition, the survey finds few women
who are being given real apprenticeship training. The
writers score the existing three-year apprenticeship setup
for its excessive time demands, but find most German
employers completely in favor of them, They cite one
instance of a young woman in her second year of three
to learn book-selling: she had spent the first year running
errands and doing general office chores, Though em-
ployers generally approve these lengthy apprenticeships,
they constantly mention the excessive costs they incur.

A few employers, notably in Berlin and Stuttgart, realize
that with the over-balance of women in the German
population, it will be necessary to give qualified women
an opportunity for training and advancement. Some report
that women themselves have asked for the additional
training.

ERHAPS MOST BALLYHOOED of the facts about

German industry is the discrepancy often found
between the pay women receive and that given men for
the same work, Although most employers favor the
equal-work, equal-pay principle, they often have not
carried through. Minimum rates for women are different
than those for men, and there are very few jobs where
men and women are engaged in identical work. Many
jobs open exclusively to men in German industry have
been done for years in the United States by women,

The most pressing problem for women workers with
which trade union and works council members have to
deal is the housing situation. Women told story after
story of exceptionally sub-standard housing conditions,
and the long time it took them to get to and from work,
especially women with family responsibilities (37.9 of
those studied).

Labor has also trained its sights on social legislation,
but many women expressed the fear that employers will
not hire them if too many laws are written on their behalf,

A number of recommendations to employers are offered
by the surveying team. They favor study in the United
States of American industrial relations and personnel
administration, a field which in Germany lags 20 years
behind developments in the United States.

On-the-job training is advocated. Where it has been
tried, employer-employee relations have greatly im-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
Four German home economics experts, sponsored under
the ECA Technical Assistance Program, left for three
months’ study in the United States Feb. 2. Left to right,
they are Ursula Teltz of Eschwege, Arlinda von Gablenz
of Engershausen, Anneliese Siaub of Kupfersee and Cae-

cilia Ullmann of Dachau. (PRD HICOG photo)
proved, and the time necessary for training new workers
substantially sliced, This training may solve the weighty
apprenticeship problem, cutting both time and cost off
employers’ budget.

Both management and labor are urged to concentrate
on revising the curricula of German vocational continua-
tion schools. “We do not fgel that the courses offered
to women in the schools (mostly home economics) ade-
quately prepare a large number of German women to
earn a decent living.”

Union training schools are favored, wherein many more
women will be selected for leadership training. Positions
of greater responsibility within unions for women are
also strongly urged.

It is up to the unions, the report said, to eradicate such
inequalities as different minimum rates for men and
women, varying cost-of-living wage differentials, and the
designations of ‘male’ and “female” on job charts.

beeen LEGISLATION to enforce the slogan —
equal pay for equal work— is recommended. But where
other legislation is concerned — days off with pay to per-
form household work, or an eventual five-day week — the
report suggests a careful scrutiny of the comparative dis-
advantage involved in maintaining the present struggle,
and the competitive disadvantages involved in seeking
special dispensation for the female sex.

The experts offer the following conclusions:

“...To achieve the long range objectives of the re-
organization of Germany into a democratic society...
German women must play a large part... In discussions
with many German men and women in industry, trade
unions and government, we are of the opinion that the
old traditional phrase, ‘Kinder, Kirche und Kueche' (chil-
dren, church and kitchen) is still alive.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

42

Women do not, they report, participate in community
life when they are also workers. Their schools have not
prepared them to assume positions in industry which
would yield them corresponding influence in political and
economic fields. It will apparently be an uphill battle
until they do achieve these positions: employers’ attitude
toward women in general is a sympathetic paternalism.

Women works council members, they observe, are
articulate in discussing their problems and how to go
about solving them. But if men are present, they withdraw,
find difficulty in disagreeing overtly with a male official.

Women officers in trade unions are having a difficult
job to persuade their male fellow-workers that they are
individuals with important problems within the industrial
frame; similarly, they are challenged by the indifference
of the women themselves to joining trade organizations
and to working toward better training, wider job op-
portunity and internal solidarity.

“We have set some women actively working in labor
organizations on these objectives, but we did not find
large numbers of women working together. That," reads
the report, “is the job ahead."

UT BESIDES INFORMATION gathered in their sur-

vey, the writers back up their conclusion with quotes
from a 1948 textbook on civics being taught to all ap-
prentice miners. The text was approved by management,
trade unions, and the responsible educational authorities,
and lent support to the contention that women still play
a “behind-the-scenes” role.

“Direction of the State lies in the hands of the Minister
President and the cabinet. The father is president of the
family in his position as executive. Mother is the minis-
ter of economics.

“The father is according to law the executive of the
household, and represents the family on every occasion.
This is just as much in accordance with the Christian
point of view as with natural law. Therefore, the father
is the person to be respected in the family... The life
of the mother must be based om love, trust, pity and
selfless help. Mother love and mother hands are proverb-
ial. And the writers, summing up their study of women
in German industry, say:

“We met women who understand the fundamental need
for more democratic organization of the home and of the
community, but until more working women, especially
in the trade unions, become conscious of the necessity
for achieving a position of more than ‘minister of eco-
nomics’ in the home and the life of the community, and
the part it plays in developing a democratic society,
slow progress will be made.” -+-END

Marriages Slowing Up in Hesse

Cupid is taking work easier in Hesse. Robert A. Irving,
OLC Hesse statistical chief, said marriages, unusually
high during the postwar years, are beginning to level
off and reach the prewar norm, In 1948, 11.3 out of 1,000
Hessians took the bonds of matrimony, while in 1949,
the number dropped to 10.2. Before the war the annual
marriage rate was 9.2 per 1,000 population in Hesse.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 46 ---
This resume of HICOG's activities during January is prepared
from AFN’s program, ‘Report to the People,’ broadcast on
Friday evening, Feb. 3. These monthly programs, presented the
first Friday following the month in review, are written and
produced by Emil Schwetzer of the AFN staff in cooperation

with the Public Relations Division, HICOG.

HICOG in January

ITH A FRESH new year facing the world on its

calendar, that portion of the world known as Oc-
cupied Germany went into high gear right at the
outset. A DM 1,000,000,000 Christmas present, provided
by the Marshall Plan, promised to be the greatest
stimulant given to the German economy since currency
reform, Since the replacement of the old worthless
Reichsmark with the new and highly respected Deutsche
mark, the country has suffered from an acute money
shortage.

The shortage centered mainly around the lack of
really big capital, such as necessary to enlarge a factory,
rebuild a railroad or open new industries. It was ap-
parent that more money, or capital investment, was
needed if Germany was to stand on its own feet among
the more economically sound countries of Western
Europe by the wind-up of the Marshall Plan, presently
set for 1952,

Therefore, promptly after the signing of the Marshall
Plan agreement between the United States and Germany
in December the US High Commissioner authorized the
release of DM 1,036,000,000 of Marshall Plan counter-
part funds to expand German production. Here perhaps,
a word of explanation is necessary as to what “counter-
part" funds are. In effect, they are this:

HE UNITED STATES advances to Germany a credit

of $600,000,000 for the fiscal year. With this credit,
Germany goes abroad and buys the raw materials
needed for her economy. The German users, industri-
alists, businessmen, farmers and so on, buy these im-
ported materials from the German government, paying
in marks, These marks go into a special account—and
this special account is the counterpart fund. This is
the money which has been released for projects de-
veloped by the Germans, and approved by the Ameri-
cans, and upon which both agree as the best possible
Means of strengthening the economy.

The DM _ 1,000,000,000 currently available to Ger-
many is being advanced to German industry and com-
merce through the normal banking channels. Many of
the projects involved had been worked out on paper
long in advance of the actual receipt of the money and
granted approval by the US's Economic Cooperative
Administration Mission in Germany. A few of the uses
to which this money will be put are:

DM 300,000,000 to be poured into 725 western German
industrial firms; production of heavy electrical equip-
ment, machine tools and machinery to be stimulated;
chemical industry to be expanded; factories modern-

MARCH 1950

ized; production stepped up to prewar levels; thousands
of orders placed in German factories,

HE ALL-IMPORTANT factor of electrical power has

not been overlooked in Marshall Plan aid, and
Germany will receive great help in this direction through
the allocation of DM 220,000,000 for 48 projects in this
line, such as building new reservoirs, water power
stations, steam generating plants and the expansion
of present facilities.

Other portions of the economy have not been neglected.
Agriculture, public utilities, housing, transportation and
communications, and the coal mining industry receive
a generous share of the counterpart funds. Western
Berlin, sorely-pressed economically and isolated in the
Russian zone, is granted DM 95,000,000 of the hard-
working fund.

All in all, the counterpart fund will act as financial
plasma in the blood stream of the German body politic,
and US officials, as the new year began, urged German
authorities to utilize it to the fullest, and as quickly
as possible.

The steel industry, frequently regarded by economic
experts as a reliable index to Germany's financial

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy confers with Car-
dinal Michael von Faulhaber, ranking dignitary of the
Catholic Church in Bavaria, during a recent visit to Munich.

(PRD OLCB photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
stability, demonstrated a substantial increase during
the year 1949. In January HICOG officials announced
that production in this industry had expanded by more
than 60 percent during the year just past, despite the
many difficulties encountered. However, it is still 4,000,000
tons short of the ceiling imposed for security reasons.

ERMANY BEGAN to cast a calculating, and inviting,

eye at the Hitler-destroyed tourist trade. Indications
were that business was beginning to boom again, as
new travel agencies sprang into being throughout the
land of castles, Rhine maidens and the Passion Play.
A HICOG survey showed that travel agencies were
increasing their output of brochures and folders, and
even a slick paper magazine is now appearing extolling
the beauties of romantic Germany, and exhorting the
traveler to visit the historic spots which still exist.

To smooth the way for the incipient sightseers, the
government is reducing the paper work required of
them, and the construction of new hotels will be pro-
moted with the aid of DM 2,000,000 from counterpart
funds. Some 200,000 Americans, it is anticipated, will
leave behind an estimated $60,000,000 during their trips
to western Germany this year.

The legal field was brisk with activity during the
month of January, and the US High Commissioner an-
nounced that he was giving serious thought to setting
up a procedure for considering the numerous petitions
for clemency received from German war criminals im-
prisoned at Landsberg. However, in a letter to Bishop
A. J. Muench, highest US Catholic representative in
Germany, the High Commissioner deplored the tendency
of the petitioners to question the legal basis and judicial
soundness of the court decisions that sent them to
prison. In addition, he flatly rejected the idea of any
kind of general amnesty for these prisoners, stating:

“I do not believe that world opinion generally is pre-
pared to accept the proposition that these crimes have
yet been sufficiently atoned for, or that the German
people should now be allowed to forget them.”

Plans by the German federal government to end gasoline
rationing were suspended by
order of the Allied High Com-
mission on Jan, 21, since the
free sale of the fuel might re-
quire additional foreign aid to
the Federal Republic. All gaso-
line is imported into Germany
at American expense and the
High Commission requested
that decontrol of gasoline be
held ‘up until a study could be
made of the proposal

Fifteen American newspaper
editors, studying progress of
ECA in Europe, paid an over-
night visit to Berlin during
which they viewed Soviet war
memorial in the British Sector.

(US Army photo)

44

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy accepts from
Dr. Konrad Adenauer, chancellor of the Federal Republic
of Germany,a letter announcing the Federal Government's
formal ratification of the ECA agreement between the
Federal Republic and the United States. (PRD HICOG photo)

URING THE LATTER half of January, Mr. McCloy
visited the United States to report to the President
and the people on progress in Germany during his first
six months as High Commissioner. The Commissioner
did not minimize the elements of concern in the present
German situation, but found even more reason for hope.
Despite the nationalist fringe on the one side, and the
Communist fringe on the other, and the frequent oc-
casions in which they worked together, Mr. McCloy
stated that the positive elements at work were stronger
than these negative influences. He said:

“Within Germany itself, I firmly believe, there exist
spiritual resources from which can emerge a peaceful
democratic state, prepared to take its place as a true
member of the western world.”

As he spoke, an old trouble spot was simmering in
Germany. On Jan. 17, US authorities in Berlin had order-
ed German police to occupy a US Sector railroad ad-
ministration building in order to make 600 unused rooms
therein available to the Berlin government. Using this
action as an.excuse, Soviet authorities, who controlled
the building as well as Berlin's railroad system, began
reducing rail transportation service in Berlin, and hold-
ing up rail, truck and inland waterway transportation
between the city and western Germany.

Although the building was returned to Soviet control
a few days later, the Russians continued their ‘creeping
blockade,” sometimes allowing normal truck traffic to
and from the west, at other times stopping traffic almost
completely. US observers saw this line of action as a
new Russian method of undermining economic recovery
and penalizing western Berliners for their resistance to
Communism. The US High Commissioner announced that
the United States was ready to revive the airlift, if
necessary. + END

MARCH 1950

--- Page 48 ---
East Zone Government

By HENRY B. COX

Foreign Affairs Specialist
Office of German Political Affairs, Department of State

LIMAXING A LONG series of political maneuvers

and an insistent propaganda campaign calling for the
creation of a “national front government aimed at Ger-
man national liberation, representatives of the Soviet-
sponsored People’s Council (Volksrat) announced on Oc-
tober 7, 1949, the establishment of the German Demo-
cratic Republic — a “provisional government of demo-
cratic Germany.”

With Wilhelm Pieck as president and Otto Grotewohl,
co-chairman of the Soviet-backed Socialist Unity Party
(SED), as its chancellor, the new government, which came
into being without benefit of elections, claims to include
all elements of the population irrespective of past or
present political affiliation and poses as the spokesman
for all Germany. The SED has a dominant position in
Grotewohl's newly appointed cabinet. He holds six of the
14 portfolios; the Soviet-dominated East zone Christian
Democratic Union (CDU) and Liberal Democratic Party
(LDP) account for an additional five posts.

The Eastern zone Constitution prepared by the Third
People's Congress in May 1949 comes into effect with the
entrance into office of the new government.

OVIET AUTHORITIES have announced the transfer of

administrative functions heretofore handled by the
Soviet Military Administration (SMA) to the newly cre-
ated People's Chamber (Volkskammer). The ‘Soviet Con-
trol Commission’ now replaces the Soviet Military
Administration, Indications also point to the Soviets’ con-
cluding possibly a separate peace treaty with their
newest satellite and withdrawing Soviet occupation troops
within a year.

The founding of the so-called German Democratic Re-
public may be viewed as the culmination of a series of
Soviet-sponsored political moves beginning with the
election in November 1947 of a ‘People’s Congress.”

The Nazis’ former Propaganda Ministry,
located in the Soviet Sector of Berlin,
was remodelled in September 1949 to
house the “Volksrat’’ (People's Congress)
of the “German Democratic Republic,”
which came into existence on Oct. 7,
1949, as a Communist-dominated Eastern
government on the familiar lines of the
Soviet satellite states in Eastern Europe.
The adjoining buildings, also burned out
in Allied wartime bombings, had not been
rebuilt at time this photograph was taken.

(US Army photo)

MARCH 1950

The Congress, purporting to represent all Germany,
was constituted for the purpose of selecting an all-German
delegation to attend the 1947 London meeting of the
Council of Foreign Ministers to support Soviet Foreign
Minister Molotov’s demands for early German political
unity. Of its 2,215 delegates, 893 were Communists and
386 represented Communist-front mass organizations; of
the remainder, 373 were hand-picked “non-partisan”
fellow-travelers; and 472 represented the Eastern zone
CDU and LDP. The position of these two parties is that
of a tolerated minority opposition which lends some
semblance of democratic freedom to the political scene.

The Council of Foreign Ministers, however, refused to
receive the delegation; the Congress was thereupon trans-
formed into a large propaganda organization which served
the Communists by exploiting the theme of German unity.

HE SECOND PEOPLE'S Congress, which convened in

Berlin three days before the dissolution of the Quadri-
partite Allied Control Council, prepared the ground for
the so-called popular initiative of May-June 1948 in
which millions of signatures were collected on petitions
for German unity to be presented to the Allied Control
Council.

Three months later, the People's Council (Volksrat), a
smaller body selected by the People’s Congress, consti-
tuted itself as the spokesman of the German people; and
the Council's constitution committee proceeded to pre-
pare a draft constitution for a German state, which was
completed in October 1948,

Desiring, however, to place the blame for the splitting
of Germany on the Western powers, the Congress de-
layed approval of the Eastern constitution until six months
later, just prior to the April 1949 meeting of the United
States, United Kingdom and French Foreign Ministers in
Washington where the decision was made to accord,

--- Page 49 ---
through the Occupation Statute, a fu-
ture West German regime a large de-

This article is reprinted from the
Department of State Bulletin of

maneuvering and planning in order to
ready itself for the role it was later

gree of self-government. Nov. 21, 1949, Its author, Henry to assume as the nucleus for an East
As the completion of the Bonn B. Cox, is Foreign Affairs Specialist, Zone government.
Constitution or Basic Law of the Office of German Political Affairs, Faced with certain defeat in any

Department of State.

Federal Republic of Germany drew

type of election, as evidenced by their

near, the People’s Congress attempted

to forestall the establishment of the West German Re-
public through a futile invitation to the leaders of the
Bonn Parliamentary Council to meet at Brunswick, in
the British Zone, for talks on German unity. All-German
unity talks were subsequently held under People’s Con-
gress sponsorship in Hanover on May 20, 1949, but they
attracted response only from fellow travelers and a few
politicians, The British Military Government subsequently
ordered the talks stopped.

On May 15-16, 1949, an election of delegates for the
Third People’s Congress was held in the Soviet Zone
for the purpose of supporting Mr. Vyshinsky at the
Paris Council of Foreign Ministers by an impressive
vote for unity. As in the case of prior Soviet-sponsored
elections this election, too, was a fiasco.

Forty percent of the voters made clear by their actions
their rejection of the single slate of delegates that was
presented. This rejection is even more significant in
view of the irregularities which allegedly accompanied
the casting and counting of the ballots. Nevertheless,
on May 29-30, the Third People’s Congress ratified
the Eastern draft constitution and selected a “German
delegation” to attend the Paris meeting of the Council
of Foreign Ministers. It also issued a manifesto that
called for the creation of a “national front’ and reiter-
ated an earlier appeal for German unity to the Council of
Foreign Ministers.

IHE MANIFESTO called for the following preparatory

steps for a German peace treaty: the drafting of
20 principles based on the Yalta and Potsdam agree-
ments; the restoration of German administrative and
economic unity; the restoration of a uniform currency
throughout Germany; the establishment of a provisional
central German government which would include repre-
sentatives of the mass organizations of the Soviet Zone;
and the calling of a peace conference in which this pro-
visional German government would participate.

Also included in the manifesto were “peace treaty
principles," listing as the duties of the German people:
reparations, with all payments made thus far to be
deducted from the total; the final liquidation of Ger-
many's war potential; the democratization and demilita-
tization of German economic and social life; the punish-
ment of war criminals; and the acknowledgment of four-
power control over German political and economic de-
velopment. It declared that Germany was entitled to an
all-German constitution that would insure “democratic
development” and the free development of German re-
sources for peaceful purposes. In addition, the manifesto
called for the evacuation of all occupation troops.

Again the Council of Foreign Ministers declined to
receive the People’s Congress delegation, and the latter
organization thereafter devoted itself to careful political

INFORMATION BULLETIN 46

experience in the May elections of
Congress delegates, the SED leaders and their Soviet
sponsors found themselves faced by a serious dilemma
in their efforts to obtain sufficient popular support for
the establishment of an Eastern government. As later
developments demonstrated, the Soviets and their Com-
munist puppets found the elections to be “unnecessary”
for the formation of the new government.

On Oct. 1, 1949, the Soviet Union in notes to the
United States, France and Great Britain protested the
formation of the Federal Republic of Germany and de-
clared that “...the Soviet Government considers it
necessary to state that inasmuch as there has been
formed at Bonn a separate government as indicated,
a new situation has been created in Germany at the
present time which renders of particularly great im-
portance the fulfillment of tasks for the restoration of the
unity of Germany as a democratic peace-loving state..."

The delivery of the Soviet note served as the signal
for the well-oiled Communist political machinery to swing
into action, On Oct. 2, groups and organizations of all
parties and classes throughout the East zone made “spon-
taneous” appeals and “demands” and called for immediate
establishment of an “all-German” independent government.

These demands and appeals increased in the days which
followed, On Oct. 4, the Central Executive Committee of
the Soviet-controlled SED gave formal party approval to
a campaign to create a “provisional government for de-
mocratic Germany" and for authorization to hold con-
ferences with other groups for the formation of a govern-
ment. In line with the fiction that the SED is only one
of the participating parties in the “national front," the
party committee “suggested” a 16-point program.

N BRIEF, THIS proposed program of the future govern-

ment considers that the tasks of the Eastern govern-
ment will be “to assure the well-being and independence
of the German people, to follow an economic policy free
from capitalistic oppression, and to reinforce the bonds
of friendship between the new Germany, the Soviet Union
and the people's democracies. It will endeavor to obtain
in the immediate future the withdrawal of the occupation
troops, and the rapid signature of a treaty of peace.”

The platform, in general, avoided all mention of com-
munication measures, included enough points to cater
in part to almost every group, and offered platitudes to
which everyone agrees but which have defied efforts at
practical application because of Soviet intransigence.

On Oct. 5, the presidium of the People’s Council (Volks-
tat) called that body to meet on Friday, Oct. 7 to take
the action which the situation demanded. At this meeting,
the Volksrat, convening in the Soviet Sector of Berlin,
transformed itself (without benefit of elections) into a
People’s Chamber (Volkskammer) and claimed authority
to speak for all Germany. (Continued on page 52)

MARCH 1950

--- Page 50 ---
This report was compiled and issued by the Political Affairs Division, Berlin Element, HICOG.

Control of Government
in the Soviet Zone

HE GOVERNMENT of the Soviet Zone of Germany
is controlled indirectly by the Politburo of the Com-
munist Party USSR. The latter operates through (1) the
government of the USSR and its administrative agent in
Germany, the Soviet Control Commission and (2) through
the Politburo of the Communist controlled Socialist Unity
Party (Sozialistische Einheitspartei Deutschlands or SED).
The Soviet Control Commission in Germany and the
SED Politburo in turn exercise their control over the
Executive Branch of the Soviet Zone Government through
several Soviet Zone constitutional, extra-constitutional
and unconstitutional institutions and devices.

The political importance of popularly legitimizing
power by means of at least the symbols of constitutional
representative government has led Soviet authorities to
permit the adoption of a nominally democratic constitu-
tion and the establishment on Oct. 7, 1949, of the so-
called “Provisional Government’ of the “German De-
mocratic Republic,” in the Soviet Zone.

On Oct. 10 the Soviets announced the end of their
Military Administration and the substitution of the Soviet
Control Commission, which, according to a statement of
the chairman published on Noy. 12, retained only super-
visory control over fulfillment of German obligations
with respect to demilitarization, democratization and re-
parations under the Potsdam and other Allied agreements.

Aves THROUGH the use of unconstitutional
and extra-constitutional institutions and devices, the
Soviet authorities in Germany and their German Com-
munist Party instruments, the SED and its Politburo have
been able to pervert the nominally democratic con-
stitution and representative governmental processes into
an instrument of control by the Politburo of the Com-
munist Party USSR. The camouflaged controls are as
strong and comprehensive over the legislative, executive
and judicial branches of the government as they were
when the German Economic Commission (Deutsche Wirt-
schaftskommission — DWK) was the executive arm of
the Soviet Military Administration.

The constitutional, extra-constitutional and unconstitu-
tional techniques whereby the Politburo and the official
Soviet authorities achieved and can maintain control of
government in the Soviet Zone include the following:

The Communist Party and Government of the USSR
control directly and indirectly the Soviet Control Com-
mission and the SED by means of USSR governmental
and Communist Party instructions and discipline.

The Soviet Control Commission declared on Nov. 12,
1949, that it retained the power to execute Potsdam and
quadripartite decisions, including demilitarization, demo-

MARCH 1950

47

cratization, reparations and the right of the occupation
power to obtain necessary information from the German
government.

S SHOWN BY PAST quadripartite negotiations and

Soviet Zone legislation, these powers provide a legal
basis for intervention in almost every political or econo-
mic matter. However, it is presumed that the Soviet Con-
irol Commission will seek to exercise its controls so far
as possible covertly and indirectly through the SED Polit-
buro rather than in open directives to the Soviet Zone
administration.

SED control over the People’s Chamber (lower house)
assures it constitutional control over all branches of the
government — legislative, executive and judicial. Sepa-
ration of government powers was consciously avoided by
the framers of the constitution; all branches are respon-
sible te as well as derived from the People’s Chamber.

SED control over the selection of the chief executive
and his cabinet, the so-called ‘Provisional Government,”
was assured in that the strongest party in the People's
Chamber is recognized constitutionally in determining
the selection of the Minister-President, who, with his
selected Ministerial Council (cabinet), must be confirmed
by the SED controlled People’s Chamber.

The allocation of ministerial positions was a matter
for agreement among the parties. It appears that it was
agreed in the ‘Democratic Anti-Fascist Bloc," to which
all the major parties belong, that positions would be
allocated with due regard for party representation in
the chamber. However, this policy does not seem to have
been followed within the ministries for positions lower
than the ministers themselves, and perhaps their state
secretaries. The CDU foreign minister, for example, is
surrounded by SED staff members who are disciplined
Communists.

EGISLATION is controlled by the SED through SED
control of the People’s Chamber and its committees, In
the committees the agreement within the ‘Democratic
Anti-Fascist Bloc’ to produce only unanimous decisions,
results in SED control, supported basically by intimidation.
The Chamber of States — which can exercise only a
limited veto, at best — is also dominated by the SED. No
dissenting voice of the non-Communist CDU or LDP par-
ties on any important issue, such as, for instance, the
law on the Supreme Court, has been decisive to date.
SED control over the Supreme Court and the attorney-
general is guaranteed by SED control over the People's
Chamber, which elects the court and attorney-general

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
SOVIET CONTROLS

Control of Governm:

LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

OVERT:
SOVIET
CONTROL
COMMISSION

DIPLOMATIC
REPRESENTATION

rane

COMMUNIST
PARTY (USSR)

SOVIET

I
|
I
COVERT: l
I
|

SECRET POLICE

Lod

EXTRA-CONSTITUTIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS AND

UNCONSTITUTIONAL DE-
VICES ASSURING COM-
MUNIST CONTROL

PROVISIONAL

PEOPLE'S CHAMBER
(VOLKSKAMMER)
(SED CONTROLLED MAJORITY)

400 DELEGATES

70 WEST GERMAN (NON-VOTING)

90 SED

15 NDPD (SED CONTROLLED)

15 DBPD (SED CONTROLLED)

45 CDU

45 LDP

5 SPD FROM SOVIET SECTOR
BERLIN

30 FDGB (SED CONTROLLED)

10 DFB = (SED CONTROLLED)
10 FDJ. = (SED CONTROLLED)
10 KB (SED CONTROLLED)
10 VVN (SED CONTROLLED)

5 VDGB (SED CONTROLLED)
35 “INDEPENDENTS” (“ “)
5 KONSUM (SED CONTROLLED)

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 7, 1949
BY SELF-TRANSFORMATION OF
PEOPLE'S COUNCIL, NUMERICAL
REPRESENTATION BASED LARGELY
ON COMPOSITION OF PEOPLE'S
CONGRESS “BLOC” AGREEMENT
ASSURES UNANIMOUS DECISIONS

SOVIET GOV'T, COMMUNIST PARTY AND POLIC:

oe ee ee

EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS SED CONTROLLED

{TOP MINISTERIAL POSITIONS DISTRIBUTED By

= on oo
CHAMBER

OF STATES

(LAENDER-
KAMMER)

SED CONTROLLED
MAJORITY

41 DELEGATES

7 BERLIN OBSERVERS
(NON-VOTING)

17 SED
1 VDGB
7.CDU
9 LOP

ELECTED OCT 10,1949

BY STATE LEGISLA-

TURE IN PROPOR-

TION TO PARTY RE-

PRESENTATION OF
1946

(APPOINTIVE)

a
---&% =a

| POLITBURO 8 PARTY ff
YPORGANIZATION OF SED]

ihe pie

DIRECT GENERAL ELECTION
AS PROVIDED BY CONSTITU-

| TION OMITTED AND POST-
PONED

PEOPLE'S COUNCIL ELECTED

STATE LEGISLATURES ELECTED OCTOBE

SED 47", VDGB (SED CONTROLLED) 3%
NDPD AND DBPD NON-VOTING REPRE

BY PEOPLE'S CONGRESS 1949 Be
MAY 30, 1949 OSTENSIBLY
NOT TO BECOME PEOPLE'S
CHAMBER I
GE

a a a

PEOPLE'S CONGRESS (THIRD) seD DOMINATED, ELECTED BY PLEBISCITE MAY 15-16, 1949

1400° SOVIET ZONE DELEGATES FROM POLITICAL PARTIES AND SED CONTROLLED “MASS ORGANIZATIONS,” DUPLICATING
REPRESENTATION AND OTHERWISE DISPROPORTIONATELY REPRESENTATIVE OF PUBLIC AT LARGE, ORIGINAL BALLOT |
LISTED 1,525: SED 450, CDU 225, LDP 225, NDPD ea 75, DBPD ca 75, EAST BERLIN SPD 25, “MASS ORGANIZATIONS” 400, |
“INDEPENDENTS” 50 |

I 616** WEST GERMAN DELEGATES
* NUMBER OF DELEGATES AT SESSION OF MAY 30, 1949 BALLOT HAD CONTAINED A TOTAL OF 1,525 PUBLISHED RECORD l
INCOMPLETE

** 616 DELEGATES WERE PRESENT FROM THE WEST INSTEAD OF THE 500 EXPECTED I

HICOG POLITICAL AFFAIRS DIVISION, BERLIN - DECEMBER 1949

--- Page 52 ---
nt in the Soviet Zone

JNTROL

se a a >

DC” AGREEMENT)

NTROLLED

SUPREME
COURT

GENERAL

CONTROLLED

EXECUTIVE BRANCH

PRESIDENT

MINISTER PRESIDENT

DU 24%, LDP 24%/e, OTHERS 1%0.

DEPUTY MIN PRES DEPUTY MIN PRES DEPUTY MIN PRES
cou Lop] SED]
CHURCH AFFAIRS| | INFORMATION. | | REPARATIONS- PEOPLE'S
OFFICE OFFICE OFFICE POLICE 4} ~—CINTERIOR
RADIO ADMINISTRATION
cou SED LoP SED SED
TRANSPORT STATE
JUSTICE NON parry] | FOREIGN OFFICE|) EDUCATION SECURITY
A Est. 1950
(ADMINISTRATIVE) sep} |_ (ACTUALLY SED) cou} SED] sep|
AGRICULTURE
PLANNING PUBLIC WORKS AND FINANCE
FORESTRY
SED NDPD DBD top|
FOREIGN TRADE
INDUSTRY INE eNAnY || TRADE AND LABOR AND POST AND
TRADE AND DISTRIBUTION || PUBLIC HEALTH TELEGRAPH
MATERIALS SUPPLY
SeD SED| Lop. cou cpu
746 WITH PARTY REPRESENTATION AS FOLLOWS:
\TATIVES PERMITTED DECEMBER 1949 (SED CONTROLLED)

t

IONS POSTPONED

i=

ERAL

ELECTORATE

ABBREVIATIONS:

POLITICAL PARTIES
SED = SOZIALISTISCHE EINHEITSPARTEL

DEUTSCHLANDS
(SOCIALIST UNITY PARTY)

NDPD = NATIONAL-DEMOKRATISCHE PARTE!
DEUTSCHLANDS
(NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY)

DBPD = DEMOKRATISCHE BAUERNPARTE!
DEUTSCHLANDS
(DEMOCRATIC FARMERS PARTY)

CDU = CHRISTLICH-DEMOKRATISCHE UNION.
(CHRISTIAN-DEMOCRATIC UNION)

LDP = LIBERAL-DEMOKRATISCHE PARTEI
(LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY)
SPD = SOZIALDEMOKRATISCHE PARTEI

(SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY)

MASS ORGANIZATIONS

FDGB = FREIER DEUTSCHER GEWERKSCHAFTSBUND
(FREE GERMAN TRADE UNION FEDERATION)
DFB = DEMOKRATISCHER FRAUENBUND
(DEMOCRATIC WOMEN'S FEDERATION)
FDJ = FREIE DEUTSCHE JUGEND
(FREE GERMAN YOUTH)
KB = KULTURBUND
(CULTURAL LEAGUE)
VVN = VEREINIGUNG VERFOLGTER DES
NAZIREGIMES
(ASSOCIATION OF POLITICAL PERSECUTEES.
OF NAZISM)
VDGB = VEREINIGUNG DER GEGENSEITIGEN
BAUERNHILFE
(FARMERS' MUTUAL AID UNION)
KONSUM = (CONSUMERS COOPERATIVES)

--- Page 53 ---
upon recommendation of the Judiciary Committee of the
SED controlled People’s Chamber. The Supreme Court
and the attorney-general are administratively responsible
to the SED controlled Executive Branch of the govern-
ment.

The foregoing shows how SED control over the Peo-
ple’s Chamber gives the SED constitutional control over
the legislative, executive and judicial branches of the
entire government. The following describes how the SED
acquired control over the People’s Chamber:

SED control over the People’s Chamber was assured by
omission (alleged postponement until Oct 15, 1950) of a
normal direct, popular election for candidates presented
by freely competing political parties, Instead, the Peo-
ple’s Chamber was created Oct.?, 1949, when the Constitu-
tion went into force, by the self-appointment of an SED
controlled, extra-constitutional body, called the People’s
Council, to the role of People’s Chamber.

Legitimacy for this act was claimed by the Chamber
on the basis of its having been elected on May 30, 1949,
by the Third People’s Congress, an extra-constitutional
body. The First People’s Congress had been constituted
in December 1947, to agitate for “German Unity and a
Just Peace,"' sending a delegation to petition the London
Foreign Ministers’ Conference. The congress claimed
recognition as representing the whole people on the basis
of its having been constituted by representatives of all
“mass organizations” and political parties.

SED control over the People’s Council, which turned
itself into the People’s Chamber, was guaranteed by the
allocation of numerical representation in the Council to
the constituent “mass organizations” and political par-
ties in proportion to their representation in the SED con-
trolled People’s Congress, as follows:

— Representation —
People’s People's
Congress Council

(1) Socialist Unity Party (Sozialistische
Einheitspartei Deutschlands — SED;
Communist manipulated and subse-
quently controlled fusion party of the
former Communist Party of Germany
(Kommunistische Partei Deutschlands
— KPD) and Social Democratic Party
of Germany (Sozialdemokratische
Partei Deutschlands — SPD) licensed
in the Soviet Zone. .
Christian Democratic Union (Christ-
lich-Demokratische Union — CDU)
Liberal Democratic Party (Liberal-
Demokratische Partei — LDP) ....
National Democratic Party (National-
Demokratische Partei Deutschlands —
NDPD) (SED created andcontrolled) ca
Democratic Farmers’ Party (Demokra-
tische Bauern-Partei Deutschlands —
DBD) (SED created and controlled) ca.
Social Democratic Party (Sozialdemo-
kratische Partei Deutschlands—SPD),
East Berlin

Political Parties

450 90

(2

225 45

225 45

(4

75 15
(5)

75 15,
(6)
25 5

INFORMATION BULLETIN

50

— Representation —
People’s People’s
Congress Council

“Mass Organizations”.................. 400
(1) Free German Trade Union Federation

(Freier Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund

— FDGB) «00. e cece cece ccc ce eee ees 30
(2) Democratic League of Women (Demo-

kratischer Frauenbund — DFB)...... 10
(3) Association of Political Persecutees

of Nazism (Vereinigung der Verfolg-

ten des Naziregimes — VVN) . 5 10
(4) Free German Youth (Freie Deutsche

Jugend — FDJ) .. 10
(5) German League of Culture (Deut-

scher Kulturbund — DKB) .......... 10
(6) Consumers’ Cooperatives (Konsum) 15
(7) Union of Farmers’ Mutual Aid (Ver-

einigung der gegenseitigen Bauern-

hilfe — FdgB) .....-.-......200055 5
“Independents” ...............00.0 00 50 35

HE REPRESENTATION in the congress did not re-
flect accurately the political complexion of the
population for the following reasons:

(a) The Third People’s Congress, which on May 30,
1949, elected unanimously the single list of candidates
for the People’s Council, was itself elected by a doubt-
ful 66 percent majority in a plebiscite, held May 15-16,
1949. In the plebiscite the electorate had the opportunity
to vote only “yes” or “no” for a ballot containing a “unified
list" of candidates representing “mass organizations” and
political parties, in a numerical distribution demonstrably
disproportionate to the strength of their membership in
the general population.

It was not known at the time of the election that the
elected body would elect a People’s Council which
would declare itself later to be the People’s Chamber
provided for in the constitution.

Instructions were issued to many election areas to
count as “yes” ballots all of those which were not
marked “no.”

(b) Two political parties which had been created and
were controlled by the SED, namely, the Democratic
National Party and the Democratic Farmers’ Party, were
given representation in the congress, and therefore in
the council, and the People’s Chamber, without having
ever stood for normal competitive election in the states.
(There had been none such in the zone as a whole.)

(c) Representation through ‘mass organizations’ ob-
viously duplicated representation through political par-
ties. Since the “mass organizations" were SED controlled,
they gave the SED undue influence.

After having inspired the formation of “mass organi-
zations," the SED maintained control over them through
exploitation of parliamentary (and sometimes not so parlia-
mentary) procedures by disciplined Communist members
operating among generally unsuspecting and unskilled
members, frequently with discriminatory police support.
Because competing organizations were not licensed, each

MARCH 1950

--- Page 54 ---
“mass organization” could claim to be the sole organiza-
tion for representing the entire vocational or interest
group, and non-Communist protest groups did not develop.

Non-Communist “front" personalities were frequently
selected at first to attract non-Communist membership
and to avoid obviousness in Communist control, though
they later ceased to be a factor. The chairman of the
board, or a majority of the board, or decisive positions in
the more important policy and program committees were
and are Communist. The organization has always been
used primarily as a means to gain political power. Its ex-
pressed goals have been merely symbols to attract member-
ship or political approbation.

(d) The inclusion of “independents,” usually leading
Communists in the arts, sciences or institutions, added
to the SED advantage.

JHE FOREGOING SHOWS how the SED acquired con-

trol over the People’s Chamber through use of extra-
constitutional and unconstitutional devices. In as much as
the SED is controlled by the SED Politburo, and the latter
is controlled by the Communist Party USSR Politburo, the
control of the latter over the entire Soviet Zone govern-
ments is established.

SED control of the Chamber of States was guaranteed
by the postponement of the autumn 1949 elections to the
state legislatures. As a result the state legislatures elected
delegates to the Chamber of States in proportion to pre-
vious (1946) party representation in the state legislatures.
It is believed that in 1949 the SED could have obtained
only a fraction of the former percentage of the vote if
new elections to the state legislatures had been held dur-
ing the past autumn, as originally scheduled,

Another unconstitutional device used to insure Soviet
and SED control is the secret police, both Russian and
German, safely in the control of reliable party members.

Normal free elections assuming a free competitive elec-
tion campaign among freely admitted political parties with
reasonably fair access to the media of election propaganda
and equality of police protection, would break -the SED
monopoly of political control in the Soviet Zone. For this
reason it is not expected that such an election will be held.

However, if the election is held as promised on Oct. 15,
1950, it will likely resemble the Nazi and Communist
type, distinguished by inability to vote for alternate,
freely admitted and competing parties or candidates, un-
equal accessibility to media of campaign propaganda, lack
of freedom in campaigning, unequal police protection.

+END

English-Language Newspaper for Schools

OMETHING NEW in newspapers — an English language
newspaper produced especially for German schools —

made its appearance in Bremen in January under the.

aegis of eight Bremen educators and journalists.

Not only valuable as a means of teaching faultless
modern English, the World and Press aims to acquaint
its readers with cultural developments, thought trends
and the way of life in Anglo-American countries. The
six-page biweekly also presents world-wide current
events coverage with an eye to better understanding
of the world and its people.

Officials of the Education Branch, Public Affairs Divi-
sion, in Bremen, hailed the publication as a “unique de-
velopment in teaching aids.... It offers teachers of
social studies a fine opportunity to obtain information
on current events, A considerable number of favorable
comments have already been expressed by German
educators. It is hoped that the newspaper eventually
will be used in schools all over Germany.”

The idea of World and Press originated with a young
German journalist living in Bremen. Printed by the Carl
Ed. Schuenemann KG, in Bremen, it is published every
two weeks by the F, Eilers Publishing House, Bielefeld-
Bremen. Copyrights have been secured from more than
200 British and American newspapers and magazines,
giving a wide selection of valuable world-wide reports,

By agreement with Hamburg’s Radio Station NWDR,
publication of the text of the English broadcast, ‘School
of the Air,” has been arranged, enabling the student to

MARCH 1950

51

read the text in his newspaper prior to or during the
broadcast. It is hoped a similar agreement can be reached
with the South-German radio station, thereby offering
young readers in south Germany the same opportunity.

In content and format, the newspaper resembles a

“typical German daily. Page one carries comment by a

well-known journalist on a current problem, a report on
some recent event, and a roundup of world news.

Original articles, mostly editorials and comments by
outstanding correspondents, are presented on page two.
Many of these offer excellent material for discussion in
social studies classes, The same is true for page three,
which offers graphs on the development of important
problems, profile of a well-known personality and an
article dealing with questions in the field of education
or the arts.

The major part of page four is devoted to the “School
of the Air’ broadcast, followed by the feature page, deal-
ing with modern life and top-flight short stories, Not even
the “funnies” are overlooked: page six carries cartoons
and carefully selected comic strips. Word explanations at
the end of every article obviate the use of a dictionary.

Progressive German educators in Bremen believe this
new school newspaper may well test the willingness of
teachers to revise teaching methods, and to apply modern
techniques to meet the changed needs of youth. Subscrip-
tion price for World and Press is DM 1.68 for three
months, postage included. Orders may be placed through
German post offices.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
(Continued trom page 46)

East Zone Government

Over the protests of spokesmen of the non-Communist
(though collaborationist) Soviet Zone Christian Demo-
cratic Union (CDU) and the Liberal Democratic Party
(LDP), the general elections for a “permanent” govern-
ment were postponed until Oct. 15, 1950.

IHE NEWLY ACTIVATED Volkskammer then passed

four laws: (1) constituting itself as ‘the provisional
People’s Chamber of the German Democratic Republic;
(2) providing for the establishment of a provisional gov-
ernment until a new popular assembly is elected as con-
stitutionally required; (3) declaring the Volksrat Consti-
tution, approved by the People’s Congress on May 30,
1949, to be in force; and (4) providing the basis for the
formation of the Laenderkammer or Chambers of States
consisting of 34 representatives chosen by the Diets (Land-
tage) of the five Soviet Zone states (Laender) with seven
additional members from Berlin as observers.

Otto Grotewohl, co-chairman of the SED was named
minister-president, or chancellor, and Johannes Diekmann
was appointed president of the People’s Chamber (Volks-
kammer), which will be the dominant body of the bi-
cameral parliament. Besides the minister-president and
his three deputies, Hermann Kastner (LDP), Otto Nuschke
(CDU) and Walter Ulbricht (SED), the new government
has 14 ministries, The new cabinet is composed of rep-
resentatives of the following parties: Socialist Unity
Party (SED), six; Christian Democratic Union (CDU), three;
German Democratic Peasant Party (DBD), one; Liberal
Democratic Party (LDP), two; National Democratic Party
(NDP), one; and one independent.

It should be noted that the Soviets brought into exist-
ence the German Democratic Peasant Party and the
National Democratic Party shortly prior to the establish-
ment of the new government in order to give it the
semblance of a broad coalition. As mentioned previously,
the Soviet Zone Christian Democratic Union and the
Liberal Democratic Party, although bearing names iden-
tical with their counterparts in the Western zones, are
decidedly restricted in the extent to which they can
operate independent of Soviet supervision. The newly
appointed chief of the Soviet diplomatic mission to the
East German republic, Gen. Georgyi M. Pushkin, who has
announced his intention to fight opposition forces, may
even curtail their independence more rigidly.

IHE INCLUSION in this branch of parliament of all
units comprising the national front assured Communist
predominance in the new People’s Chamber despite its
steadily waning voting strength in the Soviet Zone.
Such organizations as the Soviet-sponsored ‘Women's
League,” ‘Peasants’ Union,” and others that will have
representation regardless of their lack of standing as
parties give the Communists an overwhelming majority.
This majority is also in effect in the upper house
(Laenderkammer) where, out of 34 delegates, the SED has
named 17. Other parties are represented in the Laender-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

kammer as follows: Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), nine;
Christian Democratic Union (CDU), seven; and German
Democratic Peasant Party (DBD), one.

The Volksrat at its final meeting on Oct. 7 issued a
20-point “manifesto,” embodying the 16 points of the
SED “program” of Oct. 4. Although not all 20 of the
“points” deserve repetition here, the following, because
of their propaganda appeal, are the most significant:

1, German unity and the elimination of the special status
of the Ruhr and the Saar.

2. The conclusion of a peace treaty and the subsequent
withdrawal of occupation troops.

3. The restoration of full sovereignty to the Germans.

4, Normalization of life in Berlin.

5. A unified currency.

6. The prevention of foreign interests gaining control
of German economy and capital.

7. The cessation of dismantling.

8. The cancellation of all restrictions on foreign trade
by the Western Powers “for reasons of competition."

9, The development of Germany's natural markets in
eastern and southeastern Europe.

O COMPLETE the sequence of events attending the

establishment of the new government, the Diets of the
five Laender (states) of the Soviet Zone voted, on Oct. 10
to prolong their life for a year and postpone popular
elections until Oct. 15, 1950 (in accordance with the Volks-
kammer resolution). They also selected their delegates
to the Laenderkammer as provided by the constitution.
The democratic bloc of East Berlin likewise chose its
seven observers.

Soviet Military Governor Tschuikov received the Presi-
dium of the Volkskammer, the minister-president made
a declaration transferring the administrative functions of
the Soviet Military Administration to the Provisional
Government, and announced the creation of a Soviet
Control Commission to replace the Soviet Military Ad-
ministration and insure the fulfillment of the Potsdam
and other four-power agreements.

The two houses of the new government, the Volks-
kammer and the Laenderkammer, met in joint session
on Oct. 11 and unanimously chose Wilhelm Pieck as
president. On Oct. 12, Minister-President Grotewohl pre-
sented himself and his cabinet to the Volkskammer and
outlined his governmental program, In the presence of
Soviet Ambassador Semianov and representatives of
several Soviet satellite states, Grotewohl received unani-
mous approval from the Chamber.

Thus, within a space of only 10 days, the Soviets
brought into being their latest satellite government with-
out benefit of elections or other democratic process. Its
establishment accentuates the domestic and international
problems which face the Western Powers and the demo-
cratically constituted Federal Republic of Germany. With
the successful solution of these problems rests the future
of all Germany and perhaps even that of Western
civilization, +END.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 56 ---
OLCWB State Seminar
for Resident Officers

By CECIL HEADRICH
US Resident Officer, Nuertingen, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden

ROM THEIR RECENT all-HICOG conference in Frank-

furt,! US resident officers returned to their home
counties to “study, master, learn!’ In the same spirit,
a state-wide seminar course for resident officers was
held in January in Wuerttemberg-Baden.? Forty speakers
met with 29 resident officers for nine days of intensive
discussion. To say it was a “refresher course“ would ‘be
to call a long, hard, soaking rain a shower.

Staff specialists of the Office of the State Commissioner
for Wuerttemberg-Baden (OLCWB) outlined and inter-
preted HICOG policies during the two phases — one
of three days in Stuttgart and the other of six days in
Esslingen. The resident officers were literally pelted with
action programs to be implemented in the counties in
which they are the representatives of the United States.

Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, US state commissioner
for Wuerttemberg-Baden, opened the first phase devoted
to the history of Germany, her economic, social, cultural
and governmental institutions, These points were covered
during the Stuttgart sessions:

1, German history since Roman times.

2. Highlights and trends in the history of Wuerttem-
berg-Baden.

3. Development of political parties and electoral
systems, rise of the civil service and bureaucracy, history
of social legislation.

4, Background in German law, legal rules and practices.

5. Introduction to German economic history, taxation,
money and banking, and significant stages in the de-
velopment of German agriculture.

6. The school system and its influence on the formation
of German character.

7, German community organizations and how they
were formed; history of German culture.

8. Review of pertinent books recently published,
available in English or German. (A condensed list of
the recommended publications is printed at the end of
this article.)

9. The German mind.

10. The occupation mission, the history of which was
described by Harvey M. Coverley, deputy state com-
missioner, who has been “with the outfit" since 1945.

HE SECOND PHASE of the seminar was devoted to
practical programs undertaken in line with US
policy by the divisions and branches of OLCWB. Points
were emphasized where the cooperation and assistance of

‘ see “Resident Officers Conference’ in Information Bulletin, Jan. 1950.
Similar state seminars for resident officers were also held during
late January in Bavaria and Hesse.

MARCH 1950

the ROs were urgently desired. This phase of the seminar
lasted six days, the meetings being held in Esslingen.

Zinn Garrett, chief of Field Operations Division and
chairman of the seminar, outlined in broad strokes the
new program and work of the resident officers. Four
general categories of functions were listed:

Promotion of Democracy. The resident officers were
urged to work more with the people and especially not
to confine their contacts to officials. They were to as-
sist citizens’ organizations and to encourage the for-
mation of new ones.

The Reporting Functions. This would remain important
but to a lesser degree than the promotion of democracy.

Liaison with Troops. While this was essential, it was
hoped that the time spent by resident officers located
in troop areas on this function would be reduced.

Administration of the Office. The opinion was ex-
pressed that “if contacts with the office staff take up
a considerable amount of his time, the resident officer
is a poor administrator.”

R. GARRETT STRUCK the keynote of the con-

ference by describing the manner in which the
various democratic organizations at community and
county level were to be coalesced into citizens’ com-
mittees and community councils to serve as instruments
of the people in their efforts to promote reforms.

In communities of approximately 5,000 or more in-
habitants, the organizations that have been formed
should be encouraged to establish community councils
made up of representatives from all local organizations.
The purpose of the community council would be to unify
and strengthen the efforts of the various organizations.
Councils would be encouraged to promote citizen par-
ticipation in public affairs, to resist all actions that do not
respect the rights of the individual, and to promote a
genuinely democratic way of life.

Resident officers were urged by Mr. Garrett to bring
about by suggestion and persuasion the formation of
citizens’ committees in as many communities as feasible.
It would be desirable that the citizens elect these com-
mittees at public meetings. The primary purpose of the
citizens’ committee would be to schedule and conduct
public forums and meetings, to bring decisions made in
public meetings to the attention of the local govern-
ment and to press for remedial action.

In towns where community councils are established,
the duties of the citizens’ committees would be limited
to forum activities, but in smaller communities where

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
Members of panel at rear table, left to right, are Dr. Ralph
E. Berry (Education), Don Ferrens (Legal), Dr. John P.
Steiner (Education), Zinn Garrett, chief, Field Operations
Division, Chester B. Lewis, chief, Political Affairs Division,
A. M, Garrison, chief, Transportation, and Newton S. Fried-
man, chief, Labor Division. Front table, second from leit,
Dwight Horner, chief, America House Section, John Van
Stirum, chief, Finance Division, Paul F. Taggart, chief,
Agriculture and Food Branch, Robert D. King and Harold
A. Wyatt, both of Political Affairs Division.

(Photos by PRB OLCWB)
few if any organizations exist, the citizens’ committee
should be encouraged to assume the functions of a com-
munity council to the extent that such functions are
appropriate to a small community.

N THE BEGINNING citizens’ committees should be

encouraged to hold public meetings and forums in
addition to the present town hall meeting program,
which might be seriously impaired if the attempt were
made to transfer the responsibility for these meetings
from the county administrators and mayors to citizens’
committees before the latter have had some experience.
The goal, however, was in so far as possible to have
public assemblies scheduled by the citizens themselves
and the discussions at such meetings guided by the
chairman of the citizens’ committee rather than by a
government official.

4

General view of Wuerttemberg-Baden US Resident Officers’ seminar. At right is Mr. Headrich, author of this article.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Community councils and citizens’ committees could be
urged to support the taxpayers’ association in its efforts
to get officials to make wise use of public money. These
over-all organizations could also line up behind the trade
unions in the fight for civil service reform, encourage
election reform and support the movement toward local
autonomy in government. The civil liberties program,
because each community cannot form a special com-
mittee, will have to be carried out by interested Ge-
mans through the committees in conjunction with the
state civil liberties committee.

The integration of expellees and refugees into com-
munity life as a labor force could also be effected through
the committees. The needs of all youth, not just the
organized, could best be studied and met through the
coordinating activities of citizens’ committees and com-
munity councils.

In Waiblingen County several community councils
have been effectively organized and have undertaken
such practical projects as the establishment of thrift
shops, day nurseries, community wash houses for the
underprivileged, and the like. Local citizens’ committees
are already functioning in Nuertingen County as the
organized voice of the people, especially in conducting
and in doing the spade work for many town hall meetings.

NOTHER THEME, emphasized during the conference,

was cultural exchange. The resident officers were
urged to promote public meetings at which persons who
have gone to the United States and other countries could
report their findings. US experts, films, books and
magazines from abroad were to be used whenever pos-
sible. Exchanges Division, HICOG, has several carloads
of books available to German institutions on request by
competent state officials.

Dr. Ralph Burns, chief of the Exchanges Division,
HICOG, was present to answer questions concerning the
exchange of persons program. All applicants are to ap-
pear before the local resident officers and to turn in
their application blanks to them. These will be forwarded
through Field Operations Division to the cultural ex-
change officer of the state. Applicants will be inter-
viewed and screened by a division panel, later by the

MARCH 1950

--- Page 58 ---
state selection committee. The filled out blanks will be
forwarded to HICOG and to the United States for final
selection.

The privilege of notifying winning candidates will be
reserved to the resident officers. This will enable them
to be in closer contact with persons selected and to lay
the foundation for later cooperation. The resident of-
ficers were urged to screen their areas for the best per-
sons in each field.

In the field of agriculture, assistance was requested
for the recently organized extension service, set up
after the American pattern. The agricultural program
could be promoted in the counties by the organization
of model 4-H clubs, by getting acquainted with the
county agricultural committee, by taking a paternal in-
terest in boarding houses established for agricultural
apprentices and by assisting organized farmers and farm
women groups.

American policy on labor and the trade unions and
their relationships with the employers’ associations was
explained. Resident officers were to maintain contact
and liaison with both groups and to further collective
bargaining at every opportunity.

Adult German groups and governmental agencies were
to be urged, along with the Americans, to assist youth
groups and the unorganized youth, both directly and
through youth organizations and the county youth com-
mittees. The Boy Scouts were to receive special attention.

N WOMEN'S AFFAIRS the resident officers were asked

to prepare lists of outstanding women for county
conferences and to back up the OLC staff in the pro-
motion of women’s organizations.

Teachers organizations, parent-teacher associations,
student councils and other school groups were to receive
full support.

Various reform programs were discussed. For example,
public sentiment should be organized in favor of more
local fiscal autonomy and more county and community
freedom control by the Ministry of Interior. Good gov-
ernment could be promoted also through civil service
reform and election reform. German administrative courts
were described as exceedingly effective instruments to
alleviate grievances involving usurpation and misuse of
power by bureaucrats.

In the realm of the press, reports should be turned in
on evidence of emotional appeals to nationalistic sen-
timents and of instances of cultivated hate; formal com-
plaints against a newspaper are to be coordinated with
the OLC press officer and submitted to HICOG by the
state commissioner. Reform by persuasion on the part
of the resident officers was encouraged in their con-
tacts with local editors.

ONCERNING SCHOOL reform, tHe long-range Ameri-
can policy was to see a single-track school system
established. In the curriculum there should be an in-
crease in social education. More personal and vocational
guidance should be given, and health instruction and
physical education should be emphasized. The movement

MARCH 1950

55°

to make schools into community centers should be
pushed by the resident officers, and the spirit of self-
criticism of the school system by leading Germans
should be cultivated.

In working for democratic reforms, how overt should
the efforts of the resident officers be? It was the con-
sensus that each officer should be as overt in promot-
ing changes as he found to be workable. Much leeway
was given to individual initiative.

A myriad of special projects were proposed for im-
plementation by the resident. officers. They were to be
informed about and should in turn disseminate
formation pertaining to the ERP program; they should
advise Germans about the program and observe instal-
lations which receive loans, They would assist the
Military Security Board in making factory inspections.
Original activities on the county level in this field will
be confined to observations.

In political affairs, the resident officers were requested
to send in the names of local legislators and newspaper-
men to take part in a special school set up in Ettlingen.

in-

S TO RETURNING prisoners of war, the resident

officers should observe and report on their physical
condition, their propaganda activities and any dis-
crimination toward PWs. The resident officers were
asked to inspect personally the graves of United Nations’
nationals every nine months, to authorize no opening of
graves or body removals without written approval at
OLC level.

The resident officers were to obtain copies’ of local
legislation and, when convinced of undemocratic tend-
encies, to file a report. The duties and functions of the
resident officers as committing magistrates were outlined
and discussed in detail.

The importance of the local press as an effective in-
strument for promoting democracy was stressed. Editors
should be encouraged to give publicity to the American
mission. It was agreed that material and information
received by the resident officers from HICOG and
OLCWB of interest to local populations, unless classified,
could be released for publication.

Use was to be made by the resident officers of HICOG
information and reprint services. Articles and books may
be suggested by the resident officers for use by the
translation reprint services, Articles offered in translation
to German publishers, which are subject to negative
criticism, should be reported.

ENERAL GROSS closed the conference with an im-
pressive speech in which he said, in part:

“I regard the resident officers as the most important
cog in the organization. Every effort will be made to
back you up. We are to start fires at the grass roots to
stir up interest. A long history has to be overcome, and
this requires courage and patience. Seize upon local
problems, work upon them as illustrations.”

General Gross expressed his hope that the seminar
had been successful. He cautioned the resident officers

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
on the danger of being inundated by printed matter and
urged: “Get out on your feet.”

* * *

IST OF BIBLIOGRAPHICAL reference for study of Ger-

man history and contemporary problems, as given

to resident officers of Wuerttemberg-Baden during recent
seminar, follows:

The German People by Veit Valentine (Alfred Knopf,
New York, 1949), One of the most comprehensive
histories of Germany in the English language. The book
starts with the year 781, the reign of Charlemagne, and
concludes with the collapse of Nazism.

Germany's Three Reichs by Edmond Vermeil (Andrew
Dakers, London, 1945). This book is a shrewd analysis
of the German character and national psychology, start-
ing with the Holy Roman Empire and concluding with
the Hitler Reich. Vermeil devoted considerable time
to the Reformation and its consequences, the rise of
the German states, the transition from romanticism to
nationalism and the Bismarckian Empire.

The Course of German History (development of Ger-
many. since 1815) by A. J. P. Taylor (Howard-McCann,
New York, 1946). Taylor, one of England's leading
authorities on central European politics, prefaces his
book with a consideration of the great schism of Ger-
many which he considers the legacy of the Holy Roman
Empire. This book is especially recommended for its
treatise on the year 1848, its review of the ascendancy
of Prussia, the republican interregnum from 1919 to 1933
and the triumph of Hitler's demagogy.

The Growth of Modern Germany by Prof. Roy Pascal
(Cobbett Press, London, 1946). Professor Pascal covers
roughly the same period discussed by Taylor, beginning
with the emergence of German nationalism in the early
19th century. The struggle between liberalism and
reaction in the years following the Congress of Vienna
is treated and studied in detail. The personalities and
influence of Hegel, Fichte and Freiherr v. Stein are

Books burned and banned by the Nazis are now back on
the shelves of such libraries as that of the Amerika Haus
in Wiesbaden. Here Dr. James R. Newman, Land Com-
missioner for Hesse, discusses an exhibit of the books
with (center) Paul Lutzeier, coordinator for US Information
Centers in Hesse, and (right) H. N. Tuch, director of the
Wiesbaden Center. (PRB OLCH photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

appraised, and the pattern of the Weimar Republic is
analyzed in detail.

Germany and Europe (Political Tendencies from
Frederic the Great to Hitler) by F. Darmstaedter (Met-
huen & Co., London, 1945). Especially recommended for
its survey of the role of the church in German history,
and for a rather extensive presentation of German
education, Karl Marx and the class struggle.

In Tyrannos (A Symposium of Four Centuries of
Struggle against Tyranny in Germany), edited by Hans
Rehfisch (Lindsay Drummond, London, 1944). An excellent
survey of democratic uprisings and literature directed
against feudalism, militarism and authoritarianism. Con-
tributors are all continental authors exiled from their
countries by the Nazis.

Germany: from Defeat to Defeat by Karl Spiecker
(McDonald & Co., London, 1943). A fairly reasonable
treatise of the German problem between wars by a
former member of the Christian Democratic League of the
Center Party, ardent fighter against Nazism who carried
on from England during the war. The bulk of this book is
devoted to the aspirations, defects, friends and enemies
and ultimate failures of the Weimar Republic.

Politisches Lesebuch by Hans von Eckardt (Hans
Guenther Verlag, Stuttgart). This is a useful anthology
of German documents, letters, literary and historical
excerpts relating to Germany's political and moral
development. Although it contains opinions of non-Ger-
man authors on ethics, politics, the state, freedom of
expression, etc., the bulk of the material is German, The
contents include the famous 12 articles of the Bauern-
schaft in 1525, the Grundrechte of the German people in
the constitution of 1849, Stresemann’s addresses, etc. The
book is of further value for the inclusion of celebrated
American, French and British documents of liberty such
as the Preamble to the Declaration of Independence.

Der Irrweg einer Nation by Alexander Abusch (Auf-
bau-Verlag, Berlin, 1946), An interesting book of general
background information by an anti-militarist and partici-
pant in the German underground against Hitler. He
reviews the nature of the Prussian State and analyzes
the ideological conflicts between Prussia and Germany.
A detailed history on the early 19th century, Germany
after 1815 and the work of Freiherr vom Stein.

Economic Development of France and Germany,
1815-1940 by J. H. Clapham (Cambridge Press, 1943).
Regarded by some as a classic text on the subject mat-
ter. Good source book for one interested particularly in
economic history.

Deutschlands vergessene Freiheit by A. E. Zucker. Col-
lection of quotations, poems, letters, etc. by Goethe,
Lessing, Humboldt and other great liberal Germans,
showing that Germany does have such a tradition which
reaches back into the centuries.

The German Mind and Outlook, edited by Dr. Morris
Ginsberg (Chapman & Hall, London, 1945). A valuable
symposium by six professors of British universities,
analyzing the German mind, and discussing in detail
the myths and romanticism which underlie German po-
litical and cultural development. Contains an excellent

MARCH 1950

--- Page 60 ---
essay on Goethe, an extensive tabulation of German
opinions of themselves and the Nazi propaganda build-
up from 1929-1939,

The Moral Conquest of Germany by Emil Ludwig
(Doubleday Doran & Co., New York, 1945). An interesting
source book, if one allows for Ludwig's prodigality of
generalization and embittered personal opinion. 38 pages
are given over to a discussion of the German character,
followed by portraits of militarists, crackpots, kings and
Junkers. Much attention is given to the Jews in Ger-
many. Ludwig's prescription for winning over or merely con-
taining the Germans is interesting if frequently unrealistic.

Diaries of Ulrich von Hassell (1938-1944), compiled by
Hamish Hamilton (London, 1948), An indispensable book
for insight into the resistance movement against Nazism.
An interesting companian reader for the Goebbels diaries.
Von Hassell's daily notations offer a wealth of back-
ground information on the divisions within the General
Staff and among the various groups opposed to Hitler.

Germany's Underground by Allen Dulles (McMillan
Co., New York, 1947). An American review of the same
period covered by the Von Hassell diaries by the former
chief of the OSS Mission in Germany, and contact man
with the German underground via Switzerland from 1942
until V-E Day.

Deutscher Widerstand by Rudolf Pechel (Eugen Rentsch
Verlag, Zurich). A complete narrative of the German
underground activities by one of its members now resi-
dent in Stuttgart. Valuable background material for an
understanding of the weaknesses of the resistance against
the Hitler Reich.

The Fateful Years by Andre Francois-Poncet (Harcourt,
Brace & Co., New York, 1949). The Francois-Poncet diary
covers the years 1931-1938 when the present French
high commissioner was ambassador to Berlin. It is espe-
cially significant and challenging in view of the repe-
tition today of problems confronting the Allies during
those years, and for the dissipation of several fallacies
regarding the resistance of the church and labor.

The French Yellow Book (Reynal & Hitchcock, New
York, 1940), This is a collection of French diplomatic
documents for the years 1938-1939 which throw con-
siderable light on the negotiations between Germany on
the one hand and France, Great Britain and Poland on the
other. Extremely pertinent is the careful German avoid-
ance of any discussion of exchange of letters which
would have prolonged peace.

German Realities by Gustav Stolper (Reynal & Hitch-
cock, New York, 1948). This book by Herbert Hoover's
economic expert on his presidential mission to Germany,
is stimulating but should be read with care. Hitler's rise
to power is careful analyzed and the moral destruction
of Germany is eloquently depicted. Stolper's historical
background of Germany is not too reliable, but his pro-
posals for maintenance of peace are worth reading.

The Conservative Revolution by Hermann Rauschning
(G.P, Puttnam’s Sons, New York). An intensely interesting
and somewhat surprising review of German history during
the past hundred years. The unexpected development is
Rauschning's thesis that the real and only foundation of

MARCH 1950

57

stability and constitutional democracy in Germany is the
Junker system. He sets out to prove that Prussianism has
been misrepresented, and attempts to attribute the rise
of Hitler and the collapse of German morality to the de-
cline of Junker authority.

Die Deutsche Frage by Wilhelm Roepke (Eugen Rensch
Verlag, Zurich). This is another treatise which, like Stol-
per's work, must be read on guard. Roepke is pro- if not
pan-German. He is a skillful apologist for German ex-
cesses since 1914 but he makes no attempt to condone
directly the savagery of the Nazi regime. The anesthetic
instruments with which he operates upon the reader are
the Versailles treaty and the provocative misbehavior of
other nations before World War II. He recommends
a threefold revolution as the solution of the German
problem, a cleansing of the moral, political and economic-
social spheres of German society.

German Opposition to Hitler by Hans Rothfels (Henry
Regnery, Chicago). This is an academic but easily reada-
ble history of the many factions opposed to Hitler, but
who were not able to get very far because of disagree-
ment among themselves. Hans Rothfels is a German-
American, now a professor at the University of Chicago.

Civil Life in Wartime Germany by Max Seydewith
(Viking Press, New York, 1945). As the title implies, here
is a carefully documented story of life behind the lines
in a chronological and diary-like narrative. The life of
enthusiasm for the war at its outbreak, the role of Ger-
man students, the July revolt of 1944 and the logistic
struggle to supply two fronts, provide advantageous re-
ferences in working with Germans today.

Germany and Europe: a Spiritual Dissension by Bene-
detto Croce (Random House, New York, 1944). An out-
standing monograph by the great Italian liberal philoso-
pher. In 83 short pages, Croce penetrates to the core
of the German dilemma. His thesis is the limitless and
abstract ambition and dream of the: “Kolossal," which
Germans set as their goal in all phases of life, and their
inevitable resort to violence to achieve it when all other
means prove hopelessly inadequate.

Public Opinion and the Last Peace by R. B. McCallum

.(Oxford University Press, London-New York, 1946). This

is a skillful historical investigation, and tract for political
guidance, on German-Allied relations. Working only with
the manipulation of public opinion, the author traces the
devious way in which the hard determination of 1918
was softened by Allied fatigue and interminable contro-
versy, as well as the uneasy conscience which was trans-
formed into an enormous sympathy for the defeated.
Many of the events recorded in this book, like those in
Francois-Poncet's diary are remarkably and propheti-
cally the same as those we experience today.

Autobiography of a German Pastor by Hans Ehrenberg
(Student Christian Movement Press, London). Stimulating
viewpoints of a member of the German church, exiled in
England during the war, primarily interesting for his
views on the German-Russian conflict.

Homage to Goethe (UNESCO 1949). A brillant tribute
to Goethe, and his qualities as humanist and scholar,
by six celebrated scholars of our time. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
Public Politically Inert

IDESPREAD INERTIA about political matters, ignor-

ance of elementary political facts and general dis-
inclination to assume civic responsibilities constituted
the main findings of a Public Opinion Survey conducted
among Germans in the US Zone by the Information
Services Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

The survey disclosed that even the large turnout in
last summer's federal elections did little to modify this
picture, since large numbers lacked knowledge of the issues.
This was determined through pre- and post-election surveys.

A mitigating finding was large-scale approval of the
idea of political initiative on the part of citizens.

The findings were based on representative samples of
opinions of 500 to 3,000 Germans taken in a series of
surveys from May through September 1949. The survey
was conducted by trained German interviewers supervised
by field officers of ISD's Reactions Analysis Branch.

“Whether a somewhat similar picture might emerge
for other countries if comparable surveys were made,
does not lessen the importance of the present findings,”
the report stated. “If the inertia and lack of interest
revealed here should continue into the future, it will
greatly handicap the development of a functioning demo-
cracy, if it does not jeopardize its very existence.”

IDESPREAD ABSENCE of interest in active manage-

ment of their own political affairs on the part of
US Zone Germans was indicated when they were asked
in May and again in August if they concerned themselves
with politics or preferred to leave it to others. Six in
10 persons chose the latter course, the same preponder-
ance that has consistently occurred since the question
was initially asked in January 1946. Berliners appeared
to be more politically active, however, as more than
50 percent claimed interest in politics.

In addition, fully four out of 10 US Zone Germans
indicated they believe enough political interest now
exists, while 75 percent of the Berliners queried felt more
interest was desirable,

Several other methods were used to test the degree of
US Zone Germans’ political interests. When asked to
indicate which of five factors were the chief obstacles to
democratic government, 30 percent listed lack of interest.
Also named in descending order were: dominance of
political parties, lack of experts in government, too
much bureaucracy and lack of contact with officials.

In a free approach to this question, when asked to list
the most important obstacle, without being presented a
list of possibilities, those interviewed indicated the
Occupying Powers (14 percent) and “disunity of the
péople” (12 percent) as the most prominent deterrents
to democratic self-government. About 42 percent had no
opinion, 16 percent felt there were no obstacles, and a
smal] number named such factors as “lack of political ma-
turity," “economic emergency,” “officials and politicians,"
“political results of war," and’*communism (the Russians).”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

58

In another line of inquiry, when asked to choose be-
tween “lack of interest’’ and “lack of opportunity” as the
main reasons for non-participation in political affairs,
more than six in 10 cited “lack of interest.’

Ignorance as a further evidence of meager political
interest was indicated by the following findings:

In May, more than four in 10 US Zone Germans did
not know the name of their state ministers president;
more than eight in 10 did not know if their state
constitutions included provisions for the proposal of
legislation directly by the people and for popular re-
ferendum on legislation; even as late as the first weeks
in August, less than half knew that the Bonn parliament-
ary assembly had approved a Basic Law, and only one-
sixth claimed to be familiar with it; and during the two
weeks before the August election, although 96 percent
knew it was going to occur, less than half of those who
were aware of it, could correctly state its purpose.

HE OPINION SURVEY further showed that the large

election turnout could not be taken as evidence of
German political enthusiasm. The pre-election study
showed that even with the election almost upon them,
the large majority of respondents had not decided for
whom to vote and felt that information on which to
base a decision was inadequate.

In the post-election survey, only a little better than
half of those interviewed knew which party garnered
the most votes; about a third had no idea, and the
remainder guessed wrong. About half of the respondents
said they were satisfied with the election, but one-third
of this number did not know that the CDU had won and
60 percent did not know who the chancellor was.

When determining why the people voted, it was found
that most claimed not to have voted for something, but
against something, out of a sense of duty, or for or
against a political party. Only 29 percent gave reasons
that were affirmative—“to achieve better conditions,” “to
participate in the decision’ and “to establish a new
government.” On the other hand, 27 percent voted out
of a sense of duty, 18 percent to “defeat communism;”
another 18 percent to defeat or strengthen a particular
party, and seven percent because “it is the thing to do.”

In line with other indications of political apathy, there
was little evidence of participation in political affairs or
the desire to participate. Seven of 10 respondents said
they would refuse a request to hold a political job in
their communities. In examining the reasons for non-
participation, the largest group (30 percent) indicated
probable rationalizations, such as “too young,” “too
busy,” “no time,” etc., while another 29 percent frankly
stated they wanted nothing to do with politics, or they
were afraid of future retaliation when the government.
changes, or they were not interested under present
conditions. Only about 11 percent gave valid reasons
such as sickness, old age or ineligibility. -+- END

MARCH 1950

--- Page 62 ---
\ German student from Erlangen Unive:

. al

sity (right) welcomes a French visitor from the Sorbonne group of conferees,

By HERMAN HAHN

S LIGHTS POINTED UP the baroque features of the
“Erlangen theater, an exhausted group of French
students smiled a wan acknowledgment to their 54th
curtain call that evening and staggered triumphantly to
heir dressing rooms,

The French youth had just rung down the curtain on
Aucassin et Nicolette," a play woven around the chants
of a medieval troubador, which they produced as their
contribution to the International University Theater Con-
ference held in Erlangen last summer.

The group, “Les Theophiliens,” of the Sorbonne, was
one of eight similar university theater groups which pre-
sented 16 performances during the

an international basis at Erlangen to be subsidized partly
from ‘German sources and partly from US reorientation
funds won instant applause from the Bavarian students.

Invitations were sent out to student groups in France,
Austria and Sweden as well as to German university
theaters while a special committee, composed of three
members of the Erlangen group and the MG theater
specialist, was formed and charged with direct responsi-
bility for the preparation and organization of the meeting.

Objectives ofthe program were listed as:

1. To propagate the idea of liberalized university
education upheld in most countries outside Germany,
2. To afford the German groups a

week-long (July 24-31) international
conference,

The conference idea originated with
the Erlangen University theater group
‘n cooperation with the MG Cultural
Affairs Branch in Bavaria, The sug-
gestion that a meeting of similar

university theater groups be held on Goverment.

Mr. Hahn was theater specialist
for the Education and Cultural Af-
fairs Division in Bavaria before his
recent return to the United States.
He had been prominent in the en
couragement and promotion of many
cultural activities in Bavaria dur-
ing his association with Military

chance at critical comparison by view-
ing their own productions as well as
those of non-German groups.

3, To promote international under-
standing between students on a con-
crete basis.

Response among the other university
students was electrifying. Invitations

MARCH 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
were accepted with alacrity while the Free University
of Berlin flew its group, including two students living
in the Soviet Sector, out of Berlin by commercial airlines
at the university's expense to avoid possible difficulties
in traveling through the Russian zone.

The 700-seat baroque style Markgrafen Theater, tem-
porarily vacant because of the lack of a professional
company in Erlangen, was leased by the city to the stu-
dents for the month of July and the Studentenhaus (Stu-
dent House), a US Army officers’ club, was released by the
Army to serve as quarters for more than 200 students.

NEVITABLE HANDICAPS were overcome with in-

genuity and resourceful improvisation. French student-
actors pitched in and unloaded their own scenery, de-
layed at the Italian-Austrian border, two hours before
their scheduled performance. Language difficulties at the
Nuremberg railroad station were conquered by songs
and music which brought Nuremberg residents flocking
to the crowded station.

Because of the problems and money involved in trans-
porting scenery, most of the sets for all the visiting
groups were made up in Erlangen with the help of the
Erlangen group scene designer who worked a round-the-
clock schedule to produce all types of makeshift designs.

The Berlin Free University group made capital of its
inexperience by intentional misdirection of its pro-
duction of Georg Kaiser's “Napoleon in New Orleans,"
a tragicomic takeoff on misguided hero worship based
on an old New Orleans legend that Napoleon is buried
in that city. Recognizing his inability to bring out the
more tragic scenes, the student director stressed the
comic moments in the play, burlesquing the entire pro-
duction to the roaring approval of the audience.

Each conference day was planned with three morning
hours devoted to lectures given by drama experts of
the US occupation forces and by European specialists,

Erlangen students won acclaim in this scene from Hannes
Razum's "Dangerous Life," a dramatic story of reincarnation.
Acting, technique and scenery were widely praised during
the following day's critique of the student production.

The university production of Tennessee Williams’ “Glass
Menagerie’ was rated higher than the professional
production of the Munich State Theater by some critics.

two and sometimes three performances, followed by an
hour's critique of the performances of the previous day.

HEATRICAL EXHIBITIONS during the conference

provided interesting sidelights to the actual per-
formances. Exhibits ranged from one on comparative
productions of American plays in the United States and
in Bavaria, to an exhibit on German university theater
from the middle ages by the Munich Theater Museum.

French and British as well as US Military Govern-
ment theater officers visited the conference and along
with prominent German cultural leaders participated in
the lecture program. The majority of speakers pleaded
for liberalization of university education where the stu-
dent theatrical group would range beside the university
choir and the student orchestra.

Dr. Eugene Bahn, chief of the Theater Section, OMGUS,
outlined the history of university theater in the United
States and demonstrated how American universities used
their theater departments as visual aids within their
curricula as part of a liberalized education, and as an
instrument to train future professionals.

The 60-voice Yale Glee Club, touring Germany last
summer, in a brief visit to the conference, set the pace
in both spirit of performance and international feeling.

THER PARTICIPATING university groups—-groups

from the University of Vienna, the Sorbonne, Univer-
sity Upsala in Sweden, and those from the universities
of Erlangen, Kiel, Wuerzburg, Berlin, Germersheim and
Mainz — exhibited a wide variety of student theater,
both good and indifferent.

The undisputed highlights of the conference were the
two performances by the Sorbonne’s medieval French
group, “Les Theophiliens.’ Their production of two 13th
century one-act plays, ‘““Aucassin et Nicolette’ and “Le
Miracle de Theophile’” by Rutebeuf won critical praise
for excellence in technique and complete unity in
direction, scenery, lighting and acting.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 64 ---
The Vienna group, with ils production of J. B. Priest-
ley's “Highway on the Desert," an anti-Nazi play, and
its rendition of a Viennese comedy by Hermann Bahr,
were rated closer to the category of professional theater by
their stress on professional routine than any other group.

The Erlangen group, with its performance of Tennessee
Williams’ “Glass Menagerie," Andre Obey’s “Return
from the Stars" and Dr. Hannes Razum's “Dangerous
Life" were acclaimed as the most accomplished German
group. They demonstrated a style of acting all their own
with a great feeling for style, good stage presence and
an unadulterated, youthful spirit.

Other groups came in for rather severe criticism,
mostly due to over-ambitious productions not capable of
being adequately presented by amateur groups. “Eras-
mus Montanus,"" by the Danish 19th century comedy
playwright Ludwig Holberg, produced by the Kiel Uni-
versity group was an amateurish presentation saved
by a clever idea in the scenic design.

Henrik Ibsen's “Ghosts,"" produced by a group from
the Germersheim State Interpreters’ College proved that
amateurs must confine themselves to those plays which
are within the realm of their potentialities.

The Wuerzburg group, which arrived in Erlangen with
ils professional director who once had headed a large
German municipal theater, its own orchestra and a cast
of 30, was credited with the worst performance of the
meeting. Their use of worn out professional tricks led to
a presentation definitely lower than the university level.

RITICISM OF each-performance was taken in good part

by the groups whose performances were presented

‘o demonstrate the trends of each student body rather
‘han as competition for the best production,

Critiques of each performance were held with two

French students pitched in at the last moment to get ready
their scenery which, delayed at the Italian-Austrian border,
arrived only two hours before their scheduled performance.

MARCH 1950

Scene from the medieval French play by Ruteboeuf "Le
Miracle de Theophile’’ by the Theophiliens of the Sor-
bonne University. This group presented 16 performances.

paramount questions in mind: Was the play performed
suitable for production by a university group? Had the pro-
duction done justice to the message and spirit of the play?

On the whole, it was found that the scenic design had
been neglected by most groups, that the lighting was
poor for the majority of the productions, and that the
preferred use of an expressionistic style had been an
easy way out. None of the scenery and lighting, with
the exception of the French production, was based on the
approach of the modern scene designer — the relation-
ship of the design to the spiritual message of the play.

The Erlangen experiment has lent impetus to future
international exchanges. The Swedish representative ex-
tended invitations to the Vienna group, the Kiel cabaret
group and the Erlangen students for exchange perfor-
mances at Swedish universities with the Swedes sche-
duled to perform in Germany and Austria, while the
French accepted an invitation to tour German university
towns. The student groups resolved to repeat the con-
ference next summer with a wider invitation including
American university groups.

Although German dramatic circles have in some cases
opposed unlimited activities by university theaters as
a serious competition for the professional theater, the
Erlangen conference was hailed by leading theatrical
people within Germany.

Erich Otto, president of Germany's Actors’ Equity, who
attended the conference with mental reservations, later
told a meeting of German stage designers in Munich that
despite the present crisis in the German drama, theater
is gaining a new lease on life through the activities of
the universities.

The productions as well as the spirit of the Erlangen
meeting, Otto revealed, have caused him to drop all
reservations and have aligned him firmly on the side of
the university theater in which he sees not only a train-
ing ground for potential professionals but even more a
training school for future theater audiences. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
Reorientation activities in Munich led to a gigantic cleanup-day during which more than 12,000 people helped remove
nce M. Bolds, acting state commissioner for Bavaria (lef!
: : << ™~ Fy

Democracy in Munich

EMOCRATIZATION ACTIVITIES during 1949 in criticism, and at some of the early meetings officials
Munich, sponsored by or participated in by US would show considerable resentment. Now, according to
resident officers, were attended by more than 600,000 Mr. Godfrey, they have not only learned to “take it," but
persons. Actual events, such as town meetings, forums, to “dish it out" as well. In nearly every case when the
film showings, youth meetings, discussion groups and official explained his side, and outlined his problems, he
other affairs, totaled more than 4,500 during the period. found the audience sympathetic and often won the
“Assuming that half of this total attendance figure re- enthusiastic support of the citizens. Criticism from the
presents duplications, this still means that approximately floor at the meetings often led to changes and improve-
one third of the 900,000 citizens residing in the city and ments on the part of the officials and their offices.
county of Munich were reached by the democratization The people often found the town meeting a place to
program,’ George H. Godfrey, senior Resident Officer, get together and plan projects for the betterment of their
pointed out. communities. Munich, for example, planned and carried
The town meeting program, initiated early last year, out a gigantic “Clean-up Day” in which more than 12,000
has been amazingly successful, and can now be regarded people participated. A number of home building projects
as a permanent part of the life of the citizens, he said, were also organized, and frequently residents of districts
adding that not only have the citizens themselves taken joined together in improving their streets.
an active interest, but members of the city council and For the purpose of town meetings the city was divided
state and county officials are enthusiastic in supporting into 41 districts. The county also has 29 towns. All
the meetings. districts and towns held at least one town meeting during

During the year, 118 town meetings were held, with a
total attendance of approximately 35,000. The attendance
was often limited by the size of the meeting places, many
of which were so filled that people were turned away.

the past year.

The largest attendance was achieved by the film pro-
gram, a project that provides free showings to schools,
clubs and communities. A total of 2,313 showings reached

IHE MOST PROMISING feature of the town meetings a total audience of 375,000.
is the attitude of the officials, it was pointed out. Other outstanding features of the program included
Citizens are often severe and occasionally unfair in their promotion of a youth forum, which held 46 meetings with

INFORMATION BULLETIN 62 MARCH 1950

--- Page 66 ---
an attendance of 1,860; Junior Chamber of Commerce,
16 meetings, 485 attendance; traffic safety board, com-
posed of leading city officials and transportation execu-
tives, 12 meetings, 250 attendance; and forums of various
types, 56 meetings, 12,225 attendance.

The Munich office also cooperated with the Munich
Amerika Haus in promoting forums and other events,
which during the year totalled approximately 1,700 with
an attendance of approximately 150,000.

Resident officers attended nearly all of the town meet-
ings and many of the other events. In nearly every case,
however, actual organization and conduct of the meetings
was left to the Germans, Americans appeared on the pro-
grams only when requested, or when encouragement
was needed.

“Munich was the birthplace of the Nazi party, but it
was also here that the Nazi regime was most actively
opposed,” Mr. Godfrey observed. "I am convinced that
there is a basic desire on the part of an increasingly large
number of citizens to seek what we term the democratic
way of life. The enthusiasm which they have shown for
the democratization program indicates that they are
determined to make participation in their government
and cooperation in community welfare a definite part of
their lives for the future." + END

MARCH 1950

This well-graded streét (left) was repaired by the citizens
of Munich themselves. This other street (right) was almost
impassible for traffic before the people of Munich worked
on it. Both projects were planned at town meetings.

a

An interested woman (above) takes an active role in dis-
cussions. The “Sterneckerbrau” (below left), where Hitler
founded Nazi party in 1921, now is scene of town meetings.
Youth forums (right) play important role in democratization,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
(Continued from page 21)
Stuttgart Speech

“Now,” said a Hamburg editorial (in Hamburger Echo)
“the Germans in the Federal Republic know what to ex-
pect. Perhaps they forgot that ‘sovereignty’ in any case
is an expression which refers to Germany only so far as
the Occupation Powers will allow it."

The usual vituperative sing-song chorused in the Soviet-
licensed press, From the Soviet sector of Berlin came
the derisive claim that in his speech the US High Com-
missioner merely confirmed that “the American policy
of enslaving Germany will be continued." Another Soviet
organ gave this summation: “Germany will be tolerated
among the nations of culture, if it puts up with the meager
role of the poor relative who does not venture to display
any desire to raise demands or crave independence.”

Several comparisons were made with the speech de-
livered three and one half years befcre in the same city,
when the then Secretary of State James F. Byrnes told
a German audience of US goals in the nation’s evolution.

The Wiesbadener Kurier, for instance, said: ‘The aims
of the Occupation remain the same, but the method and
stress have changed. The Occupation Statute is not to hold
Germany down, but merely the incorrigibles and national-
ism. There was a clear hint that the US considered that
what it had done for Germany gave it the right to inter-
vention in internal German affairs.”

This collation in the Kurier concluded, ‘Most important
is the statement that Germany's hour of decision had
come; whether our people are prepared to take the hand
proffered them from overseas... We believe that despite
many a tactlessness displayed by our politicians it should
be clear to the world that our decision has already been
made. We hold to those who bring us freedom!”

UCH WIDE DIVERSITY did not characterize the US

press reaction. The McCloy statement — labeled by
one paper as a “dressing down’ — was almost unani-
mously acclaimed in a spirit defined by this comment ‘in
the Watertown (N. Y.) Times: ‘We must continue to hold
a firm hand on western Germany and probably for a
good many years to come.”

The Christian’ Science Monitor gave it an enthusiastic
nod: "We welcome it as indicating that American official-
dom is catching up with the actualities in Germany and
beginning to understand why many Americans have been
disquieted about the application of American policy to
the German question.”

Like remarks from other sections of the press indicated
that most felt America's German policy had come of age.
“McCloy has shown the Germans that we are indeed
still in Germany and intend to stay there until our ob-
jectives are accomplished." (Louisville, Ky., Courier-
Journal).

“McCloy's statement makes it clear we will not tolerate
German irresponsibility. He has let German officials know
that the way to achieve independence is to put west
Germany on a democratic and secure footing." (Des
Moines Register).

INFORMATION BULLETIN

64

The New York Times said the speech “may be taken
as ending the initial period of, deliberate political non-
intervention which Mr, McCloy pursued in order to enable
the new German government to establish itself and show
its mettle... The new American statement of policy
should help to clear the atmosphere and pave the way for
Positive work for German and European reconstruction.”

The Times also reported that “Three Allies Hail Mc-
Cloy Speech," and quoted officials of both Britain and
France. British Foreign Office spokesmen judged Mr. Mc-
Cloy had “said some very splendid things which showed
the complete accord of the two nations in their attitudes
toward the occupation, The speech, they said, would
silence any speculation as to whether or not the two stood
together in a common purpose. French officials, too, noted
their satisfaction, saying they found a stiffness of tone
they considered had been hitherto notably absent.

“Mr. McCloy has at last said some things that badly
needed saying," the Philadelphia Inquirer observed.

The Providence (R. I.) Journal hailed the speech for
its salutory effect on Allied relations: “Whether or not
the Germans take this blunt American warning to heart,
it should have a tonic effect on the British, the French
and our other West European allies, The reiteration of
our determination that ‘there will be no German army
or air force’ should be particularly valuable in cementing
western solidarity.”

OREIGN PRESS REACTION seemed to support this

view. Three leading French journals headlined their
stories with ‘There Will Be No German Army" (Combat);
“A Speech by Mr. McCloy Indicates Stiffer American
Attitude Towards Germany” (Le Figaro); ‘McCloy Speaks
Against a German Rearmament" (Le Monde).

The papers emphasized US intention to aid German
political reconstruction while preventing her rearmament.
They also covered Mr. McCloy’s call to German authori-
ties to take stronger steps for solution of unemployment
and refugee problems as well as those remarks concerning
Berlin and the Saar.

One Paris paper carried a London dispatch stating that
“London approves American viewpoint without reserva-
tion,”

From Zurich came a lengthy analysis of the US occu-
pation, and calculated the speech as a timely action which
cleared up a hazy and timidly administered policy in
the past.

A Liverpool writer saw the speech as having outlined
the bases for any treaty of peace with Germany.

With resoundings still going on in the chambers where
political policies are molded, the world — and Germany
in particular — was left with little doubt as to what the
United States sought in its occupation of European soil.
US High Commissioner McCloy had said, “Our Main
purpose is to help Germany achieve political recovery."
That he would exercise the full power of his rights as
High Commissioner to this end was clearly recognized
by German news analysts and citizens and the men at
Bonn in whose hands rests Germany's political future.

--END

MARCH 1950

--- Page 68 ---
Speeches of US High Commissioner
Delivered in Stuttgart and Boston

Full text of the address of US High Commissioner
McCloy at the opening of the US Information Center
(Amerika Haus) in Stuttgart on Feb. 6, follows:

I AM GLAD to be here today to help open the new home
of the Amerika Haus in Stuttgart. It is well to state
at the outset what purpose such a house is intended to
serve,

Simply put, this house is meant to provide a meeting
place where men and women can find interests and in-
formation generally related, though by no means exclu-
sively, to the thought and activities of the people of the
United States,

The Amerika Haus is not a house of propaganda. It is
a house for free men and free women to exchange views,
to learn and to reach understanding, Above all, it is a
house for the young. In the Amerika Haus you will find
a reflection of a youthful people.

It has been frequently suggested that the culture of the
United States leaves something to be desired in its rela-
tion to the cultural refinements of older Europe. I do not
suggest that the American culture is superior to that of
Europe or that we do not have much to learn from the
older cultures,

But I do hope that you will be able to discern from
your visits to the Amerika Haus some of the vast energy
and thought which the United States represents today.
It is here that you may gain a conception of what a
youthful nation can accomplish in the way of living
peacably with its neighbors under a constitutional system,
a system which permits the fullest expansion of the
economy, the science and the religion of the country, all
without suppression of personal liberty,

Here, I hope you can find reflected in the books, peri-
odicals and other media, the achievements of a people
enjoying freedom of thought and ex-

phenomenon to be observed and appraised, quite as
much as American methods of scholarship and research.

But whatever may be learned from a visit to Amerika
Haus, it is there to be utilized to the extent you wish. We
hope you will make yourselves at home in it.

"Lee DEDICATION of this Haus in Stuttgart also gives
me an opportunity to report to you on my recent trip
to the United States. I want to tell you something of the
impressions I received from the people and officials while
there. I want also to restate, as simply as I can, certain
fundamentals of American policy in Germany.

As you know, I returned to the United States to talk
with the President, the members of the Congress particu-
larly concerned with our foreign affairs and other public
officials. Also, through radio talks and other means
I spoke to a very large sector of the American people.

In the past two weeks, I not only answered questions
put to me by the President and the Secretary of State,
by members of Congress, by newspaper publishers, edi-
tors, correspondents and columnists, but also as a public
servant, I stood before many hundreds of people in
Washington, New York and Boston to give my appraisal
of German developments and to answer their questions.
I came back here much aided and encouraged by these
contacts.

May I, in a frank and friendly manner, recommend this
healthy, if rather exacting, process to the people and
officials of Germany. It would be good for all of us.

My deepest impression from my visit to the United
States is of the intensity and extent of the interest in
Germany. There are almost daily reports from Germany
on the front pages of our newspapers, Our civic organi-
zations devote a large amount of their time to German
questions, and it is easy to understand the reasons for

that interest. The people of the United

pression, free speech and free press.

It is not all to be blindly admired
and imitated, It is here to be judged
and appraised for its true worth.

It would take more than this house
to portray America or to understand
it. The American university, for ex-
ample, is not merely a workshop for
scholar and research. It is a vast
training ground for democratic thought.
In American universities, hundreds of
thousands of students from all walks
of American life become acquainted
with the vast history of world civiliza-
tion, Not all of them become doctors,
lawyers, teachers or civil servants.
The great majority return to farms,
industry and commerce. Here is a

Laender.

Reference

Amerika Haus is the German term for US
Information Center.

Land is the German term for a govern-
mental area corresponding to a state in
the United States. In the plural it is

“A scene at Canossa’’ refers to the inci-
dent in 1077 when the German king,
Henry IV, stood barefooted three days
and nights in the courtyard of the castle
of Canossa in northern Italy to pledge
submission to Pope Gregory after his
excommunication. The term has come to
signify submitting to humiliation.

Text of the speech of Secretary of State
Byrnes in Stuttgart in 1946 is printed

“We Want a Lasting

Peace" in the Information Bulletin, Issue

No. 59, Sept. 16, 1946.

under the title

States have expended an enormous
amount of human and _ material
treasure to defeat Hitler, to wipe out
Nazism and restore decent living in
Germany.

LL GENERATIONS in the United
States, as is true of many other
countries, have been deeply affected
by the former German aggressions.
They are concerned over any signs
of a resurgence of those forces which
led to Nazi domination, They know
that Germany is a critical factor in
Europe and in the world today.
Among the almost infinite variety
of questions I was asked, a few con-

MARCH 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
stantly recurred. These are samples of the main line of
questioning: :

What are the chances of a revival of Nazism?

How important are nationalistic trends? Who is
behind these movements?

What are certain German officials trying to
achieve with their recurrent nationalistic state-
ments?

How strong are the extreme Rightist move-
ments, the extreme Left; what are the German
people and authorities doing about them?

How strong is the will to democracy, the will
to peace in Germany?

Are the Germans sincerely interested in joining
the western European community of nations?

Are significant groups and individuals working
to make Germany a peaceful, democratic state?

How long will it require before one can be cer-
tain of the emergence of a sound and peaceful
state?

These were questions of deepest concern, But as persist-
ent as these inquiries were, there were also such
questions as: How can we help the German people
recover? What can we do, as private citizens, as private
organizations, to help the Germans meet the great prob-
lems before them?

In other words, along with deep concern over Germany,
I repeat there was hope and a most amazing eagerness to
help. Moreover, the number of people in the United
States, many Germans and many Americans, who suffered
or whose relatives suffered from Nazi barbarism, and
who still are prepared to aid Germany, never fails to
amaze me,

You know, I believe, how I answered these questions.
I told the American people that I was concerned over
the reemergence of nationalist groups; that there was in
my judgment still too much traditionalism and authori-
tarianism in German life; that many undesirable former
Nazis and nationalists were finding their way back into
important places; that there was still resistance to reforms
long overdue; that too many German people were
apathetic or negative in their approach to their political
responsibilities,

UT I ALSO said that in my judgment the picture was

positive rather than negative. I pointed out that there
is today in Germany a freely elected government and
parliament; that there are excellent men to be found in
public life, sincere in their devotion to freedom; that
there is an accumulation of progressive legislation in the
Laender; that the German newspapers are showing an
increasing alertness and tendency to give the people the
facts.

I stated that it was my conviction that the great majori-
ty of the German people want peace and would deplore
the remilitarization of Germany; that they have faith in
the unity of western Europe; and that they see them-
selves as a responsible part of western Europe. I mentioned
some of the very fine spirits, whom I had met in Germany
during the time I have been here and who gave me great
encouragement for the future of the country.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

66

I did not minimize the dangers in Germany. I pointed
out that the millions of refugees, the homeless youth, the
unemployed, added to these dangers. I said that beneath
their superficial differences the extremists on the Right
in Germany, and the Communists on the Left are totali-
tarian allies and that they would not hesitate to exploit
for their own benefit the distress of these groups.

Now I want to make a few more over-all points, One
is that the people of the West are united in regard to
Germany. There are differences of opinion and some
differences of interest which appear from time to time,
but fundamentally the guiding purpose of the officials
and peoples of the other three Occupying Powers is the
same. All are members of the Western World, all speak
peace, all seek freedom. Moreover, the Western peoples
are bound together by very vivid recollections of com-
mon sacrifices endured in many fields. In short, there is
no likelihood of wide discrepancies and there is strong
likelihood of sustained and collective support for each
other and toward a peaceful Germany.

ECONDLY, MAY I say a word or two on the subject of

collective guilt? This is a term over which much ink
has been spilt, and I hesitate, knowing the propensity of
politicians to orate on the subject, even to mention it.

There is no need to tilt at windmills. No one, least of
all the people of the United States, is charging all Ger-
mans with the responsibility for Hitler’s crimes, Their
enormity alone would preclude this. No one demands a
beating of the breast or a scene at Canossa. But what I do
expect is an end to the arguments of those Germans who
would not only deny their own guilt, but also seek to
place the responsibility for the consequences of that guilt
exclusively upon the shortcomings of other peoples

There has been recently a tendency of certain spokes-
men in this country to jump all the way from a denial
of collective guilt to an assertion that other peoples and
countries are responsible for Germany's postwar difficul-
ties and problems. In all seriousness I want you to know
that such utterances do incalculable harm and set back
the cause of Germany. They display a deep misunder-
standing of the events of the past 17 years. They call to
mind what people are now disposed to forget, that is,
the amazing docility and acquiescence of the greater part
of the German population toward Nazi outrages. After
all, it was these outrages which brought about the distress
from which Germany now suffers, and much more besides.

Humility leads to strength and not to weakness. It is the
highest form of self-respect to admit mistakes and to make
amends for them. In this critical time of German and world
history the people and the leaders of Germany have a
great opportunity to demonstrate that they have learned
these lessons of the past. They can demonstrate their good
will by attacking in a democratic manner, the deeply
serious but not insurmountable domestic problems now
facing them. Agitation of foreign issues, however tempt-
ing, cannot distract attention from vital domestic issues
and from the pressing need for domestic reforms.

In the months ahead it is imperative that the German
people, their leaders and parliaments, deal with the

MARCH 1950

--- Page 70 ---
problems of unemployment, of the refugees, of the youth.
These are major problems. If they are attacked in a states-
manlike manner, if German leaders will remember that
everything they say reaches a world audience as well as
a local one, the problems will be nearer solution, And
Germany will find that the American people and their
representatives in this country will help in their solution.

T= WESTERN NATIONS have already made unprece-
dented efforts to help. The high commissioners are
prepared, in conjunction with the federal and Land govern-
ments, to study and seek means to aid in the solution of
these problems. I am prepared to say, for myself at least,
that unemployment, for example, is not exclusively a Ger-
man problem because, if for no other reason, it is so greatly
aggravated by the influx of the refugees from the terror to
the East. In view of the fact that the United States has
already done so much to help Germany, it is difficult to
think of what more we can be reasonably asked to do.
Nevertheless, given a full measure of German endeavor,
we are certainly prepared to cooperate to the utmost.

Let me emphasize, however, and this I say particularly
to the political leaders of Germany: we Americans are not
here exclusively to feed the German people and promote
economic recovery. Nor merely to see that tanks and
planes are not built. Our main purpose is to help Germany
achieve political recovery. By that I mean to help the Ger-
man people establish a political democracy in which they
can live as free men and enjoy the benefits of their free-
dom. That is my answer to those who occasionally say
that we have no right to mix into the political problems
confronting this country.

And now I think you are entitled to know certain lines
of American policy today. Somewhat more than three
years ago, the then Secretary of State, James F. Bymes,
sounded a note of encouragement in this city to the Ger-
man people. In making the following statements, I want
to add to that hope. Here, as I see.it, are the leading prin-
ciples of our policy in this country.

The German people should be enabled to develop
their political independence along democratic lines
in close association with the free people of western
Europe, They should be integrated into a free
Europe.

The German people should, when they and their
governments have demonstrated their readiness and
responsibility, share fully in free Europe's economic
benefits and correspondingly assume its obligations.

The German people and government should take
an increasingly active part themselves in the politi-
cal and economic organization of Europe. Germany
cannot be allowed to develop political conditions or
a military status which would threaten other nations
or the peace of the world. That means there will be
no German army or air force. German security will
best be protected by German participation in a
closely-knit Western European community.

The German people, subject to the foregoing con-
siderations should have the widest freedom to shape

MARCH 1950

67

their future. The controls exercised by the Occupa-
tion Authorities should be exercised so as not to
hamper the full development of German political,
economic and cultural life.

Full support and encouragement will be given to
democratic forces in Germany.The powers reserved in
the Occupation Statute are available and intended
to prevent any resurgence of ultra-nationalistic or
anti-democratic forces which would be a threat to
the peace of Europe.

Full support will be given to the development of
the Federal Republic of Germany. All constructive
efforts to help toward the goal of the unification of
Germany on a democratic and federal basis will be
made. In spite of many obstacles we shall continue
to seek a way to advance this unity.

The city of Berlin which has already found such
a sympathetic response among the free people of
the world will continue to receive the aid and sup-
port of the people of the United States. Its strength
and spirit can give vigor and life to the new Ger-
many and all measures to bring it closer to the
people of the western republic will be encouraged.

It is American policy to foster fair trade practices
through a program of decartelization and deconcen-
tration of industry.

It is American policy that persons and organiza-
tions deprived of their property as a result of Nazi
racial and political discrimination should either
have their property returned to them or adequate
compensation given; that persons who suffered per-
sonal damage or injury through Nazi persecution
because of racial, religious or ideological reasons
should be indemnified. Their wrongs can never be
completely redressed but in all decency they must
be faced and dealt with without evasion or subter-
fuge. A recovery built on a disregard of these obli-
gations would be false and would constitute an
omen of future disaster.

N CONNECTION WITH these policies, I should like to
emphasize the following: we have all been shocked

by the recurrence of the Soviet efforts to depress the
life of the people of Berlin by interruptions in and the
slowing down of the normal traffic between the western
zones and that city. It is quite clear that protests or ex-
pressions of indignation at the callousness of such action
have no effect on those who employ these measures.

I am not going to threaten or to speak of what specific
measures the commission may, in conjunction with the
Federal Republic, apply to this situation if it continues.
All I feel I should add is that the present harassment will
no more succeed than did the former. Whatever the high
commissioners and the western republic find it necessary
to do to aid the city and to destroy the effect of these
interferences will, I know, have the support of the people
of the United States.

I would also like to say a few words about the Saar.
Whatever the solution, it must not stand in the way of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
the great concept of Germany's participation in the organ-
ization of western Europe. A sensible, statesmanlike
solution can readily be found and far too much is at stake
to permit this issue to become again the starting point
for internal political maneuvering leading only to embit-
tered Franco-German misunderstanding.

Whatever our policies may be in whatever aid we
may render, it cannot be too often repeated that only the
German people hold the key to their own peaceful and
prosperous future. They must, therefore, do some very
straight thinking regarding their position in the world.

ERMANS RIGHTLY take pride in the world citizen-

ship represented by men like Goethe and Beethoven.
These men did not think in terms of Frankfurt, Bonn,
Stuttgart, Hamburg or even Germany. They were men
of the world. Today, after a disaster of such enormous
dimensions as World War II, extraordinary opportunities
exist in Germany for a reappraisal of values and a break
with the traditions which hitherto have resulted in misery
and disaster.

The future of Germany is not a local national question.
It is an integral part of a great world problem, It requires
maturity of thought and expression as well as stability
of action, Germany can readily acquire a position in the
world by giving the sign of a regenerated spirit, a spirit
to which free peoples all over the world would quickly
respond. .

By such action Germany can acquire a world position
which no amount of German political maneuvering
between two great world powers could ever create. It
is this world concept and world responsibility which the
politician, the teacher, the pastor, the philosopher of new
Germany, must present. It is the antithesis of the concept
of world domination with which false leaders deluded the
German people to the point of destruction and even
disgrace,

One other admonition, if I may venture to state it.
I say this with the earnestness derived from experiences
in my own country. If the people of the United States,
with their long tradition of democracy, must remain
vigilant, certainly the German people, who have so
recently emerged from one of the worst abuses of in-
dividual freedom in history, must be ever on the alert. It
is essential that every German and not only a courageous
few, should recognize his own responsibility in the pro-
tection of individual rights of the processes of justice. It
is the price of all security, but most particularly of the
security of the individual. It is so easy to let things drift,
to ignore the danger signs until only heroes and martyrs
dare oppose the accumulated force of oppression.

ERE I WISH to emphasize that one of the primary

purposes of the occupation has been and is to
eradicate Nazi influence and leadership from German
political, economic and cultural life. That principle is
written into the federal and Land constitutions. The
federal and Land governments have the duty to take
adequate measures to protect the German people against
a revival of Nazism in any form.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

We will work with and support the efforts of those who
honestly and sincerely seek to accomplish that purpose,
On the other hand, we shall not hesitate to use all our
power and influence to expose and counteract any sub-
versive influences which condone or encourage the
revival of Nazism in German life. If the German people
hope again to take their place in the community of free
nations, they must demonstrate their will to insist upon
an honest and vigorous enforcement of that policy.

In the life of each nation there are critical periods of
decision. Today, five years after the war, such a period
has arrived for Germany. If the German people take full
advantage of it, they will find the road to unification, the
unification of all Germany. And they will receive the full
support of the democratic peoples of the West. -++END

a
Boston Speech, Jan. 26

Text of the speech delivered by US High Commissioner
John J. McCloy before the United Council on World Affairs
in Boston, Mass., on Jan. 26.

AM VERY HAPPY to be in Boston tonight and to be

able to discuss our progress in Germany. Germany
presents a vast problem, and a serious one. There are
many facets to it. For that reason I shall not try to survey
the entire situation. Instead, I shall take up a few ques-
tions that are uppermost in your minds, and then try to
draw scme over-all conclusions.

Before I take up those specific questions, however, I
want to fill in the background. Without this background
it is impossible to put day by day developments in their
proper place.

We, the people of the United States, are in Germany
to help the German people take a democratic road as
they go forward towards political independence.

We are in Germany to help the German people find
a close association with the peoples of western Europe.

We are in Germany to encourage the Germans and
their leaders to eliminate authoritarianism from their
government, from their social structure, from their daily
lives.

We are in Germany to persuade the Germans to over-
come the legacy left by 12 years of Hitler and the aggres-
sive acts: of earlier regimes, and we are there to see that
Germany does not rearm.

We are seeking this objective at a time when, despite
some striking economic advances in the western zone:

Germany is a divided country, with 43,000,000
Germans on one side and 18,000,000 on the other
side. of the line that separates free from communist
Europe;

Scores of German cities still lie in heavy ruins;

Nine million refugees from the east are in the
western zone without adequate homes or hopeful
prospects;

More than 1,500,000 Germans between the ages
of 14 and 35 are homeless, and

More than 1,700,000 Germans in western Ger-
many are unemployed.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 72 ---
Such is a part of the physical and psychological back-
ground against which we are trying to help the Germans
remake Germany. It is not an altogether healthy atmos-
phere for new and liberal ideas.

OW IN THE ATTEMPT to find out how far or near
we are to our goal, I shall try to answer the follow-
ing major questions:
How much nationalism is there in Germany and
how dangerous is it?
Have we given up our control too soon?
How strong are the Nazis?
What is the outlook for the future in Germany?

I shall start with the question of nationalism, I use the
word in its broadest sense. My answer is this: There is
nationalism in Germany. Yet a majority of the German
people are not nationalistic in an aggressive sense. Let
me try to explain. :

Politically, extreme nationalism now expresses itself
in the extreme rightist parties. The number of votes these
parties have in the Bundestag, the lower house of parlia-
ment, is small. This nationalist fringe has a counterpart
on the far left in the Communist Party. The communists
attempt at one and the same time to play the pro-Soviet
as well as the nationalist game, There is a tendency of
these two fringes to work together.

There are other objectionable attitudes in Germany
which permeate the structure of German society. There
is still too much authoritarianism in German thinking and
behavior, but bear in mind this trait has been there for
a long time and it takes some years and considerable
democratic experience to moderate it. There is a resist-
ance to reform, ranging from passive opposition to ob-
struction. There is resistance, for example, to civil service
reform, resistance to school reform.

There is also political and social inertia. Many Germans
lack the interest and responsibility which are necessary
to the functioning of a democratic government. There
is a deep tendency to leave responsibility to others, There
is only a thin belief as yet that the government belongs
to the people and not the people to the government,
that civil servants are servants of the people and not
their masters.

LONG WITH THIS inertia goes cynicism. Most Ger-
mans feel that their political parties are made up of
selfish men, whose interests are personal and not public.
Here then is the ground from which either of the
extremist parties might gain strength. Nevertheless, when
we summarize the situation we find that at the present
time —I emphasize the present time —the nationalist
forces do not present a serious threat in western Ger-
many. Their combined strength, as I have said, is small.
They are not fully organized They do not have an ef-
fective formula, They now, at least, lack political support.
They do not have an outstanding leader. But in view of the
serious economic problems in Germany — growing unem-
ployment, influx of refugees from the east, inadequate
housing — the potentialities of any extremist movement
cannot be discounted.

MARCH 1950

69

This picture is not too bright, I have purposely painted
it first in rather dark colors. I now want to tell’ you why,
nevertheless, I think the positive side of the picture in
Germany is brighter than the negative, and why I have
hope for the creation of a democratic Germany. Before
I do, however, I want you to keep the following in mind:

The nationalist forces you have recently been reading
about were not born overnight. The only change is that
now, with a constitution and parliament, and the free-
doms that go with them, the nationalist forces are
more vocal,

The Germans now have a public forum. It is better for
us, better for the new-born German democratic system
to have these nationalist elements express themselves
and disclose their feelings. They are less dangerous above
ground than below.

Moreover, we are not without our sources of informa-
tion about these and other groups and we have important
reserve powers in the event dangerous trends should
develop: I would not hesitate to exercise those powers
firmly and swiftly if the emergency should justify it.

I WANT TO MAKE that point clear before taking up
the encouraging and positive factors that prevail in
Germany.

1, Let us keep in mind that today in western Germany
there is a freely-elected government and parliament. This
government is new, and it has much to learn. It could
not be otherwise after the insidious years of Hitler, But
whether this government, in its political and social legis-
lation, tends to the right or left or center, its direction is
generally democratic. It needs experience, it needs
stability. Occasionally it may need a warning but all in all
it has the basis for democratic growth,

2. The German parliament is made up in large part of
representatives who resisted Hitler, men who were in
concentration camps, men associated with the Weimar
Republic which Hitler liquidated, labor union represen-
tatives and other liberal-minded citizens, Dr. Adenauer,
the head of the government, was removed from office
by the Nazis. His wife died as a result of her experiences
in a concentration camp, Kurt Schumacher, head of the
powerful Social Democratic Party, spent seven years in
a concentration camp. Werner Hilpert, one of the most
prominent members of the Christian Socialist Party and
deputy minister president of Hesse, spent seven years in
Buchenwald. I could list many more.

3. In the Laender, which correspond roughly to our
states, the officials, for the most part, are men originally
selected by Military Government for positions of authority
because of their anti-Nazi records. These leaders have
since been confirmed in their offices in free elections.

4, The Laender parliaments have passed many liberal
and progressive pieces of legislation, This legislation re-
flects a strong and voluntary tendency to draw away
from Nazi concepts.

5. The German press is demonstrating growing vigor.
It has weaknesses, and some newspapers play the na-
tionalist game. But it is important to understand that
the democratic press which we helped start in Germany

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
after the war is more than holding its own, in circulation
and in advertising, against publishers of the Nazi period
who have recently returned to business. The democratic
press has demonstrated an instinct to catch political
abuses, to expose them and to help develop public
opinion. It is teaching the politicians of Germany that
they are under the public spotlight.

6, There are many individuals in Germany and many
small groups of people who are working faithfully and
intelligently to break authoritarian habits. They include
students and teachers, editors and politicians, social work-
ers and trade-union leaders and they are extending their
influence.

HERE ARE OTHER general trends of a positive nature.

Despite their apathy the German people prefer rep-
resentative government as opposed to dictatorship of
the Nazi or Communist type. A majority of Germans are
opposed, certainly for the present, to any form of militar-
ism and war. The German people today have no desire
for further military adventures.

And most encouraging is the fact that the Germans
in general are interested in the European idea, in the
attempts to consolidate Europe. They are willing to give
up elements of real sovereignty to achieve this end, It
may well be that this willingness to renounce sovereignty
and to turn their backs on militarism is the result of
their defeat, Whatever the cause, the willingness exists,
and its existence can serve as the basis for constructive
measures if they are taken in time. Today the idea of
western European consolidation represents to many Ger-
mans, and particularly to the youth, one of the best hopes
for the future.

Such are the positive factors. It is unfortunate that the
positive work going on in Germany is frequently un-
dramatic and often goes unreported.

NOW TURN to the second question. Have we given

up our controls too soon? I have already indicated, I
think, the answer to that question. This was a decision
deliberately taken by the Allied powers after careful con-
sideration about one year ago, Though that decision was
one with which I had nothing to do, I definitely believe
it to have been a wise decision. I feel that it was right
to give the Germans a chance to demonstrate their ability
to govern themselves. Democracy is a gradual process,
it has to be lived and breathed. It can never be imposed
and it can never, without exercise, be developed.

And here it is important to point out that though we
have given up many controls we still retain the ultimate
controls, We have reserved, under the Occupation Statute,
certain powers that enable us to take action when action
is necessary. These reserve powers include such fields
as disarmament, demilitarization, decartelization and
foreign affairs, And in cases of grave emergency, we
retain the power to resume the exercise of complete
authority.

We have organized in conjunction with our French and
British allies a Military Security Board. This board is
charged with preventing the revival of military and para-
military organizations. It also guards against German

INFORMATION BULLETIN

70

manufacture or import of arms and war materials. It
guards against the emergence of: scientific research
directed to war-like industries. It insures, for example,
that there will be no construction of airplanes in Ger-
many. Last month (December) the Allied High Commission
took a further step by issuing a decree forbidding all
German military organizations, semi-military organiza-
tions and any organizations which require their members
to be war veterans.

We have further sought to safeguard democratic in-
terests by the institution of the International Authority
of the Ruhr. Although this organization has not yet as-
sumed its full status, it will play in the future an im-
portant role. Through this authority we want to make
certain that the resources of the Ruhr will be developed
not only to contribute to a stable German economy, but
also that in the future they will not be used for purposes
of aggression, I have made it clear that we still have
power to act in Germany and I also hope I have made
it clear why we do not act every time the jarring note
of a nationalist voice is raised.

TURN NOW to the third question — is Nazism re-

surgent in Germany? My answer to that is that it is
not — that Nazism as such no longer has an appeal to
the German people. That does not mean that a considera-
ble number of former Nazi Party members are not com-
ing back into the general community life. It would be
strange and unnatural if they were not. I should like to
repeat here what I recently said on this problem.

There are persons in important, though not top govern-
mental jobs, who held similar positions under the Nazi
regime. A number of undesirable people have found their
way back into leading positions in the business life of
Germany. Then again there has been the general return
of the follower type to their former jobs, the thousands
of Germans who were school teachers, mail carriers,
government clerks, tax officials under the Weimar Re-
public, who were forced to join the Nazi Party to hold
their jobs or who climbed on the Nazi bandwagon, and
who today are back in similar positions.

These people have gone through a denazification pro-
cess which was generally completed before I took office.
They have now been reinstated after paying their penal-
ties or after being acquitted. This process may have left
much to be desired.

I believe, however, that the time has come to permit
these so-called little Nazis to demonstrate their loyalty
to the new Germany and to judge them on that basis
rather than on their past weaknesses and misdeeds. They
cannot and should not be excluded forever from the
normal life of the community, Obviously all this does not
tefer to the major Nazi offenders who are paying and
should continue to pay for their unspeakable crimes.

OW YOU WILL ASK me what is our program for
the future. I shall try to state it briefly:

We must seek a unification of all occupation zones of
Germany on a democratic and federal basis, and we shall
assist all efforts of the Federal Republic of Germany to-
ward that end. We will likewise do everything in our

MARCH 1956

--- Page 74 ---
power to prevent a unification of Germany under Soviet
or Communist domination.

We must continue to be alert and uncompromising on
true security issues.

We must continue to insist on the equitable treatment
of Hitler's victims and their heirs.

We must help the Germans solve as rapidly as possible
the critical social and economic problems of Germany —
serious problems which the rise in production figures
tends to conceal. We must encourage the idea and prac-
tice of free methods of trade in Germany. By this I do
not mean that we desire to impose any specific economic
system on the Germans. But a free economy in Germany
is the key to the development of free social and political
institutions. This means we must oppose all monopolies
and cartels designed to strangle competition, At the same
time we must take measures to prohibit Germany from
joining any international cartels.

We should maintain, as far as lies within our power,
unified policy with respect to Germany among the three
occupying powers of the west — Britain, France and the
United States. We should bend every effort to encourage
Germany to take, if need be, the first steps to bring about
a true partnership of western Europe and induce the
other western European powers to accept this principle
for themselves and for Germany. I feel convinced that
this concept of western European unity and partnership
is the desire and will of the common people of Europe
and it should not be denied them.

We should continue to press and encourage the Ger-
man governments and people to adopt liberal, progressive
measures throughout Germany, whether or not these
measures are within our powers to dictate.

We must encourage and stimulate every effort to give
the youth of Germany justified hope in the future. Here,
I think, is our greatest challenge and hope. We Ameri-
cans are peculiarly fitted to help the Germans toward
the goal of democratization, It is my intention and that
of my staff in Germany to reinvigorate our whole program
in this field. We shall use all our power and resources —
and they are large — to help the schools and universities,
the trade unions and churches, the press and radio — in
other words, all those institutions which can be made the
bulwarks of freedom. Here we Americans in Germany
are taking, as we should, the lead, and in the year ahead
it is my hope that we shall make real progress in this field.

ND NOW, LET me strike a balance. There will be
new evidences of nationalism in Germany, There will
be setbacks. As I have said before there are still some
evil embers lying about in Germany and embers are
always dangerous. They are particularly dangerous when

inflammatory material is nearby. Such material exists,”

if nowhere else, in the growing number of unemployed
in western Germany, in the millions of German refugees
from the Soviet Zone and the lands beyond the Oder-
Neisse line, in the homeless youth.

There is danger in Germany. But if there were no
danger we would not be there. Germany constitutes a
danger within itself and an even more fearful danger

MARCH 1950

71

if allied with or subordinated to the interests of the Soviet
Union. But despite the dangers I find strong basis for hope.

I have given you some of my reasons for hope. These
reasons do not justify counsel of despair. Nor does the
record of the earlier German contribution to world culture
and thought, nor does the record of our own citizens of
German origin who have so widely given us the example
of good citizenship, To succeed, however, we Americans
must now redouble our efforts to solve the German prob-
lem. Those of us in Germany need your support. In parti-
cular, we need your support in the field of education and
the spiritual development of the country. We need the
help of all of you — private groups, colleges, universities,
foundations, churches, Those who give us aid will have
our fullest support.

OR EXAMPLE, I wish you could see the people of the

western sector of Berlin. They know totalitarianism
and they have stood and are standing firmly against its
threat. That stand and our own interest demand that we
shall maintain our post in Berlin and aid that city. I know
of no better place than Boston to tell the people of Ber-
lin — we shall stand firmly with them against the attempts
to overcome their freedom.

To the example of Berlin I should like to add the story
of an individual. I think it will reveal why many of us
working in Germany have faith in the future of the Ger-
man people. It is the story of a girl, her inspiration and
her work.

Back in 1943, when Hitler's ruthless control in Germany
was uncontested, a small group of students at the Uni-
versity of Munich decided that they must take their stand
against Hitlerism. They dared to spread anti-Hitler pro-
paganda, they dared to persuade others, Among them
were a brother and sister from Ulm, a city not far from
Munich. The Gestapo caught these students, and the
brother and sister were publicly hanged as a warning
to the German people.

Those two martyrs left behind a sister. In the name
of the dead so dear to her, the sister is now devoting
her life to enlightening the German people. After the war,
she started a night adult education school in Ulm. She
had little or no money, there were no rooms available
in that badly damaged city, there were no teachers, But
the girl had an idea and she never gave up.

Today her school has 2,500 students between the ages
of 17 and 70. It is a school dedicated to the democratic
idea. By the power of her example and spirit she is able
to find lecturers and teachers, who come for a pittance
to instruct the students.

Last week this girl with a mission came to my house
near Frankfurt. At the dinner table she told us about her
plans to expand the school to a day institution, where
students would be welcomed from the rest of Germany.
Thave not the power to describe her voice and her manner.

HERE ARE OTHERS equally inspiring and whose at-
tachment to freedom and the democratic concept has
been tested by persecution of a character I hope neither
you nor I shall ever be called upon to endure. Though

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
these constitute only a pitifully few compared with the
great majority of the German people there are enough
of them still alive who, taken with similar courageous
ones, now dead, constitute such a sufficiently large num-
ber as to give one faith that anew Germany can develop
on the basis of their example and sacrifice.

We shall as long as we are in Germany see that these
spirits are not ground down by any resurgent forces of
nationalism or Nazism. Our task is to give the survivors

and the youth of the country aid and encouragement.
But in the last analysis the Germans themselves must
make the choice. It cannot be imposed by force or pro-
paganda if it is to be the right choice and if it is to be lasting.

I know that in future our task will be difficult. But,
if we encourage the best Germans, if we stand firm as
we will against any retreat into the past, I have real faith
that Germany will become a peaceful member of the
western world. --END

Grandparents Set Inspiring Example in Aid to Refugees

HEN TWO AMERICAN grandparents went abroad

last spring for a first-hand glimpse of postwar
Europe, they were so deeply touched by the misery and
suffering they saw in Bavaria’s refugee camps that they
decided to do something constructive to ease the plight
of these homeless unfortunates.

Since their return to America, Louis A. Weil, president ~

and editor of the Port Huron (Mich.) Times Herald, and
his wife, Blanche, faithfully kept their vow. Together they
have devoted considerable time and effort to bringing
some cheer and comfort to countless war victims.

In addition to their own generous contributions of dol-
lars and gifts, Mr. and Mrs. Weil have rallied the support
of many of their friends and readers of their newspaper
behind the help-the-refugee drive they conceived. The re-
sult has been a steady stream of money and gifts of toys
and sorely-needed garments.

Fees they received in recounting their European travel
experiences and observations before various Michigan
organizations and clubs were forwarded to the Office of
the State Commissioner for Bavaria to be used in buying
necessities for Bavaria’s refugee camp children. And to
top off their assistance, the couple published a book, ap-
propriately entitled ‘Grandparents Go Abroad," and are
donating all profits from the literary venture to further
ease the refugee children’s problems.

William R. Gosser, chief of the Public Welfare and Dis-
placed Persons Branch, OLCB, said that the couple's
generous efforts were invaluable in the recent Christmas
toy fund drive conducted by Americans in Munich for re-
fugee camp children.

“They have been an inspiration to us in our work among
the refugees,’ Mr. Gosser declared. ‘‘Without the com-
mendable aid of Mr.and Mrs. Weil and the many friends
they induced to assist our toy drive, we would have found
it difficult indeed to meet our pledge of at least one toy
and an article of clothing for the 25,000 refugee children
in Bavarian camps."

Mr. Gosser said money contributions from the couple
alone have exceeded $800 to date. And the checks are
still coming in.

“Mr. and Mrs. Weil more than did their share in our
Christmas fund campaign,” he added, “but they haven't
stopped at that. They are continuing their tireless efforts
because they are well aware the needy children's problems

INFORMATION BULLETIN

72

accumulate not only at Christmas time but, unfortunately,
are year around.”

The Michigan couple came to Europe in May 1949 in
response to a personal invitation from Murray D. Van
‘Wagoner, then director of OMG Bavaria, who was anxious
that they see Germany. They accepted the invitation, and
at their own expense made a thorough study of political,
economic and social conditions.

During their four-week tour, they provided their friends
with a vivid running account of the things they did and
saw in a series of newsletters which were published in the
Port Huron Times Herald and other Michigan newspapers.

17 Germans “Transplanted”

Seventeen “transplanted Germans — West Germany's
ERP representation in Washington, D.C. — have weathered
the initial handicaps of a foreign land and are now “a well
qualified team which is doing an excellent job in carrying
out its important liaison functions.”

“All of them speak good English and are generally
well-adjusted to their new surroundings," according to
Carl R. Mahder of the ECA Special Mission to Germany.
“They have found out that although life is very dif-
ferent in the United States than Germany, the dif-
ference is not so great that they are handicapped in
their work.”

The 17 were selected and are paid by the German
government. They now handle all requests for ECA aid
from Germany, maintaining a liaison between the ERP
Ministry in Bonn and ECA in Washington.

Mr. Mahder returned to Frankfurt from Washington
in January after launching the German liaison crew on
its work in the US capital.

Photos Taken at Mt. Palomar Shown

A series of lectures on astronomy, with a showing of
the first pictures taken with the new high powered
telescope at Mt. Palomar in California, were held in US
information centers of the US occupied area in February.

With his lectures, Dr. Werner Sandner of the Munich
observatory, showed photographs to illustrate the newest
achievements of the American super telescope. He also
discussed observatories in the United States.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 76 ---
Personnel Notes

Dr. Bowie Named General Counsel

Dr. Robert R. Bowie, former Baltimore attorney and a
professor at Harvard Law School, has been appointed
general counsel of HICOG, succeeding Chester A. McLain,
who resigned the position early in February. Mr. McLain
came to Germany in July
1949 from the World Bank
for which he was general
counsel.

The Office of the Gen-
eral Counsel at the same
time announced the reor-
ganization of its Decartel-
ization and Deconcentration
Division and the appoint-
ment of six men to this
division, including a new
chief and deputy chief,
recruited almost exclusively
from the Anti-trust Division
of the Justice Department
and the Securities and Ex-
change Commission. These
appointments are expected to bring to the division men with
special experience in the field of anti-trust legislation.

Grant Kelleher, a former head of the Boston office of
the Anti-trust Division, was appointed chief of the De-
cartelization and Deconcentration Division, HICOG;
Sidney Willner, former deputy chief of the Holding Com-
pany Division of the SEC, was appointed deputy chief
of the Decartelization Division. Others appointed to this
division include Joseph McDowell and William Kirk-
patrick of the Anti-trust Division; Joseph Auerbach of
the SEC, and Francis D. Murnaghan, Jr., Philadelphia
practicing attorney.

In announcing these appointments, the Office of the
General Counsel emphasized that this reorganization
does not represent any change in policies but was under-
taken to obtain the services of personnel with specialized
skills and experience in the enforcement of anti-trust
laws and in the field of corporate reorganization.

A graduate of Princeton University and Harvard Law
School, Dr. Bowie practiced law in Baltimore until 1941
when he was named assistant attorney general for the
State of Maryland. In 1942, he was commissioned by the
War department, serving in the legal branch of the Of-
fice of the Director of Material, ASF, and later with the
Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion. Immedi-
ately after the war he came to Germany as an assistant
to General Lucius D. Clay, then deputy military governor.

In Germany, Dr. Bowie assisted in setting up the Mili-
tary Government, served as executive secretary to the
Denazification Policy Board and worked on Military
Government regulations. He was awarded the Legion of
Merit in Frankfurt in 1945 and the following year re-

Dr. Robert R. Bowie

MARCH 1950

73

ceived an oak leaf cluster to this decoration. He held
the rank of lieutenant colonel in the Army before he
returned to civilian life in 1946. He joined the faculty
of Harvard Law School after separation from the Army.

John J. Barron, former chief of the Legislation Branch,
Legal Division, OMGUS, has been acting chief of the
Decartelization Division since last September. For the
time being, he will assist Mr. Kelleher until the latter
has become acquainted with the work of the office.

Mr. Kelleher was graduated from Montana Law School
in 1934 and served as a special attorney with the Justice
Department from 1934 to 1938. From 1938 to 1948 he was
special assistant to the US attorney general. In 1948 he
left the Department of Justice to engage in private prac-
tice in Washington.

Mr. Willner was graduated from Harvard Law School
in 1938 and has been with the SEC since then, except
for a period of war service. Mr. McDowell was with the
Patents and Cartels Section of the Anti-trust Division.
He will serve with the Decartelization Division as a
specialist in cartel and deconcentration work.

Mr. Kirkpatrick, Mr. Auerbach and Mr. Murnaghan are
graduates of Harvard Law School.

Dr. Read Takes E&CR Duties

Dr. James Morgan Read, an outstanding American
educator, arrived in Germany Jan. 19 to take up his
duties as chief of the Education and Cultural Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

a: Dr. Read, who resigned
as director of the Foreign
Service Section of the
American Friends Service
Committee to accept the
HICOG post, is familiar
with many of the education
and cultural problems in
Germany since the organi-
zation has one of its largest
welfare units in Germany.

The division he heads,
with headquarters in Bad
Nauheim, has six branches
including: education,
ligious affairs, community,
women's and youth act-
ivities, government — in-
stitutions, information centers (Amerika Haeuser), and
public health and welfare,

Shortly after his arrival at Frankfurt from the United
States, Dr. Read said: “I am happy to be back in Ger-
many again for this challenging job. My last impression
in the United States was of the intense public interest
in the educational and social scene of Germany, with
literally hundreds of organizations desiring to participate
actively in a program of cooperation towards a Germany
integrated into a democratic Europe."

In announcing Dr. Read's arrival, Ralph Nicholson,
director of the Office of Public Affairs, of which the

ter

Dr. James Morgan Read

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 77 ---
Education and Cultural Relations Division is one of the
most important branches, declared:

“We think Dr. Read is one of the best qualified men
in the United States for this undertaking. The High Com-
missioner and his associates are happy in having been
able to persuade him to take the position. He has
so many of the essential qualities which make him
eminently fitted for the job: fluency in the German
language, knowledge of the German scene, present and
past, a deep sense of mission, and demonstrated ad-
ministrative abilities.

“His educational background, including Doctor of
Philosophy degrees of the University of Chicago and
the University of Marburg in Germany, studies at the
University of Berlin, and his experience at the Univer-
sity of Louisville, is evidence of his high standing and
ability as a scholar and educator.

“The High Commissioner and his associates are deeply
grateful to the American Friends Service Committee
and to Clarence E. Pickett, its executive secretary, for
releasing Dr. Read for this task. He comes from an
organization that still enjoys in Europe today the
enviable position that it gained after World War I."

Dr. Read, born at Camden, N. J., and a graduate of
Dickenson College, studied at the University of Berlin
1929-1930 and at the University of Marburg from 1930
to 1932, as an exchange student under the Institute of
International Education, where he was awarded a doctor
of philosophy degree, magna cum laude.

Returning to America he was an instructor at Dicken-
son College and later at the University of Louisville
(1935-1943) where he served as professor of history and
chairman of the department of political sciences. He is
author of several books, including “Europe — 1870 to
1918," "Atrocity Propaganda, 1914 to 1918,” and numerous
magazine articles.

Dr. Charles E. Winning, who has been acting as chief
of the Education and Cultural Relations Division since
the resignation of Dr. Alonzo G. Grace in October, is
returning to his position as chief of the Public Affairs
Division, Office of the Land Commissioner of Bavaria.

William T. Babcock

The death of William T. Babcock, US deputy com-
missioner of Berlin Element HICOG, of a heart attack in
Berlin Jan. 24, ended the career of one of the original
men assigned to come into Germany with the start of
the occupation.

Holding the rank of colonel before he civilianized, he
had been a SHAEF staff officer in Frankfurt in the sum-
mer of 1945, being chief public safety officer of the US
Zone. He continued in the same position with G-5 USFET
when SHAEF was dissolved and moved to Berlin in
January 1946 as public safety officer. He was appointed
deputy director of OMG Berlin Sector May 1, 1946, con-
tinuing in similar capacity under HICOG.

US High Commissioner McCloy paid tribute to Colonel
Babcock by saying his death was “a great shock to the
High Commissioner and to thestaff in Berlin and Frankfurt.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

74

Colonel Babcock (right) at the first meeting of the Berlin
Kommandatura of the three Western Powers on Jan. 4,
1949, sitting next to Col. (later Brig. Gen.) Frank L. Howley,
US commandant, and Gen. J. Ganeval, French commandant.
(Photo by courtesy of Associated Press, from Die Neue Zeitung)

Secretary of State Dean Acheson sent a message from
Washington saying, “He was a loyal officer and faithful
aid to General Clay, General Taylor and to me..I am
sure his death was hastened by the heavy strain and the
incessant labors he undertook in the service of his
country.”

Among other condolences were messages from Maj.
Gen. George P. Hays, deputy high commissioner; Ben:
jamin J. Buttonwieser, assistant high commissioner;
Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US commander, Berlin;
Maj. Gen. Jean Ganeval, French commandant of Berlin;
Maj. Gen. A. Kotikov, Soviet representative in Berlin;
and Mayor Ernst Reuter of Berlin.

Burial was in the Arlington National Cemetery.

Howard P. Jones, chief of the Economics Affairs Divi-
sion, Berlin Element, HICOG, is serving as acting deputy
commissioner, Berlin Element, temporarily replacing
Colonel Babcock.

General Huebner to Retire

Lt. Gen. Clarence R. Huebner, deputy EUCOM com-
mander-in-chief and commanding general of the US Army
in Europe, recently disclosed that he plans to retire from
the army this year.

“This is my last hitch. I plan to retire in the fall as I
will have reached the statutory age for retirement," he
told representatives of EUCOM post and command
comptrollers at the final session of a two-day conference
held at EUCOM Headquarters in Heidelberg.

German American Club Election

C. S. Wright, US resident officer in Munich, was re-
elected American president, and Herr Thomas Wimmer,
Mayor of Munich, was elected German president of the

MARCH 1950

--- Page 78 ---
Munich German American Mens’ Club at its annual
meeting held recently. Other 1950 officers are: Dr. Anton
Fingerle, school superintendent of Munich, vice-president;
Major Thurman A. Hale, treasurer; and Herr Max Josef
Ritzinger, secretary.

The accomplishments of the Munich German Ameri-
can Mens' Club during 1949 included the safety-drive
and lottery, conducted for the purpose of raising funds
for the production of a safety film to be “shot" on the
streets of Munich. It was reported that the filming has
been completed, and as soon as it has been processed
will be distributed for use in’ the 1950 Safety Drive.

Marshall New ECA Deputy Chief
Charles E. Marshall has been appointed deputy to
Robert M. Hanes, chief of the ECA Special Mission to
3 Western Germany and di-
rector of the Office of
Economic Affairs, HICOG.

Mr. Marshall, who for
the past year and a half
has been chief of the Ger-
man-Austria Branch of
ECA, Washington, D.C.,
returned to Frankfurt from
Washington after consult-
ing with ECA and State
Department officials for
three weeks. During No-
vember and early December,
1949, he served as a spe-
cial assistant to the ECA
Mission in Germany and
helped negotiate the ECA
Bilateral Agreement with Western Germany which was
signed in Frankfurt on Dec. 15.

Acquainted with economic problems of Germany, he
made approximately six surveys and visits to western
Germany while he was chief of ECA's German-Austria
Branch. His first study was conducted with Undersecretary
of the Army Tracy Voorhees during August 1948.

A native New Yorker, Mr. Marshall is on leave of
absence from the United States Rubber Company which
he joined in 1936. From 1946 to 1948 he was manager
of the company's allied products department. During
the war he served with the US Navy as a lieutenant
commander aboard the USS Tennessee in the Pacific area.
He is a graduate of Yale University, class of 1932.

Charles E. Marshall

Heads British Information Center

H. Forster Anderson has been appointed director of
the British Information Center in Munich. He was for-
merly director of Information Centers in the British Zone
of Germany.

General Thorson to Potsdam

Brig. Gen.'Truman C. Thorson has arrived in Germany
for an assignment as chief of the US Liaison Mission
to the commander-in-chief of the Soviet Occupation
Forces, with headquarters in Potsdam. Col. William

MARCH 1950

75

Hones has been acting chief of the Mission pending
General Thorson‘s arrival. =

General Thorson served 46 months overseas during
World War I, During World War II, he served as a staff
officer with the 82nd Airborne Division, and as a regi-
mental commander in the 28th Infantry Division, before
he was ordered to Sicily as G-3 for Gen. Omar N. Bradley,
then Commanding General of the 2nd Corps.

Bremen has Consulate General

The US Department of State in Washington has an-
nounced that the American Consulate in Bremen was
raised to the rank of a Consulate General on Feb. 1,
according to an announcement by the US Department
of State in Washington.

The Bremen office was established in 1794 during the
presidency of George Washington, being one of the
oldest American consular offices in the world. It still
has the exequator signed by the first president. The
Bremen Consulate General continues to be under its
present principal officer, Consul General Maurice W.
Altaffer, who opened the postwar office. +END

German Employees Get Pay
Increases Throughout US Zone

Wage increases ranging from four to 12 percent for
hourly-paid German and non-German resident employees
of US occupation forces have been approved and will
be retroactive to Jan. 1, the Office of Labor Affairs,
HICOG, and European Command Headquarters announced.

The wage boosts amount to approximately four percent
in Bremen, five percent in Wuerttemberg-Baden, six per-
cent in Hesse and 12 percent in Bavaria for employees of
the US Forces paid on an hourly basis from EUCOM
Deutsche-mark budgets, or by non-appropriated fund
agencies. The raises are applicable to employees of
HICOG and US Armed Forces in Germany.

The new rates will be reflected in payments of wages
made to the employees affected on March 15 for work
performed during February. Because of the administrative
details involved in figuring the amounts of retroactive
pay, wage adjustments for work done in January may be
carried over into March payrolls.

The wage raises are in line with the announced policies
of the US High Commissioner for Germany and the
commander-in-chief of the European Command to pay
German employees of the US Forces wages and salaries
comparable to those paid by German industry.

A zone-wide survey was conducted by EUCOM last
October and November to determine if the wage and
salary rates for German employees of US Forces were
commensurate with those paid by German firms. Compari-
sons showed that the salaried employees, such as those
in administrative, professional or clerical positions were
being paid salaries equal to, or slightly better than those
paid by the German employers. The survey also disclosed
that hourly-paid workers, such as skilled, unskilled and
manual laborers of the US forces in many instances were
receiving wages below those paid for similar work in
German industries.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 79 ---
Occupation Log

This section is compiled from adaptations of official reports, an-
nouncements and statements of HICOG, Allied High Commission,
Allied headquarters, EUCOM and subordinate occupation organizations,
public-relations releases, excerpts from other occupation publications,
and information irom authoritative German sources.

35 US Films Approved

Shirley Temple, Bob Hope and Hollywood Indians will
romp across West Germany's movie screens during the
remaining months of 1950, according to a list of US films
now headed overseas, Thirty-five feature-length movies
received US okay last year for release in Germany — and
the American outlook is going to be shown through such
box-office busters as "The Great Waltz," ‘The Snake Pit,"
“The Bachelor and the Bobby Soxer" and “Drums Along
the Mohawk."

Receipts from the films will be partially convertible
into dollars, according to a contract signed between the
ECA Special Mission to Germany and the Motion Picture
Export Association, Inc. The guaranty covers converti-
bility of Deutsche mark receipts up to a total of $636,400.

US Guide Book for Germans

Everything from “baggage” to ""YWCA" has been in-
cluded in the new Exchanges Division handbook for Ger-
mans making exchange-program trips to the United States.

Such perplexing problems as how to use an American
dial telephone, when, where — and how much — to tip,
and how to shake hands in the good old American way
are included in the booklet entitled, “You Are On Your
Way to the United States."

The handbook was drawn up in response to suggestions
from Germans returning from the United States, and
supplements the more complete training courses con-
ducted by the Exchanges Division.

Hesse Rejects Labor Corps Plan

A plan for a youth labor corps in the state of Hesse
— aimed at alleviating its serious unemployment prob-
lem — got thumbs down treatment from the Hessian
state government in January. i

The government told a special committee, organized to
study juvenile problems, that a real remedy must be
found to ameliorate the plight of Hessian youth, but
rejected the labor corps plan. Up for consideration is a
proposal to grant tax reductions to artisans willing to
employ additional apprentices.

The problem is undergoing further study as the com-
mittee meets with representatives of youth organizations,
the state labor office, welfare and refugee organizations.

Britain, France Recruiting Workers

Recruiting of Germans for work in Britain and France
has attracted little more than a sidelong glance from
Hessians although unemployment has been rising steadily.

Since May only approximately 550 workers have
answered the call for work in French mines, farms and
the metal industry, The French believe the low response
is traceable to German rumors which depict a low standard
of living and unfavorable working conditions in France

British authorities, who began last May to recruit young
Sudeten women for work in the British textile industry,
so far have enrolled a total of 133 girls in Hesse. To
underline their campaign, they have since extended the
program to all ethnic Germans, are advertising through
letters and films to prospective employees.

DPs Staunchly Upheld

The oft-maligned DPs have received a hearty defense
from a man who knows their problems wel! — Alex E.
Squadrilli, European Coordinator for the US Displaced
Persons Commission,

Election Day smiles are exhibited by six women of Bad Tolz, chosen to direct the activities of a newly-formed American
Women's Club in that community. Left to right in photo at right are program chairman, Mrs.H.H. Sittner; treasurer, Mrs.
E, P. Simonds; vice-president, Mrs. E. J. Wilson; president, Mrs. A. J. Rankin; secretary, Mrs. H.P. Cohen; and hospitality
chairman, Mrs. T.W. Donnell. A first-day tea was held by the club. Mrs. Franz Egger, wife of the HICOG Resident Officer in
Kreis Tolz, is shown serving (photo at left) as Mrs. Claude G. Beasley, hostess for the event, (right) looks on. (US Army photos)

(INFORMATION BULLETIN

MARCH 1950

--- Page 80 ---
“The DPs have been a controversial subject ever since
... 1945. When attacked by Soviets at international
meetings, they are labeled ‘collaborators and fascists.’
When attacked from other unsympathetic sources, they
are called ‘Communists and criminals.’ I think their record
of behavior... speaks for itself, and it is unfortunate...
to cast a...cloud on their reputation.

“As to Communists knowingly being passed by the
Commission for entry into the United States, ... the Com-
mission does not issue visas, and every case file, includ-
ing the full investigative report, is scrutinized by a US
vice-consul before he issues a visa, and by an inspector
of the US Immigration and Naturalization Service... It is
hardly possible for the case to get by this double scrutiny.”

Difference Seen in US Freedom

Individual freedom in America, the deep sense of the
importance of political and social participation, and the
polite and sincere personal relation among people were
selected by four German jurists as the most conspicuous
differences between American and German life.

The four jurists, recently returned from a trip to the
United States, reported that while principles of justice
are the same in the United States and in a democratically-
minded Germany, the legal systems show many basic
differences,

Visitors to the United States under sponsorship of
HICOG's Exchanges Division, the four said they were
highly impressed with the quality of American law
students, with the idealism expressed by them in political
discussions and with their sincere and cordial attitudes.
All expressed belief that their trips to America would
be of distinct help to them in Germany.

HICOG Rescues Inoculation Program

It looked as though the Danish Red Cross tuberculosis
inoculation program would be terminated Jan. 15 this
year — but HICOG staged a twelfth-hour rescue.

HICOG has agreed to accept financial responsibility
to continue incomplete inoculation work in Bavaria.
The Danish Red Cross now plans to retain a technical
and administrative staff in Germany from Jan. 15 through
July 15, 1950, to complete the program, Funds from US
sources will support the program until then; thereafter
it is expected that German resources will be available
to continue the work.

War Crimes Suspects Being Repatriated

Persons from eastern Europe, against whom there has
been presented substantial evidence of implication in
alleged war crimes, are being returned to the countries
of the accusers to stand trial.

This was demonstrated in January when HICOG co-
Operated in the request of the Polish government for the
extradition of two Polish displaced persons, a father and
son, accused of murder and persecution of Jews in Poland
during the war. The two were delivered to the Polish
authorities for trial in Poland.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ECA Playing No Favorites

“Marshall Plan funds must not play favorites."

Being limited, ECA aid must be fed into the most pro-
ductive channels of West Germany industry, according
to a statement by Germany's ECA Mission chief, Robert
M. Hanes.

“The hope of the Marshall Plan," said Mr. Hanes, “is
that all of Western Europe will be joined into one
economic union.” He urged business men to abandon old
concepts of trading areas, stated that markets must go to
the most efficient producer.

Stanley Sisson, Economic Affairs chief for Hesse, se-
conded the motion. He urged elimination of waste and
inefficiency from German production, and an all-out
effort to close the dollar gap.

“To waste one single economic resource of this country
is tantamount to sabotage," he said.

Clothing Gifts Aid College Youth

American gifts of clothing to Free University students
in Berlin during the past year have assisted nearly 2,000
needy young people, including several hundred refugee-
students from the Soviet Zone, Berlin Element's Educa-
tion Branch announced.

Clothing gifts, including suits, coats, dresses, under
garments and footwear, were supplied by several Ameri-
can religious and welfare organizations and by private
individuals. Notable among the contributors was Stan-
ford University in California which channeled considera-
ble supplies through CRALOG (Cooperative of Relief
Agencies Licensed for Operation in Germany) to Free
University students.

Nearly 1,700 students of the Free University received
at least one garment each from the project, and an ad-
ditional 266 refugee-students from the Soviet Zone were
fully clothed.

$10.44 per man was the record of the Erding Air Depot in
the recent March of Dimes Drive —and even then, the
drive had not been completed. With understandable pride,
Capt. Benjamin Hill, chairman of the drive, presents acheck
for $30,841.20 to Lt.Gen. John K. Cannon, Commanding
General USAFE, in the presence of Col. Park Holland, CO
of the 85th Air Depot Wing at Erding, and Capt. Jeanne
M. Holm, Assistant Wing Operations Officer. Collections
within the confines of the base itself registered a per capita
contribution of $11.67; the lower figure was computed on
the basis of collections from smaller units within the
Erding complex. (US Army photo)

--- Page 81 ---
Amerika Haus Opened in Hamburg

British Zoners in January welcomed the first Amerika
Haus (US Information Center) to be established outside
the American zone, as a brief ceremony heralded the
opening of a reading room in Hamburg.

It was the beginning of a program to exchange In-
formation Center and reading room facilities in the
British, French and American zones of Germany. To
follow will be the opening of information centers in
Hanover, the Ruhr and in Bonn.

Hamburg's information center consists of a library of
8,000 volumes and a motion picture projection room
which can also be used for conferences. Large display
windows, fronting on a busy street, will be utilized. for
displays of Americana.

Efforts to Boost Food Output Renewed

US Resident Officers in Hesse are campaigning for a
sizeable upswing in food production, hoping to reduce
the largest item of German debt to the United States.

Samuel R. Combs, field operations chief for Hesse, has
urged the officers to point out inefficient agricultural
operations and waste to local farmers. He pointed out that
Germany's food deficit represents the largest portion of
US dollar aid; elimination of waste will help Germany
on the road to self-sufficiency.

Particular emphasis has been placed on cattle — 50

percent of Hesse's cattle suffer bovine tuberculosis.
Supplementing the field officers’ work is a publication
called “Our Land,’ devoted to disease control and

methods of preventing bovine tuberculosis,
500 Berliners Book for Pilgrimage

More than 500 Berliners had registered by mid-Janu-
ary to participate in a mass pilgrimage to Rome where
they hope to be received by the Pope after a tour of
Italy and the Holy City. The Holy Year pilgrimage is

Capt. Raymond Gesell, civil affairs officer for Frankfurt
Military Post stands with a group of 21 German citizens
just returned from China, to which they had fled to escape
persecution before the war. They are awaiting a scheduled
flight from Frankfurt to Berlin to forestall possible compli-

cations at the interzonal border. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

78

scheduled to take place during early April. Expenditures,
including all railroad traveling costs from Berlin and
a small allowance in Italian currency, will amount to
DM 390 ($92.80).

Hessian Newspapers Enjoy Boom

Newspapers in Hesse have been growing steadily, ac-
cording to Vincent O. Anderson, press chief, OLC Hesse.
News-sheets, once limited to 14 pages weekly, are now
blossoming out with 12 to 14 pages daily, much of the
space containing advertising matter. Hesse's 81 news-
papers, which include 15 started under MG license, have
also boosted circulation figures during the past month
by 7,000 to a new record of 1,300,000.

School Children Stage American Play

The American play “Miss Judy" by Jerome Chororov
and Josef Fields was presented Jan, 19 by German school
children at Boeblingen, W.-B. Subsequent performances
were scheduled for Nuertingen, Murrhardt, Stein and
other Wuerttemberg-Baden schools having enrollments of
300 to 400 pupils.

Free University Gets Second Gift

A donation of DM 250,000 ($59,500) was forwarded
Jan. 14 by Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US commander
of Berlin, to Prof. Erwin Redslob, president of the Free
University of Berlin, as the second installment of a
million-mark gift from Americar? funds to support the
school. The money was to assist in the essential opera-
tion of the university and to help insure its efficient
maintenance and its high academic standards. The first
DM 250,000 gift was made by General Taylor on Oct.
28, 1949.

Law Violations Down 40 Percent

Offenses against HICOG law in the US Zone during
November show a decrease of more than 40 percent from
the total recorded for the same period in 1948, it was
reported by the Public Safety Branch, Office of Political
Affairs, HICOG.

Figures for the US Zone, including Bremen, indicate
that 1,164 crimes and lesser violations of HICOG law
— 822 fewer than the number reported in November
1948 — were recorded during November 1949.

Greatest drop in the total number of reported violations
appears in Hesse, where a reduction of 73.9 percent is
noted. Illegal border crossings are not included in the
over-all statistics.

Of the more than 1,100 offenses reported in November
last year, 373 involved persons apprehended without
proper identification papers.

Six Jailed on War Materials Counts

Six of seven German nationals accused of illegally
possessing, transporting and exporting war materials
were found guilty and sentenced in the Eighth HICOG

MARCH 1950

--- Page 82 ---
District Court in Munich in January. Prison sentences
ranged from seven months to two and one-half years.
More than 20 witnesses were heard in the trial which
accused the seven of trying to sell or export through
improper channels approximately 150 gun sights and
other optical instruments valued at DM 1,000,000.

Ultra Rightist Groups Join Forces

Two ultra-right-wing political factions in Germany have
decided to consolidate and to organize a working com-
mittee to promote the party throughout western Ger-
many. They are a splinter group of the National Demo-
cratic party led by Karl Heinz Priester, and the British-
Zone Socialistic Reichs Party, an offshoot of the conserva-
tive Deutsche Rechts Party, led by Dr. Fritz Dorl, and
expound a return to the days of the German Reich. The
party is as yet unnamed,

Priester told his followers at a meeting in Wiesbaden
Jan. 11 that a certain wave of spontaneous nationalism
will soon spread all over western Germany. This national-
ism, he continued, will unite all upright Germans, dis-
gusted with the present German situation. Priester also
termed the current US-British occupation policy “short-
sighted.”

Mysterious Malady Plagues Pigs

A mysterious malady, still unclassified by veterinarians,
has struck the swine-herds of Hesse, The disease, never
noted before, attacks individual pigs in a herd, leaving
them lethargic, unsteady and extremely weak. Some have
shown signs of paralysis, others of fits and convulsions.
Apparently affecting the nervous system, the disease
has set infected swine to vicious fighting and biting.

Complete scientific examinations are being made on
stricken swine. Accurate mortality rates are not so far
possible, since Hessian farmers have been slaughtering
pigs at the first sign of illness.

21,000 Added to Hesse’s Jobless

Unemployment in Hesse zoomed to new highs during
the pre-Christmas season, despite normally higher
employment in this period. The unemployment gain, from
112,000 to 133,000 from the end of November to December
20, represented the biggest increase of the year.

Approximately 43,000 of Hesse’s unemployed are
receiving unemployment compensation, while an addi-
tional 51,000 are receiving unemployment relief.

Frankfurt and Offenbach were excepted from the
unemployment rise, but Kassel’s jobless rolls showed
the highest increase. The number of unemployed repre-
sents a rise of more than 200 percent since currency
reform. The sharp December increase was attributed to
seasonal layoffs in the building and other trades.

Ban on Sporting Guns to Remain

Germans living in the US Zone will not be able to
purchase or own firearms for sporting purposes “for some
time," according to Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, deputy
US high commissioner.

Rumor that firearms would soon be permitted arose
when the High Commission discussed and approved

MARCH 1950

79

principles concerning firearms control forwarded to it by
the Military Security Board. General Hays emphasized
that there was no rescission of the present prohibition
on German ownership of firearms or ammunition. Before
they are lifted, appropriate legislation will have to be
enacted and the question of manufacture of such arms
under controls will have to be settled.

Wiesbaden Bids for Supreme Court

Wiesbaden, capital city of Hesse, has asked Bonn to
establish the supreme court of the new Federal Republic
in the famed Rhine River spa. Gerald Sola, US resident
officer, said the city administration has offered the federal
government the stately “Old Museum," which has re-
cently been renovated.
Differential Pay Dropped

The 10 percent post differential pay for all American
civilian employees of the US Government in Germany will
be eliminated beginning with the pay period starting
March 4, David Wilken, chief of the Personnel Division,
HICOG announced Jan. 19.

This decision was received from the State Department,
Washington, which is charged with determining post
differentials for all US Government employees working
outside the United States. The ruling affects American
civilian employees of EUCOM as well as HICOG in
Germany.

The post differential, which amounts to 10 percent of
base salaries of employees working in the zone and
15 percent for those in Berlin, is an additional compen-
sation for unusually difficult living conditions, excessive
physical hardships or notably unhealthy environment.
It is understood that this compensation is being elimina-
ted because, in comparison with other countries, these
conditions are no longer considered to exist in Germany,
Mr. Wilken said.

The differential has not been authorized in Germany
as a payment in lieu of cost-of-living allowance, a type

Lois Andrews, one of the Hollywood stars with the
“Francis” stage show and premier, now touring the zone,
sings to officers and airmen of Rhine/Main Airbase, during
a recent performance there. (USAFE photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 83 ---
of additional compensation granted in some foreign posts
on the basis of a cost of living determined to be in
excess of that prevailing in Washington, D.C.

Romeos Wind Up in Hesse Lockup

' The masquerade is over, but the repercussions are not.
Two German youths in January fell into the toils of the
law for their briefly successful pose as British army
officers, by which they took over rural Magdlos and so
impressed the local belles that jealous suitors tried ston-
ing them out of town.

Dressed in outlandish army uniforms and wearing
British raincoats, the pair disported false credentials
that won them free transportation, phone calls and facil-
ities in the Hessian village. The idea had sprung from
a trip to Bonn where Belgian soldiers had respectfully
saluted them in uniforms. They decided to go to Magdlos
and impress the local girls. One of them, posing as a
lieutenant, made so favorable an impression on one girl
that local youngsters attempted to stone him out of town.

Police, roaring to the rescue, began an investigation
which revealed the two as impostors from Schluechtern,
Hesse,

Occupied Property Kept in Repair

Thirty-five percent of the revenue derived from real
estate held in US custody in Berlin has been allocated for
the repair, maintenance and improvement of the properties,
Joseph P.McNulty, chief of Property Control Branch, Ber-
lin Element, HICOG, disclosed. Nearly 38,000,000 Reichs-
marks or Deutsche marks has been authorized for this
purpose since 1947, out of a total revenue of 107,939,000
Reichsmarks or Deutsche marks.

(Under prewar conditions, expenditure for repairs at the
rate of from 20 to 23 percent of the income from rents
was considered normal. Inflated cost of materials accounts
for a large share of the current high costs.)

Owing to the shortage of materials obtainable through
regular allocations during the first 24months after the
war and the virtual impossibility of obtaining any alloca-
tions during the blockade, it was not always possible to
carry out as many repairs as necessary or desirable.
Custodians were authorized in some cases to raise funds
through loans for rehabilitation work — but only with the
written consent of the property's owner —in the case of

“hon-priority repair work,

Mr. McNulty reiterated that the general objective of
US property control is to safeguard and maintain proper-
ties under custody without depreciation in value of assets
until their final disposition is made.

Much of the rehabilitation work on properties consisted
of repairs to roofs and walls in varying stages of damage,
resulting from war-time bombing and shelling, and in the
restoration of premises whose dilapidation resulted from
neglect.

Nebraska Elks Adopt Boy of 14
The Elk City Extension Club of Valley, Neb., has
selected a refugee child in Deggendorf, Bavaria, as most

INFORMATION BULLETIN

80

Four high-ranking German jurists confer with Hans W.
Weigert, chief of the German Justice Branch, Office of
the General Counsel, on their return from a trip to the
United States under sponsorship of HICOG's Exchanges
Division, Left to right are Mr. Weigert; Max L. Cahn, vice-
president of the Frankfurt Bar Association; Dr. Hermann
Weinkauff, president of the Bamberg Supreme Court;
Dr. Fritz Koch, president of the Aschaffenburg District
Court; and Walter Roemer, Bavarian Ministry of Justice.

(PRD HICOG photo)

deserving of financial support by club members for a
period of one year.

The boy selected is 14-year-old Gunther Thamm, a re-
fugee from Mulatschutz, Silesia, and one of nine children
ranging in age from five to 19 years. His father, a prisoner
of war in Russia for the last five years, has been confined
to a hospital in Deggendorf since his release in November.
The boy's mother died shortly after the father's return
from the Soviet PW camp.

Selection of the child was made by German city and
county officials under the supervision of John J. Greeley,
local US resident officer. The selected child will remain in
his present home, receiving only financial and material aid.

For two years the Nebraska club had been supporting
a French boy through donations of food and clothing. Re-
cently the boy's mother informed the club that she was
now in a position to resume full financial support of the
boy. Immediately following this Mr. Greeley received a
letter from the club, offering to contribute food, funds and
clothing to a local child for one year.

20,000 Germans to Leave Czechoslovakia

A plan for the immigration into Germany of up to 20,000
persons of German ethnic origin now living in Czecho-
slovakia to join close relatives already established in
western Germany has been agreed upon by Allied and
Czech authorities.

The agreement, recently approved in Prague, provides
that the first contingent of the 20,000 persons will arrive
in Germany during the first two weeks of March while
others will leave Czechoslovakia at the rate of approxi-
mately 400 per week thereafter. These Germans, left behind
when their families were expelled shortly after the war's
end, will enter Germany at Furth-im-Wald in Bavaria.

MARCH 1980

--- Page 84 ---
Negotiations for the transfer were initiated by Allied
authorities with the Czechs pursuant to a request from
the West German government.

The agreement provides the emigration will be volun-
tary on the part of the individuals concerned and will be
im accordance with the normal Czechoslovak emigration
procedures. As far as the personal property and financial
assets of the individuals are concerned the existing cus-
toms regulations governing emigration from Czechoslo-
vakia will be applied.

Guy J. Swope, chief of the Displaced Populations Divi-
sion, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG, emphasized that
no mass movements of Germans, such as occurred im-
mediately after the war, is contemplated and that the Allied
authorities will require the same documentation for these
Germans as for others who wish to enter Germany. The
International Red Cross will assist the emigrants in pre-
paring such documentation.

Homes Projected for 10,000 Refugees

The German Trade Unions are planning a housing pro-
ject to accommodate 10,000 refugee and expellee families
of Schleswig-Holstein. The plan was described as a pilot
project at a press conference in Duesseldorf Feb. 7 in
which Hans Boeckler, chairman of the German. Trade
Unions, other trade union officers, a representative of the
German Federal Republic and Schleswig-Holstein officials
participated.

Schleswig-Holstein was selected for the initial project,
it was explained, because of the density of the refugee
population and its critical unemployment situation. Since
1945 almost 1,250,000 expellees and refugees have streamed
into that state. This is almost equal to the native popula-
tion of 1,500,000.

The planning and investigative work for the housing
project was done by the Scientific Institute of the German
Trade Unions with the cooperation of the Schleswig-Hol-
stein Social Ministry. The housing, to be distributed
throughout the state, will be placed in areas of largest
need where there is existing industry or where potential
industry can be located.

Construction was scheduled to begin about March 15,
with each dwelling unit to cost approximately DM 8,500.
The entire project is scheduled to cost DM 85,000,000 with
35,000,000 marks to be supplied by the state, 10,000,000
through self-financing and the remaining 40,000,000 from
ECA counterpart funds for which the federal government
is making application.

Teacher-Training Course Given 45

A 10-day teacher-training course, designed to compare
scientific intelligence tests scores with subjective judg-
ments made by teachers and to standardize scientific tests
for use in German schools, was recently completed in
Heidelberg under joint sponsorship of the Wuerttemberg-
Baden Ministry of Culture and the Education Service Cen-
ters of OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Dr. Karl Suessenguth, director of the Education Service
Centers in Wuerttemberg-Baden and Dr. Charles Philpott,

MARCH 1950

81

director of the Heidelberg Education Service Center,
developed the project.

Dr.Erich Hylla, ministerial councilor; Dr. Dietrich Kunze
of Berlin and Dr. Franz Hilker of Hesse, German education
specialists, directed the course, with Dr. Eugen Loeffler,
who is in charge of school reform in the Ministry of Cul-
ture, selecting the 45 Wuerttemberg-Baden teachers who
took part in the course.

Quiz Show Aids Buchenwald Victims

Proceeds from a special quiz program sponsored by
RIAS, US-operated radio station in Berlin, on Feb. 10, will
be used to assist several hundred concentration camp vic-
tims returned from the Soviet Zone of Germany,

The RIAS quiz show was held in cooperation with the
“Fighting Group Against Inhumanity," a voluntary group
of German citizens actively opposing the tyranny and op-
pression of communist East Germany. All guests at the
Friday program were asked to bring with them a special
gift (clothing, food or other practical presents) to help the
returnees from such camps as Buchenwald, Schaffhausen
and Mauthausen.

Additionally, all proceeds from ticket sales and a great
many of the cash and commodity prizes of the quiz show
were turned over to help the returned concentration camp
victims.

European Exporters “Missing Boat"

“Lack of knowledge by European producers of the pre-
sent import market in the United States is one of the
obstacles to the development of a larger volume of United
States imports," according to a special study on the “Con-
sumer Goods Import Market in the United States," re-
ceived by the Office of the ECA Special Mission to Western
Germany.

This is one aspect in which retailers can make a great
contribution to the stimulation of imports, the report
states. The study was prepared by the National Retail Dry
Goods Association and the Association of Buying Offices,
both of New York City, at the request of ECA, Washington.

The publication is designed to acquaint producers in
western Europe with current market opportunities in the
United States. It describes merchandise which could be
sold by department stores in the United States providing
certain conditions are met. These conditions, indicated in
the report, are landed costs which will permit profitable
sale of items and delivery periods required for their sale.

Countries included are Germany, Belgium, Northern
Ireland, France, Great Britain, Italy, Switzerland, Norway,
Portugal and Sweden.

Denazification Backlog Dwindling
The backlog of US Zone denazification cases still to be
heard had dwindled to 3,681 by the end of November
1949, a decrease of nearly 850 cases within the month.
A total of 953,292 trials have been completed; 2,502,163
persons were amnestied without trial out of a total
registration of more than 13,000,000. Approximately
9,800,000 of these were not chargeable cases. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 85 ---
A fireman can't afford to go wrong so Rhine/Main
properly. The foam — protein base liquid — prevents oxygen reaching the blaze thus extinguishing the flames. (USAF photos)

firemen do daily drills with their foam guns to be sure they spray

Fire Alert

MERICAN PERSONNEL in Germany whose varied
duties necessitate frequent air travel within the
European Command are diligently protected from the
crash hazards of takeoffs and landings by the highly
specialized techniques of the Rhine/Main Fire Depart-
ment, which is geared for immediate action at all times.
This fire department is the largest of any single in-
stallation in EUCOM and has under its jurisdiction the
greatest responsibility for fire fighting, located as it is
at Germany’s biggest airport.

When a plane comes limping in with one engine out,
trouble in the hydraulic system or oil pressure danger-
ously low, the control tower is immediately warned of the
predicament and in turn a call is rushed through to the
Crash Fire Department of Rhine/Main. An alarm is sound-
ed immediately in the fire station and seconds later every-
thing on wheels is rolling toward the danger spot.

In Buchschlag, in Kelsterbach, at the passenger termi-
nal, other branches of the fire department stand by to
help in emergencies from any part of the Rhine/Main
community and to protect their own section.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

82

These various outposts—Rhine/Main, Kelsterbach, Neu
Isenburg and Buchschlag — form the structural fire depart-
ment of the base and, coupled with the Crash Fire
Department, Rhine/Main is adequately protected.

IRES ARE NOT just fires to Rhine/Main firemen, but

are a variety of blazes categorized by the substance
burning and how it started to burn, A crash fire is that
resulting from the crash of an airplane. A structural fire
is a house on fire, or any blaze not the result of an
airplane crash,

The fire squadron, under the Air Installation Office,
is composed of 54 airmen and 97 Germans who work two
shifts — 24 hours on and 24 hours off. Work is based on
the theory that: “Everybody likes the excitement of a
fireman's life. He likes to go to fires because he likes his
job. If he doesn't like it, it is time to get out.”

Indicative of the keen interest displayed by the men
in the safety of all Rhine/Main personnel and property
is the way in which they responded to trouble back in
the “Operation Vittles’ days. Then, when they would

MARCH 1950

--- Page 86 ---
Firemen take a keen pride in the condition of their
engines, giving them a cleanup each morning and
wiping off windshields which have been sprinkled
with foam during a practice bout, At right, a fireman,
clad in bunker coat, fire proof trousers and helmet,
plunges to the core of the fire, hacking out windows
when necessary and paving his way with a thick
stream of fire fighting foam, while other firemen
stand by ready to lend a willing hand if required.

get a one-bell call meaning that a C-54 was landing with
one engine out, instead of just the normal one crew
preparing to stand by, the entire staff of men on duty
would dash into their kit to be ready for action.

HIS TENSION of constantly being alerted weeds out

men not suited for the hectic life of a fireman and
if a man doesn't break down within a few months, he
settles into a thoroughly capable crew member, On-the-
job training is given daily at Rhine/Main, Lectures, ladder
drills, rope drills, practice with the foam guns and constant
checking and rechecking of the engines themselves mean
perpetual readiness on the crew's part.

Firemen are chosen for their physical fitness, willing-
ness to learn the job and to take a two-month training
course at Lowry Air Base in Colorado. Those unable to
attend this course are trained at the Rhine/Main Fire
School, under a Lowry fire school graduate.

In addition to the technical aspects of fire extinguishing,
first aid is taught, along with methods of coping with
different types of fires and the swiftest, safest way of
rescuing victims trapped by fire.

Standard equipment for the crash division consists of
four heavy 1,000-gallon trucks, two smaller fire trucks
and numerous jeeps, pumpers and a specially equipped
radio jeep, all a brillant red and complete with sirens.

The entire organization is closely knit for complete
coordination and cooperation when any fire gets beyond
the scope of a single station. If need be, trucks can come

MARCH 1950

83

from all stations, both structural and crash, to extinguish
the blaze.

Practice drills with the crash department have been
carried out to such a fine degree that now in less than
one minute the blaze of 2,000 to 3,000 gallons of high
octane gasoline can be totally smothered with a heavy
blanket of foam sprayed from the specially built foam
guns on the big engines.

These foam guns represent another sample of a fire-
man’s ingenuity. They were invented by Sgt. Alton Allen,
Jr., fire chief at Furstenfeldbruck. Their advantage over
the type of foam dispenser previously used is that their

reaching power is much greater, enabling the firemen to

quench the terrific flames of high octane gas without
moving in on the blaze. In two and a half minutes’ time,
10,000 gallons of the protein base foam liquid, coupled
with water, can settle in a choking blanket over gasoline
and oil fires, cutting oxygen and extinguishing the fire.

Important as fire extinguishing is, an even more im-
portant function is fire prevention. Three veteran fire-
men trained for fire inspection, make monthly rounds of
Rhine/Main and check the more than 800 structures on
the field for proper fire prevention practices. It is their
job to ascertain that there are adequate extinguishers
and precautions taken to guard against the possibilities of
fire breaking out. For, much as a fireman loves the excite-
ment of his job, his greatest value lies in his fire security
work so that he may never be called upon to practice
his techniques of fire extinguishing. -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 87 ---
Democratization of Education

1OO MANY AMERICANS expect the democratization

of German education to be accomplished over the
weekend, remarked Dr. Hermann B. Wells, president of
the University of Indiana and chairman of the Commis-
sion on the Occupied Areas of the American Council of
Education, and formerly adviser to the US Military Gov-
ernor on Cultural Affairs.

Dr. Wells, in Frankfurt Feb. 8 en route to a UNESCO
conference in Paris, stated that ‘liberalizing German
education is like nurturing a delicate, sensitive plant.
Both operations require skill and patience. Both products
usually take a long time to mature,

“The majority of us,’ said Dr. Wells, “do not take into
account the fact that German educators have been isolated
from knowledge of educational progress for at least 15
years. In those 15 years greater progress has been made
than in any other similar period in the educational field.
We must realize that the liberalization of German educa-
tion cannot be forced. Liberalization must result from an
acknowledgment by the German educators of its neces-
sity. And the actual liberalizing process must evolve
gradually, not so fast that the people cannot assimilate it.
All we ask is that the German educational leaders meet
us halfway, Then working together, we will do the job.”

Dr. Wells stated that there was a far-reaching interest
in America in reorienting the German educational system
along “enlightened” lines.

“American interest in German education," stated Dr.
Wells, “is principally in fostering a system which will uti-
lize all the talent of youth regardless of accident of birth."

Dr, Wells said that there was an “enthusiastic” reaction
on the part of the Commission on the Occupied Areas
to the appointment of Dr, James Morgan Read as chief of
HICOG's Education and Cultural Relations Division, adding:

Dr. Hermann B. Wells, (center) chairman of the Commission
on the Occupied Areas of the American Council of Educa-
tion, confers with Dr. Walter Hallstein, (left) dean of the
School of Law, University of Frankfurt, and with Dr. James
Morgan Read, (right) newly appointed chief of Education

and Cultural Relations Division, HICOG. (PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

84

“Dr. Read brings with him a high degree of experience
and qualification for this position, His work as director
of Foreign Service for the American Friends’ Service
Committee has endowed him with an intuitive, sensitive
feeling about educational and cultural problems in Ger-
many. His education, his previous work in German social
fields, his knowledge of German language and German
people, all seem to have been a preparation for this
position.”

Dr, Wells said that the Commission on the Occupied
Areas would continue to work in close harmony with
HICOG's Education and Cultural Relations Division and
Exchanges Division. The commission, through its tech-
nical panels, works with US government agencies in
reviewing programs and policies of educational and
related activities in the occupied countries.

The commission was organized as a result of recom-
mendations made by an American Education Mission in

‘1946, The mission, after a survey of educational problems

in Germany, recommended that an independent agency be
established in the United States to advise government
agencies on education policies in Germany. The agency
would also coordinate American voluntary efforts on
behalf of education and cultural affairs in Germany.

N 1948, Dr. WELLS, then adviser on cultural affairs to

General Lucius D, Clay outlined such an organiza-
tion, which would operate under independent auspices
and would be closely linked with US government agen-
cies. The American Council on Education acted on Dr.
Wells's recommendations and formed the Commission on
the Occupied Areas. The technical panels of the commis-
sion are sponsored in most cases by established social
organizations and usually take the form of standing com-
missions or committees of the sponsoring organizations.

The general purpose of the commission is to develop
and strengthen sound approaches to cultural and educa-
tional affairs in occupied countries, stressing particularly
the establishment of mutual relations between institutions
and organizations in the United States and those in the
occupied countries. -+-END

Berlin Airmail Service Booms

Five thousand private airmail letters, the first to leave
Berlin by air since the end of the war, were dispatched
Feb. 2 from Tempelhof airfield on the first day of the new
unrestricted service,

Regulations which limited the use of airmail service
from Berlin to occupation forces, to certain export-import
companies and to foreigners paying in currencies other
than Deutsche mark were removed effective Feb. 2, by
order of the Allied High Commission for Germany. Air-
mail facilities are now open to all residents of the three
western sectors, as they are to residents of western Ger-
many, on an unrestricted basis.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 88 ---
German Editorials

This section is compiled from a summary prepared by the Press & Publications
Branch, Information Services Division, HICOG, of editorials in the German press.

The publishing of these German edi-
torials is intended to inform the Ameri-
can readers of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, without interpre-
tation. The inclusion of any statement
from the German press does not give
concurrence to the view or opinion,

There was an increasing trend toward criticism, either
openly caustic or, thinly veiled, on a wide variety of
matters concerning the Occupation Powers during the
period under review. The voices of the conservatives were
fewer and fainter.

Editorial writers on such subjects as the Saar, US policy
in Germany (including what one editor termed the “US
Retreat in Berlin"), relations between the High Commis-
sioners and the federal government were more frequently
outspokenly critical and resentful than analytical and
accurate,

The signing of the Franco-German trade pact was ge-
nerally hailed as signifying a slackening of the tension
between Germany and France, but the as yet unsolved
Saar question remained a thorny one with but a minor
chorus favoring concessions with a view to rapproche-
ment.

Bonn and Petersberg

Echo der Woche (Munich, Feb. 10) is dissatisfied with
the relations between the High Commissioners and the
German Federal government.

“There seems to be a definite competition in objectives
between the Occupation Powers and the semi-sovereign
German governments... It is not our intention to further
weaken Adenauer's already weak position with regard
to the Allies, However, we would consider it as in his
own as well as Germany’s interest if he were to afford
German public opinion more insight into his Petersberg
negotiations,

“Or does he always want to bring down the tablets of
the law ready-made from the German Mt, Sinai? Moses
got the Ten Commandments from God but the High Com-
missioners cannot claim either the infallibility or authori-
ty of gods,

“The High Commissioners are primarily responsible to
the governments that sent them here... The German
government is responsible, however, to the people by
which it was elected.

US Policy in Berlin

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg, Jan. 30) regards the
evacuation of the Reichsbahn building as a sign of con-
scious strength rather than otherwise:

“The Berliners will be thankful that the danger of a new
Berlin blockade was avoided by last minute concessions of
the West Powers...

“The wise political commentators of Basel and Zurich
talk of ‘American fear of complications’ and it may indeed
have been better not to have occupied the Reichsbahn
building in the first place.

“However, it may be taken as a sign of strength to beat
a retreat with a consequent loss of prestige, when it be-
comes evident that a situation is about to develop which
is much more ominous than was originally envisioned,

“There is much talk that since Kennan's resignation
Washington is increasingly prone to avoid complica-
tions...

“Tt is desired to exhaust all possibilities before President
Truman gives orders to develop the hydrogen bomb..

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Nordbayerische Volkszeitung
{KPD], Nuremberg, Jan. 19)

(Hochland Bote, Garmisch, Jan. 7)

Germany and the Refugee
Problem:
“I can't rebuild while I'm
chained like this."

The Adenauer
Cuckoo Clock

MARCH 1950

(Hochland Bote, Garmisch, Jan. 7)

“Don't worry, old boy, this
is the right way!”

(Die Zeit, Hamburg, Jan. 12)

German Michel
and the tax machinery.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 89 ---
(Badische Neueste Nachrichten, Karisruhe, Jan. 30)

Interzonal traffic according to mood.

The situation may very possibly lead to real control of the
atom bomb, with Russia cooperating... This again may
lead to agreement on other matters.

“More cannot be said at the moment. But those who
speak of American political retreat in Berlin should cast
an eye on recent American conduct in the UNO, which
took in its stride Russian refusal to participate..."

East-West

Das Neue Zeitalter (Stuttgart, Jan. 6) rejects anything
other than a German form of democracy and advocates
neutrality between East and West:

“|., There are pluto-democracies and pseudo-demo-
cracies which simply front for special political and finan-
cial interests and are in reality nothing but disguised
dictatorships. We Germans, broken by two wars, are
sincerely desirous of living in a free democratic form of
state... We have had enough of war and wish nothing
so much as to remain neutral in any coming conflict...

“We do not want Germany to become a battleground
and have no reason to take sides... Otto von Bismarck’s
far-seeing policy of a middle course between East and
West is the proper course for us... Let us not burn our
bridges either to East or West... We need the Eastern
markets and we need our Western cultural and economic
relationships..."

“Fair Deal"

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg, Jan. 16) sees politi-
cal developments in the US as portentous for the entire
Western world:

“.., Leon Keyserling, chief planner for the White
House, and the New Deal theoretician most feared in
business circles, surprisingly has discovered the limita-
tions of economic planning as a basis of mass welfare.
He warns against too much restriction on personal ini-
tiative of businessmen and against creation of employ-
ment through budget deficits.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

86

. The Truman camp apparently has come to the
conclusion that the US can combine a welfare state with
a free economy... The coming US elections will have
a profound effect on the entire Western world, including
Germany..."

Gloomy Outlook

Die Gegenwart (Freiburg, Feb. 2) takes a gloomy view
of the German present and future:

"... We lack 5,000,000 dwellings... Unemployment is
not far from 2,000,000 ... These are melancholy facts at
the end of a devastating war and an unsuccessful peace...
In view of this it is not surprising that a ground-swell
of distrust against the government exists in the German
people...

“Among other things, the manner in which elements
whose republican enthusiasm has always been well con-
trolled are assembling and being welcomed in Bonn
reminds one of a hunt reunion after long separation.

“Germany smolders in an apathetic and dangerous
silence on both sides of the demarkation line... It stares
hopelessly into the future, sick in soul and wounded in
body... The broad masses stand aside and look on and
no amount of oratory about neighborliness will move
them while they see their territories severed on the Saar
and the Neisse, whether it is done suavely or violently.

“...It is again becoming the fashion to speak disparag-
ingly of the Weimar Republic... Far be it from us to
throw flowers in its path... Its greatest failing was
hesitancy and pusillanimity... It zealously protected
the civil rights of those who sought to destroy it.

“We see similar trends today. There is loud rebellious
talk from people who were very obedient in the Third

(Neu-Ulmer Zeitung, New Ulm, Bav., Feb. 1)

es =
Winter -Schlisss- Verkauf
a
Wi stossen ab:
KALTER KRIEG
FRANZGSISCHES MISSTRAUEN

| DeuTSCNE BUROKRATIE
DEMONTAGEN

The Winter Clearance Sale we'd like:
Cold War, French distrust, German
bureaucracy, Dismantling.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 90 ---
(Rhein-Neckar Zeitung, Heidelberg, Jan. 18)

Everything unrationed, but no
money with which to buy.

Reich... They call vociferously for equality, which was
a form of justice not featured when they themselves
were in power...

“It is not a pretty picture that Germany presents to-
day. The graybeards who have survived Weimar should
never forget that once before, with much shaking of
heads and helpless indignation, they meekly handed over
the state to a lock of hair and a riding whip.

“We haven't climbed painfully up the cliff again only
to suffer another slide into the abyss.”

Civil Servants

Echo der Woche (Munich, Jan. 20) breaks a lance for
the much-criticized German public worker:

“It is a fact that whenever economy in government is
spoken of, as now, the first proposal is always along the
line of least resistance — cutting the salaries of our offi-
cials, because they are not allowed to strike...

“Even if it is necessary to cut down staffs, provision
should be made for other work for former petty officials...
Let us not forget that such men have qualities which are
by no means general nowadays — decency, ability and
zeal in their work...

“It seems to us that the levelling process which is be-
ginning to lump workmen and petty officials together will
eventually lead to a two-class state, which would mean a
development anything but desirable... Our lower middle-
classes were sacrificed in the inflation after World War I,
with the result that they became National Socialists.

“It seems that this time the upper middle-class is on the
block. There is a danger that this class too will sooner or
later have to go over to some form of totalitarianism in
self-defense."

Double Standards

Echo der Woche (Munich, Jan. 20) deplores the double
Standards of international justice as applied to Germans
and others and cites Czech refugees as an example, under
the heading “Asylum for Hangmen:"

MARCH 1950

“,., Bohumil Lausman, former deputy premier and minis-
ter for industry in the Gottwald Cabinet, who in that
capacity supervised the expulsion of Germans from the
Sudetenland... is our guest in West Germany, where the
only place for him ought to be behind the bars... now
that the Soviets can dispense with his services.

“Why in West Germany of all places, where our gov-
ernment would have every right to try him under the
principles of international law? Oh, excuse me, that was
a slip of the tongue! I completely forgot that there are
two kinds of international law today, one for the victors
and another for the vanquished...

“The Lausman case is an example of the intolerable
conceptions of international justice prevailing today which
must be ended if anyone seriously hopes to win the
German people to democracy.”

Germany and the World

Echo der Woche (Munich, Feb. 3) declares that Allied
vacillation between justice and punishment for Germany
will lead to catastrophe:

“It would at least be clear if one were to say to the
Germans ‘You have been conquered and must bear the
consequences.’ But then one oughtn’'t to talk about morals
and ethics, Christianity and Socialism, Atlantic Charter
and human rights, reconstruction of Europe and a united
world... Either might makes right or otherwise. If you
try to make a cocktail out of the two you destroy all
belief in justice and good faith...

“It would be grossly unjust, nay despicable to main-
tain that Allied German policy is based only or even
largely on the power of the victor... What we warn
against is rather the illogic of the Western Powers’
measures in Germany, which endanger the pacification
of Europe and the whole structure of opposition to Bol-
shevist aggression...

“In connection with the Saar crisis Secretary Acheson
again stressed the collective German responsibility for
the war...

“Collective responsibility is a new conception and is
closely bound to that of democracy. Without democracy
there can be no such thing as collective guilt...

“Under a dictatorship the people in general cannot be
held responsible for the crimes of its government...

(Die Zeit, Hamburg, Jan. 26)

Russia and Red China: Trouble on the honeymoon.

--- Page 91 ---
(Abendzeitung, Munich, Feb. 3) (Kasseler Zeltung, Kassel, Feb. 3)

(Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Munich, Jan. 24)

‘te eros

“Can't you see that this new wonder
weapon, the bow and arrow, will
make future wars impossible.”

Neo-Fascism.
The foreign press is breeding
elephants from mosquitoes.

Joseph to Harry:
“Maybe we should have agreed after all.”

and surely Mr. Acheson does not mean to maintain that
the Third Reich was democratic...

“Today's French Saar policy is plainly based on the
principle that might makes right, nothing else... How
can one blame the German people for Hitler's ‘peace-
able’ annexation of Austria, etc., as long as one pursues
the method of driving out the devil with Beelzebub, that
is, right wrongs with new wrongs? In the past such
methods have only led from war to war..."

Foreign Capital

Sonntagsblatt (Hamburg, Jan. 15) criticizes as short-
sighted German labor union policy on foreign invest-
ments:

“... They oppose the acceptance of foreign capital
because they believe that such participation in German
industry will retard socialization... They would much
rather see the state acquire credits from abroad.

“All very fine, but the foreign investors just won't
agree to this, so that a persistence in this course will
simply mean that we do not get any foreign money at
all... We doubt that the labor unions will be able to
maintain this stand... because they will find that the
German worker is less interested in political dogma
than in getting and holding decent jobs.”

Ostrich Thinking Decried

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg, Feb. 6) counsels
Germans not to stick their heads in the sand and per-
suade themselves that Germany was not guilty of caus-
ing the war; such a conclusion would be both ‘wrong
and useless:

“... When Germans reproach Allied statesmen with
having encouraged Hitler through the Munich policy of
appeasement, thus being equally responsible for the
war, they confuse political mistakes with guilt... but

(Echo der Woche, Munich, Jan. 27)

Michel to Bundestag:
“Let's have less clucking
and bigger eggs.”

“Stop crying, kid! Erhard says
unemployment is normal.”

(Sonntagsblatt, Hamburg, Jan. 22)

no matter how many such faults we may adduce on the
Allied side, the fact is that nothing can obscure the
central fact that Hitler caused the war...

“The argument that Hitler was deceived as to what
the British reaction to his invasion of Poland would be;
that he wanted no world war, merely a partition of
Poland, doesn't hold water, His plans were all stated
in ‘Mein Kampf.’ The best we can say is that there is
such a thing as ‘collective exoneration’ as well as ‘col-
lective guilt.

“The times in which we live are very trying for the
individual, more so in Germany than in other countries.
Let it be our excuse that the situation was too hard for
our strength...”

Agreement with France

Europa Kurier (Aachen, Jan. 20) stoutly defends the
German viewpoint on the Saar but says that agreement
with France must be achieved at all costs:

“The almost hysterical lack of objectivity with which
the French press greeted President Heuss's mild statement
that the Saar was historically and ethically German.
may be attributed to a bad conscience... over the politi-
cal dirty work which has been going on in the Saar ever
since 1945...

“It is a grave mistake for certain French circles to
believe that only by amputating Germany east and west
can one make it ‘European-ripe’... Robert Schuman, the
European, counsels us to patience. We continue to display
such patience, in which we have had plenty of practice
since 1945, because we know very well that we Germans
as well as the French will commit political suicide unless
we sacrifice everything to reach an ‘Entente Cordiale’ at
the earliest possible moment...

“Otherwise the Soviets will neatly settle our ,Saar
problem."

(Neue Ruhr Zeitung, Essen, Jan. 28)

Bonn.
“Excuse me, where's the men's room?"
“Sorry, only the Federal Press Office
issues information!"

--- Page 92 ---
Refugees

Muenchner Allgemeine (Mu-
nich, Feb. 5) excoriates as
slavery the methods used in
selecting refugees for re-
settlement:

“The Schleswig-Holstein ex-
pellees who are being sent
to the French-occupied zone
are selected according to
physical standards ... The
disabled are not wanted. The
TRO, in selecting human be-
ings for emigration develops
this doubtful system to a point

(Rheinische Post, Essen, Jan. 11)

Before and after:
Pieck's ‘National Congress" in
the Soviet Zone.

pioneer work for a_ better
European and _ world-wide
economic life... but the goal
cannot be reached by Ger-
man effort. alone..."

“Illusion of Wealth”

Sonntagsblatt (Hamburg,
Jan, 29) takes a less opti-
mistic view of “free trade:"

“How quickly people adapt
themselves to changed cir-
cumstances.

“Nowadays we hardly no-
tice anymore that our West

that is downright wicked.

“Such rejection of human material as uneconomic
whether perpetrated by the IRO or the authorities of
Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern, is on a par with the gas
chambers of the Third Reich and the deportations and
forced labor system of the Soviets .., Christian it cer-
tainly is not..."

Free Trade

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg, Jan. 30) calls Ger-
many the pioneer in the effort to inaugurate a free. trade
system in Europe, but says she gets little cooperation from
her European neighbors:

“... McCloy underlined the great and selfless service
that Germany had already rendered the cause of Euro-
pean free trade but closed on a warning note that unless
other European countries showed more disposition to
reciprocity ... it would be necessary to consider a modi-
fication of such principles in the case of Germany, too...

“Nowhere in the world have American economic theo-
ries and desires been so willingly followed as in Germany;
and we did not fare badly with them, as every housewife
can testify. Even the rise in unemployment is no counter
argument, because the number of employed has increased
too.

“One cannot judge an economic system by its ability
to absorb a sudden 8,000,000 increment of population
consisting of refugees, after the devastation of war and
in a short period of one and one half years. The extent
to which it has been done will be regarded as one of the
most astonishing facts of our time...

“If the Americans regard Germany as a test case for
Europe then it must be admitted that Germany has stood
the test well... What we have done and are doing is

(Stuttgarter Nachrichten, Stuttgart, Jan. 21)

German shops are filled with
costly wares from all the world that give us the illusion
of sudden wealth... The Aladdin’s lamp that gave us
all this was ‘free trade’...

“Unfortunately, most of these beautiful things haven't
been paid for, because the other countries did not take so
enthusiastically to free trade as did we and hence do not
accept our finished goods nearly so readily as we do
theirs...

“For the present matters are not critical because of our
Marshall Plan reserves; but it can't go on forever.

“Last year we imported approximately $2,225,000,000
worth of goods; we only exported $1,400,000,000 worth.

“The difficult time for our foreign trade is still ahead of
us and it will come this year..."

Bundestag

Sonntagsblatt (Hamburg, Jan, 22) sees the real function
of the Bundestag (Federal Assembly) to consist of the
formulation of laws and control, leaving the handling of
current problems to the government:

".,It has become obvious that the Parliament is no
longer the center of West German political decisions...
Public interest in its doings has waned. This is because
the public has come to realize that actual power lies with
the government rather than the Bundestag. Therefore it
looks to the Chancellor, the Ministers and the leaders
of the great parties for political decisions.

“This trend started long before 1933, as soon as it
became evident that the majority principle interfered
with the functions of practical government, which must
depend on genuine authority and legal power rather than
the whims of majorities. The creators of the Basic Law
had this fact in mind when they gave the government an

(Hannoversche Allgemeine Zeitung, Hanover, Jan. 13)

Schuman can speak many languages.

MARCH 1950

89

Mao Tse-tung's development possibilities.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 93 ---
(Hamburger Freie Presse, Hamburg, Jan. 28)

France and Germany:
The hand of understanding.

unassailable position and set it above the Parliament...
Nevertheless the Bundestag began its work in the old
Reichstag form.

“There was much too much talk. 600 speeches in 25
sessions! Therefore the new procedure now being worked
out is most desirable, It establishes a radical curtailment
of Speechmaking...and provides for a parliamentary
question hour on the British pattern, during which the
ministers are subject to questions to which they must
furnish answers and ministers are also required to present

bills and proposals which the Bundestag members work / /

into laws."

ISD, Press Scored

Der Spiegel (Hannover, Feb. 2) is bitter about the
Information Services Division and foreign news correspon-
dents in Germany:

“Hans von Hertig, university professor in Kansas City,
charges in the Chicago Abendpost (German language
daily) that US opinion on west Germany is formed by
a little group of anonymous ‘rain-makers' in the west
zone. The professor means the ISD officials. We quote:
“What a few of these people profess to have dug up in
Germany by doubtful methods is cabled over as gospel
truth, after having been carefully spiced and dolled up
with journalistic cosmetic.’

“How incomplete ISD methods are, is shown by a
number of howling boners. For instance, it predicted an
SPD victory in the last German elections and a strength
for the extreme Right which it never possessed. Many

(Mannheimer Morgen, Mannheim, Jan. 24)

(Abendpost, Frankfurt, Jan. 18)

A thousand tongues cry “'Germany!”

(Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen, Jan. 14)

The Saar asa
Franco-German “bridge.”

correspondents based their widely influential reports on
the errors of these ‘opinion alchemists.’

“Bonn hasn't a good press abroad anymore, Modest
swamp flowers in the postwar west German political
pond are seen as luxuriant tropical growths through the
eyes of foreign correspondents in our capital city. The
London Times, The New York Times, Le Monde, all
carefully listen to the undeveloped German state body
for dangerous sounds. The foreign correspondents in

~Bonn“are bored—not much doing in the Bundestag. So

they cook-up stories about Remer, Dorls, Feitenhansl and
make them much bigger than life-size supermen.
“Now Dr. Adenauer, who was long spared, has become

“\ a target/too for/these gay hunters who pass to and fro
“betweén the press camp in the Park Hotel, Frankfurt,

and Ruteland“House in Duesseldorf. The London Daily
Mirror-calls the Chancellor a ‘wolf in sheep's clothing
who is trying to blackmail us again!’ They mean our
stand on the Saar. Prima donna Walter Lippman uses
more refined language. He says ‘Dr. Adenauer's policy
consists of getting every possible concession from the
West before he starts negotiating with East Germany
and the Soviets.’

“Confidentially, even the circles around McCloy will
tell you that from the parochialism of the Bonn atmos-
phere a false picture of Germany is being sent out to
the world... Hitler got a better deal from the Western
correspondents. He was kind to them. They lolled in
bars and nightclubs and enjoyed special liberal currency
exchange privileges.” -+-END

(Suedbayerische Volkszeitung [KPD], Munich, Jan. 28)

“Get together, kids, or you'll
get only half the sausage.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

90

Adenauer shouts “The Saar is and remains
German” while handing it over to France.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 94 ---
Official Communiques

Jan. 18 Meeting of HICOM

The 13th meeting of the Council of the Allied
High Commission was held Jan. 18 at Lancaster
House in Berlin. Present were Sir Brian Rob-
ertson, UK High Commissioner (chairman), Mr.
John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner, and
Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner,

The meeting was also attended by the Berlin
Commandants, Maj. Gen. G. K. Bourne (UK),
Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor (US), and Gene-
ral de Division J. Ganeval (France).

The Council:

(1) In pursuance of its policy of promoting
Berlin's progressive return to economic prosper-
ity and the normalization of the city's life,
took the opportunity of the visit to Berlin to
receive from the commandants a detailed review
of the political, economic and financial factors
affecting these developments.

In particular, satisfaction was expressed with
the good relationship existing between the
Allied Kommandatura and the Berlin city
authorities, who have assumed greatly increased
responsibilities with the coming into force
of the Occupation Statute and whose respon-
sibilities are expected to be further broadened
under the new constitution for the city, which
is soon to come up for Allied acceptance,

In consideration of economic factors, tribute
was paid to the ingenuity, imagination and
industry of Berlin businessmen and workers
whose resilience had enabled the city to survive
war damage and blockade. Also noted was the
favorable influence on business activity and
economic development in western Berlin of
the approval of long-term credits from ERP
counterpart funds and of the release and con-
version of pre-occupation accounts confiscated
by the Soviet authorities. It was observed that
recent action had been taken by the High Com-
mission to render more flexible the Berlin
banking system to prepare for an expansion in
economic activity.

In summarizing the present position, which
was clarified by additional verbal reports and
explanations by the commandants, the Council
noted the encouraging signs of increasing
industrial production and the increased bank
deposits and banking credits which were clear
indications that the improvement in the city's
position was advancing steadily, Nevertheless,
the need was stressed for united efforts by
Allied and German authorities alike, by the
Magistrat (City Council) and federal govern-
ment and by the people of Berlin and of western
Germany to achieve the full political, economic
and financial stability of the city.

(2) Continued its examination of the state of
Baden law for the regulation of handicrafts,
which had been provisionally disapproved on
Dec. 16, 1949 to permit a study by experts of
its constitutional and economic aspects. It was
decided that the provisional disapproval should
be retained in force in order to permit an
exchange of views between the High Com-
mission and the Baden state government on the
regulation of professional qualifications and
the. individual's right of freedom to exercise
a craft.

(3) Directed financial experts to examine the
effect on Berlin's foreign export trade of the
withdrawal, by the Bank Deutscher Laender at
the end of 1949 of the privilege whereby con-
tracts could be made by Berlin exporters at
an exchange rate less than 23.8 US cents per
mark, (Previously, the balance in JEIA accounts

MARCH 1950

was made up by advances from United States
grants in aid of occupied areas — GARIOA
funds.)

(4) Accepted a request for the accreditation
to the Allied High Commission of a Turkish
mission to be headed by Mr. Nizamettin Ayasli.

(5) Decided to hold its next meeting on Thurs-
day, Jan. 26 at the Petersberg, near Bonn.

Jan. 26 Meeting of HICOM

The fourteenth meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held Jan. 26 at
the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were Sir
Brian H. Robertson, UK High Commissioner
(chairman); Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, US
Debuty High Commissioner, acting for Mr.
John J. McCloy, and Mr. Andre Francois-
Poncet, French High Commissioner.

The Council:

(1) Approved the following appointments to
the Joint Export-Import Agency (JEIA), which
is now in liquidation:

Director General. . . Mr. M.S. Verner (US).
Debuty DirectorGeneral Mr. J..A. Wilson (UK).
Deputy Director General M. P. Arnal (France).

These officials will have the task of complet-
ing the liquidation of the agency.

(2) Signed an Allied High Commission law
providing that all claims against the Joint
Export-Import Agency must be filed within
a period of nine months after the date on
which the agency was put into liquidation, that
is, on or before Sept. 30, 1950, and that claims
not filed within that period may be disallowed.
(For text see ‘Laws and Ordinances.'')

(3) Agreed to a request from the imperial
government of Iran for the accreditation of M,
Abdollah Entezam as head .of an Iranian
Mission to the Allied High Commission.

(4) Agreed to receive the credentials of the
head designate of the Turkish Mission to the
Allied High Commission, Mr. Nizamettin Ayasli
on Feb. 16,

(5) Agreed to hold a meeting in the near
future with the director general of the Inter-
national Refugee Organization of the United
Nations, Mr. J, Donald Kingsley, to discuss
policy questions arising from the forthcoming
termination of IRO activity in Germany.

6) Noted a proposal, which had been made
by German economics experts to an Allied sub-
commitee, that before the coal export price
schedules for the first quarter of 1950, approved
by the High Commission on Jan. 5, are put into
effect, the German Coal Administration (DKV)
should communicate directly with consumers
concerning the effect of increased German rail
freight rates on the new schedules.

The Council decided that the schedules
approved by the High Commission must be put
into effect forthwith with retroactive appli-
cation from Jan. 1, 1950 and observed that
proposals to modify the schedules, for example,
to take into account increased railway freight
rates, should be raised at Council level rather
than in a subcommittee,

(7) Noted the nomination by the federal
government of Dr. Heinrich Tramm, chairman
of the board of directors of Ruhrchemie AG.,
Oberhausen-Holten, and Dr. Heinz Nedelman,
manager of the Fachverband Kohlechemie Essen,
to meet Allied technical experts to discuss
proposals for the conversion of the Krupp
Treibstoffwerk, GmbH., in Wanne-Eickel and
the Chemische Werke, Castrop-Rauxel (Ge-
werkschaft Viktor), to process not involving

91

production of materials prohibited under the
intergovernmental agreement at Washington in
April 1949,

(8) Discussed the question of international
airmail services from the British, American and
French areas of control in Germany and
decided that existing monetary limitations on
the extent of these services would be removed
and that the facilities from the western sectors
oi Berlin would be brought into line with those
of western Germany. It was observed that the
removal of the Allied restrictions did not debar
the federal government from imposing monetary
restrictions themselves if these appeared de-
sirable as a measure to protect foreign exchange
holdings.

(9) Decided on measures for the regulation
of the status of foreign consulates in the
Federal Republic of Germany and on their
relationship with the Allied High Commission.
Consulates are to be granted formal recognition
by the Allied High Commission.

(10) Approved Allied High Commission regu-
lation Nr. 3 implementing US/UK Military
Government Laws No. 75 effective from Jan. 1,
1950, to facilitate the borrowing of funds by
iron and steel companies to finance plant
improvements and repairs, and current opera-
tions. (For text see ‘Laws and Ordinances."')

(11) Approved an Allied High Commission
decision giving legal effect to the establish-
ment of the tripartite Decartelization and Indus-
trial Deconcentration Group (DIDEG) of the
Allied High Commission, which is to be the
agency responsible for the implementation of
lawson the prohibition of excessive concen-
tration of German economic power. Formerly,
these powers were exercised by the Bipartite
Decartelization Commission and the French
Decartelization Commission. (For text see
“Laws and Ordinances."')

Feb. 9 Meeting of HICOM

The fifteenth meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were Mr. John
J. McCloy, US High Commissioner for Ger-
many (chairman); Mr. Armand Berard, French
deputy high commissioner, acting for Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet; and Mr. C. E. Steel,
UK deputy high commissioner, acting for Sir
Brian Robertson.

The Council:

1. Confirmed its interim action not to dis-
approve a federal German law extending a
former Bizonal Economic Council ordinance on
equalization of import prices of certain agri-
cultural and other products, with the under-
standing that the law is to be superseded by
appropriate German legislation by June 30,
1950. (See following communique.)

2. Signed an Allied High Commission law
amending a _ British Military Government
ordinance which was enacted April 23, 1949
to give effect to the London decision of
June 1, 1948 reached by representatives of
the United Kingdom, United States, France
and the Benelux countries regarding certain
provisional adjustments of the western fron-
tiers of Germany, The amendment was re-
quired to enable Netherlands or Belgian
authorities not only to have access to and
copies of documents affecting the provisionally
transferred areas, but also possession of the
originals themselves, in accordance with the
provisions of the Paris protocol of March 22,
1949 concerning the safeguarding of the
interests of the inhabitants concerned and the
administration of the provisionally transferred
area. (For text see ‘Laws and Regulations."’)

3. Received Mr. J. Donald Kingsley, director
general of the International Refugee Organi-
zation (IRO) and considered the effect of the
approaching curtailment of the responsibilities

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 95 ---
of the IRO for displaced persons in western
Germany.

At a luncheon meeting with Mr. Kingsley,
the high commissioners discussed various
phases of the problem including the impor-
tance of a continuing, if curtailed, program
in this field, the valuable work of voluntary
social organizations and the problems which
will require governmental action. (See ‘Dis-
placed Persons’ in February issue and
“Voluntary Assistance’ in this issue.)

The High Commissioners and the Director
General of the IRO agreed that the time is
approaching for the delegation of increased
responsibilities for displaced persons to the
federal government of Germany. In_ this
connection, the Council agreed to address a
letter to the federal chancellor.

4, Signed an Allied High Commission law
depriving certain Allied Control Council laws
of effect. This law nullified Allied Control
Council Law No. 22 on works councils in the
state of Rhineland-Palatinate and Allied Con-
trol Council Law No. 35 on conciliation and
arbitration machinery in labor conflicts in the
state of Baden. This action was necessary to
permit two German laws submitted by the
aforementioned state governments and dealing
with the same subjects to enter into force.
(For text see “Laws and Regulations."’)

5. Approved an Allied High Commission
regulation establishing the procedures to be
followed by German authorities in connection
with questions arising under the provisions
of articles 3 (2) and 5 of Allied High Com-
mission Law No. 13, (Judicial Powers in
Reserved Fields). (For text see ‘Laws and
Regulations."")

6. Decided to hold its next meeting Feb. 16
at the Petersberg and to meet early next
week with the federal chancellor to discuss
the general economic situation.

Allied High Commission Reviews
Procedures on Import Equalization

The Allied High Commission announced
Feb. 9 that it has decided not to disapprove
a federal German law extending a former
Bizonal Economic Council ordinance on equali-
zation of import prices of certain agricultural
and other products, with the understanding
that the law is to be superseded by appro-
priate German legislation by June 30, 1950.

The decision followed an exchange of letters
(texts attached) between the federal govern-
ment and the Allied High Commission, in
which the federal chancellor outlined proce-
dures to be followed by the federal govern-
ment in regard to import equalization.

Economic Council Ordinance No. 168 approv-
ed by the US/UK Bipartite Board Aug. 16,
1949 established a system of finance equali-
zation to reimburse importers who paid
prices higher than the fixed domestic price
for a particular commodity. Meanwhile, import-
ers obtaining a commodity from abroad at
a price lower than the domestic price were
to pay the profit, after deduction of a trade
margin, to the Bizonal Department of Finance.

The federal government submitted to the
Allied High Commission a law prolonging the
effect of the ordinance, which expired Dec. 31,
1949, to June 30, 1950, and also extending
the validity of the former bizonal (US/UK)
measure to the states of Baden, Rheinland-
Pfalz and Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern, as well
as to the Bavaria county of Lindau. It is this
law which is the subject of the Feb. 9
decision.

Principles which the federal government
stated that it undertakes to follow in enact-
ing new German legislation on import equali-
zation include:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(1) Advance publication of measures affect-
ing importers.

(2) Coverage by import equalization of only
those goods “in respect of which considerable
differences exist between domestic and foreign
prices."

(3) Uniform handling of import equalization
with respect to all countries and all import-
ers, ‘so that there will be no instances of
discrimination."

(4) Showing of receipts and expenditures
arising from the import equalization fund in
the federal budget for approval by the
Bundestag (Federal Assembly).

Federal Republic of Germany,
Office of the Chancellor,
Bonn, Feb. 3, 1950,

His Excellency

Mr. John J. McCloy,

US High Commissioner and
Special ECA Representative
for Germany,
Ronn-Petersberg.

Sir,

With reference to today’s (Feb. 3) discus-
sions between the Deputy High Commissioners
on one hand and Ministerialdirigent (Ministe-
rialdirector) Blankenhorn and Dr. Stab of the
federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture and
Forestry, on the other, I have the honor to
make the following statement to you in the
name of the federal government with regard
to the import equalization law:

(1) All measures pertaining to import equali-
zation will be given advance publication in
the Bundesanzeiger (federal gazette) in order
that German importers are acquainted there-
with in proper time.

(2) Only such goods will be covered by the
import equalization in respect of which con-
siderable differences exist between domestic
and foreign prices. The list of these goods
will be communicated to the Tripartite Food
and Agriculture Subcommittee.

(3) Import equalization will be handled
uniformly with respect to all countries, so
that there will be no instance of discrimi-
nation. This will apply also to importers who
will all receive the same treatment.

(4) Receipts and expenditures arising from
the import equalization will be shown in the
federal budget for approval by the Bundestag.

(5) The import equalization law is intended
to expire on June 30, 1950. The federal govern-
ment is preparing laws to be submitted to the
Bundestag in ample time, the purpose of
which is to revise legislation in the food
sector for the time after June 30, 1950.

The responsible German administrative
agencies will be instructed to observe minute-
ly the principles laid down in the above
paragraphs.

Accept, Sir, the expression of my highest
esteem.

Is/ Adenauer
(Signature of Konrad Adenauer,
Chancellor.)

Allied High Commission for Germany
Feb. 9, 1950.
Mr. Chancellor:

The High Commissioners have considered
the declarations you have given by your let-
ter of February 3, 1950 in regard to the
measures to be taken in implementing the law
extending Economic Council Ordinance No. 168.

In view of your declarations the High Com-
missioners have decided not to disapprove
the law extending Economic Council Ordi-
nance No, 168 with the understanding that they
may utilize their reserve powers in regard to
this law in the event the procedures contain-
ed in your letter are not complied with.

92

The High Commissioners welcome’ your
declaration that the law will be superseded by
appropriate legislation by June 30, 1950 and
have decided on their part they cannot ap-
prove the extension of the present law beyond
that date.
!s) GEORGE P. HAYS
for JOHN J. McCLOY,
Chairman.
His Excellency,
The Chancellor of the
Federal Republic of Germany,
Palais Schaumburg,
141 Koblenzerstrasse,
Bonn.

Allied High Commission Rules
on Use of Facilities
Procured by Requisition
from German Authorities
Use of facilities procured by requisition or
mandatory demands on German authorities
was defined Feb. 8 by the Allied High Com-

mission as follows:

1, The agencies and persons defined under
“Allied Forces’ in article 1 of Allied High
Commission Law No. 2 shall continue to be en-
titled to receive logistic support including
use of requisitioned facilities as determined
by the high commissioner concerned.

2. All agencies and personnel not defined
under “Allied Forces’ in article 1 of Law
No. 2 will cease to be eligible for facilities
procured by requisition or mandatory de-
mands on German authorities. The arrangements
for the transition to the new procedure will
be made by each high commissioner con-
cerned.

3. All agencies and persons not defined un-
der ‘Allied Forces" in article 1 of Allied High
Commission Law No. 2 will be required as of
July 1, 1950, to pay the full cost of accom-
modation, services or other facilities provid-
ed through requisition or mandatory demands
on German authorities.

4, Each high commissioner will determine
the extent to which logistic support provid-
ed for payment in dollars, francs and sterling
shall be provided to agencies and personnel
residing in his Zone.

Article 1, Law No. 2 of the Allied High
Commission defines ‘Allied Forces" as:

(a) the Occupation Authorities;

(b) the Occupation Forces and their members;

(c) non-German nationals, civilian or mili-
tary, who are serving with the Occupation
Authorities;

(a) members of the families and non-German
persons in the service of the persons refer-
red to in sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (c) of this
paragraph;

(e) non-German persons whose presence in
the occupied territory is certified by a High
Commissioner or Commander of any of the Oc-
cupation Forces to be necessary for the pur-
poses of the occupation.

Laws and Regulations

S-H Budget Law Disapproved

The Allied High Commission through the
British state commissioner of Schleswig-Hol-
stein has informed the state government of
Schleswig-Holstein of its disapproval of the
state budget law for the fiscal year 1949-50
which was enacted on Dec. 13, 1949.

At the same time, the Allied High Commis-
sion made known that it has not disapproved
an associated law amending and liberalizing
previous legislation which authorized payment
of maintenance allowances to disabled and
aged professional members and officials of
the former German armed forces and to their
widows and minor children.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 96 ---
Amendment to British Military
Government Ordinance No. 184
(Provisional Frontier Adjustments)
The Council of the Allied High Commission

enacts as follows:

Article IV of British Military Government
Ordinance No, 184 (Provisional Frontier Ad-
justments) is hereby amended to read as
follows:

“The German authorities shall hand over to
the Belgian or Dutch authorities, as the case
may be, all archives and documents of an
administrative character or historical value
concerning the transferred areas other than
archives and documents which form an in-
separable part of any collection principally
concerning the non-attached areas, The Ger-
man authorities shall grant the Belgian or
Dutch authorities, as the case may be, free
access to all archives and documents of an
administrative character or historical value
concerning the transferred areas which form
an inseparable part of such a collection, and
shall permit them to make copies thereof."

Allied High Commission Law
Depriving Certain
Control Council Laws of Effect

The Council of the Allied High Commission
enacts as follows:
Article 1
The provisions of Control Council Law No.
22 (Works Councils) are hereby deprived of
effect in the territory of Land Rhineland-Pala-
tinate.
Article 2
The provisions of Control Council Law No.
35 (Conciliation and Arbitration Machinery in
Labor Conflicts) are hereby deprived of ef-
fect in the territory of Land Baden.

Regulation No. 1 under Allied
High Commission Law No. 13
(Judicial Powers in the Reserved Fields)

The Council of the Allied High Commission
issues the following regulation:

Part I — Article 3 (2) of Allied High Com-
mission Law No. 13.

Article 1

1. Whenever any question within the pur-
view of article 3 (2) of Allied High Commis-
sion Law No. 13, Judicial Powers in the Re-
served Fields, arises before a federal authority,
the question shall be referred to the Allied
General Secretariat, Bonn-Petersberg.

2. Whenever such a question arises before
a German authority other than a federal
authority, the question shall be referred to
the occupation authority designated by the
high commissioner of the zone concerned.
Such designated authority will notify the de-
cision taken thereon to the German authority.

Article 2

1. The question shall be referred in the
form of a memorandum which shall set forth:

(a) The name and address of the German
authority before which the question is pending.

(b) The circumstances under which the
question has arisen (e.g. in a law suit, in an
administrative proceeding, etc.) and the facts
which gave rise to it.

(c) The order, or pertinent provisions there-
of, if an order of an occupation authority is
involved. The name, address and status of the
individual concerned if the applicability of
articles 1 and 2 of Allied High Commission
Law No. 13 to a person is involved. The
nature and location of the property and details
of it. Past and present ownership if the ap-

MARCH 1950

plicability of articles 1 and 2 of Allied High
Commission Law No. 13 to property is involved.

2. If such question is referred by a federal
authority, 10 copies of such memorandum
with English and French translations thereof,
shall be submitted to the Allied General
Secretariat. If such question is referred by
any other authority, five copies of any such
memorandum shall be submitted to the autho-
rity designated by high commissioner of the
zone concerned,

Part Il — Article 5 of Allied High Commis-
sion Law No. 13.

Article 3

1, Requests by German authorities within
the purview of article 5 of Allied High Com-
mission Law No. 13 shall be supported by
particulars clearly indicating why the testi-
mony of the witness, or the production of
the document in question, is required and shall
state the matter in regard to which the wit-
ness shall be examined.

2. The nature of the document and the of-
fice or element having custody of it, or the
indentity of the witness, must ‘be clearly
indicated. .

3. The occupation authorities may require
the requesting German authorities to produce
any additional particulars.

Article 4

1. If the request comes from a German
federal authority it shall be submitted to the
Allied General Secretariat, Bonn-Petersberg. If
the request comes from any other German
authority, it shall be submitted to the occu-
pation authority designated by the high com-
missioner of the zone where such German
authority derives its competence.

2, The decision shall be notified to the
requesting German authority by the occu-
pation authority to which the request was
submitted,

3. A request may be granted subject to
conditions.

Part III — effective date.

Article 5

This regulation shall be deemed to have

become effective on Jan, 1, 1950.

Allied High Commission
Law on Claims against
the Joint Export-Import Agency -
The Council of the Allied High Commission
enacts as follows:
Article 1
Subject to the provisions of Article 2, all
claims against, or arising out of transactions
of, the Joint Export-Import Agency, now in the
course of liquidation, shall be lodged with the
said agency on or before Sept. 30, 1950.
Article 2
If a contract to which the Joint Export-Im-
port Agency is a party is in effect on Sept. 30,
1950, but has not yet been fully performed on
that date and a copy thereof has been filed
with the said agency on or before that date,
any claim arising out of such contract may be
lodged with the said agency within three
months of the date upon which such claim
accrued,
Article 3
Every claim lodged with the said agency
shall:
a. Be in writing and be signed by the
claimant or his authorized representative;
b. State the amount claimed and the facts
upon which the claim is based, and
c. Otherwise be in accordance with such
instructions as the said agency may issue.
Article 4
Any claim which shall not have been lodged
within the time and in accordance with the

93

provisions hereinbefore
disallowed.

Done at Bonn, Petersberg, on Jan. 26, 1950.

specified may be

Regulation No. 3
under United States/United Kingdom
Military Government Laws No. 75
(Regulation Concerning Certain
Liabilities
of the Iron and Steel Undertakings)

Pursuant to the provisions of United States/
United Kingdom Military Government Laws
No. 75 “Reorganization of German Coal and
Iron and Steel Industries,’* the Council of the
Allied High Commission issues the following
regulations:

Article I

Indebtedness incurred on and after the
effective date of this regulation by any iron
and steel undertaking subject to the - provi-
sions of said laws No. 75, and which shall
have been approved by the Combined Steel
Group of the Allied High Commission, for
the purpose of financing the acquisition, re-
newal, replacement, repair or improvement of
any fixed assets which shall subsequently be
transferred to a company formed in accord-
ance with the provision of Article 3 of said
laws shall be assumed by the company to
which such assets shall be so transferred to the
extent that the moneys provided from the
indebtedness so incurred shall have been ex-
pended for said approved purpose.

Article II

Indebtedness incurred on and after the
Nov, 10, 1948, in the normal course of busi-
ness of any iron and steel undertaking which
shall be subject to the provisions of said
laws No. 75 for the purpose of financing
current operations of such undertaking and
not in excess of such aggregate amount as
shall from time to time be specified by said
Combined Steel Group shall be assumed by
the company or companies formed in accord-
ance with the provisions of Article 3 of said
laws to which the current assets of such
undertaking shall be transferred in such
amounts not in excess of the then current
market value of the current assets so trans-
ferred as shall be determined in the plan
of reorganization approved by said Combined
Steel Group and under which such assets shall
be so transferred.

Article III

For the purposes of this regulation, the
term ‘‘current assets'' means ,,Umlaufver-
moegen’’ as defined in section 131 of the
German Aktionsgesetz of Jan, 30, 1937, and
the term ‘‘current market value’’ means the
fair selling price of the particular assets at
the time of their transfer as aforesaid.

Article IV

This regulation shall apply in the UK and
US Zones of Occupation and shall become
effective on Jan. 1, 1950.

Designation of the Implementing Agency
for Decartelization and Deconcentration
The Council of the Allied High Commis-

sion decides as follows:

Article 1

The Decartelization and Industrial Decon-
centration Group of the Allied High Com-
mission shall be the agency responsible for
the implementation of British Military Gov-
ernment Ordinance No. 78, United States
* see Information Bulletin, Issue No. 149,

Nov. 30, 1948.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 97 ---
Military Government Law No, 56, and French
Military Government Ordinance No. 96, in
place of the Bipartite Decartelization Com-
mission of the Bipartite Control Office and the
Commission for Deconcentration of German
Economy of the French High Command in
Germany.
Article 2
Order No. 2 of the British Military Govern-
ment issued pursuant to Military Government
Ordinance No. 78, Order No. 2 of the United
States Military Government issued pursuant
to Military Government Law No, 56, and
Decree No. 40 of the French commander-in-
chief in Germany, as amended by Decree
69—creation of a Commission for Deconcent-
ration of German Economy—are hereby can-
celled.
Article 3
This decision shall be
become effective on Sept. 21,

deemed to have
1949.

Official Statements

Rearmament Issue

The following statement was issued Jan. 20
by Mr. John J. McCloy, US High Commis-
sioner for Germany, immediately prior to his
departure from Frankfurt for the United
States:

“T have noted the story which appeared in
the Herald Tribune attributed to a spokesman
for Chancellor Adenauer alleging that the
Allies have asked former German generals
for their recommendations on the defense of
western Germany.

“Such a statement is completely without
foundation, I know of no request from my
American authorities to former generals of
the German armed forces for any recommenda-
tions concerning the defense of western Ger-
many.

“I have also noted that the office of the
chancellor has issued a denial that any such
statement was made by an authorized rep-
resentative of his office."

There has been much speculation recently
concerning German rearmament. This has act-
ed, said the High Commissioner, to distort
facts out of all proportion to: the reality.
There has been no change in the policy of
the US, which has been repeatedly stated by
responsible government officials, that Ger-
many shall not be allowed to re-create armed
forces or to re-arm.

German Gasoline Derationing
Proposals

In view of various inaccurate reports which
have appeared regarding the letter addressed
by the Allied High Commission to the federal
chancellor on the subject of the derationing
of petrol and the decontrolling of prices, the
High Commissioners, in agreement with the
federal chancellor, have decided to publish
this letter.

The letter, dated Jan. 21 and signed by the
British High Commissioner as chairman of the
council, said:

“The attention of the Allied High Commis-
sion has been drawn to the attached statement
of the federal minister of economics which
was also published in the press of Jan, 20, 1950.

“In view of the possible effects of the de-
rationing of petrol (gasoline) and the de-
controlling of prices on the Federal Republic's
requirements for external assistance and on
the flow of supplies to some of the forces of
occupation in Germany, the Allied High
Commissioners request that you hold up
action on this matter until the Allied High
Commission has had an opportunity to re-
view your proposed plans in accordance with

INFORMATION BULLETIN

their letter to you
(AGSEC [49] 245).

“The Allied High Commission has so far
expressed no opinion on this subject and
therefore the last paragraph of the statement
of the minister of economics is not correct...”

Text of announcement by federal economics
minister:

“The supply situation in the federal area
with regard to liquid fuel is developing favor-
ably within the framework of the Marshall
Plan and as a result of the liberalized trade
agreements and also because of the constantly
rising German crude oil production. The feder-
al minister for economics, Professor Erhard,
has therefore decided to end gasoline ration-
ing for final consumers on Feb. 1, 1950, and
to insure that the formal arrangements re-
quired would be made by that date.

“Only the obligation on producers and
importers to offer their stocks will remain in
force for an interim period as has been the
case hitherto, in order to guarantee an even
distribution of gasoline in quantity and
quality over the whole federal area. Together
with this, consumer prices at gasoline stations
and from stock will be decontrolled on Feb. 1,
1950. The federal ministry of economics is
convinced that it will succeed through this
measure in eliminating the black market in
gasoline.

“According to a statement made by Herr
Franz Etzel, chairman of the economic policy
committee of the Bundestag, the Allied High
Commission has already promised its approval
for the derationing of gasoline.”

dated Dec, 2, 1949

Meeting with Chancellor

The three Allied high commissioners met
Jan. 26 at the Petersberg, near Bonn, with
the chancellor of the German Federal Repu-
blic for another in their series of informal
discussions,

Sir Brian Robertson conveyed to the chan-
cellor, on behalf of himself and his colleagues,
an invitation from the governments of the
three occupying powers to appoint German
consuls-general in London, Washington and
Paris without delay. The chancellor accept-
ed the invitation with pleasure.

The question of the measures to be taken
to deal with the deficits in certain state
budgets until the federal government assumes
direct responsibility for occupation costs on
April 1 was also discussed.

The chancellor was informed that permis-
sion would be given for the retention for a
period of six months from Feb. 1, of 289
machine tools at the Krupp Werke, Essen, in
order to give temporary relief to the critical
unemployment situation in that area. The
chancellor has given a formal assurance that
the federal government will ensure the return
of these machine tools or of their replacement
with new machines at the end of this period.

The chancellor was also informed that the
Gelsenberg Benzin A.G., Gelsenkirchen, plant
would be issued with a license for the refining
of natural petroleum, the hydrogenation of
heavy residues and for the synthesis of am-
monia and methanol.

In response to a question from the chancel-
lor, the high commissioners assured him of
their concern regarding the return to Ger-
many of all prisoners-of-war and further ex-
pressed their interest in the matter of the
correct treatment of such prisoners as may
still be held abroad. The chancellor explained
the circumstances in which the announce-
ment of the proposed derationing of gasoline
had erroneously been issued without consul-
tation with the Allied authorities. Consulta-
tions between Allied and German technical
representatives are continuing.

94

Official Announcements

IRO Installations

EUCOM Occupation authorities have agreed
on a plan for the progressive release of most
IRO operated installations in the US controlled
area of Germany between Jan, 5 and June 30.

The plan, based on scheduled cessation of
IRO care and maintenance after June 30, allows
for sufficient flexibility to avoid undue hardship
on people involved and to comply with military
or other justifiable requirements that may
develop.

After June 30, IRO will be concerned only
with the affairs of DPs who will then be in
the process of resettlement from the US Zone
of Germany.

It is expected that about 20 installations will
be retained temporarily under IRO control for
that purpose. These installations, with an
approximate housing capacity of 26,500 persons,
will be released to the control of post com-
manders for further disposition as vacancies
occur.

The plan calls for outright release to military
post commanders of all IRO installations vacat-
ed through resettlement and repatriation of DPs
or through consolidation of property.

Some property rented by IRO from the Ger-
man economy for housing DPs will be returned
to German control as soon as possible, but
release of such property will be coordinated
with the German Land Commissioner and the
Military Post Commanders concerned, in order
to give DPs who are able to pay rent an
opportunity to occupy quarters in such build-
ings, DPs renting quarters on an individual
basis after release by IRO, become subject to
ali local German laws, rules and regulations
pertaining to housing. — from EUCOM an-
nouncement.

Wahn Telephone Exchange

It has been decided that the Wahn tele-
phone exchange will be renamed Wahner-
heide. The reason for this is that telephone
operators have found it difficult to differentiate
between the words Wahn and Bonn as spoken
over the telephone.

The name Wahnerheide is in fact the name
of the village nearest to the Office of the
UK High Commissioner. To avoid confusion
the name will be adopted as the place name
for the Office of the High Commissioner and
for the telegraphic address. — from CCG (BE)
announcement Dec. 8

POL

There is no arrangement for US occupa-
tion personnel stationed in zones outside the
British Zone to obtain POL products for their
personally owned motor vehicles while trav-
eling in the British Zone except for one EES
POL station which takes care of traffic be-
tween the Bremen Enclave and the US Zone.
This station is located at Neustadt which is
north of Hanover on the main road to Bremen,
and payment is made with EES gas coupons.

While members of the occupation must
carry the POL products needed for their
privately owned vehicles in cans, it was
pointed out that tourists and business men
with ‘'no facilities’ stamped on the entry-
exit visa in their passports may obtain ZB
coupons in German banks. — from EUCOM an-
nouncement Jan. 26.

EUCOM

Civilian employees of US Army appropriat-
ed fund agencies in Germany may not resign
and return to the United States at govern-
ment expense before their agreed minimum

MARCH 1950

--- Page 98 ---
period of service overseas because of the
scheduled elimination of the post salary dif-
ferential.

Non-appropriated fund agencies will con-
form to appropriated fund civilian salary
policies,

The differential, which amounts to 15 percent
of the base pay for employees working in
Berlin, and 10 percent for those at other
EUCOM military posts, will be eliminated
after March 5 in accordance with a govern-
ment order.

No changes are contemplated at present on
the allowance of free quarters to eligible
civilian employees of the Army.—from EUCOM
announcement, Jan. 30.

Shipment of Household Goods

Household goods of US military personnel
in the European Command surplus to the
needs of the owner through his transfer from
one set of quarters to another may be ship-
ped from EUCOM to the United States at
government expense before the return of the
owner, provided that adequate storage facili-
ties are not available at the post where he
is located.

In such cases, according to EUCOM Head-
quarters, post commanders are authorized to
issue orders for the shipment of the house-
hold effects to the United States as a military
necessity. The goods will be sent to govern-
ment storage or to the owner's home of
record,

The shipment at government expense of
household goods belonging to US civilian
employees before orders are issued for the
return of the employees is not authorized.
Such shipments are specifically precluded by
a decision of the comptroller general.—from
EUCOM announcement Feb. 7.

Penalty Mail

Envelopes, labels, wrappers, cards, tags and
other articles bearing the penalty clause will
not be used for such purposes as

(a) Personal communication,

(b) Conveyance of communications or materi-
al through other postal channels, such as
message centers, security courier service, hand-
carried interoffice communications, etc. (En-
velopes or other containers not bearing the
penalty indicia will be used for such purposes.)

(c) Placing penalty labels or tags on matter
which already bears the penalty indicia.

(4) Transmitting mail matter when carrying
postage, such as air mail or parcel post stamps,
has been placed thereon. (Non-penalty matter
will be used for such purposes.) — from EUCOM
Special Regulation 340-10-1.

Counterfeiting

The Chief of the Secret Service Bureau,
Treasury Department, stationed in Paris, sug-
gests that all military personnel visiting
Paris be warned about the activities of a
counterfeiting ring operating in France. Forged
Military Payment Certificates, US currency
and French francs are being offered visitors
in exchange for watches, cameras and other
personal articles.

This ring also is offering to exchange
forged French francs at a very high rate for
good Military Payment Certificates, American-
Express checks and American dollars. The
only safe places for the exchange of currency
are those duly authorized, such as American
Express facilities, Thos. Cook & Son, and
French banks, — from EUCOM memo, Jan. 7.

EUCOM Payment Practice

The practice of paying German and non-
German resident employees of the US Forces
twice a month will be continued indefinitely.

MARCH 1950

The procedure calls for a payment of
approximately 50 percent of the employee's
“take home" pay (salary or wages, less all
deductions) on the last day of the calendar
month, and the remainder on the 15th day of
the following month.

When the last day or the 15th day of the
month falls on a Sunday or holiday, payments
will be made on the next regular work day.

For some time last year, German and non-
German resident employees of American
military forces were paid once a month. — from
EUCOM announcement.

Pay for Reserve Officers

Reserve Officers in EUCOM will continue
to receive pay for attending reserve training
assemblies. In response to a query from the
Organized Reserve Corps Branch of the
EUCOM Operations, Plans, Organization and
Training Division, the Department of the
Amy replied that there will be no curtail-
ment of the funds that have been allocated
to EUCOM for the 1949-50 Reserve training
program.

Reservists also will continue to draw pay
for short tours of active duty, such as assign-
ments on troop maneuvers. Payment for
active duty hours was not affected by the
order cutting compensation for those attend-
ing certain training assemblies or ‘‘drill nights’*
in the United States. — from EUCOM announce-
ment.

Visas to Spain

American civilian and military employees
of occupation forces traveling to Spain on
Army travel orders must have a Spanish visa
before they are permitted to board planes.
Spanish visas may be procured at the Spanish
Consulate, 153 Grueneburg Weg in Frankfurt.—
from Combined Travel Board.

Reregistration of Vehicles

A registration of privately owned vehicles
of US and Allied personnel will be effected
between Feb. 1 and March 31 to provide
accurate information of the types, identification
and insurance coverage of such vehicles and
to correct any abuses of the privilege of
registration or violations of current directives,

Each owner will make application for regis-
tration or reregistration in person to the appro-
priate local registrar of motor vehicles with
satisfactory proof of ownership of the vehicle
and that it is equipped in all respects as
required by the vehicle and traffic code
(USFET Circular 124 dated Sept, 4, 1946). The
application will be refused if the acquisition
of the vehicle has been in violation of any
regulation of the European Command,

The owner will be required to present, with
the application for registration, a current in-
surance policy in the amount of $5,000 liability
for injury to or death of one person, and
$10,000 for injury to or death of more than
one person, and $1,000 property damage lia-
bility.

The fee for registration plates of all privately-
owned vehicles, including motorcycles, trailers
and motor scooters, and for all agency-owned
vehicles shall be $1, payable to the European
Command Exchange System,

The “'C’* plates for private individuals will
have black letters and figures on white back-
ground with “US of America—1950" under the
letter and figures and the ‘‘A‘ plates for
quasi-official agencies will have cream letters
on green background with “US Zone—1950""
under the letter and figures.

The special registration plates for the private
vehicles of general officers, colonels, naval
officers of corresponding rank and senior civil-

95

ian personnel prescribed in letter from the
Provost Marshal's Division, EUCOM, dated
Dec 21, 1949 will not be isswed.—from EUCOM
announcement.

Inspection of Automobiles

Motor vehicles owned by EUCOM personnel
must undergo a semi-annual inspection be-
tween Feb, 1 and March 31 to determine if
the vehicle is in proper mechanical condition
for safe operation. Inspection points will be
designated by post commanders.

After March 31, service stations will not
deliver gasoline to any privately-owned motor
vehicle unless a current inspection sticker is
displayed on it. Vehicles purchased from the
Luropean Exchange Service will bear inspec-
tion stickers at the time of transfer. Owners
of vehicles obtained from other sources must

obtain a sticker within 10 days from the
date of acquisition.
The owner of an automobile, motorcycle,

trailer or motor scooter that is found to be
in an unsafe mechanical condition for oper-
ation will be required to correct the defi-
ciencies and to appear with the vehicle for
reinspection within five days. If he fails to
correct the unsafe mechanical conditions within
that time, he will be reported to the EUCOM
Provost Marshal who will suspend registration
of the vehicle until the defects have been
eliminated.—from EUCOM announcement.

Swiss Border Crossing Fees

Car owners who hold an automobile in-
surance policy issued by the American Inter-
national Underwriters Corp, now are exempt
from paying the border crossing fee of three
Swiss francs when driving into Switzerland
providing an ‘insurance declaration for
Switzerland’ has been obtained from an AIU
branch office. Authority to issue such declara-
tions resulted from a special ‘‘contract of
guarantee’ concluded between AIU and Swiss
insurance companies.

It was pointed out, however, that presen-
tation of an insurance policy only, or any
declaration not issued by a Swiss company
or a company having concluded a special
contract of guarantee with Swiss insurance
companies, does not release the car owner
from paying the border crossing fee. Car
owners who hold valid automobile insurance
policies issued by an American insurance com-
pany licensed to operate in the US controlled
area of Germany, may be reimbursed at
current rates of exchange for border crossing
fees paid during the current term of their
Policy, if they forward the Swiss customs
receipt for the fee to a branch office of their
insurance company.

Swiss insurance companies having offices in
EUCOM will issue declarations of insurance
for Switzerland or redeem customs receipts
for border fees only for policy holders having
the Swiss minimum of liability and property
damage protection. This amounts to $12,500
per person and $25,000 for each accident.

Apart from vehicles covered by an insurance
declaration for Switzerland, automobiles are
exempt from the three francs border crossing
fee if they are covered by special ‘‘border
insurance’’ which is valid for 30 days and
costs 25 Swiss francs for automobiles and
12.50 for motor cycles.—from EUCOM announce-
ment.

Munich-Sonthofen Trains

Two compartments are being reserved for
EUCOM occupation personnel on trains D-72
and D-73 from Munich to Immenstadt, and on
connecting trains from Immenstadt to Sont-
hofen,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 99 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Official Gazette, No.1, HICOG, Sept. 23, 1949.

Official Gazette, No. 2, HICOG, Oct. 27, 1949.

‘Women in German Industry, Visiting Experts
Series No. 14, Manpower Division, OMGUS,
Oct. 1949.

Official Gazette, No. 3, HICOG, Nov. 3, 1949.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 2, PRD
HICOG, Oct. 31, 1949. Covers week ending
Oct. 27.

Industry Highlights
HICOG, Nov. 10, 1949.
Nov, 3.

Industry Highlights
HICOG, Nov. 17, 1949.
Nov. 10.

Industry Highlights
HICOG, Nov, 22, 1949.
Nov. 17.

Report for the Public Advisory Board, No. 17,
ECA (Paris), Nov. 23, 1949.

Official Gazette, No. 4, HICOG, Nov. 21, 1949.

Official Gazette, No. 5, HICOG, Nov. 25, 1949.

Freedom of the Press, TI&E Bulletin, Vol. 4,
No, 47, TI&E Office, EUCOM, Nov. 27, 1949.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 6, PRD
HICOG, Dec. 1, 1949. Covers week ending
Nov. 24.

Your Mission — Serving Your Country, TI&E
Bulletin, Vol. 4, No. 48, TI&E Office, EUCOM,
Dec. 4, 1949.

Industry Highlights
HICOG, Dec. 8, 1949.
Dec. 1.

Official Gazette, No. 6, HICOG, Dec. 9, 1949,

Insignia and Decorations, TI&E Bulletin,
Vol. 4, No, 49, TI&E Office, EUCOM, Dec. 11,
1949,

Industry Highlights
HICOG, Dec. 16, 1949.
Dec. 8.

Monthly Report of the Control Commission
for Germany (British Element), Vol. 4, No. 11,
Office of the UK High Commissioner, Dec. 16,
1949,

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 3, OEA, CCG (BE), Dec. 16, 1949.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 202, ISD
HICOG, Dec. 22, 1949.

Why Be Informed? TI&E Bulletin, Vol, 4,
No. 51, TI&E Office, EUCOM, Dec. 25, 1949.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 203, ISD
HICOG, Dec. 29, 1949.

Die Amerikanische Rundschau (in German),
Vol. 6, No. 28, ISD HICOG, December 1949/
January 1950.

The World in Review, TI&E Bulletin, Vol. 5,
No. 1, TI&E Office, EUCOM, Jan. 1, 1950,

Report, No. 3, PRD
Covers week ending

Report, No. 4, PRD
Covers week ending

Report, No. 5, PRD
Covers week ending

Report, No. 7, PRD
Covers week ending

Report, No. 8, PRD
Covers week ending

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 4, OEA, CCG (BE), Jan. 5, 1950.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 204, ISD
HICOG, Jan. 5, 1950.

American Democracy and The Individual,
TI&E Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 2, TI&E Office,
EUCOM, Jan, 8, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No.
HICOG, Jan. 9, 1950. Covers week
Jan. 5.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 5, OEA, CCG (BE), Jan, 12, 1950.

Activities of the Office of Public Affairs,
Special Issue of the Information Bulletin, OPA
HICOG, Jan. 12, 1950.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 205, ISD
HICOG, Jan. 12, 1950.

The New Pay Act, 1949, TI&E Bulletin,
Vol. 5, No. 3, TI&E Office, EUCOM, Jan. 15,
1950.

Information Bulletin, January PRD HICOG,
Jan. 15, 1950. -

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey,
No. 14, ISD HICOG, Jan. 17, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 15,
ISD HICOG, Jan. 18, 1950.

West German Republic Vs, East German
Government, Report No. 3, Series No. 2, ISD
HICOG, Jan. 18, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 13,
HICOG, Jan.
Jan. 12,

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 6, OEA, CCG (BE), Jan. 19, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 17,
ISD HICOG, Jan. 19, 1950.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 206, ISD
HICOG, Jan. 19, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 18,
ISD HICOG, Jan. 19, 1950.

Economic Press Digest, No. 83, PRD HICOG,
Jan. 20, 1950.

Evaluation of the 1950/51 and 1951/52 Pro-
grams of Western Germany, ECA Special Mis-
sion to Western Germany, Jan. 21, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 19,
ISD HICOG, Jan. 23, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 14,
HICOG, Jan. 24,
Jan. 19,

12, PRD
ending

PRD
19, 1950. Covers week ending

PRD
1950. Covers week ending

Copies of Instructions listed in the

Information Bulletin may be ob-

tained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters.

Text of Mr. McCloy's Address in Washington,
Press Release No. 178, PRD HICOG, Jan, 24,
1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 20,
ISD HICOG, Jan, 24, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 21,
ISD HICOG, Jan. 25, 1950

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 22,
ISD HICOG, Jan. 26, 1950.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 207, ISD
HICOG, Jan. 26, 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 7, OEA, CCG (BE), Jan. 26, 1950.

Economic Press Digest, No. 84, PRD HICOG,
Jan. 27, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 23,
ISD HICOG, Jan. 27, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 24,
ISD HICOG, Jan. 28, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 25,
ISD HICOG, Jan. 30, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 26,
ISD HICOG, Jan. 31, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 27,
ISD HICOG, Feb. 1, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 208, ISD
HICOG, Feb. 2, 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 8, OEA, CCG (BE), Feb. 2, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 28,
ISD HICOG, Feb. 2, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No.
HICOG, Feb. 3,
Jan. 26, 1949.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 29,
ISD HICOG, Feb. 3, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 30,
ISD HICOG, Feb. 4, 1950.

German News and Editorial Comments on
Stuttgart Address by US High Commissioner for
Germany. John J, McCloy, held at the opening
of the Amerika Haus, Stuttgart, Special Report
No. 2, ISD HICOG, Feb. 6, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 31,
ISD HICOG, Feb. 6, 1950,

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 32,
ISD HICOG, Feb. 7, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 33,
ISD HICOG, Feb. 8, 1950,

Industry Highlights Report, No. 16,
HICOG, Feb. 9, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey, No. 34,
ISD HICOG, Feb. 9, 1950,

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 209, ISD
HICOG, Feb. 9, 1950.

Information Bulletin, February, PRD HICOG,
Feb. 10, 1950.

15, PRD
1950. Covers week ending

PRD

Train D-72 leaves Munich at 7:05 a.m. and
arrives at Immenstadt at 10:02 a.m. Connec-
ting train D-292 leaves Immenstadt at 10:11
a.m, and gets into Sonthofen at 10:24 a.m.
Train D-291 departs from Sonthofen at 6:32
p.m. and arrives at Immenstadt at 6:45 p.m.
Train D-73 leaves Immenstadt for Munich at
6:50 p.m., arriving at 9:42 p.m.

One coach will continue to be reserved for
EUCOM military and civilian personnel be-
tween Munich and Lindau on trains D-82 and
D-83. However, as occupation personnel using
these trains often get off at Immenstadt, two
compartments are being reserved on con-
necting cars from Immenstadt to Sont-
hofen. The schedule for this service is as
follows: D-82 leaves Munich at 12:05 p.m.,
arriving at Immenstadt at 2:57 p.m. Train
P-246 departs Immenstadt at 3:05 p.m., arriv-
ing at Sonthofen at 3:18 p.m. The return
trip may be made on train P-2462 leaving

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Sonthofen at 2:33 p.m. and connecting with
train D-83 which leaves Immenstadt at 2:57
p.m, arriving at Munich at 5:42 p.m.

On trains E574 and E-575, two compart
ments are being reserved for occupation per-
sonnel between Munich and Immenstadt, and
two compartments on the connecting trains
from Immenstadt to Sonthofen. According to
the schedule, train E-574 leaves Munich at
7:40 p.m., gets into Immenstadt at 10:53 p.m.
where passengers may leave at 11:06 p.m. on
train P-974 for Sonthofen, arriving at 11:14
p.m. Train P-975 leaves Sonthofen at 6:30
a.m., connecting with train E-575, which leaves
Immenstadt at 6:53 a.m, and arrives at Munich
at 9:57 a.m.—from EUCOM announcement.

ECA Flow Tops $1,000,000 Daily
Marshall Plan goods flowed into western
Germany at a rate of more than $1,000,000 a

96

day during the first 15 days of 1950, accord-
ing to the ECA Special Mission to Western
Germany. For the period of Jan. 1 to 15,
goods and services received by the German
Federal Republic amounted to $20,535,000. Of
this amount, industrial goods accounted for
$11,226,000; food and agricultural products
$6,778,000; and ocean freight, $2,531,000.

UNICEF Streptomycin Distributed

A shipment of 34,000 grams (nearly 75
pounds) of streptomycin, donated by United
Nations International Children’s Emergency
Fund (UNICEF) arrived in Bremerhaven for
use in treating German children in western
Germany. The 34 boxes, containing 1,000 grams
each, were distributed in the states of the
US Zone, the British Zone and the western
sectors of Berlin.

MARCH 1950

--- Page 100 ---
Improving Water Highways

In France the giant Donzero-Mondragon development
(top left) will aid in providing a navigable channel for
25 miles along the Rhone. Part of the $5,090,000 in ERP
funds budgeted by Belgium to improve waterways is
being used to build a circular canal around Ghent (top
right) to eliminate smaller canals that bottleneck trans-
port. The barge (above leit) is carrying explosive chemi-
cals down the Manchester Ship Canal to the factories in
the heart of industrial England. The histozic Corinth
canal (above right) is being widened to handle larger
vessels, speeding up trade between Greece and Western
Europe. Danish freighter ties up at Rouen (right), one of
the biggest inland ports of Europe for shipment of

goods into the interior via water networks.

--- Page 101 ---
MARCH

Gn. + S| 4 So

SO.  OOe. NS Oh

S10

Ay A

12 19
15 20:
2
bz
16 23
7 24
18°25

26
27
28
29
30
ot