--- Page 2 ---
UN > 1950
ity of Wisconsin _

HIS ISSUE:

man-American Friendship Youth under Communism
( ermany’s Poreign Trade | ECA Technical Assistance
AO

Reference Library US Consulate in Bremen

--- Page 3 ---
xt,

Legionnaire delivers gifts to 300 children in Berlin meeting; ‘‘Tide of Toys”

More than 3,000,000 gifts — literally

a "Tide of Toys" — arrived in

Europe from the US during March

for distribution to children in many

West European countries, including

Germany. Gifts started to arrive

after a radio appeal by Drew Pear-

son, Washington commentator. The

American Legion assumed sponsor-

ship of the drive, CARE agreed to

deliver the gifts in Europe. Scenes

herewith show token distributions

of the donations from US children

to youngsters in public homes in

west Germany. Legion officials ac-

companied the initia] shipments, - ey
(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG) mat

Children

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies, regu-
lations, instructions, operations and
activities of the Allied occupation in
Germany.

Editorial Staff:

BditOr cones Hessians H. Warner Waid
Editorial Writer ...... Aileen S. Miles
Editorial Writer ...... Beth Burchard

Editorial Offices:
Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994
Frankfurt, Germany
e

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed in the plant of the Publishing
Operations Branch, Information Serv-
ices Division, at 39 Schelling Strasse,
Munich,

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

COVER PICTURE

TIDE OF TOYS — A German girl
smiles with joy from her hospital bed
in Frankfurt over the doll she received
from the American Legion. More than
3,000,000 loys were distributed in Europe
in the Legion's project with the co-
Operation of CARE to provide toys for
children’s hospitals, homes, orphanages
and other institutions not normally
able to provide toys for their wards.
More photographs of this distribution
in Germany are shown on opposite
Page, (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS
May 1950

Sudetens Come Home (pictorial)

Breaking Down the Barriers
Study oi German-American Relations

Oldest Cotistlate I GerMaNny «0. :6:6:6::6:6:0000 vis ssrsisiasinwars we 7
Article by Robert P. Chalker

New Homes for Refugees ........-.. 0.0. cseeeeeeeeee ences 11
Article by John E. McGowan

Books at Your Service « ss ss ic answaweise ins He eSa os Caran one » 14
Article by Henry A. Dunlap

Operation “SHOW-HOW!" s ccssccnaes came HG OH 17
Article by Aileen S. Miles

Refugee Camp (pictorial) . 20

Youth under Communism 21
Study of Freie Deutsche Jugend

"We Must Bxporticc” « c ss secsnmeweee se WSReRRES HR GY 25
Article by Fred Welty

ROUSSE CF Clay (OiGtOrsal), ve we ese-execexeseresornsernsm ers -sarssinsovoenenerete wy ¥ 27

Hxepellées” Glove! PHM: ss sasiwsewmecws mainsuaes wy sy f 28

American Policy in Germany ascccw os ve oy comnam yak 29
Address by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser

Exercise Shamrock (pictorial) . 32

THAVIGWEIS NOE! Mt ERP sccm ws asamewwsaww we me 308 34
Address by Robert M. Hanes

Germany in a United Europe ...............sceeseeeveees 37
Address by John J. McCloy

Hollywood Stars Speak German .............-.-. 0.000005 40
Article by Beth Burchard

Personnel Notes ....... 45
New British High Commissioner . 46
Bolds Named OLCB Commissioner . 46

HMICOG 1 MarR ovne:nce axe xe asesarapesmsenenerececean ne-snenesemesenenereves was eae. 4 48
Text of “Report to the People”

Economic Review for March 1950)... .. 6. eee cee eee 50
Survey by M. W. A. Edwards

Occupation Log 52

German Editorials and Cartoons 58

THAN carson arcannrememances na oa mccamTeREN mig areREEN 69
Information Bulletin articles in 1949

Oficial NOUCOS .e:e.ccercsce.:9 se 08 eneeneneuerenerenene sne-enminceumseseneneraus » 76
Communiques 76
Laws and Regulations 77
Statements and Speeches 78
Announcements 80

Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents .......... 80

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

APO 757, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Young refugees look from the windows of the train which
brought a total of 335 Sudeten Germans of virtually all
ages from Czechoslovakia to new homes in Bavaria.

Young and old refugees (left) were among those who
arrived at Furth-im-Wald crossing point. Baggage search
(center) by German border police was later discontinued
(Right) White pole marks border where refugees wait.

Sudetens Come Home

HOUSANDS OF BROKEN families have been reunited

during the past few months as persons of German
ethnic origin have been admitted to western Germany to
join close relatives living there. .

Allied and Czech authorities agreed to the migrations
in Prague, and in March the first contingent of 20,000
persons crossed the German border at Furth-im-Wald.
Now leaving Czechoslovakia at a rate of 400 persons a
week, these Germans were, for the most part, left behind
when members of their families were expelled shortly
after war's end.

The agreement was reached on Allied initiative fol-
lowing a request from the German Federal Republic. All
emigration is voluntary and follows normal Czechoslo-
vakian emigralion procedures.

Pictures on this page show first arrivals of Sudeten
Germans at Furth-im-Wald, Bavarian border town.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

MAY 1959

--- Page 6 ---
Breaking Down the Barriers

Review of Progress Being Made Toward

Closer German-American Relations

MODAY, ALL OVER the American zone, Germans and
T Americans are getting to know each other better and
with this knowledge are developing understanding of one
another and an appreciation for those things which the
other has to offer.

Recognizing that their old self-centered and nationalis-
tic philosophies were getting out of date, some German3
became eager to learn of and latch on to a broader set of
standards which they could understand only through con-
tact with the Americans. Americans, on the other hand,
slowly began to realize that their job of understanding
and being understood by Germans was not merely an of-
ficial nine-to-five chore but could best be done indirectly
by friendly association and shared understanding.

A wedge in the future open-door policy was made when
Americans extended invitations to German guests to
visit their clubs and places of amusement. Individuals
invited Germans to their homes and the door swung open
wider as Military Government encouraged its members
to bring their German friends into MG dining facilities.

Far-sighted officials issued statements encouraging their
employees to promote social contacts with the Germans
and certain extra rations could be obtained when Ameri-
cans were having bi-national discussion groups in their
homes.

HE LAST REMNANTS of official reserve vanished as

the occupation civilianized. As one of his first moves
upon taking up the duties of US High Commissioner for
Germany, Mr. McCloy removed the “off limits” restriction
on German shops, restaurants, cafes and clubs for occupa-
tion personnel.

“Tt is important," Mr. McCloy said, ‘for the purpose of
the occupation that the occupiers and the occupied ap-
proach their respective problems on a common basis
of understanding. I have every reason to believe thal
the personnel of the occupying powers, whether
soldiers or civilians, will so conduct themselves under
the new circumstances as to advance the objectives of
the occupation."

Today the door for American association with Ger-
mans is not only officially wide open but Americans
are urged to seek German companionship and to drop
their ostrich-like approach to the Germans.

French, German and American young people get lo-
gether in an old American custom, a “weenie roast,”
held at German community education center, Haus
Schwalbach, Wiesbaden. The youth met in a session
fo learn one another's folklore. (PRB OLCH phots)

MAY 1950

Realizing that without a common medium for expres-
sion, understanding between the two nationalities would
remain stunted, HICOG, for the first time since the occu-
pation, inaugurated daily classes in the German language
both at headquarters and in the field. In these classrooms
American employees, utilizing specialized conversational
methods, can learn the language during office hours.

Mr. McCloy himself, in spite of his heavy work load,
sets the pace for his staff. Last month he invited the
ministers-president of the American zone to an informal
conference on public problems. After the conference, the
German guests adjourned to Mr. McCloy’s residence in
Bad Homburg for dinner and a social evening. Moreover,
he finds time for a daily German lesson,

ENJAMIN J. BUTTENWIESER, assistant high com-

missioner, recently told a group of school teachers in
dependents’ schools that understanding of the German
scene could only be achieved by an intermingling of
peoples and free discussion of their ideas.

“Segregation is an anathema wherever it is practiced,"
Mr. Buttenwieser said. ‘The time has come — or, in fact,
has long since passed — when we should no longer see
signs in front of our Dependents’ Schools’ playgrounds
to the effect ‘Eintritt verboten fuer deutsche Kinder.'"

German-American clubs are springing up. The parent
organization for most of them is the Federation of Ger-
man-American Clubs, a voluntary association of organ-
ized groups within the US Zone. The federation provides
a clearing house and service agency for the member clubs
through which they can exchange ideas and experiences
and assist each other in their common objective of
promoting German-American understanding.

--- Page 7 ---
Leaders of both nationalities talk over affairs of the Ger-

man-American Women’s Club in Munich. (PRB OLCB photo)

Strictly unofficial, the clubs include both men's and
women's associations and mixed organizations and are
scattered throughout all communities in which Americans
live,

The federation holds an annual convention in May to
which each member club sends one German delegate and
one American, and as many visitors as it chooses. This
year the convention will meet in Augsburg, Bavaria, May
19 to 21, At these annual sessions reports are heard from
the various clubs outlining their activities, presenting
their problems and often indicating solutions which they
have found.

The federation issues a monthly newsletter offering
additional opportunity for member clubs to keep in touch
with each other. Articles of general interest on com-
munity, civic or public problems are featured in the
newsletters as well as a directory of club officers so that
traveling members may readily get in touch with club
members in other parts of Germany.

The federation is assembling a library of program
materials available for loan to member clubs. It has
furnished them with outlines of the Bonn Basic Law in
both English and German for study and discussion.

OCALLY THE German-American clubs are meeting

regularly, their members digging into problems of

civic improvement and getting to know each other better
in the process.

The Munich German-American Club, a mixed organiza-
tion typical of similar groups within the zone, has spon-
sored varied discussion groups giving opportunity for the
exchange of ideas and permitting Germans to ask ques-
tions on American life and vice versa.

Under the auspices of this club several projects have
given Germans and Americans an opportunity to work
together. The Munich clean-up campaign last year saw
Americans and Germans wielding shovels together in a
joint effort to help tidy up the city.

Bavaria’s Pfennig Parade, a campaign similar to Ameri-
ca's March of Dimes, again shows peoples of the two

INFORMATION BULLETIN

countries working toward a common purpose — the
control of one of the world's most crippling diseases,
poliomyelitis or infantile paralysis.

An International Press Club in Munich, which opened
early this year, is an effort on the part of German and
American newsmen to promote a better understanding
by the press on an international level. For the first time,
the club provides a common meeting ground for German
and American press representatives in Bavaria, giving
them ample opportunity to get together.

In Bremen, where HICOG employees have noted an
increase in invitations to participate in German social
groups since the establishment of the Allied High Com-
mission, many Americans belong to the city chapter of
the Karl-Schurz-Gesellschaft, an organization reactivated
in Frankfurt last spring.

Civic clubs, stamp clubs, tennis clubs and just plain
“get-together clubs in which Germans and Americans
share equal membership have blossomed forth in recent
months.

Wives of HICOG employees are supplementing their
husbands’ official activities by voluntarily assisting in
US Information Centers. Scores of dependents along with
State Department employees in their free time are giving
English lessons, conducting play reading groups, discus-
sion clubs, lecturing, and offering their talents to musical
programs. Consular officials have spoken on the Ameri-
can Constitution and immigration procedures and out-
lined life in the United States.

HE EVENTFUL WEEKLY programs of the individual

Information Centers, according to Mrs. Patricia van
Delden, chief of HICOG's Information Centers Branch,
are in large part dependent on the voluntary services of
local Americans, including both HICOG and Army
personnel.

At Haus Schwalbach, Hesse, the outstanding com-
munity education center in Germany, there is a continu-
ing and consistent mixing of Germans and Allies on an
“across the board” basis.

In Bremen, participation in community life by Ameri-
cans stationed there has been further aided by the fact
that many German families in the area have relatives in
the United States, many of whom live in the same com-
munities from which HICOG officers come.

One of the OLC Bremen staff reports that he has
broadened his acquaintanceship within the Bremen com-
munity by the people he has met in the homes of his
German co-workers. Where the HICOG employee has not
limited himself to contact with German VIP's, he says,
but has included the working man in his home invitations,
he gets a larger and far more comprehensive picture of
German life.

In both Berlin and Bremen, literary and art-minded
Germans and Americans have formed particularly close
friendships. In Berlin 20-odd German artists and a dozen
or so American art lovers congregate every two weeks
to talk over their related interests.

Another Bremen HICOG employee has put his interest
in music to good use by inviting Bremen music lovers in

MAY 1950

--- Page 8 ---
small groups to his home to listen to
his collection of recordings of old
and modern classical music as played
and sung by Americans. Ensuing
cultural discussions, he declares, have
been mutually beneficial.

N BAVARIA one American has

elected to live with a German
family in order to learn their
language and customs. The American
woman lived with the German family
in Munich for two months. During
this period her contact with Ameri-
cans was limited to the time she
spent at work. At the end of two
months, she had greatly increased her fluency with the
language. However, even more important, she felt she
had really learned to know Germans —- their way of
thinking and their way of life.

“T had been in Germany for over a year,” she said, “but
having spent virtually all my time with Americans I felt
1 knew little more about the Germans than I had learned
in my classbooks back home. This really gave me my
first opportunity to study their habits. At the same time,
they had the chance to closely observe an American.”

Carla Eddy, reports and publications officer for the
Office of General Counsel, HICOG, in Frankfurt, is a
one-woman reorientation program in her own quiet, un-
official way. Coming to Germany with the desire to
improve her knowledge of the language and to learn
everything she could about the people and the country,
she set to work on her personal campaign.

While stationed in Berlin during the blockade she
associated herself with a class of German schoolgirls
laboriously trying to learn English. In frequent visits to
the class she became personally acquainted with all the
children who still write her today in Frankfurt.

Helping them in their struggles with English, Miss
Eddy talked and read to them and painted verbal scenes
of life in America. As the class progressed she sponsored
a poetry contest in English on
the subject of the airlift, offer-
ing a glass of jelly as first
prize,

There were 12 “takers” and
an excuse was found to re-
ward all who tried.

One of the verses submitted
is the following by Brigette
Bils, age 12:

The airplanes fly

We look at the sky

They bring us to eat

Potatoes and Meat

They all look so wonder-

ful and nice

American Carla Eddy (third from left) has
taken a group of German students under her
wing, feels they are all learning agreat deal.

But Miss Eddy wanted to know
German adults too. Her next step
was to join a student discussion
group whose members came from
both the Free University in the
western sectors of Berlin and from
the communist-dominated Berlin Uni-
versity.

WAS ALARMED at the outset”,

Miss Eddy said, “and believed
that all I might get out of the ex-
perience would be fireworks. But in
all the months we met and talked and
played together we never discussed
politics.”

The group of 10 men and women students used to read
American plays together, discuss theater and everyday
problems. Miss Eddy would take the group to each new
performance of the American Little Theater in Berlin and
tried to feed their insatiable hunger for opinions from
the outer world. Whenever she revisits Berlin today the
group gathers in one of the German homes for another
“get-together.”

Through her instigation the Germans contributed pieces
to the University Daily Kansan, the publication of Miss
Eddy‘s alma mater. One of the young students from the
Soviet-controlled Berlin University contributed an article
pointing up the situation of universities under Com-
munist rule,

“The academic situation in the Eastern part of Ger-
many,” the German student wrote in the University of
Kansas paper, “is marked by a quiet but hard struggle on
the part of students and even many professors, against
the overwhelming Communist influence which threatens
to destroy even the last signs of free intellectual life.

“In Berlin the situation is quite different from that in
the Soviet Zone. The presence of the Western Occupation
Powers has a stimulating effect on the intellectual life
here. Consequently, the Communist influence in the Uni-
versity of Berlin (Humboldt University) has never been
so strong as that in the Soviet
Zone, although no opportunity
has been missed to establish
a strict system of control in
the Berlin (Soviet Sector) pre-
paratory schools.”

Miss Eddy feels she has
learned much from her Ger-
man friends. ‘We approached
one another,” she said, “with
interest, and sometimes frank
curiosity. We shared our ques-
tions and answers about to-
day, yesterday and tomor-
row. We laughed over our

Miss Eddy, I like to get
the prize.

MAY 1950

It's an old-fashioned American square dance, but Ger-
mans, French and Americans are learning it together.

Photo was taken at Haus Schwalbach. (PRB OLCH photo)

S)

own discrepancies as nations
and individuals. We risked
each other’s disapproval by be-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
Wiesbaden students have their own exchange program:
two young Germans attend Wiesbaden Dependents’ High
School for two weeks while two Americans attend German
school. Seated are Gerald Sola, Wiesbaden Resident Of-
ficer, who arranged exchange; Jane Ritter, American High
School principal and Gerhard Kip of Wiesbaden School
Board. German student Erika Buck, Americans Mary Anne

Eiler and Mary Campisi are at rear. (PRB OLCH photo)

ing as straight-forward as possible, and found it paid
off in improved understanding.”

TILL ANOTHER HICOG employee who believes that
getting to know the Germans pays dividends is Theo-
dore E. Gucwa, chief of administration in the Office of

Labor Affairs, HICOG, also in Frankfurt. Invited to join
a German rowing club which competes with other rowing
teams of Germany, Gucwa said, “I was just tickled silly,
and now I row on the Main river three times weekly
with the club.”

Naturally, Gucwa added, “I got to know everyone in
the club pretty well. We have monthly dances and have
arrived at the ‘first name’ stage.”

An ardent advocate of private contacts with German
neighbors is Dr. Omar B. Pancoast, Jr., deputy chief of
the Food and Agriculture Division, Office of Economic
Affairs, HICOG, who belongs to a German fencing group
and pursues the sport on an international basis. .Ameri-
cans, British, French and Germans come. together in
Frankfurt each week for these fencing bouts.

But most interesting to Dr. Pancoast is his experiment
in sending his two small boys to a German school. For
a while it was a race as to whether cowboy clothes and
American habits would change the German children or
whether the German children would influence the Pan-
coast boys. At the end of the month, Pancoast’s sons were
delighted at being accepted as part of the German com-
munity.

“We feel this has been an excellent influence in coun-
teracting the suggestions of ‘superiority’ too often evi-
denced by Americans in their treatment of German asso-
ciates or neighbors,” Pancoast said. “It is not enough to,
profess equality and democracy; we have got to live with
our German neighbors in such a way to show that we
mean it.” --END

Bavarian Village Bidding for Tourist Trade

Residents of Diessen, a village in southern Bavaria, are
turning an eager eye toward tourist trade and the foster-
ing of better international relations.

Mindful of the thousands of foreigners from America
and European countries who will be converging on Ober-
ammergau for the Passion Play this year the townsfolk
are going ahead making rooms available and tidying up
their town to share in the tourist trade. A planning com-
mittee, patterned after a chamber of commerce, has been
named to see that Diessen is not passed over by the visi-
tors to western Germany. As one villager pointed out:
“Our town is not exactly on the main crossroads, but we
all work together and will make it a town well worth
the time going out of the way to see.”

The idea of attracting tourists to Diessen was first
posed at a press conference conducted early this year
by Dr. A. M. Frye, US resident officer of Landsberg
county, in which Diessen is located. It was given further
thought at a town meeting last Jan. 26 when 350 residents
of Diessen crowded into a small hall and for four hours
aired their views. The meeting wound up with the selection
of a committee to survey available tourist accommoda-
tions. At the same time, the villagers agreed to volunteer
their time to clean up the village.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“Our town already is overcrowded," declared one
Diessen official. “However, by doubling up we hope to
make some rooms in private dwellings available so that
tourists can drop in for a visit rather than pass us by.
We're also aware that some of our roads need fixing and
that our town needs tidying up so that instead of being
an eyesore it will be an attraction to tourists.”

He said some villagers at first expressed fear that
additional refugees would be moved into their town
instead of tourists should the town advertise the fact it
had “surplus” rooms. However, housing officials assured
them this would not be the case.

At the same time, a proposal to erect a motion picture
house as an added tourist attraction met with some
objection from villagers who thought it wrong to put
up a “luxury building” when houses were badly needed.

However, these objections were countered by asser-
tions from other townspeople that taxes derived from
the theater's operations could provide money for the
building of houses.

Various officials and residents expressed the wish that the
bringing of tourists to Diessen not only will help the com-
munity financially but will permit a better understanding
between its citizens and especially American tourists.

MAY 1950

--- Page 10 ---
Oldest

Consulate
in
Germany

By ROBERT P. CHALKER

Consul, American Consulate General, Bremen

“NOW YE THAT reposing special trust and con-
K fidence in the abilities and integrity of Arnold Delius
of Bremen, I have nominated and appoint him Consul
of the United States of America at the Port of Bremen,”
wrote President George Washington on May 29, 1794, at
Philadelphia.

Thus did the first President of the new American Re-
public, in the eigtheenth year of its independence, create
consular representation at Bremen, Free Hanseatic City
of Northwestern Germany, at the time one of the dozens
of political units of the tottering Holy Roman Empire.

The American Consular Service at that time was as
uncertain of its existence as was that hodge-podge of
many different states stretching from the North Sea
nearly to the lower Danube, but for a different reason.
The American Consular Service was established under
laws passed by Congress in 1790 and 1792 but it was
not reduced to a regular system until a basic law was
passed for the service in 1856.

Nevertheless, President Washington felt it proper to
“enjoin all Captains, Masters and Commanders of ships
and other vessels, armed or unarmed, sailing under the
Flag of the said States as well as all other of their
Citizens, to acknowledge him, the said Arnold Delius,
accordingly." All powers and authorities in and superior
to Bremen were requested to permit Delius “peaceably
to perform the duties of his office and to afford him all
proper countenance and assistance; I offering to do the
Same for all those who shall in like manner be recom-
mended to me by the said Powers and Authorities.”

REMEN 1S THUS one of the oldest consular offices,

: having been established almost as long as we have
existed as a nation. This consular relation has continued,
with only the two tragic interruptions of two world wars,
down to the present day.

MAY 1950

The American Consulate General at 20 Contrescarpe,
Bremen, shown above as it looks today, was established
by charter signed by President Washington May 29, 1794.

There are many reasons why there should have been
this representation of ‘the American Government there.
People of Bremen like to think that the key which ap-
pears on the shield of their city means ‘Key to the
World,”” but to many American business houses it meant
the key to Germany.

As the years from 1794 marched on, imports through
this port included cotton, tobacco, wheat, lubricants,
coffee and fruits, which came in large part from the
United States; and other products both from America and
the rest of the world increased its importance as a port
in Germany until it was second only to Hamburg.

Exports through Bremen have indeed been vastly varied
during the nearly 150 years of American consular re-
presentation there. Much of the infinite variety of steel
products of the Ruhr, tires, oils, paints from Hanover,
automobiles from Lower Saxony and Hesse, the Rhine-
land and Stuttgart, pottery and toys from Bavaria,
cameras, machinery and beer from central and eastern
Germany and Czechoslovakia swelled the volume of
trade and helped to make Bremen become at one time
shortly before the first World War the wealthiest city
per capita in Germany.

In 1938 three German shipping lines, including the
famous North German Lloyd, had their head offices at
Bremen and 30 others, including five American lines,
had ships calling at Bremen or Bremerhaven. Shipbuild-
ing has also been important there for centuries.

The famous Atlantic liner Bremen, was built in the Bre-
men yards of the shipbuilding firm of A.G. Weser, launched
on August 16, 1928, and floated down the river of that
name to Bremerhaven where she was completed and com-
missioned a year later. The s.s. Scharnhorst was launched
from Bremen on Dec. 14, 1934, by Hitler himself, though

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
pide take

George Washington, President of the United
States of America
To all who shall see these Presents —
Greeting

Know Ye, That reposing special Trust and Con-
fidence in the Abilities and Integrity of Arnold
Delius of Bremen--- I have nominated and by
and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate,
do appoint him Consul of the United States of
America for the Port of Bremen, and do authorize
and empower him to have and to hold the said
Office, and to exercise and enjoy all the Rights,
Pre-eminences, Privileges and Authorities to the
same of Right appertaining during the pleasure
of the President of the United States for the time
being, He demanding and receiving no Fees or
Perquisites of Office whatever which shall not be
expressly established by some Law of the said
United States. And I do hereby enjoin all Cap-
tains, Masters and Commanders of Ships and
other Vessels, armed or unarmed, sailing under
the Flag of the said States, as well as all other
of their Citizens, to acknowledge and consider
him, the said Arnold Delius accordingly. And I
do hereby pray and request all Powers and
Authorities therein and thereover to permit the
said Arnold Delius fully and peaceably to enjoy
and exercise the said Office, without giving or
suffering to be given unto him any molestation or
trouble, but on the contrary to afford him all
proper countenance and assistance. I offering to
do the same for all those who shall in like manner
be recommended to me by the said Powers and
Authorities. s
In Testimony whereof I have caused these letters
to be made patent and the Seal of the United
States to be hereunto affixed. Given under my
hand at the City of Philadelphia this twenty ninth
day of May in the year of our Lord one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-four, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of America the
Eighteenth.

/s/ G. Washington.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

it appears that Bremen’s traditional attitude of reserve
was not broken down even by him. He never visited the
place again though he was scheduled to do so at the
opening of a bridge to be named after him on July 1,
1939. Admiral Raeder turned up instead, but neither
bridge nor namesake were to survive the war.

REMEN’S CONSULAR district now includes, in ad-
dition to the State of Bremen, that part of the State of
Niedersachsen which lies west of the Weser River, the
State of Schaumburg-Lippe and all of North-Rhine/West-
phalia. In it are the important towns of the Ruhr such
as Duesseldorf and Essen, as well as Cologne and Ger-
many’s present capital, Bonn. There was at one time ‘a
large number of American residents in the district but
the war and its aftermath caused many to leave. A num-
ber of American firms, however, including shipping lines,
are taking up their connections again and the Consulate
General's business in this direction is on the increase.
Although President Washington highly recommended
his new Consul and the latter notified the Bremen Senate
of his appointment in high flown language, addressing
them as “Magnificences, Nobly Born, Learned and Wise
Gentlemen and Super-Gentlemen,” the City Fathers felt
that “for reasons of personality” they could not accept
him as American Consul. Local records do not enlarge
upon his objectionable features, but Washington's second
appointee, two years later, Friedrich Jacob Wichelbaum,
found such favor with the severe Bremen Senate (then
known as Die Wittheit), that he continued in his post
for 35 years and was even then deprived of it only
because President Jackson considered that the American
Consul should be an American citizen. Both Delius and
Wichelbaum were Germans.

Unfortunately, however, the first American to serve
as American Consul, Nathaniel Pearce, fared little better
than the first German one, for he was refused recognition
by the Bremen Senate because his local creditors com-
plained of his many unpaid debts. Subsequent American
Consuls appear, however, to have conducted themselves
with more circumspection and, together with Wichel-
baum, they witnessed the making of much social and
political history in Bremen.

The City and its surrounding territory were annexed
to Napoleon's Empire in 1806, freed by the Congress
of Vienna in 1815, joined the North German Confedera-
tion in 1867 and finally Bismarck’s German Empire in
1871. During this time, thousands of emigrants made use
of the Bremen Key to find a new life in a new world
just as many are doing today.

HE UNITED STATES Government owns no office

premises in Bremen and the consular establishment
has been located at a number of addresses. After the
first World War its offices were opened at 32 Remberti
Strasse, on Dec. 5, 1921, but less than a year later were
moved to 145 Contrescarpe. In 1924 premises were taken
at 80 Am Wall, but another move in 1929 brought it to
66 Contrescarpe, which building was destroyed during
the recent war. On May 1, 1946, the Consulate was

MAY 1950

--- Page 12 ---
opened at 15 Kurfuersten Allee, now the home of a
Masonic Lodge, but shortly thereafter moved to its present
address at 20 Contrescarpe (also known as 1-a Meinken
Strasse).

Contrescarpe, a quiet residential-appearing _ street,
seems to have drawn American consular chiefs to it like
a magnet. Its name probably means “opposite the escarp-
ment," for it skirts the old city moat, and its buildings
overlook what was once the site of the city walls. The
memory of their gates is preserved in the names of
many of Bremen's streets.

The present officer-in-charge of the Consulate General
is also a veteran in the American Foreign Service. Consul
General Maurice W. Altaffer, who opened the Bremen
office after the recent war, has been stationed at most
posts in Germany, including the former Embassy, as well
as posts in Switzerland, the Levant and Mexico.

Present day members of the consular staff include
among its German employees, Heinrich Otte, who has
been in US Government employ since 1926. Another well-
known name to those who knew Bremen in prewar days
was Francis Lane, then Vice Consul, now Consul in
charge of the Berlin Consulate. He was in the Bremen
Consulate for nearly 20 years.

| a PRESENT AMERICAN staff is broadly representa-
live of the United States, being drawn from such
widely separated places as Vermont, Texas, South Caro-
lina, Missouri and a spot or two in the Far West. The
present plant consists of a dignified former residence
recently owned by the great-grand-nephew of Arnold
Delius, one-third of a floor of the large office building
known as the Haus des Reichs where the visa section is
located, a warehouse at the docks and a small motor
pool.

During the early years of the war, an American one-
star general, newly arrived in England, inquired of an
American consul there who had endured heavy German
bombing in one of Britain's major industrial centers:
“What does a consul do?’ The consul, veteran of more
than 20 years in scattered posts, and of a somewhat
volcanic nature answered him with thinly-veiled an-

Consul Bernard F, Heiler, chief of
citizenship section, advises inquirers
©n passport application procedures.

MAY 1950

Consul Robert P. Chalker (left), author
of this article, snapped in conversa-
tion with Consul Culver E. Gidden.

noyance by inquiring, “Well,
what does a general do?" If the
general, probably somewhat
taken aback, had had a copy of
the Encyclopedia Britannica
handy he would have found a
consul's duties listed thus:
“The duties of the American
Consuls include discharge and
relief of seamen of American
vessels; issuing and visaing of
passports, settlement of estates
of American citizens who may
die intestate in foreign coun-
tries; issuance of bills of health
certifying to the sanitary con-
dition of passengers, cargo and
crew of vessels clearing from
foreign ports for ports of the
United States, and certification
of invoices on dutiable mer-
chandise for export to the United States."

Consul General Mau-
rice W.Altaffer, veter-
an Foreign Service of-
ficer, is in charge at

Bremen, (All photos
by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

This is still substantially true, with the exception of
the issuance of bills of health. But it by no means tells
the whole story, for the scope and variety of consular
functions have grown immensely in the recent past, and
those duties mentioned in the short list above would
hardly justify the employment of 30 Americans and 54
non-American personnel. For those who like figures, the
following statistics may be of interest:

URING THE 12 MONTHS ending September 30, 1949,

the Bremen Consulate General performed 1,188 citi-
zenship services, including the issuance of 231 passports;
issued 2,759 visas; acted in 1,887 cases involving seamen
and shipping and certified 2,382 invoices. 254 commercial
as well as 488 economic and political reports were sent
to the Department of State for its own use and that of
other interested government agencies and nearly 82,000
communications of all kinds were sent out — an average
of 725 every working day. During 1949 the Consulate
General's transportation section, acting as a small dis-

Charles Lammo, transportation super-
visor, prepares transfer of shipment
of household goods to far Indo-China.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
patch agency, received and forwarded or stored 1,551
tons of official supplies and personal goods and effects
for and to consular, High Commission and army per-
sonnel and received from the United States and pre-
pared for drivers or owners 190 official and private auto-
mobiles, mostly new.

The Bremen office was raised on February 1, 1950, to
the rank of consulate general in view of the increasing
importance of the industrial and political features of its
district. It has also under «its jurisdiction what may be
the smallest career consulate in the world, the American
Consulate at Bremerhaven. Vice Consul Robert Houston,
Officer-in-Charge, has recently pointed out in a letter
to the Foreign Service Journal that he and his single
clerk comprise the entire staff and that the number of
square miles in his consular district is represented by a
cipher. His office performs only shipping and notarial
services,

HILE THE BREMEN Consulate General is, like all

other consular offices in Germany, administratively
bound to the Office of the United States High Commis-
sioner for Germany, every effort is being made to retain
its identity as the official representative of a friendly
power and its presence is evidence of 150 years of cordial
and mutually profitable commercial, economic and
political relations between the United States and Ger-
many.

It is the hope of every member of the staff of the
Bremen Consulate General and doubtless of every Ameri-
can consular officer in Germany that consular offices
will be able to continue their age-old functions and to
be of assistance in promoting a long term policy of
friendly cooperation among peace-loving nations and
men of good will. + END

Shipment of liquor is checked in by Charles Lemmo.
Bremen Consulate General maintains a warehouse for
use of the various European diplomatic posts, for which
a total of approximately 150 tons per month is handled.
Two-man Consulate in Bremerhaven, operating under Bre-
men's wing, also provides shipping services to Americans.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Heinrich Otte, German national, has been connected with
the Bremen consulate longer than any other employee —
24 years. He handles supplies and various other matters.

Typhoid Danger Widespread,
Makes Use of Chlorine Imperative

In reply to inquiries concerning problems of water
chlorination in the US Zone of Germany, Col. Karl R.
Lundeberg, chief of the Public Health and Welfare Branch,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, issued the following
statement:

We have heard of complaints from German sources
about use of chlorine in water supplies in the US Zone.
Chief complaints are that the taste is unpleasant, that
the chlorine injures water pipes and equipment, and that
it injures wash fabrics.

While we recognize that the taste of chlorinated water
may be objectionable, we believe the following facts
should be taken into consideration:

Typhoid fever is still widespread in Germany today.
This is due in part to the large number of homeless people
and refugees from the east, to the many typhoid carriers
from previous epidemics, to soil pollution, shortage of
rainfall last summer that caused sewage to stagnate in
open drains, and, finally, to war-damaged water lines that
have not yet been safely reconstructed.

A small amount of chlorine in water provides perfect
protection against disease germs, such as typhoid fever.

There is no evidence that the small amount of chlorine
used in drinking water damages either pipes, water equip-
ment or wash fabrics. It has been used successfully for
more than 30 years in all civilized countries.

For the protection of the Occupation Forces, it is re-
quired that the water supply of all German communities
where American personnel are living be chlorinated. This
work is supervised by US Army sanitary experts.

We hope that all German communities will see the
wisdom of giving this protection to the public health by
chlorinating water wherever any possibility exists that
the water may become contaminated.

MAY 1950

--- Page 14 ---
New Homes for Refugees

By JOHN E. MeGOWAN
Chief, ECA and Economic Affairs Branch
Public Relations Division, HICOG

INCE THE END of the war, more than 1,200,000 refugees

have streamed into Schleswig-Holstein so that today
that state has 78 refugees for every 100 normal inhab-
itants,

Schleswig-Holstein had a problem on its hands—a
pressing social and political problem: the integration of
this unwanted population.

To integrate these people, a number of “make-work”
projects were tried. Farmers and factories tried to “spread
the work.” But these efforts, well-meaning, sometimes
indistinguishable from pure charity, made no statistical
dent. The farmers only needed extra hands one month
in the year. Factories had seasonal demands. Sporadic,
local, temporary projects were ineffectual. The problem
was getting worse instead of better.

Bugbear of the whole situation was housing. Schleswig-
Holstein, essentially an agricultural area, could and would
feed these people, But Schleswig-Holstein could not house
them.

Housing was the problem. The experts called it “resettle-
ment.’ In August 1949, resettlement experts in ECA were
called on for advice and assistance. ECA responded
immediately and called a meeting in Frankfurt. Trade
union representatives, Allied officials, ECA manpower,
1esettlement and housing experts, refugees were invited.
Object of the meeting was to work out a “constructive
plan” for relief of the refugee situation in Schleswig-
Holstein and other parts of Germany.

UT OF THE MEETING came a “Working Committee

for Productive Assistance to Refugees.’ The com-
mittee was made up of experts in technical, social and
economic fields, drawn from nearly every segment of the
economy. First job of the committee: to put up housing
for refugees in Schleswig-Holstein.

A refugee from the Soviet Zone of Germany, Dr. Ulrich
Haake, was chosen to head a four-man team of construc-
tion experts in a survey to determine the best types of
houses to be built.

Haake was told to get busy right away and list hous-
ing needs. But as he and his three assistants progressed
in their survey, they realized that it was not enough
merely to list housing needs. Did the existence of a col-
lection of shacks, tents and lean-tos in a particular area
mean that a housing project should be built there? How
would these people exist after they were housed? Where
would they work? How long would they stay? These were
questions Haake asked himself.
eo find the answers, Haake knew that he must con-
Sider not only actual housing needs, but movements and

MAY 1950

11

numbers of population, its natural growth, age composi-
tion, occupations, skills and many other demographic
factors. Then he had to assimilate his data and find a way
to match it against employment possibilities,

O THE FOUR MEN began to collect statistics, to survey
6 employment possibilities. And there they ran into a
peculiar thing. The need for housing for nearly the entire
population in Schleswig-Holstein was so pronounced that
the desire to effect a solution strongly influenced estimates
of employment possibilities. And as employment possibili-
ties would be the factor determining the size of any
housing development, the team decided not to accept any
official statistics at face value. They would double and
triple check. They would get their figures first hand from
local officials, trade unions, employers, employees, and
the refugees themselves. Only then would they compare
the answers, assess and evaluate them. The job was going
to be 10 times as hard as they thought it would be.

Haake and his men worked away, filling notebook after
notebook with facts, figures, opinions. For two months
they traveled up, down and across Schleswig-Holstein.
From Lauenburg in the southwest to Flensburg in the
north, from Husum in the northwest to Pinneberg in the
southwest, the whole of Schleswig-Holstein underwent
careful scrutiny, City and rural officials were consulted,
representatives of the refugees voiced their views, em-
ployers explained their present production and the outlook
for the future, trade union members described the working
conditions of factories in which they were employed,
confirmed or rejected data given by employers.

In some areas new factories or businesses were starting
or were about to start production. Would they last? Hard
to foretell, but’a look into their financial standing
wouldn't do any harm. In other areas, factories were
planning expansion. How about an examination of their
past business activities, fluctuations in their volume of
employment?

The team surveyed single plants, whole areas, entire
cities, to try to discover their industrial potential.

IEL, CAPITAL of Schleswig-Holstein, was once Ger-

many’s most important naval base, checkered with
naval installations, repair shops, war factories and
shipyards. After Germany's capitulation, many of the
larger industrial installations were dismantled or demili-
tarized. The state government transformed military in-
stallations into production sites for the manufacture of
peace-time goods.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Schleswig-Holstein Refugee Housing Plan

BALTIC SEA

Eckernfoerde

Wi NOW
AY Gas

Norderdithmarschen )
1o pal Rendsburg
iy

we
(a
?

ou
‘_ Stormarn 7}
¢.

SYMBOLS:

D 25 Homes :
@ 50 Homes Bye Coy
BB 100 Homes XB / Haat. Lovenburg wat
Hamburg "4-7 I
NESS Ee
Wiss ae as!

DM 85,000,000 program provides for minimum of 10,270 housing units in 49
localities, as a start — with DM 40,000,000 coming from ECA counterpart funds.

The Germania Werft, which worked round the clock
to produce U-boats, was turned into a plant to make small
and medium-size machine tools. The Deutsche Werft,
birthplace of several of Germany's warships, now makes
small electrical and mechanical instruments. The navy
yard is a free port territory, its repair shops converted to
produce precision instruments. The navy maintenance
shop is now turning out kitchen stoves, knitting machines,
motor vehicle bodies.

Other factories, once concentrating on weapons of
destruction, have now turned their activities and talents
to turning out furniture, film equipment, clothing, chemi-
cals and pharmaceuticals.

tural products for nearby rural
areas, would provide more jobs.
Neumuenster would get 1,700
dwelling units.

Flensburg, with optimistic, yet
sound, plans for timber processing
enterprises, electro-technical and
optical instrument plants, would
need 600 dwelling units.

Wahlstedt, now building a coffee
roasting plant, a furniture factory
and a textile machinery in an old
naval arsenal, could provide 2,000
new jobs. There 350 dwelling units
will go up.

Luebeck, where a number of
armament works were recently
converted to civilian production,
could provide additional jobs to
5,000 refugees. Housing need: 2,009
dwelling units.

And so it went. Wherever there
were jobs or firm prospects of jobs
there would be houses built.

S HAAKE AND HIS three work-
A ers went on, they made other
discoveries. They realized that
Schleswig-Holstein was not using
all its resources, There was a need
for changes in the existing eco-
nomic scheme of things in Schles-
wig-Holstein. In the north was a
favorable area for the development
of an iron and steel industry. The
waterways would bring coal from

the Ruhr, high-grade iron ore from Sweden, low-grade
iron from the Salzgitter area. Agricultural production
could be intensified perhaps by imitating the examples
of Denmark and Holland — an intensification which
could be accelerated by state reform, by the creation of
agricultural cooperatives, by a modern system of canali-
zation and by building new dams and dikes.

Wherever they went, north, south, east, west, in all
their interviews, investigations, checking, cross-checking,
the team discovered one predominant feeling: The native
Schleswig-Holstein population was willing to accept the
great majority of the refugees as permanent inhabitants
of the state. Workers were not opposed to the plan, even

though Schleswig-Holstein’s unemployment rate is the

S A RESULT of his study of present and potential pro-
duction of these industries, Haake decided that 2,000
dwelling units would be needed for the refugees already
employed or able to be employed in the Kiel district. idea.
Neumuenster could provide 800 new jobs in the ex-
pansion and repair of textile and leather producing in-
dustries. A railroad repair shop could absorb 200 to 500
new workers. Electrical motor and machine construction
shops now in the planning stages extended the possibility
for 450 new jobs. A new chemical plant, based on agricul-

INFORMATION BULLETIN 12

highest in Germany. Trade union officials, who might
conceivably resent refugees as competitors in the labor
market, were cooperative, even enthusiastic about the

The people of Schleswig-Holstein almost to a man took
the view that refugee manpower could be turned into an
asset for their state.

On Dec. 30, 1949, Haake and his three weary experts
finished their survey. They estimated that a minimum
of 10,270 housing units should be built in 49 different

MAY 1950

--- Page 16 ---
locations. On Jan. 3, 1950, the working committee called
together representatives of Schleswig-Holstein govern-
ment agencies and discussed Haake’s findings. They were
accepted with only minor changes and the committee de-
cided to proceed witha construction program immediately.

With the needs established, the next step was to achieve
low-cost production. This, the committee decided, should
be attained by standardizing the types of houses, by
using mass production and purchasing methods.

Although standardized designs would be the rule,
designs would be flexible enough to permit certain
variations to be made to suit local terrain and other con-
ditions. Five general types of dwellings were planned,
with an average size of three rooms, plus kitchen and
bathroom, per unit.

Purchasing of materials and fixtures would be done, for
the most part, by consumer cooperatives, already well
Schleswig-Holstein. The cooperatives’
central purchasing organizations are investigating the

established in

German and non-German markets for materials of various
kinds to obtain the most favorable sources of supply. The
cooperatives have found, for instance, that they could buy
bathroom fixtures at 23 percent below wholesale price,
54 percent below retail. Comparable savings could be

effected in stoves, electrical equipment and other materials.
The planning stage was over. Schleswig-Holstein was
now ready to get to work.

N SUNDAY, MAR. 9 — 65 days after Haake made his
report— ground was broken for the first group of
houses. These are being erected in Neumuenster and will
comprise 800 dwelling units —9,370 more will follow.
The entire project will cost 85,000,000 Deutsche marks.
Of this amount, 40,000,000 marks will come from ECA
counterpart funds — Deutsche marks paid into a special
account by German importers for Marshall Plan goods. The
Schleswig-Holstein government will raise DM 35,000,000
and private investment, cooperative societies and similar
groups will put up 10,000,000 marks.
Schleswig-Holstein’s increased population will require
additional schools, hospitals, other community facilities.

The processing and transporting of ethnic Germans to the
United States, under a bill being consideration in the US
Congress, was mapped in a mid-April meeting of top Ger-
man and DP Commission officials. Tentative agreement
was made that the Federal Ministry for Expellees' Affairs
would begin at once planning the necessary machinery to
handle expellee immigration to the United States. Prin-
cipal requirement, it was indicated, would be a staging
area, located near a major North German port and equip-
ped to accomodate 1,500 to 2,000 persons. Arranged by
the Displaced Populations Division of HICOG, the meeting
was attended by (left to right) Dr. Hans Lukashek, federal
minister for expellees’ affairs; Ugo Carusi, chairman of the
European Displaced Persons Commission; Alex Squadrilli,
coordinator of the DP Commission, and George Mid-
delman, assistant federal secretary for expellees. The
planners estimated a total of 54,000 ethnic Germans would
be affected, the number proposed by the Congressional bill.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

These will be as part of the state government's normal
construction program.

Schleswig-Holstein believes its refugees will be an
asset to the state—a means to greater production, ex-
panded employment, larger markets and eventually a bet-
ter standard of living for its entire population. +END

Workers Being Educated in Democracy

Workers in western Germany and in the western sectors
of Berlin are beginning to benefit from practical “educa-
tion in democracy" through study courses and seminars
Sponsored by the trade unions for the first time in history,
according to Mrs. Alice Hanson Cook, labor education
expert of the Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG.

In a radio interview with AFN in Berlin, Mrs. Cook
declared that the western German worker is learning now
that his community responsibility is greater than merely
the right to vote “ja" or “nein” in an election.

Special study courses, lectures and seminars sponsored
by the trade unions in the field of both general and tech-
nical education are helping bring the average western
German worker to a real sense of his role in community
life, she declared. German workers are becoming familiar

MAY 1950

with the meaning of free elections, parliamentary debates
and discussions, and the principles of collective bargaining.

Workers’ education courses are aimed largely at ac-
quainting laborers with the operation of social insurance,
legislation in the labor field, constitutional law, the
economy of wages and the relationship between employer
and employee, she said. Moreover, trade unions are now
disassociated from political parties and union members
are given opportunity to study and discuss the background
and platforms of all parties as part of their education.

Much has been achieved, Mrs. Cook declared, through
the postwar German trade unions in bringing the worker
to a sense of dignity and self-respect, and to help him in
making independent and thoughtful judgments in both his
community and political life.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Books at Your Service
110,000 Volumes Available in HICOG Reference Library

By HENRY A. DUNLAP
Chief Librarian, HICOG, and US Archivist, HICOM

HE CASUAL BORROWER of books from the HICOG

Reference Library is usually pleased to find what he
wants to read, but seldom is aware of the immense amount
of work done to make each book available for use. The
glass-enclosed Rotunda Room in the Headquarters Build-
ing contains more than 25,000 books, pamphlets, periodi-
cals and newspapers. Each item has undergone com-
plicated technical library processing in order to be ready
to serve the reader when needed, Because most of these
operations are carried out behind the scenes, the general
public is seldom aware of them. For the same reason,
since all the Library's books are not in the Rotunda most
readers are not aware of the extent and scope of the
entire collection.

Before describing the Library as it is today a short
historic sketch of its growth would seem to be in order.
It had its humble beginnings in the early days of the
occupation in another IG Farben building, that in Hoechst,
a Frankfurt suburb. There, shortly after V-E Day, the first
Chief Librarian, Major Eugene D. Hart, formed a small
book collection in a small office room. It consisted of a
collection of Army field manuals, several language dic-
tionaries, an encyclopedia and a copy of the World Al-
manac. This was the origin of a book collection that was
to grow to more than 110,000 volumes within five years.

Encouraged by General Lucius D, Clay and his Chief
of Staff, Brigadier General Bryan Milburn, Major Hart set
out on the difficult task of procuring the necessary books,
supplies and equipment in order to establish a reference
library worthy of the name. Conditions existing at that
time did not make this an easy task.

However, his efforts met with some success, so that
by August 1945 he required the assistance of another

The comfortable glass-encased Rotunda in the Head-
quarters Building houses HICOG's Reference Library of
(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

more than 110,000 volumes.

librarian, Captain Helen E. O'Day. By this time the Library
had moved to Berlin with other elements of the United
States Group Control Council and had begun rendering
increased reference service, so badly needed by the per-
sonnel of USGCC, who were increasing in number by
leaps and bounds.

N OCT. 1, 1945, the United States Group Control Council

was reorganized, emerging as the Office of Military
Government for Germany (US). Simultaneous with this re-
organization came a great influx of new personnel, and
the Library's book collection began to grow rapidly.
From two small offices on the second floor it moved to
the third floor of the Director's Building, where it was
eventually to occupy 15 rooms with a total of 19,000.
square feet of floor space. In April 1946 the present Chief
Librarian, Henry A. Dunlap, replaced Major Hart, who
returned to the United States.

Because of the Library's great size the staff viewed
with some trepidation the possibility of a move to Frank-
furt. This became a reality in October 1949 when the
Department of State took over OMGUS and estab-
lished the Office of the US High Commissioner for Ger-
many. The Library staff then began preparations for a
400-mile move of every book and piece of furniture in
the Library. As far as could be determined, never before
had a library of such size been moved such a distance.

A detailed story of the move from Berlin to Frankfurt
would provide sufficient material for a novel. The Ameri-
can staff members, like other HICOG personnel, com-
muted between Frankfurt and Berlin for months, Convoy
after convoy of trucks and trailers rolled down the Auto-
bahn (super highway) to Frankfurt every weekend for
more than two months, laden with the books and equip-
ment of the Library. The books alone filled 980 wooden
crates, each weighing about 200 pounds.

Since sufficient space was not immediately available in
the Headquarters Building, most of the books and equip-
ment were initially stored in a warehouse, from which the
last of the books are still gradually being transferred to
their new home in the Headquarters Building.

ESPITE ALL THE difficulties encountered, the Rotunda

Reading Room opened for business on Dec. 21, 1949,
giving only reference service. On Jan. 9, 1950, circulation
of books was resumed, and the Library was fully operative
once more. Several further moves were made within the
Headquarters Building, but the Library is now firmly
established and functioning.

MAY 1950

--- Page 18 ---
The vast collection of the Library owes its existence
to many generous donors, public and private, The Car-
negie Endowment for International Peace and the Library
of Congress are among the large institutions which have
given the Library many valuable books, as have other
American and foreign organizations of a similar nature.
Countless staff members of OMGUS and HICOG have
given, and continue to give, much valuable printed mate-
rial to the Library. One of the greatest donors is the In-
formation Services Division, which since 1946 has given
to the Library one copy of each German book, pamphlet
and periodical published in the United States Zone. This
forms a priceless collection, which cannot be equalled
anywhere else in the world.

Another unique collection is that consisting of more
than 20,000 volumes of Nazi and militaristic German
books, collected under Order No.4 of the Allied Control
Authority. The value of this collection lies in the fact that
all other copies of such books were ordered destroyed. It is
being carefully preserved by the Library, both for neces-
sary current reference use and for later historical research.

Not all the books in the Reference Library are gifts.
Each year some 2,000 volumes are purchased, the bulk
of them in English, but including a number in German
and other European tongues. The selection of this material
is based on suggestions from the staff of HICOG and
from various bibliographical guides used in all American
libraries. Suggestions for purchase are always welcome,
and purchases are always made within existing budget
limitations,

Bes ORDERED from the United States take about
six months to arrive in the Library. They then enter
processing, during which time they are classified, cata-
loged, labeled and placed on the shelves for use. The
Reference Library uses the Library of Congress classi-
fication system, the same used in most of the great li-
braries in the United States.

The general reference collection of the Library is like
that of a small university or college library in the United
States, containing encyclopedias, dictionaries, handbooks,
manuals, directories of all kinds and in many languages.
The Library contains material in all fields of knowledge,
but very little in law and medicine. The first of these is
covered well by the Law Library in the Office of General
Counsel, Medicine, a highly-specialized field, is taken care
of by collections in Army hospitals.

Although the Library has excellent general collections,
it does specialize in certain fields. It has always aimed
lo acquire as much material as possible on all aspects
of German life, before and during the occupation. This
includes not only commercial books and periodicals, but
also books, pamphlets and periodical publications issued
by OMGUS and HICOG.

It was discovered early in the life of the Library that
much material was also needed on other European coun-
tries and on international relations and economics. Along
with this discovery was also found the need for a strong
collection of books on life in the United States, shown
in all its aspects. For this reason a good collection of

MAY 1950

Lo

2,000 books are being bought each month, in addition to
gifts. Certain categories may be borrowed by US personnel.

books on American history was built up. The Library
continues to make every effort to provide what materials
are needed for HICOG to carry out its mission.

HE QUESTIONS asked daily in the Rotunda Reading

Room are as varied as one can imagine: ‘What is
the proper way to address a letter to a Catholic Bishop?”
“Do you have a copy of the text of the General Agree-
ment on Tariffs and Trade?" “What is the setup of the
international government of Tangiers?” “Do you have a
copy of the text of the Fulbright Act?” Not all questions
are simple, nor are all of them answered. But every effort
is made to find the answer or to recommend a place
where it can be found. Early in 1947 the Library answered
a request from the International Military Tribunal in
Tokyo. Most of the Library's users fortunately are not
so distant.

Listed below are the general rules for the guidance of
users or potential users of the Reference Library. It must
be pointed out here that HICOG personnel anywhere in
Germany can request information from the Reference
Library by telephone or in writing. It is hoped that it will
soon be possible to arrange to lend books by mail also.

HICOG Reference Library Rules

1. The HICOG Reference Library is a branch of the
Operating Facilities Division, Office of Administration.
The Reading Room, the portion of the Library open to
the public, is located in the Rotunda of the Headquarters
Building. The telephone number of the Reading Room
is 8008.

2. The Reference Library is open from 8:30 a.m. to
5:30 p.m. each weekday, Monday through Friday inclusive.

3. The Library contains 110,000 volumes of books, pam-
phlets, newspapers and periodicals, of which 25,000 are
completely classified and cataloged according to the Li-
brary of Congress system. Another 25,000 are partially
cataloged by author only. 60,000 volumes remain to be
cataloged and classified.

4, The Library purchases about 2,000 volumes of non-
fiction a year, chiefly in the English language. It also has

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
a large collection of books in German. Suggestions for
purchase are welcomed, and procured within budgetary
limitations.

5. Ordinarily a reference library does not lend books.
However, realizing that it is not always possible to spend
hours in the Reading Room, certain books are permitted
to circulate for a 14-day loan period. A book may be
renewed if another borrower is not waiting for it.

6. The categories of books not permitted to circulate
are listed below:

Reference books (Those marked “Ref" on the labels);

Current magazines and newspapers;

Bound magazines and newspapers;

German-licensed publications (so-called “ISD" books),
and

Nazi books.

Customers are requested not to reshelve books that
they have used in the Library, as a misplaced book is a
“lost” book until the next inventory. All books should
be left on a table after use. 7

#. Circulating books can be lent only to those Ameri-
cans who, on departure, are required to clear Frankfurt
Military Post. Further, books can be lent only to Ameri-
cans because only they possess dollar instruments and
can pay for lost volumes. However, Allied personnel and
German employees of HICOG can make use of the Read-
ing Room at any time. If an American who is otherwise

eligible to borrow books is willing to sign for volumes
for an Allied friend or a German employee they may
also borrow books. It must be pointed out, however, that
the person signing for a book assumes complete responsi-
bility for the return or replacement of that book.

8. In order to borrow a book the following procedure
has been established. On his first visit to the Library to
borrow a volume each person is required to present iden-
tification in the form of a passport or AGO card and from
this a card is made for the Library circulation file. The
borrower is then required to sign a slip for each title
borrowed, and on return of the book he should insist on
receiving this slip back. It must be remembered that no
one can clear Frankfurt Military Post if he has failed to
return a book belonging to the Reference Library.

9. As every public library belongs to the citizens of
the community in which it is located, so does the Refer-
ence Library belong to the entire staff of HICOG. This
is no idle statement. The Library is yours. Pay it a visit.
You may well be surprised at the wealth it contains
which is at your service. Remember that librarians have
a knack of unraveling problems and answering questions
when everyone else has failed. And if they do not know
the answer themselves they may know who does know it.
The Library staff has no desire to ram books down your
throat, but they do want to put books into the hands of
those who need the information they contain. + END

Women Showing Greater Initiative

ERMAN WOMEN in Wuerttemberg-Baden are show-

ing increased initiative and self-reliance in public
matters due largely to the reorientation activities of the
Women's Affairs Section of the Education and Cultural
Relations Branch, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Miss Margaret Blewett, chief of the OLCWB Women's
Affairs Section gave the following examples of recent
progress in these fields:

Women of Schwaebisch Hall established a day nursery.
Upon the request of the Women’s Club of Schwaebisch
Hall, the GYA House of Schwaebisch Hall has placed a
room at the disposal of the club for a day nursery for
children whose mothers are compelled to earn their own
living, and therefore are unable to take care of their
children during daytime. These children have the op-
portunity to play and work at the GYA House under the
supervision of an adult person.

The members of the Women’s Club of Schwaebisch Hall
displayed much concern about a possible loss of a very
well qualified doctor who was being denied the op-
portunity to practice. In one of their meetings the women
passed a resolution demanding reemployment of the doc-
tor. The women succeeded in having their resolution
signed by several hundred men and women, and through
their efforts two wards with a total of 20 beds were
placed at the disposal of this doctor.

The career women of Esslingen have organized a build-
ing cooperative for the purpose of erecting apartments

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

suitable for professional women. A board of directors
and a management council have already been formed
and both consist entirely of women. As soon as nego-
tiations with the city in regard to a building plot are con-
cluded, the group plans to publish a request for archi-
tectural plans to be submitted on a competitive basis.

Bavaria Face-Lifting Hotels

With an eye toward the anticipated postwar record
influx of tourists this year, hotels in Bavaria are under-
going a face-lifting through the financial aid of ECA
counterpart funds.

In Munich alone, some DM 1,000,000 ($238,000) in ECA
counterpart funds have been granted to hotel operators
to help them prepare for the expected rush of tourists,
many of whom will be going to the Passion Play at Ober-
ammergau. This is but one use of the funds accruing to
Western Germany as a result of its participation in the
European Recovery Program.

“In Bavaria," declared Fred C. Mehner, chief of the
Trade, Industry and Economics Analysis Branch of the
Economic Affairs Division, OLCB, “tourism is big business.
Before the war, its revenue from the tourist trade
amounted to as much as $40,000,000 a year. Revival of this
very important contributor to Bavaria's normally sound
economy has been hampered since the war by inadequate
tourist accommodations.”

MAY 1950

--- Page 20 ---
Operation “Show-How!”

American Technological Science Being Transfused
To Speed Western Germany’s Economic Recovery

By AILEEN MILES

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

MERICA'S MODERN technical “know-how” is emigrat-
A ing to Germany as part of a vast operation “show-
how" tagged ECA Technical Assistance.

As a result:

German veterinarians are learning how to combat
animal diseases using American drugs and the results of
US research under careful tutelage of American veterinary
and public health experts.

German agricultural machinery specialists are studying
the efficiency of the family-sized farm in America and are
being introduced to improvements and new designs in
up-to-the-minute farm equipment.

German workmen are learning how to use modern ERP-
purchased machinery in German power plants, and,

German lawyers are delving into the technical structure
of the US anti-trust laws and their application to Ger-
many’s sprawling monopolies.

ICKING THE BRAINS of American experts, these Ger-

man technicians are in the United States scrutinizing
the most modern methods for increasing industrial and
agricultural productivity which is essential to German
and European recovery.

At the same time, American experts are in Germany
spreading first-hand knowledge of US technical advances
and surveying varied fields of German enterprise with
an eye to how more effective results can be obtained from
use of the country's own resources and ECA-financed
goods and services,

This German project is a portion of the over-all Tech-
nical Assistance program for all ERP participating coun-
tries which is making available American know-how to
the countries of Western Europe — direct and at low cost.

The United States Congress provided in the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1948 that the Administrator for Eco-
nomic Cooperation “may, from time to time, furnish as-
sistance to any participating country by procurement of
and furnishing technical information and assistance.”

From the standpoint of promoting economic recovery
in Europe through self-help, mutual help and US aid, this
provision is of key importance. The cumulative effect of
the expenditure of a relatively small amount of money,
either in dollars or local currency of a country for tech-
nical assistance should yield heavy fruit in increased pro-
duction equal to many millions of dollars spent in the
purchase of commodities,

MAY 1950

17

LREADY THE TECHNICAL skiil and experience which
A is now flowing from America has aided materially in
boosting production in Europe's factories, farms and power
plants, in a steady downward dribble in production costs
through increased productive efficiency, and in improv-
ing her competitive position in world trade.

Through several varied methods the United States is
supplying this technical help to Europe under the nearly
$21,000,000 program. US expert consultants are bringing
their knowledge to participating countries; European
representatives are winging to the United States to learn
American methods; an interchange of experts among
European countries is underway; special studies and sur-
veys of specific conditions in agriculture and industry
in ERP countries are being undertaken, and US technical
literature and material are being spread among those
countries where outmoded equipment and techniques clog
production spirals.

With a Technical Assistance fund of $1,400,000 ear-
marked for Germany alone, that country, like most of
the others, is concentrating on six broad phases ranging
over the general fields of industrial productivity, market
research and analysis, agricultural productivity, proces-
sing and marketing, manpower utilization and conditions
of employment, and public administration including finan-
cial practices and economic reporting.

Although Germany, to date, has struck a balance in
her technical assistance between agriculture and industry,
future stress will be placed on development of marketing
and market analysis — up to now in the quagmire stage.
Plans for the coming summer call for teams of represen-
tatives from 20 separate industries to be sent to the
United States to probe the marketing field.

ESPITE THE POTENTIAL value of technical assistance

to the war-hobbled country, western Germany at first
lagged behind other ERP countries in applying for such
aid. With the inauguration of the Federal Republic, how-
ever, the program received a shot in the arm which has
resulted in a two-way traffic of technicians in which 40
German experts have flown the Atlantic to learn Ameri-
can techniques and 30 Americans have come to Germany
to demonstrate their technological skill.

The first German group — three thermal power en-
gineers — to make a Marshall Plan study of United
States methods arrived in New York early last January.
Scheduled for a two months’ intensive study of Ameri-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
can techniques at electrical and manufacturing firms
in eastern United States and in the Middle West, they
began their research at the Consolidated Edison Co., of
New York. From there they swung through the eastern
industrial area and then out to Detroit, Mich., garnering
tips from American experience gained in the last 15 years.

The group, to be followed shortly by more experts
in the same field, centered their studies on general
design of steam power stations; application of material
for boilers of high pressure and temperature; operation
of cyclon burners using unpulverized small coal; use of
superheaters; cleaning of flue gas and utilization of
ashes; district heating power stations, and standardization
of equipment.

ECA expenditures for the project, estimated at $2,800,
including travel and subsistence costs for the visitors
while in the United States, were warranted by the fact
that the development of efficient thermal power stations
is an essential part of Germany's over-all electric
program. The program, as submitted to the Organization
for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC), provides
for the installation of 3,000,000 KWH additional capacity
by 1952-53.

ITH GAS SHORTAGE in Germany throwing a sub-

stantial monkey-wrench into the re-activation of
industries, four gas production experts followed on the
heels of the thermal engineers. After an exhaustive one
month's study of the latest methods in American gas
production, the experts are back in Germany using their
newly acquired skill in the reconstruction of their
country's gas industry,

A large producer of farm machinery and equipment,
Germany is manufacturing agricultural machinery which
in the last 10 years has seen no significant improvement
in design or efficiency. To modernize this equipment and
thereby reduce dependence on animal power and conse-
quently release land now used for growing animal fodder,
six German agricultural machinery specialists took off for
America for a four-month survey of the latest develop-
ments in the production and use of modern mechanical
equipment on family-sized farms.

At the same time, two American agricultural experts
arrived in Germany to advise German agricultural groups
on the cultivation and utilization of soya beans, which
could provide vitally needed proteins and fats in the
German diet.

In the United States today, German veterinarians are
studying cause and cure of plant disease, ways and means
of fighting animal diseases, German household economists
are forgetting what their grandmothers taught them and
are learning innovations in canning, intelligent use of
food, and how kitchen chores can be accomplished in
one-half the number of steps, while German forestry
experts are discovering that America makes bark, saw-
dust and even knots serve useful purposes.

Along with their counterparts from other ERP countries,
German representatives of the tourist industry in the
United States studying the tastes of the American public

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

on
ae AY

The US expert's word on forestry is represented by two
Americans currently making a three-month survey of
German forest areas under the ECA Technical Assistance
Program. In conference are Forstmeister Schlag; the two
visitors, A, A. Hansel and George F. Burks, California
forestry experts; Carl Strauss, HICOG forestry official;
Herr Assmann, chief of the Federal Republic's forest and
timber department; Forstmeister Schnilt. (PRD HICOG photo}

are finding that ice water and dry martinis will promote
the flow of dollar-bearing tourists to their ancient cities.

American dairy experts in Germany are instructing
dairy farmers in artificial insemination of cattle, US
engineers are surveying German railroads, American
agricultural books and periodicals are flooding German
colleges, and OEEC agricultural extensionists are in-
vestigating just how weak is the bridge between the
Federal Government's information on the best way to
raise potatoes and the German farmer's adapting that
knowledge to his crop.

'UTURE PLANS envisage even broader fields. A team

of 12 American and German resettlement and housing
experts will meet this summer to prepare a blueprint for
integrating refugees within the German economy. Five
German statisticians, with others from nine ERP countries,
will tour America with a view to adopting a uniform
labor statistic system for Western Europe. The group
will eye American methods of statistical reporting on
the cost of living, wages, hours, employment of labor
force and productivity measurements.

Applications for technical assistance projects can be
made by either firms or individuals but all must be of a
technical or professional nature which will give impetus
to the rolling ball of German recovery within a reason-
able time.

If Hans Schmidt, or his firm, believe he has a worth-
while project for ECA technical assistance, he submits
his application to the sponsoring ministry of the Ger-
man Federal Republic. His application should include a
detailed description of the nature and amount of assist-
ance required. He must outline justification for the
project in terms of necessity to recovery and he must
spell out his plans for circulating and using the knowl-
edge he will gain.

With an official green light from the German ministry
concerned, his application is forwarded to the ECA
Special Mission where it is carefully screened for
“general desirability and technical validity." At the
same time the application is screened by the Exchanges

MAY 1950

--- Page 22 ---
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, which studies
it in relation to the overall exchange program. The final
approving nod, however, rests with the Technical As-
sistance Division of ECA, Washington, which evaluates
all projects on the basis of over-all ECA policy.

EANWHILE THE ECA Special Mission to Germany
has been screening Hans Schmidt himself for both
political and technical soundness.

Schmidt, according to the ECA Special Mission, must
possess qualities of leadership and progressiveness. He
should have the confidence of his colleagues to insure
receptiveness of his ideas and experience, and sufficient
vitality to pass on his experience to the widest number
of Germans upon his return. His political slate must be
clear of Communist entanglements and his Nazi affili-
ations are carefully sifted.

ECA will pay Schmidt's maintenance expenses in the
United States and dollar travel cost but Deutsche mark
counterpart funds equivalent to the dollars expended are
normally required. The counterpart requirement, however,
can be waived in those cases where the project is of a
general non-commercial nature benefiting the country
as a whole,

Upon his arrival in the United States, Schmidt will be
met by officials of the Arrangements Branch, ECA, who
will brief him on the details of his American tour.

Within one month of completion of his trip, Hans
Schmidt will be required to hand in a preliminary report
on the techniques and information gathered in the course
of his project and outline his plans to translate that
knowledge into definite contributions to a German
economic comeback.

Later he is expected to cooperate with the ministry of
the Federal Government which sponsored his trip in pre-
paring still another report showing the extent to which his
newly harvested technical tips have been put into play
and how they have paid off climbing production figures.

LTHOUGH THERE exists a close affinity between
Technical Assistance and the HICOG Exchanges
Program, the aims of the two plans differ widely.
While the Exchanges Program provides opportunities
for Germans to study and observe in general fields which
were stunted, dwarfed or completely suppressed under

sig ae

Technical Assistance, linked with the HICOG Exchanges
Program, provides a two-way flow of Germans and
Americans across the Atlantic. Symbolizing the trans-
jusion of American ideals and know-how, are these 17
Berlin school teachers or administrators, who are now on
a 90-day visit to America. (US Army photo)

the late totalitarian straight-jacket, the ECA exchangees
are getting highly technical help which will have an
immediate effect on Germany's return to economic
health.

If the primary purpose of a project is to prod the Ger-
man mind not purely in the economic field; then the
project wears a hat marked Exchanges Division. If,
however, the fundamental aim is economic rehabilitation
then the project puts on the cap of Technical Assistance.

Recognizing the necessity for close integration of the
two programs to prevent needless dovetailing, the High
Commissioner for Germany has established an Ex-
changes Advisory Committee composed of repre-
sentatives of the interested officers of HICOG to coor-
dinate all exchange activities for Germany, A working
arrangement in Washington also has been established
between ECA and the State Department to see that no
overlapping occurs.

This committee reviews the annual programs of both
the Exchanges Division and the ECA Technical Assist-
ance, making the necessary adjustments in each. In-
dividual projects not foreseen in the annual budget of
either program must be smiled upon by the committee
before they can be activated. +END

H

MAY 1950

Librarians of USAFE Special Services met at Wiesbaden for a conference on US Zone library problems and procedures.

ans N. Tuch (center), head librarian of Amerika Haus, Wiesbaden, spoke on mission of libraries in Germany. (USAFE photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
ee Camp -

The Refugee Transient Camp in Gies-
t sen is operated by the German Federal
| Republic and provides temporary
shelter for German refugees. Most of
them fled the Soviet Zone to find re-
fuge in western Germany. Upon arriv-
| al at camp, refugees are processed
] within 48 hours. Of all who enter
camp, an average of only 35 percent
receives residence permits to remain.

She wants to cross border
tor new home in the west.

One-legged vet-
eran waits po-
lice check on
entry into West.

Refugees leave reception station for Giessen camp.

As part of screening process, police record backgrounds of
newcomers (as at left). At camp, mess hall (right) feeds a
maximum of 700 persons a night. About 50,000 passed through
Giessen camp during 1949. (PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

INFORMATION BULLETIN 20

--- Page 24 ---
FDJ enthusiasts parade in the Soviet Sector of Berlin on March 3 in preparation for the May 28th rally. (Photo by United Press)

EARLY 2,000,000 German youth between the ages of
six and 24 years are claimed by east German Com-
munists to be enrolled in their “official mass organization
for youth of the Soviet Zone. As in the time of Nazism

with its Hitler Jugend (Hitler
Youth) for boys and Bund
Deutscher Maedchen (German
Girls’ League) for girls, the
youth of the Soviet Zone have
little choice but to
enroll

become
ed in this single organi-
zation created by the state for
them, or to be denied the
Privilege of participating in
any sort of youth activities.
Mainly because of this public
Stigma of choice, the Freie
Deutsche Jugend (Free German
Youth) can claim a member-

MAY 1950

y |

f " nu

| On we ]
WAU il

|
|

“FREIE DEUTSCHE JUGEND”" is translated “Free
German Youth" but little about this Communist-
controlled monopolistic organization is “free” and
its activities are confined mostly to eastern Ger-
many, as is shown in this article prepared by the

Information Bulletin from a recent study issued
by the Political Affairs Division, Berlin Element
HICOG, with additional material furnished by

several other HICOG agencies in Berlin, including
Public Relations Branch, Public Affairs Division,
eee gence Division and Information Services
The photogra furnished by
the Berlin editorial staff of “Die Neue Zeitung,”
US-published German-language daily newspaper.

hs were

21

ship of 1,000,000 between the ages of 14 and 24 years,
while its junior affiliate, the Junge Pioniere (Young Pio-
neers), lists 900,000 members of six to 14 years of age.
These comprise the maximum claims, but only about five

percent of FDJ members can
be considered as convinced
and zealous workers for the
cause. The FDJ, alphabetical
symbol for the Freie Deutsche
Jugend, is bound by the tight,
although indirect, control to the
Communist hierarchy, which,
cognizant of the powerful po-
tential of youth both as to
numbers and future signifi-
cance, has forced the growth
of this movement during the
past year into its mass youth

(Continued on page 23)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
CONTROL OVER SOVIET ZONE YOUTH

BY GOVERNMENT AND COMMUNIST PARTY (SED)
COORDINATED THROUGH

SED
SOCIALIST UNITY PARTY
(COMMUNIST)

CONTROL BY SED
YOUTH COMMITTEES
AT VARIOUS LEVELS

GOVERNMENT

FINANCIAL AND
ADMINISTRATIVE ADVISORY
SUPPORT BY GOVT.
YOUTH OFFICES AT
VARIOUS LEVELS

WALTER ULBRICHT

HONORARY MEMBER OF FDJ

AS AS
DEP. MINISTER- DEP.CHAIRMAN
PRESIDENT IN SED AND
CHARGE OF POLITBURO

YOUTH MEMBER :
= QUESTIONS axa>

“FREE GERMAN YOUTH”

(FREIE DEUTSCHE JUGEND — FDJ)
THE “MASS ORGANIZATION” FOR YOUTH IN SOVIET ZONE

ZONAL
cy COUNCIL ~._
Soa CON RALRAT} “® SECRETARIAT
a
Ea I
FDJ PARLIAMENT 1
aos * I
| 3 STATE
| > COMMITTEE __ L
faa
oe (LANDESVORSTAND) s SECRETARIAT
1
STATE DELEGATES i
CONFERENCE
(LANDESDELEGIERTEN- J
KONFERENZ) |
; COUNTY
Dy COMMITTEE _ +
u 7 (KREISVORSTAND) —"~-
eee “B SECRETARIAT
leat
COUNTY DELEGATES
CONFERENCE
(KREISDELEGIERTEN-
KONFERENZ)
x. SYMBOLS:
| Eee LOCAL 4 NOMINAL CONTROL OVER ORGANIZATION
: : : Y MEM' VIA “ELECTIONS”
COMMITTEE Ratigtht stan
‘ 777» (GRUPPENLEITUNG) INDICATES OFFICERS OFTEN
| © OCCUPY DUAL POSITIONS
ea IN FDJ AND SED
LOCAL GROUP
(GRUPPENVERSAMMLUNG) ACTUAL CONTROL OVER “ELECTIONS”

AND ORGANIZATION FROM ABOVE

EACH SECRETARIAT MUST
BE APPROVED BY IMMEDIATELY
SUPERIOR SECRETARIAT

ates ay

Chart by Political Affairs Division, HICOG Berlin Element

--- Page 26 ---
organization. Pressure, propaganda and pageantry
have been applied by Communist leaders to gather
the Soviet Zone youth into a coherent hierarchic
organization over which they exercise the control,
Enthusiasm for humanitarian and democratic ideals,
as well as slogans for a united Germany are be-
ing utilized and perverted by the Communist lead-
ers as cover for promulgation of their own political
aims of Soviet domination.

A campaign of flag-waving and shouting, mixed
with threats and rowdyism, is currently under
way in preparation for the FDJ gathering, known
as the Deutschland Treffen (all-German rally), in
Berlin May 27 to 30. It is advertised as a great
demonstration of German youth on behalf of Ger-
man unity and freedom, along with recognition of
countless achievements credited to the FDJ and
its affiliates.

Whitsunday — May 28 — holds the attention
of the non-Communist world since the promoters
of the FDJ demonstration have hurled unveiled
threats of dire deeds in Berlin on that day, A
march of the estimated 500,000 demonstrators to
the Olympic Stadium in the British Sector was
projected, but in the face of strong statements of
disapproval from the western sectors, the early
enthusiasm died down,

As far back as last fall, Walter Ulbricht, deputy
minister-president of the East Germany regime, de-
clared, “The all-German rally, the march of 600,000
on Berlin, is the signal of national revolt."

Manfred Weigand, FDJ chief board member, in
greeting 80 students from Halle University on ar-
rival in Berlin Feb, 21, declared, “By Whitsunday
all Berlin will be ours."

Gerhard Szredzki, head of the all-German rally
organization committee, in a question-answer in-
terview published Feb, 20 by two Soviet-licensed
newspapers, Vorwaerts and Neues Deutschland, said
in part: "500,000 young fighters for peace will come
to the Berlin rally, That is certain. When we say
‘Berlin,’ we mean the whole of the city.”

Ts ANSWER CAME March 2 in a statement

by Berlin's Mayor Ernst Reuter, saying: "We
declare that under no circumstances will we give
the enemies of democratic freedom the possibility
to destroy the peaceful life in our city and to
undermine our democratic order, We shall give the
enemies of freedom no more freedom than is
given in the east of Berlin.

“We shall not, therefore, make the Olympic Sta-
dium available for these Communist organizations,
and neither shall we permit any march into or
march through West Berlin from the East sector
or Eastern zone during the Whitsun holiday. Simi-
larly, we shall not allow an invasion of West Berlin
with motor cars or vehicles or any other means
of conveyance,

“The population of Berlin may be sure that we
Shall take all necessary measures to avoid the

MAY 1950

Uniformed boys and girls of “Young Pioneers," junior affiliate
of FDJ, of Soviet Zone, shown during rally in Berlin on Dec. 17.

4
e}
i
4
ay
%
%,
‘

4

Walter Ulbricht, Soviet Zone's deputy minister-president (leit),
applauds flag-carrying FDJ members at close of tenth meeting
of the Soviet Zone's “people's chamber" in Berlin Feb. 9. Below,
more FDJ'ers parade down Stalin-Allee in eastern Berlin Dec. 21
shortly after its name was changed from Frankfurter Allee.

--- Page 27 ---
Fleeing from the pressure to impress them into the FDJ organization against their
will, members of the famous Mozart Choir of Dresden, Soviet Zone, pause in Ber-
lin to record a program in the American Forces Network studio April 6 before

continuing on to find a haven in the German Federal Republic.

disturbance of public order and that no peace-loving
inhabitant of Berlin will come to any harm. But the
warding off of the intended attempts is a joint task not
only of the authorities, but also of the democratic parties,
organizations and even of the entire Berlin population...”

The British, French and US commandants in Berlin
backed Mayor Reuter's statement by expressing “their
wholehearted concurrence with his views.” They added:
“The commandants will take all necessary measures to
assure the maintenance of public order and safety. Any
provocative acts or demonstrations which may be at-
tempted in West Berlin by the FDJ or other disorderly
elements will be suppressed, and the responsibility there-
fore will rest squarely on the instigators.”

BACKFIRE TO the FDJ's early preparations was re-

ported Feb, 28 by the US-licensed Der Abend stating
that Communist youth who had been brought to Berlin to
prepare the Whitsunday rally had been sent home because
they turned out to be “a bunch of shirkers” who preferred
looking at western Berlin shops and movies to working
for the youth gathering.

Friedrich Ebert, who serves as Soviet appointed mayor
of East Berlin, finally came out on March 20 in address-
ing a FDJ district meeting that he “would like to make
it clear that on Whitsunday neither a putsch nor disorder
will occur in Berlin.

Preparations, however, continued for the FDJ rally in
the eastern part of Berlin over Whitsuntide, although up
to mid-April the various publicly-announced programs
were tentative. The all-Germany aim was given emphasis
by the statement from Ebert that he personally had invited
“the 50,000 young friends in the West" to the rally.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

Attendance at the four-day
rally is apportioned among the
states and counties of the Soviet
Zone and based on specified re-
quisites in obtaining new mem-
bers, raising funds, attending local
meetings, participating in propa-
ganda activities and taking group-
training courses, It is supposed to
be one of the outstanding events
of the organization's history.

The Freie Deutsche Jugend had ~
its origin in the so-called youth
committee established by Soviet
officers in the spring of 1945 and
manned principally by Communist
Party members or sympathizers.
Then March 7, 1946, with
the cooperation of the German
Communist Party, the FDJ was
formally launched by the Soviet
authorities, Although the FDJ was

on

publicized at the time as an
“independent, non-party" youth
(Sammy photp) movement, it soon became evi-

dent that the real purpose was
that it should serve as the over-all organization to co-
ordinate all the various youth groups under the authority
of the Communist-controlled Soviet Zone officials.

It also sought to make itself attractive in western Ger-
many where the youth were given the privilege of exer-
cising their personal preference among several recognized
groups or remaining aloof.

While keeping their tight, indirect control over the
FDJ, the Communist leaders encouraged the youth and
the public to entertain the fiction that the FDJ was an
expression of youth's will and was devoted to youth's
betterment and spiritual re-education, as well as to the
best interests of a democratic reconstructed Germany.
Actually, however, the youth's enthusiasm was utilized
by these Communist leaders through the FDJ for their
own political aims.

The next task of the Communist authorities was to
force the growth of this movement into a ‘mass organiza-
tion” in accordance with accepted Communist pattern.
The success of this was shown in the increase from a few
hundred members of the youth committees of 1945 to the
Communist claims of nearly 2,000,000 in four years.

The firm hold of the Communist-controlled government
in the Soviet Zone over this youth mass organization has
been maintained to date by an indirect method (see chart).
Franz Dahlem, Soviet Zone Politburo member from the
Social Unity Party (SED), which replaced the German
Communist Party in name in the eastern zone, said the
leadership of the mass organizations by the Communist
Party was not to be understood as a formal control by
the party. Rather, he added in the Soviet Control Council
newspaper, Taegliche Rundschau, on Feb. 2, 1950:

(Continued on page 63)

MAY 1950

--- Page 28 ---
“We Must Export...”

A Study of Germany’s Postwar Foreign Trade

By FRED WELTY

Staff Writer, Public Relations Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

ANNERED ACROSS Germany in prewar years was a

slogan summarizing one of the country’s long stand-
ing economic truths: ‘We Must Export or Die.” It was
born of the knowledge and experience that to keep its
population fed and its factories open, Germany had to
export.

This slogan has become more than ever true and
applicable in postwar years. It was a grim reality in 1945,
following World War II, which was the final blow to an
already serious foreign trade situation. In fact without
the foreign aid which was quickly forthcoming, the
country indeed would have perished.

Starting from a dead standstill in 1945, foreign trade
for the first two postwar years progressed at a snail's
pace. Viewing the chaos then, it could be seen that
before anything could be sold abroad, it first had to be
produced in this country. Industry and transportation
had to be restored, systems of financing developed, and
lines of communications put up.

Foreign trade, as well as the entire economy, was
throttled even further by a highly inflated monetary
system which postwar Germany inherited from the Nazis.

I* THE FIRST TWO postwar years combined, Western
Germany's exports amounted to little more than ex-
ports of two recent months. The export figure for those
two bleak postwar years, 1945-46, added up to around
$250,000,000, of which 70 percent were coal exports.
Little headway was shown in 1947. An estimated 50
to 60 percent of total industrial production was going
into gray and black market channels, In an effort to
survive, manufacturers conducted “compensation trading.”
They kept their factories open by obtaining needed raw
materials from internal suppliers who took as induce-
ment part of the manufacturers’ output. This system
Passed out of existence along with the Reichsmark.
Not until 1948 did foreign trade make a significant
showing, The combined impact of currency reform, and
food and raw material imports from the Marshall Plan,
the remarkable rise of industrial production, all worked
together to bring 1948 exports up to new postwar highs.
When the figures were added up at the end of 1948, it
was determined that exports had climbed to $800,000,000,

a figure somewhat higher than the three previous years
combined.

* SCENE CHANGED decisively in 1949, Prewar pat-
. terns of trade relationship became clear for the
first time. With the support and encouragement of the

MAY 1950

ECA, new, liberalized trade agreements came into ex-
istence toward the end of the year. Measures were in-
troduced to free barriers and lift quantitative restrictions
on trade among Marshall Plan countries. These steps
represent initial work in bringing together the economies
of western European countries.

While foreign trade is one of the reserved powers of
the Allied High Commission, the operational responsibili-
ties in foreign trade have been transferred to the Ger-
man federal government from the Joint Export-Import
Agency. Established on Jan. 1, 1947, this organization
went into liquidation in the last half of 1949, and can
point to a 500 percent increase in exports during its
tenure.

All of these steps toward recovery took place in 1949,
but some have not been in effect long enough to be re-
flected in the export figures. Despite this, there was a
60 percent increase in 1949 exports of various commodi-
ties. The exact total of commodity exports in 1949 was
$1,123,000,000, Invisible exports, not yet fully determined
for the year, will be added to this figure. Invisible ex-
ports take the form of charges for port services, tourist
and businessmen expenditures in Germany, communi-
cations services to occupation personnel, etc.

To FIGURES outline in general what has happened |
so far with exports. The story of imports has been

different. The latter have been running twice as high as
exports. The gap between exports and imports instead
of narrowing, widened by 29 percent in the last year.

The problem is more complex than merely increasing
the over-all volume of exports. The problem is to keep
its foreign exchange balanced by increased sales to those
countries or monetary areas from which it must purchase
essentials like food, iron ore, cotton and other raw
materials and semi-finished goods.

In this period, western Germany is able to maintain
its dollar imports by virtue of the Marshall Plan. In 1949,
for example, western Germany imported from the United
States $825,000,000 of food, cotton, non-ferrous metals
and other necessities. A full 90 percent of these goods
were paid from ECA and other foreign aid funds. Mean-
while it managed to export less than one-seventeenth this
value of commodities to the United States,

What was the year's result of trade with other areas?

Germany sold twice as much to Great Britain as it
purchased in 1949. But this favorable balance was more

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
than offset by German purchases of raw
materials from other sterling countries such
as Australia, New Zealand and Ceylon.
The net result of the year's trade with
the sterling area was a German deficit of
$20,000,000.

The bulk, or around 80 percent, of western
Germany's postwar trade has been with neigh-
boring European countries. There has always
been much exchange of goods between Ger-
many and these countries, and Germany
usually held the surplus. With this surplus
Germany formerly was able to buy essentials
of foods and raw materials in overseas areas.
But in postwar years, to the extent that Euro-
pean currencies remain unconvertible, this
traditional pattern of Germany's trade will
have to be changed.

Sizeable increases were made in trade with
Eastern Europe and South America, indica-
ting further returns toward prewar patterns. Still another
trend toward prewar was the growth of exports of manu-
factured goods. Although this growth was big, it was not
considered satisfactory in relation to the productive
capacity of the country.

HE DOLLAR GAP phase of the foreign trade problem
remains the most serious facing the country, despite
trends in 1950 indicating that it may be narrowing slightly.
If, however, the dollar gap is resolved over the next
several years, the highest of the foreign trade obstacles
will be hurdled. Otherwise the old saying “We Must
Export or Die’ may be tacked up on the walls of Ger-
many again; for the country, with its loss of the agri-

The Marshall Plan helped to knock down some of the barriers which were
hampering trade among West European countries. A scale model of the
Marshall Plan caravan to tour Europe's international fairs and give Germany
—and other countries—a trade lift, is shown here.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(PRB OLCB photos)

Toys bid for prominence as part of Germany's foreign trade effort in the
toy fair held in Nuremberg during March. Here Clarence M. Bolds, Land
Commissioner for Bavaria, and Mrs. George Abell smile delightedly at
fairy-book conglomeration of toys including miniature model railroad.

cultural lands in the east, and vastly expanded popula-
tion, is more than ever dependent on foreign trade to
keep alive + END

Warning Issued German Owners
Of Vested Property In United States

German nationals were warned by the Office of
Economic Affairs, HICOG, against persons and organi-
zations who represent that they can recover their former
property in the United States which was vested by the
Office of Alien Property after the outbreak of war be-
tween the United States and Germany in December 1941.

Reports have reached the Office of the US High Com-
missioner for Germany that these persons
and organizations are contacting German
nationals and offering to undertake the
recovery of their former property in the
United States. Representatives of the Of-
fice of Economic Affairs pointed out that
the return of such property is barred by
Sections 32 and 39 of the Trading with the
Enemy Act, unless such property was own-
ed by persons falling in the category of
persecuted persons. Even as to this class,
except for those who have already filed a
claim, return of property is barred inmany
cases by the statutory limitations of Sec-
tion 33 of the Trading with the Enemy Act.
It was also pointed out that retention by
persons in Germany of attorneys abroad
for such purposes constitutes a transaction
which is prohibited by Military Govern-
ment Law No.53,unless such transactions
are licensed by the appropriate authorities
within HICOG. Inquiries by German natio-
nals should be made by mail to the Over-
seas Branch of the US Department of Jus-
tice at 59 Mauerkircher Strasse, Munich.

MAY 1950

--- Page 30 ---
ee

HOUSE
of

CLAY

First Fruit of a Town Meeting

HOUSE OF CLAY is helping congested
Riedheim ease its housing woes and
refugee problem.
It was at a town meeting about a year ago
that the people of Riedheim, near Guenzburg,

in southwestern Bavaria, thought it was time’

to do something about relieving the crowded
housing conditions. At the urgings of their
mayor, 29-year-old Karl Riedel, the villagers
got behind the suggestion of acommunity hous-
ing project which would utilize their collective
skills plus the clay of the nearby fields.
Able-bodied members of the community be-
tween the ages of 16 and 60 volunteered their
time. In addition, farmers donated the use of
their horses and wagons to haul the clay from
a field two miles from the building site. The
result of their concerted efforts is an attractive
two-story building with four housing units of
four and one-half rooms each. The four refugee
families who have been
moved in represent a
total of 23 persons for-
merly housed in a few
sub-standard rooms.
John L. Jensen, US re-
sident officer of Guenz-
burg county, pointed
out that the project was
carried out by the com-
munity itself and that
the results were so en-
couraging that Riedheim

Inte.

Refugee family formerly housed in sub-standard quarters
finds new home of four and one-half rooms luxurious.

House of clay, rarely used in Germany, houses four
families totalling 23 persons in Riedheim, cost DM 10,000.

is now in the process of building a firehouse
and community hall.

“The clay for the house,’ Mr. Jensen de-
clared, ‘had been considered of no commercial
value. However, by using the clay the com-
munity was able to build a four-family house,
valued at DM 32,000 ($7,516), at a cost to the
town of only DM 10,000 ($2,380). And, accord-
ing to building experts, this house of clay is a
durable as a comparable house built of brick.”

HE COMMUNITY expects to net about

DM 600 a year profit from the rents. This
profit in turn is being earmarked for other com-
munity improvements.

“It's only a beginning,’ declared one Ried-
heim resident, ‘but it does demonstrate what
can be done if the people get together and work
in unison on their common problems."

As for the refugee
families themselves who
are now living in the
clay house, one woman,
whose family of five oc-
cupies one of the apart-
ments, declared enthu-
siastically: ‘Before, we
lived in two rooms, and
today in this beautiful
home. Ifallrefugees were
as lucky they'd have no
reason to complain.”

(PRB OLCB photos)

--- Page 31 ---
Expellees’

WO HUNDRED GERMANS who formerly worked in

glove factories in the Sudetenland are now busily
turning out their product in a cooperatively-operated plant
at Offingen, in Guenzburg county of Bavaria.

The expellees from Czechoslovakia settled in various
parts of western Germany shortly after the war. Many,
with an eye on the future, brought their sewing machines
although the likelihood of their being used profitably
again in the near future was not too encouraging.

Most were living on public welfare when word reached
them about two years ago that their former manager,
Albin Renner, was seeking to round up his old employees
to resume operations near Guenzburg.

From the four corners of western Germany the expel-
lees came to Offingen and, pooling their meager resources,
set up business in a former SS barracks. The employees,
each now a shareholder, at present number 183 and in-
clude whole families of from two to 14 persons.

Kurt Oepser, plant manager, said the output, principally
high quality women's gloves, now averages about 1,000
pairs of gloves per month, of which about 17 percent was
exported to the United States during 1949. He said efforts
are being made to increase exports to 50 percent.

He said an ERP counterpart fund loan has been re-
quested to enable the operations to move from the present
wooden building, which he termed a fire trap, to a brick
building a short distance away, and to procure the ad-
ditional equipment needed to increase production.

“During 1949," he declared, “our exports to the dollar
area totaled $30,000, the bulk of which occurred in the
last six months of the year. With ERP counterpart funds
we are looking to a considerable increase in exports. For
example, we now have on hand one $50,000 contract for
gloves to be shipped to the United States between May
and September of this year. This represents a small por-
tion of the aid expellees are lending to the economic im-
provement of western Germany.”

Mr. Oepser pointed out that
the workers, because of the dif-
ficult housing situation, com-
mute daily by train or bicycle
between the plant and their
homes, scattered throughout the
county.

“There's a certain hardship
there,” he declared, “but at the
same time we can derive some
satisfaction from the fact that
we are supporting ourselves.
Furthermore, instead of being a
drain on the county we are
helping in our small way to im-
prove its economic condition by
providing employment as well
as dollar credits.” +END

Boxing finished product.

Glove Firm

28

German expellees from Czechoslovakia have set up co-
op factory in former SS barracks in Offingen, Bavaria.

Shareholders in factory prepare leather for cutting. The 183
employees pouled their resources to resume manufacturing.

Stacks of cut-out gloves (left) are sewn by workers (right).
Much of machinery was salvaged from former factory.

> ta 2 : .

Workers turn out 1,000 pairs of gloves per month, of which
17 percent was exported to the United States during 1949.

MAY 1950

--- Page 32 ---
American Policy in Germany

Address before the Annual Spring Conference
of Dependents’ Schools Teachers, Berchtesgaden, April 4, 1950

By BENJAMIN J. BUTTENWIESER

US Assistant High Commissioner

KNOW OF NO better introduction to any discussion
I involving children, especially an address to those en-
trusted with the responsibility of their education, than
the unforgettable and inspiring thought of Wordsworth:

Than that a child, more than all other gifts,
That earth can offer to declining man
Brings hope with it, and forward looking thoughts.

Particularly do I feel honored by being entrusted with
the responsibility of outlining to you this afternoon Ameri-
can policy in Germany and your relationship to it. Before
we discuss your relationship to this American policy in
Germany, obviously you may want to know just what
are the components of that policy? Just so as to be cer-
tain I do not misstate them, permit me to read to you
what I, at least, conceive to be American policy in Ger-
many:

First, enabling the German people to develop their
political independence along democratic lines, in close
association with the free people of Western Europe.

Second, support and encouragement of the democratic
elements in Germany. However, the powers reserved in
the Occupation Statute are intended to prevent the de-
velopment of a military potential or a resurgence of ultra-
nationalistic or anti-democratic forces
which would be a threat to the peace
of Europe.

Third, gradual withdrawal of con-
trols exercised by Occupation Author-
ities so as not to hamper the full
development of German political, eco-
nomic and cultural life; and, simul-
taneously, the encouragement of the
German people to exercise the widest

latitude of freedom to shape their
own future,

Fourth, assisting the German people
in sharing the economic benefits of
free Europe and, correspondingly, as-
Suming their obligations toward the
reconstruction of Europe, because, let
me remind you — with privileges go
responsibilities. When one is ac-
corded benefits, one must assume
obligations toward helping the source
from which those benefits flow.

Fifth, the making of every effort
toward the achievement of the goal

MAY 1959

Benjamin J. Buttenwieser.
(Photo by H. Tarr, Inc.}

29

of a unified Germany on a democratic and federal
basis.

Sixth, the fostering of fair-trade practices through a
program of decartelization and deconcentration of in-
dustry.

Seventh, active steps to prevent Germany from falling
prey to a new Soviet imperialism.

HESE PRINCIPLES of American policy will be

primarily implemented not through force but by
means of education and precept. One cannot over-
emphasize that education and precept are an important
factor in the implementation of American policy. Need I,
therefore, remind you or point up to you the important
role that you play as the teachers of our children in the
implementation of this policy.

Although you, the teachers and administrators employed
in Dependents’ Schools in the US Zone, number only 450,
you play a vital role in the occupation, far beyond what
your proportion of the Occupation Forces would indicate.
As the teachers and mentors of the children ranging from
six to 16 of the American Forces in Germany, you
shoulder a heavy responsibility, you are required to teach
these boys and girls the American
way of life under unusually difficult
circumstances,

All of us, by the force of our
example, can perform a vital task
in demonstrating to our German
neighbors the meaning of true demo-
cracy. This applies especially to our
children, whose relations with their
teachers and with their parents are
under close scrutiny by their Ger-
man neighbors, young and old.

Without meaning to betray any
state secret, let me tell you that my
closest adviser or at least the one
in whose observations I place the
greatest faith with respect to the
degree of success with which our
occupation is achieving its objectives
is my German chauffeur, because I
find that I get information from him
on a “homey” basis, without guile.
Once he said to me, “You know, the
basic difference between you Ameri-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Dependents’ Schools’ teachers arrive at Berchtesgaden for
EUCOM Teachers’ Conference April 2. (stars & Stripes photos)

cans and we Germans (and my ears perked up) is in the
family relationship.” I thought that was a rather profound
observation.

He said, “I was one of several children. Before driving
for you I drove for the American Consul General. He had
several children. The difference between the authori-
tarianism of the father in the family life in which I grew
up and the spirit of mutual understanding and cameraderie
in the family life as I saw it in the home of this Consul
General constitutes the basic difference between the
American way of life and the German which permits of
the Fuehrer system." I think that is an observation which
you in your experience with Germans may likewise find
valid and profound.

R. McCLOY, in his Washington address on January

23, 1950, said:

We must encourage and stimulate every effort to
give the youth of Germany justified hope in the
future. Here I think is our greatest challenge and
hope. We Americans are peculiarly fitted to help
the Germans toward the goal of democratization. It
is my intention and that of my staff in Germany to
reinvigorate our whole program in this field. We
shall use all our power and resources — and they are
large — to help the schools and universities, the trade
unions and churches, the press and radio, in other
words, all those institutions which are the bulwarks
of freedom.

However, all these efforts must be exercised within
the framework of an understanding of the German scene.
Such understanding, I submit, can only be achieved by
an intermingling of peoples and discussion of their ideas
and ideals in an atmosphere of freedom, unshackled by
physical or mental barriers. You as educators know far
better than I that most noticeable to children are barriers
of the physical type. Segregation is an anathema wher-
ever it is practiced. In this sense, I submit the time has

INFORMATION BULLETIN

come — or in fact has long since passed — when we
should no longer see signs in front of our Dependents’
Schools’ playgrounds — and elsewhere — to the effect
“Eintritt verboten fuer Deutsche Kinder’ (Entry by Ger-
man children forbidden).

“Stone walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a
cage; but the poet Lovelace was not alluding to children
at play. It is difficult, if not impossible, to set an example
for democracy or to reorient people's thinking within the
framework of such barriers of exclusion.

ET ME POINT OUT to you, in alluding to democracy,

that another nation is trying to create a Germany in

its own image. The Soviet Union would call that democ-

racy too. Their democracy, in our eyes, is an abomination
of the term.

However, I want equally to point out, ‘Democratize”
does not necessarily mean “Americanize,"" even though
the converse is true. It is for the Germans themselves to
determine what form and substance democracy is to take
in their country. So long as the wrongs and abuses of
Nazism and super-nationalism are avoided, we can well
leave the ultimate creation of democracy to them,

After all, there are various types of democracy and it
has many facets. Let me cite you an example, At the time
of the balloting on the question of whether the capital of
the Federal Republic should be in Bonn or in Frankfurt,
the elected representatives of the German people resorted
to the use of the secret ballot. To our American way of
thinking, that was disquieting. We raised the point in the
High Commision, and amazingly enough our French and
British colleagues, who I think you will agree, are
equally as democratic as we, were astounded that we
took any umbrage at the use of the secret ballot. They
contended that the very essence of democracy is to
permit a secret vote. They pointed out that if a dictator
wants to enforce his will he can best do it by noting and
having it noted how each representative votes.

Teachers from all over US Zone and western Berlin
register at Berchtesgaden for second annual conference.

MAY 1950

--- Page 34 ---
First meeting of conference, held in Special Services
Theater at the resort, heard speech by Mr. Buttenwieser.

There is something to that point. There is even a great
difference of opinion among great students of political
science as to what is the role of an elected representa-
tive. Without digressing unduly from our present discus-
sion, I might indicate that Edmund Burke, in his famous
address to the Electors of Bristol, enunciated some very
decided views on what the role of an elected representa-
tive should be and his responsibilities to his constituents.
Equally, George Washington had considerable cor-
respondence with his cousin Bushrod Washington, on this
same subject. For a time we had secret balloting in our
own Congress. My point is that one cannot necessarily
impress, as such, the American concept of democracy,
say that it preempts the field and all other types fall
short.

BVIOUSLY, we Americans cannot reorient, we can-

not recast the attitudes and thinking of the German
people. We can, I reiterate, achieve much by example,
by advice, by assistance. Above all, we can help those
Germans of liberal mind and public spirit — and there
are many such Germans — in their efforts to reach our
common goal and to guide others of their countrymen
along pathways leading to that goal.

The Bible says that “He who saves one life may be
considered to have saved the world.” We are reorienting
some lives, and thus may be reorienting the world.

Now as to our economic and financial means toward
accomplishing our major objectives; they are:

First, the establishment of a viable German economy.
This will serve the concomitant purpose of permitting a
reduction of US aid to Germany. This is of great interest
to all of us as taxpayers. Your question naturally may
arise — how is Germany progressing economically?
Without meaning to state too many statistics, let me just
hastily review the situation for you:

Production is exceeding the projected figures and even
ECA prognostications of recovery: at present Germany is
producing at about 98 percent of the 1936 level; however,
lest you be too encouraged by that, I must add that other

MAY 1950

31

European countries are producing at about 150 percent
of the 1936 level.

Foreign trade is not as satisfactory. Even though ex-
ports are at the rate of about $100,600,000 per month,
they are only about 40 percent of 1936. I apologize for
citing either of those figures, because you will appreciate
how difficult it is to make an accurate comparison be-
tween the truncated Germany of today and the united
Germany of 1936, but this is about as close an approxima-
tion as we have been able to achieve.

ERLIN IS AN exception to this general, satisfactory

improvement. There are trade difficulties in Berlin,
where budgetary and other subsidies are still required.
The very mention of Berlin brings into sharp focus the
Russian situation, Personally, I do not think there is much
danger of Germany going communistic, because I believe
that exposure to communism is probably the greatest
antidote against it; and certainly, in Berlin, they are the
closest exposed to it.

Likewise, I think, when the annals of history are writ-
ten, it may well be demonstrated that the success of the
airlift marked the point in Europe at which Russian ag-
gression was contained,

You may ask what are the ECA objectives?

First, the promotion of free trade and free enterprise.

Second, the removal of controls within Germany.

Third, elimination of cartels and discriminatory trade
practices.

Here again, if I may digress, cartelization is a sort of
generic term. Examine our concept of cartels, then the
British and French concepts of cartels. You will find that
the term is not synonymous in our three minds. So there
has to be a good deal of compromise on what decarteliza-
tion really entails.

Another important facet of the ECA program is to
foster cooperation with the other participating countries.

Another part of the implementation of our policy here
in Germany rests on security measures to prevent her
from again becoming a military menace. First, there is the
Military Security Board, which is on a tripartite basis.

Demilitarization is entirely completed. There are no
“armed forces’ of Germany today. The responsibility
for the protection of Germany lies with the Occupying
Powers.

Third, there was the dismantling of the war plants,
either destroyed or shipped per reparations. That whole
question was settled once and for all, I trust, by the
Petersberg Protocol of November 1949. Dismantling is
practically completed.

Fourth, there are the Prohibited and Limited Industries,
like aircraft and munitions, which are completely pro-
hibited and others, like the steel and the chemical in-
dustries, which are limited.

Fifth, there is the International Authority of the Ruhr.

HAT IS THE GERMAN reaction to the American
and, in fact, the entire Allied program? Generally,
I think, the German people accept and support all parts

of it, except that I do not think we are winning any
(Continued on page 66)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Ae € WF nee
‘ ty

Exe

tee 4

a

e

reise Shamrock

N ORDER from Lt. Gen. John K.

Cannon, joint task force com-
mander, 11,800 troops of the US
Armed Forces in Europe plunged
into action March 16 to touch off
Exercise Shamrock, largest com-
mand force exercise ever con-
ducted in the theater. The week-
long maneuvers, which called out
units of the Army, Air Force and
Navy, was designed to test com-
munications, command post func-
tions and staff planning capabili-
ties. The three services were re-
presented principally by command
posts which stood for but a frac-
tion of actual unit strength. Ma-
neuvers began with an “overt act”
by a mythical aggressor which
had been concentrating its troops
in the US Zone. US forces com-
manders were to stop the ground
attack and hold a line to be formed
at the Rhine-Neckar-Main river
areas. At its conclusion, it was
hailed by EUCOM's ranking gene-
rals as the most realistic command
post exercise ever conducted in
the zone. Gen. Cannon termed the
staff work and planning ‘superior, ’’
and said exercise procedures were
sound and all camp sites ‘‘fine.”’
A unified command force was
maintained during the maneuvers.

i

--- Page 36 ---
a

Lt. Col. J.M. Knapp explains troop movement to Lt. G
August

US Navy Rhine River craft participated in March ma-
uillaume, French troop commander, as Gen. neuvers, Pictured above is the loading of equipment
Thomas T, Handy and Col. Samuel G. Conley look on

aboard an LSM, in all-out battle against “aggressor.”

en.

Medics of headquarters troop US Constabulary treat a patient in the field dispensary during Shamrock (above left). Right,
an enlisted man burned during maneuvers is transferred to an L-5 ital. EES snack bars and PX
of First Infantry Division (right).

for evacuation to hos
followed men into the field, below, left. Hill-billy music had its place for members

(US Army photos)

--- Page 37 ---
This portable building housed ERP exhibit in Stuttgart and will be moved in coming months to other cities in US Zone.

— a

AGRCTKEE Bw)

F

-
=
O

e@

By ROBERT M. HANES
Chief, ECA Special Mission to Western Germany

N CONNECTION with the opening of this ERP pavilion

I am seizing the chance to see something of the state
of Wuerttemberg-Baden. For the next two or three days
I shall be talking with your officials, with your indus-
trialists, with your workers and with your farmers, all
of whom play a most important role in the European
Recovery Program. For it is, after all, upon the individuals
of each country that falls the burden of making the Mar-
shall Plan a success.

It is easy enough to lay great plans and to formulate
vast schemes, but those plans and schemes stand or fall
on the effort exerted by various segments of society. If
the goals and achievements of the Mar-

Program. Just two years ago on April 3 the Congress
of the United States passed the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1948, which brought the Marshall Plan out of the realm
of ideas and into the field of practicality. In the two
years which have passed much has been achieved.
European recovery has moved perhaps faster than the
Europeans or the Americans had anticipated. The very
speed with which Europe's industry and agriculture
pulled themselves out of the ravages of war and into
high gear has in itself raised new problems. Let us not
forget that the immediate aims of the plans proposed
by Secretary of State Marshall were to end hunger and

chaos, and I think that a glance around

shall Plan are to be realized, all the
planning in the world will be of no
use if the whole-hearted support and
energy of the majority of individuals
are not poured into the common effort.

We stand today almost at the half-

way point of the European Recovery in Stuttgart.

This address by Robert M. Hanes,
chief of the ECA Special Mission
to Western Germany and director
of the Office of Economic Affairs,
HICOG, was delivered March 20
at the opening of the ERP exhibit April of 1948 and today. That dit-

Western Europe today shows that those
aims have been splendidly realized.

I need not point out the vast im-
provement in the standards of living
in all the European countries between

ference is apparent to anyone who

INFORMATION BULLETIN

MAY 1950.

--- Page 38 ---
chances to walk the streets of any western European
city or village. Factories then dormant are now in full
operation. Stores then empty are now filled. I shall not,
however, belabor the obvious or dwell too much on
what has passed, but I should like to take a few moments
to talk with you about some of the problems which
lie ahead...

I have just returned from the United States where I
appeared before certain committees of our Congress to
testify on the continuation of the European Recovery
Program. It occurred to me that you might be interested
in some of my impressions of what the feeling is at home
in regard to the Marshall Plan. Let us not forget that it
is, in the final analysis, the American who must be con-
vinced that the Marshall Plan is a good thing if the pro-
gram is to be continued. During my short stay in America,
1 spoke to congressmen and senators and appeared be-
fore the committees of both the House of Representatives
and our Senate. These men have a keen knowledge of
and interest in Europe, and they also have a rather de-
termined attitude on what they think should be done and
should be accomplished by Europe through the European
Recovery Program.

ET ME OUTLINE some of the major items in which
_4 our Congress showed the greatest interest. First and
foremost is American interest in European integration.
Integration is an easy word to use, and it may have
varying meanings to different persons. When I speak of
European integration today, I am speaking of economic
unification of an area where the currencies, goods, serv-
ices, vehicles and people flow freely between the coun-
tries much as they do across the borders of our own
48 slates. When I speak of European integration and
what the American think of it, he and I contemplate
an economic system unhampered by trade and currency
barriers, customs hindrances and protective devices.

The Americans today are quite convinced that the
traditional economic nationalism of Europe must be eli-
minated with all possible speed, if western Europe is to
become self-supporting. I do not hesitate to declare that
if there is one thing which could bring the European
Recovery Program to an abrupt and premature conclusion,
it would be the erection or continuation of a compart-
mentalized European economy.

It is the view of the Americans that economic natio-
nalism has twice contributed to disasters which have
overtaken the world. The American taxpayer is willing
to contribute his money for the building of a new and
better world, but it is my considered opinion that he will
not contribute again to the re-establishment of an eco-
nomic system which has proved unworkable, antiquated
and undependable.

An economically integrated Europe would see this vast
consumers’ market of 270,000,000 people serviced by an
unimpeded trade in which the producer of each country
could compete equitably with producers in other lands.
Monopolies and cartels would disappear, driven out by
healthy competition, Subsidies for domestic industries

MAY 1950

35

would be unnecessary. The shackling practices of dual
pricing — that is, one price for the domestic market,
another for export — would be a relic of the past. Under
such a system the great potentialities of the vast European
consumer market could be fully realized,

HAT I AM SUGGESTING today is not the abstract

theory of an economist, for I am neither an eco-
nomist nor a professional government servant, I am a
businessman. It is in the light of business that I view
this critical problem. The American, if I read his thoughts
correctly, does not, of course, expect these economic
changes to take place overnight, but he does expect
considerable and consistent progress toward these goals
to be made during this calendar year.

You, here in Germany, have taken broad steps in trade
liberalization. I found that the members of our Congress
were most interested and very sympathetic toward the
program of lessening trade barriers which has been taken
by your government. By your determined actions in the
matter of removing trade restrictions you are working
energetically toward the ultimate goals of ERP.

If European economic integration is foremost in the
mind of the American, another problem follows it closely
in general concern. People of the United States, as I
listened to them, are as interested in the problem of the
dollar gap as are the people in Europe. This interest is
largely influenced by the fact that the American is
today financing the difference between European exports
and imports, and he is anxious to bring to an end the
extraordinary financial assistance now necessary
Western Europe.

The American has long since learned that a trade
balance should be exactly that — a balance between
exports and imports. It is a misnomer, generally recog-
nized, to call a surplus of exports a ‘favorable balance

for

Inspecting the ECA exhibition at Stuttgart are (left to
tight) Dr. Hermann Veit, economics minister of Wuert-
temberg-Baden; Elmer Cox, chief of HICOG’s Exhibition

Section; Dr. Reinhold Maier, W-B minister president;
Robert M. Hanes, and Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, US
state commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
Looking around at ECA exhibit in Stuttgart are Walter
Ridder, special assistant to chief of ECA Mission, George
L. Orion, chief of Industry Branch OLCWB and Mr. Hanes.

of trade, for if trade is too heavily weighted one way or
the other its effects must be unfavorable. Recognizing
this, the American is anxious to help Europe sell its
goods in America,

HERE IS A THIRD thought, in addition to “integra-
tion” and dollar gap. I do not mean productivity in
its narrow sense. I use it in the broad general meaning
of the term, which embraces all the facets of production,
merchandising and selling, particularly the export market.
When we talk of industrial productivity we mean the
modernization of equipment and methods, selling more
goods at lower prices and the manufacturing and mer-
chandising of the right goods in the right places. In all
of these things, the Marshall Plan is anxious to help the
European in every possible way. Through judicious use
of counterpart funds and through our technical assistance
programs, which promote the exchange of ideas between
Europe and the United States, the Marshall Plan hopes to
stimulate new thinking and new methods so that Europe's
industrial plant can better compete for dollars in the
western markets,

I use productivity also to apply to agriculture because
Europe, and Germany in particular, can make enormous
strides toward balancing its own trade through intelligent,
economical use of its tillable land. Every bit of increased
yield per acre which you can achieve in Germany you
can save that much in dollar imports. The Marshall Plan
administration is working in the very closest of collabora-
tions with the agricultural authorities throughout Europe
in an effort to increase the production of foodstuffs

I fear the average European manufacturer suffers from
a case of defeatism and fear when he considers entering
the United States market. There is a tendency, I think,
to throw up hands, to say we can never produce as
cheaply as America, and therefore we cannot compete
in western markets, or worse, to take the course of least
resistance and make no attempt to sell in the dollar area
because of easy profits at home,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

PEAKING AS a businessman and a banker, I can see

no reason why, with efficient production and intel-
ligent merchandising and promotion methods, Europeans
cannot compete successfully in many lines in the
American market. By intelligent merchandising, I mean
carefully selecting, packing and displaying the product,
studying market potentialities and getting the price
attractive by manufacturing efficiency. It is no easy
task, but unless it is achieved, the European Recovery
Program will have been in vain.

You here in Germany have numerous products which
can be sold in the United States. Your precision instru-
ments, your pharmaceuticals and your toys have for
years past brought favorable American response to the
label “Made in Germany.” Certainly, your cameras, your
optics, your lenses and chinawares are in great demand
in my country. Many friends have requested me to pur-
chase for them German cameras and field glasses. A de-
mand for those products exists in America and it is up
to the German to meet it.

Americans are alive to the necessity of purchasing
European. We realize that the purchase in the United
States of only $1,000,000,000 worth of European goods a
year can all but eliminate the dollar gap.That $1,000,000,000
a year represents considerably less than one percent of
the US gross national product and can easily be absorbed
in our economy. But the American will not buy un-
economically, Quality goods must be presented to him
in the right way and at the right prices.

I welcomed the announcement last week of Dr. Erhard*
that Germany is preparing to have an export drive and
plans to set up an office in New York to study market-
ing, merchandising and selling techniques in the United
States. That office can rest assured that it will receive
all possible cooperation, not only from the ECA Special
Mission to Western Germany, but also from the ECA
Headquarters in Washington. We shall be cheering your
energetic efforts which, if persisted in, will surely bring
successful achievement. + END

* Dr. Ludwig Erhard, Federal Minister of Economics.

Crowds throng mechanically-operated exhibits in ECA
pavilion in Stuttgart. (Photos by Exhibition Section, OA, HICOG)

--- Page 40 ---
Germany in a United Kurope

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

SSIMILATION OF GERMANY into a broad European
A community and prevention of the rebirth of a new
aggressive menace, along with counteracting the Soviets’
coercive system, were described by Mr. McCloy as ob-
jectives in solving the problems of Germany. He outlined
this program at the annual Pilgrims’ Dinner in London,
April 4. Following his opening remarks in response to
the introductory speech, Mr. McCloy spoke as follows:

Our friendships here symbolize the links between our
two countries, Those links have been greatly strengthened
by the war and the events since its end. Those events
have also demonstrated our vital concern in Europe. To-
gether with our European neighbors we have embarked
through the Marshall Plan and the Atlantic Pact on a
joint program to provide for the common defense and
to promote the general economic welfare.

In the occupation of Germany we are engaged in still
another part of this joint task. Tonight I want to give
you my thoughts on this German problem and its solution.

Any discussion of Germany must deal with the split
between the East and West. When the fighting ended
we had hoped that the four allies could work together
in healing the deep wounds of tyranny and war. Instead,
each year the Kremlin has sought to widen the gap
between East and West.

N GERMANY the contest has taken dramatic form. The

Soviets have constantly frustrated the determined
efforts of the western Allies to preserve four-power unity.
The Soviet rulers have maneuvered only to subjugate
Germany into vassalage,

In this drive the Soviets are again using in Germany
the very methods the Nazis used such
a short time ago — marching youth,
mammoth meetings, appeals to militar-
ism and the national front, violent abuse
of opponents, and constant purges. De-
spite their solemn pledge to outlaw
German militarism they ate training a
German army in the eastern zone under
the guise of a police force. The Soviet
campaign aims first of allatBerlin. The

Returning from London where he
had addressed the Pilgrims’ Society,
Mr. McCloy (center) is greeted at the
Rhine/Main Airport near Frankfurt by
Press correspondents (left to right)
Robert Haeger of United Press; Louis
Deroche of Agence France Press, and
Howard Kennedy of Stars and Stripes.

(PRD HICOG photo)

MAY 1950

course of that campaign has been tortuous. First they
sacked the city, then they wooed it, next they sought to
starve it. Now, talking of freedom, they threaten, with
the help of their puppet regime, to force Berlin into sub-
mission by a new application of totalitarian methods.
The Soviet pressure to absorb Berlin and force us out
is strong proof of the challenge of Western ideals. As an
outpost behind the Iron Curtain, Berlin is a constant
reminder to the satellite peoples of the possibility of a
different way of life—a reminder which no amount of
propaganda can erase, a reminder which the Soviets re-
cognize is a standing threat to their coercive system.

HE COMMUNISTS WILL NOT succeed in taking

over the city of Berlin. The free men and women of
the city will not permit it and we will not permit it. The
British, the French and the Americans are fully determined
and fully united, We shall stay in Berlin.

Counteracting Soviet pressure is vital, but it does not
solve the German problem, Now, what is our common
policy in Germany? All of us want to prevent Germany
from again becoming a menace. In seeking to attain this
goal, we have been following two main roads,

First, to prohibit institutions and activities dangerous
to peace,

Second, to encourage a truly democratic society.

On the first point, in the interest of security, our fixed
policy has been to impose and maintain effective controls
against the revival of a German war machine. This we
intend to do until the evidence convinces us that pro-
gressive forces have strongly established themselves in
the political and economic life of Germany. In order to

--- Page 41 ---
Leaders of postwar Germany —US High Commissioner McCloy received
the US Zone ministers-president in a conference during April. From
left to right are Dr. Hans Ehard, Bavaria; Wilhelm Kaisen, president

of the Bremen Senate; Dr.
Christian Stock, Hesse.

Reinhold Maier,

foster the growth of democratic practices and attitudes,
the German people and their elected governments have
been granted substantial powers and_ responsibilities.
But even so, we have retained important security con-
trols and, in the event of a real threat, we can resume
all or part of the authority we have relinquished.

There is no gainsaying the fact that Germany still gives
evidence of the need for restrictions and controls. Wisely
administered and kept simple and clear, these various
forms of control can serve as important safeguards of
the peace.

But restraints alone are not enough. Our greater hope
must lie in constructive efforts to strengthen the pro-
gressive forces in German life. We do not aim to remake
Germany in our own image, but we do seek to encourage
Germans of good will to build a vigorous democratic state.

N ITS HISTORY Germany has produced many creative

figures, But for too long the world has suffered from
the destructive side of the German character. In justice
to herself and the world, Germany must display to this
and coming generations the peaceful, creative side of
genius. This is the great challenge. Only the Germans
can meet it, but we can do much to help them.

In short, our German program seeks to achieve security
by restricting the power to make war and by encourag-
ing the growth of democracy. This two fold program is
wise and necessary. Nevertheless, in my judgment, it is
only half the remedy. The other half must be a united
Europe of which Germany must be a part.

The need for a united Europe is made more urgent by
the threat from the East, but it would still be pressing
even without that threat. The fact is, we cannot solve

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Wuerttemberg-Baden;
(PRD HICOG photo by Jacoby)

38

the German problem without fitting it into the
larger context of a united Europe. Only within
that context do I see the opportunity to direct
the economic, political and spiritual forces of
Germany into healthy and peaceful channels.

Time does not permit me to develop in detail
the reasons which lead me to this conclusion.
But I do wish to suggest some of the main con-
siderations. First, let us look for a moment at the
economic facts. These are critical. With only
half the area of prewar Germany, the Federal
Republic has 70 percent of all Germany's prewar
population, including over 9,000,000 refugees
from the East. I hope we shall be successful in
our efforts to unite Germany but even with
unity, Germany to support that population must
rely on industrial output more heavily than she
did before the war.

ITHOUT THE SOLUTION of this and other

basic economic problems, democratic forces
will not be able to retain power and exercise in-
fluence in Germany. It is essential then to build
a German economy strong enough to support her
larger population. Yet this may require an
economy strong enough to be a_ potential
threat to the security of her neighbors. The
dilemma must be solved.

This, I am convinced, can be accomplished only by
assimilating Germany into a broader European com-
munity. Only thus can Germany and Europe produce goods «
and services necessary for a prosperous and secure future.

These economic factors lead directly to the political.
To insure the freer flow of trade and the development
of European markets will require effective political
machinery. Moreover, centuries of European conflict
demonstrate the need for an agency adequate to restrain
nationalistic forces. To be specific, after two world wars
Germany's neighbors today fear the rebuilding of a strong
German economy unless some over-all rule of law pro-
tects them against its use for ruthless aggression.

There is a third aspect of the problem which may be
the most important: the psychological or spiritual factor.
Man seeks loyalties and ideals to which he can dedicate
himself and which will give meaning to his daily life.
In an earlier day national states provided sufficient scope
for this need. Today this is no longer true. Certainly in
Germany young men and women feel that their lives are
blocked by a dead end. The cause is not only the physi-
cal or economic condition of their country. The difficulty
is rather that no goal or concept seems to inspire hope
or to evoke dedication.

Without such a hope, without a wider horizon, they
may again become victims of the demagogue. But with
such a hope they may create a free society.

In short, the crucial need is for a genuine European
community. The demands of security, of economic and of
spiritual health all call for the same solution. Events
press us to this solution and by “events” I do not mean

MAY 1950

--- Page 42 ---
merely the East-West split, but the deeper moral, political
and economic forces that surge in Europe today.

ANY FACTORS CALL for prompt action. Today the

West has the opportunity to unite for its own de-
fense. Tomorrow may be too late. Today Germany is
still in a formative stage and, I believe, wants to join
in a united Europe. Tomorrow the situation in Germany
and in other European countries may have taken a turn
which will make action more difficult. Today the idea
of a European community has a strong hold on the minds
of the common people throughout the continent. Tomor-
row, if steps have not been taken to make this idea a
reality, those hopes may be dashed and support for the
program may be dissipated.

Today the United States is firmly committed to help
Europe and has shown in many ways its hope in the
development of a European community. Tomorrow that
interest may decline from its present high level unless
it is matched by the interest of others.

Finally, in the last 10 years, in war and peace, the
leaders and peoples of Europe have been learning to
work together on many joint projects. These skills and
attitudes can form the firm base for the next step toward
a real community.

At the same time every thoughtful person must re-
cognize the tremendous obstacles in the path of European
unity. No friend of Britain, aware of her problems, would
dare urge any step which might prejudice Britain's
existence or impair her position as a leader of nations.
The United States, too, will have to do its share. So it
is with full appreciation of the difficulties involved that

I say no permanent solution of the German problem
seems possible without an effective European union.
Experience between the two wars and since teaches
us that palliatives will not do. And there is good reason
to believe the problem can be solved. The courage and
energy so magnificently displayed in the war can be
enlisted in the creative task of building a strong European
community. The European tradition is a heritage which
the world cannot afford to lose. That heritage can best
be preserved by making Europe a vital outlet for the
energies of its young men and women. a

HIS CONCEPT of a new Western Europe is our best

hope for peace. It is a threat to no one. Its very
existence will reduce the danger of armed conflicts, its
rightful power will check the ruthless plans of ambitious
men; and its democratic nature will preclude any aggres-
sive action on its own part.

Three hundred years ago a member of Bradford's
Company* wrote back to England after the first harsh
winter in Plymouth Colony. He was able to weigh these
hardships against the spiritual goal of the Pilgrims. He
wrote:

“Tt is not with us as with other meh whom small things
can discourage, or small discontentments cause to wish
themselves at home again.”

We too must measure our difficulties in the light of
cur own purposes, If we carry in our hearts this spirit
of the Pilgrims, we may also count as small the ob-
stacles to our own high goals. + END

* Plymouth (Mass.) Colony, of which William Bradford (1590—1657)
was an early governor.

Labor Unions a Strong Democratic Force

ESCRIBING THE GERMAN trade union movement as

“the strongest, most constructive and most demo-
cratic force in present-day Germany,’ Algot Joensson,
Swedish labor leader, in a report to the Office of Labor
Affairs, declared that German unions must form the core
of the new German democracy.

The Swedish labor expert and official of the Swedish
Trade Union Federation came to Germany last summer
at the invitation of the Manpower Division, OMGUS,
predecessor of the HICOG's Office of Labor Affairs. He
spent practically his entire time in Bavaria, where he dis-
cussed problems with trade union leaders and workmen.

Currency reform, ERP aid and the new constitution
guaranteeing basic human rights have created a sound
basis for the democratic development of Germany, Mr.
Joensson stated, but he pointed to the disparity between
wages and prices as “good soil for the dissatisfaction of
the working man.”

“As far as I could find out," he said, “the purchasing
power of wage and salary earners is very low. Whatever
they earn is spent for food, rent utilities and social in-
surance. It is therefore very difficult to afford clothing
and furniture. And the need for these goods is very great
after the war and the destruction.”

MAY 1950

39

JHE THREE MOST IMPORTANT problems facing the

German government today, he said, are those of
housing construction, unemployment and the price-wage
relationship.

“The next few years can be of decisive importance
for democracy in Germany," he said. “If the three afore-
mentioned problems can be brought to a reasonable solu:
tion, the external conditions for democratic development
will be quite favorable. If they are not solved, there is
the danger that developments may go in a quite different
and undesirable direction. A strong and purposeful hold
on the problem of housing construction could further a
solution to the other two problems.”

Mr. Joensson noted a special inclination on the part
of the German trade union movement for legislation. He
also noted that a large number of minor disputes which
should be settled through direct negotiation between
the employer and the trade union, are taken to labor
courts for settlement. He recommended that the training
of youth and educational leaders be extended; that Ger-
man trade unionists, including youth leaders, study demo-
cratic developments in Sweden, and that all possibilities
for conducting the broad work of enlightenment be exam-
ined, including support of correspondence school courses.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
By BETH BURCHARD

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

PPARENTLY YOU “don't have to know the language”

to be a movie star in Germany. Someone else can
go through the gutturals while you get six bells at the
box office and a whole nation-full of new fans.

For instance, most of Hollywood's crop wouldn't claim
for a minute to know German. But drop into a west Ger-
man theater some night and see for yourself what a little
dubbing can do.

Everyone from Edward G. Robinson to Shirley Temple
is du-ing love scenes all in Deutsch. It's all part of the
program laid out by US movie companies to try their
products on postwar Germany.

Net result? Bing Crosby is second at Berlin's box office,
Mickey Mouse is enchanting the young set in Munich,
and “The Song of Bernadette” continues to be the most
popular film ever shown in a German postwar theater.

In 1945, General Dwight D. Eisenhower, then US com-
mander in Germany, requested the Motion Picture As-
sociation of America to release some films to help fill

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

the leisure time of Germans in cities newly conquered
by American armies. There were a number of films al-
ready in the area, part of the troop entertainment pro-
gram.

Selection boards were quickly set up by the Army and
the MPEA. They worked on a double standard: to enter-
tain the Germans and to give them the US-approved
slant on what America—and democracy — were like.
The movie companies made the first choices and the
War Department said yes or no.

LL DISTRIBUTION and dubbing of the films was

under supervision of Military Government until the
Motion Picture Export Association was formed in 1946.
This organization was set up by 10 American com-
panies — Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Twentieth Century-Fox,
Paramount, RKO-Radio, United Artists, Allied Artists,
Columbia, Warner Brothers, Universal and Republic — as
an export association to handle distribution of US films

MAY 1950

--- Page 44 ---
Even Snow White” speaks German in theaters of the western zones. Hollywood has 225 films ready to go in 1950.

to German theaters, By February 1948, though War
Department screening of films continued, MPEA was in
complete charge of distribution.

This organizational setup lasted almost two years. War
Department screening of US films lasted until September
1949. The MPEA, which last year distributed 83 US
movies, continued until Jan. 1, 1950, when it voluntarily
dissolved itself.

Dissolution followed the formation of the German
Federal Republic and the transfer of control to German
authorities. Part of the basic policy announced by the
United States at that time was to bolster a free and
competitive market in all fields within Germany. The
individual film companies simultaneously bowed out of
MPEA and now work independently, Six of the original
10 maintain their own offices; the remaining four have
German agents acting in their behalf. Independent film
companies and producers have since stepped into the
field —and films are slated to be shown soon under the
auspices of David O. Selznick, Samuel Goldwyn, Walt
Disney and other independents. As a result a great many
more US films are entering Germany: 225 American films
were available in April 1950 for distribution; during its
whole four-year existence, MPEA released only 166.

All US film companies are located in Frankfurt, with
branch offices in Munich, Duesseldorf, Hamburg and
Berlin, All maintain their own publicity outlets, and in
combination handle about 30 percent of all films shown
in Germany,

Financially, MPEA was a cooperative. Films were
selected for probable box office appeal and not accord-
ing to who made them. Whatever revenue the films
earned inside Germany was divided among the 10 com-
panies in the same proportion as the companies profited
from showings in the United States. This arrangement
guaranteed that the German market wouldn't be burdened
with white elephants; it also made it possible for an
individual film company to reap profit, even though its
films were not shown to Germans. Nonetheless, this
System continued until MPEA's demise.

MAY 1950

NE MAN HAS been with MPEA since its inception

and knows well the whole story of its ups and downs,
successes, flops and idiosyncrasies, Marion F, Jordan
served as manager of the organization until its end, now
serves as liaison between the film companies and the
German Federal Republic.

According to Jordan, selection was always a knotty
problem, Commercially, the MPEA had few hints as to
what would please German audiences. Prior to the war,
each year from 1933 to 1940, approximately 30 US films
of the shoot-'em-up variety had gotten past Nazi barriers
into German theaters. But MPEA made its choices accord-
ing to probable box office appeal, and left it to the War

20th Century-Fox location shots for I Was A Male War
Bride’ were made in Germany with US Army cooperation
and assistance. Cary Grant and Ann Sheridan are stars.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
Department to nix selected films on grounds of im-
morality, irrelevance or misrepresentation.

Not only did the War Department turn down some
MPEA films, it requested that others be added. There
was an occasional tug-of-war between the two elements,
but for the most part, says Jordan, their selections
coincided. Those pictures which WD officials
down may illustrate the unwritten code of selection.

turned

“Gentlemen's Germany
because its representation of American prejudice against
Jews might have been used to whitewash German anti-
Semitism. Gangster films in general were barred, as were
any other films which seemed to misinterpret America.
“Boomerang,” a semi-documentary wherein politics inter-
feres with justice, was likewise crossed off as a bad
example. Even the mighty Tarzan couldn't crash German
theaters in the beginning, because pictures about him
seemed to the War Department totally irrelevant to re-
orientation.

Agreement” stayed out of

HE WAR DEPARTMENT conceived its screening

mission in a strict sense; knowing there was but
certain space and money available to display American
films, these officials wanted each reel to count. They
were adamant in striking from the rosters any movies
which did not represent fairly the American scene — even
“harmless” comedies, which ridiculed basic US institutions
and laws, were rejected for German circulation.

Other films languished in Stateside vaults because
MPEA-men bet on their failure before the German
audiences. US movie-goers might rave over Abbott and
Costello, or Laurel and Hardy, but it seemed to MPEA
that German ticket-buyers would get along without
them. (Abbott and Costello films have been shown in
Germany since Jan, 1.)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

42

Oo-la-la Dietrich! Berliners chose Marlene and Bing Crosby as favorite
Hollywood stars; youngsters in rural areas idolize film Cowboy John Wayne.

For the same reason—that “US humor is US humor
and only the US would laugh"— Bob Hope for a long
while was completely unknown. But the box office pull
of Bing Crosby (Germans chummily call him “Der Bingle’’)
encouraged the movie men to hazard one of the famed
“Road” pictures. It was a hit. From the “Road to Mo-
rocco,” Bing and Bob took off on the “Road to Rio;"
Hope's stock is now secure enough to risk bringing in
“The Paleface,’ with only Jane Russell's support.

Germans gave a royal snubbing to ‘Our Vines Have
Tender Grapes," “Our Town," and “Sister Kenney.”
“State Fair," Germany's first US technicolor picture, and
an overwhelming success in the United States, fell flat
as a pancake. 3

But most US films got a bumptious reception. ‘Mr.
Deeds Goes to Town,” ‘Keys of the Kingdom,” "The Zieg-
feld Girls," “Sun Valley Serenade,” “The Human Comedy,”
“Union Pacific’ and ‘Lost Weekend" rank among the
most popular.

OST POPULAR OF ALL —and the most successful

film ever shown in postwar Germany — was the
film version of Franz Werfel’s “Song of Bernadette.”
Eighty-two-year-old Catholic Cardinal Faulhaber attended
the Munich premiere of the film, the first time in the
history of the church a cardinal had attended a public
performance, His radio talk afterward, urging Catholics
to see the film, undoubtedly had a great deal to do with
its ultimate record at the box office, particularly in Catho-
lic Bavaria.

Berlin saved most of its laurels for “Ninotchka,” a
satire on Russian bureaucrats starring Greta Garbo. It
wasn't shown in Berlin until three days after the city-
wide elections, on Dec. 8, 1947. It ran 17 weeks in a first-
run theater, and bagged hundreds of Russians in its
audience, It was apparently bad policy for Russian sol-

MAY 1950

--- Page 46 ---
diers to view the showings — movie-goers said they could
count the Russians present by the number who arose one
minute before the picture’s end and slunk from the
theater before the lights went on.

Despite its huge success in Germany, the MPEA had
fears in the beginning about showing the Academy-
Award-winning “Best Years of Our Lives."

A group of journalists in Berlin, having been given
and advance preview of the show, was skeptical at its
representation of “lush American life,’ says Jordan. He
faced a classroom-full of them to point out that there was
nothing frivolous in the problems of a veteran who had
lost both hands (portrayed by Harold Russell in the film).
But to guarantee an understanding audience, the movie
men staged a series of premieres for it, dedicating all
proceeds to returning German prisoners of war.

Thereafter the press responded warmly, giving it wide
attention and favorable criticism. Fifteen hundred Ber-
liners attended the premiere of “Best Years" in the
Titania Palast. A German journalist writing in March of
this year said, “The warmhearted and homely atmosphere
of (‘Best Years') captivated the German audience."

Special groups found the movie story of Father Flana-
gan's ‘Boys’ Town" of great interest, and besides regular
showings, it traveled a circuit all its own among welfare
and sociological audiences.

Disney's “Snow White” (Schneewittchen) managed that
rarity in German movie-houses, a hold-over. In some
cases, the normal three or four-day runs were extended
to three and four weeks, and RKO received telegrams

Posters tell advent of MGM as independent firmin Germany.

MAY 1950

43

from Karlsruhe to Ham-
burg naming it the most
popular film in the thea-
ters’ individual histories.

UDIENCE REACTION

to American films has
been varied: opinion di-
vides among Germans in
the US Zone as to whe-
ther Hollywood movies
give a true impression of
how the average Amer-
ican The largest
group of those who say
(from public opinion sur-
veys) that the movies
fail in this respect ac-
cuse Hollywood movies
of portraying a world of
unreality.

When asked what they
thought to be the basis
for selecting the US
movies sent to Germany,
people answered, “to fa-
miliarize Germans with
the American way of
life," “for democratic in-
doctrination,” and “for
their cultural value.”

lives.

But in fact box-office
has the greatest pull in
selection of films. Amer-
ican companies are watch-
ing response closely, hop-
ing to bring in more
money-makers. “More and more customers are sick up
to their noses of criminal films from any country," said
one salesman. American films have to be somewhere
in between the foolish and the problematical, he says
— if they're foolish, Germans think them unreal; if
they're problematical, Germans would rather see films
about German problems.

It took the mighty Tarzan
until 1950 to crash German
theaters. The Army said no.

“You don't hear much about the Wild West pictures,
but the juveniles here eat them up, especially on the
small-town circuits. Randolph Scott and John Wayne are
big heroes. But sometimes there’s too much shooting."

ETTING AMERICAN films into German movie-houses
G in the first place isn't a matter of just putting them
on a ship. A lot of fastidious editing and dubbing must
come first.

Only one print of each American film is released
in its original English-language form. With sub-titles in
German, these prints go into the so-called “class”
theaters. For the rest of the prints (about 30), a trans-
lation is made and dubbed by German speaking actors
and actresses.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
Firs step for the synchronization is preparation of a
rough trai. ‘ation, following exactly the original script.
Then the film ts divided into sequences, and the central
thought of each is adapted with the translated script into
a dialogue that is appropriate to the German mentality and
that synchronizes well with the players’ lip movements.
Scripts are thereupon painstakingly checked.

One of the most exacting of the preparatory tasks is the
selection of voices to take the American actors’ parts.
Clark Gable in a falsetto or Margaret O'Brien with a bass
voice could undermine an otherwise flawless film, and
the dubbing directors know it well. They make scrupulous
selections from a pool of German talent; the dubbing
directors have listings of hundreds of available actors and
actresses,

Twelve pictures monthly are synchronized in Berlin;
the same number in Munich, where theater activity is
customarily greatest and the greatest variety of voices is
thus available. Dubbing has given an appreciable lift to
the movie activity in both cities. Dubbing directors have
plenty of policy problems. What, one might ask, is Bing
Crosby without his voice? Policy has been to allow a
German actor to put words in Der Bingle’s mouth until
the music comes up, and from then on and for every
musical number, the original English sound track is used.

But most of the time Germans do not hear the voices of
American stars nor have they seen them in person. Few
of filmland’s glamor girls and masculine idols have made
visits to postwar Germany. Of the few that have been
here, most have participated in film-making. Twentieth-
Century-Fox has made “I Married a War Bride" with
Ann Sheridan and Cary Grant, and ‘The Big Lift" (a story
of the Berlin airlift) with Paul Douglas and Montgomery
Clift. Paramount filmed “A Foreign Affair,” starring Mar-
lene Dietrich, Jean Arthur and John Lund. All location
shots were made in Germany.

EUTSCHE MARKS, not huge Hollywood fortunes,

were used for German services in making these films.
At present, most US movie revenue remains inside Ger-
many in the form of D/Mark bank accounts. Limited con-
vertibility contracts have been signed with ECA, but the
amounts which may be changed into dollars represent,
according to Jordan, just out-of-pocket dollar expenses.

Any rumors that American companies are hoarding huge
fortunes in Germany were denied by Jordan. The 10 com-
panies he represented have spent close to DM 10,000,000
in building up their staffs and headquarters within Ger-
many. They now employ approximately 1,000 persons; in
addition an average of 500 actors, dubbing directors and
editors are employed each month for dubbing activities.
“Fortunes” go fast on such programs.

A good portion of the MPEA’s revenue likewise has
gone into the German economy in the form of direct
taxes —DM 2,000,000 was paid by MPEA during its final
two years.

Germany's economy has been enriched from another
movie source: since the war, approximately DM 85,000,000
has been turned over to government bodies from taxes
on individual admission tickets.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

Despite these ad-
vantages to the Ger-
man government,
American films have
called forth a mount-
ing chorus of wor-
ried comment from
German movie-mak-
ers, newspapers and
officialdom. One po-
tent voice is that of
chairman Rudolf Vo-
gel of Bonn's parlia-
mentary film com-
mittee, who recently
said there is grave
danger of western
Germany's film in-
dustry being swamp-
ed by Hollywood.

Whatever the ex-
tent, it is certain
that US films are
more than holding
their own at the box
office. From 47 to 73
percent of the people
in the American zone, Berlin and Bremen have seen
one or more American films since war's end; 33 percent
of Berliners believe American movies are superior to
those of any other producing nation. Although slightly
more than half of the moviegoers in these areas prefer
German films, a sizable minority say they like German
and American produced films about equally well.

Are best US films coming to Ger-
many? This year's crop includes
“The Heiress,” winner of an Oscar,

N A RECENT PUBLIC opinion survey taken in the

American zone, people asked to name a film of the
type they would like tosee mentioned US-made films moré
often than those of any other nation, including Germany.

Hollywood film stars rank high on the popularity list:
a sample poll in Berlin shows Berlin-born Marlene Diet-
rich, Sweden's Ingrid Bergman and Greta Garbo, third,
fourth and fifth at the box office. Bing Crosby, James
Stewart and Alan Ladd, also Berlin favorites, take
second, fourth and sixth rank among the males.

Last year 150 foreign films, half of which were Ameri-
can, were shown in Germany. As of April 1950, almost
1,000 films — about three times the number the market
can absorb — were being offered by 71 distributors to
the 4,000 cinema owners in west Germany.

The breakdown was as follows:

Four hundred old German films (produced prior to
1945); 225 American films; 120 British films; 80 German
films produced since 1945; 79 French films; 50 Austrian
films; 14 Swedish films; and less than 10 films apiece
from Italy, Switzerland, Denmark, Hungary, Spain, Mexico
and Finland.

In effect, about eight percent of the films available
were new German productions, 40 percent were old Ger-

MAY 1950

--- Page 48 ---
man films, 51 percent were imports; and 22.5 percent
were American films.

In face of this competition, Germany produced some 73
films last year, this year is off to a slow start. Bonn offi-
cials estimate the industry must turn out at least 60
films per year in order to survive.

HE US FILM industry is cognizant of Germany's

competitive plight, and has set up a marketing ad-
visory unit in New York which lends its help to all for-
eign movie men who wish to exhibit their pictures in
America. Aid is given the foreign companies by pro-
ducers, distributors, exhibitors and public relations men
on the advisory board; a liaison man from each country
works with the board. Although Germany has not yet
joined the working group it is expected to do so soon.
This project has ECA backing.

The home offices of MPEA members are similarly
working to protect US films in Germany, as in all foreign
lands. Careful screening of all scripts and completed
films is made by an MPEA unit which criticizes them
from the point of view of fairness to foreign elements
and their probable reception by the overseas audiences.

This unit sees to it that Germans are sympathetically
represented and not all relegated to roles of uniformed
Nazi “villains.” It is such attention that keeps US films
acceptable to German audiences.

Jordan, however, says that the American industry still
has a giant selling job ahead. The US movie future will
depend to a great extent, he says, upon official German
attitudes. There are presently two trends in the wind:
the German government is naturally and properly trying
to promote a home-grown film industry and has already
initiated a program for placing all film imports ‘on a
reciprocal basis in line with the policy: “Don't import
anything for which you cannot pay in money or goods.”

And there is a natural but prevalent reaction to US
films — the world around men and women believe that
anything foreign is not as good as something home-
made. (In the US, for example, a French, British or Italian
film is considered something of a curiosity.) On an
official, as well as consumer level, then, the German
film is considered preferable to the American.

To boost American films, and to counteract rumors of
falseness and fortunes, the MPEA representatives have
in the works an information sheet. Slated for publication
in April, the sheet was to go to the press, to government
officials and German movie-makers, and will periodically
tell the true story of American aims and operations in
Germany.

Through this medium, through careful selection of
films and careful marketing, the US film producers hope
to maintain in Germany an expanding audience and a
useful tool in the democratization of the German populace.

+ END

Democratization Program Praised in Senate

EMOCRATIZATION ACTIVITIES in the city and

county of Munich were called to the attention of
members of the United States Senate recently in an
address by US Senator Wayne L. Morse (Rep., Ore.), and
a full account of the program under way there during
the past year appears in the Congressional Record.

HICOG's democratization program in Munich is directed
by George H. Godfrey, senior resident officer, and Chester
S. Wright, resident officer. Both officials have been in
Germany since the close of the war and served with Mili-
tary Government before transferring to the State Depart-
ment last October.

Senator Morse, who visited Germany in 1946 and has
taken a keen interest in developments here, obtained the
information for his talk before the Senate from a news
release issued in January by the Public Relations Branch
of OLCB, The release described the town meeting program,
the democratic attitude of Munich city officials, the full
reorientation program, Munich Youth Forum, and various
other projects under way in Munich. (For text of release
with photographs, see “Democracy in Munich” in March
issue of the Information Bulletin.)

“The statement shows, I think, very clearly,” he told
the Senate, “that democratic processes can be put to work
in Germany. I commend the statement to the reading of
the Senate, and I commend the State Department resident
officers in Munich for what I think is a fine example of
American leadership.

MAY 1950

AS

“I think the town meeting program developed in Munich
is a clear demonstration that the German people can be
led to an understanding of the values of self-government.

“In the fall of 1946 I visited Munich, and I was satisfied
then that the people of that area of Germany were anxious
to put into practice the principles of democracy, if they
received the instruction, information and leadership to
lead them away from a Fascist type of government to
a democratic one, The American resident officers are
apparently doing a grand job. I am sure the same results
can be obtained elsewhere in Germany.”

ENATOR MORSE asked and received the Senate's

“unanimous consent” to read into the Congressional
Record the OLCB release which, he explained, ‘deals with
democratic processes being placed in operation in Munich."

Clarence M. Bolds, the US state commissioner for
Bavaria, said Senator Morse's action in bringing Munich's
democratization efforts to the direct attention of the US
Senate and, through the Congressional Record, to the
American people, should give renewed hope and en-
couragement to Germany as a whole.

“It shows," he declared, “that the sincere efforts by
Germans to build a nation that will be respected and
trusted by peoples everywhere are being closely watched.
While the American people do not hesitate to criticize
when necessary, they are the first to give praise when
it's due.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Personnel Notes

New British High Commissioner

CAREER DIPLOMAT and expert in German affairs, Sir

Ivone Kirkpatrick has been appointed the next United
Kingdom High Commissioner for Germany, replacing
General Sir Brian Robertson. General Robertson, who will
become commander-in-chief of Britain's Middle East Land
Forces, is the last of the military leaders to govern oc-
cupied Germany for the West.

Mr. Kirkpatrick, who is 53, entered the foreign service
of England shortly after the close of World War I and
has had long experience in Germany and with matters
of German policy. Sir Ivone is now permanent under
secretary of state in charge of the German Section of
the British Foreign Office.

First on the string of his diplomatic appointments was
Rio de Janeiro, followed during the twenties by service
in the Foreign Office. In 1930 he went to the British Em-
bassy in Rome and shortly afterwards to the Holy See.
It was in August 1933, the year the Nazis rose to power,
that he was transferred to Berlin.

His years there were charged with the tension, hopes
and disappointments experienced second hand by the
whole democratic world. Mr. Kirkpatrick served as charge
d'affaires on several occasions and was present at the
Berchtesgaden, Godesberg and Munich conferences as an
interpreter. He served under two ambassadors, Sir Eric
Phipps and Sir Neville Henderson, and came to know
then the man now serving as French High Commissioner,

Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick
(British Information Service photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Andre Francois-Poncet. In December 1938, he returned
home.

The severance of diplomatic relations with Germany
left large sections of the Foreign Office Central Depart-
ment inactive; it was then that Mr. Kirkpatrick turned
his hand to propaganda with the British Broadcasting
Company and helped initiate foreign broadcasts. In 1940,
he spent some months at the Ministry of Information as
director of foreign publicity and in late 1941 became eon-
troller of BBC's European services. He was the man who
directed the political warfare department's "V" campaign
and controlled all broadcasts to enemy and enemy-
occupied nations.

In the summer of 1941 he was whisked north to identify
and interview the Nazi deputy fuehrer, Rudolf Hess, whose
dramatic flight to Scotland was front page news through-
out the western world.

Mr. Kirkpatrick in April 1944 returned to the Foreign
Office to help organize the British element of the pro-
posed Allied Control Commission for Germany. As deputy
commissioner (civil), he prepared plans and recruited the
civilian team, but when the headquarters moved to Ger-
many in mid-1945 he withdrew. He later became head of
the publicity services of the Foreign Office and at the
end of 1947, having reached the rank of assistant under
secretary of state, was named chief of both the German
and West European Departments of the Foreign Office.

The next two years pitched him headlong into the
most significant events of postwar German history. He
took part in the diplomatic exchanges which preceded
the Berlin blockade and Allied airlift, and in 1949 con-
ferred in Berlin with General Robertson on the proposed
constitution for a German state. In May he was in Paris
preparing for the meeting of the Foreign Ministers.

Mr. Kirkpatrick received the K.C.M.G. (Knights’ Grand
Cross of St. Michael and St. George) from the King in
the New Year's honors of 1948.

His predecessor, General Robertson, succeeded Marshal *
of the Royal Air Force Sir Sholto Douglas as the third
military governor of the British Zone and commander-in-
chief of the British forces in Germany in November 1947.
His title was changed to High Commissioner in 1949.

Bolds Named OLCB Commissioner

Clarence M. Bolds has been appointed US state com-
missioner for Bavaria pending the arrival of his successor
approximately June 1. He had served as acting commis-
sioner for the past six months.

Dr. George N. Shuster, now president of Hunter College
in New York, will succeed Mr. Bolds, who will remain in
Munich a short time after June 1 to assist the new state com-
missioner in getting acquainted with the duties of his office.

Mr. Bolds, who was appointed acting state commis-
sioner for Bavaria on the resignation of Murray D. Van
Wagoner last October, was a member of the original MG
team which entered Bavaria at the end of the war.

Arriving in Munich in May 1945, Mr. Bolds was named
director of the OMGB Manpower Division, a post he held
for two years. In July 1947, he received an appointment
as deputy state director.

MAY 1950

--- Page 50 ---
Clarence M. Bolds.

(PRB OLCB photo)

3orn in 1903, Mr. Bolds is an industrial engineer. In
1942 he served with the War Production Board as a
labor relations adviser and later the same year went to
Detroit as director of the Office of Labor Production,
Detroit Region.

Commissioned a captain in the Army, Mr. Bolds at-
tended Military Government schools at Fort Custer, Mich.,
and at Boston University. He came overseas in January
1944, and in England was assigned to the SHAEF Special
Staff for Germany until he joined the Bavarian MG
Detachment.

Dr. Shuster is author of more than a dozen books,
including “The Germans,” "Strong Man Rules," “Like A
Mighty Army,” and “The Catholic Spirit in Modern
English Literature. He was on the staff of the magazine
Commonweal as associate and managing editor, for 12
years, A graduate of Notre Dame and Columbia Universi-
ties he has been at Hunter College since 1939.

New OLCH Personnel Chief

The job of chief of administration and personnel for
OLC Hesse was assigned in mid-April to Melvin G. Aasen,
former UNRRA and IRO official.

Mr. Aasen, whose home is in Iola, Wis., was graduated
from Central Wisconsin College and Luther College in
lowa, and holds degrees in economics and business
administration. In addition to his work with UNRRA and
IRO as deputy area director, he served with the Lutheran
World Federation in resettlement for Germany and
Austria.

His new job makes Mr. Aasen responsible for personnel,
perating facilities, communications and security for the
State commissioner's headquarters.

MAY 1959

47

New Industry Chief Named

A new chief of the Industry Division, Office of the ECA
Special Mission to Western Germany, and of the HICOG
Industry Division, Office of Economic Affairs, took over
his job in early April. He is Luther H. Hodges of Leaks-
ville, N. C.

H.A.Taylor, deputy chief of the division, has been
serving as acting chief of the division since September
1949. Mr. Taylor now resumes his duties as deputy.

Until recently Mr. Hodges was vice president of
Marshall Field and Company of Chicago, and general
manager of Fieldcrest Mills, covering all of Marshall
Field's manufacturing and merchandising activities.

Mr. Hodges served as a special consultant on textiles
for the Office of the United States Military Government
in Germany and came here in the fall of 1948 regarding
textile matters for the Joint Export-Import Agency. Dur-
ing the war he was for a time chief of the Textile Sec-
tion of the Office of Price Administration.

Before taking up his duties Mr. Hodges spent some time
visiting industries in the three western zones and the
western sectors of Berlin.

Experts to Advise on Reforestation

Two American experts have arrived in Germany to
begin a survey of forest areas in Western Germany, under
a Marshall Plan Technical Assistance Project.

The experts are A. A. Hasel, of the Forestry Service of
the US Department of Agriculture, and E. F, Burks, of the
California Forest Range and Experiment Station. During
their 90-day stay the two foresters will visit forest areas
in the three Western zones of Germany, giving particular
attention to those areas depleted by high cuttings and
which have not been retimbered.

Trade and Program Chief Appointed

Leon J. Steck has been named as chief, Trade and Pro-
gram Branch, Division of Economic Affairs, Berlin Element,

Mr. Steck is a veteran of US Military Government
service in Germany since the earliest days of the occupa-
tion. Prior to his present appointment he was chief, Food
and Agriculture Branch, Berlin Element, which post he
held since 1945 and during the critical days of the blockade.

Coal Group's US Chairman Leaves

W. J. German resigned April 5 as US chairman of the
Combined Coal Group, a position he had held for 18
months. He and Mrs, German departed the Essen head-
quarters of the Group immediately to return to the United
States.

Appointment of Dr. R. G. Wayland as acting US chair-
man and Essen ECA representative was announced
simultaneously by Robert M. Hanes, director of the
HICOG Office of Economic Affairs.

Dr. Wayland is the US deputy chairman of the Com-
bined Coal Control Group and since January 1948 has
served as adviser to the permanent US delegation,
Economic Commission for Europe, Geneva. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
This resume of HICOG’s activities during March is prepared from
AFN’s program, “Report to the People,” broadcast on Friday,
April 7. These monthly programs are written and produced by
AEN in cooperation with the Public Relations Division, HICOG.

HICOG in Mareh

HE MONTH OF MARCH both came in and went out

like a lion rather than a lamb, speaking politically.
Many new issues loomed on the world horizon, and
many old ones continued to make headlines.

On the basis of carefully defined principles of free
elections, US High Commissioner John J, McCloy, early
in March, pointed the way for the German Republic to
establish a unity formula with eastern Germany. US
policy, reiterated by Mr. McCloy on a visit to Berlin,
is that democratic all-German elections are a major
objective of our policy, and as the month progressed, it
appeared that the Federal Republic of Germany is taking
the initiative in promoting the plan, although little hope
was enterlained for its implementation on a Germany-
wide basis.

Mr. McCloy’'s statements in Berlin were a reply to the
eastern Communists who were attempting to exploit for
their own purposes the demand for German unity in the
Soviet Zone elections scheduled for Oct. 15. The only
“freedom” which the Russians will permit, said the High
Commissioner, will be the freedom to vote for a single
list of candidates selected in advance by the Kremlin.

Mr. McCloy had this to say at his press conference
about the proposed elections:

“Unity and freedom can be attained only if there be
full and equal opportunity for all parties throughout
Germany to propose candidates, advance programs, and
compete for the electorate’s favor. All candidates must
be assured complete freedom of action without dis-
crimination or official favoritism, together with access
to all essential media of communication and material
facilities. Every voter must be assured the protection of
the law in the free expression of his opinion at the polls.
The press must have unhindered access to all areas in
order to report the election campaign accurately.”

HE US HIGH COMMISSIONER als@ had some very
direct remarks to make about the May 28th demon-
stration being planned by Communist youth. West Ber-
liners received assurance that plans are well under way
lo meet any threat of the demonstrators to take over the
western sectors of the city, backing up statements made
earlier in the month by the three western commandants
of Berlin. All stood solidly behind the city’s mayor, Prof.
Ernst Reuter, who told a cheering city government that
no march of any kind would be tolerated in the western
sectors.
The end of the month found the organizers of the
Whitsunday demonstration softening their claims for city

INFORMATION BULLETIN

wide participation, and piously devoting themselves to
plans for gathering in the eastern sector only. Their
marshalling of the youth of eastern Germany was branded
by the western commandants as a transparent attempt
to exploit German youth for Communist ends.

West Berliners, although still suffering from an ag-
gravated political situation, could look with satisfaction
on the stability of the Deutsche mark circulating in their
sectors, as compared with the tobogganing price of the
Soviet Zone currency unit. Each Western mark was
bringing between seven to eight east marks, showing a
marked lack of confidence on the part of Soviet Zone
Germans in their local monetary system. Much of the
soundness of the Deutsche mark was due to the solid
support, both morally and financially, which western
Germans were continuing to receive from the Federal
Republic and the Allied powers.

Coincidentally, the federal government at Bonn gave
evidence of its good faith in the support of Berlin with
an announcement of plans to move six important com-
ponent agencies to the former German capital. This, it
was believed, would establish another, more tangible
link with western Germany, and at the same time boost
the Berliners’ morale. Meanwhile, western Germans and
Berliners alike kept a wary eye on the traffic flowing
through the highway checkpoint at Helmstedt, a fair
barometer of impending blockade. A graph of the month's
vehicles checked through shows great irregularity, not
due to weather factors.

Foreign trade for Germany began edging toward
a more favorable margin during February, as_ the
tabulation released in March indicated. Total exports for

Admiral Forrest P. Sherman, Chief of US Naval Operations,
visited US High Commissioner McCloy while on a tour
of European naval installations. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD, HICOG)

--- Page 52 ---
the month amounted to $112,000,000, imports to $168,000,000,
leaving a so-called dollar gap, or deficit, of $56,000,000.
Figures for the month of January had given an unfavor-
able trade balance of $126,000,000 and for December
$161,000,000.

An over-all picture of exports for the year 1949 showed
that the German state had delivered exports to western
hemisphere countries to the tune of $85,600,000, an in-
crease over the previous year of some $46,200,000, or
more than double.

The middle of the month brought another surprise
development, as new assignments of radio frequencies
became necessary for the broadcasting services now be-
ing rendered and considered necessary in the US oc-
cupied areas. The Copenhagen Plan, to which the United
States was not a signatory, had assigned European fre-
quencies without making adequate provision for the
continuation of US services in Europe.

The new wave lengths assigned by the Office of the
US High Commissioner forestalled a situation which
would have found most, if not all occupation listeners in
the US Zone unable to tune in an English-speaking
station. By the end of the month US radio authorities in
Germany declared they were satisfied with the shift and
expressed relief that a general confusion, feared in some
quarters, had not materialized.

The German radio industry, also faced with many
obstacles as a result of the Copenhagen arrangement,
were preparing to overcome some of those hindrances
by developing a network of frequency modulation sta-
tions to provide more precise tuning.

| erect BURDENED with a load of approximately
10,000,000 refugees and expelled Germans, the area
of the German Republic received another population
burden in March. The government of Poland began
shipping German refugees from Polish occupied territory
east of the Oder-Neisse in excess of numbers that the
Western Powers had agreed to accept. The figure of

eee t
Six members of a nine-man German panel here interview
@ candidate for youth activities leadership training in the

United States,
ing the trips
to submit its

A total of 45 Bavarian young people seek-
were interviewed by the panel, which was
recommendations to HICOG for final OK.

(PRB OLCB photos}

MAY 1950

49

25,000 refugees had been established last November for
the shipment of certain categories from Polish territory
and German lands administered by Poland. These cate-
gories included Germans who had relatives in the western
zones willing and able to support them.

The first transports arriving at the British Zone border
caused considerable official activity when it was dis-
covered that they did not have proper documentation.
The refugees, most of them women and children, were
stranded and without visible means of support, and they
appealed for admission into the federal area. The Allied
High Commission, however, stood firm, declaring that
it had reason to believe that it was the plan of the
Polish Government to expel the remainder of the Germans
beyond the Oder-Neisse line, The Commission ordered
the German government not to accept more than the
25,000 agreed, and then only with the proper papers
proving they had kin in the western areas.

At the same time another influx of refugees was giv-
ing the authorities fresh headaches. This one was through
the southern borders, as 20,000 Sudeten Germans from
Czechoslovakia, accepted by agreement, came to join
their relatives already established in western Germany.
It was suspected that there might be a repetition of the
British Zone border situation, but the first trainload arriv-
ing on March 17 found all on board carrying the proper
documentation.

The second group, going directly to Furth-im-Wald
railroad station, were checked and controlled, and also
found to be properly covered by the necessary papers.
Under terms of the agreement a trainload will arrive
each Friday until the quota of 20,000 is fulfilled.

BOOK MADE headlines during the month of March

when the United States returned to Germany one of
her great historical and cultural treasures. This was the
renowned Mainz Psalter of 1457, This famed book of
psalms, with an estimated value of $250,000, is a fine
example of the earliest movable type printing. The book,
believed to have been looted from the Dresden State
Library and illegally shipped to the United States through
trade channels, was returned to Germany. Trusteeship
of the valuable book rests temporarily with HICOG
pending return to German ownership.

The month's heavy schedule of the Allied High Com-
mission included one item considered by those dealing
with it as one of the knottiest on the agenda. This was
the shaping of the final draft of an Allied High Com-
mission law for reorganization of the much disputed coal,
iron and steel industries. The new law, which will re-
place existing US and UK Military Laws No. 75, is de-
signed to deconcentrate the potentially dangerous Ruhr
steel and coal trusts.

The Council of the Allied High Commission took note
of its first six months of existence. Since the first session
on Sept. 12, 1949, it also has met with Federal Chancel-
lor Adenauer 14 times, and in addition held a number of
informal or unannounced gatherings on some point of
mainly unilateral interest. + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
Economic Review

for March 1950

This section is being inaugurated in the Infor-
mation Bulletin to provide a record of the high-
lights in the German economy for the month
under review and a comparison of the month-to-
month developments. This review of the Fed-
eral Republic's economic activities is prepared

By M. W. A. EDWARDS

Chief. Reports Office.
ECA Special Mission to Germany.

ELDOM HAVE ALL elements of Germany's postwar

economy been headed in the right direction at the
same time. But, like a game of Sunday golf, the economy
has its hopeful ups as well as its discouraging downs.

Toting up Germany's score at the end of March, a
nineteenth hole economist would have found plenty of
bogeys, but he would also have found that right down
the line the score was better than the preceding months.

February's exports were up from January, and imports
were down, resulting in the smallest monthly deficit in
commodity trade — $56,000,000 since January 1949.

Industrial production in February stood at 98 percent
of the 1936 level. A year earlier the index was 85, and
a month earlier, 95. November's 99 was still the postwar
record, but after a two-month dip production was again
headed upward.

Early in April western Germany's farmers were already
talking about another good grain harvest. With 64,390
acres more sown to winter breadgrains than last year,
domestic consumption of flour declining, and lower prices
for wheat imports under the recently joined International
Wheat Agreement (see below), the Federal Republic was
paring away at the most vulnerable part of its trade de-
ficit: the huge breadgrain bill which cost more than
340,000,000 scarce dollars in 1948/49.

Even the most obvious bogey in the Federal Republic’s
economy — unemployment — was slightly improved at
the end of March. After a staggering rise of more than
730,000 since the end of November, jobless figures tapered
off just enough in mid-February to show that the winter
peak was past; and by the end of March had receded by
166,424. At 1,851,879, unemployment was still a crushing
load for the economy, but the load was getting lighter.

One-story shops of type pictured are springing up

virtually in all sections of Munich, the Bavarian capital,
just as similar new construction is rising in other major
cities of war-damaged Germany. Background of ruins
is typical.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Production ;

Steel ingot production for March reached a record mil-
lion metric tons —a rate more than sufficient to surpass
the 11,100,000-ton yearly limitation. Hardcoal mining, too,
established a production record in March at 9,975,000 tons,
and set a new daily output record of 368,669 tons, on
March 13.

Industrial Production Index for the Federal Republic
(1936 = 100; adjusted for number of working days)

1949 1950
Feb. Dec. Jan. Feb. p
TOTAL ALL INDUSTRIES
(incl. electricity & gas) a . 3 85 96 95 98
(excl. electricity & gas) rh ~ 81 92 91 94
Investment goods (tote) Sil 79 88 84 88
Rawmaterials . ..... - 67 73 23 “4
Finished products . . . A 86 7 92 7
General production goods
(incl. electricity & gas). . . . . . 104 = 112 115 117
(excl. pear & aan) mie 95 100 103 107
Consumer goods .......- 74 92 92 95,
a= Excl. food processing, stimulants and building.
p = preliminary.
Production Volumes (Federal Republic)
1949 1950
Unit Dec. Jan. Feb. p
Hard Coal (gross mined) . 1000M.T. 9,125 9,327 8,682
Non-ferrous ores (gross maned) M.T.-eff, 155,554 166,648 157,790
Cement . . MT. 595,647 508,749 455,374
Bricks, total 1000 286,108 212,117 165,848
Pig iron . M.T. 624,568 692,475 664,483
Steel ingots M.T. 800,659 894,838 887,076
Rolled steel finished Products MT. 565,676 604,840 573,133
Farm tractors, total . . pieces 2,332 2,640 2,817
Typewriters if pieces 13,177 13,777 13,734
Passenger cars, total pieces 12,615 13,493 13,743
Cameras pieces N.A. 84,800 87,492
Sulphuric acid (incl. oleum) M.T.SOs 83,230 -86,537_-—80,081
Calcium carbide . 4 M.T. 49,597 46,023 41,885
Soap, total . M.T. 5,213 6,262 7,035
Newsprint . i M.T 13,551 13,738 13,334
Auto and truck tires . pieces 204,222 195,441 198,423
Shoes, total 1000 pr 6,884 5,226 4,889

Foreign Trade

The reduction of Germany's monthly trade deficit in
February drew forth a chorus of cautious sighs of relief
among foreign trade observers who had been apprehen-
sive of the long-range effects on the German payments
balance of liberalized trade policies. Inaugurated among
ERP participating countries in September, liberalization
measures included various trade agreements between
Germany and other participating countries, as well as
the wide-scale freeing of quantitative restrictions on im-
ports through action in the OEEC.

Germany could not profit at once from the liberalization
measures, because the bulk of its exports consists of
semi-finished and finished products which are manufac-
tured to order and consequently require several months
to produce. On the other hand, imports of a variety of
readily available goods, particularly of certain scarce

MAY 1950

--- Page 54 ---
foods, began at once to pour in to meet the abnormal
demand.

The immediate result of the trade liberalization was
what the London Economist termed a “foreign spending
spree” in western Germany with a barely perceptible
step-up in foreign selling. February's foreign trade figures
indicate that the abnormal demand in Germany for im-
ported products has in some measure been satisfied — that
the “spree” has at least been interrupted. At the same
time expanded export orders have begun to show up in
the trade flow.

Foreign Trade, Excluding Invisibles, of the
Federal Republic and Western Berlin
Million Dollars

Exports Imports Monthly
Balance
1949
February, 84.3 165.7 — 81.4
December : 115.0 275.7 —160.7
Monthly Average 93.6 186.4 — 92.8
1950
January 104.4 230.0 —125.6
February 112.4 167.6 — 55.2

Wheat Agreement

The Federal Republic’s acceptance in the International
Wheat Council is expected to save as much as 15 percent
on wheat imported under the International Wheat Agree-
ment. The price to be paid on the 1950 quota is not yet
firm, but it will certainly be well below last year's $105
per ton. A Deutsche mark drain on the Federal Republic's
strained budget will also be stemmed by the lower import
prices; a portion of the subsidy now paid importers of
breadgrain to maintain low domestic prices will no longer
be necessary.

Counterpart Funds

DM 80,000,000 in GARIOA counterpart funds has been
earmarked for a public works program to relieve the
acute unemployment in western Berlin, the ECA Special
Mission to Germany announced at the end of March.
Beginning in April the funds are to be released in four
monthly allotments of DM 20,000,000, with the continu-
ation of the releases beyond the DM 80,000,000 total to
be discussed at the end of June.

A further DM 150,000,000 in ECA counterpart funds was
freed on March 28 to apply on the DM 1,036,000,000 long-
term investment program approved in December, bring-
ing total releases toward fulfillment of the program to
DM _ 750,000,000. During 1950, Berlin will receive DM
250,000,000 in ECA counterpart funds. This amount does
not include the monthly public works program releases.

The Consumer

Despite a slow start, Christmas shoppers bought enough
retail goods in December 1949, to push the retail turnover
index 25 points above 1948's December level. The turn-
over in January 1950 dropped off as anticipated, but not
so low as in January the year before. Clothing sales
boomed more than other items during the Christmas
Shopping season, but furniture held the highest index
level in January of all consumer groups.

MAY 1950

51

Index of Retail Turnover (Bizonal Area)

(Excluding Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein;
Ist Quarter, 1949 = 100)

1949 1950

Jan. Dec. Jan.
TOTAL i/ ... woe 93.8 180.4 100.0
Food and stimulants . . . . - 92.6 147.5, 92.0
Clothing and household textiles . 87.5 239.9 110.0
Furniture oo woe ee 101.5 189.6 117.0
Vehicles, small machines, and appliances 94,2 120.4 100.0

1/ Includes items listed, plus: ironware, glassware, and porcelain;
paper products; cosmetics and toilet articles; etc.

Consumer prices in the Bizonal Area (US and UK Zones)
declined two index points in January and remained
generally steady in February. The first genuine postwar
sales, held widely following Christmas, helped drop ap-
parel prices by the end of February five index points
to 194 percent of the 1936 level, and household goods
three points to 168.

Index of Consumer Prices (Bizonal Area)

(1936 = 100)

1949 1950

Dec. Jan. Feb.
TOTAL 1/ . 156 154 154
Food... - 163 160 160
Apparel... : 199 197 194
Household goods...) . ) . . . AA 170 168
Stimulants . cao 287 287 286
Cleaning Fo 18t 150 149
1/ Includes items listed, plus the following components which re-

mained constant: rent, 102; heat and light, 119; education, 142; and
transportation, 134.

Ex-Capital’s Economic Plight
West Berliners’ Principal Worry

In spite of the critical economic and political situation,
eight out of 10 West Berliners think the future looks
hopeful, and their morale is high. These facts were dis-
closed in a public opinion survey on the city’s economic
and political situation, recently completed by the In-
formation Services Division, Office of Public Affairs.

Moreover, most West Berliners interviewed were doubt-
ful that a new blockade would be imposed, a belief that
was only slightly shaken by the stoppage of trucks be-
tween Berlin and the West late in January. Few believed
that the threat of the Russians taking over the city had
been increased by events of recent months.

The latest report of ISD's Reactions Analysis Branch is
based on a number of surveys among the Berlin popula-
tion during and after the lifting of the blockade, but
chiefly on one sampling of 300 residents late in De-
cember 1949, and another 100 cases on Jan. 27, 1950,
when the possibility of a new blockade threatened. The
poll was conducted by trained German interviewers
working under supervision of an American survey officer.

Almost all West Berliners said their main cares and
worries were economic. Two-thirds declared that their
family incomes did not cover necessary expenses, with
three in 10 stating they could not buy all the rations on
their cards.

Although most persons in the US Zone also said their
main problem is financial, not as many refer to specific
worries about their jobs or business as do Berlin residents.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
Occupation Log

Germans to Show Wares in Chicago

ERMANY IS MAKING plans in a big way for exhibit-

ing at the First International Trade Fair in Chicago this
August. West Germany and the western sectors of Berlin
will be the second largest foreign exhibitor, with a space
allotment of 19,000 square feet.

Space allotments to individual German exhibitors are
made on the basis of applications to the “German Com-
mittee for the Marshall Plan Fair in the United States”
located in Frankfurt. By the end of March, 150 firms had
been allocated space, among them 10 from Berlin.

‘West Germany's ECA chief, Robert M. Hanes, has wel-
comed the fair as one means of stepping up German
exports to the dollar area. Said he: “We have to exploit
every possible opportunity to sell German goods abroad.
It is very heartening to see the tremendous amount of
enthusiasm and drive the German fair officials are putting
into this effort. I am certain their work will pay dividends.”

Czech Refugees Transferred to Hesse

All Czechoslovakian refugees at Camp Valka near
Nuremberg who are eligible for the legal and political
protection of the International Refugee Organization are
to be transferred to refugee camps in Hesse.

Guy J. Swope, chief of the Displaced Populations Divi-
sion, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG, said the move
was intended to relieve pressure in Bavaria and to forestall
further trouble in the refugee camp at Valka. The move
was also intended to separate those who were racial,
religious and political refugees from those who were not
eligible for IRO protection.

Approximately 1,800 Czech refugees were in Camp
Valka, of whom approximately 600 were eligible for IRO
legal and political protection.

In future, IRO screening teams will interview all Czech
refugees who arrive at Camp Valka and those eligible for
IRO protection will be transferred to Hesse. Those Czech
refugees who are not eligible for IRO protection will
receive the same treatment and have the same status as
German refugees and German authorities will be respons-
ible for them. However, no expulsion of non-German
refugees will be carried out by German authorities. Any
expulsion deemed necessary will be carried out by the
Allied High Commission.

Unemployment Drops 69,600

Unemployment in the German Federal Republic has
shown declines in two consequentive semi-monthly report
periods for the first time since December 1948, according
to mid-March statistics issued by the Office of Labor
Affairs, HICOG. The figures were furnished by the Federal
Ministry of Labor in Bonn.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

A gift package from Mrs. E. David, of 2154 Hays St,
San Francisco, Calif., gladdens the family of her sister,
Frau Emmy Storz, of 5 Neckar Strasse, Frankfurt. The
40,000,000th voluntarily-donated US gift parcel sent Ger-
many since the opening of this service in mid-1946, the
package was presented by State Secretary Hans Stein-
metz of the Deutsche Post at the Storz home. Left to
tight above are Frau Luise Becker, Frau Storz's mother;
E. H. Merrill, chief, Communications Branch, Frankfurt;
Gerhard Becker; Herr Steinmetz, Frau Storz and her husband.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

The over-all decrease in unemployment for the two
periods beginning Feb. 15 and ending March 15, was 69,613,
of which 36,413 was in the latter part of February and
33,200 in the first half of March. The entire decrease
occured in male unemployment while female unemploy-
ment during the two periods remained stationary.

All states in western Germany participated in the reduc-
tion except the port cities of Hamburg and Bremen, The
largest decline was in Bavaria, which accounted for 60
percent of the over-all change.

The decline was due principally to seasonal factors, the
mild weather favoring increased activity in building and
related trades and in agriculture.

Berlin Tackling Unemployment

To lighten Berlin's oppressive unemployment burden,
a DM 20,000,000-a-month public works program received
backing in March from HICOG, ECA, German Federal
Republic and City of Berlin officials.

Representatives of these four organizations agreed on
a four months’ trial of the public works program, and
decided upon a review after three months to determine
whether or not monetary aid should be continued.

The conferees also decided to release DM 250,000,000
from ECA counterpart funds for long-term investment in
Berlin during the current year. This sum represents 10 per-
cent of such funds for all Germany.

Specific projects within the public works program are
now being mapped by the ECA Advisory Committee for
Berlin and city officials.

The US Commander in Berlin, Maj.Gen. Maxwell D.
Taylor, endorsed the proposal as follows: “The only

MAY 1950

--- Page 56 ---
suggestion | have heard to accomplish quick results in the
employment field is that of a public works program...
Such a program, I believe, could be counted upon to
reduce unemployment by scores of thousands in a com-
paratively short time.”

General Taylor also called for action in two further
fields relatively untouched by ECA—protection and
encouragement for shippers in and out of Berlin and the
planning of Berlin economy in relation to markets. “Ber-
lin economy (should) complement that of Western Ger-
many.”

He said “moderate progress’ has been achieved in
restoring Berlin's economy, but warned that “patience and
determination are needed to overcome the serious eco-
nomic and political obstacles which oppose... revival..."

Illegal Border Crossings Decline

Illegal border crossings on the US Zone border totaled
9,483 during January, the lowest monthly number ever
reported, according to a statistical report for the month
released by the Public Safety Branch of the Office of
Political Affairs, HICOG,

The average number of illegal border crossings during
1949 was 16,933 a month and the highest number occurred
in March 1948, when 45,714 illegal crossings were record-
ed. In January 1949, however, illegal border crossings
slumped to 10,663, indicating that the winter weather had
some effect on the number of illegal crossings.

Crimes committed against German law remained approx-
imately the same in the US Zone as compared with the
previous month. A total of 45, 419 cases were reported in
January as compared with 45,835 in December 1949.

Ulm Opens Home for Homeless Youth

The first of 20 homes for homeless youth is presently
being established in Ulm, 40 miles from Stuttgart, in
Wuerttemberg-Baden, to help lick the problems of youth
in that area,

Concerning unemployed youth of compulsory vocational
school age, various ministries and agencies have submitted
Suggestions to the State Ministry. The suggestions, based
on recommendations of the OLCWB Committee on Youth
Problems, strongly emphasize the difficulties which would
arise from a proposed cutback of the school year.

The cutback, which would move school starting time
from September to Easter, would reduce the eight-year
elementary school attendance to seven and one-half years.

The officials favor prolonging instead of reducing the
school year.

Balloons Penetrate Iron Curtain

Balloons are being used this season to help tell the story
of ERP behind the iron curtain.

The idea originated with the Europa Union in connection
with their planning for the first Marshall Plan fair in Hof.
A balloon, about 16 feet in diameter and with the letters
“ERP” emblazoned on its side, was floated 160 feet over
Hof in conjunction with the April event.

MAY 1950

The airborne ERP ambassador of good will was designed
to acquaint persons living in the East with the economic
recovery efforts of western European nations. Hof is
located but a short distance from Czechoslovakia and the
Soviet Zone of Germany.

Networks Building FM Transmitters

Three state networks of frequency modulation broadcast
transmitters are now under construction by the German
Public Service Radio Organization, aimed at complete
coverage of the US Zone within three years.

The radio corporations of Bavaria, Wuerttemberg-Baden
and Hesse are building FM transmitters to solve the
problem of Europe's crowded airways for US Zone resi-
dents. Manufacturers are throwing their weight behind a

-large-scale campaign to stimulate public interest in fre-

quency modulation. The industry is now tooling up for
mass production of FM sets and an August radio show has
been scheduled in Duesseldorf to demonstrate latest models,

FM was little known in Germany prior to the occupation
and used only for military purposes. Under Military Gov-
ernment initiative, the US Zone stations began experi-
ments with FM two years ago. Today regular FM trans-
missions are being broadcast by the Bavarian Radio with
four transmitters, Hessian Radio with three and Southwest
German Radio with one. During the coming year, the
Munich station expects to have 14 transmitters in action;
Frankfurt six, and Stuttgart 10. Even this amount comprises
but two-thirds of the planned construction. A full network
is expected to be in operation within the following two years.

Bavaria Doing Part in Recovery

What Bavaria has done to boost over-all European
recovery is to be shown in a series of eight Marshall Plan
exhibits, first of which opened April 1 in Hof.

Planned by the Europa Union, comprising German mem-
bers of the European union movement, the exhibit featured

Donald S. Spigler (right), who has been finance chief, OLC
Hesse, is bid farewell by Dr. James R. Newman, US state
commissioner for Hesse, as he leaves Wiesbaden for a new
post in Washington, D.C. Spigler and Stanley H. Gaines
(left), OLCH legal counselor, were among first Americans

to enter Wiesbaden in March 1945. (PRB OLCH photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
Mile. Galdroux, of Neuville-en-Condorz, Belgium, places
flowers on grave of an American soldier at Neuville
American Military Cemetery. She is one of many Belgian
citizens who tend ‘adopted’ graves of Americans killed

while liberating Belgium in World War II. (US Army photo)

samples of more than 100 firms in the Hof area. Textile,
leather, porcelain and stone industries planned exhibits,
and machines bought with ECA funds were at work on the
floor of the pavilion. Cultural groups in Hof took charge
of a film program, lectures on the ERP and European union.
Graphic exhibits demonstrated the principles of the
Marshall Plan, with emphasis on its aims in Germany.

From Hof, located in northeastern Bavaria near Czecho-
slovakia and the Soviet Zone, the exhibit was to move to
Passau, near the German-Austrian border.

The exhibit series is similar to the ERP shows arranged
by the Europa Union in 1949, which were visited by more
than 350,000 persons.

Haus Schwalbach to Be Expanded

Haus Schwalbach,* outstanding German community
education center operated by the Community Education
Section of OLC Hesse, has proved so popular and effec-
tive that its facilities are to be expanded, it was announced
by Dr. Howard Oxley, OLCH community education chief.

Operating under the direct supervision of Tom A.
Noonan, OLCH cultural affairs adviser, the education
center served 500 Hessians during February. Since its
inception last May, more than 4,000 community leaders
and citizens have received training there. Its present
capacity is booked for the remainder of the year, and there
are several organizations on the list waiting for open dates.

In order to make its facilities felt over a wider area,
specially trained teams are being organized. According to

* see “‘Haus Schwalbach’ in Information Bulletin, issue No. 169 of
Sept. 6, 1949.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

54

Dr. Oxley, these teams will then go into rural areas,
bringing an extention of Haus Schwalbach to the remotest
regions of Hesse.

Dachau Bones at least 50 Years Old

Bones found in the Etzenhausen area near Dachau, Ba-
varia, last summer are “at least 50 years old" and possibly
“as old as 500 years," according to findings of technical
experts in the United States and Bavaria.

The report of the investigation conducted by a special
German-American committee appointed last September
by Murray D. Van Wagoner, then director of the Office
of Military Government for Bavaria, was announced
March 9 following a meeting of the committee in Munich.

The investigation was touched off when the bones were
inadvertently uncovered by a steamshovel which was
excavating for sand for commercial use. At the time,
charges were made that the bones were of concentration
camp victims.

The special committee, headed by William R. Gosser,
chief of the Displaced Populations Branch, OLC Bavaria,
had forwarded to the University of Munich and the Armed
Forces Institute of Pathology in Washington, D. C., speci-
mens of bones, soil and other pertinent material in an
effort to determine the age of the bones.

An exhaustive study made by the Armed Forces Insti-
tute of Pathology indicated that the bones were at least
50 years old and possibly as old as 500 years. These
findings are in conformance with those of the University
of Munich.

Fewer Undernourished PWs Returning

German returnees to Hesse from Russian prisoner-of-war
camps are showing progressively fewer symptoms of mal-
nutrition, according to turn-of-the-year reports.

Of 2,400 former PWs arriving at the Hessian Reception
Center in January, only 3.6 percent were underweight.
In December, 68 percent of the returness were in such poor
condition as to be unable to work.

Many of the later returnees, it was explained, held
administrative posts in the Soviet camps and received
preference in housing, food and clothing. Malnutrition
decreased proportionately as the prisoners accepted Com-
munist indoctrination.

Civic Consciousness Drive Launched

A county-wide program to interest the school youth in
local community affairs has been started in Untertaunus
county of Hesse, it was disclosed by William H. Hoffman,
resident officer in the county.

To familiarize the pupils with the work of their elected
community representatives, each school in the county is
selecting pupils from its higher classes to attend a public
meeting of the community council and to observe the
deputies in action. Later each pupil will evaluate his
impressions in an essay, which will be judged by a com-
mittee of school officials.

MAY 1950

--- Page 58 ---
After completion of the contest in each school of the
county, the best essays of the entire county will be judged
for awards, according to Mr. Hoffman.

Gunsmith Fined on Arms Charge

A German gunsmith was fined DM 650 ($154.70) and
given a suspended six-month prison sentence after he was
found guilty in Frankfurt District Court March 29 on a
charge of illegal possession of weapons.

Walter Kelber of Frankfurt was convicted of violating
Control Council Law No. 2, governing possession of fire-
arms by Germans. According to evidence presented at the
trial, the defendant procured eight rifles, all of which he
sold to Americans.

Kelber's defense was that the rifles had been ordered
by the purchasers and that he had merely served as the
“middleman,” buying them in the French Zone and selling
them in Frankfurt.

Music Lending Library Established

To acquaint Germans with the quantity of fine music
composed in America during recent years, a lending li-
brary containing 500 works of outstanding American com-
posers has been organized in Frankfurt.

The library makes available the scores of American
symphonies, chorals, operas, chamber music pieces and
soloes in sufficient quantity for full orchestras, choirs and
small ensembles, as well as for study in music schools.

John Evarts, chief of the Theater and Music Section,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, said, in making the an-
nouncement:

“A large section of the German public has the mistaken
idea that American music consists exclusively of jazz and
hillbilly songs. The library will give them the opportunity
to hear the best of the large amount of serious music which
has been composed in the United States."

The library contains such works as Roy Harris’ “Sym-
phony for Voices,’ Aaron Copland’'s “Billy the Kid” ballet
suite, Gian Carlo Menotti's “Old Maid and the Thief”
comic opera, George Gershwin's “Concerto in F" and
Walter Piston's “Symphony No. 2" as well as the out-
standing works of such other eminent American composers
as Samuel Barber, Leonard Bernstein, D. L. Diamond,
Wallingford Riegger, Roger Sessions and Virgil Thomson.

Formerly part of the inter-Allied Music Library in Ber-
lin,* the library was recently reorganized in Frankfurt.
In addition to the scores, it also contains books on music
and record albums of outstanding American works.

Any musical group in Germany, including the East Zone,
may borrow scores from the library, either through per-
sonal contact or by letter request. No charge is made for
use of solo and chamber music. A rental charge is made
for the public rendition of symphonies, operas and other
works for full orchestra.

The music is made available by a special arrangement
between the Office of the US High Commission for Ger-

* see “‘Inter-Allied Music Library”
105 of Aug tie Muted Music Library” in Information Bulletin, issue No.

MAY 1950

55

Reepoane 4

A TT Ltn gir y

US Assistant Secretary of Defense Paul H. Griffith visited
the Heidelberg headquarters of the European Command
during April. He is shown here (right) with Gen. Thomas
T. Handy, EUCOM commander-in-chiei, and Capt, Gordon

E. McQuain, reviewing honor guard. (US Army photo)
many and the American publishers and composers. The
works may be borrowed by addressing requests to the
American Music Library, Zeil 112, Frankfurt, or by calling
Frankfurt 21484.

German Film ‘Titanic’ Withdrawn

The German film “Titanic” originally produced at the
request of the Nazi propaganda ministry in 1943 was with-
drawn from circulation and showing in the US Zone of
Germany after March 31, This action was taken in the
US Zone in implementation of a tripartite decision,

The distributor of the revised version of the Titanic”
which was being exhibited recently, had eliminated some
of the most vicious anti-British sequences in the original.
However, after careful consideration at tripartite level,
it was considered that further showings of the revised
version ‘should not be permitted.

Services for Passion Play Visitors

Visitors to the Passion Play at Oberammergau this
summer will have the opportunity to attend religious
services to be conducted in the English language at the
Evangelical-Lutheran Church in that Bavarian community.

Edward J. Joyce, religious affairs adviser of OLC
Bavaria, announced that the parish vicar, Walter Rupp-
recht, has said Anglican services will be held daily at
7 a. m. In addition, Evangelical divine services will be
conducted on the evenings of days when the play is
presented. The evening services will be at 8 p.m. Church
and communion services will also be arranged upon
request for special tourist groups.

Mr. Joyce was notified that the Evangelical-Lutheran
State Church Administrator in Munich will appoint a
pastor fluent in the English language to conduct the serv-
ices. He will also be at the disposal of foreign visitors,
to provide such spiritual services as personal interviews.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
The English-language services are
being offered especially for the con-
venience of Passion Play visitors
from English-speaking countries.

Education Reform Discussed

“Can you afford not to give the
rest of children in Germany the same
high-priced education you are pres-
ently giving in the high schools to
10 percent of the German students?"
This counter-question by one of the
panel of American education officials
was asked at a press conference in
Bremen recently in response to a
German correspondent’'s question as
to whether or not the general stand-
ard of education under school reform,
down-leveled by the implementation
of school reform,

Commenting further on the stand-
ard of education under school reform,
another member of the panel told
the press that there is no reason
to fear that the standard of scientific
training will be lowered through the introduction of
school reform, “There is no reason why the secondary
schools cannot have just as good scientific schooling as
they had before," the official stated,

Referring to a meeting of the western German ministers
for cultural affairs at which the decision was made that
education is a matter of the various states only and not of
the federal government, a German correspondent expres-
sed his fear that thereby a split-up of the educational
system in western Germany might occur, to the detriment
of the individual child.

Dr. James M. Read, chief of the Education and Cultural
Relations Division, HICOG, answered: “There are always

tes

All in the interests of science, two officers of the Royal

Netherlands Army visit USAREUR Medical Training
School in Stuttgart to study operation of school, and carry
back tips to own army. They hear uses of anatomical
model from Capt. G. M. Crosno, ANC, school official.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Spring comes to US Zone—and M/Sgt.
W. W. Fiene is on hand to take advantage
of first day of Bavarian fishing season in
trout stream near Munich.

56

disadvantages to decentralization as
there are advantages. There are great
advantages to decentralization espe-
cially in education, in getting educa-
tion closer to the community. We
have the same difficulties in the
United States, but there is not a great
deal of difficulty in transferring one
student from one part of the country
to the other if you don't have ab-
solutely different types of education.”

Dr. Vaugh N. R. Delong, visiting
consultant from the US State Depart-
ment and member of the Conference
Panel, added, ‘Doesn't the demo-
cratic way of life presuppose that
we are going to have intelligent
cooperation on all levels between
the people that are concerned with
the various problems? Certainly,
one can expect in any developmental
process a certain amount of growing
pains. And where one state or one
part of a community gets ahead of
the other, then the other community must come up to
meet that. Thus you have a continuing developmental
process. But it would seem much better if a development
takes place through this intelligent cooperation than if
someone on high presumes that he has all intelligence
and issues orders to keep everybody together.

“This would seem to be basic to the whole problem of
development towards a democracy. If the states have an
opportunity to do this we all would presume that they
are intelligent enough to keep their schools fairly well
together and to enjoy reasonable uniformity.”

(USAFE photo)

New History Text Book Streamlined

Hessian school children recently received a new history
text book that is a complete departure from German
traditionalism. Forty thousand copies were distributed
initially by the Hessian Ministry of Education.

The book, “Men in Changing Times,” tells, in narrative
form, the history of Germany from the days when she was
peopled by nomadic tribes until the period of the 30-Years
War. Each chapter is a separate story, written in short
story form. Designed for fifth school-year pupils, it was
authored by Ida Maria Bauer of the Hessian School
Advisory Council and Otto Heinrich Mueller, a school
teacher of Frankfurt.

Dr. Leroy Vogel, education chief of OLC Hesse, paid
tribute to the authors and the History Committee of the
School Advisory Board. Pointing out that the research
for the text, chapter headings and planning were all a
cooperative effort of the History Committee, Dr. Vogel
stated that the committee is preparing a second volume,
bringing the history of Germany up to the Atlantic
Charter.

MAY 1950

--- Page 60 ---
Freddie Coggles, Belgian consul in Frankfurt, congratulates
Brig. Gen. Arthur Trudeau, departing C. G. of the 1st
Constabulary Brigade, after presenting him with Order of
Leopold II. (US Army photo)

Jugenheim Center Handed Over

One more contribution to the job of educating Ger-
many's children was added March 12 in Hesse, when the
keys of the Jugenheim Education Service Center were
turned over to Bruno Karlsson, 25-year-old director of
the center.

Situation near the Jugenheim Pedagogical Institute,
the new center houses a conference room, complete
library of educational literature and several exhibition
rooms, Open to all, the facilities of the center are par-
ticularly designed for the 300 student teachers now at-
tending the teachers’ training institute.

Dr, James M. Reid, director of Education and Cultural
Relations HICOG, assured the opening day
audience that Hessian teachers were being trained on a
level with institutes of higher learning. But he warned
German educators that such centers, established with
American aid, were only a beginning in the struggle for
an adequate and liberal education system.

Division,

“CARE” Household Word in US Zone

“CARE” has become almost a household word in the
US Zone of Germany and most Germans are aware that
the CARE packages containing food and textiles are sent
from America, a HICOG public opinion survey has
disclosed,

Although only one person out of 11 claims to have
received one of the 2,732,000 CARE packages sent to the
US Zone of Germany since the war's end, and only one
out of seven knows someone who has received one, 80
percent of the US Zone Germans have heard of the CARE
packages and most of them know the parcels come from
the United States, :

These findings resulted from polling 1,500 representative
persons in the US Zone, 250 in West Berlin and 160 in
Bremen by the Reactions Analysis Branch of the Infor-
mation Services Division, HICOG, during January at the
request of the CARE organization. (See “What Do You
Think?” in April issue of Information Bulletin.)

MAY 1950

oF

The survey also showed that six in 10 US Zone residents
who have heard of CARE packages realize they are sent
by private individuals to their friends and relatives, but
more than two in 10 erroneously believe the packages
are sent by the organization itself.

On the whole, the population has a good impression of
the CARE program, and only a few (seven percent) have
any complaints. The main criticism was directed at
alleged injustice in the distribution of packages, but the
poll showed that the critics were more likely than others
to believe that the packages were donated by the organi-
zation itself.

Teenagers Jailed for False Report

A German girl, who falsely stated to authorities that
she had been shot by a man in US military uniform as
he drove by her in an American automobile, and three
German youths connected with the actual shooting, were
sentenced March 20 by a US court of the Allied High
Commission for Germany in Mannheim to confinement
in the juvenile wing of Wiesloch prison for the following
six to eight weekends. The four also were placed on
juvenile probation for periods ranging from eight to 11
months.

The four teenagers were found guilty of unauthorized
possession of firearms; of giving false and misleading
information on a matter of official concern to the Oc-
cupation Authorities; and of making false statements to
representatives of the US Armed Forces.

After hearing the case, Paul E. Madden, presiding
judge of the Sth Judicial District, consulted with German
juvenile authorities and considered their recommenda-
tions before pronouncing sentence. The judge also in-
timated that he was prepared to exercise leniency in
view of the offenders’ youth and good family back-
ground, although the false information they gave re-
sulted in bad publicity for the Occupation Forces, and
had complicated investigation of the case unnecessarily.

Motorcycle patrols of the 759th Military Police Battalion,
Berlin, began a drive to enforce traffic rules after Col.
H. A. Davenport, BMP provost marshal, decided speeding,

and accidents, were coming with spring. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
German Editorials

This section is compiled from a summary prepared by the Press & Publications
Branch, Information Services Division, HICOG, of editorials in the German press.

The publishing of these German edi-
torials is intended to inform the Ameri-
can readers of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, without interpre-
tation. The inclusion of any statement
from the German press does not give
concurrence to the view or opinion,

Russia and The West

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg, March 20) interprets
and elucidates the Acheson Russia policy and calls it a
logical extension of the Kennan policy of “containment:

“.,..The direct political significance of the two Ache-
son speeches lies in the fact that they deny Russia the
security guarantee which it seeks...

“This means the failure of the Russian attempt to
consolidate its gains beyond the Russian borders through
recognition by its greatest opponent...

“Nevertheless, the American government is obviously
prepared to give guarantees against intervention in the
Soviet Union itself... It clearly states that it is indifferent
to what system a people chooses for itself; that it will not
insist on bringing freedom to nations which do not
want it...

“America does not harbor any illusions that Moscow
will agree to any such solution at the present time, That
will come at the moment when the powers in the Kremlin
recognize that their rule of other nations instead of help-
ing them is actually harmful to their cause...

“America knows very well that a long, hard road lies
ahead... Meanwhile, both sides rely on the same method.
The Russians count on the self-dissolution of the West
and the Americans wait for the idea of freedom to seep
into Soviet-dominated areas... This does not mean that
either party will sit idly by, but that it will continue to do
everything possible to further the development which
it desires...

“The Americans are convinced that they have the
longer and stronger lever in their hands. The Kremlin is
not so sure of itself any longer, hence its security
complex... The United States has not given up the

satellite states in either East Europe or East Asia and will
continue to propagate its conception of freedom in those
areas...

“The fundamental US attitude was clearly shown in
American insistence on free Indonesia over the violent
objections of Holland...

“The Americans are by no means so naive as to believe
that they can rely solely on what they can offer in the
way of material prosperity... It has become a dangerous
habit here in West Germany to artlessly repeat Com-
munist propaganda in this respect...

“Unfortunately, the great American effort for us is
overshadowed by clouds of unfriendliness due to Allied
policies in Germany which ‘shatter the belief in demo-
cracies,' as expressed by the SPD. It is high time that
one should cease abroad to interpret such genuine doubts
as threats, as nationalism or as proof of our incor-
rigibility ...

“The world continues to be divided into two camps
and the line of division runs directly through Germany.
Thus we are called upon to march along on the long, hard
road to freedom without ourselves possessing freedom
and unity...

“Germany is called upon to carry its share of the
burden as if it were a normal country, whereas it is not
a normal country, due to the Potsdam Agreement which
deprived us of our eastern provinces and squeezed
15,000,000 refugees into a rump Germany... It should be
recognized that these conditions are an international
responsibility...

“Only thus can a free democratic state be built which
will attract the Germans in the Soviet Zone and function
as a model for oppressed peoples..."

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Echo der Woche, Munich, Mar. 17)

Expulsions from Poland.
Humans in No-Man’‘s Land.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

{Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen,
Mar. 16)

World Vaudeville.

World Peace: “Please be
careful!”

58

(Neue Ruhr-Zeitung, Essen, Mar. 18)

East Zone “Free German Youth"
practising for its Whitsun conquest
of Berlin.

MAY 1950

--- Page 62 ---
Criticism of Allies

Europa Kurier (Aachen, British Zone, March 10) devotes
practically its entire front page to criticism of the Allies
on such matters as the Saar, the “brotherhood” of former
German generals and British ruthlessness in using German
national memorials as maneuver areas:

Saar:

“Tt seems that Dr. Adenauer has finally lost his political
patience with France. Never has a German postwar public
man spoken so plainly as the Chancellor recently did
on the Saar. Among other things he stated that the acti-
vating motive for France's procedure was nothing more
than the hunger for gold. Of course, most Germans have
known this all along.

“Unfortunately it applies to the policy of the victor
states in general. No one can convince us that the tearing
down of our factories, the strangling of our shipping trade,
the theft of our patents and the annexation of large parts
of the territory of our Fatherland take place for humani-
tarian reasons or are a piece of political wisdom.

“The only thing remarkable about Adenauer’s Saar
remarks is that a responsible German politician has finally
dared to speak out... The fact is that what was signed
in Paris was not an agreement but simply an example of
old-fashioned intrigue and political blackmail...

“Tf the French people knew how deeply the majority
of Germans desire understanding with France and a
European Union... they would not permit their govern-
ment to destroy the psychological prerequisites for a few
coal mines.

“The autonomy for the Saar in the year 2000 of which
Herr Schuman and Herr Hoffman speak is utopian, be-
cause in 50 years the Saar will be controlled by either a
European government or by the Moscow Politburo.

“If the Quai d'Orsay continues as at present the latter
probability is the more likely,

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Mar. 24)

German General Elections.
The outlook is quite dim.

MAY 1950

59

{Echo der Woche, Munich, Mar. 24)

P =
After a temporary lapse (845-1950 A. D.)
Charlemagne reunites his empire.

“Europe can exist without a Saar republic but it can
never exist without Germany...”

The “Brotherhood”:

“...The ‘revelations’ recently published have all the
earmarks of American fishing in muddy waters.

“There can be no doubt that the Allied Secret Service
knows all about the ‘Brotherhood’... As a matter of fact
the ‘Brotherhood’ has already uncompromisingly declared
that it opposes any form of remilitarization for Germany
except in the European framework ...

“This attitude interferes with American attempts to
use German military figures as advisers, organizers or
observers (Fall maneuvers, 1949)... The ‘Brotherhood’ in
fact is opposed to the ‘crystallization of German national-
ist elements’ and is endeavoring to split the national
Chauvinists collected around Strasser, Dorls, Hedler,
etc..."

British in Germany:

“England is a democratic country ... Recently, when the
British War Ministry proposed to use a bird sanctuary in
South England for target practice, the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals raised such a hullabaloo
that the plan was given up... This is a good example of
traditional democracy...

“But seemingly it applies only in England...

“There is, for instance, the case of Heligoland, which
has been plastered with bombs for years...

“Right now there is a plan afoot to extend the Sen-
nelager maneuver grounds... Sennelager borders on the
Teutoburger Wald... On the heights of the Teutoburger
Wald there is the Hermanns Denkmal, one of the few
German memorials that symbolize freedom (including
democratic freedom)...

“At present the Land (state) government is negotiating
with the High Commission...

“We find it curious that a German Land government
deigns to negotiate on such a matter. The British SPCA
did not negotiate, it simply protested, and it won out
although only a few birds were involved rather than the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
(Europa Kurier, Aachen, Mar. 10)

ARDEITSLOS.

wa * ade.

ose

Bonn: ‘Stop that growling!"
Unemployed and Refugees: “It's only
our stomachs growling!”

destruction of a beautiful forest and historical memorial
and a number of human settlements..."

Franco-German Union

Echo der Woche (Munich, March 24) speaks enthu-
siastically for the union proposed by Adenauer:

“One might have expected that the representatives of
the political Center in France would immediately realize
the possibilities inherent in this proposal... But only
General de Gaulle rose to the occasion. ... His reserva-
tion, that he feared that resentment was perhaps too
deeply-rooted in both nations, does not apply to the
German people, especially not to German youth.

“De Gaulle talks of the Empire of Charlemagne and
its magnificent accomplishments... But we should look
forward rather than backward. Both countries and na-
tions could marvellously supplement each other in both
a spiritual and economic sense. French agriculture would
have an outlet for its products, as would the industrial
goods of Germany and the latter's overcrowded provinces
would have a natural solution at hand...

“... What will England say? It can hardly be expected
that the Labor Government will be enthusiastic... On
the contrary, it may be surmised that the replacement
of Robertson by Kirkpatrick is a move in just the opposite
direction, i.e, a move by England toward rapprochement

{Abendpost, Frankfurt, Mar. 25)

Konrad the Bold.
“Let's get married, Marianne!"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Hochlandbote, Garmisch-Parten-
kirchen, Mar. 25)

Ss

COAT a

Dollar and Ruble Territory.
The world on crutches.

(Fraenkische Presse, Bayreuth, Mar. 7)

The Saar Convention.
The ax cut too deep.

(Die Rheinpfalz, Neustadt an der Hardt, Mar. 7)

Free Elections versus “National Front.”
“I like Uncle Sam's balloon best!"

with Germany in order to neutralize any tendency to
a close tie between Germany and France.

“However, the reaction in the United States wil!
probably be very friendly, because that country is very
much interested in Franco-German reconciliation...

“What seems utopian today might become reality
tomorrow, Perhaps Fritz and Marianne will fall in love
despite the hostility of their parents.”

Saar Bitter Pill

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg, March 13) opposes
Germany's entrance into the European Council until
another solution has been found for the Saar question:

“Whoever says ‘yes’ to Europe must say ‘no’ to the
Paris Saar Convention even at the risk of being stamped
a nationalist. The European concept cannot be founded
on a lie and we Germans would not be sincere if we were
to accept the bitter Saar pill for the sake of a better
European future...

“It is not a question of whether we will find approval
or blame abroad for our actions or even whether the
present Federal Government can survive our refusal to
join the European Council. It must be made clear to the
French that they, no more than the Germans, cannot af-
ford a policy which will lead to the end of Europe. The
way to Europe cannot be found over such acts as the Saar
Conventions,”

(Fraenkische Presse, Bayreuth, Mar. 30)

Strasbourg.
The unfinished seat.

MAY 1950

--- Page 64 ---
(Die Zeit, Hamburg, Mar. 16)

Free Elections

Die Zeit (Hamburg, March 9) strongly urges
the Bonn government to set about activating
Mr. McCloy’s proposals:

“|, These proposals have been received by
the Bonn government and the Bonn parties
with curious coolness... We keep on com-
plaining that we have become a helpless object of world
politics, Now for the first time we are offered a chance
to take decisive action by ourselves... It is unthinkable
that we should miss such an opportunity.

“For months there have been rumors that the United
States and Russia are feeling each other out behind the
scenes... Is this the time to play the German Michel,
with hands in pockets, indolently waiting for things to
happen to us?... Bonn should immediately work out a
detailed plan for free general elections...

“If, as is most probable, the so-called German Demo-
cratic Republic rejects the plan, it will serve to tear the
masks from the faces of these servile agents of the
Kominform... We should then call a plebiscite on the
question of German unity in West Germany. There is no
doubt what the result would be...

“Thus we would put a potent weapon into the hands of
the three Western Powers’ foreign ministers at the next
negotiations with the Soviet Union."

Expulsions from Poland

Echo der Woche (Munich, March 10) calls on the
Western Allies for “restitution” as regards the German
refugees from Poland:

“The Allied High Commission shakes off the question
of responsibility by stating that the Polish authorities
are directly responsible for this terrible situation. But the
Allies have the indirect responsibility. In the face of
history and before the conscience of the world, they are
co-responsible and equally guilty for the barbaric ex-
pulsion of millions of people from their homes...

“The German government has solemnly accepted the
responsibility of restitution for the victims of Nazi crimes.
We Germans regard this as a debt of honor... but the
powers that signed the decisions of Yalta cannot wash
their hands of guilt. They too must make restitution...

(Weser Kurier, Bremen, Mar. 30)

bem wns MTOR

pees eT Sea

“A desire to negotiate
is clearly audible.”

(Mannheimer Morgen, Mannheim, Mar. 30)

“Not only are the poor refugees from Poland
caught in a no-man's land, but the entire Ger-
man people finds itself in a similar situation
in a legal, political, economic and moral sense.

“It is in a no-man's land between reconstruc-
tion and dismantling, between Constitution
and Occupation Statute, between unity and
division, between West and East, between right and
injustice.

“How long will the conscience of the world tolerate
this?"

Adenauer as Dictator?

Frankfurter Hefte (March 1950) believes that Adenauer
is deliberately aiming for a dictatorship:

“He is gradually eliminating all potential rivals...

“Schlange-Schoeningen is being sent to Washington as
Consul General... Heinrich von Brentano, another
outstanding leader in Adenauer'’s own CDU, is slated to
become Consul General in Paris... Pitfalls are being
prepared for Karl Arnold of North Rhine/Westphalia...
A small but officient police army is being trained, which
will be devoted to the Chancellor and ‘West German
democracy’...

“The Chancellor is a great tactician, although a great
deal of the success of his cunning methods is attributable
to the mistakes, weakness and apathy of his opponents.
He will not win over our desperately harassed people,
who are beginning to lose all hope, but he will get enough
followers who see no other way out. Thus he will remain
in power...

“Heaven only knows whither he will lead the young
West German Republic under his Christian, authoritarian
regime!"

“Stalin Was Smarter”

Sonntagsblatt (Hamburg, March 12) under the heading
“Stalin Was Smarter’ compares the French attitude with
the Kremlin's toward China, but nevertheless argues for
German cooperation for European unity:

“When Moscow made its pact with Mao Tse-tung the
world was surprised and disappointed that it turned out
to be so favorable for China... Stalin has learned that

(Fraenkische Presse, Bayreuth, Mar. 26)

Britain's Latest Hit:
“Come Be A Soldier!”

MAY 1950

Defense of West Europe.
Everyone in his place!

61

A Neutral Belt
— — at our expense!

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
the strong man must be magnanimous in order to increase
his strength.

“The West seems to have learned nothing from several
centuries of European history. It still believes in the
principle of kicking a man when he is down, despite the
fact that it has been shown that a conquered people
always rises again.

“The Saar question in general is being handled accord-
ing to this old recipe. We Germans cannot very well
reproach the West for this because we have long fol-
lowed the same principle, but that does not make it any
the wiser...

“If the Germans decide not to go to Strasbourg it will
not be because they are opposed to European unity but
because Strasbourg does not represent genuine European
unity and simply serves to stabilize national egoism.

“Owing to the war and the bitter deprivations which
we have suffered, we Germans have become Europeans...
Fate has decréed that we become revolutionary fighters
for genuine European unity.

“That is the lesson of the Saar Convention, rather than
a relapse into the old nationalism.”

Von Falkenhausen Case

Der Stern (Hamburg, March 26) violently attacks
Allied treatment of General von Falkenhausen, former
Commander-in-Chief in Belgium:

“History will record how a knight without fear and
above reproach rotted in jail because his generation had
forgotten how to judge between good and evil... General
Alexander von Falkenhausen was once a resistance fighter
against Hitler...

“For six years he has been dragged through 51 prisons
and camps in six nations... This is a man who was one
of the first to raise a warning voice against Hitler; whose
brother was murdered by the SA in 1934 and who was
forced by Ribbentrop to return (from China) to Germany
in 1938 under threat of retaliation against his relatives...

“It has been proved that as Commander-in-Chief in
Belgium he did everything he could to relieve the suf-
fering of the Belgian people and was in consequence sent
by Hitler to a concentration camp... At the age of 72

(Frankenpost, Hof, Mar. 9)

Press Conference in Bonn.

“What will the government do about press
revelations that a Bundestag delegate got
DM 21,000 in expenses in four months?”

“It will forbid such revelations!"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

62

(Osterhofener Zeitung, Osterhof, Mar. 23)

“Of course, this can be done
on a larger scale, gentlemen!"

this man is treated by the Belgians as a criminal... He
has been in custody for five years and has never been
brought to trial..."

Conflict in Washington

Sonntagsblatt (Hamburg, April 2) sees in the offensive
against Acheson and Jessup primarily a conflict between
party politicians and technical political experts:

“The leading men of American foreign policy are under
heavy fire from the Republicans... Acheson is blamed
for the retreat in China und at the same time for his
restraint in dealing with Russia. Such charges are ob-
viously contradictory, but logic and reason are not a
feature of political struggle overseas any more than they
are here.

“Furthermore, grass-roots politicians cannot forgive the
Secretary of State his aristocratic manner...

“These attacks seriously endanger the continuity of
American foreign policy... In part their roots lie deeper
than current politics. They are to some extent sympto-
matic of growing uneasiness over Roosevelt's erstwhile
Russian policy.

“The memory of Roosevelt is suffering a post-war
eclipse as did Wilson's. This well of anti-Roosevelt senti-
ment carries over to the men who grew great in the
Roosevelt era, even though, since 1946, they have changed
course radically...

“Essentially the struggle going on in America is the
old fight between party politicians, with their narrow
partisanship and ideologies and political experts who
analyze relationships and strengths with scientific preci-
sion and draw cold-blooded conclusions...

“Such men as Prof. Jessup are always an abomination
to senators like McCarthy..." -+END

MAY 1950

--- Page 66 ---
(Continued from page 24)

Youth Under Communism

“The leadership will be realized in such a way that
the party members who belong to these organizations
will apply, as doubtless influential men, every means of
persuasion, so that the non-party organizations will align
their activities as closely as possible with the party of
the proletariat and will voluntarily recognize its political
leadership."

Te INTERWEAVING of party and mass organization
functionaries has been applied in the case of the FDJ.
Young members of the SED are active members of the
FDJ, while it is estimated that 80 percent of the FDJ
leaders are either members or trusted functionaries of the
SED. By occupying dual functions in the SED and parallel
FDJ youth committees, SED youth leaders insure that no
action can be taken in the youth organization which
does not further the Communist Party interest.

In addition, the double role played by SED and FDJ
functionaries works as a two-way affair. While the SED
is exercising its influence over the FDJ by way of its
members within the youth organization, FDJ officers are
making their presence felt in the SED and are able to
initiate among the party leaders such additional measures
as they consider will enhance the position of their youth
organization.

The relationship of the FDJ to the local, county and
state government youth offices has become likewise one-
sided in this direction as the government administrations
carry out instructions from the central SED-controlled
government to assist the FDJ with money and materials,
requests for which often originate with the FDJ itself.

It is, therefore, sometimes difficult to distinguish in
specific cases along the line which agency is leading
which. Since, however, all control within the Soviet Zone
is fixed in the final analysis in the hands of the central
Communist authorities, cooperation among the party,

government and youth organization simply tends to build
up Communist strength.

I‘ THE CASE of the FDJ, government support is co-
ordinated neatly with SED control over the FDJ
through Walter Ulbricht in his capacities as deputy
minister-president in charge of youth questions, deputy
chairman of the SED and SED Politburo member.

Within the FDJ itself, the organization is such as to
prevent any other than Communist influence from making
llself felt. Although the FDJ constitution specifically
declares that the FDJ is a “democratic” organization,
assuring the eligibility of all members to hold office, in
actual practice that is not the case.

From the smallest unit, which in turn elects the next
higher unit and so on up to the FDJ parliament, the
Candidates for office are approved in advance by the
appropriate SED youth committees and are voted into
olfice by the combination of lobbying, aggressiveness and
nimble election maneuvering on the part of the SED-
oriented FDJ elements, and, in small part, by the natural
reticence of the less zealously-minded members.

MAY 1950

63

No chance is taken that any unit, beginning with the
local group, goes careering off on its own tangent. When
elections take place within the FDJ, the meetings pre-
paratory to the elections and the elections themselves
are attended by a functionary or “election instructor”
from the next higher unit.

There is virtually no opportunity for any rebellious
element to raise an effective opposition within the rank
and file of the organization, since Article 28 of the FDJ
constitution provides that in cases of repeated and gross
violation of the constitution and discipline of the FDJ or
“in cases of splitting and diversionist activity," members
are to be expelled from the organization.

FTER BUILDING UP this monolithic youth organization

under safe control, the government authorities have
proceeded to encourage it to penetrate to a marked degree
into the political, economic and cultural life of the Soviet
Zone.

Allegedly a non-party organization, the FDJ is extremely
political in character, having for its purpose, as laid down
in its constitution, the struggle for “German unity, just
peace, against war-mongering and imperialism and... for
the victory of the progressive cause of the people.”

Although there is much on the surface of the FDJ con-
stitution to recommend itself to a sincerely democratic
youth, actually the FDJ is committed to the goals of the
Communist Party through the medium of its political
stratagem, the National Front. Thus, it is the boast of the
FDJ that, spurred by its efforts, 73 percent of the Soviet
Zone younger generation voted for the ‘National Front"
platform in the May 1949 people's congress elections, and
that more than 2,000,000 young Germans signed the letter
of congratulations to Stalin on his 70th birthday.

The FDJ has also become a training school for political
leaders and functionaries of the SED. Like the SED, the
FDJ provides its leaders with a thorough system of
Marxist-Leninist indoctrination by means of schools at
every organizational level, ranging from weekend courses
for the leaders of the smallest units to eight-week courses
at the top level. In this way a large reserve of ideological-
ly faithful functionaries is being built up for the party
as well as for other mass organizations and all govern-
ment administrative branches,

N ITS CAPACITY as a “mass organization" the FDJ has

taken its due place in the Soviet Zone political life.
Its faction within the “provisional People’s Chamber of
the Soviet Zone government consists of 10 members. It is
represented on the recently-formed National Council of
the Communist-inspired ‘National Front" by three mem-
bers. Moreover, the FDJ chairman is also chairman of the
Youth Committee attached to the People’s Chamber of the
Soviet Zone central government.

At the present time, the relations between the “people's
police," both regular and paramilitary, and the FDJ are
extraordinarily close and friendly. By an exchange of
political experts as well as by participation of the police
in all FDJ meetings, political activity in both organiza-
tions is coordinated. Upon orders of the Soviet Zone

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
Main Administration for “people's police,” and Main Ad-
ministration for training, FDJ units already organized
within the “people's police’ are being entrusted with
“responsible political and police tasks.”

Simultaneously, there has been increased activity within
the police system to set up FDJ units in every “people's
police’ command, including frontier and railroad police.

HE FDJ HAS ALSO played a significant role in the
field of labor ever since FDJ members of the works
councils were used by the SED as an opening wedge to
organize shop groups within all Soviet Zone industries
and thus eliminate the works councils which had become
the forums of too much opposition. °
After it had been decided by the Soviet Zone authori-
ties and the SED that no separate trade organization for
youth would be set up, a close cooperation was fostered
between the FDJ and the Communist-run monopoly
trade union, the FDGB. The FDJ was interwoven with
the FDGB, as it is with the SED, to the extent that the
FDJ exercises its influence over young workers while the
FDGB encourages its young members to support the FDJ.
On the other hand, the FDJ relies upon the FDGB to
supply it with funds and materials which are not otherwise
easily procurable. At present, the emphasis is upon
encouraging the FDJ members to occupy, to an even
greater extent, leadership roles within the FDGB.
Together with the FDGB and the SED, the FDJ took a
foremost hand in establishing groups of “‘activists’’ in the
Soviet Zone. The organization of “young activists," which
according to Soviet press figures now numbers 200,000,

is the special province of the FDJ and through it the FDJ ~

is able to exercise a control over all working youth. By
means of the production competitions which are an im-
portant aspect of the ‘activist’ movement, the youth
with their superior strength and whipped-up enthusiasm
are encouraged through the FDJ to set back-breaking
production norms in industry and agriculture.

T IS THE BOAST of the Soviet Zone minister of educa-

tion, Paul Wandel (SED), that within two years a suf-
ficient number of young people will have passed through
the Soviet Zone schools to insure that the “younger
generation will be brought up in the correct Marxist
atmosphere.”

One of the principal means by which the Communist
authorities hope to accomplish their aim is through the
FDJ. By an arrangement strange to pedagogic history,
the Soviet Zone education authorities have a working
agreement with the FDJ which calls for “cooperation”
between the Ministry of Education and the FDJ within the
higher schools, and which actually gives the FDJ a large
measure of authority in the planning and control of
education.

For example, the Saxony Ministry of Education con-
cluded with the FDJ state committee an agreement which
the German Soviet-controlled press considered “exem-
plary for the entire zone.” Outwardly documented by the
establishment of an “FDJ and Young Pioneers’ Depart-
ment" within the state administration for school problems,
the agreement gives the FDJ a hand in selecting “suitable

INFORMATION BULLETIN

64

teacher-trainees,” in revising textbooks and existing
school institutions, in selecting students for the higher
schools and in carrying out in future the entire cultural
events programs in the schools.

It is extremely difficult, and becoming increasingly
more so, for a student to continue higher education under
the Soviet Zone system without being a member of the
FDJ. Selection committees for admission to the universi-
lies are manned by FDJ, along with SED and FDGB,
functionaries. By means of undemocratic election prac-
tices, FDJ members for the most part now represent the
youth in the school committees and on the university
student councils.

S FOR THE TEACHING staffs within the schools,

their cooperation with the FDJ is being fostered,
willy-nilly. To begin with, according to the Soviet Zone
Ministry of Education figures, more than 80 percent of
the teachers within the Soviet Zone elementary and
secondary schools are “new teachers,’ that is, for the
most part of “proletarian” origin, who have had their
brief training under Communist aegis.

In some cases membership of the “new teachers” within
the FDJ (and/or the SED) is estimated at between 50 and
75 percent. The remaining teachers who have not passed
their 25th year are being pressured at the moment to
join the FDJ, as, for example, in Mecklenburg, where the
minister of education (SED) considers it a ‘political scan-
dal" that only 28 percent of the teachers in that state
belong to the FDJ. He has, therefore, issued an order that
all teachers up to 25 years of age who have not joined
the FDJ by the end of May, 1950, will be released from
their jobs.

The FDJ press — comprising Junge Welt for the
FDJ'ers and Der Junge Pionier for the younger members,
a monopoly press for the youth in the Soviet Zone — not
only gives the FDJ an effective opportunity of spreading
its ideals among the youth and of maintaining close
contact with each group, district and state unit, but
equally important, also presents the means of training
future journalists along the desired Communist lines.
With the latter purpose in mind the FDJ inaugurated a
“youth correspondents’ movement," including the honor-
ary title of “youth correspondent,” which revolves around
the Junge Welt and which has for its model a similar
movement in the Soviet Union.

Branching out in the field of culture, the FDJ founded
at the beginning of this year in Berlin a so-called ‘Na-
tional Culture Group,” the purpose of which is to promote,
with the emphasis at the moment on music and the dance,
a “broad national German culture” that will contribute to
cementing German friendship with the Soviet Union and
the “people's democracies."

This new activity of the FDJ has been provided with
all the necessary material requirements such as build-
ings, instruments, books and stipendiums for artistically
gifted applicants, as well as with the best possible teach-
ing staff made up of top-notch directors, composers and
theater specialists. Of course, the political possibilities
of such an activity are not to be neglected.

MAY 1950

--- Page 68 ---
ESIDES BEING AN attempt to align Germany more

closely with the East, the new society is considered
by the FDJ as of “decisive importance” in view of the
alleged attempts to inundate western Germany in ever-
increasing measure with the products of American “sham-
culture.”

It is perhaps worth pointing out that the FDJ is agitat-
ing to attract university music students into the culture
group, notwithstanding the “egoistic’ unwillingness of
some university heads to release students needed for
the universities’ own musical activities. This is ap-
parently, at the very least, an attempt to insure that the
best young East German cultural talent does not escape
political indoctrination.

During the past year the entire sports program of the
Soviet Zone was turned over to the FDJ. Since all Soviet
Zone sports, from fishing to organized contests, have
been controlled by licensing since 1945, the FDJ thus
inherited an extremely fertile means of extending its
ascendancy over the Soviet Zone youth.

In specific and concrete terms, this means that the
FDJ has been able to draw more closely under its wing
the Soviet Zone Sports Movement, a seemingly semi-
independent organization of allegedly 800.000 members,
but actually borne by the FDJ and the FDGB, to either of
which organizations its members must belong.

The huge Soviet Zone recreational program with its
network of youth hostels and community centers, as well
as such attractions as free holiday trips, reduced fares
on the railroads, reduced theater tickets, free books and
pamphlets, flags and fanfare, is at one and the same time
a means of luring youth and spreading the ideology of
the Communist Party under the cynical slogan of develop-
ing an “educated, physically sound... and progressive

youth to insure a united, democratic and peace-loving
Germany."

EMans CLEARLY from the FDJ press is the aim to
align this “democratic Germany” with Soviet Russia
and “our leader Stalin." Therefore, the FDJ places great
weight on fostering a close relationship between German
youth and the Soviet Komsomols. This it attempts to
accomplish by making available to FDJ members quanti-
ties of Russian Communist literature, and by arranging
to have the Soviet Zone youth represented at the various
congresses of the Communist World Youth Organization,
of which the FDJ has been a member since 1948,

Besides being exploited as a training school for future
leaders in every field of Communist activity, the FDJ
Serves other secondary functions — for example, as an
“information service." There is probably no direct con-
nection between the FDJ and the secret police, but any
intelligence information which may be forthcoming from
FDJ members, who in general have the “duty to de-
nounce," is passed on unofficially via indirect channels
to the German secret police.

Reports indicate that the FDJ district groups in Saxony
have begun establishment of their own “security service”
which, receiving its direction from the Soviet Zone

MAY 1950

65

Ministry for State Security, has as its primary task the
scrutiny of the ‘people's owned" factories.

NCOURAGEMENT IS GIVEN youth, under the pre-

tense of fostering constructive criticism against “sabo-
tage and bureaucracy,” to report instances of deviations
from the Communist line in the factories, in the schools
and in the administrations. Such reports often take the
form of “letters to the editor of the Junge Welt or of
the Young Pioneer paper.

Forming organized groups, FDJ members help with the
harvesting, various public building projects, or any com-
munity enterprises that contribute to the fulfillment of
the Soviet Zone two-year plan, being ironically encour-
aged in the meanwhile by Communist leaders to assist
in the Soviet Zone reconstruction, as predicted by UI-
bricht Feb. 9 in the Taegliche Rundschau, so that they may
one day “harvest the fruits of their own labor."

Other miscellaneous duties of the FDJ include getting
the populace out to vote, as in the case of the 1949
“People’s Congress" elections, and being present in force
at Communist demonstrations as a means of whipping up
enthusiasm and evidencing popular support for party and
government measures.

The FDJ is thus rapidly becoming, from the Communist
point of view, the most successful of the “mass organiza-
tions” in the Soviet Zone. As in other “mass organiza-
tions," the Communist authorities depend upon the hard
core of “reliable functionaries to carry out their wishes
and to sweep along the broad masses with them.

However, among the rank and file of older FDJ mem-
bers, particularly those who had seen during the Nazi
time how youth movements operated under a totalitarian
power, one is likely to encounter skepticism regarding
FDJ aims.

PARTICULARLY UNSETTLING aspect of the FDJ

movement, however, is the ever mounting membership
of the Young Pioneers resulting from the intensified cam-
paign to recruit by all manner of means every Soviet
Zone child of six to 14 years of age into the “state youth
movement.

Under the slogan, “Everything for Our Children," there
was a noticeable acceleration since late in 1949 in the
Soviet Zone government's youth program. The most pro-
minent developments to date are, the promulgation on
Feb. 8 of a law for the “promotion of youth in school.
and profession, in sport and recreation," and the advance
announcement made on Feb. 22 that consideration was
being given by the Soviet Zone Office for Youth Ques-
tions to lowering the age of majority in the Soviet
Zone to 18.

The latter measure is not yet a fact, but it is almost
certain of becoming one in the near future, judging from
the “spontaneous” approval cited in the Soviet-controlled
German press — a phenomenon which usually precedes
confirmation of a measure the government wishes to en-
act. The law for the “Promotion of Youth” covers a
program that will cost the Soviet Zone budget more than
280,000,000 (East) marks in 1950. These funds will be
funneled out to youth through the FDJ. + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
(Continued from page 31)
American Policy in Germany

popularity contests in the Prohibited and Limited In-
dustries aspect of the occupation or in the dismantling
field.

Dismantling, obviously, was unpopular, due to economic
considerations, because to some extent I think, in all
fairness, it must be conceded that it may have led to
some increase in unemployment.

We had considerable opposition, initially — as you
ladies and gentlemen well know — to school reform, to
free tuition and free textbooks. We had opposition to the
removal of licensing to engage in business. We had and
continue to have considerable resistance to civil service
reform — and with your permission, I will revert to that
later. ss

There was even some question about freedom of the
press, radio and other news media. But.J think we have
now gained the support of the major portion of the Ger-
man people for even these facets of our program,

Now lest you feel that everything is going along a
primrose path in Germany, let me, or rather, I must, point
out some of the unsatisfactory aspects of Germany's con-
dition. This is her economic situation:

HERE ARE ALMOST 10,000,000 displaced persons,
expellees and refugees, with about an additional

20,000 per month coming in. That is an enormous popula-
tion to endeavor to absorb. The west German population
today is approximately 37,500,000 Germans, plus these

“Token shipment’ of books sent to Europe under CARE-
UNESCO book program, is presented to Frankfurt Uni-
versity by Dr. James Morgan Read (center), chief of
HICOG’s Education and Cultural Relations Division.
Dr. Boris Rajewsky (right), president of the university,
gratefully accepted gift. At left is Francis X. Mayers,
head of the CARE Mission in Germany. (PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

66

10,000,000 of DP’s, expellees and refugees, and there are
many problems, very substantial problems, that flow
from the presence of that extra population.

Second, there is the very grave situation — possibly,
grave is too strong a word — there is the very disquiet-
ing situation with regard to unemployment. In western
Germany there are slightly under 2,000,000 of unemployed,
plus approximately 300,000 unemployed in Berlin.

Berlin's unemployed represent a larger proportion of
the working population than do the unemployed in the
rest of the Federal Republic.

There is a strange phenomenon attached to this un-
employment situation. Employment, for a long while,
was rising and so was unemployment rising, Obviously,
it was due to the fact that there were more employables
coming from the area of the displaced persons, expellees
and refugees.

There is a severe housing shortage.

There is a lack of capital.

Even on the political front there are some disquieting
factors. First, we must be honest enough to admit that
there are signs of a renascence of nationalism, from both
liberal and conservative sides; but this must be distin-
guished from National Socialism and Nazism.

The Petersberg Protocol was very specific
subject:

The Federal Government affirms its resolve as a
freely elected democratic body to pursue unreservedly
the principles of freedom, tolerance and humanity
which unite the nations of western Europe and to
conduct its affairs according to those principles. The
Federal Government is firmly determined to eradicate
all traces of Nazism from German life and institu-
tions and to prevent the revival of totalitarianism in
this or any form. It will seek to liberalize the structure
of government and to exclude authoritarianism.

on that

NOTHER DISQUIETING factor is the German

tionary ideas about the civil service, government
officials and insult laws (the so-called Beamtenbeleidi-
gung), including the applicability of such laws against
newspapers. These are all disquieting factors.

German officialdom is firm in its belief in the author-
ity of the state over the people and in the professional
civil servant as the representative of the state; in the
superiority of the trained professional civil servant as
against the untrained legislator; and in the right of the
state to take action which it considers to be in the best
interests of the people, unhampered by reference to
public opinion.

This is not quite our American concept. There are,
unfortunately, all too many indications of determined
efforts to reestablish that traditional concept of the Ger-
man civil service system, with its emphasis on the lifetime
officials whose loyalty is to the state and to their own
vested interests, rather than to the people.

The historic contempt of the German civil service for
parliamentary democracy and public opinion, is, to state
it euphemistically, a highly disquieting phenomenon
which required careful thought and precept to overcome.

reac-

MAY 1950

--- Page 70 ---
“Government of the people, for the people and by the
people” are words which may well be commended to the
German people for their prayerful thought and devout
practice.

I have already alluded to the secret ballot and its
dangers. There is another disquieting factor. The very
procedure for changing the cabinet is disquieting. I do
not know whether you are familiar with it. This is one
of the few countries where you do not change govern-
ments merely by a vote of “no confidence" in the chancel-
lor and his cabinet and then they resign. Quite a different
machinery is provided in the Federal Republic. To change
governments, a new chancellor and new cabinet must be
voted in and then the old cabinet gets out. As you can
see, there is quite a difference between a mere vote of
“no confidence” resulting in the resignation of a govern-
ment and the corralling of enough votes in the Bundestag
(federal assembly or lower house) to elect a new cabinet.
Thus, the present German cabinet is fairly well entrenched.

OWEVER, THERE IS a silver lining to every cloud.

There are many hopeful developments in this young
democracy. The very composition of the Bundestag is
reassuring. Its total is 402 members, plus eight observers
from Berlin, There are 139 members of the CDU/CSU,
which is part of the government coalition; 131 in the
opposition, the SPD; 52 of the FDP, which is also part of
the coalition, as are the 17 of the German Party; 17 of the
Bavarian Party; only 15 of the Communist Party; 12 of
the Economic Reconstruction Association; 10 of the
Center Party; five of the German Rightist Party; one of
the South Schleswig Voters’ Association, and three
Independents.

The composition of ihe cabinet is reassuring. Many
had been arrested or ousted by Nazis. Only one out of
14 of the present cabinet was even charged with col-
laborating with Nazis and he was cleared. Unfortunately,
not quite such favorable or reassuring observations can
be justified by the record of several in responsible posi-
tions in the ministries, albeit they are below cabinet rank.

However, I submit that Nazism is not susceptible of as
precise test or definition as certain other terms. The
evaluation of a liberal versus a non-liberal, or a fellow-
traveler versus a non-fellow-traveler, or a Nazi versus a
Mitlaeufer (camp-follower) is not susceptible of even the
type of test which Eugene Field adduced for the testing
cf intoxication. As I recall, his test was:

He is not drunk who, from the iloor,
Can rise again and drink some more.
But he is drunk who prostrate lies
And cannot drink and cannot rise.

; I don't think we can use quite that type of test regard-
ing Nazism.

QO* THE GENERAL subject of Nazism and especially
anti-Semitism and the countless other barbarities of
the Nazis, a speech was made in Germany recently
which I commend to your attention. There is great hope,
T think, in this and similar utterances of some other

MAY 1950

67

leaders of Germany. This one was by President Heuss*
before the Society for Christian-Jewish Cooperation,
which I gather is very similar to our National Conference
for Better Understanding between Christians and Jews.
From it I quote the following incisive observations:

The fiendish injustice which was inflicted upon the
Jewish people must be discussed. In that sense I am,
you are, we are to blame, because we lived in Ger-
many, and are guilty for this devilish injustice. It
was that which four years ago moved the souls of
people, and especially the newspapers, and also the
occupying powers, when they spoke of a collective
guilt of the German people.

The term collective guilt and what stands behind
it is too simple a simplification, a distortion actually
like the manner in which the Nazis were accustomed
to regard the Jews, so that the fact of being a Jew
automatically represented a phenomenon of guilt.
But something like collective shame has grown out of
this time and remained. The worst which Hitler did
to us — and he did much — was that he forced us
into the shame of bearing, along with him and his
accomplices, the name Germans.

We must not forget things which people would like
to forget because that is so easy. We must not forget
the Nuremberg laws, the star of David, the burning
of the synagogues, the deportation of the Jews into
misfortune and death. Those are facts which we should
not forget, which we must not forget, because we
must not make it easy for ourselves.

The horror of these events, of which we speak
openly, is not that it was a matter of the aroused
fanaticism of the pogroms, about which we formerly
read in the newspapers when this and that was sup-
posed to have happened in Russia and Rumania. It
was the cold cruelty of the rational pedantry. This
was the particular German contribution to this event.

This terrible thing was that this development did
not happen at all emotionally but rather made use
of paragraphs (of the law) and was supposed to be an
“ideology” (Weltanschauung, to use his exact word).
What sort of ideology was that? That was the bio-
logical materialism which knows no moral categories
but wanted to represent them and was completely
ignorant that individual values exist between men.

HAT WAS A FORCEFUL, guileless speech. It suffered

in translation. I cite this because, so far as I am
aware, it is the most forthright, the most soul-searching
analysis and presentation of Germany's conduct under the
diabolic sway of Nazism by a fair-minded, forward-looking
German — and! reiterate, there are many such Germans
— who in all humility, but with equal stature, want a
new, remoralized Germany to rise, like Phoenix from the
ashes, and take its proper place in the family of nations,
How many of the Heuss stature and idealism there are
in Germany is difficult of accurate census or appraisal.
This, however, is patent. For the development and in-

* Prof. Theodor Heuss, President of the Federal Republic of Germany.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
crease of the legions of Heusses, requisite for such a
remoralized Germany, we must look to the young. It is
naive to expect or even hope that we, with our relatively
paltry numbers or in the limited period of our occupation,
whatever its term may be, can completely, or even ap-
preciably, eradicate from the mental system of the matured
German the poison that was injected into it every day,
every hour, every minute by the vast and diabolically
all-pervasive network of the Nazi machine — a machine
that functioned in every area of thought and opinion
creation, whether it was the press, the radio, the public
forum, the school, yes, in all too many unfortunate in-
stances, even the church and the home.

These German young can and must be influenced along
lines of proper thinking by what is taught to them within
their school time and without. While not meaning to be
chauvinistic, naturally, to our minds, proper thinking
and American thinking, certainly in what we are discus-
sing today, are synonymous. What we teach our depend-
ent children in our Dependent Schools should and will
permeate through to the German contemporaries of our
children. And that filtration will be in the most effective
manner; it will be didactic.

N THAT SENSE, your stewardship, as those responsible

for the curriculum and administration of our schools,
shoulders upon you a tremendous share of the responsi-
bility for the success or failure of our American policy
in Germany. Accompanying your awe at that great res-
ponsibility must be the thrill of gratification that is so
justly yours at this opportunity to share in the moral re-
birth and mental rearming of a nation.

As I have attempted to portray to you, it is our chil-
dren, by their every thought and act and utterance, who
are influencing their German playmates. And such play-
mates you should encourage them to have, The parents
should be encouraged to co-mingle and discuss their com-
mon problems, In fact, general intermingling and exchange
of thoughts between Americans and Germans is invalu-
able toward the implementation of our policy here.

It is our Dependent Schools, their methods, the content
of their teaching, the handling of the children both at
work and at play, the rapport between teachers and
pupils, the participation and interest of parents as re-
flected by the degree of activity and effectiveness of
parent-teacher associations, and otherwise — these count-
less other varied factors, which you know far better than
I, together constitute a sound, constructive and compre-
hensive educational structure. This structure and its every
component are the cynosure of all German eyes, young
and old, but especially those of the impressionable young.

It is these young whom we want most to impress be-
cause in them lies our hope for the future of Germany — a
Germany reawakened and reoriented politically along
democratic lines; morally but not physically rearmed; with
renewed incentive through progress toward economic
viability, achieved by domestic effort liberally helped by
American aid; striving toward and hoping, with well-
founded hope, for acceptance back into the fold of law-
abiding, peace-loving nations, thus becoming an important

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

political and economic buttress to the arch of world
peace, through, as Chancellor Adenauer termed it, ‘’serv-
ing a peaceful Europe."

HE CHILD OF TODAY is the man of tomorrow. These

goals I have attempted to portray cannot be arrived
at in any one day. At best we can but hope that the
morrow will witness their approximate attainment — at-
tainment which is predicated primarily on reorienting, on
rehabilitating the German mind and especially the minds
of the young. Yours is a God-given opportunity to play
a most soul-satisfying, major part in achieving that com-
mon purpose of right-thinking Germans and Americans
by properly training and educating our young American
preceptors of mental reorientation. We cannot over-
emphasize the importance in this entire reorientation
process of this example set by our young through their
training and their education, reflected as it inevitably is
in the sector of the American scene which they present
to their German contemporaries.

Even as I opened this discussion with a poetic reference
to the importance of the child in the thoughts of man, so
permit me similarly to close with Masefield's immortal
sentiment on the relationship of man to child:

He who gives a child a treat

Makes joy bells ring on Heaven's street;
But he who gives a child a home
Builds palaces in Kingdom Come.

You may not be building for these German children
physical homes, but you are, through our American chil-
dren and the example they set in thought and in deed,
building new habitations of the mind for the German
young, in whom lie our deepest trust and greatest hope
for the ultimate success of our American policy in Ger-
many. Thus may you be building for yourselves “palaces
in Kingdom Come." + END

1,000 Historical, Scientific Books
Given Three West Berlin Universities

A thousand historical and scientific volumes were given
in mid-March to three West Berlin universities by the
US Information Center in Berlin. The books, which cover
the fields of economics, history, literature, medicine,
political science, chemistry and other scientific studies,
were all published recently. Originally the property of
the US Army, they were made available to the Berlin
Information Centers which turned them over to the
libraries of the Free University, the Berlin Teachers Col-
lege, and the College for Political Science.

Belgrade-Frankfurt Air Link Approved °
Negotiations have been completed between the Yugo-
slav National Airline and the Civil Aviation Board of
the Allied High Commission for the establishment of civil
air service between Belgrade and Frankfurt. The agree-
ment provides for two round-trip flights per week, on
Mondays and Fridays. The fare from Belgrade to Frank-
furt will be $86, and the round trip fare $154.

MAY 1950

--- Page 72 ---
Information Bulletin
152 of January 11, 1949 through December 1949

(Supplement to Index in Issue No. 160, May 3, 1949)

A

Achievements of Military Government in 1948, review
by General Lucius D. Clay . . .
Agricultural Extension, review by James Fr “Keim
Airbridge to Health, review of project in flying
ailing children out of blockaded Berlin
Air Forces “Boys Town," pictorial story of Air
Force GYA project at Oberpfaffenhofen . .
AIRLIFT (see Berlin)
ALLIED HIGH COMMISSION
Birth of a Republic . .
High Commission Charter
Amerika Dienst, review by Charles ’P. “Arnot of US
Feature Service
And a Child was Born, Christmas vignette “by Col.
Paul J, Maddox
Appeal io Trade Unions,
Brian Robertson .
Appraising Cost of Peace, statement t by | Senator A.
Willis Robertson
ARMED FORCES
Army Day Observance in Germany Wao)
“Exercise Harvest" (pictorial) . .
Five Allied Nations Parade Arms (pictorial) | |
From the EC to Washington via a Telephoto (Pictorial)
Highway Patrol .
Navy's Role
Operation “Essayons” (pictorial)
“Operation Showers" (pictorial) . .
Operation “Snowdrop Able" (pictorial) .
Special Services
Army Day Observance in Germany, pictorial review

B

Babe Ruth Club, feature by Caroline Camp Leiser on
GYA baseball team in Berlin-Tempelhof
Bank Deutscher Laender, review of reorganization of
banking system in US Zone. . . . .
Basic Law, The, interpretation of statute .
Basic Law, text of statute
Basis for Press Laws, explanation of Tequitements ‘for
ending licensing regulations .
Battle against TB, review by Lt. Col. C. H. Moseley
of work of Danish Red Cross in Hesse .
BAVARIA
Bavaria to Adopt US Traffic Check. . . .
Bavaria to Form Civil Liberties Leagues 5
Bavarian Firm Decartelized
Bavaria's Progress ;
Bavaria’s Vacationland .
Democratic Development
Education in Bavaria
Greater Home Rule
Open Forum Survey .
Operation Better Kids . .
Part of Bavarian Law Ordered Suspended .
Refugee Handicraft
Bavaria‘s Progress, review by Murray D. “Van Wagoner
Bavaria‘s Vacationland, review of of prospects for tourist

statement by Gen. ‘Sir

trade
BERLIN
Airlift Fliers‘ Gifts for Berlin Children .
American Labor Aids Berlin Strikers .
Berlin Rail Strike . te
Berlin's Open Forum . :
Educational Service Center .
Four Years in Berlin ,
Leuschner House. :
Precooked Beans Flown to Berlin .
Visit to the United States. . .
Berlin Christmas 1945, Christmas vignette by Spero
Galanopulo
Berlin Rail Strike, review by G. M. McClusky . |
Berlin's Open Forum, review by Dr. Erfrid Heinecke
Birth of of a Republic, inauguration of German government
Bizonal Communications — A Year of Progress .
Bizone Empioyment at Postwar High .
Bizone's Economic Status Encouraging .
Civil Service Law Issued for Bizone . .
Collection Shortage Brings Allotment Cut .
Forests of the Bizone .
Organization for European Economic Cooperation
Unemployment in Bizone Decreases to 704 500
Bizonal Communications—A Year of Progress, review
by Elise F. Hawtin on development in communications

MAY 1950

Number Date

155 Feb, 22, 49
December 49
159 Apr. 19, 49

164 June 28, 49

171 Oct. 4, 49
165 July 12, 49
168 Aug, 23, 49

December 49
171 Oct. 4, 49

December 49

160 May 3, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
December 49

152 Jan. 11, 49
168 Aug, 23, 49
165 July 12, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
161 May 17, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
November 49

160 May 3, 49
160 May 3, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
163 June 14, 49
163 June 14, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
December 49

154 Feb, 8, 49
169 Sepi. 6, 49
170 Sept. 20, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
154 Feb, 8, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49

157 March 22, 49
December 49

154 Feb. 8, 49
163 June 14, 49
164 June 28, 49
168 Aug, 23, 49
170 Sept. 20, 49
166 July 26, 49
170 Sept. 20, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
158 Apr, 5, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
December 49

168 Aug. 23, 49
170 Sept. 20, 49
171 Oct, 4, 49
152 Jan, 11, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49

156 March 8, 49
156 March 8, 49

153 Jan. 25, 49
163 June 14, 49
152 Jan. 11,49
152 Jan. 11, 49

Bizone Employment at Postwar High. .
Bizone's Economic Status Encouraging, review of 1948
and preview of 1949 by Bipartite Control Office .
Black Watch, pictorial story
Bonn as Capital, description of city chosen by Parlia-
mentary Council
Bonn Council Advised on Basic Law Draft, text’ of
two documents of Military Governors :
Boys Town Observes Second Anniversary, Pictorial
story of GYA project .
BREMEN
Bremethaven Fishing Industry
Civil Service Reform :
Bremerhaven Fishing Industry, review .
BRITISH
Appeal to Trade Unions
Black Watch . . :
British Reorganization Plans .
The German Economy
British Reorganization Plans, statement by « Gen. ‘Sir
Brian Robertson . :
Business Situation in the Bizonal Area

Cc

Challenge to Europe, statement by Paul G, Hoffman

Christian Democratic Union, first in political parties
series .

Christian Social Union, fourth in political parties series

Christmas Carol, A, Christmas vignette by PavilsKlans

Christmas Letter, A, poem by Eugene Jolas .

Christmas Parties, review of entertainments given by
American personnel for German needy

Christmas Vignettes, series of ‘best stories”
war Germany . :

Cities from Ruins, study of reconstruction. |) |

Civil Servant, The, review of privileged status .

CIVIL SERVICE
The Civil Servant . . .

Civil Service Law Issued for Bizone .

Civil Service Reform .

Talent Needed to Bolster Personnel

US Experts Survey Conditions in Germany | .

Civil Service Law Issued for Bizone, digest of liber-
alized statute for public servants . .

Civil Service Reform, article by Capt. Charles R. Jeffs
on MG order to provide assurance of democratic
opportunity . .

Civilian Personnel Bulletin, memorandum on OMGUS-
HICOG transfer...) . 1 ee

COAL
Hard Coal Industry Continues Climb
Ruhr Authority ..

Collection Shortage Brings Allotment Cut, resume of
action penalizing states failing to make full grain
deliveries

Coming Generation, The, speech by Dr. AlonzoG. Grace

COMMERCE (see Trade and Commerce)

Commissioner McCloy, reprint from Newsweek .

COMMUNICATIONS
Bizonal Communications — A Year of Progress . .
From the EC to Washington via 2 Telephoto (pictorial)
Postage Stamps . :

COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES
Bavaria to Form Civil Liberties Leagues .
Community Councils... . .
Educational Service Center
Haus Schwalbach
Ludwigsburg Project .

Community Councils, review by Dr. Ralph E. Berry
of work in Wuerttemberg-Baden . . .

Community Survey, review by Ne's Anderson on M
dletown-type survey being made in Darmstadt .

Complaint Office, review by Dennis DeMartin .

Cost of Living, review of new index .

CULTURAL AFFAIRS
British Masters Shown in Hamburg .

Modern German Art .
$5,000 Prizes Offered in Art Contest .
Visual Arts : :

CUSTOMS CONTROL
Customs Committee Set Up for 3 Zones
Customs Control. 5
Customs Tightens Control Measures |
International Frontier Control (text) .

of post

Number Date
158 Apr. 5, 49
153 Jan, 25, 49
170 Sepi. 20, 49
161 May 17, 49
157 March 22, 49
160 May 3, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49
161 May 17, 49
153 Jan, 25, 49
171 Oct, 4, 49
170 Sept. 20, 49
170 Sept. 20, 49
November 49

170 Sept. 20, 49
162 May 31, 49

December 49

170

Sept.

20, 49

December 49
December 49
December 49

152 Jan, 11, 49
December 49

December 49

171 Oct. 4, 49
171 Oct. © 4, 49
156 March 8, 49
161 May 17, 49
164 June 28, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
156 March 8, 49
161 May 17, 49
167 Aug. 9, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
153 Jan, 25, 49
156 March 8, 49
166 July 26, 49
163 June 14, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
157 March 22, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
165 July 12, 49
166 July 26, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
160 May 3, 49
165 July 12, 49
162 May 31, 49
164 June 28, 49
167 Aug. 9, 49
December 49

167 Aug, 9, 49
November 49

165 July 12, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49

162 May 31, 49
December 49

159

Apr.

19, 49

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
D

DARMSTADT
Community Survey
DM Shows Strength, comparison by BICO with Swiss
franc. .
Demise of Military Government, text’ of last OMGUS
broadcast
Democracy and the Occupation, digest of address by
Charles M. LaFollette
Democratic Development, review w by J John P, Bradford
of MG aid 5 : :
DEMOCRATIZATION
Democracy and the Occupation :
Greater Home Rule :
So wohnt Amerika
Democratizing Textbooks, review by Dr.
Grace of efforts to erase nationalism .
DENAZIFICATION
Denazitication Proceedings (text of OMGUS directive)
Denazification Summary .
Denazification Summary, review of 18-month activities
DISPLACED PERSONS
Missing UN Children Hunt Intensified .
Polish DP‘s Return Home . . L
US Zone Admitting Sudeten Germans .
DISPLACED POPULATIONS
Cattle Arrive for Refugee Farmers .
Germany's Refugees . . :
Plan to Reunite German Families .
Refugee Handicraft .
Displaced Sergeant, The, Christmas s vignette by John
A, Biggs.
DOCUMENTS
Bonn Council Advised on Basic Law Draft (text) .
Military Security Board (text) :
Ruhr Authority (abstracted) . .
Text of Occupation Statute for West Germany |
Drug Addiction, review by Charles B, Dyar of control
in Germany

“Alonzo G.

E

ECONOMICS
Bavarian Firm Decartelized
Bavaria's Vacationland . . :

Bizone’s Economic Status Encouraging .

Business Situation in the Bizonal Area .

Cost of Living . en :

Decartelization Notes”

DM Shows Strength :

ERP Tobacco Cuts Black-Market Price |

Export Improvement Noted by JEIA .

German Economy, The . :

Germans Pay Import Costs in D-Marks |

Germanys Most Costly Adventure .

Hard Coal Industry Continues Climb. .

High-Price Bubble Bursts; German n Economy Benefits

Jedermann Program

New JEIA Procedure . :

Progress Replaces Chaos, Shortages :

Review of ERP Aid. . :
Economy in Farming, review by Paul F. Taggart .
EDUCATION

Adult Education Attendance Drops

The Coming Generation .

Democratizing Textbooks

Education in Bavaria .

Educational Service Center :

Educators Plan US Zone Meeting. . .

Extension Service for Hessian Farmers .

Free University of Berlin Loe

The German University

High Schools Resistant to Democracy .

Institute Planned for Study of America .

New Horizons in Education . :

Operation Better Kids

Practicing Democracy . .

Preparing for Citizenship

Public School Reform .

School Reform in Hesse

Student Self-Help .

Training Youth Leaders . .

Education in Bavaria, review by Education Branch .

Educational Service Center, review by Lucile Allard
of Berlin center. .

Efficiency Rating, explanation by Peter F. Szluk on
basic principles of procedure.

Employee Training, review by Peter F, Szluk. |

Employee Utilization, review by Paul G. Lutzeier
of program .

Establishing the Position of United States High
Commissioner for Germany, executive order
President Truman . . ne

EUCOM (see Armed Forces)

EUROPEAN RECOVERY PROGRAM
‘Agricultural Aid Sought of ECA . .

Bizone Food Contracts Soar in Last Half of 1948

Challenge to Europe. . . Dip

oy

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Number Date
162 May 31, 49

154 Feb. 8, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
153 Jan, 25, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
December 49

159 Apr. 19, 49
152 Jan, 11, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
156 March 8, 49
161 May 17, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
164 June 28, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
159 Apr, 19, 49

157 March 22, 49
December 49

157 March 22, 49

161 May 17, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49
161 May 17, 49
166 July 26, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
153 Jan, 25, 49
162 May 31, 49
167 Aug. 9, 49
167 Aug. 9, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
November 49

155 Feb. 22, 49
November 49

159 Apr, 19, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
161 May 17, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
December 49

154 Feb. 8, 49
169 Sept, 6, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
166 July 26, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
170 Sept, 20, 49
166 July’ 26, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49
156 March 8, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
165 July 12, 49
163 June 14, 49
161 May 17, 49
152 Jan, 11, 49
161 May 17, 49
162 May 31, 49
December 49

163 June 14, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49
162 May 31, 49
170 Sept. 20, 49
166 July 26, 49
162 May 31, 49
164 June 28, 49
161 May 17, 49
163 June 14, 49

164 June 28, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
December 49

70

Delivered ECA Goods Total $68,000,000 .
ECA Help Illustrated . :

ECA Recovery Purchases . :

ERP Tobacco Cuts Black-Market Price .

European Recovery Program .

Future ERP Aid...

Largest Tobacco Shipment Arrives

Marshall Plan Support Rises . :

Organization for European Economic Cooperation :

Reparation Revision Siolanatenonerc

Review of ERP Aid .

Telling What ERP Does . :

Tourists from Mid-West See Germany . :
European Recovery Program, report by Paul G.

Hoffman . . a
EXCHANGES

Archives Should be Made Available .

Farm Observers Depart for US .

For Better Understanding . p

German Politicians Observe US Elections . | .

90 Germans to Study at American Universities |

Hindemith Loe

New Ideas for Women . .

New Ideas _on Information

Practicing Democracy

Schoolgirl in US

Seeing for Themselves . .

Teenagers Off for Year in US

Visit to United States .

Visual Arts
“Exercise Harvest,’
EXHIBITIONS

ECA Help Illustrated

New York Display

NY Exhibition Aide . :
Extension Service for Hessian Farmers,

Dr. Ira O. Schaub Le

pictorial story of army maneuvers

‘review by

F

Federal Election Results, review by John Elliott of
voting for federal assembly .

FEDERAL REPUBLIC
Basic Law (text) . :
The Basic Law linierpretation) :
Birth of a Republic .
Bonn as Capital :
Bonn Council Advised on Basic Law Drait .
Federal Election Results . .
Military Governors’ Observations and Reservations

to Basic Law . a :

Opposition to Constitution
Political Aims at Bonn .
Potsdam to Bonn
Ruhr Authority .

FILMS
Film Thrills Munich Children :
Nuremberg Film Draws Large Crowds
Niirnberg (Nuremberg) an

FINANCE
Bank Decentralization
Bank Deutscher Laender
DM Shows Strength . . :
DM Value Not Given in Outside Exchanges -
Part of Bavarian Law Ordered Suspended
Tax Reform 5 Sun dnenc
Tax Revenues. Decline

FOOD & AGRICULTURE
Agricultural Aid Sought of ECA
Agricultural Extension . . :
Better Farming Techniques Urged -
Bizone Food Contracts Soar in Last Half of 1948 .
Bremerhaven Fishing Industry . :
Cattle Arrive for Refugee Farmers . .
Collection Shortage Brings Allotment Cut -
Economy in Farming . . :
Extension Service for Hessian Farmers -
Farm Machinery Prices Too High .
Farm Observers Depart for US .
Forests of the Bizone . .

Home Gardens Add to Zone Food Supply. .
Improved Consumption Level Provided in Bizonal
Food Plan . nn Loe

Kitchen Tours Rhineland

Land Reform. . .

Land Reform Progress

New Milk Substitute .

Plows and Soya Beans Under Study .

Precooked Beans Flown to Berlin . .

Three-Zone Officials Prepare Uniform Agricultural
Output Policy . .

Weekly Record Set in Food Procurement . .

For Better Understanding, speech’ by Ambassador
Robert D. Murphy .

Foreign Visitors, JEIA plan for tourist ‘trade .

Forests of the Bizone, review by Joseph C. Kircher

Number Date
152 Jan. 11, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
November 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
158 Apr, 5, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
.152 Jan. 11, 49
155 Feb, 22, 49
163 June 14, 49
160 May 3, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
166 July 26, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
165 July 12, 49
155 Feb, 22, 49
December 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
165 July 12, 49
157 March 22, 49
December 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
161 May 17, 49
161 May 17, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
165 July 12, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
156 March 8, 49
157 March 22, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49
169 Sept, 6, 49
163 June 14, 49
163 June 14, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
161 May 17, 49
157 March 22, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
163 June 14, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49
November 49
161 May 17, 49
152 Jan, 25, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
164 June 28, 49
165 July 12, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
154 Feb, 8, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
165 July 12, 49
157 March 22, 19
164 June 28, 49
December 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
154 Feb, 8, 49
153 Jan, 25, 49
164 June 28, 49
156 March 8, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
153 Jan, 25, 49
December 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49
November 49
164 June 28, 49
December 49
164 June 28, 49°
171 Oct. 4, 49
154 Feb, 8, 49
December 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
156 March 28, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
December 49
163 June 14, 49
153 Jan, 25, 49
MAY 1950

--- Page 74 ---
Formula for Peace, review by Maj. Gen. James P.
Hodges of policies and operations of Military
Security Board

Four Years in Berlin, review “by Bug. Gen. Frank
L. Howley . .

Free Universiiy ‘of Berlin, review by Howard W.
Johnston of founding and development of school

From the EC to Washington via Telephoto, pictorial
story of US Army Signal Corps’ photo communi-
cations system .

Future ERP Aid, statement by Paul G, Hoffman

Future Homemakers, review by Dr. Katherine
Holtzclaw of girls’ organizations rn

G
GERMAN AFFAIRS
Archives Should be Made Available .
Germany's Most Costly Adventure
Memorial Day for Persecutees .
Progress in Germany
GERMAN-AMERICAN
German-Americans :
German-American Club Organized
German-Americans, review by Capt. Charles R. Jeffs
German Economy, The, review by Sir Cecil Weir .
GERMAN GOVERNMENT (see Federal Republic)
German Politicians Observe US Elections, review by
Louis Kelly on trip of four German political leaders
to United States for presidential’ election . .
German University, The, review by Dr. Alonzo G. Grace
Germans Get “Free Radio, review of MG relinquish-
ing direct control .
Germans Pay Import Costs in D-Marks, summary of
BICO procedure for equalizing prices . . .
Germany and the Foreign Ministers, review of
Conference of Foreign Ministers in Paris :
Germany Today, interview by John J. McCloy . .
Germany's Liberal Groups, third in political parties
series...

Germany's Most
price of wat
Germany's New Press,
US Zone A
Germany's Refugees, review by Dr. Julius Isaac.
Germany's Role in World Markets, address by N.
H. Collison. . .

Girl Scouts, review of development in US Zone .
Glass and Ceramics, industrial review by Marjorie
A. Yahraes . .
Golden Gloves, description of GYA boxing champion-
ships to teach sportsmanship .
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
Democracy and the Occupation . .
German Politicians Observe US Elections
Greater Home Rule .
Institute Established -
Insult Law :
Seeing for Themselves .
Greater Home Rule, article by Murray D. Van
Wagoner on more local autonomy
GYA Christmas Plans, review by Margaret Sorenson

H

Hard Coal Industry Continues Climb .
Haus Schwalbach, review by Dr. Howard W. Oxley
of community center
HESSE
Badges for Hessian Police Force .
Battle against TB. . :
Extension Service for Hessian Farmers .
Germans Warned on Hunting Laws .
Haus Schwalbach . . . .
Hesse Police Cautioned
Hesse's Progress
High-Price Bubble Bursts; German Economy, Benefits
Progress in Hesse . .
Police Discrimination Draws Warning .
School Reform in Hesse .
Hesse’s Progress, review by Dr. James R. Newman
HICOG (see Office of US High Commissioner for
Germany)
HICOG Organization, basic Plan for US High Com-
missioner’s Office’ .
HICOG's Objective, review by Maj.
P. Hays .
High Commission’ Agreement, summary of | basic
principles for three-zone merger .
High Commission Charter, text of tripartite document
High-Price Bubble Bursts; German Economy Bene-
fits, by William R. Karsteter on economic condi-
tions at Christmas time . soe
Highway Patrol, review by Sgt. Frank K, Spratt .
Hindemith, review by John Evarts and Carlos D.
Moseley of composer's tour of Germany .

Home Economics for Farm Women, review by. Elise
F. Hawtin 2 2 0.

“Costly” Adventure, | summary of

review of development’ in

“Gen. George

MAY 1950

Number Date
161 May 17, 49
170 Sept. 20, 49

156 March 8, 49

152 Jan. 11, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
167 Aug, 9, 49
165 July 12, 49
November 49

171 Oct. 4, 49
168 Aug. 23, 49

166 July 26, 49
155 Feb, 22, 49
166 July 26, 49
November 49

152 Jan, 11, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
154 Feb, 8, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
165 July 12, 49
December 49

November 49

November 49

154 Feb. 8, 49
169 Sept, 6, 49
166 July 26, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
163 June 14, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
153 Jan, 25, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
152 Jan, 11, 49
161 May 17, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
155 Feb, 22, 49
Decembe: 49

159 Apr, 19, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
167 Aug. 9, 49
158 Apr, 8, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
169 Sept, 6, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
December 49

154 Feb. 8, 49
162 May 31, 49
158 Apr, 5, 49
163 June 14, 49

December 49

167 Aug. 9, 49

December 49

161 May 17, 49
165 July 12, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
168 Aug, 23, 49

157 March 22, 49

153 Jan. 25, 49

I

Index, list of contents of Information Bulletin
1945-1948 (correction in Issue 162). . .

Industrial Production, report of new index, covering
September . :

INDUSTRY
Bizone Industrial Output Sets Record
Bremerhaven Fishing Industry
Glass and Ceramics . .

Industrial Activity for April .
Industrial Activity for December .
Industrial Activity for July

Industrial Activity for March
Industrial Activity for May . .
Industrial Activity for November .
Industrial Production (September) .
Largest Tobacco Shipment Arrives
Leather Industry . .

New Records Set in Coal Production
New York Display . :
Oil Output Tops Prewar Production |
Textile and Clothing Industry

INFORMATION BULLETIN
Index (1945-1948)

Index (correction).

INFORMATION SERVICE.
Amerika Dienst
Public Opinion
US News Service Extended

Inland Shipping, review by Fred W. Welty of develop:
ment of waterway transportation .

Institute of Public Affairs, review by Dr. Kurt Glaser
of cultural exchange and reorientation institute
in Frankfurt...

Insult Law, review of German law
protection to officials . .

Inter-Faith Councils, article by Carl F. Zietlow on
Christian-Jew cooperation .

INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
Germany and the Foreign Ministers .

Paris Conference :

ving special

J

Jedermann Program, description of German program
to make shoes and clothing availeble for every maa

Jewish Communities, review by Rabbi Simon G. Kra-
mer of postwar conditions .

JOINT EXPORT IMPORT AGENCY (see Trade and
Commerce)

L

LABOR

American Labor Aids Berlin Strikers .

Appeal to Trade Unions .

Berlin Rail Strike . .

Bizone Employment at Postwar High «

Community Survey :

Compulsory Labor Direction Upset |

Labor's Legislative Program. . .

Labor's Role Vital to Peace, Democracy «

Leuschner House . . . .

Public School Reform

Revival of Trade Union Progress

Trade Union Federation .

Trade Union Property .

Trade Union Property Status Clarified | |
Unemployment in Bizone Decreases to 704,500 .
Labor's Legislative Program, review by Albert H.

Berman . . :
Land Reform, review of progress in US Zone | |_|
Land Reform Progress, review by Haynes Mahoney .
Leather Industry, industrial review by Marjorie A.

Yahraes . :
LEGAL

Insult Law .

Pay Ordinance Reinstated -

Property Restitution :

Rule of Law. .

Two Laenderrat Laws Disapproved by MG .
Leuschner House, description of trade-union center

in Berlin . . :
Liquidation of OMGUS, memorandum for process | |
Ludwigsburg Project, description of how local MG

officer aided small industries .

M

MG Property Division Dissolved . . Le
MGO Teaches Democracy, article by Dr. Harold J.
Clem, on work of MG officers in reorientation .

MILITARY (see Armed Forces)

MILITARY GOVERNMENT
Achievements of Military Government in 1948 .
COSAR Reactivated to Plan Transfer. . .
Demise of Military Government

Number

160 May

Date

3, 49

December 49

November 49

153 Jan. 25, 49
163 June 14, 49
162 May 31, 49
155 Feb, 22, 49
November 49

160 May 3, 49
164 June 28, 49
153 Jan, 25, 49
December 49

152 Jan, © 11, 49
166 July 26, 49

December 49
156 March 28, 49

154 Feb. 9, 49
November 49

160 May 3, 49
162 May 31, 49
168 Aug. 23, 49
155 Feb, 22, 49
155 Feb! 22, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
161 May 17, 49
161 May 17, 49
164 June 28, 49
165 July 12, 49
165 July 12, 49
161 May 17, 49

156 March 8, 49

164 June 28, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
168 Aug, 23, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
162 May 31, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
167 Aug, 9, 49
December 49

155 Feb. 22, 49
December 49

165 July 12, 49
165 July 12, 49
165 July 12, 49
162 May 31, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
167 Aug, 9, 49
164 June 28, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
166 July 26, 49
161 May 17, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
152 Jan, 11, 49
December 49

166 July 26, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
168 Aug. 23, 49
160 May 3, 49
166 July 26, 49
159 Apr, 19, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
162 May 31, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Democracy and the Occupation .
Democratic Development :

Four Years in Berlin .

Liquidation of OMGUS . .

L&S Qualification Standards Being Restudied

Message to HICOG Personnel :

MG Property Division Dissolved

Military Governors’ Observations and Reservations

to Basic Law . .

Two Laenderrat Laws Disapproved by MG .
MILITARY SECURITY BOARD

Formula for Peace . .
Missing UN Children Hunt Intensified, summary ot

OMGUS directive . . 5
Modern German Art, article by Paul Lutzeier
MUNICH

Film Thrills Munich Children .

Institute Planned for Study of America .
MUSIC

Hindemith .

N

Nadolny Activities Attract Attention, summary of ac-
tions of former German envoy to Moscow in
western Germany ran

NATIONALISM
Democratizing Textbooks . . .

Nadolny Activities Attract Attention .

Revival of German Nationalism Seen | -
Navy's Role, review by Lt. Cmdr. L. J. Meads, USN
New Clothes from Old, article by Margaret Sorenson

on GYA girls’ handicraft contest. .

New Horizons in Education, summary by Dr. Milton E.
Muelder on international educational conference at
Chiemsee, Bav., April 25-29. . .

New Ideas for Women, review by Marjorie A.
Yahraes of exchange results .

New Ideas on Information, review by James G. Ro-
gers of exchange reactions. .

New Status for Women, review by Elizabeth G. Holt
of women's affairs activities . .

New York Display, Preview of Military Government
German Industrial Exhibition ‘49 in New York City

NUREMBERG
Youth Forums Maturing .

NUREMBERG TRIALS
Nuremberg Trials
Niirnbe-g (Nuremberg) . .

Nuremberg Trials, review by Brig. Gen. Telford Tay-
lor on conduct and results of 13 war crimes trials

Niirnberg (Nuremberg), review by Stuart Schulberg on
documentary film of Nuremberg Trial .

Oo
Oberammergau, preview by Paul W. Freedman of
Passion Play Se
OCCUPATION
Report on Germany .
Ruhr Authority
Occupation Statute, transcript ot OMGUS broadcast
to Germans explaining document. .
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GER:
MANY US (OMGUS) (see Military Government)
OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR
GERMANY (HICOG)
Civilian Personnel Bulletin
Commissioner McCloy . .
Establishing the Position of United States High
Commissioner for Germany .
HICOG Organization :
High Commission Agreement -
KeyHICOG Personnel. . . . .
Message to HICOG Personnel . |
Occupation Statute Loe
Personnel Announcement . .
Secretary Acheson Visits Germany | .
Text of Occupation Statute for West Germany
US Attitude on Bonn a
US Policy on Germany . .
OMGUS Personnel, reviews by Paul G, Lutzeier of
personnel relations records . 6600
OPEN FORUM
Berlin's Open Forum .
Open Forum Seminar .
Open Forum Survey
Youth Are Urged to Eye Government .
Open Forum Seminar, review of Wuerttemberg: Baden
program ;
Open Forum Survey, resume of reactions in Bavaria
Operation Better Kids, review by Lawrence G. Derthick
on education in Bavaria . .
Operation “Essayons,"" pictorial story of American:
French maneuver in spanning Rhine :
“Operation Showers,” pletonialis of US Amy maneuver
in Bavaria . . .

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Number Date
153 Jan, 25, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
170 Sept. 20, 49
168 Aug. 23, 49
168 Aug. 23, 49
November 49

166 July 26, 49
163 June 14, 49
166 July 26, 49
161 May 17, 49
156 March 8, 49
167 Aug. 9, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
163 June 14, 49
157 March 22, 49
162 May 31, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
162 May 31, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
165 July 12, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
161 May 17, 49

December 49

171 Oct.

160 May

4, 49
3, 49

156 March 8, 49

December. 49

162 May
164 June

162 May
164 June

31, 49
28, 49

31, 49
28, 49

December 49

158 Apr.
153 Jan.

160 May

167 Aug.
163 June

163 June
167 Aug,
161 May

Novembe:
Novembe:

160 May

5, 49
25, 49

3, 49

9, 49
14, 49

14, 49
9, 49
17, 49
49
49
3, 49

November 49
December 49

161 May
170 Sept.
162 June

17, 49
20, 49
14, 49

156 March 8, 49

170 Sept,
164 June
154 Feb.
158 Apr.

164 June
154 Feb,

152 Jan.
159 Apr.
161 May

20, 49
28, 49
8, 49
5, 49

28, 49
8, 49

11, 49
19, 49
17, 49

72

Operation “Snowdrop Able,"

EUCOM winter maneuver. .

Operation Vittles, announcement of cookbook com:
piled by American Women’s Club of Berlin :

Organization for European Economic Cooperation,
review by Major Gordon L. C. Scott .

Our German Publications, resume by Aileen S. Miles

Out of the Rubble, review by Dr, Alonzo G. Grace of
reorientation program.

Outlook is Bright for 1949, radio interview by Gen.
Lucius D. Clay on conditions in western Germany

P

Paris Conference, statement by Dean Acheson of Con-
ference of Foreign Ministers . :
PERSONALITIES (American)
Finance Adviser Ends MG Service (Jack Bennett)
Gen. Clay Receives 1949 Freedom Award .
Political Adviser Changed in Washington Shift (Ro-
bert D. Murphy and James W. Riddleberger) . .
State Director of OMGWB Changed (Charles M.
LaFollette and Maj, Gen. Charles P. Gross) .
PERSONNEL
Cash Awards Offered for Ideas
Civilian Personnel Bulletin .
Civilian Personnel News Letter .
Complaint Oifice te
Efficiency Rating
Employee Training
Employee Utilization .
Key MG Personnel .
OMGUS Personnel. . .
Personnel Announcement
Personnel Announcement,
employment
Polish DP's Return Home (pictorial) |
POLITICAL AFFAIRS
Bremen Parties Given Warning .
Christian Democratic Union .
Christian Social Union
Federal Election Results .
Germany's Liberal Groups . . :
German Politicians Observe US Elections .
Labor's Legislative Program... . . .
Nadolny Activities Attract Attention .
Political Ban Stands . :
Political Picture. .
Political Aims at Bonn .
Social Democratic Party .
West Germany Votes .
Political Aims at Bonn, resume of leading parties
programs .
Political Picture, review by John Eliot’ of prepa:
rations for elections for new Federal Republic
Postage Stamps, review by Richard Elwood of
postwar issues .
Postwar Pubiishing, review by Laurence P. Dalcher .
Potsdam to Bonn, chronology of political development
Practicing Democracy, article by Willi Birkelbach on
reaction to study in United States .
Preparing for Citizenship, address by Murray D. Van
Wagoner .
Pres. Truman Lauds General 1 Clay's Work, text of
statement oe
PRESS
Basis for Press Laws
Germany's New Press. . :
MG Urges Better News Evaluation .
New Ideas on Information :
School of Journalism .
PRISONERS OF WAR
US Notes on PW's .
Progress In Germany, summary “issued by State De-
partment oe
Progress in GYA, review by Margaret Sorenson
Progress in Hesse, review by Dr. James R. Newman
Prohibited, Limited Industry 1s Defined, text of agree-
ment sone
PROPERTY
Property Restitution . .
Title to Former Reich Property Clarified .
Trade Union Property Status Clarified . . .
Property Restitution, rewiev by Edmund H. Schwenk
on legal procedure for restitution of Nazi-seized
property) . . . . ee
PUBLIC AFFAIRS
Institute of Public Affairs
PUBLIC HEALTH
Airbridge to Health
Battle against TB.
Bavaria Warned on Water Supply .
Communities Quarantined (hoof and mouth isease)
Drug Addiction . . one
Every Child as “Human Being" Stressed
Under German Law (poppy capsules) .
Public Opinion, review by Albert C. Schweizer of
freedom of thought in Bavaria .

Pictorial story of

regulations for HiCOG

Number Date
154 Feb. 8, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
163 June 14, 49
November 49

155 Feb. 22, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
165 July 12, 49
153 Jan, 25, 49
167 Aug, 9, 49
157 March 22, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
167 Aug. 9, 49
164 June 28, 49
164 June 28, 49
162 May 31, 49
164 June 28, 49
161 May 17, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
156 March 8, 49
November 49

November 49

161 May 17, 49
155 Feb, 22, 49
170 Sept. 20, 49
December 49

169 Sept. 6, 49
November 49

152 Jan, 11, 49
167 Aug, 9, 49
162 May 31, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49

157 March 22, 49
November 49

171
167

Oct.
Aug,

4, 49
9, 49

November 49

157 March 22, 49

157 March 22, 49
November 49

161 May 17, 49
161 May 17, 49
162 May 31, 49
161 May 17, 49
152 Jan, 11, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
165 July 12, 49
154 Feb, 8, 49
168 Aug, 23, 49
164 June 28, 49
162 May 31, 49
160 May 3, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
162 May 31, 49
162 May 31, 49
152 Jan, 11, 49
161 May 17, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
December 49
154 Feb, 8, 49
166 July 26, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
MAY 1950

--- Page 76 ---
PUBLIC RELATIONS

Telling What ERP Does... . 2... .
PUBLIC SAFETY

Badges for Hessian Police Force .

Bavaria to Adopt US Traffic Check. |:

German Town Inaugurates US Student Traffic Patrol

Germans Warned on Hunting Laws... . . .

Hesse Police Cautioned . :

House-Search Law Violations Studied -

Police Discrimination Draws Warning -

Police Reserve Banned . .

Supervision of Police . . .
Public School Reform, study of trade union support
PUBLIC WELFARE

Child Research Project

Christmas Parties

Every Child as “Human Being’ Stressed

GYA Christmas Plans .

Operation Vittles . .

Outside World Continues Relief Assistance

School Meals Free . . : toe

Trucks Given German Relief Group | | | |] |
PUBLICATIONS

East Zone Magazine Woos Western Dealers

Leipzig Loses Former Publishing Prestige under

Soviet Control. .

Magazine Difficulties . .

Our German Publications .

Postwar Publishing .

Recognition of Copyrights

Regulations Relaxed

Talmuds Printed in Germany

RADIO.
Germans Get ‘Free’ Radio
New Ideas on Information .

Radio Educational Campaign .

Radio in US Zone .

Sacred Rights of Free Expression toe
Training Radio Talent . tok

Radio in US Zone, review by Ruby A. Parson -

RECONSTRUCTION
Cities from Ruins . .

Danube Bridge at Ingolstadt is Reopened
Low-Cost Housing . . :
Munich Launches Rubble Cleanup Drive .

Refugee Handicraft, description by John A. Biggs of
community project in southern Bavaria. .

REFUGEES (see Displaced Populations)

RELIGIOUS AFFAIRS
A Christmas Letter (poem) .

Inter-Faith Councils

Jewish Communities
Oberammergau

Talmuds Printed in Germany .

REORIENTATION
MG Teaches Democracy .

Out of the Rubble. .

Reparation Revision, summary of international agree-
ment for reducing 1 number of Plants to be removed
as reparations :

REPARATIONS,

Reparation Revision .

Report on Germany, excerpt from annual report of
US Secretary of the Army, reviewing occupation
during 1948, in four installments starting .

Report to the People, HICOG review for October -

REPORTS
JEIA Report Ceases
Report to the People. |
Statistics Publications Given Germans

RESIDENT OFFICERS

&S Qualification Standards Bein 5

RESTITUTION ae
Belgian Diamond Claim Clarified
Street Cars Returned. .

Review of ERP Aid by Norman H. Collison

Review of JEIA, :
Reviev review by William John Logan .

Ruhr Authority

Satement by British | Military Governor on German
Criticism.

Ruhr Authority, summary of international agreement
Rnd announcements establishing control body
‘ule of Law, address by Capt. Charles R. Jeffs .

Ss

Sacred Rights of Free Expression, statement by John
J. McCloy .

School of Journalism, review by Emest Langendort
of school in Munich

School Reform in Hesse, review. by Dr. James’ R.
Newman of progress .

Secretary 4 Acheson Visits Germany, 3 resume of state:

MAY 1950

Number Date
166 July 26, 49
167 Aug. 9, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
155 Feb, 22, 49
155 Feb, 22, 49
153 Jan) 25, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
December 49

163 June 14, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49

December 49
155 Feb, 22, 49
December 49
154 Feb, 8, 49
December 49

171 Oct. 4, 49

158 Apr. 5, 49
165 July 12, 49
November 49
November 49
164 June 28, 49

152 Jan. 21, 49
167 Aug. 9, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
171 Oct, 4, 49
165 July 12, 49
165 July 12, 49
167 Aug, 9, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49
165 July 12, 49
December 49

161 May 17, 49
169 Sept. 6, 49

December 49

157 March 22, 49

December 49
164 June 28, 49
156 March 8, 49
December 49

167 Aug. 9, 49
159 Apr, 19, 49
155 Feb, 22, 49
160 May 3, 49
160 May 3, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49
December 49

170 Sept. 20, 49
December 49

169 Sept. 6, 49
168 Aug. 23, 49
165 July 12, 49

157 March 22, 49

154 Feb, 8, 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49

December 49

167 Aug. 9, 49
165 July 12, 49
163 June 14, 49

December 49

SECURITY
Formula for Peace. .

Military Security Board (text) |
Prohibited, Limited Industry is Defined
Ruhr Authority... fl

Seeing for Themselves, review by Dr, Edward H.
Litchfield on governmental affairs exchange pro-
gram.

Soapbox Derby, preview of youth sport contest spon-
sored by MG officers and GYA. .

Social Democratic Party, second in ‘political parties
series. :

SOVIETS
Leipzig Loses Former Publishing Prestige under

Soviet Control :
US Notes on PW's. :

So wohnt Amerika (So Lives America — pictorial
exhibit) . :

Special Services, review of EUCOM project |

STEEL (see Ruht)

STEG, review by James C. Cunningham, of turning
captured and surplus supplies over ‘to German
economy . :

Student Self-Help, review of project in Stuttgart .

STUTTGART
German-American Club Organized .

Student Self-Help

Symbol of Progress, C Christmas vignette by Dr. James

R, Newman . 5

T

Tax Reform, bizonal income levies adjusted . .
Telling What ERP Does, review by Arthur Settel of
Paris exhibit. . .
Text of Occupation Statute for West Germany | |
Textile and Clothing Industry, industrial review by
Marjorie A. Yahraes . .
Three Years of GYA, review by Lt. Col. Robert C. Hall
TOURISM
Bavaria's Vacationland
Foreign Visitors . . .
Tourists from Mid-West See Germany
TRADE AND COMMERCE
Downward Trend in Prices Continues .
Export-Import Insurance . a
Foreign Visitors . . :
Germany's Role in World Markets . |
Imports Aided by JFPO Total $250,000,000. . |
MG Ordinance Regulates Purchases from Economy
OMGUS Directive Clarifies Licensing Procedures
Review of JEIA .
TEG

US-World Trade Badly Unbalanced |
Trade Union Federation, preview by Albert H. Berman
Training Radio Talent, review by Charles S. Lewis .
Training Youth Leaders, review by Dr. Elizabeth P.Lam
TRANSPORTATION

Air Cargo Controls .

Berlin Rail Strike

Inland Shipping . .

International Unified Travel Code Drafted . :

16,000 New Freight Cars Delivered to Bundesbahn .
TRIZONE

Customs Committee Set Up for 3 Zones .

Ruhr Authority. .

Three-Zone Officials Prepare Uniform n Agricultural

Output Policy .

U

US Attitude on Bonn, statement by John J, McCloy .
US Notes on PW’'s, resume of three US notes to
Soviets asking explanation of failure to return Ger-
mans . :
US Policy on Germany, statement by Dean Acheson .

Vv

Visit to United States, digest of report by Mayor
Ernst Reuter to City Assembly of Berlin. . .
Visual Arts, review by William G. Constable .

WwW

West Germany Votes, preview by John Elliott of
federal assembly election
Western Germany Has Very Greatly Progressed since
the Surrender, address by John J. McCloy .
WOMEN’S AFFAIRS
Home Economics for Farm Women .
New Ideas for Women. . . .
New Status for Women. . .

Number
161 May
161 May
160 May
153 Jan,
154 Feb.
163 June
171 Oct.

158 Apr.
154 Feb.

Date
17, 49
17, 49
3, 49
25, 49
8, 49
14, 49
4,49

5, 49
8, 49

December 49
November 49

158 Apr,
153 Jan,

155 Feb.
153 Jan.

5, 49
25, 49

22, 49
2.

December 49

165 July

168 July
161 May

12, 49

26, 49
17, 49

November 49

158 Apr.

154 Feb,
163 June
158 Apr,

5, 49

8, 49
14) 49
5, 49

December 49

165 July
163 June
166 July
165 July

170 Sept.

159 Apr.
171 Oct.
158 Apr.

12, 49
14, 49
26, 49
12, 49
20, 49
19, 49
4, 49
5, 49

December 49

165 July

169 Sept,

162 May

155 Feb.
168 Aug.
159 Apr.
155 Feb.

12, 49
6, 49
31, 49

22, 49
23, 49
19, 49
22, 49

November 49

154 Feb,
153 Jan,

8, 49
25, 49

156 March 8, 49

170 Sept.

154 Feb.
162 May

159 Apr.
165 July

167 Aug.
168 Aug,
153 Jan,

20, 49

8, 49
31, 49

19, 49
12, 49

9, 49
23, 49
25, 49

December 49

160 May

3, 49

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 77 ---
Number Date
WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN

Agricultural Extension . . . . . . . . . . . December 49

Community Councils. 2...) . . . . . . 165 July 12, 49
Economy in Farming . . +. ss. 169 Sept. 6, 49
House Search Law Violations Studied | | | | | 153 Jan. 25, 49
Open-Forum Seminar. . . sos oe ee ss 164 June 28, 49

Y

Year after Blockade, Christmas | vignette by Gertrud

Brandsch-Boshn . December 49
YOUTH
Air Forces' “Boys Town” . +. 4 4 5 164 June 28, 49
Airlift Fliers’ Gifts for Berlin Children. | | | | 163 June 14, 49
Babe Ruth Club... + +. 160 May, 3, 49
Boys Town Observes Second Anniversary . » +. 160 May, 2,49
The Coming Generation. . . so. +. 166 July’ 26, 49

Concert Ticket Aid... .
Film Thrills Munich Children -
Future Homemakers . .
German Town Inaugurates U US Student Traific Patrol
Girl Scouts .
Golden Gloves
GYA Christmas Plans
New Clothes from Old .
Progress in GYA
Soapbox Derby .
Teenagers Off for Year in US |
Three Years of GYA. . .
Training Youth Leaders .
Ulm Youth Conference
Youth Forums Maturing .
Yeuth Forums Maturing, review by Hans Lamm of
Nuremberg German-American Youth Club .

Index of Contributors for 1949

Writers and contributors of by-lined articles published in the In-
formation Bulletin during 1949 include the following:

Number Date

Acheson, Dean, US Secretary of State

Paris Conference . . soe ee es 165 July 12, 49

US Policy on Germany . . 162 May 31, 49
Allard, Lucile, director, Educational Service Cenier,

Education and Cultural Relations Branch, OMG

Berlin Sector

Educational Service Center. . . + + 166 July 26, 49
Anderson, Nels, chief, Labor Information and Orienta-

tion Branch, Manpower Division, OMGUS

Community Survey... + 152 May 31, 49
Amot, Charles P., chief, Editorial Projection Branch,

Information Services Division, OMGUS

Amerika Dienst... 168 Aug. 23, 49
Berman, Albert H., chief, Research and Analysis

Branch, Manpower Division, OMGUS

Trade Union Federation. . . . . . . . . . . 165 July 12, 49
Berry, Dr. Ralph E., deputy chief, Group Activities

Branch, Education and Cultural Relations Division,

OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden

Community Councils... 165 July 12, 49
Biggs, John A., deputy chief, Public Relations Branch,

OLC Bavaria

The Displaced Sergeant (Christmas vignette) . . . December 49

Refugee Handicraft. . 157 March 22, 49
Birkelbach, Willi, German youth leader and cultural

exchange student to the United States

Practicing Democracy... . ++ 4 + 161 May 17, 49
Bradford, John P., chief, Governmental and Political

Branch, Civil Administration Division, OMG Bavaria

Democratic Development . . 169 Sept. 6, 49
Brandsch-Boehn, Gertrud, 14-year-old school gitl, US

Sector Berlin

Year after Blockade (Christmas vignette). . . . December 49
Clay, Genera! Lucius D., US Military Governor in
Germany
Achievements of Military Government in 1948. . 155 Feb, 22, 49
Outlook is Bright for 1949. . 152 Jan. 11, 49

Clem, Dr. Harold J., democratization coordinator,

Civil Administration Division, OMG Bavaria

MGO Teaches Democracy . . . 159 Apr. 19, 49
Collisson, Norman H., ECA deputy special represent

ative for western Germany

Germany's Role in World Markets. . . . . . . 166 July 26, 49

Review of ERP Aid . . 154 Feb. 8, 49
Constable, William G., cusator of painting, Museum

of Fine ‘Arts, Boston, and visiting expert, Education

and Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS

Visual Aris... 1 ee ee ee ee 165 July 12, 49
Cunningham, James C., chief, OMG STEG Branch,

Commerce’ and Industry Group, BICO

STEG . . 158 Apr. 5, 49
Dalcher, Laurence P., chief, Publications Branch,

Information Services Division, OMGUS

Postwar Publishing. . . November 49
DeMartin, Dennis, complaint officer, Control Office,

OMGUS

Complaint Office . . . soe ee ew +). 164 June 28, 49

Derthick, Lawrence G., Chief, Education B.anch,

E&CR Division, OMG Bavaria

Operation Better Kids... ~~... . . . . 152Jan, 11,49
Dyar, Charles B., narcotics officer, Public Health

Branch, Civil Administration Division, OMGUS

Drug Addiction. . . 166 July 26, 49
Elliott, John, chief, Political Activities Branch, Civil

Administration Division, OMGUS

Federal Election Resulis.. .... .. . . . 169 Sept, 6,49

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Political Picture . .
West Germany Votes Do

Elwood, Richard, reports officer, Communications
Group, Office of the Economics Adviser, OMGuUS
Postage Stamps .

Evarts, John, music officer, Education and Cultural
Relations Division, OMGUS
Hindemith

Freedman, Paul W., text editor, HEUTE magazine,
Publishing Operations Branch, Information Services
Division, OMGUS
Oberammergau

Galanopulo, Spero, news commentator, AFN Berlin
Berlin Christmas 1945 (Christmas vignette)

Genung, J. H., deputy chief, Manpower Branch, OMG
Berlin Sector
Leuschner House oe

Glaser, Dr. Kurt, liaison representative, Institute of
Public Affairs, Civil Administration Division,
OMmGuUS
Institute of Public Affairs .

Grace, Dr. Alonzo G., director, Education and Cul-
tural Relations Division, OMGUS
The Coming Generation... ......
Democratizing Textbooks
The German University .

Out of the Rubble

Hall, Lt. Col. Robert C., chief, GYA Section, OPOT
Division, EUCOM Hq.

Three Years of GYA .

Hawtin, Else F., BICO Section, PIO OMGUS (Frank-
furt)

Bizonal Communications — A Year of Progress « :
Home Economics for Farm Women .

Hays, Maj. Gen. George P., deputy US high commis-
sioner
HICOG's Objectives . pelo aes alee

Heinecke, Dr. Erfrid, director, Open Forum, Der
Tagesspiegel (Berlin)

Berlin's Open Forum. . .

Hoffman, Paul, G., Administrator, Economic Coopera-
tion Administration
Challenge to Europe. .......

Future ERP Aid :
European Recovery Program

Hodges, Maj. Gen. James P., US commissioner, Mili-
tary Security Board
Formula for Peace .

Holt, Elizabeth G., senior education specialist, Edu-
cation and Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS
New Status for Women

Holtzclaw, Dr, Katherine, visiting expert, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS, and pro-
fessor, Division of Home Economics, University of
Georgia
Future Homemakers

Howley, Brig. Gen. Frank L., US commandant in Ber.
lin and director, OMG Berlin Sector
Four Years in Berlin . tee

Isaac, Dr. Julius, visiting consultant, Civil Adminis.
tration Division, OMGUS
Germany's Refugees

Jeffs, Capt. Charles R. (USN), director of OMG Bremen
and US state commissioner for Bremen
Civil Service Reform ole miele
German-Americans
Rule of Law .

74

Number Date

155 Feb. 22, 49
154 Feb, 8, 49
167 Aug, 9, 49
154 Feb. 8, 49
155 Feb. 22, 49
152 Jan. 11, 49
December 49

159 Apr. 19, 49
164 June 28, 49
163 June 14, 49
171 Oct, 4, 49
158 Apr, 5, 49
162 May 31, 49
165 July 12, 49
December 49

December 49

Number Date
157 March 22, 49
167 Aug, 9, 49

157 March 22, 49

157 March 22, 49

December 49

December 49

155 Feb. 22, 49

161 May 17, 49

166 July 26, 49
159 Apr. 19, 49
171 Oct, 4, 49
155 Feb, 22, 49

158 Apr. 5, 49

152 Jan. 11, 49
153 Jan. 25, 49

December 49

170 Sept. 20, 49

December 49
168 Sept, 6, 49
158 Apr. 5, 49

161 May 17, 49

160 May 3, 49

167 Aug, 9, 49

170 Sept. 20, 49

169 Sept. 6, 49

161 May 17, 49
166 July 26, 49
December 49

MAY 1950

--- Page 78 ---
Johnston, Howard W., chief, Higher Education, Edu-
cation and Cultural Relations Branch, OMG Berlin
Sector
Free University of Berlin. . . 2... es

Karsteter, William R., historian, OMG_ Hesse
High-Price Bubble Bursts; German Economy Benefits

Keim, James F., agricultural extension specialist,
Food, Agriculture and Forestry Branch, OLC Wuert-
temberg-Baden
Agricultural Extension :

Kelly, Louis, chief, Displaced Persons Branch, Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS
German Politicians Observe US Elections . .

Kircher, Joseph C., chief, Forestry & Timber Branch,
BICO
Forests of the Bizone. . . . . ee ee ee

Klans, Pavils, staff writer of ‘Latvija,’ Latvian DP
newspaper at Esslingen, W.-B.

A Christmas Carol (Christmas vignette) :

Kremer, Rabbi Simon G., Jewish liaison representative,
Education and Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS
Jewish Communities... . 2... we

LaFollette, Charles M., state director, OMG Wuert-
temberg-Baden
Democracy and the Occupation .

Lam, Dr. Elizabeth P., chief, Leadership Training Sec-
tion, Community Education Branch, Education and
Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS.

Training Youth Leaders .

Lamm, Hans, member, Board of Review staff, Nurem-
berg
Youth Forums Maturing

Langendorf, Ernest, chief, Press Branch, Information
Services Division, OMG Bavaria
School of Journalism .

Leiser, Caroline Camp, feature writer and former re-
porter for Stars and Stripes
Babe Ruth Club

Lewis, Charles §., chief, Radio Branch, Information
Services Division, OMGUS
Training Radio Talent

Lingle, Joseph C., public information officer, GYA
Section, OPOT Division, EUCOM Hq.

Soapbox Derby. . .

Litchfield, Dr. Edward H., director, Civil Administra-
tion Division, OMGUS
Seeing for Themselves... 1... 4.4

Logan, William John, director, Joint Export-Import
Agency
Review of JEIA. . . « 5

Lutzeier, Paul G., chief, Employee Utilization Section,
Office of the Personnel Officer, OMGUS, and mem-
ber, Prolog (German-American Art Group)
Employee Utilization... 2s. ee wee
Modern German Art .

OMGUS Personnel .

Maddox, Col. Paul J., chief, Chaplain Division, Euro-
pean Command
And a Child was Born (Christmas vignette) .

Mahoney, Haynes, deputy chief, Public Information
Branch, OMG Bavaria
Land Reform Progress... . 1. .

Martin, William, administrative officer, Field Rela-
tions Division, OMG uu Leemaen -Baden
Soapbox Derby . :

McCloy, John J., US High Commissioner
Germany Today. B
Message to HICOG Personnel |
Sacred Rights of Free Expression .

US Attitude on Bonn. .
Western Germany Has Very Greatly ‘Progressed
Since the Surrender . . :

McClusky, G. M., chief, Manpower Branch, OMG Ber-
lin Sector
Berlin Rail Strike .

Meads, Lt. Cmdr. L. J. (USN), legal officer, US Naval
Advance Base, Bremerhaven
Navy's Role. . 5

Miles, Aileen S., staff writer, Information Bulletin
Our German Publications . :

Moseley, Carlos D., music officer, Education and Cul-
tural Relations Division, OMG Bavaria
Hindemith 5

Moseley, Lt. Col. C. H., chief, Public Health Branch,
OMG Hesse
Battle against TB . Daon6

Muelder, Dr. Milton E., deputy director, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, oMauS
New Horizons in Education . Dao 0

Murphy, Robert D., US Ambassador to Be Igium and
formerly divector of the Office of German and Aus-
tian Affairs, Department of State, and political
adviser to US Military Governor
For Better Understanding .

MAY 1950

Number Date

156 March 8, 49

154 Feb, 8, 49

December 49

152 Jan, 11, 49

153 Jan. 25, 49

December 49

156 March 8, 49

153 Jan. 25, 49

162 May 31, 49

December 49

165 July 12, 49

160 May, 3, 49

169 Sept. 6, 49

163 June 14, 49

154 Feb. 8, 49

171 Oct, 4, 49

161 May 17, 49
167 Aug. 9, 49
156 March 8, 49

Decembe: 49
171 Oct. 4, 49
163 June 14, 49
December 49
November 49
167 Aug. 9, 49
170 Sept. 20, 49
168 Aug. 23, 49

168 Aug, 23, 49

165 July 12, 49

November 49

157 March 22, 49

158 Apr, 5, 49

161 May 17, 49

December 49

Number Date
Newman, Dr. James R., director, OMG Hesse, and
US state commissioner for Hesse

Hesse’s Progress . . +. + + + + ++ + + « December 49
Progress in Hesse. . . . . . + +... « + 162 May 31, 49
School Reform in Hesse. . + + + 163 June 14, 49
Symbol of Progress (Christmas Vignette) | | | | December 49

Nichols, Andrew J., food specialist, Civil Resources

Division, OMG Bremen

Bremerhaven Fishing Industry . . . + + 153 Jan. 25, 49
Oxley, Dr, Howard W., chief, Community Education

Branch, Education and Cultural Relations Division,

OMG Hesse

Haus Schwalbach . . 5 169 Sept. 6, 49
Paine, Maj. Richmond S., chief, Public Health Branch,

OMG Berlin Sector

Berlin Blood Bank . . « soe ee ee ee 166 July 26, 49
Parson, Ruby A., deputy chief, Radio Branch, Infor-

mation Services Division, OMGUS

Radio in US Zone...» + + + + ee + 165 July 12, 49
Reuter, Ernst, mayor of Berlin
Visit to United States. . « a0 159 Apr. 19, 49

Robertson, A. Willis, US senator and member of
Senate Appropriations Committee
Appraising Cost of Peace. . . . December 49
Robertson, General Sir Brian, British Military Gov.
ernor and High Commissioner

Appeal to Trade Unions... .. +... . 171 Oct.
British Reorganization Plans . . 170 Sept,
Statement by British Military Governor on Ger-

man Criticism (of Ruhr Agreement). . . . . 153 Jan.

Rogers, James G., public information officer, Infor-

mation Services Division, OMGU!

New Ideas on Information . . + 171 Oct. 4,49
Schaub, Dr. Ira O., visiting consultant, Food Agri-

culture & Forestry Branch, OMG Hesse, and director,

Agriculture Experimental Station, University of

North Carolina

Extension Service for Hessian Farmers . . 153 Jan. 25, 49
Schulberg, Stuart, chief, Documentary Film Unit,

Information Services Division, OMGUS

Nurnberg (Nuremberg, documentary film). . . . 164 June 28, 49
Schweizer, Dr. Albert C., director, Civil Administra-

tion Division, OMG Bavaria

Public Opinion... . - «+ + + + + « « 155 Feb. 22, 49
Schwenk, Edmund H., attorney, Legal Division,

OMGUS

Property Restitution . . cee ee eee 152 Jam. 11, 49
Scott, Maj. Gordon L. C., US secretary, Bipartite

Secretariat

Organization for European Economic Cooperation . 163 June 14, 49
Settel, Arthur, deputy director, Public Information

Office, OMGUS (Frankfurt)

Telling What ERP Does .... +... . . 166 July 26,49
Sorenson, Margaret, adviser, GYA Section, OPOT

Division, EUCOM Hq.

GYA Christmas Plans... ~~... . . . . December 49

New Clothes from Old... . . . . . . . . 159 Apr. 19, 49

Progress in GYA . . . 164 June 28, 49
Spratt, Sgt. Frank K., writer, Public Information Divi-

sion, EUCOM (Rear), Frankfurt

Highway Patrol . . 5 168 Aug, 23, 49
Szluk, Peter F., chief, Training Section, Office of the

Personnel Officer, OMGUS

Efficiency Raling . . . . «ss. s+... 162 May 31, 49

Employee Training . . 164 June 28, 49
Taggart, Paul F., chief, Food, Agriculture and For-

estry Branch, OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden

Economy in Farming. ..... + + 169 Sept. 6, 49
Taylor, Brig. Gen. Telford, chief of counsel for war

crimes, OCCWC, OMGUS

Nuremberg Trials... ... +... +... 162 May 31,49
Van Wagoner, Murray D., US state commissioner for

Bavaria and director, OMG Bavaria

Bavaria's Progress |. . . « ++ 4 4 4 « December 49
Greater Home Rule... ... . . . . . 155 Feb. 22, 49
Preparing for Citizenship... + + + 162 May 31, 49
Welt, Sir Cecil, economic adviser, ccc (BE)

The German Economy . . Bo November 49

Welty, Fred W., press officer, Bipartite Control Of-

fice Section, Public Information Office, OMGUS

(Frankfurt)

Inland Shipping... 7. 7 eee + 159 Apr. 19, 49
Wilkinson, Lawrence, economics adviser, OMGUS

Improved Consumption Level Provided in Bizonal

Food Plans . . 164 June 28, 49
Yahraes, Marjorie A, ow Staif writer, Information Bul-

letin

Glass and Ceramics (industry series). . . . . . 163 June 14, 49

Leather Industry (industry series). . . . . . . 166 July 26, 49

New Ideas for Women. . - December 49

Textile and Clothing Industry’ (industry ‘series) | . November 49

Zietlow, Carl L., liaison representative in OMGUS
for International Council of Christians and Jews
Inter-Faith Councils... ..... . 164 June 28, 49

75 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 79 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting March 17

The 20th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held March 17
at the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were
Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French High
Commissioner (Chairman), Sir Brian Ro-
bertson, United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner, and Mr. John J. McCloy, United
States High Commissioner.

In opening the session, Mr. Francois-
Poncet, in his capacity as chairman, con-
gratulated Sir Brian Robertson upon his
appointment to the high and delicate func-
tions he would assume in the near future
in the Middle East. At the same time he
expressed the regrets which this departure,
scheduled for June, would cause to the
other high commissioners. He stressed that
General Robertson, who had been in Ger-
many for almost five years, knew better
than anyone else the developments of the
problems which face the High Commission.

Mr. Francois-Poncet paid tribute to the
clarity and penetrating judgment and to
the industry of General Robertson as well
as to his scrupulous attention to detail in
the performance of his task, to the perfect
courtesy of his manner, to the loyalty and
energy of his character and to his per-
manent concern for solidarity which, above
all, unites the Allies. General Robertson,
Mr. Francois-Poncet said, rendered honor
to his country and to the name which he
bore. He added that the High Commission
wished him good luck for the continuation
of his career.

The French High Commissioner concluded
by assuring in advance General Robert-
son's successor, Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, of
the sympathy and devotion of the French
and US High Commissioners.

Associating himself with Mr. Francois-
Poncet’s remarks, Mr. McCloy referred to
the high qualities of statesmanship dis-
played by Sir Brian Robertson in the serv-
ice of his country in Germany. In his
new appointment, Sir Brian Robertson
would be at the nexus between east and
west. There, he would undoubtedly find
problems which had been familiar to him
in Germany. It was a matter for great
satisfaction that so clear a head and so
firm a hand would now take part in guid-
ing the destinies of that part of the world.

Adding a personal tribute, Mr. McCloy
said he would feel very deeply the
loss of personal contact with Sir Brian
Robertson. In expressing his well-wishes
for the future, he was expressing senti-
ments shared by every member of the
United States staff.

Thanking his colleagues, Sir Brian Ro-
bertson said that he found it difficult to
reply. Such kind words were quite over-
whelming. It would, perhaps, have been
a natural thing if he had left Germany
when the change was made from Military
Government to the Allied High Com-
mission. It was all the more natural for
this change to be made now, after he had
been five years in Germany. “I shall
never,” he added, ‘‘have a better job than
this, I shall never have a better staff, and
I shall never have better colleagues to
work with.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The Council:

(1) Had its first discussion of draft
proposals prepared by the Allied legal
advisers for the harmonization of the
texts of US/UK Military Government Laws
No. 75. It is intended that these laws,
which provide for the reorganization of
the German coal and iron and steel indus-
tries, shall be replaced by an Allied High
Commission law to be applied throughout
the federal territory. The proposed new
law will contain provision for consultation
between Allied and federal authorities and
for the active participation of the federal
authorities in its implementation. The form
of the implementing action will largely
determine the final structure of the coal
and iron and steel industries. Useful
progress was made today and the study
will be continued at the next meeting of
the Council.

(2) Commenced study of proposals, made
by the Military Security Board and the
legal advisers, for a law which will con-
stitute the general legislative framework
within which will be exercised the prohi-
bitions and limitations imposed on Ger-
many, in accordance with paragraph 2(a)
of the Occupation Statute, in order to
prevent her rearmament in the field of
industrial activities. It is intended that the
new law shall replace Control Council
Law No. 43 and shall implement the inter-
governmental agreement on prohibited and
limited industries, signed at Washington
on April 14, 1949, except in the matter of
atomic energy which has already been
dealt with in Allied High Commission Law
No. 22. During initial examination on
March 17, attention was directed toward
establishing the responsibility of the Mili-
tary Security Board in implementing the
law, and towards aligning the law with
the principles set out in the prohibited and
limited industries agreement and the Pe-
tersberg Protocol. The text is to be further
studied by experts before being considered
again by the Council.

(3) Signed an Allied High Commission
law on the legal position of displaced per-
sons and refugees. (See text in “Laws and
Regulations."’)

(4) Signed an Allied High Commission
law on the repeal of legislation on poli-
tical parties, non-political associations,
meetings and processions. (See text in
“Laws and Regulations.'’)

(5) Signed an Allied High Commission
law depriving of effect in the territory of
the Federal Republic the provisions of
Control Council Law No. 30, which pro-
vides for a tax on sugar. (See text in “Laws
and Regulations.’’)

(6) Decided to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg on March 23.

HICOM Meeting March 23

The 2ist meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held March 23
at the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were
Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French High
Commissioner (Chairman), Sir Brian Ro-
bertson, UK High Commissioner, and Maj.
Gen. George P. Hays, US Deputy High
Commissioner, acting for Mr. John J.
McCloy.

76

The Council:

(1) Deferred discussion of a draft Allied
High Commission law for the reorganiza-
tion of the German coal and iron and steel
industries. The deferment will enable
governments to complete a study of the
present draft proposals in their relation
to the existing US-UK Military Govern-
ment Laws No. 75.

(2) Discussed and clarified the extent
of Allied control over the German steel
industry which is provided for in Article
VIII of the agreement on prohibited and
limited industries reached at Washington
in April 1949, This is a matter on which
the federal chancellor has requested clari-
fication in a letter which will now be an-
swered in the light of the decision reached
by the Council.

(3) Approved an amendment to Allied
High Commission Directive No. 2 which
provides that translations of state imple-
menting regulations should be prepared only
in the language of the state commissioner,
instead of in both English and French. This
amendment will ease translation require-
ments on Land (state) governments. (Text
in ‘Laws and Regulations."’)

(4) Approved an Allied High Com-
mission decision specifying the Decarteli-
zation and Industrial Deconcentration Group
(DIDEG) of the High Commission as the
agency responsible for the implementation
of French Military Government Ordinance
No. 236, British Military Government Law
No, 24, and United States Military Govern-
ment Law No. 24. This military Govern-
ment legislation concerns deconcentration
of the former Reich-owned motion picture
industry. The decision is retroactive to
Sept. 21, 1949. (Text in “Laws and
Regulations.'’) .

(5) Agreed to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg on March 30.

HICOM Meeting March 30

The 22nd meeting of the Allied High
Commission was held March 30 at the
Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner (Chairman), Sir Brian Robertson,
United Kingdom High Commissioner, and
Mr. John J. McCloy, United States High
Commissioner.

The Council:

(1) Agreed on a regulation to implement
Allied High Commission Law No. 10 which
relates to the expulsion of undesirable
persons from the federal territory. The
regulation will be published after veri-
fication of texts by legal experts.

(2) Continued its examination of pro-
posals made by the Military Security Board
and the legal advisers and first presented
at the 20th meeting, for a law which will
constitute the general legislative frame-
work within which will be exercised the
prohibitions and limitations imposed on
Germany in order to prevent her rearma-
ment in the field of industrial activities.
The new law will replace Control Council
Law No. 43 and will provide the necessary
legislation for the Military Security Board’
to implement the intergovernmental Agree-
ment on Prohibited and Limited Industries
which was signed at Washington on
April 14, 1949.

Since the 20th meeting was held, tech-
nical and political experts have clarified
the texts, taking into account the principles
of the Prohibited and Limited Industries
Agreement and the agreements recorded
in the Petersberg Protocol of Nov. 22, 1949.

MAY 1950

--- Page 80 ---
The council reached agreement March 30
in principle on the text of the law and on
the schedules of articles, products, instal-
lations and equipment which will be sub-
ject to control. It decided that the law
would be published in the near future
together with regulations which are now
being completed by the Military Security
Board and which will set out methods of
control of the various categories of mate-
rials defined in the law.

(3) Agreed on the text of a letter to be
sent to the federal chancellor in answer
to his question concerning the extent and
form of control to be exercised by the
Military Security Board in relation to the
steel industry. The answer includes a
definition of ‘‘the steel industry,’ which
is to be subject to control under the terms
of articles VIII and IX of the prohibited
and limited industries agreement signed
in April 1949, Details of this definition
will be published after the letter has been
received by the federal chancellor.

(4) Took note of a report by the Combin-
ed Travel Board of the Allied High Com-
mission on measures already taken to
liberalize and make more flexible the
regulations and procedure for the grant
of entry permits and the entrance of
tourists and other travelers to Germany.
The report was called for by the council
following its decision on Feb. 9, 1950, to
transfer travel control to the German
federal authorities by Jan. 1, 1951. It was
observed that present arrangements for the
documentation of visitors to Germany had
been simplified and that simplified proce-
dure had also been introduced for non-
Germans who had guarantees of work and
accommodation and wished to take up
residence in Germany. The council direct-
ed Allied economic experts to report on
the factors which are impeding develop-
ment of the tourist trade in Germany, and
instructed the Combined Travel Board
further to liberalize and simplify travel
into and out of Germany.

(5) Noted the measures taken in the
French, British and United States Zones
to bring restitution operations to an end.
Observing that the right to restitution of
looted property would, nevertheless, still
persist, the council directed property con-
trol experts to report on the implications
of ending these operations and to consider
means for dealing with clearly restitutable
property which is subsequently located.

(6) Decided to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg, near Bonn, on April 6, 1950,
when the proposed law for the reorganiza-
tion of the German coal and iron and steel
industries will be discussed. It was also
decided provisionally to hold a meeting
in Berlin on April 20, 1950.

Ruhr Authority Meeting March 24

The 12th meeting of the council of the
International Authority for the Ruhr was
concluded March 24 at Duesseldorf.

The council considered the situation
with respect to the allocation of coal for
the second quarter of 1950 and agreed
to confirm the global allocation previously
made by it, but noted with approval the
quality breakdown of this figure submitted
in conformity with the proceedings of the
Coal Committee in Geneva. Further, the
council decided to make a study of Ger-
man domestic requirements for solid fuels,
by quantity and quality.
mae council agreed upon a procedure for

allocation of solid fuels from the Ruhr

MAY 1950

for the third quarter of 1950, This proce-
dure is calculated to enable the council to
make its allocations on the basis of the
fullest possible information relating to
availabilities and requirements by quan-
tities and qualities. In this connection, in-
formation will be presented to the council
on the total availability of solid fuels
from western Germany, broken down as
between the Ruhr and elsewhere; on the
requirements of the importing countries;
on the comparison between both these
sets of figures and those contained in the
1950/51 program submitted by the Federal
German Republic to the OEEC; and on
any proposals to export Ruhr solid fuels
to non-ECE countries, after the require-
ments of ECE countries have been met.

In connection with a report of the secre-
tariat concerning the present access to Ger-
man steel from the Ruhr, the German repre-
sentative called to the council's attention
the potential needs of Germany for steel
in the next several years. He stressed also
the developments which must be anticipat-
ed after the end of the Marshall Plan. The
question whether the authority was requir-
ed, under the Ruhr Agreement and existing
circumstances, to undertake the allocation
of Ruhr steel as between export and in-
ternal consumption was discussed.

The council instructed the secretariat to
prepare a study covering the obligation to
allocate, and the need for the allocation of
steel under Article 14 and on the situation
in Europe with respect to steel markets.

The council renewed its consideration
under Article 15 of the Ruhr Agreement
of the question of alleged discriminatory
practices resulting from the existing Ruhr
coal price schedules. It was informed of
the intention of the competent German
authorities to establish the principle that
prices for Ruhr coal would, from April 1,
be equalized for all importing countries.
On the question of the differential between
prices for export and those for internal
distribution of Ruhr coal, the council
agreed to carry this item of the agenda
over to the next meeting.

Mr. Poher presented to the council a
memorandum concerning rail freight tariff
rates of solid fuels exported from the
Ruhr and iron ores destined for the Ruhr.
The council decided to consider this matter
at its next meeting.

A resolution was adopted to formalize
the exchange of information between the
authority and the OEEC.

A request by the International Trade
Union Committee for the Ruhr for parti-
cipation in the work of the Authority was
considered by the council. A reply was
approved asking for a more precise state-
ment of the committee's request which
the representatives on the council would
transmit to their governments.

Laws and Regulations

HICOM Law on Legal Position
of Displaced Persons and Refugees

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacts as follows:
PartI
General Provisions
Article 1

In every case in which the introductory
law to the German civil code provides
that the national law shall apply. the

FF

status of a displaced person or refugee
shall be determined with reference to the
law of the state in which he has his ordi-
nary residence, or had his ordinary resi-
dence, at the relevant time or, in the
absence of an ordinary residence, the law
of the state in which he is, or was at the
relevant time.
Article 2

Article 1 shall not apply to matters
within the scope of articles 24 and 25 of
the introductory law to the German civil
code.

Article 3

In civil cases which are governed by
the sixth book of the German code of
civil procedure, the provisions of that
code shall apply to displaced persons and
refugees as though they were German
nationals.

Nothing in this article shall affect the
application of Law No. 13 of the Allied
High Commission.

Article 4
Section 10 of Control Council Law No, 16
(marriage law) shall not apply to displac-
ed persons and refugees.

Article 5
Any German court or authority may
accept such evidence as it considers proper
for the proof of any matter requiring to
be proved for the purpose of part 1 of
this law.
Part II

Validation of Certain Marriages

Article 6

Marriage between displaced persons or
refugees solemnized in Germany between
May 8, 1945 and Aug. 1, 1948, before a
minister of religion in accordance with
the rites of his religion, which are in-
valid because the formalities prescribed by
German law or Control Council legislation
were not observed, are hereby declared
to have the same effect as from the date
of solemnization as if they had been
celebrated in accordance with sections
11—15a of Control Council Law No. 16,
upon registration at the chief register
office (Hauptstandesamt) at Hamburg.

Article 7

On application of either of the parties
to a marriage referred to in article 6 or, if
both are dead, on the application of a
child of both parties, and upon production
of a certificate of marriage signed by the
minister before whom the marriage was
solemnized, or of- an extract from a
marriage register recording such marriage,
the registrar of the chief register office
(der Standesbeamte des Hauptstandesamtes)
at Hamburg shall register the marriage.
Every such application must be lodged at
the said office before Jan. 1, 1951.

Article 8

Where one of the parties to a marriage
referred to in article 6 of this law has
subsequently, but prior to registration of
such marriage, entered into a new marriage
with a third party in accordance with
sections 11-15a of Control Council law
No. 16, the registration of the former
marriage pursuant to articles 6 and 7 shall
validate the marriage only up to the time
of conclusion of the second marriage, and
the religious marriage shall be deemed to
have been dissolved as of the date when
the second marriage is performed.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 81 ---
Article 9

No criminal proceedings under section 67
of the Personenstandsgesetz shall be in-
stituted against any minister of religion
for having solemnized a marriage as speci-
fied in article 6.

Part II
Firal Provisions
Article 10

For the purposes of this law:

(a) The term ‘‘displaced persons and
refugees’’ shall mean persons who are of
non-German or indeterminate nationality,
who reside within the territory of the
Federal Republic and have been certified
as being within the mandate of the inter-
national organization entrusted by the
United Nations with responsibilities for
displaced persons and refugees.

(b) The term ‘'Germany”’ shall mean the
states of Baden, Bavaria, Bremen, Branden-
burg, Hansestadt Hamburg, Hesse, Lower
Saxony, Mecklenburg-Pomerania, North
Rhine-Westphalia, Rhine Palat'nate, Sax-
ony, Saxony-Anhalt, Schleswig-Holstein,
Thuringia, Wuerttemberg-Baden, Wuert-
temberg-Hohenzollern and Greater Berlin.

Article 11

The appropriate federal authorities may
make regulations for carrying out this law.

Article 12

The German text of this law shall be
the official text.

HICOM Law on Repeal of Legislation
on Political Parties,

Non-Political Associations,

Meetings and Processions

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion enacts as follows:

Article 1

The following legislation is hereby re-
pealed:

1. British Military Government Ordinance
No. 8 (Regulation of Public Discussion and
other Public Activities).

2. British Military Government Ordinance
No. 9 (Public Meetings for Non-political
Purposes).

3. British Military Government Ordinance
No. 10 (amendment 2) — (Political Meet-
ings).

4, British Military Government Ordinance
No. 11 (Public Processions).

5. British Military Government Ordinance
No. 12 (amended) — (Formation of Political
Parties).

6. British Military Government Ordinance
No. 143, amendment (2) to Ordinance No. 12
(Formation of Political Parties).

7. British Military Government Ordinance
No, 122 (Associations and Meetings).

8. Ordinance No. 6 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief in Germany restoring the
rights of trade unions in the French Zone
of Occupation.

Decree No. 6 of the Administrator Gen-
eral implementing Ordinance No. 6 as
amended by Decrees Nos. 72 and 197 of the
Administrator General and by Decree No. 91
of the French Commander-in-Chief in Ger-
many.

Ordinance No. 180 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief in Germany implementing
Crdinance No. 6 so far as the creation of
local and provincial groups of trade unions
is concerned.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

9. Ordinance No. 22 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief in Germany reestablishing
the right of association in the French Zone
of Occupation, as amended by Ordinance
No. 179.

Decree No. 25 of the Administrator Gen-
eral implementing Ordinance No. 22, as
amended by Decree No. 90 of the French
Commander-in-Chief in Germany.

10. Ordinance No. 23 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief in Germany regarding the
formation of democratic and anti-Nazi poii-
tical parties, as amended by Ordinance
No. 181.

Decree No. 26 of the Administrator Gen-
eral implementing Ordinance No. 23 as
amended by Decree No. 92 of the French
Commander-in-Chief in Germany.

11. Ordinance No, 25 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief in Germany authorizing
the formation of youth associations in the
French Zone of occupation, as amended by
Ordinance No. 179.

Decree No. 28 of the Administrator Gen-
eral implementing Ordinance No. 25, as
amended by Decree No. 90 of the French
Commander-in-Chief in Germany.

12. Ordinance No. 33 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief in Germany authorizing
the foundation of sporting associations in
the French Zone of Occupation, completed
by Ordinance No. 151 and amended by
Ordinance No. 179.

Decree No. 40 of the Administrator Gen-
eral implementing Ordinance No. 33, as
amended by Decrees Nos. 46 and 90 of the
French Commander-in-Chief in Germany.

HICOM Law
Depriving of Effect the Provisions
of Control Council Law No. 30

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacts as follows:

Article 1
The provisions of Control Council law
No. 30, “tax on sugar,'’ are hereby depri-

ved of effect in the territory of the
Federal Republic.

HICOM Decision
Decartelization and Industrial
Deconcentration

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission decides as follows:

Article 1

The Decartelization and Industrial De-
concentration Group of the Allied High
Commission shall be the agency respon-
sible for the implementation of French
Military Government Ordinance No. 236,
British Military Government Law No, 24
and United States Military Government
Law No. 24.

Article 2

This decision shall be deemed to have
become effective on Sept. 21, 1949.

Amendment of Allied High Commis-
sion Directive No. 2

Paragraph 2 of Directive No. 2 Review
of Land (state) constitutions, amendments
thereof and Land legislation shall be
amended as follows:

Each state government shall deliver to
the state commissioner for its state,
promptly after the adoption of any con-
stitution of such state or any amendment
thereof or the passage of any law, fifty-

78

five (55) copies each of the German text
of such constitution, amendment or law,
and English and French translations thereof.

Each state government shall deliver to
the state commissioner for its state,
promptly after the adoption of any im-
plementing regulation, fifty-five (55) copies
each of the German text of such imple-
menting regulation and translation thereof
in the language of the state commissioner.

Five copies of the German text shall
be certified to be accurate by the appro-
priate state minister or an official desig-
nated by him for that purpose.

Statements and Speeches

Control over German Steel Industry

In a letter to the German federal chancel-
lor, the Allied High Commission has defin-
ed the principles which govern its control
of the German steel industry.

The letter, dated March 30, was sent in
reply to a request by the federal chancellor
for clarification on the application of Allied
controls to the German steel industry. It
also provides an interpretation of the term
“steel'' used in Articles VIII and IX of the
Washington Agreement on Prohibited and
Limited Industries which was signed in
April 1949, by representatives of France,
Great Britain and the United States. This
term was not defined in the agreement
itself. (For text of agreement, see Informa-
tion Bulletin, Issue No. 160 of May 3, 1949.)

After referring to the “careful study”
which had followed the chancellor's request,
the High Commission's letter continues:

“The High Commission, in considering
your letter, observed that its responsibility
in controlling any phase of the German
steel industry did not rest solely upon the
Prohibited and Limited Industries Agree-
ment. Under the Occupation Statute, the
High Commission has the broader respon-
sibility of imposing such controls on pro-
duction capacity developments as it deems
necessary in the interests of security.

“In particular, the High Commission
considers that it has the responsibility to
ensure that the steel industry, including
steel processing, should not lead to the
development of a war potential, that the
installation of new equipment for the prim-
ary processing of steel, or of rolling mills
and forges, would be dangerous if it were
not justified by peaceful ends, or if it
implied an exorbitant extension of the
means of primary processing out of pro-
portion with the authorized level of pro-
duction of crude steel. It is the intention
of the High Commission to apply controls
no more strictly than is considered essential.

“The High Commission has decided to
require the licensing of blast furnaces and
of equipment for the production of crude
steel, that is to say, produced under present-
day technical conditions by: Thomas con-
verters, Martin furnaces, Bessemer con-
verters and electric furnaces.

“The High Commission has also decided
that it is necessary to control by measures
to be determined by the Military Security
Board certain equipment for primary pro-
cessing of special importance of which
particulars will be given you in the near
future.

“The High Commission has no intention
of intervening in the division among exist-
ing enterprises of the total production of
11,100,000 tons of crude steel fixed by the
Washington Agreement for the whole
federal territory..."

MAY 1950

--- Page 82 ---
Schleswig-Holstein Law

At its meeting on March 23, the Council
of the Allied High Commission decided not
to disapprove the Schleswig-Holstein state
electoral law passed by the state legis-
lature on Feb. 27. It did, however, define
its attitude toward the electoral law and
its views in this respect were transmitted
to the minister-president of Schleswig-Hol-
stein by the UK state commissioner, Mr.
W. Asbury.

At its meeting:

“The council noted that in dealing with
the question of state civil servants becom-
ing members of the legislature, the law
merely requires that these civil servants
must obtain leave of absence from their
official duties. The council believes that
it would be wiser to lay down a stronger
condition, namely, that civil servants who
are elected to the legislature must actually
retire from the service. The council, how-
ever, does not propose to intervene on this
point, since a similar question is under
consideration by the federal government
and the council is content that the matter
should be dealt with at that level.

“The council also noted that the law
requires that political parties (other than
those representing national minorities)
must have candidates in all constituencies
in order to benefit from the state list and
that electoral alliances in the shape of
combined nomination lists are forbidden.
It would appear that this restriction on the
freedom of political parties might well be
held to be contrary to the provisions of
the Basic Law. Here again, however, the
council does not propose to intervene,
since it is content to leave this matter for
decision by the German courts."

The council's decision not to disapprove
the law has been followed by repeal of the
regional commissioner's Ordinance No. 1
on public servants in the state of Schles-
wig-Holstein, in order to allow the law to
take effect.

Restitution of Currencies and Securities

An extension of the time limit during
which owners of certain types of non-Ger-
man currencies or securities may apply for
recognition of their title was announced
March 24 by the Allied High Commission.

The High Commission is prepared to
consider applications not only from eligible
categories of persons outside Germany but
also from bona fide victims of Nazi persecu-
tion resident in Germany.

Text of the announcement follows:

1. Under the terms stated in a press
release issued jointly on Sept. 1, 1948, by
the United States, United Kingdom and
French Military Governments, all persons
not subject to Control Council Law No. 5
who own non-German currencies or securi-
ties not of German issue held by the Mili-
tary Governments under the provisions of
Military Government Law No. 53, were
invited to submit application for the recog-
nition of their title to such currencies or
securities. Applications could be filed with
the appropriate office of Military Govern-
ment up to Dec. 31, 1948,

2. Under an agreement of the Allied
High Commission the time limit for sub-
mission of such applications has been
extended to June 30, 1950. Applications
which have already been submitted need
not be repeated.

3. In announcing this extended period for
submission of applications, the Allied High
Commission draws attention to the fact

MAY 1950

that persons (natural and juristic) in the
following categories are included within
the definition of ‘persons not subject to
Control Council Law No. 5."

(a) German citizens outside Germany, if
they submit proof that they have been
residing outside Germany since before
Sept. 1, 1939 and did not aid Germany during
the war. A certificate from a governmental
authority in the country or countries of
residence establishing the above must be
submitted with the application.

(b) Corporations organized under the laws
of any country other than Germany, regard-
less of the percentage of German interest,
if any, in such corporations. Corporations
should present evidence of the amount of
non-German interest.

4, The Allied High Commission also
announces that it is prepared to consider
applications from victims of Nazi persecu-
tion resident in Germany, provided evidence
is submitted:

(a) That such persons were deprived of
liberty pursuant to any German law, decree
or regulation discriminating against reli-
gious or racial groups or other organiza-
tions, and

(b) That such persons did not enjoy full
rights of German citizenship at any time
between Sept. 1, 1939, and the abrogation
of such law, decree or regulation, and

(c) That such persons did not act against
the Allied cause during the war, and

(d) that their cases merit favorable consi-
deration.

5. Consideration is also to be given to
applications from corporations in Germany
which are 25 percent or more beneficially
owned by United Nations nationals or
victims of Nazi persecution as defined in
Paragraph 4 above, or which present proof
of treatment by Germany as enemy or under
enemy control.

6. Filing of a claim with the Allied High
Commission does not imply recognition of
title, or that title will subsequently be
recognized. Moreover, recognition of title
by the Allied High Commission does not
imply recognition of the applicant's claim
by the country of issue or the current
validity of securities or currencies in the
country of issue.

7. A person desiring recognition of title
to securities or currencies will be required
to submit evidence to demonstrate exclu-
sive ownership of the currencies and securi-
ties involved and the freedom of such

currencies and securities from claims for

external or internal restitutions.

8. External restitution claims are those
filed by governments eligible for restitution
to cover property removed from such
countries during their occupation by Ger-
many. Exemption from external restitution
may be shown by submission of proof that
the property has been owned exclusively
since Sept. 1, 1939, and was not removed
from a country occupied by the Germans
during the German occupation. Internal
restitution claims are those filed by persons
for recovery of property taken from them
under duress in Germany for racial, reli-
gious or political reasons at any time after
Jan. 30, 1933. Exemption from internal
restitution may be shown by proof of con-
tinuous ownership since that date.

9. The Allied High Commission has
further agreed to permit removal from
Germany of foreign currencies and foreign
securities title to which has been recog-
nized when the recognized owner is not a
resident of Germany.

79

10. Applications should be addressed in
the.US Zone of Occupation, to:

Office of the United States High Com-

missioner for Germany,

Office of Economic Affairs,

Finance Division,

Foreign Securities Section,

APO 742,

In the British Zone of Occupation, to:
Hq Investigation Branch

(Office of the Financial Adviser),

c/o Assistant Commissioner's Office,
Duesseldorf, BAOR 4,

In the French Zone of Occupation, to:

Caisse Centrale des Titres

Etrangers,
Landau, Pfalz.

Statement by Dr. C. D. Winning

The following statement was_ issued
March 6 by Dr. Charles D. Winning, chief
of the Public Affairs Division, OLC Bavaria:

On the 4th of February, 1950, at the
request of Landtag (state legislature)
committees, I presented the official opinion
of the Office of the Land (state) Commis-
sioner for Bavaria concerning a draft of
a proposed law on the Organization of
Elementary Schools for Bavaria. The opinion
which I read was given wide publicity in
more than 300 Bavarian papers, and, in
general, received fair treatment and in
some influential papers favorable editorial
comment.

Despite the clear presentation made by
the press in general, some news stories,
public speakers and radio comments have
so distorted or slanted the facts as to
create wrong impressions in the minds of
those who read or heard them. I am not
implying that this misrepresentation was
wilfully done, but I believe that in the
interest of clarity and accuracy, a few
direct statements of fact are necessary.

The first fact is that I was merely an-
swering the question of the Landtag (state
legislature) concerning the proposed law.
No orders were given in the reply; no
demands were made; no effort was
exerted to impose any system of edu-
cation upon the Bavarian schools. Those
sections of the law which were regarded
as unfair under the Bavarian Constitution
were specifically indicated.

The second fact is that I stated that
“The Bavarian Constitution provides for
the establishment of confessional schools,
and under the Constitution this right rust
be defended.” It is difficult to understand
how that statement can be interpreted
as an attack upon the confessional schools.
It is, in fact, exactly the opposite. The
legal relationship between the state and
the church in Bavaria is made perfectly
clear by the Constitution and the Bavarian
Concordat. I attempted to indicate only
wherein the proposed law appeared to
ignore that legal relationship.

The third fact is that we believe the
law is discriminatory in several parti-
culars and that it does violate the Bavarian
Constitution which provides, generally
speaking, for equal treatment of all per-
sons regardless of religious belief or race.

The fourth fact is that we did not in
any way so much as suggest that teachers
should be made Gemeinde Beamle (com-
munity officials) or that elementary and
vocational schools are solely the responsi-
bility of the Gemeinden (communities).
The entire educational and school system

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 83 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Readers’ Evaluation of the U. S. Overt
Publications, Report No. 2, Series No. 2,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Jan. 6, 1950.

West German Republic Vs. East German
Government, Report No.3, Series No. 2,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Jan. 18, 1950.

Der Aussenhandel der Bundesrepublik
Deutschland, Teil 1, Zusammenfassende
Uebersichten (The Foreign Trade of the
German Federal Republic, Part 1, Su-
mary Statements), Bizonal Statistical Office,
Wiesbaden, January 1950.

RIAS and its Listeners in Western Ber-
lin, Report No. 4, Series No. 2, Feb. 8, 1950.

Internationale Arbeitsmitteilungen (In-
ternational Trade News), II-51, OLA HICOG,
Feb. 24, 1950.

Twentieth Report for the Public Ad-
visory Board, ECA (Washington), Feb. 28,
1950,

European Recovery Program,
Report of the O. E.E.C. (Paris), February
1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 214,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), March 16, 1950.

Second | Copies of Instructions listed in the

Industry Highlights Report, No, 21, PRD
HICOG, March 15, 1950.

Reactions Toward the Wuerttemberg-
Baden Denazification Affair, Report No. 8,
Series No.2, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim),
March 17, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 22, PRD
HICOG, March 21, 1950.

Press Reaction to Radio Frequency
Reallocation Pursuant to Copenhagen
Plan, March 15, 1950, Special Report No. 4,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), March 22,
1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 13, OEA, CCG (BE), March 23, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 215,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), March 23, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 23, PRD
HICOG, March 28, 1950.

Information Bulletin may be ob-
tained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters.

Germans View the U.S. Reorientation
Program, I, Extent of Receptivity to
American Ideas, Report No. 10, Series
No. 2, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), March
30, 1950.

Germans View the U.S. Reorientation
Program, II. Reactions to American De-
mocratizations Efforts, Report No. 11,
Series No, 2, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim),
March 30, 1950.

Germans View the U.S. Reorientation
Program, Ill. Opinions on the Cultural
Exchange Program, Report No. 12, Series
No. 2, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), March
30, 1950.

Combined Steel Group, Press Survey
No. 13. Week ending April 1, 1950,

Industry Highlights Report, No. 24, PRD
HICOG, April 5, 1950.

Information Bulletin, PRD HICOG, April
5, 1950.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 218,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Apr. 13, 1950,

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey,
Nos. 60 to 79, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim),
March 16 to April 14, 1950.

is and should be under the supervision
of the state, but the law is vague in that
many matters of importance are left to
the as yet undisclosed administrative
regulations which in turn might result
in delegation of excessive powers to the
executive.

The fifth fact is that the Constitution
provides municipalities the right of self-
government within the limits of the law,
but those functions of the elementary
and vocational schools that fall within
the sphere of local self-government appear
to be disregarded in some respects by the
proposed law.

A concluding fact is that the comments
on the proposed law were made at the
request of the Landtag Committees, and
that the comments were all designed in an
effort to fulfill the Land Commissioner's
special responsibility in respect to educa-
tion and to maintain respect for the Basic
Law and the Bavarian Land Constitution.

Official Announcements

Correspondents to Go
On Reimbursable Basis

A procedure placing accredited cor-
respondents in the US Occupation Zone of
Germany on a reimbursable basis effec-
tive July 1, 1950, was announced by Ralph
Nicholson, director of the Office of Public
Affairs.

“The action is in accord with a tripartite
agreement requiring press personnel in
Germany on and after July 1, 1950, to
pay the full cost of accommodation, serv-
ices and other facilities provided through
requisitioned or mandatory demands on
German authorities,’ Mr. Nicholson stated.

“Therefore, houses occupied by press
personnel in the American Zone will be
placed under nominal requisition on July 1,
1950, and tenants will be required to pay
the full cost of this housing, including

INFORMATION BULLETIN

rent, servants, electricity, gas, water, fuel
and maintenance in Deutsche marks.

“Present practice of assignment and
occupancy of requisitioned houses will be
continued until July 1, 1951, except that
assignments will be to organizations rather
than to individuals.

“Organizations may negotiate private
leases with German owners through pro-
per authorities under derequisitioning
agreements at any time prior to July 1,
1951. These leases must be approved by
the administrative officer of HICOG be-
fore concluded. No transfer of leases or
sub-leasing may be made unless authorized
by HICOG. Requisitioned or Quarter-
master furniture may be purchased or
rented by occupants subject to approval
by parties or agencies concerned.

“Other provisions of this program grant
dollar facilities to correspondents on a
reimbursable basis until April 1, 1951,
‘and thereafter so long as conditions
warrant,’ except that purchases in the
European Exchange Service ‘continue on
the present basis;' commissary purchases
and APO privileges are scheduled to ter-
minate October 1, 1950. Special provisions
are made for the welfare of press clubs.

“Accreditation, travel facilities and
travel orders are affirmed as the respon-
sibility of Public Information Division,
Headquarters, European Command.

“The procedure for correspondents to
obtain housing in Bonn is through Ger-
man channels in that area, but dollar
facilities will be extended correspondents
of American information media in that
area on the same basis as in Frankfurt
or Berlin.

“The same procedure which will apply
to correspondents in Frankfurt will be
adopted in Berlin, ‘except in sudi instances
where conditions make it impractical.’
No conditions are known to exist at the
present time to make it impractical to
extend the zonal procedure fully to Berlin.”

80

Border Crossing and Customs Control

Change No. 1 Circular No. 68, Hq
EUCOM, subject same as above, dated
April 25, 1949, is quoted for all concerned:

1. Movements of Property and Effects
Having General Authorization.

Persons subject to this circular may, by
transporting such property on their persons
or in their possession, import into the US
area of control from outside the Western
Area or export from the US area of control
to any point outside the Western Area, the
following property:

(1) Ordinary personal effects.

(2) German currency in an amount not in
excess of 40 Deutsche marks.

(3) Currency other than German currency,
the aggregate amount of which does not
exceed 100 US dollars or the equivalent at
the legal rates of exchange.

(4) United States Postal Money Orders,
checks (including travelers checks), drafts,
and letters of credit, if such checks, drafts,
and letters are expressed in currency other
than German currency.

(5) Tobacco in a quantity not in excess
of 400 cigarettes, 50 cigars and one pound
of smoking tobacco.

2. Movements of Property and Effects
Requiring Special Authorization.

(1) Property classified as RESTRICTED
may be imported or exported only when
properly licensed for such import or export.

(2) The movement of firearms and am-
munition into and out of Germany by
individuals is authorized only in accord-
ance with the provisions of Circular 87,
Hq EUCOM, 17 May 1949, as changed.

(3) Property and personal effects may be
imported and exported under the provisions
of Circular 76, Hq EUCOM, Aug. 26, 1948,
as changed, when processed and moved in
other than the personal possession of the
owner.

MAY 1950

--- Page 84 ---
836 Austrian youngsters learn agri-
cultural techniques through 4-H Clubs.

Vocational ‘Training for Youth of Eurepe

ning youth to take its place in the reviving industries of Europe is an important
ph of the European Recovery Program. Apprentices are being schooled in every
branch of industry and agriculture to help their nations to greater productivity.
Government expert (above) shows Turkish boys how to service heavy new farm
equipment. Students in Greek trade school (below) learn some 40 different trades.

British youths learn mining (above),
while Trieste students learn fishing.

--- Page 85 ---
a: a ee A

21
22
23
24
25
26
27

28
29
30
31