--- Page 2 ---
NFORMATION

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
us HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

Fire Marshal -
© for ’

--- Page 3 ---
{ J
Dr. George N. Shuster, US state

commissioner for Bavaria, greets
one of young Finnish delegates.

Ui

Flags of the free world are displayed in procession which opened Bavarian Youth
Ring's recent spectacular Munich meeting for a united Europe. (PRB OLCB photos)

Bavaria’s International Look

Four thousand were invited, Sixty thousand tried to come. Twelve thousand, a
capacity audience, managed to attend. Thus the Bavarian Youth Ring's recent day-
long Munich rally became a reality.

Internationalism was the theme of the meeting. And the idea of a united Europe
was the predominant thought throughout the day's activities. Young people from
Finland, Greece, England, Eire, Italy, Holland, Norway, Austria, Portugal, Sweden
and Spain were evidence that the youth of Bavaria would be heard in their sanction
of ‘‘Europa-Union” — the union of all European countries.

The assembly voted to work for an independent and free Europe; to create a
charge-free passport for young people of Europe; to adopt the same working con-
ditions in all European countries so youth can work in each; to ask for scholarships,
gifts and support for a larger exchange student program and to provide more pub-
licity through newspapers and over the air.

The gathering realized that united Europe can not end at the Iron Curtain and
reminded the youth of the East that they are not forgotten.

Arthur Grimshaw and Dorothy Bowmer tell huge rally what Dr. Fritz Schaeffer, federal minister of finance, tells his
youth of England are doing toward ‘‘Europa-Union" goals. audience of 12,000 that older generation has failed its youth.

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:
FROItOT sicyavo mee nerac ss H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor...... Alfred L. Meyer

- Editorial Writer Beth Burchard
Editorial Writer Maurice E. Lee

g

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Service Division,

» at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
‘should be addressed to:

Editor

ormation Bulletin

Public Relations Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
APO 757-A, U.S. Army

German mailing address is:
_ Editor
Information Bulletin
Public Relations Division
HICOG Hochhaus
Frankfurt/M, Germany

and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:
Division of Public Liaison
Office of Public Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.
°

| Correspondence concerning inquiries

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
_ Sifically noted, is permitted. Mention
Of the Information Bulletin as the
Source will be appreciated.

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

Ewe FUG eZ Se tr OS

we —
or See ~
\S5\ TABLE OF CONTENTS = ©
January 1951

Zugspitze Observatory Marks Golden Jubilee ............ 2

Campaign of Truth 3
Article by Edward W.

The*American Christmas Spirit +“... 30460-4005 ot ad ae 6
Roundup by Beth Burchard

Unity and: Strengths. ss ssiies Sot eek oan nto 0 8
New Year's Address by John J. McCloy

Occupation Costs 9
Summary of Basic Pertinent Facts

“Save Our CRiUGrery es elect nwt «cla nlbio Ss an CO li
An Appeal from the East

New Rules:for Allied Personnel 035 -2%.652 0... swe <p a ee 12

Germany Goes to the Movies 13
Article by Haynes R. Mahoney

Berlin's Neighborhood Centers ...............0..0-eee eee 17
Article by Wilmer Froistad

Birthotiai New “Clty 36 = ois cen aceenisieis a eee 241
Article by C. F. von Rospach

Homte-for “the (Wanderer S22 «scons oes ss Shea 24
Article by Hillard Anthony Rhoades

Phe “Big Diller ene 11556 oso 64.06 5 ods wae ee seen ee oR 27
Article by Aksel G. Nielsen

Attractions for 1991s 2 coc out wee adetins (ase saa 29,
Roundup by Dr. A. Stark

Cost of Schooling .... 31
Study by Wallace

Lights for Free Berlin 33

Article by John H. Gayer

Youth Run City tor a: Day 20064-00568 apne ae ne eee 36
Reports on an Experiment in Bremerhaven

Extradition Policy in US Zone .

New Networks for Germany ...
Article on Broadcasting Stations

The Sells Are’ Ringing! <.25. |. sks 3 <5 wasn gsteteee 43
Feature on a German Indusiry

That Man's Here Again! 45
Personnel Notes sc ce scars esas oe Fans, Sasa NSS - 46
Economie BEWieWog ease «oo ass 2s oe Ses ee 48
The-Art ofGiving< thankss st. of ong Ss cates Mae ee 51
Sermon by E. Theodore Bachmann
Occupation Log .......... Se)
Calendar of Coming Events, 1951 . 59
Wanted: Publicity Campaign ... 63
Student Aid Assured ...... - 64
Official (Notices! 5702-c <satuus ewes ceees a eOd:
COMEMUMNIGUCS Seca crn sie ose soe aes - 69
Laws and Regulations 69
Statements ........ pe
Announcements Or: saete
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents ........ 72

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION
APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
on a perfectly clear day, a rarity in the life of the meie-
orologists perched high up on Germany's tallest mountain.
Peak is almost 10,000 feet above sea level. Right, pre-1910
method of observing weather conditions, a hazardous pro-
(Poppe photos)

cedure,

Prof. Weickmann, German meteorological organization
head, US Zone, gives plaque to nephew of first observer.
(Winkelbach photo)

Observer records winds high above clouds. (Poppe photo)

Zugspitze Observatory Marks
Golden Jubilee

IFTY YEARS AT 10,000 FEET was the accomplishment

celebrated by present and past members of the former
German weather service's Zugspitze Observatory on the
peak of Germany's highest mountain.

The gathering, held in the mountain's Schneefernerhaus
Hotel, brought together leading Allied and German mete-
orologists and weather experts along with all past Zug-
spitze observers or next of kin.

Featured in the ceremony was presentation of a plaque
to the nephew of the late Josef Enzensperger, first Zug-
spitze observer, from 1900 to 1901.

Guests recalled the important role the Zugspitze Ob-
servatory has played in the life of Germany's Weather
Service. The Service’s organized activities were inter-
rupted during the last few weeks of the war when many
German meteorologists were transferred to duties con-
sidered more important than weather forecasting.

After V-E Day ‘remnants of the weather service in
the American area were taken over by US military
authorities who provided the necessary information for
interested German groups. In 1946 the service was re-
organized as the German Zonal Meteorological Organi-
zation of the US Zone.

Recently, after a thorough study, the Allied High Com=
mission formed an Allied Meteorological Board com=
posed of meteorological organization members of the
three Western zones to work in co-operation with Federal
Government authorities toward the mutual aim of creating
a centralized German meteorclogical service under the
supervision of the Federal Government. +END®

JANUARY 1951 7

--- Page 6 ---
Campaign of Truth

By EDWARD W. BARRETT

Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs
US Department of State

S PEOPLE WITH A PERSONAL STAKE in international
A affairs, and as Americans, you and I are up against
a rough assignment — perhaps the roughest in the history
of this nation. While we are trying to build a peace, and
while we are pushing toward this objective, we have to
fight a cold war with a ruthless and unprincipled
adversary.

Essentially, we now are in a sort of purgatory between
a shooting war and peace. We are participants in an under-
lying, fundamental conflict. It is a conflict of principles —
of ideas. Our principles are those of freedom and truth.
Our adversary has long since discarded truth as we under-
stand it as a figment of bourgeois imagination and is bent
on enslaving men by binding their minds with an
unyielding and specious dialectic.

The scene of this conflict is a sick and confused world.
A part of this world is struggling to recover from the
ravages of the second world war in 40 years. Other areas
carry on a ceaseless battle against worn-out land, disease
and ignorance — merely to exist. Many peoples who have
been quiescent, apathetic or impotent under alien rule are
now responding to an urge for nationalist expression of
some sort. There are varying degrees of popular discontent
and, in many places, a vague demand for change — any
change, just so long as it is different.

Unpalatable as such a scene appears — and is — it
holds certain advantages for both the free world and the
Soviet Union. In the areas where hunger and misery
prevail, the phony facade of Communist propaganda makes
a strong appeal. In turn, the United States and the other
free nations find that the appetite for change has made
people receptive to the idea of independence and self-
government.

One characteristic of the situation, however, operates
to the temporary advantage of the Soviet Union. Confu-
sion and instability are made to order for their various
techniques — subversion, trickery, political coups orthreats
of force. They are so organized that they can capitalize on
any opening and gain a quick hold on a political organism.

' The process can be tragically quick.

The United States is compelled to follow a far slower
Procedure, We have discovered that progressive ideas
concerning freedom and diversity can't be imposed upon
others. We know that freedom can

adversary —a handicap of the moment which, in the long
run, will be offset by the durability of the product we
are exporting.

OW WHAT ARE THE CHARACTERISTICS and the
capabilities of our opponent? His political machinery
is a monolithic dictatorship. Control is rigid. Absolute
conformity is demanded. In the Russian and satellite world,
there is no truth — no fact — except pronunciamentos of
the Politburo. :

The czars of the Politburo command a massive army
which is backed by tremendous resources of manpower.
They are unbelievably cynical.

The top-level clique employs force as its major instru-
ment of power. Its dealings with the outside world are
conducted in terms of on-the-post strength.

Soviet propaganda is a major weapon in the Kremlin's
political arsenal. Here again, their disregard for truth gives
them great latitude of operation. They can slant their out-
put in any direction, regardless of the facts. They can
distort and twist to their hearts’ content.

At first glance, such freedom of action appears to give
the Kremlin a definite edge. However, a close and pene-
trating inspection of both the Kremlin's system and its
weapons and tactics in the cold war reveals grave weak-
nesses. What the Soviets still present to the world as a
revolutionary society is actually one of extreme reaction.
The counterrevolution took place hard on the heels of the
revolt that overthrew the Czars, and, instead of being led
from serfdom to freedom, the Russian people went from
serfdom to slavery. This contradiction is a point of vul-
nerability which can be exploited with damaging effect.

The Kremlin rulers, themselves, are very much aware
of this weak point. They are afraid to permit large numbers
of their people to compare their own conditions with those
in the free world. The troops that moved into Western
Europe at the end of World War II had to be brought back
to the Soviet Union for a lengthy reindoctrination — and,
in many instances, the stronger medicine of the purge.
This fear of comparison is the reason for the Iron Curtain.
The political or social organism that requires total isolation
from its neighbors cannot be regarded as a strong organism.
It is simply too vulnerable to the truth.

A second major weakness of the

develop only out of local conviction
and experience. We can only spell out
the meaning of freedom and, by persua-
Sion, dissemination of information and
example, demonstrate its worth. Thus,
_ We are politically less mobile than our

This article, reprinted from the
Department of State Bulletin, is a
condensed text of an address de-
livered by Mr. Barrett before the
Export Manager's Club in New
York City on Nov. 28.

Soviet Union lies in the basic decep-
tion in the Soviet world campaign. The
Soviet is peddling its revolution to
peoples motivated by a desire for
liberty and a greater voice in the hand-
ling of their own affairs. By craft and

JANUARY 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
subterfuge, Soviet propaganda presents communism and
‘its revolutionary technique as a package deal for realizing
that desire.

In those areas where people have been taken in by the
Soviet sales campaign, disillusionment sets in early. The
people soon discover they have been gulled by a group
of pitiless 20th century imperialists. That is why we today
have a team at work gathering and reporting to the Voice
all possible facts as to what really went on in the Com-
munist colony of North Korea.

From start to finish, the Kremlin strategy is wide open
to effective counterattack. The ingrained dishonesty of the
Soviet promises as compared to their intentions can be
unmasked and spotlighted. The soft spot here is identical
with that in the Soviet organization itself. It cannot stand
against the truth.

OW, WHAT OF OUR OWN capabilities? To begin

with, we are strong where the Soviet’s are weak. The
independence and the freedom which we have preserved
for ourselves and which we are trying to extend is the
hallmark of a solid and a strong organization.

Moreover, we have the great advantage of not wanting
anything from anyone. We seek neither power nor domain.
We have declared our purposes. We want lasting peace,
an improvement in the world standard of living to be
brought about by international collaboration. We are,
finally, basically committed to individual rights and human
freedom. When we talk in such terms, we speak a uni-
versal language which has at least some meaning for all
men.

Consequently, it is obvious that the most telling weapon
we can bring to bear on the Soviet Union in this war of
ideas is an information program — or propaganda pro-
gram, if you want to call it that — which deals exclusively
in facts, And I mean all the facts.

We've got to expand and develop this Campaign of
Truth. This is the weapon which has the firepower to
pierce the Iron Curtain. This is the weapon that has the
explosive force to rip the camouflage from the Soviet
position and reveal it as it truly is — a stronghold of
reaction and imperialism.

ERY WELL, THEN, how have we gone about the
employment of this weapon? Have we capitalized
on native talents. and capacities? What are the prob-
lems that still trouble us? And what do we have to
do that we are not now doing?
Obviously, the machinery of spreading the big truth as
a counter to the big lie is, basically, one of communica-
tions. Here, at home, we have developed communications
techniques to a high degree — and we are well on the road
to an effective adaptation of these techniques for inter-
national use. In radio, for example, we art building the
Voice of America into a world network. Currently, we
operate 38 short-wave transmitters in the United States
which deliver radio signals to specific target areas abroad
and — even more important — feed relay bases in England,
Germany, Tangier and Greece as well as in Hawaii and the
Philippines. These relay stations pick up the signal and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs Edward W.
Barrett (right) and Geoffrey Lewis, deputy director of State™
Department's Bureau of German Affairs, are greeted upon
arrival at Frankfurt's Rhine-Main Airbase by Mrs. Mildred
E. Allen, special assistant to the director, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG. The two officials visited Voice of America
installations and surveyed US public affairs programs
during a tour of Germany last month. (PRD HICOG photo)

boost it along by both short and medium wave. The trans-%
mitter stations are now being improved so that, within the
next two years, the Voice of America should be capable of
reaching every receiving set in the Soviet Union — and
the rest of the Iron Curtain area.

The Voice is on the air 24 hours a day, in English and inj
24 foreign languages. Every day, we put on 70 separate
programs of varied content. Each of these programs is:
hand-tailored for the target audience at which it is
directed. For listeners behind the Iron Curtain, program
content is almost entirely news, political, social and eco:
nomic commentary, and features about American life and
aims. On this side of the Curtain, for listeners who have®
access to adequate sources of free information, the em=
phasis is away from news and in the direction of what
we call Americana. The aim, here, is to improve our
friends’ understanding of American policies and points of
view and of our American way of life. Within the year, we
will nearly double the Voice's total output—and the num
ber of languages will be doubled to reach, among others;
important minority groups in vital parts of the world.

HE VOICE HAS ESTABLISHED a close co-operative
relationship with the radio industry here in the United
States with the result that a number of the more commend
able American radio programs go out to a world audience
over the Voice’s transmitters. Local networks in othel

--- Page 8 ---
friendly countries also pick up Voice programs for domes-
tic broadcast.

Unfortunately, there is: no global counterpart of the
Hooper-Nielson ratings, so we cannot be certain as to the
size of our audience. However, some tests in friendly
countries have been run, and we know that, in Germany,
for example, 50 percent of all residents are fairly regular
listeners. In France, we have an audience of 4,500,000
listeners, and a majority of these tune in the Voice each
day. Listeners’ response has been steadily increasing and
has recently reached a level of 30,000 letters a month —
compared with 10,000 a year ago. Demand for the Voice’s
program booklet has forced an increase in the press run
for upcoming issues to 1,000,000 copies.

We have evidence also of the existence of a substantial

- Voice audience on the other side of the Iron Curtain. The
Voice is under constant attack from the Communist press
and radio. Soviet jamming efforts testify that the Voice's
truth hurts. Recently, the Soviet and satellite press have
staged an increasing tirade against the Voice. One new
example: A prominent Hungarian paper recently said:

“The workers must consider it their duty to catch hys-
terical hoarders who buy all the goods in stores on instruc-
tions from the Voice of America... the American radio
told them to specialize in matches and in the KOZERT
Store No. 1226, 1,330 boxes of matches were sold, instead
of the average 30 boxes a day...”

E ARE INCREASING our effectiveness in other media

as well. We have learned some tricks about getting
our film strips and motion pictures to audiences which, at
first, were out of our reach. We have a fleet of jeeps, now,
with special rigs that carry projectors, screens and ampli-
fiers. With this equipment, the only facility a locality
need provide is an open field.

The news and feature program is getting more and more
space in foreign publications. Distribution methods have
been improved, and experience has taught us the type of
material which is best suited to the various regions of the
world, The effectiveness of our presentation has been
steadily stepped up.

I must regretfully report today that we have encountered
a new type of “jamming” directed against our Russian-
language magazine, Amerika. The Soviet Government has
alleged that sales of the State Department's Russian-lan-
guage magazine Amerika have taken a sudden decline.
Since Amerika has enjoyed a wide and established popu-
larity since 1945, it is notable that this allegation of
diminishing sales has been accompanied by a progressive
limitation of opportunities for Russian readers to buy the
magazine and by more than 25 separate attacks on Amerika
in the Soviet press as a “tool of decadent capitalism."

The State Department has made repeated representa-
tions to the Soviet Government, requesting that effective
distribution methods be maintained in order to carry out
the Soviet agreement made in 1946 to distribute 50,000
Copies of the magazine monthly. After more than two
years, during which Amerika was a complete sellout at
that figure, the Soviet Government reported a more than
50 percent drop in sales over a 12-month period in 1949-50.

JANUARY 1951

Following the Department's representations, however,
the latest report shows an upturn from 18,250 copies sold
in August to 21,617 in September. It is hoped that this in-
crease reflects improved distribution and will continue until
the former full circulation of 50,000 copies is restored.

Even in the comparatively brief span of our operations,
the world-wide information program has achieved some
important objectives. Some basic conceptions about the
United States have been corrected. The picture of Uncle
Shylock is fading. Gangsters, Babbitts and penthouse play-
boys are no longer regarded as the typical Americans. We
have also gotten out to a large audience the whys and
wherefores of America’s postwar moves. We have spelled
out the true objectives of the Marshall Plan, the North
Atlantic Treaty and Point 4. All this has been done despite
the persistent and strenuous effort of the Soviet Union to
poison the minds of millions of the world’s people against
these — and against us.

HIS IS ALL OBVIOUSLY to the good — but it is not

enough. As far as the government operation is con-
cerned, our organization is not yet complete — and round-
ing it out into the effective mechanism that is required
will take time and effort. Moreover, while we have a
knowledge of the fundamentals in handling truth as a
cold-war weapon, we still have lots to learn about the
finer points of this truth strategy.

New techniques must be developed and new ways
must be found to get to additional millions of people
that we do not now reach. The latest moves in that
direction are now well along. The President, this year,
called for a greatly expanded Campaign of Truth; the
Congress voted most of the funds we asked, and the
Campaign is now getting under way.

An Advisory Commission of nationally known figures in
the information field has been working with us for two
years. The suggestions and the counsel of this Commission
have been invaluable. So, now, we are going a step farther.
We are setting up panels for each of the media — radio,
news, pictures and movies —as well as one for broad
questions of substance. A member of the Advisory Com-
mission is in charge of each panel and will draft some of
the best scientific and strategical brains in the country.
These specialists will scrutinize the entire information and
exchange program with an eye to stepping up its scope
and effectiveness. By this means, we will be able to draw
on our great resources of private talent and experience —
and I assure you that we are going to need them.

OWEVER, THE CAMPAIGN OF TRUTH cannot suc-
ceed if it is exclusively a government effort. It re-
quires a broader base — to include private business and
particularly such private organizations as are represented
here today. You people, perhaps more than any others,
are aware of many of the problems involved in dealing
with people of other nations. You, long ago, learned the

importance of behavior when traveling abroad.
I was very pleased to know that the recent Thirty-
seventh National Foreign Trade Association Convention
(Continued on page 68)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
-Y ANDY RAINED DOWN from the skies and gifts of
shoes, toys, clothing and turkey dinners were

showered on tens of thousands of Germans as Americans

celebrated their sixth postwar Christmas in Germany.

The big-bellied, deep-voiced US version of Santa Claus
became as real to Germany's needy as the Christkind
which symbolizes gifts and Christmas plenty to Germans
everywhere.

Americans emptied their pockets for those in need, but
managed, in 1950's comparative prosperity, to make Christ-
mas more of a party-time than a time for handouts. For
kids there were new shoes, but toys, too; for the aged
warm clothing, but also parties. Where orphans no longer
needed food or shoes, Americans gave a sandbox, swings
or chinaware to the institutions where they live.

Germans took more than a passive part in the American-
style Christmas; German children used halting English to
perform holiday plays at Information Centers and young-
sters in the GYA programs used US-supplied materials to
make toys and clothing for the less privileged.

There was a touch of the Cold War to Christmas in
Berlin — kids from the Soviet Sector poured across the
border in response to loudspeakers to collect gifts from

East Berlin youngsters trudge across the border from the Ai

A US airman, Capt. Carroll Trant, talks with a German
child, one of 100 of a Wiesbaden institution who were
entertained at a Christmas party on Dec. 6 — the day
St. Nicholas visits German families. (USAFE photo)

Youngsters at US Information Centers learned American
lore by performing Christmas plays. (PRB OLCH photo)

--- Page 10 ---
By BETH BURCHARD

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

rempelhof Air Base personnel. And to some endeavors
there was a tinge of Big Business as whole areas were
canvassed for needy and given gifts on a giant, all-
inclusive scale.

The American who didn’t contribute in some way to
Germany's Christmas was a rare bird indeed.

T THE HICOG HEADQUARTERS in Frankfurt, Ameri-
cans topped any previous fund drive with contribu-
ions of $2,756 (part of which was given by State Depart-
ment’s Bureau of German Affairs). Germans employed at
headquarters gave DM 2,608 (around $620). The Frankfurt
Allied Women's Club and the Bad Homburg Women's
Club, working with Frankfurt's welfare office, distributed
gift packages and shoes-and-clothing certificates (redeem-
able at a local department store) purchased with the funds.
ell over 1,000 children living in squalid camps and
bunkers, benefited by the project.

HICOG offices in US Zone states, Bremen and Berlin
handed out hundreds of pounds of fruit, nuts, candy and
other foodstuffs, arranged movies and parties, entertained
local personnel, their children and the underprivileged of
all ages. (Continued on page 66)

yr, carrying Christmas gifts from US airmen. (USAFE photo)

U ARE LE
AMERICAN

The United Nations International Children's Emergency
Fund (UNICEF) made possible the Christmas gifts of
clothing and cookies held by happy little girl, one of many
such recipients in Germany. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Americans and Germans sang carols at HICOG Head-
quarters. US High Commissioner McCloy gave greetings.
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 11 ---
Unity and Strength

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

HIS IS NOW THE SECOND YEAR that I have been
in Berlin to wish you a Happy New Year.

At this time of anxiety and threat to peaceful peoples
it is particularly appropriate that I talk from Berlin. Not
Many years ago Berlin was in the hands of men who
represented a harsh dictatorship. But in the last few years
Berlin has become another symbol to all peoples — the
symbol of the will to freedom.

The staunch resistance of the Berliners to a year of
intense blockade, the hundreds of thousands who attended
the dedication of the Freedom Bell by General Clay, the
90 percent turnout in the recent free elections of West
Berlin, all this tends to maintain Berlin's position as an
inspiring example to the free world.

We know that Berlin is still facing enormous difficul-
ties which cannot be solved until Germany is united. But
the past 12 months have brought substantial progress.
More people are at work than a year ago. At that time,
West Berlin was producing only 25 percent of her 1936
capacity. Today West Berlin is producing over 40 percent.
Her shipments to Western Germany and exports rose in
value from DM 41,000,000 in January to DM 91,000,000 in
October; and her tax revenues have increased substan-
tially over what they were last summer.

| abbas SUCH GAINS are still far below what
could be achieved if Berlin were able freely to com-
municate with the outside world. If only the city could be
loosened from the toils in which it is held, there is almost
no limit to the speed with which it could go ahead. And
this same thought applies to East Berlin and all Germany.
In West Germany today the productive capacity has
reached the level of 128 percent of 1936. The same thing
could be done for East Germany if the chance were given.

Berlin is a dramatic part of the European and world
problem. It is natural that on New Year's Day we look at
the entire situation and ask what lies before us.

If the cast of 1950 is any indication of the future, 1951
will be difficult and anxious. I cannot of course answer
all the burning questions which are in our hearts. But
this much is now clear — we of the West know that there
will be no peace unless we are strong and united. In the
past few weeks significant steps have been taken in this

to devote our energies to other, more productive purposes.
But having made it, the people of the United States are
determined to see it through. :

The Atlantic Pact Nations have set in motion their
plans for the defense of Western Europe. General Eisen-
hower will in the next few days assume supreme com-
mand of these efforts. The United States will contribute
men, money and materials to these forces. Here again
there is but one purpose: to help Europe preserve its
peace and freedom.

The frontiers of freedom are moral, not geographical.
All places where there are free men, or men striving for
freedom are equally important. That is why the fate of the
people in the Eastern zone of Germany is just as important
as that of the people in the Federal Republic. That is why
a united democratic Germany will be our aim in 1951 as
it has been in 1950. Nor can we forget that millions of
Czechs, Slovaks, Poles, Hungarians, Rumanians, Bulgarians
and other peoples fervently seek a return to Europe and
to a European community of freedom and peace.

HAT CAN ONE SAY of the prospects for Germany

in the coming year? They are of course inseparably
bound up with the larger issues of which I have spoken.
But one can say this much: 1951 will certainly see greater
strides toward the full integration of the Federal Republic
on an equal basis in the fraternity of free nations. In a few
days discussions will begin toward that end. At the same
time discussions between the Federal Republic and the three
Occupying Powers will begin on the question of Western
Germany's contribution to the defenses of the democratic
world. I cannot emphasize too strongly that these will be
wholly free discussions.

I have said that the prospects for peace in 1951 are
better if we are strong than if we are weak, if we are
united than if we are separate. This is not to say that the
peace will be assured, or easy of achievement. We all
can reasonably assume that it will be a year of hard work
and sacrifice, of many trials and disappointments. But that
is not what is really important. It is faith in our way of ©
life which counts, and the determination to defend it. In
the long run the strength, resilience and flexibility

direction by the Western Powers. The
vast resources of the United States in
manpower and material are again
being marshaled, but with one pur-
pose in mind: to build strength in order
to preserve peace and freedom. The
decision to undertake this vast ar-
mament program has been made re-
-luctantly, for we would much prefer

of a free society will prevail. How-

This article is the text of an ever, it is not enough for us to
address broadcast by US High Com-
missioner John J. McCloy Jan. 1
over RIAS (Radio in American
Sector) in Berlin. It was broadcast
simultaneously over Radio Frank-
furt and later over radio stations
in Stuttgart, Munich and Bremen.
The broadcast was in German.

know that we will win the last battle.
We must combine our strength and
determination now, so that no aggres-
sor is tempted by the prospect of an —
easy first battle.

Unity and strength for freedom —that
must be our watchword for1951, +-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 12 ---
The controversial subject of occupation costs has been widely misunderstood in Ger-

many and it is the intention of this article to correct some of the misinterpretations.

Certain irresponsible elements in the German press have given a distorted picture of

the purposes to which these costs are put... What are the facts?... To what extent

are the Germans required to provide for a certain percentage of occupation costs?...

What are these funds used for?... What is the cost of the occupation to the United
States Government?... Here are the answers.

Occupation Costs

Summary of Basic Pertinent Facts

ITH THREATENING FORCES close to her frontiers and no army of her own, Germany has

been assured Allied protection against attack. The Allied governments ‘‘will treat any attack
against the Federal Republic or Berlin from any quarter as an attack upon themselves," says the
recent New York communique of the foreign ministers of France, the United Kingdom and the
United States.

Germany's outlay for occupation costs, paying but partial support for Allied armies stationed
here, has to be considered therefore as the cost of national defense.

The cost of such defense is not, as critics maintain, prohibitive. For Germans it totals about
25 percent of the federal and state budgets. In contrast, defense costs for the Allied Powers take
a far larger bite: in the United States it totals 42 percent of the federal budget, in the United
Kingdom 25 percent and in France 35 percent.

UT DEFENSE IS CERTAINLY not the only advantage

Germany is receiving. Occupation costs pay for
thousands of jobs; they pay for services provided by
federal agencies; they pay for investments in the revival
of the German economy — investments which eventually
will belong to Germans exclusively.

In addition, Americans, through their government or
through spending out of their own pockets, are pouring vast
sums of money into the German economy — an amount
which far exceeds the total bill for occupation costs.

Why should Americans, pouring hundreds of millions
of dollars into building up Germany's economy, use oc-
cupation costs as a method of tearing it down? The lack
of logic in this false philosophy can-be clearly illustrated
by an analysis of the financing of occupation requirements.

From May 8, 1945 (VE-Day) to March 31, 1951 (end of
current fiscal year), the United States will have extended
a total of DM 16,669,880,000 ($3,969,000,000)* in aid to
Germany. Of that sum:

Government and Relief in Occupied Areas (GARIOA)
contributed DM 8,349,600,000 ($1,988,000,000) ;

ECA contributed DM 5,040,000,000 ($1,200,000,000) ;

The voluntary relief agencies of the United States con-
tributed DM 571,200,000 ($136,000,000);

Private gifts to the German people contributed
DM 1,470,000,000 ($350,000,000);

* All monetary figures in this article are given in Deutsche marks
(DM) for which conversion into US dollars is at the official rate of one
Deutsche mark to 23.8 cents.

JANUARY 1951

STEG (A German public corporation given US Army
surplus goods to sell) contributed DM 840,000,000
($200,000,000) ; :

US share of International Refugee Organization (IRO)
contribution was DM 399,000,000 ($95,000,000) in US funds.

HE TOTAL OF THIS AID—DM 16,669,800,000, or

$3,969,000,000 — far exceeds the cost to Germany of
the US Zone occupation, which in the same period comes
to DM 11,244,600,000 ($2,677,214,800).

Not only has Germany received vastly more US aid
than she has paid, but the United States Government
itself has spent far more money than the Federal Republic
to maintain the occupation. So far, the US cost amounts
to DM 17,388,000,000 — a staggering $4,140,000,000.

This figure includes the salaries of US occupation per-
sonnel, which are paid by the United States Government
and not from occupation costs as popularly assumed.
US-supplied money not only pays these American salaries,
but supports periodicals like Die Neue Zeitung and
HEUTE, radio stations like Berlin's RIAS, visiting experts,
German Youth Activities’ centers and similar institutions,
and the offices of US resident officers (with the exception
of rental and electricity costs).

The figure does not include, however, the many mil-
lions spent by the US State Department on the exchange
program. That is an additional item of US expenditure.
Not only do the German exchangees — scientists, farmers,
students, trade unionists, specialists of all kinds — gain

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
subjective knowledge and understanding but valuable
practical experience which can efficiently be applied in
reconstructing the homeland.

But even to compare American and German costs is
a specious argument, for Germany does not by any means
forfeit the use of the money she pays out for the occupa-
tion. Every penny of these costs remains inside Germany
and is channeled right back into the German economy.

HE TOTAL OCCUPATION COST BUDGET to the
Republic is DM 5,462,860,300 ($1,300,160,751) for the
fiscal year which will end in March. From this approxi-
mately DM 1,747,405,000 ($415,882,390) is going into the
pockets of some 471,500 Germans who are employed by
the three Allied Powers. DM 388,120,700 ($92,172,726)
represents utilities and rents being paid to Germans
whose facilities are being used by Allied personnel.
DM 489,089,000 ($116,403,182) is going directly to the feder-
ally-operated postal and railroad systems. DM 964,190,000
($229,477,220) represents capital expenditures in the three
zones — the majority of which are new buildings which
will later become German property. These four items
alone amount to DM 3,588,804,700 ($854,135,518), all of
which is channeling back into the German economy.
Moreover, DM 188,000,000 ($44,744,000) of the occupa-
tion costs is being used to support displaced persons and
DM 71,000,000 ($16,898,000) to pay restitution, burdens
resulting from the war which in any case Germany would
have to bear.
In the American zone, the major part of the occupation-
~costs budget — 36 percent — is used to pay 140,000 Ger-
man employees. Added to these are 59,000 Germans em-
ployed by American authorities and establishments. whose
wages and salaries are not paid from occupation costs.
That means that close to 200,000 persons — unskilled
workers as well as. university graduates — in the Ameri-
can zone alone earn their living with the Allied Powers.
If they were discharged the majority of them would, judg-
ing from the federal unemployment problem, have to be
supported from public funds — and that would mean an
added drain on the taxpayer's wallet.

EWSPAPERS WHICH TELL in vibrating headlines of

“Nine German employees for every two Americans"
seem to ignore this West German unemployment burden
which at the beginning of 1951 stood at almost 1,690,000
persons. But even so, since Germans on the occupation-
costs payroll in the US Zone total 140,000, and there are
more than that number of American personnel in the zone,
there is actually less than one German employee for
each American. Moreover, these employees are not the
“handmaidens" of occupation personnel: the great majori-
ty are office workers and technicians.

Typical of the difficulties which would arise if German
employees of the Allied Powers were released is the city
of Heidelberg. That city’s Tageblatt (daily newspaper)
recently published a report stating that in Heidelberg
8,000 Germans are working for Americans. The paper
estimates an average monthly income of DM 250 ($59.50)
for these workers, or approximately DM 24,000,000
($5,712,000) each year. This purchasing power is sub-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

stantial and if it suddenly disappeared would cause
serious dislocations in city industry and trade. Moreover,
it would throw 8,000 persons on a labor market which
couldn't support them. Tageblatt uses these arguments to
show the city administration what difficulties would be
forthcoming if occupation employees were discharged.

“Such savings in occupation costs, to be welcomed in
the interest of the Federal Republic and the taxpayer,
would result in a heavy burden for Heidelberg. It is only
reasonable to ask that funds which are saved by person-
nel reductions be transferred to Heidelberg for financing
new jobs to counteract the increase in unemployed. The
funds which the state is prepared to contribute in recog-
nition of the emergency already existing in the town is
an entirely different matter. They would be no help in
solving the problem which is apparent in the discussion
of occupation costs."

Heidelberg is no isolated case. The problem illustrated
here exists in all communities where large troop con-
tingents are stationed or HICOG agencies are established.
Often these localities are spas or districts with very little
industry where other employment would be scarce.

US policy in selection of employees has likewise amelio-
rated what might have become an overwhelming social
problem. Americans have employed those Germans ‘'no-
body wanted to employ,” for example, the war veterans
who left school to go into the army. Depending not so
much on written references as on the good will of appli-
cants, Americans have likewise given jobs to thousands
of refugees. Many a prisoner of war returning from Russia
is thankful for jobs offered by the Occupation Powers.
And no less thankful are students in university cities
when Americans give them sideline jobs as baby-sitters,
language teachers, visitors’ guides and youth camp leaders.

ERE ARE MORE FINANCIAL benefits which have
accrued to Germany asa direct result of the oc-
cupation for which Germans partially pay:

The Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany
is financing from its own funds a series of housing pro-
jects (for example, the DM 3,000,000 ($714,000) project of
500 apartments in Frankfurt) which will one day be turned
over to the German economy;

Large sums of foreign exchange credits are accumulated
in West Germany when US occupation personnel shop
and travel; their total spending amounts to at least
$50,000,000 (DM 210,000,000) a year;

The establishment of recreation centers for occupation
personnel has guaranteed visitors and a steady income to
many spas and health resorts which otherwise might
have stood empty.

So far as the United States is concerned, there is one
more trenchant argument for those who would chafe at
paying the cost of occupation. This revolves around the
annual cost to the United States of its debt directly
attributable to the war. The occupation grew out of the
war and the debt did, too. Germany ended the war with
practically no debt. The US debt was increased by
$220,000,000,000 (equal to DM 924,370,000,000 at current
conversion rate) during the war years. The annual interest

JANUARY 195!

--- Page 14 ---
charge on this war-contracted debt is slightly less than
$5,000,000,000, or somewhere near DM 21,000,000,000. This
is an annual charge for interest only and does not provide
for any repayment. It is a figure which should be kept
in mind when viewing the US occupation’s cost to Ger-
many: this year, just DM 2,404,000,000.

N MAKING SUCH COMPARISONS, American policy-
i makers are well aware that the US capacity to pay is
far greater than Germany's. Studies are now underway
to determine what Germany's reasonable capacity for
expenditures — defense expenditures — is.

With these considerations in mind, it can be legitimately
pointed out that the most recent US appropriation for
defense is $42,000,000,000. This represents about 14 per-

cent of the gross national product of the United States.
Under Hitler's Reich, 19 percent of Germany's gross
national product went into rearmament. Germany today
pays for the total of Allied occupation costs about
5.5 percent.

While attributes of national health, resources and other
economic factors determine how much of a country’s gross
national product can be siphoned off for defense purposes,
none the less percentages of gross national product are
the fairest comparison of capacity to pay.

This enormous disparity between the German and US
percentages of gross national products used for defense
purposes should convince even the most skeptical that
Germany is not being asked to pay anywhere near the
limit of its capacity. +END

“Save Our Children!”

HE FOLLOWING LETTER, typical of thousands re-
ceived each week by RIAS from its Soviet-Zone
listeners, is reprinted, without editing, as an eyewitness
example of the perverse propaganda of the Communist-
ntrolled education system. The letter was signed “An
East-Zone Voter," and referred to activities which took place
in the Soviet Zone shortly before the Oct. 15 “elections:”
All schools put on a performance for the parents before
the elections. I want to describe to you briefly the sort of
peace efforts for which our children are being misused.
After various Young Pioneer songs had been sung, we
were shown a series of living tableaux each of which sur-
passed the other in stirring up nation against nation.

One tableau presented a train made up of 12 to
15 chairs with the aid of which the children made a trip
around the world. After the conductor had announced
that only Activists could handle such a heavy train, it
moved off toward Magdeburg, passing through the
“gangster-destroyed" city of Dresden. At Magdeburg it
was again emphasized that this city, too, had been
completely destroyed by American bandits, but had been
almost restored by tireless Activists.

After the children had viewed other grandiose evi-
dences of progress, they boarded an aircraft for America.
One scene showed a poor young Negro boy polishing
the boots of an American naval officer. After he had
done his job twice, under the curses of the officer, he
begged for his pay of 10 cents. The officer's answer was
a blow in the face that knocked the boy off his chair.
When the German children had pitied the Negro boy
and offered the opinion, “That's the way. they act in
America," the officer replied: ‘‘What, you sympathize
with such a creature! He is only Negro scum. My name
is John Smith. My father made billions in the last world
war. He just bought me a snappy eight-cylinder auto.”

Meanwhile, the Negro boy had moved over to the
German children and was accepted by them in a friendly
Way. He was assured that nothing of this kind happens
among us and all men are equal. The officer continued:

JANUARY 1951

11

“A while ago I was driving 60 miles an hour and turned a
sharp corner where two Negros were sitting. I just ran
over them.” Again all the German children uttered cries of
distress and the Negro boy called out: “One of them wasmy
friend Fred, who supported his old mother." The officer
answered: “You feel sorry for this rabble! Why, we lynch 10
Negroes every day. You have no idea how much fun it is.”

[HE NEXT SCENE was Korea. A boy blinded in the

war and a boy with an arm wound strutted about
the stage explaining to the children that the American
gangsters, who had attacked the Korean people in order
to acquire their natural resources, had caused all the
destruction and misery that were to be seen.

Then the plane flew to the Soviet paradise. There the
children were. received by Soviet youth with flags and
fanfare. They were told they should travel around the
country as guests and dear friends to see for themselves
the great progress made in the Soviet Union, from which
the whole world could learn. After several Russian dances
and songs the visit to Russia ended.

Then the teacher gave a talk: ‘Dear Parents: We have
shown you a little play which all of you certainly
applaud. But you should not simply go home satisfied,
but should rather take to heart the deep meaning and
admonition of what your children have offered. Tomor-
row is election day. Anyone who does not vote is a
saboteur and an enemy of the state. We will insist upon
taking advantage of the freest voting system in the world
and will deliver our votes openly.”

We went home in horror, feeling as though the Rus-
sians had marched in all over again. Not until Sunday
morning, when we again listened to RIAS, which told us
how to deceive the deceivers, did we regain our courage.
I should like to add that all the songs and music used
in this play were well printed and, as I learned by in-
quiry, had been distributed to all schools for presentation.

We have only one request: Save our children! This is
the kind of thing to which our teachers are forced to lend
themselves! -++END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
New Rules for Allied Personnel

LLIED CIVILIAN and military personnel have a new
set of rules governing their activities in West Ger-
many. Law No. 40, passed jointly by the three high com-
missioners, redefines what they can and cannot do inside
Germany and crossing its borders.

The law replaces US Military Government Ordinance
No. 38 and for the most part liberalizes its restrictions.
Import and export allowances have been enlarged on
Deutsche marks, cigarets and greenbacks.

From now on, Americans, who formerly had to ration
themselves to DM 40 whenever crossing borders into and
out of Germany, may bring in DM 1,000 and take out
DM 100. Similarly, foreign currencies to the value of
DM 850 may be imported, exported or carried about. To
Americans, this means the old $100 ceiling has been
raised, and they may now have in their possession up to
$202.30 in greenbacks (or the equivalent in other than
German currency).

Furthermore, members of the Allied Forces may not
purchase or sell any Deutsche marks at a rate of exchange

other than the official one.

Another “‘first” in the field of finance is the permission
for Americans and their Allies to maintain private
Deutsche mark bank accounts,

They cannot, however, own property in Germany.

The old limit of two cartons of cigarets has gone up
to three; the regulation now reads that occupation per-
sonnel when entering or leaving Germany may take along
600 cigarets and 500 grams of other tobacco products.

Although not included in Law No, 40, there is a new
rule governing import of liquor. Whereas once no liquor
at all could be brought across the border, today one quart,
provided it is open, may be imported. Reason for the iron
restriction is that schools for US dependent children are
supported in part by liquor sales at class six stores within
the US Zone.

Many of the regulations have not changed, and many

of the changes are minute. Some of the most noteworthy

of the new provisions are these:

Members of the Allied Forces may not sell to Germans

(or to anyone not belonging to the Allied Forces) any :

consumable goods that have been imported free of customs
duties. This includes such items as imported foodstuffs
purchased at the Post Exchange.

Similarly, they may not sell any non-consumable goods
such as automobiles unless the seller has owned the goods
for at least six months.

Any importation or exportation of coffee or tobacco
products through APO channels remains prohibited, Cur-

rency and property for resale are likewise forbidden for —

import by mail.
Other, provisions of the law may be learned by reading
the full text, printed on page 70.

Persons who break the rules are subject to prosecution ;

in Occupation Courts. Penalties equal to DM 25,000, or
three times the value of the property involved, whichever
is the greater, may be invoked. Prison terms up to six
months are also provided for by the law. +END

LONE TROOP No. 7 — Berlin's only US Girl Scout troop

tts

celebrated its first birthday in December — with a program

in the “Little House.” The 16-girl troop is shown below,
with guests. At left are Sandra Coker, Janet Rand and Jen-
nifer Froistad, all actresses in the play. Mrs. Wilmer Froi-

stad is leader of this troop of West Berlin dependents. —

--- Page 16 ---
Germany Goes to the Movies

By HAYNES R. MAHONEY
Chief, Bad Nauheim Branch, Public Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

ROM THE BACKWOODS of Bavaria to the banks of
the Rhine two-and-a-half million Germans are seeing
free American movies every month. The films do not
feature the legs. of Betty Grable or unfold the grand
spectacles of Cecil B. DeMille. They are not the slick
feature films which cost the cinemagoer two or three
Deutsche marks in the local theater.

Instead, they are movies concerned with simple people
of American communities, of life in faraway places, new
ways of teaching schools, or freedom of the press, the
processes of a great industry or the procedures of
democracy. The majority of them were made for the

enlightment of American school youngsters, or as an
educational short subject to precede a Hollywood feature,
or perhaps as a good-will project by some American cor-
poration or civic group.

Adapted with German language sound tracks, how-
ever, these US documentary films today are conveying
the story of America and illuminating the mysteries of
democracy to millions of Germans in the US Zone.
Supplemented by a number of documentaries produced
especially for Germany, these films comprise one of the
most powerful educational programs of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany (HICOG).

In every county and city of the American occupation
zone, including Bremen and the US Sector of Berlin,
projectionists are making their daily rounds with portable
equipment, They show their films in any available space
— schools, gymnasiums, even the spacious beerhalls,
which serve as traditional meeting places in small Ger-

_man villages. In summertime the films are run off in

village squares or open fields, thus attracting farmers
who work until dark during harvest.

In some areas, such as the Bavarian Forest along the
Czech border —the so-called “Iron Curtain’ — the pro-
jectionists must haul their own generators to power the
projectors in villages which do not yet have electricity.
In h places, the HICOG film programs have often
been the first movies ever seen by many of the villagers.

These circuit riding movie operators, whose scattered
jeeps are now a familiar sight along backroads, reach a
combined audience of roughly 1,500,000 persons monthly.
In addition, another 1,000,000 persons, mostly in the
Cities, see the HICOG films in regular programs held by
the 26 US Information Centers, the HICOG-operated libra-
ties in the key cities of western Germany.

oT AMERICAN AUDIO-VISUAL AID program in
Germany began about two years ago as Military
Government conducted a full-scale effort to promote
“grass roots democracy.” Democratic governmental struc-

JANUARY 1951

ture had already ‘been established, but this meant little
more to the average citizen than going to the polls
every couple of years to vote for some vague political
personalities. Military Government field officers fostered
town meetings and public forums, encouraged Herr
Johann Schmidt (John Smith, to you) to demand public
reports by city officials on their actions, and urged
citizens to take occasional violations of their civic rights
into court. They called meetings, spoke to community
leaders and aroused citizens to pool their labor, funds
and resources in co-operative self-help activities to re-
lieve their harsh economic plight.

The right kind of films could inspire and educate Ger-
mans in these programs. They could also help to breach

School children of Lissberg are alternately pleased (above)
and concerned (below) over US documentary film showing.

eh

--- Page 17 ---
talks over film's meaning with children.

Projectionist

the Nazi-enforced isolation of Germany by showing
honest pictures of life in other countries and dispelling
Nazidom’s evil lies about America.

Thus the Army Department provided 16-mm projectors
and films, inadequate in number and not always appro-
priate for Germany it was true, but still an aid to the
busy American field officers. Theyprogram was immedi-
ately popular with information-starved Germans, and
grew as rapidly as new supplies could be provided.
When HICOG took over from Military Government in
the fall of 1949, the film program was expanded and
improved. Today there are 300 German projectionists
showing 200 different titles in 10,000 prints to their eager
German audiences.

The program is directed by Carol H. Denison, assisted
by John A. Martin, who handles the complicated supply
problems involved. They head the Audio-Visual Aid
Section of the Community Activities Branch, which is the
HICOG agency responsible for spearheading the Ameri-
can democratization efforts.

O GET FILMS FROM AMERICA, the US State De-

partment has ransacked every possible source, from
Hollywood to public service groups and private busi-
nesses. The products of these efforts include a surprising
variety of educational and informational documentaries.
There are films on agriculture and art; “Freedom of the
Press" and “Lessons in Living’ and a score of others
contribute to citizenship training and community spirit;
democratic teaching methods are highlighted by ‘Teacher
as Observer and Guide" and a dozen others; there are
films showing the processes and advantages of demo-
cratic government; movies on American industry and
labor, American cities, medicine, public health, religion,
and films on a score of foreign countries, from Uruguay
to Switzerland. In addition, the HICOG newsreels and
news magazines are shown regularly.

But this collection of documentaries, made for a dis-
tant people with different environment and history, does
not provide all the films necessary to cover Germany's
need. Thus the Motion Picture Branch of HICOG's In-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

formation Services Division (ISD) is producing documen-
tary films covering such subjects pertinent to Germany's
democratic development as the relationship of civil serv- ~
ants to the citizens, democratic teaching techniques, civic
improvement programs, rehabilitation of refugees, and
the like. A score of these are already in circulation and
many more are due for release this year.

The bulk of the program is still comprised of films
from America, however, which are produced through the
State Department and then must be carefully tailor-made
for German use. This includes rewriting and translating
the narrative, synchronizing in German, and making suf-
ficient prints — a process requiring time and thought.

EFORE A NON-THEATRICAL FILM is shown to Ger-

man audiences, a film committee takes a look at it.
The committee, representing US film offices and resident
officers as well as various German groups, is brought .”
together monthly by Miss Denison. These representative
Germans, who are in sympathy with America's democ-
ratization aims in their country, often catch the ob-
vious propaganda, the misleading or incomprehensible
sequences for German audiences. After acting on the
committee's advice, the films are distributed to HICOG's
resident officers who are located in key counties and
cities throughout the US Zone. It is then their responsi-
bility to supervise the work of the German projectionists
in making most effective use of the films.

This problem gives Miss Denison her biggest head-
ache. “The program has mushroomed so fast in the past
year,” she said, “that we have not been able to keep up
with it. There is a lack of guidance material, a shortage
of trained personnel to accompany films and conduct
discussions afterwards. There is danger that many films
will fail to make their point or even backfire on us
without additional explanation to the audience."

She cited the case of ‘The Story That Couldn't Be
Printed," a documentary of the Peter Zenger case in
which American press freedom was legally guaranteed
during early colonial times. ‘Some people get the idea
that it is just a good story, trumped up, untrue, unless
the background is explained to them," she said.

A film on the Free University of Berlin often elicited
the response that it was a nice film for students, but of
no interest to adults. Thus older people missed the in-
spiring significance of this institution of truth, located
100 miles behind the Iron Curtain. Likewise “Internation-
al House," the documentary on a co-operative student
home in America, confused Germans, who thought it
was some kind of school, and missed its message of
international tolerance and friendship.

UNIQUE PROBLEM is raised by a new documentary,

“Under the Streets,’ produced as part of a social
studies series to teach schoolchildren about the compo-
sition of their society. This film describes a city sewer ~
system — but in such exciting fashion that Miss Denison
fears, “it may have the kids chasing down manholes.”
However, the teachers who have previewed the film ask
when and how soon it will be available.

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 18 ---
Another type of problem is now created by questions
of timeliness of psychological approach. Early overt pro-
ductions pointed an accusative finger at the German
audience and its unsavory past; resistance was the pri-
mary result. On the other hand, “Brotherhood of Man,”
produced by an American trade union, treats the prob-
lem of racial tolerance, for instance, objectively and is
today applauded wherever seen.

There is also the frequent complaint that the films
acquired from the States, made in the quick tempo of
American life, cover so much ground in such rapid
sequences, that they are often confusing to German
schoolchildren and adults. Teachers want more films for
younger children, and urge that the movies be better co-
ordinated with school curricula.

Well aware of these and other valid criticisms, Miss
Denison and her colleagues maintain a continuous search
for better films, while waiting eagerly for ISD’s produc-
tions to come out of the film studios in Munich.

ONCERTED EFFORT is being made by all concerned
to multiply the value of the film program by proper
use and interpretation. Busy resident officers are doing
their best to fit film showings into local activities. Many
of them have arranged for formation of county film com-
mittees, where German representatives of local govern-
ment, schools, youth, labor and other groups can review
new films and suggest how, when and where they can
best be used. HICOG offices for Food and Agriculture,
Political and Governmental Affairs, Public Health and
Labor also co-ordinate the use of the films with their
numerous programs through the US occupation area.
Miss Denison's office is now producing pamphlets to
accompany each film, which can be used by the projec-
tionists to promote and guide
discussions. Most of the films
are shown regularly in the
schools at the request of teach-
ers and school officials.
Naturally the major objec-
tive is not to entertain Germans
for one hour or two, but to ini-
tiate discussion and exchange
of ideas, which will produce
more understanding and action
than the movies couldalone US
resident officers, overburden-
ed with a hundred tasks from
running town hall meetings to
writing reports for higher head-
quarters, have little time to at-
tend film showings. So Miss
Denison’s staffers are now at-
tempting to make good discus-
Sion leaders of the projection-
ists, who were chosen for their
Non-Nazi pasts and their faith
in the ideals they present in
their films, as well as for their
technical ability. sound films,

JANUARY 1951

Richard C. Wooton, who heads up the program in
Bavaria, recently called all his projectionists to a two-
weeks seminar at a mountain resort, where they were
instructed in democratic discussion techniques and the
most effective use of the films with various youth, labor,
school and other types of community groups and activi-
ties. It will take more than one seminar to make expert
extension agents, but Miss Denison reported that the
enthusiasm and interest of these men who spend up to
70 hours weekly in showing the American-made films,
give great encouragement for the future of the program.

LTHOUGH THE CRITICISM and problems involved

are not inconsequential, the film program has elicit-
ed overwhelming approval from the majority of its
beneficiaries. Hundreds of press clippings, letters, verbal
reports and even illustrated essays by schoolchildren
reach HICOG monthly expressing appreciation for the
showings and pleading for more films.

Encouraging is the fact that many of the letters indi-
cate that the films are making an impression, that people
are beginning to comprehend the instruction or message
they contain. A typical indication was an essay written
by a 14-year-old boy from the heart of the Bavarian
backwoods, summarizing his reactions to the Peter
Zenger film: “Thus freedom of press and speech were
established as basic principles of American democracy,"
he writes. “I too want to speak the truth everywhere
and always in order to contribute to the development of
our country."

The total influence of the program is difficult to meas-
ure. It is seldom that such tangible evidence turns up as
the action of one German community after its citizens
had witnessed a documentary on a Canadian town's co-

German schoolteachers study new methods of learning English through the use of

(Photo by Hopp, Community Activities Branch; all others by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Adults watch intently at showing of US documentary.

operative effort to rebuild an old school. The film moved
the German villagers to contribute time, money and ma-
terials for the new school their community needed so badly.

Today, HICOG's films are achieving a steadily grow-
ing popularity. New and more appropriate films for Ger-
many are under production. The training of projectionists
as discussion leaders guarantees more effective use of the

films for the future. With these conditions in mind, even —
the most critical observer can hardly fail to recognize
the tremendous potentialities of the community movies.

CTUALLY THE FULL EFFECTS of the film program

may never be known, so closely are they interrelated
with the other activities of HICOG to promote German
democracy. The results of these combined efforts have
already been far-reaching.

Hundreds of German communities today are holding
regular town meetings, civic action groups are arising,
Germans are beginning to express their opinions — and —
very often caustic ones—to government officials; and
conversely, the officials are paying more heed to public
opinion. New schools, refugee housing, roads and small
industries are being built through the co-operative action
of private citizens. Never before in German history has
the average man from ‘Main Street’ taken such an
interest and wielded such influence in the activities of
his government — at least on local levels.

And who can say how many new ideas may have been
planted in the minds of simple burghers, of parents and
teachers and youth by “TVA," “County Agent,” ‘The |
Story That Couldn't Be Printed," “Lessons in Living,”
“Playtown, USA," or many others of the broad variety of
films circulating throughout the US Zone of Germany?

+END

3

“Der Monat” Outstanding in Literary, Political Field

ECOGNIZED AS ONE of Europe’s most important

literary and political magazines, with the largest
circulation of its kind on the continent, Der Monat (The
Month) celebrated the end of its second year of publish-
ing in October.

Edited by an American, Melvin J. Lasky, the publication
was founded in Berlin in October 1948, and, although a
German-language publication, extended its circulation
throughout Europe.

The tables of contents of the two annual volumes of
Der Monat read like a Who's Who of the Western literary
world. Many of the leading names of Europe and America
are represented, including Bertrand Russell, Arnold Toyn-
bee, Benedetto Croce, Karl Jaspers, Sidney Hook, James
Burnham, Thornton Wilder, Arthur Koestler and Ignazio
Silone.

The early days of the magazine were not without prob-
lems. “(They) were the most difficult," explained the
editor, ‘for while we believed Berlin to be a real inter-
national city, a genuine cosmopolitan center, we had not
reckoned with the blockade. Suddenly we were cut off
and had to turn to Munich, 500 miles away, for printing
facilities.” This necessitated flying the manuscripts out
and hauling the magazines back into Berlin.

The magazine has been under almost constant attack
from the Communist press and lengthy articles have ap-
peared in the Soviet Berlin daily, Taegliche Rundschau, the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

Austrian weekly, Tagebuch, and in the Russian Literary ~

Gazette, all denouncing “degenerate Western culture” as
represented in Der Monat.

The occupant of a prominent place on the Iron Curtain
blacklist, Der Monat is a dangerous thing to read in the
Eastern zone. Thought control police have gone so far
as ito arrest and have heavy sentences passed on students
and others for having a copy in their possession. Despite —
the dangers, the student underground continues to supply
the magazine to known, trusted fellow-students.

The many prominent admirers of Der Monat's qualities 1
include Karl Jaspers, regarded as Germany's most famous
living philosopher, who has said of the magazine, ‘It is not —
only a service to our own culture but also to a new Europe. q
Here is a journal that breathes the very atmosphere of the
cultural community of the West."

ERP Art Contest Attracts Children

Art-wise children of western Germany are anxiously
awaiting the results of an ECA art contest. Part of a
Europe-wide contest, children under 15 were given an
opportunity to express, through the medium of art, what
the Marshall Plan meant to them. More than 250 prizes, —
including trips to Rome, Paris and London, will be given
to winners.

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 20 ---
Berlin’s Neighborhood Centers

By WILMER FROISTAD
Chief, Public Health and Welfare Branch, Berlin Element-HICOG

Dp ERLIN’S SIX NEIGHBORHOOD CENTERS represent
B a unique undertaking in the field of community wel-
fare. Other communities in Germany have neighborhood
centers (for example, Frankfurt, Darmstadt, Ludwigshafen,
Munich, Cologne, Wuppertal, Goettingen, Freiburg and
Brunswick), but Berlin has gone farthest in trying to pro-
vide under one roof a community-welfare program for
children, youths, adults, aged and blind.

The first of the Berlin neighborhood centers, Mittelhof,
was established by the American Friends Service Com-
mittee* in June 1947 in the beautiful Nikolassee section
of the borough of Zehlendorf in the US Sector. It was
planned primarily as a citywide conference center for
youth groups, as there was at that time no building
available which could be used for all types of demo-
cratically organized conferences and meetings. However,
from the very first the Mittelhof program included many
neighborly services, such as a shoe repairshop, a work-
shop for furniture repair, and some family aid undertakings.

Later there was added a guest program which made it
possible for approximately 10 social workers, teachers
and nurses to spend from 10 days to three weeks “‘con-
valescing"’ in the pleasant surroundings of Mittelhof.
This program was adopted during the Berlin Blockade
and proved a great boon for people of modest income,
who could not get away for a vacation. Later, a kinder-
garten was ‘added, and gradually study and discussion
groups were built up around various interests.

Mittelhof had not been in existence long before the

. local mothers were meeting there each week to do sewing
for welfare families. The clothing on which they worked
came largely from packages shipped by interested per-
sons in the United States. To provide a further opportunity
for active participation by the neighborhood, Mittelhof
established a weekly open-house evening — Wednesday
night — when a general program was arranged. These
programs took a variety of forms: classical music, lec-
tures, community singing and social games. These even-
ings have been extremely popular.

os THE FIRST Mittelhof has been striving for bet-
ter understanding between various groups within
Berlin, and also to establish contact between youth in
Berlin and in western Germany. The Mittelhof station
wagon has made innumerable trips to western Germany
with groups of young people so that they might par-
ticipate in conferences in neighborhood centers there.
Mittelhof has also been the scene of several international
youth conferences. For example, last year there was a
three-week conference at Mittelhof with 30 students

ee ‘Friends in Germany*‘ in Information Bulletin, Issue No. 115,
20, 1947.

JANUARY 1951

representing 14 countries, and a four-day conference in
October on problems of education today, led by a group
of five Swiss educators and psychiatrists. This conference
was open to all teachers and social workers in Berlin.

For those who know how Quakers work, it hardly seems
necessary to state that they never try to impose upon
others their own religious and social views, but endeavor
to bring about an understanding among all elements.

Leadership in the Mittelhof Neighborhood Center has
been provided by volunteer American workers recruited
and maintained by the American Friends Service Com-
mittee. These workers usually serve for one year without
pay. Many are not Quakers themselves, but are sym-
pathetic to the Quakers’ ideal of service.

The American Friends Service Committee also supports
Mittelhof by a yearly grant of funds and by the shipment
of food and clothing from AFSC headquarters in Phila-
delphia. However, the plan has always been to make
Mittelhof an indigenous self-supporting project, and to

The Mennonite Service Committee established this neigh-

borhood center in Kreuzberg in 1949. Shown with two ~

local youngsters are the Lester Hostetiers, home managers.

--- Page 21 ---
Charlottenburg home holds special entertainment for blind.

that end a representative German committee was set up
which acts as the governing group holding official title
to all property belonging to Mittelhof. This administrative
body is organized under German law.

Furthermore, from the very first Mittelhof had many
more paid Germans on its staff than American volunteer
workers. Of course, much of the work at Mittelhof is
done by volunteers, but the size of the program makes
necessary a staff of paid workers. At present the center's
staff is made up of three American volunteers, 10 paid
German workers and six volunteers giving practically full
time. The rest of the work in the neighborhood center is
carried on by committee chairmen and other workers who
spend ffom a few hours to several days a week, helping
carry on the extensive program at Mittelhof.

ITTELHOF HAD BEEN underway only for a short
time when another organization, the American
YWCA, sent an American group worker to Berlin to work
with the German "YW" and help organize a youth cen-
ter. This worker decided to develop a program in the
densely populated and rather badly damaged borough of
Berlin known as Neukoelln. The worker recruited several
groups of young Germans to do volunteer work, using
several badly damaged rooms in a church building. Later,
through Military Government, the group secured several
old barracks which were moved to a large vacant lot in
Neukoelln where the young people themselves began to
construct a semi-permanent barracks neighborhood center.
During the summer of 1948 the local German youths
who were working on the neighborhood center, were
joined by an international work camp group, recruited
by the International Voluntary Service for Peace. These
young people came from a number of foreign countries
and volunteered their services as a demonstration of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

their good will toward the youth of Germany. The build-
ings were completed and dedicated in August of 1949.
There again, as at Mittelhof, the program has gradually
expanded to include a variety of activities, although the
emphasis continues to be on youth work.

Known as Nachbarschaftsheim (neighborhood center)
Neukoelln, it provides a consultation and referral service
for families with special welfare problems, a program of
repair and distribution of clothing, four mothers’ clubs
which meet for discussions, social affairs, or sewing, a
discussion group for returned prisoners of war, and a
playroom for small children. The small libraries at Neu-
koelln and at the othercenters are being expanded through
a special grant from HICOG for purchase of books.

These neighborhood centers did more than provide
welfare and general community services for groups and
individuals. They became training centers for group
leaders, and through the working relationship between

American workers and the German professional people, , 7

a better understanding developed concerning the special
problems in the field of welfare and youth work. Demo-
cratically organized committees, which were gradually
given full responsibility for the control of these centers,
brought together German leaders from many fields of
activity: education, health, welfare and the like, and
gave many of the members a new conception of com-
munity services which is bound to be carried over into
the fields which they represent.

HE SUCCESS OF THESE PROJECTS convinced the
Public Health and Welfare staff in Berlin Element that

the neighborhood centers were a very useful social instru-
ment for bringing the people in the various districts
together in a more friendly relationship. It was evident
that there was a rather sharp division, first between public
and private welfare organizations, and then between the
various private welfare agencies on religious and political
grounds. The feeling of antagonism which existed among
the welfare agencies was a reflection of the general antago-
nism between various groups within the communities,
which the great cities of Germany had developed after
In part this situation is to be explained by the way in
which the great cities of Germany had developed after
1870, and the problem was not very different from that
faced by social welfare leaders in the United States as a
result of the tremendous growth of cities after the Civil

Grandmother tries newly-finished sweaters on grandsons,
Wool was supplied to Steglitz center by welfare agencies.
Sweaters will be given to needy in all sectors of Berlin,

--- Page 22 ---
Women visitors knitting socks for UNICEF at Steglitz cen-
ter are served hot chocolate. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

War. The social organization of the larger boroughs in a
city like Berlin in the postwar period called for somewhat
the same kind of neighborhood programs as had worked
so successfully in England and the United States in
bringing about a better community spirit. The immediate
response which the people of Berlin showed towards the
Nachbarschaftsheim Neukoelln project and the Mittelhof
undertaking, proved this to be true.

Accordingly, the members of the Welfare staff in Berlin
Element began to look for sponsoring groups to help
create identical centers. The American Women's Club
gave some help in starting the neighborhood center in
Steglitz, but this later became entirely an undertaking of
the Steglitz Youth Office. The chief social worker in that
borough had the social vision to see how a small neigh-
borhood center could help to provide services for children
and mothers and could also provide a very much needed
meeting place for groups of elderly people living alone
in dark, cold rooms.

About the same time, several groups of church women
in Schoeneberg got together on a sewing project for the
most needy families in that borough, and out of their
efforts, strongly supported by the Welfare office, grew
the neighborhood center now located in Friedenau. The
project, like each of the others, grew out of local needs
and differed somewhat from previous undertakings.
However, there the program had been largely built around
the need of small children for play facilities, and the
needs of the old people. Friedenau, and indeed all of
Schoeneberg, has an unusually high percentage of “allein-
Stehende Alte," a phrase which much better describes
them than the more accurate English phrase of “old
people living alone.”

ECAUSE OF THE SUCCESSFUL WAY in which the
Mittelhof and Neukoelln projects functioned under
joint leadership of German and American welfare work-
ers, it seemed desirable, if possible, to create additional
Projects of that type. The German social workers had as

JANUARY 1951

yet very little experience in working with community
groups and encouraging individual expression and in this
way developing leadership within the groups themselves.
So, when the Mennonite Service Committee, an American
welfare agency working with CRALOG, expressed an
interest in helping establish a neighborhood center in
Berlin, they were assured of fullest possible support from
Military Governfhent.

A building formerly belonging to a singing group,
known as the Liedertafel, in Kreuzberg, seemed to be an
ideal place for establishing a large neighborhood center
to serve the badly damaged and densely populated Kreuz-
berg areas. Through the co-operation of the health authori-
ties in Kreuzberg, the aged sick living in this building
were moved to other, more suitable nursing homes, and
the work of preparing Liedertafel for its new role as a
community center began. A grant was made from Berlin
Sector funds to help with the renovation, and the Men-
nonites sent a young couple to Berlin to organize the
work. The Mennonites also sent a large amount of equip-
ment, such as sewing machines and furniture, and also
provided part of the funds needed for rehabilitating the
building which had become dingy through years of
neglect. The Nachbarschaftsheim Kreuzberg was dedicated
on Aug. 3, 1949, at a ceremony attended by leading Ger-
man Officials.

Today, Kreuzberg has a staff of four American Men-
nonite volunteers and four paid German workers plus
10 volunteers who give considerable time. It is governed
by a representative committee which includes church and
labor groups and members of the various political parties
in Kreuzberg. This center is on the way to becoming a
permanent community institution. In a few years the
Mennonites plan to withdraw their support, and the pro-
gram will then be carried entirely by German leaders.

LTHOUGH THE NEIGHBORHOOD CENTERS have

found a ready response from the community, and
participation shows that programs are meeting a great
need, there is still the problem of providing top-flight
leadership for the future. In the United States a special
group of social workers and community leaders have
developed, but as yet there are no comparably trained

Women train to teach kindergarten at Mittelhof Center.

--- Page 23 ---
Woodcarving lessons are kids’ specialty at Schoeneberg.

workers in Germany. The training of good leaders must
be one of the next steps for making the program thor-
oughly a German project, and to assure their continuing
operation free from factionalism and authoritarianism.

The extent of participation and the variety of programs
offered in the neighborhood centers is shown in the
following table:

Mittelhof

Rest Home for six social workers (since 1947: about
500 persons).

Ten groups of children (two groups of each type
meeting once a week): singing, folk dancing, sports,
crafts, reading — 200 persons a week.

Five groups of adults: social workers (two), teachers
(one), old ladies (two) — 100 persons a week. Thirteen
groups of youths: discussion, sports, folk dancing, games,
drawing, theater, music, English, one class kindergarten
training — 200 persons a week,

Steglitz

Four groups weekly: sewing, knitting, music, singing —
140 persons a week.

Four groups meeting monthly: blind, social workers, dis-
abled and workmen's relief society — 160 persons a week.

During summer: kindergarten for 50 children.

During winter: warming center for 80 old and invalid
persons,

Kreuzberg :

Library — 1,800 books, 1,300 volumes circulating monthly.

Sewing Center — about 280 women a month.

Concerts (on phonograph), open to everybody.

Ten groups, primarily adults: sewing, knitting, singing,
mothers — 130 persons a week.

Nineteen groups, primarily youths: handicraft, music,
singing, sports, cooking, photography, history, English
(six classes) — 300 persons a week.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Neukoelin

Thirty youth groups, girls and boys: handicraft, sports,
music, singing, games, discussion, shorthand, reading —
450 persons a week.

Six groups for women: knitting, reading, mending, ,
English, aged women — 100 persons a week.

One group for men and women: PW rehabilitation —
(every other week) — 50 persons a week.

Schoeneberg

Fourteen groups primarily for women: aged, sewing,
knitting — 150 persons a week.

Eight groups for children and youths: handicraft, book- 7
binding, singing, music, games — 130 persons a week.
Charlottenburg

Every afternoon: aged women — 60 persons a week.

Twice a month: entertaining blind people — 30 per-
sons a week. ‘

Once a month: entertaining mothers— 20 persons a week. —

HE NEIGHBORHOOD CENTERS have developed ~

through their work a group of loyal supporters who 4%

are convinced that bringing the various programs for |
youth, aged and children together under one roof pro-
motes healthy community life. The neighborhood centers
hope to develop additional services, such as family and
marriage counseling (a McCloy Special Projects Fund
grant has recently been approved for the purpose), and
a gradual expansion of the programs already existing, so
as to draw in more young people.

Recently a group in Charlottenburg, in the British
Sector of Berlin, asked help from the High Commission
in expanding their welfare program, now mainly directed
toward aid for the aged and blind, into something more
nearly like a neighborhood center program. This project
was inspired by the neighborhood programs, which up
to now have centered in the US Sector. q

In that way, it is hoped, the neighborhood program in
Berlin which started with the Quaker project in 1947, ”
will gradually be extended to other densely populated
parts of the city. There have already been several efforts §
made to link up the neighborhood center activities in
Berlin with the various groups doing similar work in
other parts of Germany. So the movement has shown
healthy signs of growth. +END

Young flutists, teacher hold concert at Kreuzberg Home.

--- Page 24 ---
The Birth of a City

By C. F. VON ROSPACH
Deputy Chief, Public Relations Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC Bavaria

EFORE WORLD WAR II, the trademark .“Made in

Gablonz” on glassware and costume jewelry meant
quality merchandise to millions of people throughout the
world.

Gablonz, located in the harsh, northern regions of
Czechoslovakian Sudetenland, had become a world center
for these industries. Many residents of the region, turn-
ing from their rocky fields, had combined the area's
plentiful raw materials with the abundant supply of char-
coal nearby, and pioneered what was to become a famous
giass industry.

Glass blowing and related arts became family tradition
in the Gablonz area. Later glass buttons, beads and novel-
ties started new world trends in jewelry. And as this
fad developed, metal crafts and shops were added at
Gablonz.

By 1939 more than 100,000 persons, mostly of ethnic
German stock, were employed in 5,000 Gablonz industries
which were yearly producing more than $30,000,000 in
goods, 90 percent of which was exported.

En a“

When, in 1945, the greatest mass migration in history
began — the movement of ethnic Germans to Germany —
most of the craftsmen of Gablonz were forced to leave
their homes and businesses in Czechoslovakia.

Finding conditions suitable for glass manufacture in the
Allgaeu region of southwestern Bavaria, a contingent of
the expelled Gablonz people began to settle in and around
Kaufbeuren in 1946. e

Later the Bavarian government arranged to have an
old German ammunition depot in Kaufbeuren-Hart turned
over to representatives of the newly formed Allgaeu
Glass, Metal and Jewelry Association.

HE GREAT GABLONZ INDUSTRIES of other days

had been based on a principle of individual ownership

of small business units, but with co-operation in the main-
tenance of quality and through export.

There are today 1,153 small industries in Germany

which can trace their origin back to Gablonz. Of these

611 are located in the Kaufbeuren area and 451 are mem-

NEUBAU VON 60 WOHNUNGEN

GEFORDERT OWACH BIE RANTECHE STAATEREGHE RUNG AUS MOTHW BES
SODAUN wormenestasts

ormunsag. ARCHITERT DIPL-ING. EDUARD Piesscu
AUStuMRENDE FrRnaeN

ERDW RE ome

“one 90
JOSEF DOBLER
sanconnereeese
KAUFREURER
noses neve

_ MEMMIEGEN

+ JOSEF SCHEIBEL«+

tae

ie san

-HUSSEN KAUPEEUREN

SiVEsieR MOTZ
KAUFEEUREN ©
HUGO GLOGGLER
Kaurecuntn
KARLFOHRY

KAUFREUREN

With the aid of Marshall Plan counterpart funds, New Gablonz has already completed five large housing units like
those pictured. This particular project will provide 60 new homes. Under ambitious plan conceived by Dr. Fritz Enz, pres-
ident of the Allgaeu Glass, Metal and Jewelry Association, Sudeten Germans of the district hope to construct 3,000

@pariments and workshops to house and to furnish jobs for 3,000 skilled workers.

JANUARY 1951

e

(PRB OLCB photos)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
Sudeten refugee, Mrs. Huebner, of Huebner & Son,
examines strings of colorful beads before shipment.

bers of the Allgaeu association. Of these, 225, located for
the most part in overcrowded buildings designed to store
ammunition, are glassware manufacturers, 130 are gir-
dlers, five produce glass needed by the finished product
units, and 91 firms handle export.

Starting from scratch in 1946, these firms have produced,
to date, more than $1,000,000 worth of export goods.

To build up such an industry in so short a time is
regarded by some people as a near miracle.

The people in Kaufbeuren feel that it is only a start, and
pass along the conviction that business will be doubled
in the future.

This new Gablonz complex of expellee industries has
retained its independent spirit. Whether the company is
manufacturing glass or other raw materials, making fin-
ished products, handling the export of the goods or pur-
chasing raw materials, each of the Gablonz firms retains
its individual identity. Family names such as Thos. Hubner
& Sons and Georg Schmitt & Son are the rule; many of
the small firms carry the word Gablonz in their name.

Dr. Fritz Enz, who carries the title of president of the
Allgaeu Glass, Metal and Jewelry Association, is in reality
a combination mayor, chamber of commerce secretary
and over-all co-ordinator.

HE ASSOCIATION ITSELF can best be compared to

the farmer's marketing co-operatives of the United
States. The office of Dr. Enz is the statistical nerve center
of a great complex of individual enterprises.

Most of the goods manufactured by other former Gab-
lonz enterprises in other areas of Germany — at Bay-
reuth, Schwaebisch Gmuend, Trappenkamp, Oberursel and
Karlsruhe — are exported through the Kaufbeuren ex-
porters. Dr. Enz’s office procures materials, co-ordinates
efforts and handles public relations.

During the past nine months 311 buyers from foreign
firms have visited the offices of the Allgaeu association,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

with 52 coming from North America. Dr. Enz reports or-
ders from these’ and other sources, some stemming from
the recent Chicago trade fair, have built up an order
backlog of more than $1,000,000, an amount equal to that 7
produced by the co-operative since its start. Sixty percent
of this export will go to the United States — thus aiding
Germany in her effort to close the dollar gap — while
the rest will go to 22 other foreign countries.

Among the products which will be shipped are many
kinds of buttons. They are also shipping necklaces, arm-
bands, earrings, rings, brooches and, occasionally, crowns
for some of the lesser potentates in the world today,

Among the unusual jobs tackled by Allgaeu craftsmen
is that of copying the real jewels of wealthy American
women who desire to wear exact imitations as a safeguard 7
against robbery. ;

The Allgaeu co-operative has a display of more than
20,000 different designs in jewelry, and the craftsmen have
noted that tastes vary greatly from country to country.

Raw materials used by the co-operative are glass and
plastics, manufactured in Gablonz, and non-precious
metals. Gold and silver are used for plating, but gems,
precious stones and other metals generally are not used.

O INSURE A NEVER-ENDING SUPPLY of. skilled

craftsmen, a trade school is maintained at Kauf- |
beuren, with the aid of the Bavarian State Ministry of
Education and Culture. The three-year course, enrolling
100, trains young people between the ages of 14 and 20
in the intricacies of glass and metal work.

Originally the school was opened for children of the
expellee families, but recently many native families have
asked, and been granted, permission to enroll their
children.

The big problem that faces the Allgaeu people now is
filling the tremendous backlog of orders within a rea-
sonable length of time. With ERP aid, five bright new
housing units, virtually completed, have been erected in ~
the heart of the Kaufbeuren district. These new homes
have, before their occupancy, become the center of small
grocery and attendant stores.

Handmade goods of quality have brought New Gablonz |
growing volume of orders, with exports earning dollars. ©

--- Page 26 ---
Apprentices work beside artisans in variety of small but highly active industries which make up busy, thriving New Gablonz.

Watching this development, and counting his ever in-
creasing orders, has given Dr. Enz a bold idea. He wants
onstruct 3,000 apartments and workshops to house and
ish jobs for 3,000 skilled workers and their families,
f them other Gablonz expellees who now live else-
e in the German Republic. This program would cost
10,000,000 ($2,380,000).

Dr. Enz feels that by embarking on such a course, the
eu group would double capacity and be able to pay
sbts by the time the project is completed.

= ° ‘ oc

LTHOUGH THE SECTION where the most building

is going on still bears the name of Kaufbeuren-Hart,
to most residents it has already taken the name of New
Gablonz, and more and more the people of the district
refer to their new living center by that name.

If the workers and officials of “New Gablonz’ continue
at the pace they have already shown, by the time the
cartographers of Bavaria are ready to place New Gablonz
at its proper place on the map, the appropriate name for
the town will be “Gross Gablonz." +END

1

German Cultural

EAT INTEREST in the integration of Germany into
y the democratic cultural community — even despite the
tmosphere of tension resulting from recent war develop-
ments — was shown by both American and foreign dele-
gates to the National Conference on Occupied Countries
held during December in Washington, DC. So reported
Dr. James M. Read, chief of HICOG Education and Cultural
Relations Division, who participated in the meeting.

December conference marked the first time that
n Germans participated in the meeting sponsored
by 175 private US agencies.

we

Dr. Read stressed the importance of the work of private
agencies in the field of German social change and cultural
interchange. “In the future," he stated, “we will devote
more of our efforts to backing German organizations which
will operate in all western Germany and continue long
after HICOG has disappeared.”

Summing up the important results of the conference
attended by delegates from philanthropic, educational,
labor, religious, social welfare and women's groups, Dr.
Read cited the following conference resolutions as the
Most significant:

Whatever changes in American policy be necessary for
the future, these changes should not reduce attention on
education, cultural interchange and the forces that make
for peace.

Immediate revision of the Internal Security Act, which
is disrupting the exchange of persons program with the

JANUARY 1951

occupied countries and adversely affecting the public
affairs efforts of the United States.

The governments of the US and of ERP countries should
make counterpart funds available for educational recon-
struction and for cultural interchange among the European
countries receiving American economic aid.

American relations with occupied areas should be
designed to assist the nationals of those countries in
broadening their participation in the United Nations and
other international agencies, particularly UNESCO.

Edward W. Barrett (right), US assistant secretary of
state for public affairs, and Geoffrey Lewis (left), deputy
director of the US State Department's Bureau of German
Affairs, confer in Munich with Shepard Stone, director ot”
HICOG's Office of Public Affairs. Mr. Barrett and Mr.
Lewis arrived in late December to survey the US In-
formation program in Germany. (PRB OLCB photo)

--- Page 27 ---
Mother Zwinger (right) and a few of her 41 boys prepare
to distribute laundry to other members of the family.
Above, governing council rules on grievances, disputes.
(PRB OLCH photos)

2

Occupants take turns doing KP under supervision of the head cook. Monthly contribution
of DM 80 by each of the working members helps keep home going and aids its unemployed.

Pay day and banking day teaches youthful inmates, aged

Friends and members join Bishop of Limburg in blessing
from 15 to 22, the responsibilities of self- management.

new boys’ home near Wiesbaden built with American aid.

--- Page 28 ---
Home for The Wanderer

By HILLARD ANTHONY RHOADES
Chief, Public Relations Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC Hesse

r OTHER MARIA ZWINGER LOST her husband in 1932,
M her only son in 1938. Yet, today she has 41 “sons.”

Sixteen-year-old Peter, whose parents were killed in
Czechoslovakia, escaped into Germany without sisters
or brothers. Today he has 40. “brothers,” all living with
him, in a home of their own.

Peter's brothers come from: all over Germany and
Eastern European countries. Some of them were orphaned,
some of them never knew their own fathers, some of
them ran away from home, some of them were driven
out of their homes. All of them had one thing in com-
mon— they were boys looking for a home, looking for
a chance at life.

Today they are getting both in a building they built
by themselves, with American financial aid, in Dotzheim,
a suburb of Wiesbaden. The home, named after the late
Bishop of Limburg, Ferdinand Diedrichs, is not a house, a
center or exactly a “boys’ town." It is actually a home, with
all the warmth and family spirit that the word implies. The
boys have their own rooms—three to a room—contrib-
ute to the family income, help out with the family chores.

Their “mother,” Mrs. Zwinger, looks upon each one
of the young men as her own child, carefully super-
vising his dress, food and personal habits. Thirty-year-
old Heinz Koenigstein and Home Manager Karl Hewel
act as fathers, dispensing advice, helping with problems
on a man-to-man basis, giving an oft-needed friendly pat
on the back or an admonishing, when the occasion arises.

The parental staff is well qualified to care for the
young wanderers. Mrs. Zwinger, naturally motherly, is a

_ trained nurse. Koenigstein
and Hewel are trained
youth leaders and coun-
selors. A physician makes
tegular weekly calls

IFE AT THE HOME is
orderly, yet free. For

the working boys, break-
fast is served, lunch boxes
Prepared and a dinner
Teadied for their return
after their day's work.
Almost every evening has
some planned program;

A quiet evening at home
finds manager - educator-
father" Karl Hewel in the

act of kibitzing. Manager
Hewel guides boys in their
daily routine about the
home and aids them in their
bersonal problems as well.

JANUARY 1951

e
however any boy can go where he pleases at any time
as long as he returns by 10:30 o'clock. The “lights out” -
hour has been set for the convenience of those whose work
schedule calls for early rising.

Any boy between the ages of 15 and 22 is welcome
to join the family, and is free to leave at any time he
so desires. But for as long as he stays, he is a member
of the family.

Although the home is under the guidance of a Catholic
priest, genial Father Walter Adlhoch, boys of every
religion are welcome. No questions are asked of religious,
social or political background. Only rules for admission
are whether the applicant is a boy within the age group,
and is looking for a home and a family.

According to Koenigstein, even a few young Com-
munists joined the family. The boys themselves say the
young Communists did not remain “red’ very long. The
wholesome family atmosphere of the home and the
sincere efforts to help fellow humans converted the
youngsters into Christians.

The home originated in the Caritas Camp in the
nearby Rhine valley town of Eltville in 1948. Its growth,
caused by an effective program of finding decent
employment for young men, necessitated larger quarters.
The Wiesbaden city administration helped by providing
a plot of ground in Dotzheim. On Feb. 28, 1950, a new
house was started, the boys themselves doing the work,
and on Oct. 8, Wilhelm Kempf, Bishop of Limburg, con-
secrated the home. Still lacking DM 20,000 ($4,760) for
completion, it has a potential capacity of 70 youths.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
babe 2
Young Anton (right), recent arrival from Poland, jokes
about working day as apprentice carpenter to amusement
of, 1.-r., Mr. Rhoades, author of this article; Rev. Walter
Adlhoch, home director; and Dr. James R. Newman, US
state commissioner for Hesse. (Photo by Rudolph, Wiesbaden)

EDICATED TO THE PRECEPT that the Christian
family is the foundation of a sound society, the
home strives to educate the boys as members of a family.
They are encouraged to add personal touches to their
quarters, to accept responsibility and to help each other.
The young men have their own council, with their
own mayor, chosen by themselves in a free, democratic,
non-political election. The council shares responsibility
of management with Hewel. Each working boy con-
tributes DM 80 ($19) a month to the home. Those not
earning enough to afford this amount are helped out
by the Caritas Society. Those still seeking employment
pay nothing and receive an average of DM5 ($1.19) a
week as pocket money. The money given to the Home
covers all expenses, including laundry.

The remainder of his earnings belongs to the individual
young man, but he is guided in personal expenditures
by one of the house-fathers. Economy is encouraged,
and the boys are required to make personal deposits
with Hewel and to save for their own clothing and the
day when they will walk in the world as heads of their
own homes and families.

When a new boy arrives, generally recommended by
religious charities, prison chaplains, railroad-station mis-
sions, parish priests, juvenile boards or the ex-soldiers’
camp near Hersfeld, he is given a probationary period,
customarily two weeks long. If he shows the co-operation
necessary to become a member of the family, one of
the. house fathers goes with him to the labor office to
secure him a position or get him a suitable apprentice-
ship. This personal aid is a continuing process. Often help
is given a boy to learn another profession, to change
his job to one more compatible with the boy's talent and
abilities, and to help him with after-work education, so
necessary for a fruitful future.

ECREATIONAL FACILITIES and programs are
provided for their leisure time. The library has much
to offer, but the boys can use contributions of more
books and periodicals. Well-attended are the special

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

evenings, such as biweekly movie showings by the
Wiesbaden US Resident Office, discussion evenings,
Tuesday's “community night,” Saturday's “family night,"
where quizzes and family games are played, and Sunday's
“party nights.” The boys can do as they please, attend pro-
grams as they please, as long as they observe the curfew. -
Week-end passes are given out, on request, by Hewel.

No boy is punished at the home. For cases requiring
discipline, the youngster is first spoken to by Hewel,
Koenigstein or Mother Zwinger. If this has no effect,
the boy is brought before the council, where he may
speak in his own behalf. If the boys themselves feel
that a member no longer is part of their family, they
ask the boy to leave. If a boy feels that he no longer
wants to remain at the home, he is free to leave. One
boy did, but returned and was welcomed back into the
family. In any event, no young man, no matter how
unruly or recalcitrant, is ever whipped or fined. é

When a boy leaves the home, it is, generally, to start
his own home, return to his family, or to secure a bet-
ter position outside the Wiesbaden area. Even after
leaving, however, most of them visit the home regularly.

| eon EDUCATION AND FAMILY atmosphere
are keynotes in the home. Just as in private homes,
the boys can bring friends and relatives into the home
for visits; are permitted allowances to buy their own
needs; help with the family chores, and are encouraged to
improve themselves and their education.

Most of the boys are refugees from Communist op-
pression. Most of them, like young Peter, came to the
home without parents or brothers, Today, they have
democratic freedom. Today, they have a home of their
own, with parents and brothers. Today, they have roots
and, with them, a chance for a decent, honorable future.
The wanderers have at long last found a home, ++ END

3
q
.
|

Catholic Youth Aid East Germans

Thousands of East-German youth came “secretly” across"
the Soviet Zone border to attend summer camps and
vacation youth programs during the past year, it was
disclosed in a conference of Catholic youth leaders spon-_
sored by the Religious Affairs Branch, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG.

The leaders of 15 West German youth organizations,
representing more than 1,000,000 organized Catholic
youth, indicated that they were anxious to have these
short-term, visitors from the East in order to put them in
contact with the democratic and religious experiences
of West German youth programs.

In their reports to the conference, the youth leaders
also emphasized extensive efforts to assimilate refugee
youth, who have settled in western Germany, into their
respective programs.

The one-day conference, held in Bad Nauheim, was
under chairmanship of Dr. Urban H. Fleege, HICOG:
Catholic Affairs adviser. The purpose of the meeting was.
to promote closer working relations between all Catholic
youth organizations. 2

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 30 ---
Forty-eight hours of work at a small but significant gathering gave good illustra-
tion of the vast contrast between East and West in their organization of youth

The Big Difference

By AKSEL G. NIELSEN
Chief, Youth Activities, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden Py

N ) ONE HAS A MONOPOLY on serving or guiding
youth,” These words summoned more than 200

representatives of industrial, political, cultural and youth
organizations in Wuerttemberg-Baden to a two-day
meeting at Heidenheim. This, the first statewide youth

congress of its kind held in West Germany since the
war, was unique in bringing together representatives of
many outside interests as well as HICOG and Bonn
government leaders. All met with the realization, as the
program pointed out, that if the educational, recreational
and social needs of all youth are to be met, the support
and co-operation of all concerned will be needed.

This was further emphasized by H. Hassinger, Youth
Affairs adviser to the Federal Government, who pleaded
that each one forgo special interests and try to represent

youth as a whole. This official warned that youth work
does not merely entail fund raising but must go deeper.
It must have a spiritual foundation.

The program of the conference was devoted more to
group work with the speeches being limited to subjects
of special interest to the meeting.

Dr. Peter Brandenburg, mayor of Pforzheim, noted in

his talk that “the problems of youth are the problems of
the whole population. In every age step of his develop-

ment a human being is a personality and a full-fledged
citizen — even when a day old — and it is our job to see
that enjoys his rights in full. Of the politicians and
officials who criticize the youth of today for being
disinterested, I must ask this question: Do we adults
have the right and final answers to all our problems?
What did we learn as a result of the first world war? It
didn't lead to the modesty and humility of the German
people which was necessary in order to find its proper
place in the world. I am afraid we Germans, and others,
too, again have failed to learn our lesson.

"The political parties and government officials com-
plain about our youth. Shouldn't they rather complain
about the fact that great masses of the people themselves
stand idly by on the sidelines while being skeptical about

youth? What can we expect from youth when we can’t set
a good example?” Dr. Brandenburg concluded by naming
self-government and self-reliance as the goals of youth.

A \USTRALIAN, Lawrence Moyse, newly appointed
director of the US Zone's World YMCA and YWCA
Services, discussed voluntary youth agencies. Mr. Moyse
Pointed out that for better or for worse, the work of
Voluntary agencies is influenced by the government-
Sponsored youth program. Therefore, the program of the

JANUARY 1951

voluntary agencies must somehow be co-ordinated with
that of the government. Voluntary agencies should strive
for state co-operation; government representatives, on
the other hand, should seek the advice of agency workers.

Speaking on behalf of the Bonn government, Mr.
Hassinger listed the following objectives of the federal
youth program:

Measures to relieve the needs of homeless, unskilled
and unemployed youth.

Promotion of training for citizenship.

Support of the Bundesjugendring (work committee for
youth activities and. youth welfare) and the German
Youth Hostel Association.

Support of a youth recreation program for all youth
who come under the law for Kriegsfolgenhilfe (War
Consequences Compensation),

Promotion of international co-operation and under-
standing among youth.

Promotion of facilities for school and pre-school age
youth.

Improved youth laws.

AURENCE E. NORRIE, chief, Community Activities
Branch, HICOG, in discussing “HICOG Policies on
Youth Activities,’ warned that adequate plans for youth
were still lagging in Germany and that ‘glaring social sore
spots and mass frustration confront youth everywhere.”
Saying there are 500,000 unemployed, and more than
100,000 homeless and 4,000 refugee youth coming from

Interest is shown by the more than 200 representatives of
industrial, cultural and youth organizations in Wuert-
temberg-Baden during discussion session at the recent
Heidenheim youth congress.

(PRD HICOG photo)

--- Page 31 ---
Conferees, after addresses, divided into live work groups.
This one discussed leadership training, (K. Hopp photo)

Laurence E. Norrie (left), chief, Community Activities
Branch, HICOG, and Mayor Brandenburg of Pforzheim are
interviewed by AFN announcer. (K. Hopp photo)

Important results were obtained in informal social hours,
held as part of congress, (PRD HICOG photo)

the East monthly, he pointed an accusing finger at adults
who have failed to provide the needed youth centers
and homes, sufficient schools and playgrounds, vocational
training, work and a satisfactory social life. This, in turn, he
warned, prevents youth from participating in the develop-
ment of their country; “these are problems which politicians
and governmental leaders cannot continue to ignore..."

However, the HICOG official's remarks were not all in
a pessimistic vein, Emphasizing that West German youth
have not fallen for the Communist line, Mr. Norrie said
that the FDJ (Freie Deutsche Jugend —Communist-
sponsored “Free German Youth") has steadily declined
in strength in West Germany during the last four years
(from 1.5 percent to 0.6 percent of all organized youth in
the US Zone).

“The West German youth movement is the most
rapidly growing youth movement in the world," he
explained citing the fact that 2,000,000 youth belong
to voluntary youth organizations in the US Zone and
that 250 youth committees with more than 7,000 mem-
bers have been created to promote local youth programs,
He also asserted that more than 800 youth homes and
projects are in operation as well as 1,000 community
centers. These institutions, plus the training of some
20,000 volunteer youth leaders, have been largely financed
by HICOG,

In 1950 HICOG spent DM 6,000,000 (about $1,428,000)
in assisting youth committees and organizations to carry
out such programs. In addition, nearly DM 50,000,000
(about $12,000,000) has been set aside to provide such
facilities as community centers, student union building
medical centers, model vocational training schools, etc.

N REFERRING TO CRITICISM that HICOG was not

educating German youth politically, Mr. Norrie said,
“This is probably true—when one interprets political
education as being over-indoctrination of a partisan sort.
This we have not attempted to do. We feel, however,’
that this is a task for the German youth organizations,
political parties, the schools . . . and the labor unions.
It is the job of the press, the radio and other institutions,
Political education should flow through all youth organi-
zations and not be primarily partisan in nature, but
informative about the great political issues of Germany
and the world.”

Mr. Norrie particularly cautioned against underestimat-
ing democratic experience which youth receive in the
organizations, groups and forums, where they elect officers,
plan their own programs and discuss current political and
social issues. “They develop a philosophy of life out of
the give-and-take of ideas and arguments — that is poli-
tical education.”

In support of HICOG's youth policy, Mr. Norrie quoted
a statement made recently by 10 influential youth leaders
to US High Commissioner John J.McCloy: “We reject
being herded into one mass youth organization to be used
for political ends... we know we can achieve our ideals
only in the democratic atmosphere of freedom and the
right to be different such as we enjoy in western Germany,

(Continued on page 65)

e JANUARY 1951

--- Page 32 ---
Attractions for 1951

By DR. A. STARK

German Central Tourist Association

PORTING EVENTS, FAIRS, folk festivals and inter-
S national meetings feature this year’s calendar of Ger-
man events, but a series of great music festivals will be
the billboard attraction.

The “Music in Germany” slogan adopted for 1951
tourist promotion advertises rich rewards to music-lovers
of all nationalities: among the festivals slated are those
devoted to Johann Sebastian Bach in Amsbach and Bre-
men, to Richard Wagner in Bayreuth, to Ludwig van
Beethoven in Bonn and Stuttgart, to Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart in Wuerzburg and to Georg Friedrich Handel in
Goettingen.

Countless folk festivals and historical plays will offer
the flavor of Germany's past to visitors from abroad.
Most of them are performed in surroundings dating back
many centuries, and in some cases entire medieval towns
are used as stage settings with the townspeople as actors.

Germany's industry and commerce will display the
products of their labors in fairs and expositions, partici-
pated in by foreign countries — one more proof of Ger-
Many's growing economic importance abroad.

Also indicating Germany’s inter-relationship with other
nations will be the important meetings and congresses
summoning to Germany foreign representatives in all
walks of economic, scientific and cultural life.

Sports, always a pacemaker for international good will,
will present a many-sided program which matches Ger-
mans and foreigners in a series of friendly competitions.

A preview of events in several categories follows:

* Ne *
Music in Germany
ERMANY HAS ALWAYS TAKEN just pride in her
great composers and has lovingly cultivated their
music and attendant traditions.

Bonn, West Germany's capital and the birthplace of
Beethoven, will hold the 18th Beethoven festival, with
Many guest conductors and soloists, from May 1 to 11. The
Rhine resort of Wiesbaden will present an international
May festival continuing the opera guest performances of
German and foreign ensembles initiated last year.

Stuttgart, too, offers a Maytime music celebration. En-
titled Festival Music Days, the program will include the
Missa Solemnis, directed by Herbert von Karajan; guest
Concerts by the Konzertgebouw Orchestra, the Chamber
Orchestra from Winterthur, Switzerland, with Edwin
Fischer, and six internationally prominent quartets; song
evenings and special operatic performances.

Host city of the 106th Lower Rhenish Music Festival
will be Duesseldorf. Slated for West Germany's leading
theater, under the management of Gustav Gruendgens,
the orchestras and choirs of Aachen, Cologne, Wuppertal
and Duesseldorf will take part.

JANUARY 1951

20)

Mass choral singing will be featured at two giant
festivals during June and July. The General German
Singers’ Association (DAS) will hold ‘its first festival
June 15 to 19 in Frankfurt, while the German Singers’
Association (Deutscher Saengerbund) is to perform from
July 27 to 29 in Mainz. Each group counts on 60,000
singers and expects strong participation from foreign
countries, especially the United States.

OR THE FIRST TIME since 1927, the International
Society for Modern Music will present its annual
festival in Germany. To be held in Frankfurt, and spon-|
sored by the Hessian Broadcasting Station, this is the
25th festival of the society. The program provides for
two full orchestra and two chamber orchestra concerts,
one chamber music performance, first night of a con-
temporary opera in the Hessian State Theater and two
special concerts by two contemporary German composers.
Not far from Frankfurt is the city of Darmstadt where
the Kranichsteiner Music Institute traditionally holds the
world-renowned International Vacation Courses in Mod-
ern Music, which in 1951 will take place June 23 to
July 15. Seminars for composition will be directed by
Wolfgang Fortner (Heidelberg), Rene Leibowitz (Paris),
Emst Krenek (Los Angeles) and Edgard Varese (New
York). Dr. Hermann Scherchen (Zurich) will conduct the
orchestra's concerts.

The traditional Mozart Music Festival, famed the world
over, will probably be resumed in June.

Climax of the German music summer will be the Wagner
festival in Bayreuth, July 29 to Aug. 19. Wagner's grand-
sons, Wieland and Wolfgang Wagner, are co-managers
of the productions. For the first time since before World
War II, the Festival Play House in the lovely baroque
city will welcome music lovers from all parts of the
world to the Wagner series. As a prelude, Beethoven's
Ninth Symphony will be rendered July 29, under Wil-
helm Furtwaengler's direction.

“Parsifal, with settings and arrangement by Wieland
Wagner, and under the baton of Hans Knappertsbusch,
will be performed July 30 and Aug. 7, 10 and 18. “Die
Meistersinger,” arranged by Rudolf Hartmann and under
Herbert von Karajan's direction, will be heard on Aug. 5,
8, 16 and 19.

The “Ring” cycle is on the program twice, the first
time under Hans Knappertsbusch, on July 31 and Aug. 1,
2 and 4. The second performance will be performed
under Herbert von Karajan on Aug. 11, 12, 13 and 15.
Wieland Wagner also handles settings and arrangement
for the “Ring.”

A capacity attendance is expected, with heavy repre-
sentation of United States and French visitors. Some

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
leading foreign opera stars have already been signed to
roles in the operas, with other negotiations pending.

In addition to Bonn’'s Beethoven Week, in May, another
is slated for July in Stuttgart. All the symphonies, the
piano concertos and the violin concerto of Beethoven
will be played, with internationally-known artists as
soloists. Prof. W. van Hoogstraten will be musical director.

Music by the immortal Bach, the 200th anniversary of
whose death was commemorated in 1950, will be heard
during the annual Ansbach Bach Week, scheduled this
year from July 27 to Aug. 3. The German Bach Festival
of the New German Bach Society is to be held in early
September in Bremen.

Berlin's noted RIAS Symphony Orchestra has scheduled
two famed American conductors, Artur Rodzinsky (for
May 27 and 28) and Leopold Stokowski (for June 24
and 25). Violin virtuoso Yehudi Menuhin will make one
of his frequent tours in Germany, being scheduled to
appear in Wuppertal April 2, in Duesseldorf April 5, and
with the RIAS Symphony Orchestra in Berlin April 8 and 9.

HE SOUTHERN METROPOLIS of the arts, Munich,

will present the Bavarian State Opera in a series of
operas throughout the month of July, featuring the works
of Mozart, Wagner, Strauss, Pfitzner and Orff. Bavarian
State Theater and Operetta will be included in the 1951
festival. Concurrently, “Summer Plays” will be given in
the Nymphenburg Palace in Munich.

The Red Gate in Augsburg will present well-known
soloists in openair opera and operetta performances dur-
ing July and August. To be performed are ‘'Rienzi,"
“Lohengrin,” “Rigoletto,” “Aida,” “Tosca,” “Turandot,”
“Der Vogelhaendler," and “Im Weissen Roessl."

In Coblenz, the “Stage in the Rhine’ has been so suc-
cessful that openair operettas will be repeated there
this year.

Goettingen’s Handel festival plays will commemorate
their 30th anniversary during 1951. From June 22 to 30,
besides chamber music compositions, the opera “Rose-
linde" and the oratorio ‘Frohsinn und Schwermut" are
to be performed, with Dr. Niedecken-Gebhard in charge
of stage arrangements and Fritz Lehmann conducting.

Brunswick will have its annual Festive Days of Mod-
ern Chamber Music in November.

Occasional mention has been made herein of “openair
performances.’ Their fascination is of a special kind.
Their stages are medieval castle or modern palace courts,
monastery cloisters, cathedral approaches, or entire cities
and towns many centuries old. Needless to say, the
locales are selected to suit the plays.

Planned this year are serenades in the court of Heidel-
berg castle; Goethe's “Goetz von Berlichingen" will be
performed in the court of the castle that once was the
abode of the “knight with the iron hand," Jagsthausen,
with the townspeople in period costumes for the mass
scenes, and top-flight actors in main parts; the 800-year-
old Romanesque cloisters of Feuchtwangen will be the
setting for plays by the Grand World Theater; a Schiller
drama will be played on the massive stairs leading to
St. Michael's May 12 to 14 and again in July and August;

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

Alpirsbach in the Black Forest, Monschau in the Eifel,
Wunsiedel and many other featured ‘‘openair settings.”

* * *

Folk and Homeland Festivals

ARNIVAL IS THE MOST WIDESPREAD of German

folk festivals and though it is celebrated throughout
the month preceding Ash Wednesday, it culminates in
the famous Rose Monday processions this year on Feb. 5.
Especially in Cologne, Mainz, Duesseldorf and Munich
(on Feb. 4 in Munich, as the Fasching Procession), large
processions are held which attract hundreds of thousands
of spectators from Germany and abroad.

The Suebian-Alamannian Fastnacht celebrations in the
towns of Elzach, Constance, Offenburg, Rottweil and Vil-
lingen show close connection with ancient customs and
traditions. Other festivals are of more recent date, such
as the history plays, but the subjects they treat none
the less go back hundreds if not thousands of years. The
famous Meistertrunk (Master Draught) historical play and
shepherds’ dance are performed in Rothenburg ob der
Tauber, a veritable fairy-tale town dating from medieval
times. The entire series is given on May 13-15, June 9-10,
July 14-15 and Aug. 11-12.

Greatest festival restricted to one locale is the Oktober-
fest, the annual fall carnival season held in Munich. This
has become almost a Europe-wide institution. Additional
festivals of widespread interest are the German Grape
Gathering Festival on the Wine Road in Neustadt from
Oct. 6 to 14, the Prince’s Wedding in Landshut, Bavaria,
during October, the traditional Wurstmarkt (Sausage
Market) in Bad Duerkheim, Sept. 8-11 and 15-16, the
Hamburger Dom (Hamburg Cathedral) celebration begin-
ning in November and lasting through Christmas, and‘
the Bad Canstatter folk festival on the Wasen near Stutt-
gart, which will be held for the 106th time in September.

x ok
Fairs and Expositions

ETURNING PROSPERITY and the re-emergence of
Germany into the world economy gives Germany's
fairs and expositions new life, importance and prestige.:
The most important fair cities, Frankfurt, Hanover and
Cologne, will again present expositions, and will share:
billing with Hamburg, Duesseldorf, Munich and Berlin.
In Offenbach, center of the German leather goods in-:
dustry, the year's first leather goods trade fair will be
held from Feb. 10 to 15, to be followed by a second one
in September. The Cologne Spring Fair has been split
into two parts, the Household Goods and Hardware Fair
from Feb. 25 to 27 and the Textiles and Clothing Fair
from March 4 to 6. During these periods, joint expositions
of foreign countries may be viewed in the House of the.
Nations on the fair grounds. For reasons of economy,
Hanover has also split its fair on German industries. The
Sample Fair is slated for Feb. 28 to March 4, and the
Technical Fair from April 29 to May 4.
The great Toy Fair takes place in Nuremberg, which
has long reigned supreme as the world’s “Toy Town,"
from March 7 to 12. (Continued on page 58,

JANUARY 1954,

--- Page 34 ---
Cost of Schooling

Study

By WALLACE H. STREVELL

Chief, Education Research, Education and Cultural Relations Division
Office of Public Affairs. HICOG

HE THREE MAIN TYPES of schools in Germany for

children of compulsory school age are elementary
schools (Volksschulen), part-time vocational schools (Be-
rufsschulen), and secondary schools (Hoehere Schulen).
Together they constitute in effect a two-track system, the
two tracks being separated administratively, physically
and financially. The elementary and secondary-school
tracks run parallel during the fifth through the eighth
school years. Beyond the first four elementary school
grades (Grundschule), common to all children, less than
one-tenth of pupils enter the secondary-school track and
more than nine-tenths follow the elementary-vocational
schools track.

In the US Zone of Germany the bulk of children, namely
73 percent, are enrolled in the eighth-year elementary
schools. Enrollment in the part-time vocational schools
which follow the elementary schools represents 18 percent
of total public school enrollment. An additional one per-
cent are registered at full-time vocational schools. Thus
92 percent are in the combined elementary-vocational
schools track.

The secondary-school track, beginning with the fifth
grade and continuing for eight or nine years, leads to the
examination granting admission to higher education. In
the secondary schools of the US-occupied area are en-
rolled seven percent of all children attending public
schools. Besides, in some states, are found middle schools
(Mittelschulen) similar to the secondary schools but offer-

‘ing a practical curriculum and enrolling about one per-
cent of the children. The secondary schools take several
distinct forms depending upon the emphasis given to an-
cient languages, to modern languages, or to sciences and
practical subjects, each form being a separate type of
secondary school.

COMPARISON AMONG 15 German cities according
to school types shows that expenditures per pupil per
annum in the elementary schools range from DM 118 to 197;
and in the part-time vocational schools from DM 59 to 194.
In secondary schools, beginning at the fifth grade, expendi-
tures per pupil range from DM 304 to 833.
This introduces the problem of cost and quality of
_ €ducation in terms of respective school types. One may
ask, for example, if secondary-school pupils in a low ex-
Penditure city receive as good an opportunity as they
enjoy in another city spending twice as much per pupil
n its secondary schools.
The popular elementary schools of Germany are cus-
tomarily described as being entirely uniform with respect

JANUARY 1951

31

to school support, but even in this category of schools
substantial differences are found to exist among the cities.
Certainly among vocational schools the support per pupil
differs greatly from city to city.

The most significant and challenging fact disclosed by
these comparisons is the enormous discrimination between
the two tracks. Based upon a study of 175 communities,
the median expenditure for secondary schools is found to
be DM 580; for elementary schools DM 165. For vocational
schools which are located in 22 of the 175 communities
the median expenditure is observed to be DM 80 per pupil.

A child privileged to attend the secondary school track
may expect to have spent on his education three to four
times as much per annum as another child of the same
age and perhaps the same capabilities attending the ele-
mentary-vocational school track. The modern sociologist
thinking in terms of economic and social well-being, in
terms of citizenship, in terms of developing the talents of
each and every individual, would consider that this inter-
nal distribution of school support among school forms
deserves attention.

HE NINE-TENTHS WHO FOLLOW the elementary-

vocational schools track are offered a progressively
deteriorating school program. Not only are they denied
support in the fifth to eighth school grades as compared
with the secondary schools track, but the quantity and
quality of the vocational schools program in the ninth
school year and above fall far below even the elementary
schools program of support. Pupils in the elementary-
vocational schools track receive only half as much school
support in the ninth school year and above as they had
in the previous fifth to eighth school years.

It may be argued that beginning with the ninth school
year, namely the vocational school age, the children
actually are given work experience and training on the
job under the German apprenticeship system which from
private sources is more than equivalent to the public ex-
penditure for full-time secondary training. Such on-the-job
training under capable masters for children 15 and 16 years
of age could conceivably far exceed in value any voca-
tional training that the school might afford under a formal
full-time attendance plan, and indeed be worth countless
hundreds of dollars. By this interpretation the expenditure
per pupil per annum for vocational schools ceases to be a
true measure of the real and entire education that society
systematically gives to children of this age.

Instance after instance can be cited where excellent
apprenticeship training imparts to the child a degree of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
vocational skill he could not otherwise attain, transmitting
the arts of the social heritage, building character through
useful work experience, and teaching the child social
relationships in a practical learning situation. For a number
of reasons, however, this theoretical argument is in doubt.

HERE IS NO CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE, and in fact

there are indications to the contrary, that the age of
15 or 16 years is the best period for on-the-job work ex-
perience. Surveys have shown recently that an enormous
percentage of adolescent children do not receive from
apprenticeship the idealized quality of work experience
education. Rather many youths are set to work at menial
tasks. Their labor is exploited and they receive little
satisfactory liberal education. Many others are tempo-
rarily unemployed or find themselves engaged in low-
paying jobs unsuited to their individual talents.

Moreover, the theoretical training characteristic of the
vocational school itself, despite tremendous efforts on
the part of vocational school officials, often has slight
connection either with the child's immediate occupation
or with his future employment prospects. This situation
is aggravated by the extremely high degree of speciali-
zation traditional to the courses of vocational schools.

It is impossible to estimate exactly how many children
receive all or part of an idealized work-experience educa-
tion from their apprenticeship, but technological advances
and business practices in recent years suggest that far
more children of Germany require a broad general educa-
tion if they are to have the best practical foundation for
their vocational expectancy.

Considering the vocational schools as the typical insti-
tution of formal education for nine-tenths of German youth
at the age of adolescence, apart from work experience
features, it is well known that they are only part-time or
“continuation school" institutions, operating on a session
of four to eight hours per week per child for two or three
years. The cost per hour per pupil, of course, may be as
high as in the secondary school. But the program to which
the child is exposed at school suffers both from insuf-
ficient time and a curriculum that is inadequate and nar-
row in numerous subject areas.

OCATIONAL SCHOOLS often have teachers without

standard preparation, especially in the agricultural
schools of rural regions. Vocational schools, in general,
have almost no suitable facilities for general education;
they are essentially lacking a cultural and citizenship pro-
gram; and obviously they are primarily designed to train
only one aspect of the economic, social and moral life of
an individual, namely the vocational skills.

On the other hand it must be recognized that certain
full-time vocational trade schools and some other ad-
vanced vocational institutions, particularly in the larger
cities, are doing a very creditable teaching job within the
area of vocational skills. Social and citizenship training is
included in the curriculum of certain full-time vocational
schools. Religious instruction is given in some vocational

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

schools. Bremen has determined by law to devote half of
a 12-hour-per-week vocational program to social instruc-
tion, although it has not yet been put into practice.

The unfortunate side of this general slump in the educa-
tional offering of German common schools is that it occurs
at an impressionable, adolescent age, when the child's
capacities for cultural and citizenship training are so in-
calculably great. For all practical purposes one must admit
that liberal secondary education does not exist for the
German masses and that a piteously under-supported sub-
stitute is used to fill out the terminal years of compulsory
education.

The vocational school has an interesting history, and
in its day it served a useful function, but, through absence
of financial support and broad leadership, it has not
adapted itself to the needs of the times and has become
instead the degenerating terminus of an inadequate system
of compulsory public education.

If the vocational schools were supported at the same
level of expenditure per child per annum as the secondary
schools, assuming that private economy permits and en-
courages children to attend school full time to the age
of 18, an educational reform would certainly occur. The
informal request of one-sixth of elementary pupils at Bre-
men to continue full-time schooling into the ninth school
year and similar evidences elsewhere indicate that where
full-time school opportunity exists the general economy
will tend to support the movement.

HE DIFFERENCE between expenditures of the elemen-
tary-vocational schools track and the secondary
schools track may be explained from an organizational
viewpoint. a
The secondary schools teachers are better trained
and better paid.

The secondary schools classes are less than half
as large as elementary schools classes of the same
school year in the same city, which of itself doubles
the cost.

The secondary schools are better equipped and
have more building facilities for student activities.

The secondary schools have more specialists and
a differentiated curriculum in the upper grades.

Clearly from the standpoint of quality of opportunity,
elementary-vocational schools children do not enjoy
equal financial support. There is no implication in these
facts that the secondary schools program needs to be torn
down nor any parts of its resources distributed to other
types: of schools.

This study has found no over-supported schools in the
German school system! Rather the issue is, in the national
interest, whether an increase of expenditure per pupil
should not be given the elementary - vocational schools
track to the end that equal educational opportunity may
prevail for all children of school age. +END

JANUARY 1951,

--- Page 36 ---
Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US Commander of Berlin, and Berlin Mayor Ernst Reuter inspect plaque commemorating
ECA aid to Berlin power company. Plaque reads: ‘Rebuilt in the Airlift-year 1948-1949 with ERP funds.” (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

By JOHN H. GAYER

Communications and Electrical Adviser, Berlin Element, HICOG

OVIET BERLIN NO LONGER holds the weapon of

darkness over embattled West Berlin.

When the Eastern authorities cut off the flow of power
into West Berlin June 30, 1950, they were answered with
a surge of light into every street, factory and home in-
the Western sectors. New electric power—enough to
Supply all of West Berlin— was available through the
conduits of the ERP-constructed plant known as the

"Power Plant West.”

In operation since December 1949, the plant will ex-
pand to keep pace with Berlin’s ever-increasing in-
dustrial load. By means of Power Plant West, Berlin has
achieved — and can hold — her independence from dark-
Ness and the threat of idle industry.

The recent history of Power Plant West begins with
the advent of conquering Soviet armies, who, over-
Tunning Berlin in 1945, began stripping down factories
and electrical works. It continues with the Western de-
Cision to refurbish her scuttled structure and put her
back into capacity operation. It falters—only tempo-
Tarily — through the dark days of the Berlin Blockade.
By December of 1949, Power Plant West was once again
Teady to serve the needs of a struggling population.
stual history of the plant, however, begins in
n construction was begun, and plans called for
@ capacity of 228 megawatts (MW) — enough to light
2,280,000 lamps of 100 watts. This goal was never re-

g alized, but, through construction of a new power station,

the plant provided an extraordinary increase in peak

AaNuARY 1951

33

load consumption. The plant supplied enough power
through daytime operation alone to meet the city’s needs.
Later, as industries were expanded and harnessed to war-
time production schedules, the plant ran round the clock.
Expansion to 280 MW was begun in 1943, and improve-
ments were scheduled which would make more efficient
use of coal. These plans, too, were never realized.

HEN THE SOVIETS burst into the city in 1945, they

began a wholesale pillaging which stripped Power
Plant West of three new boilers and auxiliary devices
along with machinery and electrical installations. In
those days the Russians had a special formula for re-
moving electrical equipment: take out anything built
after 1926; if time permits, destroy the rest.

There was little left when the Americans arrived in
Berlin. The Soviets stopped dismantling then, but all that
remained were scrap and the frameworks of buildings.

At that time—in fact, until the Blockade began in
June 1948 — Berlin had one power company for all four
sectors. It was known as Berliner Kraft- und Licht-A.G.
(popularly known as BEWAG). This company had been
able to provide Berlin with enough power right through
the war—until the Russians came. Although the Rus-
sians dismantled 60 percent of the power plants in
western Berlin, they left intact all those in the Eastern
sector. Nonetheless, this Eastern power supply was in-
sufficient for the whole city. It was obvious that re-
construction work must begin immediately.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
View of plant before reconstruction began in 1948 (left) lends contrast to photo (right) taken in 1949. (Lichtbildstelle photos)

It took more than a year to make any progress in the
war-groggy city. In 1946, the power company applied
for permission to rebuild Power Plant West to an in-
stalled capacity of 184 MW.

HE KEY TO GETTING the project started at that

time was US foresight. It had become apparent that
the Soviet authorities were going to cause trouble for
West Berlin and that a dependable source of power was
indispensable. Military Government, surveying the
BEWAG power problem, labeled the matter “urgent.”
And it was at this juncture that the European Recovery
Plan came through and provided DM 55,000,000 to the
reconstruction of Power Plant West.

This was, of course, the crucial step in the entire
operation. Until ERP’s grant, the plant was without funds
and the city could not finance it. Berliners generally
were pessimistic about obtaining power-generating equip-
ment for the city. But with the allocation of ERP funds,
the company took on new hope.

It seemed that all those connected with the project
knew they were working against time. Urgent orders

One of steam turbines operates at ERP-constructed plant,
largest in Western sectors. (PRD HICOG photo)

were placed and planners and manufacturers rushed to
meet deadlines. But darkness drowned out the city before.
the plant could be completed. The Soviets threw a land
blockade around Berlin in June 1948.

Perhaps to most people, Gen. Lucius D. Clay's de-
cision to continue flying electric equipment to Berlin’
was an obscure part of the Airlift’s contribution to the”
island city. But it was a symbol of US determination
that Berlin should not be ground under the heel of
political pressure.

With thé advent of the Blockade, the Eastern authori-
ties split BEWAG into two companies — BEWAG-East
and BEWAG-West. To the West fell the Soviet-pillaged
plants —60 percent dismantled, invalided by ancient
equipment and extremely expensive to operate because
of their voracious coal consumption. The coal to keep’
these plants running had to be flown in by air. And
because the plants were inefficient, that coal just didn't
give much electricity. Until the Blockade was over, and
importations of Easter power began, the city was but
wanly lit. Berlin had four hours of rationed current daily,
two late at night when most persons were asleep.

HE WEST KNEW NOW the only solution was an
abundant power source of its own. Work on Power
Plant West continued, this time by air.
Fourteen hundred tons of electrical equipment were
flown to Berlin. During the air operation there always
lurked the question: can Power Plant West be complet:
without heavy rail transportation for the electrical gener:
ators, turbines and housing units? The Air Force and the
Airlift were the answer. The Air Force could not, o}
course, haul large housing units by air, but plans wer
made (though never used) to cut the units in half ani
reassemble them in Berlin.

With the end of the Blockade in May 1949, trucks ai
trains began carrying in completed equipment. Truckt
took the brunt of the transport when new trouble —
rail workers’ strike — halted rail traffic to Berlin. A tot
of 5,600 tons was actually transported by truck al
2,300 tons by rail in addition to the loads taken in by ai

This giant transport operation was necessary becau:
Berlin was not able to manufacture the equipment

JANUARY 19.

--- Page 38 ---
herself. The labor, the technical assistance and most of
the actual construction were furnished in Berlin, but
60 percent of the equipment had to come from the
Western zones. For the second phase of the reconstruc-
tion — addition of a third turbine and topping unit —
85 percent of the equipment and all of the installation
work are being supplied by Berlin.

One accomplishment to which the builders of Power
Plant West point with pride was the rapid installation
of assemblies. More than 2,000 men were used on this
job. Day-and-night shifts worked seven days a week.

Much of the credit in reconstructing the plant is due
to Willi G. Ellrich, head of the company's engineer-
ing department. The actual engineering of the project,
as well as all expediting, was handled by the company,
with an assist from Military Government and industry.
On the US side, the project was entrusted to Ansbert S.
Skina of the then Berlin Military Government. The two
were continually on the job — needling, wheedling, urging
and pleading for the rapid and efficient completion of
necessary jobs. It was to their credit that the Power Plant
West was ready to operate in the mid-winter of 1949.

Wor ON POWER PLANT WEST is, however, not yet
finished. More equipment is being added to the part
of the plant completed last year. By the winter of 1951-52,
a new turbine and topping unit will have brought the
plant's capacity to 208 MW, thus enabling continuous
growth of Berlin's industries and assuring all comers of
the power they need.

This second phase of construction will also be made
possible through ERP aid; by completion, ERP will have
contributed DM 77,000,000 to the cause of light and power
for free Berlin.

In the post-Blockade days, West Berlin began importing
inexpensive power from East Berlin — BEWAG-East — to
supplement her own inadequate supply. East Berlin was
now amenable to the lease of power to the West sectors
because she was being pressed by the Soviets to obtain
Deutsche marks with which to continue propaganda
operations in the West. Negotiations were carried on in
June last year to renew the contract, but they temporarily
collapsed when the Eastern authorities suddenly cut off
the stream of power into West Berlin.

It is probable that the reasons behind the shutoff were
the East's own power needs, emphasized by the harvest
and the controlled industrial production of the Soviet

“Before” and “after” photos show extent of Soviet dismantling in Berlin's Power Plant West in 1945,

“Brain” of plant: the control station.

(PRD HICOG photo)

Zone, as well as the desire of the Easterners to increase
their rates to the western power company.

It was for just such an event — on June 30, 1950 — that
the West was ready.

For 37 days, until the East authorities resumed the ex-
port of current to the West sectors, West Berlin operated on
several small and old power plants in West Berlin alone.

T PRESENT, NEGOTIATIONS are continuing for the
import into West Berlin of cheap Eastern power, But
there is no longer the pressure upon democratic Berliners
to buckle under Eastern demands, They can answer the
shutoff of current with their own, ERP-supplied power. As
yet, the supply is not sufficient, but enough to ward off
darkness and keep industry going. By early 1951, complete
independence will be obtained, and sufficient low-cost
electric power will be available for the complete economic
rehabilitation and industrial recovery of the city.

Thus, thanks to ERP and careful planning on the part of
both US and German power experts, Communist pressure
tactics in Berlin failed. West Berliners now share the
feelings which US High Commissioner John J. McCloy
expressed in-a letter to Dr. Rudolf Wissell, technical
director of BEWAG-West, following a visit to the new plant.

“Tt was a source of great satisfaction to me,’ Mr. McCloy
wrote, “after having inspected the plant, to observe the
zeal displayed by you and your personnel in accepting the
latest challenge hurled at the Allied sectors of Berlin by
East zone authorities. I am confident that such enthusi-
asm can result only in the success of your most vital
operation. -- END

(Lichtbildstelle photos)

--- Page 39 ---
“Mayor-for-a-Day” Hermann H. Djuren (center) sits be-
side Bremerhaven Mayor Hermann Gullasch during dis-
cussion at meeting of finance committee in city hall.

Mayor By HERMANN H. DJUREN
STARTED WORKING as “boy mayor” at 8:30 o'clock
in the morning. After a friendly reception by Mayor

Hermann Gullasch I was first introduced to the work of

the city council. Next I took my place beside the

mayor at his desk and participated in a session of the

Welfare Committee. I was glad to note that this was not

a matter of political parties trying to defend their stand-

points, but that every member was really working for the

welfare of the community.

After this session was over, the mayor took me to a
session of the Finance Committee, directing my attention
to the fact that everything discussed during this session
was to be regarded as confidential. I was permitted to
ask questions, in case anything should not be clear to me,
for it is not so easy for someone not familiar with the
problems and procedures to understand immediately the
whole situation. When all items were discussed it was
already 2 p. m.

After lunch we resumed our work at 2:30 o'clock by
going through the mail of the day. In between, the tele-
phone was ringing constantly, messengers came in to ask
for signatures and citizens came to solicit the mayor's
advice, so I was really surprised over the vast diversity
of the work of a mayor.

After another hour we drove out to the port to welcome,
in the name of the City of Bremerhaven, the German
refugees arriving from China on board the SS Anna Salen.
It took longer than expected for the boat to come along-
side, so we could not go on board before 4:30. After the
welcome address delivered by the mayor I was allowed to
spend an hour with the friendly skipper of the boat. Then
the mayor and I said goodby to him and drove back to
the city hall.

From there I was taken back to my home by car be-
cause of the poor train connections.

All in all, I can say, it was.a nice, instructive day.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“Justice of the Peace’’ Gunde Hansel (right) watches Lois
Steffen, St. Louis, Mo., and Lt. Luis G. Benavides, Laredo,
Tex., sign marriage license. Gunde held position for a day.

Experiment i

Youth Help Ru

DOPTING THE IDEA of the traditional American
‘Boys’ Week,” the North Sea port city of Bremer-
haven initiated in Germany an experiment to put
public school students in the leading municipal of-
fices for a day. To the surprise of all, the test was
reviewed with praise and commendation.
Wednesday, Nov. 15, was the big day, called
“Mayor for a Day,’ when 34 boys and girls arrived
at their respective offices early in the morning and
spent the working hours with the officials they were
chosen to ‘‘replace.’’ Each had been elected by class-
mates in campaigns marked by speeches, leaflets and
political “hustling and bustling." 1
The youthful civil servants accompanied their
mentors through the day's routine, discussing mu-
nicipal problems, inspecting public installations

Photography by Claude Jacoby, photographer of the
of youth officials’ essays by Hanna Luisa Baumbus¢

At the ““Nordsee Zeitung," ‘Press Officers" Waltraud Mat-
thew (left) and Paul Rabe watch compositor set type.

--- Page 40 ---
Housing Inspector’ Gunda Reichert (center) assists city
inspector in measuring apartment of new housing project
ing constructed in Bremerhaven with Marshall Plan aid.

Bremerhaven

) City for a Day

and learning municipal government at firsthand.
"he idea was sparked by Edward E. Merone, US
resident officer and local representative of the Of-
fice of the US High Commissioner for Germany and
the US State Commissioner for Bremen.

His proposal had been met at first by skepticism
that it was “unworkable and impractical.’ He per-
sisted in his urging and gradually the Bremerhaven
officials agreed to try the experiment. As a result,
these same officials termed the plan an illustrative
example of how “‘local elections'' should be conduct-
ed by the “local citizens’’ of tomorrow.

After the big day, the student-officials wrote es-
says, telling of their experiences, for their fellow
students. Digests of the English translations of five
of these essays are printed on these pages.

> Relations Division, HICOG. Translations from German
aif writer of the Public Relations Branch, OLC Bremen.

2f Engineer’ Alfred Milz gets pointers from the en-
ron a steam turbine in municipal power plant.

“Fire Marshal” Detlef Naase (also see cover) has his hel-
met adjusted by the marshal as “ Assistant’’ Hans-Ervin
Seefus watches from firetruck. Day saw no fires, however.

Fire Marshal

E WERE WELCOMED by the director of the fire

brigade who explained the work of the fire brigade.
By means of a city map he showed us the alert districts
of the three fire-brigade stations. There is also a fire-
brigade boat stationed in the port. All members of the
fire brigade are craftsmen and have passed the assistant’s
or master's examination. In case of an alarm the brigade
has to be ready to leave within 14 seconds.

By DETLEF NAASE

The main responsibility of the fire brigade is to prevent
fires. This is done by a regular monthly control of factories
to find out any danger points that may have developed.
Since the fire brigade has no police authority, serious
cases are referred to the building police for the necessary
preventive action.

The fire extinguishers installed in schools and offices
must be handled very carefully. In case of misuse repair
work must be paid for.

However, it is not the only responsibility of fire
brigades to prevent and put out fires. Sometimes they
also have to take care of the transportation of sick people.
For this purpose the Bremerhaven fire brigade owns five
motor ambulances. Four of these, one of them with two
stretchers for accidents, are stationed in Fire Station
No. 1 while the other ambulance is stationed at Fire Sta-
tion No. 2,

As part of the firemen are living in poor quarters
they are constructing seven double houses at Surheide.
The building material is paid for by fire brigade funds
and is later paid off by the firemen through rents. By
building the houses themselves they are saving one-third
of the cost.

As the lives of fire-brigade members are always in
danger they must be civil servants so that their depend-
ents will be taken care of in case of an accident.

(Continued on pages 38-39)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
"Police Inspector” Hans-Egon Hermann learns from crimi-
nal police chief how plaster cast of footprint aids detection.

Police Inspector sy HaNs-EGoN HERMANN

ENTERED THE OFFICE of the chief inspector of the

Criminal Police at 8 a.m. exactly, The inspector was
the man I was to replace for one day. After a short and
hearty welcome he took me to a conference in which
all the officials participated. During the conference one
of the officials reported on the clearing up of a case of
burglary and I had an opportunity to get acquainted with
the techniques applied by the Criminal Police. After the
conference I visited the Technical Department. I was
allowed to inspect the equipment used for the detection
of crime. Afterwards I was familiarized with the Iden-
tification Service.

Later the inspector was able to explain the career, the
authority, the various fields of responsibility, etc., of an
official of the Criminal Police. Our conversation was
frequently interrupted by telephone calls and visits of
press correspondents. Then I was familiarized with the
Criminal Code and the course of a crime from the noti-
fication to the police to the prosecutor. Every moment
something new was happening.

I spent the afternoon at the police surveillance depart-
ment, a subdivision of the Criminal Police. There the
most interesting experience for me was to be present at a
court trial, At the end of the day I was shown the police
broadcasting station and the patrol car.

The impressions I gained this day were very instruc-
tive for me. Above all I learned that it is not true that
an official of the Criminal Police is an adventurer as the
fictional figures are, but that he is a very hard working
official. As I noted during the day, persistence, the
necessary interest to work out all the details, skill and
also a certain amount of luck were the most important
requirements for him.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Welfare Officer

HE WELFARE OFFICE is the biggest office in the
community and has the largest budget. It employs

By CHRISTEL KOHL

103 persons and, counting the personnel of the various in-
stitutes, this number is increased by 47 persons. The an-
nual expenses of the Welfare Office amount to several
millions of Deutsche Marks.

After these introductory explanations the city welfare
director, Mr. Kuhn, showed me the different offices and
thus I got at least a slight idea of the enormous of work
that has to be done to take care of all the details.

Then we went out to Speckenbuettel (suburban section)
to visit the home for babies in order to give me an idea
what it takes to maintain one such home. The home is
equipped to admit 45 infants, but at the moment there
were only 29. Eleven persons were employed at this
home, seven of whom were specialists.

In the afternoon I was allowed to go to the port together
with a refugee official to witness the arrival of the big
immigrant steamer, the SS Anna Salen, bringing from
China 500 immigrants, including 86 Germans. These Ger-
mans had to be taken care of by the German authorities,
while the others were sponsored by IRO.

Altogether the 500 immigrants had considerable bag-
gage, including a grand piano. So it was not easy to see
to it that the Germans got to the camp together with their
baggage. The ship had been en route for 70 days and had
taken the route from China by way of Japan, Hawaii,
through the Panama Canal and the Strait of Gibraltar to
Naples, then back through the Strait of Gibraltar to
Bremerhaven. Just to get their passports made out prop-
erly the immigrants who intended to go to the United
States had to come all the way to Bremerhaven.

This day will always be a nice memory for me and |
learned very much from it.I hope that my fellow-students
also will get some slight idea of the work of the Welfare
Office from what I tell them about it.

“Welfare Officer’ Christel Kohl (right) listens to refugee
official interview German family repatriated from China.

--- Page 42 ---
“What does a Resident Officer do?" is a ques-
tion often asked of the work of the US re-
preséntatives stationed in the cities, towns and
counties of Germany. Here a teen-age German
schoolgirl tells of the many activities and
problems she experienced during one day as
“youth official” in the Bremerhaven office.

Resident Officer

By HELLA BREYER

REPORTED FOR DUTY as Junior Resident Officer of
I Bremerhaven at 8:30 in the morning of Nov. 15. First
I was taken through all the local HICOG offices. Next
we went to our own office and first looked through the
mail. We found a request for an apartment. Since the
reasons seemed to be sensible we referred the letter to
the Office for Housing Affairs.

In the next letter a German photographer complained
about an American. The American had him take pictures
of his children and then refused to buy the pictures, as
he thought the photographer had not done a good job.
We agreed that it would be best if the American would
have the quality of the pictures tested by an expert and
then come to an agreement with the photographer.

A student came to the office to apply for participation
in an exchange project to go to the United States for
study. We looked through the questionnaire he had filled
out and forwarded it to Bremen (OLC Headquarters),
where all questionnaires are examined by a screening
committee. Next we read the MP report of Nov. 14.
Afterwards we issued interzonal passes and certificates
for traveling merchants authorizing them to take goods
along.

A representative of the Association for Naturalists
came in, asking for aid to install a heating system at
the home of the association. Mr. Merone agreed to grant
him DM 1,000 ($238) from the HICOG Special Projects
Fund if the city government was willing to contribute the
other DM 1,500 ($357).

The visitor had just left the office when the US State
Commissioner (Rear-Admiral Charles Jeffs of OLC Bre-
men) called. He asked me what I thought of the whole
program and whether I had already found some problems.
He had me tell him in short what I had done until then.
I had just put the receiver down when four students of
the Wilhelm Raabe School came in, who asked for the
return of a parking lot, formerly part of the school prem-
ises, claiming that their playground was too small.

Then we looked through the rest of the mail and found
a letter in which the Willihatheim expressed its thanks
for a sewing machine, which had been paid for with
DM 730 ($173.74) made available by Mr. Merone from
the Special Projects Fund. The sewing machine enables
the inmates of the home to sew clothing for old people
and orphans.

We also found among the mail a report on the last
session of the city council, but Mr. Merone could not
show it to me for the council had asked him to regard
it as strictly confidential. This was the only document I
was not allowed to read.

There was another letter asking for help for a prisoner
of war who had recently returned and was now un-
employed and without any financial means. At this mo-

JANUARY 1951

39

“Junior Resident Officer Hella Breyer joins Edward E.
Merone, Bremerhaven resident officer, in radio interview.

ment the woman (WAC) captain of the GYA (US Army-
sponsored German Youth Activities) arrived and we dis-
cussed how we could best help this poor man and arrived
at the decision that it would mean some help to him if he
were given blankets and a topcoat.

From 12:30 to 13:30 we took our lunch hour.

In the afternoon we read the mail that came in the
afternoon delivery including, for instance, the Daily Press
Review and a letter from the city government. Mr. Merone
had provided some money to pay for the establishment
of five playgrounds and the employment of five coaches.
Then came another student who wanted to go to the
States under the Exchange Program and a lady of the
Parents’ Council (somewhat similiar to Parent-Teacher
Association in the United States). Mr. Merone told me
that three members of the Parents’ Council were to be
sent to the States for study.

Then the State Commissioner called again and told me
that I should inform him of any suggestions I might have.
Afterwards we went to an adjoining room to look at a
moving picture (US documentary film) to decide whether
it was to be released for the public or only for certain
organizations. Although I stayed in the office of the
US Resident Officer for one day only I can understand
now what HICOG really means. After having had this
opportunity I am stating the following:

First, I thought that HICOG was the same as Military
Government, but that is not true. The difference is that
HICOG does not have the same executive power Military
Government had. The responsibility of HICOG is only
to observe. They can only point out mistakes, but they
cannot say they must be changed. The only exceptions
to this rule are laid down by the Occupation Statute,
which contains the laws authorizing the High Commission
to maintain a certain control over the German govern-
ment as, for instance, military security, and the review
of important German laws.

I think the work of the US Resident Officer is very
important, for it is his responsibility to mediate, to help
and to co-ordinate efforts. I got the impression that the
public can discuss its problems with him in a frank and
open way. -+-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
Extradition Policy in US Zone

XTRADITION TO FRANCE of Wilhelm Berger of

Wiesloch, Wuerttemberg-Baden, to face charges of
murder was announced Nov. 24 by the US High Com-
missioner, who said that he had reviewed the evidence in
the case and agreed with the US Extradition Board that
the accused should stand trial on charges of murdering
French civilians in Alsace in 1944, Final decision was
postponed in the case of Heinrich Bechtel of Heidelberg,
also requested by the French on war crimes charges.

In announcing his decision the High Commissioner said,
“Because of the recent public interest in the question of
extraditions I have personally reviewed the cases of
Wilhelm Berger and Heinrich Bechtel. Our policy is to
extradite only upon a prima facie case of murder or
equally serious crimes. In the case of Berger, I am satis-
fied that a prima facie case of murder has been established
and approve the extradition decision. The evidence in-
cludes along with other direct testimony statements from
Berger's German co-participant in the alleged crimes.

“In the case of Bechtel, the evidence submitted thus far
is not sufficient to justify extradition. While this evidence
supports a prima facie case of brutal treatment and torture
of French civilians, and the death of at least one of them,
it does not show definitely enough Bechtel’s connection
with this death. Accordingly I have asked the Board to
give the French authorities and the accused an opportunity
to submit such further evidence, if any, as they may have
on this point before finally deciding the case.

“Berger is a former Hitler-Jugend (Hitler Youth) leader
in Alsace, and is charged with the murder of three civilians
in the village of Hundspach in November 1944. Bechtel,
chief of the Sicherheitsdienst (security police) in Saintes,
France, during the German occupation, is charged with
responsibility for numerous acts of beatings, torture and
murder of French civilians. Both of these men have had
the benefit of the careful procedure followed with respect
to such extraditions.”

In view of the widespread misunderstanding about this
procedure and extradition policy, the High Commissioner
added the following comments: “Extraditions by United
States authorities of persons wanted by a foreign power
for trial as war criminal suspects will be granted only
when a prima facie case of murder, or crimes of equivalent
gravity is established, and when the delay in submitting
the request is adequately justified. This has been our
policy for nearly three years.

“Our procedures are designed and administered to insure
that only those persons are extradited who clearly should
stand trial. The country requesting extradition must submit
evidence supporting the charges and justification of the
delay in filing the extradition request. If the preliminary
screening of the case by the US Extradition Board shows
that the case warrants consideration, the case is referred
to the appropriate US district attorney. The district attor-
ney summons the accused, informs him of the charges and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

allows him to present witnesses and evidence on his
behalf. Such evidence, along with the district attorney's
recommendations, is forwarded to the US Extradition
Board, which carefully considers all evidence and hears
counsel.

“Only when the Board is convinced of a sound prima
facie case of murder or crime of equivalent gravity is
extradition granted. In such cases, the accused is arrested
and transferred to authorities of the requesting country
with the stipulation that he must be brought to trial within
six months and only on charges for which he was extra-
dited. In case of acquittal or completion of a prison
sentence, the individual must be returned to the US area
of control.

“Extradition is never granted under the theory of guilt
deriving from the accused's association with a criminal
group or organization. Extradition is only granted for the
personal acts of the accused.” +END

Bonn To Control Railroad Police

Railroad police of West Germany have been placed
under control of federal authorities. Formerly a responsi-
bility of the Occupation Authorities on a zonal basis,
the railroad police will co-operate with other police
officials where necessary in carrying out their duties in
railroad areas.

The Allied High Commission in approving the transfer
recommended that the principles set out in the Federal
Government's proposals for railroad police should be
enacted into federal legislation.

director, Augsburg. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG) —

JANUARY 1951

Five German police officials return from six weeks in —
America where they studied police departments and latest |
methods. L.-r., Frankfurt Chief of Police Willy Klapproth;
Kar! Zirkelbach, Ludwigsburg chief of police; Willy Voigt,
Erlangen chief of police; Walter Weisel, legal adviser to
the Frankfurt police presidium, and Franz Drzimala, police

--- Page 44 ---
Radio Bremen's new studios, a gift of the American people, were officially opened Nov. 26 by Rear-Adm. Charles R. Jeffs
(Relired), state commissioner for Bremen, Shown with Admiral Jeffs are members of the Bremen Symphony Orchestra.

f

New Networks fap Germany

I1E NIGHTLY BABBLE over Europe's crowded air- many he found interest and approval for FM broadcast-

T vaves is forcing Germans in the US Zone to a new ing among listeners as well as technicians.
form of radio broadcasting which will soon provide them The Ultrakurzwelle or “ultra short wave" transmission,
with the best radio reception they have ever had. as the Germans call it, was limited primarily to military

Frequency modulation networks are now under con- and commercial uses in Germany before the war. Two
struction in the states of the US Zone as an escape from years ago, US officials who could see plenty of trouble
Europe's medium wave bands, which have been plagued brewing in Europe's overcrowded airwaves and the
for years with a shortage of frequencies for the power- propaganda wars which were being conducted over them,
ful transmitters in the multi-national continent. In the encouraged and aided the US Zone stations to begin
Opinion of one competent American observer, Robert experimenting with FM broadcasting.
D. Linx, a radio engineer with, the US Federal Com-
munications Commission, who recently spent four weeks
surveying the frequency modulation development in ECOGNIZING THE ADVANTAGE of this service,
western Germany, more people will be tuning in regu- the stations began surveying sites and started con-
larly on FM broadcasts within two years, than will listen struction of FM transmitters. Their vision has now been
to medium wave transmissions. justified by the confusion resulting from a reallocation

The three US Zone stations at Munich, Stuttgart and of radio frequencies to the nations of Europe at an inter-
Frankfurt have already started regular FM broadcasts national convention held at Copenhagen in 1948. The
over their first transmitters, and by 1952 expect to have frequencies allotted to the US Zone were considered
complete networks in operation. Radio Munich, for in- inadequate, by the US Government for an effective in-
stance, plans to have a score of transmitters in operation formation medium so vitally needed in the development
from strategic hilltops throughout Bavaria, including its of an enlightened and democratic citizenry in postwar
highest transmitter perched on the Wendelstein, a 6,000- Germany. After vain protests against the convention, it
foot Alpine peak. was necessary to authorize the German station to operate

The radio industry, too, has taken enthusiastically to on frequencies othe: than those specified at Copenhagen.
the new form of broadcasting, and with the exception of The restricted range of the broadcasts allows plenty of
Cheapest models, will include FM converters in most of room for everybody on the ultra short wave bands. In
the new radio sets. Mr. Linx, whose visit to Germany addition, FM provides the same high fidelity service in
Was sponsored by the Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, night and day broadcasts, and is little affected by even
Teporied that everywhere in his travels throughout Ger- the worst atmospheric conditions.

JANUARY 1951 4} INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
Dedication June 1, 1950, of a 10 KW frequency modulation
transmitter for Radio Frankfurt on Feldberg, in the Taunus
Mountains, brought together leading German and Ameri-
can officials including, 1.-r., Frankfurt's Mayor Walter
Kolb; Hesse State Commissioner Dr. James R. Newman;
Hesse Minister President Christian Stock and US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

The major disadvantage is the fact that the high fre-
quency transmissions are limited to “optical distance”
— as far as the eye can see — thereby requiring the
radio stations to build a network of transmitters in order
to cover all communities in their respective states. The
listening audience will be unable to pick up distant
stations over FM and will be limited to the local FM
programs which will be offered continuously by each
station. This will not be a sore problem, however, since
the listeners can switch to other wave bands for receiv-
ing foreign broadcasts.

Dedicated Oct. 12, 1950 by US High Commissioner John
J. McCloy, plaque on wall of Radio Bremen's reception hall
reads: ‘This building, a gift of the American people, is
dedicated to the independent radio in the public service.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

42

HROUGH THE CO-OPERATION of US authorities

and the German state governments in the US Zone,
sound legislation was passed setting up German radio
stations as public corporations free of control by govern-
ment, political parties or any other pressure group. Gov-
erning boards, comprised of representatives of the church,
schools, labor, government, political parties and other
public groups, have been established to set policies and
exercise general supervision over each of the four
stations in the US Zone.

Certain partisan circles, however, have objected to
this arrangement, and resented the occasional objective
criticism which the stations direct at the government
and other groups. They have naturally opposed any pro-
gress, such as FM broadcasting, which is designed for
community or public service.

The reluctance of the public to spend scarce Deutsche
marks for new radio receivers or conventions has slowed
down the spread of FM in Germany, although radio
manufacturers have launched a major campaign to pro-
mote the new medium.

In spite of the problems, however, the progress in
developing frequency modulation has been remarkable.
In the words of Mr. Linx, who should know about such
things, “it is the coming medium of information and
entertainment in Germany.” -+END

Mail Censorship in Soviet Zone

Mail censorship is the latest tyranny of the police state
against the residents of the Soviet Zone of Germany,
according to information reaching RIAS, the American
radio station in Berlin. The news was found blatantly
published in the Dresden Saechsische Zeitung.

A recent victim of the censorship, Mrs. Christa Wagner
of Doebeln township, in Saxony, was sentenced to 18
months’ imprisonment for having written a letter to RIAS,
representing “the greatest enemy of the German people,
American imperialism," according to the newspaper.

The letter in question did not reach RIAS. It was con-
fiscated by the Soviet Zone “People’s Police,” after
censorship disclosed that it contained sentiments opposed
to the Communist regime of Eastern Germany.

The Dresden newspaper in reporting the woman's sub-
sequent trial by a “People’s Court" in Freiberg, said:
“While more and more residents of the German Dem-
ocratic Republic co-operate in advancing our progres-
sive development, there are still some elements who
oppose it and whose conduct supports the war policy of
the Anglo-American imperialists.”

Only several paragraphs later does the reader learn
that the article concerns Mrs. Wagner, who was jailed for
18 months for daring to write a fan-letter to RIAS.

Section B, Article 8 of the Constitution of the German
Democratic Republic begins: ‘Freedom of person, in-
violability of the home, secrecy of the mails, and the right
to settle in any chosen place are guaranteed.”

The foregoing is the first open confirmation of recent |

reports that Communist authorities have established a
blanket mail censorship system.

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 46 ---
The
Bells
Are

Ringing...

HE WEST GERMAN BELL business is booming.
Church bells which were melted down in wartime to
supply metal for Germany's war machine, today are being
replaced — new symbols of peace, happiness and security.
US engineers at Rhine-Main Air Base, constructing a
new chapel, had their first experience with the ancient
art when they sought good-quality bell-makers to complete
the chapel tower. They found the oldest and most ex-
perienced firm in Germany — the Rincker family.

In the tiny village of Sinn, north of Wetzlar, in Hesse,
the bell-making craft is practiced according to tradition
by the present generation of the Rincker family. The
earliest Rincker bell still in use dates from the year 1590.
At that time, it was the habit of bell-makers to travel
from one church-building to another, pouring the bells
wherever they were to be hung, Later, they set up central
workshops where the secrets of the foundry were handed
down from father to son, Such is the case with the
Rincker bell-makers.

Bell molds are buried in six-food pit, molten metal chanel-
ed into each through ducts, shown being heated with coals.

Workman smooths final coat on outside mold of bell.
At left, model from which molds are made. (USAFE photos)

For hundreds of years the Rincker family has traded its
secrets to the sons who have served as apprentices in
the exacting trade. Due to their skill, the name Rincker
appears today in church towers throughout Germany,
Austria and Hungary, and in a fairly large number of
scattered places in Scandinavia, Syria and South Africa.

HE RINCKERS ABANDONED their art during the war

and became manufacturers of door handles and plumb-
ing parts. Today, so in demand are their bells, they are
producing at least twice as many each week as they did
before the war. This year’s production is expected to total
between 4,000 and 5,000 bells.

Like alchemists pursuing some magic in metals, the
Rincker family uses certain formulas to wring from
ordinary metals the ‘music of the angels." Bell metal is
a bronze containing either 80 percent copper and 20 per-
cent tin, or 76.5 percent copper and 23.5 percent tin,
Although experimenters through the ages have tried to
substitute cheap metals for copper and to reduce the large
percentage of scarce tin, they have always failed to
produce true musical tones from other alloys. The Rincker
firm sticks to the traditional mixture ..,78 percent copper,
with the complement of tin.

Tone of a bell depends on its size, shape and thickness
as well as upon the proportions of the metals. The larger
and thicker the bell, the deeper its tone; the most perfect

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
Workman wields heavy metal mallet to test completed bell.

sound comes from the familiar thicklipped bell. Rincker
bells range from early beehive shape models to a new
set of chimes now being tumed out for the city of Oslo.

USIC-LOVERS ARE OFTEN amazed to learn that a
bell tone is a compound of five or more notes. Need-
less to say, this complexity of tones presents a challenge
when it comes to matching pitches of two or more bells.
Requests for church bells usually specify not only the size
and weight, but also the pitches required. It is up to

the expert to decide the exact shape and to make two ©
wooden mold patterns, one for the nucleus, the other for
the exterior of the bell.

Bell molds are made of clay with a small amount of
grain to toughen the mixture. Even so, pouring the
2,110-degree molten metal into the models is a delicate
business. The molds are buried in a six-foot pit for
protection, and the red-hot metal is channeled to each mold
through heated open ducts. This is the crucial moment—
there is a labor cost of two months to every mold. The
alloy must be exactly the right temperature and the ducts
must be free of moisture.

In each operation, the Rincker brothers pour from i0 to
20 bells — worth about DM 30,000 ($7,140). As the molds
are opened there is a short benediction by the family chief. 7
And after the strain of the pouring, workmen are always
treated to a round of Schnaps (alcoholic spirits).

It is the ambition of every bell-maker to produce master-
pieces which will last for centuries and which will retain
their symmetry of shape and perfection of tone. However,
no pat modern method has ever been invented to insure
this; there is in bell-making only a fine line between
perfection and failure. Each phase of the process demands
a master’s skill, patience and individual attention, Thus,
without fear of modern competition, Rincker Brothers and
other long-established firms will continue to practice their
ancient profession, bringing the handicraft of the past to
the twentieth century. + END

Bavarian State Legislature Praised

In a letter to Dr. Georg Stang, president of the Ba-
varian state legislature, Dr. George N. Shuster praised
the constructive work carried on by this democratically
elected body during its four years of existence.

The Bavarian legislature met Nov. 20 in final session
to finish various administrative matters prior to disso-
lution in preparation for the statewide Bavarian elections
which took place Nov. 26.

“When the newly elected delegates gathered together
on December 16, 1946, after the first democratic election
in 12 years for a Bavarian legislature, they found Ba-
varia’s economy disrupted, her population discouraged
and apathetic, her cities in ruins, and millions of refugees
requiring food, shelter and clothing,” Dr. Shuster wrote.

“These problems seem insurmountable," he continued,
“but the legislature through the past four years has
grappled with all of them, one by one.

“The Bavarian legislature today bears little resem-
blance to the early sessions of the first year of its
existence,” the letter continued. “It now has a home of
its own, a fine and permanent edifice lending a proper
dignity to the legislature, and it has itself developed as
a fine example of a democratic assembly aware of its res-
ponsibilities to the people, from whom stems its authority.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

“I wish to express my high regard for the quality and
the amount of work done by the legislature's delegates
themselves. Particularly noteworthy are the generally
unrecognized efforts of the legislative committees. In
both committee and plenary sessions the Bavarian legis-
lature may be considered one of the most active and
zealous legislatures in western Germany.” 4

Dr. Shuster extended personal regards to Dr. Stang
for “the high quality of your efforts in presiding over
the last year of this assembly,” and concluded his mes-
sage by stating that “this first Bavarian legislature in
12 years has done a job of which the Bavarian people
may well be proud. Let us hope the next Bavarian
legislature will continue along the path laid out by this _
legislature.”

Interest In Reorientation Rising

Bavarians are continuing to increase their interest in
reorientation projects. Kenneth L. van Buskirk, chief,
Field Operations Division, OLCB, reports that four months
ago approximately 527,000 persons a month were attend-
ing town meetings, discussion groups, film showings and
other reorientation gatherings. In November the figure
rose to more than 1,377,047 with an average of between
84 and 85 persons attending each meeting. .

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 48 ---
That Man’s Here Again!

HE CLASSIC IDES OF MARCH will soon be upon

EUCOM and with it will arrive that much-maligned
American institution, the tax collector. This year Uncle
Sam again is making sure that his clientele in Europe
will have all the necessary guidance to effect the
maximum returns. Visiting internal revenue collectors
have set up a school in Oberammergau where legal
assistance officials will be briefed on income tax law.

All US military personnel, HICOG employees and other
civilian personnel in EUCOM who receive an income of
$600 or more are required by federal law to file final in-
come tax returns for the year 1950. Payments must be
in the hands of the collectors of internal revenue by
March 15.

A return must be filed even though taxes have already
been withheld from pay during the past year. The tax-
payer is required to pay any balance of tax due on the
year’s income, over and above the total amount already
withheld from his pay. If he has overpaid his tax, he will
be entitled to a refund upon filing his tax return.

Failure to file a return by those required to do so
under federal law may subject them to the payment of a
penalty. Members of the armed forces are taxable in the
same manner as other US residents. Compensation, includ-
ing base pay, longevity pay and flight pay, is also taxable.

W-2 forms (withholding statements showing the amount
of tax withheld from pay during the current year), which
are distributed by the fiscal or disbursing officials of the
individual organizations, must be included with a 1950
tax return when it is submitted to the collector of inter-
nal revenue, in order to receive credit for tax withheld.

NDIVIDUALS WHOSE INCOMES for the year 1950

were less than $5,000 and who elect to use standard de-
_ ductions in computing their taxable income must use the
tax table on page four of the tax form. Increased tax rates
for the periods effective after Sept.30, 1950, will be re-
flected in the tax rates shown in that table.

Individuals whose incomes for the year 1950 were less
than $5,000 but who elect to itemize their deductions, as
well as individuals whose income for the year exceeded
$5,000, are required to compute their tax by employing
the “Combined Normal Tax and Surtax Before Reduction
Table" (found in the instruction booklet on preparation of
tax returns published by the Bureau of Internal Revenue),
and when applying to the computed tax a reduction as
follows: if the total tax is not more than $400, deduct
13 percent of the total; if the total tax is over $400 but
not over $100,000, deduct $52 plus nine percent of the
emount over $400.

Declarations of estimated tax for 1951 must also be filed
by €very citizen or resident of the United States, includ-
ing those from whose earnings taxes will be withheld
during 1951. The first quarterly installment must be paid
by March 15 if the taxpayer falls into one of the follow-

_ JANUARY 1951

45

ing categories: individuals whose gross income from wages
can reasonably be expected to exceed the sum of $4,500
plus $600 for each person for whom they are entitled to
claim an exemption. For example: an individual who has
no dependent is entitled to claim an exemption of $600
for himself. Therefore, if his salary for 1951 can reason-
ably be expected to exceed $4,500 plus $600, or $5,100,
he is required to file adeclaration of estimated tax for 1951.

A married man with two children is entitled to claim
four exemptions. If his salary for 1951 can reasonably be
expected to exceed $4,500 plus $2,400, or a total of $6,900,
he, too, is required to file a declaration of estimated tax.

'UCH DECLARATIONS also must be filed by individuals

whose gross incomes from services other than wages
can reasonably be expected to exceed $100 for the taxable
year 1951 and whose gross income is expected to be at
least $600. In deciding whether he must file a declaration,
he should exclude from his income any items which are
wholly exempt from the tax, such as subsistence and rent-
al allowances, government contributions, or family allow-
ances, and social security benefits. For example: an indi-
vidual whose wages during 1951 can probably be expected
to run $500 or more and who expects to receive more than
$100 from interest, dividends, property, rentals and similar
sources will be expected to file a declaration.

Also an individual receiving no wages, but who expects
to receive an income of $600 or more from interest, divi-
dends and similar sources also will find himself in the
group of declarers. Persons required to file such estimates
will compute their tax by using the “Combined Normal
Tax and Surtax Before Reduction Table." Such tax, how-
ever, will not be reduced in the manner provided for com-
putation of income tax returns for 1950. :

Officials of the various commands and civilian agencies
will provide information and assistance within their means
to personnel under their jurisdiction and a sufficient num-
ber of tax forms will be available to all who require them.
But, as in years past, there will probably be plenty of mid-
night oil burned and many a strained mind in EUCOM
when the final day — March 15—rolls around. —+END

Gas Available to Foreign Motorists

To get gasoline and motor oil for automobiles hired in
Germany on the “drive yourself” basis, foreign motorists
require “POL” coupons. First, the firm from which a car
is rented, issues a certificate stating the amount of fuel
required for the distance the motorist wishes to travel.

Upon presentation of such certificate and valid travel
papers, and payment in foreign currency admitted by the
Bank Deutscher Laender, Aussenhandelsbanken (author-
ized foreign trade banks) or offices of the German Travel
Bureau (DER) will issue “POL” coupons for fuel obtainable
at all filling stations. Unused coupons are returnable
against reimbursement in German money.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Personnel Notes

New Consulate General Opened

La Verne Baldwin has been appointed to head the US
Consulate General established Dec. 1 at Duesseldorf in
the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. Mr. Baldwin left
his post as consul general of Bremen to take the Duessel-
dorf appointment.

R. S. Huestis, consul, took charge of the Consulate Gen-
eral, Bremen.

Mrs. Dorothea C.Lampo, vice consul, and David Man-
bey, vice consul, have also been transferred to Duesseldorf.

Jurisdiction of the new consulate general comprises
the whole state, which formerly was part of the Bremen
consular district.

In addition to duties as consul general, Mr. Baldwin
will serve as US state observer for the Office of the US
High Commissioner.

Temporary quarters of the new consulate general, first
in the Rhine-Ruhr district since 1941, are at Alter Stahl-
hof, 39 Bastionstrasse, in Duesseldorf.

Key Economic Affairs Posts Filled

A.C. Hall has been named as US chairman of the
Combined Steel Control Group in Duesseldorf, to replace
Ronald Clark, and another top job in the Office of Eco-
nomic Affairs was filled
with appointment of F. L.
Mayer as deputy chief of
the Industry Division.

The Combined Steel Con-
trol Group, established in
Duesseldorf in March 1949,
under Military Government
direction, was transferred
to the HICOG Office of Eco-
Affairs later that
year. The group, an Allied
agency, is responsible for
management of iron and
steel production in the Ruhr
and equitable overseas dis-
tribution of Ruhr steel out-
put. Formerly vice presi-
dent and director of the Illi-
nois-lowa Power Company, Mr. Hall has served OMGUS
and HICOG in West Germany since 1945. For 18 months he
was chief of the Industrial Progress Branch of the Industry
Division and previous to that served in Stuttgart, Berlin
and Minden as a US industrial and public utilities expert.

Mr. Clark has been US chairman of the Combined
Steel Control Group since its formation in March 1949.
He is returning to the US Steel Export Company of New
York, of which he was vice president from 1940 to 1949.

Mr. Mayer, an electrical and industrial engineer who
comes from Minneapolis, has served in Germany since

nomic

F. L. Mayer.
(PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

46

1945 as an industry control adviser. He joined Military
Security Board in Berlin during its formation in 1948
and held the post of chief of the Board’s Industrial —
Division for two years.

Long Overseas Career Ends

Gerald E. Sola, Wiesbaden's senior district resident
officer, departed for his Atlanta, Ga., home in December,
completing a career in US
Military Government and —
HICOG that began with the
occupation of Italy. A former
vice-president, of Standard
Oil Company of Brazil, Mr.
Sola served with the field ar-
tillery in the first world war.
He was recalled to active
duty early in World War II,
and was assigned to the Civil
Affairs Division. He was one
of the first occupation of-
ficers to enter Germany, and
was MG officer in Frankfurt
before taking over his post
in Wiesbaden.

Emil P. Jallouk, formerly”
deputy chief US resident
officer for the Frankfurt area, takes over the post vacated
by Mr.Sola, The Frankfurt position is to be filled by
Nicholas Conduras, former Dieburg resident officer.

Gerald E. Sola.
(PRB OLCH photo)

Mr. Jallouk was educated
in Jerusalem, Atlanta, Ga.,
and Rome. Before enlisting
in the Army in 1942, he was
president of a New York
export-import company. He
was with the first US Infor-
mation Services Division to
become active in Germany
and has been associated
with the occupation continu-
ally since the war's end.

An accomplished linguist
as well as musician and
singer, Mr. Jallouk speaks
German, French, Italian
and Arabic in addition to
English.

Emil P. Jallouk.
(PRB.OLCH photo)

Bavaria Welcomes Sensenig

A professor of German at Dartmouth College is now
serving as university adviser with the Education Section
of OLC Bavaria. Dr. Herbert R. Sensenig will serve with
Dr. Robert G. Dawes, chief of the Education and Cultural
Relations Branch.

On leave from his academic post, Dr.Sensenig has been
a member of Dartmouth's faculty for the last 15 years,
excluding wartime service with the General Staff Corps,
US Army, in Washington.

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 50 ---
RO’'s Are ‘It'— Officially

Resident officers in Hesse are now the holders of
certificates officially appointing them US representatives
in their areas. Presentation was made by Dr. James R.
Newman, state commissioner for Hesse.

The certificates, bearing the seal of the US High Com-
missioner, are signed by Mr. McCloy and Dr. Newman.

In personally presenting the certificates, Dr. Newman
stated that in many respects the Resident Officer of
today is doing a more important job than his prede-
cessor, the early Military Government Officer.

Home Economist Appointed
Hazel M. Hatcher, professor of home economics at
Pennsylvania State College, is now serving as visiting
consultant to Susan Baron,
_ Public Education specialist
with the Office of the State
Commissioner for Hesse.
Miss Hatcher, who holds
degrees from University of
Missouri, Iowa State Col-
lege and the University of
Minnesota, has served as
teacher and principal of an
elementary school, as a
high school teacher and col-
lege professor. She has also
won the Ellen H. Richards
Research Fellowship, the
annual award of the Ameri-
can Home Economics Asso-
ciation.
She is, in addition, an author in the home economics
and education field.

New RO’‘s, USIC Directors

Eleven new US resident officers and Information Center
trainees began indoctrination courses in Munich early in
December. Courses were conducted by the Field Operations
Division of OLC Bavaria, under Kenneth E. Van Buskirk.
Six of the men will be assigned permanently to OLCB

Hazel M. Hatcher.
(PRB OLCH photo)

New resident officers and US Information Center trainees:
standing, William E. Schaufele, Jr., Paul D. Bethel, Caleb
Grant Baxter, George C. Moore, William E. Dietz, Edward
J. Savage, Roland F. Haney, Merrill Atwood White; sitting,
John G. Kormann, Richard T. Hamilton, Marion T. Baldwin.
The 11 men reported to OLC Bavaria for training prior to

(PRB OLCB photo)

Eight young Americans pose in front of a map of Hesse,
German state to which they have been assigned to duty as
US resident officers. From left to right are Edwin C,. Pan-
coast, Edwin H. Rohde, Benjamin R. Moser, John D. Healy,
Cornelius J. Bakker, John L. Behlig, Jr., Niel Goedhard and

Paul Phillips. (PRB OLCH photo)

as resident officers. The remaining five are to be assign-
ed to Information Centers throughout West Germany.

The six new resident officers are: Marion A. Baldwin,
of Montgomery, Ala.; Caleb Grant Baxter, Madison, N.J.;
Roland F, Haney, San Francisco, Calif.; John G. Korman,
Bryn Mawr, Penn.; William B. Schaufele, Jr., Lakewood,
O.; and Merrill Atwood White, Waban, Mass.

The five new Information Center trainees are: Paul
D. Bethel, Palo Alto, Calif.; William G. Dietz, Philadel-
phia, Penn.; Richard R. Hamilton, Philadelphia, Penn.;
George C. Moore, Los Angeles, Calif.; and Edward J.
Savage, Rochester, N.Y.

New Community Activities Adviser

Elizabeth A. Wilson of Louisville, Ky., has been named
to the Foreign Service Staff of the State Department as
a Community Activities adviser, and is presently serving
with OLC Hesse.

Miss Wilson is a graduate of the University of Louis-
ville, the Louisville School of Social Work and was a
student at the Chicago Recreation Training School,
National Recreation Training School; John C. Campbell
Folk School, and Berca College.

Miss Wilson has served with the Neighborhood House
of Louisville, Department of Parks and Recreation, the
Louisville Service Club, the American Red Cross in
Europe, the Community Chest, and conducted her own
radio program. She has also taught recreation activities
and group work at the University of Louisville,

Liaison Mission Chief Named

Col. John P. Evans, former commanding officer of the
16th Infantry Regiment, has been appointed chief of the
US Military Liaison Mission to the Commander-in-Chief,
Soviet Occupation Zone of Germany.

Col. Evans replaced Col. Floyd C, Harding, who has
been assigned to the 7850 Quartermaster Depot.

Col. Charles H. Royce, former chief of staff, 10th
Infantry Division, Fort Riley, Kan., was named as the
new commanding officer of the 16th Infantry. +END

. INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Economic Review

This monthly review of the German Federal Republic's
current economic picture, based on the latest figures
and trends available when this section of the Infor-
mation Bulletin went to press, was prepared by the
Analytical Reports Branch of the Program Review
Division of the Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG.

CONOMY OF THE GERMAN Federal Republic con-

tinued to expand during October and November, but
pressure of shortages is braking the rate of increase.
At a moment when production should normally leap to
answer demand, the critical dearth of coal and electricity
clamped down on what had been phenomenal economic
activity. Earlier in the fall months the Federal Republic
had begun to feel the effects of shortages in certain
imported raw materials and in specialized workers. The
unhealthy balance of payments position of the preceding
two months was still in danger, and remedial efforts
taken in October were still too recent to allow an exact
appraisal of their effects.

But there were generally favorable developments.
Foreign trade reached record figures in October in ex-
ports ($214,000,000) as well as imports ($312,000,000),
and export prospects continue excellent. The number of
unemployed (1,230,200) at the end of October was at its
lowest point since April 1949. The increase in unemploy-
ment which appeared in November appears to be due
solely to seasonal factors.

While labor has benefited from recent wage increases,
conflicting factors have brought about increasing agitation
by labor during the past two months (October and No-
vember) for new wage hikes.

Industry

In October, the federal index of industrial production
(excluding building, stimulants and .food processing)
rose another three points to the high point of 128 of the
1936 production level. Despite this record, bottlenecks
in raw materials, including coal, some non-ferrous metals,
and the tightening steel situation, made the increase
considerably more moderate than in the previous months.
Output of finished products in the investment goods
and consumer goods fields continued to climb, with in-
creases in vehicle, electrical equipment and metal goods
production. Chemical production tended to drop.

The Federal Republic and Occupation Authorities as
well as private industry and the individual, took meas-
ures to meet a worsening coal situation, as supplies
became more critical in the face of winter weather and
expanding industry. As reported last month, first priority
for coal delivery is reserved for export, with domestic
uses at the bottom of the list, and heavy and light in-
dustry falling respectively in between. Coal stocks in
the consumer goods industries are in most cases ex-
tremely low for this time of year and some industries
contemplated an industrial holiday between Christmas
and the New Year to conserve their stocks.

Coal production in November rose from 370,000 metric
tons per day in the first week to 391,000 tons daily for
the week ending Nov. 26, including one day when pro-
duction touched 400,000 tons. In addition, a total of
827,000 tons was produced in what amounted to 2.16
extra normal] days, on holidays and Sundays. Incentives
for increased output appeared in a new wage agreement
effective Nov. 1, which raised wages for the miners
10 percent, and provided a bonus of three percent for
full attendance in all shifts during the month. A further
provision was made for a 50-75 percent increase in
wages for extra shifts, of which it was contemplated
there would be six during each quarter for the fourth
quarter of 1950 and first quarter of 1951. To attract new
labor to the mines, the Federal Republic has announced
a program amounting to DM 110,000,000 for miners’
housing and has requested release of DM 45,000,000
counterpart funds to support this program.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

48

Crude steel production for November was 1,110,703
metric tons— approximately 24,000 tons under the
previous month's record output. Preliminary estimates
for pig iron production for November were about 52,000
metric tons under October and totaled 874,990 tons. Less
fuel in December was certain to lower production.

New electric power generating capacity of about 100
megawatts, financed mainly by ECA funds, was com-
pleted during October. The coal shortage, however,
prevented the power industry from utilizing all available
capacity and obliged the Federal Ministry of Economics
to issue power allocations for consumption in each state.
Fortunately, heavy rainfalls resulted in- 60,000,000 extra
kilowatt-hours supplementing the normal power produc-
tion, and thereby avoiding heavy curtailment except in
Bavaria, where large power consumption, particularly
in the chemical industry, had to be reduced.

The coal shortage hit the gas industry, too; grid gas
supply forced restrictions on large industrial consumers.
In a number of municipal gas works, situated far from
the coal source, coal stocks were extremely low. This
was aggravated by short deliveries of Saar gas coal,
to be supplied on a contract basis. No real improvement
is to be expected for the coming months. Consumption
of gas in October 1950, incidentally, was about 27 per-
cent higher than in October 1949.

German crude oil production showed an increase of
five percent over the previous month and 30 percent
compared with the same period in 1949. Total refinery
output, as well as the production of gasoline and diesel
oil, remained unchanged, while the civil consumption
of gasoline increased 10 percent over the previous month.

Index of Industrial Production

(1936 = 100) 1950

TOTAL ALL INDUSTRIES Aug. Sept. Oct.

(incl. electricity and gas) 1/ . 115125 128

(excl. electricity and gas) 1/ . 113 123 126
Investment goods (totad 5 soe 113 1124 128

Raw materials... 2. 7. 1 we 98 1103 104

Finished products. . . 123 1138 143
General production goods

(incl, electricity and gas) . 130 137 137

(excl, electricity and gas) . 124 131 129
Consumer goods. . 101 1112 119
1/ = Excl. food processing, stimulants and building.
r = revised,

Production of Major Commodities
Unit of 1950
Commodity Measure 1/ Aug. 1/ Sept. 1/ Oct. p/
Hard coal (gross mined) thous.t. 9,445 9,216 9,499
Crude petroleum oe one t 98,800 95,265 100,350
Cement ........-. t 1,134,202 1,147,216 1,169,862
Bricks (totaly 1000 483,761 463,785 448,283
Pigiron . 2... . ee t 858,021 875,912 918,895
Steel ingots . : t 1,060,173 1,050,176 1,104,741
Rolled steel finished products 5 t 751,290 761,841 781,449
Farm tractors (total) 2/ . . pieces 8,985 9,486 9,095
Typewriters 3/ . pieces 17,910 19,961 —21,690
Passenger cars (incl. chassis)" pieces 20,465 21,026 ~=—_23,219
Cameras (total) . 5 pieces 179,148 185,287 176,445
Sulphuric acid (incl. oleum) t-SOs 102,318 102,740 109,081
Calcium carbide... . = t 59,333 60,691 47,337
Soap (total)... . 2... t 16,122 17,755 14,657
Newsprint . 9500 t 15,025 13,987 14,507
‘Auto and truck tires | pieces 285,559 319,250 328,155
+ 1000 pairs 6,801 8,379 9,169

Shoes (total) Loe
1/ = All tons are metric tons.
Excluding accessories, parts and spare parts.
3/ = Standard, long-carriage and portabie typewriters,
r = Revised.
p = Preliminary.
Transportation and Communication

November ‘traffic demands on the railroads, although
slightly below those of October, none the less exceeded
60,000 cars per working day. By continuing the emer-
gency measures of October, these demands were met

2)

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 52 ---
in full, including additional commitments for flour ship-
ments to Yugoslavia (scheduled at 10,000 tons per week)
and increased supply traffic to Berlin. 5

Wage and salary hikes, plus added supply costs
brought the Bundesbahn management face to face with
a new increase in operating costs. A temporary agree-
ment, retroactive to Oct. 1, 1950 and expiring Jan. 31,
1951, has been reached between the Bundesbahn
management and the railroad unions. Salaries and pen-
sions were upped by six percent and wages by an
average of eight percent. This represents an estimated
DM 175,000,000 annual rise in costs. In addition, the
Bundesbahn is faced with an increase in the price of
coal and other supplies which will add DM 120,000,000
to yearly operating costs. This increase will be met by a
general increase of freight tariffs so that the seven-point
Bundesbahn program initiated by the Coverdale & Col-
pitts Report will not be affected.

During November, telephone service between Norway,
Sweden, Denmark and Argentina was opened via the
direct radio-telephone circuit Hamburg-Buenos Aires.
This expanded use of German facilities for international
transit telecommunications services was designed to in-
crease the foreign currency earnings of the Bundespost.
Transit telephone services have earned approximately
$130,000 monthly. Of these amounts, 69 percent accrue
to the Federal Republic under quadripartite agreements.

A direct telegraph circuit has been installed between
Frankfurt and London to handle telegrams between Ger-
many and the extra-European countries now routed via
the United Kingdom (e.g., Africa, the Near East). Foreign
currency earned will accrue to the Bank Deutscher Laen-
der as export credits. .

Labor

Seasonal depression of employment in the outdoor oc-
cupations caused a greater rise in unemployment in
November than had been anticipated in view of the
extraordinarily favorable situation in October. The num-
ber of registered unemployed rose by 86,000 during
November to a total of 1,316,000. The November 1949
increase was 67,000. Assuming that last summer's monthly
average increase in the labor force (60,000) continues,
employment of wage and salary earners dropped by only
25,000 to about 14,375,000.

While it seems certain now that the 1950 peak of
general employment was reached, as in 1949, at the end
of October, employment in manufacturing and trade was
not expected to decline seasonally until shortly before
Christmas. Industrial and residential building is still at
a high level in spite of a very rainy November. Shortages
of raw materials, half-fabricates and coal increased the
number of factory workers on short time and discouraged
many manufacturers from hiring additional labor as orders
in hand would warrant. In only a few cases have shortages
caused dismissal of employees, and these only in small
establishments outside the main industrial centers.

Except for the wage increase for railroad workers and for
hard coal miners, there was little movement in wage rates.
Threats of industrial unrest, however, sounded from head-
quarters of the Trade Union Federation at Duesseldorf.
In a referendum of employees in the Ruhr iron and steel
industries conducted on Nov. 29-30, 95.8 percent of the
201,512 participants expressed their readiness to strike,
if necessary, to secure equal voice in the economic
affairs of management (“Economic Co-Determination’*).

The decision to hold this poll came on the heels of
Sharp attacks leveled by top industry and employers’
associations against union demands for “co-determina-
tion." On Dec. 1, the Mine Workers Union Convention
unanimously called for a similar referendum in the
Mining industry at the earliest possible date. Federal
egislation on co-determination is still pending.
ae :

D, * For definition, see ‘Co-Determination” in Information Bulletin,
ecember 1950 issue.

JANUARY 1951

49

Prices

The index of basic material prices rose one point
(0.5 percent) in October to a new postwar record of
220 percent of the 1938 level. The increase was the
smallest since the outbreak of the Korean war, reflecting
a balance between opposing tendencies—a three-point
decline in the agricultural component of the index, and a
four-point rise in the industrial component.

The agricultural component of the index declined
three points (1.7 percent) to 177 percent of the 1938
level — the first monthly decline since May 1950 — due
mainly to price decreases for live cattle, sheep and hogs.
The agricultural component of the index was six percent
less than a year ago but five percent higher than June 1950.

The industrial component of the index rose four points
(1.6 percent) to a postwar record of 249 percent of the
1938 level— 21 percent higher than a year previous.

The October. rise was due mainly to price increases
for aluminum, calf skins, cotton, flax, lead, linen yarn,
raw rubber, roofing tiles, sawn wood, and zinc.

Basic Materials Price Index

1938 = 100
Monthly Average
Aug, Sept, Oct. p/
Food . 176 180 177
Industry 227 245 249
Total . 207 219 220

p = Preliminary.

The consumer price index which had been a postwar
low in August and September rose one point in October,
reaching 149 percent of the 1938 level. Fruits and vege-
tables rose three percent, while food (excluding fruits
and vegetables) and ‘stimulants remained unchanged.
Clothing rose two percent and household goods one per-
cent. All other groups increased slightly (but less than
half one percent).

The largest particular October increases were fresh
vegetables (12 percent), shoes (four percent), shoe soles
(three percent), rubber goods (three percent) and woolen
goods (two to three percent). The increase in fresh
vegetable prices is seasonal, while that for shoes, soles,
woolens and rubber goods reflects the recent sharp rises
in world raw material prices.

Consumer Price Index (Bizonal Area 1/)

1938 = 100
(Wage/salary earner's family of four, with one child under 14)
Sept. Oct. Nov,
Se 148 149 150
Food... 149 150 152
Stimulants . 275 275 275
Clothing 184 187 189
Rent... . 103 103 103
Heat and Light . : 118 118 119
Cleaning and Hygiene - 147 148 148
Education and Entertainment 140 141 142
Household goods... . 160 161 163
Traveling... . 133 133 133

1/ = The Consumer Price Index is not yet available on a trizonal basis.

Foreign Trade

‘West German exports and imports reached postwar
record monthly levels in October 1950. Total exports of
$214,200,000 were 29 percent above the previous month's
figure of $165,700,000 and 20.7 percent above the pre-
vious postwar monthly high of $177,600,000 in August
1950. Total imports of $312,200,000 were 30.6 percent
higher than the figure of $239,100,000 recorded in Sep-
tember 1950, and 13.2 percent above the previous post-
war monthly high of $275,700,000 in December 1949. The
October 1950 total trade deficit was $98,000,000.

Export to the United States ($16,200,000) and to Latin
America ($21,800,000) rose sharply in October to reach
postwar monthly record figures. The same was true for
exports to the participating countries ($143,700,000).
However, within the OEEC group, the record rise in
exports was mostly accounted for by shipments to the
non-sterling participating countries. October exports to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
the participating sterling countries ($11,300,000) were
still below the postwar peak of $13,200,000 reached in
July 1950. October exports to Eastern Europe were
$10,600,000 and those to the non-participating sterling
area were $8,300,000—a new postwar high.

October imports from the United States ($42,700,000)
and from the non-OEEC sterling area ($16,300,000) in-
creased considerably over figures for September 1950.
Deliveries from Latin America ($18,500,000) and Eastern
Europe ($14,800,000) were slightly above September 1950
figures. Imports from the participating countries
($202,000,000) were at a new postwar high, 28.2 percent
above the previous postwar peak of $157,500,000 set in
September 1950. This rapid rise was shared in equally
by imports from both the participating sterling and
participating non-sterling areas.

The commodity breakdown shows the export rise was
accounted for almost entirely by finished goods. The in-
crease in imports was seen in all commodity groups,
with semi-finished goods predominant percentage-wise.
A review of these foreign trade figures reflects a rapidly
expanding West German economy. During the past year
the source of imports has made a marked shift from the
United States to the European Payments Union countries,
much to the gratification of ERP planners. Exports have
developed favorably to all areas. Whereas a year ago,
the West German trade deficit was almost exclusively
a problem of trade with the USA, it is now becoming
increasingly a problem of trade with EPU countries.

West German Foreign Commodity Trade
October 1950
(Thousand Dollars)

Categories Imports _ Exports
Food and Agriculture 133,608 6,453
Industry 178,581 207,773
Raw materials : 87,586 25,965
Semi-finished goods 48,429 33,898
Finished goods woes 42,566 147,910
Total ~ 312,189 214,226

Area
Total Non- “participating ( Countries . 109,869 69,983
USA . : 42,708 16,186
Canada... 1,092 1,187
Latin America .- 18,465 21,797
Non-participating Sterling Countries 16,310 8,347
Eastern Europe - 14,763 10,608
Other Countries . 16,531 11,858
Participating Countries . 202,014 143,721
Non-Sterling 165,081 132,411
Sterling 36,933 11,310
Unspecified fo 306 522
Total ~ 312,189 214,226

Import Surplus: October $97,963,000.

Monetary Developments

The volume of short-term commercial bank credit in-
creased DM615,000,000 during October toDM 13,102,000,000
as compared to the previous month's increase of
DM 633,000,000. However, the volume of money (cur-
rency and deposits) showed an increase of DM 756,000,000
to DM 26,048,000,000, as compared to the September in-
crease of DM 401,000,000.

Commercial bank excess reserves as a proportion of
minimum reserves showed a sharp decrease from 5.5 per-
cent at the end of September to 2.9 percent at the end
of October, reflecting the increase in reserve require-
ments which was effective Oct. 1. At the same time
net indebtedness of commercial banks to the Central
Banking System has shown the following movements
since July 1950:

(DM Million)
July August September October
2,290 2,104 2,786 3,070

These movements give no definite indication as to
future short-run monetary developments. Sufficient time
to show effects of the Central Bank's restrictive meas-
ures has not yet passed. Preliminary reports for No-
vember from samples seem to indicate a marked slow-
down in the rate of credit expansion.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

50

Agricultural Production

At the beginning of November, mild but very un-
settled weather set in, with almost incessant rainfall
over the whole federal area. The rain impeded fall cul-
tivation and interrupted seeding of winter wheat. Rains
also delayed the beet harvest, but during the short dry
period, much of the sugarbeet crop was harvested. Some
local areas of grassland, and even cropland to a minor
degree, were flooded.

Final estimates of 1950's bumper potato crop indicate
a total of almost 28,000,000 metric.tons, an increase of
34 percent over 1949. Preliminary estimates of the sugar-
beet harvest show an increase of 38 percent over 1949
due to increased acreage and better yields. The follow-
ing table presents the total production of some major
crops as compared with 1949 and prewar averages.

Production of Major Crops

Fodderbeets
Bread- —_Fodder- Sugar- and
grain grain Potatoes beets Rutabages
(thousand metric tons)
1935—38 5,689 4,798 19,538 4,253 25,872
1949/50 5,954 4,267 20,875 4,735, 21,583
1950/51 5,792 4,414 27,958 6,547" 25,231
in % of 1949/50 97.3 103.4 133.9 138.3 116.9

* Preliminary,

The. total production of hops is estimated at 9,400
metric tons, a postwar record, and reaching prewar
levels. The grapewine harvest has been completed and
bears out previous forecasts of above normal quantities.
The quality of 1950's vintage will also be above normal,
but will not reach the excellence of the past few years.

Flour for Yugoslavia

In November, the ECA Mission made arrangements
with the Federal Republic to ship immediately to Yugo-
slavia approximately 30,000 tons of flour. This flour is
urgently required by Yugoslavia in view of the recent
drought. The Federal Republic will receive approximately
50,000 tons of grain from the United States which will
replace the wheat used and also be used to pay for the
costs of milling and transportation of the flour to Yugo-
slavia, This arrangement not only provides for immediate
emergency shipments of flour to meet urgent Yugoslavian
requirements, but also enables Western Germany to
more fully utilize its flour milling capacity and to re-
ceive increased imports of dollar wheat to pay for labor
and other Deutsche Mark costs. There is a possibility
that further arrangements will be made for similar ship-
ments of flour to Yugoslavia, through the assistance of
the Federal Republic.

Berlin

Preliminary estimates indicate that Berlin's net output
during the third quarter of 1950 amounted to DM 935,000,000
and was approximately DM 140,000,000 higher than dur-
ing the preceding three months. Employment and output
data for October make it quite improbable that this rate
of progress could be maintained in the fourth quarter
of 1950. Industrial production during October rose by
only one index point to 39 percent of 1936. While un-
subsidized employment rose moderately from July through
October, the increase came to a halt in the first half of
November with a reduction of 700. Increased output in
November thus seemed highly doubtful.

Shipments to West Germany and foreign countries in
October exceeded the monthly average of the third
calendar quarter by 20 percent and amounted to
DM 106,600,000, Shipments arriving in October increased
approximately in the same proportion (21 percent) and
amounted to DM 229,200,000. Thus the gap widened and
Berlin's balance of trade showed a DM 122,600,000 deficit

for October; this represents an increase of DM 21,600,000 ©

over the monthly average of the third quarter, and of
DM 24,900,000 over September. + END

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 54 ---
The Art of Giving Thanks |

By E. THEODORE BACHMANN
Deputy Chief, Religious Affairs Branch, Bad Nauheim

H GIVE THANKS unto the Lord, for He is good and

His mercy endureth forever." These are familiar
words. They are the opening verse of the 118th Psalm, a
song of joy and thanksgiving sung in the temple of Jeru-
salem in praise of God's goodness to the nation.

For us, who live in the 20th Century, is there still sense
in giving thanks to God? For us who are so close to the
evidences of misery and of man’s cruel struggle for exis-
tence, is there perhaps some mockery in giving thanks?
Was it more in keeping with the spirit of the Pilgrim
fathers to give thanks, than with the spirit of their descen-
dants three centuries later? Can we who live in an era of
two devastating world wars, and who spend our days in
anxiety lest there be a third, really give thanks? Or does
it make more sense to believe that the God of our fathers
has nothing more to do with this world?

It may be, as many learned minds have suggested, that
this world has outgrown God. From many sides one has
heard that mankind is held back by the lag of his social
institutions; that his progress in science and industry has
moved forward so rapidly that the accumulated power
now in man's hands threatens to destroy him. Blame for
this possible destruction, some keen observers declare,
rests on the backwardness of human institutions. These
institutions — the family, the school, the church, and the
very forms of government — they say, must be improved
or revised to meet changing conditions. In a thought-pro-
voking speech, Winston Churchill called this century of
ours “the terrible twentieth.”

H*: MODERN MAN LOST his moral and spiritual
foundations? Has he been cut loose from an ancient
heritage which steadied him in time of adversity? Maybe
the homeless refugee and the displaced person symbolize
the nature of modern man himself, lost and uprooted in an
unfriendly universe. Even those who have not yet experi-
enced great physical privation or profound loss have long
been gripped by an unmistakable sense of drifting.

Some years ago a poet summed up this rootlessness of
Modern man when he said, “Men are homesick in their
homes and strangers under the sun, and they lay their

from the homes that they had loved so well. He had
given them hardship in a new world about which they
knew little. He had given them strangers for neighbors
who did not speak their language. He had given them lone-
liness and anxiety. And to some he had given sickness and
even sudden death. Yet they gave thanks,

For He had also given them new life with each rising
sun. He had given them resourcefulness and courageous
faith by which they rose above the hardships that strike
men low. And He had given them the freedom to worship
God as their conscience and His living word led them.

Was this worth the risk of life and all that one pos-
sessed? These men and women thought it was. What they
did, gave spirit to an entire colony which followed after
them and grew. The first historian of Massachusetts Bay
Colony surveyed these early years and saw that progress
had been made, not by men alone, bit with the help of
God. In the words of Governor Bradford: “Out of small
beginnings, greater things have been produced by His
hand who made all things of nothing and gives being to
all things that are.”

ODAY WE ARE NOT a small band of Pilgrims. We

are a mighty nation of 150,000,000. If we keep history
in perspective, and if we sense the courage of those early
pioneers in the new world, should we in this age become
fainthearted? Dare we become ungrateful? In spite of war,
and in spite of the calculated or unwitting evil in man, °
that has unleashed hell across this world, we still have
reason for giving thanks. God is and remains the giver of
every good and perfect gift; the gift of truth, love, beauty,
home, friends and the continuing freedom to worship Him.
We may turn our back on God, yet He does not forsake
us. We may say that the world has outgrown the God of
our fathers, but He comés back again and again, through
friends, through hardship, through overwhelming respon-
sibilities.

We may be like children who momentarily exult that
they can get along without parents but then discover that
it is their parents who sustain life and give deepest’
meaning to human relationships. So it is with God’ who
gives meaning to our lives individually and collectively,

head in a foreign land whenever day
is done."

This startling fact points to a for-
gotten factor in the life of our time.
This tactor is God. He is the God to
whom that hardy little Pilgrim band
gave thanks. And what had He given
them? He had given them a divine
discontent with things as they are. He
had given them a safe journey away

ed mankind.

E, Theodore Bachmann, deputy
chief of the HICOG Religious Af-
fairs Branch at Bad Nauheim, prea-
ched this sermon on Thanksgiving
Day at Christ Chapel in Frankfurt.
It was broadcast to American audi-
ences over the Armed Forces Net-
work (AFN), and is reprinted here
for its message of comfort to troubl-

when we let Him come to us. Without
Him we grope and seek a way. With
Him we walk because we know the way.

So there is an art in giving thanks.
To this art one dedicates his talents,
his skills, his being, his passion to
convey a message. Yet arts and skills
have been lost. Even the art of giving
thanks may become a lost art. Among

JANUARY 1951

people to whom God is not a living

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
reality, gratitude can hardly rise as a spontaneous res-
ponse in. a time when life becomes deadly impersonal,
and there is little incentive to give thanks. As society
becomes mechanized and bureaucratized, the incentive
diminishes. Yet from somewhere there always comes afresh
impulse which reminds us all that there is something more
to life than science or industry orgovernment. There is God.
And somehow there is profound meaning in that jubilant
song of old, "Oh give thanks unto the Lord for He is good...”

Therefore it is to the Lord that we give thanks. This act
of thanksgiving is not a passive but an active power.
Thanksgiving is really at the heart of man’s relation to God.
Thanksgiving means that we really know what God has
given to us and done for us. For God has blessed us with
many material gifts. He has sent us food, clothing and all
material blessings, but not simply to enrich our lives by
proxy. He comes to us in person. He has given us Himself
in His Son, Jesus Christ. It is through Him that He has
enriched our lives with that gift of love which no one can
take from us.

Therefore thanksgiving is gratitude to God for helping
us to see ourselves for what we are; to see ourselves and
our fellowmen as His children whom He has made to live
and enjoy His fellowship forever. Thanksgiving means
that God forgives our sins and gives us another chance.
Thanksgiving means that God helps us conquer self-interest
and the selfishness which corrupts and destroys life.
Thanksgiving is gratitude that God has ‘brought us into
partnership for facing common tasks, and has given us
responsibilities for using the freedom with which He
liberates us from evil.

HANKSGIVING IS THE GRATITUDE which springs
from a conviction that ultimately, in spite of all the
bad news of our time, there is God's good news. Thanks-
_ giving is joy and singing with melody in your heart,
while the world is confused and out of harmony. Thanks-
giving is confidence in place of pessimism and uncer-
tainty. Thanksgiving is the purest motivation for good
works, for helping others; not because of the things that
they will give us in return but for the blessing which God
“has already given us.
Thanksgiving roots in a strong faith, the faith that God
is trustworthy and that He will not let us down. Thanks-
giving is knowing that while on earth we are already

This 75-ton portable ERP exhibit returned home to Nurem-
berg in December for its first official visit there since
1949 when it began tour of Germany and was viewed
by 750,000, It has been completely redone since inception.

citizens of heaven. Perhaps it will always remain easier to —
complain than to give thanks. Perhaps for the great mass
of people life will continue as an existence in the shadows. —
Perhaps, for those who with design seek to eradicate our ©
faith in God, the very word thanksgiving may one day —
be forgotten. ;

But there will always be some to whom the meaning of
this word will remain fresh and living. For in this “word
God approaches man and saves him from destruction and \
death for the building of a better world. And in giving
thanks we show that we have caught the meaning of our
relation to Him; that we have grasped the truth of His
son Jesus Christ for our individual, our community, our ©
national, and our international life.

If, as a nation, we today seek to do His will and to trust
Him —as the Pilgrims did in their day — He will give us
the wisdom and the way through the complexities of our
time. And He will show us how not lo live for ourselves
alone, but how to serve our fellowmen.

In a passage of unusual challenge, St. Paul writes to his
young co-worker Timothy: :

“I exhort therefore... that supplications, prayers, inter-
cessions, thanksgiving be made for all men; for kings and
all that are in authority; that we may lead a quiet and
peaceful life in all godliness and honesty. This is good and
acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who would have
all men to be saved, and come to the knowledge of the |
truth. For there is one God, one mediator also between
God and men, Himself a man, Christ Jesus, who gave Him-
self a ransom for all.” I Tim. 21-6

Therefore let us give thanks unto the Lord for He is
good and His mercy endureth forever. --END

General Ganeval Honored
For Service as Berlin Commandant

General de Division Jean Ganeval was presented the
Legion of Merit in the degree of Commander by US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy at a ceremony in Napoleon
Barracks, Berlin-Tegel, Dec. 7. The citation accompanying
the award read as follows:

“General of Division Jean X. Ganeval performed excep-
tionally meritorious service on behalf of the Allies and
in the cause of democracy while serving as commander of
the French Sector, Berlin, from October 1946 to June 1950.
He co-operated closely with the representatives of the
other Occupying Powers in administering the city of
Berlin and showed great strength of character and courage
in resisting the encroachments of Communist elements
in the Western sectors of the city. :

“He worked loyally and effectively with his US and
British colleagues in assuring the freedom of the West
Berliners, in restoring the economic life in the city, and
in organizing the security forces to meet the frequent
Communist threats which developed in the city. General
Ganeval's leadership was particularly outstanding during
the period of the blockade and in the preparation and
execution of Allied plans relating to the threatened Com-
munist putsch on May 28, 1950, at Whitsun.”

JANUARY 1951 —

--- Page 56 ---
Occupation Log

Two County Governments Use Seminars

Civic leaders of two Bavarian counties met during
December in a series of seminars to tackle community
problems. The sessions involved more than 60 mayors
and a large number of community affairs officials from
the counties of Hammelburg and Bruckenau.

The meetings were a followup of last year’s, which
were so successful as to warrant a repeat performance.

Through the efforts of US Resident Officer Daniel
R. Miller, Richmond, Va., officials of Hammelburg held
meetings in the US Reading Room in that community;
Bruckenau meetings were held in the county's Post Hotel.
Discussions in both seminars centered around such com-
munity topics as agriculture, youth, school and parent-
teacher relationships, industrialization, refugee problems
and the importance of tourism to the community livelihood.

The action was hailed by Mr. Miller as “concrete
evidence that government and civic leaders in Bavaria
are becoming more aware of the need for community
planning on a community-wide basis and that such leaders
are willing and anxious to work together in the realiza-
tion of their common goals.”

Hospital Recreation Directors Meet
American women engaged in recreational programs in
US military hospitals in Italy, Austria and Germany held

a two-day workshop in Stuttgart recently. -
A highlight of the meeting was an extemporaneous
address by Dr. George N. Shuster, state commissioner

for Bavaria, who told his audience that the free people
of the world are now engaged in a struggle for peace
which is perhaps the greatest human endeavor of all
times, Dr. Shuster warned that men are trying to make an
almost endless period of war lead to ultimate tranquility.

A refugee crystal manufacturer, Hans Sandig (tight), re-
ceives a.check for DM 5,000 ($1,200) from Hesse State Com-
missioner Dr. James. R. Newman. Sum represents initial
Proceeds from" Hessian Handicrafts," a Wiesbaden women's

Club project to aid refugee industries. (PRB OLCH photo)

JANUARY 1951

53

Ambassador T.O. Davis of Canada (right) opens the Cana-
dian exhibit at Munich's US Information Center and is
assisted by Douglas McKiller, British consul general and
state observer for Bavaria (left), and Dr. George N. Shuster,
US state commissioner for Bavaria. (PRB OLCB photo)

Other guests at the meeting included Maj. Gen. Charles
P. Gross, state commissioner for Wuerttemberg- Baden;
Brig. Gen. Arnold N. Funk, then commanding general,
Stuttgart Military Post, and Red Cross officials.

OLCH Legal Program Active

More than 700 future Hessian lawyers have participated
in HICOG-sponsored legal courses in Hesse. Begun in
1948, the meetings, lasting 10 days, have been held al-
most monthly and included lectures by outstanding Ger-
man and American experts in an attempt to give trainees
a better understanding of their particular professional
responsibilities in a democracy.

Known as referendars, the group has given favorable
response to the program as have Hessian justice officials.
In the past, German referendars were merely trained to
become legal technicians without thought to democratic
interpretation, according to Stanley Gaines, OLCH Legal
Affairs Division chief.

Restitution Settlements Expedited

Restitution claim settlements are expected to be speeded
up in response to two new laws enacted by the US High
Commissioner which amend Military Government Law 59
(Restitution of Identifiable Property).

The first amendment (HICOG Law 12) gives claimants
three months instead of the previous six as the period
for stay of proceedings. The losing parties to restitution
proceedings will be assessed court fees and costs. under
the terms of the second amendment (HICOG Law 14).
This will help prevent parties referring cases from the
restitution agencies, initially responsible for settlements,
to Restitution Courts merely to hold up the proceedings.

The restitution law was originally drafted with con-
sideration given to such difficulties, at that time (1947),

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
as communication between Germany and other countries
and the lack of knowledge by interested parties of their
rights under the law. Since those conditions no longer
exist it was decided to take action for an early settle-
ment of all claims. The new amendments will not alter
the principal provisions of Law 59.

ERP Exhibit Visits Home Town

Something designed and created in Nuremberg but
never seen by the city’s population has returned “home.”
The ERP’s 75-ton portable exhibit,* outlining the aims
and operations of the Marshall Plan, complete with
electrical illuminations, push-button displays, a movie
theater and a huge model of ERP traffic across the
Atlantic, is now on display for the Nuremberg populace.

Nearly 750,000 persons have viewed the exhibit since
1949, including 148,000 Munich visitors during the city’s
Oktoberfest. The huge display has been altered considera-
bly since its creation.

East Berliners Flock to West Movies

For East Berliners it's simply a case of a better show
down the street.

Special-priced afternoon movie showings in West Ber-
lin, aimed at giving the Easterners a taste of truth and
high class entertainment through feature and documen-
tary films, have averaged a weekly attendance of 9,000
during the last three months. The 10 theaters near the
Soviet Sector border which are co-operating in the film
project plan to continue the program indefinitely.

German Education Society Meets

One of Germany's most progressive education organi-
zations held its annual conference in Stuttgart to develop
programs for improving citizenship and international
relations through German schools.

Organized two years ago in Nuremberg, the German
Society for Education is a non-profit organization for

* See “ECA on Tour,’ Information Bulletin, March 1950.

A sewing room named in her honor brings Mrs. Ellen Mc-
Cloy to Berlin's Association of Housewives. Right, Mrs.
Anna Heinicke, who, on behalf of the club, accepted a
number of sewing machines contributed by Mrs. McCloy's
friends in America.

(PRB HICOG-BE photo)

An increase of Berlin-made products imported into Sweden
was the object of a recent visit by Swedish trade officials
to Berlin. Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US commander,
Berlin, greets Magnus Lagercrantz, delegation member and
representative of the Swedish government industrial and
trade commission, (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

promoting democratic reform of public education and
public interest in education problems. The organization
has seven permanent working committees on educational
research, textbooks, film, radio, modern languages, school
buildings and international relations.

Rare Tapestries Shown in Frankfurt

More than 70 samples of ancient and modern tapestries,
rarely seen, were displayed recently at Frankfurt’s US
Information Center. Part of the collection at the German
Tapestry Museum in Kassel, the only one of its kind in
the world, the exhibition included original samples from
the 11th century as well as those of the present day.
Shown were items in leather, velvet, wax-cloth and hand-
printed works from many countries of the world.

The largest single display was a huge, handprinted
wall-picture, entitled “American Life," made for a New
York exhibition in 1834 by an Alsatian firm, The exhibit
is now on tour of other Hessian US Information Centers.

Aluminum Industry Receives ERP Aid

Germany is to receive large scale assistance for her alu-
minum industry through a plan to be undertaken by ECA.

Jean Cattier, chief, ECA Special Mission to Western
Germany and HICOG Office of Economic Affairs, an-
nounced plans to lend DM 34,000,000 (more than $8,150,000)
to German aluminum producers as well as assistance to
the industry in obtaining much-needed bauxite from
Greece.

The 450,000 tons of aluminum ore to be purchased from
the Balkan kingdom over the next three to four years
will be sufficient for the manufacture of 100,000 tons of
aluminum. To fill the large order, Greece will receive
$1,000,000 for mechanization and expansion of her bauxite
mining facilities.

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 58 ---
Although German sources of consumption will have
priority to: the output resulting from these plans, Ameri-
can interests are expected to purchase 17,000 tons in
addition to the 21,000 tons to be shipped to the United
States in payment of the ERP loan.

Deliveries will not begin until 1952 and will continue
for the following three to four years.

Hard Coal Production Up

For the first time since the war Germany's monthly
hard coal production average has exceeded that of 1936.
But despite this average of more than 10,000,000 tons
the shortage of coal in Western Germany continues.
This situation can be attributed largely to the increased
demands of industry in meeting rising European defense
manufacturing needs, the winter increase in consumption
and the unusually high water levels on the Rhine and
Main rivers which have prevented coal barges from
making their usual deliveries in certain areas of Western

Germany.

Measures have been taken to ease the situation by
recruiting more mine workers, instituting wage increases
and incentive bonuses, and the working of two extra

shifts each month,

Public Health Service School Planned

An institute designed especially for training in the
German Public Health Service is to be established in
Frankfurt, and will be the first of its kind in Germany.
Previously, physicians for the German city, county and
state health offices were trained from four to six months
in universities.

In view of the needs of a modern public health service
this period is considered too short. American sources
will furnish the necessary financial and advisory aid.

1,000,000th Visitor to ERP Train

Arnold Grosse of Essen found that being the 1,000,000th
person to visit the Marshall Plan Train pays dividends
in more ways than one. For being such a celebrity the
A Gold Star Mother comes to Germany to witness a

ceremony in which her son, a posthumous Congressional
Medal of Honor winner, is honored by his former unit, the
26th Infantry. The unit's barracks at Bamberg are named
after the late soldier, Cpl Henry F. Warner, His mother,
Mrs, John Ledbetter, inspects memorial with Col. J. F. R.
Seitz, commanding officer, 26th Infantry, and Maj. Gen.
John E. Dahlquist, commanding general, 1st Division, dur-
ing formal dedication ceremonies. (US Army photo)

Berchtesgaden’s seven-color calendar means 12 more months
of sports and fun for EUCOM personnel who take advan-
tage of resort's many recreational facilities. Col Douglas
G. Dwyre, area commanding officer, smiles at posting of

first copy by secretary Bruni Schlichting. (US Army photo)
visitor received air and rail tickets that should keep him
busy traveling for many days to come.

The train, which has been visiting more than 100 com-
munities.in North Rhine-Westphalia, Lower Saxony and
Schleswig-Holstein, contains ECA displays and samples
of more than 300 German products which are being pro-
moted in world markets through the current ERP-assisted
export drive. A similar exhibition mounted in the same
train drew more than 500,000 persons during a 50-day
tour of Wuerttemberg-Baden last July and August.

Hesse Children Aided by UNICEF

While cod liver oil may not be their idea of the per-
fect gift, children of Wiesbaden have been made the bene-
ficiaries of a large supply. The 5,000 capsules of this im-
portant children’s medicine were distributed to Wiesbaden
mothers by the city’s Red Cross workers on behalf of
UNICEF (United Nations International Children's Emer-
gency Fund). The shipment is part of an extensive pro-
gram, which includes, for Hesse, the delivery of almost
7,000,000 such capsules.

Stockings distributed at the same time were part of a
donation of 158,000 pairs. Fifteen thousand pairs of shoes
were also included in the project.

The goods came into Hesse as raw materials and were
processed by Hessian refugee firms into finished prod-
ucts with all costs borne by the German government,

DIDEG Hits US Firm's German Branch

The German branch of an American shoe machinery
company has been ordered to cease certain monopolistic
practices which it has been fostering.

The United German Shoe Machinery, Ltd., a branch of
the United Shoe Machinery Corporation, Boston, Mass.,
has been accused by the Decartelization and Industrial
Deconcentration Group (DIDEG), Allied High Commission,
of violating the decartelization laws through its leasing

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
3

US High Commissioner and Mrs, John J. McCloy inspect
replica of Bremen storage company's facilities during recent
tour of the city's port areas. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Mrs. McCloy examines leaf of dried tobacco, part of dis-
play of Germany's many imports. In background is Mrs. La
Verne Baldwin, wife of the US consul general at Duesseldorf.

Port of Bremen serves a vast number of incoming and out-
going ships, which necessitates large and adequate storage
accommodations, a part of which are shown in foreground.

4

of shoe machinery to shoe manufacturers under con- *

tracts which contain a number of restrictive clauses.

The clauses prevent manufacturers from utilizing the
machines of both the German company and its competi-
tors in the same production line and from terminating
the lease contract for one of the United machines without
terminating at the same time all other contracts with the
company.

The order will void all objectionable clauses but will
not affect other portions of the contract and jurisdiction
will be retained to deal with any other problems which
may arise from the present proceedings.

Berlin Firm Donates to Youth

A West Berlin company has volunteered financial help
to aid youth work in the city — the first such gesture
from a private Berlin firm since the end of the war.

Siemens and Halske A.G. set a precedent by asking
the Community Affairs Section of Berlin Element, HICOG,
to suggest a worthy youth project to which it could
donate DM 200 (about $47.60),

The money, donated to the Charlottenburg (borough of

Berlin) YMCA, was given as a thank-you gesture to {

HICOG, which had loaned a tent to the firm during a
ceremony honoring the firm's apprentices,

US Visitors Continue Contact

Forty-seven Wuerttemberg-Baden exchangees are deter-
mined that their cordial relationships with the United
States be continued.

Recently returned from America where for a year they
were guests on farms under the sponsorship of the Church
of the Brethren, the group appointed a committee which
met in Stuttgart to map out a more extensive program
for German-American friendship.

Translations of American Books Climb

The 200th American book to be published in Germany 7
under the US State Department's translation program ©

has left the press. Copies of “Our Civil Liberties" by

Osmond K. Fraenkel will bring the total of translated 7

American editions published in Germany to well over
the 2,000,000 mark.
Although 800 other American works have been made

available to the German public through direct arrange- ©
ments between German publishers and American copy- 7

right owners, the American government's program has
been continued as an assurance that German readers
would be able to secure the best in recent American works,

Started in 1945 as an aid to a reviving book industry
which had difficulty obtaining the necessary dollars for

the purchase of American translation rights, the program ;

assumed a twofold purpose by filling the informational
gaps left in Germany by the former Nazi restrictions on
book publishing.

Among the program's more popular offerings was |

Jacques Barzun’s “Of Human Freedom," which sold more
than 100,000 copies. Others included Herbert Agars's “A

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 60 ---
Time For Greatness;" “War or Peace” by John Foster
Dulles; TVA" by David Lilienthal; “My Three Years in
Moscow" by Lt. Gen. Walter Bedell Smith and ‘When
Democracy Builds,’" Frank Lloyd Wright's popular volume
on new trends in civic architecture.

American Labor Backs German Unions

\ HICOG information officer has assured German
trade unionists that their American counterparts con-
sider them the most important foothold of the young
German democracy.

Speaking before Bremen trade union members, Helmut
Kern said US unions will do everything possible to assist
them in maintaining and strengthening this democracy.
The HICOG official noted a decisive change in American
trade union policy in the last 20 years: the switch from

political isolation to active participation in American
internal and foreign politics. Thus full support by the
American trade unions of their government's remilitari-
zation program is the result of a firm belief that such
a program is the most important supposition to the main-

tenance of peace.

Bonn Applies for UNESCO Membership

The German Federal Republic has applied for mem-
bership in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO). The action followed
the establishment of the German Committee for UNESCO

Activities, which was set up by organizations represent-
ing science, art, literature, education, popular culture and
journalism. The new committee effected consolidation of
UNESCO's zone offices into one in Wiesbaden.

In a letter to the Allied High Commission, which for-
warded the application to the UNESCO General Assembly
for action at its spring meeting, Federal Chancellor
Konrad Adenauer stated that the UNESCO program “has
awakened the greatest interest and sincere willingness
for co-operation among the members of the Federal
Government and the state ministries for cultural affairs
as well as among groups working independently in cul-
tural matters. The Federal Government feels that the
time has now come to consider full German co-operation
in the endeavors of UNESCO through the Federal Re-
public's official joining of the organization.”

The newly organized Boy Scout Council of the European
d approved a constitution and by-laws at first
nEUCOM headquarters, L.-r., Col. H. E. Fillinger,
Engineer Division; James Gleason, HICOG; Maj. Thomas
Limbocker, EES; W. O. Jasper La Presto,USAFE; Col. Law-
tence S, Fulwider, USAFE; Col, H. C. Eckhoff, USAFE;
Clarence Smith, USAFE; Lt. Col. Curtis L. Williams, Judge
ite Division (advisory council chairman); Mrs, W. E.
Girl Scout representative, and Col. R. S. Hardimann,
rmaster Corps. (US Army photo)

This mean-looking character is none other than a robber
chieftain in the person of 14-year-old Juergen Rusche,
member of cast of “Ali Baba and the 40 Thieves", a produc-
tion of the newly formed Children's Theater of Frankfurt's/

US Information Center. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Parcel Recipients Unknown to Donors

Nearly one-third of the Americans who send CARE
packages to Western Germany send them to beneficiaries
unknown to them.

Results of a survey of 10,000 American CARE donors
also shows that of this group the majority asked either
CARE itself, a church, cultural or fraternal group inter-
ested in international relief to submit the name of a
designee. Usually the donor continues to contribute to
the person selected. (The survey shows that the average
unknown recipient receives an average of 6.5 CARE
packages per year.)

“We are much encouraged by the results of this
survey," said Nelson B. Neff, chief of the CARE Mission,
“because it shows that the reservoir of general good will
toward Western Germany remains at a high level in
America."

The total value of CARE packages sent to Western
Germany during 1950 is estimated at $8,500,000.

AEN Inaugurates Women's Program

American and German women are having an oppor-
tunity to compare their views on subjects of mutual
interest over the new Armed Forces Network program,
“Meet the Mrs."

The program was inaugurated with the appearance of
Mrs. Theodor Heuss, wife of the president of the Federal
Republic, and Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US High
Commissioner.

Aired every Sunday afternoon, the show also gives the
radio audience an opportunity to view its opinions on the
“question of the week.” +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 61 ---
(Continued from page 30)

Attractions for 1951

Frankfurt has become the city of large international
fairs, for which it is continually expanding its fair-
grounds, The great spring fair is scheduled for March 11
to 16, the Fall Fair for Sept. 2 to 6. The Fur Fair is to be
a regular event in Frankfurt, and will be held there this
year from April 1 to 4. Frankfurt has also won the covet-
ed First International Automobile Exposition to itself —
first since the war — to take place April 19 to 29. The
hotel and restaurant trade also will hold its Annual
Trade Show, 1951 in Frankfurt, Sept. 22 to Oct. 1, in con-
junction with the Cooking Art Exposition. Of international
scope too is the Bicycle and Motorcycle Exposition set
for Oct. 28 to Nov. 4.

That Cologne is popular as an exposition city is proved
by the number and importance of the shows to be held
there. Aside from its own Fall Fair, which is divided into
the Clothing and Textiles Fair, Sept. 9 to 11, and the
Household Goods and Hardware Fair, Sept. 16 to 18, the
International Tobacco Fair is held in conjunction with it.
The International Photo and Cinema Exposition, so suc-
cessful in 1950, takes place in the cathedral city again in
1951 from April 20 to 29. A health exposition is slated
from June 23 to Aug. 12 and a food and food products
fair has been scheduled from Oct. 6 to 14.

HE WEST GERMAN GARDEN SHOW for the year

1951 has been allotted to Hanover, where it will last
from April 21 to Oct. 31, and will doubtless again draw
the thousands who saw it last year in Stuttgart.

Hanover will likewise witness the International Build-
ing Exposition from Aug. 3 to 12. More than 25 different
societies and associations will hold meetings during the
exposition, with many attended by foreign delegates.

Hamburg will be the scene of the German Agriculture
Society's 41st great fair from May 26 to June 10. In
Duesseldorf, another international printing and paper fair
will be held on the same dates. There will be an inter-
national fair on Lake Constance in Friedrichshafen from
April 26 to May 6, and Pirmasens is preparing for a shoe
and leather industry show from Aug. 18 to 29,

Berlin, despite its immense economic difficulties, is
fast recouping its position as a once-great fair and ex-
position center. A radio and television exposition is
scheduled there for June or July — the date has not yet
been definitely set — and the industry fair, so fine a
success in 1950, will take place in August or September.
From Sept. 6 to 16, Berlin will host an international
automobile exposition.

* * *

Conventions, Congresses and Meetings

HE YEAR WILL SEE Germany sending out invitations

to a number of international conventions and congres-
ses; persons from foreign countries will also doubtless par-
ticipate in several meetings which are ostensibly of solely
domestic interest. Among congresses already set are the
German Advertising Congress in Hamburg from May 9
to 11, the International Building Exposition in Hanover

INFORMATION BULLETIN

58

SETEIUGTE LANDER

wavegie

6 apnea ee

Reinhard Zimmermann, son of the German authoress, Mrs, ©
Gertrud Zimmermann Elsner, chose “Putziwack's Fairy
Tales,” which, he says, describes his life, when mother ~
and son visited the Children's and Youth's Book Exhibi-
tion of the International Library in Munich which closed
Dec. 31. (PRB OLCB photo)

in July and August, and the 36th Esperanto World Con- 7
gress, planned for Munich from Aug. 4 to 11.

Still hanging fire are the exact dates for a September
meeting of the Free Union of German Hygienists and
Microbiologists in Muenster, and for the Stuttgart con- §
vention of the German Neurologists and Psychiatrists |
Society, planned for September. Convention of the Ger-
man Urological Society will be held in Duesseldorf from 7
Sept. 26 to 28, that of German orthopaedic specialists in 7
Heidelberg from Sept. 5 to 8. :

* * *

Sports

PORTING EVENTS in Germany promise to be so |
numerous during 1951 that it would be impossible
now to rank them for importance. 4
Few dates have yet been fixed, except in the field of
winter sports. The Seventh International Winter Sports ~
Week will be held in Garmisch-Partenkirchen from Jan. 13 7
to 21 — an A-1 international event. Results in the Alpine
combination contests held there will be counted in de-
ciding the European Alpine Combination Championships, |
Feb, 23-25. The German ski championships in the Nordic”
combination will be decided in Neustadt Feb.16 to 18.
The International ski-jump meet in Oberstdorf, Feb. 28—
to March 4, will net jumping distances of more than
450 feet. In equestrian sports, the top events will be the
German Derby in Hamburg July 1 and the Grand Week of
Baden-Baden Aug. 26 to Sept. 2. In automobile racing, the
Grand Prix for racing cars will be held in Adenau, in the —
Eifel hills, on July 22. -+END ©

(For calendar of events so far scheduled for 1951, see
pages 59, 60, 61 and 62.) q

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 62 ---
ag

wen. 19: +—

Calendar of Coming Events, 1951

JANUARY

Jan. 1-31 — Muenster (NRW): 4th German

. postwar Esperanto congress.

Jan. 1-31 — Nuremberg (Bav): Purchase-
Exchange of the Nuremberg Federation.

Jan. 7 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Beginning of
pre-Lenten Carnival.

Jan. 13-14 — Goettingen (LS): Concert, Prof.
Weissenborn, soloist and conductor.

Jan. 14 — Bonn (NRW): Special concert,
O. Kaiser-Breme, soloist; O. Volkmann,
conductor.

Jan. 14 — Muenster (NRW): West German
indoor Handball championship.

Jan. 14 — Hollerath/Eifel (NRW): Ski con-
tests.

Jan. 14-15—-Osnabrueck (NRW): Concert, G.
Huesch, soloist; B. Hegmann, conductor.

Jan. 14-15 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra, Gioconda de Vito, violin; Ferenc
Fricsay, conductor.

Jan. 14-15 — Brunswick (LS): Concert, L.
Hoelscher, soloist.

Jan. 15 — Muenster (NRW): Concert, Lon-
don Philharmonic Orchestra; Sir Adrian
Boult, conductor.

Jan. 15-16 — Mannheim (WB): Academy
concert; E, Szenkar, conductor.

Jan. 17 —Duisburg (NRW): Stuttgart Cham-
ber Orchestra.

Jan. 18 — Bochum (NRW): Concert, G.
Manko, violin.

Wuppertal (NRW): Stuttgart
Chamber Orchestra.

Jan. 20 (or Jan. 25) — Viersen (NRW): Con-
cert, London Philharmonic Orchestra; Sir
Adrian Boult, conductor.

Jan. 20-21 — Tegernsee (Bav): Ski jumping.

Jan. 20-28 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
VII International winter sport week.

Jan. 20-28 — Hanover (LS): Agricultural
week, meetings, exhibitions, riding and
driving competitions.

Jan. 21-22 — Berlin; Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra, Monique Haas, soloist; G. Solti,
conductor.

Jan, 22-23 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert, Tibor Varga, violin; Prof. G.
Wand, conductor.

Jan. 23 — Marburg (Hes): Concert, A. Stei-
ner, cello,

Jan. 24-25 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert, G.
Herzog, piano; H. R. Zilcher, conductor.
Jan, 24-25 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic

concert, Shura Cherkassky, piano.

Jan. 25 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic Or-
chestra; Giovanni di Bella, conductor.
Jan. 25 — Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony

concert, A. Kupper, soprano.

Jan. 26—Wiesbaden (Hes): Brahms concert,
G. Taschner, violin and L. Hoelscher, cello.

Jan. 27-28 — Bad’ Wiessee (Bay): Alpine
county youth matches.

Jan, 28 — Hollerath/Eifel (NRW): Youth
skiing championship in the Northern com-
bination.

Jan: 28-29 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestna, chamber choir; St. Hedwig Cathe-
dral choir; H. Roloff, piano; Ferenc
Fricsay, conductor.

January — Cologne (NRW): Collective ex-
hibition: Ewald Vetter, Berlin.

January-February — Rottweil, Elzach, Vil-
lingen, Offenburg (WB): Swabian-Aleman-
nic carnival ceremonies.

January-February — Titisee/Black Forest
(WB): Ice races on Titisee; German Auto-
mobile Club.

JANUARY 1951

FEBRUARY

Feb. 1 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony con-
cert, H. Schroeter, piano; H. Meissner,
conductor.

Feb. 3-4 — Oberaudorf (Bav): North Bavar-
ian championship.

Feb. 3-4 — Nesselwang (Bav):
youth championship.

Feb. 4-5 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic Or-
chestra, A. Buerkner clarinet; J. Keil-
berth, conductor.

Feb. 5 — Bremen: Stross Quartet.

Feb.5 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; Rudolf Krasselt, guest conductor.
Feb. 5 — Kassel (Hes): Symphony concert,
Karl Schmitt-Walter, soloist; Carl Schu-

richt, conductor,

Feb.5 — Cologne, Duesseldorf (NRW);
Mainz (RP); Munich (Bav): Peak of car-
nival cermonies: “‘Rosenmontag™ (Rose
Monday) procession.

Feb. 6-7 — Leer/Ostfr. (SH): Exhibition by
Union of East Frisian Cattle-Breeders:
cattle-auction.

Feb. 8 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic Or-
chestra; Leo Blech, conductor.

Feb. 9 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert, Guila
Bustabo, violin.

Feb, 10-11 — Oberstaufen (Bav): Alpine Ba-
varian championship.

Feb. 11 — Baden-Baden (NB): Symphony
concert, Tibor Varga, violin; E. Schmid,
Zurich, conductor.

Feb. 11 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Handel's

Feb. 11-12 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Concert,
Margot Pinter, piano; E. Schmid, Zurich,
conductor.

Feb. 12 — Freiburg (SB): Symphony con-
cert, Tibor Varga, violin.

Feb. 12 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum concert,
Joh. Martzy, violin; B. Vondenhoff, con-
ductor,

Feb. 12 — Cologne (NRW): Beethoven con-
cert.

Feb. 12 — Coblenz (RP): Rhenish Philhar-
monic Orchestra, Joh. M. Barre, piano;
O. Winkler, conductor.

Feb. 12 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony con-
cert, H. Roloff, piano.

Feb. 12-13 — Mannheim (WB): Academy
concert; E. Szenkar, conductor.

Feb, 12 — Bad Wiessee, Kreuth, Tegernsee
(Bav): Beginning of skiing week in
Tegernsee valley.

Feb. 14 — Marburg (Hes): Concert, Tibor
Varga, violin.

Feb. 14-15 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; C. Krauss, conductor.
Feb. 14-15 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert; G.

L, Jochum, conductor.
Feb. 15 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Handel's

Bavarian

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
‘WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

39

Feb. 17 — Mainz (RP): Concert perform-
ance of Peter Cornelius’ ‘‘Der Barbier von
Bagdad" (The Barber of Bagdad).

Feb. 17-18 — Goettingen (LS): Concert, Leo
Blech, conductor:

Feb. 18-19 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra, G. Puchelt, soloist; S. Celibi-
dache, conductor.

Feb. 18-20 — Cologne (NRW): Furniture fair,

Feb. 19 — Cologne (NRW): Concert; Fritz
Busch, conductor.

Feb. 19 — Todtnau/Black Forest (WB): Ger-
man nonstop ski running championship
(31.25 miles).

Feb, 21 — Duisburg (NRW): Adolf Busch
Quartet. :

Feb. 21 — Aachen (NRW): Concert, Elly
Ney, piano, and L. Hoelscher, cello.

Feb. 22-23 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Symphony
concert; Hermann Abendroth, conductor.

Feb. 23 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Brahms con-
cert, Elly Ney, piano; O. Schmidtgen,
conductor.

Feb. 23 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Singing-
festival of the German Union of Singers.

Feb. 23 — Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert, H. Stanske, violin; H. Weisbach,
conductor.

Feb. 23-25 — GarmischrPartenkirchen (Bay):
German Alpine ski championships.

Feb. 24-25 — Inzell (Bav): Nonstop ski run-
ning (21.88 miles).

Feb. 25 — Mainz (RP) :Castle concert, Brahms’
“Requiem.”

Feb. 25-26 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra, H. Helmer, violin; H. Knap-
pertsbusch, conductor.

Feb. 25-26 — Brunswick (LS): Concert, W.
Hanke, violin.

Feb. 25-27 — Cologne (NRW): Household
goods and hardware fair.

Feb, 28-March 4 — Hanover (LS): German
1951 industrial and sample fair.

Feb. 28-March 4 — Oberstdorf (Bav): Ski
competitions.

February — Heidelberg (WB): Exhibition
in commemoration of Wilhelm Truebner,

February — Cologne (NRW): Lyonel Fein-
inger, new water-color paintings.

MARCH

March 1 — Bonn (NRW): Symphony con-
cert, Vasa Prihoda, violin; O. Volkmann,
conductor.

March 1 — Kassel (Hes): Symphony con-
cert, G. Cassado, soloist; C. Schuricht,
conductor,

March 1-15 — Muenster (NRW): Interna-
tional automobile and motor fair.

March 2-4\— Muenster (NRW): Riding and
driving tournament.

March 3 — Mainz (RP): Symphony concert;
K. M. Zwissler, conductor,

March 3-4 — Goettingen (LS): Concert, Ti-
bor Varga, violin.

March 4 — Heidelberg (WB): Summer day
procession,

March 4 — Kreuth (Bav): Grand slalom from
Hirschberg.

March 4-5 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Concert,
L. Hoelscher, cello.

March 4-5 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra; chamber choir, St. Hedwig Cathe-
dral Choir; Mozart's ‘Requiem’; Gueden,
Pitzinger, Patzak, Hotter, soloists; Ferenc
Fricsay, conductor.

March 4-5 — Dortmund (NRW): Symphony
concert, G. Kehr, violin.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
March 4-6 — Cologne (NRW): Textile and
apparel fair.

March 5 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert, G. Cassado, cello; J. Schueler, con-
ductor. a

March 5 — Coblenz (RP): Rhenish Phil-
harmonic Orchestra, A. Vogt, conductor.

March 5 — Freiburg (SB): Symphony con-
cert, H. Roloff, piano.

March 5 — Wiesbaden (Hes): State Or-

- chestra symphony concert, W. Backhaus,
piano; W. Kaufmann, conductor.

March 5-6 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert, Ruggiero Ricci, violin.

March 5-6 — Mannheim (WB): Academy
concert; E. Szenkar, conductor.

March 6 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Sym-
phony concert, D. Krauss, piano; G. L.
Jochum, conductor.

March 6 — Marburg (Hes):
Backhaus, piano.

March 7-8 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert,
Vasa Prihoda, violin; G. L. Jochum, con-
ductor.

March 7-8 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
Orchestra, W. Backhaus, piano.

March 7-12 — Nuremberg (Bav): German
toy fair.

March 8 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony con-
cert, G. Cassado, cello; H. Meissner,
conductor.

March 9 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert, H.
Walcha, cembalo, and K. M. Zwissler,
baritone; O. Schmidtgen, conductor.

March 9 — Bremen: Koeckert Quartet.

March 11 — Muenster (NRW): International
indoor Handball tournament.

March 11 — Schliersee (Bav): Bavarian
Union's relay championship on the Spitz-

Concert, W.

ing.

March 11-12 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra; J. Keilberth, conductor.

March 11-16 — Frankfurt (Hes): Spring fair.

March 13-14 — Bonn (NRW): Bach's “'St.
Matthew's Passion;‘’ O. Volkmann, con-
ductor.

March 14-15 — Bremen: Concert, Ruggiero
Ricci, violin; H. Schnackenburg, con-
‘ductor.

March 15 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony
concert, K. Redel, flute; H. Meissner, con-
ductor.

March 15-31 — Solingen (NRW): Exhibition
of the hill district’s art.

March 17-18 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Bach's
“St. Matthew's Passion," Fahrni, Bernards,
Ludwig, Fischer-Dieskau, Goepelt, so-
loists; H. Hollreiser, conductor.

March 18 — Heidelberg (WB): Bach's “'St.
Matthew's Passion."

March 18 — Mainz (RP): Bach's “St. Mat-
thew’'s Passion."

March 18—Marburg (Hes): Verdi's Requiem.

March 18 — Rottach (Bav): ‘‘Seilschaft"
(group of 3 or 4) ski running von Setz-
berg.

March 18-19 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra; E, Jochum, conductor.

March 19 — Kreuth (Bav): St. Joseph ski-
jumping at the Tegernsee valley jum on
Ringberg.

March 19 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-
cert; C. Krauss, guest conductor.

March 19 — Viersen (NRW): Bach's ‘'St.
Matthew's Passion’; G. L. Jochum, con-
ductor.

March 19-20 — Coblenz (RP): Bach's “'St.
Matthew's Passion."

March 21 — Hamburg: First presentation of
Hanse city Hamburg’s Bach prize.

March 23 — Wuppertal (NRW): Frank Mar-
tin's Golgatha oratorio.

March 23 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Bach's ‘St.
Matthews Passion".

INFORMATION BULLETIN

March 24-25 — Kassel (Hes): Festival of the
Federation of German mandolinists and
Guitar Players.

March 25 — Feldberg/Black Forest (WB):
Internationa] Easter ski jumping.

March 25 — Baden-Baden (NB): Symphony
concert, H, Roloff, piano; Carl Schuricht,
conductor.

March 25-26 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra; C. Krauss, conductor.

March 28-29 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
Orchestra, G. Cassado, cello; Fritz Rie-
ger, conductor.

March 31 — Mainz (RP): Beethoven concert,
H. Merkel, violin; K. M. Zwissler, con-
ductor.

Beginning of March — Wuppertal (NRW):
50th anniversary of Wuppertal’s suspen-
sion trolley-car service.

March — Cologne (NRW): Exhibition cele-
brating Otto Dix’ 60th birthday.

APRIL

April 1-2 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic Or-
chestra, Tibor Varga, violin; Sergiu Celi-
bidache, conductor.

April 1-2 — Dontmund (NRW): Symphony
concert, M. Strub, violin.

April 1-4 — Frankfurt (Hes): Fur goods fair.
April2 — Freiburg (SB): Symphony con-
cent; Prof. K. Boehm, guest conductor.
April 2 — Wuppertal (NRW): Recital, Ye-

hudi Menuhin, violin.

April 2 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum concert,
G. Cassado, cello; B. Vondenhoff, conduc-
tor.

April 2 — Luebeck (SH): Symphony concert,
N. Soennerstadt, Stockholm, soloist; Sten-
Ake Axelson, Malmoe, conductor.

April 2 — Coblenz (RP): Rhenish Philhar-
monic Orchestra; O. Winkler, conductor,

April 3—Marburg (Hes): Concert, H. Schroe-
ter, piano.

April4 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Sym-
phony concert, G. Cassado, cello; G. Koe-
nig, conductor.

April 4-5 — Aachen (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; Fr. Raabe, conductor.

April 4-5 — Bremen: Concert, Haydn's ‘'The
Creation;’ C. Krauss, conductor.

April 5 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony con-
cert, Vasa Prihoda, violin.

April5 — Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert, G. Cassado, cello; H. Weisbach,
conductor.

April 5 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Recital, Ye-
hudi Menuhin, violin.

April 5-9 — Muenster (NRW): Send on the
Cathedral Square.

April 6 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Schumann con-
cert.

April 7-8 — Goettingen (LS): Concert; H.
Schmidt-Isserstedt, conductor.

April 8-9 — Stuttgart (WB): Symphony con-
cert, W. Schneiderhan, violin; F. Leitner,
conductor,

April 8-9 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra, Yehudi Menuhin, violin; K. Boehm,
conductor.

April 8-9 — Brunswick (LS): Symphony con-
cert, G, Taschner, violin.

April 9—Hanover (LS): Symphony concert;
Joh, Schueler, conductor.

April 9-10— Mannheim (WB): Academy con-
cert; E. Szenkar, conductor.

April 10 — Cologne (NRW): Beethoven con-
cert, W. Schneiderhan, violin.

April 11-12 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert,
W. Schneiderhan, violin.

April 11-12 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert, Vasa Prihoda, violin.

April 12 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony con-
cert, E. Kozur, piano.

April 13 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert, Tibor
Varga, violin, and G. Floesser, piano.

60

April 14 — Mainz (RP): Symphony concert,
G, Cassado, cello; K. M. Zwissler, con-

. , ductor.

April 15-16 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra, S. Borries, violin; W. Furt-
waengler, conductor,

April 15-16 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Concert,
J. von Karoly, soloist.

April 19-20 — Diisseldorf (NRW): Symphony
concert, W. Schneiderhan, violin. ‘
April 19-20 — Frankfurt (Hes): First inter-

national automobile exhibition.

April 20-29 — Cologne (NRW): Interna-
tional photograph and movie exhibition.

April 21-Oct 31 — Hanover (LS): 1951 Ger-
man federal garden show.

April 22 — Uelzen (LS): German forest race
championship.

April 22 — Mittenwald (Bav): International
city ski running in the Dammkar.

April 23 — Kassel (Hes): Symphony concert,
W. Schneiderhan, violin.

April 25 and 26 — Muelheim/Ruhr and
Bochum (NRW): Symphony concert, W.
Schneiderhan, violin; H. Meissner, con-
ductor.

April 25-26 — Aachen (NRW): Symphony
concert, H. Stanske, violin.

April 27 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Brahms con-
cert, W. Schneiderhan, violin, and F. Feh-
ringer, tenor; O. Schmidtgen, conductor.

April 28 — Mainz (RP): Symphony concert,
W. Schneiderhan, violin; K. M. Zwissler,
conductor.

April 29-30 — Stuttgart (WB):
concert, G, Cassado, cello;
conductor.

April 29-30 — Brunswick (LS): Symphony
concert, Ros] Schmid, piano.

April 29-May 2 — Uffenheim/Franken (Bav):
Walpurgis fair, exhibitions, riding and
driving tournament.

April 29-May 8 — Hanover (LS): 1951 Ger-
man industrial and technical fair.

April 30 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert,
Alfred Cortot, piano.

April 30-May 1 — Cologne (NRW): Sym-
phony concert, S. Borries, violin; K. Boeh,
conductor.

April — Cologne (NRW): Exhibition by
Josef Scharl, New York. ~

April — Schwarz. Rheindorf (NWR): 800-
year jubilee of the Double Church.

April — Flensburg (SH): Spring fair.

April-May — Muenster (NRW): North
Rhine-Westphalian hotel and restaurant
fiair.

April-May — Throughout Harz District (LS):
Walpurgis festival.

MAY

May 2 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert, Al-
fred Cortot, piano.

Symphony
F, Leitner,

May 2-3 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert,
Monique Haas, piano; G. L. Jochum,
conductor. 5

May 3 — Aachen (NRW): Second award of
city’s international Charles prize.

May 3-4 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Symphony
concert; H. Schmidt-Isserstedt, conductor.

May 4 — Wiesbaden (Hes): State Orchestra
symphony concert, Alfred Cortot, piano;
L. Kaufmann, conductor.

May 5-6 — Goettingen (LS): Concert; G.
Solti, conductor.

May 6-7 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Concert,
Elly Ney, piano soloist.

May 6-7 — Dortmund (NRW): Symphony
concert.

May 6-20 — Mainz (RP): Castle concert.

May 7 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony con-
cert, Adrian Aeschbacher, piano.

May 7 — Hanover (LS): Symphony concert,
G. Taschner, violin; Joh. Schueler, con-
ductor.

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 64 ---
May 7 — Hamburg: Overseas Day. _

May 8 — Freiburg/Br. (SB): Symphony con-
cert, F. Wuehrer, piano.

May 9-10 — Bremen: Concert, A. Lweder,
piano; H. Schnackenburg, conductor.

May 9-10 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert, G. Taschner, violin.

May 10-11 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra, W. Furtwangler, conductor.
May 12-14 — Leichlingen (NRW): Rifle

match and people's festival.

May 12-14 — Hildesheim (LS): 70th anni-
versary of foundation of Schubert-Union
men’s choir.

May 13 — Baden-Baden (SB): Symphony
concert, Monique Haas, piano; H. Ros-
baud, conductor.

May 13-14 — Schwaebisch Hall (WB): Open-
air performances; repeating in July or
August.

May 13-14 — Karlsruhe (WB): Federal sing-
ing-festival.

May 13-14 — Berg.-Gladbach (NRW): Rifle
match.

May 13-14 — Kiedrich/Rhg. (RP): Spring-
festival in vine-village.

May 13-14 — Partenstein/Lower Franconia
(Bav): Domestic festival with openair per-
formances of Spessart play “‘Im Schatten
der Eichen” (In the Shadow of the Oaks).

May 13-14 — Bad Sooden-Allendorf (Hes):
Historical well-festival.

May 13-14—Vaihingen/Enz (WB): MayDay,
domestic plays, procession with histori-
cally-dressed groups.

May 13-14 — Schleswig (SH): Meeting of

the Hanseatic History-Union and of the
Association for Lower-German Language
Research,

May 14 Unterhausen, near Reutlingen
(WH): ‘Nebelhoehle’’ (Cave of Fog) fes-
tival.

May 14-15 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra, Alfred Cortot, piano; Ferenc
Fricsay, conductor.

May 14-19 — Stuttgart (WB): German Teach-
ers’ Convention,

May 15 — Wuppertal (NRW): ‘‘Reconstruc-
tion and Progress‘ exhibition.

May 15 — Marburg (Hes): Concert; Dr. E.
Cremer, conductor.

May 15 — Frankfurt (Hes): Main River boat-
men's Day; 1,000-year celebration of fisher-
man’‘s and boatmen’s Sachsenhausen Guild;
dedication of Peace Bridge.

May 15-17 — Stuttgart (WB): Confectioners’
national convention.

May 15-Oct. 15 — Fuerth (Bav): Horticulture
and trade exhibition.

May 18 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert, Mah-
ler's “Das Lied von der Erde" (Song of
the Earth), G, Pitzinger and H. Melchert,
soloists.

May 18 — Kassel (Hes): Symphony concert,
H. Stanske, violin; C. Schuricht, conductor.

May 18-22 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Lower
Rhine music festival ‘‘Musik unserer Zeit"
(Music of our time); Orchestra and choirs
from Aachen, Cologne, Wuppertal and
Duesseldorf,

May 20-21 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra; Ernest Ansermet, Geneva, con-
ductor,

May 21 — Luebeck (SH): Symphony con-
cert, H, Roloff, piano; G. E. Lessing, con-
ductor.

May 23-24 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert, F, Leitner; Fritz Rieger and H.

* M, Theopold, soloists.

May 23-26 — Hamburg: German Advertis-
ing Congress.

May 24-26 — Stuttgart (WB): Meeting of
ee Association (agricultural un-
ions).

JANUARY 1951

May 25-June 10 — Duesseldorf (NRW): In-
ternational printing and paper fair.

May 26 — Mainz (RP): Symphony concert,
L. Hoelscher, cello; K. M. Zwissler, con-
ductor.

May 27 — Ziegenhain (Hes): Historical Zie-
genhain lettuce festival.

May 27-28 — Berlin; RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra, G. Herzog, piano; Artur Rodzin-
sky, conductor.

May 27-June 3 — Hamburg: Agriculture ex-
hibition and meeting of Association of
Dairyfarm experts.

May 30-31 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert;
Haydn's ‘‘The Creation; G. L. Jochum,
conductor.

May 31 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony con-
cert, H. Roloff, piano.

May — Cologne (NRW): Leather and shoe
fair.

May.— Hamburg: Meeting of the Main To-
bacco Goods Association.

May — Bonn (NRW): Meeting of the As-
sociation of Locksmith's and Machine Con-
structors’ Trade.

May — Bonn (NRW): Meeting of the As-
sociation of Community Officials of North
Rhine-Westphalia.

May — Bonn (NRW): Beethoven festival
with well-known guest conductors and
soloists.

May — Wiesbaden (Hes): 1951 International
May drama festival.

May — Karlsruhe (WB): Summer day pro-
cession.

May — Freudenstadt/Black Forest (WB):
Festival reconstruction week.

May — Sasbach/Baden (SB): 1,200-year ce-
lebration.

End of May — Nuremberg (Bav): Annual
meeting of the German Union of Gas and
Water experts.

May, July and August — Rothenburg o. T.
(Bav.): Festival performances ‘‘Der Mei-
stertrunk" (The Master Drink); ‘‘Schaefer-
tanz"' (Shepherds’ Dance); field-camp in
front of town-wall,

May-September — Bad Kissingen (Bav):
Reunion in the regent’s palace (Regenten-
bau), each Saturday.

May-September — Krefeld (NRW): Horse
races at Stadtwald track.

JUNE

June 1 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert; C.
Krauss, conductor.

June 2-3 — Goettingen (LS): Concert, E.
Mainardi,-soloist and conductor.

June 2 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Dance tour-
nament for the German professional
championship.

June 3-4 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Concert,
Tibor Varga, violin.

June 3-4 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra, G. Solti, soloist and conductor.

June 7-8 — Bergneustadt (HRW): County
athletic festival.

June 9-13 — Stutigart (WB): 1951 German
Chemists’ meeting and exhibition.

June 10-11 Berlin: RIAS Symphony Orches-
tra; E. Jochum, conductor.

June 10-12 — Laubach (Hes): Local com-
mittee festival.

June 11 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; Joh. Schueler, conductor.

June 14-15 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Sym-
phony concert, L. Hoelscher, soloist;
H. Hollreiser, conductor.

June 15-19 — Frankfurt (Hes): German

singing-festival.
June 17 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Special con-
cert, C, Orff's “Carmina Burana.”
June 17-18 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra, Ariana Bronne, violin; Fa-
bian Sevitzky, conductor.

61

June 18-21 — Diisseldorf (NRW): Federal
meeting of the German Butchers’ As-
sociation,

June 22-24 — Frankfurt (Hes): Central As-
sociation of the German Saddlers, Up-
holsters, Paperhangers and Decorators
Craft; exhibition marking 25th anniver-
sary of the masters school.

June 23-25 — Leichlingen (NRW): Straw-
berry festival.

June 23-Aug. 19 — Cologne (NRW): Health
exhibition.

June 24 — Iphofen/Main (Bav): St. John’s
festival; city illumination; domestic plays.

June 24 — Hamburg: Horse race, great
Hansa prize.

June 24-25 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra, Leopold Stokowski, guest con-
ductor,

June 24-July 1 — Mainz (RP): Gutenberg
week.

June 25-26 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert, Elly Ney, piano; Prof. G. Wand,
conductor. *

June 25-28 — Eschwege (LS):
St. John's festival.

June 30-July 8 — Bergneustadt (NRW): 650-
year festival, concert and procession.
End of June — Krefeld (NRW): Riding,

jumping and driving tournament.

Beginning of June — Muenster (NRW):
Congress of German Librarians.

June — Darmstadt (Hes): International
Society of Contemporary Music.

June — Stuttgart (WB): Apparel sales week.

June — Bruchsal/Baden (MB): Historical
concerts in Rococo castle,

June — Darmstadt (Hes): International
Music festival of International Society
for Contemporary Music; international
holiday courses at the Kranichstain
Music Institute.

June or July — Wuerzburg (Bav): Mozart
festival.

June — Stuttgart (WB): Mozart festival.

Beginning of June — Gersfeld/Rhoen (Hes):
1,000-year celebration of the city; 75th
anniversary of Rhoen Club.

June-August — Stieldorf/Seven Hills (NRW):
Passion plays.

June-August — Kassel (Hes): Wilhelms-
hoehe festival plays, Kassel State Theater.

June-July — Bruehl near Bonn (NRW):
Concerts in Augustenburg Castle.

June-August — Cologne (NRW): French art
exhibition from West German museums
and private collections (from the impres-
sionists to the Fauves).

JULY

July 1-17 — Munich (Bav): German handi-
craft fair.

July 1-22 — Schwaebisch Gmuend (WB):
600th anniversary of the Parler Cathedral.

July 3-August 12 — Hanover (LS): Inter-
national construction exhibition.

July 8 — Hamburg: Grand rowing regatta.

July J—Cologne (NRW) :Beethoven concert.

July 11-12 — Fritzlar (Hes.): 70th Fritzlar
horse mart.

July 11-26 — Kornelimuenster near Aachen
(NRW): Holy procession with grand relics.

July 20-Aug. 20 — Hersbruck (Bav): Tra-
velingers' and Wanderingers’ summer ex-
hibition.

July 27-29 — Mainz (RP): Celebration of
the German Singing Federation.

July 28-30 — Wald-Michelbach/Odenwald
(WB): Ueberwald native festival.

July 29-Aug. 5 — Dueren (NRW): Jubilee
week in commemoration of transfer of St.
Ann's Relic from Mainz to Dueren.

July 29—Aug. 19 — Bayreuth (Bav): Bay-
reuth Wagnerian festival operas; open-

Historical

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
ing concert: Beethoven; Wilhelm Furt-
waengler, conductor.

July 30 — Bayreuth (Bav): “Parsifal’’ by
Richard Wagner; Hans Knappertsbusch,
conductor.

July 30-Aug. 20 — Monschau/Rhld. (NRW):
Summer festival plays.

July 31-Aug.5 — Stuttgart (WB):
Evangelic Synod.

July 31 — Bayreuth (Bav): ‘‘Rheingold” by
Richard Wagner; Hans Knappertsbusch,
conductor.

July—Goettingen(LS) :Handel festival plays.

July — Nuremberg (Bav): Nuremberg Union
Fair.

July — Bad Boll (WB): First European
Oecumenical Laymen's meeting.

July — Frankfurt (Hes): Ladies’ apparel
sales week,

July — Marburg (Hes.): Historical costume
festival; riding and driving tournament.

July — Dinkelsbuehl (Bav): ‘‘Kinderzeche”
(Children’s Score); field camp in front of
city wall.

July — Bamberg (Bav): Henrici festival
week.

July — Oberndorf/Neckar (WB): 700th an-
niversary; trade exhibition.

July — Schleswig (SH): Schlei sailing week
with regattas.

July — Westerland/Sylt (SH): Tennis tourna-
ment.

End of July — Schleswig (SH): Riding and
driving tournament.

July-August — Coblenz (RP): Great vin-
tager festivals in rebuilt ‘'Vine-village.”’

July — Hamburg: German Derby.

July-August — Darmstadt (Hes): Annual
meeting of the Music Research Society.

July-August —-Marburg (Hes): Marburg
festival drama, openair stage von Schloss-
berg (castle mountain).

July-August — Bad Hersfeld (Hes): Festi-
val drama in Stiftsruine.

July-August — Krefeld (NRW): Openair
performances on Linn Castle.

July-August — Augsburg (Bav): Openair
opera and operetta performances at the
“Rotes Tor" (Red Gate).

July-August — Darmstadt (Hes): City con-
struction exhibition; 50th anniversary of
Artists’ Colony.

July-August — Jagsthausen (WB): Openair
performances of ‘‘Goetz von Berlichin-
gen” in Jagsthausen Castle (Goetz von
Berlichingen's birthplace).

July-August — Alpirsbach/Black Forest
(WB): Openair performances in convent
garden,

July-August — Trier (RP): Festival drama
in Simeon Stift. (convent).

July-August — Feuchtwangen (Bav): Open-
air performances in the romantic town-
church cloister,

July-August — Wunsiedel (Bav): Openair
performances on Luisenburg.

July-August — Heidelberg (WB): Openair
performances and serenade concerts in
the court of the castle.

July-August — Frankfurt (Hes): Openair
performances in the Carmelite convent.

July-August — Ansbach (Bav): Bach week.

July-August — Munich (Bav): Festival per-
formances by Munich State Opera.

July-September — Duesseldorf (NRW):
1951 exhibition.

July-September — Darmstadt (Hes): Exhibi-
tion by the New Darmstadt Secession.

AUGUST

Aug. 1 — Bayreuth (Bav): ‘‘Valkyrie,”
Hans Knappertsbusch, conductor.

Aug. 1-15 — Westerland/Sylt (SH): Inter-
national dancing tournament.

Third

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Beginning of August — Kassel (Hes): ‘Kas-
sel Zissel,'’ water procession.

Aug.2 — Bayreuth (Bav): ‘'Siegfried,"
Hans Knappertsbusch, conductor.

Aug. 3-5 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Interna-
tional riding, jumping and driving tourna-
ment,

Aug. 4 — Bayreuth (Bav): '‘'Goetterdaemme-
rung," Hans Knappertsbusch, conductor.

Aug. 4-5 — Duesseldorf (NRW): German
light athletic championships.

Aug. 4-11 — Munich (Bav): 36th Esperanto
‘World Congress.

Aug. 5 — Bayreuth (Bav): “‘Meistersinger,"
Herbert von Karajan, conductor.

Aug. 5-11 — Hildesheim (LS): Rose week.

Aug. 7— Bayreuth (Bav): ‘‘Parsifal,"" Hans
Knappertsbusch, conductor.

Aug. 8 — Bayreuth (Bav): ‘Meistersinger,"
Herbert von Karajan, conductor.

Aug. 10 — Bayreuth (Bav): “‘Parsifal,”
Hans Knappertsbusch, conductor.

Aug. 11 — Bayreuth (Bav): ‘‘Rheingold,”
Herbert von Karajan, conductor.

Aug. 12 — Bayreuth (Bav): “Valkyrie,”
Herbert von Karajan, conductor.

Aug. 12 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Rakoczy
festival.

Aug. 13 — Bayreuth (Bav): ‘‘Siegfried,”
Herbert von Karajan, conductor.

Aug. 15 — Bayreuth (Bav): “Goetterdaem-
merung,"Herbert von Karajan, conductor.

Aug. 15-20 — Westerland/Sylt (SH): Inter-
national tennis tournament,

Aug. 16 — Bayreuth (Bav): “‘Meistersinger,”’
Herbert von Karajan, conductor.

Aug. 18 — Bayreuth (Bav): ‘‘Parsifal,"’ Hans
Knappertsbusch, conductor.

Aug. 19 — Bayreuth (Bav): ‘‘Meistersinger,"’
Herbert von Karajan, conductor.

Aug. 19-29: — Pirmasens (RP): “Shoe and
Leather," 2nd industrial fair.

Aug. 24 and 26 — Markgroeningen (WB):
Historical shepherds’ match.

Aug. 25-Sept. 2 — Worms (RP): Frying fish
festival.

August — Ulm (WB): Historical fishermen’s
ceremony and procession; old-fashioned
Ulm dancing.

August — Fuerth (Bav): Dragon stabbing;
festival drama in market square.

August — Landshut (Bav): Landshut princes’
wedding.

August — Hochheim near Frankfurt (Hes):
Hochheim-Frankfurt wine festival.

August — Stuttgart (WB): International
Motorcycle race for Grand Prix of Ger-
many.

August — Aachen (NRW): 21st grand inter-
national riding, jumping and driving
tournament.

August — Adenau/Eifel (NRW): Interna-
tional automobile race at Nuerburg Ring.

August — Hamburg: International tennis
championships.

August-September — Mainz (RP): Mainz
wine market.

SEPTEMBER

Sept. 1-9 — Bensheim (Hes): 14th ‘Berg-
strasse’’ wine festival.

Sept. 2-6 — Cologne (NRW): Rhenisch agri-
cultural fair.

Sept. 2-6 — Frankfurt (Hes): Fall fair.

Sept.6-16 — Berlin: International auto-
mobile exhibition (planned).

Sept. 9 — Bad Honnef (RP): Vintners’ festi-
val. 5
Sept. 9-11 — Schussenried/Upper Swabia

(WB): Native and church festival.
Sept. 9-16 — Fritzlar (Hes): Fall] fair.
Sept. 10-12 — Leer (SH): County animal

show; East Frisian breeders’ meeting.

62

Sept. 11-16 — Wegberg (NRW): Record
week for motorcycles and racing cars of
all types.

Sept. 16-18 — Cologne (NRW): Fall fair.

Sept. 16-23— Cornelimuenster, near Aachen,
(NRW): Corneli octavo.

Sept. 17 — Wegberg (NRW): Race on the
border district track.

Sept. 29-Oct. 6 — Hersbruck/Franconia
(Bav): Agriculture festival. U

Sept. 29-Oct.7 — Cologne (NRW): Gen-
eral food exhibition.

Sept. 30-Oct.3 — Koenigswinter (NRW):
Vintagers’ festival and fall festival.

Beginning of September — Bremen: Ger-
man Bach festival; New German Bach
Society.

Beginning of September — Hamburg: City
park motorcycle race.

Beginning of September — Bad Homburg
(Hes): Lantern festival.

September — Sigmaringen (NB): Agricul-
tural exhibition and trade show.

September — Stuttgart (WB): 106th Cann-
statt peoples’ festival on the Wasen
with agricultural show.

September — Schleswig (SH): Schleswig
peer mart; fair and festival.

September — Bad Duerkheim (RP): Tra-
ditional sausage mart; wine festival.

September —Bad Hersfeld (Hes): Historical
Lullus festival.

September — Ruedesheim
festival.

September — Neustadt/Haardt (RP): Wine
festival.

September — Offenburg/Baden (NB): 800th
anniversary; Ortenau fall fair.

September — Stuttgart (WB): Riding and
driving tournament.

September — Aachen (NRW): International
tennis tournament.

September-October — Munich (Bav): Oc-
tober festival.

OCTOBER

Oct. 13-15 — Leichlingen (NRW): Fruit mart
and festival.

Oct. 17 — Darmstadt (Hes): Award of city’s
Georg Buechner price.

Oct. 17 — Hamburg: Ecumenic church music
convention.

Oct. 17 — Bonn (NRW): International Old
Catholic Theologians’ Conference.

October — Baden-Baden (NB): Sth German
water-cure day.

October — Stuttgart (WB): Meeting and
exhibition in commemoration of the Cen-
tennial of royal Wuerttemberg stamp.

October — Frankfurt (Hes): Annual show
of the hotel and restaurant trade, with
exhibition of German art of cooking.

October — Frankfurt (Hes): International
bicycle and motorcycle exhibition (plan-
ned).

October — Fuerth (Bav):
trade show.

October — Kassel (Hes): Kassel music
festival; old music played on ancient-
instruments, and contemporary music.

NOVEMBER

Nov.6—BadToelz (Bav): St. Leonard riding.
Nov. 11 — Heidelberg (WB): St. Martin pro-
cession.

(Hes): Wine

Industrial and

November — Brunswick (LS): Festival
chamber music.

November-December — Hamburg Cathe-
dral people's festival.

DECEMBER

Dec. 9-10— Laubach: Art and Trade Exhibi-
tion; Christmas exhibition.

December — Solingen (NRW): Christmas
1951 technical trade exhibition. +END

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 66 ---
Wanted: Publicity Campaign

HE NEED FOR AN AGGRESSIVE publicity campaign

and for development of hotel-improvement research
facilities to stimulate American interest in European
vacations was pointed out in a 14-page report of the ECA
Special Mission to Western Germany.

Working on the report were three OEEC technical
teams, including 51 travel and tourist experts from 16
European countries, four of them from Germany.

“A concerted and aggressive publicity drive,’ the re-
port stated, is of primary importance in the stimulation
of American interest in European vacations. “To be most
effective, however," the report continued, “European
publicity should consider certain important factors in the
American scene. First, it should be recognized that the
nature of the American market for European vacations
has changed radically in the last decade as a result of
the increased income of the middle income group.

“There are today in the US 15,000,000 heads of families
with taxable incomes of between $3,000 and $6,000.
Another 4,000,000 US families have incomes in excess of
$6,000. Moreover, the number of families in the middle
income bracket is increasing, as is leisure time to travel.

“The US Department of Labor estimated in 1949 that
between 36,000,000 and 38,000,000 persons are eligible for
vacations with pay; further, that in manufacturing in-
dustries three times as many establishments provided

West Berlin school children now are in possession of
colorfully illustrated American history textbooks distrib-
uted by General Education Section, Berlin Element,
HICOG. The first of 10,000 such issues in English are pre-
sented by Section Chief Dr. Harry B, Wyman (left) to
Schulrat’ Wethlow, Wilmersdorf borough school official.
Later, 30,000 copies in German to supplement discarded
books will be provided. (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

JANUARY 1951

paid vacations in 1946 as in 1937. These statistics point
up clearly the trend towards longer paid vacations in all
sectors of the economy and therefore a corresponding
increase in the potential demand for European vacations.”
Also to be emphasized in the publicity drive is the pro-
motion of off-season travel. It was pointed out that while
50 percent of American vacations come in summer, the
other 50 percent fall in the off-season period — 26 per-
cent in autumn, 13 percent in spring and 11 percent in
winter. Thus there already exists in the United States a
substantial group of non-summer vacationists to whom
European promotion efforts could be directed.

UTSTANDING FEATURES of American hotels were
carefully studied by the visiting experts for adoption
in Europe to encourage Americans to travel abroad.

Since a flourishing tourist business benefits all seg-
ments of a nation’s economy, the teams recommended
that the full weight of advertising expenses should not
be laid on the European transport and hotel industries
alone, but should be shared throughout the economy. As
an additional co-operative effort, the teams suggested
that a system of city, district or regional tourist pro-
motion, similar to that found in many parts of the United
States, should be undertaken in Europe.

Such promotion in the United States is generally car-
ried out by a local board of trade, chamber of commerce
or tourist bureau.

Another striking characteristic of the American hotel
industry was noted in the extensive development of hotel
research facilities. The research institute established by
the American Hotel Association was found to render
invaluable service to its members. The same kind of
research which has been used in developing industrial
technology has been applied to hotels.

UCH PROGRESSIVE and determined efforts to better

hotel installations greatly impressed the European visi-
tors. They expressed conviction that a similar research
institute could be of tremendous value to the hotel industry
in Europe, and recommended that a group of European
countries co-operate in the establishment and maintenance
of such an organization. It was further recommended that
the hotel associations of the various European countries
study the standardization of various hotel operating
departments in the US so that similar systems could be
adapted for use in Europe.

All team members requested copies of literature and
films seen in America which they believed would be
useful in their efforts to make the tourist industry in
Europe more attractive to Americans and more profitable
to themselves. The teams proposed that technical publica-
tions and periodicals should be exchanged between the
European and American industries. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
Student Aid Assured

TATING THAT AS LONG as he was here, “our chief

accent will be on the development of German youth,”
US High Commissioner John J. McCloy assured a con-
ference of West German university presidents and Allied
education officials of HICOG's assistance to the aid pro-
gram for university students.

Mr. McCloy pointed out that in addition to the funds
involved in the regular education and exchanges program,
HICOG had allocated DM 10,000,000 (about $2,380,000)
for the construction of student centers, dormitories and
hostels at universities in western Germany and Berlin,
and that $548,000 has been spent on books, library ma-
terials and other equipment for universities and related
institutions. He added that even this was a relatively
small amount in terms of the need, and urged everything
possible be done to raise more funds from German sources.

The conference was organized by German education
officials and the Community Activities Branch to review
a promotion program of student aid and activities, which
was drafted at a similar conference held in August 1949,
and to plan an intensified extension of the program in

_ the future. During the two-day meeting, the participants
placed special emphasis on student housing in Germany's
overcrowded universities, as well as the creation of a
revolving fund for scholarships, the promotion of more
self-help opportunities and international exchange of
students. They drafted a new program of student aid
which will be presented to a conference of presidents of all
west German universities and colleges in the near future.

N REVIEWING US AID to universities, Frederick Burk-

hhardt, special consultant to the US High Commis-
sioner, indicated that the funds for centers and dormitories
are being allocated to 27 universities for projects which
have been approved by local student councils as well
as university officials. In each case, the universities have
pledged equivalent funds from their own sources.

In addition to the direct aid to universities, HICOG also
gave financial grants for the establishment of a West
German student self-help organization, as well as to the
Union of German Student Councils, and the German com-
mittee of the International Student Service. The money
was granted to aid these organizations in developing part-
time jobs for students, for improving student government,
holding training courses and international conferences
for student leaders, etc.

HICOG also employed more than 800 needy university
students to work in community centers, summer camps
and other programs for youth last summer and fall. Under
the exchange program HICOG is sending 554 students to
the United States this year, as well as 70 young lawyers
for legal training and 11 political science professors.

Substantial contributions of books and education ma-
terials for German universities, as well as the creation
of fellowships for German students in English institutions
were reported by R. H. Pender, university adviser .of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

64

Office of the British High Commissioner. Discussing
French aid, Rene Buisson, of the Office of the Fren¢ h
High Commissioner, described the planned expansion of
housing at the University of Mainz, a new institution
founded under French sponsorship, as well as financial
aid to the universities of Tuebingen and Freiburg, and
the provision of scholarships for German students. p

EPORTING ON GERMAN EFFORTS for student as-
R sistance, Dr. Walter Gerlach, president of Munich Uni-_
versity, estimated that funds available for aid to needy -
students had increased tenfold in West Germany duri
the year, with greatly expanded contributions from private
donors supplementing regular allocations by state gov-
ernments. He pointed out that the Verband Deutscher
Studentenschaften (Union of Students’ Council) had i
creased the number of German students enabled to stu
abroad last year from 400 to 1,200. He cited a new do:
mitory for university women and the settlement for ma
students and young workers, recently built in Munich,
examples of co-operation among the state, HICOG and
the student self-help organizations in improving
situation of students.

The facilities for a normal university life for Germ
students are still inadequate, however, and the universil
presidents pledged themselves to intensified efforts
alleviate the critical economic and educational problems
facing the students and the universities.

Also participating in the conference, which was held
at the “Guesthouse” at Schoenberg, were Dr. James M,
Read, chief of the Education and Cultural Relatio;
Division; Laurence E. Norrie, chief of the Communit
Activities Branch; Everett G. Chapman, HICOG Youth
Reconstruction adviser, and the presidents of the univer:
sities of Munich, Tuebingen, Frankfurt, Goettingen, Heidel-
berg, Bonn, Free University of Berlin and the technic
colleges at Darmstadt and Aachen. --END

Kiel Resuming “University Days"

To give an idea of its research and teaching equipme
the Christian-Albrecht University of Kiel will this wint
resume the old tradition of holding ‘Kiel University Days”
from Jan. 30 to Feb. 2. Fundamental problems of individu
sciences and “The Spiritual Result of the 19th Century”
will be treated in lectures. Guided tours through the ne
university institutes and events planned by the students
are also on the program.

Rare Books Given Offenbach

An extremely valuable collection of rare books a:
manuscripts will soon be available to the public. Materia
brought together in half a century by Dr. Karl Klingspor,
an honorary citizen of Offenbach, has been turned ov
to that city by the Klingspor heirs and will be placed in @
building made available by the city as a museum.

JANUARY 19%

--- Page 68 ---
(Continued Irom page 28)
The Big Difference

and we are therefore resolved to unite our efforts to work
unceasingly for the construction of that type of society
in Germany.”

Dr. Norrie pointed out further that because of the im-
portance of co-operation and joint planning, HICOG has
given maximum support to planning bodies. ‘Democracy
is not a planned society. It is a planning society. Therein
lies a big difference."

HE CONFEREES BROKE UP into work groups to dis-
T cuss financing of youth work, youth unemployment,
construction of youth facilities, left and right extremists,
and co-operation among youth organizations and youth-
serving agencies,

he work groups met on both days and toward the end
of the congress reported to the assembly of delegates. In
addition to their general reports several of the groups
made specific recommendations and urged certain resolu-
tions. After some discussion the assembly agreed on three:

Resolution 1 — Request to federal, state and community
authorities that former state-owned Hitler Youth homes
and centers be used for youth activities and that they be
put in condition and furnished properly.

Resolution 2—Recommendations to all authorities,
parents, educators and youth itself that a “Youth Protec-
tion Week" be promoted.

Resolution 3 — Because of the threat to democracy from
both left and right extremists, youth organizations on all
levels should refuse co-operation with such extremists. It
is not recommended however, to prohibit these organiza-
tions. State and local authorities are urged to combat radi-
calism by doing more to stamp out poverty and to relieve
social needs.

In addition to the above resolutions the group made five
recommendations which were approved by the general
assembly. Four of these pertained to the work of the state
and county youth committees. The fifth was a recommen-
dation that a catalog be compiled of all youth organiza-
tions and agencies, youth leadership schools, youth homes
and the like,

Both German and American radio stations gave wide
coverage to the congress, primarily through interviews
with participants. Newspapers were generous in their ap-
praisal of the meeting's proceedings.

W' TH THE EXCEPTION of two or three chronic critics,
the delegates expressed appreciation to the sponsors
(Wuerttemberg-Baden Ministry of Culture and HICOG) for
having called the conference. Most comments expressed
Satisfaction with the results achieved although some indi-
cated that the work had been too intense and the time too
short. Several expressed to the general assembly their
hope that such a congress would be an annual event.
Primary objective of such meetings, it was agreed, was to
study common problems with the leaders in different fields
and to seek ground for future co-operation.

No organization was established to facilitate a future
Meeting among participating elements. However, the con-

JANUARY 1951

65

Among principal speakers at two-day meeting were, l.-r.,
Dr. Peter Brandenburg, mayor of Pforzheim; H. Hassinger,
adviser to Bonn Minister of Culture: Laurence E. Norrie,
chief, Community Activities, HICOG; Lawrence Moyse,
Australia, director of YMCA-YWCA in US Zone, and Aksel
G. Nielsen, chief, Youth Activities, OLC W-B and the author
of the accompanying article. (PRD HICOG photo)

gress nominated the men who headed the five work groups
as a follow-up committee to plan and recommend further
work,

The congress also requested the state commission to
pay for printing the minutes into a handbook. This booklet
will be distributed to the participants of the congress and
to youth organizations throughout western Germany, Its
dedication could justly read, “To a Job Well Done." +END

60 Percent of Sudetens Returned
To Western Germany Unemployable

Approximately 60 percent of the Sudeten Germans who
have been returned to Western Germany under the or-
ganized movement begun last March have been “un-
employable,” it is reported by William R. Gosser, chief
of OLC Bavaria’s Displaced Populations Branch.

As of Sept. 15, a total of 9,419 Sudeten Germans had
entered Western Germany under the program. The majori-
ty were aged women and children, physically unit.

Under the agreement reached last fall by the three
Western Occupying Powers and Czechoslovakia, 20,000
Sudeten Germans were to be transferred on a voluntary
basis from their homes in Czechoslovakia to Western
Germany. However, the pending arrival of 450 mental
cases along with those already returned indicates the
Czechoslovakian authorities are arbitrarily designating
“hardship” cases for transfer to Western Germany, rather
than leaving it up to the individual's own choice.

The Sudeten Germans, upon arrival in Furth im Wald,
are apportioned to the three Western zones. Mr. Gosser
added that Bavaria’s share has been about 35 percent of
the transferees.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
(Continued from page 7)
The American Christmas Spirit

Refugee children at Voelkmarsen Refugee Camp were
presented with food, clothing and toys from Americans
and Germans on the staff of the Office of the State Com-
missioner for Hesse. A ladies’ club of Wiesbaden's military
community baked several thousands of cookies to contrib-
ute to the fund.

State Commissioner Dr. James R. Newman himself
staged a Christmas party for 43 members of a local
boys’ home.

In Bavaria, OLCB personnel entertained Santa Claus
and 160 youngsters of local employees at one party,
staged another for orphans and homeless children at a
local theater. Showings of Walt Disney's "Bambi" were
as popular as Santa Claus.

Confiscated cigarets, 200,000 of them, were also donated
to the needy of six Bavarian welfare organizations by
OLCB officials.

UT HICOG ACTIVITIES weren't restricted to the
B Headquarters areas. Resident officers in the remotest
hamlets lent their efforts and ingenuity to the holiday.
Several instigated hunts among the grownups in their
counties and turned over the bagged game to needy
families. Another took advantage of the influx to his remote
county of American hunters, civilian and military, to get
enough American contributions for gift-giving in nearby
orphanages and refugee camps. Thirty “poor and lonely
adults" benefited by the efforts of another US “ambas-
sador in the field.” .

Other resident officers, with an assist from their
memories of US hometowns, instituted ‘community chests”
among German groups in their areas, with the result that
clothing, food, toys and incidentals deluged on institutions
heretofore comparatively neglected.

The same type of community-wide organization of Christ-
mas giving was utilized by such sprawling areas as Heidel-
berg. There, 37,000 underprivileged kids heard from their
American friends, as civilians and military men in the
post area lent aid to 68 children’s homes.

In Heidelberg, too, GYA established the pattern which
it followed for the most part throughout its installations.
Not only did they, in this case, furnish procurement and
administrative facilities for the community effort, but they
encouraged children at their centers to make 11,000 cloth-
ing items and 8,000 toys to be given to less-privileged
Heidelbergers. Other GYA centers did the same; in poorer
areas, however, the children were allowed to keep some
of their self-manufactured gifts.

HRISTMAS CAME IN A VARIETY of ways to Ger-
mans near military and air installations.

For small fry in Bavaria, gathered on a Straubing race
track, it came out of the sky, as the annual ‘Operation
Bonbon” parachuted candy from planes of the 6th Armored
Cavalry Regiment headquarters. First Lt. M. D. Lord was
the pilot who organized the candy-drop which benefited
some 3,500 children.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

At Fuerstenfeldbruck Air Base, German personnel and
their guests lounged comfortably in the modern surround.
ings of the NCO club while American club stewards play:
ed waiters. The club's president took over the chie|
bartender's job.

Thirty-six boys from the Pestalozzi Home got “big ~
brothers” for the Yule when members of the 86th Fightez- ~
Bomber Wing Communications Squadron at Neubiberg ©
Air Base adopted youngsters, one for one, in the days
preceding the holidays. The kids ate at Air Force messes
and peered excitedly at F-84 jets, one of America’s hardest:
hitting airplanes, Santa also paid them a visit. 4

Five orphanages, five bunkers and two Displaced Per- ~
sons‘ camps were visited by the Allied Women's Club of —
Frankfurt, which had collected gifts in a number of drives.

Even prisoners, serving sentences imposed by occupa:
tion courts, got a Christmas bonus when the three Allied :
High Commissioners granted Christmas clemency; pris-
oners who would ordinarily have been released sometime ©
between Dec. 17, 1950, and Jan. 31, 1951, were freed Dec. 16,

AZAARS, AUCTIONS, THRIFT SHOPS and private ©
donations swelled the coffers of the German-American
Women's Club of Stuttgart, which bought Christmas gifts
for hundreds of children. 3
Children were the principal recipients in Berlin, also,
where the Berlin Military Post Christmas Funds Committee,
co-operating with the HICOG-Berlin Element Public’
Health and Welfare Branch and local German organiza-
tions, gave parties for 13,350 young West Berliners. The
Allied Commandants donated sufficient funds to the city”
administration to supply shoes to 10,000 needy youngsters, —
For children in the Kassel area, 200 of them, there were
tickets to a State Opera House performance of “Cin
derella,” thanks to the US Information Center there, ;
The Wiesbaden center presented “Snow White” for”
German children, and all acting was done by members”
of the center's English classes. 7
Some 8,000 Germans went to parties in the Bremen:
Bremerhaven area, thanks to a giant Christmas lottery.
AFN Bremerhaven used its music-request program to gain™
customers for the lottery prize, a 1950 automobile. Mem=
bers of the International Women's Club, the Bremen Allie
Club and the German-American Women's Club in tha’
area likewise pitched in to the job of making Christmas
cheery for needy families, youngsters and aged. At a tea

Dr. James R. Newman, Hesse’s US state commissioner,
hands gifts to 43 youths in Wiesbaden home. See ‘‘Homé
for the Wanderer,” page 25. (PRB OLCH photo)

--- Page 70 ---
party for aged women, the International Women's Club
gave new nightgowns to all.

The Wiesbaden Military Post in 12 parties brought joy
and gifts to more than 2,300 underprivileged local children.
The Wiesbaden Air Base went to the hinterlands of Hesse
to stage parties for young residents of the Weilmuenster
and Schopbach refugee camps. The all-day program in-
cluded animated cartoons, games, singing and an in-
dividual gift, while the camps were provided with such
recreational items as swings and sandboxes.

Air base personnel including the commanding officer
and chaplain gave the youngsters an American Christmas
dinner complete with turkey and ice cream.

HE 850 YOUNGSTERS of the Kalmenhof Orphan Home

received the bounty of gamblers at the post. The
Camp Pieri fund-raising committee “borrowed” the Wies-
baden Casino on Thanksgiving and took over the gambling
concession, all funds going to the orphans. The Casino
produced special chips of 10 cents to a dollar for the
night and donated use of all facilities. It is believed that
several thousand dollars were collected.

More than 200 most-needy families were cared for by
the German-American Welfare Branch of the Wiesbaden
Officers’ Wives’ Club. The American women sent back to
their home towns, churches and welfare groups for need-
ed items of clothing. Together, Americans and Germans
repaired, mended, and in some cases made new clothing
and toys.

Brig. Gen. F. R. Upthegrove, commanding general, Wies-
baden Military Post, led a group of hunters in getting a
rabbit for each individual package. Cash and food collec-
tions were made and the 247 Wiesbaden families listed by
the Hesse Welfare Organization as the most needy, re-
ceived individual packages.

A sample package, to a married but childless disabled
war veteran: one new suit of excellent quality, shirt, tie,
several sets of underwear, a ladies’ dress, one skirt, one
blouse, one jacket, one complete set of underwear, coffee,
cocoa, milk, candies, jam, cheese, meat, vegetables, fruit-
cake, several other food items, and one large rabbit for
the Christmas table.

N AMERICAN CONTINGENT in Bonn and Bad Godes-

berg didn't let its size dampen its Christmas spirit.
There are slightly more than 100 Americans there —
HICOG and HICOM employees, US MP’s and Special
Services personnel.

Fifteen forward-looking Allied women in the area ar-
Tanged a charity ball on Dec. 1 to help East zone refugees.
Although their work ‘doesn’t stop with the holidays — it
is a year-long activity — they designed special Christmas
Packages of clothing, toys, blankets and food. The ball,
which drew 450 Allies and Germans to the Godesberger
Hof, recently-opened American hotel, netted approximate-
ly DM 9,000.

Gifts bought with the money were taken directly to the
homes of the 80 families “adopted” by the women. “In
the past,” one of the women said, “we. gave parties for

JANUARY 1951

67

the children in our clubhouses, then they went home with
their gifts, where there was nothing to eat and it was
cold and gray." Hence the home visits.

One hundred and seventy-five children from a nearby
children’s home were entertained with gifts, a program
and Christmas dinner at the hotel.

A holiday-decorated Military Police jeep and truck
convoy delivered presents to 21 Godesberg families with
five American MP’s, two German policemen and an inter-
preter serving as Santa Claus. About $250 worth of food
and clothing was distributed. One father of eight was
particularly grateful for the help; he had just returned
from a Russian POW camp. Another group of enlisted men
in the area gave $120 to entertain 39 children from a small
Godesberg orphanage. Food for the orphanage's pantry
was donated by shoppers at the local commissary who
were intercepted by a huge box inviting their Christmas
contributions.

TILIZING THE FACTS of Berlin life, members of the

Tempelhof Air Base borrowed a West German police
sound truck, piled air base busses full of Christmas
packages and patrolled the East-West sector border in
search of needy kids. Some 400-600 packages, containing
soap, candy, fruit and in some cases toys and clothing,
were given out to Soviet Sector youngsters who crossed
the border to receive their gifts. When the caravan of good
will reached Potsdamer Platz, FDJ'ers turned on the East-
sector loudspeaker system located there and answered the
Americans’ invitation with music — a song entitled, “Ami,
Go Home.”

Personnel of the Tempelhof base had collected 6,000
items of toys and clothing for this project and other
parties in a giant write-home campaign in October which
all supported. Two hospitals, an orphanage and 2,600 poor
kids received gifts.

Another sign of the times — and the place — was the
MATS oranges-for-Christmas-trees transaction. Through
mutual agreement, the Military Air Transport Service's
1602 Air Transport Wing in Wiesbaden and the Royal
Norwegian Air Force at Oslo exchanged evergreen trees
and tropical fruit.

Some 3,000 pounds of fresh fruit — Libyan oranges,
grapefruit, lemons and limes purchased from the Tripoli-
tania markets by personnel at Wheelus Field, Tripoli —
were flown from Rhine-Main Air Base to Oslo on a MATS
Douglas C-54 Skymaster. The fruit had arrived from
Wheelus Field a few days before. Both fruit and Christmas
trees were utilized for holiday celebrations.

NE RESIDENT OFFICER expressed the spirit of most

Americans, who had been celebrating Christmas with
Germans from the time of St. Nicholas’ visit Dec. 6
until well after the traditional Christmas Day:

“This is not the type of assistance that will end after
Christmas. We are quite sure that as long as the Ameri-
cans are here there will be things given to these orphans
at regular intervals, and their life will be very much
brighter through direct contact with these people.” -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
(Continued irom page 5)

Campaign of Truth

adopted, as part of its final declarations, this idea, which
* I should like to quote to you briefly:

“We must build up our strength in the realm of
ideas as well as in the field of physical production:
for within and beyond the fact of military aggression
is the ceaseless effort of our foe to possess the minds
and souls of men.

“We have before us, then, a dual challenge. We
must meet the monstrous lie of Communism with the
great truth of freedom; and we must back our words
with the economic might of a free people.

“Our task, in the ideological struggle, is to help
the world to understand what is at stake —to un-
mask the false prophets of the collectivist Utopia
and expose the cruel visage of tyranny and oppres-
sion. This we can do, for truth is stronger than false-
hood; and justice, peace and freedom are eternal
aspirations in the minds and hearts of men.”

UT LET ME CALL to your attention some procedures in

your contact with citizens of other nations whicb
would be helpful but which perhaps you have overlooked
because they concern items which you take for granted.
Keep in mind that what we are trying to do is to depict for
the people of the world how America lives, what America
stands for, and why we do what we do.

Private groups —like our own Crusade for Freedom —
have the opportunity to do more than governments alone
can ever do toward arousing the sort of grassroots en-
thusiasm that can be so vital a part of the free world’s
Campaign of Truth.

Besides individual activities, you in foreign trade can
help us out in your capacity as businessmen. When you
sell your product, sell America and the concept of free-
dom, too. For example, overseas advertising — either in
international editions of United States periodicals or in
foreign publications—is a medium which has a great
potential for our purposes. A guide for American business
firms advertising in foreign countries has been issued
jointly by the Advertising Council and the Department of
State. It is called “Advertising, a New Weapon in the
World-Wide Fight for Freedom,” and copies can be ob-
tained from the Advertising Council here.

Another item — most industrial organizations publish
booklets, textbooks and other instructional material in
connection with their business. There is a tremendous de-
mand abroad for such pamphlets, and we feel that greater
distribution through regular business channels would be
beneficial. If there is a question in your mind as to its
usefulness, the Department of State would be glad to check
the material and, if it advances our objectives, help facili-
tate its distribution overseas.

E HAVE ALSO FOUND that technical and docu-
mentary films are much sought after overseas.
The Department's motion picture service shows to a
monthly audience that exceeds 12,000,000. However,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

Correction in Personnel Notes

The half-column photograph appearing in the
item “Home Economist Appointed" in Personnel
Notes on page 47 is that of Miss Elizabeth A. Wil-
son, and not, as incorrectly capitoned, Miss Hazel
M. Hatcher. The photograph should have been
inserted in the adjoining item “New Community
Activities Adviser.“ The error was discovered
after the printing of that section of this issue had

been completed. P

some films that we would like to have included could
not be adapted to international use. This difficulty
was avoided in other films by discussing the production
with industry representatives before the actual filming
began. If your firm is preparing a technical or docu-
mentary film, perhaps a check with the Department of
State motion picture people would result in a film that
could be used both here and abroad.

Hundreds of thousands of letters are sent abroad
each year by American foreign traders to their clients
and customers overseas. Couldn't we use this channel
to “export ideas," as suggested at the Foreign-Trade
Convention? A leaflet carrying a message in English
or even other languages would undoubtedly be read
and have its impact. You could develop your own mes-
sages, or, if you wish, we could co-operate with you
in preparing inserts in English. ,

There's a final point that I'd like to emphasize. I am
convinced, and I think it important that you be con-
vinced, that this Campaign of Truth can succeed if we
really put our backs into it. The Soviets are not the
master propagandists that they have been pictured.
Their blunders have been too gross — too fundamental
for us to rate them as experts. They botched the hand-
ling of the Tito question. In Korea, they completely
miscalculated the nature of the United States and United
Nations response to the North Korean aggression. Then,
they expended vast amounts of money and effort in a futile
attempt to depict the United States as the aggressor. These
were boners of tthe first water. And, if you check the record,
you will see that many of the propaganda triumphs they
have scored have been achieved where there was no
opposition. Their victories have been won by default.

What we have to do is clear. We must mobilize our
resources behind this campaign. We know that the
Soviet system is vulnerable to the truth. But we have
to see that the truth gets out. It's up to us. © -+-END

Bookings for Frankfurt Fair Heavy
More than 1,200 firms from 20 foreign countries had
by mid-November made reservations for participation in
the next Frankfurt International Spring Fair, May 6-11.
So large has been the demand for space that the present
facilities will have to be enlarged. All 32 lines represented
at the fair will offer more goods than previously.

JANUARY. 1951

--- Page 72 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Nov. 30

The 47th meeting of the Council of
the Allied High Commission was held at
the Petersberg Nov. 30. Present were
Mr. John J. McCloy, United States High
Commissioner (chairman); Mr. Andre
Francois-Poncet, French High Commis-
sioner; and Lt, Gen. Sir Gordon N. Mac-
ready, representing Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick,
United Kingdom High Commissioner.

No official communique is being issued
in connection with the meeting, which
convened at 11:30: a, m. and adjourned
at 12:35 p.m.

The Council approved an Allied High
Commission law which deprives Control
Council Law No. 22 of effect in the State
of Bavaria. A Bavarian works-council law
will thus be permitted to enter into force.
Bavaria is the fifth state which has re-
quested this High Commission action.
Others were Rhineland-Palatinate, Hesse,
Wuerttemberg- Baden and  Schleswig-
Holstein,

HICOM Meeting of Dec. 7

The 48th meeting of the Allied High
Commission was held in Berlin Dec. 7
with the three Allied Berlin commandants
in attendance. No communique on the
proceedings was issued.

HICOM Meeting of Dec. 14

The 49th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Dec. 14. Present were Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner (chairman); Sir Ivone Kirk-
patrick, United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner, and Mr, John J. McCloy, United
States High Commissioner,

The Council:

1. Signed an Allied High Commission
law on navigation on inland and coastal
waters. The law removes various restric-
tions, imposed by the Occupation Authori-
ties on navigation in the territory of
the Federal Republic, by repealing all
French, United Kingdom and United States
Military Government legislation on this
subject. The law provides for the regu-
lation only of navigation to and from the
inland or coastal waters under Soviet
conirol of any vessel having a German
home port or entered in a German ship's
tegister. The law permits the Federal
Government to assume full jurisdiction
over waterways in the Federal Republic.

2. Agreed on the text of a communi-
cation to the Federal chancellor concern-
ing the Federal Government's request for
a reduction in the coal export quota for
the fourth quarter of 1950. Details will be
announced in a communique to be issued
later (See below).

3. Decided to hold its next meeting on
Dec, 21, 1950, at the Petersberg.

Communique on Coal Situation

The Allied High Commission (Dec. 15)
has considered and replied to representa-

JANUARY 1951

tions from the federal chancellor regarding
the present coal situation.

The federal chancellor has been informed
that, on the understanding that the Ger-
man authorities will take measures for
the better distribution and utilization of
coal, the High Commission has requested
governments to arrange for an urgent
meeting of the International Authority for
the Ruhr (IAR) to consider the coal export
quota for December in the light of the
current situation. In this connection the
High Commission has submitted for exa-
mination by the IAR certain proposals
which the High Commission feels should
meet the present situation. This is a mat-
ter for the IAR as the allocation of coal
either for export or internal distribution
is not the task of the High Commission.

It will be recalled that the IAR, of
which the Federal Republic is a member,
unanimously decided that 6,830,000 tons
of coal should be exported from Germany
for the fourth quarter of 1950 as compared
with 7,100,000 tons exported during the
third quarter. A quantity of 20,209,000 tons
was envisaged for internal consumption.
In fact, through the efforts of the miners,
more than 1,000,000 additional tons of
coal have become available for internal
German consumption.

Had appropriate measures been taken
in due time to control distribution, reduce
unnecessary consumption and complete
the fixing of increased coal prices, it is
considered that the present difficulties
would not have arisen. Public lighting
and electric advertisements have not been
reduced, restrictions in the use of electric
power have not been established, and no
measures have been taken to reduce coal
consumption in non-essential industries.
Such measures are normal practice in
most countries faced with difficult coal
situations.

The High Commission has taken the
action reported above recognizing, that,
despite the special effort of the miners to
increase production, the imprudent distri-
bution of coal has caused inconvenience
to sections of the population. It has also
taken into account the desirability of
action now in case there should occur
increased difficulties such as a prolonged
period of intense cold.

Proposals on ECA Studied

A representative of the Federal Govern-
ment transmitted Nov. 29 to the ECA
Mission at Frankfurt proposals for the
allocation of ECA counterpart funds for
the ERP year 1950-51. The Mission is now
studying these proposals and will request
from the Federal Government the addi-
tional information which will be needed
in order to evaluate the proposed allo-
cation of counterpart funds within the
framework of over-all investment and the
over-all economic situation. After com-
pleting its review, the Mission will trans-
mit the proposals, together with its evalu-
ation, to the Office of the Special Re-
presentative, ECA, Paris, and ECA, Wash-
ington, for approval.

69

Laws and Regulations

Policy on State Police

In a letter of instructions to state com-
missioners, a copy of which has been sent
to the Federal chancellor, the Allied High
Commission has introduced a new, libera-
lized policy for the organization and con-
trol of Laender (State) police forces.

State commissioners were to inform the
ministers president of this policy:

Hitherto, state police organization has
had to be decentralized below state level,
except when otherwise specifically author-
ized by the High Commission, there have
been limitations on the exercise by state
governments of control over the police
forces, and numbers of police weapons
have been severely limited.

Now, after the passing of appropriate
state legislation, the organization of police
forces in the states may be centralized
at state level, provided that the legislation
grants independent municipalities the right
to maintain their own forces, State govern-
ments may also introduce legislation per-
mitting them to give orders to police
chiefs to send reinforcements to other
forces within the state, to direct the
police to enforce particular provisions of
law and to advise the police on the inter-
pretation of law.

In order that the police may be preserv-
ed from party political influences, the
instructions direct that state legislation
must stipulate that heads of the police
forces are to remain solely responsible
for technical functions and discipline.

State commissioners have also been
separately authorized to allow the arma-
ment of the state police to be brought up
to the degree that every police effective
may have normal light police equipment.

Following is the text of the instructions:
Letter of Instructions to State Commis-
sioners Regarding the Organization, Con-
trol and Administration of State Police.

1. The Allied High Commission considers
that the state police should be organized
and administered so as to enforce the law
and to contribute to the security of the
Occupation Forces, and sets forth the
following principles to achieve these ob-
jectives:

2. Police formations should not be estab-
lished, organized or reorganized except
as may be authorized by state legislation
and the functions, authority and juris-
diction of the police should be prescribed
by such legislation. Such legislation should
assign to the police the primary task of
guaranteeing the maintenance of law and
order and public security, of continuing
the preventive struggle against crime and
referring offenders to the courts. Such
state legislation shall insure that the
police do not issue any ordinance regu-
lation or order having the effect of law
and do not assume duties which fall with-
in the competence of the judiciary authori-
ties. The law shall prescribe that, except
as authorized by law, the police may not
deprive any person of life, liberty or
property.

3. Such state legislation should grant to
independently governed municipalaties the
right to maintain independent municipal
police, but may authorize the state authori-
ties to retain the right to issue regu-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
lations on recruiting, training and promot-
ing personnel and to organize central
state police schools as well as to assume
in case of emergency operational control
over all the state police forces.

4, The state government may also by
legislation reserve to itself the power to
give orders to police chiefs to send
reinforcements to other forces within the
state. The state government may further
be given the power by law to order the
police forces to enforce a particular provi-
sion of a law, or to advise police chiefs
what the proper interpretation of the law
is, provided that action is taken in accord-
ance with legal advice tendered by the
appropriate state legal authorities and
that such action is not regarded as preju-
dicing the functions of the judiciary. The
state government may be empowered by
law to institute disciplinary or removal
proceedings in proper administrative courts
against chief officers of police who fail
properly to discharge their lawful duties.
State legislation should make the head
of each. police force solely responsible
for its technical functions and discipline.

5. To insure reliability, state legislation
should prohibit the police from engaging
in political activity beyond the right of
franchise and should prohibit strikes by
the police.

6. The state commissioner will report
to the High Commission for appropriate
action any legislation, any organization
or reorganization of the police, or any
police activity not in conformity with
these principles. He will also report any
type or quantity of armament by police
that he considers inappropriate or a threat
to the security of the Occupation Forces.

Law No. 40

Restrictions on Transactions
and Activities
of Members of the Allied Forces

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion enacts as follows:

Article 1

Except when authorized, either generally
or specifically, by the Allied High Com-
mission or any agency designated by it, it
shall be unlawful for members of the Allied
Forces:

(a) to acquire from any person ordinarily
resident in the Federal Republic or the
Western sectors of Berlin;

(i) immovable property, mortgages or
other rights in or over immovable property;

(ii) securities, whether German or for-
eign; interests in German business; indus-
trial, literary and artistic property rights;
bills of exchange, promissory notes and
checks; and, by assignment, bank balances
and other claims;

(b) to transfer, except by way of gift, to
any person not a member of the Allied
Forces the title to any goods imported free
of customs duty into the territory of the
Federal Republic or the Western sectors of
Berlin unless the goods are non-consumable
and have been in the possession of the
transferor for not less than six months.

Article 2

Except when authorized, either generally
or specifically, by the Allied High Commis-
sion or any agency designated by it, it shall

INFORMATION BULLETIN

be unlawful for members of the Allied
Forces:

(a) To acquire German currency from any
person ordinarily resident in the Federal
Republic or the Western sectors of Berlin
otherwise than:

(i) as proceeds of property sold or change
on purchases made;

(ii) as loan in an amount not exceeding
DM 250;

(iii) as payment under any insurance con-
tract or in respect of any claim in tort;

(iv) as winnings in any game, lottery,
wager or competition;

(b) to acquire or dispose of German cur-
tency at other than the official rates of
exchange.

Article 3

1. Except when authorized, either gen-
erally or specifically, by the Allied High
Commission or any agency designated by
it, it shall be unlawful for members of the
Allied Forces: |

(a) to enter into any transaction involv-
ing property located in the Federal Repub-
lic or the Western sectors of Berlin and
owned or controlled by any person out-
side of this area;

(b) to enter into any transaction involv-
ing foreign exchange assets with any
person ordinarily resident in the Federal
Republic or the Western sectors of Berlin;

(c) to deliver or receive within the terri-
tory of the Federal Republic any foreign
exchange asset to or from a person who
is not a member of the Allied Forces.

2. No member of the Allied Forces shall
retain in his possession within the terri-
tory of the Federal Republic currency, other
than German currency, of a value exceed-
ing DM 850 calculated at the official rates
of exchange. Each high commissioner may
prescribe the manner in which any excess
shall be disposed of and may restrict further
the right of members of the Allied Forces
under his authority to retain currency in
their possession.

3. No member of the Allied Forces shall
engage in any transaction in occupation
scrip inolving a violation of Law No. 6.

4. Members of the Allied Forces may
open and operate new accounts with Ger-
man banks.

Article 4

1. Members of the Allied Forces may,
when entering or leaving the territory of
the Federal Republic, import into or export
from such territory on their person or in
their baggage:

(a) personal and household effects;

(b) 600 cigarettes and 500 grams of other
tobacco products;

c) German currency in any amount be-
tween the territory of the Federal Republic
and the Western sectors of Berlin; in other
cases German currency not in excess of
DM 100 in the case of exports, and not in
excess of DM 1,000 in the case of imports;

(d) currency other than German currency
of a value not exceeding DM 850 calculated
at the official rates of exchange;

(e) checks (including travelers’ checks),
letters of credit, money orders, or other
payment instruments not expressed in Ger-
man currency.

Each high commissioner may restrict the
rights under (b), (d) or (e) hereof of mem-
bers of the Allied Forces under his authori-
ty. He may authorize them to import or
export specified small quantities of other
commodities.

70

2. Members of the Allied Forces may by
means of the postal or other services of
the Occupation Powers or through any
other channel authorized by their respec-
tive high commissioner import into or
export from the territory of the Federal
Republic:

(a) tangible property which has been
lawfully acquired, except property for
resale, currency, coffee and tobacco pro-
ducts, provided that each high commis-
sioner may grant exemptions in respect of
coffee and tobacco products;

(b) checks (including travelers’ checks)
letters of credit, postal money orders, or
other payment instruments not expressed
in German currency.

Each high commissioner may restrict the
rights under this paragraph of members of
the Allied Forces using the services sub-
ject to his authority.

3. Except as provided in paragraphs 1
and 2, imports and exports of property
shall require an authorization of the Allied
High Commission or its designated agency.

Article 5

1, Each high commissioner may by order
restrict or subject to such conditions as he
may think fit the importation into his zone
of goods free of customs duty by official
Allied organizations or other organizations
entitled to exemption from taxation and
may impose penalties, including the confis-
cation of the imported goods, for the breach
of any such order.

2. Each high commissioner may, in im-
plementation of this law, control the move-
ment of property into or out of his zone
by or on behalf of the Allied Forges or
the members thereof.

Article 6

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of
British and United States Military Govern-
ment Laws No. 53 (Revised) and Ordinance
No. 235 of the French High Commissioner,
transactions which are not prohibited by
this law between members of the Allied
Forces and other persons shall be deemed
to be authorized with respect to such other
persons.

2. Notwithstanding any provision of this
law, the acquisition of property including
currency by members of the Allied Forces
from any person ordinarily resident in the
Federal Republic or the Western sectors
of Berlin through succession or transmis-
sion upon death shall be subject to the
legislation applicable to acquisitions in the
same circumstances by persons who reside
outside the territory of the Federal Re-
public and the Western sectors of Berlin
and are not members of the Allied Forces.

3. Nothing in this law shall be deemed
to affect the application of SHAEF Law
No. 52 (Amended), United States Military
Government Law No. 52, United States and
British Military Government Laws No. 53
(Revised) and Ordinance No. 235 of the
French High Commissioner to property of
members of the Allied Forces acquired in
Germany before May 8, 1945 and all ac-
cretions thereto.

Article 7

1. Subject to the provisions of Article 5,
nothing in this law shall prohibit any
transaction or activity carried out on be-
half of the Occupation Authorities or Occu-
pation Forces.

2. The exercise of jurisdiction over mili-
tary personnel of the Occupation Forces

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 74 ---
subject to Military, Naval or Air Force
law shall not be affected by this law.

Article 8

Any agreement or transfer made in viola-
tion of this law shall be null and void.

Article 9

1. Any official duly authorized by the
Occupation Authorities may seize any pro-
perty which is the subject of any trans-
action or activity prohibited by this law.
Any person aggrieved by a seizure here-
under may within 30 days from the date
thereof file a protest with the high com-
missioner of the zone in which the seizure
was made or with any agency designated
by him. Such high commissioner or agency
may order the release or confiscation of the
property. Administrative confiscation’of the
property seized may be effected if no pro-
test is filed as herein provided.

2, Where a person is prosecuted for a
violation of this law, no order of confis-
cation regarding the seized property shall
be made until final disposition of the
criminal case,

3. The high commissioner concerned may
provide for a composition with respect
to the seized property and the offense not-
withstanding that a protest has been filed
or a prosecution has been instituted.

Article 10

The Allied High Commission or any
agency designated by it may issue reg-
ulations in implementation of this law.

Article 11

Any person who violates any provision
of this law or of any regulation or order
made hereunder shall be liable to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding six months or
to a fine or to both such imprisonment and
fine. The fine shall not exceed (i) DM 25,000
or the equivalent thereof, or (ii) three times
the value of the property which is the
subject matter of the offense, whichever is
the greater.

Article 12

For the purposes of this law and any
regulation issued hereunder:

(a) ‘‘person’' shall mean any natural, col-
lective or juristic person under public or
private law, and any government includ-
ing all political sub-divisions, public corpo-
tations, agencies, and instrumentalities
thereof.

(b) “foreign exchange assets" shall be
deemed to include; :

(1) any property located outside the Fed-
eral Republic and the Western sectors of
Berlin;

(2) currency other than German currency,
bank balances outside the Federal Republic
and the Western sectors of Berlin; and
checks, drafts, bills of exchange and other
instruments of payment drawn on or issued
by persons outside the Federal Republic
and the Western sectors of Berlin;

(3) claims and any evidence thereof
owned or held by:

(i) any person ordinarily resident in the
Federal Republic or the Western sectors of
Berlin against a person outside the Federal
Republic and the Western sectors of Berlin,
whether expressed in German or other
currencies;

(ii) any person ordinarily resident in the
Federal Republic or the Western sectors of
Berlin against any other person in the
Federal Republic or the Western sectors of
Berlin, if expressed in a currency other
than German currency;

JANUARY 1951

(iii) any person outside the Federal Re-
public and the Western sectors of Berlin,
if a person ordinarily resident in the
Federal Republic or the Western sectors
of Berlin has any interest in the claim;

(4) any securities and other evidences of
ownership or indebtedness issued by per-
sons ordinarily resident outside of the
Federal Republic and the Western sectors
of Berlin, and securities and other evi-
dences of ownership or indebtedness issu-
ed by persons ordinarily resident in the
Federal Republic or the Western sectors
of Berlin, if expressed or payable in a cur-
rency other than German currency;

(5) gold or silver coins or gold, silver or
platinum bullion or alloys thereof in bul-
lion form;

(6) such other property as is determined
by the Allied High Commission to be a
foreign exchange asset;

(c) ‘ordinarily resident’’ shall mean hav-
ing one’s usual place of abode, in the case
of natural persons, or the principal place
of business or legal seat, in the case of
juristic persons and other associations;
provided, however, that members of the
Allied Forces shall not be deemed to be
ordinarily resident in Germany.

Article 13

The following enactments
repealed:

British Military Government Ordinances
Nos. 73 and 97;

Article III and Paragraph 5 (b) of Ar-
ticle IV of British Military Government
Ordinance No. 176 (Amended 1);

British Military Government Ordinance
No. 206 and General License No. 1 issued
thereunder;

United States Military Government Ordi-
nance No. 38 and any Regulation there-
under;

United States High Commissioner Ordi-
nance No. 8.

Done at
BONN, Petersberg, on Oct. 19, 1950.
On behalf of the Council of the
Allied High Commission
IVONE KIRKPATRICK
United Kingdom High Commissioner
for Germany
Chairman.

are hereby

Official Statements

Consideration of War-Crimes Cases

In connection with recent discussions
and rumors concerning possible action
dealing with certain war criminals now
confined in Landsberg prison, US High
Commissioner McCloy again pointed out
Nov. 22 that clemency for some of these
prisoners is now under consideration.

Mr. McCloy emphasized that the most
painstaking and scrupulous thought is
being given each case to assure that the
rulings will be as fair as it is humanly
possible to make them.

He said he did not expect his final
decisions will be ready until after the
new year.

Deconcentration Policy Reaffirmed

In letters to the German federal chan-
cellor, details of which were made known
Nov. 1, the Allied High Commission:

(1) Has affirmed that Allied programs
in the field of deconcentration and decar-

71

telization of the German economy will be
carried through;

(2) Has given the assurance that major
steps in the implementation of the Allied
programs will not be taken without con-
sultation with the federal authorities;

(3) Has invited the Federal Government
to prepare general legislation to comple-
ment Allied decartelization and decon-
centration legislation, The German legis-
lation is to provide for deconcentration
measures in the fields other than those
covered specifically in Allied legislation
and is to prevent reconcentration after
Allied and any German programs have
been carried out. .

These developments are covered in three
letters which were sent following recent
discussions on deconcentration and decar-
telization between the federal chancellor
and the Allied high commissioners and
between the federal economics minister
and the Allied economic advisers.

The first letter refers to general decon-
centration and decartelization legislation.
It recalls that in January 1950, the Federal
Government was invited by the High
Commission to prepare a “trade practice”
law to supersede the relative provisions
of British Military Government Ordinance
No. 78, US Military Government Ordinance
No. 56, and French Military Government
Ordinance No. 96. (This general legis-
lation, which is still in force, provides
for the elimination of cartels, syndicates,
trusts, combines and other types of mono-
polistic arrangements.)

After noting the considerable progress
made in preparation of the trade practice
law, the letter records that at a meeting
between the Allied economic advisers and
the federal minister of economics on
Oct. 19, 1950:

“It was agreed that the Federal Govern-
ment should now consider the preparation
of general legislation governing decon-
centration. It was decided that the best
course would be to include sections
dealing with deconcentration in the trade
practice law so that the whole field of
deconcentration and decartelization could
be covered by a single law.

“It will be understood that any German
legislation which may be proposed as a
result of this invitation must not conflict
with the provisions of existing Allied
legislation or measures dealing with the
coal and steel industries, 1.G. Farben, the
UFI/UFA complex and the Grossbanken.
It must also be understood that any such
German legislation must provide for a
prevention of any reconcentration within
the areas specified above after the comple-
tion of the reorganization plans called for
under the appropriate Allied legislation
or measures."

The letter adds that members of the
Decartelization and Industrial Deconcen-
tration Group (DIDEG) of the Allied High
Commission will make themselves availa-
ble at the request of the Federal Govern-
ment in order to co-operate in the im-
portant task of preparing this legislation.

The second letter also refers to the
discussions of Oct. 19 and notes the
assurance by the federal economics minis-
ter that:

“The Federal Government does not wish
to dispute in any way the prerogative of
the High Commission in the case of the
deconcentration actions over the coal and
iron and steel industries, I.G. Farben-
industrie, UFA and the Grossbanken.”

Referring to the dispersal of I.G. Farben,
the letter continues:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents.

Prison Journal, Vol. 1, No. 8, Prisons
Division, Office of General Counsel, HICOG,
August 1950.

Prison Journal, Vol. 1, No. 9, Prisons
Division, Office of General Counsel, HICOG,
September 1950.

Realites Allemandes (Facts of Germany),
No, 21-22, September-October, 1950, High
Commission of the French Republic in
Germany, Oct. 31, 1950.

Participating Countries, Recovery Guid-
es, No. 16, ECA (Washington), October,
1950.

Der Aufenhandel der Bundesrepublik
Deutschland, Teil 1, Zusammenfassende
Ubersichten (The Foreign Trade of the

. German Federal Republic, Part 1, Com-
prehensive Surveys), Bizonal Statistical
Office, Wiesbaden, October 1950.

4th Quarterly Report on Germany, July 1-
Sept. 30, 1950, HICOG (Frankfurt), Nov. 15,
1950.

Official Gazette, No. 39, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, Nov. 15, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 249,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Nov. 17, 1950.

Displaced Populations, PRD HICOG,
Nov. 23, 1950. Collection of reprints from
the Information Bulletin.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 250,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Nov. 24, 1950.

Information Bulletin, November 1950,
PRD HICOG, Nov. 25, 1950.

Copies of publications, etc. listed

in the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters.

Educational and Cultural Activities in
Germany Today, PRD HICOG, Nov. 30,
1950. Reprints from Information Bulletin. ©

Biicher-Vorschau (Preview of New
Books), Nos. 40, 41, Central Distribution
Section (Frankfurt), November 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 251,
PRD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Dec. 1, 1950,

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 252,
PRD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Dec. 8, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 253,
PRD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Dec. 15, 1950,

Daily Press Review, Nos. 213 to 231,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Nov. 16 to
Dec. 14, 1950.

Der Monat (in German), Vol. 2, No. 27,
ISD HICOG (Munich), December 1950.

Information Bulletin, December 1950,
PRD, HICOG, Dec. 20, 1950.

“The High Commission has every inten-
tion of keeping the Federal Government
. fully informed and of seeking their views
before any of the following major steps
are taken:
(1) Plans
assets;

(2) Liquidation of the parent company
and any subsidiary companies not schedul-
ed for retention;

(3) Basic plans for
claimants;

(4) The constitution and establishment
of the liquidation committee.

“The High Commission is actively
engaged in the implementation of Law 35
and is naturally concerned that no undue
delay should arise as a result of consul-
tation. It also wishes to emphasize that
the views expressed by the Federal
Government on any of these issues should
take account of all sections interested in
this particular matter, including, among
others, the German trade unions.”

The letter adds that Federal Government
proposals for the dispersal of I.G. Farben
are being studied by the High Commission
in connection with its preparation of
dispersal plans. The preparation of these
plans is already at an advanced stage.
The High Commission, it is stated, will
be proposing the names of individuals for
service on the I.G. Farben liquidation
committee and will be glad to receive the
Federal Government's comments or alter-
native nominations. It is considered that
appointments to this body should be made
on a purely professional basis.

The third letter refers to the coal and
iron and steel industries and to the iron
or mining industries, the reorganization of
which is provided for under Allied High
Commission Law 27. The letter states that
before any major action is taken in the
implementation of this law, opportunity
will be given to the Federal Government
to express its views with respect thereto.

for the dispersal of major

the treatment of

Official Announcements

Confinement in German Jails

Americans, not associated with the US
Occupation Forces, sentenced to prison

INFORMATION BULLETIN

terms by HICOG courts in Hesse, will
serve their sentences in German jails, it
was disclosed by Stanley H. Gaines, chief
of the Legal Affairs Division, OLC Hesse.

Mr. Gaines observed that there are no
provisions exempting personnel not part
of the occupation and not DP’s from
regular German law enforcement proce-
dures. Since non-occupation personnel are
in Germany on a status the same as or
similar to the status of any American
tourist in a foreign land, prison sentences
must be served in the prison of that land.

Practice of US Lawyers

Headquarters, European Command has
announced that US lawyers authorized to
practice in US areas of responsibility in
Germany are now permitted to represent
non-occupation, as well as occupation per-
sonnel. Heretofore, they had been permitted
to represent only occupation personnel.

It was pointed out in the announcement
that lawyers authorized to practice under
the terms of the new directive must give
priority to all cases in which they re-
present occupation personnel.

German-Swiss Travel

In accordance with recent agreemenis
concluded in consultation with the Ger-
man authorities between the Combined
Travel Board, on behalf of the Allied
High Commission, and the Swiss Federal
authorities, new facilities for tourist
travel have been introduced at the Ger-
man-Swiss frontier. The new liberalized
arrangements are expected to bring about a
great increase in the flow of tourist traffic
between the two countries.

Under the terms of
German nationals not normally resident
in the frontier area but who hold a
temporary travel document or a German
passport, or German nationals residing
in the frontier area who possess an offi-
cial identity card (Kennkarte), will be
able to obtain on short notice from the
offices set up by the county administrator
(Landrat) in the frontier area permission
to travel to and stay in the Swiss fron-

the agreement,

123

tier area for a period of three days. The
hhecessary documentation will be obtain-
able on payment of a fee of DM 1.

Reciprocally, a Swiss national who
holds a national passport or identity
card may be able to obtain from the
cantonal authorities on short notice similar
permission to stay in Germany for three ~
days. Documentation will cost one Swiss
franc.

It is emphasized that entry into Ger-
many and exit from Switzerland and vice
versa must take place at specific crossing

points and that the new facilities apply —~

only to German and Swiss nationals.

Separate APO for HICOG Headquarters

This announcement establishes APO
757-A as the official Frankfurt HICOG
Headquarters APO, instead of APO 757, as
heretofore. Present physical location of
APO 757-A is in Room 057, Headquarters
Building, Frankfurt.

The official mail scheme followed by the
Army Air Force Postal Service for HICOG
Headquarters elements formerly using APO
757, and other authorized agencies receiv-
ing mail service through HICOG, has been
amended to reflect the above change.

All Frankfurt personnel formerly served
by APO 757 together with those of other
organizations receiving mail support from
HICOG; are requested to complete and
return to Communications Division one
copy of the form which has been forwarded
to each Message Center Drop-point. If
desired, however, offices, divisions or
branches may submit the same information
in memorandum form covering various
employees.

As this information is received in Com-
munications Division, locator cards on
hand will be verified or corrected, and the
Army Air Force Postal Service furnished
the listings in order that their locator cards ~
in this theater, and those in New York City, —
may also be verified or brought up to date.

Failure to submit the information re-
quested in this announcement will often
result in the return to the sender of mail
improperly or incompletely addressed. —
HICOG Staff Announcement No. 129.

JANUARY 1951

--- Page 76 ---
“Play Ball!" and “Little Leaguer’ field is opened with game between league's US and German members.

=

By JOHN ZECCA

Resident Officer, Mannheim

| Be ABILITY OF CHILDREN to make friends, an

adeptness far more difficult for their elders to attain,
has been amply displayed in the area around Mannheim.
But strangely enough it was largely the work of the elders
that made it all possible.

The whole thing started when the members of the
Mannheim Ordnance Depot decided to help 93 orphan
boys of the Weinheim Pilgersheim. Like all programs for
German youth, Mannheim had the usual hobby programs
and other like recreational projects. With funds collected
from Depot personnel the boys received bright new polo
shirts, blue jeans and other colorful clothing. Easter pre-
sented the first big party opportunity of the year and the
bright baskets came heaped with eggs and chocolates.

But spring provided the real chance for Mannheim's
Program to swing into high gear when full emphasis was

4

placed on sports. A sandlot sprang up and the sounds
of “Batter up" in accents strange to baseball were heard
about the area. These German boys had entered into com-
petition with the American dependent children’s team,
“The Little Leaguers.”

The exciting and closely contested games between the
two groups that followed illustrated the need for a “park”
and last August that vision became real with the dedica-
tion of the “Little Leaguers” field in Feudenheim. A mili-
tary band from Heidelberg opened the day's events
with a grand march after which all the German and Ameri-
can boys from the area — 80 and 40, respectively —
were presented with certificates making all of them
official members of the “Little Leaguers" of Feudenheim.
The game that followed (in true Brooklyn style) gave the
American boys a score of six to the orphans’ five,

The annual GYA Soap Box Derby resulted in the
Pilgerheim members turning out four sleek speed masters
that won each of the drivers a runner-up prize for their
performances at Weinheim and Karlsruhe.

German and American “Little Leaguers’ receive their certificates of membership during opening day ceremonies of their
field at Feudenheim (left). Center, Maj. G.I. Calvert, Mannheim Ordnance executive officer, receives floral tribute from
@ league representative as WOJG R.L. Moore looks on approvingly. Right, league racers show latest in soapbox models.

a8

Oe
non EO

--- Page 77 ---
Fuel Conservation

The following statement was issued by US High
_ Commissioner John J. McCloy in connection with
the coal conservation campaign:

Since the end of the last war, coal production in
Western Germany has never been enough to meet
domestic needs and fulfill export allocations.

Today we are faced with a critical shortage which
will affect all of us. It is mandatory that every one
of us, civilian and military alike, make a special
effort to conserve in the use of coal and electricity.

By co-operating in this effort, we can all help
prevent the crisis from affecting industrial produc-
tion. Germany must keep productivity at the pres-
ent high level for its own sake and for the sake
of the other Western nations which depend to a
large extent upon Ruhr coal for economic stability.

Here are three points which should be observed
by all members of the High Commissioner's staff,
by the members of the Armed Forces and German
nationals as well:

1. Turn off lights which are not in use.

2. Don't overheat your homes or quarters.

3. Discuss this conservation campaign with your
household staffs so that they will co-operate.