--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

_——~i-

--- Page 3 ---
FTER TWO YEARS, the 7318th Latvian

Labor Service squadron, whose skilled
work has played an integral part in the
growth of Rhine/Main Air Base, is being
disbanded. The majority of its members
will scatter to new homes in the western
hemisphere, far from their Baltic homeland,
now dominated by the USSR. Behind them
they leave solid reminders of their work—
headquarters building, its new addition,
the C-54 fireproof nose docks, engineering
and operation buildings for various squad-
rons, not to mention their projects during
the Berlin Airlift, when demands for new
construction mushroomed. Hard-stands, taxi
strips, landing lights, offices and barracks
followed in quick succession. For airlift
service, squadron members were awarded
certificates of appreciation by Brig. Gen.
Edward H. Alexander, commanding general.

Last project of Rhine/Main Latvian unit was construction of a new addition to the
headquarters building; their airlift work won official Air Force commendation.

(All photos by USAFE)

Modernistic designer, trained in Plumber, threading pipe, hopes Latvians service 34 trucks and
Riga, will be California fruit-picker. to gain entrance to Australia. four jeeps in air base motor pool.

Hard-working Latvians line up cafeteria-style for dinner at
end of day (left). Meals are cooked and served by members of
218-man squad. Right, GI, Latvian co-workers toast future.

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for dissemination of authoritative in-
formation concerning the policies, regu-
lations, instructions, operations and
activities of the Allied occupation in
Germany.

Editorial Staff:

BGIOY Gin cvcosiimonaten H, Warner Waid
Editorial Writer ...... Aileen S, Miles
Editorial Writer ...... Beth Burchard

Editorial Offices:
Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994
Frankfurt, Germany

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed in the plant of the Publishing
Operations Branch, Information Serv-
ices Division, at 39 Schelling Strasse,
Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.:

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

POVER PICTURE

OWNERSHIP SEARCH — At the Wies-
baden Central Collecting Point, paint-
mgs are scrutinized to determine
identification and legal ownership. At
Munich, similar work goes on, even
five years after the war. This un-
scrambling job is described in the
article, “Germany Makes Restitution,”
on page 7. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

June 1950

May: Day.in Berlin: (pictorial) 7555.6 v4 9409 Geos ote soso 2

Five Veurs alter Potsdamer ss 62/0 ciphers oe one ae e:
Address by Ralph Nicholson

Mainz Psalter ROtUIned: 2:20 joo. 6: sees orca) ain ois hen gitne a ree s 6

Germany. Makes Restitution’ 0127. os.6 f.5 sieves fa cais stainry 7
Review by Property Division

Private Citizen: Mrs. MCCIOY: 23. 6osops 25% eae Wioidareie bs os eeernle 11
Article by Rosemarie Sponner

Anti-Rearmament Law. 6) 066.0 sone gee egies aes sean 14

HICOG Staff Planning ....... 15
Article by David Wilke.

Movies on American Life Popular 18

US, Pilma Ride the Ras 4-6 So. cies <a ches Soir Bivins a swore 19
Pictorial Story by Sidney S. Siskind

ERP Marks Second Anniversary ...................s0005 20
Address by John J. McCloy

Public: Welfare'’s Matibagy © oi)... 2) 656 ss 08S ees ca eelgey 21
Collection of Correspondence

ETO USE: CAE F UMTEE MOULDED fois sco aio. 00 cin siateye'si eral aie leycnl eae Lop eieae 23
Article by Raymond Lascoe

“The Plonnig’ Parades) ...32 50. ce ess ne eee cerns an None 26

Dollar Drive fei vnc at cece aieiacigese ss sw noisier es aaitta) ae 27
Article by Fred Welty

American and German Theater ...............000s0c cee 29
Article by Frederic Mellinger

Training for Citizenship ................... i 31

“Freedom” Prizes for Artists 33
Article by Peter F, Szluk

28,865,000 Meals: a “WeGke Hii oils cece Ce vie ey 8 36

The Reorientation of Germany ............6.......0 cee 37
Address by Benjamin J, Buttenwieser

Job Seekers/in Berlin: (pictorial). ...cjccsibiee sup cies eaienniens 4l

Model Fathers’ Clabes, 3:6. <:i0s:-%s 4s, apemeere renee e faites 42
Article by Bernard Quinn

Personnel |, Notesias. 05365... i530 cules hcPiaubenuan sesh « 44

Economic Review for April 1950 46

Bavaria's Sounding Board ....... 48

Occupation Log. 2:50:5 sins cies vinig's os seine a aaulee Meme e 49

‘German. Editorials: snsise,. sacs Gua ae cine sietealn cre ais om 54

HICOM Law on Control of Certain Articles (text) .......... 61

Official Notices
Commiuniques 0.0 03.25 53 fei. RG Ga aaa sin Sales 68
Laws and Regulations . 70
Statements ....... 7
PANMOUNCEMENRIS 6.060.000.0008 so bone aieasle.e sie, eie e:si.0s ojos 7

Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents .......... 72

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

APO 757, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Mayor Ernst Reuter of Berlin speaking to the demonstrators.

Western Berliners demonstrated their
will to democratic freedom at a gi-
gantic May Day rally in the Platz der
Republik, near the Soviet Sector bor-
der. (Left) Portion of the multitude of
an estimated 500,000 demonstrators,
(Above) The speakers’ rostrum as Ir-
ving Brown, European representative
of the American Federation of Labor,
addressed the vast holiday throng.

(Photos by Claude Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Symbol of rally; ‘Berlin willbe free through free elections.”

BSS

x
ie

S72 EF

3

--- Page 6 ---
Five Years after Potsdam

Address

By RALPH NICHOLSON
Director, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

IVE YEARS AGO the remnants of Hitler’s shattered
F war machine surrendered unconditionally. The wheel
had turned full circle. After 12 years of infamy — nearly
half of them spent at war — the Third Reich was dead,
henceforth a problem for historians, not soldiers. The
occupation of Germany began, under the hopeful sign
of East-West co-operation.

In terms of modern history five years are a long time.
During the five years between Hitler's rise to power and
Chamberlain's futile pilgrimage to Munich the course of
history was diabolically and almost irrevocably altered.
And five years after the first German armies plunged
across the Polish frontier in September 1939, American
troops were knocking at the gates of Paris and final
victory was in sight. Between these two events lay scat-
tered a myriad of personal and national tragedies and
heroism — and Dunkirk, Pearl Harbor, Stalingrad, El Ala-
mein and Normandy.

These names chronicle the rise and fall of a monstrous
campaign of aggression. But they are also milestones
along the road of co-operation and collaboration between
the Soviet Union and the Western Powers. They mark the
growth of a great hope — the hope of a bright new world,
peaceful and prosperous, ruled by good sense and
humanity and made possible by unity of purpose between
East and West.

HE PAST FIVE YEARS have seen the rapid disinte-

gration of this hope. It has given way to the specter
of another struggle to save the free world from tyranny.
Already in eastern Europe millions of persons only
recently liberated from the Nazi yoke are forced to endure
the misery of Communist dictatorship. Behind the Iron
Curtain that now splits Europe in two, forces are at work
that differ only in name from those that roused the world
against the Nazis.

In western Europe Communist-directed or inspired
attacks are contained only by the constant vigilance of
democratic governments and the stabilizing effect of the
Marshall Plan. The warm friendship between East and
West has long since turned into the

relentless, cynical Soviet propaganda is something we
must deal with as part of our daily routine. Communist
dictatorship begins across the street from us — in Berlin
it actually surrounds us. Communist brutality and intimi-
dation are not mere words to us — it happens to people
we know, and as the Baltic attack illustrates, it can
happen to us.

How has it come about that nations which once fought
together to destroy the Nazi system now hostilely face
each other on German soil? The chronology of events in
Germany since 1945 shows the same frustrated hope, the
same growing recognition of failure to eradicate the evils
of state dictatorship and terror, the same conviction of
bad Soviet faith as has been the experience of the
Western democracies in dealing with the Soviet Union all
over the world.

HE GERMANY OF 1945 appeared to offer great hopes

for international co-operation in building the peace.
France, Britain, the US and the Soviet Union occupied
various zones of Germany and set up a procedure for
quadripartite rule of the country. There was agreement
on a basic program to deal with the defeated enemy,
solemnly promulgated by President Truman, Prime Minis-
ter Attlee and Marshal Stalin at Potsdam in August 1945.

Moreover, Germany in 1945 was in a fluid state, ripe
for reform and for experiment in democracy. Its people
were war-weary and tired of dictatorship. Its cities lay in
ruins, its population milled aimlessly about, mutely
demanding direction and guidance. The German economy
was at a standstill, and the Germans realized that reha-
bilitation required a demonstration of genuine good will
and desire for peaceful co-operation on their part. Effective
four-power unity of purpose and operation could have
accomplished wonders in the reconstruction of Germany
as a democratic, peaceful country.

Summarized, the aims of the Occupation Powers in
Germany were:

1. To prevent Germany from ever

“cold war" — punctuated by hot spots
like the Blockade of Berlin and the
shooting down of an unarmed plane
Over the Baltic.

Any report on Germany would be
unrealistic if it did not deal with this
Split between East and West. To us in
the front lines of execution of US
policy in Germany, the “cold war’ is
a real and immediate experience. The

Mr. Nicholson, in addressing the
19th annual conference of the Insti-
tute of Foreign Affairs at Earlham
University in Richmond, Ind., on
May 12, presented a thorough, con-
cise review of Germany's five post-
war years from the Potsdam Agree-
ment of Aug. 2, 1945, to its present-
day status. The major part of the
text of the address is reproduced
here. Mr. Nicholson is an alumnus
and trustee of the university.

again terrorizing the world with its
military might.

2. To destroy the influence of mil-
itarists, national socialists and extrem-
ist nationalists.

3. To encourage and support the
growth and development of a genu-
inely democratic society.

4. To insure that Germany repay in
part the victims of Nazi aggression.

JUNE 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
5. To help Germany rehabilitate its own economy and
contribute its share to the economic rehabilitation of
Europe as a whole.

UT THE SOVIETS have thwarted and frustrated the

efforts of the Western Powers to obtain four-power
unity of purpose in implementing this program in Ger-
many. They have violated solemn international agree-
ments and have subjected their zone to a system of vas-
salage they would like to extend to all of Germany. They
have split the country by refusing to permit its unifica-
tion on any but Communist terms.

To arouse support for their cause, they have resorted to
all the methods of the Nazis— marching youth, mass
meetings, monolithic party, youth, women’s and trade
union organizations, ubiquitous slogans and an all-en-
compassing press and radio propaganda. Contrary to
international agreements on demilitarization — and indeed
to good sense — they have created in their zone a new
German army to control dissidents and threaten the rest
of the country. They have left the Western Powers no
other choice but to carry out by themselves their program
of German rehabilitation in the western zones and West
Berlin.

A forewarning of what was to come occurred at the
very beginning of the occupation. The Soviets sealed off
their zone from the other three and showed great indigna-
tion at the suspicion this action naturally aroused. Behind
the zonal border against the West they began a program
of mass removals of industrial equipment and production,
in direct contradiction to their commitments at Potsdam.
The first signs of the split between East and West were
apparent to the people on the spot.

The Western Powers, particularly the United States,
were pumping money, food and raw materials into
western Germany to get the wheels of industry moving
again. The purpose of this aid would be defeated if the
Soviets were permitted to pump equivalent amounts out
of eastern Germany. We would, in effect, be paying Ger-
man reparations to the Soviet Union.

In May 1946 General Clay, therefore, requested an ac-
counting from the Soviets on withdrawals from their zone
and demanded that reparations out of current production
be discontinued. Failing to get a satisfactory response, he
stopped further shipments of reparations for the Soviet
Union from the US Zone. The split between the Allies in
Germany was now obvious to the entire world.

HEREAFTER THE ALLIED Control Council, composed

of the four zonal commanders-in-chief, gradually bog-
ged down in a morass of disagreements between East and
West. Repeated efforts of the Western Powers to achieve
economic and political unity of Germany, met with eva-
sive reaction. In the Allied Control Council and at meet-
ings of the foreign ministers the Soviets repeatedly de-
monstrated they did not intend to do anything about Ger-
man unity, although they were willing to talk about it
for publication. They did not want to risk loss of control
over the 18,000,000 Germans in their zone. They would

INFORMATION BULLETIN

not give up the industrial deliveries they could squeeze
out of the East German economy.

Evasive tactics, however, could not be indefinitely pro-
longed. In March 1948 the Soviets made the split complete
by walking out of the Allied Control Council. Two months
later they boycotted the four-power Kommandatura in
Berlin. There followed the futile blockade of Berlin — an
attempt to drive the Western Powers out and to starve the
population into submission. .

Since the lifting of the Berlin Blockade in May 1949, we
have moved no further toward four-power unity in Ger-
many. The last great effort by the Western Powers was
made at the Foreign Ministers’ Conference in Paris in
June 1949. After the failure to reach agreement at this
conference, the western Germans were permitted to go
ahead with the formation of tae Federal Republic, to in-
clude the 45,000,000 people of the three western zones,
three-quarters of present-day Germany.

However, we have not given up hope of achieving Ger-
man unity, and are pursuing every possibility to this end.
A proposal for all-German elections as a first step was
made only two months ago by the US High Commissioner.
This proposal has been strongly supported by the Ger-
man federal government.

N SEPTEMBER 1949 after elections for the Federal

Republic had been held and the Federal Parliament had
met in Bonn and elected a German president and a
chancellor, the Western Powers also put into effect the
Occupation Statute.

This statute regulates the relationship between the
Federal Republic and the Occupation Powers and replaced
Military Government by a civilian tripartite Allied High
Commission. On the American side, in October 1949, basic
responsibility for operations in Germany was transferred
from the Department of the Army to the Department of
State. ‘

Under the terms of the Occupation Statute, the Federal
Republic may legislate on most internal matters, subject
to a veto by the High Commission within 21 days. Foreign
affairs, and among others, the fields of demilitarization,
decartelization, security, care of displaced persons, re-
strictions on industry and control of the Ruhr have been
reserved to the legislative competence of the High
Commission.

Control by the High Commission over internal action
within the Federal Republic is to be exercised, according
to the statute, “only to the minimum extent necessary to
insure use of funds, food and other supplies in such a
manner as to reduce to a minimum the need for external
assistance to Germany." For all practical purposes the
Federal Republic is now an operating political entity, a
state which lacks only a few attributes of full sovereignty.
Our political job in Germany is now that of guiding and
directing the federal government by the use of persuasion
and good advice.

The creation of the Federal Republic was the culmina-
tion of four years of reorganization of political life in
Germany. At the end of the war government everywhere

JUNE 1950

--- Page 8 ---
in Germany had broken down, Military Government
rapidly appointed local officials to work under its super-
vision, and at different times in the course of 1946, local
and state elections were held throughout the four zones.
In most of the western states constitutions were also
written and popularly approved. Gradually Germans came
to be governed, at least in the western zones, by men of
their choice,

HE CREATION of the federal government was the

final step in this process. It is. organized according
to the ‘Basic Law," which is the temporary constitution
adopted by the German states pending full reunification
of Germany. The Basic Law contains the usual guarantees
of democratic civil rights, and provides for a federal
system of government with a bicameral legislature. The
lower house, the Federal Parliament (Bundestag), is popu-
larly chosen. It elects the federal chancellor and exercises
legislative powers approximately like those of the House
of Commons in Britain. It now has 402 members, 60 per-
cent of whom were ‘elected directly, and 40 percent by
proportional representation.

The upper house, the Federal Council (Bundesrat), is
made up of representatives of the 11 federal States, elected
by the state legislatures. Its chief power is the suspensive
veto on legislation passed by: the Federal Parliament.

The position of the federal chancellor in the Federal
Republic is much more important than in most European
parliamentary systems. He selects his own cabinet, and
cannot be overthrown by a simple vote of non-confidence.
Before he can be removed Parliament must first elect his
successor.

The larger political parties which have emerged from the
elections held in the western zones of Germany since the
end of the war are, on the whole, moderate groups. The
Social Democrats and the Christian Democratic Union,
each averaging about 35 percent of the vote, and the Free
Democratic Party, with about 12 percent, are the con-
trolling parties in most of the German states. The extremist
parties on the Right and Left have no considerable follow-
ing, although they represent a potential threat for the fu-
ture. The Communists averaged only about 8-10 percent.

In the elections to the Federal Parliament the Christian
Democrats won 31 percent of the vote and 139 seats, the
Social Democrats 29.4 percent, and the Free Democrats
11.9 percent. The Communists received only 5.7 percent.

Since no party had obtained a majority, a coalition govern-

ment was formed under Konrad Adenauer, the leader of
the Christian Democrats. The coalition is made up of the
Christian Democrats, the Free Democrats and moderately
Rightist conservative elements. No extremist party is
represented in the Federal Cabinet.

This is the German government with which we are
dealing today. Despite occasional minor cabinet crises,
it is unlikely that there will be any serious change in the
basis of the coalition in the near future. So we may
expect the federal government to continue to be generally
middle-of-the-road with liberal economic and political
lendencies, dominated more or less by the position of the
federal chancellor.

JUNE 1950

XPERIENCE WITH the federal government during the

past eight months has been, on the whole, encour-
aging. Minor tensions have arisen between the High Com-
mission and the Bonn government, but so far none of them
has developed into a major crisis. German politicians, of
course, have not been averse to blaming the High Com-
mission for situations they have been unable to master
themselves. Occasionally, important political figures have
resorted to ringing nationalistic arguments to justify their
activities or policies.

To one familiar with American democratic procedures,
developments in Bonn, particularly party discipline in
Parliament, may sometimes seem strange and surprising.
But Dr. Adenauer, I believe, is an able, determined man
who desires to lead his country toward a democratic
future. In this aim I am sure he has the support of the
great majority.of the German people. I think the Germans
basically want to become democrats.

However, the attitudes and tendencies in German life
which have been shaped by history and tradition cannot
be eliminated overnight. Wiping out the effects of long
years of Nazi dictatorship and generations of authori-
tarianism in Germany is a slow and tedious task. There
is still a widespread political apathy, a certain popular
cynicism which lames judgment, a residue of the idea
of German superiority which gave the Nazi regime its
particular and repugnant arrogance.

There is still too much ready acceptance of authority
by the man in the street, a fact which too many German
leaders exploit. There is resistance in critical areas to
programs of school and social reform, to relaxation of the
many restrictions which tradition has woven about Ger-
man life. The progressive forces in Germany, which are
striving to throw off the shackles of the past and want to
build the foundation for a reasonable, peaceful future for
the German people, are too often unheeded. I think the
most important single job we have in Germany is to
strengthen and support these progressive forces,

HERE ARE ENCOURAGING signs that these forces

are making some headway. The German press in the.
western zones is no longer the echo of a propaganda
ministry. It is a-constructive and liberal factor in German
life, fighting restrictive government, and corruption,
stupidity, and dangerous tendencies in public life. It is not
a kept’ press. It is sometimes critical of the occupation,
yet we have supported and encouraged its independence
to the extent of our power. It is our conviction that a
critical, independent, alert press is one of the best
watchdogs of public interest in Germany and throughout
the world.

In the field of German radio notable progress has been
made in the direction of bringing radio closer to the
German people. The omnipotent, state-controlled German
Radio Corporation has been broken up. In the western
zones the monopoly on broadcasting installations formerly
held by the German Postal Department has been destroyed.
Supervision and ownership of radio broadcasting stations

(Continued on page 58)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
Mainz Psalter Returned

HE MAINZ PSALTER of 1457, one

of the great cultural treasures of
Germany, has been recovered in the
United States by the US Government
and returned to the American zone of
Germany.

The world-renowned Book of Psalms,
which was in the Saechsische Lan-
desbibliothek (the State Library of
Saxony) in Dresden, is the earliest
example of printing in colors. It is
valued at over $250,000. It was ship-
ped to Germany on March 13, 1950,
in the plane which carried the Hon.
John J. McCloy, US High Commis-
sioner, back from a brief visit to the
United States.

The book will remain in the tempo-
rary trusteeship of HICOG pending
final return to German ownership.
Plans for its display to the public will
be announced later,

The Psalter was probably looted
from the wartime repository of the
Dresden Library and then disappeared
from view. Passing through trade chan-
nels it was illegally imported into the
US and was discovered in New York
City by US Government authorities.
It was recovered and has been return-
ed to Germany under the International
Agreement of July 8, 1946, which was
formulated by the United States, the
United Kingdom and France to carry
forward the program of the recovery
of missing works of art dispersed dur-
ing the war. Almost all of the European

Smuggled into the US, the Mainz Psal-
ter was tracked down and returned to
Germany. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

nations are participating in the agree-
ment.

HE US GOVERNMENT through its

monuments, fine arts and archives
officers has already recovered and re-
stored to Allied nations 500,000 objects
of art and 4,000,000 books and all the
public collections in the American
zone have been returned to German
museums, universities and libraries.

The great Mainz Psalter of 1457 with

121 pages of the 176 printed is 12%
inches by 16% inches in size. It is a

book of the greatest rarity and impor-
tance as there are only 10 copies in
existence. It was the first book to be
printed in three colors: red, blue and
black, on vellum. The colors appear
in the beautiful, woodcut initial letter
of the first word of the psalms.

The original binding of the Psalter
is stamped with fillets and fleur de lis
with five large brass bosses on the
front and back covers. The clasp and
catches are wanting and the binding
has been rebacked in the past with
white leather of the 16th century,
There are other signs of early use in
the Dresden copy as many of the
vellum leaves are worn and discolored.

The Mainz Psalter was also the first
book to contain the names of the
printers: Johann Fust, a citizen of
Mainz, and Peter Schoeffer of Gerns-
heim, both of whom were colleagues
of Gutenberg. It was probably printed
in Mainz, Germany, from which town
it takes its name.

It is also the first book to carry a
colophon and the day of printing, which
was on the Vigil of the Feast of the
Assumption on August 14 in 1457,
almost 500 years ago.

At the end of many of the psalms
in the Mainz Psalter, there is music,
the notes and staff supplied in manu-
script, as well as additional liturgical
material used in the singing of serv-
ices in the Diocese of Mainz. -++END

The first book printed in three colors, this 500-year-old treasure is wort
— the first initial in red, blue and black. The leather-bound volume is 121

INFORMATION BULLETIN

6

th $250,000. Of its 176 pages, 121 are printed
/2 by 16'/2 inches. Only 10 copies are in existence.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 10 ---
Munich's widely-known “Bernheimer Haus,’ at No. 3 Lenbachplatz, in the Bavarian capital's busy and crowded down-
town district, was returned to the former owner under the provisions of the restitution law known as Law No, 59.

T IS EASIER to scramble an egg than to unscramble
it—that is the first lesson in the restitution primer

being written by the unprecedented job of the Property
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG.

Arduously struggling with the ABC's of restitution, US
officials have learned that it was much simpler for the
Nazis to snatch their victim's property than it is today —
well over a decade later — to quickly sort out and turn
back that property to its rightful owners.

With vast amounts of Hitler-confiscated property
destroyed, personal belongings scattered by the heavy
wind of war, and records hopelessly muddled and lost, the
Property Division along with the Office of General
Counsel is charged with overseeing the speedy restitution
of all property in Germany grabbed from Nazi persecutees
between Jan. 30, 1933, and May 8, 1945, for their non-
conformance in race, religion, nation-

Property Division estimates that further withdrawals will
leave some 110,000 cases for settlement. In Berlin, approxi-
mately 20,000 petitions are currently on file, while in the
British and French Zones it is expected that an equal
number of claims will be submitted bringing the total
number in western Germany to about 500,000. As each
claim necessarily involves at least two persons, and often
more, the number of persons directly enmeshed in the
restitution program nears a staggering total.

OW IS THIS TREMENDOUS job being carried out?
What is being restituted? Who is doing the job?
How long will it take?

Shortly after the German surrender, American delegates
joined with their Allied counterparts to work out satis-
factory nationwide legislation for the restoration of this

property. Floundering in a maze of

ality, ideology or their political repug-
nance to National Socialism.

Since the enactment of restitution
legislation, more than 230,000 petitions
have been fitted in the US Zone. Of
that number, approximately 55,000 have

been withdrawn as duplicates, and tion program.

The material for this article was
supplied by the Property Division,
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
which, with the Office of General
Counsel, has policy responsibility
for the execution of the US restitu-

conflicting viewpoints on the part of
the Occupation Powers, the persecutee
groups and German officials, and faced
with the intricacies of German legal
procedure and the immediate postwar
slough, US Military Government had
to abandon the idea of working out a

JUNE 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Munich city officials sit to determine restitution claim. In-
formal methods have settled three-fourths of 15,000 cases.

common procedure at that time. Reluctantly, US authori-
ties, on the basis of concepts and drafts drawn up by Ameri-
can and German authorities, agreed upon a restitution law
for the US Zone only, and in November 1947 promulgated
the now well-known Military Government Law No. 59.

This law, showered by controversy and sniped at on
many sides, nevertheless provided a basis for restitution
and served as the pattern for subsequent legislation in
the British Zone and in the western sectors of Berlin, thus
constituting the framework for the restitution program
now in effect in the greater portion of Germany.

Based on drafts developed by the German Council of
States (US-Zone Laenderrat), the law does not correspond
fully either to American concepts of jurisprudence or
to German law. It represents an effort to define the
principles dictated by American policy expressed by
President Roosevelt even before the cessation of hostilities
while at the same time implementing that policy by use of
the German Civil Code and other German legal provisions.

Its aim is to unscramble the egg so thoroughly
scrambled by the former Reich under laws declaring all
Jewish property automatically subject to confiscation,
and imposing such taxes as the Jewish tax (Judenab-
gabe) by which millions of marks were wrested from
German residents on a religious basis only, or the flight
tax (Reichsfluchtsteuer) by which thousands of victims
were forced to sell their belongings and pay virtual
personal ransom in order to escape the country.

S THE RESTITUTION program was primarily a Ger-

man responsibility, Military Government decided at
the outset that German courts and agencies would be
utilized almost exclusively in administering the ma-
chinery necessary to carry out the law.

Forty-nine courts, offices and agencies, therefore, were
designated throughout the US Zone beginning with a
Central Filing Agency and running on through a rising
level of agencies within the German system up to a final
Court of Restitution Appeals staffed by three American
judges.

The Central Filing Agency at Bad Nauheim, which has
received correspondence from all points of the world, is
one of the two bodies under direct supervision of the
US staff. Since its opening in 1947, this office has handled
approximately 1,000,000 documents, keeping meticulous
records of all exchanges. Today, under HICOG, it houses
more than 400,000 documents as a part of the permanent
record of the US restitution program, and maintains an
up-to-the-minute record of each one of the 230,000 cases
on file.

Twenty German-staffed restitution agencies functioning
as part of the German state governments try to bring
opposing parties together as informally as possible in an
attempt to resolve their differences in a friendly fashion,
In many cases, employing these informal methods, the
agencies have found that the rigid requirements of the law
have bent and softened under the laymen’s agreements.

Success of this informal system is evidenced by the
fact that out of the 15,000 cases already disposed of under
the law, about 77 percent of them have been completely
settled within the agencies without resort to the courts.

In those cases where the parties have been unable to
reach agreement and the argument has shifted to the
courtroom, HICOG officials point to the high standards
of fairness, impartiality and judicial quality employed by
the German courts.

VER THIS SPRAWLING German system now redress-
ing yesterday's wrongs, the Office of the US High
Commissioner keeps a wary watch by means of a small,
well-trained staff of attorneys and investigators whose

Whenever possible negotiations for amicable settlements are conducted by the Jewish Restitution Successor Organization,
whose lawyers (left) are shown in their Frankfurt office seeking a friendly agreement to avoid long, drawn-out court
proceedings. Right, Correspondence section of the Central Filing Agency at Bad Nauheim processes petitions for resti-
tution which have been received from tens of thousands of claimants scattered to every country in the world.

--- Page 12 ---
official job is to observe, secure
regular reports, investigate and take
corrective action when necessary,
always standing by to boost any
flagging portion of the program.

Assisting in the gigantic task is
the Jewish Restitution Successor
Organization,* a worldwide associa-
tion of Jewish charitable groups
which has been named as agent for
the recovery of unclaimed Jewish
property under the Restitution Law.

The organization, which channels
its proceeds into charitable paths
for Jewish persecutees through-
out the world, has recovered syna-
gogues, hospitals, cemeteries and
other varied properties within Ger-
many. Already, the organization
has turned some of its restored real
estate to charitable uses in the
country, creating a benefit to the
economy as a whole.

In an effort to speed the early
completion of the whole program,
HICOG recently authorized a legal
aid branch of this Jewish organization to assist destitute
refugees in any part of the world in their search for
documentation for their restitution cases.

PROPERTIES SUBJECT to restitution are as varied as
their owners. Much of the property, however, can be
broadly placed in the categories of private real estate
and household or personal effects of persons who fled
Germany.

Many of the properties claimed are of modest monetary
value, as is indicated in a recent analysis of petitions

* See “OMGUS Gives JRSO the Go-Ahead" in Information Bulletin,
Issue No, 144 of Sept. 21, 1948.

WUERTT- BADEN

Wiesbaden Central Collecting Point sorts
and seeks to identify valuable libraries
Jost and scattered during the Nazi era.

filed by the Jewish Restitution Suc-
cessor Organization. Of 3,000 cases
examined, 65 percent were valued
at DM 3,000 or less.

Among the more valuable are
shares of stock valued at DM
10,000,000 of a holding company
controlling firms which produced
building slabs by processing magne-
site and wood shavings which were
returned to a US corporation,

The second largest cellulose paper
factory in the state of Hesse, valued
at DM 7,000,000, has been returned
to its former owners.

Other items which have been
returned either to their original
owners or their heirs include a Ba-
varian brewery valued at DM
2,000,000; shares of a retail food
store chain with 148 outlets through-
out the western zones valued at
DM 1,519,000 plus a cash payment
of DM 450,000; one of the three most
important glass factories in western
Germany which makes window glass,
safety glass and glass tiles valued at DM 16,000,000; 51
percent of the stock of a company controlling six large
department stores in the US Zone which had a turnover
last year of DM 30,000,000 — the stock was valued at
DM 8,000,000,

All these cases were settled amicably without resort to
court action and are typical of the type of property be-
ing returned.

HOUSANDS OF LOST art treasures which US officials
carefully garnered from innumerable repositories
throughout the American zone and collected at a vast
center known as the Wiesbaden Central Collecting Point

Al Central Filing Agency in Bad Nauheim progress and disposition of all petitions throughout the US Zone are card
indexed (left), It is the archives repository (right) for all records relating to restitution of identifiable property, a
staggering unscrambling task. It has handled approximately 1,000,000 documents since it was established in 1947.

JUNE 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Rehabilitation center for Jewish survivors of Nazi con-
centration camps at Esslingen, in Wuerttemberg-Baden.

are now awaiting identification and return to their right-
ful owners.

Regardless of the general German feeling on restitu-
tion there are still those who feel that possession is nine-
tenths of the law and rely on any slight justification they
believe they have for retaining the confiscated property.
Under the restitution system these Germans receive fair
and equal treatment in defending themselves.

As the evils which the program attempts to correct
partially were wrought over a considerable period of time
and wartime dislocations and chaos have added to the
task, the program cannot rush to completion in top gear.
Although, in the interests of speed, some preferred
complete restitution by fiat as was so often the case in
the expropriation, the slow, orderly process prescribed
by the Restitution Law takes into account the collecting
and weighing of all available evidence on both sides and
the restoration of rights in accordance with law.

With these considerations, US authorities are setting a
tentative target date for completion of restitution within
two to three years.

Retarding the program in western Germany are numer-
ous groups of persons who have recently banded together
for the purpose of delaying restitution and marshalling
every possible defense against petitioners, In many in-
stances these associations have been most outspoken in
their criticism of the Allied restitution policy, and in some
cases have even defiantly advocated resistance to and
defeat of the program,

To meet this situation the US High Commissioner has
twice on recent occasions firmly restated to the German
people the unshakeable policy of his government to carry
through its program for restitution. +END

Bavaria, Land of Famed Beer, Has Low Milk Quota

OW PER-CAPITA MILK consumption in Bavaria and

inadequate sanitation methods were the major con-

clusions drawn by four participants in a radio discussion
of Bavaria's milk supply and its importance as food.

Participating in the monthly “Farm and Home Hour”
broadcast over the Bavarian radio recently were Dr. Wil-
liam H. Dankers, chief of the Food, Agriculture and
Forestry Branch, OLC Bavaria; Dr. Dietrich O. Hasen-
bring, of the Public Health Section, Bavarian Ministry
of the Interior; and two German housewives, Anneliese
Stoelzl and Johanna Huttner.

Dr. Hasenbring stated that physicians are concerned
over both the quantity and quality of milk consumed in
Bavaria today. He said that milk is a “complete” food
and has a combination of all the valuable nutrients and
vitamins needed by the human body, but the average
Bavarian is not drinking enough of it per month.

Dr. Dankers explained that one reason that the United
States has a high consumption of milk is the fact that
milk is marketed in many different forms. Grownups, as
well as children, consume considerable quantities of
fresh milk, evaporated milk, milk shakes and ice cream.

Mrs. Stoelzl, a representative of an organization of
housewives, said that Bavarian mothers often regret that
children cannot always obtain milk drinks but have to
purchase lemonade instead. She said that a sample milk
bar will be erected at the “Women's Affairs Exhibit" to
be held in Munich July 7 to Aug. 6, which will serve

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

all kinds of drinks to demonstrate the different ways in
which milk can be prepared.

According to Dr. Hasenbring, much of the milk sold in
Bavaria today still has a high bacteria count. Due to
war and postwar conditions, many dairies, especially
the smaller ones, do not have the necessary equipment
to pasteurize milk. He said that this is very dangerous
in view of the fact that a high percentage of Bavarian
dairy herds are infected with tuberculosis.

Although this is not the human type of tuberculosis,
people, particularly young children, can be infected by
it. Bang’s disease is also carried to humans through
cow's milk. When handling conditions are unsanitary,
diseases such as typhoid fever, paratyphoid, scarlet fever
and diphtheria can be transmitted, he pointed out.

A pasteurization regulation for dairies was recently
issued jointly by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Forestry and the Ministry of Interior, Dr. Hasenbring added.

Dr. Dankers said that high infant mortality rates can
be traced to the consumption of poor quality milk or to
lack of milk in the diet.

Dr. Hasenbring said that the Bavarian city of Nurem-
berg has shown how the quality of milk is related to
public health. A Nuremberg milk agency sells pasteurized
homogenized baby milk in half liter bottles. The milk,
he said, comes from TB-free herds and is enriched with
Vitamin D to help prevent rickets. Nuremberg has the
lowest infant mortality rate in Bavaria, he added.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 14 ---
Private Citizen Mrs. McCloy

By ROSEMARIE SPONNER

Press Officer, Public Relations Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

ERMANY AND GERMAN prob-

lems keep Mrs. John J. McCloy,
wife of the US High Commissioner,
almost as busy as they do her hus-
band,

Since her arrival in Germany in
October 1949, Mrs. McCloy has taken
a great interest in public affairs and
has actively participated in welfare
and reorientation work. By means of
speeches, radio addresses, newspaper
interviews and personal contacts with
the German people, Mrs. McCloy has
endeavored to acquaint them with
American democratic views and ideals.
As a result, she has become one of
most popular and respected Americans
in Germany.

Mrs. McCloy has actively partici- McCloy, a
pated in various kinds of social work
throughout her life and has firsthand
knowledge of the poverty and distress
of some sections of the American
people. Many years of working with these problems have
given her a wealth of experience which she is now
applying to Germany.

Added to her natural interest in reorientation and wel-
fare work is her desire to share some of her husband's
enormous tasks, In a recent interview Mrs. McCloy ex-
plained that she has concentrated on those phases of the
occupation assignment which seem to her particularly
suited to a woman. Speaking at public meetings, forums
and smaller assemblies, she has urged German women to
participate more actively in politics.

German women have to fight to make themselves heard
but are very articulate once given the opportunity, she
said. They must be encouraged to take a greater interest
in public life and must be assisted in the carrying out of
their worthwhile projects as they will have to continue
the work once the occupation is over.

RS. McCLOY is also interested in young people, the
future citizens of Germany. She attends and speaks
at youth forums and meets personally as many of the
young people as she can. In public addresses and private
conversations, she impresses upon them the need for both
fair play and a sense of civic responsibility. Her frank-

JUNE 1950

In nine months here as the wife ot

the US High Commissioner,
tireless,
and a charming, busy hostess, has
become one of the most popular and
Trespected Americans

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

11

ness, humor and friendliness have
made her many friends among young
Germans.

Mrs. McCloy'’s work in Germany
has been made easier by the fact that
she speaks German fluently. Born in
Hastings-on-Hudson, New York, she
learned the language from a governess
and perfected her knowledge of it on
subsequent trips to the Continent.
She now speaks German confidently
and easily with a slight accent,

This fact, however, has led to re-
peated misunderstandings among the
German people — many of whom have
assumed that she is German by birth.
The error also frequently appears in
Mrs, Teports in the German press,
selfless worker In reality, Mrs. McCloy and her
sister, Mrs. Lewis Douglas, wife of
the US ambassador to Britain, were
born and educated in America, Their
father is Dr. Frederick G. Zinsser,
native-born American citizen, owner of a New York
chemical factory. The family has resided in New York
for three generations and Mrs. McCloy did not see Ger-
many until she visited it with her husband in 1931. Her
paternal grandfather was an immigrant from Germany as
a young man.

in Germany.

Nevertheless, distant relatives of the Zinsser family still
live in Germany and a remote family connection has been
discovered between Mrs. McCloy and Chancellor Konrad
Adenauer’s deceased wife. Mrs. Adenauer died in 1945
after her release from a concentration camp.

URING THE PAST nine months in Germany, Mrs, Mc-
Cloy's schedule has been nearly as full as that of her
husband. She does most of her work at the McCloy resi-
dence in Bad Homburg, but frequently receives in Berlin
and Bonn. In both official and unofficial capacities she
entertains an estimated 2,000 guests a month. American,
Allied and German officials, foreign diplomats and travel-
ing dignitaries are invited to the McCloy residence regu-
larly. In addition, she receives visits from delegations of
refugee women, educators, labor union leaders and social
workers.
Mrs. McCloy receives and answers an average of 50
letters a day. The mail stacked high on her desk every

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Mrs. McCloy with her father, Dr. Frederick G. Zinsser,
owner of a New York chemical factory, on a visit to
Germany, Mrs. McCloy’'s fluency in Germany has given
rise to erroneous reports that she is of German birth. Dr.
Zinsser is a native-born American. Her paternal grand-
father was an immigrant from Germany at a youthful age.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

morning and afternoon comes from all parts of Germany,
much of it from the Soviet Zone. There are letters of
gratitude, criticism and advice, but on the whole, re-
quests for assistance predominate. Their tenor ranges
from the humorous to the tragic. No two are alike, Each
writer describes his own particular, complicated troubles.
However, taken in the aggregate, the mail represents a
cross-section of Germany's present day problems and
attitudes,

In a typical day, for example, Mrs. McCloy received
the following letters:

A student in Hamburg warned of the danger of
Communism in the city and enclosed samples of
Communist brochures handed to the students as
they left the university. He suggested the High
Commission look into the matter.

A young girl, one of five sisters whose house
was requisitioned, said the family had not been able
to live together for several years. She wanted to
know if Mrs, McCloy couldn't ask the authorities
to let them have a place to live.

A physician persecuted by the Nazis has an
opportunity to resume his practice but does not
have the money to buy office furniture or surgical
instruments. Could Mrs. McCloy help him obtain
funds under the restitution law?

A prisoner of war returned to Germany from
Russia has found that his family is dead. He has
no place to live and no job, but thinks he could

INFORMATION BULLETIN

find work if Mrs. McCloy would lend him money
to buy an artificial limb.

A refugee couple and their two children are
homeless, They have found a place to sleep at night
but cannot stay there during the day. The whole
family is tubercular, Could Mrs. McCloy help them?

OST OF THE PEOPLE who write are under the im-

pression that a word from Mrs. McCloy will solve
their problems, Although as a private citizen Mrs, McCloy
cannot often do much, she does her best to help in each
case. She and her secretary devote considerable time
each morning to answering every letter she receives.

German women leaders have asked Mrs. McCloy’'s
assistance on a variety of projects. They have submitted
plans for building programs, hospitals, mothers’ homes,
orphanages and young people's libraries. Mrs, McCloy
has undertaken to support a number of the more practical,
far-reaching plans, but she does not like to have her
work called “charity.”

Charity alone would not do German women any good
in the long run, she said. It is much more important to
“help them to self-help.”

Mrs. McCloy said that many refugee women were sunk
in apathy and despair. ''We cannot expect a mother over-
burdened with work and worried about the survival of
her family to give much thought to over-all German prob-
lems," she added. “Refugee women must be given the
opportunity to help solve the financial problems of the
family and better their conditions. The opportunity to
work will give them renewed hope, self-respect and
confidence."

To carry out this idea, Mrs. McCloy is assisting a
group of Bavarian women who wish to establish 30

Mrs. McCloy speaking at the Christmas 1949 celebration
of the “World Friendship among Children,” an interna-
tional festival — observed in the Paulskirche (St. Paul's
Church), Frankfurt, which was arranged in co-operation
with the Youth Reconstruction Section of the Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG. Mrs. McCloy and Mrs. Theodor
Heuss, wife of the president of the German Federal
Republic, were the guests of honor, Her address was
broadcast over Radio Frankfurt. (PRD HICOG photo)

--- Page 16 ---
sewing centers for refugee women throughout the US
Zone. Mrs. McCloy has been asked to obtain 1,000 sewing
machines and perhaps several additional darning machines
and looms for the project. In addition, the group needs
financial assistance to pay for rental of the necessary
rooms, electricity, heating, furniture, equipment and
salaries.

The centers, which will be established in the larger
cities, will be completely equipped and open to all
women. Women will be able to make clothes for their
families and also earn additional household money. Some
sewing machines will be distributed to individual refugee
women to enable them to support themselves by home
industry. Mrs. McCloy said that once these centers start
operating they will be partially able to support them-
selves.

In addition, she is helping a group of refugee home
workers find an export market in the United States. Mrs.
McCloy, who was at one time director of a division of
the comparison shopping bureau of Lord & Taylor's de-
partment store in New York, was asked for her opinion
on the potential US market for handmade laces and em-
broideries. She asked refugee women to give her sam-
pies and a tentative list of prices for these goods. A
“sampler showing the different types of embroidery
the women can do is also being prepared. She will send
the samples to several United States firms in the hope
of finding a regular customer for the refugees.

The High Commissioner's wife is also planning a drive
to collect material and old clothes in the United States.

HEN SHE ARRIVED in Germany last fall, Mrs. Mc-

Cloy was already acquainted with Europe. She
traveled extensively through France and Italy after the
first World War. After marrying Mr. McCloy in 1930,
she divided her time between New York and the Conti-
nent. During the many years that Mr. McCloy worked
on the “Black Tom" sabotage case she traveled through
all of Europe with him.

During the first World War, she served as a nurse for
18 months and became head surgical nurse at an Army
evacuation hospital in New York. When she lived in New
York with her husband she was a member of the board
of managers of the Bellevue Hospital. In 1943, she volun-
teered as a visiting nurse for the Navy. Though she
had small children of her own, she visited convalescent
mothers after their release from the hospital and helped
them care for their babies.

In Germany, she is trying to make the home life of
her family comfortable and normal despite complicated
circumstances, The McCloys divide their time among Bad
Homburg, Bonn and Berlin, and the family is almost con-
tinuously moving from one home to another.

The children, John, 11, and Ellen, eight, would not be
able to see their parents very often if they attended
school, Therefore, they have a tutor who accompanies

them on all their trips. Both have learned to speak excel-
lent German.

JUNE 1950

13

One of Mrs. McCloy's principal objectives is to induce
German women to take a more active part in politics.
Addressing members of the German-American Women's
Club, Munich, in the main dining room of the Haus der
Kunst, Mrs. McCloy once again urged Bavarian women

to make themselves heard. It is most important, she
emphasizes, for American women to help German women
to self-help, (PRB OLCB photo)

On Monday afternoons, when the family is at home in
the Haus im Walde in Bad Homburg, Mrs. McCloy holds
an “open house” for the friends of her children. She
usually welcomes about 20 guests who troop through the
house and enjoy the spacious grounds for hours.

Although she plans “at least one quiet family evening
at home each week,” she ruefully admitted that because
of the High Commissioner's crowded schedule she can
never be certain that he will be there.

EGARDING HER OWN WORK, she said that what

she is doing in Germany is essentially what she has
always done. She is helping her husband and sharing his
interests. ‘The United States has a terrific stake in this
country," she said. ‘It is only natural that we should
all be vitally concerned with German developments.”

At a recent women’s welfare conference, Mrs. McCloy
urged American women in Germany to “get deep" into
the German community to give a good example of real
democracy by influence, friendliness, patience and gener-
osity. She said that one of the chief points of the Com-
munist attacks originate from their women's organizations.
Because of this pressure from the East, the problems
and tasks of American women are becoming more and
more urgent.

“In order to help solve the numerous problems of the
occupation, it is important for the women of the United
States and of Germany to understand each other,’ Mrs.
McCloy said.

“We really do not have much time,” she added, quot-
ing a well-known German educator, “‘it is just five
minutes before midnight!’” + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Anti-Rearmament Law

HE NEW ANTI-REARMAMENT law for western Ger-

many, issued by the Allied High Commission May 8,
sharply defines controls to be retained by the Occupa-
tion Authorities over German industry of warlike poten-
tial and establishes a rule book for the Allied Military
Security Board, which serves as watchdog against German
remilitarization.

The law, controlling certain articles, products, instal-
lations and equipment, is designed to prevent German
rearmament and to insure the maintenance of disarma-
ment and demilitarization in the industrial fields. It defines
certain control functions to be performed by the Ger-
mans themselves.

Although removing doubts and discrepancies which
have resulted from interpretations of many previous
similar laws and ordinances, the new HICOM law does
not relax existing curbs on German output nor delegate
additional control rights to the German government,

The law merely co-ordinates in one definitive document
previous legislation of the Allied Control Council, the
United States, United Kingdom and French Military Gov-
ernments, and the intergovernmental agreement of April
1949 at Washington on prohibited and limited industries.

IMED AT GIVING the Allies a tight grip over any

German activities which might pose a genuine threat,
the law retains only the necessary controls consistent
with prevention of rearmament. At the same time a wide
range of industrial activity, technically falling within the
scope of the law but not considered a threat to military
security, has been exempted from control.

Provision is also made for authorized exceptions to
be made in respect of some other prohibited activities.

Although the Military Security Board will guard against
violations of the High Commission's responsibilities
under the law, certain specific functions have been dele-
gated to German authorities. For example, provision is
made, in fields where production is limited, for bulk
licenses to be issued to the federal authorities who will
thereafter be responsible for distribution of production
to individual firms within the over-all total.

In this manner the High Commission will not be in the
position of showing favoritism toward individual com-
mercial concerns and the Germans will select the con-
cerns to be permitted to produce within the allotments.

The steel industry, for instance, is limited by previous
Allied agreement to 11,100,000 ingot tons production
annually. The allocation of that allotment to individual
firms will be done through German-issued licenses.

N OTHER FIELDS licenses will be issued by the Mili-

tary Security Board through German state authorities
to individual enterprises.

Still another administrative task delegated to the Ger-
mans is that of supervision over the reporting and in-
formation that will be required from industry. It was felt

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

that this provision would be advantageous for German
industry in that these reports and information could he
regularized and be made uniform throughout Germany.

However, adequate measures have been made in the
law to insure that German industrial secrets which the
Military Security Board and other agencies must neces-
sarily obtain by reports and inspections will be preserved
only for the purposes of the law and not divulged to
foreign competitors.

In clearly laying down those fields in which the Allied
High Commission will exercise control under the Occu-
pation Statute, the Agreement on Prohibited and Limited
Industries, and the relaxations contained in the Petersberg
Agreement, the new law presents the following aspects
of control:

1. Prohibitions and limitations dealing with certain
quantities or types of products.

2. Prohibitions regarding the bulk increase in the
capacity of certain productions.

3. Certain activities to be submitted to prior authori-
zation. (In some cases those authorizations may be the
subject of delegation to the German government.)

4, Surveillance of industrial production, of installations
and equipment affecting the security field.

MONG THE INDUSTRIAL enterprises definitely ban-

ned are the manufacture of anything specifically
designed for military use — weapons, tanks, poison gas,
etc; storage of bauxite and aluminum.

Limited industries include shipbuilding and production
of chlorine, ball and roller bearings, steel, synthetic am-
monia, beryllium and primary aluminum. A previous
law controls German activity with radioactive materials.

The new law provides for imprisonment up to life terms
and fines up to DM 1,000,000 for violations of its provi-
sions. The Allied High Commission law as it now stands
will exist until 1952, unless prior to that time govern-
mental agreement is reached regarding certain changes,
and then the security regulations will be reviewed.

Commenting on the new law, Maj. Gen. J. P. Hodges,
US commissioner of the Military Security Board, voiced
the opinion that there was reason to expect greater co-
operation from the Germans in anti-rearmament than was
received after the first World War.

General Hodges said: “The commissioners of the board
are quite optimistic about the co-operation we are going
to get from the Germans. We are inclined to accept in
good faith the assurances we have received of the wil-
lingness of the German officials to co-operate. We fully
realize what happened before. We are on guard against
repetition.” +END

(For full text of the Allied High Commission's new law
to prevent rearmament, see page 61.)

JUNE 1950

Se

--- Page 18 ---
HICOG Staff Planning

By DAVID WILKEN
Chief, Personnel Division, Office of Administration, HICOG

HE PRIMARY JOB of the HICOG Personnel Division

is to obtain well qualified, suitable employees and
to keep them on the job under conditions that permit
them to give of their best.

It's as simple as that! Or is it?

In performing its work, the Personnel Office must inter-
pret and apply scores of laws and hundreds of United
States Government and State Department regulations
relating to employees of the Federal Government and of
the Foreign Service of the United States.

In effect, the Personnel Division must sometimes act
to limit or restrict personnel activities which may be
intrinsically desirable — in order to protect the State
Department, the High Commissioner and the Offices of
the High Commissioner from embarassing repercussions

that might follow illegal or unauthorized personnel action.

Another problem — unique to HICOG — results from
continuing effort to interpret personnel management re-
quirements within the scope of a world-wide Foreign

Service operation.

There have been no precedents for this personnel
management attempt to provide the necessary flexibility
for an extremely complex special operation and at the
same time to move toward a considerable degree of inte-

gration with the regular Foreign Service.

Other general difficulties that affect the personnel
program may be catalogued as distance from main recruit-
ment sources in the United States and time required to

settle organizational questions, to stabilize the organi-
zational pattern and to determine staffing needs.
T ICOG PERSONNEL PLANNING and operation in its
most important aspects cannot be independent of the
primary program planning. For example, positions can be
classified only when functions are delineated and posi-
tions agreed upon and established by the Organization
and Management Division. Position patterns can be
changed whenever the functional pattern of any unit is
changed — sometimes on its own initiative, sometimes
with O&M's concurrence. Positions can also change (af-
fecting their grades) when significant duties are added
or subtracted on a relatively permanent basis.

Positions are carefully analyzed first to aid HICOG in
its organizational analysis and to present the most con-
crete evidence for budget justification. Positions are
analyzed and graded, among other reasons, to permit
accurate recruitment, especially in the United States;
better personnel placement in HICOG; comparative evalu-
ation of performance of related or equally difficult duties;
and identification of areas of useful training.

After identifying and grading positions, the problem

is to fill them, which brings up the major chore — place-
ment.

JUNE 1950

15

Personnel cannot hire employees unless, in one way
or other, there is an authorized position, properly estab-
lished and classified. Thus, recruitment is the end of one
process as well as the beginning of another.

One of the greatest difficulties in carrying on the im-
portant placement function results from failure to recog-
nize that fact. All too often office directors and division
chiefs believe that a decision which may be the result of
months of private thought and discussion among the pro-
gram organization can be immediately translated into a
person on the job. The first reaction to the usual failure
is irritation or anger, then panic at failure to meet private-
ly known deadlines, then a rush to do the job themselves,

H°™. THEREFORE, CAN recruitment methods be im-
proved as well as the caliber of the people selected?

First, by having office directors and division chiefs
bring O&M and Personnel people into their preliminary

“OPERATION FREEDOM" — Selection of a German war
orphan was mission of two representatives of “Opera-
tion Freedom,” a war orphan exchange project of the
Ladies’ Auxiliary of the Veterans of Foreign Wars who
visited Frankiurt and Berlin recently. Austin J. Welch,
of the Education and Cultural Relations Division, HICOG
(left), greeted the visitors— Mrs. Donat F. Monaco, national
president of the VFW's Ladies’ Auxiliary, and George Van
Loon, 18-year-old American orphan from Grand Rapids,
Mich., who is spending six weeks in Germany as part of
the exchange project. (Photo by PRD HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Wilhelm Kaisen,
(center), and Dr. Karl Carstens, Bremen plenipotentiary
to the federal government in Bonn (left), chat with Dr.
William Sollmann, a visiting university professor from the
United States, shortly before the German officials flew to
the USA to spend 35 days on an exchange visit to study
American governmental methods, institutions and social

minister-president of Land Bremen

structure. (PRD HICOG photo)

planning for future staffs. Again, office directors and
division chiefs should make certain from the beginning
that new jobs will be authorized. If members of their
staffs are planning to resign, effective in three or four
months, division chiefs should get their resignations into
the Personnel office immediately as a firm basis for re-
placement recruitment.

Secondly, it must be remembered that at best recruit-
ment in the United States is a slow process, In view of se-
curity requirements, the best on-the-job average to be hop-
ed for is three to four months after requisition is placed.

Thirdly, if a recruitment effort should be made prior
to the existence of authorized vacant positions, the Per-
sonnel Division should be told so that an effort can be
made well ahead of need to line up qualified and avail-
able candidates. Both HICOG Personnel and the Personnel
Office of the Department of State welcome the assistance
of any program unit in procuring qualified personnel, but
it is important that the personnel channel be followed
both in Germany and in Washington.

The State Department has, to an unusual degree, dele-
gated authority to HICOG for personnel administration,
but largely on the understanding that Foreign Service
standards will be followed and that a few HICOG offi-
cials — namely, the High Commissioner, the Deputy High
Commissioner, the Director of Administration and the
Chief of Personnel — will directly enforce these stand-
ards and exercise this responsibility.

These ‘standards are both affirmative and negative. The
affirmative standards relate to the basic qualifications
and suitability of individuals for employment. The nega-
tive or limiting requirements relate to age, medical clear-
ance, citizenship and marital status and security clearance.

IHE REASONS for central control of recruitment in
general, and of requisitioning in the United States in
particular, stem from all these factors: (1) budget and
organizational planning; (2) determining a uniform and
generally high standard of selection, and, incidentally,
permitting the Foreign Service to make available for the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

long pull trained personnel of the Foreign Service;
(4) enforcing legal and regulatory restrictions on employ-
ment, and (5), finally, insuring before making an employ-
ment commitment that conditions relating to status, serv-
ice, travel at government expense and transportation of
dependents and effects are clearly made known to per-
sons being interviewed.

Although Personnel Division welcomes technical as-
sistance in its recruiting efforts, past experience in Mili-
tary Government and elsewhere indicates that when key
officials get past the first wave of recruiting people whose
performance is personally known to them, subsequent
selection is at least as good if left to placement officers.

After employees are on the job, their proper utilization,
development and recognition is fundamentally a re-
sponsibility of the employing office. The Personnel Di-
vision is not the employer of any HICOG personnel
except those working int he Personnel Division although
it does have both personnel servicing and certain control
responsibilities for HICOG as a whole.

HE BASIS of granting class-to-class promotions in

HICOG is an excellent example of the joint program
office and Personnel Division responsibility inherent in
most personnel operations. Certain conditions must exist
as a prerequisite to such promotion:

(1) A higher grade job must be in existence. Such a
position may come into being either as a vacancy else-
where or as a result of analysis and re-evaluation of posi-
tion occupied by the employee considered for promotion.

(2) The employee must be qualified for the higher grade
position. Such qualifications are evaluated by the Person-
nel Division on approximately the same basis as in the
case of an applicant being considered for employment;
except that if fully qualified, the incumbent is not in
competition with outsiders. Also, if the promotion is to
the next grade in the same line of work, and the in-
cumbent has been in his present job for a reasonable
time with a good record, no substantial question exists.

(3) If the recommended promotion is to a different line
of work or for more than one grade, other eligible
employees should be given reasonable consideration. This
does not mean, of course, unduly postponing action while
painstaking consideration is given to everyone remotely
qualified. Neither should it mean, however, that other
employees who are known to be better qualified and
possessing greater seniority will not be considered.

Parenthetically, it can be said that one reason for the
existence of a personnel division is to assist in establish-
ing a uniform basis of personnel management in HICOG
and to avoid the establishment of conflicting standards
in the many organizational segments of HICOG.

(4) The promotion must be recommended or cleared by
the employing office or division. This is an elementary
tule, but surprisingly enough, several office directors
still think that the Personnel Division on a paper review
promote people without recommendation or clearance
by the employing organization. Of course, whether the
office director himself passes on every promotion, de-

JUNE 1950

--- Page 20 ---
pends on the degree of authority he has delegated to his
division chiefs and others within his own organization.

EASSIGNMENTS OR TRANSFERS are ordinarily ap-

proved by both the losing and receiving unit. Cir-
cumstances may arise under which a transfer will be
recommended by the Personnel Division without approval
of the present employer, on the basis of proper utilization
of higher skills, but such cases should be rare.

All transfers from one major organization (office) to
another or from one post to another must be cleared by
the Personnel Division. In addition, all reassignments
from one authorized position to another (as distinguished
from a temporary detail) must be similarly cleared and
recorded to prevent continuous confusion as to which
authorized positions are filled.

Of the several kinds of separations, the only type of
involuntary separation action expected during the next
18 months or so is the separation for failure to qualify
during probation,

The method can be simple if reasonable care is exercis-
ed in laying the groundwork. There is a clear right to
separate employees during probation for failure to meet
qualifications or suitability standards.

Apart from the general legal prohibitions against dis-
crimination in employment of United States citizens by

reason of sex, religion or politics, however, any dismis-
sals which are arbitrary can have embarassing repercus-
sions against the State Department and HICOG. Even if
this were not so, the demoralizing effect on all employees
of capricious action would be enough to warrant caution
in exercising the discharge power.

EPARATIONS DURING the probation period will fol-
low this general basis:

The employee will be informed as to the scope of his
duties through his current position description. Wherever
possible, the supervisor will indicate to the employee
that he is not measuring up to requirements. Each
supervisor is urged to mete out the same treatment to his
employees in this regard as he himself would expect in
similar circumstances.

Employees should be told by their supervisor that he
is recommending their separation. The supervisor, how-
ever, is not required to go into detail unless he chooses
to, but he must forward to the Personnel Division his
specific reasons in writing.

Recommendations for separation do not always reflect
on the efficiency or suitability of an employee, but are
sometimes indications that a particular employee is sur-
plus to the needs of the organization. -+END

Kuenzelsau Amateur

On the sidewalks of Kuenzelsau County, some 2,100 per-
sons watched the churning stream of bicyclists who
entered the first HICOG-sponsored bicycle race in the
area. More than 70 bicycle riders, divided into four groups,
surged over the starting line at Kuenzelsau and some did
not stop until they had pumped 23 miles.

The first group, youths 20 years or older, covered 12
communities as they wheeled the course. Sixteen youths
from 16 to 19 years of age raced about a track in Kuen-
zelsau for 9/2 miles. Younger boys and women and girls
made up the last two divisions, which raced for nearly
three miles. Participants were from 20 different towns.

ie

Contestants in “A”

tight, Kuenzelsau's populace out to see “C class competitors speed through town.

JUNE 1950

Bicycle Races a Success

The race was organized by an independent committee
of young men from Kuenzelsau upon suggestions by the
resident officer. A local motor sports club took part by
making preliminary tests of the track and accompanying
racers on the track during the actual competitions. Others
who cooperated were the Red Cross, the sports club,
22 Kuenzelsau firms which donated smaller prizes, city
and rural police, head of the “Friends of Nature” club
and other independent citizens.

The local populace turned out en masse to watch the
races and to admire the four prizes — bicycles which had
been donated by OLCWB's youth and sports officer.

class (left) pass through a town in Kuenzelsau bike race; center, “D" class winner in event for girls;

(Photos by Kuenzelsau Resident Officer)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Movies on American Life Popular

HE STORY OF AMERICAN life and democracy is be-

ing carried into the smallest villages of the US Zone
by HICOG's non-commercial film program, which, ac-
cording to its supervisor, Miss Carol Denison, is steadily
growing in popularity with the Germans.

The films, comprising 166 German and 50 special Eng-
lish titles and totaling approximately 10,000 copies, cover
a variety of subjects including documentaries on life in
the United States and other countries, community activi-
ties, agriculture, education, medicine, art, music and
science, as well as instruction in democratic procedures
and civic improvement projects.

Illustrative of the growing popularity of these films
among the Germans, as pointed out by Miss Denison,
who is chief of the Audio-Visual Aid Section, Office of
Public Affairs, has been the increase in attendance at
film showings from 743,870 in January 1949 to 1,576,424 in
March 1950, The program is financed entirely by HICOG.

ROM ONE TO FIVE projectionists, who are gradually

being trained as discussion leaders, operate in each
county of the US Zone and in Bremen and Berlin. Mak-
ing continuous circuits of cities and towns, these Ger-
man operators show the films in any available public
hall, Inns and taverns, traditional meeting places of
villagers, provide the most convenient auditoriums in
small communities. Schedules are arranged through the
local US resident officers. In some instances the HICOG
program has shown villagers in outlying districts the
first movies they have seen.

Presentation of US-contributed leather at the Frankfurt
Institute for Adult Education (Volkshochschule) was made
by Chauncey L. Vanderbie, chief, Adult Education Section,
Education and Cultural Affairs Division, HICOG (right).
Karl Tesch, institute director (center), explains to Joseph
Helg, instructor at the Offenbach Art School, uses for the
leather in hobby shops. Two thousand pounds of leather
were collected by students and faculty of Los Angeles
Evening High School for presentation to eight schools in
Western Germany. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

Resident officers, HICOG officials and qualified Ger-
mans frequently accompany the films to lead discussions.
The showings have often ended in public meetings, with
the audiences adopting decisions for positive community
action on local problems. “Lessons in Living,” a film
showing how a small Canadian community solved its
school problem, encouraged two German villages to
rebuild their schools.

In making their rounds, the operators present three
showings in each community, one in the morning to the
school children, if it is desired by teachers, one in the
afternoon for youth groups and an evening presentation
for adults. The educational value of many of the films
has made them increasingly popular with teachers and
showings are now given regularly in hundreds of Ger-
man schools,

A committee of German educators in Nuremberg is
currently producing booklets in co-ordination with the
HICOG film program to explain the various films and to
encourage discussions.

HE FILMS FALL into two main categories — those of

general interest which may be shown by the pro-
jectionists without additional interpretation, and films for
“special” or “limited” use. The latter include films on
such subjects as medicine, educational methods and
democratic functions, which are designed for special
groups and usually shown by HICOG functional officers
who are concerned with promoting German efficiency in
these fields.

Other films of special nature require additional inter-
pretation to avoid misconceptions, such as the ISD docu-
mentary “Nuremberg Trials,* ‘‘Public Opinion," a film
depicting the force of public opinion on government, or
“The Teacher as Observer and Guide,’ describing new
democratic teaching techniques.

A majority of the films were produced in the United
States by public service agencies and private concerns.
Some 25 documentaries concerning local German prob-
lems and development, produced by ISD, are also pre-
sented in the film fare. Appropriate European-made
documentary films are included and aimed at the broader
mission of helping Germans to understand the ways of
other countries.

Although letters, testimonials and reports from Ger-
mans have attested to their popularity, the films have
not been without criticism. Teachers have complained
that the tempo of American films is too fast for their
pupils to follow, and there are not enough films produced
primarily for children.

All objections are noted carefully, and continued ef-
forts are made to improve the program. New document-
aries are now under production by ISD with many others
planned, and new films are continually obtained from the
United States. + END

* See Information Bulletin, Issue 164, June 28, 1949.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 22 ---
By SIDNEY S. SISKIND
Chief Resident Officer, Regensburg, OLCB

HE US EDUCATIONAL FILM Program, one of HI-
COG'S primary reorientation facets, has penetrated
the most remote hamlets and villages of the US Zone to
depict democracy at work. The program's cameras have
been set up in one-room schoolhouses. They have been run
on special generators in electricityless villages in Bavaria.
Today, they are even 1iding the rails of Bavarian trains,
enticing long-distance travelers into hour-long showings
of educational films. This unique extension of the film
program came about during the Lenten season when the
Bundesbahndirektion (German railroad directorate) at
Regensburg decided to discontinue the facilities of its
dancing car for the religious period. HICOG worked to-
gether with the railroad authorities to convert the dancing
car into a Kinowagen (moving picture car). The railroad
supplies projectionists, equipment and the car, and the
Americans supply the films.

The trial run took place on the Regensburg trip to
the Bavarian Forest ski resorts. During three and one-
half hours, 450 passengers attended the so-called premiere
of the HICOG-Bundesbahn Film Program. Some passen-
gers even saw it twice.

So enthusiastic was the reception that the Kinowagen
has also been attached to the Hof-Regensburg-Munich ex-
cursion trains and it also is being placed on the train to
Berchtesgaden. Even groups making the Holy Year pil-
grimage will have an opportunity to see the films, as plans

Something new in postwar Germany — the ‘'Kinowagen.”

are currently underway to place the Kinowagen on the
Hof-Regensburg-Altoetting route.

Each excursion train car is equipped with loudspeakers.
As soon as the train begins to roll, the projectionist comes
on the air to invite all passengers to a free, one-hour edu-
cational film showing. Tickets are distributed among pas-
sengers, to guarantee each one an opportunity to attend.

The Kinowagen has a 70-seat capacity, and is equipped
with a permanent type screen and a projector. A portable
gasoline generator supplies the necessary current.

Residents from the Soviet Zone are frequent passengers
on the Hof-Regensburg run, and the movies provide them
with ample food for thought.

The entire Educational Film Program, of which this is
but a small segment, has developed into one of the most
important and effective re-education media in the entire
US Zone. It has been chiefly through the efforts of US
Resident Officers, working to overcome prejudices, skep-
ticism and mistrust among the Germans, that the program
has been well received wherever it has gone.

It is through these films that the German people can
learn democracy as a way of life where the individual
respects his neighbor, and can have respect for himself.

Wherever the films are seen, they are doing a job —
whether in the villages, the cities or on the trains. +END

Theater on wheels has seating capacity of 70. At right is closeup of projector and miniature screen in darkened ‘Kino-
wagen,’’ which has proved so successful on one route that it is being introduced on others.

JUNE 1950

5 i

(Photos by Hans Maar)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
5

ERP Marks Second Anniversary

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

T IS PARTICULARLY pleasing to be

able to come here on the second
anniversary of the founding of the
European Recovery Program and to
take part in an exhibition which re-
lates to that program. Some who have
sought the disruption rather than the
reconstruction of Europe have made

Program.

This is the text of an address
delivered by Mr. John J. McCloy,
US High Commissioner for Ger-
many, at the opening of an ERP
exhibit at Passau April 22, on the
second anniversary of the inaugu-
ration of the European Recovery

that it seeks to create or preserve a
climate in which a free society may
survive. And it is significant that it is
only in those countries where it is not
in operation where we find concen-
tration camps, abductions and the
over-all pall of fear.

I have said that the Marshall Plan

frantic efforts to distort the simple

objectives of that plan. But people throughout the world
have come to recognize it for what it is: an entirely ob-
jective effort to assist European countries, whether former
friend or enemy, to achieve a basis for decent living and
one on which a free, progressive and democratic European
community can be built.

It is quite true that the program, though helpful to
Europe, is also useful and important to the people of the
United States, because they feel that only by enabling
others to preserve their free institutions can their own
be fully safeguarded. It is also of the deepest concern and
interest to the people of the United States that the rich
European heritage is not lost to the world or substantially
impaired.

The Marshall Plan is designed to come to an end in
1952, and we are now in 1950. There is not much time left
to accomplish all that can or should be accomplished
before it does come to an end. Already the Marshall Plan
has achieved great success. The stimulation and accelera-
tion which is being given to European recovery is evident
at every hand in the countries where the plan is in
operation,

The Marshall Plan has normally been thought of as
an exclusively economic program. But the true purposes
of it are moral and political — political only in the sense

Before their departure by plane on a five-week visit to
the United States to study American government methods
and operations, 15 members of the federal parliament
(Bundestag) were received at HICOG headquarters by
High Commissioner John J. McCloy. The parliamentar-
jans were sent to the US under the HICOG exchange
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

and reorientation program,

comes to an end in 1952. And I have
no doubt that in its present,form and extent it will end
then and quite properly. But one can be quite sure that
neither 1952 nor any other deadline will mark the end of
the willingness of the people of the United States to re-
spond to the sincere efforts of the people in Europe, whether
in the west or in the east, to preserve the freedom of their
persons and their democratic institutions.

But no aid contributed from without can, in the last
analysis, be sufficient. It is effective only as it assists the
will of those who receive the aid to live and recover. The
German people can well be proud of the fact that their
own will to work and their own will to re-establish their
country and their economy has enabled American help
to go so far. There are many tremendously difficult prob-
lems still in the path. Many center in this area and some
of them appear unsolvable, But I assure you they are not.

The best insurance of a stable German economy, indeed
the best insurance of German unity and peace, is the
example which Germany can give the world of tolerance
and a firm determination to erect a free and truly demo-
cratic society. No curtain, however thick, can ever per-
manently keep the German people disunified if they are
so inspired. -+-END

ERP Deliveries Top $650,000,000

Marshall Plan deliveries to western Germany totaled
$652,000,000 in the first two years of the Marshall Plan,
according to the ECA Special Mission to Western Ger-
many. From the start of European Recovery shipments in
April 1948 to March 31, 1950, $652,534,000 in goods and
services have been received by the three western zones
and the three western sectors of Berlin.

Of this amount, $300,933,000 or 46.5 percent was for
food and agricultural commodities. Industrial goods ac-
counted for $298,119,000, or 46 percent. The remainder,
$53,482,000 or 7.5 percent, was for ocean freight.

Tempelhof Youth Centers Given Liit
At a brief ceremony April 12 at the Tempelhof borough
town hall, Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US commander
in Berlin, presented a check for DM 5,000 to the Tempel-
hof municipal youth centers.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 24 ---
Public Welfare’s Mailbag

EAR MR. EXCELLENC McCLOY,” writes a 13-year-

old German boy, ‘May I ask you dear Mr, Excellenc
McCloy to be kind and procure me an address of a
wealthy American gent. or lady who can send me a
packet to Christmas?”

Some persons write for a supply of diapers, others for
aid in getting a daughter to the United States. One woman
wants to know if Mr. McCloy has any extra socks or old
suits her husband can use.

The boundless problems and peculiar miseries of Ger-
mans in the US Zone—and the three other occupied
zones as well—are reflected in the packets of letters
which daily cross the desks of the Public Health and
Welfare Branch of HICOG's Education and Cultural Rela-
tions Division in Bad Nauheim.

They tell a story of manifold troubles that extend
backward into wartime and stretch over the problems of
housing, joblessness, illness and lonesomeness that grew
out of it. They evidence the willingness of Germans to
view HICOG as a helper in the arduous quest for new
security. Not all the letters are written directly to the
health and welfare officials, but are sent to Mrs. McCloy
("Please speak to your husband"), to the US High Com-
missioner himself, or to unconcerned offices which for-
ward them to the proper persons. Hardly a day passes
but some complex tale of woe comes to their attention.

T TAKES a versatile and imaginative crew to fulfill the

requests, but — some are impossible.

One woman in the Russian zone wants to locate two
American friends who visited her in 1937. One was a fel-
low named Joe.

Some are outlandish.

A Bremen woman, an East zone refugee, feels HICOG
owes her financial assistance because the DDT powder
which infected her in a bunker in Brunswick and hospital-
ized her for three and a half years was manufactured in
the United States.

Some are piteous.

A partially-lame woman, whose husband is ill and
Jobless, wants warm clothing for her eight-year-old
daughter. “We were four times bombed out,” she writes.
“Our apartment here is cold as a pigsty.”

In many of the instances, the public health and welfare
officials are powerless. They have no funds or facilities
available to care for the deprived and ailing. But they do
not fail to send out answering letters of advice, after in-
vestigation shows the proper and practical source of aid.

Throughout the US Zone, German health and welfare
agencies have been re-established with the help of the
American authorities, so they are equipped to give a
wide variety of service to financially dependent, sick,
aged, handicapped and persecuted.

In most cases, where the writer seeks clothing, food or
Sustained relief, the HICOG office sends its regrets and
refers the person to a German agency.

JUNE 1950

21

Where the request indicates deeper need, the letter is
forwarded to the public health and welfare officer at the
nearest US State Commissioner's Office for investigation.

OR CASES OF RELIEF parcels, made available through

American donations and distributed by local German
social agencies, the writer is informed that US or interna-
tional relief goods, such as UNICEF articles, go direct to
the German agencies established for such distribution.
It is suggested he make inquiry at the appropriate Ger-
man agency in the state of his residence.

If the writer is a resident of the British or French zones,
the correspondence is forwarded to the appropriate Al-
lied health and welfare office.

Letters from the Russian zone, dire but infrequent, are
handled individually; no direct aid is attempted and
officials feel that in some cases even correspondence may
attract trouble to the writer. "Go to your local authori-
ties,” the replies inevitably say. Or, “CARE and CRALOG
supplies should be available to you there.”

But despite a detailed standing operating procedure,
the Public Health and Welfare Branch gets many a letter
that requires special untangling.

A man in Bavaria requests blank phonograph records,
saying he is the director of an acoustic library for the
blind and wants to record such items as an English-Ger-
man grammar for its patrons. Without funds he is stalled.
The PH&W office begins an investigation.

“We have a limited amount of unobligated Deutsche
mark funds in our 1950 budget," writes back HICOG
official Ted Willcox, “which might possibly be released
for this purpose if an investigation revealed an acceptable
social program that reaches enough people to justify the
expenditure, provided blank records could be bought in
Germany.”

HUS A REQUEST for a favor may turn into a Sup-
plemental project of the Public Health and Welfare
Branch.

This emergency doesn’t come under any heading, either:
Gifts intended for patients in a city hospital in Bad Nau-
heim were stolen shortly before Christmas. Public Health
and Welfare workers made an informal contact with
CARE officials in Frankfurt, obtained substitute gifts and
staged their own party for the unfortunate patients.

Women’s clubs— American and German—are fre-
quently appealed to as saviors for the materially troubled,
but all such activity is unofficial and beyond the pres-
cribed realm of PH&W duties.

Perhaps the most significant aid that the branch is able
to implement directly is medical. Occasionally an emer-
gency case arises where American officials are in a posi-
tion to speed essential help.

A German physician writes the Bad Nauheim officials,
recounting the medical history of a female patient who
suffers severely from multiple sclerosis. The doctor be-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
lieves her ailment could be almost cured by intocostrin,
a drug not available within Germany, but manufactured
in the United States.

Health envoys investigate the case, find it imperative
that the woman be given quantities of the drug. They
refer their findings to CRALOG (Council of Relief Agen-
cies Licensed for Operation in Germany), which in turn
obtains it from one of its member agencies.

The records contain several similar cases.

OR THE TALES of suffering enclosed in each envelope,

some of the requests appear ridiculously small. An
expellee from Sudeten Germany, for five years a Russian
prisoner of war and since hospitalized and jobless, asks
for one relief parcel. An aged couple, the man paralyzed
by apoplexy and the woman almost blind, living together
on scanty pensions while their son remains a PW of the
Russians, asks for a radio set. A child, orphaned and
“cold,"’ asks “General McCloy" for an invitation to a
Christmas party.

One man encloses a complete history of his life, misery
on every page, and asks for a package of cigarettes and
enough money to buy a lottery ticket.

And so the letters continue —a request for a bed, for
shoes, for money to emigrate to the United States. A
woman wants a pension from HICOG because she has
seen the husband who has deserted her, driving a State
Department vehicle. A 69-year-old blind man wants to
revive a writing career 30 years dormant, and wonders if
HICOG will please hire an assistant for him.

From the medley of problems, wails and minor requests
emerges a profile of human misery and whimsical fate to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

inspire even the most secluded office worker to a new
view of the Germany which surrounds him. The office
workers in Public Health and Welfare are well aware
there is little they can do to ameliorate immediately the
conditions the letters reflect. But they keep their ingenuity
at work framing expeditious and helpful replies.

NLY NOW AND THEN are they completely stumped.
A Bavarian woman addresses herself to the Public
Health and Welfare Branch with a specific request for a
husband — “‘it is lonely.”
One official marks it, “Refer to Women's Affairs.”
Another chimes in, “Manpower Division."
And a secretary postscripts: “If you find one, refer
to ME!" + END

40,000,000th Gift Parcel Delivered

The 40,000,000th voluntarily donated US gift parcel to
be sent to Germany since the mid-1946 opening of this
service through the German postal system was presented
to Mrs. Emmy Stortz of Frankfurt in a brief ceremony
April 3. The parcel, donated by Mrs. E. David of San
Francisco, Calif., the sister of the recipient, consisted of
food for the seven members of the Stortz family in Frank-
food. Communications Branch officials of HICOG estimate
the value of the 4,000,000 packages tops $335,000,000.

A treasure cache containing plates of gold, rare wines
and cognac was uncovered by US Army agents March 31
in the Veldenstein Castle of Hermann Goering. Valued at
DM 10,000 the hoard included the rare gold candlesticks
and platters shown in the picture at left, undergoing
inspection by Stefan P. Munsing, director of the US In-
formation Centers, OLCB. A portion of the assorted cham-
pagnes, liquors and wines is shown at right. The treasure
was discovered behind a one-foot mortar wall after a
tip-off from a Polish DP and former concentration camp
inmate. He said he had learned of the cache from a Ger-
man who was with him in the camp. (Photos by PRB OLCB)

JUNE 1950

--- Page 26 ---
The House
That
Youth Built

By RAYMOND LASCOE
US Resident Officer, Pforzheim, Wuerttemberg-Baden

Fo A CITY which observers said would never rise
from the ruins, Pforzheim is putting on an impressive
show. Eighty-five percent destroyed in a 1,000 plane-raid,
it was called a “city of the dead,’ and was written off
because of its 10,000-man Nazi Party membership for any
future contributions to democracy.

Today, five years after its destruction, a new city has
grown up, a living city, an export city, showing the way
toward democratic development.

Pforzheim can boast four outstanding officials who not
only talk about democracy but constantly exemplify it.
These are Dr. J. Peter Brandenburg, mayor; Dr. Will
Koenig, first deputy mayor; Richard O. Dissinger, county
supervisor, and Gottfried Leonhard, federal Bundestag
(Parliament) delegate.

These men have lent their support to the city’s youth
program and to the community center built last year.

Dr, Brandenburg staked his political future on building
the center at a time when the city's needs for housing,
hospitals, bridges, schools and roads also were of para-
mount importance,

Te CITY OF PFORZHEIM in 1949 began construction
of its Haus der Jugend (House of Youth) at an anti-
cipated cost of DM 90,000. The city could scrape together
only DM 60,000, but that sum built the major portion of
the house. The balance is not available even now. US
agencies such as HICOG, GYA and the local Resident
Officer, realizing the predicament of the city, have con-
tributed as much as possible toward equipping the center.

The community center is unique in ihat it was built
by acity for its youth and is being operated by the youth
themselves. The idea of such a community center. previ-
ously had been virtually unknown in Germany. The
open-door policy for youth is a new thought, and having
youth develop themselves without the strong hand of
political parties, churches or sport leaders is revolution-
ary to German practice.

The question that startled and befuddled neighboring
cities was — how could a bombed-out city like Pforzheim
build a house solely for its youth?

The House of Youth can be credited to the persistent
and courageous efforts of the youth themselves. In 1947

JUNE 1950

23

This is the house that the youth of bomb-gutted Pforzheim
built—despite much opposition, many financial difficulties.

they presented their problem to the Military Government
Officer; from early days he encouraged and supported
their effort. The youth knew what they wanted, and
lacked only the know-how to accomplish their goal.

For two years the young people met regularly; they
schemed and plotted and even camped on the doorstep
of the mayor each Saturday morning, trying to find a
solution to their problems. When the House of Youth
opened on Dec. 10, 1949, it represented a great victory
for the youth, whose untiring efforts had won city officials
to their cause.

HE COMMUNITY CENTER did not simply rise out

of the rubble. It took intelligent thinking and planning
by city officials in which the Resident Officer gave moral
encouragement, Dr. Brandenburg, from his sick bed,
directed the young people's efforts. Dr. Koenig persuaded
a hard-pressed Stadtrat (city council) to vote for the
House of Youth. The council, torn by the insistent de-
mands of the population for housing, twice rejected the
young people's plea, but finally gave in.

Today, these same city councilmen are proud of the
center, and proud they voted for its construction, Even
the opposition forces — the church, which did not want to
lose control of the youth, and the political parties, which
wanted to direct them along party lines — today are giv-
ing it support. Officials in all quarters are beating their
breasts and taking credit for this far-sighted achievement,

The Pforzheim Community Center has attracted to the
city many outstanding personalities who are interested
in learning about it first hand.

Among them were Dr. James Morgan Read, head of the
Education and Cultural Relations Division; Dr. L. E. Norrie,
of the Exchanges Division, HICOG; E. G. Chapman, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG; John Boxer, Office of Public

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Youth preparing gay Carnival masks, hats, decorations for
the pre-Lenten season under GYA director's supervisi

group hard at work reading up on roles prior
to rehearsals of play for ‘Week of Youth Activities.”

rk, ae *j
Youngsters learn to make paper dolls —another of the Ballet classes, popular with many members, are sponsored
numerous diversified activities in the House of Youth by GYA and are paid for by the Heidelberg GYA office.

Groups get together in the evening to practise the intri-
cate steps of a folk dance — sometimes even the Samba!

JUNE 1950

--- Page 28 ---
Affairs, HICOG; Col. J. Wilson, leader of the Boy Scout
movement in England; Mrs. Margaret Johnson, Cleveland
Press correspondent; Lt. Col. L. B. Cole, EUCOM GYA
chief, and many others.

FORZHEIM'S HOUSE of Youth has been an astonish-
ing success. It has no regular membership, but main-
tains an open-door policy which invites all youth to
attend. It has taken youngsters out of crowded homes
and brought them into a wholesome atmosphere where
they can receive guidance from interested adults. It
teaches them to live with one another in a tolerant manner.
The House of Youth is a success because it is a German
House of Youth, German-inspired, run by German youth.
The infant institution is completely financed by the
city administration, which hires a youth leader and
attendant and pays all bills incidental to upkeep. But
this is far from adequate, as the city’s means are limited.
Happily, the facilities of GYA are available to fill in the
gaps; GYA has instituted a program which is worthy of
the utmost praise. Major Everett T. Reniker, leader of the
Heidelberg GYA, has brought the organization's work
into the highest esteem through his local work. It is
equally encouraging that GYA leaders and programs have
been wholeheartedly accepted by youth and adults.
Axsel G. Nielsen, director of Youth Activities in Stutt-
gart, has also given generous support to the House with
a donation of DM 3,400, as well as through the Ruit School,
the HICOG-sponsored school for training youth leaders.

UILDING THE HOUSE of Youth is only a first step.

What is of far greater importance is what goes on
inside the building's walls. The House program is shaped
by an executive council of four youth leaders, elected
from the County Youth Committee (Kreisjugendaus-
schuss). This executive council further divides its work
through sub-committees for cultural, social and organ-
izational activities. These committees draw support from
all participating youth.

Actual caretaker or program manager is Guenther
Gimm, a 27-year-old German youth who is employed by
the city and who has developed excellent qualities of
youth leadership. Rolf Meyle, paid by GYA, is his
assistant. Members of the committees take an active part
in managing various House activities.

While the House is operated by organized groups, it
remains open to all unorganized elements. In fact, latest
Statistics show that of the 5,200 young people who have
visited the House of Youth more than 80 percent belong
to no youth organization.

One of the outstanding contributors of support from
the outside is Mayor Brandenburg, who gives generously
of his time and ability to work closely with the youth and
to furnish the necessary guidance. His popularity is great.

The House of Youth has become the focal point for all
youth activity in the city of 55,000. Accessible to all, the
House is near a school and students make use of its
facilities while waiting for classes or during off-hours.
Young people constantly play chess, checkers and table
tennis during the day. In the evening, through the

JUNE 1950

25

Another indoor activity: an informal talk by a Radio Stutt-
gart announcer on the intricacies of a radio program.
Youthful audience evinced the keenest interest. Fifth from
front in first row, hands clasped over knees, is the author
of this article, Raymond Lascoe, the Pforzheim Resident
Officer. Beside him is Mayor Dr. J. Peter Brandenburg.

assistance of GYA, part-time
dramatics and sewing.

In addition, the youth are planning a “Week of Youth
Activities” in which they intend to show their elders
what they have learned. They are now sponsoring a
soapbox derby. Public forums are regularly scheduled to
which outstanding lecturers are invited. Movies depict-
ing life in America are regularly shown.

In short, it can be said that within the community
center the youth are learning democracy by example and
not by dry definition. In this mission, the mayor is setting
the example and his leadership is gratefully accepted.

instructors teach ballet,

HE YOUTH HAVE a multitudinous number of prob-

lems to settle, but at least they are learning to work
with one another. In their struggle for self-development,
they find support and assistance from all American
agencies. This assistance has been generous and whole-
hearted and wherever possible, they are giving much-
needed material assistance.

A well-planned community center embodies all demo-
cratic aims and objectives in that it brings several groups
together in a tolerant atmosphere where one listens to
the voice of the other. A community center is a means for
attracting unorganized individuals to a central location
where they can be reached by a planned program. It
permits city officials to show an active interest in youth
activities. It provides the atmosphere in which youth can
learn to think for themselves.

And so it appears that the “city of the dead" is not at
all dead; that the city of 10,000 former Nazi Party
members still has the nucleus for democratic develop-
ment. Through their own courageous efforts, youth have
shown the way to the older generation. Occupation offi-
cials have helped with guidance and with “material
assistance. Together the seeds of democratic develop-
ment have been planted and now have taken root.

A new life has been started in Pforzheim — a democratic
life that looks into the future with hope and vision, -++END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
“The Pfennig Parade”

HE “MARCH OF DIMES" traveled across 3,000 miles
of Atlantic this year and landed in Munich as “The
Pfennig Parade."

Put in motion there by the German-American Men's
Club, the drive netted more than DM 55,000 in a brisk
four weeks and was extended more than another month
by popular demand. All proceeds will go to the cause
of research and treatment of infantile paralysis.

Launched by the German-American club, which had
planned but called it off last year, the drive attracted
to its working committee leading citizens of Munich in
the fields of radio, press, theater and schools. Germans
and Americans pondered together over publicity and
promotional events, while Germans took sole charge of
collections and expenditures. No matter who did the
work, they did it as volunteers.

Opening ceremonies, which heralded a string of top-
flight benefit shows, were held March 1 at the Luitpold
Theater, with a parade of American and German
mounted police and a flourish of trumpets by local brass
bands. Some 1,200 persons attended — and applauded —a
program composed entirely of donated services: the film
“Sister Kenney,’ Radio Bavaria’s Symphony Orchestra,
the Suse Boehm ballet, the Negro Choir from Henry
Kaserne, the 30th Army Band, the American and Ger-
man school choirs. Theater space, and the handwork
of electricians, theater employees, florists, printers and
the American and German nurses who collected donations
were also contributed free to the occasion.

From the bomb-bays of American planes, 2,000,000
leaflets rained down on the city, calling attention to the
Pfennig Parade and inviting Munich citizens to the
entertainment scheduled in the Loewenbraeu Keller. A
capacity crowd of 1,000 paid DM 1 apiece to attend.

These events took place on opening day, but the pat-
tern — volunteer effort and enthused response — contin-

Chester S. Wright, US Resident Officer and one of the
moving spirits in the anti-polio campaign, and Mrs. L.
van Laak, owner of the Luitpold Theater, talk in theater
lobby on the opening day of Munich's big Piennig Parade.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

On hand at the opening ceremonies for Munich's Pfennig
Parade were US Resident Officer Chester S. Wright, presi-
dent of the German-American Men's Club; Dr. Alois
Hundhammer, Bavarian Minister of Culture; and Robert
G. Dawes, chief of Educational Division, OLC Bavaria.

ued throughout the drive. On the jammed schedule were
an international boxing show, an international basketball
tournament, an international children’s program featuring
songs and dances by children of IRO nations, an inter-
national jazz evening, the Circus Krone which donated pro-
ceeds from one performance to the drive, a variety show,
a benefit concert by the Munich Philharmonic, a three-day
automobile show and a potpourri of night club perfor-
mances and miniature gimmicks.

The ballyhoo needed to convert an ordinary citizen
into a donor came — free — from various sources through-
out the area. A Duesseldorf firm donated 1,800 posters
and the City Advertising Agency stuck them up without
charge on every display pillar in the city. Several local
firms handed out their own advertising stickers. The air-
waves vibrated with special Pfennig Parade musical re-
quests: Radio Bavaria for weeks maintained an all-re-
quest program, soliciting donations in return for music.
Contributions ranged from three pfennig to DM 100.

Joint chairmen of the Munich Pfennig Parade were the
co-presidents of the German-American Men's Club:
Mayor Thomas Wimmer and Chester S. Wright, US Resi-
dent Officer. Capt. Joseph H. Gigandet, former Munich
Military Post schools’ officer, was assigned full-time duty
as co-ordinator of the drive.

So sweeping a success was the Pfennig Parade that
other cities in western Germany consulted with Munich's
committeemen in hopes of duplicating their efforts. A
working committee was elected for North Rhine-West-
phalia and cities within its borders made plans for
similar drives. Augsburg and Regensburg slated April
campaigns. Plans were rapidly expanding for a meeting
of representatives from all west German states to expand
the Pfennig Parade and later to set up a National
Foundation against Infantile Paralysis to collect and
administer funds. +END

JUNE 1950

--- Page 30 ---
Challenge for Germany:

DOLLAR DRIVE

By FRED WELTY
Press Officer, Public Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

F THE PROBLEMS facing the young West German re-
O public, one pf the most difficult is the “dollar gap.”
In terms of long range planning, it is of a magnitude com-
parable to unemployment, housing and the refugees. The
“dollar gap,” the great disparity between the country’s
exports to and imports from the dollar area, is less known
than the other three because, unlike them, it is not directly
felt at present. But Western Germany is importing 10 times
as much from the United States and the dollar countries
as it is selling them. The dollar gap is approximately
$2,000,000 every day, and presently is being closed by
Marshall Plan funds,

As the Marshall Plan ends in 1952, and the US govern-
ment does not plan to continue indefinitely its huge sub-
sidies, it is of first urgency that Western Germany's ex-
ports to the dollar areas be lifted to the level where they
can meet the cost of dollar imports. If accomplished, Ger-
many's dollar trade will be on a sound business basis. If
it is not accomplished, then aid must continue to flow
eastward across the Atlantic or else Western Germany's
economy, dependent as it is on its dollar imports, will be
in grave danger. The great achievements of the Marshall
Plan would then be lost.

The dollar shortage is not unique to Western Germany.
To greater or lesser degrees it affects virtually all Western
European countries. Though it is primarily a European
problem, its solution rests separately with each country.

The problem also is not unique to this postwar period.
It began 36 years ago, when the United States for the first
time became a creditor nation. In those 36 years, Europe's
needs for America’s goods expanded continuously. At the
same time the USA became increasingly self sufficient
and purchases from Europe declined. This continuing gap
has been masked and hidden through the years by sub-
sidies, loans, grants and other forms of American gener-
osity, Now, as the indices of European industrial produc-
tion climb to the 100 mark and beyond, the underlying
economic maladjustment between Europe and America is,
in the words of the London Economist, “emerging like a
reef hidden for a time under a spring tide.”

CA HAS LONG RECOGNIZED the need for a “dollar
drive,''a hard-hitting campaign on the part of Western
Germany and other European countries to sell its goods
aggressively in the American and other dollar markets.
Wayne Taylor, top policy planner for ECA, Washington,
made a penetrating study of the entire problem. Even
more, he compiled an exacting list of recommendations.
Wayne Taylor analyzed the problem, described the
economic climate necessary to solve it, and uncovered ob-

JUNE 1950

27

stacles to eliminate and practices to improve. Then he
devoted the major share of his report to “Who Should
Do What?" Getting at the heart of the matter, he listed
(1) What European governments can do; (2) What the US
government can do; (3) What European business and labor
can do; (4) What US business can do, and, finally, (5) What
OEEC can do.

The largest share of effort is placed with European in-
dustry and business itself on the theory that private enter-
prise can best handle the job. The strongest and soundest
economic ties with America andEurope can be established
on such a basis.

Following the Wayne Taylor report, which may be-
come an important historical document, representing a
turning point in American-European trade relationships,
the ECA activated a “dollar drive” unit entitled the Trade
Development Branch. The United States Congress had as-
signed to ECA among other responsibilities the task of
bringing the dollar gap to manageable proportions,

The “dollar drive’ unit within the European head-
quarters of ECA at Paris is headed by Ralph I. Straus;
Paul S. Nevin is the ECA “‘dollar drive” chief for Western
Germany, William E. Weiss, Jr. for the Western Sectors
of Berlin, and there are others in each of the participating
countries. Their mission is to encourage and assist local
governments and businessmen in building up and ex-
panding the “dollar drives" in their respective areas.

EGINNING IN JANUARY 1950, meetings have been

held almost daily in Bonn and Frankfurt between ECA
officials and German representatives of Germany's forth-
coming “dollar drive” organization. This company only
recently emerged from the planning stage and is gaining
additional substance each week.

The German “dollar drive” agency is called the Ger-
man-American Trade Promotion Company. It is a stock
company of limited liability, This is the agency which
will have branch offices in the United States to promote
German products and services, including tourism. It has
an advisory committee of 30 from German industry, labor
and travel. A private company, it will nevertheless have
as advisers two representatives from the Federal Republic.

The various sections within the German “dollar drive”
company reveal the nature and extent of-the work to be
undertaken. First there is the central core, the Commerce
and Industry Section. It consists of five sub-divisions
covering all areas of export goods. One, for example, will
devote its energies to promoting machines, tools, fine
optics and mechanics while another will be concerned
with interesting Americans in German novelties and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
inventions. Public relations, market
research, travel promotion, transport
and exhibitions are additional func-
tions of other branches within Com-
merce and Industry.

The three other divisions are In-
formation, Financial and a_ section
devoted to patents, copyrights, trade-
marks and licenses.

The head office will be in Frank-
furt with a staff of approximately 45,
including 19 senior employees, while
the proposed office at New York will
be staffed by nine senior employees,
nine assistants and 15 stenographers,
After opening a branch office in New
York City, it plans later to expand to
Chicago, New Orleans and San Fran-
cisco. The US offices will be managed
by Germans with possibly one of their
number appointed for liaison with

Ralph I, Straus, chief of the Trade
Promotion Section, Office of Special
Representative, ECA, Paris, at press
conference in Frankfurt, which he visit-
ed to discuss steps to boost exports,
reduce or close Germany's dollar gap.

in the USA to provide exchange to
buyers of American export goods,
All of those American industries
presently exporting to Europe would
experience reverses. Repercussions
would be felt throughout the entire US
economy.

The United States government is
taking steps to overcome many of the
existing tariffs which are prohibitive
to certain German and other Euro-
pean goods. The General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade, in which the
United States was a leading partici-
pant, is recognized as the largest
general reduction in barriers to trade
the world has seen. Paul Hoffman,
ECA Administrator, in a recent ad-
dress at Philadelphia, stated: “I know
of no instance in which tariff conces-
sions have jeopardized the life of an

ECA, Washington.

Will large sales of German and other European goods
upset the American economy?

A majority of the services, such as travel, and goods
which Europe has to offer the United States, are non-
competitive. It also has been determined that the European
dollar imbalance can be resolved with European goods
figuring less than one-third of one percent of the total
value of wholesale goods produced in the United States.
This slight percentage cannot have any appreciable effect
on the US economy.

On the other hand, the US economy will suffer a severe
setback if European goods are not purchased with dollars

Clarence M. Bolds, State Commissioner for Bavaria, offi-
cially opened the ERP exhibition in Hof, Bavarian town
on the Soviet Zone border, The exhibit, the first of a
series of shows scheduled in Bavarian cities this spring
and summer, traced results of ERP aid since inauguration
of the Marshall Plan two years ago. Mayor Hans Hoegn
of Hof (center) is taking key to the central exhibition hall

to hand to Mr. Bolds (leit). (PRB OLCB photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN '

28

American industry."

In the same speech, which Mr. Hoffman delivered
before the World Affairs Council and the National
Association of Manufacturers, he emphasized: “Our top
economists of ECA have underway a comprehensive study
of the dollar earning potentiality of each of the parti-
cipating nations. The aim of this study is to develop a
practical export program for each country.”

N ADDITION to this study of participating countries,

the entire problem of the US export-import imbalance
is the subject of a major study within the United States.
President Truman recently appointed former Secretary
of the Army Gordon Gray as Special Assistant to the
President to co-ordinate all government groups in a study
of the “dollar gap." Mr. Truman stated in his instructions
to Mr. Gray: “Your principal role in this position will be
to advise and assist in co-ordinating and stimulating the
activities of the various governmental agencies which
can contribute to the solution of this problem.”

The “dollar gap” is not only the concern of the ECA
and countries with dollar shortages, but is being brought
to the American public. +END

Hof Exhibit Attracts 135,000

More than 135,000 persons visited the European Re-
covery Program show in Hof from April 1 to 16. This was
the largest attendance at any Bavarian exhibit of its kind,
outside of Munich, since the war and is particularly
remarkable since the city of Hof has a population of only
60,000.

A considerable number of eastern businessmen from
across the Bavarian border attended, indicating that in
spite of restrictions imposed on their own area they are
interested in what ERP is doing toward helping recovery
in western Europe.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 32 ---
American and German Theater

By FREDERIC MELLINGER

HEATRICAL ART IS being used today

as a successful medium in cementing
cultural appreciation between Germany and
the United States — but the fact remains
that it's a long way from Broadway to
Kurfuerstendamm,

American theater, on the one hand, has
felt the influence of the English, French
and German stage and has evolved from
these varied patterns into a highly com-
mercial branch of the great entertainment
industry known to the trade as “show
business.”

German theater, on the other, is steeped
in centuries of historic tradition and has
often sacrificed popylar appeal for cultural
interests, resulting in a lack of the boldness, daring and
innovation characterizing the American stage.

With these different backgrounds, it is natural that
German and American theater should vary throughout
their entire structure —in business, production methods,
staging and schools of acting.

Theatrical life in America has held to a tightly central-
ized form, although this centralization has been somewhat
loosened since 1915 with the inception of the Little
Theater, university and community theaters. Nonetheless
professional American theater today still is represented
by the theater on Broadway.

ie CONTRAST, German theater has always been com-
pletely decentralized. Every petty principality vied
with its neighbors in its court theater. Cities and smaller
towns aimed at the construction of modernly equipped
theaters on the most beautiful site in town while all larger
German cities boasted first-class privately run theaters
usually supported by the rich and therefore independent
of popular taste. These theaters, frequently generously
subsidized by the ruling classes, often held a tight check
rein over productions while the state theaters, with their
sprawling administrative apparatus, administered didactic
control over the choice of plays.

This solicitude for the German theater displayed by
princes, state and city governments, and the rich has been
far from a blessing to German drama.

Frederic Mellinger

the Dawn” would never have been produced
in Berlin.

The highly commercialized aspect of
American theater has freed it from the
restrictive bonds of censorship and has
allowed a free use of money to lay out
on better artists, more expensive produc-
tions, scenery, design, costuming and better
salaries for the behind scenes technicians.
Plays can spend longer time in rehearsai
striving for perfection and managers can
experiment with impunity.

ITHOUT CENTURIES of tradition to
follow, the American theater also is
less shackled throughout its entire struc-
ture and is more independent of administrative bonds, The
long list of regular employees in a German city or state
theater again spells the difference between the two stages.
The Broadway story of a drama-manuscript on its way
from the author's desk to its appearance before the foot-
lights is the story of the difference between the German
and American stage.

The American playwright, unlike his German counter-
part, does not bring his play to a theater at all. A theater
on Broadway is but an empty house to be rented by a
producer or theatrical company. The Shubert Theater in
New York, for instance, which may be leased for any type
of production, in no way resembles the prewar Reinhardt,
Jessner or Brahm theaters of Berlin where these respec-
tive producers-directors retained their own theaters, each
noted for a definite style.

Instead the American playwright seeks a producer in
one of the many office buildings studding the theatrical
district. In place of the impressive office of the German
intendant decked in plush carpeting and massive furniture,
the informal American producer is usually found sur-
rounded by a couple of file cabinets and the inevitable
glamorous secretary strategically placed to ward off
young hopefuls.

The same informality is the keynote of the pro-
ducer's whole approach to his selection of the
various manuscripts which crowd his desk. Plays
are never read in the office, but at

These backers of the theater, along
with controlling the purse strings, have
often brought stringent control to the
actual productions. The censorship and
muzzling of artistic thought resulted
eventually in the organization of the
people's theater (Volksbuehne), with-
Out which plays like Gerhart Haupt-
Mann's “The Weavers” and “Before

conducting a

This article is a condensed version
of a lecture given by the author at
Information Centers throughout the
US Zone. Frederic Mellinger, for-
merly theater and music officer
under Military Government, is now
in Germany as a visiting expert
lecture series on
American and German theater for
Information Center audiences.

the producer's comfort — at home,
in bed, or on the beach, If the play
rings a bell with the producer, the
signing of the contract is equally
informal. A cocktail lounge is the
traditional setting for the business
in hand, and the timing, as every
young playwright knows, is after the
third martini, Once the contract has

JUNE 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Been signed with the writer, the producer's next worry
is that of funds to finance the enterprise. If he has a
good name in the show world, he will not find it difficult
to raise the money. There are always “angels” around
Broadway who know the theater investment may mean
good business. Sometimes dozens of small enthusiasts
have financed a production by buying shares of $100
each or less.

With the necessary capital secured, the producer begins
his search for a theater and only when he has signed a
contract with the theater, a director, and two or three
leading actors does he move out of his sparsely furnished
office and into the empty theater building to select the
rest of his cast and begin rehearsals — and German
directors may learn with some skepticism that there is no
gala premiere in Germany more thoroughly rehearsed
than any normal Broadway production.

While the history of German theater heads its chapters
with the names of the country's creative geniuses— Goethe,
Iffland, Lawbe, Reinhardt — periods of American theater
are closely associated with the names of great producers
who helped to build the industry into a vast commercial
enterprise as did Charles Frohman, who, in 1898, founded
a theater syndicate which eventually controlled more than
500 theaters throughout the United States.

German theatrical circles are prone to sneer at the com-
mercial aspect of the American stage, content to believe
that under such a system only cheap and trivial plays
could stand a chance. However this is fallacious reason-
ing engendered in many cases by diehard German class
consciousness.

ERMAN PRODUCERS invariably underrate their

audiences. The American producer cannot afford to.
Time and again Broadway has proved that clever experi-
mental productions and plays of high literary value are
welcomed by “the masses” on their true merits.

The American producer does not usually dare to bring
his play before New York audiences (including the critics
who don’t pull their punches) before trying it out before
the sophisticated theatergoers of Boston, Chicago or
Detroit. A Broadway hit will often run continuously for
years before touring the country, bringing in fat royalties
to the author, large dividends to the backers, and greater
salaries to the actors.

As the production techniques between German and
American theater differ, so do the styles of acting.
Americans visiting the German theater are amazed by
the bombastic style which often, for them, detracts from
the play itself. Conversely, Germans who visit a Broadway
theater think that American acting lacks zest until they
become accustomed to the restraint and subtlety of
American acting.

The continuous excitement on the German stage is due
to the German conception of “temperament.” In Germany
an actor “has or “has not” this decisive criterion of
theatrical talent. And just as Americans, not used to the
emotional intensity of the German stage, think German
productions “too loud," ‘too excited," Germans feel that

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

the American actor, minus shouting and gesticulation,
lacks temperament.

Then, too, one cannot separate pathos from German
acting. The theater is for the German people primarily a
safety vent for pent up emotions, and pathos, that typi-
cally German emotional element, has been retained in
Germany with all changing theatrical styles from the
Meininger school to the Juergen Fehling.

This divergence in acting schools carries over to direct-
ing and the German theatrical director is miles apart
from his American colleague. The average German direc-
tor fills the house with the drone of his voice as he knows
that his cast is judging his “temperament" by his volume.

N SHARP CONTRAST to the German style is the calm,

and again informal, manner of the American director.
In Maxwell Anderson’s play “Joan of Lorraine," for
instance, the director, one of the play's characters, ad-
dresses his cast as follows:

“You probably know my theory about rehearsals. Any-
way, you've had some experience with it. My notion is
that the more you kid the play and the actors and every-
body concerned, the better it is for all of us. If there's
anything or anybody that won't stand kidding, now's the
time to find it out. So I razz everyone in sight, including
myself...

“We're getting the feeling of this thing. But that’s all
preparation. What we're all waiting for and working
toward is the miracle —the miracle that has to happen
with every play that’s going to go. Some day we'll start
cold as usual, just reading lines, and then that holy fire
will begin to play around one actor — and then another —
and then around a whole scene — and then the spirit will
descend on all of us at once and we'll make a new world
about the size of a star and set it down on a bare stage,
surrounded by kitchen chairs and mockery and bungling
mechanics and directors. And afterward maybe we'll
never hit anything as good as that again, but we'll
get an echo of it, as much as we can recall and we'll put
that echo into costumes and sets and polish it up, and
that's what the first night audience will be in on.

“Now don't let this scare you. Don't try for any miracle.
Just go ahead and read your lines and relax, but if a
miracle happens don't let that scare you either. Take it,
Al. We can start now.”

The director's voice is as casual as his speech and he
would never reach a German cast accustomed to flowery
phrases and pathetic images conjuring up the miracle of
creative art. He speaks as a “regular guy" to his fellow
workers in the only language which would hold an
American audience on the stage as well as anywhere else
in America. +END

Wiesbaden Library in New Home
The Wiesbaden US Information Center, containing one
of Hesse’s largest American libraries for German use,
more than doubled its present facilities in a move to new
quarters in April. It is now located on Blumenstrasse.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 34 ---
Training for Citizenship

NEW SPIRIT is replacing the traditional authori-

tarianism of Germany's classrooms, as new teaching
methods and shifts in curricula put the emphasis on
education for democracy.

Pupils are learning to think for themselves while
learning the three R’s. Teachers are boosting the new
trend with classroom discussions, division of classes into
small co-operative study groups and a variety of other
methods. Civics studies, mock parliaments, student
government, community projects and other practical
ways of training good citizens are being tried out in
many places.

The new methods represent a sharp break with the
former stiff atmosphere of German classrooms, where
children learned their lessons by listening and reciting.
Although providing intense training for the trades and

professions, the traditional system failed to include ,

practical lessons in democratic living. The strict class-
room discipline also tended to stifle individualism and to
breed an excessive subservience to higher authority
among young Germans.

Today, all education ministries in the US Zone have
ordered varying degrees of the new teaching methods
to be used in public schools. In general, the innovations
have been favorably received by school principals and
teachers. However, in spite of ministry directives, condi-
tions vary widely from school to school, according to
the available facilities and the attitudes of teachers. In
some schools bomb damage and overcrowded class-
rooms have made new Seating arrangements and practical
demonstrations impossible, and have served as an ex-
cuse for teachers still clinging to the outmoded methods.

HESE FACTS WERE disclosed by officials of the

Education and Cultural Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, who reported on activities in various
states of the US Zone.

The fact that the new liberalism in education has been
emphasized by the German education authorities gives
good hope that all German classrooms will eventually be-
come training grounds for democracy, the officials said.

In Bavaria, the new teaching methods have been order-
ed in all elementary schools for a one-year trial, report-
ed Herman L, Offner, Education Section chief for the
State Commissioner's Office. Teachers have been called
upon to encourage classroom discussion of study prob-
lems. Children are organized into small groups, thus learn-
ing to work together and think for themselves. The em-
phasis is now on the child rather than the subject matter.

An example of the new practical methods of teaching
citizenship is an eighth grade class which organized a
mock parliament to demonstrate the method of passing
a bill in the Landtag (state legislature). The teacher
stood back and, with a few words of guidance, allowed
the students to run the class.

Recently, a questionnaire circulated among teachers
and principals drew almost unanimous response favoring
the new methods of teaching.

MAJOR INNOVATION has been the introduction of
social studies in the vocational schools of Bavaria,
as well as in the other US Zone states. Previously, these
schools, which receive more than 80 percent of the
school children after the elementary grades, gave little
more than training related to a particular trade and some

One hundred and thirteen young Wuerttemberg-Baden Germans attended conferences for rural youth at Hohenheim
Agricultural College, near Stuttgart, recently and wrestled with the practical as well as the ideological problems con-
fronting them. The first two-day conference attracted 48 young farmer-Germans; the second, held two weeks later,
drew 65. A panel of Danes, Swiss, Germans and Americans answered questions and led discussions during the two
conferences. A special discussion was entitled “What did we learn in other countries and how can this knowledge be
used in Germany?" Pictures (leit) show group singing in the college garden under the direction of Hermann Ertle of the
Ruit Leadership Training School; (tight) smaller group singing during one of the evening game-sessions. (PRD HICOG photos)

JUNE 1950 31 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
religious instruction. Now the schools have added in-
struction in history, geography and civics to provide the
broader education needed by all people inva democracy.

According to Harry C. Gossard, teacher education
specialist for OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, civics courses
have been introduced in all the fifth and sixth grades in
that state. Teachers are meeting after school hours to
study social education methods. Student councils have
been set up in nearly all the high schools to allow
students to discuss their own problems and practice a
measure of self-government.

In Hesse, similar councils are being organized to
comply with instructions issued by the Education
Ministry, Kenneth Bateman, of the OLCH Education Sec-
tion reported. The ministry has placed a major emphasis
on teaching school children to participate in civic activi-
ties. For instance, the students were called on to join
reforestation projects. Schoolboy patrols have been
organized in Hessian schools through which the children
learn traffic safety under guidance of police officials,
and gain a new conception of the police as protectors
rather than oppressors.

According to Herbert T. Schuelke, acting chief of the
Education Section, OLC Bremen, the new school reform
law passed by the Bremen legislature extends the unified
elementary school from four to six years. This is an
important democratic innovation since it lengthens the
period in which children of all social classes will attend
common schools. The law also includes measures for
citizenship training in the Bremen schools. To continue
and improve this type of instruction, a social studies
supervisor has been added to the education staff of the
city of Bremen.

UBSTANTIAL PROGRESS has also been made in stimu-

lating student initiative and individual thought in
Bremen. The student council in one school inaugurated
a project to learn more about democratic election pro-
cedures. The council arranged for a showing of two
movies depicting election methods in America and Britain,
which was followed by a comparative discussion of pro-
cedure under the German basic law.

Military Government and HICOG have given extensive
aid to the development of citizenship training in German
schools, through the organization and financing of con-
ferences, workshops and in-service teacher education
programs, William L. Wrinkle, chief of Public Education,
E&CR Division, said. The 10 US Education Service Cen-
ters have provided reference materials and facilities
for German committees working on many such projects.

Six of Berlin's young people's organizations were given
a home recently when the building which formerly
housed the Education and Cultural Relations Branch
of the Berlin Element of HICOG was turned over by
the US authorities. Dr. James Morgan Read, chief, Edu-
cation and Cultural Relations Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, and Dr. Christopher B. Garnett, Jr.,
Berlin Element Community Affairs adviser, are shown
surrounded by German college and high school girls
during brief ceremony. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The visit of scores of German educators to the United
States under the exchange program has also been a
strong influence. All reports received from these stateside
visitors have indicated their commendations of the in-
formal teacher-student relationships and the efforts to
train good citizens in American schools.

Further important assistance is expected from the
Heidelberg Workshop now being organized by the Edu-
cation Branch, in which 30 outstanding American and
foreign educators will work with possibly as many as
80 German education leaders for six weeks in planning new
social studies methods for German schools.

“A new liberalism is developing in German education
in the US Zone,” Dr. Wrinkle concluded. “The intense
but narrow education for a profession or trade is being
expanded to include the practical lessons in how to live
in tolerance and peace with other men. If this movement
continues, future generations of civic-minded, freedom-
loving citizens will be trained in Germany, who will not
easily succumb to any new attempts to establish a totali-
tarian state.” + END

Berlin's New Youth Building Popular

The Haus der Jugend of the Berlin Landesjugendring
(the over-all youth organization in which all licensed
Berlin youth groups are united) reported that during
March, its first full month of operation in its new build-
ing in Berlin-Steglitz, 9,788 persons attended 151 group
meetings of all types. Of this number approximately
2,000 visited the exhibition of children's paintings held
during the first few days of March.

The Haus der Jugend is supported by the Community
Activities Office, Berlin Element, HICOG.

300 Books Given Labor School

Three hundred books were given recently on a long-
term basis to the newly founded High School for Labor,
Politics and Economics in Wilhelmshaven-Ruestersiel from
supplies of the US Information Center of Bremen. The
loan was made to help German youth in their efforts to
become familiar with the democratic way of life and the
latest scientific developments in foreign countries.

--- Page 36 ---
“Freedom” Prizes for Artists

Berlin Makes First Annual Awards
Commemorating Revolution of 1848

By PETER F. SZLUK
Deputy Chief, ER&S Branch, Personnel Division
Office of Administration, HICOG

UST AS IN 1848 when Berlin's cultural leaders fought

side by side with their fellow citizens for basic
human rights and freedom of expression, today's artists,
actors, musicians, writers, sculptors and graphic artists
are again in the vanguard of the fight for democracy and
freedom. This was evidenced, particularly, to American
personnel who resided in Berlin during the days of the
blockade and were associated with the Prolog Club (Ger-
man-American art appreciation group) or active in the
establishment of the Museum of Modern German Art.

In recognition of the roles these cultural elements play
in the resistance of the people to dictatorial forces and
totalitarian ideology, the Western Sector city of Berlin
has established annual awards of DM 5,000 each to the
outstanding artist, sculptor, musician and theatrical leader
of the year. Awards are made each March 18 to com-
memorate the anniversary of the 1848 revolution.

In this initial year, due to the acute financial need of
all Western Sector artists, the sponsoring civic committee
agreed to split the prize money in each cultural field.
Presentations were made to 14 artists during an impres-

“Mahogany Head,” at right, is the work of Karl Hartung,
one of the Berlin prize-winning sculptors, who has found
unusual and successful expression in such abstractions.
Much of his postwar sculpture has been made from wood,
stone and metal found in the city’s ruins. (Photo by Gnilka)

“Der Rufer,’’ below, a dramatic picture by Hans Jaenisch,
is done in his individualistic three-dimensional technique
Although Jaenisch does not paint topical subjects, ‘Der
Rufer" could well symbolize a World War II air raid, the
cry of the Berliner for spiritual and physical help in his
current hour of need, or anyone anywhere in this atomic
world as it teeters insecurely at the rim of the future.

sive ceremony by the borough president at the Schoene-
berg Rathaus (city hall) on March 18, 1950. Each artist
received DM 1,600.

The initiative of the City of Berlin in establishing the
art awards is deserving of the highest commendation.
Berlin artists had particularly trying times during the
Air Lift days and even today, the majority of the German
public consider art a luxury. The decision of the muni-
cipal committee to make annual awards does much to
focus necessary public attention and interest in these five
important branches of art.

HE FACT THAT the fine arts awards were made to

painters and sculptors representative of the modern
school, requires recognition and more than an ordinary
interest when it is remembered that art forms became
standardized during the Nazi regime. German modernists
had to go underground and worked under great difficul-
ties. Recognition of these painters and sculptors, in the
1950 awards, reflects an interest of the German public
which may be interpreted as a democratic interest in

--- Page 37 ---
modern art forms. Finally, despite a difficult economic
and political situation. Berlin has once again demonstrated
its right to claim leadership in the field of cultural
interests,

Announcement of the prize winners read familiarly to
many art lovers both on the Continent and in the Ameri-
cas. In music, Werner Egk, Helmut Roloff and Dietrich
Fischer-Dieskau represent three fields.

Professor Egk, born in 1901 in Auchsesheim, Bavaria,
was a student of the great Carl Orff and is presently
director of the Berlin Institute for Music. He first won
public acclaim with his “Zaubergeige" and then with
"Circe." His recent dance-play “Abraxas” has been the
subject of much discussion in Germany and has found a
large and vocal supporting audience,

Roloff, born in 1912 at Giessen, is also a member of the
Institute of Music. He is an advocate of modern music
and is considered to be one of the leading pianists in
Germany, Twenty-five-year-old Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau,
born in Berlin, has earned himself a name despite his
youth, As a member of the State Opera his rich voice has
resulted in assignment of leading roles.

ANS JAENISCH, Werner Heldt and Wolf Hoffman

are representative of modern German painters. Best
known to Americans is Jaenisch,who was born in 1907 in
Eilenstedt. In 1949 the Arizona Highways magazine
devoted six pages to a collection of his paintings sketched
while he was a prisoner of war in America. He works in
an individualistic three-dimensional technique and is
presently preparing a collection of his work for invita-
tional exhibits at the Carnegie Institute at Pittsburgh and
the Brooklyn Museum.

Heldt, a Berliner, was born there in 1904, and won fame
for his paintings of the “home town” streets, houses and
atmosphere. A German art critic recently said of him:
“He has climbed to daring heights in the spirit of Picasso.”

Hoffman, a self-taught artist, was born in 1898 at Wer-
nigerode. His paintings have gained a wide popularity
and are characterized by a vigorous directness.

HE 1950 PRIZE SCULPTORS, Bernard Heiliger, Karl

Hartung and Hans Uhlman, best represent the former
verboten art forms. Heiliger, born in 1915 at Setten, is
famed for his large figures, which have an archaic effect.
Art critics have compared his work with that of England's
Thomas Moore.

Hartung, who was born in Hamburg in 1908, has found
successful and unusual expression in mahagony abstrac-
tions. Much of his postwar sculpture has been made from
pieces of stone, wood and metal found in Berlin's rubble.

Uhliman, born in Berlin in 1900, was originally an engi-
neer. His creations in wire and metal have caused con-
troversy in art circles but he is recognized as an outstand-
ing interpreter of the dynamic elements of our time
through his chosen media.

Graphic art awards went to Wilhelm Deffke, Karl-Heinz
Kliemann and Mac Zimmermann. Deffke was born in 1887
at Elberfeld and is considered to be the most significant
“advertising” artist in Germany. He obtains amazing ef-
fects through the conciseness of his creations.

Kliemann, a 26-year-old Berliner, is one of the strong-
est talents of his generation. He is a pupil of the world
famous Carl Schmidt-Rottluff and works in the tradition
of the “Brucke” group in his field of wood-engraving.

MARKET PLACE IN
BERLIN-SCHOENEBERG

--- Page 38 ---
Zimmermann, born in 1912 in Stettin, is another member
of the younger generation and is a surrealist. Critics have
said of his work that it “roentgenizes reality and discloses
its mysterious relationships.”

WO awards were made in dramatic arts, Heinz Tiet-
jen, born in Tangier, Morocco, in 1881, has long been
associated with Berlin art life. His staging for “Fidelio”

demonstrated his unique skill and resulted in one of the
most successful opera performances in postwar Berlin.

Boleslaw Barlog, born at Breslau in 1906, developed the
Steglitz-Schlosspark Theater from anonymity to one of
the most significant and important stages in Berlin. His
stagings of “Des Teufels General” and “Ein Leben lang”
have been outstanding successes as have been his effec-
tive Shakespearean stages. +END

ECA Loans Boon to Bavarian Industry

ARSHALL PLAN counterpart loans released last

December were “a real shot in the arm” to in-
dustries in Bavaria, Paul S. Nevin, chief of the Economic
Affairs Division, OLC Bavaria, declared. He said in-
dustries receiving these loans have made progress to-
ward modernization and rationalization.

Mr. Nevin pointed out that Bavarian industry in the
past four months had maintained an average index
figure of about 104, compared to the prewar 1936 level
of 100. This average, he added, represents about a 10
percent increase over one year ago.

“The stability and volume of production in Bavaria
in the past few months,“ Mr. Nevin declared, “have
been made possible to a great degree by the improved
power situation last winter. The power improvements
resulted in part from the completion of hydro-electric
projects financed by ECA counterpart loans."

The DM 117,701,000 of Marshall Plan counterpart funds
which were made available to Bavarian industry last
December included DM 47,000,000 for power projects.
The Economic Affairs Division chief said the money

also was directed into other phases of Bavarian in-
dustry to finance the development of its productive
capacity within the framework of European recovery.
He cited the fine optics industry as an example of
how Marshall Plan counterpart funds are giving a
needed boost to Bavaria’s productive capabilities.

A loan received by Agfa, Bavaria’s largest camera
producer, is being used by the company to bring out
a new camera model. Agfa, he added, expects to in-
crease its production by 50 percent by next fall and
in turn is expecting to increase its export sales.

“While Bavarian industry is taking hold of its
problems,” Mr. Nevin declared, “it must still redouble its
efforts to further increase production. The 106 preliminary
index of production for March shows clearly that Bavar-
ians are making every effort to develop their economy.

“However, an industrial level of 130 is actually needed
when one considers the increase in Bavaria's population.
So industry still has a long way to go to play its role
in the economic viability and the meeting of the ob-
jectives of the European Recovery Program.” -+ END

The large square in front of the massive five-story
“Rathaus Schoeneberg,” the city hall of the borough of
that name in the American sector of Berlin, is thronged
three mornings each week with buyers patronizing stalls
olfering a wide variety of foodstuffs, cooked as well as
raw, and countless other household items. Left to right,
crowd thins as stallholders commence packing up at mid-
day; housewives listen and eye offerings as stallkeeper

delivers a laudatory ‘'spiel;’ scarce items such as
paper — acutely short in blockade times and in the oc-
cupation years preceding the Air Lift—and fresh fruit,
including such imported items as oranges and bananas,
are now to be found in abundance in Western Berlin, and
hold the interest of one-legged veteran but recently re-
turned to the former German capital from a Soviet Rus-
sian prisoner of war camp. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HIC!

--- Page 39 ---
26,865,000 Meals a Week

TOTAL OF 26,865,000 meals a week is being supplied

to needy children and university students in west
Germany as the German school feeding program enters
its final month of Allied financial support.

Children and adolescents between the ages of six and
18 — 5,123,000 of them —and 250,000 students in univer-
sities are eating the 350-calorie meals five times a week.

Faced with the June 30 termination of Allied support,
German authorities are now investigating possibilities of
continuing the program, which has cost $15,000,000 an-
nually.

Sixty to 65 percent of West German children now
benefit from the program and of this total 30 to 35 per-
cent receive food free of charge.

The school feeding program had its beginnings on a
small scale in the British Zone in 1946, and was not
established in the US Zone until after former President
Herbert Hoover's visit early in 1947. At that time, final de-
cision on food imports rested with the Occupation Powers,
although distribution and rationing were effected by Ger-
man agencies.

IRST SUPPLIES for the school feeding program in the

US Zone were donations from surplus army stocks,
mainly 10-in-1 and C rations. As these were depleted, a
portion of the normal food imports financed by US and
British governments were diverted into the program.

Although at first designation of quantity, type and ex-
changes of food imports was decided by Occupation
Authorities, German committees administered the pro-
gram within each state, and distributed, prepared and
accounted for the food after receiving it.

Of those benefiting from the program approximately
70 percent paid a nominal fee for their meals. Cost of
the remaining 30 percent was met by German state gov-
ernments.

As food requirements increased, it became apparent
that a fixed quota of imports for the program was needed.
A joint meeting of the Occupation Powers and the central
German school feeding committee agreed that approxi-
mately 10 percent of all ECA and GARIOA food imports
should be made available.

With the formation of the Bipartite Control Commis-
sion, the British and American zones co-operated in a uni-
form program of supply, although state administrations
still differed greatly.

Model grade school classroom, fourth of its kind in-
troduced in western Berlin, was opened in the borough
of Zehlendorf, in the US Sector, this spring. Modern
design and furnishings were paid for with US reorien-
tation funds. Light-colored chairs and tables replaced
old-fashioned benches and desks. Walls and_black-
boards are in warm, friendly tones. Teaching techniques
are being adapted to modern, progressive methods which
have proved successful in America. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

FTER CURRENCY reform in June 1948, the number
Aé children no longer able to pay rapidly increased,
and the governments were no longer in a position to
finance the program. At that time, food supplied to Ger-
many for school feeding became an outright donation by
the US and British governments.

During 1949, the role of the Allies in the program
diminished to that of a financial advisory capacity. When
the German Federal Republic joined the European Re-
covery Program it became impossible to continue out-
tight donations without deposit of counterpart funds in
accordance with ERP policies.

To enable the program to continue to the end of the
1950 fiscal year, however, an arrangement was made to
telease GARIOA counterpart funds to cover the ex-
pected deficit through June 30, 1950.

The fate of the school feeding project thereafter hinges
on decisions now being made by German school and
health authorities. +END

CARE’s Name Frequently Misused

The CARE Mission to Germany issued the following
statement:

It has come to our attention that certain German firms,
in organizing gift package services to the Eastern zone
of Germany, have been using the phrase ‘CARE parcel”
in sales literature and other descriptions of their operations.

We feel that the motive behind these new organizations,
that of aiding their friends and relatives in eastern Ger-
many, is wholly commendable. We feel also that their
use of the word “CARE” is a thoughtless rather than
deliberate infringement.

Nevertheless, we have asked these firms to cease im-
mediately their use of the word "CARE." Further, we
would like to warn any future gift parcel project that
the title is protected internationally.

We feel compelled to take this action in order to pro-
tect the CARE organization and its millions of American
donors from any complaints of inferior goods, non-
delivery of packages or slow delivery on the part of
any of these organizations,

--- Page 40 ---
The Reorientation of Germany

Address
By BENJAMIN J. BUTTENWIESER

US Assistant High Commissioner

| ORDER INTELLIGENTLY to consider the reorien-
tation of Germany, from the American standpoint at
least, it is prerequisite that we clearly define and under-
stand the major US objective as applied to this aspect
of our occupation purposes. The official American ob-
jective in this regard is to help develop a democratic,
anti-totalitarian Germany that will co-operate in main-
taining peace and will be accepted back into, rather
than remain an outcast from, the family of nations of
the West.

Obviously, the statement of this policy is far simpler
than its implementation. Equally, gauging the degree
of our success in attaining this objective is a delicate
and difficult process, for it is not susceptible of any too
precise measurement. The major means toward accom-
plishing our objective are: first, to promote the growth
of democracy; second, to prevent the revival of Nazism;
and third, to safeguard against the growth of Com-
munism, Possibly the first consideration should be
coupled with the other two, for it is patent that neither
Nazism nor Communism can grow if democracy is strong.
Therefore, to the degree in which we promote democracy,
so do we safeguard against the rebirth of Nazism or
the development of Communism.

Realizing how interested is our country in general
and this audience in particular in the eradication of
Nazism in Germany and the establishment of every
possible safeguard against its renascence, I take the
liberty of covering this aspect of our discussion before
I turn to what I think is the even more significant and
long-range portion of our program for attaining our
major objective; namely, the promotion of the growth
of democracy in Germany.

A TO THE NAZISM IN GERMANY, I think I can
safely say that save for some fragments, it has been
destroyed never to rise again. I say this not merely by

range deprivation. No people would re-establish a losing
system; least of all pragmatists like the Germans.

There are many who will challenge this view. There
are many who will suggest that the US policy toward
the eradication of Nazism and measures to prevent its
reappearance have been woefully weak. There are even
some Germans who share this view, ill-founded and
untenable though I believe it to be.

Let us, therefore, analyze how we did approach this
whole difficult and diabolic situation. Before that, let me
assure you that those of us presently entrusted with
carrying out US policy in Germany through the occupa-
tion under the High Commission, and our predecessors
in Military Government, came to Germany with no pre-
dilection for Germans but equally with no inner hatred
toward them. Either of these attributes in the minds or
hearts of any of those to be affiliated with either Mili-
tary Government or the High Commission would ob-
viously render such people incapable and ineffective in
carrying out our objectives and, therefore, disqualify
them for such service. I state this so as to reassure any
who may have doubts as to the complete objectivity or
sincerity or dedication of those to whom is entrusted the
far-reaching and almost sacred trust of implementing
American policy in Germany.

OW, TO REVERT to the measures we took toward

purging the German people of Nazism. There are
Americans and Germans who feel that, in the face of the
fiendish crimes committed under the Hitler regime, un-
paralleled in the annals of history, our measures were
all too weak and compromising in ferreting out and
punishing those who had any part in these barbaric rav-
ages. The extreme view of such people is that the
most effective means of eradicating Nazism once and
for all, and insuring the permanent destruction of any
possibility of its rebirth, would have been for the Occupa-

Way of presenting what might
be a popular report, but rather
with deep conviction predicated
upon careful observation dur-
ing the time I have been in Ger-

I base this view, too, on the
firm and reasoned belief that
the German people who are ad-
mittedly intelligent, if not al-
Ways sympathetic, will not again
adopt an ideology or political
pattern which caused them such
costly defeat, privation and long-

This article comprises the text of the
address prepared by Mr. Buttenwieser for
delivery before the Anti-Defamation League
of the B'nai B'rith in Chicago on May 14,
many. 1950. However, shortly before the time
scheduled for the address, Mr. Buttenwieser
received the following message from the
league's national chairman: “We believe
wholeheartedly in the denazification of
Germany and its democratization. We are op-
posed to Nazism, Fascism and Communism.
We believe in free speech, but having read
the advance copy of your address, we can-
not lend our platform to its delivery.”

tion Forces, immediately upon
their arrival in Germany, to have
declared an “open season," as
it were.

During this period, victims
of Nazi persecution could have
rendered rough justice by hav-
ing those guilty of criminal ex-
cesses hanged by a sort of
mob rule.

I repeat, this is the extremist
view. I submit, however, that
this would merely have been al-
lowing the predatory law of the

JUNE 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
jungle to prevail. The only difference that I can see be-
tween this type of mob rule and what transpired under
the Nazis is that the injustice would have been under
Occupation rather than Nazi aegis.

I think the mere statement of the program suggested
by such extremists carries with it its very rejection by
any reasonable or reasoning people. This does not con-
notate, however, that severe and effective measures
should not have been and were not taken toward dealing
with those guilty of Nazi crimes and excesses in all the
varying degrees of their. seriousness. Our government
did take very comprehensive steps to demonstrate to
Germany of today and to the world that Nazi criminality,
under whatever guise it was carried on, was not to go
unpunished. Lest there be any misconception of the scope
of our handling Nazi offenders, major and minor, let me
review the record.

Of course, there are former Nazis in many public
positions in Germany. Many are school teachers, mail
carriers, policemen. Some occupy higher positions. Many
businessmen, holding important posts, were former
members of the Nazi party. Let us keep in mind, how-
ever, that though these people were certainly not heroes,
not all of them were devils. The time has come to permit
them to show they have learned a lesson, that they will
be loyal members of the developing German democratic
state. It is neither possible nor desirable to try to keep
7,000,000 former party members — and with their de-
pendents probably 25,000,000 persons — outside the com-
munity or outcasts from it.

HE MAJOR WAR CRIMINALS were tried at Nurem-

berg by an International Court. Those found guilty
were either executed or condemned to long prison
sentences. At Dachau special US Military Courts alone
tried 1,672 individuals, of whom 426 were sentenced to
death and 646 received prison terms. Of the 426 con-
demned, 299 were executed and 127 had their penalty
commuted to life imprisonment.

In probably the greatest legal procedure that the
world has ever witnessed, in the American Zone alone
as of Nov. 30, 1949, 13,293,000 Germans had been
screened by registration and questionnaire; 9,833,864
were found to be non-chargeable; the balance of 3,459,136
were found to be chargeable; of this latter category,
2,502,163 of obviously slighter offenders were amnestied
without trial; 953,292 trials were completed, leaving only
3,681 cases to be resolved; 9,770 were sentenced to labor
camps; 30,622 to special labor but not imprisoned; 27,268
to property confiscation; 571,746 were fined; 23,386 were
declared ineligible to hold public office; and 125,036
were restricted in employment.

I suggest that these figures hardly indicate any soft-
ness in dealing with those guilty of Nazi misconduct.
Equally, however, no reasonable person can deny, nor
would anyone otherwise expect, that some guilty have
escaped detection or punishment. It is practically im-
possible in a movement which was. so long existent and
widespread as was the entire Nazi scourge to bring to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

38

the bar of justice all who were guilty of participation
or collaboration in its inhuman conduct. All that we
could have hoped to achieve and all that I think we
have accomplished, is that a sincere, honest and, so far
as feasible, effective job was done in punishing the
guilty in a manner and to the degree for which punish-
ment is designed.

HE METHODS ADOPTED for accomplishing this huge

task appeal to me as having been fair and conscien-
tiously administered, By any reasonable tests they pro-
duced, in the over-all, effective, proper results in the light
of the enormity of the problem and the difficulty, if not
impossibility, of coping with every Nazi offender. In
appraising the end results, may I lend a word of advice
to our critics — critics whose sincerity I do not doubt,
but the accuracy or objectivity of whose judgment I some-
what question. My plea to them is that they should
properly evaluate the vast amount that has been accom-
plished and not exaggerate the relatively isolated instances
which, I am prepared to admit, they may cite of Nazi
violators of varying degree who have gone unpunished
or punished with far less severity than their misdeeds
warranted. For example, I, too, am appalled at the attempt
which is now being made to whitewash Nazi malefactors
in Stuttgart.

Despite this and unfortunately too many similar
examples, I reiterate, if we did err — and it is inherent
that there would be some mistakes made in such a vast
process — I think, in the spirit of forgiveness to which
I will allude, as well as with a constructive view to the
future, it was far better to err on the side of fairness and
leniency rather than arbitrariness and ruthlessness. The
former, we hope, will create in the minds of the Germans
a receptive appreciation of American mores, The latter.
could have left only mental callouses against which, I
fear, much of our efforts at reorienting the German mind
would have made little or no imprint.

It is a fundamental concept that once the guilty have
served whatever sentence has been meted out to them
by duly constituted authority, justice and ethics require
that the penitent be received back into the fold of society
and be permitted to function as an accepted member of
his community. Predicated on this concept, I submit that
it is proper to have former Nazis who have been tried
and either acquitted or found guilty and served their
sentences function wherever their skills and ability permit.

Some may urge that “there is a higher law than the
constitution.” I agree that there is; but it should not be
invoked in the spirit of demanding greater punishment
through individual or collective opinion than is meted out
by properly established legal procedures. There is a4
further and even more far-reaching consideration which
underlies my conviction on this point. Punishment — and
debarment from earning a livelihood certainly represents
punishment — or discrimination over and beyond what
was stipulated by legal procedures would seem to me to
create an atmosphere of revenge in which a people could
not reform themselves.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 42 ---
S I CONCEIVE IT, we Americans cannot reorient

the mental processes of the German people. I do not
believe any nation is capable of recasting the thinking
of another nation. Only the Germans can reorient them-
selves. All that we can do is to help the German people
in the huge task that lies before them in recasting their
attitudes and thinking We deem this to be basic to
everything else we seek to accomplish in Germany.
We would indeed leave arid the fields in which the
Germans must plant these seeds of right thinking if
those fields were parched by the withering materialism
of revenge.

There was another agony some 19 centuries ago. There
were uttered then among the noblest words ever heard
by man: “Father, forgive them; for they know not what
they do." That immortal supplication ranks in the very
forefront of sublime and uplifting thoughts to which
man, regardless of his religion, fell heir. I wonder
whether victors in an occupation might not well meet
the vanquished in some degree of that spirit and lead
them hand in hand along the pathways of the better
life of which democracy is such a significant part.

However, whether the denazification program was
handled intelligently and effectively or, as some believe,
incapably and too complacently, I think it must be agreed
that it is too late now to turn the clock back and reopen
the entire question. Any such move, I feel certain,
would produce chaos which would render impossible the
performance of the more constructive and far-reaching pro-
gram of reorientation which lies before us and on which
I fervently believe we are already successfully embarked.

OW THAT I HAVE discussed the efforts to eradi-

cate Nazism, I think we logically come to the next
question, which is of a very different nature; namely,
is there a rebirth in Germany of nationalism? To this
my answer is in the affirmative. Unfortunately, this
rebirth has been accompanied by the re-emergence of
some dangerous elements. Fortunately, however, the
bulk of the German people and their leaders are alert
and opposed to aggressive nationalism. There is a vast
difference between nationalism, which, in its proper
sense, represents pride in one’s country, and National
Socialism with all its lethal doctrines. It is encouraging
that Germans are beginning to try to forget the nighl-
mare of the Hitler regime and supplant it with memories
and the revival of the better Germany which produced
Goethe and Schiller; Schopenhauer and Kant; Beethoven
and Wagner, Roentgen and Einstein and the countless
other bright luminaries in Germany's vast firmament of
great figures of culture, art, science and all the other
learned professions.

It is a regrettable but significant fact that in this
roster, Germany's history makes it impossible, so far
as I am aware, to cite any outstanding leaders of con-
structive or progressive thought in the field of political
Science. This, in part, may account for Germany's ill-
Starred political history. It brings into sharpest focus
the importance, albeit the difficulty, of developing at
this critical juncture of Germany's history constructive,

JUNE 1950

39

progressive, liberal-minded leaders in government who
can lead their country into the promised land of true
democracy.

Conversely, if there were no rebirth of pride in Ger-
many, it would indeed mark a spirit of hopeless futility
hardly suitable to the development of any democratic
ideas or ideals. A country, like a person, without pride
in itself is one forlorn of hope. It can but retrogress; and
progress is what we must lend every effort toward
developing in Germany. In that development we of the
Occupation Forces, can play our most vital role by
helping Germans of liberal mind, progressive energies
and public spirit in infusing these attributes of mind and
spirit into the thoughts and actions of their countrymen.
Thus can Germany be guided along the road of democ-
racy which will gain for her acceptance back into the
family of nations of the West and thus play a significant
part in insuring peace for the world.

HERE ARE TODAY Germans of that caliber. It may

well be said that there are but too few and I would
be the last to dispute any such allegation. However, it
is in those, few though they may be, that we must rest
our hope and on them must we focus our efforts. Thus
can they multiply their forces by more than arithmetic
progression.

The Lord was willing to spare Sodom if 50 righteous
could be found within the city. Subsequently, Abraham
prevailed upon the Lord to reduce the number to 10 and
elicited His promise that Sodom would be spared for
the sake of 10 righteous, if such could be found. Often
I have wondered whether the interpretation that might
not well be attached to this biblical story is that in
addition to sparing Sodom for the sake of the righteous
10, the Lord in His infinite wisdom also had in mind
that these 10, by way of demonstrating their appreciation
of His forbearance, would act as ambassadors for and
champions of righteousness. And the wicked, inspired
by this example of forgiveness, would be reformed by
the righteous.

While we do not have the divine right to destroy or
spare a people, we do have the finite and human power
and ability to help a people in the God-given task of
recreating themselves in their own eyes and in the eyes
of the world. Tat, I emphasize, is our major objective in
Germany. In that spirit of dedication let us consider how
we of the High Commission and the Occupation Forces,
small though our numbers may be, are carrying on our
activities in the fervent hope that the results we achieve
may merit the confidence and support of our countrymen.

N ENDEAVORING TO DEMONSTRATE to the German

people the meaning of true democracy, we feel that we
can accomplish more at what for want of.a better term we
may allude to as the “grass roots." The German equi-
valent of “grass roots’ would be the Kreis level. A
Kreis is the smallest political subdivision of Germany.
It corresponds somewhat to a county in our country. In
the four Laender, or states, of Germany, which we ad-
minister, out of the 11 Laender, which constitute the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
German Federal Republic, we maintain Kreis officials.
The major part of their activity is to endeavor to in-
culcate into the minds of the Germans of their district
a democratic, tolerant approach to their problems. They
do this in ways too numerous to outline within the
narrow confines of this discussion. This Kreis activity
is focused toward small, local groups.

For appeal to the broad masses we use every modern
technique and medium of thought influence, such as the
radio, the press and, above all, education at all but
especially the school levels. Let me emphasize that it is
in the proper guidance and education of the youth that
there lies the greatest hope for a truly democratic
Germany.

Even if democracy is not yet deep rooted in the Ger-
man scheme of things today, the tendrils at least are
beginning to take hold. Bear in mind, however, our occu-
pation is of only five years’ duration. I think it must be
conceded that during the first two or three years, while
Germany was digging herself out of rubble, it was hardly
possible to teach democracy with any hope of any very
attentive audience. It is difficult to learn any ideology,
except possibly one of subversiveness, on an empty
stomach. Effectively, therefore, we have had only the
past two years during which our program has been
functioning. We have approximately 115,000 troops in
our Occupation Forces, only a very minor portion of
whom are identified with our reorientation work, and
about 1,700 on the staff of the High Commission.

EASURING THE TIME, numbers and facilities at our

disposal versus the similar categories of the Nazi
regime, I think any fair-minded person would concede
that great strides have been made in attaining our ob-
jective in the realm incident to this discussion. Equally,
however, I submit that the degree of our accomplish-
ment is directly related to the numbers and facilities at
our disposal for this program of reorientation and demo-
cratization. That is why I think it is of such all-pervad-
ing importance that this program be liberally expanded
by our government and fervently supported by our
fellow citizens.

It is a herculean assignment to rehabilitate the Ger-
man mind and to reorient the German people so that
their public and private activities may be along demo-
cratic lines. Fortunately, I repeat, there are Germans
of real stature and ability and courage who are not
alone sympathetic but dedicated both in thought and
in act to these principles. They demonstrate this, as
indeed they have in the past demonstrated it, by adopt-
ing and championing the proper view even though such
espousal is not always popular. There are men and
women of that caliber in the government and outside
the government in the Germany of today. There are
such men in high places and there are many plain
people, less well-known but almost equally significant,
who crusade for good causes. There are some who are
rich, some who are poor. They come from all walks of
life and from varying faiths. They are-scattered through-
out the land.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

Fairly it must be admitted that their number in com-
parison with the entire German population is not as
great as we would like to see it; but in them and in
them alone I profoundly believe can we place our hope
and our faith. Only a people can reconstitute themselves
from within. We can help them but we cannot, contrary
to what some may ill-advisedly think, achieve by fiat
our goals for Germany. Moreover, for the German
government to grow in stature in the eyes of its own
people and the world, it must, in so far as practicable
and subject only to the requirements of security and to
the development of democratic processes, gradually be
given full sovereignty. Only in that manner can Ger-
many ultimately prove that she is worthy of trust by
the Occupying Powers and the rest of the nations de-
dicated to democracy and peace.

E CAN FURNISH the German people with the

figurative tools of the mind and spirit; but in the
ultimate analysis it is they who must do the reconstruct-
ing. Guided and inspired by our help and our hope,
I truly think they will achieve the goal which they and
we share in common. Only through the achievement of
that goal of a Germany reoriented and reunited along
democratic lines do I foresee Germany's reacceptance
into the family of nations and thus a further safeguard
toward world peace. The stakes are high but we must
be prepared to meet them.

Along with that help must go patience and under-
standing. It is for these that I plead, not alone here
today but in the broader forum of public opinion
throughout our country and the world. The German
people have hope but equally and with reason they
have fear. Not all their neighbors are their friends; and
the fear of one neighbor is a fear that is not theirs
alone. That other ideology which is not democratic
threatens them from the East. We must protect them
from it and make our ideology seem more valid and
therefore more attractive to them and inspire in them
a love for our type of living. .

Summing it up in language far more opulent than I
could command, may I not make avail of the poet Swin-
burne's immortal thought which appeals to me as so emi-
nently fitting to the mental processes of Germans today:

From too much love of living
From hope and fear set free

We thank with brief thanksgiving
Whatever gods may be

That no life lives for ever;

That dead men rise up never;
That even the weariest river
Winds somewhere safe to sea.

From the signs thus far discernible in Germany, I think
we are warranted in the hope that under democratic
leadership, induced from without and within, the Ger-
man people may find surcease from the fear under
which they have lived, so that they may dedicate them-
selves to true democracy and thus, with well-founded
hope, strive to earn for themselves a safe haven in the
welcoming circle of peace-loving nations. +END

JUNE 1950

--- Page 44 ---
a Aufgaben der
Benifsbera mng
Jugenilidgere Boratung.

Snondernen Berane
Beriifewnitalor- Sober qobinara

Verminling
RE ny SO
Pe ocprtrimeny ope

get advice j ional training. Poster
announces ious ty of training available.
(Photos by Claude Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Jobless mother queues up at un- Here 120,000 persons are registered,
employment office in Schoeneberg. 18,000 draw unemployment reliet

Woman (above) signs for unemployment relief. Garment Unemployed (above) seek job retraining. Board listing job
worker applicants (below) are being processed for jobs. openings (below), has handful for women, none for men.

pl *| Vermittlung for:
Bekleidung-Textit

--- Page 45 ---
Gi:

a % ee “

Chow call at Dads’ Club's summer camp near Heidelberg for boys from six to i6, Club has 150 members. (US Army photos)

By BERNARD QUINN
Staff Writer, Public Information Division, EUCOM

ELL OVER A YEAR ago a group of American fathers

on duty in military and civilian capacities with US
Occupation Forces in Heidelberg, Germany, decided to
join with each other in an attempt to promote some
activities that would be conducive to the general welfare
of American boys in Heidelberg and vicinity.

Because those fathers followed up their decision with
some concerted action, there exists today in the land of
the Rhine a unique organization known as the Heidelberg
Military Post DADS’ Club — an activity as American as
the Fourth of July.

The first group of its kind overseas, DADS’ Club is an
outgrowth of a meeting held by fathers whose families
were with them in the European Command, for the
original gathering resulted in formation of the club.

Some results of subsequent, well-organized meetings
were father-sponsored sightseeing trips through the coun-
tryside, social gatherings, father-and-son nights, concerts,
handicraft competitions and exhibitions, gymnastic pro-
grams, and an extensive basketball tournament, the club's
outstanding sports activity during the winter. Besides
those direct advantages to the sons and daughters the
club movement provided an opportunity for the fathers,
engaged in various occupation fields, to meet regularly,
come to know each other, and work together toward the
common goal of their children’s welfare.

The dads’ club of Heidelberg—headquarters city
for the US Occupation Army—is now a full-fledged

INFORMATION BULLETIN

42

overseas veteran with a proud record of achievement.
Most important of all, it has already sponsored a satisfied
collection of American youngsters who, far from familiar
scenes and chums, have found that they are receiving
all assistance possible in promoting among themselves
the principles of clean sports and fair play.

The most important and popular feature on the DADS’
Club roster last summer was the boys’ camp — planned,
created and financed by the fathers. It was located in a
forest clearing in the Odenwald mountains, close to
historic Heidelberg, and the famous Heidelberg Univer-
sity. After considerable preparation, it opened for the
season last June, and each succeeding week the score of
US Army tents which made up the camp were filled to
capacity. All entered into the camping spirit with un-
bounded enthusiasm, and by the end of the season every
eligible boy in the Heidelberg area had been there for a
two weeks’ stay, or had been a “repeater.’’ Later the
Dads’ daughters spent two weeks at the camp.

A stroll through the camp during mid-morning, when
the boys were lining up near the flagpole to start out for
the swimming pool, brought reminders of hundreds of
such camps scattered all over America, and containing the
same types of young enthusiasts. Several husky coun-
selors, on volunteer duty at the camp during vacation
from the Heidelberg American High School, were standing
by, watching over the boys.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 46 ---
The morning swimming session ended, everybody
hustled on the return trip, because the next stopping
place was the tent containing the camp's dining room.
Food at the camp — prepared by four experienced cooks
from a nearby Army cooking school — was generally
excellent, and there was always plenty of it.

Campers sterilized their Army mess-kits in boiling
water before taking food into them, and washed their
own utensils, as part of their training. Meals were served
on basis of “take all you want, but eat all you take.”

HURSDAY NIGHT was visitors’ night, and parents
and friends never disappointed the campers. Through
visits, guests learned that the campers climbed into bed
it 9.30 at night and rolled out at 7.30 a. m. sharp. In their
waking hours they attended motion picture showings in
the recreation tent, modeled with clay, patronized the
craft shop and wearied themselves with baseball and other
sports; they swam, fished, hiked and sat around campfires.
Before the 9.30 deadline at night some read on their
bunks by light from power generated in the camp. If they
had complaints they registered them in the camp with
officials there, or with the DADS’ Club board of governors.
A roster of American Dads — enlisted men, officers and
civilians — was maintained at all times, and each man
took his turn as “duty officer’ to maintain responsible
adult supervision on a 24-hour basis.

Important members of the camp's permanent staff were
he camp boy and girl counselors — high school students
of excellent character and natural ability in youthful
guidance who had previous counseling experience, or
were active in Boy Scout or Girl Scout work in the United
States. A German forester living in the vicinity of the
camp gave the boys tips on lighting wood fires and how
to know and understand wild life.

The camp closed each Saturday at noon and reopened
at three the next afternoon, and through that weekend
schedule the campers were afforded the opportunity to
attend Sunday religious service with their families.

F ACILITIES FOR THE GIRLS were generally the same
during their camping weeks, with girl counselors on
duty and in general charge.

The DADS' Club and the camp which it created were
successful ventures that contained the ingredients of
character-building through proper guidance, good sports-
manship, and sufficient and varied activities to occupy
young minds in strange environment. The club in its first
full year of operation, through one interest, made it
possible for several hundred American youngsters rang-
ing from 10 to 17 years to pass part of their summer
vacation in typical American fashion, thousands of miles
from the land they called “home.”

Those same boys and girls were pleased with a recent
announcement outlining the club's plans. Included in it
was the welcome news that the summer camp was so
Successful last year that plans are now underway to
provide a bigger and better camp for sons and daughters
this coming season. +END

JUNE 1950

Pillow fight is enjoyed by boys in the six to 11 group.
48 turned out last year. More are expected this summer.

Modern swimming pool is one of the favorite spots every
morning. Adult American always is on duty as lifeguard.

Youngsters rest up after long and strenuous day and need
no coaxing to hit the hay at 2130. Reveille is at 0730.

ow se Se)

--- Page 47 ---
Personnel Notes

Dr. Shuster Has German Background

Dr. George N. Shuster, who comes to Germany from
his post as president of Hunter College, New York City,
to take up his new duties as state commissioner for
Bavaria, June 1, has a broad background of German
social history.

Born in Wisconsin in 1894, Dr. Shuster is descended
from a family which came to the United States from
Germany in 1848. He speaks fluent German.

Dr. Shuster received the B. A. and M.A. degrees from
Notre Dame University and the Ph. D. from Columbia
University. He also attend-
ed the University of Poi-
tiers, and the University
of Berlin and the Hoch-
schule fuer Politik, Berlin.

In the first World War,
Dr. Shuster served with
Intelligence Section, GHQ,
at the front and later with
the Army of Occupation.

He was chairman of
the English Department at
Notre Dame University
for three years and later
was instructor of English
at Brooklyn Polytechnic
Institute; and Professor of
English at St. Joseph's
College for Women.

From 1925 to 1937, Dr. Shuster served as managing
editor of the Commonweal, liberal Roman Catholic
magazine, and while holding that position became deeply
interested in the problems of modern Germany, receiving
grants in aid for study from the Vereinigung Carl
Schurz and the Oberlaender Trust.

In 1937, Dr. Shuster resigned as managing editor of the
Commonweal to become a Fellow of the Social Science
Research Council, with a grant for two years’ study of
the Weimar Republic.

In 1938 he also conducted an investigation of the
refugee problem in Europe for the Catholic bishops and
shared in the preliminary work of the Evian Conference.

He was appointed Academic Dean and acting Presi-
dent of Hunter College in 1938 and was inaugurated
President of Hunter in October 1940.

Among other works, Dr. Shuster is the author of
“Catholic Spirit in Modern English Literature; “New-
man — Prose and Poetry; “The Catholic Spirit in
America;" “The Germans;" “Strong Man Rules; “Like a
Mighty Army; “A Short History of Germany” (with
A. Bergstraesser — 1945).

His translations include: “Jesse and Maria’ by Handel-
Mazzetti; ‘Job the Man Speaks with God" by Lippert;

Dr. George N. Shuster

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

and “The Vatican as a World Power” by Bernhart, In
addition, Dr. Shuster has written regularly for the New
York Times Book Review, the New York Herald-Tribune
Books, and the Saturday Review.

He has served as a member of the General Advisory
Committee, Division of Cultural Relations, Department
of State; Enemy Alien Board No. 2, New York; Governor
Dewey's Committee against Discrimination; Board of
Directors, Foreign Policy Association, and Christian
Refugee Committee; and Board of Trustees, National
Council of Christians and Jews.

During the summer of 1945, he served as chairman
of the Historical Commission and was sent abroad by
the War Department. He also served recently as ad-
viser to the American delegation to the London Con-
ference establishing the United Nations’ Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organizations.

He was appointed by President Truman as a member
of the American delegation to the UNESCO Conference
in Paris (Nov. 1946) and has served as a member of the
National Commission for UNESCO.

Conrad Takes Up New ECA Post

Henry C. Conrad, chief of the Trade and Payments
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG, left Ger-
many in May after five years to take up the post of chief
of ECA's European Trade Policy Branch in Washington.

Mr. Conrad was a member of the original OEEC Work-
ing Party which drew up the Intra-European Payments
Scheme, established by participating Marshall Plan coun-
tries to promote intra-European trade.

Experts from OEEC and ECA have been working on a
revision of the Intra-European Payments Plan on the basis
of a clearing house for European currencies, The new
arrangement, labeled European Payments Union, has been
under study for six months, Mr. Conrad will be closely
associated with this work in Washington.

Having joined Military Government in 1945, Mr. Conrad
has held positions with Finance Division of OMGUS,
Allied Bank Commission and Office of Economic Affairs.

Resident Officers Reassigned

Several US Resident Officers in Wuerttemberg-Baden
have been reassigned as a result of resignations and for,
purposes of promotion, New assignments are:

Charles H. Wright, of Waiblingen, who resigned
recently to return to his home in the United States, has
been replaced by Milton Rosner, former RO at Heiden-
heim;

Mr. Rosner's position at Heidenheim has been taken
over by Alexander B. Trowbridge, a newcomer to Resi-
dent Officers’ circles;

Nicholas Semaschko, for several years RO at Esslingen,
has replaced James W. Butler at Heilbronn. Mr. Butler
recently resigned to take a position in HICOG Head-
quarters at Frankfurt;

JUNE 1950

--- Page 48 ---
Earl T. Squires, who formerly served as RO at Aalen,
has been assigned to duty at Esslingen;

Donald H. Feick, formerly RO at Bruchsal, has taken
over Mr. Squires’ former duties at Aalen.

For the present the work at Bruchsal will be carried
on by Pierre C. Nelson along with his regular RO duties
at Sinsheim.

All the above Resident Officers, except Mr. Trow-
bridge, are veterans in their fields, several of them having
begun service as Military Government Officers more than
four years ago.

HICOG Official Attends Health Congress

William D. Radcliffe, chief of the Public Health Branch,
OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, attended the recent Health
Congress of the British Royal Sanitary Institute at East-
bourne, England.

Chiefs of the US and German Public Health Services in
Hesse, Bavaria and Bremen also received invitations to
the British Health Congress.

Prison Expert Consults with Germans

Dr. James B. Spradley, eminent criminal psychiatrist,
recently arrived in Germany to consult with German
prison authorities. During his three months’ stay,
Dr. Spradley is meeting with institutional heads and
resident physicians to evaluate the German program
for the care of the criminal insane and consult on prison
problems related to mental hygiene and the incidence of
mental illness.

Dr. Spradley is a psychiatrist with 30 years’ experience
as staff physician and later superintendent of the New
Jersey State Hospital at Trenton, N.J., which houses all
the criminal insane of the state.

New Appointments in OLCH

Several new appointments and changes in the staff of
OLC Hesse have been announced recently.

Charles R. Dilley, formerly with the HICOG Decarteliza-
tion Branch, has been appointed chief of the Exchanges
Branch, OLC Hesse, to replace Joseph A. Horne, who is
returning to Washington, D.C.

Melvin G. Aasen has been named chief of Adminis-
tration and Personnel, OLC Hesse, and will be respon-
sible for personnel, operating facilities, communications
and security for the State Commissioner's headquarters.

Werner G, Dietrich, former deputy chief of the Intelli-
gence Division, OLC Hesse, has been promoted chief of
the division, Mr, Dietrich replaces Robert Cunningham,
who has been transferred to the Intelligence Division,
HICOG,

Donald S. Spigler, finance adviser to Dr. James R. New-
man, State Commissioner of Hesse, since 1946, and chief
of the Finance Branch, OLC Hesse, has returned to the
United States to ‘accept an important post with the State
Department in Washington.

JUNE 1950

RO Observes French Zone

Charles E. Lloyd, senior district resident officer at Mar-
burg, is the first American field officer selected to study
the reorientation activities of the other Occupation Powers
in Germany.

Lloyd recently visited Mainz, French Zone, for one
week's observation of the methods used by the French
authorities in their occupation zone. A French reorienta-
tion expert later will be invited to study the American
system in Hesse. An exchange of resident officers also
has been agreed upon between the British Zone and Hesse.

Educator to Consult on Women's Affairs

Elizabeth L, Fackt, assistant director of the Social
Sciences Foundation and professor of International Rela-
tions at the University of Denver, has arrived in Germany
to advise and consult with German groups in universities
and in the field of women’s affairs.

During her five-month stay, the educator will consult
with leaders of women's organizations on the responsi-
bility of university women and women students in civic
life. She also will cooperate with German women in re-
activating the Organization of University Women and
plans to confer with British and French Women's Affairs
staffs.

As a representative of the panel of higher education
of the Association of American Colleges and the Ameri-
can Council on Education, Professor Fackt will investi-
gate means through which the panel can aid German
universities with exchanges of books and materials.

Education Experts in Germany

Four American consultants in the education field have
arrived in Frankfurt to work with German groups and
schools in promoting democratic procedures and institu-
tions under the Exchanges program.

Members of the group are: A. F, Arnason, commissioner
for Higher Education in North Dakota and executive
officer of the State Board of Vocational Education, who
will be concerned with general administration and citizen-
ship training primarily in vocational schools.

Fritz Redl, former Viennese professor who emigrated to
the United States in 1936, and is currently professor of
Social Work, Wayne University, Detroit, who will work
with education service centers, particularly in the fields
of child guidance, mental hygiene and group leadership.

Paul A. Dalager, executive secretary of the North
Dakota Education Association, who will work with Ger-
man educators in promoting teacher organizations.

Fritz T. Epstein, curator of the Hoover Library, Stanford
University, California, who will lecture on History of
Eastern Europe at the Free University of Berlin.

The four educators will work in Germany for two to
four months, in activities arranged and sponsored by the
Education and Cultural Relations Division in conjunction
with German educational institutions. + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Economic Review

for

April 1950

This monthly review of the German Federal

Republic's current economic picture, based on

the latest figures and trends available when

this section of the Information Bulletin went
to press, was prepared

By M. W. A. EDWARDS
Chief, Reports Office,

ESTERN GERMANY ’S industrial production reached
the 1936 level in March.

There was little fanfare to mark the achievement — no
speeches or ceremonies. The press played the story mod-
erately. But no one called it propaganda. Neither was
anyone apologizing for the fact that the German Federal
Republic was the last of any ERP participating country
to push its index of industrial production to the magic 100.

In no country has the climb been more difficult. The
displacement and realignment of industries have made
co-ordinated development impossible. The electrical equip-
ment industry is producing twice as heavily as prewar in
an effort to fill the gap left by Berlin's stunted rehabili-
tation, while the aircraft industry is at nil, under multi-
partite agreement. Glass production is half again above
prewar, while the stones and earths industrial group
(bricks, cement, etc.) and steel constructions are stili a
quarter to a third below the 1936 average.

Mushrooming or dwarfed, German industry had finally
ground out a total product equal to what it did in 1936.

Actually, the initial index of 100 for March represented
little more than a recovery from a three-month slump in
industrial production, for November's output was 99 per-
cent of the 1936 average. The best food for optimism at
the end of April was not in the field of production, but
in foreign trade.

Foreign Trade

Exports in March took a giant $25,000,000 stride be-
yond anything yet attained since the war, reaching a
strapping total for the month of $139,669,000 in commodi-
ties. No one expected the record figure to hold in April,
but everyone was more hopeful that Germany's exports
would not now slip back to eight digits. The $100,000,000
level was first broken through in April 1949, not again
until September, and then again in December, January
and February. March's performance fastened hopeful eyes
on the next higher rung—the breakthrough at
$150,000,000.

The $140,000,000 total—encouraging in itself — was
made up of at least two encouraging sub-totals: (1) Ex-
ports to Latin America (primarily a dollar market) hit a
record $9,124,000 — 60 percent over the previous monthly
high.

(2) Exports of finished products (normally Germany's
stock-in-trade and thus considered to be its greatest ex-
port potential) jumped 29 percent above February, reach-
ing $84,600,000 — more than all categories of exports from
the Federal Republic and Western Berlin in October 1949.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 46

ECA Special Mission to Germany

March commodity imports totaled $194,850,000, leaving
a deficit about the same as February's $55,000,000. The
import breakdown, however, was not so favorable as in
February. Food and agricultural imports climbed 31 per-
cent in March, and finished goods were 23 percent above
the February figure, while the export-generating imports
of raw materials and semi-finished products increased
only four and nine percent, respectively. Imports for the
first quarter of 1950 totaled $592,386,000, and the trade
deficit for the quarter was $235,958,000— the lowest
deficit since the first quarter of 1949.

Foreign Trade, Excluding Invisibles, of
the Federal Republic and Western Berlin
Million Dollars

Exports Imports Monthly
Balance
1949
March... . ww ee ee 961 166.9 — 70.8
Monthly Average . . . . . . 93.6 186.4 — 92.8
1950
January woe ee ee ee 10404 230.0 —125.6
February ....-.-.. .-. (124 167.6 5
March . eee ee ee 139.7 194.8
Labor

On the face of it, the 235,100 decline in unempioyment
in the Federal Republic since mid-February looked good;
by the end of April, unemployed wage and salary earners
had inched downward to 1,783,377. But the decrease in the
past two and a half months had wiped out only a third of
the huge 730,000 increase in the two and a half months
before the trend reversed itself.

Another cloud in the labor picture was a 250,000 decline
in employment during 1950's first quarter (employment
figures are available only quarterly) dropping employed
wage and salary earners to the lowest figure — 13,300,000
— since currency reform in June 1948. Western Germany's
economy in April 1950 was nevertheless furnishing jobs
for 2,100,000 more persons than drew wages and salaries
in the same area in 1936.

Production
Industrial Production Index for the Federal Republic

(1936 = 100; adjusted for number of working days)
1949 1950

Mar Jan Feb Mar p
TOTAL ALL INDUSTRIES

(incl. electricity and gas)a, . . . 84 95 99 100

(excl. electricity and gas). . . . 81 91 95 97
Investment goods (total). . . . . . 78 84 90 91

Raw materials... . 1... . 6? 2B “4 i

Finished products . . ... . 84 92 99 100
General production goods

(incl. electricity and gas) . - . . 104 115 117 = 119

(excl. electricity and gas) . . . - 95 103 107 111
Consumer goods . .. 1. ++ + 7 92 95 95

a = excl. food processing, stimulants, and building.

p = preliminary.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 50 ---
Production Volumes (Federal Republic)

1950
Unit Jan Feb = Mar p
Hard coal (gross mined) . 1000M.T. 9,327. -r 8,671 —9,802
Non-ferrous ores (gross mined) M.T.—eff. 166,648 157,790 181,440
Cement... . . .  . MT. 508,749 443,778 777,563
Bricks, total . . . . . . . 1000 212,117 163,906 195,748
Pig iron. . . . . . 1.) ©=oMAT. ~~ 692,475 664,380 767,288
Steel ingots... .. , M.T. 894,838 + 887,076 1,001,534
Rolled steel finished prod. . . = M.T. —-604,840-—-573,133 651,037
Farm tractors, total... pieces 2,640 r 2,846 4,208
Typewriters - se we pieces 13,777 13,734. 15,997
Passenger cars, total. . . . pieces 13,493 13,743 15,449
Cameras... ..... pieces 84,800 r 92,287 135,458
Sulphuric acid (incl. oleum) . M.T.—SOs 86,537 r 82,867 87,924
Calcium carbide. . . 2...) MAT. 46,023 r 41,464 55,449
Soap; totals « sSriustetanre oR, 6,262 r 7,099 8,009
Newsprint... 6.4... MT, 13,738 13,333 14,985
Auto and truck tires . . . , pieces 195,441 198,413 202,662
Shoes, total . . .. 5, 1000 pr 5,226 + 4,934 6,332
p = provisional
r = revised

Hard coal—the backbone of the German economy —
rolled out of the mines faster on April 24 than any other
since the end of the war. Eight full or partial holidays,
however, dropped the total production in April to 8,358,000
tons. Daily average (full working days) production for the
month was 364,000 tons — 7,000 tons less than the record
on April 24.

Steel production for April dropped from the record
1,000,000 tons in March to 897,800, lowering the annual
rate on a monthly average basis for the first months of
1950 to slightly below the 11,100,000 metric ton limitation
under the tripartite Prohibited and Limited Industries
Agreement.

An average of about 27 working days in March helped
set postwar monthly volume records for the production
of non-ferrous ores, pig iron, Passenger cars, cameras,
sulphuric acid, calcium carbide (see table, above), iron ore,
928,510 M.T. metal content; and yarn (total), 3,210 M. T.

day

Averill W. Harriman, US Ambassador at large, made a
whirlwind visit to Berlin May 2 to tour Berlin industrial
organizations which are being helped in Berlin's recon-
struction program through Marshall Plan funds and to
conier with city officials and ECA Committee members.
The roving ambassador was entertained at the home of
Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US commander, Berlin.
Left lo right below are Friedrich Stennrath, AEG board
chairman and member of ECA Berlin advisory committee;
General Taylor; Mr. Harriman; Mayor Ernst Reuter of
Berlin; and US High Commissioner John J. McCloy.
(US Army photo)

At 90,000 tons, crude petroleum production in the Fed-
eral Republic in March could not come close to supplying
domestic needs. The development of oil resources in Ger-
many since the war, however, has been at a rate (though
not a volume) which would excite a hardened Texas oil
man. Systematic prospecting and intensified drilling since
1947 have doubled Germany's oil reserves to an estimated
20,200,000 tons, and permitted a monthly take of nearly
two and one-half times that pumped in 1936.

The Consumer

Prices eased perceptibly for the consumer in March,
and the consumer gratefully purchased a little more
heavily than in February. With 13 percent more shopping
days than February, March recorded a 15 percent over-
all rise in retail turnover. Some food items, particularly
fresh fruits, ran counter to the declining price trend, and
held the total food index to a one-point decline. Con-
sumers responded by diverting the greater share of their
added purchasing power to clothing, furniture, household
appliances and vehicles.

The retail turnover index is computed on turnover
taxes on value, Declining prices thus cover up a rising
turnover to the extent of the price drops.

Index of Retail Turnover (Bizonal Area)
(Excluding Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein; 1949 = 100)

1949 1950

Mar Feb Mar
TOTAL 1 3! Hinds eaten ey dhmed uth: of Rb 91 105
Food and stimulants. . . ...... 99 93 101
Clothing and household textiles. . . . 86 97 113
Pormiture es ay 60 ferret atige oS 104 122
Vehicles, small machines and appliances 96 88 110

1/ Includes items listed, plus: ironware, glassware and porcelain;
paper products, cosmetics and toilet articles; etc.

Index of Consumer Prices (Bizonal Area)

(1938 = 100)

1949 ~ 1950

Mar Feb Mar
TOTAL oe es a ae a a TP 154 153
Food! ¢ b3flot, ahh. gqeran , inant 160 159
Apparel? a: oo nersns wawmadiyoseig +c: 194 191
Household goods... . 1... . . 198 168 166
Stimulants} (ii15 08 vidos: (eiteyset) We} « (1651299, 286 285
GUGARUI Es ox sop So ccsseca sa iia, © FARO 149 148
1 ae eb cobra a eee MSE (5 102 102
Heatand ‘light 2/:5i?. 290 R85 ty Aan 119 119
HAGCHAGIS «652 rs co:" Hoje les") doldn “ut yt PG AMD 142 141
‘Transportation, {3.25/62 cao 35 vate 188 134 133

Shipping

Old tars and rivermen in Germany both had reason to
gingerly test their sea legs in April. On April 16 the
first German cargo ship to load and sail from the United
States since the war—the s.s. Hermod—arrived at
Bremen with a 4,700-ton cargo of grain, lard, tobacco and
seeds loaded at Baltimore, Norfolk and New York. The
ship is under charter of the North German Lloyd Line.

Also in April Germany was accepted as a full and
equal member in the Central Rhine Commission, the
second international organization in which Germany
participates to tender this status since the war. The
Office of European Economic Cooperation, or OEEC, was
the first. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Bavaria’s Sounding Board

HE TOWN MEETING, as a sounding board of public
expression, is helping civic-minded Bavarians reach
a popular decision on community matters.

An informal study made recently in the Augsburg
region in southwest Bavaria by the Public Relations
Branch, OLC Bavaria, revealed that progressive steps
have been made by towns and villages whose officials
and citizens get together for a public airing of their civic
problems, The result has been a far better relationship
between officialdom and citizenry and a more concerted
effort behind community undertakings.

In some cases, once bitter opponents have become the
staunchest supporters of this form of public assemblage,
which offers persons of all walks of life ample opportunity
to publicly voice their views on proposed community
projects of concern to them and their families.

Take the mayor of one town near Augsburg, for example.
He took a violent dislike to town meetings early after the
war when certain things uttered publicly by the towns-
folk ruffled his dignity. The indiscreet remarks were
leveled at a pet project he had sought to introduce to the
community. Consequently, the mayor put his foot down
on further town meetings.

In the ensuing months, the local press took up the cry
in defense of the right of citizens to speak frankly to
their elected officials. Result: town meetings were revived.

NOTHER MAYOR in the same area likewise was an
A outspoken opponent of the town meeting. However,
during a feud with his political opponents, the Mayor
decided to go to the citizens to determine how much
support he could expect from them should a showdown
battle with his opponents develop. He called a town
meeting and invited all the citizens.

At the public meeting, the citizens called the mayor
to task on several points. After expressing their feelings,
they gave him a vote of confidence. Today, that mayor
is one of the town meetings’ most ardent supporters.

On the other hand, one county supervisor became a
confirmed believer in town meetings more than two years
ago and told his mayors to get busy and talk things over
with the people so they would have a better understand-
ing of what the people were thinking along community
lines. The mayors, to their satisfaction, discovered that
a lot of the things the people were thinking about were
worth hearing. The result: a friendlier relationship be-
tween officials and citizens and a more co-operative spirit
in tackling local civic problems.

White town meetings are still in a comparatively experi-
mental stage, results have been more than encouraging.
In Fischbach, in Augsburg county, residents voiced dis-

pleasure at a town meeting over the rundown condition
of their venerable church built in the 16th century. They

INFORMATION BULLETIN

48

also felt it deserved a monument to show visitors when
the landmark was founded. As a result,’the church has.
been repaired and a monument erected. :

N LEITERSHOFEN, the residents complained at a town

meeting that the community planners were not keeping ;
step with the times. They particularly lamented the fact
that, while their houses were numbered, their streets
remained unnamed as of old. In addition, they pointed
out, hazardous curves in the streets, while no problem
in the days of slow-moving bicycles and horse-drawn
wagons, were a menace in this day of automobiles. The
town meeting formally adopted a request that the town
fathers do something to modernize their town.

About a year ago, at a town meeting in Zusmarshau-
sen, an elderly farmer remarked that it was about time
the town did something to relieve its congested housing
problem instead of just complaining about it. Someone
else spoke up and suggested that the city build a few
houses and that income from the houses be used to build
additional dwellings. The suggestion was adopted. Today
six such houses have been built and occupied and others
are planned.

The housing problem was handled in another manner
in another area. The suggestion was made at a town
meeting that the refugees be redistributed, so that com-
munities having available housing accommodations could
help share the burden, of the more congested communi-
ties. Although the communities who received refugee
families were not over-happy, the redistribution helped
ease the burden on the overcrowded communities as well
as on the refugees themselves.

ILLIAM C. RHYNE, chief of District 5 of OLCB's

Field Operations Division, with headquarters in
Augsburg, termed the town meeting not an American
institution but a method of public expression by peace-
loving peoples everywhere. While the US resident officer
lends every possible assistance, he said, the actual plan-
ning and conducting of such meetings is the responsibil-
ity of Bavarians themselves.

“Needless to say,’ Mr. Rhyne declared, “you can't cram
true democracy down a people's throat. It must be a
voluntary desire. For that reason, it is encouraging to see
officials and citizens here getting together, discussing their —
common problems, striving for civic betterment as a team, ~
and recognizing the wishes of the majority. It contributes
to a far better understanding and relationship between
officialdom and citizenry.

“The citizen, in having a voice in community affairs
affecting himself and his family, has the feeling he is a
partner in the undertaking. As such, it is easier for him ’
to help shoulder the responsibility and to take a keener
interest in the affairs of his community.” --END

JUNE 1950

--- Page 52 ---
Occupation Log

Hessian Exports Break Record

Almost DM 100,000,000 worth of goods were exported
to foreign countries during the first quarter of 1950 by
Hessian firms. Almost 2,000 firms participated in the
export program.

The chemical industry shipped almost DM 32,000,000
worth, the vehicle industry DM 14,570,000; and machine
construction firms DM 14,000,000. The non-ferrous metai
industry jumped to fourth place by increasing exports
25 percent to a new total of DM 9,100,000.

One industry — the fine mechanics and optics indus-
try — showed a notable decrease.

March set a new record — DM 40,000,000 worth of
materials were exported by Hessian firms.

Youth Ask Jewish Plays

The Wiesbaden youth chapter of the Christian-Jewish
Association has appealed to directors of the Wiesbaden
Hesse State Theater to render further assistance in the
fight against racial prejudice and anti-Semitism by con-
sidering an adequate number of works of Jewish authors
during the coming season.

Pointing out that they have an essential influence on the
cultural education of the population, the writers assert
that the re-awakening of the German people's interest in
past and current works of Jewish artists would contribute
considerably to cultural rehabilitation. They stressed the
value of works by Jewish artists of German nationality.

Medical Practice Law Disapproved

A law regulating conditions under which doctors and
dentists may set up independent practice in Schleswig-
Holstein was disapproved by the Allied High Commission
because it discriminated against Displaced Persons.

One of the conditions was that they must be of Ger-
man nationality or be a refugee — a refugee being defined
as a German national or other ethnic German. Effect of
the law was that no foreigner, including Displaced Per-
sons, could practice as an independent doctor or dentist
in Schleswig-Holstein, even though qualified as a doctor
in Germany.

Although exceptions could be made, no person was
entitled to be treated as an exception and there was noth-
ing to control or guide the absolute discretion of the
appellate minister. A factor which is believed to have
contributed to the law's passage is the considerable un-
employment of doctors in Schleswig-Holstein. Allied ob-
Servers pointed out that discrimination against medical
practice by non-Germans might have considerable reper-
cussions in the treatment of German doctors abroad.

JUNE 1950

Expulsion Board Set Up

A regulation setting up an Allied board to coordinate
expulsion of undesirable persons from the Federal Repub-
lic was effected during April. This board will examine
and adjudicate requests for expulsion and will issue the
necessary expulsion orders.

The board wili carry out the Allied High Commission
law which provides that any German national, not or-
dinarily resident in the republic, or any person not of
German nationality, may be expelled from federal ter-
ritory if he is convicted of an offense by an occupation
court or if his presence is liable to endanger the public
order, or prestige and security of the armed forces.

Expulsions will be effected by the high commissioner
of the zone where the person to be expelled is located.
German authorities may recommend expulsion to the
board.

The regulation also permits each high commissioner to
expel nationals of his own country from his own zone.

HICOM Lifts Fencing Ban

A ban on the sport of fencing in Germany has been
lifted by the Allied High Commission. Imposed by the
Four-Power Control Council in December 1945, the ban
was included in a directive prohibiting military or para-
military training.

Lifting of the ban followed a request from Chancellor
Adenauer to the High Commission. He pointed out thal
women as well as men engaged in the sport, which has
long been included in the program of the Olympic Games.
He also referred to the federation of 157 fencing clubs
in Germany, which outlines its tasks as those of fostering
the art of fencing on the basis of international regulations,
organizing the German championships for foils, epee and
saber, and publicizing the Olympic idea in the sphere
of fencing.

Smiling representatives of the Neubiberg Air Base Work-
ers’ Council, Hans J, Boehme (center) and Harry H. Rentel
(right), present DM 2,379 to Chester S. Wright, senior
Munich resident officer and co-chairman of the Pfennig
Parade. Originally exclusively a Munich affair, the cam-
paign to fight infantile paralysis has been extended to
many other Bavarian cities and towns, among which
Neubiberg has been outstanding with the air base's Ger-
man workers’ contribution of a neat DM 2,379. The Pfennig
Parade is Bavaria’s ‘‘March of Dimes." (USAFE photo)

ler:

Uhr im

--- Page 53 ---
The ban was lifted with the stipulation that the sport
be exercised in accordance with the rules of the inter-
national fencing federation. Duels of any kinds, especially
among students, will be strictly prohibited. Bayonet exer-
cises will be considered as a military activity and offend-
ers will be prosecuted.

Bundles for Bavarians

Toys, play equipment and wearing apparel from
America are being brought into Bavarian refugee camps
in a year-round project sponsored by the office of the
Land Commissioner for Bavaria.

Since the drive began a year ago, a total of 2,935 pack-
ages have been delivered from donors in all 48 states of
the union. These packages contained nearly 57,000 items
of toys and other recreational supplies — enough to in-
sure each of the 25,000 children living in Bavarian refugee
camps at least two toys. In addition, more than 7,000 pairs
of shoes and items of clothing have been distributed to
refugee youngsters from American volunteer contribu-
tions.

The avalanche of recreational supplies and clothing
resulted from an appeal made first in 1949 by Murray D.
Wagoner, then director of OMG Bavaria, and since reiter-
ated by Land Commissioner Clarence M. Bolds.

“Saucer” Flies on Czech Border

Flying saucers are not strictly an American dish, accord-
ing to reports received in Bavaria during April.

A Bavarian postal official reported to US Resident Of-
ficer Allen N. Willis in Koetzting that a flying saucer
streaked through the sky near his home, close to the
Czechoslovakian border. The report added that he sum-
moned his wife from their home and she too saw the object.

The couple said the saucer looked as “big as a hai”
and was flying in a southwesterly direction. They said
they observed it for one minute, during which time sparks
emitted from it. They described the object as “yellowish
silver, shining and flat," and that it was shrouded by a
“prightly-lit pall." They did not estimate its speed or
altitude.

Preparations for this year's Soap Box Derby, an innovation
which caught like wild fire with German youth last year,
are well under way in Berlin. Winners of GY A-sponsored
heats in cities of the US Zone and Berlin will compete
in the EUCOM-wide contest. Photo shows Cpl. Robert
Gruner, director of the 7773rd Signal Service Co. GYA
Club in Berlin, supervising members of Signal GYA Club
as they put finishing touches to a racer. (US Army photo)

Ti h
Captain Charles F, M. S. Quinby, USN, commanding officer
of the US Naval Advanced Base (right) presided at Bremer-
haven ceremony honoring, l.-r., Karl Lauterbach, chief
engineer; Karl Tempelmann, master painter; Wilhelm Pirk,
construction superintendent, and Bernhard Toben, elec-
trical engineer, who were presented with scrolls in recog-
nition of meritorious service. (US Navy photo)

Jewish Community Law Rejected

A law relating to Jewish communities, passed by the
North Rhine-Westphalia legislature, was disapproved by
the Council of the Allied High Commission during April.
The Council felt the law purported to legislate in fields
reserved to the Occupation Authorities and that one of
its provisions might prejudice the interests of Jews now
living outside Germany.

General effect of the law was to provide for recog-
nition of Jewish communities as corporations under public
law. Article IV of the law provides that communities
organized under the law shall be successors of the Jewish
synagogue communities which lost their status under the
Nazi regime. In effect, the law would give the newly-
formed Jewish communities control of the assets of the
far larger Jewish communities which were broken up by
the Nazis in the 1933 period. Many members of these
communities are believed to be alive in Israel, the United
Kingdom, the United States, France and elsewhere.

Much of the property concerned may be the subject
of restitution claims which are being dealt with by the
Allies under their reserved powers.

The Council said a rewritten version of the law would
receive its consideration.

Trade Unionism by Mail

From 3,000 to 5,000 unemployed German youth inter-
ested in trade unionism will be allowed to study at home
through a correspondence school being established by the
Hessian trade union organization. The school, Die Brief-
schule, is making its courses available with the coopert-
ation of the Office of Labor Affairs and the Education
and Cultural Relations Division of the Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 54 ---
The school, begun in 1948, was brought to Germany
by German trade union leaders who were refugees in
Sweden during the Nazi period. Such schools have existed
in Sweden, England and Switzerland for several years.

At present, approximately 4,000 Germans are taking
courses from the school. The unions are desirous of in-
creasing the enrollment, particularly among unemployed
Germans up to the age of 30.

Boost for Child Guidance Center

One of the first German child guidance centers was
esiablished in Bremen during April with the help of a
DM 30,000 grant from the Public Health and Welfare
Branch, HICOG.

These funds, being transferred to the Public Health
and Welfare Branch in Bremen, will allow the state's
Public Office to pay the salaries of one social worker,
two secretaries, rent, heating, light and cleaning costs,
office supplies and furniture. The grant-in-aid will be
matched with funds from the Bremen State budget.

The new child guidance center will be operated under
an advisory committee formed by representatives of
Senators for School and Education, Public Health and
Public Welfare.

Berlin Gift Fund Over-Subscribed

An appeal to the American people for money to
finance food shipments to West Berlin was over-sub-
scribed by $20,000.

The International Rescue Committee had set $40,000
as a minimum goal with which to purchase 2,000,000
pounds of US Government surplus powdered eggs and
milk, Within three days after the appeal was made, US
citizens had contributed $60,000 for 3,000,000 pounds.

The shipments were expected in Germany in mid-May.
The foods were ordered from the Commodity Credit
Corporation; shipping costs were to be paid by ECA.

Appeal for the food was made by General Lucius
D. Clay, former US Military Governor in Germany,
Admiral Richard E, Byrd (retired), chairman, and Sumner
Welles, former US under-secretary of state.

US High Commissioner McCloy hailed the shipment
as “another demonstration of support for the people of
Berlin who are standing steadfastly against all Com-
munist threats."

Unselfish Effort Asked by Newman

Dr, James R. Newman, Hesse Land Commissioner,
sharply rejected some German grumbling on the admit-
tance of more refugees to Hesse by calling on the “un-
Selfish efforts of all Germans” to help alleviate the plight
of refugees,

Dr. Newman made his appeal in turning down an invita-
tion, issued by Karl-Heinz Priester, local leader of the
far-right National Reichs political party, to visit refugee
camps in Hesse.

JUNE 1950

Sl

High Commissioner John J. McCloy was the recipient of
a handsome album of photographs, shown being presented
by Kassel’s Mayor Willi Siedel (second from leit), follow-
ing a meeting at which 150 German officials of Kassel
Regierungsbezirk (district) were present. At left, Dr. James
R. Newman, state commissioner for Hesse, and at right,

Francis E, Sheehan, his deputy. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Dr. Newman informed the party leader that he was
fully acquainted with refugee conditions in Hesse, and
that he felt the Hessian government had gone far in im-
proving refugee conditions. He also pointed out that “at
times (there) has been a reluctance on the part of indi-
vidual Germans to help their more unfortunate brothers
from the East.”

Young Experts on ERP

Even the children of western Germany will know the
facts about ERP once they have acquainted themselves
with their new textbook, “The Others and You" (Dic
Anderen und Du). Nearly 2,000,000 copies of the text-
book have been distributed to schools in west Germany.
Designed for the nine to 12 year age group, the booklet
outlines in easy-to-understand language the principles
and aims of the European Recovery Program, with partic-
ular emphasis on Germany's role in the Marshall Plan.

The book was published by the Deutscher Buchverlag
of Hamburg and distributed directly to the schools. Copies
were received in Bavaria, North Rhine-Westphalia, Lower
Saxony, Hesse, Schleswig-Holstein, Wuerttemberg-Baden,
Rhineland-Pfalz, Berlin, Bremen, Hamburg, Baden and
Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

The 48-page booklet is illustrated in multicolored wash
drawings. The story evolves around the activities of Mr.
and Mrs. Schulze and their two children and tells how
the family’s home and business life are affected by the
Marshall Plan.

Hessian Kids Eating Better

The general nutritional status of Hesse’s school
children has improved by more than 50 percent during
the past two years. Basing his findings on a survey of
several thousand Wiesbaden school. children in various
age groups and types of schools, Public Health Chief
Charles Benning of OLC Hesse said that pupils in higher

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
education institutes are generally better fed than those
in elementary schools. Considerable improvement has
been made in all schools, however.

Last year, 41 percent of all elementary school pupils,
18 percent of all middle school children and 22 percent
of all secondary school students showed signs of under-
nourishment, compared to 74 percent, 59 percent and
56 percent in the same categories two years ago.

Twenty-four percent of all students examined during
1949 were found to be suffering from flat feet and other
deformities, resulting mainly from rickets or ill-fitting
footgear in use prior to currency reform. Scabies was
also present in three percent of the pupils examined.

German Crime Rate Drops

Crimes against the German law hit an encouraging low
in February — the lowest since August 1946. Cases re-
ported in February numbered 41,513, a drop of more than
eight percent from the total recorded in the preceding
month.

Illegal border crossings on the US Zone border also
decreased 11.3 percent in February. Eighty-seven percent
of the total of 7,393 illegal entries and 59 percent of 1,015
illegal attempts to leave the US Zone in February oc-
curred on the Soviet Zone border.

Nothing New For Sailors

“Sailors like to get along with people wherever they
may be," says Chaplain I. W. Stultz, Cmdr. USN, in
Bremerhaven. “We are trying to give our blue jackets
a chance to realize that there are good folk to know
here as there are everywhere in the world.”

The chaplain was commenting on the Navy's efforts
to effect German-American understanding in the Bremer-
haven area.

For example at the Palm Sunday dedication of a new
Navy chapel, Captain Charles F.M.S. Quinby, Command-
ing Officer of the US Naval Advanced Base, presented
scrolls of appreciation to four German supervisors and
foremen who had worked on the structure.

Chaplain Stultz himself has been cooperating with the
pastor of the German Alte Kirche in Bremerhaven,

arranging outings for sailors with young women mem-
bers of the church. Reciprocal invitations have increased
the sailor's knowledge of German life. Last Christmas
US service and civilian families participated in a candle-
light service and pageant at the German church. +END

Union Press Study Slated

Berlin's trade union press is currently studying the
effectiveness of its publicity on a co-operative project
between UGO (Independent Trade Union Organization)
and the Labor Affairs Division, HICOG, Berlin Element.

A six-man board of experts has been set up to admin-
ister the study. They will survey the effects of publicity
through press, radio and film outlets. Proposals will be
developed to increase the effectiveness of these media.

Newspapermen, lecturers and students of Berlin uni-
versities will also take part. Funds are being made avail-
able from the US reorientation program. This will be the
first study of its kind since re-establishment of the trade
union press after the war.

61,634 Germans Are Police

The 19,000,000 residents of the US Zone and US Sector
of Berlin are protected by a total of 61,634 German police
and law enforcement agents.

The total includes members of regular police agencies,
serving specific areas, and specialized agencies whose
activities are restricted to particular fields or organiza-
tions.

There are 41,925 regular police; the remainder belong
to specialized agencies. The latter include border, cus-
toms, railway and waterway police, foresters, game ward-
ens, prison guards, bank guards and internment camp
guards.

Via Allied Control Council legislation, possession of
firearms and ammunition in the US Zone is prohibited.
Supplementary legislation, however, entitles police and
specialized agencies to arm their personnel.

As of Jan. 1, 1950, police and special agencies were
authorized possessions of 24,154 rifles and carbines and
33,555 pistols and revolvers.

New chapel of the US Naval Advanced Base at Bremerhaven was dedicated on April 2. Participants included, left to right,
Capt. Charles F, M. S. Quinby, USN, commanding officer, USNAB; Rev. Udo Smidt, pastor of the Alte Kirche, Bremer-
haven; Commander John D. Zimmermann, USN, Force chaplain, US Naval Forces, Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean;
Maj. Mart M. Lampson, US Army, port chaplain at BPE; and Commander I. W. Stultz, USN, base chaplain. (US Navy photos)

--- Page 56 ---
German Art Shown in Paris

Fifty-one pictures and the world-famed altarpiece paint-
ed by Lukas Moser of Wy]l in 1431 are included in the
German works of art sent from the US Zone to a three-
month showing in Paris.

The exhibition, entitled “German Primitives,” is spon-
sored by the French Beaux Arts Office through the French
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Bavarian Ministry of
Culture and Education. The exhibit is being held at the
Musee de l'Orangerie.

US Tanker Signs Germans

When the 10,000-ton American tanker Meacham left
Bremen for the Persian Gulf in late April, 45 newly-hired
German seamen were aboard.

The German seamen were hired to replace 37 crew-
members — Filipinos, Chinese, Americans and one Ital-
ian — who signed off in Bremen at the termination of
their contracts.

The vessel, which belongs to the Sieling and Jarvis
Shipping Co., New York, is in service between Europe
and the Near East and has not touched American ports
for about five years. The German seamen will receive
regular German wages plus 40 percent.

“Whose Book is This?"

A new history textbook for fifth graders in Hesse has
not only turned Hessian parents into avid history students
but has aroused great interest in other states of western
Germany.

School authorities in the French Zone state of Rhine-
land-Palatinate have decided to adopt the text for their
own use, North Rhine-Westphalia officials await com-
pletion of the second volume of the text, after which they
plan to adapt the local historical development to their

own area, Recommendation for adoption of the books has

also been made in Hamburg and Bremen.

Entitled “Men in Changing Times," and authored by
Hessian education experts, the book is a complete depar-
ture from German traditionalism. The first of a total of
12 volumes, it tells in narrative form the history of Ger-
many from the days when she was peopled by nomadic
tribes until the period of the 30-Years-War.

The second volume brings German history up to the
date of the Atlantic Charter.

Hesse's children have carried back tales to their teach-
ers that there is no time to study the first book at home
— their parents want to read it themselves.

Germans Design New Stamps

Prize-winners in the contest to design the first series
of stamps of the West German Federal Republic were
announced early in May by the German Ministry of
Posts and Telecommunications.

Johannes Wohlfahrt of Rothenburg and Karl Hans
Walter of Stuttgart were first and second prize-winners

JUNE 1950

53

First and second prize-winning entries in the German
Federal Republic's stamp design contest are held up
respectively by Hans Schuberth, minister of Posts and

Telecommunications (left), and Hans Steinmetz, state
secretary of the Deutsche Post, following ceremony at the
Paulskirche, Frankfurt, May 3. “Hands of Peace” won
Johannes Wohlfahrt, of Rothenburg, Wuerttemberg-Baden,
DM 5,000 first prize while second prize of DM 2,000 went
to Karl Hans Walter, of Stuttgart, for his ‘East and West."
In background are 20 additional prize-winning entries.
Stamps with these new designs are scheduled to be
printed this summer. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

with their entries entitled “Hands of Peace" and "East
and West.’ More than 5,000 entries were received in
the contest.

In approximately three months the new series will be
printed and distributed throughout western Germany,
replacing the present postwar stamp series.

Prize winners were to receive a total of DM 10,000 in
awards.

HICOG Communications officials hailed the contest as
an evidence of the new democratic spirit in Germany.
As the contest was open to all citizens within the
Federal Republic, the stamp series has been designed by
the “citizens themselves.”

Twenty additional winners were selected, besides the
two top ones.

Berlin Women Get Check

First installment of financial aid from US cultural ex-
change and reorientation funds has been turned over to
three West Berlin women’s organizations.

The three recipient groups are the Staatsbuergerinnen-
verband, the Verband Berliner Hausfrauen and the Ber-
liner Frauenbund 1947, They will share a check for
DM 2,250 to help finance their operations and supply office
materials. Hereafter: the groups will share a monthly
check of DM 450.

The three organizations are not politically affiliated
although their aims include the advancement of women’s
political responsibility and participation. Other activities
are general welfare problems, social and refugee questions
and international relations among women. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
German Editorials

This section is compiled from a summary prepared by the Press & Publications
Branch, Information Services Division, HICOG, of editorials in the German press.

The publishing of these German edi-
torials is intended to inform the Ameri-
can readers of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, without interpre-
tation. The inclusion of any statement
from the German press does not give
concurrence to the view or opinion,

Truman's “Truth Campaign”

Wide publicity was accorded President Truman's ‘Truth
Campaign.” The Frankfurter Rundschau expresses its
wholehearted agreement that truth is the only possible
way to bind one nation to another. Frankfurter Neue
Presse also agrees that the atmosphere would clear if
propaganda on both sides would deal with facts and
objective arguments rather than mutual vilification.

Muenchner Merkur, however, warns against too much
Western self-satisfaction, since truth is not always a wel-
come visitor in the free world, that is, reports on Ger-
many are not always characterized by a love of truth.

Kasseler Post (Kassel) carries this thought further and
sharply attacks the Americans, saying that in their German
policy they have been disloyal to the ideals of freedom
as well as truth,

Muenchner Merkur is more moderate in the same
form of criticism. It points to the fact that whereas un-
truth is often unpleasantly in evidence in the free world
in isolated cases, it is an organic feature in dictatorships.

Deutsche Zeitung (Stuttgart) fears that the stepping
up of the propaganda apparatus will increase the danger
of incidents leading to violence.

Russian Arms for Fifth Columns

Echo der Woche (Munich, April 14) declares that Ger-
many is the headquarters for Russian arms smuggling to
Communist fifth columns both here and abroad:

“General Pulcina, commander of the MVD in Germany,
with headquarters in the Mecklenburg town of Fuersten-

(Fraenkische Presse, Bayreuth)

Uncle Sam to Nationalist China:
“We won't let you down!"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

berg, heads this action... Arms are smuggled in over
Luebeck, and Treseburg in the Harz Mountains...

“Herr M., in the Ruhr takes care of the rest... He is
concerned not only with the distribution of arms but also
with the procurement of important arms material for the
Soviet Union...

“Similar activity is going on all over Europe by means
of trade companies... French Communists are armed to
the teeth...

“It is not at all unlikely that the Kremlin will one day
explode these secret mines in order to ‘accelerate’ West
European Communist revolution with the help of the
Red Army."

Veto on Tax Reform

The tone of comment on the Allied High Commis-
sion veto on the Income Tax Reform Bill is excitedly
bitter and ironic. Most newspapers are inclined to
characterize as intolerable what they call high-handed
interference in domestic affairs, in what is presumed
to be a democracy.

Hamburger Freie Presse (Hamburg) goes so far as
to draw a parallel with the veto policy of the Rus-
sians in the UNO, which paralyzes the constructive
work of that body. He who deprives a democracy of
sovereignty, says the paper, denies it the right of exist-
ence, Those who allegedly fought and won the struggle
to save democracy for the world should also observe
its rules.

Muenchner Merkur (Munich) speaks of a battle lost
in the struggle to build up German democracy and the
Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt, April 27) accents the
political consequences. The latter declares that the border
between supervision and co-government by the Occupa-
tion Powers is no longer recognizable. The High Commis-
sion has imposed its political will and has opened the
eyes of the population to the real situation as regards
German power to rule in domestic affairs. An open letter
addressed to the US taxpayer, in the same issue, points
out the consequences if the Federal Republic should run
aground politically and economically. American aid will
then have been in vain,

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) says that it will be
impossible for a democratic government to function if it
has to deal with a second opposition, because its stability
will be endangered and the purposes of the occupation
made illusory.

Deutsche Zeitung (Stuttgart) says that no intelligent
citizen can have any respect for a parliament and govern-
ment which is treated so cavalierly by its Allied partners.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 58 ---
The Allies have in the past reproached the
federal government with inactivity; now
when it undertakes a really constructive
measure, the Occupation Powers veto it. This
view is also shared by Deutsche Kommen-
tare (Heidelberg).

Frankfurter Neue Presse is more moderate
in tone and places emphasis on the economic
problems involved. It defends tax decrease
in view of the lack of capital and unemploy-
ment and points out that tax reduction
would be in accord with the economic poli-
tical line of the Marshall Plan. It deplores
the time that has been lost but hopes for an
acceptable solution.

For the SPD press the veto is a welcome
opportunity to blame the Adenauer govern-
ment for this development and take advantage of its
present weakness to push for new elections and a pos-
sible reconstruction of the government. The Hamburger
Echo says flatly that the Adenauer Cabinet is trying to
cover up its own shortcomings by stirring up nationalist
emotion.

Frankfurter Rundschau shares this view and sharply
attacks Adenauer, with moderate criticism for the High
Commission. This paper develops the theory that the
chancellor is trying to kill two birds with one stone,
opposition here and abroad; that his essential attitude
now is: “I recognize no parties any longer; what I keep
before my eyes is Allied arbitrariness, which victimizes
the German taxpayer." However, it says, this skillful
campaign cannot blind the German people to the gross
extravagance with which Bonn uses taxpayers’ money.
Furthermore, this sort of tactics weakens Truman and
Acheson in their dealings with the isolationists.

Many papers are especially bitter over the fact that
the veto was not issued until the last moment, thus mak-
ing compromise more difficult, since the law is retro-
active to Jan. 1.

Up to April 26 many papers believed ihat a compro-
mise between the High Commission and the federal
government on the tax problem could be achieved, but
such hopes were shattered upon reports from Washington
that the United States government had directed Mr. Mc-
Cloy not to tolerate lower taxes under any circumstances.

In spite of this a large minority of the press still opti-
mistically believed that the wind would be tempered to
the shorn lamb.

“Windmills of Yesteryear"

Echo der Woche (Munich, April 14) has warm praise
for Mr. McCloy's London speech, particularly his point-
ing out the necessity of providing German youth with
an ideal:

“One has. often reproached the Americans for too
‘drastic’ action due to lack of understanding of ‘special
European problems and European culture... In Germany
too there has been much malicious criticism of this kind.

JUNE 1950

(Die Zeit, Hamburg)

Subway entrance.
US Journalists discover
underground movement
in Germany.

55

Mr. McCloy’s London speech shows how
untrue this attitude is.

“On the contrary, just because they are
unprejudiced the Americans have a wider
view of European problems than Europeans
themselves... In regard especially to Ger-
man youth did McCloy strike a note which
should be thoroughly taken to heart...

“The Soviets stand directly in the heart of
Europe and are attempting to win our youth
with inflammatory slogans regarding German
unity. They will succeed if we in the West
fail to make bold decisions. Tomorrow they
will call on the youth of Europe to unite
under the Soviet flags and the second step
will be easier than the first...

“War is inevitable unless the West ceases to tilt
against the windmills of the German danger of yesterday.”

Trade with the East

Sonntagsblatt (Hamburg, April 16) sees increase of
German trade to the East as the only alternative to bank-
ruptcy for West German industry: “Only half of our total
imports are covered by our exports. The other half is
covered by the Marshall Plan, that is, by borrowing...

“Our former best customers abroad have in the mean-
time erected their own factories, partly on the basis of
our own patents and experience... South America, South
Africa and Australia are lost to us too, at least to a
great extent...

“But think of the possibility to the East! Think of the
exchange that would be possible with Russia and China...
In these countries the industrialization which was con-
summated decades ago in the West is only just begin-
ning... The future of our export lies in the East.

“We can only renounce it if we are prepared to con-
tinue to borrow for years and if we frivolously refuse
to think of the time when the bill will be presented.”
Amazing!

Weltbild (Munich, April 16) joins an indignant reader
in condemning cover pictures in American magazines and
reproduces the offending covers. One is from the Satur-
day Evening Post of March 11 and shows small boys
playing Wild West; one party has ambushed the other
and bodies are falling in realistic fashion.

Collier's of March 18 shows a similar scene. Boys are
dressed as cowboys; one is lying apparently dead and
another answers the telephone to say: “You can't pos-
sibly speak to Georgie just now, Mrs, Conway — he’s
dead."

Weltbild's Reader: “The Saturday Evening Post and
Collier's are family journals— such pictures in such
periodicals leave me speechless — and Collier's calls
this scene typically American. I am amazed!"

Weltbild: “So are we!"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
US Initiative Welcomed

Europa Kurier (Aachen, British
Zone, April 14) says that Germans
welcome American pressure for
European unity: “... The British
Labor Government displays a con-
servatism compared to which Met-
ternich appears progressive... The
present incumbents of Whitehall
seem to have as little understand-

(Badische Neueste Nachrichten, Karlsruhe)

since such amity will be a neces-
sary factor in Europe's future:
“We hear much about Franco-
German understanding but very
little about Anglo-German recon-
ciliation.... A poll would show that
Britain is the least popular of the
three Western Occupation Powers
at present... In 1945 the situation
was exactly the reverse... This is

ing of the psychology of a van-
quished people as did the erstwhile
fools in the Wilhelmstrasse.

“Paris too seems to have forgot-
ten Talleyrand’s axioms of political psychology...

“Little Holland seems to be the only country in Europe
whose politicians still maintain contact with... reality,
although it was occupied by Germans for five years and
probably more than any other country hated Germany at
the end of the war... Holland seems to understand mat-
ters better because it borders on Germany... whereas in
the case of the United States distance seems to lend
clarity to the view.

“For some time a foreign political line has been develop-
ing in Washington which is far removed from the Roose-
velt-Morgenthau conception... McCloy's warnings seem
to have been effective... and the impression is gaining
ground that the United States is about to take the initia-
tive in Europe..."

Deutsche Kommentare (Heidelberg, April 17) believes
that the naming of John Foster Dulles as adviser to the
State Department means increased pressure on Europe
from the United States and sees the Atlantic Pact ex-
tended to include economic and political co-operation as
well as military, superseding the Council of Europe:

“.,,The real significance of the naming of the Repub-
lican John Foster Dulles will be seen in early increased
pressure on Europe from the United States... The Repub-
licans were never against European aid... but as sober
businessmen they wish to see returns on their money...

“The fact that the Republicans are not isolationists can
be seen in their China policy... It is no secret that Ger-
many will welcome stronger American pressure in
Europe... This will also be strongly favored in Italy...

“There is no people so much in accord with present
American aims and methods as the German... But the
balance against Germany which France demands cannot
be achieved in the European union unless England whole-
heartedly co-operates, As England is not prepared to do
this, the European union cannot do the job... So there
remains only an extension of the Atlantic Pact to include
political and economic organization as well as mil-
itary..."

Germany and England

Die Zeit (Hamburg, April 13) calls the present phase the
last stage of occupation and says that it behooves Britain
to do something to restore Anglo-German friendship,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Attlee’s Balancing Act.

56

a factor which should not be under-
estimated by either Englishmen or
Germans...

“We are nearing the last stage in
occupation. Even today there is a
growing feeling that the American troops are here to pro-
tect us rather than otherwise... It is obvious that oc-
cupation will soon end, at least in its present form.

“Germany cannot be at the same time a canton and a
colony in Europe... Friendship among the peoples of
the nations will be an indispensable element for the
coming Europe... It would cost England a very small
price to regain popularity in Germany ... In fact it would
have to do hardly anything except refrain from outlived
methods which injure Germany but help no one... All
it would have to do is stop dismanting, give the Heligo-
landers back their homes and muzzle Mr. Bevin...

“Under Hitler we experienced the dangers of general-
ization; we have learned that talk about ‘the’ English,
‘the’ Americans and ‘the’ Jews is nonsense. The same
applies to ‘the’ Germans... There are other things, like
the Manstein case and unimportant matters such as the
right to hunt and operate yachts, prohibiting which
serves no purpose but to give occupation personnel
‘colonial’ rights and gall the German people...

“We want Anglo-German reconciliation just as earnest-
ly as we do Franco-German understanding... Germany
can still be won if Britain will draw a line under the
past... The price is very low.”

Warning to Washington

Wiesbadener Kurier (Wiesbaden, April 17), commenting
on Chancellor Adenauer’s visit to Berlin, declared: ’... The
time when America could have imposed her wishes on a
war- weary Russia has gone... When will the West learn
that Cold Wars cannot be won with propaganda straw
fires?

“The Soviets also have their weak spots... Only when
Washington, London and Paris decide to combine their
efforts in a psychological offensive in addition to a
military and economic defensive, can we hope for an
easing in the pressure which weighs on us and the Soviet
Zone,

“Therefore Adenauer's trip to Berlin... should serve
more as a warning to Washington than a maneuver
against Moscow or her satraps."

Confidence Demanded
Neckar Echo (Heilbronn, W-B, April 17) takes offense at
the statement of Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, US state

JUNE 1950

--- Page 60 ---
(Die Zeit, Hamburg)

commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden, that
“in order to exercise effective control of the
government, the German people must show
more ‘civic courage’ as otherwise they will
remain sheep." The paper contrasts the Land
commissioner's views with the words of praise
for the development of democracy in Germany
expressed by Mr. McCloy some time ago.

Pointing to the old democratic tradition of
democratic politicians in Wuerttemberg, the
paper warns that “unwarranted criticism” of
German democracy may revive the memories
of the anti-democratic propaganda of the Nazis and cause
the young generation to hold aloof in an attitude of
distrust.

Demagogues and World Politics

Esslinger Zeitung (Esslingen, W-B, April 17) launches
a sharp attack against “such demagogues as Remer,
Hedler, Feitenhansl and the like” asserting that they are
playing into Moscow's hands by encouraging their im-
poverished and destitute followers in their wishful
thinking.

The paper also stigmatizes “those US senators as
demagogues who undermine and discredit US foreign
policy.” Then adds, ‘Those French and British politicians
who talk about unity and security but in reality want
to gain advantage from Germany's destruction and weak-
ness” belong in the same category.

“Never Had It So Good?"

Acht Uhr Blatt (Nuremberg, April 17), in editorial com-
ment, lists some of the criticisms Germans are said to
direct against the Occupation Powers. It is asserted that
Allied troops in Germany lead an extravagant life,
employ too many Germans at the expense of the Ger-
man economy, give them excessively high salaries, con-
fiscate too much private property and place unreason-
ably expensive orders for goods of all kinds.

It also is said that Allied civilians, members of the
Allied Control Commission and Allied soldiers, have a
far higher living standard here than their countrymen at
home, again at the expense of the German taxpayer.

Underground

Echo der Woche (Munich, March 3 and 10) publishes
an interview with the leader of the alleged underground
movement Katakombe and publisher of its illegal organ
Scheinwerier,

According to its publisher, the Scheinwerfer has ap-
Peared since more than one year. It has an average
edition of 2,000 copies and its editors estimate that each
copy passes through 20 pairs of hands, so that the total
circulation amounts to 40-50,000.

He further alleges that the paper is financed by the
collections of small voluntary groups; that no money is
received or accepted from Russia or the East zone; that
the organization, although its aims and methods are not
illegal, remains underground because it has no confidence

JUNE 1950

Erhard's balancing act.

SF

in the liberal promises of either Allied or Ger-
man authority.

On anti-Semitism, according to its leader,
Katakombe takes the view that “the greatest
and most dangerous anti-Semites are those
who make a profession of combating anti-
Semitism... although we condemn Hitler's
persecutions of the Jews as cowardly and
inhumane.”

The aim of the Katakombe, again according
to its leader, is an authoritative government
but not an uncontrolled one.

It believes that Germans should not condemn and throw
overboard the good features of the Third Reich.

In its March 10 issue the Echo der Woche publishes
extracts from an “Open Letter’ to Mr. McCloy from the
Scheinwerfer, interspersed with its own comment.

In this Katakombe Scheinwerfer criticizes the High
Commissioner's Stuttgart speech as follows:

“You speak of nationalism and authoritarian tendencies
in the German people... This shows clearly that you
mistake the situation, under the influence of your Ger-
man collaborators.

“There is no political group in Germany which is any
more nationalistic than similar groups of Americans,
British or French..."

At this point Echo der Woche comments that it believes
that the collaboration which the Scheinwerfer condemns
is justified as long as it lies in the interest of German
and world peace..."

Scheinwerfer continues:

“Despite your long sojourn in Germany, Mr. McCloy,
you appear unable to realize that our German problems
cannot be solved except by authoritative methods..."

Echo der Woche comments: ‘The elections for the Bonn
Bundestag prove that the German people do not share
this view..."

Scheinwerfer: “We know, Mr. High Commissioner,
that in the moment of danger you, your officials and
occupation soldiers will leave Europe.

“We also have no doubt that the representatives of
so-called ‘democratic’ Germany will accompany you and
as generously-endowed government-in-exile will call on
the German people for ‘heroic resistance’ from safe hotel
rooms in Florida, etc...."

Echo der Woche again disagrees with this and says:
“The Russian tanks will only move over Europe when the
Kremlin is convinced that Europe has been softened up.
This is the very thing that the United States is com-
bating with its aid program..."

Scheinwerfer: “You, Mr. High Commissioner, and your
colleagues have prepared the way for a resistance in
Germany which is stronger than weapons; like that of
Gandhi in India.

“This resistance is necessary because otherwise Ger-
man youth, which does not believe in your democracy,
will fall a prey to Nihilism or Communism...

“You will no longer be able to suppress the voice of
our national conscience..." +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
(Continued from page 5)

Five Years after Potsdam

have been transferred to public service corporations
under the direction of boards of directors made up of
representatives of the main groups in the local populations.

Some progress has also been made in the direction of
school reform in Germany, although thorough-going
reform is still lagging, and is opposed by powerful private
groups and governmental officials, Our aim is to make
a free education, including free textbooks, available to
the widest possible area of German society. German
democratic elements have too long fought for under-
standing under the handicap that education was the
privilege of too few.

US authorities in Germany are supporting and encour-
aging with all means at their disposal a wide variety of
liberal forces and movements, which aim at the reform
and reorientation of German life. We also speak directly
to the German people through a number of information
media we ourselves operate.

A network of US Information Centers which includes
most of the major cities and towns in the US Zone has
been established. Around these centers are organized
innumerable projects for education in democracy.

We publish a newspaper in German, the Neue Zeilung,

with editions in Munich, Frankfurt and Berlin, with distri-|

bution throughout the Federal Republic and into the
Soviet Zone. Four magazines edited and published by our
Information Services Division roll regularly off the presses
which once printed the hate-filled Nazi publications. We
distribute a press feature service that reaches all news-
papers in western Germany.

In Berlin we also operate the only western radio station
behind the Iron Curtain, RIAS — Radio in the American
Sector. Through RIAS we reach far into the Soviet
satellite area. RIAS has probably been the most important
single weapon in countering Soviet propaganda.

HAVE TOUCHED UPON a few phases of the work of

reorientation we are doing in Germany. But I have
hardly more than scratched the surface of detail that
could be reported upon. One aspect of our effort, however,
which deserves your special interest is the exchange
program. We believe it is of the utmost importance that
as many Germans as possible personally see democracy
in action, and live it themselves in an atmosphere where
it is taken for granted — like bread on the table.

We have, therefore, undertaken a program of sending
Germans to America — students, professors, journalists,
public officials, politicians, technical experts and women
in key areas of German life. We believe that the positive
and constructive contribution to the development of
German democracy these people can make after such an
experience pays for the cost of the trip many times over.
With the help of American colleges and public and
private organizations who are co-operating on this pro-
gram, we will be able to send 2,500 Germans this year.

All this costs a great deal of money, as you may readily
suppose. We are spending some $18,000,000 this year,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

58

over half the US High Commission dollar budget, on the
reorientation program alone. But if we are to avoid a
repetition by the Germans of past mistakes we must
persuade them of the value and importance of the demo-
cratic way of life. This is something which cannot be
imposed; it can only result from constant exposure,
example and explanation. It is a long, slow and expensive
process. But in the long run, the effect of our reorien-
tation program may be the most permanent thing we leave
behind us in Germany.

ESIRABLE NATIONAL attitudes and habits of thinking

are not created in a vacuum. They depend to a great
extent upon the sense of economic security which per-
vades the national society. Even if we do not admit the
Communist theory of the economic interpretation of
history, we must agree to the common sense statement
of General Clay that “you can't learn democracy on an
empty stomach.” This simple truth is, in reality, the basis
of our program of economic rehabilitation in Germany.

So much has been written by experts about economic
developments in Germany since the end of the war that
I need not dwell upon the details here. It is enough to
say that in view of its bombed factories and shattered
transportation facilities, the economic recovery of west-
ern Germany has been phenomenal.

Most of this recovery has been due to the aid received
from GARIOA and Marshall Plan funds, which furnished
the means for raising the rations of workers, for neces-
sary raw material imports, for basic capital investment.
Without such aid Germany would have starved in 1945.
With it, a considerable start has been made on making
Germany self-supporting and preparing it for its share
in the consolidation of European economy.

But the basic economic problems of Germany are far
from being solved. Today, for example, the Federal
Republic has 70 percent of Germany's prewar population
with only half the prewar area. Even if Germany should
be reunited, she must rely more heavily upon industrial
output than she did before the war. Without the solution
to the problem this poses, democratic forces will not be
able to retain power and exercise influence in Germany.
It is essential then to build a German economy strong
enough to support the larger population in the present
area, Yet this may require an economy strong enough
to be a potential threat to its neighbors. The dilemma
must somehow be solved.

HE ONLY PERMANENT solution to this dilemma is

the creation of a genuine European community.
Within such a community a Germany dedicated to the
ideals of international understanding and co-operation,
and assured of its economic stability, can be a great
force for peace.

The creation of such a Germany is the basis of
American occupation policy. We are, I believe, making
some headway on its accomplishment. The German
people show an increasing responsiveness to the idea
of the European community and Dr. Adenauer has even

JUNE 1950

--- Page 62 ---
given it his official blessing. Perhaps more than any
other European country, Germany is psychologically
prepared for the acceptance of the idea. It has less to
lose and more to gain from European consolidation.

I do not mean to infer that we may expect a rapid
achievement of the European community. The tremendous
obstacles which lie in the path of European unity pre-
vent a quick and easy solution, however pressing the
need: As I have pointed out, in Germany contrary
attitudes and traditions persist. And the memories of
German aggression are still fresh in the minds of Euro-
peans. Suspicion of German motive and intent will linger
for a long time to come. The Germans themselves must
show constant evidence of good will and sincerity, if
this suspicion is to be overcome.

But the demands of European security, of economic and
spiritual health call for a solution, an irresistibility force
progress toward the greater aim. The co-operation among
European countries, inspired by the Marshall Plan, has
marked a beginning on the economic side. The organi-
zation of the European Council represents psychological
preparation on the political side. °

These beginnings of European consolidation are modest
and have been made in the face of great difficulty, but
they are a start in the right direction. I do not think it
is too sanguine to hope that they indicate the trend.

O REPORT ON GERMANY would be complete with-

out reference to Berlin, which is in many ways the
most difficult problem we face in Europe today. In Berlin
all of the complexities and conflicting forces in the East-
West struggle come together and are compounded. This
city is at once a symbol and a proving ground for the
ideals and the determination of both sides in the world
contest for men’s minds.

I will not repeat here the detailed story of Berlin. It
has been told fully — perhaps more fully than any other
European story — by the American press and radio. It is
a dramatic story, replete with adventure and great events.

The basic facts are simple: Berlin was entered by. Soviet
armies in late April 1945. They raped the city, sacked it,
and installed a Communist city government before the
Western Allies arrived on July 1. Berlin was divided into
four occupation sectors and was chosen as the seat of
Allied four-power government. When occupation of the
four zones of Germany had been completed, the city lay
deep in the Soviet Zone, 100 miles away from Helmstedt,
on the western boundary.

In the face of Soviet resistance the Western Occupation
Powers achieved the adoption of a temporary democratic
constitution for the city and the holding of city-wide
elections under four-power supervision in October 1946.
The result was loss of control of the city government by
the Communists who received less than 10 percent of the
vote, despite acts of intimidation by the Soviets in their
sector,

The elections showed that the Berliners rejected Com-
munism. They also showed that the system imposed by
Soviet armies in Germany would be changed, that vas-
Sallage under Communism need not be a permanent state.

JUNE 1950

59

The victory of democratic forces in Berlin became a sym-
bol of hope for the people of eastern Germany, indeed
for millions of oppressed people everywhere behind the
Iron Curtain.

O AMOUNT OF PROPAGANDA can wipe out the

hope of eventual liberation that radiates from Berlin.
Berlin is a constant reminder of a better way of life. But
the contrast of the better way of life gained by Berlin
with the gray misery in the surrounding Soviet Zone is
made possible by the presence of the Western Allies in
the city. So the Soviets decided the Western Powers had
to be forced out.

They believed this would be easy. The road, rail and
water routes to the city are_under their physical control,
and no written agreement had ever been reached on the
conditions of use of these channels to the West. They
knew that members of the Western Occupation Forces
could get in and out of Berlin in small numbers by air,
since there was an agreement on air channels, and there
were airfields in the US and British Sectors,

But if they could cut off all supplies to the city, the
Soviets believed we could not withstand the pressure of
a starving population to end their misery. So they found
a ridiculous variety of “technical difficulties to stop
traffic to and from Berlin, and they began to impose their
blockade in May 1948. Gradually traffic slowed down until
no trains, no barges, no automobiles, no trucks were able
to pass the zonal frontier at Helmstedt, and no supplies
could reach Berlin by rail, water or road.

But the Soviets forgot about the air. Or rather they
forgot what we had done in the air during the war and
greatly underestimated what we could do in peacetime.
The Western Powers undertook to supply the city of
2,250,000 persons with the necessities of life by air. The
air lift was our answer to the blockade.

The Soviets also underrated the Berliners. Despite short
rations, lack of heat and electricity, restrictions on move-
ment and constant Communist intimidation, the people
of the three western sectors never wavered. When in
May 1948 the Communists stormed the City Hall, located
in the Soviet Sector, the city government moved into
West Berlin and calmly continued to function. When in
December 1948, elections called for by their constitution
fell due, 87 percent of the registered voters in the western
sectors Voted for the non-Communist parties. When the
Soviets, thereupon, split off their sector and created by
fiat a separate city government, thousands of city em-
ployees promptly showed their allegiance to the legal gov-
ernment by moving their offices into the western sectors.

HE SOVIETS AND their Communist helpers did not

take Berlin by blockade. A year ago today they
admitted defeat and lifted their ‘technical restrictions”
on traffic. The Berliners have earned freedom and we
intend to see that they retain it.

But the Berlin situation remains nonetheless fraught
with danger and difficulty. The city remains split economi-
cally and politically, with two governments and two
currencies. Its economic life has not recovered from the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
effects of the war and all that has happened since, and it
is still in critical condition. A new blockade can be im-
posed at any time, although the Soviets have, I believe,
learned the futility of such action, and will not try it
again.

The Soviet tactic is rather to bring about a creeping
paralysis in the life of the city to create a continuous feel-
ing of insecurity among its people, to worry and harass
the Western Powers to the point where they will abandon
it, and to intimidate the western Germans into writing off
Berlin.

In this policy, too, I am certain they will be disap-
pointed. Berlin, as a symbol and as proof of the validity
of Western values, is too important to the Western world.
We will not abandon Berlin. We are even now making
great efforts with ERP aid to restore its economy to a
strong and healthy state. And the growing occupation
with Berlin problems shown by the Federal Republic is
proof that western Germany does not intend to write
Berlin off.

ND THE BERLINERS? — The same faith in the future

of their city which enabled them to survive the rap-
ing and looting of 1945, and the blockade of 1948 will
bear them through their present difficulties, If any further
proof of this faith were necessary, it was given May 1
when 500,000 persons — every fifth Berliner — gathered
in the Square of the Republic to demonstrate their will to
democratic freedom.

Currently, through our government, we are spending
$600,000,000 to $700,000,000 a year of our money to
help the Germans become rehabilitated. Last year it was
nearly $1,000,000,000. The total since the war is almost
$7,000,000,000.

We in America cannot close our minds and our hearts
or the doors to our Treasury to the German problem. It's
as much our concern as it is that of our Allies on the
continent of Europe or in the British Isles,

We may not relish the concept of “One World” but we
might as well face the fact that it exists and there’s no
escaping the responsibilities that have been thrust upon
us. Either we meet then courageously and effectively, or
we suffer the consequences of not doing so.

An understanding and an aroused America on many
occasions in the past has accomplished the impossible.
After doing so, we are inclined to dust off our hands and
go on about our business. We are a peaceful nation, don't
like trouble and wish those people across the seas would
let us alone. But those days truly are gone forever. Win-
ning, maintaining this so-called existent peace is as im-
portant as coming out victorious in either World War.

The kindness, the inherent decency of the American
people, plus their genius, their determination and their
great natural resources and industrial might, will prevail
in this struggle in which we are engaged. However long
it takes, whatever the necessary cost, I'm convinced we'll
discharge our obligations to ourselves, to the free peoples
of the world, and to those who seek freedom, +END

Don’ts for Visitors to Free Berlin

LIST OF RULES governing the conduct of visitors
from the East to Free Berlin was issued by HICOG
Berlin Element in order that tourists from behind the Iron
Curtain will not unknowingly commit unlawful acts and at
the same time will be able to enjoy some of the freedoms of
the western sectors which they are not permitted at home.
The “don'ts” to be observed in the western sectors are
violations of laws which have been democratically enacted
by the freely-elected representatives of the people. These
laws are intended to assure the lawful and orderly con-
ditions which have prevailed here since the end of the
war and which will continue to prevail. They include:

DON'T attempt to hold a public meeting or a political
gathering without lawful authority.

DON'T march or drive in formation without first ob-
taining the necessary license provided by law.

DON'T wear uniforms or military or para-military in-
signia as these are prohibited by legislation of the Occu-
pation Authorities.

DON'T carry firearms or other lethal weapons which
are forbidden by law.

DON'T distribute pamphlets, brochures, handbills or
other forms of literature or caricature without first ob-
taining a license as provided by law.

DON'T post bills or placards against buildings, walls
or other public places without legal authority.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

60

DON'T sing marching songs or chant propaganda slo-
gans or otherwise disturb the peace of citizens.

DON'T trespass onto private property or deface private
or public premises as these acts are violations of law.

The HICOG list also pointed up a number of specific free-
doms which are permitted and encouraged in the western
sectors in contrast to their positive denial elsewhere be-
hind the Iron Curtain, These include:

You may read any newspaper, magazine or periodical
from any part of the world and containing every variety
of political and religious opinion.

You may attend theatrical productions and films made
in all parts of the world.

You may talk with anyone you wish and you may
express, without fear of restraint or reprisal, any opinion
on any subject. Equally you have full freedom of thought.
You will hear from Free Berliners their honest, individual
views on every subject.

You may buy anything you wish. The price of the
product is the only control on food, commodities and
luxuries in Free Berlin.

Finally, and most important, you may enjoyhere the free-
dom from fear which is the most essential and most basic
freedom denied you in your homes. Here there are no secret
police, no NKVD or GPU and no state tyranny to obstruct
you in the conduct of your lawful and orderly affairs. + END

JUNE 1950

--- Page 64 ---
HICOM Law on Control of Certain Articles,
Products, Installations and Equipment

In order to prevent German rearmament,
and taking into account the terms of the
Agreement concerning Prohibited and Limit-
ed Industries signed on April 14, 1949 (see
Information Bulletin, Issue No. 160, May 3,
1949), by the Military Governors and Com-
manders-in-Chief of the United States,
British and French Zones of Occupation in
Germany, and the Protocol of Agreements
(see Information Bulletin, January 1950
issue) reached between the Allied High
Commissioners and the Chancellor of the
German Federal Republic at the Petersberg
on Nov. 22, 1949,

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion enacts as follows:

Article 1

1, Except with the authorization of the
Allied High Commission or any agency
designated by it for this purpose or except
as may be provided by regulations issued
under this law,

(a) The manufacture or production of any
article or product listed in Schedules A or
B to this law is prohibited.

(b) The import, export, transport, storage,
possession, ownership or use of any article
or product listed in Schedule A is pro-
hibited,

2, However, the provision concerning the
transport referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of
this article shall not apply to transport in
transit through the territory of the Federal
Republic in accordance with applicable in-
ternational agreements except to the extent
and under the conditions prescribed by
regulations issued under this law.

Article 2
The production capacity of the industries
listed in Schedule C and the maximum pro-
duction levels of the industries listed in
Group II of that Schedule are limited in
accordance with regulations to be issued
pursuant to this law.

Article 3

1, Except with the authorization of the
Allied High Commission or any agency
designated by it for this purpose, or except
as may be provided by regulations issued
under this law, no person or enterprise
shall:

(a) Construct, erect, reconstruct, re-erect,
convert or replace any plant or equipment
for the purpose of producing articles or
products listed in Schedules A and B,

(b) Increase the productive capacity of
any of its plants or equipment that are
engaged or partly engaged in any of the
industries listed in Schedule C, whether it
is proposed to effect the increase by the
extension of existing facilities, the con-
struction of new facilities, or the addition
of new equipment.

(c) Construct or erect any new plant or
equipment or replace or reconstruct any
plant or equipment which has been remov-
ed or destroyed prior to the effective date
of this article or may be destroyed or
temoved by direction of the Allied High
Commission for production in any of the
industries listed in Schedule C.

However, authorizations granted after
Sept. 3, 1949, and still in force on the effec-

JUNE 1950

tive date of this article, shall not be affect-
ed by the provisions thereof.

2, Obsolete or worn-out plant and equip-
ment the replacement of which has been
licensed in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 (a) or (c) of this article
shall be disposed of as directed by the
Allied High Commission or any agency
designated by it for that purpose.

3. Plant and equipment specially design-
ed for the production and manufacture of
the articles and products listed in Sche-
dules A and B shall be converted to peace-
time use or removed from Germany, or
destroyed, as the Allied High Commission
or any agency designated by it for the
purpose may direct.

Article 4

Except with the authorization of the Allied
High Commission or any agency design-
ated by it for this purpose or except as
may be provided by regulations issued un-
de: this law, no person or enterprise shall:

(a) Store any article or product listed in
Group I of Schedule D.

(b) Manufacture or produce any article or
product listed in Group II of Schedule D.

(c) Import or acquire from abroad any
article or product listed in Group III of
Schedule D.

Article 5

The Allied High Commission or any
agency designated by it for this purpose
may order or conduct any investigation
and require any information, document or
report which they deem necessary to en-
sure the control of articles, products, in-
stallations and~ equipment listed in the
Schedules to this law or which the Occupa-
tion Authorities consider may contribute
to German rearmament.

Article 6

Information obtained pursuant to this law
shall be used only for the purpose of en-
forcing this law and shall not be divulged
to unauthorized persons.

Article 7

The violation of any provision of this law
or of any regulation or written order is-
sued pursuant thereto shall by punishable
in accordance with the gravity of the
offence by imprisonment or fine or both.
In cases of deliberate attempt at rear-
mament, the imprisonment may be for a
term of any duration including imprison-
ment for life and the fine may extend
to DM 1,000,000. In addition, the court may
order the dissolution and liquidation of any
juristic person convicted of a violation.

Article 8

Any official authorized to take cogni-
zance of offenses under Article 1 or Ar-
ticle 4 of this law may, in the case of a
suspected offense, order the article or pro-
duct relating to such offenses to be im-
pounded pending a decision of a court. A
certificate that any such official was so
authorized, signed on behalf of the Occu-
pation Authorities, shall be accepted for
all purposes as conclusive evidence of such
authority.

Article 9

The Allied High Commission may issue

regulations for the implementation of this

61

law. Such regulations may alter the Sche-
duies and may require appropriate German
authorities to exercise specific functions
under this law.

Article 10

Subject to the provisions of Article 11,

(a) the provisions of Control Council Law
No, 43 (Prohibition of the Manufacture, Im-
port, Export, Transport and Storage of War
Materials) and of Control Council Order
No. 2 (Confiscation and Surrender of Arms
and Ammunition) are hereby deprived of
effect in the territory of the Federal Re-
public.

(b) the following legislation is hereby
repealed:

United States Military Government Ordi-
nance No, 37 (Limited Industries)

Ordinance No. 84 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief in Germany pertaining to
the implementation of Control Council Law
No. 43 (Prohibition of the Manufacture,
Import, Export, Transport and Storage of
‘War Materials)

Decree No. 33 of the French Comman-
der-in-Chief in Germany (Import, Export,
Transport and Storage of War Materials)

Ordinance No. 229 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief in Germany (Limited In-
dustries)

British Military Government Notice relat-
ing to Reporting and Surrender of Fire-
arms, Warlike Materials and Stores

British Military Government Ordinance
No, 200 (Limited Industries)

Article 11

Each of the provisions of this law shall
come into force on the date appointed and
to the extent specified in the regulation
applicable to the field of control covered
by such provision. Until that date such
field of control shall continue to be go-
verned by the corresponding legislation
listed in Article 10.

Schedules to the Law to Control Certain
Articles, Products, Installations and
Equipment

Schedule A
Group I

(A) All weapons, including atomic means
of warfare, or apparatus of all calibers and
natures capable of projecting lethal or de-
structive projectiles, liquids, gases or toxic
substances, their carriages and mountings.

(B) All projectiles for the above and their
means of projection or propulsion.

(C) All military means of destruction such
as grenades, bombs, torpedos, mines, depth
mines, depth and demolition charges and
self-propelled charges, all types of fuses
therefor and all apparatus for the guiding,
control and operation thereof including
timing, sensing and homing devices,

(D) All military cutting or piercing weap-
ons, such as bayonets, swords, daggers
and lances.

Group II

(A) All vehicles specially equipped or
designed for military purposes such as
tanks, armored cars, tank-carrying trailers,
armored railroad rolling stock.

(B) Armor of all types for military pur-
poses.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
Group III

(A) (1) Range-finding apparatus of all
kinds for military purposes.

(2) Aiming, guiding and computing devi-
ces for fire control.

(3) Locating devices of all kinds for mili-
tary purposes,

(4) Instruments for observations of fire
or for the remote control of objects for
military purposes.

(B) All signaling and inter-communication
equipment and installations specially de-
signed for military purposes; all apparatus
intended specifically for the purpose of
producing radio interference.

(C) Searchlights having a maximum dia-
meter greater than 60 cms. or with mirror
diameter of more than 45 cms.

(D) Optical instruments of all kinds not
otherwise included in this schedule spe-
cially designed or intended for military
purposes, and devices using the infra red
spectrum primarily.

(E) Survey and cartographic equipment
and instruments of all kinds especially de-
signed for military purposes.

(F) Military engineering tools, machinery
and equipment especially designed for mili-
tary purposes,

Group IV

(A) Warships of all classes. All ships and
floating equipment especially designed for
war purposes (including the servicing of
warships). All ships designed or construct-
ed for conversion into warships or for
military use.

(B) Special machinery, equipment and
installations which im time of peace are
normally used solely in warships.

(C) Submersible craft of all kinds, sub-
mersible devices of all kinds, designed for
military purposes. Special equipment per-
taining to these craft and devices.

(D) All military landing devices.

(E) Material, equipment and installations
for the military defense of coastal areas
and harbors.

Group V

(A) Aircraft of all types, heavier or
lighter than air, with or without means of
propulsion, and all auxiliary equipment,
including aircraft engines and component
parts, accessories, and spare parts speci-
fically designed for aircraft use.

(B) Ground equipment for servicing, test-
ing or aiding the operation of aircraft, such
as catapults, winches and beacons; mate-
rial for the rapid construction or prepara-
tion of airfields such as landing mats.

Group VI

All drawings, specifications, designs,
models and reproductions directly relating
to the development, manufacture, testing
or inspection of war materials or to ex-
periments or research in connection with
war material.

Group VII

(A) Machine tools or other manufacturing
equipment specifically designed for the
development, manufacture, testing and in-
spection of weapons, ammunition or other
war materials listed in this schedule.

(B) Attachments, devices, tools or other
objects having no normal peacetime use
and specifically designed to convert or adapt
machine tools or other manufacturing equip-
ment to the development, manufacture,
testing and inspection of weapons, am-
munition or other war materials listed in
this schedule,

(C) Spare parts, accessories and compo-
nent parts of the articles and products listed
in Schedule ‘A.’

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Group VIII

(A) (1) Explosives and accessories.

(2) Double base propellants (i.e., nitro-
cellulose propellants containing nitrogly-
cerine, diethyleneglycol dinitrate or ana-
logous substances).

(3) Single base propellants for any weap-
ons.

(4) Nitroguanidine.

(5) Chemicals particularly useful as poi-
son war gases (including liquids and solids
customarily included in this term),

(6) Hydrogen peroxide of 37 percent con-
centration or higher.

(7) Hydrazine hydrate,

(8) Alkyl nitrates,

(9) Other chemicals particularly useful as
rocket fuels,

(10) Highly toxic products from bacterio-
logical or plant sources, with the exception
of those bacteriological and plant products
which are used for therapeutic purposes.

(11) White phosphorus.

(12) Incendiaries and incendiary compo-
sitions, such as thermites and gel fuels.

(13) Aluminum and magnesium powders.

(B) All special means for individual and
collective defense used in peace exclusive-
ly by armed forces.

Group IX

All apparatus, devices and material spe-
cially designed for training, and instructing
personnel in the use, handling, manufacture
and maintenance of war material.

Schedule B
Group I

(A) Primary magnesium,
Group II

(A) Synthetic rubber and butadiene.

(B) Gasoline, oil and lubricants produced
directly or indirectly from coal or brown
coal by the Bergius hydrogenation process,
the Fischer Tropsch synthesis or analogous
processes as well as hydrocarbon waxes
produced synthetically by the Fischer
Tropsch process.

Schedule C
Group I

(A) Shipbuilding.

(B) Chlorine.

(C) Ball and roller bearings.

(D) Electric arc and high frequency fur-
nace steel.

(E) Synthetic ammonia.

(F) Beryllium.

Group II

(A) Steel.

(B) Styrene.

(C) Primary aluminum.

Schedule D
Group I

(A) Alumina.

(B) Bauxite.

Group II

(A) (1) Dry cargo ships exceeding 12
knots service speed or 7,200 G.R.T,

(2) Tankers exceeding 12 knots service
speed or 7,200 G.R.T.

(3) Fishing vessels and ships, other than
cargo carrying craft, exceeding 12 knots
service speed or 650 G.R.T.

(4) Coastal vessels exceeding 12 knots
service speed or 2,700 G.R.T.

(B) (1) Vessels of special types, as laid
down in implementing regulations.

(2) Vessels which embody features pro-
hibited in the implementing regulations un-
der this law.

(C) Radio transmitting equipment, radio
navigational aids and underwater locating
equipment,

62

(D) Electronic valves (tubes).

(E) Cryptographic machines and devices.

(F) The following machine tools:

1, Spiral bevel gear cutters.

2. Broaching machines of the following
kinds:

(a) Continous surface type.

(b) Reciprocating type (bar type cutter)
with cutter diameter or equivalent cross
section exceeding 2 inches (51 mm), or
working stroke exceeding 5 feet (1524 mm)
or pull capacity exceeding 35,000 lbs,
(15,876 kgs.)

3. General purpose lathes of the follow-
ing kinds:

(a) Lathes of work diameter capacity
(swing over carriage) exceeding 56 inches
(1,422 mm).

(b) Lathes of work diameter capacity
(swing over carriage) of from 36 inches
(914 mm) to 56 inches (1,422 mm) and with
distance between centers (longth of work
piece) exceeding 14 feet (4,267 mm).

(c) Lathes of work diameter capacity
(swing over carriage) of from 18 inches
(457 mm) to 36 inches (914 mm) and with
distance between centers exceeding 18 feet
(5,486 mm),

4, Vertical turret lathes (turret type head,
not rotating table of work) diameter capa-
city exceeding 39 inches (991 mm).

5. Chucking and facing lathes of work
diameter capacity exceeding 96 inches
(2,438 mm) or with travel of carriage ex-
ceeding 7 feet (2,134 mm).

6. Car and locomotive wheel lathe (ma-
chines designed specifically for capacity
work) of work diameter capacity exceeding
96 inches (2,438 mm).

7. Turret lathes of chuck capacity ex-
ceeding 24 inches (610 mm) or of bar capa-
city exceeding 3 inches (76 mm).

8. Milling machines of general purpose
and universal types, horizontal and verti-
cal, any of whose specifications exceed the
following limits:

(a) Maximum over-all weight: 4 metric
tons.

(b) Following rectangular table dimen-
sions:

(1) Maximum length: 48 inches (1,219mm).

(2) Maximum width: 14 inches (356 mm).

(c) Following round table dimensions:

(1) Maximum table diameter: 24 inches
(610 mm).

(2) Maximum work diameter capacity:
32 inches (813 mm).

9. Planer milling machines of distance
between housing exceeding 4 feet (1,219 mm)
or on length of platen exceeding 12 feet
(3,658 mm) or of number of heads exceed-
ing 3.

10. Grinding machines of the following
kinds:

(a) Cylindrical general purpose machines
of work diameter capacity exceeding 30 in-
ches (762 mm) or of distance between cen-
ters exceeding 9 feet (2,743 mm), but not
including machines specifically designed
for and limited to finishing rolling mill,
calender, printing and other similar ma-
chine parts.

(b) Surface rectangular table machines
of platen width exceeding 24inches (610mm)
or of platen length exceeding 72 inches
(1,829 mm).

(c) Surface round table machines of table
diameter’ exceeding 36 inches (914 mm).

11. Gear producing machines of all types
whose work diameter capacity exceeds
60 inches (1,524 mm).

12. Forging hammers of all types of fall-
ing weight exceeding three and one-half
tons (3.556 metric tons),

JUNE 1950

--- Page 66 ---
13. Forging machines of bar stock dia-
meter or equivalent cross section exceed-
ing 3*/2 inches (89 mm).

14, Mechanical presses of an effective
operating pressure exceeding 1,000 tons
(1016 metric tons).

15. Hydraulic presses of an effective
operating pressure exceeding 1,000 tons
(1016 metric tons).

16. Precision jig boring machines of a
lateral displacement of cutter with refer-
ence to work (or displacement of work
with reference to cutter) exceeding 24 inches
(610 mm).

Group III

The following items exceeding the limits
laid down in the implementing regulations
under this law:

(A) Vessels.

(B) Electronic valves (tubes).

(C) Cryptographic machines and devices.

(D) Radio transmitting equipment, radio
navigational aids and underwater locating
equipment.

Regulation No. 1 (General Provisions)

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion issues the following regulation:
Scope
Article 1
This regulation includes general provi-
sions relating to all the controls estab-
lished by law No. * It defines terms
makes certain authorizations, establishes
procedures for the filing of applications,
imposes requirements on German authori-
ties, and establishes the date on which
it becomes effective. Saye as otherwise
provided, it governs all regulations issued
under the law.

Section A
Definitions
Article 2

For the purposes of the law and regu-
lations issued thereunder:

(a) The term ‘person or enterprise’ shall
include any natural person, juristic person,
government or governmental agency.

(b) The term ‘‘activity'' means manu-

facture, production, import, acquisition
from abroad, export, storage, transport,
Possession, ownership, or use of articles
or products, as well as the construction,
erection, reconstruction, re-erection, in-
crease of capacity, conversion, replacement
of plant or equipment.
. (c) The term “‘minister-president" shall
include the president of the Senate of
Bremen and the Buergermeister (Mayor) of
Hamburg.

(d) The term “research establishment”
has the same meaning as in British Military
Government Law No, 23, United States
Military Government Law No. 23, and French
Military Government Ordinance No. 231
(hereinafter referred to as the Scientific
Research Laws).

(ec) The term “educational establishment"
shall include any university, establishment
of university status or other institution
for advanced instruction and recognized or
authorized as such by competent German
authority.

(f) The term “medical establishment’
shall include any hospital or other institu-
tion engaged in the medical or surgical care
or treatment of persons or animals and
Tecognized and authorized as such by
competent German authority.

* HICOM laws are numbered only upon pub-

lication in th .
Gazette. ¢ High Commission's Official

JUNE 1950

(g) The term ‘‘export'' means the move-
ment of property from within the territory
of the Federal Republic to a point outside
such territory and outside the western
sectors of Berlin.

(h) The term ‘import’ means the move-
ment of property from outside the territory
of the Federal Republic and outside the
western sectors of Berlin to a point within
the territory of the Federal Republic.

(i) The term “the Law” means Law on
Control of Certain Articles, Products, In-
stallations and Equipment.

Section B
General Authorizations
Article 3

1. Pursuant to Article 1, Paragraph 1 (b)
of the law, persons and enterprises are
hereby authorized to possess, own and use
for peacetime purposes articles and pro-
ducts listed in Groups II, IV and V (b) of
Schedule A to the Law if they are unserv-
iceable for military purposes.

2. Valid authorizations in force on
May 28, 1950, to engage in activities pro-
hibited by any Occupation legislation shall
remain valid in accordance with their terms
unless otherwise ordered by the Military
Security Board. Information regarding such
previous authorizations will be forwarded
to Military Security Board by June 30, 1950.

Article 4

1. Any research establishment engaged
in research permitted under or authorized
pursuant to the Scientific Research Laws
may, in the course of conducting such
research, manufacture and produce the
articles and products listed in Schedules A
and B to the Law and Group II (C), (D),
(E) and (F) of Schedule D to the Law and
may transport, possess, store, own and use
the articles and products listed in Schedule
A to the Law, provided that:

(a) Such activities are normal to the
conduct of the research.

(b) The quantities of such articles and
products are not in excess of the quanti-
ties normally necessary for such research.

(c) Such articles and products are used
solely by the research establishment for
the performance of permitted or authorised
research.

(d) Such articles and products are kept
in the custody and control of a respon-
sible official or employee of the research
establishment.

2. Any educational or medical estab-
lishment may, in the performance of its
functions and subject to the provisions
of the Scientific Research Laws, manu-
facture and produce the articles and pro-
ducts specified in Schedules A and B to
the Law and Group II (C), (D), (E) and
(F) of Schedule D to the Law and may
transport, possess, store, own and use the
articles and products listed in Schedule A
to the Law, provided that:

(a) Such activities are normal to the
performance of such functions.

(b) The quantities of such articles and
products are not in excess of the quantities
normally necessary to the performance of
such functions.

(c) Such articles and products are used
solely within the establishment in the per-
formance of the normal functions of that
establishment.

(d) Such articles and products are kept
in the custody and control of a responsible
official or employee of the establishment.

3. Any museum may transport, store,
possess, own and use for display and

63

demonstration purposes the articles and
products listed in Schedule A to the Law,
provided that:

(a) Such articles and products are of
types normally displayed or demonstrated
in such a museum.

(b) The quantities of such articles and
products are not in excess of quantities
normally displayed or required for demon-
stration. :

(c) Such articles and products are kept
in the custody and control of a responsible
official or employee of the museum,

4, The Allied High Commission may
withdraw from any establishment the pri-
vileges granted under Paragraphs 1, 2 and
3 of this article if they determine that the
establishment has not complied with the
conditions laid down herein.

Article 5

1. Every research establishment shall
include in each report submitted pursuant
to any of the Scientific Research Laws as
of March 31 and Sept. 30 of each year
an inventory of the articles and products
held by it pursuant to Paragraph 1 of
Article 4 and a detailed statement as to
the acquisition (through production or
otherwise), disposal and consumption of
such articles and products during the period
to which the report pertains,

2. On or before July 15, 1950, and at
six month intervals thereafter, every
educational or medical establishment en-
gaged in activities pursuant to Paragraph
2 of Article 4 shall file with the minister-
president of the state in which such acti-
vities are carried on an inventory of the
articles and products held by such esta-
blishment pursuant to paragraph 2 of Ar-
ticle 4. Except with respect to the inven-
tory filed on July 15, 1950, each inventory
shall be accompanied by a detailed state-
ment as to the acquisition (through produc-
tion or otherwise), disposal and consump-
tion of the articles and products acquired
pursuant to Paragraph 2 of Article 4 during
the six month period preceding the date of
the inventory. Such inventories and state-
ments shall be signed by a responsible of-
ficial of the establishment and shall be filed
in sextuplicate and in such form as shall
have been directed by the Military Secu-
rity Board, or in the absence of such direc-
tive, by the minister-president of the state.
The minister-president shall forthwith
transmit to the Military Security Board
four copies of each inventory and statement
submitted to him. Each minister-president
shall take such action as may be necessary
to insure compliance with the provisions
of this paragraph.

3. Any person or enterprise required to
file reports as a research establishment,
medical establishment and as an educatio-
nal establishment, or as any two of such
types of establishments, may file a single

report, but shall include therein all in-
formation required by Paragraphs 1 and 2.
Section C
Imports and Exports
Article 6

1, Any person or enterprise proposing to
import or export any article or product
listed in Schedule A of the law or to im-
port or acquire from abroad any article or
product listed in Group III of Schedule D
of the law shall file an application with an
agency competent under United States Mili-
tary Government Law No. 53 (Revised),
British Military Government Law No. 53
(Revised) or French Military Government
Ordinance No, 235.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
2. An application for a license for the
import or export of any article or product
listed in Schedule A of the Law or for the
import of any article or product listed in
Group III of Schedule D of the Law pur-
suant to United States Military Govern-
ment Law No, 53 (Revised), British Military
Government Law No. 53 (Revised) or French
Military Government Ordinance No. 235
shall be deemed an application filed pur-
suant to the Law for the import or export
of such article or product, as the case may
be, provided that any such application
shall include the following:

(a) The names and addresses of the Ger-
man consignee and of the German import-
ing agency, with respect to imports, and
the names and addresses of the German
consignor and of the German exporting
agency with respect to exports,

(b) The intended use of the article or
product, with respect to imports,

(c) A copy of the sales contract or other
record of contractual commitment, with
Tespect to exports.

(d) Any additional information required
by any other regulation under the Law.

Other Activities
Article 7

1, This article does not apply to:

(a) Exports and imports.

(b) Activities which German authorities
are authorized to permit.

(c) Activities authorized
regulation under the Law

2. An application to engage in any acti-
vity prohibited by the Law and the regu-
lations thereunder shall be filed with the
minister-president of the state in which
the main office of the applicant is located
or the minister-president of any state in
which any of the activities for which
authorization is requested is to take place.
The application may request authorization
to engage in activities in any state in addi-
tion to the state in which it is filed and
may request authorization for persons and
enterprises in addition to the applicant.

3. Applications filed pursuant to Para-
graph 2 shall:

(a) Be written in two columns, one co-
lumn being in the language of the high
commissioner of the zone in which the
application is filed, the other column being
in the German language.

(b) Contain information relating to each
activity for which authorization is requested.

(c) Include the name and address of the
applicant and, where applicable, the names
of two senior directors, partners or rTespon-
sible agents of the applicant,

(d) Include the names and addresses of
other persons and enterprises for whom
authorization is requested,

(e) Include the locations at which it is
intended that activities be performed.

(f) Include such additional information as
may be specified in any provision of regu-
lations under the Law relating to the
activities.

4. The minister-president shall forthwith
determine whether the applications sub-
mitted pursuant to paragraph 2 are in com-
pliance with the above requirements. If the
minister-president determines that the appli-
cation is not in compliance with such
requirements he shall return the appli-
cation to the applicant together with appro-
priate instructions, Otherwise he shall for-
ward five copies of such information, sup-
porting material and comments by himself
or the federal government as he shall
deem pertinent,

5. The minister-president, the applicant
and the persons and enterprises with

in any other

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

respect to whom the application has been
made shall thereafter act in the matter as
directed or ordered by the Military Security
Board. The minister-president shall deliver
to the applicant and to each person and
enterprise referred to in this Paragraph a
copy of any license or notice of denial
transmitted to him.

Section D

Responsibility of German Authorities
General Responsibilities

Article 8

1. The federal and state authorities shall
take such measures as may be necessary
to insure the fulfilment by German authori-
ties of the requirements placed on them by
regulations under the Law. In particular the
federal government and state governments
shall:

(a) Obtain and transmit information when
requested by the Allied High Commission.

(b) Make necessary investigations.

(c) Establish such controls and agencies
as may be necessary to insure the imple-
mentation of the regulations.

2. The federal government shall also
maintain a current register of all plants
engaged in the following industries: ship-
building, chlorine, ball and roller bearings,
electric arc and high frequency furnace
steel, synthetic ammonia, steel, styrene
and primary aluminum.

Customs Control
Article 9

1. No German customs official or em-
ployee or border control official or em-
ployee shall permit the movement into or
out of the territory of the Federal Repub-
lic, other than a movement from or to the
western sectors of Berlin, respectively, of
any article or product listed in Schedule A
of the Law, the importation or exportation
of which is not authorized by regulation
under the Law, or the movement into the
territory of the Federal Republic, other than
a movement from the western sectors of
Berlin, of any article or product listed in
Schedule D, Group III, of the Law, the
importation of which is not authorized by
regulation under the Law, unless the com-
mercial documents accompanying the ar-
ticle or product bear a Military Security
Board clearance number. Where the com-
mercial documents accompanying such
articles and products do not bear a Mili-
tary Security Board clearance number,
appropriate customs and border control
officials shall hold such articles and pro-
ducts and shall thereafter act in the matter
as directed or ordered by the Military
Security Board.

Import and Export Licenses
Article 10

1, Except as otherwise directed by the
Military Security Board the German agen-
cies competent under United States Military
Government Law No. 53 (Revised), British
Military Government Law No, 53 (Amend-
ed 1) or French Military Government Ordi-
nance No. 235 shall not authorize the move-
ment into or out of the territory of the
Federal Republic of articles and products
listed in Schedule A of the Law, the im-
Portation or exportation of which is not
authorized by regulation under the Law,
or the movement into the territory of the
Federal Republic of articles and products
listed in Group III of Schedule D of the
Law, the importation of which is not
authorized by regulation under the Law.
Where such agencies desire that licenses

64

requested by such applications shall be
issued, the agencies shall forward to the
Military Security Board four copies of the
applications and shall thereafter act in the
matter as directed or ordered by the Mili-
tary Security Bord.

Section E
Effective Date
Article 11

This regulation shall become effective
on June 1, 1950.

Regulation No. 2 (Bauxite, Alumina,

Primary Aluminum, Aluminum and

Magnesium Powders, Metallic Beryl-
lium and Primary Magnesium)

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion issues the following Regulation:

Scope
Article 1

This regulation relates to the controls on
the storing of bauxite and alumina, the
production of primary aluminum, the pro-
ductive capacity of plant and equipment
for the production of primary aluminum,
the manufacture, production, import, export,
transportation, storage, possession, owner-
ship and use of magnesium and aluminum
powders, controls relating to the productive
capacity of plant and equipment for the
production of aluminum and magnesium
powders, metallic beryllium and primary
magnesium,

Storing of Bauxite and Alumina
Article 2

1, Bauxite means the mineral or ore
which is the principal raw material from
which alumina and aluminum are extracted.

2. Alumina means oxide of aluminum and
for the purposes of this regulation, shall
be deemed to include aluminum hydroxide,
normally known as the hydrate of aluminum.

3. Until Aug. 1, 1950, persons and enter-
prises engaged in converting bauxite into
alumina for commercial purposes or en-
gaged in reducing alumina to primary alu-
minum for commercial purposes may store
bauxite and alumina; thereafter such per-
sons and enterprises shall not store bau-
xite or alumina except as authorized by
permit issued by the federal government.

4, Persons and enterprises other than
those referred to above may store bauxite
and alumina. Such persons and enterprises
storing bauxite or alumina on July 1, Oct. 1,
Jan. 1, or April 1 of any year in a quantity
in excess of 200 tons of bauxite or 100 tons
of alumina shall forthwith declare the same
to the federal government and shall report
the quantity stored.

Article 3

1, The federal government or its designed
agency shall, by issuing permits to persons
and enterprises engaged in converting baux-
ite into alumina for commercial purposes
or engaged in reducing alumina to primary
aluminum for commercial purposes, author-
ize the storing after Aug. 1, 1950, in the
territory of the Federal Republic of any
quantity of bauxite and any quantity of
alumina which does not exceed the re-
spective quantities which the Military
Security Board shall have prescribed. The
federal government or its designated agency
shall forward two copies of each permit to
the Military Security Board.

2. On Aug. 1, Nov. 1, Feb. 1, and May 1
of every year the German agencies respon~-
sible for customs control shall submit to
the Military Security Board a report show-

. JUNE 1950

--- Page 68 ---
ing the country of origin and the total quan-
tity of the bauxite imported into the terri-
tory of the Federal Republic during the
quarter ending one month before each of
such dates.

Production of Primary Aluminum
Article 4

1, Primary aluminum means aluminum
metal or aluminum base alloys made by the
direct reduction of alumina or other alu-
minum bearing compounds.

2, The annual maximum production level
of the primary aluminum industry shall be
85,000 tons of primary aluminum. By Aug. 1,
1950, the federal government or its desig-
nated agency shall establish a quota system
within the maximum production of primary
aluminum after which date no person or
enterprise shall manufacture or produce
primary aluminum except as authorized by
a permit issued by the federal government
or its designated agency. Two copies of
each of such permits shall be sent to the
Military Security Board.

Plant and Equipment for Production
of Primary Aluminum
Article 5

1. The capacity of the primary aluminum
industry shall be limited to that sufficient
to produce 85,000 tons per annum; and un-
less otherwise authorized by the Military
Security Board shall be confined to the
following facilities, completed descriptions
of which are dated as follows:

Lippewerke, Luenen — Facilities stated in
declarations dated Sept. 14, 1949

Innwerke Toeging — Facilities stated in
declarations dated Sept. 13, 1949, but ex-
cluding Hall III

Rheinfelden — Facilities stated in decla-
tations dated Oct. 12, 1949, but excluding
Werke I

The term “plant or equipment; as used
in Article 3, Paragraph 1 (c) of the Law,
shall, with reference to the primary alumi-
num industry, be deemed to mean “electro-
lytic cells for the production of primary
aluminum and equipment for the controlling
of the supply of direct current electricity
for such cells,"

2, Any person or enterprise desiring to
increase the productive capacity of any of
his or its plants or equipment that are en-
gaged or partly engaged in the primary alu-
minum industry or construct or erect any
new plant or equipment for the production
of primary aluminum or teplace or re-
construct any plant or equipment for the
production of primary aluminum which has
been removed or destroyed prior to June 1,
1950, or which shall have been destroyed or
removed by direction of the Allied High
Commission shall file an application in ac-
cordance with Article 7 of Regulation No. 1
under the Law.

Aluminum and Magnesium Powders
Group VIII (A) (3) of Schedule A of the Law
Article 6

For the purposes of this regulation:

(a) The term “aluminum powder” shall
mean the powder form of aluminum which
contains at least 20 percent by weight of

material the particle size of which is less °

than 0.1 mm, and the powder form of any
aluminum base alloy which contains at
least 20 percent by weight of material the
particle size of which is less than 0.1 mm.

(b) The term “magnesium powder" shali
mean the Powder form of magnesium which
Contains at least 20 percent by weight of
material the particle size of which less than
0.1 mm and the powder form of any mag-

JUNE 1950

nesium base alloy which contains at least
20 percent by weight of material the par-
ticle size of which is less than 0.1 mm.

Article 7

1, After Aug. 1, 1950, no persons or enter-
prise shall manufacture or produce alu-
minum powder or magnesium powder ex-
cept as authorized by permit issued by the
federal government or its designated
agency. Until such date, persons and enter-
prises may manufacture and produce alu-
minum and magnesium powders.

2. The federal government or its desig-
nated agency shall, by issuing permits to
persons and enterprises to manufacture or
produce aluminum and magnesium powders,
authorize the annual manufacture and
production after Aug. 1, 1950, of any quan-
tity of aluminum powder or magnesium pow-
der which does not exceed such quantity as
the Military Security Board shall have
prescribed respectively. The federal gov-
ernment or its designated agency shall
forward two copies of each permit to the
Military Security Board.

Article 8

1, Persons and enterprises may transport,
store, possess, own and use aluminum and
magnesium powders. However, nothing in
this paragraph shall authorize the perfor-
mance of activities prohibited by Article 1,
Paragraph 1 (a) of the Law and Group VIII
(A) (1) to (12) of Schedule A thereto, or by
regulations thereunder.

2. For the purposes of the Law the Ger-
Man agencies competent under United
States Military Government Law No. 53
(Revised), British Military Government
Law No. 53 (Revised) or French Military
Government Law No. 235 may authorize
imports and exports of magnesium and alu-
mina powders,

Plant and Equipment for Production
of Aluminum and Magnesium Powders
Article 9

1. For the purpose of Article 3, Paragraph 3
of the Law, plant and equipment specially
designed for the production and manufac-
ture of aluminum or magnesium powders
shall be deemed converted to peacetime use.

2. Any person or enterprise may construct,
erect, reconstruct, re-erect, convert or re-
place any plant or equipment for the pur-
pose of producing aluminum or magnesium
powders.

3. Obsolete or worn-out plant and equip-
ment may be disposed of in any manner.
Effective Date
Article 10

1, This regulation, Group VIII (A) (13)
of Schedule A of the Law Group I (A) of
Schedule B, Group I (F) and Group II (C)
of Schedule C, and Group I of Schedule D,
shall become effective on June 1, 1950.

2. To the extent that Articles 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Law apply to the
parts of the schedules specified in the
preceding paragraph, those articles shall
become effective on June 1, 1950.

3. To the extent that Article 10 of the Law
repeals United States Military Government
Ordinance 37 (Limited Industries), Ordi-
nance 229 of the French Commander-in-
Chief in Germany (Limited Industries), and
British Military Government Ordinance 200
(Limited Industries), respectively, with
regard to primary aluminum, it shall
become effective on June 1, 1950.

Regulation No. 3 (Machine Tools)

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission issues the following Regulation.

65

Scope
Article 1

1. This regulation relates to the controls
on. the manufacture, production, import,
transportation, stonage, possession, owner-
ship and use of the machine tools listed
in Group VII of Schedule A of the Law,
the controls on the plant and equipment
for the production of such machine tools
and the controls on the manufacture and
production of the machine tools listed in
Group II of Schedule D of the Law.

Section A
Military Purpose Machine Tools
Article 2

The tools, equipment, attachments, devi-
ces and other objects specified in Groups
VII (A) and (B) of Schedule A of the
Law shall be deemed to include only the
following:

(a) Machinery and other manufacturing
equipment and tooling used for the de-
velopment, manufacture, testing or inspec-
tion of the war materials defined in
Schedule A, other than aluminum and
magnesium powders, and not capable of
conversion to peacetime production.

(b) Machine tools or other manufactur-
ing equipment specifically designed for
the manufactures of weapons, ammunition
or other implements of war.

(c) Attachments, devices, tools or other
equipment having no normal peacetime
use and specifically designed to convert
or adapt machine tools or other manu-
facturing equipment to the production of
weapons, ammunition or other implements
of war.

Section B
General Purpose Machine Tools
Article 3

1. Any person or enterprise desiring to
manufacture or produce machine tools
listed in Group II (F) of Schedule D of the
Law shall file an application in accord-
ance with Article 7 of Regulation No. 1
under the Law, which application shall
include the following additional infor-
mation.

(a) The item reference in Schedule D,
Group II (F), the key dimensions thereof,
and the quantities of each that it is desir-
ed to manufacture.

(b) Similar information listing the ma-
chines of similar types in stock.

(c) Estimated date of commencement and
completion of manufacture or production
of each item.

(d) Intended disposition. Where manu-
facture is against a purchase order other
than for export, the name, location and
nature of business of the intended user
and the quantity to be supplied. In the
case of export orders, the export authori-
ty number, the date, and office of issue
is to be stated.

2. The Military Security Board may, at
any time, after granting such an applica-
tion, require the names and addresses if
any other persons or enterprises (sub-
contractors) who will also be engaged in
the manufacture of the machine/or machines
which are the subject of the application.

Article 4

The manufacture and production of
machine tools listed in Group II (F) of
Schedule D of the Law actually in process
on May 8, 1950, may be completed.

Article 5

1. Persons and enterprises possessing
any machine tool listed in Group II (F)
of Schedule D of the Law on Aug. 1 of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
any year shall, in such form and manner
as the Military Security Board shall have
prescribed, forthwith declare the same to
the Military Security Board and shall
identify all such tools possessed by such
persons and enterprises, including those
in process of manufacture or production
on that date, and shall give the location
of each machine tool.

2. Persons ‘and enterprises submitting
declarations to the Military Security Board
pursuant to Paragraph 1, shall at the time
of submission, forward a copy of the de-
claration to the Federal Government.

Section C
Effective Date
Article 6

1. This Regulation, Group VII (A) and
(B) of Schedule A of the Law and Group II
(F) of Schedule D thereof shall become
effective on June 1, 1950.

2. To the extent that Articles 1, 3, 4,
5. 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Law apply to the
parts of the schedules specified in the
preceding sentence, those Articles shall
become effective on June 1, 1950.

Regulation No. 4 [Electronic Valves
(Tubes)]

The Council of the Allied High Commis-

sion issues the following regulation:
Scope
Article 1

This regulation relates to controls on the
manufacture, production, importation and
acquisition from abroad of electronic valves
(tubes).

Manufacture and Production
Article 2

1. The term “electronic valves (tubes)"’ as
used in Group II (D) of Schedule D of the
Law shall mean valves, tubes and all other
devices employing the principle of the
emission of electrons, whether from the hot
oc cold surfaces of solid, liquid or gaseous
bodies and for the purposes of this regu-
lation shall be deemed to include amplify-
ing and demodulating crystals, which
valves, tubes, crystals and other devices
are capable of performing any of the
following functions or capable of perform-
ing any such functions in conjunction with
associated circuits:

(1) Oscillation or generation of electrical
energy.

(2) Amplification of electrical energy.

(3) Rectification, detection or demodu-
lation of electro-magnetic energy.

(4) Conversion of electrical energy into
electro-magnetic energy at frequencies
either within or without the visible spectrum.

(5) Conversion of electro-magnetic energy
either within or without the visible spectrum
to electrical energy.

2. Pursuant to Article 4 (b) of the Law,
persons and enterprises are hereby authoriz-
ed to manufacture and produce the articles
and products listed in Subparagraph (a) of
this paragraph and the electronic valves
(tubes) of the types listed in Subparagraph
(b) of this paragraph:

(a) (1) Lighting devices.

(2) Radiant heating devices.

(3) Power rectifiers and invertors,

(4) Ballast and voltage regulating valves
(tubes).

(5) X-ray tubes up to 150,000 anode volts.

(6) Cathode ray tubes up to 9,000 anode
volts maximum and having a screen persist-
ence of more than two micro-seconds but
less than one second.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(7) Light sensitive cells for industrial
control systems, sound reproduction or

photography.

(b) (1) 1,2 Volt Series:
DAF 11 DGH it DLL 11
DF 11 DC 11 DL it
DAA 11

(2) 2 Volt Series:
KBC 1 KC 1 KC 3
KDD 1 KF 3 KF 4
KK 2 KL 1 KL 2
KL 4 KB 2

(3) 4 Volt Series:
ABC 1 AC 2 ACH 1 AB 1
AF 3 AF 7? AH 100 AB 2
AK 1 AK 2 AL 1 RE 034
AM 2 AZ 1 AZ 11 RE 034K
AZ 12 ABL 1 RE 134 RE 084K
RE 604 REN 704d RENS1204 RE 084K
RENS 1214 RENS 1224 RENS 1234 RES 094
RENS 1284 RENS 1294 RENS 137d
RES 164 RES 164 RES 374
RES 964 RGN 354 RGN 504
RGN 564 RGN 1064 RGN 2004

(4) 6,3 Volt Series:

EB 11 EBC 11 EBF i1 EBF 19
ECH 11 EDD 11 DF it ECH 19
EF 12 EF 13 EFM 11 EAA 11

EM 11 EZ 11 EZ 12 EF 12

EF 6 EF 9 ECH 4 EM 13
EM 4 EF 6bi EF 12 Special

(5) 50 MA Series:
ve 1 VL 1 vy 1 VF 3
VY 3 VCH i1 VEL 11 VCL 11
VF 7F

(6) 100 MA Series:
UBF 11 UCH 11 UFM 11 UCH 5 UY 2

UM 11 UY 11 UM 13 UL .11 UEL 71
UM 4 UAA11 UF 11 UF 5 UF 6

UEL 11 UY 3 UL 2

(7) 180 MA Series:
RENS 18234 BENS 1834 BENS 1884
RENS 1894

(8) 200 MA Series:
cB 1 CB 2 CBC 1 cBC 11
cc 2 CCH 1 CEM 2
CF 3 CF 7 CH 1
CK 1 cL 1 CL 2
cy 1 cy 2 CBL 1

(9) Post Series:
Aa Ab Ba/Bas Z2a
Be Bb Bi Z2b
Ca/Cas Ca Ce Z2d
cf C3b C3c Z2e
C3d C3e C3t Z2E
C3g c3m E2b Z2u
E2c E2d E2e Z2z
B3a E2c

(10) Miscellaneous Series:
G 1064 G 2004 G 354

L_ 4160 4673 L413
AV 1030 AV 1031 AV 1032 AV 1033 AV 1034

3. Any person or enterprise desiring to
manufacture or produce any electronic
valve (tube) not listed in Paragraph 2 shall
file an application in accordance with
Article 7 of Regulation No. 1 under the Law
and shall include in the application the in-
formation listed in this paragraph:

(a) Quantity to be manufactured or pro-
duced.

(b) Stock positions of the particular valve
(tube).

(c) Intended disposition.

(d) Estimated date of commencement and
completion of manufacture or production of
the quantity to be made,

(e) If the application is for the manu-
facture or production of any valve (tube)
of a type for which an authorization has
not previously been granted, information
as to the operating characteristics of the
valves, particularly the operating per-
formance at frequencies in the neigh-
borhood of its upper frequency limit.

A 408

66

(f) If the application is for the manu-
facture or production of a valve (tube) of
a type for which a previous authorization
has been granted, information as to the type
number and the identification reference of
such authorization.

4, All manufacturers or producers of
electronic valves (tubes) shall submit
regular quarterly reports through the chan-
nels specified for applications in Article 7
of Regulation No. 1 under the Law, giving
quantities by types of the manufacture or
production and disposal of all valves (tubes)
other than those listed in Paragraph 2.

Import
Article 3

1, The importation or acquisition from
abroad of electronic valves (tubes) other
than those listed below is authorized:

(a) Emission limitors and regulators, 10
KV and over.

(b) Memory or storage tubes.

(c) X-ray tubes, 150 KV and over.

(d) Cathode ray tubes of more than one-
second persistence or less than two micro-
seconds persistence or over nine KV maxi-
mum anode rating.

(e) Triggered spark-gap tubes.

(f) Valves (tubes) especially designed for
operation in the ultra high and higher fre-
quencies.

2. Any person or enterprise filing an
application in accordance with Article 6 of
Regulation No. 1 under the Law to import
any electronic valve (tube) listed in Para-
graph 1 shall include therein the following
information: the type, number, country of
manufacture, quantity and the category
within Paragraph 1 under which the type
of valve falls.

3. Subject to such further orders as the
Military Security Board may issue the fede-
ral government is designated, pursuant to
Article 4 of the Law, as an agency for the
authorization of the importation or acquisi-
tion from abroad of the electronic valves
(tubes) listed in Subparagraph (f) of Para-
graph 1.

4, The federal government shall submit
to the Military Security Board copies of all
authorizations issued by it for the import of
electronic valves (tubes) listed in Subpara-
graph (f) of Paragraph 1 together with co-
pies of the applications for the authoriza-
tions which have been granted.

5. The German agencies responsible for
customs control shall submit to the Mili-
tary Security Board regular quarterly re-
ports with respect to the movement into
the territory of the Federal Republic of elec-
tronic valves (tubes).

Effective Date
Article 4

1, This regulation and Group II (D) and
Group III (B) of Schedule D of the Law shall
become effective on May 28, 1950.

2. To the extent that Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
and 9 of the Law apply to the parts of Sched-
ule D specified in the preceding para-
graph, those Articles shall become effec-
tive on June 1, 1950.

Regulation No. 5 (Ball and Roller Bear-
ing Industry)
The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion issues the following regulation:
Scope
Article 1

This regulation relates to the controls on
the productive capacity of, and on the plant
and equipment in, the ball and roller bear-
ing industry.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 70 ---
Definitions
Article 2

1, For the purposes of Articles 2 and 3
of the Law, Group I (C) of Schedule C there-
to and of this regulation, the industry
producing antifriction bearings for jour-
nal loading, thrust loading, and combined
journal and thrust loading, incorporating
load carrying elements in the form of balls,
rollers or needle rollers, and parts of such
bearings designed for assembly into anti-
friction bearings, shall be deemed the ball
and roller bearing industry.

2. The terms “‘plants or equipment” and
“plant or equipment,'' as used in Article 8
Paragraph 1 (b) and Paragraph 1 (c) of the
Law, shall with reference to the ball and
roller bearing industry, be deemed to mean
the following machine tools and equipment,
when in the possession of persons or enter-
prises operating plants engaged in the ball
and roller bearing industry or when adapt-
ed or tooled for ball and roller bearing pro-
duction: forging machines, stamping pres-
ses, cold headers, automatic and semi-auto-
matic turning and boring lathes, grinders,
and automatic heat treatment equipment,

3. The productive capacity of the plant or
equipment engaged in the ‘ball and roller
bearing industry shall be determined upon
the basis of the number and specification
of the tools listed in Paragraph 2.

Authorizations with Respect to Plant
and Equipment
Article 3

Any person or enterprise desiring to
increase the productive capacity of any of
its plants or equipment that are engaged or
partly engaged in the ball and roller bear-
ing industry or to construct or erect any
new plant or equipment or replace or re-
construct any plant or equipment for the
production of ball or roller bearings which
has been removed or destroyed prior to
June 1, 1950, or which shall have been de-
stroyed or removed by direction of the
Allied High Commission, shall file an appli-
cation in accordance with Article 7 of Re-

gulation No. 1 under the Law.

Questionnaire with Regard to Plant
and Equipment
Article 4

Persons or enterprises engaged in the
ball and roller bearing industry on June 1,
1950, or thereafter, other than those per-
sons and enterprises who filed a completed
questionnaire with the Occupation autho-
tities after Sept. 1, 1949, shall forthwith
declare the same to the Military Security
Board and thereafter shall complete and
file with the Military Security Board such

questionnaire as the Military Security Board”

shall have prescribed.

Declarations with Respect to Plant
and Equipment
Article 5

Any person or enterprise who has failed
to comply with Paragraph 1 of Article III
of Ordinance No. 229 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief in Germany, British Mili-
tary Government Ordinance No. 200, or
United States Military Government Ordi-
nance No, 37 shall file the report required
by such paragraph by June 15, 1950.

Production Reports
Article 6

Not later than the 20th day of each month
beginning with July 1950, the Federal Gov-
ernment shall submit to the Military Se-
curity Board three copies of report, in such
form as the Military Security Board shall
have prescribed, setting forth the produc-
tion of ball and roller bearings and parts

JUNE 1950

thereof during the preceding month by
each person and enterprise which manu-
factured ball or roller bearings or parts
thereof during such month.
Effective Date
Article 7

1. This regulation and Group I (C) of
Schedule C of the Law shall become effec-
tive on June 1, 1950.

2, To the extent that Articles 2, 3, 5, 6, 7,
8 and 9 of the Law apply to Group I (C) of
Schedule C of the Law, those Articles shall
become effective on June 1, 1950.

3. To the extent that Article 10 of the
Law repeals United States Military Govern-
ment Ordinance No. 37 (Limited Industries),
Ordinance No. 229 of the French Command-
er-in-Chief in Germany (Limited Industries)
and British Military Government Ordinance
No. 200 (Limited Industries), respectively,
with regard to ball and roller bearings, it
shall become effective June 1, 1950.

Regulation No. 6 (Steel)

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion issues the following regulation:

Scope
Article 1

This regulation relates to the controls on
the maximum production level of the steel
industry, the productive capacity of the
steel industry, the productive capacity of
the electric arc and high frequency furnace
steel industry and on the plant and equip-
ment engaged in or for production in these
industries,

Section A
Production
Article 2

After July 1, 1950, no person or enter-
prise shall manufacture or produce crude
steel (ingots and liquid steel for castings)
except as authorized by a permit issued by
the Federal Government or its designated
agency.

Article 3

1. The annual maximum production level
of the steel industry from Oct. 1, 1949, to
Sept. 30, 1950, and for each successive cor-
responding period, shall be 11,100,000 tons
of crude steel.

2. By July 1, 1950, the Federal Govern-
ment or its designated agency shall estab-
lish a quota system within the permitted
production of crude steel and shall, by
issuing permits to persons and enterprises
to manufacture and produce crude steel,
authorize the annual maximum production
in the territory of the Federal Republic of
any quantity of crude steel which does not
cause the annual maximum production level

to be exceeded. The Federal Government or _

its designated agency shall forward two

copies of each permit to the Military
Security Board.
Section B
Productive Capacity
Article 4

‘1, The capacity of the steel industry in
the area of the Federal Republic shall be
that capacity remaining after removal of
reparations.

2. The electric arc and high frequency
furnace steel capacity in the area of the
Federal Republic shall be that capacity re-
maining after removal of reparations,

. Article 5

1, Except for the purposes of Article 6
plants and equipment engaged in the steel
industry and in the electric arc and high
frequency furnace steel industry within the
meaning of Article 3, Paragraph 1 (b) of the
Law and plant and equipment for pro-

67

duction in the steel industry and in the
electric arc and high frequency furnace
steel industry within the meaning of
Article 3, Paragraph 1 (c), of the Law shall
be deemed to mean:

(a) Blast furnaces.

(b) Converters and furnaces for the pro-
duction of crude steel.

(c) Equipment for the production of ferro-
alloys.

(d) Equipment for the centrifugal casting
of steel.

(e) Equipment for the manufacture of
seamless tubes of a size greater than 90
millimeters diameter.

(f) Plate mills over three meters wide and
all rolling mills capable of rolling, on a two
shift basis, more than 400,000 tons per
annum.

(g) Forging presses over 2,000 metric
tons.

(h) Plants and equipment removed from
the reparations list under the terms of para-
graph VIII (b) of the Petersberg Protocol of
Agreements dated Nov. 22, 1949.

2. Article 3, paragraph 1 (b) and (c), of
the Law and Paragraph 1 of this article
shall not be deemed to prohibit the manu-
facture of the equipment listed in para-
graphs 1 (c), (d), (e) and (f).

Article 6

Any person or enterprise who installs in
any plant any forge, equipment for the
manufacture of seamless tubes of a size not
greater than 90 millimeters diameter, or
rolling mill not mentioned in Paragraph 1
of Article 5 shall forthwith declare the same
to the Military Security Board and shall
describe the equipment installed, identify
the plant and, in the case of removals and
reinstallations, shall name the plant from
which the equipment was removed.

Article 7

Any person or enterprise desiring to
increase the productive capacity of any of
its plants or equipment that are engaged or
partly engaged in the steel industry or the
electric arc and high frequency furnace
steel industry, or to construct any new plant
or equipment for production in the steel
industry or electric arc and high frequency
furnace steel industry, or replace or recon-
struct any plant of equipment for pro-
duction in the steel industry or the electric
arc and high frequency furnace steel in-
dustry which has been removed or destroy-
ed prior to June 1, 1950, or which shall
have been removed or destroyed by direc-
tion of the Allied High Commission, shall
file an application in accordance with
Article 7 of Regulation No. 1 under the Law.

Section C
Effective Date
Article 8

1, This Regulation and Groups I (D) and
Il (A) of Schedule C of the Law shall
become effective on June 1, 1950.

2. To the extent that Articles 2, 3, 5, 6,
7, 8 and 9 of the Law apply to the Groups
of the Schedules specified in the preceding
paragraph, those articles shall become
effective on June 1, 1950,

3. To the extent that Article 10 of the
Law repeals Ordinance No. 229 of the
French Commander-in-Chief in Germany
(Limited Industries), British Military Govern-
ment Ordinance No. 200 (Limited Indus-
tries) and United States Military Govern-
ment Ordinance No. 37 (Limited Industries),
respectively, with regard to steel and elec-
tric arc and high frequency furnace steel, it
shall become effective on June 1, 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
Official Communiques

Meeting of HICOM April 6

The 23rd meeting of the Allied High Com-
mission was held April 6 at the Petersberg,
near Bonn. Present were Sir Brian Robert-
son, United Kingdom High Commissioner
(chairman), Mr. John J. McCloy, United
States High Commissioner, and Mr. Andre
Francois-Poincet, French High Commis-
sioner.

The Council:

1, Signed an Allied High Commission
law depriving of effect in the State of
Hesse the provisions of Control Council
Law No. 22 on works councils, This law
will take effect from the date of its publi-
cation in the Official Gazette of the Allied
High Commission. (For text see ‘Laws and
Regulations."’)

2. Continued its discussion of the pro-
posed new law for the reorganization of
the coal and iron and steel industries. Good
progress was made in obtaining agreement
to the text of the law, the study of which
is nearing its completion, The discussion
will be continued at the next meeting.

3. Decided to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg on April 13.

Meeting of HICOM April 13-14

The 24th meeting of the Allied High
Commission was held April 13 and 14 at the
Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were: Sir
Brian Robertson, United Kingdom High
Commissioner (chairman), Mr. John J.
McCloy, United States High Commissioner,
and Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French
High Commissioner,

The Council:

1, Considered the draft law for the reor-
ganization of German coal and iron and
steel industries to replace US/UK Military
Government Laws 75. The Council decided
to adopt this draft after making certain
amendments to its text.

The preamble of this draft law contains
a clause, similar to that in the present
Law 75, concerning the question of the
eventual ownership of these industries.
The decision to adopt this clause was not
unanimous and an appeal against its adop-
tion has been made.

2. Directed the central statistical office
of the Allied High Commission to discuss
with representatives of the Federal Chan-
cellery the High Commission's require-
ments for statistical information.

3. Directed the financial advisers to study
preliminary estimates, submitted by the
Allied commandants, for occupation costs
and mandatory expenditures in the western
sectors of Berlin during the financial year
1950/51. The advisers’ study is to be direct-
ed toward eliminating any duplication in
the Berlin budgets of charges already
provided for in the budgets sent to the
Federal authorities, and toward reducing
expenditures to the essential minimum.

4, Studied the provisional law concerning
federal civil servants and the Federal law
on income and corporation tax. It was
noted that the 21-day period for action on
these laws by the High Commission ends
on April 19 and 20, 1950, respectively.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Meeting of HICOM April 20

In accordance with its policy of maintain-
ing the closest contact with the city, the
Council of the Allied High Commission
held its 25th meeting at the United States
Headquarters Building in Berlin April 20.
Present were Sir Brian Robertson, United
Kingdom High Commissioner (chairman),
Mr. John J. McCloy, United States High
Commissioner, and Mr. Andre Francois-
Poncet, French High Commissioner.

Also attending the meeting were the
Berlin commandants — Maj. Gen. G. K.
Bourne (UK), Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor
(US), and General de Division J. Ganeval
(France) — together with the economic,
political, legal, financial and other senior
advisers of the High Commissioners.

The Council:

1, Decided to reinforce its support of
efforts by the German federal and Berlin
authorities to stimulate and invigorate Ber-
lin's trade with Germany and abroad. Dis-

- cussing a report presented by the com-

mandants, whose experts had conferred
with Berlin economic representatives, the
High Commissioners stressed the impor-
tance of the early establishment of an
effective sales organization to assist Berlin
trade. They noted the present existence of
Berlin trade representation in Bonn and
Frankfurt.

It was observed that opportunities exist
to augment and strengthen this organi-
zation with particular reference to the
development of sales publicity and market
analysis and research. The special need of
the smaller trades and of the handicraft
industries was noted.

The Council agreed to encourage foreign
trade representation in Berlin and, in this
connection, an exchange of visits by re-
presentatives of the Berlin Chamber of Com-
merce and representatives of chambers of
commerce abroad was envisaged. In addition,
the Council agreed that special consideration
could be given to Berlin trade problems
by commercial representatives in German
consulates, the establishment of which in
foreign countries is now being undertaken
by the federal authorities.

The Council decided to communicate
with the federal chancellor on this matter
and directed the commandants to invite
the Berlin Magistrat to develop its earlier
proposals on the subject.

2. Turned its attention to the cultural
situation in Berlin. After a report by the
commandants on the present situation of
Berlin theaters, art lovers, creative artists
and students, the Council decided as a first
step in the promotion of further progress in
Berlin's cultural life, to give support to
the early exhibition in Berlin of the former
Prussian State Theater costume collection
and of pictures from German art collections
which are now in western Germany.

The High Commissioners agreed further
to intensify their efforts to encourage
cultural visits to the city by foreign artists
and exhibitions as well as visits of Berlin
artists abroad. In particular, it was decided
to press for the removal of remaining
restrictions on German artists appearing in
foreign theaters.

68

The possibility of a Berlin artistic and
cultural festival later in the year was
envisaged and the Council directed | its
representatives in Berlin to give this matter
more detailed study.

Finally, the Council directed the com-
mandants to set up a commission, under
Allied chairmanship with representatives
of German education and the city admini-
stration, to examine the possibility of aid-
ing higher education in Berlin through con-
solidation of various separate university
institutions. 5

3. Concluded its examination of the occu-
pation costs and mandatory expenditures
budgets for the western sectors of Berlin
for the financial year 1950-51. The Council
noted that for the current year there would
be a substantial reduction in the over-all
Berlin expenditures. The approved budget
estimates were returned to the comman-
dants for notification to the Berlin city
authorities.

4, Provisionally disapproved the federal
law amending the income and corporation
tax laws. The Council transmitted to the
federal chancellor a letter embodying its
reasons and offering to discuss with the
federal authorities measures to meet the
points raised therein. (For text of letter,
see ‘'Statements."’)

5. Decided to hold its next meeting at the
Petersberg on April 27.

Meeting of HICOM April 27

The 26th meeting of the Allied High
Commission was held April 27 at the
Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were Sir
Brian Robertson, United Kingdom High
Commissioner (chairman); Mr. John J.
McCloy, United States High Commissioner,
and Mr. Armand Berard, French deputy
high commissioner, acting for Mr. Andre
Francois-Poncet.

The meeting was a short one, ending
before lunch, and gave rise to no points
for immediate publication.

Meeting of HICOM May 4

The 27th meeting of the Allied High
Commission was held May 4 at the Peters-
berg, near Bonn. Present were Mr. John J.
McCloy, United States High Commissioner
(chairman); Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet,
French High Commissioner, and Sir Brian
Robertson, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner.

The Council:

1, Considered a memorandum from the
federal government on the federal law
concerning the provisional regulations of
the legal status of persons in the service
of the federation (Civil Service Law), which
the Council had provisionally disapproved.
It was noted that substantial progress
toward resolution of this question. had
been made. However, it was felt that there
were still points which could benefit from
further discussions between representatives
of the High Commission and of the federal
government. It was decided that arrange-
ments should be made to hold such discus-
sions.

2. Signed a law depriving of effect in the
Federal Republic certain Allied Control
Authority legislation and repealing Mili-
tary Government and Allied High Com-
mission legislation inconsistent with’ a
recently promulgated federal law on offi-

JUNE 1950

--- Page 72 ---
cial notifications (Gesetz tiber Bekannt-
machungen). The federal law (which is to
take effect on month after its promulgation
April 25), establishes the Federal Gazette
(Bundesanzeiger) as the official gazette of
the Federal Republic.

3, Signed a law establishing that no
penal provisions in legislation of the Allied
High Commission or of a high commis-
sioner shall apply to members of the Allied
forces, unless otherwise provided. (For
text see Laws and Regulations, this’ page.)

4, Signed a law providing that certain
provisions of Allied High Commission
Law 14, “Offenses Against the Interests of
the Occupation,’ be made applicable to
Allied forces. Those provisions of AHC
Law 14 which are made to apply to occu-
pation personnel deal with offenses involv-
ing the security of the Allied forces, (For
text see Laws and Regulations, this page.)

5. Decided to held its next meeting at
the Petersberg on May 16.

Laws and Regulations

HICOM Law Affecting Hesse State
Legislation on Works Councils

HICOM Law Depriving of Effect in
the State of Hesse the Provisions of
ACA Law No. 22 (Works Councils)

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion enacts as follows:

Article 1 .
The provisions of Control Council Law
No. 22, “Works Councils," are hereby
deprived of effect in the territory of the
State of Hesse.

Article 2
This law shall become effective on the
date of its publication.

HICOM Regulation No. 1 under Law
No. 10 relating to the Expulsion of
Undesirable Persons

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion issues the following regulation:

Article 1
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 1
of Law No. 10, there is hereby established
a board for the expulsion of undesirable
persons (hereinafter referred to as ‘the
board"). The board is placed under the
authority of the General Committee.

Article 2
The board may sit in panels of three
members appointed respectively by each of
the High Commissioners.

Article 3

The functions of the board are to examine
and to adjudicate upon all requests for
expulsion submitted to it, and where the
board So decides, to issue orders of ex-
pulsion either temporary or permanent.

The decisions of the board shall be
unanimous, In the event of disagreement
the question in dispute shall be referred to
the General Committee for decision.

Article 4
Requests for expulsion shall be submitted
to the board by a high commissioner or by
a state commissioner, or, in respect of the

Bonn Enclave, by the Administrative Sub-
Committee of the Enclave.

JUNE 1950

Article 5

In the event that the German authorities
wish to expel a person as being liable to
endanger the maintenance of public order,
they will make necessary recommendations
to the appropriate state commissioner
through the minister-president of the state,
substantiated by evidence of conviction by
German courts or other evidence of
dangerous activity. The recommendations
of the German authorities will be forward-
ed by the state commissioner to the board
for its consideration.

Article 6
Expulsion ordered by the board (or by the
General Committee, as the case may be)
shall be effected by the high commissioner
in whose zone the person to be expelled
shall be.

Article 7

The board shall make its own rules of
procedure, Such rules shall provide that
any person against whom an order of
expulsion has been made by the board may
request its reconsideration. Such request
shall operate to suspend the order unless
the board decides otherwise.

Article 8
Each high commissioner may order the
expulsion from the territory of the Federal
Republic of any non-German national
present in his zone who is a national of
the power by which that high commis-
sioner was designated.

Article 9
Decision No. 3 dated Oct. 27, 1949, con-
cerning the expulsion of undesirable per-
sons is hereby repealed.

HICOM Law on Repeal of Legislation
Concerning Certain Official Notifica-
tions

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacts as follows:

Article 1

1. The provisions of Control Council
Law No. 38 (amendment of section 204 of
the Code of Civil Procedure) are hereby
deprived of effect in the territory of the
Federal Republic.

2. The following legislation is hereby
repealed:

Article 8 of Law No. 1 of the Allied High
Commission (Official Gazette of the Allied
High Commission).

Ordinance No. 185 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief in Germany implementing
Ordinance No. 80 concerning the creation
of Official Gazettes of the French Zone of
Occupation.

Ordinance No. 230 of the French High
Commissioner for Germany amending Ordi-
nances Nos. 2 and 80 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief in Germany.

British Military Government instruction
dated Sept. 3, 1948, and published in issue
No. 11 of the Oeffentlicher Anzeiger fuer
das Vereinigte Wirtschaftsgebiet, dated
Oct 15, 1948.

Article 2
This law shall become effective on the
date of the coming into force of the federal
law on official notifications (Gesetz ueber
Bekannitmachungen).

69

HICOM Law on Application of Penal
Provisions in Occupation Legislation

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion enacts as follows:

In the absence of any provision to the
contrary, provisions of a penal: character
in any legislation of the Allied High Com-
mission or of a high commissioner enacted
on or after Sept. 21, 1949, shall not apply to:

(a) The Occupation Authorities,

(b) Members of the Occupation Forces,

(c) Nationals. of the Occupying Powers,
civilian or military, who are serving with
the Occupation Authorities or Forces,

(d) Members of the families of, and
nationals of the Occupying Powers in the
service of, the persons referred to in para-
graphs (a), (b) and (c) of this article.

HICOM Amendment No. 1 to Law
No. 14 — Offenses. Against the In-
terests of the Occupation

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion enacts as follows:

AHC Law No. 14, Offenses Against the
Interests of the Occupation, is hereby
amended by addition of an Article 7 to
read as follows:

Article 7

The provisions of Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3
of Article 1; Paragraphs 1 and 5 of Article 2
and Paragraphs 2, 3 and 8 of Article 3, and
the provisions of Article 5 of this law are
applicable to persons falling within the
categories specified in law on ‘Application
of Penal Provisions in Occupation Legis-
lation.”

Official Statements

HICOG Policy Governin
Labor Relations .

Announcement of the policy governing
relationship between the Office of the US
High Commissioner for Germany and Ger-
man trade unions was made April 19 by the
Personnel Division, Office of Admini-
stration. The policy statement is identical
with that issued recently by the European
Command concerning the status of trade
unions in their relations with the Army.

The statement follows:

1. It is the policy of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for’ Germany
(HICOG) to recognize the right of em-
ployees to join competent trade unions or
organize into groups, to give prompt con-
sideration to petitions or presentations of
such trade unions or groups, and to allow
them freedom to pursue a program of ac-
tivities consistent with the lawful purposes
of the organization and within the limits
imposed by circumstances of HICOG em-
ployment. Furthermore, employment will
not be contingent upon membership or
non-membership in an ‘organization, as
membership is entirely voluntary.

2. It is the policy of HICOG to recognize
the right of competent German trade
unions to represent those employees of
HICOG who are bona fide members of
such trade unions.

3. No one union or employee group will
be considered as representing all the em-
ployees of an installation, unless all of the
employees are members of such union or
group or have elected the union or group
to so represent them.

{NFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
4, A representative of a union, acting in
behalf of its members, may confer with
the HICOG director, Office of Admini-
stration, state commissioner or field office
director in an effort to resolve differences
affecting members of said union where
such solution is possible within the frame-
work of laws and regulations governing
the operation of the agency. No one offi-
cial or group of officials of HICOG is
authorized to negotiate or bargain collec-
tively or to enter into oral or written con-
tracts without the permission of this head-
quarters.

5. Problems of a purely local nature
should be taken up by the union or
employee group with the state commis-
sioner or field office director for possible
solution at that level.

6. Problems not solved locally or prob-
lems affecting large areas such as a
state or the entire zone should be pre-
sented to this headquarters (HICOG) by a
competent official or officials of the per-
tinent union or federation of unions.

7. It will further be the policy of HICOG
to inform the federation of trade unions
of any anticipated important change of
policy or regulations governing the em-
ployment of German employees.

8. No discrimination will be shown
against any employee of HICOG because
of:

a. Membership in a union or em-
ployee group, or

b. Holding office in a union or
employee group, as long as his
work performance is satisfactory
and the activities of the union or
group of which he is a member are
lawful.

HICOM Letter on Income Tax

The Allied High Commission made
public April 23 the text of its letter to the
federal chancellor of April 20 in connection
with its provisional disapproval of the Law
to Amend Income and Corporation Tax
Laws. The text of the letter follows:

The Allied High Commission has given
careful consideration to the “Law to
Amend Income and Corporation Tax Laws”
which it received on March 30, 1950. It
has reluctantly decided provisionally to
disapprove this law primarily on the basis
of its responsibilities under Section 2(h) of
the Occupation Statute.

In the opinion of the Allied High Com-
mission the adoption of this law in the
absence of corrective measures would in-
crease budgetary deficits of the Federal
Republic and the states, by seriously de-
creasing income tax revenues. This would
necessitate additional borrowing for or-
dinary budgetary expenditures in contra-
vention of Allied High Commission Law 15.

The proposed law, considering the state
of finances of the Federal Republic, is also
not in keeping with the Economic Coope-
ration Act Agreement between the Federal
Republic and the United States in which
the former, among other things, agreed to
maintain internal financial stability and
balanced budgets as soon as practicable.

Furthermore the adoption of this law
would in the opinion of the High Com-
mission tend to increase still more the
need for external assistance to Germany
and enlarge its requirements for foreign
exchange by bringing about (1) greater
purchases of foreign consumer goods and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(2) greater purchases of domestic consumer
goods, thereby tending to reduce goods
available for export.

The Allied High Commission wishes to
stress, however, that it is not opposed to
income tax reduction per se. If the federal
government feels that the income tax
should be reduced, the High Commission
will not disapprove such a law provided
there are simultaneously submitted to it (1)
measures which would provide substitute
revenues sufficient to compensate for the
estimated loss in income tax revenues and
which, for example, might in part be di-
rected at reducing the demand for luxury
goods; (2) incentives in the income tax
law which would insure that tax savings
would be channeled into government secu-
tities or specific new investment essential
for attaining economic viability; and (3)
improved collection and enforcement meas-
ures which would reduce income tax and
other tax evasion and restore to Germany
its old reputation for high tax morality.

The Allied High Commission is pre-
pared, through its Finance Committee, to
discuss the above matters with the appro-
priate federal authorities with a view to
assisting them in working out a satis-
factory solution.

HICOM Letter to Federal
Chancellor on Steel Control

The High Commission, in considering
your letter, observed that its responsibility
in controlling any phase of the German
steel industry did not rest solely upon the
Prohibited and Limited Industries Agree-
ment. Under the Occupation Statute, the
High Commission has the broader res-
ponsibility of imposing such controls on
production capacity developments as it
deems necessary in .the interests of se-
curity.

In particular, the High Commission con-
siders that it has the responsibility to
insure that the steel industry, including
steel processing, should not lead to the
development of a war potential, that the
installation of new equipment for the pri-
mary processing of steel, or of rolling
mills and forges, would be dangerous if
it were not justified by peaceful ends, or
if it implied an exorbitant extension of
the means of primary processing out of
proportion with the authorized level of
production of crude steel. It is the intention
of the High Commission to apply con-
trols no more strictly than is considered
essential.

The High Commission has decided to
require the licensing of blast furnaces and
of equipment for the production of crude
steel, that is to say produced under pre-
sent-day technical conditions by: Thomas
converters, Martin furnaces, Bessemer con-
verters and electric furnaces.

The High Commission has also decided
that it is necessary to control by measures
to be determined by the Military Security
Board certain equipment for primary pro-
cessing of special importance of which
particulars will be given you in the near
future.

The High Commission has no intention
of intervening in the division among exi-
sting enterprises of the total production
of 11,100,000 tons of crude steel fixed by
the Washington Agreement for the whole
federal territory. (Letter dated March 30,
1950.)

70

British Statement on Krupp
Dismantling

The British State Commissioner of North
Rhine-Westphalia finds it necessary to
correct misleading representations which
are being circulated regarding the residue
of dismantling work being carried out in
Krupps at Essen.

1, In regard to the discharge of dis-
mantling workers, the German authorities
(including the trade unions and the Krupps
work's council) have long been aware that
dismantling is drawing to a close, and that
the men engaged on the work must in-
evitably in due course be discharged. The
discharges now taking place are in no
sense a new or unexpected development.
The local British authorities have gone as
far as possible to meet the views of the
works council as to the way in which
these discharges should be phased, but it
is the simple fact that hundreds of men
cannot be kept on the payroll, swelling
occupation costs, with no work to do.

2. It is being suggested that in regard
to certain items of industrial equipment
for reparations the recipient nation is
willing to waive its rights, but the British
authorities will not agree. This is entirely
untrue. The state government always has
been, and still is, the only competent
approach to the state commissioner in
such matters. If substitution negotiations
with a representative of a recipient nation
have been attempted by any German offi-
cial in the present Krupp organization,
they have been irregular and devoid of
official competence.

The residue of dismantling going on in
Krupps is strictly in accord with the
agreement between the Allied High Com-
mission and the federal government, as
set out in the Petersberg protocol. There
is no disagreement between the state com-
missioner, the state government, and the
headquarters of the Deutsche Gewerk-
schaftsbund as to the interpretation of the
obligations entailed on both sides by the
protocol.

3. Shop No. 11 Krupps steelworks at
Essen-Borbeck. The state government has
officially advised the state commissioner
that it has decided not to ask for the re-
tention of this shop, which is due for re-
stitution to Yugoslavia, because its value
to Essen is not commensurate with the
cost entailed in renovating it and paying
compensation to the recipient nation. Re-
stitution is accordingly being put in hand
forthwith.

4. The unemployment situation. The
state commissioner has always recognized
the serious unemployment possibilities in
Essen, and has himself from time to time
initiated discussions with a view to in-
suring that constructive proposals to
combat unemployment are put forward to
the competent authorities. The level of
men's unemployment in Essen is today
nearly six percent of the working popu-
lation. This is a little better than it was a
few weeks ago but is still rather worse
than the general average throughout the
Ruhrgebiet (Ruhr area). It cannot be too
strongly emphasized, however, that the
provision of special industrial relief to
any particular area must come from the
German governmental sources, in whose
hands the control of internal economic
affairs now lies. It is, therefore, for the
city authorities to continue to represent
the claims of Essen for special consi-
deration.

JUNE 1950

--- Page 74 ---
It is pointed out that the demilitari-
zation and dismantling of the Krupps Ar-
mament Complex has been deliberately
planned so as to facilitate to the utmost
the future development of this area for
peacetime production. The way is now
open for intensifying the development of
this area for long term use to such extent
as the German authorities think fit. The
state commissioner will continue to give
such support as is within his power to any
reasonable and _ constructive proposal
which can expedite the industrial recovery
of the area.

Resolution for Berlin-wide Election

The three Western Commandants of Ber-
lin, meeting at a regular Allied Komman-
datura session April 21, welcomed the City
Assembly resolution calling for Berlin-
wide free elections and addressed indi-
vidual communications to this effect to
Mayor Ernst Reuter of Berlin. The Soviet
commandant, Maj. Gen. A. Kotikov, was
advised of this action.

The text of this letter sent separately by
the three commandants to the mayor was
as follows:

“I have considered the resolution
adopted by the City Assembly on
20 April 1950, in which the four comman-
dants are asked to agree to the holding of
city-wide elections on the basis of the
electoral law of 1946 and the draft consti-
tution of 1948,

“I welcome this initiative and feel that
the resolution offers in general a reason-
able basis for reunification of the city
which I have long wished to see.

“I note the reference in the resolution
to the liberalized relationships between
the Allied Kommandatura and the City
Authorities. These have been defined in
the Statement of Principles promulgated
in May 1949, and I should feel it essential
that, in the reunification of the city, these
principles are maintained. I would wel-
come the resumption by the Allied Kom-
mandatura of its quadripartite work in
accordance with a procedure which would
insure the expeditious dispatch of business.

“Regarding the elections themselves, I
fully agree that they should be held under
quadripartite supervision in order to insure
that no pressure is brought to bear on
either persons or parties.”

Text of the Berlin City Assembly reso-
lution follows:

“Imbued with the will to restore the
unity of Berlin, convinced of the necessity
to safeguard constitutionally the basic
rights of all citizens of Greater Berlin, and
inspired by the desire to serve German
unity, the City Assembly resolves to hold
new elections on the basis of the Consti-
tution of April 22, 1948, and the election
procedure of 1946. The Commandants of
all four sectors are requested to approve
the Berlin Constitution submitted to the
Allied Kommandatura on April 29, 1948,
taking into consideration the powers
since granted the Germans by the Allied
Powers, and to authorize free elections as
soon as practicable in all four sectors of
Greater Berlin under the same Allied con-
trol and with the same freedom of re-
Porting as in 1946."

Gasoline Price Proposal

Newspaper reports have indicated on
April 26 that a federal gasoline price law
had come into effect by virtue of the fact

JUNE 1950

that the Allied High Commission had
allowed four weeks to elapse without
making any announcement in connection
with the law.

It was officially stated that this law has
not yet been submitted by the federal
authorities to the Allied High Commission.
In accordance with paragraph 5 of the
Occupation Statute, federal legislation be-
comes effective 21 days after its official
receipt by the Occupation Authorities un-
less previously disapproved by them pro-
visionally or finally.

Reception of Protestant Synod

In answer to an invitation to attend a
reception by the Synod of the Evangelical
Church Council of Germany, Maj. Gen.
Maxwell D. Taylor, US commander in Ber-
lin, addressed the following letter to the
chairman, of the Synod:

“T wish to thank you for your invitation
to the reception to be given by the Synod
of the Evangelical Church Council of Ger-
many on April 23. Unfortunately, due to
my absence from Berlin when the reception
takes place, I shall not be able to accept.

“I do wish, however, to take this oppor-
tunity to express our support for the prin-
ciple of free institutions dedicated to the
sanctity of the individual as recently ex-
pressed, for example, in the resolution of
your Church Council at Halle on Janu-
ary 8, in which the Council stated the
dignity and freedom of the human being
are, according to Christian teaching, in-
violable. Even the unity of the German
people may not be purchased with the
surrender of this dignity and this freedom.’
It is gratifying to observe an all-Germany
religious organization undivided and
struggling to maintain its freedom from
political domination."

The Synod of the Evangelical Church in
Germany is the largest gathering of Protes-
tant laymen and clergymen in the country.
It represents more than 40,000,000 Protes-
tants in all four zones of Germany.

Desecration of Graves

The following statement was issued
April 18 by the US High Commissioner for
Germany:

“Thave been asked to comment upon the
renewed reports of anti-Semitism in Ger-
many as manifested by the recent dese-
cration of graves in Frankfurt and the
demonstration in Hamburg. I am aware
that the German people as a whole are not
responsible for these incidents, I am also
aware that the poison generated by the
long period of vicious agitation under
Hitler cannot be entirely eradicated even
after five years.

‘Whenever any of these incidents occur
they are a disgrace and every German
citizen is injured by them. They do so
much harm to the welfare of Germany that
the decent citizens of Germany and their
officials should take steps to put a stop to
them."

Care of Camp Graves

In a letter to Dr. Hans Ehard, minister
president of Bavaria, Clarence M. Bolds,
US state commissioner for Bavaria, criti-
cized German authorities for failing to take
proper care of the graves of Dachau con-
centration camp victims between August
1945 and November 1949. His letter, made
public April 27, said in part:

71

“With reference to our previous discus-
sion and correspondence regarding the
mass grave sites at the Leitenberg, I have
had a careful investigation conducted of
this matter. This investigation makes clear
that the German authorities were guilty of
serious failure to take proper care of these
graves sites between August 1945 and
November 1949,

“The neglect of this solemn obligation
must be the cause of extreme regret.
Nothing can compensate for the dreadful
atrocities committed upon the Nazi victims
buried in these graves or their suffering
and that of their relatives and friends, The
barest minimum that can be done is to take
appropriate care of their graves,

“At the same time, I wish to express my
satisfaction at the measures which have
been taken since the end of last year to
improve the care and maintenance of these
graves sites. Naturally, I am glad to note
that the memorial at the Leitenberg will
shortly be dedicated."

Official Announcements

Temporary Vehicle Registration

Temporary registration documents, issued
for the convenience of owners who are
taking delivery of unregistered vehicles
outside the US Zone, will be plainly marked
“For car delivery. Void (date).'' The
vehicle condition sticker will be marked
“Temporary” in the white number space.
The date, 10 days after issuance, will be
inserted in the space, “Next inspection
due."

Each applicant must possess a current
insurance policy in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 4c, Circular 124,
Hq USFET, 1946.

When the owner reports for permanent
registration he will be required to present
the approved inspection form and to sur-
render his temporary registration and
sticker. He will then be issued a per-
manent registration and sticker. The plates
issued for temporary registration will
remain on the vehicle—from EUCOM
letter, AG 451.02 PMG-AGO, March 20.

Reimbursement of Travel Expenses

The reimbursement of traval expenses
incurred after April 1, will be made by the
HICOG Local Payroll Section located in
each appropriate state. The HICOG local
employee claiming travel expenses will be
required to furnish the HICOG Local
Payroll Section with a completed and
signed itinerary certified to by the im-
mediate supervisor, a signed Form FS 286
and the original copy of the travel orders
and any other receipt, railway tickets, etc.,
that the employee may have to substantiate
any other claims.

The itinerary sheet and the Form FS 286
will be attached to the travel orders, which
the traveler will obtain from the office
issuing the travel orders.—from HICOG
Daily Bulletin No. 66.

Commercial Insurance Solicitation

Representatives of commercial life in-
surance companies in EUCOM will not be
allowed to solicit or sell life insurance

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents |

Your Community Town and City, TI&E
Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 9, TI&E Office,
EUCOM, Febr. 26, 1950.

Prison Journal, English Translation of
Vol. 1 No. 2 Issue of Zeitschrift fuer Straf-
volizug, Prisons Division, HICOG, Feb-
ruary 1950. A Monthly Journal of Cor-
rectional Philosophy and Practice.

Der Aussenhandel der Bundesrepublik
Deutschland, Teil 1, Zusammenfassende
Ubersichten (The Foreign Trade of the
German Federal Republic, Part 1, Com-
prehensive Surveys), Bizonal Statistical
Office, Wiesbaden, February 1950.

You and Your America, TI&E Bulletin,
Vol. 5, No, 10, TI&E Office, EUCOM,
March 5, 1950.

Communism in the USSR, TI&E Bulletin,
Vol. 5, No. 11, TI&E Office, EUCOM,
March 12, 1950,

Your Community and Your Vote, TI&E
Bulletin, Vol. ‘5, No.’ 12, TI&E Office,
EUCOM, March 19, 1950,

Austria, TI&E Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 13,
TI&E Office, EUCOM, March 26, 1950.

One Year of German Radio — Bavarian
Radio, Munich; Hessian Radio, Frankfurt,
January 1949-January 1950, ISD Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, March 1950.

Meet Psychological. Warfare, TI&E Bul-
letin, Vol. 5, No. 14, TI&E Office, UCOM,
April 2, 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 14, OEA, CCG (BE), April 6, 1950.

International Communism, TI&E Bulletin,
-Vol. 5, No. 15, TI&E Office, EUCOM,
April 9, 1950.

German Press Reaction to Mr. McCloy's
Pilgrims’ Society Speech, Special Report
No. 5, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), April
10, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 25, PRD
HICOG, April 13, 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 15, OEA, CCG (BE), April 13, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 26, PRD
HICOG, April 19, 1950,

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 16, OEA, CCG (BE), April 20, 1950.

Copies of Instructions listed in the

Information Bulletin may be ob-

tained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 219,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), April 20, 1950.

Ruhr Heavy Industries,
No. 2, April 16 — 23, 1950.

The German Public Assays Political
Democracy, Report No. 15, Series No. 2,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG (Bad Nau-
heim), April 24, 1950.

First Quarterly Report on Germany,
HICOG,. April 25, 1950. Covers period of
Sept. 21 to Dec. 31, 1949.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 27, PRD
HICOG, April 26, 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No, 17, OEA, CCG (BE), April 27, 1950,

Industry Highlights Report, No. 28, PRD
HICOG, May 3, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 221,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), May 4, 1950.

Economic Press Digest, No. 93, PRD
HICOG, May 5, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey,
Nos. 80 to 94, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim),
April 15 to May 8, 1950.

Information Bulletin, PRD HICOG, May
10, 1950.

Press Survey

or saving plans within the Command after
May 1,

The current license of five insurance
companies now operating in EUCOM will
be amended to exclude solicitation or sale
of commercial life insurance.

Personnel wishing to purchase life in-
surance, other than National Service Life
Insurance, may contact commercial in-
surance firms by mail, but direct solici-
tation and sale by agents of commercial
companies will not be authorized after
May 1.

Commanders of subordinate commands
and military posts have been advised by
cable of this new ruling of the EUCOM
commander-in-chief and all insurance com-
panies now licensed in EUCOM are affected
by it.

It was explained that EUCOM Head-
quarters wishes to avoid the impression of
endorsing some companies in preference
to others by allowing direct solicitation
and sale of commercial life insurance
through the few companies which are
licensed to operate in EUCOM principally
for the purpose of underwriting motor
vehicle insurance.—from EUCOM announce-
ment April 19.

German Insurance Authorization

Beginning May 1 a limited number of
German insurance companies are authoriz-
ed to sell indemnity insurance on personal
effects and household goods to American
civilian and military personnel serving
with US agencies in western Germany and
Berlin, the Personnel Division, Office of
Administration, announced.

Under an agreement completed with
EUCOM Headquarters by the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany,
Deutsche marks will be used in all trans-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

actions, including premium payments and
claims settlements.

One German firm, the Frankfurter Al-
lianz, has received authorization to sell the
insurance to occupation personnel under
the EUCOM-HICOG agreement. Under the
plan DM 5,000 coverage on household goods
will be available for an annual premium
of DM 7.50, Details of the Frankfurter Al-
lianz policy on household goods and per-
sonal effects will be available at offices
of the firm in the principal cities of Ger-
many.

Off-Duty Uniform

Summer uniforms may be worn off duty
by US Army personnel in the European
Command from May 15 to Sept. 20 (1950).

The uniforms, which are described in
Special Regulations 600-40-1 and 600-37-1,
are not authorized for issue. Commanders
will not require the purchase nor the
wearing of them.

During the May 15-Sept. 20 period, Army
personnel may wear the shade 33 wool
shirt as an outer garment instead of a
jacket at work, and for travel to and
from work.—from EUCOM announcement
April 20.

Import-Export Regulations

Money and property that EUCOM per-
sonnel may transport across the inter-
national borders of the US Occupation
Zone of Germany are listed in a change
issued recently to EUCOM Circular
No. 68, 1949.

Military and civilian personnel and their
dependents who are members of, serving
with, sponsored by, or accredited to US or
Allied Forces of Occupation, are subject to
provisions of the circular. They may import
into the US area of control from outside

72

Germany, or export from the US areas of
control to any point outside Germany:

1, Currency other than German, the
aggregate of which does not exceed 100 US
dollars, or the equivalent at the legal rates
of exchange. Formerly, the limitation was
an aggregate of $50 worth of currencies
other than German.

2. German currency not in excess of
40 Deutsche marks.

3. US postal money orders, checks, travel-
er’s checks, drafts and letters of credit ex-
pressed in currency other than German.

4, Tobacco in a quantity not in excess of
400 cigarettes, 50 cigars, and one pound of
smoking tobacco.

5. Ordinary personal effects.

Licenses must be obtained to import or
export property or items classified as
restricted, such as certain raw materials,
drugs, liquor, weapons or ammunition.—
from EUCOM announcement April 14.

Wiesbaden-Mainz Bridge

A new bridge, connecting Wiesbaden
with the French Zone city of Mainz, has
been opened on the site of the original
bridge, constructed by the Hessian State in
1885, and modernized after World War I.
In March 1945, the old bridge was destroy-
ed by retreating German troops. An emer-
gency bridge, built by US Army engineers,
has spanned the Rhine while the construc-
tion of the new bridge was going on.

Utilizing the remaining portions of the
original bridge, the new span conforms to
the architecture of its predecessor. The new
bridge also resumes the traditional street-
car traffic between the two cities. The
bridge has an over-all length of 1,625 feet
and width of 61.1 feet with a roadway 39
feet wide.

JUNE 1959

--- Page 76 ---
v receives a greater
enger traffic also is expected at
which-is pa the Bremen Port
e's largest floa J crane, capable

dock in US Army photo. Top, two

year handled some 400,000 tons

sed lard, crated automo-

--- Page 77 ---
JUNE

oo St SO

GO WN

rs)

aig
1 20
14. 2]
155.22
6 23
17°24

at |

OO. Ne OF a

Zo
26
27
28
29
30