--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

--- Page 3 ---
uto Show

New German car, the Gnom runabout, a three-wheeler.

With studied calm West Berlin ignored the monster FDJ

demonstration over Whitsuntide to stage its biggest post-

war international indoor automobile show at the Funk-

turm (radio tower). American, British, French, German

and Italian manufacturers displayed more than 150 pas-

senger cars, trucks, delivery wagons and busses, US con-

vertibles of the latest design were conspicuous in the

gleaming array. New German cars included Borgward,

Daimler-Benz, Ford Taunus, Goliath, Hanomag, Opel, ”

Porsche and Volkswagen. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG) These FDJ youths ducked Soviets’ parade, studied US cars.

Of five countries which exhibited 150 automobiles at big indoor show, US was top with eight firms displaying some 80 models,

a

--- Page 4 ---
Le #3

AUG 111950

Information

TABLE OF CONTENTS. | °°0!9'"
e
Bulletin ide

Rothenburg Wine Ceremony (pictorial) . 2

e Drama of German Recovery 3

A K Article by Aileen Miles

The Information Bulletin is the

The Schluechtern Plan 7

monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for dissemination of authoritative. in-
formation concerning the policies, re-
gulations, instructions, operations and
activities of the Allied occupation in
Germany.
Editorial Staff:

Editor ». scv-sconvdae H. Warner Waid
Editorial Writer . Aileen S. Miles

Editorial Writer ...... Beth Burchard
Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994
e

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed in the plant of the Publishing
Operations Branch, Information Serv-
ices Division, at 39 Schelling Strasse,
Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

e

COVER: PICTURE

Speaking on the Marshall Plan of
today, US High Commissioner John
J. McCloy stands before the elaborate
mural of the five-centuries-old city
hall in Passau. Mr. McCloy spoke to
Prominent civic leaders prior to open-
ing ceremonies for an ERP exhibit
now on tour in Bavaria. At left is
Gert Whitman, assistant for German
Liaison, who acted as interpreter.
The exhibit was integrated with Pas-
sau's annual spring fair.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

Article by Beth Burchard
Aged DP's to Go Under German Care ..................05 11

Low Cost of Occupation Stressed 12

Orientation via the Eye 13
Article on Art of Visual Presentation

Stamping Out of Racial Prejudice Urged ............. Brrr |)

German-American Convention 17
Article on German-American Relations

School Kids Meet the Mayor «........2...0ss.0000ssee see 19
Article by Zeno Stangwilo

Emigration from Germany «2.25 2.0066 cc0eyeveuieeet scenes 21
Article by George Weisz Ns

Our Department of State (60032 066. s ae ae te wee eee 25
Address by Dean Acheson

Validity of Mandatory Leases Affirmed 31

German Participation in International Organizations .... 32

Defense ‘of DOMOCTACY 5 2:5: 8 Irn since 9:6) ese: ep ole 240.0) 0 Mao's pion ve ate 33
Address by John J. McCloy

Deutsche Post Offices for Occupation Personnel.......... 36
(pictorial)

Decartelization Law Prosecutions Filed

Germany Today — Economically and Financially ........ 39
Address by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser

Puppet “People's Police” Protested 44
Personnel Notes... 0s 00s soe ccitis seca sedsiewee etiesie nian - 46
Hoonomilc (Review: 0-3. nies 5.0.55 ae oe Ginnie, 2 p08 20s pe weienane 48
Occupation: Logie oo shicoe ease sami cents sete Ue nears 50
German Opinion in Editorials and Cartoons .............. 56
Students More Liberal than Their Elders... 60
Declaration ‘On) Germany </-cie5 5 6:5 5 feiss ajsa vin sok ose eee 61
Text of Foreign Ministers’ Communique
HICOM Law No. 27 (text) a 64
CM Cial INOUGOS fis oss Suse isle gw ioa be. else meter ion eheeea * 68
CODIUNIQUES eos le Uae siuielessie'eitic's one Matera Rint aide ram 68.
Laws:and-Reguiations, 6 ts.) csc eu vbetes Cue siege seam 63
Statements: and: Speeches? sis 0/5 saicsc seas saeees ogee 69
AMMOUNCEMENES 2.0.0 e ce ee ce seer cece esse ose nsveseas 72
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents ........ 72,

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

APO 757, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Mr. McCloy accepts goblet of wine from Mayor Friedrich
Hoerner of ancient town of Rothenburg-ob-der-Tauk

Admiring fellow-officials look on as colossal draught
is downed, a ceremony repeated religiously each spring.

The “Meistertrunk," traditional wine ceremony re-enacted

by Rothenburg-ob-der-Tauber each year, commemorates

the ancient walled town’s liberation following a two-day

siege in 1631. On May 29, 1950, more than 3,000 of the

e i, Bavarian town's populace turned out to greet US High

9 parte Commissioner John J. McCloy, who had been made Honor-

Ceremony of draining mug containing three quarts of wine, ary Patron of Rothenburg in recognition of his services
symbolizing liberation of town in 1631, is re-enacted in 1950. in saving the town from destruction in World War II.

Wearing costumes of the period, Rothenburg townsfolk feted the McCloy family (center, below) as day's guests of honor.

--- Page 6 ---
ECA Counterpart Funds Are Playing a Major Role in the

Drama of German Recovery

By AILEEN MILES

Information Bulletin Staff Writer

ake COUNTERPART FUNDS, cast for the supporting
role in the drama of German recovery, are today
helping to pull the Federal Republic up by its economic
bootstraps.

They are building houses, creating jobs, priming the
once languishing pump of industry and making upward
sweeps on production charts as well as transfusing new
economic life into trouble spots like Berlin.

In climbing output, in brighter living standards, in in-
creased homes, jobs and food, they are affecting in one
way or another all of the approximately 49,000,000 persons
in the Western zones.

Indirectly these funds also are affecting the American
taxpayer who surrenders a sizeable chunk of his yearly
income to help feed Germany's dollar-hungry economy
and who hopes for future surcease from this burden as the
German state gradually approaches normalcy.

Yet a recent unofficial check in one German city con-
ducted among Germans and American occupation person-
nel and their dependents produced only two persons in
10 who had a fuzzy conception of counterpart funds and
only one in30 who could explain accurately how they work.

HAT ARE THESE counterpart funds and from where
do they come? How are they used to aid the still lag-
ging German economy?

Each country participating in the European Recovery
Program and receiving assistance in the form of grants
from ECA has agreed to deposit its local currency in a
special account in-an amount commensurate with the
dollar cost of the aid received. These special deposits are
called “counterpart funds.’ These funds in the currency
of the country are slated, at the discretion of ECA, for the
economic rehabilitation of the country as a whole.

More simply: Counterpart funds are Marshall Plan “stay
home" pay.

They are Deutsche mark payments for goods bought
and already paid for with ECA dollars.

A German firm, for example, orders machinery from
an outside country. The German Government then pays
for that machinery in dollars provided by ECA. Upon ar-
rival of the machinery in Germany it is paid for in Deut-
sche marks by the firm receiving it. Since, however, the
machinery already has been paid for in dollars, the marks
are put into a special blocked account and are tagged
“counterpart funds."

These counterpart marks are channeled out, with ECA
approval, in specific allotments to German industry, power
projects, agriculture, mining, and other enterprises to help
meet the investment goals of the ERP program.

JULY 1950

CTUALLY THEN, the American taxpayer, working
through ECA, has paid for the machinery ordered by
the German firm. This enables the Deutsche marks paid
out by the German purchaser of the machinery to be put
to use for the over-all recovery of the West German state.
At the same time the people of Western Germany who
pay with their own currency for the food, machinery and
raw materials purchased by their government with dol-
lars provided by the United States, are the source of the
counterpart funds.

It is the German's money which goes back to his govern-
ment through the cash registers of the retailer, wholesaler
and importer to form the counterpart fund, which the
German government, with ECA approval, puts to work
in reviving and rebuilding their economy,

Thus, counterpart funds are ECA’s device to make
Marshall Plan dollars work twice for German rehabilita-
tion— once by providing industry and agriculture with
long-needed goods purchased directly with dollars, and
once again by pushing production, employment and
economic well-being through use of local currency put
up to match the dollar grants.

As in all other ERP countries with similar funds, these
Deutsche mark counterpart funds in Germany are broken
up into two parts. The greater portion — 95 percent —
belongs to Germany and is used within the country, on
agreement between the German government and the ECA
administrator for developing new sources of wealth, and
for giving a hypo to industrial production.

The remaining five percent is earmarked for the use of
the ECA Special Mission to Germany within Germany.

Like a shot in the arm, ECA counterpart funds have done
their part in aiding the recovery of Duisburg, great inland
port where the Ruhr river flows into the Rhine.

(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 7 ---
The Zollverein mine (partially, shown above) is one of 26
owned by the Gelsenkirchener Bergwerke A.G., Essen,
whose total output is 90,000 tons of coal per day. Firm’
got loans totaling Deutsche marks 21,800,000 ($5,190,000).

This money takes care of current operating expenses such
as administrative costs payable in Deutsche marks and
informational activities to acquaint the German people
with their stake in European recovery,

HE GERMAN GOVERNMENT, through the office of

Franz Bluecher, German vice chancellor and minister
for ERP Affairs, maps out the initial proposals for the
best ways of spending the 95 percent share of the coun-
terpart marks, These suggestions are then carefully
studied by the ECA Special Mission to Western Germany
headed by Robert M. Hanes, director of the Office of
Economic Affairs, HICOG.

After studying the German government proposals, the
ECA Special Mission to Germany spells out its own
recommendations which are then forwarded with the
German program to ECA Washington and the Office of
the ECA Special Representative in Paris. Sifting the com-
ments and advice from other governmental offices, ECA
Washington, with the assistance of its Public Advisory
Board and the National Advisory Council, ultimately
shapes the final recommendations.

ECA has two objectives in considering the use to
which the counterpart funds are put. Of peak prominence
is the problem of the internal monetary and financial
stability of the country without which economic recovery
cannot be achieved. Always subject to this prime factor,
the use of counterpart funds is chiefly directed toward
stimulating the type of productive activity which best
pays off in economic rehabilitation,

In Germany, where inflationary pressures were still
persistent even after currency reform, where prices
climbed during the first six months following that reform,
and where short-term lending activities of commercial
banks were pushing more money into circulation, ECA
officials felt it wiser to withhold these funds until assured
that inflation in Germany was arrested and that the rising
price spiral was definitely halted.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HE FIRST ALLOCATION of counterpart funds for

Germany, therefore, was not made until September
1949 when DM 57,000,000 ($13,566,000) was released as
part of along term capital investment program to be car-
ried out in the French Zone. :

Of this sum, DM 40,000,000 ($9,520,000) went to the
German railroads; DM 14,000,000 ($3,332,000) for electric
power projects; DM 1,000,000 ($238,000) for gas main
improvements; and DM 2,000,000 ($476,000) for the re-
building of the port of Ludwigshafen.

On the heels of this release, another DM 50,000,000
($11,900,000) was made available to the coal mines of the
Ruhr to enable reconstructed war-damaged mines and
new equipment to step up hard coal production.

Still another DM 44,000,000 ($10,472,000) was handed
over to the Berlin West Power Station which had been
completely dismantled by the Russians at the beginning
of the occupation, and from which now flows electricity
into homes and factories along with renewed confidence
for the future of Berlin.

The first major step in stimulating the German economy
through counterpart funds, however, came on Dec, 16,
1949, when ECA approved a program for DM 1,036,000,000
($246,568,000) “for the development of the productive
capacity of Germany” and released DM _ 600,000,000
($142,800,000) as a start. The balance of DM 436,000,000
($103,768,000) has since been released to the Germans.

ERVING AS A BROAD base for further assistance,

these funds ticketed to help 23 wide categories of in-
dustry in all sections of Germany are benefiting all social
and economic layers of the west German population.

They are breaking the bottleneck in electric power which
has proved one of the most restrictive factors in raising
German industrial production; through wise investment
in farming areas they are cutting down the amount of
food Germany must import from dollar sources; and
through rebuilding are providing homes for thousands of
Germans and refugees whose former working capacity
was crippled by their homeless state. Through the
DM 97,000,000 ($23,086,000) which has been shunted into
the Berlin economy they are giving a firm shot in the
arm to West Berliners and a bitter pill to oppressors in
East Berlin,

A breakdown of the DM 1,036,000,000 ($246,568,000)
shows that power companies in Germany received DM
220,000,000 ($52,360,000) to rebuild and expand existing
plants. In the industrial field, DM 312,000,000 ($74,256,000)
was made available for capital investment to firms en-
gaged in major industries, including mechanical en-
gineering, electrical engineering, fine mechanics and
optics, non-ferrous metals, chemicals, mineral oils, build-
ing materials, woodworking and textiles.

Another DM 123,500,000 was labeled for agricultural
projects aimed at reconstruction of war-damaged farms
and re-establishment of their full productive capacity
through drainage of lowlands, purchase of machinery and
modernization of dairy plants.

The sum of DM 81,500,000 ($19,397,000) was used to
relieve the serious housing shortage in the Federal Re-

JULY 1950

--- Page 8 ---
public. Major housing developments are being financed
throughout Germany, allocated proportionately among
the various states, Sole consideration is given housing
projects for low-income groups and refugees whose lack
of living accommodations has seriously handicapped es-
sential production.

The balance of the DM 1,036,000,000 is earmarked as
follows: DM 37,000,000 ($8,806,000) gas, water, and sewage
projects; DM 62,000,000 ($14,756,000) transport and com-
munications; DM 150,000,000 ($35,700,000) coal industry
and miners’ housing,

UT THIS IS JUST a beginning. In line with its an-

nounced policy of agreeing to further withdrawals
of counterpart funds at periodic intervals and as promptly
as possible, ECA has given over-all approval for a new
investment program for DM 1,150,000,000 ($273,700,000)
although a final okay for the breakdown of this sum
must still come from ECA Washington.

This new investment program, coming at a time’ when
capital funds are desperately needed by every segment
of the German economy, will more than double the DM
1,036,000,000 already released by ECA rehabilitation of
basic German industry. :

The funds, wiped clean of all attaching strings, are
turned over to the Germans without one pfennig of in-
terest nor with any condition of repayment to the ECA
Mission or the US Government, With their release, the
Marshall Plan has written ‘‘finis’ on its books and the
method of future distribution becomes solely a German
responsibility.

This point has been widely misunderstood. Cases have
come to the attention of ECA officials in which applicants
have been told by responsible German officials that their
requests for loans had been German approved but that
the Americans had refused to shell out money for that
particular project, The ECA Special Mission, however,
does not approve individual requests for loans, That is
a distinct responsibility of the German authorities.

CA COMPLETES ITS TASK when it counts out the

money to the Reconstruction Loan Corporation, a
quasi-official German agency which acts as a central
lending institution for the three west zones. At the same
time ECA retains jurisdiction over audits to insure that
the money is distributed in accordance with the approved
program,

The RLC then parcels out the money to numerous lending
banks telling them how much money is available for their
use for loans to approved applicants. In turn the lending
bank enters into discussions on loan agreements with
the applicants, sifting the many applications on a basis of
urgency or priority. The lending bank only calls for its
share of counterpart money from the RLC when a specific
loan agreement with the applicant has been okayed by
both parties.

Rates of interest, conditions of repayment and other
mechanics of the loans follow accepted German trade
practices, ECA, however, has asked that “the rate of in-
terest charged to the ultimate user should be at the mini-

JULY 1950

=

This power plant, one of 10 owned by the Rheinisch West-
faelische Elektrizitaetswerk, Essen, was entirely bombed
out, but with credits of DM 35,500,000 ($8,690,000) the firm
bought new turbines and now feeds the network supply-
ing power to Holland, Italy, Austria, Belgium and France.

mum compatible with the objective of attracting funds
other than counterpart, and that the funds deblocked,..
should reach their ultimate user as expeditiously as pos-
sible,"

Although the effectiveness of the entire program depends
on the speed with which the funds get into the hands
of those who will send them out to work for the economy,
serious delays at this stage often bottleneck the German
transactions. Up to now, largely because of the varied cir-
cumstances surrounding each individual case, procedures
have not been streamlined at a galloping gait.

IME LAPSES GROW as risks involved necessarily

demand more collateral from one borrower than
from another, borrowers haggle with the banks over time
limits for the loan while some borrowers — those for
agricultural purposes—not having sufficient collateral
must have loan guarantees from the appropriate state
government,

In some cases the money is lent directly from the RLC
to the borrower with no middle banks or state govern-
ments involved and can quickly be disbursed as soon as
the borrower completes his loan agreement with the RLC.
In other cases — and time-consuming but necessary ones
—the money must flow from the RLC to at least one
other bank, and sometimes through two or even three
intermediate banks before reaching the ultimate user.

These checkreins on the rapid turnover of the money
from the RLC to the banks to the borrower and so out
into the economy have slowed down the plan to a walk-
ing trot which the Germans themselves alone can
remedy. To date the RLC has been disbursing money at
a rate slightly better than DM 150,000,000 ($35,700,000)
per month and a considerable speedup of this amount
monthly is expected for the future.

Interest rates charged by the RLC parallel the rates
charged on funds from private sources so as not to under-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
cut normal market rates. With the exception of special
rates on agriculture the interest rates of counterpart funds
do not differ from those normally charged by RLC.

In accordance with accepted banking practices through-
out the Western world, where segments of the economy
which could not profitably afford to borrow money for
investment purposes at normal interest rates receive an
indirect subsidy, German agriculture receives a preferen-
tial or lower interest rate.

In turn the RLC pays interest to the Federal Republic
for the use of the counterpart funds. When loans made
from counterpart funds are repaid, the principal plus
the interest set up by the Federal Republic is credited
to the account of the Federal Republic of Germany, thus
becoming a revolving capital which may again be lent
out to the economy in long term credits.

The following table shows those rates which must be
paid by the RLC to the Federal Republic, and, in addition,
the rates to the final borrower.

Interest Paid by | Maximum Interest

Category of Enterprise RLC to Federal Rate to Last

Republic Recipient
Percentage Percentage
Public Utilities. . 2... «se 5's 62-742
Coal Mines:
Direct Credits . . i, Sie 7
Credit via Channeling Banks . wo Te
Industry:
Commerce and Trade. .... Sa Ts
Tourism . . oe ee
Housing (first mortgages)... 5 6
Reconstruction of Damaged Farms . 3 4
Land Consolidation
andImprovement. ...... 1h 2/2
Food Industry . ..... ss Ste Te
Inventory Credits... .. . B 3's 5
Reforestation . 1 Ble
Resettlement of Expellees, Refugees rs Ys
i a ae 2 3a

IME LIMITS ARE placed on all loans but few loans of
counterpart funds are for a period of less than three
years. Conditions for repayment vary, naturally, in ac-
cordance with the financial circumstances of each bor-
rower. Few borrowers, however, call for the entire loan
at one time but ask for it in installments as needed in
order to keep the interest expenses to a minimum.
Most projects are financed partly with counterpart
funds and partly with commercial money, In exceptional
cases a project might be almost entirely financed out of
counterpart funds, as was the West Berlin Power Plant
with 80 percent coming from counterpart money. Nor-
mally, however, counterpart funds are invested in industries
which can attract additional funds from other sources.
It is for this reason that counterpart, therefore, is only
playing a supporting role in the recovery play. With the
capital shortage in Western Germany one of the funda-
mental problems of the West German economy, ERP
counterpart funds can only do a part-time job. The major
part of investment funds must come from private German
sources. In other words, the utilization of counterpart
funds is intended to augment capital rather than to furnish
the entire amount of capital needed for rehabilitation.
Release of counterpart money enables the industrial
firms to launch modernization and expansion programs

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The Rheinische A.G. fuer Braunkohlen Bergbau and Brikett-
fabrik, Cologne, is daily producing 15,000 tons of briquettes
made with brown coal from its own mines. Remainder of
coal output feeds two power plants which serve Cologne.
Firm got DM 8,350,000 (almost $2,000,000) in ECA counter-
part fund loans and is building a third power plant.

through the added utilization of additional German capital
which will put money into circulation in far greater
amounts than the counterpart funds released,

Through the money thus put into circulation the
economy is benefited and living standards take an up-
ward turn. Through better conditions, employment and
brighter outlook for the future, the German people can
better absorb the democratic approach to life being taught
them from the grass roots up.

N RELEASING THE first major amount of counterpart

funds, US High Commissioner John J. McCloy said that
it is frequently stated that the United States aid has
done much to assist German economic recovery but that
not enough has been done to aid the political and spiritual
redevelopment of the country.

“Without the economic basis for life,’ the High Com-
missioner said, “there is little on which to build the things
of the spirit and it is in this sense that this program is
designed in itself to encourage a regrowth of the German
liberal spirit.

“If with this there does not occur vigorous expression
of political and religious freedom, the cardinal objectives
of the European Recovery Program, particularly as it
is related to Germany, will have failed. The program
enables at least Western Germany to develop and in-
vigorate these freedoms in contrast to the sickening se-
quence of purges, imprisonments and other brutalities
which characterize so many areas to the east.“ +END

JULY 1950

--- Page 10 ---
The Sehluechtern Plan

By BETH BURCHARD

Information Bulletin Staff Writer

T BEGAN IN a Frankfurt sociological institute and

quickly reached out into the lives of 47,000 people. A
community that for more than 50 years had maintained
an even population and for hundreds of years a static pat-
tern of living, today is caught up in an experiment aimed
at far-reaching change.

Source of the change is “The Schluechtern Plan.” Its
basis is building and balancing of housing, industry and
agriculture. From it a backward community hopes to gain
economic self-sufficiency and a solution to its war-born
problems.

Schluechtern county in Hesse, an area of gentle hills
and woodlands 35 miles northeast of Frankfurt, had de-
voted itself for generations to small déalings in agricul-
ture and forestry. But there had never been enough ac-
tivity to support more than the pre-1940 population of
33,000.

In the forties, however, Schluechtern life changed. Some
industry was evacuated to the larger settlements of the
county. Refugee trades moved in. Textile mills and boot
factories were set up, all on a small scale.

But most important, 14,000 more people came to live
in Schluechtern county.

HIS FANTASTIC 44 percent jump in population
—10,000 refugees and 4,000 evacuees — was the shove
that set Schluechtern's peaceful life askew.

Suddenly two or more persons were crammed into every
available room. Unemployment soared. Hundreds were
caught between the universal housing and unemployment
problems and commuted 45-60 miles to cities where the
nearest work was available.

Distress raged through Schluechtérn as in country areas
throughout Germany, Isolated attempts were made to
ameliorate conditions: co-operative factories and housing
projects were established in some areas; the county seat,
Schluechtern, erected a hall to house two new industries.
But huge segments of the populace languished in poverty,
misery and idleness.

Then came the Schluechterm Plan with a blueprint for
recovery.

Frankfurt University Professor Ludwig Neundorfer was
seeking a testing ground for his theories of social organi-
zation. Brief studies showed Schluechtern as typical of
those counties accessible to his study in western Germany.
So it was that he, and the experts under his wing in the
Frankfurt Sociographic Institute, undertook a detailed sur-
vey of geography, industry, agriculture and population
characteristics in the area. It was completed in 1949.

Professor Neundorfer learned that 1,550 persons
(a third of them refugees) were actually unemployed,
900 others were citizen-exiles because of week-by-week
commuting to outside areas. Some workers were finding

JULY 1950

it necessary to seek seasonal employment in the Ruhr
district. The potential labor force was estimated as high
as 2,500.

UT WHERE WERE the jobs to come from? The tiny fac-

tories were already glutted with workers; there was a
dearth of private capital to build new ones. The great pro-
portion of refugees which was formerly devoted to farm-
ing had little hope of resuming such work on the poor and
crazily-divided soil of Schluechtern.

Something had to be done before the whole community
stifled. Professor Neundorfer and his associates drew up
a plan which was to include the following features:

An industry extension program that would create jobs
for 433 more persons.

A financial maneuvering to allow completion of un-
finished houses and construction of 110 more in the indus-
trial area of the county, 32 in the rural area. Decent living
quarters would thus be granted to 2,000 more persons.

A farm program which would assign 20 refugees to
farms which are at present without heirs, would create
new farm acreage through land consolidation, and make
new jobs for agricultural advisers.

The plan, designed for completion in one year, was
devised on the basis of statistics plus conference with
representatives of all the projects concerned, In the
course of the professorial questioning, Schluechtern of-
ficials, factory owners, construction agents and workers
were brushed by the motivating idea and became quickly
absorbed into the actualities of the plan.

Hard work and crude implements are utilized to build
houses for co-operative housing project in city of
Schluechtern. Many of these laborers, unable to pay costs
of membership in the co-op, donate their work instead.
Fourteen houses are already complete in the project.

(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 11 ---
Two of Schuechtern’s refugee textile industries are pictured above —left, dyeing rooms at the prosperous Inhag plant;
right, the crude barracks, formely a Nazi labor camp, where the Mottgers all-refugee textile co-operative is located. Both
industries will receive funds to buy new machinery, hire new workers under the county-wide Schluechtern Plan.

Professor Neundorfer’s formula was simple: Schluech-
tern would analyze her internal needs and seek remedies
through public financing and county-wide co-ordination
of participating agencies. Unique to the plan was the at-
tempt of a community to absorb its refugees, and to solve
its problems through an integrated financial and social
effort.

A supervisory committee was set up by the Schluech-
terners — a construction expert, a trade representative,
two officials of the State Central Bank of Hesse and the
county's representative to the state legislature.

One of the first steps of this committee was to obtain
the co-operation of industry. On request Schluechtern in-
dustries volunteered their plans for expansion. Their pro-
posals were examined by financial experts, and 12 were
selected to receive initial grants. These were to provide
jobs for 433 more persons, a number which would absorb
all the refugees among the registered unemployed and
give new means of subsistence to about 1,500.

IHE PLANNERS had to seek a first loan of DM 618,000
from public funds (the federal government's “Im-
mediate Aid," — Soforthilfe), This sum represented ap-
proximately DM 1,500-2,000 for each new occupational
opportunity. ‘‘Within 14 months,” the committee states,
“this sum will be equaled by the amount the federal
government would have paid out for relief to the un-
employed person.”
Further applications for industrial finance—any pro-
jects requiring financing over DM 150,000 — were to be
solicited from ERP counterpart funds.

The housing problem got an immediate boost, too. It
was decided among the planners that only those houses
would be sponsored which had already been more than

INFORMATION BULLETIN

50 percent completed with the owner's own money — a
total of 200 dwellings.

One hundred and 10 more houses were to be erected
in the cities, and 32 houses in the rural areas.

The communities concerned with the housing program
agreed to make certain concessions to the plan. They will
provide inexpensive sites with garden space for each
tenant. They will stand whatever expenses are necessary
to clear and level the land for home construction. More-
over they will donate these sites free of taxes for 20 years.

The small homes to be constructed in the rural areas
are part of the program for intensifying agriculture and
aim specifically at settlement of expelled farmers.

N THE PROCESS of planning for this settlement, 79

farms owned by persons with no heirs were discovered.
Present owners were consulted to see if some arrangement
could be made for passing these farms on to refugees.
Where successful, varied terms were agreed upon. In
some cases, the refugees were pledged to remain tenants
only, paying the owners or relatives some portion of the
farm's profits. In other cases, title to the farm was to be
passed on to the refugees after they had worked the land
a certain number of years. Thus it will be possible to
resettle 20 refugee farmers.

This phase of the plan was devised in order not to
waste the special knowledge and love-of-soil possessed
by the homeless farmers. The planners did not overlook
the fact, either, that Schluechtern’s not-too-progressive
agricultural methods might receive a substantial impetus
from the immigrants.

Additional jobs were devised to help mutually
the area's agriculture and her unemployed refugees.
Among these jobs were 15 for “orchard guards” and two

JULY 1950

--- Page 12 ---
for farm management advisers. Two
community co-operative laundries will
be established and refugees will man-
age them. Fifteen smallholdings are
planned in woodland communities for
forest workers and wood craftsmen.
Final aim of the agricultural program
will be the completion as quickly as
possible of strip consolidations. One-
third of the communities have completed
the job — but most of this was done
before the war, Walter Jansen, who is
the area's representative to the state
legislature, has doubts about the success
of this program — “the’farmers are
against it."

The legislator, who has stumped for
the plan in more than 35 public forums
within the county, nevertheless looks to
the agricultural phase as the backbone
of the program. It certainly has the

widest appeal among the refugees. The man_ who
Schluechtern Plan:

Looking over the specific projects
within the plan, one can see the ad-
vantages, drawbacks, the energies, ideals
and problems of the entire proposal.

Probably the most admired of all the industries involved
is the textile-manufacturing plant in middle-sized Steinau,
which employs 225 persons, 60 percent of them refugees.
It was begun three years ago in a grain storage barn and
is today sufficiently prosperous to allow an 80-man ex-
pansion under the Schluechtern Plan.

The factory turns out yardage of many prints, cloth
gloves, underwear, shirts and nightclothes of high quality.
It also has its own workshops which attend to mainte-
nance and expansion of the plant. The machine shop, for
instance, turns out giant machines which would else-
where cost the factory owner impossible sums,

Three houses have been built near the factory to shelter
workers in the textile plant. Initiated by the factory owner,
they represent the nucleus around which will be developed
a 24-dwelling community under Schluechtern Plan
sponsorship,

Plant-owner Max Foerster is feeding as much as
possible of the enterprise's profits into a 10-year plan,"
to provide a hospital, kindergarten, bachelors’ quarters,
recreation hall and a social insurance policy for deserv-
ing workers,

But despite good conditions, wages in Mr. Foerster's
plant conform to the universally low ones prevailing
throughout the county.

CC amAstNG WITH this prosperous plant is the

textile co-operative now struggling for its existence in
tiny Mottgers. The 20-man factory housed in the barracks
of a former Nazi labor camp, is manned by refugees from
the Sudetenland. They and many other former textile
workers gathered in Mottgers at the call of a Catholic

priest who continues to be their business as well as
spiritual guide,

JULY 1950

authored the
Prof. Ludwig
Neundorfer of Frankfurt Socio-
graphic Institute, He pledges study
of prevailing low wage conditions.

Burdened by high-interest bank loans,
the co-op welcomes the opportunity
to expand to 60 workers with the
help of the Schluechtern Plan. The
money will be used to buy added mach-
inery, a move that will allow added
workers on the payroll. All of them
will be refugees.

The co-operative, too, has an adjacent
housing project, built entirely by refugee
labor. Although but four of the houses
are finished, many more and a 12-unit
apartment house are planned. Concrete
is made by the refugees, and wood is
cut and hauled by hand from nearby
villages.

Pay in the co-operative is minimal.
Each worker gets the smallest sum com-
mensurate with the area's pay scale.

THER SCHLUECHTERN factories

planning extension of their facilities
are a knitwear plant, a weaving mill,
a manufacturer of wire netting and grat-
ing, a sawmill, a metal and woodwork
shop, a shoe factory, electrical supply
shop, a carpeting and cabinet-making enterprise and a
brickyard. Each is being granted funds on the proviso
that 57 percent of the new workers are refugees or other
war victims.

New housing is being built only in those instances
where jobs are available close’ by. One of the largest
housing co-operatives is located in Schluechtern, the
county seat, where most of the area's industrial activity
is conducted. Fourteen houses are already complete.

Much of the work is being done by persons who wish
to join the co-operative but do not feel they can pay the
initial fee (DM 300) or maintain the rentals. Though the
pay is low — DM 1 to DM 1.25 — their work pays part
of the cost.

Mayor Bertram of Schluechtern says that most of the
people planning to occupy the four-family houses will be
unable to pay the large amount necessary to acquire title
to their apartments. Cost of each is about DM 2,400,

“It isn't possible to build new houses for poor people,”
says Mr. Bertram. “They are not yet able to pay the rents.
The war has made bank interest rates impossibly high.”

S MUCH CORNER-CUTTING as possible has been

employed in construction. Workers are making by
hand the concrete blocks which constitute the greater part
of the foundations and outside walls.

The town of Schluechtern also boasts an Industry Hall,
built within the last six months with DM 80,000 of town-
ship funds. “We thought if we began helping ourselves
first, the state might be more interested in helping us
later," explains Mr. Bertram. The hall was built specifi-
cally to provide room for refugee industries which other-
wise would have no chance of survival. Rents are paid to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
The city of Schluechtern has donated funds to build the
Industry Hall, shown above, to house refugee industries.
Plan now is to construct five more halls with Schluechtern
Plan funds — ‘or find some means ourselves," says mayor.

the city by the entrepreneurs now occupying the twin
“factories” of the hall.

For both, the hall was a solution they direly needed —
a solution so advantageous that the mayor now is seek-
ing to’ build five more halls with Schluechtern Plan funds.
“And if such funds should not be available, I hope we
will find some means ourselves.”

One of the hall's present occupants is a manufacturer of
fine laces, principally in collar and cuff sets for women’s
wear. Having begun in business one year and a half ago,
the proprietor, an East zone refugee, has increased his
working staff to 35 and plans to expand to 100 —“we've
enough orders.” At present he is dickering with foreign
merchants for export of his products.

The second occupant is from Prague, a manufacturer of
imexpensive socks, Possessor of a number of machines
newly-purchased from the United States with ECA funds,
he plans to hire 24 persons immediately and will soon
have the capacity for 100.

ITH THE PLAN far enough along to be significantly
changing the life of pastoral Schluechtern, other coun-
ties are looking to the area in hopes of seeing their own
solution. There remain a number of flaws to be worked out.
The agricultural program is DM 200,000 along the way,
thanks to the Federal Agricultural Ministry. Although
moving slowly, its county-wide organization and, in some
cases, local financing, appear to guarantee its eventual
completion.

The housing program has distributed sufficient money
to complete a quarter of its proposed construction. Re-
maining to be solved in this realm is the problem of a
satisfactory cost-and-rent structure to allow refugees to
benefit from the new building.

Industry's program was recently granted an additional
DM 1,000,000 by the government, a sum that will bring forth
an additional DM 2,485,000 in private capital. However,
HICOG officials are withholding complete approval of the
program until a ‘‘non-exploitive’ pay scale is devised.

Young girls and women were found earning from 40 to
» 60 pfennig per hour in the county's textile enterprises,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

while the industry-wide average for such jobs is computed
at 86.9 pfennig (Sept. 1949). Males in industries of all types
were making an average 131.7 pfennig at the same period,
but in Schluechtern their wages sometimes stood as low
as 85 pfennig. All wages lose 12 percent in taxes and fees.
Officials of the HICOG Manpower Division have
estimated that the Schluechtern pay scale does not
guarantee a decent living wage to the workers.

ESPONSIBILITY FOR the low wages falls not only

upon the employers — some of whom are frankly
unable to pay more — but also upon the unions which
negotiated the area-wide wage agreements. The unions
in this case often represent but a tiny fraction of the
workers — in one plant there were no union members —
but the job of setting the wage scale devolves upon them.
Main reason for the low union membership is the cost
of initiation and weekly dues.

HICOG officials, watching this all-German project hope-
fully, were encouraged by the pledges of Professor Neun-
dorfer and his research associates to conduct a thorough
study of the situation. Local authorities are simul-
taneously pressing for better wages.

Whatever the difficulties involved and whatever the
drawbacks, the plan has given hope to other rural coun-
ties, and a new spirit to war-groggy Schluechtern. One
spokesman put it this way: “We've tried to dream up no
fantastic projects, but have listened to the people's
wishes and tried to make clear and sober plans for the
future of our county. The whole population is helping,
even if only by living as frugally as possible. They know
that the more they are able to put into their own salvation,
the more will be available for others.”

Legislator Jansen, having discussed the practical aspects
of the plan, defined the idealistic ones. “In my opinion,
it's equally important to awaken the residents and the
refugees and bring the two together in co-operation. It is
by working together that we shall emerge from a state of
waiting and self-pity and pitch in to the job.” +END

Refugee cuts patterns for lace collars manufactured in
Schluechtern plant. Surveys showed “exploitive" pay scale
for many workers in area, sometimes as low as 40 pfennig
per hour for girls. Officials of Schluechtern Plan are seek-
ing means to insure decent living wage to local workers.

JULY 1950

--- Page 14 ---
Aged DP’s to Go under German Care

GED DP’S IN Wuerttemberg-Baden will be placed
under the care of German officials upon completion of a
Displaced Persons’ (DP) home to be built and furnished with
funds provided by the International Refugee Organization.
The new home, first to be established in Western Ger-
many, is designed primarily for the use of aged DP’s who
have little hope of being resettled in homes outside Ger-
many. It will be built at an estimated cost of DM 636,000
on a 40-acre tract of land formerly a German air force
base at Dornstadt, near Ulm.

The agreements were signed in the headquarters of
Maj. Gen. Charles P, Gross, state commissioner for Wuert-
temberg-Baden, by representatives of the Wuerttemberg-
Baden Ministries of Interior and Finance, the Inner Mis-
sion of the German Evangelical Church, which is the
operating agency for the new project, and its sponsor,
the World Council of Churches, The World Council of
Churches is one of 23 voluntary agencies working under
IRO auspices, and will soon amalgamate with another
agency, Church World services.

Others participating in the ceremony were Stan Milus
and Herman Washington, IRO officials, and James H.
Campbell, Displaced Populations adviser, Office of the
State Commissioner, Wuerttemberg-Baden.

INETY PERCENT of the space in the new home is to
be reserved for aged DP’s, the remainder for Germans
in need of care. Initially at least, 350 DP's will be selected
to occupy the new home by an Admissions Control Board.

Wuerttemberg-Baden state government signs agreement
to assume care of aged Displaced Persons, They will
maintain a home for elderly DP's at Dornstadt, near Ulm,
to be built and furnished with IRO funds. Participating in
the document-signing ceremony were (left to right,
seated) A. Roland Elliott, Church World Services, Inc.
representative; James H. Campbell, Displaced Populations
adviser, OLCWB; Dr. Antonie Krauth, head of the Inner
Mission of the German Evangelical Church in Wuert-
temberg; Dr. Friedrich Kiefer, of the state's Ministry of
the Interior; Franz August Denkel, of the W.-B. Ministry
of Finance; (left to right, standing) Stanislaus B, Milus,
!RO; H. A, Washington, chief, Care and Maintenance,
Headquarters Area 2, Mellingen; Major E. N. Geforos,
Stuttgart Military Post. (US Amny photo)

Cattle, hogs and poultry will be raised on the farm,
and 40 acres of land adjacent to the home will be utilized
for vegetable production, Thus the project will be self-
supporting, to some extent, according to present German
plans,

The original 350 DP's are to be ‘of the Protestant and
Greek Orthodox faiths. Catholic DP’s in the same age and
“need” categories will be cared for in similar accommoda-
tions in Bavaria. \

Bids for construction were let in June, and completion
is expected in September. Meanwhile, the group of
selectees was to remain under the care of the International
Refugee Organization.

The home at Dornstadt will include a chapel, recreation
halls, single room apartments and a hobby shop.

Adjacent to the Dornstadt project and in co-operation
with IRO, a new German housing project of 150 apart-
ments, financed partially by the International Refugee
Organization and for use by Germans, will be built in the
near future. -+END

Germany to Negotiate for Tariff
Concessions at Torquay Conference

West Germany's $2,000,000-a-day “dollar gap" may
get help when Germany negotiates for tariff concessions
with 14 countries at an international meeting slated for
September in England.

Present will be the contracting parties to the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade; 39 countries are ex-
pected to participate.

“These 39 countries,’ according to ECA Chief for
Germany Robert M. Hanes, “account for nearly four-
fifths of the world's international trade. Western Ger-
many, in participating in these negotiations, has an
opportunity to strengthen its foreign trade position and
to expand its production. By acceding to the General
Agreement, Western Germany will join those countries
striving for the progressive removal of discriminatory
trade practices and seeking ways for a multilateral ex-
tension of trade. The Federal Republic's accession to
GATT will certainly stimulate the flow of its exports.”

Negotiations under GATT are conducted according
to provisions of the Havana Charter. The Charter states
that customs tariffs and other charges on imports and
exports, certain regulations, quotas and artificial protec-
tion afforded by import and export monopolies shall be
subject to negotiation.

Germany plans to negotiate with Australia, Canada,
Finland, France, Greece, India, Italy, New Zealand,
Pakistan, Sweden, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United
Kingdom and the United States. Any other countries
desiring to negotiate with the Federal Republic may
offer proposals,

The meeting will be held at Torquay, England.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Low Cost of Occupation Stressed

N OFFICIAL of the Office of the State Commissioner

for Bavaria told a German radio audience that oc-
cupation costs for Western Germany are only a fraction
of the money the Third Reich spent in the years prior to
and during World War II.

In emphasizing the comparatively low price Western
Germany is paying for her security, the official also
pointed out the material benefits derived by Germans in
the three Western zones through various Allied aid pro-
grams, such as GARIOA and the Marshall Plan,

“Occupation costs — that is, the expenses which we
regard as bona fide costs for occupation — will amount
to about DM 4,000,000,000 during the current fiscal year,"
declared K. F, Fredericks, chief of OLCB's Finance Branch,
in a speech delivered over the Bavarian radio.

“This,"" he added, “compared with expenditures for the
prewar German armed forces of DM 4,000,000,000 during
1935; DM 18,400,000,000 during 1938; and DM 32,300,000,000
during 1939. And during the war year of 1944, the German
taxpayers paid DM 128,400,000,000 for their armed forces.”

HE AMERICAN FINANCE official told his listeners
that Western Germany pays only a part of the actual
occupation costs of the Western victors. The Germans,
he explained, are charged only for housing, services and
certain goods delivered to the Occupation Forces, while
taxpayers in the United States, England and France pay
for food, clothing, military equipment, fuel, as well as
wages and salaries of their own occupation personnel.
“It is commonly presumed," he added, “that occupation
costs are entirely lost to the German economy. Actually,
however, about one-fourth of the money paid by Germans
is returned to the economy in the*form of wages paid to
German workers from which the state collects wage taxes.
In addition, many hundreds of million Deutsche marks
are used for maintenance and construction of buildings,
dwellings, plants, airports and other installations now

Something cooking!—A delegation of German apprentice
cooks greeted Alfred Fries of Chicago, president of the
International Cooks’ Association, on his arrival at Rhine-
Main Airport as guest of the Association of Cooks in
Germany. This was his first visit to Germany since his
(USAFE photo)

departure as a youngster in 1905.

being used by the Occupation Forces but which will
eventually be returned to the German economy.”

Mr. Fredericks said that Western Germany also has
benefited through GARIOA deliveries of raw materials and
foodstuffs valued at more than DM 8,000,000,000 plus
Marshall Plan credits which to date amount to approxi-
mately DM 3,600,000,000. Other material aid also has
been received from abroad, such as a steady stream of
gift packages of food and clothing for Germans.

“In addition,” he added, “there are other values being
received by Western Germans which cannot be measured
in dollars and cents. To mention just a few, let me call
attention to the Amerika Haeuser (US Information Cen-
ters), which are paid for entirely by the American tax-
payer, as well as the hundreds of Germans from all walks
of life who are being given the opportunity to study demo-
cratic institutions and practices in the United States."

R. FREDERICKS SAID the DM 4,000,000,000 occupa-

tion cost figure expected for the current fiscal year
is about 10 percent lower than for the preceding year.
He said the reduction in part has been effected through
the reduction in the number of Germans employed by
the Occupation Forces.

“Economic arguments are used by some Germans to
point up the need for greater reduction in occupation
costs," he added. “However, at the same time, social
arguments are brought forth whenever Allied authori-
ties try to reduce occupation costs by discontinuing
operations at a German plant. Such was the case recently
at the BMW plant at Munich-Allach. Considerable efforts
were made in that instance by interested Germans to
prevail upon the Occupation Forces to continue their
operations at the plant.” +END

Historical Division to Record,
Analyze, Appraise HICOG Operations

A Historical Division which will provide “a careful
analysis and appraisal’ of the work of the US High Com-
mission for Germany has been established in the Office
of the Executive Secretary.

The work of the Historical Division is designed to
“constitute a historical record... of permanent value to
our Government.” It will also interpret to the American
people “the experience of the unique experiment. now
being carried on in Germany for the purpose of safe-
guarding the security of-Europe and restoring Germany as a
peaceful co-operating member of the European community."

Without striving to draw up an “exhaustive and mo-
numental history,” the new division will place emphasis
on the broader aspects of operations, and on the prin-
ciples, problems and procedures involved. Dr. Harold Zink,
noted American historian and educator now teaching at
Ohio State University, will head the Historical Division.

JULY 1950

--- Page 16 ---
Orientation via the Eye

AYBE YOU THINK it's child’s play to dabble in
paintboxes and to carve toy boats.

But to a group of HICOG experts stationed in Nurem-
bérg, it's work — work dedicated to telling Germany
about America, and helping the Germans to understand
democratic systems.

Throughout the US Zone of Germany, colorful posters,
giant photo exhibits, maps, charts and scale models are
displayed to illustrate the hallmarks of American life.

They've been prepared by the 81 Americans and Ger-
mans on the staff of the Exhibitions Section of the Visual
Presentation Branch, Operating Facilities Division, Of-
fice of Administration, HICOG.

Besides telling Germans the physical facts about the
United States, the exhibits try to illustrate the spirit of
individual liberty which surrounds them. Although many
are initiated in their own right, the exhibits are also
ordered or borrowed by various HICOG staffers to
supplement reorientation activities in the field of press
and publications, radio, motion pictures, the theater and
others. What's more, Germans are learning about the pur-
poses and progress of ERP from these graphic displays.

RINCIPAL OUTLETS for exhibits are the US In-

formation Centers. The larger ERP exhibitions, which
cannot be accommodated by the centers, are shown
elsewhere. One of them is contained in its own portable
building, 100 feet long, 66 feet wide and 23 feet high.

Since the section was organized as part of the OMGUS
Office of the Director of Information Control (later the
Information Services Division), 32 major exhibitions
have been produced. Add to that a myriad of photo
displays and posters devoted to American holidays,
observances and birthdays of America’s greatest leaders.
The section has also designed posters for its own ex-
hibitions and five different posters for the ECA Special
Mission to Western Germany. It is estimated that nearly
3,500,000 Germans have seen the exhibits.

Millions of Germans have viewed the work of the artists
and artisans of Visual Presentation Branch. Right, simple
photographic display. Below, Claus Peter Gross, production
chief, checks graph depicting results of Marshall Plan aid.

A sample list of the section's exhibits will give an
idea as to the huge variety of its work:

Tennessee Valley Authority, Living Americans, US
Agriculture, Civil Rights, Food for Germany, Housing
in America (two exhibits), The World of American
Women, Modern American Sculpture, German Trans-
lations of American Books and the New York Public
Library — these and many others.

URING THE REMAINING months of 1950, exhibits

will be produced on US automobile production,
heavy industry, aviation, motion pictures, television,
atomic energy, modern art, youth movements, highways
and railroads.

Scale models of the new HICOG housing development
in Frankfurt will also be constructed.

Most recent project of the section was a special ERP
exhibit for the Frankfurt Agricultural Fair last month.
Another ERP exhibit is currently touring cities in the
French Zone.

Exhibitions Section is virtually a self-contained unit,
with eight operating departments and its own supply

--- Page 17 ---
Globe being painted is part of the big ERP Exhibition
which has been touring US Zone cities for some months.

warehouse. As a result it is not necessary to farm out
any of the work, except in instances where complex
machinery or electrical apparatus is required.

All editorial and research work for the exhibits —
and plenty is needed — is done within the workshop.
There are also whole departments devoted to the jobs
of carpentry, machines, model making, printing, graphics,
photography, architecture and maintenance. The section
has its own administrative office, of which the supply
warehouse is a part.

A staff of two Americans and 79 Germans make up
the section's employee roster. They are divided into
three groups: Office of the Chief, Editorial and Research,
and Production.

HOUGH MANY of the exhibits resemble “works of

art,” it isn't a case of one artist sitting in a corner
and dreaming up a cherished design, All of the artisans
pitch in together and produce ideas, texts, art work and
illustrative gadgets.

Here's the procedure followed for most of the ex-
hibits.

A conference among the US chief, his deputy, the
German editorial and production chiefs is called. The
subject matter is thoroughly discussed as to research,
scripts and scenarios, extent of coverage, size of the
exhibit, number of elements (including textual, graphic
and pictorial) and color combinations.

Whatever decisions have been made in this first
conference are incorporated into a rough script. If the
first draft is approved, it goes to the graphics depart-
ment, where rough sketches are made, either in black-
and-white or color. Upon approval of the rough sketches,
a second script is drafted, this time with more detail.
The artists now take over again, and finished sketches
are prepared for approval. These are usually submitted
to the Information Centers Branch, if the exhibit is in-
tended for the Centers, or to whatever other agency has
requested it. If the agency gives its go-ahead, production
begins and the deadline is posted for all to see.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

Painters with. gun and brush take over from carpenters to
finish ships to haul ECA freight — for another exhibition.

When the exhibit is finished, the section takes care
of all its own packing and shipping. Specially trained
crews of German graphic artists and carpenters ac-
company the exhibits to unpack them, assemble,
dissemble and repack them for further shipment. All
exhibition devices, such as racks, supports, paneling
and showcases are made within the shop.

For example, the large ERP exhibit, housed in its own
pavilion, requires a crew of 30 to supervise erection, exclu-
sive of contract labor, after it is moved from city to city.

T IS NATURAL that planners in the Exhibitions Sec-

tion should want to know how effective their ex-
hibits have been — moreover, they want to insure that
the story-telling job is done. To this end, American
and German chiefs make studies of German spectators’
reaction to the various exhibits. By so watching, they
are able to revise editorial and graphic presentation
when necessary for effectiveness.

Recently, small letter boxes have been made to
receive written opinions from German viewers.

Members of the Exhibitions Section staff are aware
that they are a part of a comparatively new movement
to educate via the visual arts. Studies made by the
section in its various research efforts disclosed that
Johann Amos Comenius, the Moravian Bishop of Re-
formation, founded the visual movement during the 16th
century. Although virtually all his ideas are in use
today, they are still confined to those doctrines which
are devoted to improving methods of language teaching
and to illustrating textbooks.

No significant additions to Comenius’ ideas were
made until nearly a century later when Johann Pesta-
lozzi introduced field study into the classroom. Pesta-
lozzi's work attracted interest mainly from the intellec-
tuals of his day and had little or no mass appeal.

First real impetus to visual information came with
the establishment of the great international expositions,
which for the most part were nothing more than com-
mercial fairs.

Only in very recent years has visual information in
the schools and in military training been utilized widely.

JULY 19590

--- Page 18 ---
England in plaster, one of several materials put to good use
by the 81 Americans and Germans of Exhibitions Section.

Some of the same methods employed by educators in the
visual field are utilized by the Exhibitions Section.

HE WHOLE IDEA of bringing exhibitions into the Ger-

man reorientation program thus did not get under-
way until the fall of 1947, The program was begun in
Berlin and was transferred from that city to Nuremberg
when part of OMGUS Headquarters was airlifted out of
the blockaded city in 1948. :

The Exhibitions Section is one of the three sections
which make up the Visual Presentations Branch, headed
in Frankfurt by Louis H, Dufault. Its other two sections
— Graphic and Reproduction Sections — operate from
the Headquarters Building in Frankfurt.

The entire branch is under the aegis of the Operating
Facilities Division, whose operations are in turn super-
vised by the Office of Administration, of which Glenn
G. Wolfe is director.

Thomas J. Carolan, divisional chief, says of the Nurem-
berg workshop: “The Exhibitions Section is a servicing
agency for all of HICOG. Its facilities are available to
all HICOG offices and divisions directly or indirectly
responsible for reorientation and which require graphic
elements to further their missions. Many HICOG units
make frequent use of these open-to-all facilities and their
contribution to the over-all reorientation effort has
been great.*

HIEF OF THE EXHIBITIONS Section in direct charge

of all its activities is Elmer Cox, veteran American
newspaperman and public relations expert. During the
war he was with the Office of War Information in New
York and London, and then went to Norway as the first
postwar press attache of the American Embassy in Oslo.
He joined the Information Services Division in Berlin
in the summer of 1946.

His deputy chief is Ernst A. Schlomann, who has been
associated with the Exhibitions Section since October
1949. A student at the Universities of Berlin and Munich

* Illustrations of this work in the Information Bulletin are ‘'So

Wohnt Amerika” in the December 1949 issue and “ECA on Tour” in
the March 1950 issue.

JULY 1950

Model houses are constructed for “So Wohnt Amerika’
Exhibition, which showed Germans how Americans live»

and the State Academy of Fine Arts in Munich during
the 1920's, he was employed for a number of years as dis-
play manager for topflight New York department stores.

The two Germans who head the other major groups
are Dr. Gerhart Jentsch, chief of editorial and research,
and Claus Peter Gross, 26-year-old production chief.

Two giant buildings are occupied by the section —
a workshop and a warehouse. The two Nuremberg struc-
tures are situated in a compound known as the Metal
and Eisen Werke, which has 17 other buildings of com-
parable size.

This compound and its buildings were once devoted to
the manufacture of 88 mm shells for the German army.
The job which occupies them now is a particularly
significant turnabout — where once the tools of war
were made, today the Exhibitions Section is turning out
the materials which aid a comprehensive project for
peace. -++END

No American housing exhibit would be complete without
a skyscraper, so little one was produced in workshops.

se

--- Page 19 ---
Stamping Out of Racial Prejudice Urged

R. JAMES R. NEWMAN, US State Commissioner for

Hesse, recently admonished those prosecutors who
have dismissed cases against desecrators of Jewish
cemeteries in the state of Hesse. Pointing out 200 of the
500 Jewish burial grounds in Western Germany have
suffered at the hands of vandals since the end of the war,
Dr. Newman, in a letter sent May 18 to Christian Stock,
Minister President of Hesse, stated that nothing would
harm Germany's prestige before the world so much as this
continued manifestation that racial prejudice and hatred
are still alive and their attendant crimes unpunished.

Dr. Newman's letter follows:

Dear Mr, Stock:

On Sunday, May 14, 1950, there appeared in the Stars
and Stripes an article which dealt with the desecration of
Jewish cemeteries in western Germany. The most startling
part of the story was the statement of an outstanding
German Jewish leader to the effect that, of the 500 Jewish
cemeteries in Western Germany, 200 of them had been de-
secrated or had otherwise suffered at the hands of vandals.

I am sure that you deplore these happenings as much
as I do, and I have noted with satisfaction and approval
the stand that has been taken with regard thereto by
yourself and others... I am also quite sure that none of
us were aware of the extent to which Jewish cemeteries
have been molested in Germany since 1945.

It is impossible, however, to look with approval upon
the actions of some of the prosecutors in Hesse in dis-
missing cases against offenders who have been appre-
hended. It is true that in most instances the offenders were
juveniles who probably were not fully cognizant of the
gravity of the acts committed. In dismissing these cases,
however, the prosecutors, in pointing to this fact, have
indicated that the children, possibly, were motivated in
their actions by the influence of adults. Surely if this

| Luther
| Lathe

) En go

One of 8,000 books sent by US publishers to Hesse for dis-
tribution among German universities, schools and other
institutions, is examined by Dr. James R. Newman (left),
state commissioner for Hesse, and Dr. George F. Donovan,
Religious Affairs chief, OLCH. (PRB OLCH photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

fact could be ascertained by the police and prosecutors,
the further facts as to the identities of such adults should
have been uncovered, and available action should have
been taken against them.

We all realize that racial prejudices are almost in-
variably the result of ignorance, and, where there is
ignorance, such prejudices become manifest through acts
of violence and oppression. Too often is the ability to
fasten responsibility difficult because prejudices of this
kind, like all other shameful things, are kept hidden and
secret by those who possess them.

HE EYES OF THE WORLD are turned toward Germany

today. Everything that happens here is noted and
judged. Slowly but surely the moral credit of your country
is rising everywhere in the Western world, and every
German should see that nothing is done to impair it.
Every official, also, must do his utmost to protect it.
Nothing will do more damage to Germany's standing,
present and future, before the civilized nations of the
world than the continued manifestation that racial pre-
judice and hatred are still alive and active, and that the
crimes committed by reason thereof continue to go
unpunished.

We, who are close to the problem here, realize that this
race hatred does not exist in so far as the mass of the
German population is concerned. We also realize that the
great majority is shocked and disgusted when crimes like
the desecration of Jewish cemeteries are reported. To the
world, however, such shock or disgust is judged to be
passive, if, in fact, it is even recognized as existing. The
people, individually and collectively, must vent their
indignation, or risk the possibility of an erroneous judg-
ment of Germany's moral regeneration.

I earnestly urge, Mr. Minister President, that you and
your government take every possible step to stamp out
the remaining vestiges of racial prejudice and hatred in
Hesse. Not only must the perpetrators of offenses, such
as are herein discussed, be apprehended and punished, but
every moral force for good and decency must be awaken-
ed and marshalled to battle the forces of intolerance,
racial hatred and racial prejudice.

Parents, teachers, clergymen, in fact everyone must
be joined together in the fight, for the evil that is in a
psychology of hatred, intolerance and prejudice is not
only wrong in the sight of God, but is also deemed to be a
wrong against mankind in the minds of all civilized peo-
ples. The people of Germany cannot afford to be wrongly
judged by their neighbors at this time, and Germany
herself cannot afford to lose the moral credit she has been
accumulating since the end of the war.

It is up to you and to every right-thinking citizen to
openly and strongly vent your indignation against the
manifestation of racial hatred and prejudice, to the end
that they will disappear and the evil upon which they
thrive will cease to be a living force or problem. -+END

JULY 1950

--- Page 20 ---
Third article of series on German-American relations

German-American Convention

T THE NOON MEAL, the delegates ate hot dogs and

hamburgers at the Augsburg Snack Bar, and for dinner
they had the pick of the town’s best wiener schnitzel. In
meetings, Americans and Germans mixed their languages,
and in reports, told how people of both nations worked
side by side—for the American March of Dimes or for
the German Pfennig Parade.

There wasn't any doubt that delegates and observers at
the Federation of German-American Clubs’ convention
had learned a lot about each other's mode of life, but they
worked for two days anyway, seeking means to streng-
then, redefine and to extend their program.

The convention, held during May in the Bavarian city
of Augsburg, was the fourth since the federation’s birth
in 1947. It brought together delegates and lookers-on from
10 clubs in nine cities of the US Zone — one delegate of
each of the two nationalities from each club, The others,
some 40 in all, just came along for the ride.

There were just as many Germans present as Ameri-
cans, just as spirited and articulate.

These people — and their federation — represented, in
the words of Dr, James Morgan Read, chief of the Edu-
cation and Cultural Relations Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, “one of the best instruments for German-
American friendship.”

HE FEDERATION GREW from the directive by Gen.

Lucius D, Clay, then US military governor of Ger-
many, issued in July of 1947, which asked formation of
German-American groups to foster mutual understanding
and to spark-plug worthwhile civic projects. These clubs,
some of which had existed informally before, federated
themselves in September 1947 in Heidelberg, with Munich
Resident Officer Chester A. Wright as president. Twelve
clubs were represented at that time; in those days
membership was all masculine.

Here are the Germans and Americans who will guide the
Federation of German-American Clubs during the coming
year. Seated (left to right) are Mrs. Eleanore von Knoop,
corresponding secretary; Mrs. Helen Hathcock, president;
Mrs. Louise Fullmer, past president; Mrs. Gertrud Roth,
recording secretary; (standing) Dr. Anton Fingerle, first
vice-president; Mrs. Hanni Lohmann, second vice-presi-
dent, Mrs. Alice Myers, treasurer; Dr. A. R. Boehm and Mrs.
Tilly Grimminger, second vice-presidents.

(US Army photo)

In the three years that followed, the federation as
patriarch was not overly popular and a states’ rights
struggle was staged by the clubs. But the air was clear
for the May convention, and it seemed agreed from the
variety of their activities that member clubs conducted
their business exactly as they wished.

There was one bond that all had voluntarily assumed:
together they were working to “promote German-Ameri-
can understanding in a democratic manner.”

Such understanding wasn't reliant solely upon sched-
uled sessions of Germans and Americans facing each other
across teacups although that, too, had its place.

In most local clubs, the membership consisted of lead-
ing figures in German civic life, members of the American
Armed Forces, HICOG and their families; this fact made
discussion of civic issues a “natural” for club programs.
It was here that Americans, with their greater experience
in community planning and carry-through, played the
leadership role.

With Germans in extreme. physical need, particularly
before currency reform, it was natural that welfare pro-
jects were laced into each club’s program. Tops among
such activities were Christmas parties for German child-
ren, care of orphans, and youth activities, often in co-
operation with the Army-sponsored GYA.

S THE MEMBERSHIP gradually changed, and women

took the leadership away from men, the natural con-
sequence was a new emphasis on techniques of modern
housekeeping, home planning, child-care, and a lively dis-
cussion of women's problems in general. One club spon-
sored a fair, “The Woman's World,” and another an “‘Inter-
national Cooking School." The significance of this side
of club activity was emphasized by Mrs.McCloy when
she stressed the need for active participation by women in
public life and community affairs. The federation has
worked together to back two zone-wide projects.

The Munich Men's Club conducted a lottery to collect
enough money to produce a film on traffic safety. This
film — an “excellent one,” according to the club's Ameri-
can co-president, Chester A, Wright — will now be shown
to audiences in all cities where a German-American club
is located.

The second is the German counterpart of America's
March of Dimes — dubbed the Pfennig Parade, and like-
wise initiated in Munich.*

The Pfennig Parade swept through Munich and marched
into several other Bavarian communities, whether or not
there was a club to implement its progress. Clubs and
German civic agencies in other states of the British as well
as the US Zone are jumping on the bandwagon. Although

* See “Pfennig Parade,’ in Information Bulletin, June 1950,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
the Pfennig Parade was originally con-
ceived to aid in research and treatment
for polio, a number of communities
anticipate staging their drives on be-
half of tuberculosis, a disease more
prevalent in Germany today.

UT THE VARIETY of activities
could not be contained in so gen-
eral an outline as this. Reports from the
10 clubs represented—from Augsburg,

Bremen, Giessen, Kassel, Marburg,
Munich, Regensburg, Stuttgart and
Wiesbaden — illustrated the great

activity as well as the geographic
spread enjoyed by the clubs.

Kassel's program, for instance, was
divided into categories of interest: arts

and crafts, music, book reviews ,welfare and horticulture.
Whatever happened to appeal to the membership had its

counterpart in an interest-group.

Munich's women were boosters for an international
youth library, and gave a tea to raise money for a non-

profit German gift shop.

In Stuttgart, the German-American club sponsored ex-
hibits of various young manufacturers, hoping to give
them a lift in their climb to economic self-sufficiency. Club
members are likewise backing construction of a dormi-
tory-home for German women in the community.

Wiesbaden club women financed the showing of Walt
Disney’ “Cinderella” to 1,000 German children.

As delegates and supporters dug into the job of plan-
ning work for the future, they had as guidepost the state-
ment of President Helen W. Hathcock of Wiesbaden: “Let
us put each new project to the test of conformity with our
goals lest we fritter away our energies in being merely

busy, rather than useful.”

And Dr. Read had told them this: “The psychology that
Americans are Americans, and Germans are Germans, and
‘never-the-twain-shall-meet’ is the fault of both. Many
American women here don't encourage their children to
meet and mix with German children—an opportunity so
many children in the States will never have. German
families are afraid their children will be contaminated by
the lack of discipline of American children. Both sides
should work a little harder to do their part in this mutual-
understanding business." He called for expansion of the
calling for co-operation among
schools of both nationalities, and recommending “‘little ex-
change programs” within the communities.

federation’s program,

UST HOW SIGNIFICANT the convention would be in
egging both sides along this path had yet to be proved.
But round tables on problems of membership, organization,
projects and programs ferreted out the barriers and at
least made recommendations for getting over them.
Some of the clubs, it was revealed, have restrictive
memberships in order to maintain groups of workable size
and, in some cases, to keep a balanced number of Ameri-
cans and Germans. This has its drawbacks — there were

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Top-level ambassador for the German-
American Clubs is Federation president
Mrs. Helen Hathcock, of Wiesbaden, re-

elected to second term. (US Army photo)

isolated pockets of both Americans and
Germans who wanted to funnel their
impetus toward friedship through such
clubs. “We have more interest from
the Germans than we can handle," re-
ported the membership chairman. For

‘the most part, this was not so among

Americans. The Marburg women's
group, for instance, reported its club
had failed twice before final consolida-
tion. “First, we had too many people
trying to do too much, but afterwards,
we had trouble getting enough Ameri-
cans—the turnover of people coming
and going kept cleaning out our mem-
bership.”

Marburg’s membership is at present
12 Americans, 12 Germans. Other clubs

reported heavy over-balances of German members — Ans-
bach’s roster stood at 39 to two, Bremen women at 50 to 15.

It was brought out that a German-American club move-

ment of at least 11 groups exists in the US Zone but has
not as yet been incorporated into the federation.

President Hathcock, a gracious, self-assured leader, said

German feeling.

18

informally that she thought more Americans would join
the movement were it not for three factors: a general
apathy among some, the language difficulty—"'that's a
tremendous barrier’’—and a negligible hangover of anti-

But what were, after all, the motives held by both for
joining these clubs?

A German expressed it thus: “At first I joined with some
misgivings. I was afraid that it might be only another
propaganda scheme—a means of trying to make me be-
lieve things I didn’t want to believe. I soon found that it
was instead an opportunity to get to know some Ameri-
cans in a free and friendly atmosphere.”

For the purpose of extending the German-American
Clubs’ sphere as well as its membership, a recommenda-
tion was forthcoming from membership planners to initiate
teen-age counterparts of the adult clubs.

The program of the clubs and their federation did not
appear to be the final answer for American-German amity
but it was a start and contained most of the elements of
the mutuality of thought toward which the occupation aims. —

Certainly the movement had grown, spontaneously and
steadily. It had become an association of alert and inter-
ested women— with the exception of the energetic Men's
Club of Munich.

Perhaps its most notable characteristic was expressed
by a German woman who was discussing with a group of
young Americans the possibility of incorporating German
university students into the clubs. “They are usually the
people with the most progressive
Americans’ argument. “They'd probably revolutionize the
whole friendship movement.”

The German woman laughed and shivered in her chair.
“Ah,” she said. “We don’t want a big revolution... We'd
be better off with just a small revolution!"

ideas," went the

-+-END

JULY 1950

--- Page 22 ---
School Kids
Meet
The Mayor

By ZENO STANGWILO
Resident Officer
Gelnhausen and Schluechtern, Hesse

IX MONTHS AGO in Gelnhausen and Schluechtern
S counties, in Hesse, the Resident Officer inquired of his
representatives how many towns were holding public
council meetings. Not a single hand was raised.

The same question was asked at a-similar get-together
during April. This time the group gave an emphatic “yes.”
Council meetings, meetings of the county supervisors, and
sessions of the lower courts have been visited by a stream
of citizens — schoolchildren first and later their parents.

The new interest of the people and prominence of the
public bodies have come about through the encouragement
of a program sponsored by the Resident Officer and his
staff. It was based on the Hessian statute of 1946, which
called for public council meetings — a statute that had
been almost completely by-passed in the two counties.

In the beginning, the RO observed a top-heavy rever-
ence for the “mystical workings of city and county
executives. He reasoned that their exalted position was
due in large degree to the citizens’ lack of knowledge of
the mechanics of government, The RO and his staff there-
upon decided to fill this gap for the local populace — and
target number one was the classroom.

A THE PROGRAM went into operation last December,
it was planned to have upper classes of each
elementary school in both counties attend a town or
village council meeting and write a short composition
on their reactions to it. Writers of the four best essays
in each school (judged by local teachers) were to visit
a meeting of the county board of supervisors, then to
discuss the sessions in their classrooms.

It was hoped that this little competition would not only
teach the students something about government, but
would stimulate further interest, At the same time the
planners realized such an idea couldn't function profitably
on its own hook. They spoke with the officials of both
schools and local government. Their help was enthusi-
astically promised.

Setting up the “public” meetings took a bit of doing.
For the most part, the mayors and their councils had been
meeting in private living-rooms, discussing their business
among themselves, and going quietly home without so
much as hinting to their constituents what went on. To

JULY 1950

19

Group of school kids, accompanied by teachers, visit local
court and are briefed by judge (center) on processes of law,

invite children into the meetings meant finding more
spacious public meeting places and organizing the sessions
on some sort of official basis .

Both mayors and teacher groups received letters from
their hierarchical superiors, asking co-operation. The RO
personally attended county-wide meetings of mayors and
school teachers, discussing with them the educational
possibilities in the program. All the teachers — and almost
all the mayors — agreed to support it.

So it was that in December government meetings were
invaded by troops of attentive youngsters who in many
cases were the first audiences the councils had ever
known.

The meetings were held in schoolrooms, public
restaurants and whatever halls were available. It was not
a onetime occasion; students returned again, and parents,
curiosities piqued by their children’s reports, followed
in their footsteps.

HE PROGRAM SNOWBALLED with the help of press
articles, radio announcements and discussion of the
council meetings in adult public forums.

From the council meetings, the program blossomed out
into the courts and eventually into the county super-
visors’ meetings.

“Representative groups of elementary schoolchildren and
high school students went to sessions of the lower courts,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
bent on learning about Germany's system of justice, the
tights of the accused and the mechanisms of police
agencies.

Before each session, understanding judges took time out
to brief the youngsters on what would happen. They told
the students of the rights each of them enjoyed as a
private citizen and simultaneously encouraged them to
consider their responsibilities.

So successful were these field trips that teachers asked
the Resident Officer if they might attend meetings of the
state legislature. One such group has already attended
a plenary session and local representatives to the legis-
lature have promised to take others in the near future.

To date, 2,035 young Germans have attended 60 local
council meetings in the two counties. Meetings of the
county board of supervisors drew 360 while 65 attended a
court session. Thus the practical touch has invaded
German courses in civics, and students are aware for the
first time that the meetings of their representative govern-
ments are open to the public,

OME OF THE UNDUE AWE in which the students and
S their parents once stood of their governments thus has
been rubbed_off.

When the participation of both students and parents is
toted up, it shows that 8,009 persons attended the 218
public meetings held in both counties during the initial
six months of the program. These figures must be con-
sidered in the light of the fact that the average population
of towns and villages in the area is under 1,000.

By stimulating adult interest in the activities of their
elected representatives, the program is providing voters
with information essential to make them intelligent poll-
goers.

It is bringing the mayors and their councils out from
behind closed doors where they have conducted their
business for years and is forcing them to learn and apply
proper parliamentary procedures.

Perhaps most important, it is educating a new generation
of voters and officeholders through a program approved
and carried out through the counties’ classrooms. --END

[Photos by Bethke (2), Boehmert and Geist]

Police Efficiency Improving

German police efficiency is continuing to improve,
according to the monthly report of the Public Safety
Branch, HICOG. During the year of April 1949 through
March 1950, a total of 68.5 percent of the cases reported
were cleared by the German police as compared with
66.2 percent during the previous year.

Although violations of the German law increased 12.7
percent in March 1950 over February, first-quarter figures
for 1950 were lower than those for 1949 and 1948,

Illegal border crossings during March increased 32.2
percent over the previous month, probably reflecting ‘a
normal seasonal increase.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Youngsters filled spectators’ benches in court to be told
by judge (extreme left) just what their civil rights are.

These Hessian school children also have their day in the
town council (‘‘Gemeinderat”) at a session in Lieblos.”

School kids meet his honor the mayor at Schluechtern
County supervisors’ meeting, held for first time in public.

aeitaiebei tin

--- Page 24 ---
Typical of displaced population groups are (leit) old and young Sudeten Germans arriving at Furth im Wald, Bavaria, in
March 1950 after transfer from homes in Czechoslovakia; (center) little girl from Soviet Zone waits with her mother in
Refugee Transient Camp in Giessen, Hesse, hoping to be given a haven in western Germany; (right) two little boys who
had lost their parents and did not even know their names, shown in Hanover, Lower Saxony, as they arrive with 750 German

children from East Prussia in the summer of 1948 to seek new homes. (Photos by Dena, Claude Jacoby and PRB OLCB)

Kmigration from Germany

By GEORGE WEISZ
Deputy Chief, Displaced Populations Divisions, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG

OME OF THE 8,000,000 refugees and expellees uprooted HE WORLD-WIDE DEMAND for new immigrants has
by World War II and now sheltered in western Ger- been diminishing ever since 1930; what is moré, Ger-
many have not yet settled down permanently. many's people have noticeably stuck close to home. The
Many will join the large numbers of German immigrants trend away from emigration was more radical in Germany
who left Germany for new homelands in the last half of than in any other emigration country in Europe even be-
the 19th century. The majority, however, will remain in fore general reduction became the rule elsewhere, due
Germany and will become an integral part of community partly to the need for manpower here brought about by
life of the German Federal Republic. This fact, contested the delayed industrialization.
by those who maintain the refugee problem is entirely In the years 1930 to 1937 emigration from Germany
international in character, is inescapable. It demands con- totaled only 92,686. A large percentage of all emigration
certed effort on the part of the German government, good from Germany from 1933 onwards was due, of course, to
will on the part of the German population, and a high the then existing political situation, and many emigrants
degree of adaptability on the part of the refugees them- were of the Jewish faith. At the same time the Nazi
selves. Conversely, those elements in Germany which government was bent on inducing her former citizens and
reject emigration in any form and number, contending that “Volksdeutsche” (ethnic Germans) to “return” to the Reich,
it would weaken the German nation, must also accept as The downtrend of the thirties was in direct contrast to
a basic principle in a democracy that the individual must the last half of the 19th century when (from 1851 to 1895)
be free to move where and when opportunities beckon. approximately 4,500,000 Germans emigrated, most of them
Recognizing that emigration is neither the cure-all nor to America. However, in the decade 1920-1930 the urge to
the principal solution to the refugee problems in Germany, emigrate increased. This was true of most European coun-
it is patently worth while to consider carefully the work tries after the war period. In fact, the tremendous influx
which has been done and the work which is planned by of immigrants contributed materially to decisions made by
individual nations and international organizations to the United States and other recipient countries to restrict
develop emigration possibilities generally and for refugees their immigration quotas.
in Germany in particular. Certain basic statistics underlie The emigration pressures of today are in many respects
any consideration of these efforts. similar to those which developed after World War I. How-

JULY 1950 21 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
Refugees from East zone wait in Giessen camp for names
to be called after night of flight through woods and marshes.

ever, the generous and helpful attitude of recipient coun-
tries which have opened their doors to hundreds of thou-
sands since 1945 contrasts with the attitudes of these same
recipient countries which reacted to emigration pressures
during the 1920's by reducing immigration possibilities.

INCE THE REFUGEE problem in.Germany is of such

unprecedented magnitude that any means of solution
are worth examining, emigration is a logical suggestion
but it faces many practical difficulties.

In the first place, pursuant to Allied policy, displaced
persons from Germany, Austria and Italy have first
priority in emigration opportunities; there are still up-
wards of 500,000 DP’s in Germany, Austria and Italy who
should be helped to find haven abroad under this policy.

Secondly, it is doubtful if emigration except on a
gigantic scale — 500,000 to 1,000,000 Germans leaving
yearly for several years — would achieve the sought-for
relief from population in equilibrium. In calculating the
net decrease, one must take into account the automatic
increase in the population of West Germany as births
mount higher than deaths (311,000 more in 1949), and the
continuing influx of refugees from the East. Some 300,000
of these German refugees crossed into West Germany in
1949, while only 20-25,000 Germans, refugees and native
residents departed during the corresponding period.

Thirdly, it cannot be disregarded — indeed, it ‘is
axiomatic — that emigration is selective from the point
of view of the would-be emigrant and by both the immi-
gration and emigration country. The prospective immi-
grant wants to go to a particular country. The country
from which he emigrates is understandably desirous that
the least productive and unassimilable elements in the
population leave the country, while the immigration
country is bent on attracting the most productive ele-
ments. Thus it is too much to hope that the interests of
all parties will coincide. This applies. in Germany also.

In applying this understandable criterion to DP’s, it has
been the experience of the International Refugee Organi-
zation, that in almost every case the receiving countries
have employed the most rigid selection standards among

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the Displaced Persons, scrutinizing them as to occupation,
health, age and general background. There have been
notable exceptions to this, e. g., Norway's taking 100 blind
DP’s from Germany. There is no basis for belief that these
rigid standards would be waived in the case of would-be
emigrants from Germany. There are no doubt opportunities
in Europe and elsewhere for young able-bodied men; but
these represent the sector of the population Germany
wants most to retain.

It is also logical to ask, where West Germany's excess
population would emigrate to. A recent survey by the
International Labor Office shows that under present
conditions only a limited number of immigrants are
required in most overseas countries, while former immi-
gration countries within Europe are themselves beset with
unemployment or overpopulation.

| eee JUNE 30, 1948 until July 1, 1950, the United
States made 50 percent of the German and Austrian
quotas available exclusively to persons of German
ethnic origin who were born in Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Hungary, Rumania or Yugoslavia and who were resident
at that time in either Germany or Austria.

Under this Act, together with German fiancees and
relatives of American citizens, however, less than 20,000
Germans had left Germany as emigrants to the United
States in 1948. In a month, more than that many refugees
entered West Germany from the eastern European
countries: over 300,000 entered West Germany illegally
during the same year. However, under the new US Dis-
placed Persons Act, there is a provision which raises
considerably (to 54,000) the number of German immigrants
to the United States while this bill is in effect.

The United Kingdom has also permitted a limited
number of Germans to immigrate into the British Isles,
predominantly fiancees of British servicemen. Several
thousand German nationals other than fiancees were also
allowed to enter the UK as immigrants, among them large
numbers of Sudeten women for the textile factories.

It is France that has taken the largest number of German
laborers and immigrants out of Germany. In the first place
they utilized in 1947 the services of about 500,000 German
laborers, who were initially held in France as prisoners
of war and were later discharged by the French, by
offering them attractive terms to remain in France as free
laborers. Subsequently the French introduced an ad-

Camp of Protestant Aid Committee at Selb, Bavaria, serves
as emergency shelter for expellees from Czechoslovakia.

--- Page 26 ---
ones ia t

Mr. Weisz (leit), author of this article, with Dr, Hans
Ehard, minister president of Bavaria, as the latter explained
Bavaria's refugee problem to American and German cor-
respondents in Munich June 15, (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

ditional incentive by allowing laborers’ families to join
them in France. On Jan, 1, 1949, however, only 50,000 of
these German workers were still living in France.

| Eagan THE MOST important development so far in
the effort to unburden Germany of a portion of its
refugee population, and thus relieve unemployment, is
contained in a report to the United States House of Re-
presentatives by Congressman Francis E. Walter of Penn-
sylvania. Mr. Walter headed a sub-committee of the
House Committee on the Judiciary which came to Germany
in September 1949, to conduct an inquiry into the problem
of the many millions of expellees and refugees.

A portion of the report reads: ‘The major solution of
the problem of German expellees and refugees must lie in
their local assimilation into the German economy. Whole-
hearted acceptance of this inevitable fact by the German
governmental authorities, German citizenry, and the
refugees themselves, is essential to the achievement of
integration. Although no successful estimate could be made
at this time as to the numerical extent of their assimi-
lation... about 7,000,000 persons could advantageously
remain in western Germany.”

But the remaining 1,000,000 of the refugees should,
according to the report, be furnished with emigration
outlets. He suggested in the report that the overwhelming
majority of this number would be farmers, since there is
much less possibility of their being employed in Germany

than if/they possessed other skills. It is suggested in the .

report that these agricultural skills could materially aid
the Point IV program.

The Walter Report recommends that the President of the
United States without delay take the initiative in calling a
constitutional convention for a temporary international
organization composed of the United States, the Federal
German Republic, and immigrant-receiving countries,
dominions and dependencies. “In view of the known

JULY 1950

23

attitude of the Soviet-dominated countries and of the
USSR to such and similar problems, and in view of the
fact that those countries are members of the United
Nations, this new temporary international organization
should remain entirely outside the framework of the
UN and in no way be connected with its machinery."

Even now, there are a number of organizations already
working on the problem of emigration from Germany.

The Manpower Committee of the OEEC is making a
continuing study of European populations and the pos-
sibilities for the free movement of labor. The International
Labor Office, with its 30 years’ experience in this field, is
considering plans to send technical assistance teams into
immigration and emigration countries for consultation
purposes. These teams would advise governments on
what industries should be developed to utilize manpower
and from what sectors of the economy persons could best
emigrate. At an ILO conference on migration held in
Geneva in May-June 1950, David A. Morse, director gen-
eral of ILO, stated in his opening address:

“Now more than ever it is imperative to deal with
migration problems on a broad front. The ILO experience
and that of other organizations and countries, indicates
that migration cannot be handled successfully in small
segments, since the various aspects of the question are too
closely interrelated. Migration is a question of vital
urgency from the standpoint of world economic and social
development. Waste of human resources and waste of nat-
ural resources (in the world) can no longer be tolerated. The
combination means lower living standards and poverty.”

The shifting of populations from country to country and
from continent to continent according to manpower needs
would, the ILO emphasized, contribute to the economic
well-being of all.

IGRATION SINCE the end of the war has been

handled through bi-lateral agreement between emi-
gration and immigration countries or for Displaced Per-
sons, between the IRO and immigration countries. But
experience has demonstrated, according to the ILO, that
migration problems cannot be solved by any one country
or by any one organization alone; they must be handled
on a multilateral basis.

In this connection, the Council of Foreign Ministers,
meeting in London during May, issued a statement re-
cognizing the valuable work of such international efforts,
and announcing that they would designate experts to
make a general review of activities in the field, to deter-
mine whether additional approaches might be undertaken,
“For this purpose they have agreed that they will designate
experts to confer together...and to consult with the ex-
perts of other interested governments, particularly Italy and
Germany in view of their major interest in the problem.”

The way for large-scale emigration from Germany, while
still in the planning stage, is thus within the realm of
possibility now. But its realization depends on a multitude
of factors and its ultimate benefits will rank second to
those which will be derived from a program of refugee
assimilation within Germany itself. This is the real
challenge to a democratic Germany. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
THE PRESIDENT

ORGANIZATION OF THE

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

es JANUARY 25, 1950
SECRETARY
UNDER SECRETARY
: : buy GENERAL
DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY, MANAGEMENT
: UNDER SECRETARY = ADMINISTRATION
5 DIRECTOR GENERAL
‘ POUR: SPECIAL ASSISTANT] OFFICE OF OFFICE OF OFFICE OF
3 PLANNING COUNSELOR ‘MANAGEMENT OFFICE OPERATING CONSULAR
‘STAFF PRESS RELATIONS ‘AND BUDGET Or.pensoamel. FACILITIES, AFFAIRS,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY ASSISTANT SECRETARY ASSISTANT SECRETARY ‘SPECIAL ASSISTANT LEGAL ADVISER S ‘DIRECTOR
PUBLIC AFFAIRS io ECONOMIC AFFAIRS CONGRESSIONAL RELATIONS INTELLIGENCE LEGAL AFFAIRS MUTUAL DEFENSE ASSISTANCE =
* OFFICE OF :
OFFICE OF OFFICE OF OFFICE OF ‘ FUNCTI :
orrice OF wnremnarionat [> FINANCAL AND INTELLIGENCE ussanes a pee ne
PUBLIC AFFAIRS TRADE POLICY DEVELOPMENT POLIC RESEARCH POLICY
: ‘ACQUISITION "ADVISORY.
: OFFICE OF s
TRANSPORT AND ay
3 COMMUNICATIONS 5 Pe
POLICY ae
a = = st
DIRECTOR [ASSISTANT SECRETARY 5 [ASSISTANT SECRETARY 5 ASSISTANT SECRETARY = [ASSISTANT SECRETARY ASSISTANT SECRETARY
BUREAU OF BUREAU OF BUREAU OF oe BUREAU OF NEAR EASTERN, BUREAU OF
‘GERMAN AFFAIRS UNITED NATIONS AFFAIRS EUROPEAN AFFAIRS INTER-AMERICAN SOUTH-ASIAN, AND AFRICAN. FAR EASTERN
AFFAIRS AFFAIRS AFFAIRS
GENERAL ge ee so]
MANAGER” See &
ORrICE OF OFFICE OF OFFICE OF OFFICE OF FFICE OF NORT riceor | FFICE OF OFFICE OF
UNITED NATIONS We E OFFICE OF OFFICE M orrice orFice OFFICE OF ce
DEPENDENT-AREA EASTERN EUROPEAN PIE IWESTERN EUROPEAN AND WEST COAST GREEK, TURKISH AFRICAN AND NEAR NORTHEAST ASIAN
ECONOMIC AND FEAST COAST AFFAIRS; CHINESE AFFAIRS
Eaaranies AFFAIRS AFFAIRS AFFAIRS AFFAIRS AND IRANIAN AFFAIRS EASTERN AFFAIRS AFFAIRS
OFFICE OF OFFICE OF OFFICE OF BRITISH OFFICE OF
OFFICE OF OFFICE OF OFFICE OF orriceor ff OFFICE OF OFFICE OF
INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL carer a “mune AND eo eA ROPEAN fy EUROPEAN REGIONAL| MIDDLE AMERICAN REGIONAL-AMERICAN SOUTHASIAN Seer
"aed EXCHANGE CONFERENCES ‘SECURITY AFFAIRS AFFAIRS Aerams ASRS arent AEFAIRS AFFAIRS

DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS, CONSULAR OFFICES, AND DELEGATIONS TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

--- Page 28 ---
The extemporaneous remarks by the Secretary of State following his radio
address at the dinner meeting of the American Society of Newspaper Editors
in Washington April 22 are reprinted for the information of HICOG personnel.

Our Department of State

Address

By DEAN ACHESON
US Secretary of State

HERE ARE SEVERAL things that I should like to

talk with you about. Before I get on with the mat-
ters which I think have some substantive importance, I
should like to clear away some trash which has gathered
about the Department of State.

Now, in doing this, I feel that I have a qualification
which is so unique that it almost amounts to a dis-
qualification. That is, that I know what I am talking
about, I have given 10 years of my life to the Depart-
ment of State, and before that I served in two other
departments of the government. During the course of
that time I served on two commissions appointed by the
President to study the operations of the Government of
the United States. I have served under four Secretaries
of State and under two Presidents. So I think I am
entitled to say that I know something about the Depart-
ment of State.

The first thing that I should like to say is in the
nature of a categorical affirmation. I should like to say
that never in its long and honorable history has the
Department of State ever been in better shape than it
is today. The Department is manned today, as it has been
manned in the past, by able, by
honorable, by loyal, and by clean-
living American men and women.

It is also a representative depart-
ment. People who serve in the De-
partment are drawn from all over
the United States.

There is no need for anyone to
be defensive about the Department
of State. What I want you to con-
sider with me are facts.

IRST OF ALL, when we are talk-

ing about this Department, let
us look at its top command; let us
see who the people are who are
controlling and operating and direct-
ing the Department of State.

First of all, I don’t have to tell
you about the Under Secretary of
State, Jim Webb. You know he
comes from North Carolina. You
know his record in the Budget
Bureau and in the Treasury. You

JULY 1950

Secretary of State Dean Acheson.
(US Amy photo)

25

know what he did in organizing the Sperry Company
before the war, when it grew from a little place of 800
people to a great corporation of 30,000 employees, You
know what he did in the Marine flying service.

But the important point that I want to bring out to-
night is that I do not know any man in the entire United
States, in the government or out of the government,
who has a greater genius for organization, a genius for
understanding how to take a great mass of people and
bring them together; so that he pulls out of them all
the knowledge and all the competence that they have;
so that each person is doing what he ought to be doing;
so that the whole efforts of this vast group are pulled
together to get a tremendously powerful result. And
that is absolutely essential in the Department of
State.

HEN THOMAS JEFFERSON started the State Depart-

ment it had six employees, including himself. Today
we have 19,000 employees all over the world, and all of
those 19,000 are being pulled by Jim Webb into one great
consolidated effort, through a top
command.

The third ranking officer in the
Department is George Kennan, I
don't need to tell you about George
Kennan. You have read what he
has written. You know his record.
He comes from Wisconsin,

One of the things to which I have
agreed, with deep regret, is that
George Kennan should have a year
off. He went to work for the State
Department when he was 22 years
old, and he has never had any time
off since. What he wants to do is go
to the Institute of Advanced Studies
at Princeton and have time quietly
to think about things and then come
back to us. I have agreed to it, re-
luctantly, but we shall have him
again. (Editor's note.—H. Freeman
Matthews, formerly ambassador to
Sweden, was nominated by Presi-
dent Truman May 18 to be Assistant
Secretary.)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
IHEN WE GO to another area of the top command,

Assistant Secretary Jack Peurifoy of South Carolina.
I don't need to tell you about him, except one thing,
perhaps, and that is that in all the years that I have
been in the State Department he has been with me.
When he came to the State Department after he had
been in West Point and had to leave on account of
disease of the lungs (which, unhappily, I have come to
know only too much about from one who is close to me),
he very soon became my assistant. He is now the Deputy
Under Secretary for Administration, He is in charge
of administration. I shall come back to him again in a
little while.

Then we have Jack Hickerson of Texas, a foreign
service officer of 25 years’ experience, whom we have
taken out of European affairs and put into something
which we want to stress, and that is the work of the
United Nations.

Then we have George McGhee of Texas, a former oil
man who worked with the government through the war,
who was in the economic part of the government during
the war, both in Washington and London, and back and
forth a great deal of the time; who took charge of the
administration of our Greek-Turkish aid; whom the
President, at my recommendation, put in charge of our
Near East and African work; and who, with incredible
energy, has now visited every one of the areas under
his control. He has visited and talked with leading men
of every country of the Middle East and has just return~
ed from a long trip to Africa.

It would be foolish for me to tell you about Ed Barrett
who came from Alabama. He belongs to your profession.
You know him. You know the great job which he is doing
in overseas information which the President has picked
out for such vitally important concentration.

We have put into the Far Eastern work Dean Rusk of
Georgia. He was our Deputy Under Secretary for Po-
litical Affairs, and we thought that the whole Far Eastern

Bd,
Six officials and employees of the Polish Consulate in
Frankfurt May 8 presented themselves to Harold P. Car-
digan (right), Frankfurt Resident Officer, requesting asy-

Jum in Western Germany. Their request was granted and
they were immediately escorted to German police head-

k Lo

quarters for registration. (US Amy photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

matter was so critical that we would take our senior
political officer and put him into that work.

Walton Butterworth of Louisiana, who had been in
that work, we put in charge particularly of working out
some progress on a solution of Japanese matters, one
of the most essential things that we must do. In him we
have picked out an officer who has the confidence of
General MacArthur, who has worked with the military
establishment, who is a man of superb integrity and
courage. (Editor's note.— Mr. Butterworth was nominated
by President Truman to be ambassador to Sweden.)

In case you don't know as much about Walton But-
terworth as you do about some of these others, I will
remind you that he is the man who had charge of our
economic warfare activities during the war in Spain and
Portugal. It was he who was in that plane that fell into
the river and broke apart at Lisbon; it was Walton who
was in the sinking part of the plane in which most of
the passengers were trapped; who broke the window
through; who pushed his fellow passengers out of’ the
window while the plane was filling up; who then got
himself out, kept those who could not swim very well
afloat, and helped them onto a wing that was floating.
Finally, when the boats came out and picked them up
after a very long time and Walton was taken ashore,
what do you suppose he had in his hand? It was his
briefcase containing his secret papers. That is the type
of officer we have in the State Department.

HEN WE HAVE as our Legal Adviser, ranking with

the Assistant Secretaries, Adrian Fisher of Ten-
nessee. And I note, as I go along here, that we seem to
be loaded up with old-fashioned southern “communists”
—no doubt of the Cordell Hull, Walter George, Tom
Connally type.

Adrian Fisher was a bomber navigator during .the
war; later Solicitor with the Department of Commerce;
Legal Adviser to the Atomic Energy Commission, and
now the Legal Adviser in the Department of State.

I suggest to people, in the interest of their own security,
not to fool with Adrian Fisher, Not only was he a former
bomber navigator, but he was a former captain of the
Princeton football team. Charges lightly made about him
might have serious personal consequences.

Eddie Miller of New York was born in Puerto Rico,
brought up in Cuba, and then in New York. He speaks
Portuguese and Spanish as easily as he speaks English.
He is a former partner of Mr. Dulles. He has just returned
from two trips to South America in which he has put
our relations with the Southern Hemisphere on a basis
on which I think they have never been before. They are
on a sensible, sound basis of mutual advantage, and
both they and we know that we both really mean business
when we talk, and when we talk we want to talk business.

George Perkins of New York is a businessman of
distinction, who had gone with Paul Hoffman and was
working with him in Paris. Paul, with great generosity,
let me take him to be in charge of our European affairs.

Willard Thorp of New York is in charge of economic
matters. He is an economic expert; a former director of

JULY 1950

--- Page 30 ---
the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce in the
Department of Commerce; a former partner of Dun &
Bradstreet.

Jack McFall of Colorado and Indiana has charge of
our relations with Congress, He has spent 15 years as
the assistant clerk of the Appropriations Committee of
the House. If there is anybody who understands, and
really understands deeply, the necessities of close rela-

_ tionship between the House and the Senate and the
Department of State, it is Jack McFall.

HEN IN CHARGE of a very important branch of our

work, dealing with the new government of Ger-
many and German problems, we have a regular colonel
from the United States Army, Col. Henry Byroade, who
was lent to us by the Army — and whom I wish I could
steal permanently for the State Department.

In charge of the planning staff is Paul Nitze of Mas-
sachusetts, former partner of Dillon, Read, a man who
went all through the war and was awarded the Medal
of Merit for his economic-warfare work.

In charge of our press relations, we have that old
friend of yours, Mike McDermott — and you know what
sort of a “communist’ he is,

In charge of intelligence work is Park Armstrong of
New Jersey, a man who all through the war was dealing
with this incredibly important business of the evaluation
of intelligence. Don't for a moment believe that the im-
portant thing to do is to send someone out with rubbers,
dark glasses and a false mustache, to try to steal some
paper or find out something. The important business is
the evaluation of what you get, either by secret opera-
tions or much more importantly, the material which
just pours in on you. Secret material is a dime a dozen.

We had, not so long ago, a most interesting and ex-
citing paper planted on us by one of our enthusiastic
friends abroad, and it caused a little flurry. But it was
Park Armstrong's cool peopie who discovered in a short
lime that it was a phony from top to bottom and saved
us from the obvious purpose of their planting it on us.

In charge of the great military program for which we
and the Defense Department are jointly responsible, we
had Jim Bruce of Maryland. Now that he has resigned,
Jack Ohly of New York is taking it over.

Now, we have also brought in Phil Jessup, Senator
Dulles of New York and Senator Cooper of Kentucky.
You can imagine how helpful they would be in covering
up all “subversive” activities.

H™ IN THIS TOP command, I say to you, we have

men as distinguished, as able, as powerful and as
vigorous as any of my great predecessors, from John
Marshall to George Marshall, ever had in the Depart-
ment of State.

Furthermore, we have carried out a reorganization
which is based on these men being the operators of the
State Department, They are not people who sit around
and argue with one another, Each one of them is re-
sponsible for carrymg out a job, and the policy under
which he carries it out is worked out through the plan-

JULY 1950

27

Hesse’s new resident officers, specially trained at the
Foreign Service Institute in Washington, D.C., received
their first briefing on Hesse, second largest state in US
Zone, May 8. Pictured, I.-r., are Jonathan Dean, New York
City; Robert Leroy Ouverson, Watertown,S.D.; Earl Henry
Lubceansky, Marshall, Mo.; Charles T, Butler, Sanford,
Fla.; John P. Shaw, Washington, D.C.; John Cain, program
analyst, OLCH, of Falls City, Neb., who briefed the new
arrivals; Thomas C. Stave, Seattle, Wash, and John D.
Gough, Shenandoah, Ia, (PRB OLCH photo)

ning staff, with the co-operation of all of these men. The
policy is laid down and they are given their authority.

I don't sit behind them and pull their coat tails or look
over their shoulders. I am kept informed, by the central
secretariat, of everything that happens. I am permitted
to get in, if I wish to, before something is done, but I
don’t wish to do that. These men are too good, They
cannot hesitate. They cannot be saying, “What does the
Secretary think?" They know what the policy is, and
they go out and operate. Then we post-audit the opera-
tions; we change the policy if it is not working, but they
are given responsibility and they are well able to carry it.

So I say to you—this is something very, very im-
portant, and I suggest that you ask your correspondents
in Washington whether what I say to you is true — that
today, as rarely before in the State Department, there
is no backbiting, there is no jealousy, there is no under-
cutting. You have an organization of people which is
loyal to those within it, which is loyal to the President
of the United States and which is loyal to the United
States of America.

ET US TURN for a moment to the career service, The
career service, made up of the Foreign Service and
the departmental offices, is equally in good shape. This
is a service of men and women who are giving their
entire lives to the United States, not for a few years,
not even 10 years, as I have given, but their entire lives,
from the time they are young men until they retire at
the end of their service. They are giving their whole.
lives to the United States. They are competent, they
are courageous, and they are devoted.

Only this past week, two of our missions were bombed.
That is not a pleasant experience, Have any of you ever
had it? Have any of you ever had a bomb tossed in the
window of -your house and had it go off and injure
people? Two of our missions have been through that
this week, Fortunately, no one was killed, but many
people were hurt. Do these people want to come home?

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Do they say, This is too dangerous?” Not at all. This
is in line of duty. They know their duty. They perform
it. It is quite likely that they may be killed, but there is
no squeak out of them.

We have just had an officer home who had been held
by the Chinese communists for a year, many months
of which he spent in jail, under conditions of incredible
hardship and torture, At the direction and request of
President Truman, he is going about the United States
telling people of what was done to him. Does he ask
to retire? Not at all. With great difficulty, we are keep-
ing him in the United States doing this. He wants to
go back to the most difficult area that we can find for
him. He is not asking to quit. He is not asking for sym-
pathy. This is his duty, He likes it. He wants to go into
it again.

We have scores of our people who are now in Chinese
cities which are being bombed by the Chinese Na-
tionalists. Are they whimpering about it? Not in the
least. They were ordered home because the President
decided that was the wise policy. They were perfectly
willing to stay there and take whatever came to them.

E HAVE SCORES of people through southeast Asia

who are in areas of hot war— Indo-China, the
Philippines, Malaya, Indonesia, Bullets are flying all the
time. It is not a cold war in those areas; it is a hot war.
And these men and their wives and their children are
there, and they are doing their duty. They don't ask to
be transferred. They know it is their duty, and they are
performing it.

And in other places, in Africa and other parts of the
world, we have men with their wives and children who
are in situations of the greatest danger, so far as their
health is concerned. They are living under very un-
healthful conditions, If they are ill, they take their
chances under the most primitive medical conditions.
There are no schools, There are no oculists to take care
of the children’s eyes. There are no doctors to give them
all the inoculations which your children take. None of
those things are available. They don't complain. This is
their duty, This is their life. All they ask is that occasion-
ally they be transferred to some situation which is not
quite so tough.

Then there are others who are behind the Iron Curtain,
and there they are treated as criminals. They cannot have
any association with anybody. They cannot have any of
the ordinary pleasant relations that all of you have. Any-
one who meets them or talks with them will be in jail
the next day and possibly hang the day after that. They
have to live in a little circle, seeing the same few people
day after day after day. But that is their duty, and they
are carrying it out.

Here, again, there are no schools. And if you have a
toothache and you want to go to a dentist, you don't call
up a dentist; you call up the Foreign Office, and the
Foreign Office calls up the secret police, and the secret
policeman makes an engagement and comes and sits right
beside you in the dentist's chair to be absolutely sure that

INFORMATION BULLETIN

28

An appeal from a Detroit woman for assistance to a desti-
tute family in Bavaria drew prompt response from Neu-
biberg's 86th Air Base Group, which subscribed to buy a
truckload of food, clothing and supplies which an all-
Detroit team headed by Sgt. Anderson (at left in photo)
delivered to the appreciative family. (USAFE photo)

the dentist.does not take a message out of your tooth
and give it somebody else.

Those are the circumstances under which these people
live.

DON'T HAVE to defend these people. There is no
reason in the world why they need any defense.

I should like to suggest to you that you would find
it a very interesting exercise to try, in your papers, an
open letter to these Foreign Service officers of the United
States, who are now your front line of defense, who are
serving you in these dangerous and difficult parts of the
world. Explain to them the attacks which are being made
upon them and upon the service of which they are just
as proud as you are proud of the profession to which
you belong. Explain to them, if you can, what is happen-
ing to this country behind them.

Explain to them why it was that during the war we
had USO's and letter-writing campaigns and everything
in the world for the soldiers at the front to show them
that the country was behind them and recognized the
sacrifice that they were making; and try to explain what
is happening now when it comes to these “soldiers,”
these people who are in the front line of the defense of
their country. Explain that to them if you can. You will
find it difficult to do.

That is the Department of State as it exists today.

T IS NOT STRANGE that efforts should be made to

penetrate this Department. Efforts of that sort have
been made throughout the history of the United States,
and they are being made today.

In the past, these efforts have been made by profes-
sionals. But with the spread of this fanatical dectrine of
Communism, the old profession of professional spies is
under competition from amateurs.

Now, this creates difficulty. We are familiar with the
methods of counter-espionage and the security methods
which we have used in the past to protect ourselves from
professional spies. In the last few years we have had a

JULY 1950

--- Page 32 ---
new problem to solve — and we have gone about solv-
ing it.

There is a right way to solve that problem, and there
is a wrong way to solve it. The right way to solve the
problem is to go at it from the point of view of meeting the
evil which confronts you and preserving the institution
which you are trying to protect. The wrong way is one
in which you do not meet the evil that you are attempt-
ing to meet, but you destroy the institution that you are
trying to protect. Not only do you destroy that, but you
destroy the faith of the country in its government and
its institutions, You destroy the faith of our allies in us
and you delight our enemies. Those are the right and
wrong ways.

The right way was set up by General Marshall in 1947
in the State Department, It was set up under the directive
of the President setting up the whole loyalty program.
I have never known a man I thought had a surer judg-
ment about people than General Marshall has.

And General Marshall picked out Jack Peurifoy to
lake charge of the loyalty program in the State Depart-
ment. He took charge of. it. He worked at it through
General Marshall's administration. When I came, it
seemed to me that there was absolutely nothing better
that I could possibly think of to do than to confirm Jack
Peurifoy in that particular job. I did, and I have never
had occasion to doubt that I did the right thing,

He is not trying to do all this by himself. He has a
security staff under a former FBI agent, who is recog-
nized as one of the ablest men ever trained in the service
of the FBI. He has a staff of 74 investigators who carry
on our investigation work. That is not the only staff
that does it, Mr. Hoover's FBI co-operates fully in the
whole process.

By one method or another, all people who come into
the Department and all those who are in it have gone
through a thorough screening process. This is a process

which is not based on the idea that all these people are
crooks. It is a process which is based, first, on protecting
the United States but, at the same time, protecting the
individuals’ rights, protecting their reputations, urging
and permitting them to continue to serve the United
States with enthusiasm.

EARCHING EXAMINATIONS are made, so that if

we find anything which causes trouble in our minds,
we then put it into another level of screening. It goes to
the Loyalty Board in the State Department.

General Conrad Snow is the chairman of that board.
He is an old-fashioned New Hampshire Republican ‘‘com-
munist,"" a man who, incidentally, is vouched for by
Senator Bridges.

That board, and the people who work on it, have gone
through every single case about which any doubt has
arisen,

When they get through with it, whatever recommen-
dation is made — whether it is that the man be cleared
or that he is not, cleared — the whole matter goes on
again to the President's Loyalty Board, headed by Seth
Richardson, a former Assistant Attorney General under
President Hoover, with a group of associates not one
of whom works for the Government of the United States.
All of these people are private citizens who are giving
their time, their effort and their devotion to the Govern-
ment,

That is the right way. The wrong way is to smear
everybody's reputation; to make charges on the basis
that, if one is not right, you try to find another one you
hope will stick; to try to destroy the confidence of people
in their Foreign Office and in their Government in one
of the most critical hours of this nation’s history — to
do all of those things, and to make it absolutely certain,
as a result, that under no circumstances could you ever
possibly find a spy in the whole place. It is as though

HICOG personnel were serenaded May 23 by 77 members of the
Swiss Folklore Union who interrupted a return trip from Copen-
hagen to play a big “Hello on lawn in front of Headquarters
Building in Frankfurt. Group represented six towns and appeared
in native costume. They gave a second performance in the
Roemerberg, section of old Frankfurt. Resounding calls on huge
Alpine horns (right) were a quaint feature.

(PRD HICOG photos)

--- Page 33 ---
you said to yourself that the best way to find a fire is
to ring every fire alarm in the city; not that you know
of any fire, but if you get all the apparatus out and have
it wheeling around through the city, you might find one.

UT I THINK what is going on is much madder and

much more vicious than that. It reminds me more
of that horrible episode in Camden, N.J., which hap-
pened not so long ago, when a madman came out. on the
street in the morning with his revolver. With no purpose
and with no plan, as he walked down the street, he just
shot people; one was a woman coming out of a store;
a man with his wife in an automobile. That automobile
happened to stop because the light turned red. The car
ahead of him went on. The car behind him was not
where the madman was. So the madman just walked up
and shot everybody in the car, without sense, without
purpose, without direction.

You remember, I am sure, that poem of Browning's
called “Caliban Upon Setebas."’ Caliban is talking about
this horrible amoral god of his. He says that his god
operates in the way that Caliban himself does on the
beach. Along comes, says Caliban, a procession of crabs
going down to the sea across the sand. And he says
something like this: I stand there and I let 20 go by.
The twenty-first I pick up and tear off a flipper. I let
three more go by. The next one I crush in order to watch
it wiggle in agony on the sand,” and so on, It is that
degree of vicious madness which has been going on here.

Now, I don't ask you for sympathy. I don't ask you
for help. You are in a worse situation than I am. I and
my associates are only the intended victims of this mad
and vicious operation. But you, unhappily — you by
reason of your calling — are participants. You are un-
willing participants, disgusted participants, but, neverthe-
less, participants, and your position is far more serious
than mine.

As I leave this filthy business, and I hope never to
speak of it again, I should like to leave in your minds

Marking the lifting of the last restriction on outgoing
international telephone calls from western Germany on
May 15, Mrs. Christel Liebler of Frankfurt made a call
to Lawton, Okla., to talk with her daughter, Mrs. Emmy
Tingler. Witnessing the call were (left to right) H. Liebler;
Dr. Hans Steinmetz, state secretary of the Federal
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications; Eugene H.
Merrill, chief of the Communications Branch, Office of
Economic Affairs, HICOG; C. A. L. Nicholls, assistant
controller general, Office of the UK High Commissioner.
The call was made from the new radio telephone station
recently built in Bonames near Frankfurt at the cost of
DM 2,500,000 ($595,000). Prior to lifting the restrictions,
international telephone calls originating in western Ger-
many and western Berlin were limited to occupation
personnel and German holders of special permits issued
only to import and export firms. (PRD HICOG photo)

the words of John Donne in his “Meditations,” in which
he says:
Any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved
in mankind,
And therefore do not send to know for whom the
bell tolls;

It tolls for thee. + END

Bremerhaven Making New Bid For Passenger Traffic

To re-establish its former position in transocean pas-
senger traffic, the port of Bremerhaven has completed
the construction of new passenger facilities replacing
the Columbus Quay, the so-called “Railroad Station at
the Sea’ which burned down during the war.

Participants in the reopening ceremonies included
Capt. Charles K. Jeffs (USN), US state commissioner for
Bremen; Dr. Hermann Apelt, senator for ports and ship-
ping; O.M. Taylor, chief, Economic Affairs Division, OLC
Bremen, and representatives of local and foreign ship-
ping agencies.

The passenger facilities, constructed at the Bremen
State’s expense and costing DM 2,500,000, consist of a
large building containing waiting rooms and offices for

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

the customs, quarantine, mails, railroads and exchange
of money; as well as two railroad platforms and a high-
way between the station and the city.

In addition, two quays 812 and 985 feet in length, with
enough water for ships up to 50,000 tons together with
drydock facilities for the biggest ships in existence, now
enable all North Atlantic passenger shipping lines to
use the port of Bremerhaven.

In his opening speech Dr. Apelt expressed the hope
that these new passenger facilities will re-establish a
considerable part of Bremerhaven’s former passenger
capacity, once one-third of all Germany's North Atlantic
passenger traffic.

JULY 1950

--- Page 34 ---
Validity of Mandatory Leases Affirmed

SSURANCES FROM the US High Commission that
mandatory leases on German newspaper plants, estab-
lished by the US. Military Government, would continue in
effect, brought praise from Franz Karl Maier, president of
the Association of Newspaper Publishers inthe US Zone.
“(Your statement) is encouraging not only for us, who
have assumed...the task of developing an independent
democratic press in Germany; I am also convinced that
other progressive democratic forces which are not in
the press field will welcome this attitude as a source of
encouragement for themselves.”

The statement of reassurance came from Ralph Nichol-
son, director of the Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, in
answer to an inquiry from Mr. Maier. Mr. Nicholson in-
formed the German publishers that the Newspaper Leases
Review Board, set up to review proposed changes in
mandatory leases, continues to exercise exclusive juris-
diction in the field. .

‘Mr. Maier had asked whether or not any changes in
terms of leases would have to be approved by HICOG,
and inquired about the competency of German courts in
disputes arising between publishers and owners of leased
property.

T WAR'S END, newspaper publishers licensed by Mili-

tary Government were permitted to operate from
printing plants temporarily seized by OMGUS. Sub-
sequently, leases were negotiated between the publishers
and owners of the property for use of the printing facili-
ties. It was at this time that the Newspaper Leases
Review Board was established.

The mandatory lease policy aims at strengthening the
German democratic press by assuring publishers of plant
tenure until proper facilities can be obtained.

Mr. Maier's letter said: “In publishers’ circles recently
doubts have been repeatedly voiced concerning the
validity of newspaper leases concluded in co-operation
with Military Government and concerning offices com-
petent to deal with disputes concerning these leases.
The owners of printing plants often attempt to exploit
these doubts.

“It would be very valuable to our members...to re-
ceive an official statement from the High Commission

+-Tegarding the following questions:

“Do changes in the terms of these leases still require
an approval of the US High Commission; if so, which
office?

“Are German courts competent to deal with disputes
arising from such leases or does the eee uo
Review Board still have exclusive competence .

He also inquired whether recognized restitution claims
affected in any way the leased facilities.

M®*® NICHOLSON’S REPLY stated that the powers

and authority vested in the Newspaper Leases Re-
view Board have been specifically continued by the US
High Commissioner.

JULY 1950

31

He cited Allied High Commission Law No. 13 to say
that “no German court shall render a decision im-
peaching the validity or legality of any regulation,
directive, decision or order published by the Military
Government, and that questions as to the existence,
terms, validity or intent of any order of Military Gov-
ernment must be determined by the Occupation Authori-
ties. It follows that...only the Occupation Authorities
are competent to determine and construe the existence,
terms, validity or intent of the voluntary and mandatory
leases and the job-printing contracts formulated... under
Military Government directives ... and that German courts
have no competence in cases involving these issues."

“The recognition of a restitution claim to property
subject to one of the newspaper leases in question does
not terminate the lease nor affect its validity... These
leases can be terminated or altered therefore only by
the Newspaper Leases Review Board.”

Mr. Maier's letter of gratitude included the following:

“Your explanation ...dispels much of the uncertainty
and the worries which have been a burden to my col+
leagues in recent weeks and which sometimes more
than hampered the formulation of business plans. More-
over, your statement made it plain that your govern-
ment wishes to maintain intact the basic principles of
press policy which were applied in Germany after the
surrender.” + END

Families of Gelsenkirchen Mine
Disaster Victims Given CARE Parcels -

One hundred and twenty CARE food parcels were pre-
sented to the mayor of Gelsenkirchen as America’s emer-'
gency contribution to the families of miners killed or
injured in the disastrous Ruhr explosion in May. The
underground blast took the lives of 73 men and left 25 or
more severely injured.

The gift was intended as temporary relief to the
stricken families and represents an American donation of
about DM 5,000 worth of necessary foodstuffs.

“We consider it part of our job in distributing American
relief supplies,’ explained E. Finley Wiseman, chief of the
CARE Mission to Germany, “to try to be on the spot after
disasters or emergency occasions with whatever supplies
we have available. I am sure that the American donors
of these parcels will realize that this is the best possible
use for their gifts."

The CARE packages were diverted from CARE'’s Dues-
seldorf warehouse and turned over to the Gelsenkirchen
mayor by the British Zone CARE Mission. Emergency
donations of this sort are taken out of the “general relief"
category of parcels in which Americans order gift pack-
ages designated only for “a needy person." The volume
of this type of giving has reached more than DM 20,000,000
worth of foods and textiles out of CARE’s total volume
in Germany of more than DM 200,000,000 worth of goods,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
errr LCUUL LOO OPO UUTTOUUTTOUUTOUUOUTOUUUOOOOTOOVOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOUOOOUOUOOOOUOOOUOUUUUUUULLD==d

German Participation in International Bodies

T IS THE POLICY of the Allied Governments,

announced in the Petersberg Protocol, to
promote and encourage German membership
of all the recognized international bodies. In
this regard the Petersberg Agreement states:

“The High Commission and the Federal Gov-
ernment are agreed to promote the participation
of Germany in all those international organiza-
tions through which German experience and
support can contribute to the general welfare.”

Since the Petersberg Agreement was signed,
considerable progress has been made in the
accession of Western Germany to international
bodies.

Following is a list of international organiza-
tions to which the Federal Government adheres:

1, Organization for European Economic Co-
operation (OEEC).

2. International Authority for the Ruhr.

3. Customs Committee of the European Cus-
toms Union Study Group.

4, International Union for the Publication of
Customs Tariffs.

5. International Wheat Council.

6. Central Rhine Commission.

Following are the organizations and con-
ferences in which the Federal Government has
participated or will participate:

1, Meetings of Contracting Parties to the Gen-
eral Agreement on Trade Tariffs (GATT). (Ger-
man observers.)

2. Third Assembly of the World Health Or-
ganization (WHO). (German observers.)

3. International Anti-VD Commission of the
Rhine (WHO). (Part of WHO.)

A. International Labor Organization (ILO) Con-
ferences:

(a) On Social Insurance and Working Condi-
tions of Rhine Boatmen (Oct., Nov., Dec.
1950). (German delegation.)

(b) 33rd Session of ILO Conference. (Ger-
man observers.)

(c) Committee for Chemical Industries
(April 1950). (German observers.)

(d) Preliminary Conference on Migration
(April 1950). (German observers.)

(e) Preparatory Tripartite Technical Con-
ference on Training Adults. (German
observers.)

5. Invitation extended by Dutch Government
to Federal Government to send a representative
to Conferences of Italian and Austrian Experts
on Tobacco Production to be held in Rome in
September 1950. (German delegation will attend.)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

6. Conference on the Control of Plant Diseases
—Holland, April-May 1950. (German representa-
tives attended.)

7. International Committee for Colorado Beetle
Control, Florence, Jan. 1950. (German representa-
tives attended.)

8. Conference on Agricultural Technology
held under FAO auspices in Geneva in March
1950. (German observers.)

9. Meeting of the International Seed Testing
Authority (US-Government sponsored). (German
observers.)

10. Biennial Art Exposition, Venice, June 1950.
(German exhibits.)

11. International Congress at Groningen,
June 1950, on occasion of the 160th anniversary
of the founding of the Royal Netherlands Insti-
tute for the Deaf and Mute. (German representa-
tives attended.)

12, International Poplar Committee, Geneva
April 18-21. (German experts attended.)

Following are the international organizations
in which German participation has been or is
under consideration by the Allied High Com-
mission:

1. United Nations Food and Agriculture Or-
ganization (UNFAO).

2. United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO).

3. International Committee for Bird Preser-
vation.

4, 28th International
Padua, June 1950.

Following are the international organizations
in which participation has been invited and is
under consideration by the Federal Government:

1. International Patent Office at the Hague.

2. International Wine Office.

3. International Commissions, established
under the Fishery Convention of June 1885
among the Netherlands, Switzerland and Ger-
many, on (i) Rhine Pollution and (ii) Salmon
Fishery.

4, 24th International Congress on Sociology
to be held in Rome in Sept. 1950,

5. UN Social Activities Division.

6. The International Office for Animal Dis-
eases in Paris.

7. Eighth International Congress of Agricul-
tural Industries (Invitation from Permanent Na-
tional Agricultural Committee of Belgium).

8. International Refrigerator Car Company.

9. 14th Levant Fair, Paris, Sept. 1950.

10. Permanent International Agricultural Ex-
position in Teheran, Oct. 1950. +END

Industrial Exhibition,

ETUUNLIUIMUULUULLULLLUOOLGLLOLLOOLUPLULLUUCLOLLOLOLULALULOUUUOUUUOULUMRLOLOCCCOOOOUAEOOLULULUGGOLOOOUOOLUUUULEOLOCOOOUUUULLUOLOOOOOOCO MO DUOLUULUUUUOUOOUOOOOOOOOUOOOLULUUUCCOOOOUOOLULLIDUUUOUOOOMOOOUOUILUUOUDUUCUDC

JULY 1950 @

se ae

--- Page 36 ---
Defense of Democracy

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

HE AMERIKA HAUS* in Hanover is the first United

Statés Information Center to be established outside
the United States Zone. In the coming months we expect
to open Amerika Haeuser in Bonn, Essen, Hamburg and
Mainz, as well as auxiliary reading rooms in other major
cities in northern and western Germany. Like the 25 Ameri-
ka Haeuser in the United States Zone, these centers will be
financed completely by the people of the United States.

The expansion of the Amerika Haus program could not
have been accomplished without the full co-operation of
the German, British and French authorities. I should like
to express my sincere thanks for their support. I want
them to know that we shall do everything to reciprocate
their help and good will.

This Amerika Haus is a house of freedom. It will be, I
hope, a friendly house where men and women, particu-
larly the young, will come to read, to study, to see and to
hear. No one is compelled to come; no one is compelled
to return. Here you will be able to learn about the good
and the bad in American life; here you will be able to
find materials to help towards an understanding of the
world of today. Here, above all, I hope you will find some-
thing of the open-mindedness and tolerance which, despite
some lapses, are the fundamentals of American life.

ADIES AND GENTLEMEN, a week ago today (on
May 15) I returned from the Conference of Foreign
Ministers in London. In the light of that conference I would
like to summarize our policies and objectives in Germany
as I view them. So that there will be no misunderstanding
I want to make clear that no startling changes of policy
were made at London, There was a restatement of a policy
which had guided us in the past year. There was a clarifi-
cation of views.

It was recognized that the world is divided between the
free peoples of the West and the oppressed peoples under
Soviet domination. The line of demarcation runs through
the middle of Europe, through the center of Germany.
Spokesmen of the West have stated before and I repeat
today: it is the goal of the Western Powers to help Ger-
many to democratic unity under a free government, freely
elected. The Communists are opposing this unity, We are
doing and shall do everything possible to promote it. At
the same time we are doing and shall do everything we
can to promote peace in Germany and the world.

The German people, I am sure, have made up their
minds that they are a part of the free

freedom. All must unite against oppression, A strong
Western community of peoples is the best guarantee that
Germany will not be turned into a battleground. For it is
only in unity with the Western peoples, it is only through
the development of free institutions in Germany, that Ger-
many can become strong. All efforts based on other meas-
ures can only lead in future, as they have in the past, to
wars and destruction. I repeat:

A united and strong Western community is the best and
only guarantee of peace for Germany. ~

E ARE NOW in a period, as we have been for the

past year, of co-operation with the German people
and leaders to help them develop a healthy, new state.
Co-operation is necessary not only for the sake of Ger-
many, but also for the restoration of Europe as a vital,
united community. There is no longer time or place to
speak of conquest and collaboration. There is only a time
and place for co-operation and unity because the future
of Europe is at stake. I want to re-emphasize that we are
engaged in a joint enterprise, an enterprise in which the
British, French and American troops in this country are
no longer primarily an occupying force, but a force de-
fending Germany and Europe against a revival of dic-
tatorship and oppression.

I should like to make a second point. German economic
recovery has been remarkable, but the economic test
ahead is still a large and serious one. Germany has an
extremely serious dollar-problem, probably better under-
stood if I refer to it as a Devisen (foreign exchange) prob-
lem. As Secretary Acheson has said, 1952 will not mark
a terminal date of American interest in Europe, but Ger-
many, as well as other European countries, must begin to
think and act realistically in order to meet this economic
situation. Continuance of aid in its present form and ex-
tent is not feasible.

It is important to understand what has been responsible
for the great economic recovery that has taken place in
western Germany since 1945. Two major factors are in-
volved. One is the German people. The German people
have worked hard and faithfully to rise out of the ruins.
They have given the world an outstanding example of their
capacity to work on peaceful projects. This readiness and
the ability of the German people to rebuild their homes
and their cities constitutes a good omen for the future,

It is well to keep in mind, however, that a man or a
people cannot work unless there is

world and that they have tured their
backs on dictatorship, whether from the
Right or the Left. There is no choice in
the world today for a people that seeks

* German name for US Information Center.

This article is the text of an ad-
dress given by US High Commis-
sioner John J. McCloy at the open-
ing of the US Information Center
in Hanover May 22.

food to eat and raw materials to pro-
cess. The United States has fortunately
been in the position to provide great
quantities of the food and raw mate-
rials which Germany lacked. The Mar-

JULY 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
structed radio tower.

shall Plan has helped keep the German people alive and
it has made available the materials with which to work.
We see, therefore, that German recovery has been the
result of co-operation among us all.

It is a warning that in the years ahead, as in the years
that have passed, friendly co-operation and understanding
are vital. That understanding will help Germany to pro-
duce more, to sell more abroad, to narrow the Devisen
gap. In other words, that understanding will help Ger-
many to find the means to make up for its lack of indige-
nous food and materials so that the German people can
continue to work and to progress.

ONSIDERATION OF economic problems in Germany
leads to the political and psychological. I think it
is difficult to over-estimate the importance the world
attaches to a peaceful and democratic development in
Germany. We know that a free and democratic German
society, in which every German feels that he as an
individual is free, is one of the best guarantees of peace
in Europe. Such a free society would make Military Se-
curity Boards superfluous. It would be a better guarantee
than all the artificial controls that can ever be erected.
It is our purpose to help you create such a society.
We know that it cannot be done overnight. We know
that it takes persistent effort and patience to overcome
long established authoritarian patterns and to eliminate
the rust of the Hitler years. The maintenance of free
institutions and the preservation of individual liberties
are in every country, my own included, obtained only
at the price of eternal vigilance.
I should like to quote a few sentences from the com-
munique* on Germany issued last week by the Western
foreign ministers:

The Western Powers desire to see the pace of
progress (toward elimination of controls) as rapid
as possible. Progress will depend upon the degree of
confident and frank co-operation displayed by the
government and the people of the Federal Republic.
In the first place the pace will be determined

* For full text, see “Declaration on Germany," page 61.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy spoke
at ceremonies held June 1 at the Feldberg,
in the Taunus Mountains, near Frankfurt, to
dedicate Radio Hesse's new 10 kw. frequency
modulation transmitter. Above, center, Dr.
Ludwig Erhard, federal minister of econo-
mics, and Major E. Doane (right), AFN's
executive officer. At right the newly-con-

(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

by the extent to which the Allies can be satisfied
that their own security is safeguarded by the
development in Germany of a desire for peace and
friendly association with themselves.

In the second place the pace will be set by the
rate at’ which Germany advances toward a con-
dition in which true democracy governs and the
just liberties of the individual are assured. There-
fore, the Western Powers wish to emphasize most
strongly that the natural desire of the German people
to secure a relaxation of controls and the restoration
of the sovereignty of their country depends for its
satisfaction only upon the efforts of the German
people themselves and of their government.

OU MAY ASK: What do we mean by democratization?
Let me give you a. few examples.

The Allied High Commission recently lifted the dis-
approval of the Civil Service Law after reassurances
from the Bundesregierung (federal government). There
was a basic reason for that provisional disapproval. It
was to help insure that the German civil service would
be democratically administered. The German people
recognize the importance of civil servants. In times past
German civil servants maintained high standards. Under
Hitler some civil servants became autocratic and even
debased. One of the fundamentals on which we sought
assurance was that civil service positions in the new
Germany must not be political and that they should be
open to all citizens.

Friendly negotiations have now given us the promise
of a good law. It is our hope that in the months and
years ahead the implementation of the temporary law
and of the final law will guarantee a democratic civil
service in Germany.

We recently took action in the field of industrial and
economic democracy. I am sure that many of you may
have wondered why the High Commission has questioned
certain handicraft laws which carry in certain of their
aspects old traditions of closed guilds. Here again we
feel that there can only be a healthy development of
society if each man and woman, each young person has

JULY 1950

--- Page 38 ---
a chance to achieve that position im life for which his
talents best fit him.

Trades and professions should be open to all who
qualify. Artificial restrictions against enterprising young
workers should fall if there is to be hope for a better
future, This, in my judgment, is essential to a free society.
It is particularly important in Germany where so much
employment must be found for the many and varied
talents of the native and the refugee population.

WANT TO ADD a word about the Fluechilinge (fugi-

tive refugee). The refugees from the East constitute
a vast and serious problem. We know that it is more
than a German problem; it is a world problem. We shall
try to help solve it. History has demonstrated, however,
that migrations have been of great benefit to the countries
which have received refugees, and a deep loss to the
countries which have sent them away. The talents and
points of view which the refugees have brought to
western’ Germany can enrich German life, It is always
well to bear this in mind.

All in all we are trying to help you break down bar-
riers in political and industrial life. If jobs are open for
the most talented, if schools are free for the young, if
civil service and government offices are open to men and
women of all classes irrespective of fraternities or social
connections, there will be the great flowering of political
and economic enterprise which is so needed in Germany.
This freedom, combined with German readiness to work
and German ability to perform, would help make Ger-
many prosperous, peaceful and a respected leader in the
Western world.

If Germany is to achieve this position of leadership,
it is particularly important that no barriers be placed
in the way of German youth. Their time must not be
dissipated in marching columns. Young German men and
women should be given large opportunities, There should
be a wider disposition to accept youth in important posi-
tions. It would be healthy and beneficial, for example,
if the German governments and political parties opened
the way. for youth to assume positions of higher re-
sponsibility.

The German people and their political leaders on their
own initiative could do many things’ to demonstrate their
respect for the opinion and friendship of other nations.
The peoples outside Germany, and I am sure all right-
thinking Germans, feel that one of the gravest injustices
the modern world has witnessed was unfortunately com-
mitted on German soil — the Nazi persecution of Jews
and those who dared to resist. No one can help those
who are dead.

. The German people, however, can demonstrate their
good will by taking prompt and generous action to resti-
tute to the persecutees that which is justly theirs. Such
action should not need prodding from any Allied source,
It is an obligation, moral more than economic, which
the German people must meet. The spirit and speed with
which it is met will do much to determine the attitude
of other peoples, so many of whose lives have been dis-
rupted and impaired by the aggressions and cruelties

JULY 1950

35

of the past. But even more important, it will mark the
development of the new Germany's moral structure,

Here, at the opening of this Amerika Haus, it is ap-
propriate to point out how much we can all learn
from each other. In the United States we recognize that
German schools, universities and educators played a
large role in shaping the American school system. More
than 100 years ago the source of inspiration for American
universities was Germany. Young Americans traveled
in Europe, studied at Goettingen, Berlin and Heidelberg.
They admired German scholars, libraries and universities.
They brought back to the United States the message of
Lehr- and Lernfreiheit.* We are proud of that heritage.

This is a complex world and no nation, no people has
all the answers. No people holds the magic key. The
tragedy of the last 20 years proves that. Germany for
many years has been cut off from the main stream of
development.

Let me mention one field, industrial design. There is
a lag in Germany. In this connection do not be misled
by those who would tell you that it is fear of competition
or high tariffs that keep German goods out of various
countries. Obviously that plays a role, But equally im-
portant, however, is the fact that in many fields German
goods, either in quality or design, are not yet abreast of
the demands of ‘foreign markets. These are facts that
cannot be overcome by phrases. They can only be mas-
tered by wider knowledge and a receptive mind.

It is the approach that is illustrated by something I
heard of the other day: a great city in the United States,
before making plans for new buildings, is now sending ex-

_ perts to Europe, including Germany, to study modern hous-

ing developments. It is that spirit of inquiry, that willing-
ness to learn from others that is the source of strength.

ARGE AND THOROUGHGOING measures are needed
in German politics and society. Germany will not
become strong by devoting its greatest efforts and atten-
tion to Aussenpolitik (foreign politics). Governments fre-
quently try to focus the attention of their peoples on
foreign affairs in order to avoid dealing with important
domestic matters. It is a good idea to spend at least half
of our time cleaning up in our own back yard.

Ladies and gentlemen, this Amerika Haus, I hope, will
bring together the fine and the good in the heritage of
Western civilization, You have in your heritage some
of the noblest achievements of mankind. If the German
republic develops the best in the German tradition, Europe
and the world will benefit.

In the days ahead, we shall do everything to help you
on your own way as long as we are here—and we expect
to be here for some time — we shall be on the alert to help
you on the road to freedom. We shall also be on the alert

_to deter all influences that would set you back.

We mean to be active. In our efforts we shall have
only one goal: a peaceful, prosperous Germany. In this
spirit of co-operation, of friendship, I am very happy to
open this Amerika Haus. + END

* Freedom of teaching and freedom of student to attend any lecture
course in a university.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---


--- Page 40 ---
Frankfurt

Deutsche Post

Of

ces for Allied Personnel

yew AND BLACK symbols on post boxes, phone
service stations and telegraph counters identify the
nearly 300 public offices of the Deutsche Post which
provide services to Allied personnel in the US Zone,
Bremen and Berlin. These offices, staffed by trained,
English-speaking attendants, are located in Allied clubs,
snack bars, RTO's, hotels, hospitals and office buildings. "

In addition to communications services, the Deutsche 7 Sade j Ie Thy vee
Post at these public offices also provides such other eee r ia Hep bitile —
services as the sale of licenses to amateur radio opera- Canes : Ke a
tors, fishermen and huntsmen; the sale of ‘‘Operations
Vittles’ cookbooks and telegraphic flower orders to the
United States, and is currently negotiating for the provi-
sion of telegraphic money order, candy and fruit services
to America, Deutsche Post has perhaps devoted more
attention to serving US personnel than any other foreign *
communications agency administration.

The organization does a handsome business among the
Americans — nearly $250,000 and several hundred
thousand Deutsche marks are collected monthly for
rendering non-official and official communications serv-
ices to the Allied Forces.

Herr Hans Schuberth, the Federal minister for Posts
and Telecommunications; his deputy, State Secretary Dr.
Hans Steinmetz; and the director of the Department of
Posts and Telecommunications of Berlin, Dr. Hugo Ernst
Holthofer, and all Deutsche Post officials have received
full co-operation from HICOG and EUCOM in obtaining
suitable locations for public offices, and other facilities
which will insure adequate communications services for
Allied personnel.

xeon i

The transfer of communications responsibilities from US
authorities to the Deutsche Post has progressed steadily
and successfully since the beginning of the occupation.
Various official telecommunications services formerly per-
formed by the Signal Corps are now rendered by Deutsche
Post. When the US Forces entered Germany, adequate
facilities were not available for providing non-official
telephone and telegraph services for Allied personnel — m
they had to be provided by the US Signal Corps and the “samen nne"
American telecommunications companies. But as Deutsche oe wot
Post facilities became available, the Signal Corps and oon
American firms co-operated in the phase-out and transfer
of responsibility.

The Deutsche Post has probably received greater re-
sponsibility in providing essential services to US Forces
than any other German agency in any field. -+-END

--- Page 41 ---
Decartelization Law Prosecutions Filed

RIMINAL PROSECUTION was initiated by the Office

af the US High Commissioner for Germany against
two German trade associations and five individual officers
of those associations on charges of violating US Military
Government Law No. 56 (Decartelization Law) by restrain-
ing domestic and export trade in abrasives and participat-
ing in a cartel with foreign abrasives manufacturers.

The charges were filed at Frankfurt May 19 in the
Fourth Judicial District Court of the US Courts of the
Allied High Commission for Germany.

The two associations named as defendants were the
Fachverband Schleifmittel-Industrie and the Verein
Deutscher Schleifmittelwerke, which include in their
membership practically all manufacturers of abrasives in
western Germany. Individual officers named as defend-
ants were Hans Brauers of Bonn, executive secretary of
the FSI; Paul Nordmann of Bad Harzburg, executive sec-
retary of the VDS; Fritz Brinkmann of Duesseldorf-Reis-
holz, an officer of both associations; Alfred Sutter of
Hanover-Heinholz and Ejner Christiansen of Hamburg-
Lurup, officers of the FSI.

The action contains two charges, The first charge al-
leges the defendants have, during the past two years,
agreed to eliminate competition in the sale of abrasives.
This charge also alleges the members of the association
fixed prices for all kinds of abrasives on the domestic
market and in export markets, and fixed uniform rebates

UTED STATES: on ‘
ei eee IG ONTRACTENS:

AETMLANY

Delivering the principal address at the ‘’Richtfest —tradi-
tional German roof-raising celebration—was Maj. Gen.
George P. Hays, at the halfway construction mark in the
HICOG housing project in Frankfurt. The Deputy US High
Commissioner shared the rostrum with Frankfurt's Mayor
Walter Kolb, Glenn G. Wolfe, director, Office of Adminis-
tration, and other US and German officials, (PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

38

and discounts to be allowed to various purchasers. The
two associations are alleged to have policed and enforced
the agreements by inducing and coercing manufacturers
to adhere to the fixed prices and by checking upon com-
plaints that particular manufacturers were deviating from
the agréed price terms.

The second charge alleges that the defendants, repre-
senting German manufacturers of abrasives, joined a
cartel agreement with French abrasives manufacturers
and were negotiating a similar cartel with Italian
manufacturers. Through these means all price competition
between the German and the foreign manufacturers was
eliminated, uniform prices for all- export sales were
fixed, and spheres of influence were established.

HE DECARTELIZATION LAW is designed to prevent

the’ reimposition upon the German economy of con-
trols and restrictions which tend to benefit a small in-
terested group to the detriment of the consuming public.
The freeing of German industry and trade from such
artificial restrictions imposed by private group action is
designed to allow a healthy and efficient German in-
dustry to revive, Restrictions imposed by private groups
for their own personal and exclusive benefit in various
segments of German trade operate to prevent lowered
prices and ultimately serve to retard a rise in the stand-
ard of living for the German consumer; therefore such
restrictions cannot be tolerated.

US High Commissioner John J, McCloy remarked in a
statement made at the time of the filing of the action, that
he had directed the Decartelization Branch, Office of
General Counsel to be especially alert and vigorous in
investigating and surveying fields where activities in
restraint of trade may exist. He said that the US decarteli-
zation authorities have for some time been aware of the
resurgence of activities on the part of many industries
tending to restrain trade and suppress undesired: com-
petition, and it appears that there are numerous cases
where provisions of the decartelization statute are being
ignored and businessmen are covertly resorting once
again to restrictive devices harmful to the consumer.

Such devices, which were formerly very popular. in
German industrial circles, include the arbitrary fixing of
prices and the allocation of customers among competitors
by private agreement or concerted action, and the forma-
tion of international cartels to eliminate and prevent com-
petition in foreign markets. Mr. McCloy emphasized that
the provisions of US Military Government Law No, 56
clearly and explicitly condemn price fixing, allocation of
markets or customers or territories, and participation in
international cartels. :

The High Commissioner stated further that any industry
groups which ignore the provisions of this law at the
expense of their customers, the public and the recovery
of German industry in general, must realize they face
penalties. Where such illegal activity exists, the respon-
sible persons may be charged in a criminal action. --END

JULY 1950

--- Page 42 ---
Germany Today --- |

Economically and Financially

Address

By BEY

JAMIN J. BUTTENWIESER

Assistant US High Commissioner

1 appreciate the honor of being asked to discuss the
timely and significantly far-reaching subject of Germany's
economic and financial situation today. Permit me to
satiate your appetite for information with what I consider
to be salient and significant data concerning Germany.
From it, you will be able to draw your own conclusions
as to her status. May I make clear that throughout this
discussion, unless otherwise indicated, reference to Ger-
many means the Federal German Republic. — Excerpted
from introductory remarks of address.

IRST, AS TO HER industrial production: by March 1

of this year it reached 100 percent of the 1936 pro-
duction of the territory which today constitutes Germany.
This is physical, not a monetary, production ratio, the
former being the more accurate basis for such a com-
parison. In the absolute, this single figure would be
quite reassuring, In the relative, however, it leaves
much to be desired. In the first place, Germany's popu:
lation today, due to the influx of some 9,000,000 dis-
placed persons, expellees and refugees is, when added
to the approximately 38,500,000 of Germans who con-
stitute the normal population of that area, roughly 25
percent greater than it was in 1936. Consequently, on a
per capita basis, the production is really only about
80 percent of 1936. Another important consideration to
bear in mind in appraising this production figure is that
the production level of most other European countries is
somewhere around 130 percent of 1936.

Second, as to Germany's trade, with its all-important
effect on her requirement of foreign aid — a subject which
I need hardly remind you is near and dear to the hearts
of all American taxpayers: her trade has been expanding,
but unfortunately it is still only about 40 percent of 1936
volume, Calculated in dollars, Germany's imports for 1949
totaled approximately $2,250,000,000 whereas her exports
totaled only about $1,125,000,000, resulting in an un-
favorable trade balance of roughly $1,125,000,000. This
presents a very serious problem for Germany and, indi-
rectly, a problem for our country, as sponsor of the Mar-
shall Plan, and for all countries parti-

able panacea; namely, that with Germany's much vaunted
industrial skills and the justified reputation of her popu-
lace for hard work, it should be possible to increase
and consequently expand exports. That, of course, has
been Germany's continued aim, but the attainment of the
goal is far more difficult than merely setting it.

Bear in mind that the Germany of today represents a
drastically truncated economy. The establishment of the
“German Democratic Republic,” the so-called East Ger-
man republic, created a partition of prewar Germany into
two separate states: the eastern republic, with a popula-
tion of about 18,000,000 and about 40 percent of the
prewar territory as against the western republic, with
about 60 percent of the land and about 38,500,000 of popu-
lation, to’ which, as indicated above, there should now
be added approximately 9,000,000 of new population.

Without meaning to interpolate a political angle into
this economic and financial discussion, one cannot men-
tion the “German Democratic Republic’ without empha-
sizing that the only thing democratic about it is the middle
part of its name. In every respect it represents a Com-
munist-dominated state whose every move is dictated
from the Kremlin. Therefore, it shares completely the
fate of all the other unfortunate countries and people
who must suffer beneath that diabolic yoke, I allude to
this also because the difficulty of East-West trade is one
of the very definite impediments to Germany's recovery.

There are other serious difficulties which beset Ger-
many in her conscientious and commendable effort to
recover from the disastrous war she so fiendishly waged
and, in fact, from the blight on her entire economy which
was wrought by the Hitler regime. Without boring you
with further statistics, let me merely cite the fact that
there is a very serious shortage of money in circulation,
credit available for business and commercial purposes,
capital for the financing of long-term requirements and
the many other media which you so well know are re-
quisite for recovery and expansion.

Lest you interpret this as being a report completely
on the negative side, let me hasten to assure you that,
short though Germany may be of all

cipating in the plan.

Merely taking into account these
two important aspects of Germany's
economy, one would naturally assume
that there is a relatively easy and avail-

This address was delivered by
Mr. Buttenwieser before the In-
vestment Bankers’ Association of
America in White Sulphur Springs,
W. Va., May 18.

these resources, it is encouraging to
note that there has been a steady
growth and development of practically
all these vitally necessary instruments
of money and credit and many more

JULY 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
Assistant US High Commissioner Buttenwieser and Ralph
Nicholson, director of the Office of Public Affairs, are
interviewed by newsmen at Rhine/Main airbase on their
return from speaking engagements in the United States,
in the course of which Mr. Buttenwieser delivered the

accompanying address. (PRD HICOG photo)
which time does not permit my enumerating. There are
many persons, both within Germany and without, who
feel that credit in its varying forms is being unduly
restricted in Germany. They are of the opinion that the
German financial and economic authorities should be
more liberal in their monetary policies, lest Germany
enter a deflationary phase which it would be difficult
to arrest and during which, obviously, she could not ex-
pand her production and trade,

There is much to be said for this school of thought.
Equally understandable, however, is the fear of countless
Germans, and many others familiar with her history, at
the very thought of anything that even faintly suggests
inflation. A people that twice within their own experience
suffered as did the Germans from the ravages of the
inflation which followed World War I or from the
monetary reform which followed World War II are
naturally allergic to any measures that even remotely
connotate inflation or that might otherwise undermine the
integrity of their monetary system.

The Central Bank and other fiscal authorities in Ger-
many are often under considerable pressure to be more
flexible in their administration of the German central
banking and monetary systems. Time does not permit my
analyzing the considerations which are urged in favor of
their following a somewhat inflationary course. However,
one can readily appreciate the inherent hesitancy of those
entrusted with the determination of Germany's financial
destiny to take any steps which might strain the delicate
reed on which the German financial system leans,

HIS SHORTAGE of capital, to which I have alluded,

leads us to the third important aspect of Germany's
present day economic and financial situation. Her pro-
ductive plant, reduced as it was by reparation and dis-
mantling, would have substantially greater productive
capacity were it not for much of its obsolescence. This
low estate of the major portion of Germany's productive
facilities, due to lack of capital for rehabilitating them,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

makes Germany, by and large, a high-cost producer. Con-
sequently, she is at a competitive disadvantage with
producers of other countries. This accounts in great
measure for her difficulty and slowness in building up her
exports,

Couple this with a lack of capital for vitally neces-
sary construction in the realm of public works, housing
and industrial expansion, and you are confronted by a
fourth and equally unsatisfactory situation, namely, un-
employment.

At its height, during February of this year, unemploy-
ment was slightly over 2,000,000 in Germany plus slight-
ly over 300,000 in West Berlin. Today these figures are
slightly under 1,800,000 and just over 290,000, respec-
tively. Based on either Germany and West Berlin's total
population or working force, these figures represent a
distressingly high incidence of unemployment. The pres-
ence of 9,000,000 displaced persons, expellees and re-
fugees, whose purchasing power is very low and whose
resources, in general, are almost nil, is an aggravating
factor in this situation.

Another highly important problem which Germany
must solve is her food situation, Germany never was
self-sufficient in producing her own food. Even before
the war, she had to import about 20 percent of her
requirements. This was while she still had some of her
most important sources of supply within her own borders.
The foreign exchange thus needed for purchase of this
20 percent of necessary foodstuffs was provided by her
exports, both visible and invisible. 9

Today the picture is substantially worse. Shorn of much
of her former agrarian territory, Germany must at present
import about 50 percent of her food. This large demand
for imports becomes all the more serious in the light of
Germany's vastly reduced visible exports, while her in-
visible exports are practically non-existent. The only
reasonable hope I see for ameliorating this situation is to
increase her indigenous supply of food and to permit her
industrial production to expand within the minimum of
safeguards necessary to guard against her again becoming
a military menace.

I AM ALLUDING, of course, to that part of the occupa-
tion which has to do with the so-called Prohibited and
Limited Industries. As the term implies, Germany is com-
pletely prohibited from carrying on certain industries
which are deemed to represent a war potential. Such, for
instance, are the aircraft or munitions industries. Others
are limited, the limitations being predicated on military
considerations of what might constitute or create a war
potential. The steel, chemical and shipbuilding industries
are outstanding examples of this category.

Having witnessed the ravages wrought by Germany, no
reasonable or reasoning person could inveigh against
proper prohibitions and safeguards against Germany's be-
coming rearmed, actually or potentially. The stipulations
against Germany rising again as a military menace are
warranted and clear, I see no reason for any change in
that policy until Germany, by every reasonable test and
assurance, has abundantly demonstrated to the world

JULY 1950

--- Page 44 ---
that she will not again become a menace to peace and
cause the havoc and suffering that she has in the so
very recent past.

In the light of this prohibition against rearming, how-
ever, Germany asks whether her protectors against foreign
aggression will be the Occupying Powers which prohibit
her from creating her own means of protection. The pres-
sence of the Occupation Forces answers that question.
Firmly though I believe that these prohibitions and
limitations are just and necessary and timely, equally
strongly do I feel that it is ethically unjust and economi-
cally unwise, under the guise of military security, to predi-
cate them on commercial and industrial -considerations.
Neither commercial rivalry, nor lack of skills or raw
materials, nor other competitive disadvantages should be
the bases which motivate occupiers in formulating prohi-
bitions and limitations of industries for the occupied.

While this is a delicate subject and while, of course,
I make no allegations or even suggestions in this realm,
it is difficult to demonstrate to the Germans that complete
prohibition against any production in certain industries
or some of the limitations in other industries, such as steel
or shipbuilding, are genuinely formulated from a military
rather than a commercial standpoint. Germans continue
to clamor for a readjustment of the Prohibited and Limited
Industries Agreement, which effectively shackles a signifi-
cant part of their industries, and I think there is consider-
able cogency to some of the arguments they advance for
such revision. :

N BROAD OUTLINES, the foregoing are some of the

major difficulties that beset the German people and
their government today. They are taking measures to meet
the situation, although some believe that their activities in
coping with these problems lack vigor, imagination, cour-
age or even resoluteness. It is difficult to pass categoric
judgment of this nature on the German government offi-
cials, both federal and state. One must bear in mind that
they are relative novices, the federal government having
been functioning for only about eight months. Even this
short period is not comparable to a similar span of time
for any other government because of the myriad of ob-
vious difficulties, precedents and processes which this
new regime has to overcome.

Obviously, it is impossible to cite all the important con-
siderations on which Germany's recovery must be predi-
cated, However, there is one last situation to which, I
think, no one should fail to allude who endeavors, as do
I today, to portray a realistic picture of the ‘German scene
from an economic and financial viewpoint. It is so-called
“co-determination," which is in the forefront of German
economic, industrial, labor and political thought at this
very moment.

Co-determination of itself represents a broad subject,
but in crystallized form it may be described as the legal
right of employee to share with employer in shaping the
destiny of their common enterprise. That would seem to
be simple enough; but nothing is simple in Germany. To
understand some of the complexities of this matter, one
must be oriented somewhat on the entire labor movement

JULY 1950

41

in Germany. It consists of 16 national, autonomous, indus-
trial unions, federated into the one German Trade Union
Federation, comparable to the AFL or the CIO. While
workers are represented by these individual industrial
unions, in general it is the federation which determines
policy on a national as against the industry level.

There have been under discussion, and in fact in some
of the states there are already enacted, laws providing
for this co-determination. These laws provide that the
board of directors, in contradistinction to the board of
managers, shall be composed of representatives of workers
and owners. The mere presence of workers’ representatives
on a board of directors would not seem to me to be dis-
turbing. In fact, I could visualize many instances where
that would represent constructive progress in employer-
employee relations. However, what seems to be giving
ground for considerable misgiving is the deniand of the
trade union group that employees be entitled to a 50 per-
cent membership of the board of directors.

Further, and this represents a basic point of cleavage,
there is the question whether the representatives of the
employees on any given board of directors shall be em-
ployees of the enterprise itself, chosen by all its. em-
ployees, or representatives of such employees, designated
by the trade union federation, who might or might not be
employees of the enterprise. It can be readily seen how
important and far-reaching are the considerations which
underlie the present active campaign being waged by
employers and employees, alike, concerning federal or
other legislation on this broad subject of co-determination
and how difficult but equally vital it is that such legis-
lation.be formulated on sound principles.

HUS FAR, I FEAR you may have discerned a note of

caution in the report I am rendering. I do not think
any realist can objectively or faithfully speak otherwise
of present day Germany. Equally, I think there is ade-
quate basis for the expectation that through hard work,
mutual co-operation, careful planning, prudent use of her
resources and intelligent fiscal policy, Germany can re-
build her way toward economic stability. Basic to this,
however, are political considerations, both domestic and
foreign, to which lack of time permits me only to allude.
Furthermore, for the achievement of this economic im-
provement, I want to reiterate the importance of reuniting
the former Germany along democratic lines. This, of
course, means the fusion of the East German Democratic
Republic with the German Federal Republic. Only through
this do I see promise of real recovery for Germany.

Now as to the investment aspects of present day Ger-
many. Since the beginning of our occupation, it has been
the American policy, and that of the other two occupying
governments, to prohibit new foreign investments in Ger-
many. The reason is obvious: prevention of carpet-bag-
ging. In the early days of the occupation, valuable assets
could have been purchased for a mere pittance in foreign
exchange or tangible goods. Now the situation has vastly
changed and order has supplanted chaos. Despite this, as
I endeavored to portray above, Germany is in crying
need of capital.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
Domestically it is very difficult for her to build up
capital, Outmoded plant and equipment, with their result-
ant high production costs, do not yield much profit. Con-
sequently, relatively little created capital is derived from
such operations. The need for foreign capital in Germany,
therefore, becomes all the more pressing. With this in
mind, the Occupying Powers are doing their utmost to
bring an end to this so-called moratorium against foreign
investments. To the cursory observer, this would seem like
a rather easy assignment. More careful consideration of
the matter, however, leads to the unfolding of many in-
volved problems.

IHE ENTIRE SUBJECT really has three facets. First,

there is the problem from the standpoint of permis-
sible uses of how to handle the unblocking of the pres-
ent Deutsche mark credit balances blocked in German
banks for the account of foreigners. These of themselves
do not constitute any very large sum. The best estimate
is that they are in the neighborhood of DM 165,000,000
($39,270,000).

Coupled with that, however, is the second facet of how
to handle new funds that would flow into Germany for
investment purposes. Should there be any preference in
remittance of income or principal of such funds? Should
they be permitted to come in only at the official rate cur-
rent for the foreign exchange which they represent; i. e.,
should anyone who, for instance, wants to invest dollars
in Germany have to remit those dollars at the official
rate of DM 4.20 to the dollar or should he be allowed to
purchase marks from whomever he can at the most attrac-
tive rate possible.

As you can see, this is really related to the first part of
the problem, for the degree of transferability permitted
for the unblocked DM balances to a great extent the an-
swer to this latter question.

Ancillary to the first and second parts of this situation,
or possibly even fundamental to them, is the third facet
of how to deal with the prewar foreign exchange indebted-
ness of German obligors, This is further complicated by
the complex problem of determining the successor to the
obligations of many prewar German debtors which no
longer exist as such. At the forefront of these is the former
German Reich, whose obligations, such as the Young and
Dawes Loans, are well known to this audience. Determi-
nation of the debtor is in many cases such a complicated
legal and juristic problem that it may well have to be
left for solution at the Peace Conference or some inter-
national conference of similar stature.

A further vexatious aspect of this problem is the deter-
mination of the actual magnitude of these debts, as well
as establishment of the validity of certain portions of
such debt. Estimates range from the equivalent of
$1,000,000,000 to $2,000,000,000, with clear indication that
the validation of these debts will substantially reduce
their ultimate total.

HE TREATMENT of debt where the debtor is readily
identifiable and where creditor and debtor can come
to a mutually satisfactory agreement is likewise less simple

INFORMATION BULLETIN

42

Three American educators who visited Germany in the
course of a recent tour of 11 European countries are wel-
comed at the Frankfurt Casino by Mr. Buttenwieser.
L.-r., Dean M. Schweickhard, Minnesota commissioner of
education; William Atkinson, dean of Junior College,
Jackson, Mich.; Mr. Buttenwieser, and Melvin Moore,

school principal, Eugene, Ore. _—_ (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)
than one would suppose on first thought. Obviously, with
Germany suffering from the vast deficit of foreign ex-
change, to which I alluded earlier in this discussion, and
with the US purveying such sizeable funds through ECA
aid, to make good a large portion of this deficit, it is
hardly reasonable to expect that German debtors will be
permitted to use any foreign exchange in the settlement
of their debts. Certainly this will be the rule in the
initial stages of debt settlement until this foreign
exchange imbalance is appreciably corrected.

If debts expressed in foreign exchange cannot be
settled in that medium, then the next best form of pay-
ment for those who are prepared to accept such settle-
ment is in Deutsche marks. The uses which can be
prudently permitted of these DM's, similar to the uses
of the unblocked DM balances to which I referred, is a
complex problem whose solution has delayed the lifting
of this investment moratorium,

I have focussed attention on these difficulties in order
to record publicly some of the reasons for the delay in
raising this moratorium. I reiterate, this would appear
to be a simple operation when first viewed, but it
becomes more involved and diverse as it is more care-
fully studied. Despite this, however, I am hopeful that
in the very near future we will at long last have found
a fair, equitable and practical solution of this situation
in all its manifold aspects, to the end that the moratorium
can be relaxed, so that those from abroad who want to
invest in Germany will at least be afforded the oppor-
tunity to implement that desire.

There is but one further thought that I should like to
enunciate in this discussion. I know from my own ex-
perience with what objectivity one analyzes a situation
before one invests in it, I would be the last to suggest

JULY 1950

--- Page 46 ---
any deviation from that very sound
principle. In the case of Germany,
however, I profoundly believe that
there is more than just the consideration
of monetary remuneration that goes
with investments there.

This further aspect should not be
overlooked in determining the wis-
dom of such investment. Germany
is truly one of, if not, the most
significant, ramparts of the Western
world in the cleavage between the

At the twenty-ninth meeting of
the Council of the Allied High
Commission at Petersberg, May 31,
the Council agreed in principle to
a procedure for a progressive re-
laxation of restrictions which have
existed since the end of the war
on foreign investments and on the
use of blocked foreign assets in
Germany. Financial advisers of the
High Commission will exchange
views with representatives of the
Federal Government on the pro-
cedure to be adopted.

parts of the world, when viewing the
return in the light of the comparative
risks to which such investments are
respectively exposed. Parallel to the
rate of return on investment, however,
is the question of distribution of invest-
ment capital and the constructive de-
velopment which it will achieve in
the areas in which it is invested.
This latter should be appraised not
merely from a positive but likewise
from a negative standpoint.

system of free-enterprise, as we in
the United States understand it, and
the Communist system that exists behind the Iron Curtain.

\ S I ENDEAVORED to indicate throughout this discus-
sion, Germany sorely needs capital. There are risks in
investments almost anywhere. Admittedly there are, as I
hope I have made abundantly clear, greater risks, including
the political factor, in investment in Germany today than
in some other parts of the world, Yield on investment
normally reflects the degree of risk entailed in such
investment. Germany, I fear, for the present at least,
cannot afford to pay, either in external remittance or even
internally, a rate of investment return which is really
attractive in comparison with rates obtainable in other

In other words, when large purveyors
of capital consider whether or not to
invest in Germany, with a full awareness of its present
situation as I have endeavored to etch it in all frankness,
I think they should be motivated by two considerations:
first, what will be the result to them individually and to
the world in general if the investment is made in Germany,
as against somewhere else. Second, what will be the result
economically and financially, and, therefore, possibly
politically, inside Germany and without, if the investment
is not made there. These are problems which I appreciate
are easier to present than to solve, but I suggest that their
proper solution will play a significant role in the history,
not merely of Germany but of the world, as it is being
written this very day and hour. +END

Tempelhof Civil Aviation under HICOG Control

HE SPRAWLING SEMI-CIRCLE of buildings and
mammoth field of Tempelhof Air Base in Berlin now
come under jurisdiction of the Civil Aviation Division,
HICOG, for administration of its civil aviation activities.
The switchover to HICOG from USAFE, effective
June 1, was one more entry in a log of Tempelhof history
that began in 1919. It was then that Tempelhof was estab-
lished as a landing site.

Plans for the present airport were drawn in 1936, but
construction was not completed by 1939 and the field saw
little use during World War II.

The airport, valued at DM 185,000,000, has a concrete
loading apron 950 feet wide, 3,500 feet long. The city of
Berlin owns 52 percent of the airport while 48 percent is
held by the German government.

Its buildings and hangars suffered little damage in the
war. However, after the surrender, extensive damage was
done by Germans before its occupation by US Forces.

Reconstruction of the base was begun in 1945. Approxi-
mately 760 officers and airmen and 450 Germans were
engaged in the task. The runway was completed in
September 1945.

Lt. Gen. John K. Cannon, Commanding General, US Air
Force in Europe, signs agreement turning over civil aviation
activities at Tempelhof to the Civil Aviation Division of
HICOG. Thomas D. Johnson (right), chief of that division,
was the co-signer. (USAF photo)

JULY 1950

By the end of 1945, billets for officers and airmen were
60 percent completed. A great deal of debris had been
cleared and extensive repairs on heating, water and
electrical works, sewage and drainage systems were made

Tempelhof Air Base garnered worldwide fame during
the Berlin Airlift when it was the main receiving ter-
minal for the thousands of tons of fuel and food flown
daily to the besieged city.

At the peak of the airlift a plane landed every three
minutes at Tempelhof. The total tonnage carried to Ber-
lin during the 15 months of the lift was 2,325,509.6 tons
in 277,569 flights. +END

--- Page 47 ---
Puppet “People’s Police” Protested

HE US, BRITAIN and France on May 23 accused the

USSR of creating a 50,000-man East German military
force in violation of five agreements and called on the
Soviets to disband it immediately.

“A development already known to the USSR," accord-
ing to the US note, the organization is “not an ordinary
police force and it does not have ordinary police duties.

“It receives basic infantry, artillery and armored train-
ing and is equipped with military weapons, including
machine guns, howitzers, anti-aircraft cannon, mortars and
tanks."

The US note cited five agreements in which the Soviet
Union had committed itself unequivocally to the demili-
tarization of Germany. Yet, the note said, the Soviet Zone
“people's police’* must be regarded as a military force.

“The establishment of a military force, or of militarized
police, in Eastern Germany could not have been accom-
plished without the deliberate approval of the Soviet
Government and it is an action squarely in opposition to
efforts being made by the United States and other nations
to create a stable and lasting peace.”

Through such actions, despite verbal protestations of
peace, the “Soviet Government has destroyed world con-
fidence in the sincerity of its promises and has created
throughout the world widespread doubt as to its pacific
intention,” the note declared

To restore international confidence, the Soviet Govern-
ment must ‘dissolve immediately the militarized units
which it has set up in Eastern Germany.”

HE US CHARGED the force violated the Yalta Agree-

ment; the Declaration signed with Gen. Dwight D.
Eisenhower and other Allied commanders on June 5, 1945;
the Potsdam Agreement; the Four Power agreement of
Sept. 20, 1945, and the Control Council Law of August 20,
1946, to all of which the Soviet Union was a party. They
provided for complete demilitarization of Germany and
abolition of military and quasi-military organizations and
training.

The military force is estimated at between 40,000 and
50,000 men, composed of 39 “alert units" to train enlisted
personnel and at least 11 officers’ training schools. The
force is armed with standard German infantry weapons,
but has, according to State Department data, at present
only “negligible” military capabilities. However, in the fu-
ture it could form the nucleus of anew German army or an
internal security force to maintain Communist control.

The force was formed in August 1949 under Inspector-
General Wilhelm Zaisser, a German Communist who
fought in the Spanish civil war as ‘Gen. Gomez."

State Department information showed a direct chain of
command between the German leader to Maj. Gen. Petra-
kovsky of the Soviet Control Commission in’ Germany.

Russian field officers are assigned to each training
school as “advisers” to the commanders. These officers,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

dubbed “Sovietniks" by the Germans, are said to wear
standard police uniforms when on duty. Relations between
the German commanders and the Soviet supervisers are
reported ‘extremely cordial.”

EY PERSONNEL of the force, said the State Depart-
ment, consists largely of (1) personnel who served with
Zaisser in the Spanish war; (2) old-line German Communists
who spent various periods in exile during the Hitler
regime; and (3) ex-German army officers who graduated
from Soviet prisoner-of-war camps and anti-Fascist schools.

Training for the enlisted men is clearly military close
and extended order drill, familiarization with the firing
of individual weapons, small unit exercises — and in-
cludes political indoctrination. Tactical training above
commando level has not been undertaken probably
because of the low level of individual training and lack
of appropriate areas.

The State Department said that morale in the force was
generally low because of poor housing and training, severe
restrictions on personal freedom and lack of enthusiasm
among the rank and file, many of whom had been coerced
into enlisting. Because of the military training, the number
of defectors has increased from 20 per month in late 1949
to 80 per month at the end of April 1950.

It is believed that from 800 to 1,200 men are in training
in each “alert unit,” and that approximately 1,000 trainees
are assigned to each of the 11 officers’ training schools.
The total would stand at somewhere between 40,000 and

50,000 men. (Full text of US Note on next page)

All was quiet in Western Berlin over the Whitsun holiday
despite a mass demonstration, sponsored by the Soviet
occupation authorities and their ‘‘German Democratic
Government” puppets, of between 400,000 and 500,000 FDJ
(‘Free German Youth") members transported to Berlin
from all over the Soviet Zone. Photo of Brandenburg Gate
shows the West Berlin side of the arch with inscription,
“German boys and girls of the Capital of Germany greet
you!” Famed monument is on the Soviet Sector border and
was barricaded by West Berlin police to prevent incidents.
Missing from atop Brandenburger Tor are the Angel of
Victory and her horse-drawn chariot, which Soviets
removed. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 48 ---
Text of US Note of May 23, 1950

Following is the text of the note handed
by the US Ambassador to the Soviet
Foreign Office in Moscow on Tuesday,
May 23, 1950:

I have the honor to express to you the
United States Government's grave concern
in respect of a development in Eastern Ger-
many which is already known to the
Government of the USSR.

There has been created in the part of
Germany that is subject to Soviet control
a police force which has, by reason of its
military training and equipment, the char-
acter of an army. This organization is
called the ‘Main Administration for
Training (Hauptverwaltung fuer Ausbil-
dung),"" and it amounts to about 50,000
men, It is not an ordinary police force, and
it does not have ordinary police duties.
It receives basic infantry, artillery and
armored training and is equipped with
military weapons, including machine guns,
howitzers, anti-aircraft cannon, mortars and
tanks, It must be regarded, therefore, as a
military force.

The Soviet Union has many times ex-
pressed its adherence to the principle of
the complete disarmament and demilitari-
zation of Germany, In particular, you will
recall these five international agreements
to which the Soviet Government was a
party:

A. The joint report of Feb. 11, 1945,
following the Anglo-American-Soviet con-
ference in the Crimea (Yalta):

“It is our inflexible purpose to destroy
Germany's militarists and Nazism and to
insure that Germany will never again be
able to disturb the peace of the world. We
are determined to disarm and disband all
German armed forces; to break up for all
time the German General Staff that has
repeatedly contrived the resurgence of Ger-
man militarism; to remove or destroy all
German military equipment;..."

B. The Declaration regarding the defeat
of Germany and the assumption of supreme
authority by the Allied Powers, signed by
General Eisenhower, Marshal Zhukov, Field
Marshal Montgomery and General Tassigny
on behalf of their respective governments
on June 5, 1945:

“The four Allied governments will take
such steps, including the complete dis-

armament and demilitarization of Germany,
as they deem requisite for future peace
and security.”

C. The joint report of Aug. 2, 1945,
following the Anglo-Soviet-American Con-
ference in Berlin (Potsdam):

“Three purposes in the occupation of
Germany by which the Control Council
shall be guided are:

(1) Complete disarmament and demili-
tarization of Germany...to these ends:

(A) All German land, naval and air
forces... and all other military and quasi-
military organizations ... shall.be complete-
ly and finally abolished in such manner
as permanently to prevent the revival or
reorganization of German militarization."

D. Agreement between governments of
the United Kingdom, the United States,
and the USSR, and the provisional govern-
ment of the French Republic on certain

additional requirements to be imposed on

Germany, dated Sept. 20, 1945:

“(1) All German land, naval and air
forces — and all other military and quasi-
military organizations — shall be completely
and finally abolished in accordance with
methods and procedures to be laid down
by Allied representatives.

(2) All forms of military training, mili-
tary propaganda and military activities of
whatever nature, on the part of the German
people, are prohibited, as well as the for-
mation of any organization initiated to
further any aspect of military training and
the formation of war veterans’ organi-
zations or other groups which might
develop military characteristics or which
are designed to carry out the German
military tradition, whether such organi-
zations or groups purport to be political,
educational, religious, social, athletic or
recreational or of any other nature.”

E. Control Council Law No, 34, entitled
“Dissolution of the Wehrmacht,” dated
Aug. 20, 1946:

“Article I. All German land, naval and
air forces, with all their organizations,
staffs and institutions and all other military
and quasi-military organizations, together
with all clubs and associations which
serve to keep alive the military tradition
in Germany, are hereby considered dis-
banded, completely dissolved and declared
illegal.

“Article II, Maintenance, formation and
reconstitution of any of the agencies or
organizations enumerated in Article I under
any name or form whatsoever, and the
taking over of all or any of the functions
of such agencies or organizations in the
future by other agencies is prohibited and
declared illegal."

It is clear from these agreements that
the government of the Soviet Union has
committed itself unequivocally to the prin-
ciple that Germany will be demilitarized,
that her military forces will be completely
and finally abolished, and that no revival
of German military activities will be
allowed. The British, French and American
governments were also parties to these
agreements and are equally committed to
the same principle. They have, accordingly,
taken effective steps to prevent any form
of rearmament or remilitarization in their
Zones of Occupation. The Soviet Union,
on the other hand, has directly violated all
of these agreements, The establishment of
a military force, or of militarized police, in
Eastern Germany could not have been
accomplished without the deliberate ap-
proval of the Soviet Government, and it
is an action squarely in opposition to
efforts being made by the United States
and other nations to create a stable and
lasting peace.

The representatives of the Soviet Gov-
ernment have, on numerous occasions,
spoken of the Soviet Government's desire
for peace. Such verbal protestations, how-
ever, can hardly be expected to receive
credence among the free peoples of the
world when the Soviet Government is
simultaneously creating a military force
of considerable size and strength in Ger-
many in violation of its solemn inter-
national commitments. By this and other
like actions, the Soviet Government has
destroyed world confidence in the sinceri-
ty of its promises and has created through-
out the world widespread doubt as to
its pacific intention. If the Soviet Gov-
ernment wishes to restore in some measure
international confidence in its alleged
attachment to peace, it cannot fail to dis-
solve ‘immediately the militarized units
which it has seteup in Eastern Germany.

-+END.

1,000 Refugee Catholic Pastors Given Bicycles

Catholic refugee pastors are keeping in contact with
their widely scattered parishioners on bicycles these
days — an innovation made possible through contribu-
tions from Catholic women’s societies in the United States.

The bicycles, along with clothing and funds, were sent
to 1,000 of the neediest refugee clergymen and their con-
gregations, according to the Rev. Alfred Schneider, re-
presentative of CRALOG and the National Catholic
Welfare Conference, through which the agencies have

sent their aid.

The 1,000 parishes have been adopted by the same
number of parish and city welfare groups in the United

JULY 1950

States. This activity blossomed largely through the
efforts of Catholic women’s societies and welfare repre-
sentatives in Germany.

Of the 2,300 clergymen who fled the East zone with
all or part of their parishioners, many were in need
of the barest essentials to carry out their pastoral work.
The bicycles are especially helpful in northern Schles-
wig-Holstein, where former parishioners are often spread’
out in a half-dozen villages.

Since the war the conference has distributed more

45

than 40,000,000 pounds of food, clothing and medicine
to DP’s, refugees and the needy in Germany.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Personnel Notes

Nevin to Co-ordinate Dollar Drive

Paul S. Nevin, chief of the Economic Affairs Division,
Office of the US State Commissioner for Bavaria, has been
transferred to Frankfurt to take charge of the Export
Promotion (‘Dollar Drive’) Branch of HICOG's Office of
Economic Affairs and the
ECA Special Mission to
Western Germany. He

will be deputy to the
chief of the Industry
Division.

Mr, Nevin's work will
be mainly concerned with
West Germany's ‘dollar
drive’ — a project to earn
more dollars through in-
creasing, her exports to
the United States.

His branch will main-
tain close contact with
ECA's trade development
section in Paris and Wash-
ington, as well as foreign
trade groups in the United
States.

In the trade promotion field, the section will concern
itself with the elimination of trade barriers and with the
development of plans to bring together the German
exporter and the American importer. In this connection
Mr. Nevin will work closely with the German committee
which is co-ordinating exhibits for participation in the
first United States International Trade Fair to be held in
Chicago this fall.

The section will also concern itself with special exhibits
of German manufactured products, foreign trade zones,
department store merchandising of imported German
goods, import credit facilities and general consultation.

Ve
eh

Paul S. Nevin.
(PRD HICOG photo)

Kellerman Visits Germany

Henry Kellerman, director of the Office of German-
Austrian Public Affairs, US Department of State, visited
Germany recently on a routine one-month trip for in-
formational purposes in connection with his office.

Mr. Kellerman visited Berlin and the four states of the
US Zone during his stay.

Hart Replaces Barnett in OA

Walton C. Hart has been appointed executive assistant
to the director, Office of Administration, HICOG, and
Robert M. Barnett has been transferred to Geneva,
Switzerland, as labor attache. ‘

An expert on labor affairs, Mr. Barnett has been as-
signed as labor attache with the US delegation to the
Economic Commission for Europe, located at Geneva.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

46

Mr. Hart has served in the Near East and South America
as well as in Europe since joining the Foreign Service.
In November 1948, he was assigned as attache in the
Office of US Political Adviser on.German Affairs at Berlin,

Library Association Official Arrives

Harland A. Carpenter, official representative of the
American Library Association, has arrived in Germany
to. consult with German librarians and observe the mate-
tials exchange program.

Director of the libraries of the Wilmington Institute
Free Library and the Newcastle County Free Library,
Delaware, Mr. Carpenter will remain in Germany until
late August. He will discuss with German officials library
building problems, children's library services and open-
shelf book collections and plans to establish a model
professional library of American reference books. He
will also visit British Zone institutions.

Washington ECA Official in Germany

Saul Nelson, chief of the German-Austrian office of
the ECA in Washington, visited Frankfurt in the course
of a field survey trip. He is accompanied by Francis
Hoeber of the US Department of State. Mr. Nelson, be-
fore his present assignment in Washington, was chief
of the Reports Section, Economics Division, Office of
Military Government for Germany (US).

New RO's Named to Hesse Posts

Seven new Hessian resident officers have been assigned
to counties in that state. The recent arrivals are part
of the first group specially trained by the State Depart-
ment, at the Foreign Service Institute, Washington, D.C.,
for foreign service as resident officers. Their courses
included German area and language study. Their training
was continued at HICOG Headquarters and at OLC Hesse
before they were given assignments.

Charles Thomas Butler will go to Eschwege; Jonathan
Dean to Main-Taunus County; Earl Henry Lubseansky to
Kassel; Robert L. Ouverson to Erbach; John D. Gough to
Gelnhausen; John P. Shaw to Witzenhausen, and Thomas
Clifford Stave to Alsfeld-Lauterbach.

Doyle Appointed Frankfurt Consul-General

The appointment of Albert M. Doyle of the US State
Department in Washington as US Consul-General in
Frankfurt, succeeding Marshall M. Vance, was confirmed
recently by the Office of Administration, HICOG. An-
nouncement of the appointment was made in Washington.

Mr. Doyle is expected to arrive in Frankfurt to take
over his new post some time in July. Mr. Vance will
return to the United States at that time.

Mr. Doyle has been in the foreign service since 1922.
Since 1947, he has been with the State Department in
Washington and prior to that was consul-general at

JULY 1959

--- Page 50 ---
Amsterdam, In addition to Amsterdam, he has served
with the State Department at Rotterdam, also in Holland;
Brisbane and Sydney, Australia.

Assigned to Work on DP Program

Ten Foreign Service staff officers have been assigned
to US consulates and sub-offices in Western Germany to
aid in implementation of the Displaced Persons’ immigra-
lion program.

Given special instruction at the Foreign Service Institute
in Washington, D.C., the group has been assigned as
vice-consuls in the areas of Frankfurt, Munich and
Hamburg.

Three of the group were sent to Hamburg: Martin H.
Armstrong, John R. Lamb and Robert F. Weltzien. Three
others, William T, Kasson, Robert E. Hampton and David
Cossum, have taken posts in the Munich area, while
Charles W. McCaskill, Ernest E. Schneider, Jack M. Smith,
Jr., and John L. Tinnerello have been assigned to the
Frankfurt Consulate-General and its sub-offices.

Szluk Returns to US Post

Peter F, Szluk, deputy chief of the Employee Relations
and Services Branch, Personnel Division, Office of
Administration, HICOG, left Germany in June after three
years of service to resume his post as chief, Employee
Utilization Branch, at the Navajo Ordnance Depot, Flag-
staff, Arizona.

Mr, Szluk’s first European assignment, in July 1947, was
with the Personnel and Administration Division, Head-
quarters, European Command, as an em-
ployee relations and training technician.
He joined OMGUS in November 1948 as
chief of the Personnel Division's Training
Branch and was selected for his HICOG
position in June 1949,

Reber Acting Political Adviser

Samuel Reber, State Department career
officer who has been assigned to the staff
of the US High Commissioner for Germany,
served during 1949 as the US representative
on the Council of Foreign Ministers’ De-
puties during the conferences in London
on the Austrian peace treaty.

Luxembourg, Berne and Rome. He was chief civil affairs
officer in Algiers after the Allied landing in North Africa.

OLCB Public Welfare Adviser

Mrs. Alice Stephan Whelan, of Washington, D.C., has
been appointed public welfare adviser in the Office of
the State Commissioner
for Bavaria. Mrs. Whelan,
active in various fields of
public welfare for more
than 12 years, fills a
recently-created position.

Mrs. Whelan came to
Germany in October 1947
as a field representative
for the Church WorldServ-
ices in its work among
displaced persons. She
subsequently became de-
puty director in charge of
immigration of DP’s to the
United States and other
countries, in which capa-
city she served until 1949,
when she joined OMG
Bavaria as a youth welfare adviser. She later was as-
signed to the Community Activities Branch of OLCB.

Alice Stephan Whelan,
(PRB OLCB photo)

Jim Hathcock Wins Scholarship

James S. Hathcock, Jr., one of the 12 students of the
dependents high school in Wiesbaden who graduated in
June, has received notice he is the winner of a four-year
scholarship at Swarthmore College in
Swarthmore, Pa.

James S. Hathcock, Sr., is the chief of the
Food and Agriculture Branch, Office of
State Commissioner for Hesse. Mrs. Hath-
cock is the president of the zone-wide
federation of German-American Clubs.

In commenting on the award of the $400-
a-year scholarship, Hathcock said he plans
to major in chemistry. All of his high school
education has been acquired in Germany.

New EUCOM Ordnance Chief

Brig. Gen. Ray M. Hare has arrived in
Heidelberg to assume the duties of chief of
the EUCOM Ordnance Division. He relieves

Mr. Reber has been acting political ad-
viser to the US High Commissioner since
the departure of James W. Riddleberger to
the United States on statutory home leave
the latter part of June.

Educated at Groton and Harvard, Mr.
Reber has been a member of the State
Department's Foreign Service since 1926.
He has held posts in Peru, Liberia, Brussels,

JULY 1950

Major Eleanor King has been
named chief of the US Air
Force's German Youth Acti-
vities program. The WAF of-
ficer was formerly chief of
the officers’ section, Wing
Personnel at Rhine/Main Air-
base. A clinical psychologist,
she holds degrees from Co-
Jumbia and New York uni-
versities. (USAFE photo)

47

Col. W. R. Slaughter, who will return to the
United States for a new assignment.
General Hare comes from the Office of
the Chief of Ordnance in Washington, D. C.,
where he has been chief of Supply and
Distribution. This is his second tour in Ger-
many, the first having been as a captain
with the Army of Occupation in Coblenz
following World War I. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Economie Review

This monthly review of the German Federal
Republic’s current economic picture, based on
the latest figures and trends available when
this section of the Information Bulletin went
to press, was prepared by the Reports Office,

ECA Special Mission for Western Germany.

HE MOST IMPORTANT event of April was the

decision that Western Germany could not effectively
utilize all available dollar aid for the year July 1, 1949
to June 30, 1950. The “cutback” was occasioned by-te-
ductions in the food import program and the inability of
the industrial economy to effectively demonstrate need
for additional dollar imports. The food program reduc-
tions resulted from accession to the International Wheat
Agreement, amounting to approximately $20,000,000, to
better crop prospects and increased food procurement in
countries participating in the Marshall Plan which have
liberalized trade agreements with Western Germany. These
latter food savings were valued at about $58,000,000.
Adjustments as a result of these savings were $20,000,000
already returned to the US Treasury, $35,000,000 reported
to Congress, and $22,000,000 not needed because of multi-
lateral drawing rights against West Germany not utilized.
Total programmed 1949/50 GARIOA and ECA aid for
Western Germany is now estimated at $665,700,000.

Generally, April economic developments tended to
bear out and “firm up" the hopeful signs of March that
the economy of Western Germany is slowly advancing
toward full recovery. Industrial production again rose,
favorable weather permitted an increase in crop estimates
for the 1950 season, unemployment declined slightly,
consumption and prices showed steady trends, foreign
trade was somewhat less than the March peak but still
above other recent months, and the excess of imports
over exports was diminished.

Such signs of improvement tend to obscure certain
lingering maladjustments which continue to undermine
the health of the economy, however. It is increasingly
evident, for example, that the rate of investment pro-
grammed for West German agriculture and industry are
inadequate for a high level of employment, despite the
release of generous amounts of counterpart funds accruing
from the sale of ECA-financed imports.

The specter of deflation is ever present owing to under-
investment and rigidity in the structure of prices and
monetary policy. There is also the serious question of
Berlin. Hence, the long range economic problems of
West Germany are still present and must be remembered
lest too optimistic conclusions be drawn from month to
month improvement in sectors of the economy,

Foreign Trade

The reported “cutback” in dollar aid for Western Ger-
many was pointed out by Robert M. Hanes, chief of the
ECA Special Mission, as being further evidence of the
Federal Republic’s willingness to vigorously promote
trade liberalization programs sponsored by the OEEC
and ECA. Mr. Hanes also stated that, although the goals
programmed for 1949 had been exceeded, the industrial

INFORMATION BULLETIN

48

expansion and re-employment of labor had not been
raised to a degree that might have justified the use of
the saving for increased industrial dollar imports.

The April commodity trade volume was not up to the
record level established in March, but was nevertheless
a creditable showing, especially since the deficit was
reduced over-all, as well as with the “dollar area.” April
exports were $128,000,000, and imports $177,000,000. The
deficit was thus $49,000,000, a decrease from March.
Exports to the participating country area decreased in
April to $96,000,000; imports decreased to $100,000,000.
Eastern European exports were $9,000,000 compared to
$5,200,000 imports, marking the third consecutive month
Western Germany had a surplus of exports with this area.

Western Hemisphere commodity trade was lower than
March but sustained a higher level than other recent
months. Exports totalled $12,100,000 of which $7,200,000
was to Latin America, while imports totalled $45,500,000,
of which $15,500,000 was to Latin America. The excess of
imports over exports to the United States was $25,100,000,
somewhat lower than the average for 1949 but still a
formidable “dollar gap. The foreign trade pattern was
as follows:

‘West German Foreign Commodity Trade
April 1950
(Thousand dollars)

Categories Imports —_ Exports
Food and Agriculture . 75,376 3,173
Industry Le 101,414 124,952
Raw Materials . : 53,950 18,791
Semi-Finished Goods |) 2.) 1) 1) 23,377 24,976
Finished Manufactures... . . . . . 24,087 80,825
Total __ 176,790 127,765

Area
USA 29,520 4,418
Canada... 471 522
Latin America : 15,487 7,209
Non-Participating Sterling |: |)... . 18,386 4,713
Other Non-Participants . . . . . . . . . 12,434 14,395
Eastern Europe 5,216 8,974
Other . 5 7,218 5,421
Participating Countries . 100,381 96,127
Non-Sterling 86,515 88,849
Sterling . 13,866 7,278
Unspecified p iit 381
Total __ 176,790 127,765

Import Surplus: 49,025

Industry and Labor

The index of industrial production in April reached
104 percent (preliminary) of the 1936 level, The index
thus climbed three points above the previous postwar
high established in March, and stood 18 points higher
than a year ago.

The greatest gains were recorded in investment goods
industries, which climbed from 91 in March to 98 in April,
especially the export industries (chemicals, machinery,
optics and precision instruments). Sawmills and wood-

JULY 1950

--- Page 52 ---
working, and stones and earths industries registered
seasonal gains of more than 10 percent, vehicle produc-
tion continued its steady upward trend with a gain of 16
points to 136. Actual volume production in many in-
dustries, however, was lower in April than in March
because of the fewer number of working days. Produc-
tion data for April are as follows:

Index of Industrial Production

1949 1950
Apr Feb Mar Aprp
TOTAL ALL INDUSTRIES
(incl. electricity & gas)a/. . . . . . 86  98r 10trp 104
(excl. electricity & gas)... 1. 82 95 = 98rp 101
Investment goods (total) paqo0Ga 80 6900 kB
Rawmaterials . . . . . 1.) OTL) AT 8B
Finished products... . . . . . 685) = 99S 101-108
General production goods
(incl. electricity & gas) . 193 117° 120r 120
(excl. electricity & gas) gao5 107, 112r 112
Consumer goods. . Sons 7 94r  96r' 95
a/ Excl. food processing, stimulants and buildings.
1 = Revised.
p = Preliminary.
Production of Major Commodities
Commodity Unit of 1950
Measure i/ Feb Marzr/ Aprp
Hard coal (gross mined) . thous. t _ 8,682 9,802 8,364
Crude petroleum . t 79,839 90,135 89,524
Cement . . t 443,778 ~——-795,134 852,889
Bricks (total) 1000 163,906 198,235 242,046
Pig iron t 664,380 767,094 682,629
Steel ingots . . ; 5 t 887,076 1,001,534 885,666
Rolled steel finished products | t 573,133 650,101 574,526
Farm tractors (total) { + + + pieces 2,846 4,208 3,810
Typewriters d/ pieces 13,734 16,157 13,996
Passenger cars (incl. chassis for
them)... . » + Pieces 13,743 15,457 14,739
Cameras (total) pieces 91,922 139,003 130,569
Sulphuric acid. (incl. oteum) « t-SOs 82,867 91,354 91,434
Calcium carbide. . oo t 41,464 55,440 58,456
Soap (total) . 2... . t 7,099 8,095 6,624
Newsprint. 5 a56.5 t 13,333 14,985 12,586
Auto and truck tires | pieces 198,413 202,458 163,113
Fie (total). 2. 5 1000 prs. 4,934 6,535 5,529
= All tons are metric tons.
Revised.
Preliminary. .

Excluding accessories, parts, and spare parts.
= Standard, long-carriage and portable typewriters.

Registered unemployment, which has declined steadily
since mid-February, dropped by 115,059 during May to
1,668,318 (1,192,127 males, 476,191 females). As of mid-
May, unemployment was 11.4 percent of the estimated
wage and salary earning labor force. Seasonal factors,
particularly higher employment in building industries,
were the main force behind the decrease, as indicated by
the fact that males constituted a very high percentage of
the decline.

At mid-May employed wage and salary earners are esti-
mated to have risen to a total of approximately 13,500,000.
If the present rate of increase is maintained for the re-
mainder of the current quarter, employment at the end
of June will have reached the September 1949 level
(13,600,000).

If unemployment is to fall below a monthly average
of 1,750,000 in either of the remaining ERP years, the
average number of employed wage and salary earners
will have to rise each year by at least 350,000, which
equals the estimated annual natural increase in the ‘wage
and salary earning labor force without including refugees
and repatriated prisoners of war. This does not appear
Probable at the present rate of economic expansion.

JULY 1950

-49

The question whether labor is to have a voice in the
economic phases of management and in determining
over-all policy for the general economy continued to be
a leading issue. The CDU/CSU Bundestag (federal par-
liament) representation introduced a draft law which
would regulate the so-called “right of co-determination”
in the individual plant. The federal government was
taking last minute measures to secure some agreement
between employers’ organizations and trade unions be-
fore submitting its own bill to the federal parliament.

An international trade union conference on the Ruhr,
convened by ‘the International Confederation of Free
Trade Unions (ICFTU), was held in Duesseldorf on

“May 22 and 23, representatives from the US, Great

Britain, France, Western Germany, the Benelux countries
and Sweden participating. The conference agreed that
the free trade unions are widely interested in a rational
organization of Western European heavy industry and
that the success of any such plan, such as that an-
nounced by French Foreign Minister Schuman, depends on
the co-operation of the workers and their trade unions.

Agriculture

Part of the reduction in the dollar food import program
for 1949/50 came about through lower prices from ad-
herence to the International Wheat Agreement. The re-
mainder arose from the fortunate crop situation and in-
creased “non-dollar“ imports from OEEC countries. Cut-
backs in the program amounted to 30,000 metric tons of
fats and oils, 100,000 metric tons of coarse grains and
400,000 metric tons of bread grains.

Further cutbacks in the 1949/50 dollar food imports
seem possible, but have not yet been announced.

Finance

The shortage of investment funds for West German
industrial and agricultural rehabilitation and develop-
ment continues to be a major brake on economic expan-
sion. German authorities recently presented to the ECA
Mission a program for investment of capital funds inclu-
ding counterpart funds. The program estimated gross
investment for 1949/50 at DM 20,100,000,000, of which
DM 2,300,000,000 are GARIOA and ECA counterpart funds.

The Mission concludes that the level of investment
programmed is insufficient to reduce unemployment to

‘a tolerable level, and that the Federal Republic should

in its 1950/51 programming find means of increasing in-
vestment and funneling it more effectively into sectors
of the economy where critical need exists.

ECA Mission action to improve the investment situa-
tion included promoting the release of ECA counterpart
funds, which totaled more than DM 1,000,000,000 at the
end of April, and securing tripartite agreement in principle
to progressive relaxation of restrictions on foreign in-
vestment in Western Germany. The Mission also sug-
gested to the Federal Republic that certain liberalized
operations in connection with the central banking system
would be helpful. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
Occupation Log

1,000,000 Pounds of Food Given Berlin

Gifts arriving from the United States “should be re-
garded as only one more sign of the steady concern for
Berlin which preoccupies Americans,” according to US
Commander in Berlin, Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor.

General Taylor spoke at ceremonies to present 1,000,000
pounds of food sent to Berlin under a Stateside “Iron
Curtain Refugee Campaign." He cited the food contribu-
tions — powdered eggs and milk—as additional evidence
of “American regard for Berlin which has shown itself in
the airlift, in ECA aid, and in many other forms.”

He also expressed the hope that “the day is not far off
when a restored Berlin will no longer need the gifts of the
outside world.”

Begun with an appeal for $40,000 to finance shipments
of food to Europe, ‘Project Berlin” achieved a subscrip-
tion totalling $85,000 in a single week. It was sponsored
by the International Rescue Committee and endorsed by
Gen. Lucius D. Clay, former US Military Governor for Ger-
many, by Admiral Richard E. Byrd and Sumner Welles.

The first shipment of food will benefit an estimated
170,000 needy west Berliners, reaching them through 800
official and private organizations.

Mayor Ernst Reuter of Berlin responded to the food dona-
tions with “(Berlin people) consider this aid a demonstra-
tion of solidarity for and understanding of the significance
of their resistance against totalitarian oppression.”

UAW Presents Truck to UGO

America’s United Auto Workers union (CIO) made a
gift of a sound truck to the Independent Trade Union Or-
ganization (UGO) in Berlin during May.

As far back as December of last year, Walter Reuther,
president of the United Automobile Workers, promised this

On behalf of the United Automobile Workers of America,
Abe Kramer (right), chief, Labor Affairs Division, Berlin
Element, HICOG, presented sound truck to the Independ-
ent Trade Union Organization (UGO) at HICOG Com-
pound in Berlin May 26, Gift to Berlin workers betokened
solidarity and friendship of UAW'’s 1,000,000 members.

(US Army photo)

truck to the UGO as a token of the solidarity and friend-
ship of the 1,000,000 members of the UAW for the Berlin
workers united in the UGO.

The truck, a Willys’ jeep with overdrive, carries the
most modern record-playing and loudspeaker equipment,
capable of carrying voice and music to large gatherings.
A similar truck was donated by the UAW to the "Force
Ouvriere,” the democratic organization of trade unions in
France,

Child Guidance Services Discussed

How can teachers better understand their pupils? How
can they develop increased sensitivity to child develop-
ment and educational needs?

One of Germany's neglected postwar education prob-
lems, this teacher-student relationship, was tackled at a
conference of American and German education authorities
and US Education Service Center personnel at a May
conference in Jugenheim, Hesse. It was designed to
provide child guidance services in German communities.

The conference was to survey what facilities and per-
sonnel the US Education Service Centers can provide in
organizing guidance services for Germany's young. The
program was to include discussion of testing programs,
in-service training to teachers in child . development,
co-operative arrangements with special clinics for more
disturbed children, and working with German psycholo-
gists and psychiatrists.

RIAS in Printing Business
INCE THE SOVIET-LICENSED press won't print its
broadcasting schedules, RIAS, the radio voice of Free
Berlin, has gone into the printing business itself.

A weekly broadcasting schedule, listing the programs
aired over the American-sponsored radio station in Berlin,
is now available for free distribution on newsstands along
the Iron Curtain. Present production stands at 25,000 copies,
but it is expected to increase shortly to 50,000 copies. In
mid-May, 1,500 copies were handed out to Soviet Zone and
Sector visitors of the free newsreel showings at the US
Information Center (Amerika Haus) in Berlin.

It is anticipated that this scheme will further enlarge the
RIAS listening audience in the Soviet area of control,
estimated at up to 91 percent of the total audience in this
area, the population of which owns approximately
2,500,000 radio sets.

Hesse's Relief Bill Down

Citizens of Hesse are shelling out-one-fifth less for
relief this year than they did last year.

During the fiscal year 1948-49, every Hessian, paid
DM 21.23 for non-institutional relief, while during the
fiscal year just ended, the per capita rate amounted to
only DM 16.85.

During the last fiscal year, Hesse aided 146,000 per-
sons with a total contribution of DM 72,000,000. This
was DM 17,000,000 less than during the previous year,

JULY 1950

--- Page 54 ---
Mrs. John J. McCloy and Mrs. Lucille Newton-Fischer, rep-
resentative for international activities of the American
Red Cross in Frankfurt, presented June 2 to the Annette
von Droste Huelshoff School, in Berlin, music albums
donated by the American Junior Red Cross, Mrs. McCloy
is second from left in front row, Mrs. Newton-Fischer at
left, second row. (US Army photo)

when more than 248,000 persons were supported by
Hessian welfare authorities,

The decline is mainly due to immediate aid (Soforl-
hilfe) payments and to the increase of pensions. in com-
pliance with the Social Insurance Adjustment Law,
which, in many cases, is doing away with additional
relief.

“Democracy by Influence’ Recommended

“Due to the pressure from the East, the problems and
tasks of American women in Germany are becoming
more and more urgent," Mrs. John J. McCloy declared
at the women's zonal welfare conference at the Rest
Center at Chiemsee.

Speaking before an audience of some 50 American
women from all US Zone states, Mrs. McCloy said that
“one of the chief points of the Communist attacks”
originates from their women's organizations. American
women, she continued, must try to “get deep" into the
German community and give a good example of real
democracy “by influence, friendliness, patience and
generosity.”

In order to help solve the numerous problems of occu-
pation, it is important for the women of the United States
and Germany to understand each other. “We really do not
have much time,” she concluded, “it is just five minutes
before midnight.”

JULY 1950

Homes Provided for 600 Czech Refugees

Hesse has been designated as “home” for 600 more
Czech refugees.

Hessian Minister President Christian Stock was in-
structed by Dr. James R. Newman, State Commissioner
for Hesse, to prepare for the new arrivals. The US official
pointed out’ that facilities suggested by the Hessian
government near Darmstadt have been inspected and, if
prepared at once, would be adequate to house the refugees.

Two large Kaserne-type buildings would house 350 per-
sons, a former officers’ home would accommodate another
50, a wooden barracks 100, and a fourth building 50. Also
available in the community of Babenhausen are a former
theater building and several stables.

Dr, Newman told Minister President Stock to expand
the Babenhausen capacity to accommodate additional refu-
gees, in the same category, that might be assigned to Hesse.

ERP School for Community Leaders

If the story of ERP isn’t already well-known, an ERP
school for community leaders will help to tell it. A
school has been opened at Niederpoecking, near Starn-
berg, in Bavaria, to enable community leaders more
effectively to tell the story of European recovery to
cities, towns and on farms throughout the state.

The school is to cover four or five days of extensive
study of the various aspects of the Marshall Plan and
its objectives.

“It is expected that the school will provide an ex-
cellent source of discussion group leaders and town
meeting speakers from which US resident officers can
draw for their informational programs," said Richard
N. Meyer, chief of the Adult Education Section of
OLCB's Public Affairs Division. “Bavarian community
leaders will be better equipped to acquaint their fellow
Germans with the Marshall Plan and to show how the
individual himself plays an important role in this over-
all economic recovery effort.”

Seven members of the German parliament (Bundestag) re-
turned to Rhine/Main airbase May 23 after five-week visit
to the United States, where they observed government
operations at the national, state and city levels. L.-r., the
exchangees are Dr. Eduard Wahl (CDU, Heidelberg); Willie
Fischer (SPD, Fuerth); Willi Lausen (SPD, Stuttgart); Erich
Lange (SPD, Essen); Aenne Brauksiepe (CDU, Duisburg);
Dr. Josef Trischler (FDP, Munich), and Dr. Gebhard Seelos,
Bavarian Party, Munich.

(PRD HICOG photo)

--- Page 55 ---
Monsignor Nicholas Wegner, successor to Father Flana-
gan of Boys Town, Neb., made in May a tour of inspec-
tion of youth activities in Germany, visiting the Buchoff
Boys Town in Bavaria and conferring with sponsors of
a similar enterprise at Karlsruhe. On his visit to the
USAFE Headquarters, Monsignor Wegner (second from
left) was photographed, 1.-r., with Sgt. Donald L. Roybal,
director of Buchoff Boys Town; Dr. Robert L. Welch,
deputy Resident Officer in Karlsruhe; Capt. T. Blatz, chap-
Jain; Rev. Walter Adloch. (USAFE photo)

Approximately 30 Bavarian leaders were to be invited
from a group of persons nominated by US resident officers
from their counties,

Newsmen Tenants Granted Extension

Newsmen, consular representatives and certain business-
men can relax — EUCOM doesn't intend to evict them.

These three groups (the businessmen are those who
came to Germany to assist the US authorities in their
occupation mission) were informed on July 1, 1949, that
their homes would be derequisitioned at the end of one
year. Thereafter, they would be obliged to find new
quarters, or make private arrangements for continued
occupancy.

But additional time has now been allowed by the
European Command so these people may make satis-
factory arrangements for housing and other necessary
accommodations.

Approximately 165 members of consular staffs and
missions and about 60 businessmen, with their depend-
ents, are affected by the extension. The extension of
the privilege to occupy space derequisitioned under the
notice of July 1949 will affect only members of these
groups who were in the US Zone at that time and who
have been unable to make their own space arrange-
ments because of current shortage.

The extension is being granted to effect transfer of
these groups to the German economy without undue
hardship. Originally, members of these groups who had
not found housing on the German economy would have
faced ‘‘mass eviction” July 1.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

German owners of property occupied by such persons
are reimbursed at standard rental rates. Thus no cost
to the Occupation Forces is involved in continued re-
tention of such property by these persons.

Seven RO's Assigned to Hesse Posts

Hesse gained seven new resident officers in May.

The new resident officers are part of the first group
specially trained by the State Department, at the Foreign
Service Institute, Washington, D.C., for foreign service
as resident officers. Their courses included German area
and language study. Their training was continued at
HICOG Headquarters and at OLC Hesse before they
were given assignments.

Charles Thomas Butler has been assigned to Eschwege,
Jonathan Dean to Main-Taunus, Earl Henry Lubseansky
to Kassel, Robert L. Ouverson to Erbach, John D, Gough
to Gelnhausen, John P. Shaw to Witzenhausen, and
Thomas Clifford Stave to Alsfeld-Lauterbach.

More Free Shoes For Kiddies

There will be 150,000 more pairs of shoes for Ger-
many’s children this year — thanks to a DM 5,000,000
contribution from the German Federal Republic.

These shoes, and 100,000 sets of bed-linen and more
than 175,000 children's coats, will be manufactured under
the aegis of UNICEF — the United Nations International
Children's Emergency Fund.

The government's contribution to the central financing
of UNICEF activities followed a two-day conference in
Berlin attended by federal and state officials and
UNICEF representatives. It illustrated the keen interest
of government in welfare problems of German children
and youth.

Since the UNICEF Mission to Germany was estab-
lished on Dec. 1, 1948, 175,000 pairs of shoes, 121,000 pairs
of woolen stockings, 65,000 woolen pullovers and other
items have been distributed to German children,

Four German veterinarians are briefed by Dr. Karl Buhl
(center), Frankfurt city official, prior to departure in May
for United States under ECA's technical assistance pro-
gram. L.-r., Dr. Hans Schellner, of Schleissheim; Prof.
Martin Seelemann, Kiel; Dr. Buhl; Dr. Arthur Thiele, Ober-
hausen, and Dr. Wilhelm Meyer, Hanover.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

JULY 1950

--- Page 56 ---
Mrs. J. E. Weisler (black dress) with the Frankfurt Military
Post Girl Scouts at annual Court of Awards at the Colo-
nels’ Mess in Frankfurt Casino. Mrs. Weisler, who hails
from Texas, is leader of troop made up of children of US

personnel. Many scouts received awards, (US Army photo)
McCloy Speech Urged on Schools

US High Commissioner McCloy's London speech of
April 5 is now recommended reading for all school
officials in Hesse.

The study of American occupation policy in Germany
is to become the theme of political lessons in all Hessian
schools. In a directive published in the official gazette
of the Hessian ministry of education, Dr. Erwin Stein,
minister of education, recommended that all school
officials brush up on their facts by studying Mr. McCloy’s
speech, held before London's Pilgrims Society.

In his recommendation, the Hessian minister pointed
out that this important speech contained all the basic
facts about US occupation policy.

Film Synchronization to Aid Berlin

America’s large motion picture firms* will bring from
between DM 6,500,000 and DM 7,000,000 worth of business
to Berlin during the coming year. The firms are expected
to place dubbing and synchronization orders in this sum;
contracts have already been concluded by MGM, RKO,
Paramount, Fox, Warner Brothers, United Artists and
Universal for the synchronization of 70 pictures. Republic
Pictures intends to do all its synchronization — 15 pictures
next year — in Berlin.

The synchronization and laboratory work will give
employment to 120 artists and technicians for each film.

Included in the program is the far-famed Oscar-winner
“Gone with the Wind."

Ex-Food Official Gets 90 Days
Ninety days in jail were confirmed in May for Fritz
Dietz, former member of the Hessian Food Ministry, for

* See “Hollywood Stars Speak German’ in the May 1950 issue of
the Information Bulletin,

JULY 1950

53

refusing to answer questions of US decartelization
officials during an investigation. Confirmation of the
sentence came from the Court of Appeals of the US
Courts of the Allied High Commission.

Dietz was tried in Frankfurt last July and convicted
on two counts in the charges. The case was argued in
Nuremberg during April and conviction was affirmed on
one count.

Dietz was questioned in February 1949 in connection
with an investigation of his activities while an official
of the Hessian Food Ministry. The investigation dis-
closed that the Hessian government had made a loan
to the Wetterau Sugar Company. Dietz refused to answer
questions concerning the existence of a contract be-
tween the sugar firm and the Gebrueder Dietz company,
in which he was interested.

Soviet News, Thought Control Detailed

Wolf Littmann, news editor until recently of the
Soviet-controlled Radio Halle and now a political re-
fugee in Free Berlin, told an AFN listening audience
that the Freie Deutsche Jugend (FDJ) is a weapon in the
Communist ideological war and that Soviet Zone youth
is being systematically perverted to communist ends,

Littmann declared he had fled the Soviet Zone when
Communist and Russian pressure, censorship and directed
thought became intolerable. “Every manuscript I pre-
pared for broadcast," he said, “had to be submitted for
approval first to the chief editor, who represented the
SED, and then to the Russian control officer, a captain
of the Soviet Military Administration. Political censor-
ship was terribly strict."

Littmann, himself formerly a member of the SED and
the FDJ, reported that membership in the SED was a

Edgar T. Martin (left), communications specialist with the
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG, received commenda-
tion for meritorious service overseas from Robert M. Hanes,
director, Office of Economic Affairs, and chief, ECA Spe-
cial Mission to Germany, in his office at HICOG Head-

quarters Building, Frankfurt, May 11. (PRD HICOG photo}

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
prerequisite for professional
activity in the Soviet Zone.
Individuality and personal
opinion which did not adhere
strictly to the “party line,"
he said, were taboo in the
Soviet Zone society.

“The FDJ is an organiza-
tion patterned after the former
Hitler Youth,” Littmann de-
clared. “All of its leaders are
members of the SED... so
that the Communist-control-

to August 1948,"

Sign of the Times

To make things easier for HICOG Reactions
Analysis survey teams, advance notices are sent
out to prospective interviewees, asking when they
will be at home. Some of the replies read like
markers in 20th century history. This reply in
English was recently received from a German
woman residing in the US Sector of Berlin:

“Please take notice that addressee Rudolf Falk
died on March 6, 1950, in consequence of the three
years prison in Camp Buchenwald from May 1945

its frequent shut-offs of elec-
tric current. Technical dif-
ficulties prevented execution
of the plan at that time.

The plan was revived last
year, but for a different pur-
pose. With the intensification
of the Cold War and the
increased terror in the Soviet-
occupied territory it became
desirable to offer such a ser-
vice above all to the popula-
tion of the Soviet Sector and

led SED controls the FDJ

through its leaders, Through the FDJ, the Communists
are trying to carry their ideas into western Germany," he
said. ‘Parents of West German members of the FDJ do not
realize the situation in the Soviet Zone... they do not
realize how dangerous it is to have the minds of their
children exposed to the thinking of eastern Germany.

“Many of the FDJ members in western Germany," he
went on, “are only members because they think of the
FDJ as a youth organization and do not realize what is
behind it...they do not realize the great danger that it
holds for the peace of both Eastern and Western Ger-
many.”

Berliners Get News via Telephone

More than 10,000 Berliners these days are getting their
radio news by telephone. All they do is dial 23" or
“24,000 and tune in on news broadcasts from RIAS, the
American-operated radio station in Berlin.

More than one-third of the listeners are Soviet Sector
residents — and it's rumored that many a Soviet-control-
led official is among them,

The idea of bringing the latest news into Berlin homes
by telephone was first conceived during the blockade with

In Keno Theater at Stuttgart's main railroad station, Maj.
Gen. Charles P. Gross (extreme right) spoke at ceremonies
attending opening of Marshall Plan exhibit aboard a 15-car
train now on a 50-day tour, displaying goods manufac-
tured in Wuerttemberg-Baden factories aided by ECA.
L.-r., seated, are Luther H, Hodges, chief, Industry and
Commerce Division, HICOG; Dr. Hermann Veit, W.-B.
minister of economics; Arnulf Klett, mayor of Stuttgart,
and George L. Erion, recently-appointed chief, Economics
Affairs Division, OLCWB, (PRB OLCWB photo)

Zone areas near Berlin and
connected with the local telephone net. The service was
put into operation on Oct. 1, 1949 and was an immediate
success. By telephone, any phone customer is able to hear
two to three-minute tape recordings of the latest news.
Three times daily a new recording is available.

When, early this year, RIAS officials discovered that
Soviet Sector postal authorities were attempting to block
the first number — ‘'23'' — they set up the second number.
Telephone experts claim it is almost impossible, or would
take at least six months and great effort, to block the five-
digit-number, ‘’24,000." ‘

Since its initiation the service has expanded from 100
lines to its present 145.

15-Car ECA Train on Tour

A teletype message was transmitted to Paul Hoffman,
ECA Chief in Washington,

“We desire to inform you that the 15-car (ECA) exhibit
train, the first of its kind in any of the participating
countries, has today started its 50-day journey through
Land Wuerttemberg-Baden.

“Carrying the goods of more than 300 Wuerttemberg-
Baden industries, the train is eloquent testimony to suc-
cess of the international co-operation which marks ERP."

This message was sent in the latter days of May from
Car No.15 of the 15-car Marshall Plan exhibition train
which began its tour from Stuttgart.

Ceremonies in Stuttgart’s railroad station launched the
event. High-ranking American and German officials made
speeches to an overflow audience and prizes were awarded
to five Stuttgart elementary school children who won a
recently-completed Marshall Plan contest.

The public was admitted to the train before it began its
tour of 25 Wuerttemberg-Baden cities.

School Reform Aired in Bremen

Progressive education is being “advertised” on the air
waves of Radio Bremen, local German station. A biweekly
program series designed to create wider public interest in
and understanding of modern progressive educational
methods was launched recently in the area.

JULY 1950

--- Page 58 ---
The series, under the general title “For Parents and
Educators," began with a talk by Christian Paulmann,
Bremen senator for schools and education, on the advan-
tages of Bremen’s recently enacted school reform law.

He stressed that the reform offered equal educational
opportunity to all children regardless of wealth or social
position. The law also recognizes the right of parents to
observe and influence the functioning of the school system.
It gives a parents’ association an official voice in the main
education policy committees. In this respect Bremen is far
ahead of the rest of Germany.

Mr, Paulmann concluded: “There is no place in our
schools for slave mentalities. Our aim is to awaken the
spirit of responsible citizenship in the hearts of our youth.”

Furniture Orders Boost to Berlin

Berlin's economy got another boost as orders placed by
US Occupation Authorities jacked furniture production
up 15 to 20 percent.

The 15 Berlin factories working on American furniture
orders hired approximately 100 unemployed laborers and
technicians asa direct result of the increased demand. The
100 represent about 20 percent of all employees in the
15 plants.

Stepped-up production in west Berlin furniture factories
became possible in March 1950 when orders for DM
2,000,000 worth of high-grade household furniture were
placed by US Army procurement officers.

Civic Knowledge Pays Off

Knowing about your city government and democracy's
principles pays off in Berlin.

Forty-eight German boys and girls from the 11 German
Youth Activities centers of Berlin and the Haus der
Jugend were selected for a pleasure flight over West
3erlin May 20 as guests of the US Air Force in Europe.
They were chosen on the basis of an examination on
democracy and the functions of Berlin's government.

Quizzes were conducted among approximately 6,000
young Germans. The flight coincided with the Armed
Forces Day celebration in the city.

Bremen's Progressive Medicos Praised

Laurels to Bremen's physicians were passed out by
Dr. Gerald N, Rein, public health and welfare adviser for
the Public Affairs Division, OLC Bremen.

Dr. Rein commented upon the “Continuation Course for
Physicians," the first of its kind since the war's end, held
in Bremen for physicians from all parts of western Ger-
many. Main speakers were prominent medical experts
irom Bonn, Duesseldorf, Muenster, Hamburg, Goettingen,
Frankfurt and Bremen.

Aim of the conference was to give a great number of
physicians in western Germany a chance for free inter-
change of opinion and ideas on recent medical develop-
ments and to build up a more personal contact with one
another, Dr. Rein praised it as an encouraging forecast of
progressive medical practices by Bremen physicians.

JULY 1950

Orphan in US as VFW's Guest

An 18-year-old Berlin orphan is presently in the United
States as guest of the Ladies Auxiliary of the Veterans
of Foreign Wars.

Irmgard Remme was chosen for the trip among 30 teen-
agers under the Ladies Auxiliary’s “Foster Parents’ Plan
for War Children,” launched in March of this year. Under
the plan, teen-age war orphans are exchanged between
the United States and six European countries.

Only three days prior to her departure, Miss Remme
graduated from high school. When she returns from the
United States, she plans to begin studies of German
language, literature and journalism at the Free University
of Berlin. She had in mind “many questions’ to ask the
youth of America, and hoped to find there the optimism
and strong ideals which she feels so many European
youths lack.

The Ladies Auxiliary's project has been commended by
US High Commissioner McCloy as ‘a voluntary extension
of the HICOG Cultural Exchange Program and, as such,
a bridge between the youth of Europe and America.”

Postal Rates Identical in All Zones

Uniform rates for all official postal, postal financial and
telecommunications services to the Allied forces in Ger-
many have been established by the Deutsche Post.

The changes were effected by communications repre-
sentatives of the Allied High Commission and the German
Federal Ministry for Posts and Telecommunications. —

Thus are eliminated a number of differences in the rates
previously charged for official services in the US, French
and UK areas of control. In general, the terms of the agree-
ment call for the application of normal commercial rates
for official services and facilities. +END

Nicholas Semaschko, Resident Officer at Heilbronn, re-
ceived June 2 a photo album as a gift of appreciation from
the mayors of 29 towns in the county of Esslingen, near
Stuttgart, where he had served as Resident Officer for
more than three years, Mr, Semaschko (center) leafs
through album with Georg Geist, Esslingen county coun-
cilor. (Photo by Claude Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 59 ---
German Editorials

This section is compiled from a summary prepared by the Press & Publications
Branch, Information Services Division, HICOG, of editorials in the German press.

The publishing of these German edi-
torlals is intended to inform the Ameri-
can readers of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, without interpre-
tation. The inclusion of any statement
from the German press does not give
concurrence to the view or opinion,

ITH OBVIOUS RELIEF the West German press

published reports, mostly from its own correspond-
ents, on the quiet course of the Berlin Whitsun demonstra-
tion of the Freie Deutsche Jugend (FDJ), the so-called
Free German Youth of the Soviet Zone. .

Most papers stressed the fact that it would be well not
to ‘rejoice too loudly because further provocation from
the East might be expected at any time. The press also
shook its head over the fact that the Eastern powers-
that-be have apparently succeeded in winning over a
high percentage of East zone youth. There was a general
drawing of parallels with similar Hitler demonstrations,

A large part of the press pointed out with pride that
much of the Berlin population, in both the Eastern and
Western sectors, blandly ignored the demonstration.

Whitsuntide in Berlin

Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frankfurt, June 1) believed
that the Soviet Zone offensive against the West will con-
tinue, since the SED cannot afford to risk a merger of the
zones. However, this aggressive policy against West
Berlin and the Federal Republic will be characterized, the
paper believed, by an avoidance of direct provocation of
the Western Occupation Powers.

Frankfurter Rundschau (Frankfurt) contrasted the cool
attitude of the West and East Berlin populations with the
enthusiasm of the FDJ children:

“This march was impressive, we must frankly admit,
but the Nazis did it even better. The latter at least suc-

ceeded in enthusing the general population whereas this
time the East Berlin population was apathetic, to say the
least. In this respect Berlin’s East sector and East zone
are closely bound; they both display every: evidence of
passive resistance. The real feeling of these populations
would very quickly be demonstrated in a free election.”

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) also stressed the at-
litude of the population: “It was undoubtedly a master-
piece of totalitarian organization. But we have been well
acquainted with such arts in Germany since 1933, when
even the emissaries of the Western democracies were
awestruck and moved to reverence by Nuremberg Party
days. We, however, find the demonstrative lack of in-
terest of the East Berliners the most impressive feature
of the present occasion."

The paper, however, was depressed by what it called
the obvious fact that East zone German youth had been .
largely won over to the Soviets by the same methods
that prevailed in Hitler times, namely, uniforms, marches
and mass organization.

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt) added a warning:
“Once more the tread of half-a-million youthful marching
feet sounds through the ruined streets of the erstwhile
Reichs capital. Many of them are honestly convinced that
they serve a good cause. We in the West should take this
to heart, It is easy to treat the situation with ridicule and
irony, but the West should not underestimate its serious-
ness despite the fact that no incidents occured.”

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Nordsee Zeitung, Bremerhaven, May 20)

Diplomatic Equality.
“HICOG says I can have long pants, too.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

56

(Europa Kurier, Hamburg, May 19)

_/
te -EE:
wer
Spring is here!

JULY 1950

--- Page 60 ---
(Rheinische Post, Duesseldorf,
May 20)

America and Europe.

Der Volkswirt (Frankfurt, May 26) sees
political reality in Europe determined by
American conceptions and initiative:

“The greatest surprise of our days is the
steadiness and consequence with which the
United States pursues its political course...

“The novice of 30 years ago, whose en-
thusiasm was quickly outwitted and disap-
pointed by European political routine, has
ripened into a man with a keen sense of re-
sponsibility who knows exactly where he is
going... The tender ideological plants brought
forth by Woodrow Wilson in the conferences
after World War I have grown into stately
trees in whose shadow beaten Europe seeks peace.

“The Messianic element in American political concep-
tion which was greeted with such scornful laughter 30
years ago has proved itself so strong that it today
determines the course of political events all over the
world, It consists of the strong ‘belief that the American
way alone leads to peace and security. This American
sense of having a mission has done more to change the
political face of the world than the war itself...

“It has destroyed colonial empires, has changed the
framework of states and continents and has resulted in
an orientation of the world toward America in place of
Europe.

“In this respect Europe is finished. It is not only
CARE packages and Marshall Plan dollars which keep
Europe alive, but also the political ideas which flow out
of America today...

“For the European mentality it is difficult to realize
that American statesmen mean exactly what they say, In
European opinion the essence of political action consists
of tricks, deception, mistrust and secret pacts. A clear
statement of political aims is regarded as either stupidity
or an attempt to deceive. It took a long time for Europe
to realize that Marshall help, world export liberalization,
lowering of tariff walls, the Clearing Union and the At-
lantic Pact were realities and part of a comprehensive
plan which the Americans were tenaciously following.
The announced aim of an organization for peaceful and
prosperous co-operation among the nations is too simple
for Europeans to grasp without suspicion...

“Germany is perhaps the country where American aims
are best understood and appreciated, because Germany's
hope and future are necessarily bound up with a European
federation such as the Americans have in mind..."

Monnet in Germany

The talks between Jean Monnet, French planning com-
missioner, and Chancellor Adenauer occupied consider-
able press attention as the first official Franco-German
contact on the Schuman Plan. The Mannheimer Morgen
(Mannheim, May 24) even went so far as to characterize
the Monnet-Adenauer meeting as one of the most impor-
tant events since the foundation of the Federal Republic.

JULY 1950

Franco-German
Steel Merger.
Schuman:

“We supply Monnet;
who supplies the money?”

57

The overwhelming majority of press opi- »
nion favors the Schuman Plan, but the first
burst of enthusiasm has now given way to
some hesitation and doubt. For one thing,
there is frequent mention of the fact that
much will depend upon the spirit of the nego-
tiations, that is, whether Germany will be re-
garded as an equal power independent of the
restrictions hitherto placed upon it.

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) demands
that preparatory discussion on the Schuman
Plan be conducted on a basis of equality be-
tween capital and labor as well as between
countries. .

Moreover, the fact that France itself seems
by no means in unanimous agreement in regard to the plan
is also causing a certain amount of skepticism. Many
papers profess to see a behind-the-scenes struggle de-
veloping between Paul Reynaud as spokesman of
French private industry and Jean Monnet as proponent
of a state-controlled organization. .

McCloy's Hanover Speech :

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy’s speech at
the opening of the America House in Hanover was given
widespread publicity and was generally regarded as a
significant utterance. The Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frank-
furt, May 25) was especially impressed by. the declaration
that Allied troops in Germany are no longer essentially
occupation troops, but are here to defend Germany and
Europe against dictatorship and oppression.

“Here is proof. from the highest source," says the
paper, “that Germany is no longer merely a pawn in the
game of the great Powers, but at least a state with in-
dependent rights. This opens hopeful perspectives.”

Wiesbadener Kurier (Wiesbaden) assesses Mr. McCloy’s
speech as almost equivalent to a peace treaty. It re-
joices over his declaration that the vital and non-
fatalistic German people cannot be neutral in the present -
situation and concludes by saying: ‘He is right, free men
can only choose freedom.”

Federal Police

Die Rheinpfalz (Ludwigshafen, June 6), commenting on
rumors and denials concerningDr. Adenauer's proposal and
the West's alleged determination to establish a Federal
police force, writes: "... The London Conference. showed
that the Allies no longer consider their forces in Ger-
many as occupation troops but as protection for the
West German territory. Therefore, it is up to them to
take over the tasks which the federal chancellor ap-
parently has intended for his federal police..."

The paper refers to the states’ objections to establish-
ment of a police force on a federal basis since police
authority is vested in the state governments, and their
doubts whether the Basic Law permits creation of an
institution which had not been provided for and the
purpose of which cannot be seen.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, May 20)

Love's Labor Lost.

Insurance Agent Trygve Lie: “He doesn't seem
to want any.”

“Or should the name ‘Bundespolizei’ cover something
which exceeds the original purpose of a police force?
Let us hope this is not so. Let us rather believe Mr.
McCloy's words that a federal police force must not be
of military or similar nature. However, it would have
been best if talk about this force’..had not been
started at all.”

Easing of Industry Control

Hessische Nachrichten (Kassel, June 6) welcomes the
new decontrol measures* announced by the Allied High
Commission and sees therein symptoms of a new Allied
attitude toward West Germany: “In as much as Germany
is to become a member of a great economic union (Schu-
man Plan), matters are being viewed from a different
angle. Germany is part of Europe and its steel and coal
merger can flourish only if economic prosperity of each
member state is assured.”

“New Line in US Policy”

Europa Kurier (Hamburg, May 19) is enthusiastic:
“Recent attitudes and expressions of Allied statesmen
give the German people a chance to breathe with re-
lief for the first time since the end of the war...It be-
gan with the surprising French offer of economic co-
operation... It continued with the speech of the US Sec-
retary of State to the British Pilgrims’ Society, in which
he acted almost like a blood brother of the Germans
and left no doubt in anyone's mind about the new line
of US foreign policy ...The London Conference, which
was at first regarded with skepticism here, ended with
a communique which was entirely in the spirit of the
Schuman Plan, which for the first time embodies a sin-

* Due to pressure of space, the full texts of the industry and
other decontrol laws enacted by the Allied High Commission early
in June are being held over and will appear in the August 1950
issue of the Information Bulletin. — Editor.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

cere proposal without tricky or humiliating conditions
and which completely lacks the pharisaical tone to which
we have become accustomed...

“The Schuman Plan represents a victory for the
French which completely wipes out their defeat of 1940
...and which can turn out to be of greater significance
for Europe than all military victories of the past cen-
tury taken together — provided that it is wisely and
energetically followed through...

“The revolutionary nature of the French merger plan
is particularly in evidence in its references to Africa...
which offer prospects for the future which are positively
breath-taking... A European state with Africa as a
hinterland could build an economically and nationally
sound ‘Third Power’. whose very existence would act as
a balance between the East and West power blocs.

“The German people have been assigned a decisive role
by fate on this divided European continent. A rush for
German favor has begun. As first reaction to the Schu-
man Plan, Stalin reduced oppressive reparations by 50
percent...and Stalin and the Kremlin will have other
trump cards to throw on the table which will perhaps
please the Germans even more.

“One, day the German people will have to decide. We
do not doubt that they will decide for free Europe, whose
contours are now becoming visible. It would be good
policy for the Allies to make the decision easy..."

Advantages of Democracy

Die Zeit (Hamburg, May 25) says that the fact that
Assistant High Commissioner Buttenwieser was not per-
mitted to deliver his planned speech to the Anti-Defama-
tion League in Chicago was offset by the fact that it was
published in practically every American newspaper:

“Many people in Germany probably grinned to them-
selves over the undemocratic reasons given by the Anti-
Defamation League to justify its refusing its rostrum to
Mr. Buttenwieser, who is Mr. McCloy's Assistant Com-
missioner. The League, which is a Jewish welfare or-
ganization, said: ‘After reading a copy of your proposed

(Frankenpost, Hof, May 25)

Worker Plant Participation.
Adenauer: ‘In our zone the workers will soon
have a voice in management!"
Grotewohl: ‘In ours we're giving even the
employers a voice!"

JULY 1950

--- Page 62 ---
(Rheinische Post, Duesseldorf,
)

May 24)

talk, we find we are not in agree-
ment with it.’ No doubt the 1,000
guests who came to Chicago to
get aythentic news of Germany
from an authority on the subject
were greatly surprised at such
an authoritarian conception of
freedom of speech. Nevertheless,
the next morning they and many
others who normally would not
have heard about the speech at
all, could read in all of Ameri-
ca’s newspapers what Mr. Butten-
wieser wanted to say in Chicago.

“Thus it may be said that such
an arbitrary act cannot be held
against American democracy;
on the contrary, the way it
worked out clearly showed the
advantages of democracy.

“After all that has happened, it is not surprising that
a Jewish committee does not agree with the view of the
Assistant High Commissioner that not all Nazis were
devils. On the other hand, one must acknowledge the
fairness of a man like Benjamin Buttenwieser, who no
doubt thought otherwise in 1946, when he today openly
declares that ‘even former Nazis, who have been acquitted
or have paid the penalty, must again be allowed to work
in the community as accepted members.'”

Remilitarization.
“If he rejects it, he’s no
European; if he takes it,
he's a militarist!”

Denazification Scandal

Christ und Welt (Stuttgart, May 18) says that the Ger-
man population is in agreement with the attitude of the
American authorities in the Stuttgart denazification in-
vestigation:

“Every state suffers from a certain amount of corrup-
tion... but the way such cases are handled when they
come to light enables one to form a judgment, on state
and government as well as its citizens... In the Wuert-
temberg-Baden denazification scandal, the population,
the US state commissioner, the press and the police found
themselves in unusual agreement in their desire that
the case be thoroughly cleared up as soon as possible...
These forces were opposed by the suspects, by the gov-
ernment, the Landtag (state parliament) and the prosecutor
——also a most unusual combination.

“This defense front tried to hush the whole matter
up as a harmless political trifle. It did not act very
skillfully and encountered strong opposition from the
American Occupation Authorities ...As a matter of fact,
the German people must be sincerely thankful to Mr.
McCloy and General Gross for their insistence in this
matter...

“But the most remarkable part about the whole affair
is that the Occupation Power thus encourages the people
to take a stand against a government which it put in
power itself in 1945... If we understand General Gross cor-
Tectly he is now trying to tell us that the ‘old politicians’
of the Weimar democracy, such as are represented by

JULY 1950

59

the present Wuerttemberg-Baden government, are unable
to cope with present day conditions and should be re-
placed by more modern democrats. If this is your mean-
ing, General, you will find thousands of adherents not
only in Wuerttemberg-Baden but throughout the Federal
Republic.

“Nobody can call the actions of the Wuerttemberg-
Baden government in the May-Maier case democratic

.. Any attempt to picture the situation as‘a heroic
struggle for German rights against the Occupation Power
is doomed to failure. The fronts are unfortunately very
clear. In this case the German population stands shoulder-
to-shoulder with the American Occupation Power against
the German government... This is an unusual alliance,
but it is calculated to bring about order and decency
in our state."

Crisis over Co-determination?

For some time the press has regarded the problem of
the worker's right of co-determination as paramount in
German domestic affairs. The question has now become
critical due to a bill framed by the CDU/CSU which was
rejected by the FDP and the Deutsche Partei. All of these
parties being in the coalition, a major government crisis
appears to be in the making.

Badische Zeitung (Freiburg, May 24) favored the bill
outlined by the CDU/CSU because it follows a “middle
course” and, in the opinion of the paper, offered an ac-
ceptable compromise for both employer and employee.

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt) rejected the CDU
proposal on the ground that it created an unnecessary
critical situation at a time when, in view of the Schuman
Plan, all German attention should be centered on foreign
policy. The paper believes that forcing the issue on
worker participation in plant management at this time
could have an unpleasant reaction on international re-
lations and points to a statement made in Virginia by
Assistant High Commissioner Buttenwieser, who spoke
of a degree of worker participation which might cause
“uneasiness.”"*

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) regards the CDU pro-
posal as merely a tactical political maneuver in connec-
tion with the (then) approaching elections in North Rhine-
Westphalia.

War with Russia

Echo der Woche (Munich, May 19) says that the Ger-
man people are increasingly in terror of war with Russia,
but the paper believes that such fears unjustified:

. The Institute for Demoscopy took a poll and put
this question: ‘Are you worried lest a war take place
this year?’ 74 percent said ‘no,’ 26 percent answered
‘yes’... Although the overwhelming majority answered
‘no,’ the fact that a quarter of the entire people are in
fear of an early war is a basic psychological element
which must be reckoned with...

“We, however, do not believe that conditions have
reached the point which justifies such fears..." +END

page 39,

* See “Germany Today - - - Economically and Financially,"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
Students More Liberal than Their Elders

REQUENT CHARGES that German universities are

strongholds of conservativism and nationalism have
been substantially refuted by a HICOG survey. The
survey disclosed that university students generally show
more liberal attitudes and keener political interests than
their elders.

The overwhelming majority of students questioned in the
survey claim to be interested in politics, favor a govern-
ment assuring civil liberties over one guaranteeing eco-
nomic security, and are against shouldering a rifle again
even if they were offered an officer's commission.

The analysis was made by the staff of the Reactions
Analysis Branch, Information Services Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, at the request of the Office of
the State Commissioner for Bavaria, in February as an
initial survey of a continuing study on the opinion of
West German students.

Trained German personnel under professional American
supervision interviewed 300 representative students at
Munich University and 260 at Erlangen University. As
many of the questions used have been frequently asked
the US Zone public in previous surveys, the attitudes of
students could be compared with general US Zone opinion
in many instances.

T WAS POINTED OUT that the study is only a pre-

liminary one and a more considered judgment must
wait on a larger, more detailed survey. Following are
highlights of the survey:

Eight in 10 Munich and Erlangen students claim to be
interested in politics, constituting a sharp contrast to
expressed attitudes of the US Zone public, which since
1946 has registered majority disinterest.

If required to choose, about 70 percent of the students
would select a government assuring civil liberties, over
one guaranteeing economic security. This was a marked
difference from US Zone respondents who, when asked
the same question, voted six out of 10 for security.

Half of the students polled are of the opinion that
Germans today are not capable of democratic govern-
ment, giving as major reasons: insufficient experience
in democratic procedures, and too soon after the Hitler
fiasco to learn.

Nearly two-thirds of the students feel that present
political parties are doing constructive work. Seven out
of 10 are rather dubious about the good intentions of
the parties, asserting that if a choice between general
welfare and party advantage were necessary, the parties
would look to their own interests. As some students
phrased it, “The politicians will always ‘do what they
want, anyway."

About one-quarter of the students consider Germany
responsible for the war, as compared to 37 percent of
adults. Two-thirds of the students ascribe the origin of
the war to such “particular circumstances” as “Hitler
and his expansion policies;* “Germany became too
powerful; the Versailles treaty, and economic crises

INFORMATION BULLETIN

60

throughout the world. More than three quarters of the
students feel that Germany was defeated by superiority
of the opponent, and about a sixth by treachery at home,
while but 45 percent of US Zone adults credited military
superiority and 38 percent blamed treachery.

To the question: “Suppose Germany had an army again
— would you want to become a soldier?’ 96 percent at
Munich and 91 percent at Erlangen replied “No.” Even
with the opportunity of becoming an officer, nine out of
10 were still against joining an army. About 70 Rerceny
of the students are German army veterans.

HECKING STUDENT attitudes toward nationalism, the

survey showed that almost half the students in both
universities defined it in terms such as ‘exaggerated pride
in one’s country," “extreme national selfishness,” etc.,
clearly indicating that they consider nationalism danger-
ous. This compares with about 12 percent of the US Zone
public who held a similar opinion, but more than half of
the public was unable to define nationalism in any terms,
while all of the students venture definition.

About two-thirds of the students express satisfaction
with the accomplishments of the Bonn government, as
compared to only one-third of US Zone adults who were
satisfied. About three-fourths of the students feel the
government was unduly influenced by the Western
Powers, but only a fraction consider Bonn to be a puppet
of the occupiers, and most students do not favor an early
departure of occupation troops from Germany. +END

German Police in US Zone Total 61,634
The total strength of German police and specialized
law enforcement agencies in the US Zone of Germany
and the US Sector of Berlin was 61,634 on Jan., according
to the latest semi-annual report by the Public Safety
Branch, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG.

The colorful Horse Platoon of the 16th Constabulary
Squadron (Separate) in Berlin celebrated its fifth anni-
verscry with a parade and presentation of awards at

McNair Barracks on May 6. (US Army photo)

JULY 1950

--- Page 64 ---
Declaration on Germany

HE LONDON CONFERENCE of Foreign Ministers in
May dominated both the United States and German
press and overshadowed all other events.

In American papers much of the comment centered on
the Foreign Ministers’ policy statements on Germany and
editorial opinion on the meeting was linked with endorse-
ment of the French initiative in making the proposal for
pooling Franco-German coal and steel resources.

In western Germany, the majority of comment was
more restrained than in the United States. The press,
especially the weeklies, contained much disappointed
comment on the London communique.

Despite US High Commissioner John J. McCloy’s state-
ment upon his return from London that the policy declara-
tion on Germany did not herald a new Petersberg pro-
tocol nor foreshadow dissolution of the Allied High Com-
mission, a number of German newspapers interpreted
the Foreign Ministers’ communique as betokening a
speedy relaxation of reserve powers and denoting a com-
plete change in the Western attitude toward Germany.
The main body of the press, however, was more reserved
in its attitude and warned against premature enthusiasm.

Some German opinion criticized the communique as
insignificant, unclear as to actual content and intent, and
characteristic of the vacillating attitude of the Allies on
all German questions. Therefore, the newspapers said, in
effect, let's turn from this to the concrete Schuman Plan.

ANY GERMAN NEWSPAPERS, however, joined

with the American press in treating the results of
the conference as encouraging signs for future Western
co-operation rather than startling developments in
themselves. In this they were in line with the ideas ex-
pressed by Secretary of State Dean Acheson in addres-
sing Congress upon his return to the United States.

“I would not wish you to expect a report of events
which could be described as sensational, Mr. Acheson
said, “The significance of the discussions with Mr. Bevin
and Mr. Schuman... lies in the fact they are working
business meetings which are becoming a regular institu-
tion. In this aspect of the meetings, we see the outward
sign of a comprehension which ran through every dis-
cussion and every resolution —that the North Atlantic
community is emerging as a political reality of the great-
est importance.

“This impression and one other should be underlined.
The other is a new vigor in European life and European
leadership. Mr. Schuman's coal and steel proposals, and
the reception accorded them particularly in Germany, are
one sign of this. The imminent solution of the problems
Surrounding the European Payments Union is another.

“These two developments — the growing acceptance of
the North Atlantic community as a community having
common interests and facing common dangers, and the
tenewed vitality and confidence in Europe — give war-
Tant in saying that the meetings mark the beginning of

JULY 1950

61

something new, something which is full of hope and the
promise of strength.”

In America:

HE BALTIMORE SUN, Baltimore, Md., said in part:
“The three-nation communique on Germany promises
Germany ultimate partnership in the West; the French
suggestion is that a partnership be established immedi-
ately in the basic industries of the two major producers...
“The West has now realized that Western Germany at
least is an essential part of its economic and political
structure. The French have expressed willingness to take
a chance that Germany can be made into a good neighbor.
“All of us are gambling, including indeed the West
German government. Their position is a particularly dif-
ficult one, for they are smack up against the Iron Curtain
and have only the weakest defense against a sudden
Russian move. Moreover, even without war, their acquies-
cence in a plan conceived in the West will make it harder
than ever for them to trade with their fellow countrymen
in the East and so their economy will remain unbalanced."
The New York Times, New York, said the Foreign
Ministers’ statement that the occupation must be con-
tinued in the ‘common interest of Germany and of Europe”
amounted in effect to a ‘security guarantee,’ and continued:
“What now remains to be done is for the Atlantic
Council to find ways and means of making that guarantee
effective for on the effectiveness of that guarantee also
depends the security of all Western Europe and of the
whole Atlantic world.”

HE SCHUMAN PLAN is described by the New York

Times as “by all odds the boldest and most dramatic
European proposal” aimed at buttressing the free Western
democracies “against the menace of Russo-Communist
imperialism.” Other leading American newspapers take
similarly favorable. views of Foreign Minister Schuman’s
plan, although a number of editorial writers caution that
obstacles and difficulties lie ahead.

The Washington Post, Washington, D. C., claims there
is logic about the French plan “that will doubtless repel
the opportunists and the doctrinaires and the drifters in
foreign-policy making."

The Post says it has been advocating this plan “as the
necessary first step in establishing the European system
in accordance with modern realities." It concludes, ‘‘the
Schuman policy is based upon the concept of a new Europe
which shall be co-prosperous and co-peaceful.

“Many have had this idea before Schuman, including
Messrs. McCloy and John Foster Dulles..."

Walter Lippmann, syndicated columnist, termed the
French proposal “the boldest, the wisest, the most far-
reaching and constructive act of statesmanship since the
end of the war.”

It is magnanimous of the French government, ‘which
is among the victors, to propose to its hereditary enemy,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
which is defeated, that they enter into a full and equal,
and indeed an intimate, partnership in European affairs,”
Mr. Lippmann declares.

In Germany:
IRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU (Leftist — Anti-national-
ist), Frankfurt, took the view that the London Con-
ference represents a sharp change in Western attitude
and policy and thinks that Moscow will be much disturbed
by this evidence of solid common Western determination,

Frankturter Neue Presse (Independent), Frankfurt, said
that as far as Germany is concerned the gain is enormous;
that no one could have dreamed of such a development
one year ago; and that the London Conference opens the
doors to the free world for Germany.

Stuttgarter Zeitung (Independent), Stuttgart, was less
enthusiastic. It stressed that no progress was made on the
question of German reunification and that relaxation of
the Occupation Statute is merely an unsatisfactory sop.
The paper believed that the Atlantic Pact Conference
would greatly exceed the Foreign Ministers’ Conference
in importance, as the former would be much more con-
cerned with realities.

Muenchener Merkur (Independent), Munich, pointed
out that an anti-Russian front and-an agreement on
general German elections are mutually exclusive. The
strong anti-Soviet language used at the Three-Power
Conference blocks the way to agreement for the present.

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Independent, moderate Left
wing), Munich, characterizes the communique as a result
of pressure of circumstances, The first task of the con-
ference, according to the paper, was to work out a
strategic plan to rescue what can still be saved from the
spreading concept of a totalitarian mass state. It has
become evident that such strategy will not be successful
unless it includes co-operation of a greater and freer.
West Germany. For this reason the Americans particular-
ly have begun to doubt the advisability of too much
interference in internal German affairs.

Therefore, the Sueddeutsche Zeitung continues, the
results of the conference should not be attributed to love
for Germany but rather to the pressure of circumstances.
Germany has little reason to feel triumphant, even over
the fact that Germany and the Germans are obviously
needed, because a return to a world which is in distress
and is arming for its defense, is bound up with respon-
sibilities and duties which will cost Germany dearly.

Kasseler Post (Nationalist), Kassel, maintained that
Chancellor Adenauer is practically alone in his exceed-
ingly optimistic interpretation of the London communique.

This paper cites a large number of skeptical foreign press
voices and criticizes Allied insistence that Germany give
further proof of its sincerity and will to peaceful democ-
racy. This paper draws an ironical comparison between
Germany and a giant tortoise named Goliath in the
London Zoo. By holding a carrot in front of this reptile
it is persuaded to give children rides on its back. It keeps
following the carrot without ever actually getting it.

“Goliath is a silly animal. It doesn't realize that if it
remained quietly in its shell it could force concessions
from an impatient public."

HE LION'S SHARE of comment was accorded to
French Foreign Minister Schuman’s proposal for an
integration of German and French heavy industry.

Many papers called it the most significant political step
since the end of the war, A majority welcomed the plan
and differed only in their stress on the problems and
the difficulties which stand in the way of its realization.

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Independent — Nationalist),
Frankfurt, comments: “If everything is done in the open,
such as seems to be Schuman’s intention, there will be less
room for fear and inferiority complexes. The great value
of the plan consists in the fact that France thus once more
takes the political initiative on the European continent.
If the plan is realized, the much discussed Third Power
will begin to take shape and many vexing problems will
be ameliorated, such as the Ruhr, the Occupation Statute,
foreign coal prices and the steel quota.”

Frankfurter Rundschau said: ‘We welcome this pro-
posal because, firstly, it is concrete and, secondly, it is
a favorable sign for the normalization of political rela-
tions with Germany, since at the moment the initiative
in such matters must be taken by France rather than
Germany. This is a bold and far-sighted plan which is
thoroughly realizable."

Badische Neueste Nachrichten (Independent), Karlsruhe,
said: “The period of Franco-German. tension is now
coming to an end, The logic of realities is forcing us upon
the way to a united Europe. The pace may at times ap-
pear slow; in reality it is very fast."

Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Munich, regarded the economic
possibilities with optimism but had doubts concerning the
political wisdom of the plan. “It seems that it is intended
to achieve by economics that which cannot be achieved
by politics. Cartels and syndicates are not a new idea.
France and Germany had a similar arrangement for potash
and steel, but that did not avert World War II.

“The great danger is that such an enormous arsenal
may again lead to war rather than prevent it.”

Foreign Ministers’ Declaration on Germany and on Berlin

The following is the text of the decla-
ration on Germany by the foreign ministers
of France, Britain and the United States,
released May 14 in London:

1. Following the London Agreements of
June 1948, and the Washington Agreements
of April 1949, the USA, France and the
United Kingdom replaced the military autho-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

rity and the direct administration of the
occupied territories in force since 1945 by
a civilian regime simply of supervision.
By virtue of this regime Germany was
able to produce a constitution, proceed to
free elections, call a parliament, form a
government and elect a federal president.
The federal government and the govern-

62

ments of the Laender (states) were able to
take over the administration and control
of internal German affairs.

Furthermore, by the agreement of April
13, 1949, the Allies decided to ease the
burden of reparations on Germany. Some
months later, under the Petersberg Protocol,
an agreement was reached for a final

JULY 1950

--- Page 66 ---
settlement in regard to the delivery of
plants by way of reparations.

In the domain of foreign relations, the
Petersberg Protocol made provision for
the appointment of German consular and
commercial representatives abroad. During
the last few months, steps have been
taken by the Western Powers to secure
the accession of the Federal Republic to
a number of international organizations,

including the Organization for European’

Economic Co-operation. Finally, she has
been invited to join the Council of Europe.
The progress made has been accomplished
in large measure thanks to the action and
the influence of the three Allied high
commissioners, in whom the three Foreign
Ministers are happy again to express their
full confidence,

2. The Allies are resolved to pursue
their aim, laid down in the Washington
agreement of April 1949, and reaffirmed at
Petersberg, that Germany shall re-enter
progressively the community of free peoples
of Europe. When that situation has been
fully reached, she would be liberated from
controls to which she is still subject and
accorded her sovereignty to the maximum
extent compatible with the basis of the
occupation regime, This regime is imposed
on the Germans and on the Allies by the
consequences of the division of Germany
and of the international position; until
this situation is modified, it must be re-
tained in accordance with the common
interests of Germany and of Europe.

The Western Powers desire to see the
pace of progress towards this end as rapid
as possible. Progress will depend upon
the degree of confident and frank co-

operation displayed by the government
and the people of the Federal Republic.
In the first place, the pace will be deter-
mined by the extent to which the Allies
can be satisfied that their own security is
safeguarded by the development in Ger-
many of a desire for peace and friendly
association with themselves. In the second
place, the pace will be set by the rate
at which Germany advances: toward a
condition in which true democracy governs
and the just liberties of the individual are
assured. Therefore, the Western Powers
wish to emphasize most strongly that the
natural desire of the German people to
secure relaxation of controls and the resto-
ration of sovereignty of their country de-
pends for its satisfaction only upon the
efforts of the German people themselves
and of their government.

They earnestly trust that the Federal
Republic will fulfill in this respect the
hopes placed in the wisdom of her people
and her leaders. Meanwhile, the high com-
missioners, in exercising the, powers re-
served to them, continue to place their
main emphasis upon essential elements of
security and fundamental democratic issues
of real importance.

3. In view of the continued refusal of
the Soviet government to permit the in-
habitants of their zone of occupation to
rejoin their fellow countrymen in a demo-
cratic and ynited Germany, it has not
been possible and will not be as long as
this Soviet policy persists, to proceed to
the conclusion of a treaty of peace with
Germany. The ministers accordingly agreed
to set up a study group in London to under-
take the necessary preparatory work to
enable the Occupation Statute to be re-

viewed at the appointed time and to make
recommendations for eliminating the major
practical inconveniences arising in the
countries concerned from the state of war,
on the understanding that in the present
situation of Europe supreme authority must
remain in the hands of the Allied Powers.

4, While retaining the framework out-
lined above, the Allies intend to give
Germany the possibility of developing
freely, while, at the same time, safe-
guarding the possibility of peaceful re-
unification of Germany, which remains
the ultimate object of their policy. The
three governments reaffirm the offers
which were formulated during the meeting
of the Council of Foreign Ministers last
June, and express the hope that the
necessary conditions for the establishment
of a government for all Germany may be
achieved which would guarantee to all
Germans respect for their laws and funda-
mental liberties, and they have agreed
upon. the conditions which are necessary,
in their opinion, for this purpose.

Declaration on Berlin

The three Western Occupation Powers
will continue to uphold their rights in
Berlin. They are resolved now as in the
past to protect the democratic rights of
the inhabitants and will co-operate with
the German authorities to improve to the
utmost the economic position of the three
Western Sectors. Meanwhile, the three
governments will continue to seek the
reunification of the city in free elections
in order that Berlin may take its due place
in a free and united Germany. -FEND

Wuerttemberg-Baden Allotted DM 65,000,000 in ECA Funds

More than DM 65,000,000 in ECA counterpart funds
has been released for allocation to public utilities, hous-
ing, food and agriculture, consumer and building and
other industries throughout Wuerttemberg-Baden, it was
announced by George L. Erion, chief of the Economic
Affairs Division, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden.

“Special attention is being given -to refugee industries
attempting to re-establish business in western Germany,”
Mr. Erion said while discussing ECA funds and their
allocation, adding the ECA counterpart funds made
available through German channels are in most cases
matched with 50 percent or more of German funds.

Continuing, Mr. Erion said: “Six power projects which
will increase the electrical generation output: appro-
ximately 165.160 kwh, have received DM 22,000,000. Six
gas generating plants and distribution stations will re-
ceive DM 2,045,000. Nine water and sewage disposal
systems received DM 3,000,000. Two trolleycar companies
received a total of DM 765,000. ;

“Housing in Wuerttemberg-Baden will benefit to the
extent of DM 7,400,000. These housing projects are
located in 24 communities and will provide 2,185 new
housing units. The housing units consist of one, two
and three room apartments, the majority being three-

JULY 1950

63

room apartments. They are located to be of the maximum
benefit to support the industry of Wuerttemberg-Baden
and are, therefore, near the larger centers of production.

“The groups receiving the next largest amount of
funds are basic industries such as chemicals, electrical
engineering, fine mechanics and optics, mechanical
engineering and manufacture of metal products. These basic
industries have received approximately DM 20,000,000.
The money is being used to modernize plant equipment,
buy new machinery, etc., thereby lowering the costs of
production. This is a necessary undertaking on the part
of German industry in order to meet world competition
in prices.

“Also included in this: allocation of funds is DM 8,400,000
to industrial firms such as textiles and clothing, leather
goods, woodworking, paper and printing and ceramics.
Of particular interest is the assistance being extended
to the Gablonz industry, an association of refugee busi-
nessmen from Sudetenland, who are actively engaged in
re-establishing their glass and porcelain manufacturing
business in Germany, Most of this firm's production
goes for export." \

A sum of DM 1,500,000 has been placed in banks for
loans to farmers and communities.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
HICOM Law No. 27 — Reorganization of German Coal
and Iron and Steel Industries

Whereas it is the policy of the Allied
High Commission to decentralize the Ger-
man economy for the purpose of elimi-
nating excessive concentration of economic
power and preventing the development of
a war potential

And whereds the Allied High Commis-
sion had decided that the question of the

: eventual ownership of the coal and iron
and steel industries should be left to the
determination of a representative, freely-
elected German government

And whereas the Allied High Commis-
sion had decided that it will not allow
the restoration of a pattern of ownership
in these industries which would constitute
excessive concentration of economic power
and will not permit the return to positions
of ownership and control of those per-
sons who have been found or may be
found to have furthered the aggressive
designs of the National Socialist Party

And whereas it is expedient that those
industries should forthwith be reorganized
with a view to the promotion of the
recovery of the German economy

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacts as follows:

= Article 1
Control and Seizure

1. The title to assets owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the enterprises
listed or described in Schedules ‘‘A,"’ ‘‘B,"
“C" and “E" of this law shall be subject
to seizure by the Allied High Commission.
Pending such seizure, such assets and
enterprises shall be placed under the
control of the Allied High Commission.

2. Any rights of seizure and powers of
control over such assets and enterprises
already assumed pursuant to any Occu-
pation legislation shall continue and be
exercised by the Allied High Commission.

Article 2

Enterprises Subject to Liquidation
and Reorganization

1, The current liquidation proceedings
in respect of the enterprises listed or
described in Schedule “’B” of this law shall
be completed. The enterprises listed or
described in Schedule “A shall be liqui-
dated and reorganized with a view to the
elimination of excessive concentrations of
economic power which constitute a threat
to international peace or to the mainte-
nance of democratic government in Ger-
many or which unreasonably restrain trade.

2. The Allied High Commission will in-
clude any enterprise listed or described
in Schedule “‘C’ and some or all of the
assets of such enterprise in the reorgani-
zation plans under this law only if:

(a) such assets are presently operated
by an operating company listed in Schedule
"“D", or

(b) such assets have heretofore been
forfeited as Nazi-owned under other pro-
visions of law, or

(c) the owners consent to the inclusion
of such enterprises or such assets in a
reorganization plan under this law, or

(d) the Allied High Commission deter-
mines that the inclusion of such enterprise

INFORMATION BULLETIN

or such assets in a reorganization plan
hereunder is shown to be essential to
accomplish the purposes of this law.

3. Each of the enterprises listed or
described in Schedule ‘“E” shall be exam-
ined by the Allied High Commission to
determine whether it constitutes excessive
concentration of economic power. If the
Allied High Commission determines that
any of them does constitute such an exces-
sive concentration, such enterprise shall
be treated for all purposes as if originally
listed or described in Schedule A." If the
Allied High Commission determines that
any such enterprise does not constitute
an excessive concentration of economic
power, such enterprise shall be treated
for all purposes as if originally listed or
described in Schedule ‘'C."

4, After such consultation with such Ger-
man authorities and bodies as it deems
appropriate, the Allied High Commission
will appoint liquidators for the enterprises
listed or described in Schedule “A” of this
law unless it decides that such appoint-
ment is not necessary for the purposes
of liquidation. Liquidators appointed for
any of -the enterprises listed or described
in the schedules to this law shall be
responsible to the Allied High Commission
and shall function as may be provided by
regulation or order.

Article 3
Reorganization of the Coal Industry

1. The title to such colliery -assets as
may be specified by or under the authority
of the Allied High Commission located in
the territory of the Federal Republic and
owned or controlled directly or indirectly
by enterprises subject to Article 1 of this
law, shall be transferred to companies
formed or to be formed for the purpose
under German law (hereinafter referred
to as unit companies). Such unit com-
panies shall be formed by and have
as shareholders such persons as may be
designated or approved by the Allied
High Commission after such consultation
with such German authorities or bodies
as the Allied High Commission may deem
appropriate. The persons so designated
shall be known as trustees and shall,
until otherwise ordered by the Allied
High Commission, hold the shares allotted
to them in the. respective companies in
accordance with such regulations and orders
as shall be issued by the Allied High
Commission.

2. The organization and functions of the’
Deutsche Kohlenbergbau Leitung and of
the Deutsche Kohle-Verkauf. and its suc-
cessors shall be determined by such regu-
lations or orders as may be issued by the
Allied High Commission. Subject to such
regulations or orders these organizations
shall exercise their functions throughout
the territory of the Federal Republic.

Article 4
Reorganization of the Iron and
Steel Industry
1. The Steel Trustee Association estab-
lished under United States Military Gov-
ernment Law No. 75 and United Kingdom

64

Military Government Law No. 75 and
Regulation No. 2 issued thereunder shall
continue to exist and shall exercise the
functions conferred on it by the present
law or by regulations made hereunder.
The Allied High Commission may remove
any member of the Steel Trustee Asso-
ciation and appoint other members of such
association.

2. Title to the assets specified in Schedule
“D" may be transferred to the Steel Trustee
Association as a preliminary to their
transfer to companies provided for in
Paragraph 3 of this article or such title
may be transferred directly to such com-
panies. The Allied High Commission may
add to Schedule ‘ by notice any other
assets of the enterprises listed or described
in Schedules “‘A‘’ and ‘'C."" The shares.
of the companies formed or to be formed
to operate the assets listed in Schedule
“D,"" pending transfer in accordance with
the provisions of Paragraph 3 hereof, shall
continue to be held in trust by the Steel
Trustee Association until such time as the
Allied High Commission shall otherwise
direct.

3. The Steel Trustee Association shall,
as soon as possible, submit for the appro-
val of the Allied High Commission plans
for the reorganization of the assets speci-
fied in Paragraph 2 of this article and
any other assets of the iron and steel
industry within the purview of Article 1.
Each such plan shall provide for the for-
mation of one or more new companies
(hereinafter referred to as unit companies)
and shall specify some or all of the assets
to be transferred to each of such companies.
The plans may provide for the merger or
amalgamation of such assets and for the
absorption of assets outside the iron and
steel industry but within the purview of
Article 1, Each plan shall be submitted as
soon as completed, without waiting for
the completion of other plans.

4, On the approval of a reorganization
plan for any unit company, with such
modifications as the Allied High Commis-
sion may direct, the title to the assets
affected shall be transferred to such unit
company, which shall have as its share-
holders such persons as may be designated
or approved by the Allied High Commis-
sion after such consultation with such Ger-
man authorities or bodies as the Allied
High Commission may deem appiopriate.
The persons so designated or approved
shall be known as trustees and shall,
until otherwise ordered by the Allied High
Commission, hold the shares allotted to
them in the respective companies in
accordance with such regulations and orders
as shall be issued by the Allied High
Commission.

Article 5
Treatment of Claims and Interests

Where assets are transferred to unit |
companies pursuant to Article 3 or Ar-
ticle 4 of this law, the Allied High Com-
mission at the time of transfer or there-
after, by one or more regulations or orders:

(a) May direct that some or all of such
assets shall be held by the unit companies

JULY 1950

--- Page 68 ---
free and clear of some or all existing
liens, charges and encumbrances.

(b) Shall specify the amount of cash,
bonds, other secured or unsecured obliga-
tions, stock or other consideration which
each unit company shall pay or issue in
respect of the transfer, with a view to
insuring to the maximum extent con-
sistent with the objectives of this law,
adequate and appropriate compensation to
the claimants affected by the transfer.

(c) Shall provide for the distribution of
such cash, bonds, other secured or un-
secured obligations, stock or other con-
sideration (or of the proceeds of their
sale) among claimants affected by the
transfer of such assets so as to attain the
objectives of this law and to insure fair
and equitable treatment among such claim-
ants in accordance with their claims or
interests. The validity, priority and extent
of such claims and interests’ shall be deter-
mined with due regard to the original
contractual or other rights of claimants.

(d) May provide for such protection of
employees and former employees of enter-
prises from which such assets are so trans-
ferred in respect of pensions and other
benefits incident to or resulting from their
employment as the Allied High Commis-

sion may deem necessary or proper in ~

order to avoid unfairness to such employees
or former employees as a result of such
transfers of assets.

(e) May provide, to the extent the
Allied High Commission deems appropriate
for (1) assumptions by such unit companies
of indebtedness incurred after May 8, 1945,
by enterprises owning or operating assets
which are so transferred and (2) priorities in
respect of any such indebtedness incurred,
in the opinion of the Allied High Com-
mission, for the purpose of enabling such
enterprises to carry on their activities.

For the purposes of this article the term
“claimants shall include all creditors,
secured or unsecured, stockholders and all
other persons having claims against or
interests in the assets transferred or the
enterprises from which they are transferred.

Article 6

Former Reich and Prussian State Interests
The application of this law to any enter-
prise shall not be affected by the fact
that any right or interest therein may have
been held by the former Reich or Prussian
State.
Article 7

Tax Provisions

1, Taxes and other duties shall not be
imposed upon or in respect of:

(a) Any transfer of assets pursuant to
Article 3 or Article 4 of this law.

(b) The formation of any company as
provided in this law.

(c) Any other action taken in connection
with reorganizations or liquidations under
this law to the extent provided by regu-
lations hereunder.

2. In computing taxes of any kind
payable by the operating companies listed
in Column 1 of Schedule “D" and the
owning companies listed in Column 3 there-
of, the taxes shall not exceed in total the
aggregate amount of taxes which would
have been payable if each operating com-
Pany were the wholly-owned subsidiary
of the owning enterprises whose assets
it is operating.

3. Upon the formation of each new unit
company under the provisions of Article 3
and Article 4, that unit company shall be

JULY 1950

liable fi axes of all kinds as an in-
dependent. enterprise.

4. The Steel Trustee Association shall
not be subject to any taxes, public levies
or any official charges or costs.

Article 8
Decontrol

Subject to such regulations or orders as
may be issued by the Allied High Com-
mission:

1, Assets transferred to unit coal com-
panies or unit steel companies pursuant
to Article 3 or Article 4 of this law shall
be released from control under this law
upon the completion of the disposal of the
shares of such companies.

2. Assets of enterprises put into liqui-
dation under Article 2 of this law which
are not transferred to unit coal companies
orunit steel companies pursuant to Article 3
or Article 4 of this law shall be released
from control under this law upon the dis-
posal of the assets in accordance with plans
approved by the Allied High Commission.

3. Assets of any enterprise listed or de-
scribed in Schedule “C," or its assets
remaining after any transfers to ‘unit com-
panies under this law, shall be released
from control under this law upon a deter-
mination by the Allied High Commission
that all necessary transfers of assets of
that enterprise to unit companies have been
completed, or that no such transfers will
be required in the case of that enterprise.

4. Any other assets subject to seizure
and control under this law may be released
from control under this law when and as
directed by the Allied High Commission.

Article 9
Registration of Transfers
The appropriate German authorities shall
register without attestation transfers of title
made in accordance with this law upon
the presentation to such authorities by or
on behalf of the Allied High Commission
of a certified statement of the assets to
be transferred.
Article 10
Penalties
Any person violating or evading or at-
tempting to violate or evade or procuring
the violation or evasion of any provision
of this law or of any regulation or order
issued under this law, shall, upon con-
viction, be liable to a fine not exceeding
DM 200,000 or to imprisonment for not
more than five years, or both.

Article 11
Regulations
The Allied High Commission may issue
such regulations and orders for the purpose
of implementing, amplifying or supple-
menting any provision of this law as it
shall deem necessary or proper in order to
carry fully into effect the purposes of this
law.
Article 12
Administrative Agericies
1, The term “Allied High Commission”
as used in any provision of this law
means such agency or agencies as the
Council of the Allied High Commission
may designate by regulation or order to
carry out such provision. Any such agency
shall act in accordance with such regu-
lations or orders as may be issued by the
Council of the Allied High Commission.
2, Subject to the regulations or orders
of the Council the agency to administer
the provisions of this law shall be:

65

(a) The Combined Coal Control Group
in so far as they relate to or affect the
German Coal Industry.

(b) The Combined Steel Group in so far
as they relate to or affect the German
Iron and Steel Industry.

Article 13
Board of Review

1, There is hereby established a Board .

of Review. The board shall consist of such
number of members but not less than
three as the Council of the Allied High
Commission may determine. One-third of
the members of the board shall be ap-
pointed by each high commissioner. Each
member of the board shall be a qualified
lawyer or expert who shall not be other-
wise concerned with the administration
of this law. The board may sit in panels
of three members, one member being
appointed by each high commissioner. The
assignment of members to panels shall be
determined by the board. The decision of
a majority of the members of the board
sitting in any case shall constitute the
decision of the board. For the conduct of
its business, the board shall adopt rules
which shall be subject to review and
revision by the Council of the Allied
High Commission.
"2. Subject to such regulations as may
be issued by the Council of the Allied
High Commission, the board shall have
jurisdiction:

(a) To review any order issued under
Paragraph (c) of Article 5 of this law on
the petition of any interested person, to
extent of determining whether the distri-
bution made to such person has afforded
him fair and equitable treatment in ac-
cordance with his claim or interest, as
required thereunder.

(b) To hear and determine any other
questions arising under this law which
may be referred to it by the Allied High
Commission. :

3. On petitions under Sub-paragraph 2 (a)
above, the board shall determine solely
whether the order appealed from is sup-
ported by substantial avidence and is
correct as a matter of law. The filing
and pendency of a petition for review
under Sub-paragraph 2 (a) shall not operate
as a stay of the order appealed from
except, and to the extent, that a stay may

-be directed by the board upon a motion

for such relief. A temporary stay pending
consideration of such a motion may be
directed by a single member of the board.
In cases arising under Sub-paragraph 2 (b)
the powers and functions of the board
shall be defined in the order of reference.

Article 14
Definitions

For the purpose of this law and any
regulation or order issued thereunder:

(1) Colliery assets shall mean assets
located on or physically connected with
a colliery or economically essential to the
operation thereof and include the following
properties and interests of the coal-mining
industry:—

(a) Coal mines and virgin and unworked
coal lands.

“Coal” includes Steinkohle, Pechkohle
and Braunkohle, together with any such
other minerals as are normally mined by
colliery undertakings in association with
the foregoing.

“Mine includes quarry, opencast, drift
and deep mine workings and borings
associated therewith.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
(b) Fixed and movable property used
for colliery activities and the following
ancillary activities: coal carbonization,
coal products, distillation processes allied
with colliery activities and processes
associated with briquetting plants, manu-
factured fuels, hydrogenation plants, syn-
thetic plants, nitrogen and ammonia plants,
plants for the provision of gas to the gas
gtids, brick tile and similar works and
property used for the supply of water
from or to a coal mine.

(c) Property used for generating and
transmitting electricity consumed exclu-
sively or mainly in the course of colliery
and ancillary activities. .

(d) Railways, aerial ropeways, canal
waterways and other fixed and movable
property used exclusively or mainly for
inland or water transportation, loading,
discharging, handling or storing of prod-
ucts of colliery and ancillary activities,
or articles required for colliery or electri-
city activities and ancillary activities,
when such equipment is used exclusively
for internal transportation within the area
of a colliery.

(e) Fixed and movable property of the
colliery undertaking used exclusively or
mainly for the purposes of the sale or
supply by colliery concerns of products
of colliery and ancillary activities.

(f) Fixed and movable property of the
colliery undertaking used for such welfare
activities as hospitals, baths, canteens or
for the provision of benefits for the staff
employed in colliery and ancillary activi-
ties.

(g) Patents in respect of inventions
relating to processes applied in the course
of colliery and ancillary activities or to
production in connection with those activi-
ties and trade marks used or intended
for use in relation to such production.

(h) Stocks of products of colliery and
ancillary activities.

(i) Consumable or spare stores available
for use for colliery and ancillary activities.

(j) Interests of colliery undertakings in
dwelling-houses and land used to provide
housing accommodation for the work-
people and the staff employed in colliery
and ancillary activities.

(k) Interests of colliery undertakings in
forests, farms, farming stock and other
agricultural property, and all land owned
by colliery undertakings, including land
to be used for the enlargement of surface
installations and similar activities.

()) Interests of colliery undertakings in
technical organizations, all organizations
engaged in research for the colliery in-
dustry and ancillary activities, testing
stations designed to secure safety in mines
and in allied activities, and schools and
institutes engaged in training for the
mining and ancillary activities.

(m) Liquid assets, including accounts
receivable and cash in hand which are
attributable to the operation of the assets
specified herein.

(n) Contracts for deliveries or other
commercial agreements.

(2) “Coal carbonization and coal products
distillation processes’ shall mean the
distillation of coal by any process and the
treatment, rendering and distillation of
‘saleable products arising from the distil-
lation of coal.

(3) “Electricity property shall mean
power stations, transformers, transmission
lines and other fixed and movable proper-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ty used in connection with the genera-
tion or transmission of electricity.

(4) ‘Fixed property” shall mean all build-
ings, works, fixtures and fixed machinery
and plant and the sites thereof.

(5) ‘Movable property” shall mean all
movable machinery and plant, wagons
(cars) and other vehicles, engines, tractors,
vessels, animals and movable equipment
of any kind.

(6) “Undertakings shall mean enter-
prises of any nature whatsoever.

Article 15
Repeals

1. United States Military Government
Law No. 75 entitled ‘Reorganization of
German Coal and Iron and Steel Industries”
and United Kingdom Military Government
Law No. 75 entitled “Reorganization of
German Coal and Iron and Steel Industries"
are hereby repealed; provided, however,
that any proceedings had or instituted and
any acts done under either of the said
laws and any powers conferred thereunder
consistent with the provisions of this law
shall continue to be effective unless and
until the Allied High Commission shall
otherwise*order.

2. Until the Allied High Commission
provides otherwise, Regulations Nos.1 and
3 issued pursuant to US/UK Military Gov-
ernment Laws No. 75 shall be in force
throughout the territory of the Federal
Republic.

3. Except as the Allied High Commission
shall otherwise expressly direct, if any
legislation shall be inconsistent with any
provision of this law, or of any regulation
or order thereunder, the provisions of this
law or the regulation or order thereunder
shall prevail.

Schedule “A”

1. Vereinigte Stahlwerke Aktiengesell-
schaft.

2. Fried. Krupp.

3, Mannesmannroehren-Werke.

4. Kloecknerwerke Aktiengesellschaft —
Kloeckner & Co.

5. Hoesch Aktiengesellschaft.

6, Otto Wolff Group.

7. Gutehoffnungshuette Aktienverein fuer
Bergbau und Huettenbetrieb — Gutehoff-
nungshuette Oberhausen A.G, 5

8. Reichswerke Group.

9. Flick Group.

10. Kohlenhandelsgesellschaft ‘‘Glueckauf"
Abt. Beck & Co.

11, Deutsche Kohlenhandelsgesellschaft
Lueders, Meetzen & Co.

12. Kohlenkontor Weyhenmeyer & Co.
13, Kohlenwertstoff Aktiengesellschaft.

Schedule “BY

1, Rheinisch-Westfaelisches Kohlensyndi-
kat, in Aufloesung.

2. Niedersaechsisches Kohlensyndikat °
G.m.b.H., in Aufloesung.

3. Rheinisches Braunkohlensyndikat
G.m.b.H., in Aufloesung.

4, Westfaelische Kohlenhandelsgesell-
schaft Gastrocs & Co., in Aufloesung.

5, Kohlenhandelsgesellschaft ‘Hansa’
Kallmeier & Co., in Aufloesung.

6. Kohlenhandelsgesellschaft ‘‘Mark”
Siepmann, Schrader & Co., in Aufloesung.
7. Westfaelisches Kohlenkontor Naht,

Emschermann & Co., in Aufloesung.
8, Kohlenhandelsgesellschaft ‘‘Nieder-
rhein" Meyer, Franke & Co., in Aufloesung.
9, Kohlenhandelsgesellschaft ‘‘Westfalia”
Wiesebrack, Schulte & Co., in Aufloesung.

66

10. Westfaelische Kohlenverkaufsgesell-
schaft. Vollrath, Weck & Co., in Aufloesung.

Schedule “

1, Vereinigte Elektrizitaets- und Berg-
werks A.G,
2, Rheinisch-Westfaelisches Elektrizitaets-
werk A.G.
3, Vereinigte Elektrizitaetswerke- West-
falen A.G.
4, Vereinigte Industrie-Unternehmungen
AG,
5. Gewerkschaft des
werks Alter Hellweg.
6. Gewerkschaft Aurora Steinkohlenberg-
werk,
7. Gewerkschaft Cleverbank Steinkohlen-
bergwerk.
8. Concordia Bergbau Aktiengesellschaft.
9. Deutsche Erdoel - Aktiengesellschaft
Zechen Graf Bismarck und Koenigsgrube.
10. Gewerkschaft Elisabethenglueck.
11, Vereinigte Gideon Bergwerks G.m.b.H.
12, Gewerkschaft Hammerbank unter der
Stollensohle.
13. Gewerkschaft Hausbach.
14, Gewerkschaft Zeche Heinrich. .
15. IG Farben Industrie Aktiengesellschaft
in Aufloesung.
16. Gewerkschaft Jupiter Steinkohlenberg-
werk,
17. Gewerkschaft Vereinigte Klosterbusch.
18. Gewerkschaft des Steinkohlenberg-
werks Langenbrahm.
19, Bergbau Aktiengesellschaft Lothringen.
20. Mansfeld A.G. fuer Bergbau und Huet-
tenbetrieb Zeche Mansfeld.
21. Gewerkschaft Neumuehl.
22. Gewerkschaft des Braunkohlenberg-
werks Neurath,
23, Gewerkschaft Neuruhrort.
24, Niederrheinische Bergwerks - Aktien-
gesellschaft.
25. Gewerkschaft Petrus Segen.
26. Gewerkschaft Plaetzgesbank.
27. Gewerkschaft des Braunkohlenberg-
werks Prinzessin Victoria.
28. Rheinische Stahlwerke.
29, Gewerkschaft Rheinland.
30. Gewerkschaft Steinkohlenbergwerk
Rheinpreussen. D
31. Gewerkschaft Rodetburg, Zeche Neu-
wulfingsburg. :
32, Victor Rolff Kommanditgesellschaft.
33. Gebr. Stumm G.m.b.H., Zeche Mini-
ster Achenbach.
34. Vereinigungsgesellschaft Rheinischer
Braunkohlenwerke m.b.H.
35. Wilhelm Werhahn Abteilung Horremer
Brikettfabrik.
36. Gewerkschaft Westfalen.
37. Gewerkschaft Wohlverwahrt.
38. Stahlwerke Roechling - Buderus A.G.
Wetzlar.
39, Aktiengesellschaft Buderus'sche Eisen-
werke Wetzlar.
40. Braunkohlen und Brikett Industrie
A.G. BUBIAC,
41, Mining Concessions ‘‘Rees‘’; ‘an den
Borkenbergen" und ‘‘Muensterland.”
42. Preussen A.G., Muelheim.
(For Schedule “'D," see next page)

Schedule “E"

1, Ilseder Huette.
2. Thyssen-Bornemisza Group.
3. Stinnes Group. a

Steinkohlenberg-

JULY 1950

--- Page 70 ---
(Col. 1) (Col. 2) (Col. 3) (Col. 1) (Col. 2) (Col. 3)
Assets operated under Date of Plant Name of Company by Assets operated under Date of Plant Name of Company by
Plant Usage Contracts Usage whom or by whose Plant Usage Contracts Usage © whom or by whose
by the Companies Contract subsidiaries the assets by the Companies Contract subsidiaries the assets
named hereunder:— are owned named hereunder:— are owned

1. Huettenwerk May 4, 1948 Gutehoffnungshuette 13. Huettenwerk June 15, 1948 Ilseder Huette
Oberhausen A.G., Oberhausen A.G. Ilsede-Peine
Oberhausen A.G., Peine

2. Huettenwerk May 5, 1948 Vereinigte Stahl- 14, Eisenerzbergbau June 15, 1948 Ilseder Huette
Hoerde A.G., werke A.G, Ilsede A.G.,

Dortmund-Hoerde . Grossbuelten
. Stahlwerk 15. Huettenwerk May 11, 1948 Mannesmann-

e Ber March 12, 1948 Sto olt Huckingen A.G., roehren-Werke
Bodum ' Huckingen

4, Hagen Westt. March 12, 1948 Kloeckner-Werke 16. Westfalenhuette- April 17, 1948 Hoesch A.G,

Dortmund A.G.,
A.G.
Dortmund

5. Gussstahlwerk May 5, 1948 Vereinigte Stahl- 17, Huettenwerk April 17, 1948 Fried. Krupp
Witten A.G., werke A.G. Rheinhausen A.G.,

Witten Rheinhausen .

6. Gussstahlwerk March 12, 1948 Vereinigte Stahl- 18. Stahl und Walz- April 1, 1948 Mannesmann-
Gelsenkirchen werke A.G, werke Grossen- roehren-Werke ,
AG, baum A.G.,

Gelsenkirchen Duisburg-

7. Gussstahlwerk March 12,1948 Vereinigte Stahl- Grossenbaum p
Oberkassel A.G., werke A.G. 19. Stahlwerk March 12, 1948 Kloeckner-Werke
Duesseldorf Osnabrueck A.G., AG.

8.Gi i March 12, 1948 Kloeckner-Werke Osnabrueck

“puette AG. a AG. 20, Eisenwerke March 12, 1948 Vereinigte Stahl-
Georgsmarien- Gelsenkirchen werke A.G,
huette AG, \

eee : a aan Gelsenkirchen

. Huettenwerke July 6, 1948 ereinigte Stahl- . a tos

-~Meideri ' 21. Eisenwerke April 17, 1948 Vereinigte Stahl-
Ruhrort-Meiderich werke A.G, Muelheim- werke A.G,

Duisburg-Ruhrort

10. Huettenwerk April 2, 1948 Vereinigte Stahl-

Geisweid A.G., werke A.G,
Geisweid und Kloeckner-
Werke A.G,

11, Stahlwerk April.1, 1948 Hoesch A.G.

Hagen A.G.,
Hagen/Westf.

12, Stahl- und March 12, 1948 Press- und Walzwerk
Roehrenwerk A.G. und Aktienge-
Reisholz A.G., sellschaft Oberbilker -
Duesseldorf- Stahlwerk (Thyssen-
Reisholz

Bornemisza)

Meiderich A.G.,
Muelheim-Ruhr

22. Rheinische May 4, 1948 Vereinigte Stahl-
Roehrenwerke werke A.G.
A.G., Muelheim-

Ruhr

23, Westdeutsche May 4, 1948 Mannesmann-
Mannesmann- roehren-Werke
roehren A.G.,

Duesseldorf
24, Huettenwerk May 19, 1948 Vereinigte Stahl-

Niederrhein A.G.,
Duisburg

werke A.G,

Resident Officers Study British Reorientation Techniques

County-level reorientation techniques in use in the
British Zone of occupation were studied by seven Amer-
ican resident officers and field operations officials during

a recent two-day British resident officers’ conference in
Wahnerheide.

The seven, representing all four states in the US Zone,
attended the meeting “to study firsthand the problems
and methods of operation" used by British Zone resident
Officers. Representing Hesse were Samuel Combs, director
of the OLCH Field Operations Division, and Raymond
Didlo, resident officer in Giessen. Bavaria was repre-

JULY 1950

67

sented by William H. Moran, deputy director, OLCB
Field Operations Division, and Francis C. Lindaman,
county representative in Coburg; Wuerttemberg-Baden
by W. T. Neel and Harry D. Brockman, resident officers
in Heidelberg and Boeblingen; and Bremen by E. E.
Merone, Bremerhaven.

After the conference, American resident officers visited
the US Element in the headquarters of the Allied High
Commission at the Petersberg, and were briefed on the
operations of the High Commission and the German
federal government.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
Official Communiques

Meeting of HICOM May 16

The 28th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held May 16
at the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were
Mr, John J. McCloy, United States High
Commissioner (chairman); Mr. Andre Fran-
cois-Poncet, French High Commissioner,
and Sir Brian Robertson, United Kingdom
High Commissioner.

The Council:

(1) Approved Regulation No. 1 under
Allied High Commission Law No. 5 (press,
radio, information and entertainment) to
implement Article 5 of the law which
requires copies of publications and other
information and entertainment media pro-
duced in the federal territory to be filed
as the Allied High Commission may direct.
This regulation requires that delivery of
one copy of every newspaper,’ periodical,
book or pamphlet published in or im-
ported into the federal territory shall be
made to an agency designated by the
Allied High Commission. The regulation
also requires producers of radio scripts to
retain copies of their programs for a
three-month period after their transmission
and gives to the agency designated by
the High Commission the right to see any
motion picture film. (For text, see ‘Laws
and Regulations."’)

(2) Approved Regulation No. 2 under
Allied High Commission Law No. 5 (press,
radio, information and entertainment) to
implement Article 2, Paragraph 3 of the
law which provides the right of appeal
against decisions taken under this law.
The regulation establishes a board of
appeal to hear and determine these appeals.
The council directed that its general com-
mittee would constitute this board of appeal.
(For text, see ‘Laws and Regulations."')

(3) Signed an Allied High Commission
law depriving of effect in the state of
Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern the provisions
of Control Council Law No. 22 on works
councils. This new law allows the state
of Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern legislation
on works councils to go into effect.

(4) Decided, in the light of assurances
and explanations given by the federal
government, to withdraw its provisional
disapproval of the federal civil service
law (Federal Law on the Provisional
Adjustment of the Legal Status of Per-
sons Employed in the Federal Service).
A statement of the Council's views was
to be published May i7. (For text, see
“Statements and Speeches.’’)

(5) Agreed, after discussing the matter
with the federal chancellor, that the federal
law regulating gasoline prices would be
the subject of further discussions between
the federal minister of economics and the
economic advisers of the Allied High
Commission. In agreement with the federal
chancellor, it was decided that the effec-
tive date of the law would be postponed
pending completion of the discussions.

The Allied High Commission law for
the reorganization of the German coal
and iron and steel industries will be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

promulgated forthwith in the Official Ga-
zette of the Allied High Commission. The
text of this law was to be communicated
to the press at a conference at the Peters-
berg on May 17. (For text, see “Laws and
Regulations."')

Next meeting of the Council will be
held at the Petersberg on May 31.

HICOM Meeting May 31

The 29th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held May 31
at the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present
were Mr. John J. .McCloy, United States
High Commissioner (chairman); Mr. Andre
Francois-Poncet, French High Commis-
sioner; and Sir Brian Robertson, United
Kingdom High Commissioner.

The Council:

1. Agreed in principle to a procedure
for a progressive relaxation of restric-
tions which have existed since the end of
the war on foreign investments and on
the use of blocked foreign assets in Ger-
many. Financial advisers of the High
Commissioners will exchange views with
representatives of the Federal Government
on the procedure to be adopted.

2. Approved proposals, which have been
made by German technical experts and
have been studied by the Military Security
Board, for the conversion of the Fischer-
Tropsch plant at Krupp Treibstoffwerke,
Wanne-Eickel, to the “‘exyl'’ process for
the production of high-grade alcohols. The
Council deferred its decision on German
proposals for convetsion of the Fischer-
Tropsch plant at Chemische Werke Essener
Steinkohle, Bergkamen, to permit further
consideration of a proposed new process.

3. Signed an Allied High Commission
law depriving of effect in Schleswig-Hol-
stein the provisions of Control Council
Law No. 22 (Works Councils). This new
law allows Land Schleswig-Holstein legis-
lation on works councils to become effec-
tive. (For text, see ‘‘Laws and Regulations.’’)

4, Signed Amendment No. 1 to Law No. 13
on judicial powers in the reserved fields.
Article 1 of this amendment gives a High
Commissioner the right to validate retro-
actively any judicial or extra-judicial act
taken in his zone in contravention of
Article V or VI of Military Government
Law No. 2, which deals with limitations
placed by the Occupation Authorities on
the jurisdiction of the German courts.
Article 2 of the amendment provides that
periods during which neither occupation
courts nor German courts could have
exercised jurisdiction will not be included
in calculating the time period under
existing stafutes of limits. (For text, see
“Laws and Regulations."’)

5. Signed a law suspending Military Gov-
ernment Law No. 15 until Dec. 31, 1950,
in so far as it applies to federal officials
covered by the provisional civil service

law (vorlaeufiges Beamtengesetz) of the,

Federal Republic. (For text, see ‘Laws and
Regulations."')

68

Laws and Regulations

HICOM Regulation No. 1 under Law 5
(Press, Radio, Information and Enter-
tainment)

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion issues the following regulation:

Article 1

One copy of each edition (original or
revised) of every newspaper, periodical,
book or pamphlet published in the territory
of the Federal Republic shall forthwith be
delivered by the publisher to the agency
designated by the state commissioner of
the state in which the publication originates.

Article 2
The Allied High Commission may require
the importer or distributor of any news-
paper, periodical, book or pamphlet im-
ported into or distributed within the ter-
ritory of the Federal Republic to deliver
a copy of such publication to its desig-
nated agency.
Article 3
Persons responsible for the transmission
of radio programs, scripts, and recordings
of a political or informational character
shall preserve them at a place of trans-
mission in the territory of the Federal
Republic for a period of three months
from the time of transmission. The Allied
High Commission may require such per-
sons to deliver such programs, scripts and
recordings to its designated agency or to
arrange for such recordings to be heard
by such agency.
Article 4
The Allied High Commission may requiré
exhibitors and distributors of motion pic-
ture films to exhibit such films or to make
them available for exhibition to its desig-
nated agency. .

HICOM Regulation No. 2 under Allied
High Commission Law No. 5 (Press,
Radio, Information and Entertainment)

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission issues the following regulation:

Article 1
There is hereby established a board of
appeal (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the
board") charged with the duty of hearing
and determining appeals under Paragraph 3
of Article 2 of Allied High Commission
Law No. 5.
Article 2
The board shall consist of three mem-
bers, one of whom shall be appointed by
each high commissioner.

Article 3

Within 15 days following the date of
service of the order of prohibition upon
the enterprise or person affected thereby,
such enterprise or person may appeal from
the order by filing with the Allied General
Secretariat a written notice of appeal.
Within 30 days following the date of
service of the order the appellant shall
file with the Allied General Secretariat a
statement of the grounds of appeal.

Article 4
The Allied General Secretariat shall

forward the notice of appeal and the
statement of the grounds of appeal to. the

JULY 1950

--- Page 72 ---
board. Within five days after the réceipt
by the board of the statements of grounds
of appeal, the board shall notify the appel-
lant of a time and place for hearing of
the appeal.

Article 5

At the hearing of the appeal the appel-
lant may produce witnesses and evidence
in support of the appeal. The board may
hear other witnesses and require investi-
gations if it deems it necessary.

Article 6

The board may by unanimous decision
confirm, extend, reduce or modify the
terms of the order appealed from. In the
event of lack of unanimity the order
appealed from shall stand.

Article 7

The board shall communicate its decisions
to the Allied General Secretariat which
shall notify the appellant thereof within
three days of the receipt of such com-
munication.

Amendment No. 1 to Law No. 13
Judicial Powers in the Reserved Fields

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacts as follows:

Article 1

Paragraph 2 of Article 4 of Law No. 13
is hereby amended to read as follows:

“2, A High Commissioner may validate
retroactively any judicial or extra-judicial
act taken in his zone in contravention of
the provisions of Article V or VI of
Military Government Law No. 2 or of
Ordinance No. 173 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief in Germany."

Article 2

Article 10 of Law No. 13
amended to read as follows:

“In every case, both criminal and non-
criminal, the period during which the Ger-
man courts have been deprived of juris-
diction pursuant to any legislation of the
Occupation Authorities or of any authority
to which they have succeeded, shall not
be included in calculating any legal time
limit unless during such period an occu-
pation court was competent to dispose of
such case,"

is hereby

Article 3

This law shall be deemed to be effec-
tive as of January 1, 1950.

Law on Suspension of Certain Provi-
sions of Military Government Legis-
lation on Bizonal Public Servants.

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacts as follows:
Article 1
The provisions of United States Military
Government Law No, 15, and British Mili-
tary Government Law No. 15, are hereby
suspended in the territory of the Federal
Republic until Dec. 31, 1950, to the extent
to which they apply to federal officials
covered by the provisions of the pro-
visional civil service law (vorlaeufiges
Beamtengesetz) of the Federal Republic.

Article 2

This law shall become effective on the
date of its publication. .

JULY 1950

Law Depriving of Effect the Provisions
of Control Council Law No. 22 (Works
Councils) in Land Schleswig-Holstein,

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacted as follows May 31, 1950:

Article 1

The provisions of Control'Council Law
No. 22, ‘Works Councils, are hereby
deprived of effect in the territory of Land
Schleswig-Holstein.

Article 2

This law shall:become effective on the
date of its publication.

Statements and Speeches

High Commissioners Transmit Plan
on German Unity
to Soviet Commander-in-Chief

The British and French High Commis-
sioners in Germany each transmitted on
May 26, to General of the Army V.
I, Chuikov, Soviet Commander-in-Chief,
and ‘chairman of the Soviet Control Com-
mission in Germany, a letter proposing
steps to bring about the political and
economic unity of Germany and express-
ing their willingness to share with the
Soviet commander-in-chief responsibility
for framing an electoral law under which
elections for an all-German government
could be held.

The letters were taken to the head--

quarters of General Chuikov at Karls-
horst, Berlin,
High Commissioners.

The identical text of the letters follows:
Dear General’ Chuikov:

Throughout the five-year period during
which our two governments have partici-
pated in the occupation of Germany,
repeated efforts have been made to effect
the political and economic unity of the
country. The matter was recently reviewed
again by the foreign ministers of the
United Kingdom, France and the United
States at London. Their conclusions on
the matter of German unification and the
manner in which it might be accomplished
are attached. This document has been
transmitted to the Chancellor of the Ger-
man Federal Republic.

You will note that the ministers agreed

that the formation of an all-German gov- .

ernment on the basis of the principles
set forth in their statement would prepare
the way for a peace settlement with Ger-
many. In this connection you will also
have noted that in the public communique
released by the ministers on May 14, it
was stated that the Western Powers did
not contemplate the conclusion of a sepa-
rate peace treaty with the Federal Re-
public. One consideration in the formu-
lation of this conclusion was that the
Western Powers believe that a separate
peace treaty with one or more zones of
occupation connotes acceptance of a con-
cept of a more permanent partition of
Germany. The Western Powers do not
wish to associate themselves with any
such concept.

You will also note that the ministers
endorsed the resolution of the Federal
Republic under date of March 22, which
invited all-German elections to a national
constituent assembly under conditions
found to be acceptable to my government.

69

by couriers of the Allied -

A copy of the text of this resohition is
attached and I direct your attention espe-
cially to Paragraph 1 thereof, which sug-
gests that the four Occupation Powers
should assume the responsibility of fram-
ing an electoral law under whic all-
German elections might be conducted.

My government would be prepared for
me to share in the responsibility of
framing an electoral law under which all-
German elections, pointing toward the
formation of an all-German government
in conformity with the principles set forth
in the attached statement of the foreign
ministers, could be held.

Should your government declare its
acceptance of these principles and be
willing for you to share such responsibility,
it is the belief of my government that
any discussions on the subject should be
conducted on the following basis:

1, Conversations would initially be
undertaken at the level of the four com-
missioners for the limited purpose of
drafting an electoral law to implement
the Federal Republic's proposal of free
all-German elections for a national con-
stituent assembly. The proposal to limit
discussions to the framing of an electoral
law proceeds from a belief that it is
unrealistic to discuss or arrange the desired
peace settlement until it is established
that a unified German government, freely
elected, can be brought into being.

2. If agreement is reached on an electoral
law, the way would be clear for the
drafting by the elected representatives of
the German people of a constitution for
all Germany, within the framework of the
principles set forth in the attached state-
ment of the foreign ministers, and for
the emergence of an all-German govern-
ment.

3. A basis would thus be laid for the
establishment of a four-power commission
which should exercise its reserved powers
in such a way as to permit the German
government to function effectively.

I would welcome your views on this
subject.

In view of the vital interest of the Ger-
man people in the unification of their
country, I feel it appropriate to make a
copy of this letter available to the press
and will do so after it has reached you.

Text of Statement
by Foreign Ministers
on Unification of Germany

Following is the text of a statement of
the foreign ministers of the United King-
dom, France and the United States on
the unification of Germany, which was
appended to the letters of the High Com-
missioners to the Soviet Commander-in-
Chief:

“In -reaffirming the determination of
their governments to work together, in
co-operation with the German Federal
Government and all like-minded powers,
for the unification of Germany, the three
foreign ministers agreed that German unity
should be achieved on the basis of the
following principles:

(a) A freely-elected all-German govern-
ment,

(b) Individual freedom of movement,
freedom from arbitrary arrest and deten-
tion, freedom of association and assembly,
freedom of speech, press and radio through-
out Germany.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
(c) Freedom of action throughout Ger-
many for all democratic political parties.

(d) Independence of the judiciary.

(e) Prohibition throughout Germany of
political secret police and police for-
mations constituting a military force.

(f) Assurance of German economic unity

* through action by a German government
on matters such as a unified currency and
customs, and thorough quadripartite agree-
ment on matters such as cessation of repa-
rations from current production, and prohi-
bited and limited industries.

(g) Surrender and disposal, in accordance
with appropriate German legislation, of
any industrial enterprise in Germany whose
ownership or control was acquired after
May 8, 1945, by or on behalf of any
foreign power, unless such acquisition has
quadripartite approval and the interest so
approved is subjected to German law.

(h) Establishment of quadripartite super-
vision through a four-power commission,
exercising its reserve powers in such a
way as to permit the German government
to function effectively.

The foreign ministers further agreed that
the first step toward the restoration of
German unity should be the holding
throughout Germany of free elections to
a constituent assembly. They accordingly
welcome and endorse the resolution of
the German Federal Republic of March 22,
1950, inviting free all-German elections
for a national assembly empowered to
frame an all-German constitution. These
elections should be held under inter-
national supervision and on the basis of
an electoral law to be agreed between the
four Occupying Powers which. would take
into account the principles set forth above.
The constituent assembly when elected
should have the sole task of drafting a
constitution for submission to the German
people for ratification.

Finally, the ministers agreed that with
the formation of an all-German govern-
ment on the basis of the foregoing prin-
ciples, the four powers should immediately
address themselves to a peace settlement.”

Principles on Freedom to Engage
in Trade

The Allied High Commission has directed
its state commissioners to inform Ger-
man state ministers president of principles
it has formulated concerning freedom to
engage in a trade, business or profession
in Germany.

The principles were defined by the High
Commission as a result of its scrutiny of
a series‘of state laws which have affected
the freedom of individuals to engage in
occupations of their choice.

In letters sent by state commissioners
to ministers president, state governments
are invited to examine and endorse these
principles. Their embodiment in state laws
and ordinances is regarded by the High
Commission as ‘a most desirable objective.”

Following are texts of the letter to
Ministers President, and of the statement
of principles:

Text of Letter
to Ministers President

“As you are aware the Allied High
Commission has been concerned with a
series of laws passed by the Laender
(states) affecting the freedom of indivi-
duals to engage in occupations of their
choice. Some of these laws are not of great

INFORMATION BULLETIN

significance in and by themselves but
together they illustrate, in the view of the
Allied High Commission, a tendency to
restrict individual freedom to a greater
extent than is necessary in the interests
of public health, safety and welfare.

The freedom of individuals to engage in
occupations of their choice is deeply
embedded in the liberal-democratic tradition
of Germany. This basic concept of freedom
of occupation was repudiated by the
National Socialist government. It has, how-
ever, been reaffirmed in Article 12 of the
Basic Law of the Federal Republic.

Paragraph 1 of this article provides, inter
alia, that the practice of an occupation
may be regulated by legislation. The Allied
High Commission regards it as desirable
that this provision should be applied only
in so far as is necessary to insure public
health, safety and welfare, and in accord-
ance with certain general principles uni-
formly applicable in all Laender. Attached
hereto is a statement of such principles
which the Allied High Commission has
formulated. I invite the government of your
Land to examine and endorse these princip-
les, the embodiment of which in any laws
or ordinances in your Land the High Com-
mission regards as a most desirable ob-
jective.

The Allied High Commission has recom-
mended these principles to the Federal
Government with a similar invitation, and
has recommended that it should ascertain
and take into account the views thereon of
representatives of employers and labor,
and of the refugees.

I earnestly recommend these principles
to your attention and invite you to adopt
them as a guide to your government in
legislating on this subject.’

Statement of Principles
regarding Freedom to Engage
in a Trade, Business or Profession

The Allied High Commission adopts the
principles hereinafter set forth on the right
of any person to engage in any trade,
business or profession.

1, In general, the right of any person to
engage in any trade, business or profession
should not be restricted by legislation or
governmental regulation except as herein-
after provided.

2. The right of any person to engage in
any trade, business or profession may be
regulated by legislation to the extent that
is reasonably necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety or welfare and to
maintain professional standards of com-
petence for the protection of the public
health, safety or welfare. There is appended
hereto as an appendix a tentative list which
should not necessarily be regarded as
exhaustive of categories of trades, busi-
nesses and professions which are deemed
to come within the terms of this paragraph.

3, Legislation referred to in Paragraph 2
should not restrict the right of any person
to engage in any trade, business or profes-
sion except for reasons of public health,
safety and welfare. Such legislation should
not restrict the right of any person to
engage in any trade, business or profession
by reason of the lack of available materials
or supplies therefor, the financial condition
or individual responsibility of such person,
or the economic need for the business
which he proposes to establish,

4, An examination should not be required
as a condition of obtaining permission to

70

engage in any trade, business or profession
except where such an examination is neces-
sary to maintain professional and tech-
nical standards of competence in the in-
terests of public health, safety or welfare.
Such examination should be directed solely
to establishing such professional or tech-
nical competence of the candidate and
should be conducted by a body empowered
by the legislature and acting under ade-
quate legal safeguards prescribed by the
legislature to prevent use of such exami-
nation to exclude a candidate from any
trade, business or profession for reasons
other than lack of professional or technical
competence.

5. The right of any person lawfully
engaging in any trade, business or profes-
sion to apprentice employees or. to train
apprentices should not be restricted except
for reasons of public health, safety or
welfare.

6. No person or organization should exer-
cise power to restrict or regulate the right
to engage in a trade, business or profession
unless the person or organization is ap-
pointed as an agent of a minister of the
government, is answerable through him to
the legislature, and acts under adequate
legal safeguards to prevent abuse of such
power.

Categories of trades, businesses and pro-
fessions which may be regulated by legis-
lation to the extent reasonably necessary
to protect the public health, safety and
welfare and to maintain professional stan-
dards of competence for that purpose:

(1) Amateur radio operators.

(2) Architects,

(3) Attorneys-at-law.

(4) Blasters.

(5) Chiropodists.

(6) Chiropractors.

(7) Consulting engineers.

(8) Dentists, oral. surgeons and dental
hygienists.

(9) Embalmers.

(10) Installers and repairers of plumbing,
heating and air-conditioning equipment,
and electric and gas facilities (where such
persons offer their services to the public).

(11) Marine engineers and pilots.

(12) Midwives.

(13) Notaries public.

(14) Nurses (including registered and
visiting health nurses).

(15) Operators of high pressure steam
boilers (pressure more than 15 pounds per
square inch).

(16) Operators of motor vehicles, marine
vessels and power-driven vehicles.

(17) Optometrists and opticians.

(18) Osteopaths.

(19) Practitioners engaged in diagnosing
or treating physical or mental ailments,
including but not limited to physicians,
surgeons, pathologists, neurologists, psy-
chiatrists, psychologists, oculists, physio-
therapists and hydrotherapists.

(20) Pharmacists and apothecaries.

(21) Public auditors and accountants.

(22) Ships’ officers.

(23) Surveyors.

(24) Veterinarians.

German Banking

The following statement was issued
June 1 by the Office of the US High Com-
missioner for Germany:

It has been observed with satisfaction
abroad that the currency reform has placed

JULY 1950

--- Page 74 ---
the German monetary and finance system
on a sound basis. The new German central
banking system, which is integrated with
the Laender (states) and which on account
of its dependent attitude has gained much
respect at home and abroad, played an im-
portant part in this.

In the field of private banking, organi-
zation along Laender lines has not yet
been completely concluded. The greatest
need is that the successor institutions of
former large banks should receive clear-cut
legal and economic independence. Liqui-
dation of the past will have advantages not
only for the banks; it is also indispensable
for the prevention of monopolies in the
field of finance and for the safeguarding of
the democratic structure of the Federal
Republic.

This does not mean that the banks will
be restricted in their activities. Now, as be-
fore, they will be able to conclude major
credit transactions, even on an inter-Land
(state) level. In this way they will be able
to perform a valuable service in supplying
the German economy with new capital,
from abroad as well.

For such activities the banks need not
have an extensive system of branches,
especially since in Germany the central
banking organization already has such a
net of branch offices at its disposal. For
this reason, limiting the branch offices of
a bank to the area of a Land does not lessen
the effectiveness of the bank's operations.
In the event that objections against this
are raised because some of the Laender as
economic areas are not strong enough, then
as a US high authority has already stated,
the enlargement of a few banking districts
could profitably be considered.

In accordance with a German proposal,
this could be realized by the merger of
several Laender into a single banking
district with a central bank as head organi-
zation. In this way, the competence of the
Laender with regard to banking policy
which forms the foundation of the Federal
Republic would, in principle, be guaranteed.

Agreements concluded among the Laen-
der for that purpose would find the support
of the US,

Alleged Boundary Agreement

The United States High Commissioner
for Germany June 7 issued the following
statement:

“My attention has been called to the
ADN report on an alleged agreement
between Poland and the East German
administration regarding the Oder-Neisse
boundary. The American position on this
subject is well-known. Secretary Byrnes
in Stuttgart in 1946 and Secretary Marshall
at the Moscow Conference in 1947 both
stated that the question of Germany's
eastern boundary is one to be settled in
the peace treaty with Germany. This was
also the position of the three powers at
Potsdam. Article 8 of the Potsdam Agree-
ment specifically provides that the final
delimitation’ of the western frontier of
Poland should await the peace settlement.

“This is not a matter that can be settled
unilaterally or bilaterally. It cannot be
settled for Germany by representatives of
a regime that has no real support among
the German people. The US Government
has not, therefore, recognized the Oder-
Neisse boundary nor the incorporation
into the Polish State of those German
territories placed under Polish administra-
tion at Potsdam."

JULY 1950

Armed Forces Day Broadcast
Following is the text of an address by

John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner

for Germany, broadcast May 20 over the

* American Forces and Blue Danube net-

works:

Observance of the first Armed Forces
Day is particularly significant at this time.
It marks the unification of our military
and naval strength in a year of such dis-
quiet that nations whose only objective
is peace must guarantee that peace with
strength,

As the assistant secretary of war during
the war years I saw the development of
our armed might and the meaning it had
for the establishment of liberty and free-
dom. I witnessed the mobilization of our
manpower and our vast economic re-
sources into a mighty war machine which
liberated so many people from oppression.

Today on Armed Forces Day, we know
that our armed forces are still the bulwark
of freedom. Here in Germany, particularly,
we know it is the strength and deter-
mination of those forces that is the best
guarantee of peace inside Germany. We
also know that the presence of our armed
forces in Germany and the potential
strength of our armed might give pause
to any nation which would seek to force
its oppression on unwilling people.

The aim of our government and of our
people is to live and act in peace with
the other nations of the world. This we
do while others abuse the word as a
propaganda cloak for world conquest. But
while we seek only peace we must provide
safeguards for the ffeedoms we cherish.
These freedoms must and will be protected
and we are justly proud of our Armed
Forces, which have provided this protec-
tion for us in the past. We are also proud
that these same armed forces are protecting
these freedoms not only for ourselvés but
for other nations who wish to live in
freedom and at peace with one another.

West German Police Force

In reply to inquiries concerning reports
that the Western Powers are considering
a proposal to create a control police force
in western Germany, a spokesman of the
Office of the US High Commissioner
June 3 said that the Allied High Com-
mission was giving consideration to the
proposal and studies were being made of
the entire police situation in western
Germany.

The spokesman stated that in the event
that a small federal police force were to
be established, it would be: neither a
military nor a para-military organization.

Meanwhile the following statement was
issued from the Office of the United King-
dom High Commissioner regarding press
reports’ concerning the formation of a
German federal police force:

“When the military governors gave
their approval to the Basic Law they
sanctioned the establishment by the Federal
Government of an agency to collect and
disseminate information concerning sub-
versive activities directed against the
Federal Government. They further- said
that if the Federal Government should
wish to propose other federal law enforce-
ment or police agencies, it should submit
its proposals for approval. It is correct
that the Federal Government has felt some
concern about its own prestige and se-
curity, and has made representations to
the High Commissioners regarding the

71

necessity of a federal police force. The
High Commissioners have referred the mat-
ter to their governments.

“The United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner is as yet without instructions re-
garding the result of the consideration of
this question between governments.”

German Athletic Federation

In a letter to the federal chancellor
made public May 24, the Allied High
Commission, replying to an inquiry re-
garding the proposed formation of an ath-
letic federation for the Federal Republic
which could co-ordinate German athletic
events and German participation in inter-
national sports events, including the Olym-
pic Games, stated:

“The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission wishes to inform you that, while
it has no objection to the holding of a
demonstration in Frankfurt on May 28,
it cannot agree that this occasion should
be utilized to establish a national gym-
nastic organization under the name Deut-
scher Turner Bund in view of its histo-
rical association with German nationalistic
movements and of ‘the effects the for-
mation of such a body would have on
public opinion abroad.

“The Allied High Commission also
wishes to inform you that it has no
desire to prevent the formation of an
athletic federation for the Federal Republic
under some other name which could co-
ordinate preparations for German athletic
events, German participation in the Olympic
Games and other international sport events.
However, the Allied High Commission in
view of doubts as to certain of the charac-
teristics described in the proposed statutes
and in your letter and memo of May 16,
1950, would wish to have the opportunity
to review the statutes of such a federation.”

Accredited Mission Heads

The following heads of missions have
been accredited to the Allied High Com-
mission to date:

Head of Mission Country
Lt. Gen Maurice A. Pope,
cB,MC..... .. . Canada
Mr. Albert Wehrer, Minister
Plenipotentiary . . . . Luxembourg
Mr. Khub Chand, Minister
Plenipotentiary . . . . India
Mr. Christos Diamantopou-
los, Minister Plenipoten-
tiary . . . .. . . . Greece
* Maj. Gen. W. Eh. E. Poole,
CB, CBE, DSO. . . . . South Africa

Vice Admiral J. M. de Booy Netherlands
Mr, Frants Hvass, Minister
Plenipotentiary . . . . Denmark
Mr. Louis Scheyven, Minister
Plenipotentiary .. .
Mr. Mario de Pimentel Bran-
dao, Ambassador. . . . Brazil
Mr. Noel St. Clair Deschamps,
Minister Plenipotentiary . Australia
Mr. Francesco Babuscio Rizzo,
Minister Plenipotentiary . Italy
Mr. Albert Huber, Minister
Plenipotentiary . . . . Switzerland
Mr. Eduardo Garcia Comin,
Minister Plenipotentiary . Spain
Mr, Abdollah Entezam, Min-
ister Plenipotentiary . . Iran
Mr. Nizamettin Ayasly, Min-
ister Plenipotentiary. . . Turkey
Mr. Ragnar Kumlin, Minister
Plenipotentiary . . . . Sweden

Belgium

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Twenty-first Report for the Public Ad-
visory Board, ECA (Washington), March
24, 1950.

Your Community:
TI&E Bulletin, Vol. 5, No.
Office, April 16, 1950.

Know Your Neighbor:
TI&E Bulletin, Vol. 5,
Office, April 23, 1950,

Twenty-second Report for the Public
Advisory Board, ECA (Washington), Apr.
26, 1950.

Communism in the United States, TI &E
Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 18, TI&E Office,
April 30, 1950.

The Year of Deliverance, 1949 Annual
Report, The American Jewish Joint Distri-
bution Committee, Vol. 9, No. 2, April 1950.

Der AuSenhandel der Bundesrepublik
Deutschland, Teil 1, zusammenfassende
Uebersichten (The Foreign Trade of the
German Federal Republic, Part 1, Com-
prehensive Surveys), Bizonal Statistical
Office, Wiesbaden, April 1950.

Your National Government. TI &E Bul-
letin, Vol. 5, No. 19, TI& E Office, May 7,
1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 19, OEA CCG (BE), May 11, 1950.

County and State,
16, TI&E

The Midwest,
No. 17, TI&E

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 222,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), May 11, 1950,

New Regulation for German Shipping
and Shipbuilding, Press Release No. 126,
Allied HICOM, May 12, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 223,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), May 18, 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 20, OEA CCG (BE), May 20, 1950.

Official Gazette, No. 20, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, May 20, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 224,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), May 25, 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No, 21, OEA CCG (BE), May 30, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 32, PRD
HICOG, May 31, 1950.

Law Depriving of Effect the Provisions
of Control Council Law No. 22 (Works
Councils) in Land Schleswig - Holstein,
Press Release No. 147, Allied HICOM,
May 31, 1950.

Copies of Instructions listed in the

Information Bulletin may be ob-

tained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters.

Amendment No. 1 to Law No. 13 — Judi-
cial Powers in the Reserved Fields, Press
Release No. 148, Allied HICOM, May 31,
1950.

Allied High Commission Law on Suspen-
sion of Certain Provisions of Military
Government Legislation on Bizonal Public
Servants, Press Release No. 149, Allied
HICOM, May 31, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 225,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), June 1, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey,
Nos, 95 to 117, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim),
May 9 to June 9. 1950.

Neue Auslese (in German), June 1950,
POB HICOG (Munich), June 2, 1950.

Control of Certain Articles, Products,
Installations and Equipment — Regulation
No. 8 (Chemical Articles, Products, Instal-
lations and Equipment) under Law No. 24,
Allied HICOM, June 5, 1950.

Control of Certain Articles, Products,
Installations and Equipment — Regulation
No. 9 (Fine Mechanics, Optics and Electron-
nics other than Electronic Valves (Tubes)
under Law No. 24, Allied HICOM, June 5,
1950.

Information Bulletin,
HICOG, June 7, 1950.

June 1950, PRD

The following heads-designate of mis-
sion previously approved by the Allied
High Commission have indicated their
intention to present their letters of cre-
dence to the Council of the Allied High
Commission in the near future:

Dr. Jose Davila Tello, Min-

ister Plenipotentiary. . . Columbia
Mr. Maurice Loze, Minister
Plenipotentiary . . Monaco

Munich Handicraft Exhibit

Following are remarks by Clarence M.
Bolds, US state commissioner for Bavaria,
at ceremonies May 19 launching the 1950
German Handicraft Exhibition in Munich:

It gives me considerable pleasure and
pride to be with you today for the opening
of your exhibition. It demonstrates again
the great effort that is being made here
toward a satisfactory solution to your
economic problems.

The handicraft industry is particularly
significant in the over-all effort for an
economy that will provide a decent stand-
ard of living for you and your families.
Success in your endeavors will help bolster
the recovery efforts being made in other
industries and by other peoples.

Greater export sales to the United States
and other countries must be your imme-
diate objective. In this manner you can
assist your country immeasurably in re-
establishing a healthy, sound trade balance.

’ Greater production, at the same time,
means more jobs for your people so they
in turn may have the financial means of
sharing the fruits of their labor. The
handicraft industry, I assure you, has a
most important job in achieving this end.

I wish you every success. The enthusi-
asm and determination that you display
here increases my confidence in the Ger-
man people, That you will continue to
work — and work hard and long toward
the bettering of your economic life — can
be answered only by you men and women.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

If this exhibition is a token of your desire
to attain this goal, then the economic
future appears very promising.

Official Announcements

Official Mail for Germany

Classified official mail is not authorized
transmission in the Deutsche Post. Unclas-
sified official mail for civilian addresses
in Germany may be transmitted through
the Deutsche Post without use of postage
stamps. Such official mail is limited to
matter within the types, sizes and weights
authorized in the German Civil Post as
follows:

(1) Letter mail. Maximum weight, 2.2 lbs;
maximum size, length, width and height
together 35 inches.

(2) Official mail which. by reason of
importance of contents should be registered
to insure delivery will be presented to
the APO for registration. Additional postage
will not be required for this service.

(3) Newspapers and printed matter, Maxi-
mum weight, 1.1 lbs; maximum size, length,
width and height together, 35 inches.

(4) Parcel post. Maximum weight, 44 lbs.

Envelopes, labels, wrappers, and cards
bearing the usual official return address
and the word ‘Official’ written or printed
in the upper right hand corner, will be used
for official mail for Germany. Such official
mail will be deposited in Army Post Offices
for delivery to the nearest Deutsche Post
Office—from Change 2, EUCOM Circular
18 of 1949.

Travel Regulations for Germans

Two actions to liberalize international
travel by Germans from the Federal Re-
public were announced by the Combined
Travel Board of the Allied High Commis-
sion May 25, 1950. .

72.

In the first action, the validity and scope
of exit permits issued by the Combined
Travel Board have been extended.

Exit permits for repeated journeys, which
formerly were granted for periods over
three months, only in special circum-
stances, are now obtainable for a period of
six months by any German national quali-
fied to travel. Moreover, exit permits are
now valid abroad generally instead of only
for the country to be visited as was for-
merly the case.

In the second action toward liberalization
of travel, the Allied High Commission has
recently authorized collective travel doch-
ments to facilitate short trips abroad .by
groups. .

Organized parties of German nationals
residing in the Federal Republic of Ger-
many may now make short visits abroad
for cultural or pleasure purposes on col-
lective travel documents for periods up to
10. days. Each party must be composed of
not less than 10 persons and must travel
together as a party in both directions. Each
individual is required to carry a German.
identity card bearing a photograph (e. g., a
Kennkarte or Personalausweis). A fee of
DM 5 will be charged for each person listed
on a collective travel document. Further
information as to the procedure is obtain-
able from branch offices of the Combined
Travel Board.

List of Registered Vehicles

A new list of all motor vehicles registered
with the European Command Provost
Marshal is being distributed to provost
marshals of all military posts in the US
Zone of Germany to enable Military Police
at post level to establish the identity of
owners of privately- and agency-owned
vehicles registered in the command.

The new list, printed and.distributed by
the EUCOM Adjutant General's Division,
comprises three volumes and lists approxi-
mately 35,000 vehicles in numerical order.

JULY 1950

--- Page 76 ---
Ordnance School Commandant Col. John S. Walker greets
Major Sergio Maccari as Italian students begin classes.

Kurope’s GI’s
Go to US School

HERE ARE A LOT of language dictionaries seeing ac-

tion in Eschwege this spring as the USAREUR Ord-
nance School conducts classes for men from five different
nations. Officers and enlisted men from France, Norway,
Italy and the Netherlands have begun training with the
American equipment these countries are receiving.

The pioneer class was instructed in organizational and
field maintenance of the 105 mm howitzer, 155 mm howit-
zer, 75 mm gun as mounted on the M-24 tank, and in the
57mm and 75 mm recoilless rifle. Seven Italians, five Bel-
gians and one Netherlands officer attended these sessions.

Learning these fine points of artillery wasn’t as hard
as might be assumed. Interpreters from the five nations
have spent several weeks prowling about the school
grounds learning the correct terminology in their native
languages, to make translations easier and clearer. In
May, the newly-briefed interpreters took on a group of 168
students for courses in organizational and fie'd automotive
maintenance mechanics, tank maintenance, special armor-
ers and ordnance supply. More courses are scheduled.

Tiny Eschwege has taken on quite an international
flavor with the addition of these foreign officers and
enlisted men. Students said they were “amazed” at the
abundance of equipment and training aids, and the
methods of instructions employed at the school.

“So that's how it's done!’ — Foreign officers, Italians,
Belgians, Norwegians and Dutch, learn workings of 155 mm
howitzer at USAREUR Ordnance School at tiny Eschwege.

French sergeant (above) takes his turn at M-24 tank con-
trols. Below, American, Norwegian and Netherlands
officers share a pleasant noon meal. (US Army photos)

--- Page 77 ---
JULY

CA any eA Ome Sa 10D

23 30
24 31
25
26
27
28
29