--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF

US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

--- Page 3 ---
yd

US television enthusiasts recently
had the opportunity of viewing first-
hand scenes of life in Western Ger-
many. Two officials who were tele-
vised at work by the National Broad-
casting Company's twins, the Jones
Brothers, were US High Commissioner
John J. McCloy (upper photos), in
his office at HICOG headquarters in
Frankfurt, and Federal Chancellor
Konrad Adenauer, shown at left at
his desk in Palais Schaumburg in
Bonn, capital of the Federal Republic.
The swing through Germany by the
well-known television team, part of a
tour of Europe, also resulted in a film
story of Berlin along with a recorded
session of the Allied High Commis-
sion at the Petersberg, near Bonn.

(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 4 ---
- Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

Acting Editor ........ Aileen S. Miles
Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer
Editorial Writer ...... Beth Burchard
Editorial Writer .... Maurice E. Lee

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994
e

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, U.S. Army

German mailing address is:
Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
HICOG Hochhaus
Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C,

_Reprint of any article, unless spe-
Cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
Source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

March 195]

HICOG Begins Building Bonn Housing (pictorial) ........ 2

Dire: Gilt, of Sel Respect piss 655.545 5 in 9 sik eer eae ae 3
Article by Kay Boyle

Soviet Zone Press. coo. Sates is os Sav scores $a Steep ae ee Ss
Survey by F. Gardner Cox, Jr.

Town of Two Nations..............-.-. sragibiapate ane ia ee
Article by Frank J. Gates

Arr cel Di Ce) cat 17 Fear a eae GEE 11
Address by Mrs. John J. McCloy ;

Ruhr Steel and Coal for Western Defense (pictorial) ...... 12

The Little Church Behind the Curtain ............... Sen ke

Article by Maurice E. Lee

Basketball Comes Back 16
Article by Capt. Frances C.

BE Wortan |S WONG 2 60s Hise cn.t swe, 9 sig. Shee ceieiwien oie tal 17
Survey by Beth Burchard

Germans:Guard (Civil Liberties -c<c<.qhcescteasdesaten et 21
Article by Wilfried Saliger

“Parade” of Progress .. 24
Article by Gerhard

Status of Denazification 26
Survey based on a HICOG Report
Charts: Fate. of Top Nazi Party Leaders .......... 26a

Fate of Top Nazi State Leaders .......... 26b

The Socialist Unity Party as the Soviet Instrument of Power
in Eastern Germany. ...........---eeseescccinn se eneee 29
Excerpis from a HICOG Report

Across-the-City Student Exchange Begins ................ 32

Schoal Financing onsso...5 snes. fos awe. weewseneas Nese 33
Study by Wallace H. Strevell

Homes Across the Seas ... 36
Article by Edoardo Canali

US Policy toward Germany Clarified .................... 40
Statement by Henry A. Byroade

The Major Responsibility 24 << of ess acess vices ca sc acaies 41
Address by Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick

The-Ereneh Point OF ViCw « oois:s:007%6:3c css 15 5 eS 355.0% 0 gees 43
Address by Andre Francois-Poncet

Traditional Green Week Returns to Berlin (pictorial) ...... 47

Bundestag Group Sees Link with West.................... 48

The Spirit of Carl SChure: goes sess 6G ssescs Se osecads sees 49
Address by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser

Economic Review 52

Personnel: Notes). 2. vise2us 450 aie 56

Communications System Expanding Steadily. 58

Calendar of Coming Events ............. ped)

Occupation Log ........ 2161

Official Notices 69
Communiques .. 69
Laws and Regulations 69
Statements ........ 70
Announcements Seal

Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents ........ 72

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION
FRANKFURT, GERMANY

APO 757-A, US ARMY —

--- Page 5 ---
HICOG
Begins
Building
Bonn

Housing

Mr. McCloy spades up first shovelful
of earth for HICOG 460-apartment
project at Bad Godesberg. Below,
the little town's Mayor Hopmann
presents silver shovel to the US
High Commissioner as a memento.

(Photos by Schoenborn, PRD HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

CCOMMODATIONS FOR AMERICAN members of the US High Com-

missioner's staff scheduled to move to Bonn this fall have begun at Bad
Godesberg, near the Federal capital. The ground-breaking ceremonies for
the new 460-unit, 500-person apartment project were participated in by US
High Commissioner John J. McCloy, Marshall Plan Administrator William
C. Foster, HICOG's Office of Administration Director Glenn G. Wolfe and
Bad Godesberg Mayor Heinrich Hopmann.

In a short address, Mr. McCloy told his audience of workers, Bad
Godesberg residents and HICOG and German officials that “... the land
upon which the HICOG housing project is to be constructed has been
purchased outright by the Office of the US High Commissioner from the
German owners, This purchase and the cost of the buildings to be erected
are not coming from occupation costs. The entire enterprise is being
financed from counterpart funds — Deutsche marks accruing from dollar
expenditures in Western Germany, appropriated out of the tax receipts
drawn from American citizens — and it is in no way a liability to the
German economy.

“On the other hand, the Deutsche marks being spent to build these houses
will flow into the German economy... through the pay envelopes of the
workers, through the payments made to the contractors and equipment
suppliers. The presence of American families in this area will not only be
a help to the small tradesmen and local industries of the community but I
hope by their presence here in this vital section of the German Republic,
Germans and Americans can get to know one another better so that they
may work together constructively for the welfare of Germany and the
peace of Europe.

“By turning over this earth we symbolize our common effort toward
good will and peace.” +END

2 MARCH 1951

--- Page 6 ---
The Gift of Self-Respect

By KAY BOYLE

F YOU WANT TO HEAR my story, it can be told in a

few minutes time," Frau Emmi Bonhoeffer said to me
with modesty as we sat in the lamplight together the first
evening we met.

She is tall and slender, and her age may be 40, maybe
even less, and her eyes are still those of a shy young girl.

“I was born, educated, and married in Berlin, My father
was history professor at the Berlin University,’ she went
on with her story. “We were seven children, all com-
panionable, all vitally interested in learning. My major
studies were agriculture and music. That may sound like
a funny combination to you, but both subjects enthralled

. me, and I've put them both to good use, although not
quite in the way I foresaw when I was a student!

“For five years now I have been living with my three
children in one room in the little village of Gronenberg,
in East Holstein, the four of us refugees ourselves among
thousands of other refugees. This one room, which we
consider ourselves lucky to have, serves us as bedroom,
living room, kitchen, bath — and for music room too, for
I have tried to keep music a vital factor in my children's
daily living, and they play the piano, the cello and the
violin. As for my early training in agriculture, it has been
of value to me during the years I have been a member
of the community council in Holstein, a community of
11 villages in farming country.”

ER SMILE IS TENDER and filled with patience, but I

felt it might be touched with impatience if, looking
at her spirited but weary face, one were to suggest that
now she had accomplished so much she was entitled to
an interval of rest. But despite the five years’ unremitting
work she has been doing to help the hundreds of refugees
in her community regain their self-respect through co-
operative labor, it is evident that she has no time or
taste for weariness. Activity is the climate to which her
flesh and her spirit are attuned, and her ear is sharpened
to the demands and the complaints of many voices, not
just to the two or three familiar voices most women heed
within the limits of their homes’ four walls.

“In the old days in Germany,” Frau Bonhoeffer con-
tinued, “we used to have several classes of society —)the
nobility, the bourgeoisie, the working class. But once we
lost our homes, we were reduced to two classes — to the
class who has a friend or friends in America, and to the
class that has not. In 1945, I wrote describing the situation
of the refugees to my American friends, and they in turn
told other friends of this population of outcasts which
had no shoes to cover their feet, no clothing to protect
them from the cold. They learned from my letters that
four to eight persons lived in every room of each house

MARCH 1951

in the village, people with hardly anything to eat, without
soap, dishes, bed cover, pots and pans. And then, like a
miracle, the river of bounty began to flow!

“The refugees could scarcely believe their eyes. Here

were coats, dresses, suits, shoes, pouring in as if dropped-

from heaven! All these destitute people had to do was
to come to me for what they needed so desperately, and,
provided the clothes fitted them, and always provided
someone else was not in greater need, it was theirs, But
one day the village schoolteacher said to me: ‘Frau Bon-
hoeffer, you are not going about this in the proper way.
You can see for yourself that it is creating an unhealthy
situation. Everyone in the village is beginning to take all
this for granted. You must work out a better system of
distribution.’ I agreed with thim,” said Frau Bonhoeffer
gently, “but I could not think how I should go about it.

ND THEN ONE DAY as I was unpacking and sorting
the contents of a package that had just come from
America, a refugee woman came to me and asked me if
I could give her a coat. There I was standing just at that
instant with a beautiful warm American coat in my
hands! She wanted the coat so badly that she offered to
do housework for me in return for the cost. I laughed at
this offer, of course, but then and there an idea was born.
“IT asked if she would be willing to work for another
woman who was frail and had three small children, in-
stead of for me. She said, ‘Sure —I will work as much
and as long as you say.’ We made a gentleman's agree-
ment," Frau Bonheffer continued. “She was to wash once
a month for 10 months for this family. I gave her the coat
tight away. She fulfilled her promise.

“Now I knew how to proceed. These people who wanted
things from America from me could work for their neigh-
bors, thus passing on the gift of love which they re-
ceived. They could receive and still hold fast their pre-
cious self-respect.

“This became a regular pattern. Men chopped wood for
fatherless families; fishermen brought in fish for the hun-

Frau Emmi Bonhoeffer (writing) and group of women
who helped her organize the neighbor-help plan she
originated in village of Gronenberg, in Holstein. L.-r.,
Frau Lange, Frau Bonhoeffer, Frau Schroers, Frau Albers,
Frau Kaminsky. (Photos courtesy “‘Christian Science Monitor’')

LT a eee

ne:

--- Page 7 ---
gry; children at school mended stockings for those who
had none. We began using ‘what we had in the house.’

“My friends in America cooperated generously. I now
have 63 friends who send me parcels.

“I kept track of the clothes given out and the number
of work hours owing as payment,” Frau Bonhoeffer said,
“and when I had 200 hours on my books I went to the
mayor of the village and offered to have the people use
these work hours to repair the road to the neighboring
viliage, which was so bad it required a detour of eight
xaiies. The mayor laughed and said it was a typical
weman's idea. To give away used clothes and then think
people would come back weeks later to work for them
was ridiculous. I couldn't make a laughingstock of him!

“T replied, ‘Maybe you are right and nobody will come,
but I will risk being ridiculous if you will agree to show
the workers how to repair the road if they do show up.’
He promised he would, but he didn't believe for a mo-
ment anybody would come.

“That afternoon I sent my little boy with 10 letters to
10 men asking if they would come at 6 a.m, the next day
with spades to repair the road to Stawedder. They came —
all of them. The mayor kept his promise, too. He brought
his plow and showed them how to repair the street.

“There was great rejoicing, and we named the new
road Oberlin, because most of the clothes these men had
received came to us from Oberlin, Ohio. I reminded the
people that many of these clothes had been sent by Jews
who had lost their relatives in German concentration
camps, and that we might well think about what that
meant and ask ourselves if we, too, would repay evil
with good as did they.”

T IS ONLY WHEN Frau Bonhoeffer speaks of her hus-

band and of their life together that the look of a young
girl fades from her eyes. Because of his active part in
the German resistance, Klaus Bonhoeffer was arrested by
the Gestapo in 1944, She and her children were then living
in the country, but when she learned that her husband
was imprisoned in Berlin, Frau Bonhoeffer returned there
alone, braving the air raids, in the hope of being able to
save his life. Three times the house she lived in was
bombed, and she was grilled more than once by the
Gestapo, but still remained there, fighting for his release,

Frau Bonhoeffer outlines a new undertaking to some of
men who leveled a hill by hand to build new sports field
das one more result of her “organized clothing" system.

Kay Boyle, ranked among America's leading con-
temporary short story writers, is the author of
20 books including the well-known “White Horses
of Vienna.” In 1936 and again in 1941 she won the
O'Henry Memorial Prize for the best story of the
year. Miss Boyle is correspondent in Germany for
the “New Yorker,” and contributes to other leading
US magazines. A collection of Miss Boyle's stories
on the contemporary German scene will be pub-
lished April 15 under the title “The Smoking Moun-
tain.” In private life she is the wife of Joseph M.
Franckenstein, who is a member of the Frankfurt
editorial staff of HICOG's overt newspaper, ‘Die
Neue Zeitung.”

Although there were moments when she dared hope
she would be successful, he was finally executed by the
Gestapo, as were his brother, Dietrich, the well-known
theologian, and his two brothers-in-law, Hans von Doh-
nanyi and Ruediger Schleicher, all honored names in the
resistance movement in Germany.

“In 1945, I succeeded in reaching my children again,"
Frau Bonhoeffer said to me, her eyes, her mouth, smiling
gently again. ‘I had to swim the River Elbe to get out of
the Russian Zone, pushing a knapsack of my belongings
on the current before me and carrying the last letters my
husband had written me from prison against my heart.

“Rest? A vacation?” she asked in amazement. "I had
my vacation last year when I went to America, I spent
nearly four months there, and everywhere I went I found
more good will and friendship and confidence in other
human beings than I had thought existed on this earth!"

(Frau Bonhoeffer's stay in the United States was on the
HICOG Exchange Program and under the sponsorship of
the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America.)

GAIN AND AGAIN PEOPLE asked me in America
why my system of ‘organized clothing’ was not
adopted throughout Western Germany, where we have
13,000,000 refugees, as you know. And I explained the
difficulties involved. It is a thing, this system of mine,
which is feasible in a small community only, for one must
know each member of the population personally in order
to estimate how much each individual is able to con-
tribute, and what his own needs are. But there is one
place here where it could be adopted, and it is that I am
trying hard to organize now. I want to see the Jugend-

aufbau Werke (Youth Work Centers) using this plan.”
The Jugendaufbau Werke are camps — similar to the
CCC camps established in America during the depres-
sion— which provide homes and training for refugee
boys and girls from 14 to 20 years old. Once the 14-year-
olds have left school and, as is usually the case, are
unable to find work, they are encouraged to come to
these “Youth Education and Work Camps" where they
are not only fed and clothed, but taught languages and

crafts, and prepared for future employment in a trade.
There are 138 Jugendaufbau Werke in Holstein alone,
36 for girls only, and Frau Bonhoeffer has a very clear
(Continued on page 10)

MARCH 1951

--- Page 8 ---
The Soviet Zone Press

By F. GARDNER COX, Jr.
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

VERY WEEKDAY AT 10 A. M., there is a gathering
E at the House of Unity’ on Lothringer Strasse in the
Soviet Sector of Berlin. The meeting, attended by the
chief editors of all Soviet Sector newspapers, is directed
by Rudolph Herrnstadt — member of the central com-
mittee of the Socialist Unity Party (SED), member of its
exclusive Politbuero, and chief editor of the party's lead-
ing mouthpiece, Neues Deutschland.

At these meetings, Herrnstadt spends from one to two
hours telling the assembled editors what their papers
will say for the day. Main themes, top stories, editorial
treatment — all are outlined with inflexible care. Listen-
ing and taking notes are not only the editors of SED
papers, but also the top men of the bourgeois party
papers, too, Der Morgen (Liberal Democratic Party) and
Neue Zeit (Christian Democratic Union).

On important occasions, the Soviet Zone propaganda
chief, Gerhard Eisler, also participates.

The daily meetings at the House of Unity are important
links in a disciplined chain of command which makes all
newspapers in the Soviet Zone look alike, think alike
and talk alike. This alikeness is no accident. It is achiev-
ed bluntly and systematically.

| Tae HERRNSTADT SUMMED UP the Party phi-
losophy at the last annual meeting of SED press
leaders: “The Party newspaper is not published in order
to amuse people or to eam money. It is published in
order to make political policy, in order to wage a political
fight. Thus it is a political institution, which, for prac-
tical reasons, has the character of a newspaper; and not
conversely a newspaper which, for practical reasons,
deals with political policies.”

The similarity (Gleichschaltung) of the Soviet Zone
press has occurred by straight-line evolution. The initial
licensing policies of the Soviets aligned the revived Ger-
man press with the revived German political parties. The
history of the Soviet-licensed press is thus the history
of the Soviet-controlled political parties.

Originally the Soviets licensed newspapers for the
Liberal Democrats (LDP), the Christian Democrats (CDU),
the Social Democrats (SPD) and naturally also for the Com-
munist Party (KPD). Soviet control was exercised so that
many more Communist than non-Communist newspapers
received licenses. Paper rationing, too, was so controlled

Daily briefings, constant supervision and_ schooling
combined with assembly-line production of basic news
and editorial comment have made all Soviet Zone and
Soviet Sector newspapers alike and a reasonably good
facsimile of the press in the Soviet Union itself. Top,
Berlin Soviet Sector and, tight, Soviet Zone newspapers.

(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

MARCH 1951

by the Soviets that the Communists received far more
newsprint than any of their competitors. When the
doomed SPD was forcibly merged with the Communist
Party and the two became the SED, the SPD newspapers
naturally disappeared.

Soviet newsprint controls were exercised so that the
non-Communist press appeared once or twice weekly,
while the Communist press quickly went on a daily
basis. When more paper was available, the non-Com-
munist press generally remained on a once or twice
weekly basis. The press of the SED and of organizations
within the National Front continued to expand.

--- Page 9 ---
In 1948, within a few weeks of the Soviet announce-
ment that constitutionally-scheduled county elections
could not take place because of “insufficient paper sup-
plies," the newly-created National Democratic Party was
licensed to publish a full-sized newspaper in the Soviet
Sector of Berlin. The National Democratic Party, a puppet
of the SED, designed to attract former rightist elements,
was an instrument of Soviet policy and for that reason
received the precious paper and hard-won access to
printing facilities.

S THE SOVIET REGIME applied the thumbscrews
to the LDP and CDU, the newspapers of both parties
felt corresponding coercion. In February 1950, when Soviet
press controls were passed over to Gerhard Eisler’s Of-
fice of Information, there was no lessening of the pressure.
When, at Moscow's direction, there was created a
National Front of all so-called democratic" parties and
movements in the Soviet Zone, the non-Communist press
was already under thorough control. Allied press scru-
tiny, which could detect some difference of approach in
the Communist and non-Communist handling of news
until October or November of last year, reports that there
is little difference today. It is true that the principal CDU
newspaper in the Soviet Zone, Der Demokrat (The
Democrat) and its Soviet Sector counterpart, Neue Zeit,
carry a number of articles on the duties and responsi-
bilities of Christians today. But their news coverage and
editorial line are strictly National Front — i. e., Com-
munist.

The few LDP papers in the Soviet Zone, and their
Soviet Sector counterpart, Der Morgen, have little to
differentiate them from the SED party press excepting
the masthead inscriptions: “Organ of the Liberal Demo-
cratic Party.”

Granted how much alike are the bourgeois and party
press, there are none the less a number of ways by which
Risler differentiates between them. One device was to
have the Monopoly Distribution Agency decline to deliver
Neue Zeit (CDU) and Der Morgen (LDP) from East Berlin,
where they are published, to any newsstands in the
Soviet Zone.

Another item of interest is that the ‘People’s Owned
Enterprises” are not allowed to advertise in the bour-
geois press, This is less significant than it sounds, since the
volume of this advertising is minute by West-German
standards. More significant is discrimination through the
German Post Office.

Early in 1950 the postal authorities of the East German
regime conducted a campaign to boost newspaper sub-
scriptions throughout the Soviet-occupied area. No sub-
scriptions were accepted for the "bourgeois" papers; the
post office drive was only to increase subscriptions for
the “progressive press. Further control is exercised
through the reprimands which are dealt out by Eisler's
Office of Information. In this respect the “bourgeois and
Communist editors have equality of treatment—all papers
are subject to this discipline.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HE DAILY POLICY MEETINGS conducted by Herrn-
stadt are only part of the control machinery. Eisler's
Office of Information is to be regarded as the mainspring.
Established in October 1949, this office controls all in-
formation media of the Soviet Zone and Soviet Sector,

‘the collection of information on developments within

Soviet-dominated Germany and abroad, and the dis-
semination of propaganda within the East Zone and into
West Germany,

The Eisler office runs the strict newspaper licensing
system and either controls or has a large influence on
newsprint allocations. It issues directives to party and
non-party newspapers, and its relationship to the govern-
ment apparatus is such that it can call upon all the
resources of President Wilhelm Pieck’s regime for pur-
poses of personal intimidation, special economic or other
pressures.

Most news appearing in Soviet Zone newspapers comes
from ADN (Allgemeiner Deutscher Nachrichtendienst —
General German News Service), which was established
in 1946. ADN receives all its directives and special re-
leases on official and semi-official developments from
Hisler's Office of Information. Such special releases must
be published without alteration.

ADN, particularly for international coverage, is linked
with Moscow and the Cominform via the Soviet-operated
news service for Germany called SNB (Sowjetisches
Nachrichten Buero— Soviet News Agency). SNB in turn
shares offices with TASS in Berlin, and the two staffs are
practically indistinguishable.

None of the Berlin newspapers are now permitted to
subscribe to ‘Western" news services. The Soviet Oc-
cupation Power's newspaper Taegliche Rundschau is the
only exception to the rule.

HE TASS-SNB-ADN CHAIN of command is but one

example of the way copy is mass-produced for the
East Zone press. A brief scrutiny of the papers shows a
continuous hand-me-down process. Special articles and
editorials are produced originally by the staff of Neues
Deutschland, the central organ of the SED; after a lapse
of one or two days, the material is faithfully reprinted by
the chain of party papers in the provinces.

But these assembly-line characteristics go even farther.
Each Wednesday morning, at the same time, members
of Party newspapers in Berlin, Halle, Dresden, Leipzig, ©
Chemnitz, Bautzen, Zwickau, Magdeburg, Potsdam and
Weimar assemble locally for 90 minutes of ideological
instruction, Standard texts are the noted “Short History
of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union” and the
“Biography of J. V. Stalin."

More advanced indoctrination is available for selected
journalists at Leipzig University’s Institut fuer Publizistik
under Professor Hermann Budzislawski and at a similar
institute established in Berlin during January 1951.

The remainder of the press in the East Zone needs
little description. Each of the mass organizations com-
posing the Communist-built National Front has a publica-

MARCH 1951

--- Page 10 ---
tion or two of its own. The Free German Youth (FDJ)
has its newspaper, Junge Welt, while Der Junge Pionier
serves the Pioneers, junior annex of the FDJ. The mass
organizations for women, trade unionists and for farmers
have their own publications — and so it continues,

T IS OBVIOUS from this pattern that the East Zone

press has been developed into a reasonably good
facsimile of the press in the Soviet Union and other
satellite states. Its newspapers are fulfilling the tasks of
education" and propaganda laid down for them. ‘Mere
journalism" (Nur Journalismus) and “insufficient watch-
fulness" are the two principal weaknesses of the press,
as the SED now sees it; the constant briefings, the school-
ing, the supervision of juniors by tried seniors and the
assembly-line production of basic news and editorial
comment are designed to combat these weaknesses,

There is another feature of the SED press which de-
serves evaluation, The "people's correspondents” (Volks-
korrespondenten) are an institution lauded and develop-
ed in Russia and exported unchanged to the Soviet Zone.
By SED count in 1950 there were 700 to 800 Volks-
korrespondenten working for each of the smaller party
newspapers, and from 1,500 to 1,700 “VK's" working for
cach of the larger papers. This number was then con-
sidered too small and the Party press was to bend all
efforts in order to enlarge the VK ranks.

The VK movement is made up of unpaid volunteers
who contribute news items concerning their place of
work or their own small communities, They provide the
SED with a sensitive barometer of grass-roots opinion
‘nd local problems, for their articles and reports are
catalogued and analyzed by each newspaper monthly
and forwarded to higher Party offices. VK articles further
provide a safe complaint channel direct to a competent
Party official (the newspaper editor), VK contributions
pointing to wasteful manufacturing practices are sure to
be published and investigated, as are VK articles charging
deviationist tendencies on the part of local officials.

HAT TRAINING THE VK'S receive from their Party

editor is mainly political and follows the line laid
down by Stalin in an article titled “Concerning the Work-
er and Farmer Correspondents.’ The article states that
there is a necessary minimum of journalistic techniques
which must be taught, but that it is most important for
the correspondents to receive social and political educa-
tion "so they can attain a sensitive sureness in carrying
out their tasks.”

Director-in-chief Robert Korb of the SED Central Com-
mittee’s .Press Division, described the VK mission as
follows: “For us (the SED), the Volkskorrespondenten
are the most important means for transforming the So-
Cialist press into a sharp weapon of class warfare, the
most important means for the creation of the closest
Possible bond with the masses. The Volkskorrespondenten
are our eyes and ears, They report to us what the masses
fecl and wish and they simultaneously transmit to the
masses the aim and object of Party and regime policies."

MARCH 1951

Propaganda chief Gerhard Eisler (left) is pictured at Ber-
lin's Soviet Sector ‘‘House of Unity" with East Germany's
President Wilhelm Pieck, (Photo by courtesy of Associated Press)

Korb's further remarks included reference to the “class-
enemies, spies and saboteurs who have most to fear from
the work of the Volkskorrespondenten. And here he
stated incisively the Communist view of how a press
should function and what its relationship should be to
public opinion, The Volkskorrespondenten deal directly
with the editorial staffs. They are thus independent to a
certain degree. Naturally that does not mean, however,
that they are also independent of the proletarian public
opinion, which in itself is formed by the Party. The
ideological, political and organizational guidance of the
Volkskorrespondenten thus rests exclusively with the
editorial staffs which in themselves are responsible or-
gans of the Party.”

These are the people's correspondents — the cement
which is mixed to bind people and regime together, a
continuously operating public opinion poll, a check on
the effectiveness of Party propaganda, an instrument of
Party propaganda and a force for watchfulness.

They are more than “our eyes and ears,"" as Korb call-
ed them; they are an auxiliary mouth of the SED as well.

OR EDITORIAL STAFFS and the general public alike,

the possibility of chance-deviationism is reduced by
hermetically sealing off unapproved sources of printed
matter from the Soviet Zone.

In 1947, the Soviets and Allied Powers agreed it would
be desirable to allow free flow of publications among
the occupation zones. Such free flow was already an
accomplished fact within West Germany. The Soviets
subsequently nullified the agreement through establish-
ment of a monopoly distribution agency (the Zeitungs-
vertriebsgesellschaft), which handles all distribution of
publications, domestic or foreign, to news outlets in the
Soviet Zone and Sector.

This agency draws up a list of publications it will
handle: publications not on the list do not get distributed.
Naturally, non-Communist publications have an extremely
poor chance of getting on the list. Certain technical
publications may and do get through, but any of a gen-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
eral nature, or which are believed to have an “ideolo-
gical" content, have no chance whatever. For example,
Petrusblatt, the diocesan organ of the Catholic Church
in Germany, has long been excluded.

According to the most recent count, there are 79 West
German and 102 West Berlin publications which the
agency will handle; all are specialized and non-contro-
versial. The authorized list, which is published by the
German Post Office (Soviet Zone) and amended regularly,
includes only 208 foreign publications which will be al-
lowed into East Germany. The sole publications authorized
in English and French are New Times, Soviet Literature,
Soviet Woman, and USSR in Construction; the only
ones allowed in Spanish or Polish are Literatura
Sovietica and its Polish equivalent.

The remaining titles read like a review of the USSR’s
publishing output.

N ADDITION TO EXCLUDING the bulk of non-Com-

munist publications from East German households, the
Pieck regime has shown a psychopathic fear of non-
Communist journalists. With the exception of the annual
Leipzig Fair, and the periodic show-trials against “sabo-
teurs of the Two-Year Plan," for which East Germany
is open to correspondents, Western journalists are dis-
couraged through systematic intimidation from seeking
newsworthy material within the East Zone.

Abductions of journalists have taken place in Berlin
for a number of years, and altogether some 28 have been
spirited away —some from the streets of West Berlin,
others through having been lured into the Soviet Sector
by means of varied ruses.

The “Law for Protection of the Peace,” passed Dec.
15, 1950, has not yet been tested. The language in which
the law is couched, plus knowledge that the ‘people's
judges" interpret law on political rather than legal
grounds, has had the silencing effect desired by East
Zone rulers; journalists visiting the Soviet Zone un-
deniably feel the weight of intended intimidation which
stands behind the rubber clauses of the law.

Here are a few of its provisions:

“Whosoever propagandizes for the reconstitution of
aggressive German militarism and imperialism or for the
inclusion of Germany in an aggressive military bloc will
be punished with jail, and in severe cases, with
penitentiary.

“Also punishable are those who arouse others against
legal international agreements, against the guaranteeing
and consolidation of the peace, which serves the develop-
ment of Germany on a democratic and peaceful basis, or
whosoever demands breach of such international legal
agreements in order to drag Germany into aggressive war.

“Whosoever, in the service of inciting to war, brings
into contempt the movement for the maintenance and
consolidation of the peace or degrades or incites against
those who are participating in the fight for peace because
of their activities, or who persecutes them, will be punish-
ed with jail, or in severe cases, with penitentiary sentence.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ESPITE LAWS, INTIMIDATIONS and controls, the

flow of non-Communist literature into East Germany
continues. Each month hundreds of thousands of leaflets,
brochures, small-format newspapers and tracts reach
East Germans from the “outside. They are read, read
again and passed on to others. No one has tried to
coordinate the activities of all the non-Communist groups
which are participating in this work; in fact, their total
number is not known.

At any rate, they face huge difficulties, and much ef-
fort must be expended to insure delivery to a small
number of initial recipients. Impact of this material is
hardly comparable to that of Eisler's press monopoly.
But through this traffic in truth, patriotic groups are
doing much to preserve a unity-feeling among Germans
on both sides of the border.

A unifying force, too, is the press of West Berlin;
these newspapers are regularly bought by visitors from
the Soviet Zone and Sector and find their way to the
farthest corners of East Germany. Space does not permit
recording there the effective job of “bridge-building”
being done by BBC, the Voice of America, and the two
Western radio transmitters in Berlin, RIAS and NWDR.

N THE LAST ANALYSIS it must be grudgingly admit-

ted that the SED-dominated press is a powerful
weapon in the hands of the Communists. The regime's
ban on non-Communist literature has been sufficiently
effective to give unquestioned first place to the Com-
munist printed word.

The press, as an arm of the SED, is performing most
of the tasks assigned to it. If it weren't for competition
from the free world outside, Eisler's machine would be
an unchallengeable monopoly, and his task would be
much simplified.

The least that the free world can do, however, is to
tender the East Zone press some thanks for having to
operate under close scrutiny of the West. Under this
scrutiny, Eisler’s press is serving as a thoroughly-under-
stood sample of what has happened to the free press in
the Soviet satellites, and of the utopian plans which the
Soviet Union would have for future satellites, if she
could get them. +END

Soviet Zone “People’s Police”
Desertions Reach 77 during January

Another 77 members of the Communist German
“People’s Police” deserted to West Berlin during January.
The desertions bring to a total of 603 the number of
East German quasi-military policemen who have sought
sanctuary in West Berlin alone during the past eight
months. During the same period nearly 300 members of
the Communist-controlled “Free German Youth" (FDJ)
have deserted to the Western sectors.

In the eight months ending January 31, 1951, a total
1,484 Red disturbers of the place were arrested by the
police. Many of the intruders were apprehended through
active cooperation of West Berlin citizens.

MARCH 1951

--- Page 12 ---
!

org spralas,
: i

By FRANK J. GATES

US Resident Officer. Tirschenreuth County, Bavaria

HAT WOULD YOU DO if you saw strangers tearing
down your house stone by stone and carting it
away?

The rules of life have been somewhat muddled in
central Europe for more than a decade, and when Ger-
mans in Hermannsreuth, Bavaria, saw Czechoslovakian
soldiers tearing down their homes, they didn’t lift a
finger to protest. Acceding to the rules of this age, they
let their old homes go—and set about immediately to
build new ones.

Hermannsreuth, by the accident of politics and
geography, lies squarely on the German-Czech border.
This boundary, which slices the town in two, was origi-
nally established between Austria and Germany prior
to the first world war. It was re-established by both
Germany and Czechoslovakia after 1918 and stood until

“This village attracted worldwide attention at the time
the Czechs were tearing down the buildings on their side
Of the frontier,” writes Resident Officer Gates. In this
article he relates what natives and refugees of Hermanns-
teuth did when the German-Czech border threatened to
completely unbalance their lives. Top photo shows
thoughtful crowd at dedication of new homes. Right,
townspeople file across snowy fields from new settlement.

MARCH 1951

the Nazis marauded across the border in 1938. Through-
out these years of partition, the townspeople owning
land or homes on either side of the border were free to
move back and forth in order to work their land or live
in their homes.

But in 1945 these privileges were withdrawn; the
Czech government confiscated the land and homes be-
longing to German farmers on Czech land and expelled
the Germans across the border into Germany.

These farmers of Hermannsreuth were given temporary
living quarters in the Bavarian portion of their town,

--- Page 13 ---
where they were able to continue cultivating those of
their fields which were inside Germany.

IKE MOST EXPELLEES, these farmers never abandoned
i hope for eventual return to the place where they were
born and where their ancestors had tilled the soil for
centuries. It is natural, therefore, that they were bitterly
disappointed to see Czechs begin to tear down the
houses in their part of the village. Salvagable material—
bricks, stones, wood—was sent into the interior of
Czechoslovakia with Czech soldiers who, during the
operation, lined the border with machine guns, contem-
plating trouble from the expellees.

Within a few weeks, the Czechs had completely
destroyed everything which diligent generations -had
built, leaving—for reasons unknown—only a small church.

A significant example of discipline on the part of
German expellees in Hermannsreuth is this: not a single
incident occurred during the removal.

Even more significant is the fact that the expellees did
not lose their courage or the initiative to start life anew.
Instead of desponding, they began thinking and planning.
In the minds of a few there developed a plan which for
so small a town could only be considered fantastic.

The plan called for construction of 35 two-family
houses. If this were done, it would mean all expellees
in the village would have new apartments and the town
would be rid entirely of its housing problem.

In the beginning, the plan hovered like a dream about
the town. Then the townspeople of little Hermannsreuth
took hold to fight it through.

T WAS A TREMENDOUSLY DIFFICULT task. First
of all, there was no money. The expellees did pos-
sess a few materials, things they had salvaged in secret
from their homes across the border. But they needed
help on a much larger scale. A town meeting was call-

All buildings in the Czechoslovakian part of the village,
with the sole exception of the church, were destroyed.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ed in March 1950, to which almost every citizen of the
town came. The plan was explained in detail. German
officials promised help. Through a series of negotiations
and two additional town meetings, the following plan
was finally adopted:

Thirty-five two-family houses would be built during
a period of three years. A loan to the amount of
DM 13,200 (about $3,140) for each settler was approved
and granted by the Bavarian Land Settlement Agency.
On July 25, the first ground was broken.

Within three months, 16 houses were ready for occu-
pancy. Construction of the remaining 19 houses will be
completed by the fall of 1952. Total estimated cost of
the project, including roads and water supply, is
approximately DM 500,000 (about $119,000).

The job was not left to the expellees alone. Both
natives and expellees pooled their efforts to develop the
community. Expellees were able to reduce construction
costs considerably by performing manual labor them-
selves. The native farmers volunteered the use of their
oxen and wagons for hauling wood, stone and other
building materials to the site.

To save money and expedite construction, the tradition-
al feast, given workers on completion of the framework,
was omitted. However, last Nov. 10, when the first phase
of the gigantic project was finished, representatives of both
the state of Bavaria and the county of Tirschenreuth joined
with the townspeople of Hermannsreuth to celebrate the
inauguration. Everyone present hailed the spirit which
had made the new community possible—the spirit whereby
expellees and townspeople, confronted by the facts of
life in 1950, acted positively upon them. +END

(Continued from page 4)

The Gift of Self-Respect

plan as to how the “organized clothing” idea could be
put into practice in these camps.

F WE APPLIED my system there,’ she said to me with

eagerness, “we would have a really functioning demo-
cratic state in terms our young people could understand.
The best clothes received in the camps could be used,
for instance, as a sort of reward or bonus to those most
outstanding in cooperation; and the boys and girls would,
moreover, be permitted to earn various pieces of cloth-
ing for needy members of their families by doing extra
work in the camp. z

“The less good clothing donated would serve an ad-
ditional purpose of teaching the girls mending and reno-
vating, and the worst clothing could be used for mak-
ing rag rugs. Any remnants would go to our hard-pressed
paper factories in exchange for paper for classroom use.

“Nothing would be given for nothing, you see, and the
clothes would serve to prove the moral, as well as the
material value of the system, down to the very last
thread. If we can give the young the great gift of self-
respect, then the fight for democracy is half won!" Frau
Bonhoeffer said, and these words spoken quietly in the
lamplight seemed to me singularly true. +-END

MARCH 1951

--- Page 14 ---
Search for Truth

By MRS. JOHN J. MeCLOY

URING THE 18 MONTHS I have

lived in Germany, Ihave hadample
opportunity to study and learn about
the problems, plans and hopes of this
country. As a result, I am convinced
that it is personal contact which pri-
marily can lead to international under-
standing, and every one of us must

The following are excerpts from
an address delivered by Mrs.
McCloy, wife of the US High
Commissioner for Germany, be-
fore a group of German women’s
organizations in the auditorium of
Frankfurt University, in January.
Mrs. McCloy spoke in German.

any time had been members of Nazi
organizations. These Americans did not
realize that. They concluded that Na-
tional Socialism was evidently on the
verge of revival. A wave of protest
swept America, and there were voices
demanding “no further aid for Ger-
many." The subsequent reaction, how-

help in achieving it. This is by no
means a simple task. It requires time and much patience,
and one must not be discouraged by setbacks. I think
particularly that women with their ability for sympathetic
understanding are best suited for this task.

In my opinion, the difference between women “on
this side and on the other side of the ocean" is not so
great, because right down in our hearts all of us have
one common aim — preserving peace and freedom. I am
convinced that every one of us realizes that this cannot
be achieved without sacrifices.

Freedom, after all, is not a gift, but every one of us
bears a share of responsibility for it. I mean to say that
everyone must watch the situation and cannot simply
say: “This is none of my business.”

E WOMEN ARE THE MOTHERS of the future gen-

eration and therefore, as women and citizens, we are
concerned with everything that goes on in our communities,
whether it is in schools, shops, in our homes, or in the
government itself. Concerning oneself with these develop-
ments, however, takes time and some trouble. Above all
one must be informed of the facts.

May I make a serious appeal to you here:

We women should try to consider everything thor-
oughly and objectively, before we get excited or even
angry. If we know the facts we will never again be in-
timidated or become over-enthusiastic.

Let me quote an example: Instead of complaining
about coal exports and heating restrictions we should
realize, and tell others, that the export of a certain
amount of German coal constitutes a permanent source of
income, in exchange for which foods and other vital neces-
sities can be purchased for Germany. Through such drastic
curtailments and heavy sacrifices, England is now in a
Position so it can live independent of Marshall Plan aid.

ie MY COUNTRY, TOO, people sometimes get excited
without reason; for instance, they were upset once
because they believed they had reason to fear that a
kind of new Nazi government was being built up in Ger-
many. They based their assumption on reports that a few
Nazis had regained prominent positions in public life.

These Americans, however, had misconceived the
actual state of affairs. In the long run it was impossible
to ignore completely or to exclude all people who at

MARCH 1951

11

ever, shows the difference between
the attitudes of people “‘on this side and on the other side
of the ocean." The United States Government immediately
ordered a thorough investigation of the entire affair.
Members of Congress published endless articles, Mr.
McCloy was called home to report his observations to a
special committee on European affairs.

The public was informed in detail of all the pros and
cons. Everywhere men and women discussed this prob-
lem and soon the truth, or at least something approaching
truth, was found out. The matter was cleared up and
the attitude of the population changed accordingly.

E WOMEN MUST SUPPORT this search for truth
wherever possible.

Our times are too serious to permit the luxury of un-
justified criticism. Let us, therefore, take the trouble to
find out the truth about such problems as war criminals,
occupation costs, Heligoland, and other pressing current
problems which occupy the mind of the public. Take the
trouble to investigate these things thoroughly. Do not let
yourselves be misled by empty phrases and slogans.

I know there are many who let themselves be influ-
enced by cheap propaganda. However, no one can afford
such immature thinking these days. We must not uncon-
sciously become the instruments for. those who agitate
with definite intent. +END

Representatives of GYA (German Youth Activities)
turn over items of clothing to Welfare Committee of
American Women's Club in Berlin for distribution to
needy cases. Clothing was sent to GYA by St. Paul Con-
gregational Church of Greeley, Colo. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Giant Rheinhausen Steel Mill, near Duisburg, formerly
part of Krupp combine, produces 120,000 long tons of pig
iron monthly. Operating nine blast furnaces, such as that
shown at left, below, 234-acre plant, largest in Western
Europe, was aided by ECA loans. Top right, partial view
of Huettenwerk storage yards and bins. Capacity is
750,000 metric tons of iron ore, 10,000 tons of coal. Below,
tight, typical Ruhr steel worker. Glasses protect eyes
fromglare. (Cover and photos on this page by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Ruhr Steel and Coal

for Western Defense

HE GREAT RUHR AREA — Germany's industrial heart
and the keystone to her economy — has been popu-
larly called the arbiter of Europe.

There, in an area roughly 50 miles from north to south
and 70 across with the city of Essen as its geographical
and economic center, lie the mighty blast furnaces and
steel mills once again rolling out supplies for Western
Europe.

The spine of coalfields which runs from Dortmund to
Duesseldorf is the basic factor for the Ruhr's importance.
Iron is the second, Coal and iron side by side and in
great masses in the soil make the Ruhr the great reservoir
of industry that it is.

Over this area in the postwar years have raged the
controversies on dismantling, decartelization, reparations,
level of industry and co-determination. Today the Ruhr
is a foremost link in the chain of discussions on the
widely-publicized Schuman Plan.

Despite almost total disorganization of German industry
in the first years immediately following the war, Ruhr
production is steadily climbing back to normalcy. The
present goal is increased coal and steel output for do-
mestic as well as foreign commitments, Steel production
is on the upward swing but has not yet surpassed its
postwar peak of October 1950 when it hit a monthly
high of 1,135,000 metric tons.

A shot-in-the-arm to the German steel
industry was administered last September
when the three Occupation Powers agreed
to lift the ceiling of 11,100,000 tons yearly
provided the increased output was made
available for Western defense needs, the
increase being subject to review. Today the
Ruhr's “order book" is long and keeps
growing as demands for steel and allied
products pour in,

Coal mines have been working a seven-
day week to supply domestic industries as
well as to meet the export quota established
by the International Authority of the Ruhr,
of which Germany herself is a member. In
February, the average daily output climbed
to 384,000 tons against 380,000 for January.

MARCH 1951

--- Page 16 ---
“If ye continue in My word, then are ye My dis-
ciples: and ye shall know the truth, and the truth
shall make you free.” John 8:31-32. (Inscription upon
bell presented to German members of Berlin's Ernst
Moritz Arndt Evangelical Church by members of the
American Community Church in recognition of
friendship between the two groups.)

ea

Ubu ©

By MAURICE E. LEE

Information Bulletin Staff Writer

IGHTY-THREE EASTERS AGO, in Bismarck's time,
a group of Americans in Berlin celebrated the resur-
rection of Christ for the first time as an organized Prot-
estant interdenominational group. That Easter was the
first for the American Community Church of Berlin.
The interim history of this American organization —
the oldest in Berlin — is a story of American students,
businessmen, diplomats, soldiers and just plain ex-
ates, who during one time or another in their lives
come to know Berlin as home.

With the exception of the two world wars, the Amer-
ican church has been an integral part of American com-
y life in the former German capital. Like US inter-
denominational Protestant churches in other cities of
Europe, the purpose of the Berlin church has been to
serve the spiritual needs of Americans away from home.

These needs were keenly felt in the growing American
inity of the Prussian capital in the years im-
mediately prior to 1868, when the birth of the American
church took place. For more than 30 years afterwards, the
Americans held their church meetings either in various
German churches or the local YMCA. During that time
the church board and interested friends in America were
raising money to build a permanent edifice.

Under the pastorship of the Rev. James F. Dickie of
Detroit the American Protestant community became in
1901 the possessor of an imposing Gothic structure in the
immediate vicinity of Nollendorf Platz. Consequently the
organization was able to offer adequate religious facilities
to the growing number of Americans in Berlin. A healthy
community social life also took root about the new
building.

MARCH 1951

¢

World War II air raids destroyed
Church, built in 1901.

oS

Berlin's American
(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Shell of historical edifice now is playground for children
residing in British Sector of Berlin near Nollendorf Platz.

Dr. Arthur R. Siebens and Rev. Ernst Gess participate in
ceremony marking dedication of bell. (US Army photo)

--- Page 17 ---
Dr. Siebens, who in 1926 assisted in programs of the
American church in Berlin while a student in the former
German capital, leads @ Sunday morning service in
temporary quarters of the American institution, to which
he was appointed minister in 1946 upon completion of
survey of church's facilities for the US Protestant Inter-

denominational Board. (Photo by Schubert, PRB BE-HICOG)

World War I brought a temporary halt to the smooth
progress of the institution and its doors were closed until
1919, when, with little difficulty, it resumed its normal
course of service to returning Americans.

The late 1920's and early 30's saw an influx of Ameri-
cans into Berlin which gave the church an ever increas-
ing “temporary membership." The American population
then rose close to the 5,000 mark.

The rise of Nazism gradually whittled the American
community and in the late 30's its Protestant church was
faced with a dwindling membership. The increasing
political suppressions and foreign commerce restrictions
of Hitler's regime had their effect upon the once-thriving
American settlement. Those who chose to stay were
aware by 1937 that they could enjoy little freedom under
totalitarianism and it became apparent that the more
prominent of the American community, including the
pastor, the Rev. Stewart Herman, of Harrisburg, Pa., were
being closely watched. From the pulpit came attacks on
such police state methods. And Dr. Herman aided Polish
victims of Hitler's aggression in the East. But despite
the fears of the diminishing congregation the church was
never closed by police action.

HE TIME DIFFERENTIAL between the Far East and
Germany permitted the several dozen American
Protestants left in the war capital to hold their last serv-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ice a few hours before the attack on Pearl Harbor,
Sunday, Dec. 7, 1941. Following Germany's declaration
of war on the United States the remaining American
custodians of the church property were interned with
other Americans at Bad Nauheim, near Frankfurt. Along
with the American Embassy, the Church property was
placed under the protection of the Swiss Government,

Its only known service thereafter was as a German
first aid station during the heavy air attacks that later
hit the city. Two of these raids, one in November 1943,
and the other in February 1944, completely destroyed the
500-seat church.

But the American church as a Berlin institution sur-
vived. As early as 1945, traces reappeared. A group of
American officials found some church records in a safe
in the destroyed US Embassy and shortly afterwards
some of its silver altar pieces were discovered in
Hamburg by British soldiers and sent to Berlin via Lon-
don and Washington diplomatic channels. In the mean-
time former members and friends in the United States
were busy planning a return of the American church to
Berlin. This move was considered of even greater im-
portance as US Army units and civilian personnel
occupied one sector of the city.

As a result the Protestant Interdenominational Board
sent as its emissary a prominent American minister who,
as a student in Berlin in 1926, had been a guest preacher
of the since destroyed Nollendorf Platz church. And the
Rev. Dr. Arthur R. Siebens, through the persuasion of US
military authorities in Berlin, including Military Governor
Gen. Lucius D. Clay, turned his 30-day inspection visit
into a permanent tour of duty that has yet to come to an
end.

Berlin's first post-World War II minister, who had
held both religious and welfare posts in such diversified
centers as Atlanta, Toledo and Bowling Green as well
as Bucharest and Copenhagen, had as his priority mission
the restoration of the Berlin church. But it was obvious to
Dr. Siebens that the “island” city's war ravaged and com-
plicated political situation presented a round-the-clock
job of reorganization.

JHE FIRST PROBLEM — finding a house of worship —
took the church all the way back to the days of
1868, when it had relied upon the hospitality of fellow

American dependent students file into temporary Com-
munity Church for baccalaureate service.

(Taureg photo)

}
;
:

--- Page 18 ---
German Protestants for a temporary home. In 1946 the
membership of the Emst Moritz Arndt Evangelical
Church offered to move up its services an hour so that
the Americans could also use the church. This type of
German-American cooperation has continued ever since.
It was highlighted in 1948 by a ceremony in which the
Americans presented their German hosts with a bell of
friendship to replace one of the four carried off by
Hitler's armor makers.

It is Dr. Siebens' firm belief that no matter what its
denomination, a church's first duty is to administer to the
community of which it is a part. Consequently this Ameri-
can religious organization has found itself heavily in-
volved in relief work and in aiding German youth. “We
were drawn into relief work almost against our will, as
that was not our specific function,” said the minister,
“but we find that we cannot be good Christians and go by
on the other side of the road; therefore we are constantly
administering relief to the local German population.”

This particular venture has won a great deal of interest
from friends in America and through the church many
shipments of food and clothing have been turned over to
reliable German relief agencies for distribution to the
needy, including those in the Soviet Sector and Soviet
Zone.

The church's work with its own youth has not hindered
its efforts to help German youngsters as well. The post-
war Sunday school was organized in the autumn of 1946.
Classes were held on Saturday mornings in one of the
local schools with students transported to class on
military government busses. At the insistence of the
youngsters this was changed later to the normal morning
hour on Sunday, but it was the Sunday service that
brought German boys and girls to the American church.
Consequently a German youth program was introduced
by the church with the Germans having their own choir
and participating in the church's summer camp.

NE OF THE MOST EFFECTIVE organizations of the

church is the Women's Guild, which gained promi-
nence in 1946 when, with the help of the pastor, it
observed for the first time in Germany the World Day
of Prayer held ever since on the first Friday of Lent.
The first ceremony brought to the altar as a group,
women of Russia, Germany, France, Great Britain and
the United States. Many in the capacity congregation
were so impressed that the service has spread to numer-
ous churches in East Germany as well as in Berlin and
West Germany.

Church officials make it a point to fete returning Ger-
Man exchangees as an assurance to them that the same
Spirit of friendliness which they found in America will
continue in the American colony of Berlin.

Unlike most Stateside community churches the American
church of Berlin is faced with a continually changing
Congregation. More than 1,000 parishioners have drifted
in and out during the past three yéars but the congre-
gation remains around 500. Weddings, baptisms, funerals
and baccalaureate services are constantly on the agenda
of the pastor.

MARCH 1951

TS

Rev. Gess is pastor of the Ernst Moritz Arndt Evangelical
Church which has lent its home and facilities to the
American Community Church since 1946. Both institu-
tions hold services and often cooperate in church proj-
ects. This spirit of friendship was highlighted three
years ago when Americans presented the German con-
gregation with a bell as a token of their appreciation

and good will. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

However, the pastor's work does not end at the door of
the American community. Often he is called upon as the
unofficial representative of American Protestantism. He
has addressed meetings of German church leaders, in-
cluding the Synod Meeting of the Reformed Church in
Germany and the Free University of Berlin's School of
Theology. Several times Dr. Siebens has broadcast over
RIAS (Radio in the American Sector) words of encourage-
ment to those in the East Zone. As more Americans in
the business and diplomatic world return, he is called
upon to accept greater responsibilities.

The church's local governing board, in conjunction
with the Stateside committee headed by former OMGUS
chief of Legal Affairs Benjamin Habberton, the National
Council of Churches, and Dr. Daniel Poling, chairman of
President Truman’s Commission on Morals and Morale
of Troops Abroad, are working closely together, planning
for the day when the church once again has its own home.

These “caretakers” constantly keep in mind the thought
that US High Commissioner John J. McCloy once put
into words when he stated that the American Church
“not only meets the spiritual needs of its worshipers but
serves as a symbol of American freedom to the citizens
of Berlin, and to those of an ideological persuasion dif-
ferent from ours." The American Community Church of
Berlin has let it be known that, in this spirit, it will re-
main in Berlin. -+-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Basketball Comes Back

By CAPT. FRANCES C. BRAND

Assistant GY A Officer, Stuttgart Military Post

ASKETBALL IS NOT NEW to

Germany but the past war
years have done much to make
it an almost extinct sport. That
is, until American soldiers came
to Germany and aided German
enthusiasts of the game in giving
it a steady comeback, particular-
ly in Wuerttemberg-Baden.

When Jim Naismith, the father
of basketball as today’s world
knows it, was putting the finish-
ing touches to his game back in
1891, German girls were playing
a similar game called Korbball.
Although it did not gain great
popularity, Korbball remained the
German version of basketball un-
til 1930, when the German As-
sociation for Physical Activities
announced that officially it was no longer being played
in Germany.

Meanwhile the old Indian game with the Naismith
touch was attaining such international prominence that
it was placed upon the agenda of the 1936 Olympics in
Berlin. German sportsmen eager to compete in the game
took an avid interest in learning it. When the Berlin
Games opened, Germany was prepared to join as one of
the 21 participating nations. The winning of the tourna-
ment by the American team however, did not harm the
growing enthusiasm of Germans for the game. Between
1936 and 1937, teams in Germany had increased from
four to 150 and in 1939, the Basketball Championship
of Germany was based upon 5,000 active players. Like
many other things, the war halted this progress.

Spectator interest at GYA contest in Stuttgart runs high.
Front row, left to right, are Rupprecht Koeniger, OLCW-B
Youth Activities sports adviser; the author, Capt. Frances
C. Brand; Alfred Dorschel, of Stuttgart's Police Presidium,
and Fritz Herbst, police sports officer. (GYA photos)

German students of American-sponsored basket-
ball clinic try out newly-learned techniques.

Immediately after the end of
hostilities, surviving German
enthusiasts reintroduced the game,
But outside help was necessary,
This came from the US Forces.
GI's served as instructors, ref-
erees and umpires with the
Army providing essential aid and
equipment through German Youth
Activities (GYA). German em-
ployees of the organization in turn
formed teams of the youngsters
and arranged games for them,
Last year, one of these clubs, the
Stuttgart Basketball Club of
Degerloch, won the German
national championship.

Elsewhere the National Ger-
man Basketball Association, now
located in Munich, made an effort
to increase the popularity of the returning game in Ger-

many, but participating teams remained principally private x

sport clubs with only a few teams in the schools.

In Wuerttemberg-Baden this situation came to the
attention of the US resident officer in Stuttgart, Marcus
Hoover, who also realized that along with the attributes
of good sportsmanship and recreation, basketball could
offer an excellent opportunity for better relations be-
tween Germans and Americans.

The result was the formation of a basketball clinic to
introduce intramural games in the Stuttgart area. GYA
was asked to provide the technical aid. HICOG sports
advisers assisted in the selection of German participants.

Counterparts in the Wuerttemberg-Baden ministry of
culture, Stuttgart police officials, students of the Esslingen
Teachers College, all sports teachers of other colleges and
high schools in the Stuttgart area, GYA teams, sport clubs
and other interested individuals were invited.

HREE CLINICS WERE HELD. Army experts assisted

by the Stuttgart Commando team demonstrated train-

ing techniques and individual plays. Explanations of the

most recent international rules, the methods for organizing

basketball leagues, and the proper procedures for umpires
and referees were also outlined at the meetings.

The highlight of these earliest clinics was the integra-

tion of basketball into the sports program of the Wuert- —

temberg-Baden schools. Participants emphasized, how-

ever, that this was only the beginning of what they hope ~

will become a basketball conscious Germany. To officials
it was another important contribution to friendlier Ger-
man-American relations. -+- END

MARCH 1951

--- Page 20 ---
Organization

of 200 civic women's groups in US Zone state of Wuerttemberg-Baden, all within the last 30 months, has

resulted largely from efforts of Margaret Blewett (at left, studying papers), OLCW-B'’s Women's Affairs Officer, and

her field assistants, shown at conference. Groups’ special interests are schools, welfare, youth.

(Photos by Brauer Korntal)

A Woman’s World

By BETH BURCHARD

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

T WO AND ONE-HALF YEARS AGO, the US Zone state
of Wuerttemberg-Baden had one civic women’s group.
Today there are nearly 200.
The idea for organizing has spread, and with it has
evolved a whole new generation of lady chairmen, com-

mittee members and women who can speak their minds.
The women who now take part in community life do not
include the entire female population of Wuerttemberg-
Baden, but there are a sufficient number to make this
apparent: women are making community affairs their

affair

The Germany which produced this generation is unique
to civilization. The first persons to lose their jobs in
Germany — it's tradition — are the women. They take a
back seat in pay for equal jobs and in the right to work.
They can't always study, at the universities, subjects of
their choice. They rarely get the supervisory jobs they
might covet, but stay submerged in the ranks of “labor.”
Women’s opinions may reach cohesiveness, but they count
for little in shaping Germany's destiny.

For generations Germany's women have been important,
but th »y've known their place: in the Kirche, in the Kue-
che, and with the Kinder — church, kitchen and children.

NTO THIS TRADITION-BOUND SET of circumstances,
however, have come women who know they are
Capable of living outside them. The women who kept them-
Selves and their children alive despite air raids, flight and
Poverty are convinced today that a great part of their
Salvation and the salvation of their nation is up to them.

MARCH 1951

17

To capitalize on this knowledge of responsibility in the
women, and to teach them to express themselves orally
and through work is the job of Wuerttemberg-Baden’'s
HICOG Women's Affairs Officer, Margaret Blewett, and
her staff.

It is not a simple job. Where speech-making and com-
mittee-action are close to second nature for American
women, they are totally new experiences for most German
women.

Take Mrs. Hedwig Walter in Stuttgart, for example. She
has earned an admirable reputation for conducting dis-
cussions or making addresses. She is an energetic and
enlightened speaker, who knows how to draw out, yet
control each element in her audience. But one year ago
she had never spoken before a group. She admits that the
night preceding her first speech she — a middle-aged
woman — “couldn't sleep a wink. I was scared to death.”

O IT WENT WITH MOST of the

women’s groups; each was begun
in hesitancy and relative ignorance.
Although most communities, no
matter how small, had a person or
two who could lead, the great
majority of participants were shy

“The woman has proved to the
male... that her nuisance value is
tremendous,” says smiling Mar-
garet Blewett, after two years of
hard work organizing civic groups.

--- Page 21 ---
Debate at the “Arbeitsgemeinschaft Stuttgarter Frauen-
bund" (Working Committee of Stuttgart Women), which
group is credited with success in its slogan efforts to
“Take the children out of the cellars, bunkers and slums.”

and reluctant. Perhaps it was a blessing in disguise. Timid
souls reinforced one another, and when mistakes were
made, they were made among sympathetic persons, These
women had no knowledge of discussion. techniques, no
convenient system (like Robert's Rules of Order) to go by.
They had so little self-confidence that had men intruded
on their first wobbly-spirited gatherings, it is certain
conversation would have halted completely.

For most of the organizations, the first pangs are over.
The machinery of performance is well constructed; the
women are talking and planning and working on behalf of
community welfare. Political subjects, which once were
taboo, are the theme for more than 90 percent of group
meetings. Welfare projects are calling forth feminine
ingenuity and team spirit. The women are seeking small
jobs to help their community governments, and doing
their best to do the jobs well. Despite new-found self-
confidence, the feministic flag is not being waved and the
women are for the most part content to serve rather than
lead.

It would be difficult to interpret exactly what part these
women see for themselves in the complexities of national
reform. It is probable that they envision no “new order,”
but a necessity for their participation in the going one.
Their vision may extend to the level of national politics,
but their hands are busy with the jobs of finding new
homes for the homeless, child care centers for working
families and clothing for the dependently poor of their
own communities.

Whether the activities and interests of Wuerttemberg-
Baden’s women’s groups will develop into a force that
counts politically is open to conjecture. But the evidence
from which conclusions may be drawn is manifold.

N THE PAST, WOMEN have been organized into groups

along party or confessional lines. But the current 200-
group movement, bolstered by the Women’s Affairs Offi-
cer, is non-religious and above-party. These groups are
the most purely experimental and it is their activities
which bear closest examination.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

What kind of topic do these women approach in their
meetings? A survey of speakers’ subjects for one recent
month shows these: legal questions, women's rights,
responsibility of women in the community, child education,
elections, home economics, German-French understanding,
cosmetics, discussion techniques, handicraft work and
literature for youth. Out of a total of 41 meetings held in
January, 36 were political in nature.

Beyond meeting hours, however, the women have
initiated continuing work projects.

Most of them are day nurseries which insure adequate
care for the children of working mothers, Clinics are
planned or underway for patients of tuberculosis, still
Germany's most prevalent disease. Other groups con-
centrate on making baby clothes for the newborn of
poverty-ridden refugees. When the US-sponsored school
feeding program was discontinued in the state, women’s
clubs combined efforts to supply it anyway.

Almost any activity cross-section will expose these
special interests: schools, welfare, youth.

ATHER THAN ISOLATE themselves from dishearten-
R ing local problems, the women have assigned them-
selves to solve them. They have procured money and
space to set up wash kitchens, sewing rooms, "warming"
rooms, and clothing barter shops.

One of the most-publicized of feminine ventures has
been the work of the Arbeitsgemeinschaft Stuttgarter
Frauen (Working Committee of Stuttgart Women), organ-
ized more than one year ago under the slogan: ‘‘Take the
children out of the cellars, bunkers and slums.”

Having examined the most urgent needs of the city, the
committee decided young women students and appren-
tices needed priority attention, Stuttgart affords many
opportunities for young women apprentices, but little
space for them to live during the small-pay training
period. The committee devised a blueprint for a large
building which would contain living. quarters for 100
women as well as a community center to service all ages.

There was the plan, but where was the money to come
from? Much of it was raised through hard work from a
series of parties, bazaars, private donations and the sale
of coal hangers, toys, spoons and dustrags. President of
the Committee Anna Haag wrote a pamphlet on her ex-
change trip to America, and the profits from its sale went
into the project's coffers. Within a few months the total
of their contributions hit DM 25,000 (about $6,000).

HE HICOG SPECIAL PROJECTS FUND took over at

this point. Recommended by Miss Blewett as worthy
of financial assistance, the project was awarded a check
signed by US High Commissioner John J. McCloy, for a
whopping DM 170,000 (the equivalent of $40,460).

Before making their application for Special Projects
Fund monies, the women had frequent consultation with
city officials. They had asked some assurance that the
city of Stuttgart would contribute to the project, a neces-
sity if their application was to have much chance. The
deputy mayor frankly derided the idea that these women

MARCH 1951 —

--- Page 22 ---
could push their plans through to completion; he did not
hesitate to promise a free building site, as well as the
same amount of money as the Special Projects Fund
should award.

It was with a sense of triumph therefore that the women
heard the official smilingly admit he had to “swallow a
very bitter pill." He had given his word, he said, without
ever thinking the women could turn the trick. “But my
word is as good as my check," he said. “You'll get the
building site — and the DM 170,000!"

With such happy endings, the women of Wuerttemberg-
Baden have been encouraged to keep driving away at
their goals.

OT ALL ACTIVITIES have been apolitical. Supple-

menting the evenings of political discussion, there
have been frequent and ingenious moves to have a
political “say.” In the .recent town council elections,
women throughout the state approached political party
chieftains, promising support to those parties which would
place women on their election lists.

They ran into difficulties, however: women candidates
were often placed at the bottom of lists from which only
the top persons are named to office; many parties refused
to place women on the lists, forcing the women's groups
to draw up a separate all-woman “party;" in some in-
stances husbands gave their wives the choice of “being
a candidate or being a wife’’ — and potential candidates
backed down.

But in many cases, parties which had not cooperated
with the women later apologized; the women’s vote had
stolen a large part of the ballots they needed for victory.
Moreover, the women's influence had abrupt influence
on other campaigners when they advertised specific action
programs ...the men were forced to match them.

A total of 302 women candidates were proposed. The
number elected (still not totaled) was substantial, but the
women, though discouraged, are “determined to do better
next time.” . ,

Politics intrudes itself elsewhere, too. In such locations
as Ulm, depot for returning prisoners of war from Russia,
the emphasis has been on finding new homes for women
returnees and, where possible, jobs.

T KUENZELSAU, THE WOMEN have undertaken an
anti-Soviet education campaign, where persons
Teturning from Russia or from the Soviet Zone describe
their experiences under police-state rule. This campaign
is firing point-blank at the Communist Party and its

offshoot, the Free German Youth (FDJ). So incensed were _

the women at the sight of Communist posters on city bill-
boards they ripped them down, and delivered them in
indignation to the US resident officer.

Throughout the state women are sending relief parcels
and letters of encouragement to their neighbors in the
East Zone.

Many women's groups have requested speakers from
the Women's Affairs Officer who can expose the Com-
munist line. At a statewide meeting of women’s leaders

MARCH 1951

19

last December, the afternoon session was spent discussing
the fight waged by the women of West Berlin and the
appalling political and material conditions of the East.

It is perhaps not easy for Americans to recognize the
courage it requires of these women to make such political
commitments. Subject to the push and pull of European
politics for decades, these women have taken a stand
which is next-to-irrevocable and reflects their moral
determination to stand firm on some ideal.

At the statewide conference in December, the women
participants debated, with no Americans present, what
Germany's role should be in the defense of freedom. Some
quite frankly sought realistic means for neutrality, but the
great majority agreed that Germany must cast her lot
with the side of the West. Although news reporters were
present, the Germans requested no stories on the debate
be published. This reflects political fear and a reluctance
to bring pressure to bear — but the debate itself is a
factor not to be minimized.

TILL, A DEFINITE MATURITY in women’s political

attitudes has been noted. Regarding action taken at a
recent women's meet, one woman stated: “It would have
been impossible a year ago to think of women suggesting
a petition to the Ministry of Culture, requesting that charts
exhibited in the Europa-Union exhibit (be made into a
textbook)."

“It has been noted," writes the resident officer of Ulm,
“that more women attend the city council meetings in the
city of Ulm than men.”

The same from Heidelberg county: “It appears self-
evident today in the 15 municipalities that substantially
more women, many times more than before, attend public
meetings, forums and public town council sessions.”

The nature of Wuerttemberg-Baden’s women’s organi-
zations is fortunately not such that they depend wholly
on the help of outsiders. None the less, some of the
leadership and many helpful services have emanated from
HICOG's Miss Blewett and her staff.

One of the most valuable of these services has been the
speakers’ bureau of 40 persons, initiated by and paid for
by HICOG. Comprising principally women, the bureau
has on its roster architects, doctors, lawyers, public
servants, welfare workers, experts in almost every field
of wide endeavor or speculation. No speaker is pressured
onto the women’s groups — they are gnly sent at specific
request.

Some of the speakers are exchangees. Where Wuerttem-
berg-Baden’s women are concerned, the HICOG exchange
program has had, according to Miss Blewett, “no failures.”
More than 50 women have gone to the United States for
study in varied fields; others have visited Paris, London,
Brussels, Stockholm, Copenhagen, Bern, Egypt and Leba-
non. Most of these persons have woven their ex-
periences into instructional talks or activities which have
bolstered the women's movement.

Miss Blewett comments on the value of exchangees:
“These women are first of all Germans, and what they
have to say and suggest is understandable to Germans.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
MPLEMENTATION OF THE WOMEN’S unschooled

willingness to ‘do something” along the limes of com-
munity activity has been the task of Women’s Affairs
workers — all Germans — attached to each of the US
resident offices. These women, usually young and skilled
in leadership even though untrained, are HICOG em-
ployees. In one case, however, a doubting local official
was asked to name the field assistant, in hopes of enlisting
his support for the women’s work. He chose a refugee.

Lacking to the program from the first was the prestige
and practical value of publicity. Tackling this problem,
Miss Blewett welcomes the services of a former news-
paperwoman, Mrs. Stuart L. Hannon, wife of the OLCW-B
Public Affairs Division chief, to imstruct the field
assistants in the publicity arts. The women attend
regularly scheduled classes, get practice in submitting
monthly reports to Miss Blewett’s office and more and
more frequently find newspaper acceptance of their
efforts. The clippings file in Miss Blewett's office is liter-
ally stuffed with newspaper notices.

Miss Blewett and her staff already service community
groups with printed matter: reprints of speeches, books,
articles and suggestions of general interest. Some 220
persons regularly receive this material in “kits!” It is
distributed to the field assistants and to group leaders.

Among US documentary films available to German
audiences through HICOG are a number of specific value
to women’s groups. They use such instructional films as
“Discussion Techniques,” and can draw on a lengthy list
of movies detailing everything from TVA to freedom of
the press. By applying through the Women’s Affairs
office, women can obtain these films free of charge.

OUR TO FIVE TIMES monthly HICOG underwrites

conferences of the field assistants where anything
from parliamentary procedures to “how do you get
women interested" may be discussed. Here mutual prob-
lems are thrashed out and suggestions transmitted from
one end of the state to the other.

Training sessions, mapped by experts, are also set up
for field representatives or group leaders wherever the
need arises. Committee chairmen often need the help of
more experienced heads.

Popular demand has conceived a training course in
public speaking, a 10-lesson series which a woman mem-
ber of the Speakers Bureau is conducting in central
locations throughout the state.

Miss Blewett, who engineers the advisory program
which HICOG offers, is a tireless and good-natured
worker who says frankly she’s “the most encouraged
person around here.’ Her view of the program is not
blindly optimistic, but she is gratified at the strides
made in two years.

“This is just a teaching job,” she maintains. ‘We're
teaching basic skills... how to raise money, how to dis-
cuss, how to achieve political influence. We should not be
apologetic about this. We are trying to acquaint the women
with programs that are working well in other countries.
But we aren't saying ‘this is the way you have to do it.’

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

A World Day of Prayer service participated in by Ameri-
can and German Protestant women at Berlin's American
Community Church is led by Mrs. Kenneth Borreson.
Similar services in 1951 observance were held in other
Berlin and West German churches. (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

ISS BLEWETT, WHO ATTENDED 40 meetings the

first month of her stay in Wuerttemberg-Baden
(most of which she initiated herself), explains the part:
her office played in getting the program underway.

A survey was first made of each community to select
persons representing every stratum interested in a civic
group. The initial invitational meetings were called, and
the topics discussed were generally public education and
community responsibility. If response was sufficient, a
date was set for a subsequent meeting. Each person was
invited to return and bring with her four or five others.
(The chairman of one brought her maid.) To give courage
to these fledgling groups, talks were made on what other
groups had done, and in some cases, envoys from estab-
lished groups visited those which still were struggling.

Multiplication of the groups is no longer a problem.
In rural Waiblingen County alone, where the women have
their hands more than full with farm tasks, there are 21
groups. Some 60 percent of the women belong.

In larger cities, the groups are now and then dividing
into special interest groups: a Business and Professional
Women's Club movement has begun in Karlsruhe, Stutt-
gart, Crailsheim, Pforzheim and other cities. These clubs
are considered the device which will entice younger
women into the fold of civic activity.

“The young women are the generation we need to
back up the youth,” says Miss Blewett. "The gap between
youth and age is a dangerous one for the continuity
of an active program.” Asked to sum up the program and
its effectiveness, broadly smiling Miss Blewett says
“There's a statement going around headquarters now: ‘We
cannot say with any assurance that the women are ever
going to be the strongest political force in Wuerttemberg-
Baden. But it’s a certainty that things will never go back
to the way they were. The woman has proved to the male
—and to the male official—that her nuisance value
really is tremendous.’” + END ~

MARCH 1951

--- Page 24 ---
Germans Guard Civil Liberties

By WILFRIED SALIGER
Chief, German Editorial Section, Public Relations Division, HICOG

ETURNING HOME after a hard day's work, the in-

habitants of Elfershausen, in sunny, hilly Franconia,*
were surprised one evening to find their tiny vineyards
a havoc of uprooted plants. Hunting the culprit, they found
him —- a government official, who had determined to re-
store law and order with one swift and decisive stroke.

Buried in German law books there is a provision, dating
back to 1910, which prohibits the import of a certain type
of grape because it is easily vulnerable to pests. Nobody
had taken note of the law during the war years and there-
after, and it took the official quite some time — almost
11 years, in fact—to discover that such misdemeanor had
occurred in his area of jurisdiction. But then he was deter-
mined to do a thorough job of correction. He marshaled
a small task force of four policemen and 15 laborers, in-
vaded the vineyards and plucked out all those he judged
to be offenders, Later, however, the vineyard keepers
found that a number of precious permissible grapes had
also fallen victim to the policing action.

Only a few years ago, so completely arbitrary an “ad-
ministrative act’’ would have been accepted without a
word of criticism. But a change meanwhile has taken
place in Germany, a change which this authoritarian-
minded official did not expect. The villagers had learned
about civil liberties and constitutionally guaranteed rights,
about the inviolability of their homes and about the neces-
sity for search warrants. So they reported this action to
the civil liberties group in the nearest major city, which
promptly delved into the case and brought it to court. The
neighboring communities’ stand assured that their vine-
yards will not be invaded for similar reasons.

OINCIDING WITH THIS INCIDENT, an event of

national importance occurred in Frankfurt: the Ger-
man civil liberties movement held its first national con-
ference. More than 1,500 persons crowded historic St. Paul's
Church — the cradle of German liberalism — to hear
Federal President Theodor Heuss describe individual civil
liberties as a cornerstone of democracy in this country,
which has so recently experienced one of history's most
despotic regimes. Sharing the rostrum with him was Roger
N. Baldwin, national chairman of the American Civil Liber-
ties Union, who had come to Germany representing the
International League for the Rights of Man and to offer
the German Civil Liberties Union

year development of the movement from an idealistic
but unimportant group to a recognized nationwide or-
ganization. Born and raised in a traditionally authoritarian
country, improverished by two lost world wars and
disgusted with the mockery of freedom under Hitler, too
many Germans were inclined to prefer “economic se-
curity” to personal freedom, strongly convinced that the
individual is powerless in his dealings with the state and
its organs anyway.

Oddly enough, not even the firsthand experience of
totalitarianism, and the relegation of man to a compliant
part in a gigantic machine, had made the average German
realize the importance of guaranteed basic civil rights and
their protection. The new movement's task was therefore
tremendously difficult. It was “an uphill struggle against
the German tradition of government from the top down
instead of from the people up, and against the usual re-
liance on political parties to express the needs and griev-
ances of the people,” said Mr. Baldwin.

T WAS IN THE SUMMER of 1948 when responsible

citizens in some major cities of the US Zone resolved
to meet that challenge and founded, with Allied support, the
first local civil liberties groups. When the Federal Republic
of Germany was established in the fall of the following
year, the independent associations were united on a federal
basis in the Deutscher Bund fuer Buergerrechte, the Ger-
man Civil Liberties Union, with headquarters in Frankfurt.

From then on the movement developed rapidly and at
the time of the national conference in September 1950, the
union had a membership of some 40 local groups, cover- &
ing all of West Germany and reaching at times into even
the smallest villages. Aiming at increased efficiency, the
organization is now undergoing a structural change, em-
phasizing the establishment of major groups at political,
economic or geographic focal points.

The activities of the German civil liberties movement
are as manifold as its tasks. At the core, of course, is
direct service and assistance to individual citizens whose
civil liberties have been encroached upon. Most local
groups have established permanent secretariats with ex-
perienced jurists as full-time legal advisers. Free assistance
is given to people of all social strata, and civil liberties
union officials consider an average of 60 individual cases
a week a completely normal workload

Membership in this worldwide or-
ganization. He thus made it the first
German group to be invited to join
a body affiliated to the United Nations.
Mr. Baldwin's ofter climaxed the two-

Legislative

* The old Duchy of Franconia of southern
central Germany, now included chiefly in Ba-

This article is based on in-
formation made available by the
Activities
Ojfice of Political Affairs, which
is the HICOG element concerned
— with the support and guidance of
the German Civil Liberties Union.

for one of the larger offices. A great
majority of these, however, often turn
out to involve no breach of constitu-
tional rights. Yet the Frankfurt or-
ganization, for instance, in three
months recorded 176 genuine cases of
breaches of civil liberties. If a basic

Branch,

vatia, Wuerttemberg, Baden and Hi ‘Nassau.

MARCH 1951

right has been encroached upon, the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
civil liberties associations prepare a detailed survey of
the case and forward it to the next higher governmental
or judicial authority, with a request for corrective action.
Some of these cases arouse wide public interest and bring
strong acclaim to the local groups involved and to the
civil liberties idea itself.

IDELY DISCUSSED, for example, was the case of the

county administrator of Sinsheim, near Heidelberg,
who was suddenly removed from his position and, by
governmental order, transferred to an asylum for obser-
vation. No signs of insanity had ever been observed in the
elderly official, and the circumstances of his sudden dis-
charge made his relatives suspect that there were ulterior
motives for the action. The nearest local civil liberties
group followed up on the case and soon established that
he had not in fact been fired for incompetency, but be-
cause his activities had become inconvenient to certain of
his superiors. The case was brought to trial, and although
the county administrator, having meanwhile reached the
age limit, could not be reinstated, he was retired with full
civil service rights and pension.

In Buchen, Wuerttemberg-Baden, the mayor chose a
simple way to help his party win the election for Ger-
many’s first federal assembly in August 1949. The oppo-
sition had scheduled a meeting with a competent, popular
speaker, the mayor of a neighboring community and not
the best of friends with the Buchen mayor. The latter
promptly interfered, refusing the opposition a chance to
use the community-owned assembly hall. Not long after,
the civil liberties movement learned of this incident and
a strong reprimand was issued by the state government.

The widow of a Munich pharmacist was forced after her
husband's death in 1937 to sell his business to a Nazi Party
member for an amount far below its value. When she de-
manded a copy of the sales contract, the Nazi ministry
concerned informed her that, the case being secret, no
copies of the records could be released. In 1949, when she
wanted to file a claim for restitution, she was surprised
to find the state ministry adopted the same attitude. The
Munich civil liberties group enlisted the support of the
US state commissioner, and soon the widow was in pos-
session of the documents to file her claim.

MPORTANT THOUGH THIS WORK IS, it is not the

only field of activity for the German civil liberties
movement, nor by any means the largest one. As a remnant
of Nazism, there is still a certain readiness among German
citizens to submit to governmental authority irrespective
of any legal basis, and a general reluctance to defend their
lawful rights. Equally, the average German tends to reject
personal responsibility for political and public affairs,
leaving these to the government's officials who, he as-
sumes, know what is good and necessary for him, and,
more important, for the state.

This sets for the movement the enormous task of inform-
ing the German people of their rights and educating them
to responsible citizenship. All of the local organizations
arrange for more or less regular public meetings to dis-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

cuss everyday problems of protecting civil liberties. Led
by prominent persons and guided by legal experts, these
discussions deal with such common interest topics as “the
right of the insane," “legal equality of women," or “the
civil liberties of the public servant."

These programs have greatly gained in popularity;
attendance is steadily increasing. A meeting in Munich
on legislation to bar obscene literature drew an audience
of some 800 persons, so that the police had to close the
doors of the assembly hall to prevent overcrowding. The
movement has also gained strength in German schools
and universities, where seminars on civil liberties are con-
ducted for students and arranged for the general public.

In addition the union and the local groups have pub-
lished several series of pamphlets on the popular aspects
of civil liberties, with practical examples showing the
readers how to protect themselves against governmental
interference with their rights. The federation also pub-
lishes a periodical entitled “Law and Freedom" (Recht und
Frejheit), featuring essays on interesting constitutional
problems, activity reports from all local groups and a
brief account of the most outstanding cases handled.

N MUNICH A NUMBER of citizens formed a legal re-
search committee and produced a detailed study on

-“Arrest, Search and Seizure." Printed as a pamphlet, it

has been introduced as a textbook in various police schools
and served as the basis for a new police administration
law in North Rhine-Westphalia. The civil liberties move-
ment has been actively advising federal and state legis-
latures in their preparation of laws affecting rights and
citizen freedoms. The “law committees” of the larger local
chapters, consisting of outstanding lawyers, have found
official recognition and have frequently been called upon
to give their opinion on constitutional problems.

A fully successful example of this work is the recently-
enacted statute of the German Federal Constitutional
Court. When the bill was up for debate in the Bundestag
(lower house), legislators favored the traditional German
view that no individual should have the right to appeal
a civil liberties case to the constitutional court.

Across party lines and in the government the opinion
was held that the constitutional court should act only if
invoked by a lower court, the federal or state governments
or a quorum of Bundestag delegates, but not at the request
of an individual citizen. The civil liberties movement took
up this matter, enlisted support of a number of representa-
tives, addressed petitions to all parliamentary factions and
sent a delegation to testify at committee hearings in Bonn.

Their efforts were eventually rewarded and the statute
now provides that any citizen may bring his case before
the highest judicial authority in the country if he feels that
his basic rights have been violated.

THER PROBLEMS on which the law committees have

been consulted include legislation on the means of
obtaining confessions from defendants, proposals for and
against sterilization, and rules concerning autopsies in
public hospitals. -

MARCH 1951

--- Page 26 ---
West Berlin's overcrowded public school facilities are
given more relief as the result of a HICOG Special Proj-
ects Fund check for DM 245,572 ($58,446) presented to
Willy Kressmann (left), mayor of Kreuzberg borough,
Berlin, by W.J. Convery Egan, acting director of Public
Afiairs Division, Berlin Element, HICOG. Dr. Christopher
B. Garnett, chief, Education and Cultural Relations Branch,

wilnessed presentation. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

In recognition of their work the federal minister of
justice, as a general rule, now voluntarily submits to these
committees bills prepared by his department which may
affect civil liberties.

The Office of the US High Commissioner considers the
support and encouragement of the German Civil Liberties
Union a major contribution toward the establishment of
a free, genuinely democratic Germany. American and
German experts at HICOG headquarters give advice and
assistance to the Union in organizational and policy plan-
ning problems, and in the field state commissioners, resi-
dent officers and numerous members of their staffs are
cooperating with local civil liberties groups in handling
outstanding cases, arranging public meetings, obtaining
materials for their educational programs and a dozen-odd
similar problems,

American authorities in the civil liberties field, includ-
ing Mr. Baldwin and the late Prof. William F. Sollmann,
spent months in Germany at HICOG invitation and have
greatly assisted the movement,

On the reverse side of this exchange program, 17 Ger-
man civic leaders have been sent to the United States to
study the American movement, among them such well-
known figures as Dr. Rainer Hildebrand, leader of the
Berlin “Fighting Group against Inhumanity.” Another
group of 12, including legislators, university professors
and journalists, will leave for the United States soon.

RESS AND RADIO, originally important subjects them-

selves for the association's scrutiny, have become
active ‘supporters of civil liberties ideas. Aroused by
Stories of violations, numerous papers have published
long articles about the local civil liberties groups and
their work, later following up with theoretical essays on
the importance of guaranteed individual freedoms. Ger-
man radio stations have frequently allowed air time to
Civil liberties associations, especially when foreign con-

MARCH 1951

sultants visited the local associations and told of develop-
ments abroad.

Der Fall Strvbel (The Strobel Case), the first attempt by
the German film industry to feature a civil rights problem
in a movie, met with more public interest than numerous
lighter and less educational subjects, so that the producers
are seriously considering further films on the subject.

Nevertheless, the work of the German civil liberties
movement is not easy, especially in a country where de-
fense of civil liberties might have proved fatal to any
person but a few years ago.

To again quote Mr, Baldwin: ‘The purpose and practice
of protecting the civil rights of all citizens through the
militant efforts of a wholly private citizens’ organization
is so alien to German traditions that it faces formidable
obstacles. Civil courage, an oid German watchword, will
need a rebirth in practice under the guarantees prefacing
the Bonn constitution. Even under the unfavorable con-
ditions of occupation and division, Western Germany can
show the dictators in the Soviet occupied’zone that a
fighting democratic spirit will defend the liberties of
its citizens.”

HE GERMAN CIVIL LIBERTIES Union already has a

proud record, but the road ahead is a long and stony
one, It will take concerted effort to wean civil servants
from their authoritarian predilections which sap the vitals
of the constitutionally erected democratic system.

Equally important — and perhaps even more challeng-
ing —is the task of making the public so conscious of its
tights that authoritarianism simply cannot exist. At the
present time many Germans still follow the fight for civil
liberties with interest, but most of them feel that the aims
will never be accomplished.

To overcome this popular indifference and defeatism is
more than can be reasonably expected of so young a
movement. But it must be overcome, if freedom and
democracy in Germany are to survive. As one civil liber-
ties official put it, “Any citizen who defends himself
against a, violation of civil rights does a service not
only to himself, but also to his community and to his
people.” +END

Munich's Mayor Thomas Wimmer (seated) visits a class
of third grade youngsters during inspection of the new
American School in his city. Dr. Anton Fingerle, super-
visor of Munich's German schools, discusses one of ‘the
textbooks with the mayor.

(US Army photo)

--- Page 27 ---
“Parade” of Progress

By GERHARD M. WERNER

Executive Secretary, Munich German-American Men’s Club

HE BANNERS AND SLOGANS of Munich's highly

successful 1950 Pfennig Parade will dominate
Bavaria’s capital city again next month as new fund
collections are initiated to help the fight against polio.
It will continue throughout the coming month.

The Pfennig Parade — offspring of the US March of
Dimes — was instituted in March 1950 by Munich's
German-American Men's Club and spread to other
Bavarian and then West German cities.

In Bavaria the parade continued throughout the year be-
tween fund drives. It brought active help to the afflicted
who needed expert treatment, and the money to purchase it.

On July 10, 1950, an executive committee called
Gemeinnuetziger Ausschuss zur Bekaempfung der spina-
Jen Kinderlaehmung in Bayern (Charitable Committee to
Fight Infantile Paralysis in Bavaria) was formed under
sponsorship of state Minister-President Hans Ehard. Its
headquarters are in Munich. To this committee, composed
completely of Germans, went the job of administering
the DM 200,000 ($47,600) collected in the 1950 drive.

In recognition of his service as initiator of the Pfennig
Parade, C. S. Wright, Munich resident officer and Ameri-
can president of the German-American Men's Club, was
named honorary president of the committee. Its members

Munich Resident Officer C. S. Wright is credited with
initiating the Pfennig Parade in Germany. (Photo by Lawrence)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

are leading personalities in the field of medicine, adminis-
tration and social affairs. Professor Georg Hohmann,
director of the Munich Orthopedic Hospital, is chairman,

Primary task of the committee has been allocation of
funds. Considerable amounts have been given to Bavarian
orthopedic clinics, to provide treatment for persons with
polio who are financially unable to pay. The committee
has furthermore processed distribution of allowances to
needy persons who have asked aid to purchase supports, -
special shoes, wheelchairs and to cover medical costs.

AST MAY, THE PFENNIG PARADE was instrumental
in bringing to Bavaria Sister Elizabeth Kenny, world-
famous authority on the care and treatment of victims
of infantile paralysis. During her visit, Sister Kenny prom-
ised the Bavarians she would send a top technician to
their state to practice the Kenny method of treatment.
This promise was kept with the arrival in early July of
Dorothy Curtis, a technician from the Sister Elizabeth
Kenny Institute in Minneapolis, Minn.

Establishing suitable facilities for Miss Curtis to con-
duct her work was one of the committee's major tasks.
At first she set up her clinic in Augsburg. However
short her working time in Munich, she left a deep im-
pression upon doctors and nurses there of the efficacy
of the Kenny method. Great improvement could be noted
in patients who had received her treatments.

Once the program was underway in Augsburg, Sister —
Kenny sent a second technician to assist Miss Curtis.
British-born Helen Sare is also a graduate nurse who ~
completed special training at the Minneapolis institute.

Since the beginning of their activities in Augsburg,
the two Kenny technicians have tteated 14 cases of
polio in acute and chronic stages and have trained a”
large number of nurses from the Augsburg hospitals in
the new method. Fortunately the year 1950 was not a
year of polio epidemic in Bavaria; consequently the
technicians were limited in their treatments to those
patients already under physicians’ care. Encouraging re- ~
sults were obtained with all patients, most of whom are
today receiving ambulant treatment only.

Chief of the department for internal medicine for the
city of Augsburg, Professor Georg Stoetter, said of the
technicians: “The. results of the treatments by Miss
Curtis and Miss Sare are the more worthy of recognition i
since they have contributed to the general acknowledg-
ment of the Kenny method, the value of which had pre-—
viously been much disputed.” He said many of the
physicians under his supervision have today become
— almost — staunch exponents of the method. 4

The Augsburg Hospital immediately impresses the
visitor with the deep interest shown by the physicians
in all details of the treatments, as well as the complete”

MARCH 195t

--- Page 28 ---
cooperation of the municipal hospital administrators.
The latter have made available all existing facilities and
have rendered every necessary assistance for treatment
of victims. ‘They have moreover purchased hot packing
materials, crutches and other equipment despite their
limited financial means.

Miss Curtis herself is encouraged at the progress of
her work in Bavaria. Nurses under her instruction, she
says, are making good progress in learning the method.
Head physician Dr. Mathias Kremer, of the Augsburg
Municipal Children's Hospital, said of the two tech-
nicians: “If one of my children should be infected with
polio, | would want him treated by the Kenny method.”

iTH A YEAR'S WORK and significant progress

behind them, the Bavarian committee is now
planning for next month's 1951 Pfennig Parade, The
committee anticipates an even more successful drive
this year than last, because of the much-multiplied inter-
est of Bavarians.

"This year the entire campaign will be in the hands
of Bavarians," Mr. Wright said. ‘But Americans in Ba-
varia will be offering every assistance possible short of
actually conducting the drive.’ He pointed out that com-
mitteemen are eager to make the Pfennig Parade an
annual occasion,

Asked about the Americans’ unqualified support for
the drive, he said: “A crippled German child is just as
entitled to treatment...to regain healthy limbs as the
child of any other nationality. The help we give these
children today may result in building true fighters for
friendship between our nations tomorrow.” -+-END

Kenny technicians Sare and Curtis apply muscle exer-
cises. Professor Stoetter watches. (PRB OLCB photos)

German nurse (left) and Miss Curtis assist tiny patients
at Augsburg Children's Hospital with walking exercises.

Paraffin treatment helps prevent stiffness and deformities.
The 10-year-old patient suffers paralysis of back and legs.

--- Page 29 ---
Status of Denazification —

From 5th Quarterly Report of the Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany

ROM THE OUTSET the four Allied Powers responsible

for the occupation and peaceful development of
defeated Germany were determined that Germany should
be purged of Nazism. To this end it was agreed that
former Nazi-Party members and collaborators ‘who
were more than nominal participants in its activities”
should be excluded from public and other influential
posts and made subject to sanctions under law. To
achieve these purposes the Allied Control Council issued
two basic enactments: Directive No. 24 of Jan. 12, 1946,
concerning “Removal from Office and from Positions of
'Responsibility of Nazis and of Persons Hostile to Allied
Purposes," and Directive No. 38 of Oct. 12, 1946, concern-
ing “The Arrest and Punishment of War Criminals, Nazis
and Militarists and the Internment, Control and Surveil-
lance of Potentially Dangerous Germans.” These direc-
tives were without legal effect until implemented by
zonal laws or other enactments.

Responsibility for the implementation of the agree-
ments and directives on denazification was assumed by
the military and later by the Allied civilian authorities
in their respective zones of Germany. In the US, British
and French Zones procedures differed somewhat but in
general kept closely to the spirit of the agreed directives.

In the Soviet Zone the course of denazification was
strongly influenced by the drive to communize the popu-
lation. Many former Nazis, even though seriously in-
criminated, were acquitted of the charges against them
and restored to influence on condition that they engage
in active support of the Communist regime. However,
the Soviets have never ceased to assert their continued
determination to root Nazism out of the German system.

HE OBJECTIVE OF DENAZIFICATION was not the

attainment of a final goal within a specified time,
when it could be said: “The job is done; Germany is
now denazified.” It was rather to safeguard the new
German democracy from Nazi influence and to make
it possible for anti-Nazi, non-Nazi and outspoken demo-
cratic individuals to enter public life and replace the
Nazi elements which had dominated all life in Germany
from 1933 to 1945.

To accomplish this objective the Occupying Powers
abolished the Nazi Party and its formations and affiliat-
ed organizations, outlawed them and removed the in-
dividuals who had been responsible for their operation
from positions of influence in both public and private
life. It was then possible for non-Nazi Germans to come
into the many fields of communal, economic and political
activities to rebuild German life on democratic lines.
The initial steps in this program had been attained sub-
stantially by the summer of 1946.

Once former Nazis had been removed from public life
and to a certain extent from private enterprises, a

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

paradoxical situation arose. In a sense the party had
been reconstituted by creating a large group of “ex-
Nazis," which in the US Zone alone would have number-
ed more than 3,500,000 persons. They would have been
tagged and labeled and largely excluded from civic life ©
and professional activity. This large group, together with —
their families, relatives and friends, would have become ~
a body of “second-class citizens" within the state and a_
constant source of discontent and unrest. 4
In order to avoid this danger, in so far as it could be
done without raising the specter of revived Nazism, and
recognizing that not all ex-members of the party and its -
affiliates were equally guilty of the crimes of Nazism,
it was decided in the US Zone to proceed with the next
phase of the program. Military Government had under-
taken the task of stating who had been Nazis within the
framework of Directive 24; it was to be the responsibility
of the German authorities to decide to what extent each
person had been an active Nazi and to what sanctions
he should be subject under law, or whether he should ~
be exonerated. To this end the German ‘Law for Libera-
tion from National Socialism and Militarism, drafted
under the auspices of Military Government, was pro-_
mulgated in March 1946 by the several states of the US
Zone. Though direct responsibility was transferred to
the Germans under the terms of the law, Military Govern-
ment actively supervised its enforcement until August
1948. All political parties then in existence supported
this law. q
HE GENERAL PRINCIPLES of this law were stated”
to be as follows:
“1. To liberate our people from National Socialism”
and Militarism, and to secure a lasting base for German
democratic national life in peace with the world, all
those who have actively supported the National Socialist”
tyranny, or are guilty of having violated the principles
of justice and humanity, or of having selfishly exploited
the conditions thus created, shall be excluded from in-
fluence in public, economic and cultural life and shall
be bound to make reparations. 4
“2. Everyone who is responsible shall be called to”
account. At the same time he shall be afforded op-
portunity to vindicate himself.” :
Every adult in the US Zone was required to register
and submit certain details about his or her past activities.
On the basis of information thus submitted and available’
from other sources, each registrant was placed in one of
the following categories:
I. Major Offender;
Il. Offender;
III. Lesser Offender;
IV. Follower; and
V. Exonerated.

MARCH

--- Page 30 ---
Fate of Top Nazi Party Leaders

REI CHSLEIT ER

THE FUEHRER

Adolf Hitler
Suicide 1945

CHANCELLERY OF THE FUEHRER
Chief: Philipp Bouhler

Suicide 1945

CHANCELLERY OF THE PARTY
Chief: Martin Bormann
Sentenced to death by IMT* in absentia, fate uncertain

(SUPREME NAZI PARTY LEADERS)

in absentia, fate uncertain

Suicide 1945

Suicide 1945 |

by Denazification Tribunal

Sentenced to 7 years,
at liberty since 1950

j I
CHANCELLERY ORGANIZATION ss IDEOLOGY
PARTY TREASURY PARTY CENSORSHIP OF THE PARTY AND LABOR FRONT PARTY TRIBUNAL AND GERMANIZATION PROPAGANDA PUBLISHING PRESS AND FOREIGN POLICY
Franz Xaver Schwarz Philipp Bouhler Martin Bormann Dr. Robert Ley Walter Buch Heinrich Himmler Dr. Joseph Goebbels Max Amann Dr. Otto Dietrich Alfred Rosenberg
Died in Internment Camp 1947 Suicide 1945 Sentenced to death by IMT* Svicide 1945 Suicide 1949 i Sentenced to 10 years

Sentenced to death by IMT,*
executed 1946

COLONIAL POLICY
Franz Ritter von Epp

PEASANTRY

Dr. Walter Darré
Sentenced to 7 years (1949),

PARLIAMENT
Dr. Wilhelm Frick

MUNICIPAL POLICY
Karl Fiehler

STORM TROOPS
Wilhelm Schepmann

YOUTH EDUCATION
Baldur von Schirach

LABOR SERVICE
Konstantin Hierl

NAZI MOTOR CORPS
Adolf Huehnlein

TECHNOLOGY
Albert Speer

'Y Denazification Tribunal

believed in South America

Denazification Trib., at liberty

executed 1946

Prepared by

Policy Reports Secretary

Office. of the Executive Secretary, HICOG

Jan, 31, 1951,

custody in 1948,

believed in South America

Sentenced to death by U.S.
Mil. Trib., executed 1947

Fate unknown

A Sentenced to death by IMT,* Sentenced to 2 years by Sentenced to 9 months, Serving 20 years’ sentence © Sentenced to 5 years by Died 1943 Serving 20 years’ sentence
piety at liberty since 1950 executed 1946 Denazification Trib., at liberty at liberty in Spandav Prison Denaz. Trib. 1949, at liberty in Spandau Prison
G AU LEtELT E R (REGIONAL NAZI PARTY LEADERS)
I | I
FRANCONIA
BADEN/ALSACE BERLIN CARINTHIA CTE eee enussl eons EAST BAVARIA EAST HANOVER EAST PRUSSIA ESSEN Julius Streicher
Robert Wagner Dr. Joseph Goebbels Dr. Friedrich Rainer Albert Forster Friedrich Karl Florian Fritz Waechtler Otto Telschow Erich Koch Joseph Terboven Sentenced to death by IMT.
we 5 5 Sentenced to death by Sentenced to 6 years by Dena- “Executed by SS in 1945 on Sted . a, Fr a
ae Sei Mal creeeeeenio toe Suicide 1945 Executed in Yugoslavia 1947 | polish Court, executed 1948 | zification Trib. now of liberty Pale Suicide 1945 Extradited to Poland in 1950 Suicide 1945 in Oslo Acting: : Karl Holz
I _|
MARK BRANDENBURG
HALLE/MERSEBURG HAMBURG HESSE (KURHESSEN) HESSE-NASSAU COLOGNE/AACHEN LOWER DANUBE LOWER FRANCONIA LOWER SILESIA MAGDEBURG/ANHALT Emil Stuertz
Joachim Albert Eggeling Karl Kaufmann Karl Weinrich Jakob Sprenger Joseph Grohé Hugo Jury Dr. Otto Hellmuth Dr. Karl Hanke Rudolf Jordan Arrested by Russians,
we 7 ge 5 ry dto 10: by Dena- et Sentenced to 4'/: years by De- i Sentenced to death, com- Killed while fleei: issing, bly suici Wi
Suicide 1945 At liberty, awaiting trial os ene dita Pie ihe Suicide 1945 nae tle: neater fibety Suicide 1945 muted to life imerlscenent illed while fleeing Missing, probably suicide Predecessor: Wilhelm. Kube
I I
MECKLENBURG MOSEL MUNICH/UPPER BAVARIA NORTH WESTPHALIA POMERANIA SAAR AREA (WESTMARK) SALZBURG SAXONY SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN SOUTH HANOVER
Friedrich Hildebrandt Gustav Simon Paul Giesler Dr. Alfred Meyer Franz Schwede(-Coburg) Josef Buerckel Dr. Gustav Adolf Scheel Martin Mutschmann Hinrich Lohse Hartmann Lauterbacher
Sentenced to di .S. eee, an ry entenced to 9 years | Suicide 1944 Sentenced to 3 years by Arrested by Russians, Sentenced to 10 years Escaped from custody both
Tribunal, executed 166° el EDIE IES by Denaz. Trib.. now facing vicide Denazification Trib.,atliberty || believed tohave died | by Denazification tribunal | 1948 and 1950, not reczptored
I _t
SOUTH WESTPHALIA STYRIA SUDETENLAND SWABIA THURINGIA TYROLVORARLBERG UPPER DANUBE UPPER SILESIA VIENNA WESER/EMS
Albert Hoffmann Dr. Siegfried Uiberreither Konrad Henlein Karl Wahl Fritz Sauckel Franz Hofer August Eigruber Fritz Bracht Baldur von Schirach Paul Wegener
* f Li 9!
Sentenced to 4 years 9 months’ Escaped 1947, Suicide 1945 Sentenced to 3/* years by | Sentenced to death by IMT,* Escaped from German police

Serving 20 years’ sentence
in Spandau Prison

Formerly interned,
now at liberty

WESTERN POLAND
(WARTHELAND)

Arthur Greiser

Sentenced to death by
Polish Court, executed 1946

WUERTTEMBERG/
HOHENZOLLERN

Wilhelm Murr
Suicide 1945

NAZI PARTY ABROAD
Ernst Wilhelm Bohle

Sentenced fo five years,
at liberty since 1949

* International Military Tribunal.

Note: — The structure of the Nazi system places many notorious
Nazis beyond the purview of this chart ae ane

— Inthe case ofa number of top Nazi Party leaders lisfed on this
chart as dead, fugitive, or as serving terms in Spandau Prison,
German Denazification Tribunals have also imposed denazi-
fication sanctions in the form of labor camp sentences, re-
strictions on professional activity and confiscation of assets.

--- Page 31 ---
Fate of Top Nazi State Leaders

Members:
Dr.

Ma

SMALL WAR CABINET

Chairman: Hermann Goering
Secretary: Dr.Heinrich Lammers
Heinrich Himmler

Wilhelm Keitel

Walter Funk

tin Bormann

FUEHRER AND REICH CHANCELLOR
SUPREME COMMANDER OF THE ARMED FORCES

Adolf Hitler

Suicide 1945

President:

REICH CHANCELLERY
Chief: Dr. Heinrich Lammers

Sentenced to 20 years in 1949,
commuted to 10 years in 1951

DEPUTY OF THE FUEHRER
1933-41 Rudolf Hess

Serving life sentence in Spandau Prison

1941-45 Martin Bormann
Sentenced to death by IMT* in absentia, fate uncertain

SECRET CABINET COUNCIL?
Constantin Baron
von Neurath
Secretary: Dr.Heinrich Lammers
Members: Hermann Goering
Joseph Goebbels
Joachimv.Ribbentrop
Wilhelm Keitel
Erich Raeder

CHANCELLERY OF THE PRESIDENT
Head: Dr. Otto Meissner .

Acquitted by U.S. Mil. Trib. 1949
ot liberty, awaiting Denoz. Trib. Trial

ry ee
Reich | Ministers
[ I | | in ] wartime | | | |
FOREIGN AFFAIRS INTERIOR Ca ECONOMICS Labor JUSTICE EDUCATION AGRICULTURE & FOOD

a 7 aay Lutz Count Schwerin A
Joachim von Ribbentrop} ‘Heinrich Himmler von Krosigk Dr. Walter Funk Franz Seldte Dr. Otto Thierack Dr. Bernhard Rust Dr. Herbert Backe
Sentenced to death by IMT,* - Sentenced to 10 yeers in 1949, Serving life sentence , - : vs

cxecuted 1946 Suicide 1945 rte iiberty sieee 1951 in Spandou Prison Died 1947 Suicide 1946 Suicide 1944 Svicide 1947

Armed

Forces

HIGH COMMAND OF THE ARMED FORCES
Supreme Commander: Adolf Hitler

CHIEF OF HIGH COMMAND:
Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel

TRANSPORT
Dr. Julius Dorpmueller

Died July 1945

POST
Dr, Wilhelm Ohnes:

Sentenced to 3 years, by
Denaz. Trib., at liberty

AIR
orge Hermann Goe

Suicide 1946

ring

Suicide

PROPAGANDA
Dr. Jéseph Goebbels

1945

CHURCH AFFAIRS

Hans Kerrl

Died 1941

& WAR PRODUCTION
Albert Speer

Serving 20 years’ sentence
in Spanday Prison

ARMAMENTS

LABOR SERVICE

Konstantin Hier!

Sentenced to 5 years by
Denaz. Trib., at liberty

EASTERN TERRITORIES
Alfred Rosenberg

executed 1946

CHIEF OF STAFF:

Sentenced to death by IMT,* executed 1946

Colonel General Alfred Jodl
Sentenced to death by IMT," executed 1946

Sentenced to death by IMT,”

/ Without Portfolio

Entitled | to

take part in Cabinet

Meetings

Wilhelm Frick
REICH PROTECTOR OF
BOHEMIA AND MORAVIA
Sentenced to death by IMT.*
executed 1946

Dr. Hans Frank

OF POLAND

Sentenced to death by
executed 1946

GOVERNOR-GENERAL

Constantin

IMT, Serving 15 years’ se

Baron von Neurath

in Spandau Prison

ntence

Dr. Hjalmar Schacht

Acquitted in several trials,
at liberty

REICH

Or. Artur Seiss-Inquart

FOR THE NETHERLANDS

Sentenced to death by IMT,"
executed 1946

COMMISSIONER

Artur Axmann
REICH YOUTH LEADER

Sentenced to 3'/s years
by Denaz. Trib., at liberty

Ernst Wilhelm Bohle
STATE SECRETARY

Sentenced to 5 years,
at liberty since 1949

Dr. Otto Dietrich
PRESS CHIEF

Sentenced to 7 years,
at liberty since 1950

HIGH COMMAND OF THE ARMY
C.-in-C.: Adolf Hitler
CHIEF OF STAFF:
Col.-General Heinz Guderian

Formerly interned, at liberty since 1950

HIGH COMMAND OF THE AIR FORCE
C.-in-C.: Hermann Goering
INSPECTOR GENERAL. & DEPUTY:
Field Marshal Erhard Milch

Sentenced to life in 1947,
commuted to 15 years in 1951

Reichsstatthalter

(Regional Governors)***

ANHALT/BRUNSWICK: | BADEN: BAVARIA: CARINTHIA: OANZIG/WEST PRUSSIA: HAMBURG: HESSE:
Rudolf Jordan Robert Wagner Franz Ritter von Epp Dr. Friedrich Rainer Albert Forster Karl Kaufmann Jakob Sprenger
Missing, probably suicide | Sentenced to death by Trench Died 1947 Executed in Yugoslavia 197 | Sentenced to death by Polish | ay tiberty, awaiting trial Suicide 1945
UPPE: LOWER DANUBE: MECKLENBURG: OLDENBURG/BREMEN: SAAR AREA (WESTMARK): SALZBURG: SAXONY:
Or. Alfred Meyer Hugo Jury Friedrich Hildebrandt Paul Wegener Josef Buerckel Dr. Gustav Adolf Scheel Martin Mutschmann
Suicide 1945 Suicide 1945 bari hie Formerly interned, ot liberty Suicide 1944 Ee DeSETIMe ca renee ereersionen
STYRIA: SUDETENLAND: THURINGIA: TYROL/VORARLBERG: UPPER DANUBE: VIENNA: WESTERN POLAND WUERTIEMBERG:
Dr. Siegfried . . . . (WARTHELAND): ;
Uiberreither Konrad Henlein Fritz Sauckel peda August Eigruber Baldur von Schirach Arthur Greiser Wilhelm Murr
believed in South America Suicide 1945 Sentenced to death by | police custody in 1048, | 4 Suit Ty .executedi947|~" in'Spondau Pron | PolsyCourl executed 6 Suicide 1945

* International Military Tribunal.
** For fate of members, see data given elsewhere on chart.

*** With the exception of Franz Ritter von Epp in Bavaria, all Reichsstatthalter wer

simultaneously Gavleiter.

Spandau Prison

Spandau Prison

HIGH COMMAND OF THE NAVY -
C.-in-C.: Grand Admiral Karl Doenitz
Serving 10 years’ sentence in
ADMIRAL-INSPECTOR:

Grand Admiral Erich Raeder

Serving life sentence in

Note: — The structure of the Nazi system places many notorious
Nazis beyond the purview of this chart.

— In the case of a number of top Nazi state leaders listed on
this chart as dead, fugitive or as serving terms in Spandau

German Dena:. fication Tribunals have also imposed
the form of labor camp sentences,
jons on professional activity and confiscation of assets.

Prepared by
Policy Reports Secretary

Office af the Executive Secretary, HICOG

Jan. 31, 1951.

--- Page 32 ---
Classification was based on the position and rank of
the person in the party hierarchy, individual incrimi-
nation as indicated in documents or in direct accusations,
and upon results of investigations conducted by court
officials. Nearly 13,500,000 persons registered in the US
Zone, and of these nearly 4,000,000 were found to be
“chargeable,” that is, subject to classification in Cate-
gories I through IV.

Trial tribunals (Spruchkammern) were set up in all
urban and rural districts. Appellate tribunals were
established for the review of decisions. Public prosecutors
and assistants were assigned to each tribunal. Spruch-
kammer personnel were required to be persons who
knew their locality and were known to be active op-
ponents of National Socialism. It was the task of the
tribunal to evaluate the evidence presented by the public
prosecutor, and the defense offered by the defendant
and his attorney, to find for or against the defendant
and to assess the sanctions prescribed by the law for
each of the five established categories. Some penalties
were made mandatory under the law, others were op-
tional with the tribunals.

HORTLY AFTER THE LAW went into operation it

became apparent that there would be such an im-
mense number of persons chargeable (that is, found sub-
ject to the law by the prosecutor) that the German courts
would not be able to try all of the cases within a
reasonable time. The law, by making chargeable all
members of the Nazi Party as well as its formations,
affected more than 27 percent of the adult population
of the US Zone (3,669,239 persons). It was realized that
among them were large numbers of persons who had
not been active in furthering Nazi ideology.

Consequently in August 1946 the Military Governor
announced the Youth Amnesty, which provided that all
persons born after Jan. 1, 1919, would not be tried by
a denazification tribunal unless they were highly in-
criminated and chargeable as major offenders or offenders.
This amnesty was followed in December 1946 by another
amnesty, known as the Christmas Amnesty, which provid-
ed that persons in low income groups, who had earned
less than RM 3,600 per year in 1943-45, and who had
less than RM 20,000 property on Jan. 1, 1945, and per-
Sons who were more than 50 percent physically disabled
would not be tried unless they came within the categories
of major offenders or offenders.

By June 1, 1948, 2,373,115 persons had come within
the terms of those amnesties. By that time, 865,808 trials
had been completed, leaving a total of only 31,707 still
to face formal trial. Since that date the trials have
continued, but new registrations, largely refugees and
teturning prisoners of war, have made it impossible to
complete the program. By Sept. 30, 1950, a total of
13,416,000 persons had been registered; 958,071 trials had
been held; and a total of 2,777,444 persons had been am-
hestied, either by the prosecutor or after trial. There
Temained to be disposed of 1,740 cases.

MARCH 1951

27

HE LAW FOR LIBERATION also provided that

criminal offenses by National Socialists or Militarists _
might be prosecuted outside its provisions. This applied
particularly to war crimes and to offenses arising out of
National Socialist tyranny. Thus, several hundred war
criminals, many of whom were active and leading Nazis,
were dealt with and punished by Allied and German
tribunals independently of the Law for Liberation.
Likewise, other top Nazis were tried by the International
Military Tribunal in 1946 and by United States Tribunals
which imposed death sentences and long terms of im-
prisonment on those found guilty of major crimes.

Under the various directives issued by the several
state governments, the apprehension and prosecution of
persons who had been individually involved in the acts
of tyranny and terror which were part and parcel of the
Nazi regime have been, and continue to be, undertaken
with vigor. The extent to which the German communities
have denounced their own members for participating in
these acts is one indication of the measure of denazifi-
cation attained by the German people.

The Law for Liberation operated extensively, and
dealt with a problem that was without precedent in
history. It was both drafted and implemented by persons
who had no precedents and no experience on which to
draw, since nothing of this character had ever before
been attempted. The task was done amid a ferment of
emotions and during a period of instability and universal
hardship and unrest.

The adjoining statistical table gives figures on the
operation of the denazification program in the US Zone
from the promulgation of the Law for Liberation in 1946

. s .
Denazification Proceedings
in the US Zone
Total registrants . : 13,416,101
Not chargeable cases . 9,746,862

Chargeable cases 3 5 3,669,239"
Monthly average of new registrations dur-

ing period Oct. 1, 1949, to Sept. 30, 1950 . 13,800*
Cases amnestied by Public Prosecutors’

categorization . * 2,456,731
Otherwise quashed by Public Bigsacatora! 252,875
Classifications by Trial Tribunals:

Major Offenders . 6 ij 1,698

Offenders ois 22,598

Lesser Offenders . 106,995

Followers 487,996

Exonerated . 18,571

Amnestied . > 320,713
Cases to be completed by Trial ‘Tribunals 4 1,062
Cases to be Gee sg By peels,

Tribunals. a eee 678
Inmates of internment camps ae ry 73
Persons permanently pages to hold

public office . ers 23,616
Persons restricted in Eanineinenel 125,510
Subject to confiscation of property 27,587
Persons Fined . . 572,993
Sentenced to Special Tabor but not imprisoned 30,781
*) Returning prisoners of war and returnees from the East.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
to Sept. 30, 1950. Not much change has taken place since
that date, so that the figures with negligible modification
can be accepted as correct as of Dec. 31, 1950.

HIS WAS, PERHAPS, the most extensive legal pro-
cedure the world had ever witnessed. In the US
Zone alone more than 13,000,000 persons had been in-
volved, of whom more than 3,600,000 were found
chargeable, and of these some 800,000 persons were made
subject to penalty for their party affiliations or actions.
All this was, of course, apart from the punishment of
war criminals, many of whom were high-ranking Nazis.
In fact, of the top Nazis who fell into Allied hands,
all have been either tried or interned. Of the 24 most
important and prominent Nazi Cabinet Ministers and
Nazi leaders appointed to the highest party rank, that
of Reichsleiter, six were executed, six are still serving
sentences up to life, and eight have died or committed
suicide. The fate of one is obscure and three are at liberty.
Of the 42 persons who held the next highest rank, that
of Gauleiter or regional party chief, eight were executed,
10 committed suicide or have died; one was shot by his
own comrades; 11 are still jailed or interned; while the
fate of four is unknown. The eight today known to be
at liberty have either completed their confinement or
are fugitives.

It cannot be denied that some guilty persons have
escaped detection and punishment. It was impossible in
dealing with a regime so long existent and so widespread
in its ramifications as National Socialism to bring to the
bar of justice all who were guilty of participation or
collaboration in the misdeeds of the Nazi regime. But a
serious effort was made to ascertain guilt and to punish
the guilty, while assuring that every individual charged
would receive a fair trial in accordance with law.

Y THE END OF 1950 the process of denazification

within the Federal Republic was nearing its formal
end. The German authorities had by then enacted measures
modifying the provisions of the law to exclude from its
application nominal Nazis, while leaving the law in
operation with respect to active and criminal elements
of the party. The various state parliaments had under
consideration draft laws for terminating denazification
procedures within the respective states. On Dec. 15 the
Lower House approved a resolution requesting that the
Federal Government recommend to the states the adop-
tion of uniform legislation governing the liquidation of
the denazification program.

This recommendation did not contemplate the annul-
ment of all denazification decisions but suggested dates
to be incorporated into state laws which would assure
simultaneous action in the termination of proceedings.
Specific criteria were set up to guide the actions of the
states. In general, these involved a broad relaxation of
restrictions, particularly as applied to Categories III, IV
and V. The recommendation emphasizes, however, that
prosecutions for any crimes committed by Nazis are to
be continued.

These recommendations, if carried into effect, would
bring about the termination of virtually all denazification

INFORMATION BULLETIN

28

operations by April 1, 1951. It was proposed that the
Federal Government and the states work out a plan to
abandon Nazi Classifications III, IV and V by Jan. 1,
1951; to lift all reemployment restrictions, with the ex-
ception of those involving Categories I and II, by
March 31 and to lower all property barriers and restore
election rights to all classifications by April 1. Thus it
would appear that formal denazification will come to an
end early in 1951.

INAL EVALUATION of the denazification program is

a task for the historian. It is even too soon to de-
termine whether its implementation by the German
authorities since it was turned over to them can be
called a success or must be adjudged a failure.

In the operation of the law certain shortcomings have,
it is true, become evident. It is generally conceded today,
for instance, that it would have been wiser to have
applied the penal aspects of the program more promptly
and effectively to. the real activists; while treating the
great mass of lesser Nazis more leniently.

As a matter of fact, it was soon recognized that the
scope of the trials was too broad. The natural desire of
the Germans was to raise the stigma from the innocent
and the nominal ex-Nazis as soon as possible. This
necessarily delayed the trials of the more serious of-
fenders while, at the same time, the courts became bogged
down in a mass of inconsequential cases.

Realizing this, efforts were made to speed up the pro-
cessing of the lesser cases. The amnesties extended in
1946 helped. A schnell (fast) process, adopted in 1948

to dispose of the many cases of persons classified as.

followers, allowed the prosecutor to determine on the:

basis of written evidence whether or not the defendant
actually was a follower, and if so to assess a fine and
notify the accused without a public trial. If the accused
was not satisfied he could appeal the decision.

This allowed many of the minor cases to be disposed
of rapidly, with the aim of devoting more attention to
the involved and difficult cases of the major offenders.
Despite these measures, the trial of many major Nazis
was so long delayed that they benefited from the in-
evitable change of feeling among the people. It is literally
true that by the time many of the more serious cases

came up for trial the Germans were too tired of the:

whole business to care very much whether or not the
accused persons received their due.

NOTHER POINT ON WHICH critics often dwell is

the alleged tendency of the denazification tribunals
to exonerate “big Nazis’’ while imposing severe penalties
or disqualifications on some minor offenders. There were,
no doubt, some instances of such discrimination. Yet this
criticism represents only part of the truth.

The “big Nazi" referred to was sometimes a man of
influence, possibly a devoted Nazi, who made large
contributions to the party and urged his employees to
join. But he may have been a benevolent employer, and
one who never persecuted anyone. So when he came
before his peers and neighbors who sat on the courts,

(Continued on page 65)

MARCH 1951

--- Page 34 ---
The Socialist Unity Party

Excerpts from a Report by the Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany on

“The Socialist Unity Party as the Soviet Instrument of Power in Eastern Germany”

J UST AS THE COMMUNIST PARTY of the Soviet Union

is the source of all power and control in the USSR, so _

is the Socialist Unity Party (SED) the dominant force in
Eastern Germany. The SED is, to be sure, merely the
tool in Germany of its Soviet parent party, bound to
obey Soviet commands by the iron discipline which the
Stalinist hierarchy demands. Nevertheless, in Germany,
it deserves close attention in its own right.

The SED has been led into power behind the bayonets
of the Red Army and the Soviet Military Administration
since Soviet conquest in 1945. This was made very clear
on Sept. 21, 1947, when Soviet Colonel Tulpanov told
the Second Party Congress of the SED: “In contradistinc-
tion to the others, we are the only military administra-
tion which openly and loudly declares that it considers
it to be its democratic duty to support the forces and
organizations which fight for the unity of the working
class and for a united, democratic Germany.”

Basic to an understanding of the situation in Eastern
Germany is an understanding of the SED.

The socialist movement in Europe produced the Social
Democratic Party in Germany. Internal divisions in that
organization, made more acute in 1914 by conflicting
opinions about the proper party attitude toward the
first world war, finally produced a formal split in 1920
into the pre-Hitler Communist (KPD) and Social Demo-
cratic (SPD) Parties.

The KPD, taking Lenin (later Stalin) and the Com-
munist Party of the Soviet Union as its commander and
guide, preached the necessity of the revolutionary over-
throw of capitalism. The SPD, noting the changes on
the European scene since Karl Marx had first propounded
the theory of inevitable revolution, believed in the pos-
sibility of the gradual attainment of socialism through
Western parliamentary-democratic procedures.

ITH THE DEFEAT OF HITLER and the start of

quadripartite administration of Germany, the first
steps were allowed toward a restoration of non-Nazi
parties. In each occupation zone, the commander per-
mitted both the KPD and SPD (among others) to re-
Organize and resume activities which had beén violently
extinguished by Hitler in 1933.

While these developments occurred in each of the
four occupation zones, an additional move, taking place
only in the Soviet Zone, produced very important re-
sults. This was the establishment in July 1945 of the
So-called Anti-Fascist, Democratic Bloc, which each of
the four political parties was required to join before it was
granted a license. Such bloc committees were created
With representatives from all the parties ostensibly
to work out common programs and policies. The com-

MARCH 1951

29

mittees soon became devices for forcing all other parties
to adhere to Communist wishes, which were backed up
by threats and pressures from the Soviet Military Ad-
ministration. In addition, a special “little bloc’ of the
KPD and SPD was organized on June 19, 1945, in Berlin,
providing for common action and close cooperation.

It soon became obvious to Communist leaders that
even in Eastern Germany the SPD was becoming the
strongest single political force.

O MEET THIS CHALLENGE, a KPD (presumably a

Soviet) decision was made to force a merger of the
two “workers’ parties.” Despite years of bitter differences
on basic political questions, the KPD blandly announced
that the common goal of both organizations was social-
ism, that. separation merely aided the “enemies of the
working class.” SPD reaction was highly unfavorable.
At a minimum, the SPD wanted proof that the KPD had
become truly democratic in its methods and goals and
that it had become’independent of Moscow's controls.

Soviet officials brought all of their overwhelming pres-
sure and resources as an occupying power to bear on
Social Democratic leaders. Following forced meetings
with Soviet officers and Communist leaders, the SPD
Party Board joined in issuing a statement on Dec. 23,
1945, agreeing to work toward eventual union of the
working class, to adopt common programs, and to prac-
tice close cooperation.

After this first breach in the SPD’s lines, Soviet officers
only increased their pressure. “Spontaneous” meetings of
factory workers were called to voice demands for a
merger. Opponents were hounded by Soviet officials and
the secret police. An agreement was forced providing for
common Socialist and Communist candidate lists at all
elections. Finally, in late January 1946, East Zone SPD
leaders were summoned to Soviet Headquarters. There
they received a deadline of May 1, 1946, to effectuate
unification with the KPD.

On Feb. 26, 1946, a meeting of 60 top Social Democratic
and Communist leaders agreed in principle to a merger.
No overt public opposition was allowed. Factory meet-
ings, terror against opponents, dozens of kidnapings,
“disappearances” and arrests continued.

HE FINAL RESULT of the Soviet drive was the

“Unity Convention” led by KPD chief Wilhelm Pieck
and SPD chief Otto Grotewohl and held in Berlin on
April 21 and 22, 1946. At this meeting, a common pro-
gram and constitution were adopted, and an 80-man Party
Board, with equal membership from both parties, was
established. The resultant SED had about 1,440,000 mem-
bers, of whom 631,000 were former Social Democrats and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
514,000 former Communists. Although the SED at first
claimed that its merger was equally effective for Berlin
and the three Western occupation zones, the Social Demo-
crats in Berlin and Western Germany voted by large
majorities to remain independent.

The initial party program was divided into two sec-
tions. The first, concerning immediate aims, directed it-
self to achieving denazification, nationalization, demili-
tarization, economic planning, destruction of monopoly
capitalism, agricultural reorganization, workers’ rights,
civil rights, school reform, reparations obligations, and a
unified, democratic German state. The second section
stated that these immediate aims were not enough in the
long run since the goal was “socialism.” Nevertheless, it
was promised that “The Socialist Unity Party aims to
follow the democratic way leading to socialism; however,
it will seize revolutionary means if the capitalistic class
forsakes the ground of democracy.”

More than four years have passed since the merger.
In the intervening period, many of the pretenses of 1945
and 1946 Communist statements have been dropped. No
longer is there any talk that Germany need not follow
the path of the Soviet Union. Party documents pro-
mulgated at the SED’s Third Congress (July 22-25, 1950)
state that the party must develop on the Bolshevik
model “to draw the party more quickly along the vic-
torious path of Marx, Engels, Lenin and Stalin.”

To correspond to this new aggressive attitude, the
party has been stripped for action, organizationally
speaking, by a new party charter adopted at the Third
Congress. This does not mean that some weaknesses
among the members, especially in less than thorough
acquaintance with Stalinist ideology and in unwillingness
to agitate vigorously enough among the masses, do not
somewhat decrease the state of effectiveness of the
party which the leaders (and the Soviet Union) seek to
attain. Nevertheless, the new charter, with its new
organization, is very important.

A recent two-day conference in Berlin on health and
welfare plans and programs brought together Lt. Col.
Walter De Forest (left), chief of HICOG Medical Affairs
and Public Welfare; Dr. Erwin P. Brauner (center), Berlin
Element, HICOG, Public Health adviser, and Maj. D. 1.
Allen (right), HICOG Medical Affairs executive officer.

(PRB BE-HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

S BEFITS AN ORGANIZATION operating on an

official party principle of “democratic centralism," —
the central or highest level of party organization merits —
primary attention.

The first postwar Communist leaders were installed
by the Soviet forces. Following this, a party regulation
was enacted providing that each higher echelon must
approve all candidates for party office at the next lower
level. It is clear that-as a result no opposition groups
can ever develop from below within the party to change
the self-perpetuating top leadership of Soviet appointees,
The new party constitution leaves no doubts when it
states that “the strength of the party is expressed in
its uniformity of will and action, which cannot tolerate
any divergence from the principles of Marxism-Leninism
and from the party statutes, any violation of party
discipline, any participation in factional groups, or any
deceitfulness. All decisions of higher party organs are
obligatory for all lower party organizations, and strict
party discipline must be maintained.” i

In theory, the Party Congress is the supreme party
organ. It elects the Central Committee, which has succeeded
to the Party Board, and the two chairmen; it also decides
on party policy, and constitution. In practice, however, ~
since the Congress is under the control of a presidium —
of top functionaries, only the prearranged program of 4
the leaders is presented for “unanimous adoption by —
the delegates at the Congress.

The real power, therefore, lies in the Central Com-
mittee, or rather in its Political Bureau (Politbuero) of ©
nine members and six alternates. The latter is the
effective directing guide or general staff for the party
since the Central Committee is too unwieldy in number ~
and meets usually only four times a year. The Politbuero
also directs the work of the Central Committee Secre-
tariat and Central Party Control Commission chosen by
the Central Committee. .

HE MOST POWERFUL INDIVIDUAL functionary ~

occupying (like Stalin in the Soviet Union before —
him) the new post of SED Secretary-General is Walter —
Ulbricht. As a naturalized Soviet citizen and faithful —
Soviet stooge, he is well suited to run the party and ~
the Soviet Zone as Stalin wishes.

The Central Committee Secretariat has no relation to —
the old Central Secretariat. In 1946, the latter started
out as a select group of operating department chiefs —
drawn from the 80 Party Board members. This group —
divided the activities of the party and met frequently
between the rare Party Board meetings to develop basic —
policy. Today, heads of operating departments report
to the Politbuero for instructions and no longer meet aS_
a body. E

The only apparent coordinating body (other than)
Ulbricht himself) between the Politbuero and the depart
ment heads is the new Central Committee Secretari
of a few top party functionaries, who can and do make”
all except the most important party decisions. G

The Central Party Control Commission is given two
tasks in the new constitution. It must supervise the

--- Page 36 ---
execution of the resolutions of the Party Congress and
Central Committee by the party organizations, and it
must call to account party members who are guilty of
violating party ‘decisions or party discipline. This
Control Commission (the party's own secret police) is
obviously a tremendous weapon in the hands of a few
top Politbuero members over all other persons in the
party to insure that each is fully loyal and obedient.

T THE OTHER END of the scale are more than 40,000
A basic units of the party established in factories, trade
and other economic organizations, in governmental of-
fices and institutions (at all levels), in schools, on farms,
in (farm) machine rental stations, in villages, and in res-
idence groups, when there are at least three party
members.

The average member's party work consists of obedi-
ence to orders from higher authorities, who will assign
him duties of agitation among the masses, of assisting
in mobilizing the: masses to accomplish particular tasks,
and of participating actively in the political and economic
life and struggle of the “German Democratic Republic”
in the fights against “enemies of the party and of the
people.”

Between the highest echelon and the basic units are
a number of regional intermediate party directorates,
for each of the six states of the Soviet Zone (including
Berlin), and below them for districts within the states.
Between these districts and the basic units are party
organization units for each city (if the city does not
rank as a separate district), ward, town, and large fac-
tory unit (when the factory has more than 500 SED
members).

Having received indispensable Soviet support in
establishing itself in power during early postwar years,
the Socialist Unity Party now wields its dominant power
in Eastern Germany by having its members placed in
key positions in every field.

To be able to provide this direction, the various
operating departments under the Politbuero and Central
Committee Secretariat maintain staffs which, in essence,
perform the work of a second governmental agency,
such as planning, industry, agriculture or personnel.
Since the party decision on any public question always
takes precedence over a governmental agency's de-
cision, the result is that the party tends to become the
government. :

T IS INTERESTING in this connection to note that

none of the SED members in important posts in
Mass organizations or in other parties (such as the
Satellite National Democratic Party and Democratic
Farmers’ Party) are full members of the top organs of
the SED itself, such as the Politbuero or Central Com-
mittee Secretariat. The latter consist either of a few
top cabinet officials in the regime or of people rela-
tively unknown to the public who remain fully in the
background but completely in control.

Thus the nominal directors of the mass organizations
(Free German Youth, Democratic Women's Federation,

MARCH 1951

31

5 Daa

Hesse’s cabinet and other newly-elected officials were
presented to US High Commissioner John J. McCloy and
other leading American officials in Germany at a recep-
tion held recently in the home of Hesse US State Commis-
sioner James R. Newman. L.-r., Dr. Newman; Mr. McCloy;
Dr. Georg August Zinn, minister-president of Hesse, and
Lt. Gen. Lauris Norstad, newly-appointed commanding
general, US Air Force in Europe. (PRB OLCH photo)

Consumer Cooperatives, Free German Trade Unions,
German-Soviet Friendship Society, Culture League, and
Farmers’ Mutual Aid Association) are in no position
even to vote on the basic policy decisions affecting
their organizations.

In addition to this penetration of all phases of public,
social, economic and political life, the party has made
some governmental departments its exclusive property.
This is particularly true of the 100,000-man regular
“People’s Police’ force, the developing secret police
(Ministry of State Security), the State Control Commis-
sion (to prevent economic “sabotage’’), and the Personnel
Department of the InterionMinistry (responsible for staffing
all offices of the government at all levels). The latter
department maintains particularly close connections
with the Party Personnel Policy (Cadre) Department,
and, in questions of high level appointments and dis-
missals, with the Central Committee Secretariat and
Politbuero. The SED also probably has as members more
than 50 percent of the 50,000 soldiers in the new army,
still disguised as “alert units” of the “People’s Police”
(from which it is, in fact, completely separate).

OTH DIRECTLY AND INDIRECTLY, the party
already holds all power and directs all activities in
Eastern Germany. The goal of this domination, more-
over, is clear, The party is relentlessly pushing Eastern
Germany along the path of the “people’s democracies”
and of the Soviet Union. At present the party is riding
in two directions. This appears from the party resolu-
tion, “The Present Situation,’ which announced that
“...an end must finally be made to underrating (the
importance) of the National Front of Democratic Ger-
many in the ranks of the SED, the KPD (in Western

Germany), and in the trade unions.”
The National Front, which deserves such close .atten-
tion from the party, is, however, not a socialist but
(Continued on page 67)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
Across-the-City Student Exchange Begins

MERICAN SCHOOLS WON a vote of confidence from

three German high school students in February when
they spent a full week of study in the Wiesbaden US
Dependents’ High School. The students, Arne Speith, 18,
Georg von Knoop, 18, and Heinz Fischer, 17, were the
first participants in a new exchange program between
German and American high schools in the Wiesbaden
area. Selected students of both nationalities will in future
weeks continue visits to their counterpart high schools
for five-day periods.

The pioneer trio unanimously agreed that, had they the
choice between an American and a German school, they
would prefer attending an American school. But they had
this reservation: there is more knowledge, at least in a
theoretical sense, to be imparted in the German schools.

What impressed the German guest students most during
their week at the American school was the friendly,
almost colleague-like relationship between teacher and
student during classes. The fact that American teachers
sit on one level with the students and do not, as in Ger-
man schools, look down from the high-seated .Katheder
(desks) brings them far closer to the students, according
to the Germans. In consequence, instruction is conducted
much more informally, with students and teachers dis-
cussing the topics at hand in a respectful, give-and-take
manner. The German guests found it striking that despite
the lack of such discipline as is customary in their own
schools, the American students do not deny their teachers

any respect. This particulary impressed and even amazed
the three young Germans.

On the other hand, however, the German students think
that they learn more in German schools. It is their opinion
that the American students are two years behind their
German counterparts in theoretical knowledge, whereas
American schools serve up more practical knowledge.

OMMENTING ON the intra-city exchange program,

the Wiesbadener Kurier, a Wiesbaden daily news-
paper judget the most important gain to be the friendship
between German and American students in the Wies-
baden area, which, with the program progressing and
extending, may become the seed of a lasting under-
standing among the youth of the world.

Not only have the German students gained from the
experience, continued the Kurier. American boys and
girls, who at first did not know how to relate themselves
to the Germans, soon discovered myriads of things in
common. Arne, for instance, plays baseball as passion-
ately as any American boy, George's interests lie with
books and Heinz — he has a very pronounced weakness
for movie stars. +END

Principal Carl R. Ahee of Wiesbaden US Dependents’
High School welcomes first three German guest students
to be enrolled in the American school on a five-day
exchange basis. Selected German and American high ~
school youth are now being exchanged in the Hessian
capital city for periods of one week. Jim Hockenberry,
16-year-old son of OLC Hesse’s Assistant Adminstrative
Chief James L. Hockenberry, served as host to initial
German group at his school, Left to right are John R.
Harris, HICOG's assistant district resident officer for
Wiesbaden; Jim Hockenberry; Mr. Ahee; Georg von
Knoop, 18; Arne Speith, 18, and Heinz Fischer, 17, all
three students at Gutenberg High School in Wiesbaden.
Right, Susan Sheehan, 16-year-old daughter of Francis
E, Sheehan, deputy state commissioner for Hesse, shows
new schoolmates location on the map of her home town,
Cambridge, Ohio. (PRB OLCH photos)

--- Page 38 ---
School Finanecin

Study

5S

By WALLACE H. STREVELL
Chief, Education Research, Education and Cultural Relations Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

HE BASIC LAW for the Federal Republic of Germany

contains the provision: ‘The entire educational
system is under the supervision of the state. Declara-
tions of state ministries and state legislature confirm their
resolution freely and independently to accept this burden
of ultimate responsibility. The duty of supporting an
adequate educational system is implicit in each of the
state constitutions.

The most frequently encountered criterion in Germany
for distinguishing the agencies that support schools is
the separation of personnel and material costs. The 19th-
century tendency to recognize this distinction in law and
gradually restrict communities to expenditures for
material, incidentally lessening their influence on the
pedagogical direction of schools, resulted in the Schul-
traeger concept as practiced in the area now within the
US responsibility.

Literally “school carrier,” the Schultraeger subsequent
to the Reich decrees of 1937 denotes legally the agency,
or more rarely agencies, that serves as custodian of
school properties and pays the physical costs. In current
usage the term is often applied to all agencies contribut-
ing to the support of the school and therefore it is quite
customary to speak of the state and municipality as
“joint Schultraeger" even where the former bears only
“personnel costs.

HE EARLY TRADITION of Prussia departed some-
what from the southern states in that salaries of
Prussian elementary teachers were paid in principle by
the Schultraeger. Within the organization of Prussian
communities was a “land school fund” to which the state
made contributions. Under the elementary school financ-
ing law of 1936 the state of Prussia contributed 75 per-
cent of the cost of one teaching post for every 15
children, But if the community wished to establish “plus”
Positions in order to have a more favorable pupil-teacher
tatio they bore the entire cost of the plus positions. The
State of Prussia also contributed toward “external costs’
by giving school building subsidies directly to communities.
In the state of Wuerttemberg-Baden, the community
is as a rule the only Schultraeger for elementary and
Secondary schools. The Schultraeger for vocational schools
in Baden customarily is the county, in rural areas of
Wuerttemberg, a vocational-school federation of town-
Ships (Zweckverbaende of Gemeinden). The vocational
Schools at Weinheim in Baden, for example, are support-
ed by the county. The county council assumes full legal
Tesponsibility.
There appear to be certain advantages, where special-
ized trade and technical schools are to serve a wider

MARCH 1951

33

area than the town or village, in merging the Schul-
traeger district with a regularly organized governmental
unit like a county. The federation for specialized voca-
tional schools, as illustrated at Blaufelden in Wuerttem-
berg, includes towns on the basis of a public contract.
Here a special school council, composed of representa-
tives chosen by the member town councils, discharges
the duties of Schultraeger for the vocational school.

In Bavaria, the community is Schuitraeger for elementa-
ry and vocational schools. It is also Schultraeger for
most of the secondary schools for girls. The state of
Bavaria on the other hand is normally Schultraeger for
the boys’ secondary schools.

In Hesse, state and community are joint Schultraeger
for elementary schools. Among the secondary schools
of Hesse there is a division, often within the same city,
e.g. Wetzlar, the physical costs for some secondary
schools being borne entirely by the state, for others

entirely by the community.
To! GERMAN STATES maintain completely certain
of the secondary schools inherited from rulers of
former generations or taken over by the government in
the secularization of ecclesiastical territories and mon-
asteries in 1806. In more recent years, the state govern-
ments have founded new state-operated secondary schools
chiefly in smaller and financially weaker communities.
Nevertheless, many of the German secondary schools
are by tradition community maintained institutions.

Of late German economy has recognized that the large
sums of money involved make the distribution of school
costs an important factor in balancing the over-all
financial burdens between states and communities or
associations of communities. This division of fiscal bur-
den is either according to the object of expenditure
illustrated in the separation of personnel and physical
costs or according to the vested responsibilities of the
particular Schultraeger. :

The personnel costs of all elementary schools, in-
cluding salaries, pensions, bonuses, travel, social in-
surance, etc., are paid by the state government except
for “plus” positions. Expenditures by the states for
teachers’ payroll and other personnel costs are fixed
by state ministerial decisions regulating the number of
employees assigned to each community. Private elementary
schools in recent years have received little financial
encouragement. However, trade schools supported by
private industry have been officially recognized as a
desirable addition to the education system.

The salaries of elementary-school teachers in Bavaria
and Hesse are provided for in the state budget, but in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
Third grade of the American Dependents School in Wies-
baden is paid a call by German schoolteachers (rear) from
the Wiesbaden and Rheingau areas. At right, Kenneth Ba‘e-
man, OLCH, discusses a book with a pupil while Calvin
E, Eiler, school superintendent, surveys class. Helga
Swenson (right, front) is the class instructor, | (USAFE photo)

Wuerttemberg-Baden the communities contribute to the
state 30 percent of elementary teacher salaries. The
physical cost of elementary schools in all the states are
borne by the Schultraeger. The community Schultraeger
are obliged to supply maintenance of all elementary
schools, including construction, upkeep and care of school
buildings, and purchase of needed equipment, teaching
aids, laboratory apparatus and library books.

HE SALARIES FOR TEACHERS in the vocational

and trade schools in Hesse and Bavaria are borne
by the respective Schultraeger with frequent subsidies
from other public authorities. In Wuerttemberg-Baden,
50 percent of the vocational-teacher salaries are borne
by the state and 50 percent are contributed by the
county or the federation Schultraeger. Physical costs of
vocational schools in all instances are a charge upon
the Schultraeger although for vocational schools the
parents usually contribute learning aids.

The salaries for teachers of the secondary schools, in-
cluding middle schools, are borne in Hesse by the
respective Schultraeger, state or local, of each school.
In Bavaria, salaries of teachers in boys’ secondary
schools are a state responsibility, of girls’ secondary
schools a municipal responsibility. When the community
secondary schools of Bavaria found themselves in
financial embarrassment because of termination of tuition
payments after the occupation, the state was urged by
many civic bodies to provide an interim fund until the
financial arrangements could be further studied.

In Wurttemberg-Baden, the local community contributes
to the state 60 percent of the salaries of secondary school
teachers and 50 percent of the salaries of the middle-
school teachers.

Costs of new building construction or reconstruction,
as well as building maintenance and expenditures for
teaching and learning aids, are recognized to be the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

responsibility of particular Schultraeger. Substantial sub-
ventions, however, may be transferred from other public
agencies, notably state subsidies for reconstruction in
the event of wai damages.

yey THE STATE theoretically balances the burden
of school support by paying salaries for the bulk of
schools, especially the elementary schools, uniformly
according to the number of teaching posts calculated
from the school enrollment. The community is supposed
to bear the physical costs in accordance with local
ability. Within the US-occupied area, only at Bremen
and Berlin, both of which have a city state tradition and
operational structure, may be found a completely har-
monious balance of school support rooted in a single
governmental agency. The normal procedure of budget
approval in Bremen takes care of both material and per-
sonnel expenditures,

Elsewhere in the US Zone one agency commonly waits
upon another, both as to action toward any given pur-
pose, and very often as to who will assume the ultimate
financial burden. In several writings on German school
finance this divided responsibility is spoken of as com-
petition between the state and local agencies. It is
supposed that each may try to outdo the other. However,
the evidence indicates that in the main such competition
does not work out in practice and is a false premise.

The scheme in Wuerttemberg-Baden whereby the
Schultraeger matches a certain percent of the state
termined teaching posts contains no allowance for
local ability. Since the arrangement is merely one of
dividing the financial burden on a matching basis, it is ~
not surprising that many communities are now asking
the state to assume the entire burden. These contribu-
tions constitute a way of collecting revenue for the state,’
in as much as employment and payment of teachers is
by the state. Because the contributions are funds over
which the locality has little or no control they are
credited in this study to the state’s share of school support.

Equalization would require that where state and com-
munity are to share the cost of a foundation program,
the community's contribution be calculated according to
a legally recognized index of its local revenue ability.

Heidelberg University students hear Berlin Mayor Ernst
Reuter address them on the subject, Berlin Speaks to West
German Students.” (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 40 ---
Berlin members of German Youth Activities (GYA) have
opportunity to learn English through efforts of the wives
of officers of the 3rd Battalion, 16th Infantry Regiment.
Mrs. Keith H. Barber, wife of the battalion's commanding
officer, is shown instructing some of the younger mem-
bers of the Army-sponsored organization. She is one of
many such voluntary workers who are actively helping
to expand GYA'’s EUCOM-wide efforts to assist German
youth. (US Army photo)

For the state to support a given number of teaching
posts in ratio to enrollment, theoretically should result
in uniformity. Actually this policy is devoid of equaliza-
tion in the genuine sense of taking revenue where it is
readily collectable and using it where the children are.
A concomitant of local initiative is freedom of local
fiscal controls. Therefore equalization must take into
the individual community's ability to raise
revenue locally. =

account

ie VIEW OF THE TREND of the times toward amassing
large sums of revenue at state and national levels,

the present arrangement in Germany whereby the state
pays outright for a fixed number of teaching posts is
better than no arrangement at all. The arrangement,

however, neither guarantees all children a foundation
program nor stimulates local enterprise. This is demon-
strated in that only a very few well favored communities
take the initiative to employ even a small number of
plus teachers to relieve overcrowded classrooms or ex-
pand school curriculums,

There is no federal financial aid to education under
the Federal Republic of Germany such as had been
administered under the Reich. The states are protected
from federal encroachment into educational policy by
the Basic Law and they jealously guard this state
autonomy. There are many arguments, chief of which is
Protection against political regimentation, in favor of
their position. Decisions taken in the realms of taxation
and federal revenue, however, may conceivably at some
future date, cause state autonomy to become untenable
unless the tax base of the states is likewise protected.

The trend of modern economics makes it administra-
tively feasible for the federal unit to collect enormous
Sums of revenue, often disguised as new taxes, with

MARCH 1951

35

consequent shrinkage of the tax base reserved to the
states. The principle for arranging an equalization of
school support if or when necessary between federal
and state levels, just as between state and school com-
munity levels, must be always to retain the control over
expenditures at the lowest unit where the people can
democratically and directly influence the programming
and administration of the school system.

NOTABLE FEATURE of administrative organization

and budgetary arrangements within the German
states is the union under one ministry of formal educa-
tion with a great variety of other cultural enterprises,
including support to the church. Thus in the 1948 Wuert-
temberg-Baden budget for cultural purposes 19 percent
was appropriated for non-educational agencies, 25 per-
cent for educational agencies other than schools, and
56 percent for public schools.

Ministries of education and culture generally shoulder
very broad responsibilities including museums, historic
monuments, theater and music, libraries, recreational
facilities, and contributions to the church, in addition to
oversight of the formal educational system. Although
this scope of responsibility has the disadvantage of di-
luting administrative attention to the schools, it should
be counterbalanced with better co-ordination of the
totality of educational effort and cultural institutions.

Consequently it is odd that the community-centered
school idea is seldom mentioned, either in German plan-
ning of new school building projects or in the ad-
ministrative crganization of schools situated in the same
community. This oversight is probably explained by the
present lack of policy articulation concerning the func-
tion of community education in a democracy. +END

Modern Techniques Studied

A course in modern teaching methods and techniques
was conducted for a group of interested Germans in
Bavaria last month.

The three-day course, the first of its kind in Bavaria,
was carried out by three members of the US Constabulary
NCO Academy in Munich, each an expert instructor in
modern educational methods. They were Capt. ‘Lawrence
E. Foley and Lts. Anthony J. Sava and Charles H. Brown.
Earphones were installed at each chair to permit those
in attendance to hear simultaneously the English or Ger-
man translation of each speaker.

Educators to Study in England

Four Wuerttemberg-Baden residents have been selected
to go to England for the four-week Wilton Park English
introductory course. 4

The Wilton Park Course No. 33 is sponsored by the
British Government and has been specially designed to °
present a coordinated picture of modern England to a
foreigner. The four Germans selected to attend the course
have been active in adult education work in their
communities.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
Young Czech woman weeps as she tells Canadian
Immigration Mission how her husband was killed by
Czech border guards in attempt to bring their child out
of homeland from which they were fleeing. Woman alone

escaped. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Member of Canadian team interviews 39-year-old Czech
baker and his family in their quarters at Camp Wegscheide.

Homes Across the Seas

By EDOARDO CANALI

International Refugee Organization

Mee YOU EMIGRATE ALONE?" asked the rep-
resentative of the Canadian Department of Labor.

The woman nodded.

“You have no family?”

“T have a child.”

“Where is it?"

“In Czechoslovakia.”

The officials seated in the drab wooden hut stopped the
low-voiced dialogue and looked around at one another,

“I'm afraid that makes it difficult,” said the Canadian
after a pause. ‘Where is your husband?"

The woman's face drew up in tears. She kneaded a
handkerchief in her fingers for a few moments and finally
whispered.

“He's dead. He was killed."

Little by little the story came out. Husband and wife
had fled from their homeland, leaving the child with its
grandmother. Later the husband had decided to go back
and fetch the child, so the three could try for emigration
together. On the other side of the border he had been
caught by guards and shot dead while trying to escape.

Patiently the Canadian probed further. Had she no one
else in the world? Yes, she had a married brother — also
a refugee. Would he and his wife care to go to Canada?
The first smile in the whole interview illuminated the
woman's tired face.

“I should like to see the couple," said the Canadian.

(Continued on page 38)

Sign “Welcome” adorns a home-made hangman's noose,
both a warning and joke to chemist Arnost Uberlaker.

--- Page 42 ---
Shirtle Vendelin Kostal, 27, will leave IRO refugee -year-old actress, one of 447 Czech political refugees
ip near Frankfurt soon to go to Canada as farmhand. mp Wegscheide, hopes to find work as housemaid.

ciary of International Refugee Organiza- Eduard Maljor, 21, due to become a farmhand, escaped
tion Jaroslav Madar, 28, lunches in his billet. from Czech uranium mine and reached West Germany.

MARCH 1951

--- Page 43 ---
HAT WAS HOW RENEWED HOPE came to three

exiles, finally given preliminary acceptance by John
Sharrer, Labor Department representative of a Canadian
Selection Mission operating in Germany.

This scene occurred in Wegscheide, a onetime summer
camp, 2,000 feet up in the wooded highlands of the Rhoen
range, 40 miles northeast of Frankfurt. The place has
been a refugee camp for years, winter as well as summer.
In winter months its 447 Czechoslovakian residents walk
through snow to reach the camp that has become their
temporary home. But permanency has come a step nearer
with the Canadian visit: more than 200 persons passed
their labor requirements test. Others are still in process
of documentation by the International Refugee Organiza-
tion, which is responsible for their legal and political
protection and for assistance in resettlement. Financial
responsibility for their care has been handed over to the
German authorities, as IRO is preparing to close down.

The refugees, who fled from Communist oppression in
their native country and live today in the Hessian camp,
have received extensive praise from Dr. James R. New-
man, Hesse’s US state commissioner. It is their aim to be
only temporary guests, he says, and they have no inten-
tion of becoming a permanent burden on the German tax-
payer. ‘Actually, all of the Czech refugees in Hesse want
to resettle in foreign countries, and most of them have
already been documented for that purpose.”

Of the 447 persons presently accommodated at the
Wegscheide camp near Bad Orb, 314 have already been
documented for resettlement purposes by IRO. Others
are awaiting nomination by some sponsor or will be
documented soon, while only eight personsare temporarily
unable, for health or age reasons, to resettle.

F THE CANADIAN MINISTRY'S processing team,

Dr. Newman said, “this is another step to expedite
the resettlement of political refugees from Communist
slavery into the democratic world.”

To prove his knowledge of his trade, Anton Slepanek
demonstrates weaver's knot to Mission's J. A. Sharrer.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

38

Young victims of political persecution enjoy pictures in
American magazine insecurity, comfort of camp's dayroom.

The Canadians’ trip to Wegscheide was part of a vast
program initiated by that government to accept more
than 50,000 homeless persons this year. Canada was the
first overseas territory to accept IRO refugees (in addition
to the more than 100,000 DP’s who have already found
homes there). Their primary aim is to screen and to accept
persons for lumber, mining and agricultural work, and
for the domestic trades.

Selection of 15,000 workers in these trades has already
begun in IRO installations throughout Germany, Austria
and Italy. Their transport aboard ships of the IRO fleet
is planned for early spring.

An additional 15,000 persons are expected to gain ad-
mittance through nominations by relatives or friends.
already resident in Canada. Some 5,000 others, whose
skills or professional abilities can be put to immediate
use in the Canadian economy, will also be granted visas.

EGSCHEIDE, THEN, is but a small outpost of a giant
operation. The Canadians who visited the camp to
interview candidates are not alone in the job of selecting
persons for new homes. New Zealand has agreed to ac-
cept a further 2,000 DP’s, and may raise this quota by
another 1,000 provided reception facilities do not become ~
overcrowded.
But Wegscheide is the scene of the same human dramas —
being enacted throughout IRO territory as the political ~
refugees recount their stories of hope, horror and dis-
appointment.

Many of the Wegscheide refugees are young people. :
Thirty-year-old Pavel Katona, with his wife and two ~
children — Marget, aged two years, and Pavel, aged two
months — have been accepted for Canada. So was Vaclav
Marek, a 30-year-old mechanic who lost his job following
the Communist coup in 1948, and who was drafted into —
forced labor in the uranium mines at Iakimov, 40 miles ~
from the German border. r

--- Page 44 ---
An aunt in Argentina has provided a guarantee for her
nephew, 28-year-old Jaroslay Madar. He was a courts
officer in Maris-Ostrava when political activity forced
him into sudden flight, leaving his wife and three-year-
old child in the care of relatives. His three years’ imprison-
ment by the Nazis, 1942 to 1945, on charges of sabotage,
had taught him the lesson of totalitarian efficiency. So
had the fate of his 22-year-old brother Otakar, who died
in the concentration camp at Dachau, near Munich.

ry. HE DAY OF INTERVIEWING at Wegscheide brought
I disappointment to some. A writer and journalist,
known as J.P., a stocky, healthy-looking 45-year-old who
had applied for resettlement under a labor scheme, was
rejected because of his age.

“[ don't feel old,” said Czechoslovak J.P. afterwards as
he cheerfully heated watery coffee in the small room he
shares with two other refugees. He has more than 20
years of journalism to his credit. Arrested by the Gestapo
in 1942, he was held in prison six months, then sent to
forced labor in the AVIA, an aircraft factory.

The end of the war brought liberation and he went back
to his old newspaper. But Communists had seized key
so he found a job with a publishing house.

pos

“There was no peace,” he remembers. “We were asked
to join the Communist Party. I refused and shortly after-
wards they called me for interrogation.” When a friendly
officer of the security organization warned him he was in
danger, he fled across the border.

Persecuted by the Nazis, persecuted by the Communists,
still ready to act the smiling host in his refugee attic in

Checks are made to determine truthfulness of applicant's
Statements: Mr. Sharrer studies formation of hands.

MARCH 1951

One of many young refugees hopeiully waiting for
opportunity to emigrate studies magazine. Poster explains
American and English tables of weights and currencies.

the hills of central Germany, what is to become of free-
dom-loving J.P.?

“It's a constant fight between the heart and the head,"
comments Mr. Sharrer, who has been selecting DP's for
the past four years in Germany, Austria, Tanganyika,
Kenya and Southern Rhodesia.

“You are confronted with the human problem every
day. When you can say yes, however, it's a great personal
satisfaction. You feel that you have helped a human be-
ing, you have helped to fulfill Canada’s moral commit-
ments with the International Refugee Organization and
with distressed humanity. And you have helped your
country to acquire men and women who will become
good citizens and social assets." +END

Berlin ‘‘Filmfest" to Open April 15;
Keen Interest Shown by Many Countries

Berlin's “International Film Festival," to be held from
June 6 to 17, has met with a worldwide response.
Through the deadline for filing announcements of motion
pictures from the individual countries has been set as
late as April 15, no fewer than 14 countries (Argentine,
Australia, Belgium, the United Kingdom, France, the
Netherlands, India, Ireland, Italy, Canada, Mexico, Swe-
den, Spain and the United States) of the 30 invited have
already shown deep interest and some have even regis-
tered pictures to be featured.

Special attention is given by Filmfest officials to a
report from Italy that, among other pictures, the top
Italian film “Il Brigante Mussolini," starring Silvana
Mangano, will be entered. Miss Mangano, who won the
widest popularity in Germany for her role in “Bitter
Rice,” will accompany the film to Berlin. British and
French motion picture industries have also promised to
send their latest top features.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
US Policy toward Germany Clarified

Statement*

By HENRY A. BYROADE

Director, Bureau of German Affairs, Department of State

AM NOT ONE OF THOSE who believe that the issue

of German participation in the common defense of the
West was raised prematurely. I consider that this prob-
lem arose as a natural consequence of the need every-
where of free men to consider their own defense. It was
brought into focus the minute the Western Allies in
Germany assumed the obligation that an attack upon
Western Germany, or Western Berlin, would be con-
sidered as an attack upon themselves. In this situation
it was proper and just that the German people should
be given the opportunity of participating in their own
defense.

I should like to state that there has been no change in
US policy with respect to German participation in the
common defense of the West since the Brussels meeting
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) pow-
ers. We consider it to be in Germany's interest and in
the general interest of the free nations of the world that
Germany should participate in the common defense effort
as soon as possible.

It is obvious in this connection that the general build-
up of strength in the West will precede any German
effort as the nations in the West have already started
the process and have military strength now in being.
The German contribution should be logically fitted into
the Western defense effort, and their strength should be
added as quickly as possible to the forces of the West.
As in the parallel case that arose in 1949 at the time of
the planning for the establishment of a truly representa-
tive government in Western Germany, we do not con-
sider, in view of the nature and causes of existing ten-
sion throughout the world, that forward progress should
be delayed by a possibility of a meeting of the four
foreign ministers.

We believe the decision for German participation
should be made on an entirely voluntary basis by the
German people and their government. We believe, and
have consistently believed, that the voluntary assump-
tion of the responsibilities and obligations of a role in
the defense effort by the German people and govern-
ment should logically be accompanied by a significant
change in the political relationships between the Oc-
cupying Powers and the Federal Republic.

HESE MATTERS ARE now under discussion with the
German Federal Republic. It is our desire that ar-
rangements in both the military and political fields pro-
ceed logically and in a spirit of free negotiation and that
they be completed as expeditiously as possible.
I have heard reports that there is confusion in certain
quarters arising from United States support, on the one

* Delivered at a luncheon in Mr. Byroade’s honor tendered by the
Frankfurt Press Club Feb. 15, 1951.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

hand, for the French plan for the organization of a
European defense force, while at the same time the
United States fully supports a military command struc-
ture and integrated force within the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization. There is no contradiction in US support
for these two concepts.

The United States believes in an organization of
Western civilization in a broad framework which will
combine the economic and political strengths and cultural
heritages of free Europe with those of the Western
Hemisphere. Within this broad framework the US looks
with favor upon all practical means of achieving the
integration of Europe. We believe that the most practical
approach to European integration is for the European
nations themselves to consider and to deal jointly with
the series of practical problems now facing free Europe.

It is with this thought that the United States genuinely
welcomed the initiative of the Schuman Plan for the
integration of heavy industries on the continent. It is in
this context that we would support a realistic and effec-
tive combination of the armed strength of Western
Europe, with equality for all participating nations, and
under the general framework of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization. +END

Five American newspaper editors who recently visited
Germany are greeted at HICOG headquarters by Shepard
Stone (left), director of HICOG Office of Public Affairs.
Standing, I-r., G. Prescott Low, editor and publisher,
Quincy (Mass.) “Patriot Ledger;'’ Lauren Soth, associate
editor, Des Moines (la.) ‘Register Tribune,’ and James
Kerney, Jr., editor, Trenton (N. J.) “Times.” Seated next
to Mr. Stone are John P. Harris, editor, Hutchinson (Kan.)
“News Herald” and, right, Lincoln Stoddard, associate
editor, Worcester (Mass.) “Telegram Gazette." The editors
interviewed US and German officials in Frankfurt, Bonn,
Heidelberg and Berlin on their four-day tour.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 46 ---
The Major Responsibility
By SIR a

UK High Commissioner for Germany

'D LIKE TO SPEND, if I might, 10 minutes or so, re-

flecting with you on the future course of develop-
ments in Germany.

I think we have got to recognize that if the course
of events is to flow down the broad stream that we
would like to see it flow, we have got to get our broad
policy right and to clear our minds as to our objectives
and the methods we wish to adopt to secure those ob-
jectives. I'd like to come back to this question of the
constitution of Europe and the role which Germany
should play in Europe.

Since I gave a lecture at Hamburg,* I have had a very
large number of letters from all kinds of Gérmans. I am
writing to all my correspondents personally to reply to
their letters, which are very revealing. They can broadly
be divided into three categories. There are, first of all,
a certain number of correspondents who can be ignored
because they don’t represent a big, although very
vociferous, section of the community. They are the
people who tell us that they can’t possibly cooperate
with the Russians in view of the way the Russians have
behaved, but they are likewise unable to cooperate with
us because they object to the deconcentration, they ob-
ject to the dismantling, to Heligoland and other things.
In consequence, they prefer to perish by themselves in
their own way. These, I think, are people we can safely
disregard. I don't think they represent a large number
of Germans.

Then, there is a second category of Germans who,
I think, are worthy of a little bit more attention. They
maintain that in the present strength of the West, it is
unsafe for Germany to commit herself too far. There is
a third category who are only concerned with assuring
themselves that we sincerely and honorably mean what
We say when we declare that we wish to accept Ger-
Many into the family of nations and to accord her
equal rights.

WILL COME BACK to the last two categories later,
but I think I should explain to you that when I was
giving this lecture in Hamburg I was not intending to
call on the Germans to choose between East and West,
and still less to rearm. What I was trying to do was
to give a perfectly factual account of

The second conclusion was that the strength of Europe,
after two world wars, was not sufficient to enable Europe
to constitute a third force —independent third force —
of its own. The third conclusion, therefore, was that every
European country must choose between East and West.
They must belong to one or the other blocs.

It was not a threat but a statement of fact, and when
we reflect on the situation of Europe, I think we will
see how true that is. Unless we are to be destroyed,
positive action is required from all of us. It isn’t enough, ~
as some of the Germans have told me in their letters,
to say that they have declared ourselves against Com-
munism. I am confident that not only have they declared
against it, but they have positively elected to march
with the West. My letterbag rather confirms me in
that view.

Now, I have left out one category of correspondents,
which is the man who wishes to remain out of it, be-
cause I regard him as an insignificant segment of society
and not worth much attention. But I'd like to make some
comments on the other two. I have a great deal of
sympathy with the man who says that the German
situation is so perilous that it is a big risk for him to
take positive action at this stage to march with the
West. That is why I have always held that we should
practice what we preach and that our first duty is to
strengthen the West.

If we do that, I believe a great many German difficul-
ties will all resolve themselves. My meeting with Gen-
eral Eisenhower* was very pleasurable to me because
I was his political adviser before. I was impressed when
he. took the line that the first job is to get the Atlantic
Pact Army into shape, so that it becomes a veritable
source of strengh to the West, and Germany's participa-
tion a secondary issue. I am sure that is quite the right
approach to the problem, and one which is more likely to
solve the problem to our satisfaction than any other.

OW, THE SECOND ISSUE raised by my correspond-
ents is the issue of Gleichberechtigung (equality
of rights), which is of even greater importance. The
Germans, by their behavior, of which a great many of
them are conscious, deeply in their hearts, have to

the state of Europe, as I see it today,
and I drew three conclusions: first of
all, that none of us could be neutral,
however much we should like to be.

a

fost ouvered before the Overseas Club Jan. 12,

Jan. 30, 1951.

The British High Commissioner
made the speech reprinted here
before the Frankfurt Press Club
at a luncheon given in his honor

some extent put themselves outside of
the pale, and they therefore expect to
be treated as pariahs. Now, if we are
going to make them partners in this

* General Eisenhower and the Allied High
Commissioners met Jan. 22, 1951, on the Gen-

MARCH 1951

eral’s fact-finding tour.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
enterprise, we have got to resolve to treat them on the
level of partners and that means a change of approach
on our part.

I don’t know if any of you were present when I gave
a short address to the American Resident Officers in this
city, and they raised that issue then. I told them that
I thought a partnership with Germany would require a
strong effort of will on both our sides and I added that
I thought the principal effort would have to come from
us. We won the war. The move towards magnanimity
was easier for the victors than for the vanquished. I
don't think we are suffering from the same neurotic
disturbances as the Germans.

If all that is right, if you agree with me on that, I
think you will agree the major responsibility lies on us
and it is therefore important that in the months to come,
we should by our conduct of affairs show the Germans
quite clearly that we are honest, that when we say we
wish to enter into a partnership with them, to incorporate
them into the family of Western nations, that we wish
to treat them on a footing of equality — when we have
said all these things, we mean them.

F WE DO THAT, our statement will be clear and it

will remain for the Germans to make an effort.
They have to wipe out the feeling of resentment at our
policy and some of the errors which we have committed,
remembering that our causes of resentment are deeper
and more justified. I think they have also got to re-
cognize that they have got to give us the equality of
treatment which they demand from us; while they claim
the right to criticize us, they must recognize our right
to criticize them.

The German government has got to make an effort
to adjust German policy to the policy of the Western
Allies. In short, they have got to make the sacrifices
which are inherent in partnership, which no German
government in the history of the last 100 years has been
called upon to make.

Now, I regard the future development of our affairs
as absolutely dependent upon the manner in which we
solve this problem of equality of rights between Ger-
many and the Western Allies. If we can clear our own
minds, if we can act decisively, in order to put into
practice the theories which we pronounce from the
housetops, I am convinced that in the course of the next
12 months, we shall see German affairs developing on
the lines which all of us desire. But it will require a
concerted heave on our parts. That is an operation in
which the press, I think, can give us some assistance. If
we bring that off, I personally am not in despair of the
future and am confident that we shall get our way. +END

Youth Orchestra Makes Debut
The Augsburg Youth Orchestra, which has been prac-
ticing at the Augsburg US Information Center for the past
few months, made its debut in December for an enthusiastic
audience at the Kleine Goldene Saal (Little Golden Hall)
in Augsburg. The youth orchestra was started in August
1950 by some 25 youth of from 12 to 21 years of age.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A2

Medals signifying the fun of “Fasching”

swing from the
necks of partygoers. Shown, l.-r., are Mrs. Marvin B.

Colbert, American president of the Munich German-
American Women's Club; Brig. Gen. Bruce C. Clark,
commanding general, 2nd Constabulary Brigade; Carnival
Princess Margarete; Carnival Prince Hans II; Chester S.
Wright, American president of the Munich German-
American Men's Club; Princess Pilar of Bavaria and
Mayor Thomas Wimmer, German presidents of the
German-American clubs, (Munich American photo)

Carnival Time
In Southern Germany

UNICH HAD THE LOOK of New Orleans for one

night in January when members of the Munich
Men's and Women’s German-American Clubs held their
giant Magnolia Ball. Patterned after the Louisiana Mardi
Gras festival, the party was designed to usher in the
1951 carnival season locally known as Fasching.

Into the crowded ballroom came the entire court of
Munich's Fasching season — Prince Hans II, his Princess
Margarete and their retinue, which included five princes
of former years. Press and newsreel cameramen swarmed
around as the Prince bestowed his own Faschingsorden
(Medal of Fasching), symbol of fun and foolishness, upon
the following guests: ‘

Dr. Oron J. Hale, deputy state commissioner for Ba-
varia; Phillip von Brand, personal representative of the
minister-president; Brig. Gen. Bruce C. Clark, command-
ing general, 2nd Constabulary Brigade; Robert Mac-
Whorter, chief of District I, Field Operations Division, —
OLCB; George H. Godfrey, senior resident officer,
Munich; Princess Pilar of Bavaria, German president of
the women’s club; Mrs. Marvin B. Colbert, American
president; Mayor Thomas Wimmer, German president of
the men’s club, and Resident Officer Chester S. (‘Jim’)
Wright, American president. E

Hope was expressed by both Americans and Germans ©
who took part that the ball would become an annual
affair, part of the Fasching tradition. The sponsoring ~
clubs conduct year-round programs to weld German-_
American friendship more firmly. --END =

--- Page 48 ---
The French Point of View

Address
By ANDRE FRANCOIS-PONCET

French High Commissioner for Germany

T HAS BEEN MY LOT, in a tolerably varied life, for

six months to run a newspaper. Later on, I took an
active part in the running of another newspaper. I have,
therefore, every inclination to regard the press with
respect, and to find it reasonable that it has become in
our time a power which equals all others. All I ask my-
self is whether that power should figure first or fourth
upon the list, whether on that list, in relation to the
Executive, the Legislative and the Judiciary, it should
occupy a higher or a lower place; this must indeed de-
pend on the value which, in our democracies, we place
on the role played by public opinion.

At this meeting with my colleagues of the press, you
might like me first of all to speak about my own country,
and then about Germany.

The conditions under which my country lives today,
the difficulties which those conditions bring in their trail,
are not at all times clearly realized. I think it might be
appropriate therefore to recall a number of the essential
facts which will help to put wise honest-minded persons
and perhaps clear up a certain misunderstanding.

It is indeed too often forgotten that, on the battlefields
of the first World War, France lost 1,391,000 men. To
these enormous human losses, which have in a lasting
manner weakened the country’s substance, was to be
added the devastation of our northern areas, richest
because most industrialized.

In 1940, France saw invasion once again, this time on
an even larger scale, together with a military occupation
which from 1942 onwards extended to the whole of her
metropolitan territory.

EVER FORGET, WHEN YOU SPEAK of France, what

these dark years from 1940 to 1944 were like; forget
not either our 600,000 dead, civilians and servicemen
mingled together, who in that awful war suffered
martyrdom, that is, bore witness for the sake of liberty.
And when one speaks so freely of occupation costs,
let it be recalled that France had every day between
1940 and 1944 to pay out first 500,000,000, then
300,000,000, then 400,000,000 francs, or almost double the
total of her budgetary revenue. Our country’s currency,
exhausted by this constant drain, added to contributions
of all kinds, fell into a decline, from
which it has still not quite recovered.

mandy, in our Atlantic ports and once again in our
northern areas. I would mention simply that quite apart
from our factories, our railway installations and our
bridges, 590,000 dwellings were destroyed, and that the
sum total of reconstruction may be estimated at approxi-
mately 6,000,000,000,000 francs.

Reconstruction, howevei, is not the sole task which
weighs upon France and to which she has harnessed
herself with such courage. My country has had ex-
ternal commitments to meet.

For four years in Indo-China she has borne the burden
of a difficult and costly war. I would stress, since this
is frequently ignored, that over there nearly 100,000
Frenchmen from France are waging shoulder to shoulder
with the Vietnam forces a struggle to secure the in-
dependence of the associate states. These troops, fighting
at a distance of 12,000 kilometers (7,500 miles) from our
shores, have to be fed, armed and supplied. Sure pro-
vision has to be made for reliefs to be sent and for the
gaps to be filled which death has caused in the ranks
of our troops and in the officers’ cadres. Such an effort
in men, material and money, added to our commitments
for reconstruction, and for the modernization of our in-
dustrial equipment, imposes a considerable burden.

This war in Indo-China—I feel indeed that its mean-
ing is not always understood. There is no question over
there of a colonial war, or of colonial imperialism, but
rather of a struggle against Communist expansion. Re-
sistance in Indo-China to Communist pressure is the
same struggle as that of the United Nations in Korea.
Here lies the defense of Singapore, of Malaya, of Burma,
of the outposts of India.

S YOU KNOW, INDO-CHINA is not the sum total
of our military effort. We keep divisions in Morocco,

in Algeria, in France itself, in Germany. As Mr, Max
Lejeune, our secretary of state for the armed forces, re-
minded us last week at Baumholder, we have not stayed
with our arms folded since 1945, nor with our eyes
closed to our responsibilities and military duties. This
is borne out by our budgets, where military credits are
by far the largest items. Parliament, and save only the
Communists, the country itself have accepted these
sacrifices, knowing that these are the

As far as the ravages of that war
Were concerned, these were indeed
More serious than those of the war
of 1914-18, You, all-of you, know the
extent of the devastations in Nor-

Members of the Frankiurt Press
Club heard the French High Com-
missioner deliver the accompany-
ing speech Feb. 12, 1951.

price for security and national in-
dependence.

You sometimes hear that France is
riddled with Communism, and that
we are not fighting it with the ne-
cessary energy. I will not dispute the

MARCH 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
fact that in the Chamber of Deputies, which was elected
in 1946, there are 180 Communist deputies. Ladies and
gentlemen, this fact is one which merits explanation. In
the resistance movement the Communists were keen and
forceful fighters. They placed no price on the sacrifices
which they made in the struggle against Nazi domina-
tion. Their attitude toward the fight was appreciated all
the more because they appeared to have repudiated their
ties with Moscow and their revolutionary aims, because
they professed instead an ardent patriotism and preached
unity among Frenchmen. It is this atmosphere which
then existed, which explains the electoral successes of
the Communist Party in 1945 and 1946.

Since then, the Communists have once again changed
their tactios and their face. They have become once
again a revolutionary party, closely subordinated to
Moscow. But as a result, by and large, they have lost
the country's ear. It is a significant fact that I'Humanite
(official French Communist newspaper), which in 1946
reached a circulation of 600,000, has lost since that time
two-thirds of its readers.

WOULD LIKE NOW TO SAY a word about Ger-

many. and Franco-German relations.

For more than a century, France and Germany have
been locked in almost continual conflict. In 1814, 1870,
1914 and 1940, France was invaded and occupied. It is
clear that France is making every effort to forget the
past and once again to seek with Gefmany an under-
standing based on reason. But with us the last war was
marked by trials so grievous that many of the wounds
still remain unhealed. Representing, as you do, peoples
who have known neither the extortions of the SS nor the
terror of the Gestapo, do not forget that more than
300,000 Frenchmen were deported, that 100,000 Frenchmen
who were in concentration camps have never returned.
Bear in mind that the families of those who died have
not ceased to grieve and that their bereavement calls
for silence and respect.

Nevertheless, the immense majority also of the French
people have realized that the future should not emulate
the past, that the vicious circle of national resentment
and pride must be broken asunder. In France we are
clear in our own minds that this epoch which follows
on the second World War should be marked by an
endeavor to rejuvenate Europe and to renew her
strength, if the culture of which this venerable continent
is at once the fountain and the cornerstone is not to
disappear forever.

It is our desire to infuse a new life into this age-old
concept of Europe, to give a practical meaning to
European unity. We feel that this unity, of which the
Strasbourg setup is still but a feeble beginning, is noth-
ing short of an imperative requirement on technical,
economic, military, and, what is more important, moral
grounds. .

A Europe split into narrow compartments cannot keep
pace with the technicalities of communications and
transport which govern the life of the modern world.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

As such, she cannot, any more, fulfill the needs of an
economy which I will not classify as ‘controlled’ —
rationalized is a better word — an economy aiming at
adjusting divergent national. endeavors and replacing
anachronistic competition by solidarity and efficiency.

LSO, THERE ARE MORAL REASONS which bid us

build up this unity, since Europe, by whatever
frontiers she is divided, must, in the long run, revolve
round an over-all structure of identical creeds, round
that culture at once humanist and Christian which is
for us the Western World.

Indeed, this civilization, which means our civilization,
is today threatened by a totalitarian gospel which can
with difficulty hide under the cloak of a pseudo-scientific
jargon the will to power and the greed to dominate
which are the eternal hallmarks of Oriental despotism.
For, what does this gospel of Moscow gain in the long
run but the crushing of the individual for the benefit of
a profiteering caste? Europe must therefore be defended
by military means, our resources for defense must be
coordinated to combat the Soviet peril, the whole strength
of Western Europe myst be gathered together and
united so as to preserve at once her human and ma-
terial resources, and withal her individual being.

The Germans understand this. Public opinion as a
whole shows that it is receptive. The Germans all the
same are surprised that this concept of faith in this
Europe — which they share along with the French —
does not bring with it, and right away, demonstrations
of heartfelt friendship, that France does not all at once
lift all the obstacles, does not do away with what remains
of her mistrust. The fact is that the French have a
longer road to travel than the Germans. The French
have longer steps to retrace because they have suffered
more, because with so many of them, reason and feeling
are at variance.

All the same, our own misfortunes do not blind us
to Germany's difficulties. We want to help Germany
surmount these obstacles. We want, like the other
Allies, to bring her back into the ranks of the de-
mocracies, which have liberty at heart. What we would
like is for that nation to acquire a taste for democracy
and thereby to realize the reasons why she should not
return to those excesses of nationalism which have
caused her such cruel setbacks in the past. We want
to make her a partner, because we know well enough
that a better understanding between France and Ger-
many is the main condition for European survival.

T IS NEVERTHELESS A NECESSITY that in Germany,

as with the world elsewhere, more patience should be
displayed. I expect you know the motto of Cardinal
Mazarin: “Time and I." This does not, of course, imply
leaving alone to time the business of putting everything
into order, as there is also the saying that time, whatever :
one may say, is not always the “perfect gentleman.” Our
job is helping time in its work, putting pressure upon it
with all the energy in our being, with an unclouded
spirit and with due perseverance in our task. Even if all

MARCH 19513

--- Page 50 ---
these qualities are not within our reach, the time factor
must still count, and there is no excuse for evading our
responsibilities in this matter; no one has ever denied
that it takes 15 years to make a tree, nine months to
make a man.

But our final objective is this: A strong and closely:

interrelated Europe, such as reason would recognize,
accept, desire, fit to withstand the assaults of the most
primitive barbarism. It calls into play the finest elements
in France. In this task of construction for the revival of
this venerable continent, France has at all times acted
with full vigor and without fear. She was and still is one
of the prime movers of the Council of Strasbourg. It was
she who launched the ideas of the Schuman Plan and a
European Army. These are the first stones of an edifice
of which it is essential to promote the growth and which
will be the guarantee of peace.

It is my belief that toward the building of it, all you
who are here today, whatever your private convictions,
come from where you may, will wish to make your
full-hearted contribution. In making it, you will be
partners in a work of peace and rejuvenation.

I feel, gentlemen, that your professional curiosity is
hardly satisfied. You are going to tell me, all that is
awfully nice but that it has been put in rather general
terms. Anyway as journalists you will find that I am
now about to serve you a tastier dish.

HAT ARE THE MAJOR ISSUES to be dealt with by

the Allies during the coming months? In the first
place, we now have the Four-Power Conference well in
hand. This conference is necessary, if only to weigh up
the Soviet proposals, to sift the wheat from the chaff, to
decide what is genuine (and) what is merely a cloak of
propaganda. This time the request has come from the
Russian side; now it is our turn to question them, as to
what their proposal on Germany's rearmament means,
and to ask them whether the position adopted at the
Palais Rose in Paris, in June 1949, remains unchanged.

Furthermore, you are well aware that the conference
on the creation of a European Army is meeting in Paris
at this time. Both Mr. Pleven, in his statement of Oct. 24
to the National Assembly, and Mr. Robert Schuman, in
his speech of Nov. 24 before the Strasbourg Consultative
Assembly, have outlined the possible shape of this army
and of its underlying organizations.

The point is to reach an agreement on the structure of
an army which in conjunction with the armies of the
United Kingdom, United States and Canada will form the
Atlantic Army. This European army shall be composed
of identical and interchangeable elements. This under-
taking is of immense significance for it gives great
impetus to this organizing of Europe of which I have
just spoken. It brings in its train complex problems need-
ing Probably the most protracted discussions. I feel that
all these problems can be solved if we are content to
disregard precedent and if we have the courage to make
innovations and show proof of inventiveness and
imagination.

MARCH 1951

45

The Paris conference will in no way affect Allied con-
sideration of German security problems or those of the
Brussels resolution. The Allies have already commenced
the task of reinforcing the divisions which they have
stationed in Federal territory.

They have already placed a first contingent at the
disposal of General Eisenhower since they thought that
some immediate effort was required. Additional ©
divisions — American, British, French, Belgian — will be
sent to Germany in the course of the current year; dur-
ing 1952 this effort will be continued.

As regards the German contribution to Western
defense, the Brussels plan provides for two successive
stages: the first of an interim nature, as short and as
quick as possible, the second and final stage to be
settled by the Paris conference. The form and imple~
mentation of this contribution will be determined by:

1. The exploratory talks of a primarily technical
nature which are at present taking place at the
Petersberg.

2. The activities of the Paris conference.

S YOU ARE AWARE, the Federal Republic makes its

cooperation conditional on the recognition of the
equality of rights. This may be defined under two aspects,
military and political.

Under the first, the interim period, as defined in
Brussels, shows certain disparities due to the different
starting points and the individual situation in each state.
The question is whether Germany is prepared to accept
these in exchange for the certainty of seeing them dis-
appear in the final system.

Under the second, the Brussels idea is as follows:

The present political situation will be altered by the
German military contribution, As and when this con-
tribution is made and Germany as a result assumes
responsibilities and commitments, she will have to be
granted wider political liberty and the present occupa-
tional system will have to be replaced by negotiated
agreements.

What will these agreements be? On what matters will
they turn and how will they be graded? Such problems
will have to be dealt with by a commission which has
not yet met.

HIS THEN, IS HOW matters stand at present in the

questions with which Allies and Germans will have
to deal. This will take up a half, if not two-thirds,
of 1951.

But I would like to warn you against any illusion that
this is an easy task. Relationships between the Allies
and the Federal Republic are of the most complex nature,
and touch on wide and varied fields — not only political
and military but also economic, financial and legal.

All this requires lengthy study by experts and many
meetings, All this will give you material for numerous
dispatches, interviews and articles of all kinds.

Now I would like to thank you for your kind atten-
tion, the patience with which you have borne my faulty
English and your cordial hospitality. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Flower show at Green
Week (above, left) is
particular attraction to
women while most men
gathered about machinery
exhibit (top, right). Visi-
. tors are reminded of how
some household garbage
lots still look today and
are challenged to correct
unhygienic, unattractive
situation (right). Stuffed

animals and fowl of Ber-
lin, most of which are
extinct to Berliners, draw
many spectators (bottom,
left). Young Berliners
serve wine during festivi-
ties (lower center). Ani-
mal show included some
large families which re-
fused to allow exhibition
activities to interrupt
feeding time (lower right).
{PRB BE-HICOG photos) —

--- Page 52 ---
Traditional

Green Week

Returns to Berlin

T WAS A TOUCH of the good old days for

many East German farmers who attended.
To Americans it was a welcome reminder of
the county fair back home. To Berliners it
was the first Gruene Woche (Green Week) held
in traditional manner since the war, and that
alone was good news.

Sponsored since 1926 by the Berlin city gov-
ernment and this year by West Berlin, Green
Week is the German version of a state fair. Its
appeal has been largely to the farmers of Prussia
who combined their interest in new gadgets and
modern methods with a grand social whirl.
Sometimes the social significance was so great
than an organization flourished solely to pro-
vide catalogs and a fair roundup so the visitor
could prove to the folks back home that, after
all, it had been a genuine business trip.

Berlin's present political situation provided
many an obstacle to the festival, but during its
eight-and-one-half-day existence, 144,000 East
Zone farmers were among the total of 310,000
visitors who attended.

However, some of the animal participants
were casualties of the city’s island position.
A rabies epidemic in the Soviet Sector and
Soviet Zone necessitated canceling the tra-
ditional dog show. A rampaging chicken pest
kept all but a few baby chicks from making
their customary appearance. And the pigeons,
through a rumored act of some self-appointed
East Zone humane society, were released from
their cages before they were in sight of the
fair grounds.

But the flower show with its gorgeous array
of radiant blooms, the cattle exhibition, the
machinery display and many other such Green
Week activities filled seven large exhibition
halls at.Berlin's famed Funkturm (radio tower)
gtounds and gave proof to all of Germany that
bigger and better Green Weeks are definitely
On their way. +END

MARCH 1951

aa *! ae

Patient is checked by one of last such dentists in Germany.

Long drill does job. Vet said most horses have cavities.

--- Page 53 ---
Bundestag Group Sees Link with West

Sx KEY MEMBERS of the German Federal Republic's
Bundestag (lower house) are of the opinion that Ger-
many will link up with the free Western nations in any
future test with the Communist world, according to
US Congressional leaders with whom they conferred in
Washington recently.

Neutrality as a future for Germany is impossible, in
the opinion of the German leaders as expressed to
members of the US Senate Foreign Relations Committee
at a luncheon meeting in the capital.

After the meeting Senator Tom Connally, committee
chairman, issued the following statement:

“Members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
met informally today with six members of the West Ger-
man House of Representatives who are now in this
country at the invitation of the State Department to
discuss problems of mutual interest.

“The members of the German delegation assured the
senators that Western Germany would stand with the
West and would fight in defense of the free world.

“The German delegation agreed that ‘neutrality as a
future for Germany is impossible.’ The delegation re-
ported an encouraging economic rehabilitation which
will enable Western Germany to increase its contri-
bution to the common defense.

“It was impressed upon the German representatives
that, although the United States would do what it could,
this country cannot save Western Europe unless Western
Europe does its utmost — and utmost was emphasized —
to save itself.

“The discussion was encouraging, and I am sure that
the information received from the visitors will be very
helpful to the members of the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee in the weeks ahead.

Six leading members of the Bundestag (lower house) who

have just spent several weeks in the United States
observing congressional procedures and meeting govern-
ment officials arrive home at Rhine-Main Airport. L.-r.,
Dr. Heinrich von Brentano; Dr. Hans Muehlenfeld; Dr.
Hermann Puender; Erich Ollenhauer; August Euler and
Dr. Gerhard Luetkins. (Photo by Jacoby, PDR HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

48

—

‘

“I was impressed by the fact that the German visitors
are able, intelligent men, anxious to establish stability
in Western Europe and to preserve peace.”

| rane THEIR BRIEF VISIT, the Bundestag members
also met with members of the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee of the US House of Representatives, Secretary of
State Dean Acheson and Geoffrey Lewis, deputy director
of the State Department's Bureau of German Affairs.

The group, which returned to Frankfurt by plane
Feb. 24, included Dr. Heinrich von Brentano and Dr. Her-
mann Puender, of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU);
Erich Ollenhauer and Dr. Gerhardt Luetkins, of the Social
Democratic Party (SPD); August Euler, of the Free Demo-
cratic Party (FDP), and Dr. Hans Muehlenfeld, of the
German Party (DP).

Fifteen members of the Bundestag visited the United
States approximately a year ago. The State Department
said another group is expected in the near future. +END

126 Exchangees to Leave in May

Sixteen German specialists in the fields of medicine
and welfare, and 110 trainees in labor and agriculture ~
have been selected for visits to America for study and ;
observation in their respective spheres.

The US visits are scheduled from 90 to 270 days, with
the specialists departing in May and June and the train-
ees leaving in September.

Four welfare specialists, chosen from Berlin, Bremen,
Hesse and the French Zone, will visit the United States
for 90 days to study American methods in psychiatric
social work and training for child welfare guidance.
They will visit, among other institutions, neighborhood
settlement houses, child guidance clinics and juvenile
courts. Two additional German welfare specialists under
the same project, to be selected from Wuerttemberg-
Baden and the British Zone, will spend 180 days in the
United States, also studying welfare services.

Ten doctors and nurses, chosen from Bavaria, Berlin,
Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden, will go to the United
States for a 180-day stay to study public health and
medical practices and to observe the work in modem
medical clinics and governmental health agencies.

Fifty labor trainees, selected from German trade union
youth in Bavaria, Berlin, Bremen, Hesse, Wuerttemberg-
Baden and the British and French Zones, will study labor
management relations both in schools and in the field —
during a 270-day visit.

Sixty more Germans, trainees in agriculture and home
economics, chosen from Bavaria, Berlin, Bremen, Hesse, ©
Wuerttemberg-Baden and the British and French Zones,
will spend 270 days in the United States studying farm
methods, home economics and rural youth leadership.

--- Page 54 ---
The Spirit of Carl Schurz

Address
By BENJAMIN J. BUTTENWIESER

Assistant US High Commissioner for Policy

T IS A PLEASURE and a privilege to speak before your

organization, which bears the honored name of Carl
Schurz, and which is, therefore, dedicated to the princi-
ples and causes which he espoused. He is almost unique
in the annals of German and American history, for, so far
as I am aware, no one of German birth made so immediate
an imprint on the American scene as did this distinguished
immigrant from your shores. Certainly, I need not dwell
_at any length in portraying to this audience the character,
courage, idealism and yet the practicality of this great
liberal.

It is a pleasure for anyone to reminisce in the mental
atmosphere that is created by any discussion related to
Carl Schurz. For an American, it is a privilege to be
afforded the opportunity to acknowledge the debt of
gratitude which the United States owes for the most
valuable import which it ever received from Germany,
namely, the transfer of those invaluable human attributes
of idealism, integrity, courage, enlightenment and energy
so signally epitomized in the life of Carl Schurz.

He was born here in Germany in 1829; but by 1848 he
already found that the dynamic forces within him neces-
sitated his very hasty exit from the land of his birth.
After short sojourns in France and England, he arrived
in the United States in the autumn of 1852. Few men in
all our history — let alone an immigrant of foreign tongue
~— made their presence so quickly and constructively felt
among their contemporaries as did this young, resolute,
brilliant and fearless newcomer. The scope and pace of
his activities can best be attested by the fact that by
spring of 1859 — short of seven years after setting foot
on our shores — he had already gained national
prominence.

On that memorable occasion, April 18, 1859, on the eve
of Patriots’ Day, in that cradle of liberty of our country,
Faneuil Hall, in Boston, he delivered an oration that was
figuratively heard and literally read throughout the length
and breadth of our land. Here, at the age of 30, this im-
migrant youth was afforded the rostrum from which he
Pronounced his creed of ‘The True Americanism.” Permit
Me to quote one of its many significant passages:

“Yes, for me the word Americanism, true Americanism,
Comprehends the noblest ideas which ever swelled a human
heart with noble pride...Ideals are like stars; you will not

Succeed in touching them with your hands. But, like the seafaring
man on the desert of waters, you choose

for him the highest elective honor which the United
States can accord to any of its foreign-born citizens. In
1869, when only 40 years old, he was elected to the US
Senate, being the first of German birth to enter that august
body. Obviously, no one except a person of his uniquely
rare qualities could have achieved such high and prompt
recognition in the land of his adoption. Equally, however,
there are few, if any, countries, other than the United
States, where even his peerless talents could have led to
such rapid and high advancement.

In 1848, even as now, the United States was referred to
as the Land of Opportunity. If you will pardon justifiable
pride, we are proud to acknowledge that accolade. To it,
as came Carl Schurz, so came thousands of similar young
idealists, seeking newer and more fertile fields in which
to sow the seeds of their ambition. They came from
various ethnological backgrounds, of different creeds and
religions and from practically every walk and cast of life.

Similarly, it has been called the Melting Pot. I think
that simile represents confused thinking in depicting the
merging and the interplay of the various elements which
went into the building of the American nation. The
Melting Pot connotes a process whereby a variety of ,
basic components is so fused that, though the end prod-
uct contains practically all the original ingredients,
their individuality has been destroyed to a point where
none of their initial qualities is recognizable, useful
and durable though the composite product may be.
I do not detect in this Melting Pot operation any
similarity with the process whereby the American nation
grew great.

It would seem that the more valid parallel of the
development of our nation would be the weaving of
tapestry. There, many individual strands, of varied types
and even dissimilar characteristics, are woven together to
form the strong, effective, worthwhile end product. The
best qualities of each strand are blended to contribute
to the common pattern and effect; yet none of them is
destroyed and each is readily discernible. This process,
I submit, simulates the development of the United States.
Many and varied types of people have migrated to our
country, as did Carl Schurz. They brought with them
their individual talents, strengths, traits and backgrounds.
Each contributed much to the great pattern and the
united strength which constitute the

them as your guides, and following them,
you will reach your destiny.”

ARLSCHURZ WAS UNSWERVING
in his devotion to his ideals; and
his unflinching pursuit of what he

This article is the text of an
address, “The Spirit of Carl Schurz
and Germany Today," delivered by
Mr. Buttenwieser before the Carl
Schurz Society, Bremen, March 5.

American Way of Life.

ERMANY, TODAY, HAS the
similar opportunity to weave into
her pattern of life the strength and

Considered compelling in life yielded

MARCH 1951

characteristics of the millions of new

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
arrivals who seek the opportunity to build their lives
anew in an atmosphere of freedom and hospitality. The
standards which Germany seeks and achieves in develop-
ing her Way of Life will be determinative of the place
she establishes for herself in the community of world
democracy.

Germany, as I interpret what I hear from her leaders
and read in her newspapers, clamors for equality among
nations, It is obvious that after the diabolic occurrences
of Germany's Nazi Regime, equality in the society of
nations is not a status to be automatically accorded to
her. It is a standing which she must win in the forum of
nations by regaining it in the minds and hearts of the
freedom- and peace-loving peoples of the world. This can
only be achieved if there has been a real and sincere inner
purging of the convictions of the German people them-
selves. It can best be attained through genuine manifes-
tations on Germany's part of forthright appreciation of
and devotion to the genuinely democratic way of life.

Translated into the present and the specific, it must be
apparent that Germany's domestic acts, as well as her
approach to international affairs and her reaction to Al-
lied activities within her boundaries, are major gauges
that will be used in measuring her right to this equality.

Let us attempt to analyze what Germany has really
done since May 8, 1945, to win back that equality. The
answer to just a few questions, rhetorical if you will,
can well furnish the basis for any such evaluation.

Has the new Republic been diligent and devoted in her
efforts to implement an actually democratic way of life?
Has she revised certain of her somewhat archaic views
on the relationship between government and those
governed to fit the very thesis which Carl Schurz so
aptly postulated that ‘self-government cannot be learned
but by practicing it? Has she instituted true and con-
structive reforms in the important fields of education,
civil service, and relationship and fair division of gains
as between employer and employee? Has she really
modernized her concepts on freedom to engage in trade
(Gewerbetreiheit)?

Successfully meeting these and many other fundamen-
tal tests of national advancement, since the nightmare of
totalitarian Nazism, will constitute Germany's valid pass-
port to equality of status with other democratic nations.

O ONE CAN OR SHOULD gainsay Germany's right

and duty to endeavor to protect her own best inter-
ests. However, if international cooperation from proper
quarters and on a proper basis is offered to her, it would
make for better understanding and prompter receptivity
by her well-wishers, if Germany reacted to such offers
wholeheartedly. Coquetry and playing hard to get do not
usually win popularity contests. Similarly, they are not
methods of national behavior which enhance a country’s
popularity. Germany, of course, has her public opinion
with which to contend. Equally, though, her leaders should
sense that public opinion in other nations is an important
factor with which to reckon in Germany's reacceptance
in the family of nations.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

50

The ability, integrity and courage of a nation’s leaders
play a vital role in ensuring any country’s progress. This
is particularly true at so critical a juncture in a nation's
history as this very day and hour represent in the annals
of the new German Republic. German leaders today could
well profit from the inspiring example of Carl Schurz’
approach to the problems which beset our country in his
day — problems which were deep-seated and far-reach-
ing and whose solution could only be found through a
political doctrine which abhorred, as did Carl Schurz,
“the general propensity of political parties and public
men to act on a policy of mere expediency and to sacrifice
principle to local and temporary success."

From a material standpoint, Germany has made gratify-
ing strides in her recovery from the catastrophe of war.
Her industrial production is at the rate of about 130 per-
cent of her 1936 production. Similarly, she has made a com-
mendable recovery in foreign trade, in rebuilding housing,
public utilities, industrial plants, public installations and
the like. These are indisputably of utmost importance.

However, of equal or possibly even more far-reaching
significance, is recovery in the non-material realm of
ethical concepts and spiritual values. Germany is being
given a God-given opportunity to rehabilitate herself in
that sphere as well. Not only is she being afforded this
opportunity, unshackled or untrammeled by any spirit
of revenge on the part of those she but recently chose to
attack, but wholeheartedly the hand of friendship is being
extended and the clarion call of encouragement is being
sounded from the West.

Not alone has material aid, of proportions unmatched
in the annals of history, been generously accorded to the
new Republic, but an honorable place in the family of
nations is being made ready for her. It would indeed be
a tragic catastrophe, and one. from which there might be
no subsequent recovery, if Germany should fail to keep
this rendezvous with her destiny.

HAT MAY THIS DESTINY BE? With integrity, forth-

rightness, hard work and devotion to truly demo-
cratic principles, it could well be that this is Germany's
greatest hour. She has today an opportunity for real
leadership that she has seldom, if ever, had. On various
occasions in the past — in the very 1848 liberal movement
with which Carl Schurz was indentified — the forcés of
progress and democracy asserted themselves in Germany.
They were frustrated because too great a sector of Ger-
mans was blind to. the potentialities for the better life
which such liberal movements offered.

Now, today, though Germany has barely recovered
from her terrifying experience of war, and though she
stands in the center of Europe between two great forces
and ideologies, she can be a decisive factor in the future
of Europe and the world. However, to wield that influence
she must be cohesively in the very forefront of democracy.

She must identify herself with the type of dynamic
democracy in which an individual protects not alone his
own rights, but is equally solicitous of and ready to
champion the rights of others.

MARCH 1951

--- Page 56 ---
This is a juncture in Germany’s history which permits
of no philosophy of despair or divisiveness. Rather, as
I see it, if Germany by dedication and idealism and
action can mold herself into a truly liberal, democratic
nation, she can influence the future as it has been given
to few nations in the past so to do. This is the lofty ideal
and the constructive role to which Germany should
devote herself unflinchingly, fortified by the knowledge
that all other real democracies stand ready to aid her in
this effort. And she should be heartened in this endeavor
by the certainty that it will redound to her own and the
world's everlasting advantage. ,

OW A WORD as to recent—a very recent — oc-

currence here in Germany. I allude to it because I
think it demonstrates a certain unfortunate lack of under-
standing on the part of all too many Germans of the
honest, sincere efforts which are being made from the
Allied side to settle the problems and situations remain-
ing as the aftermath of the war. I refer to the reaction of
certain sectors of German opinion to the discharge by
Mr. McCloy and General Handy of their unbelievably
difficult and harrowingly trying duty of passing on the
so-called Landsberg cases.

I feel I can discuss this with the frankness born of
firsthand knowledge. I know from personal observation
che literal days and nights of careful study and soul-
searching consideration which they accorded to their
decisions. I venture to suggest that most Germans, es-
pecially those of high rank, both in civil affairs and in
the clergy, were well aware of the care with which the
decisions of these two men of integrity and good will
were reached.

Great clemency was extended, as the record of these
cases clearly establishes. Twenty-one out of 28 death
sentences were commuted. In many foreign countries,
including our own, there was widespread criticism from
even well-informed and intelligent quarters, that both
Mr. McCloy and General Handy had gone much too far
with their clemency, especially in commuting so many
death sentences. Such criticism was particularly out-
spoken, and often caustic, in the light of the unspeakable
crimes involved.

Even in the face of such criticism, Mr. McCloy and
General Handy had the courage of their convictions.
They followed the dictates of their minds and their
consciences, They resolved every reasonable doubt and
availed of every possible ground for clemency in com-
muting 21 death sentences.

I want to hasten to point out that a commendable
Sector of the press and a few political leaders in high
Places in Germany did have the grace, or, if you prefer,
the courage to give public acknowledgment of their con-
currence in the decisions. It is regrettable and far from
Teassuring to the outside world that only so small a
sector of German leaders set a compelling example by
Publicly disowning and disassociating themselves from
Such diabolic ties with the nightmare of Nazi terror by
Publicly acclaiming the just fate that finally caught up
with these seven murderers.

MARCH 1951

51

{ venture the hope—and actually think — that this
does not necessarily indicate that either a majority of
Germans or their leaders deem these condemned to be
innocent or even dissent from the ultimate decisions. In
fact, many have privately confirmed their agreement.
However, it is highly regrettable, and damaging to de-
mocracy in Germany and to her cause among democracies
abroad, that so few German leaders had the courage to
marshall public opinion and express their own on the
side of true justice in practice. Instead of the resoluteness
of articulateness, they chose the false haven of silence.

EVERTING AGAIN TO CARL SCHURZ, I am certain

he would have been a leader with the courage to
rise up and be counted. He would have identified him-
self with the justice and magnanimity of these decisions.
The reviews to which they were subjected and the ready
availability to the condemned of every avenue of appeal
since their trial— quite the antithesis of their bestially
predatory scourges — represented democracy and justice
in this highest form. Car] Schurz would surely have rec-
ognized and applauded this working of true democracy.
As applicable and stirring would have been his words
today, as almost a century earlier in 1859, when he so
eloquently and fervently declared:

“There is a wonderful vitality in the democracy founded upon
the equality of rights. There is an inexhaustible power of
resistance in that system of government which makes the protec-
tion of individual rights a matter of common interest. If preserved
in its purity, there is no warfare of opinions which can endanger
it — there is no conspiracy of despotic aspirations that can
destroy it. But if not preserved in its purity! There are dangers
which only blindness cannot see, and which only stubborn party
prejudice will not see.” .

These challenging words, quoted from one of Ger-
many’s own, might will be the credo for the guidance of
leaders in all countries. They are especially apt in the
Germany of today, facing, as she inevitably must, the
deep-seated and difficult problems which all the world
faces in these parlous times, but which are naturally
fraught with even greater difficulty and danger for this
newly emerging Republic. I can but repeat, the nations
of the West are ever and constantly ready to help in the
solution of these problems; but equally must I reiterate
that honest conviction and good will toward their so-
lution must be born in the hearts, minds and consciences
of all Germans. An honorable and constructive future
and a role of outstanding leadership await Germany, if
her people have but the integrity, ability, courage and
cooperativeness to earn it.

At a certain juncture in England's history, one of her
greatest poets, Wordsworth, intoned of an immortal
champion of liberty:

“Milton! thou shouldst be living at this hour:
England hath need of thee.”

Paraphrased to apply to that great German-American
champion of liberty, whose revered name this society
bears, and to fit the Germany of today, these words
might well be transformed into:

““Carl Schurz! thou shouldst be living at this hour:
Germany hath need of thee." + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
Economic Review

This monthly review of the German Federal Republic's
current economic picture, based on the latest figures
and trends available when this section of the Infor-
mation Bulletin went to press, was prepared by the
Analytical Reports Branch of the Program Review
Division of the Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG.

HE ECONOMIC SITUATION in West Germany took
a turn for the worse in December. Most critical were
the unexpectedly sharp rise in unemployment, the sharp
five percent decline in industrial production, the coal
and power shortages, prospective shortages of other raw
materials, price increases, and the still unsolved payments
problem with the European Payments Union.
In January the situation improved somewhat when,
during the latter part of the month, unemployment began
to decline.

Foreign Trade and Payments

Commodity trade in December climbed to postwar
record levels. Imports, $314,800,000, were $28,200,000
greater than in November, while exports ($241,200,000)
were only $8,200,000 above November. The resultant
December trade deficit of $73,600,000 was the fourth
highest in 1950, but still less than half the December 1949
deficit, when trade was at a considerably lower level
(imports $275,700,000; exports $115,000,000).

By trading areas the most significant developments in
December were:

(1) A rise in imports ($42,600,000) and a slight decline
in exports ($15,700,000) to the United States. This export
decline was the first since May 1950, and may be due
in part to post-Christmas slackening of orders for certain
German goods;

(2) A decline in exports to Canada ($900,000), Central
America ($4,000,000) and South America ($18,900,000),
declines of $500,000 to more than $2,000,000;

(3) An increase in imports ($11,800,000) and a slight
decline in exports ($9,800,000) to the Soviet bloc
countries; and

(4) Equal increases in both imports ($190,000,000) and
exports ($162,800,000) to the OEEC countries.

The rise in imports in December was accounted for
by industrial raw materials and food and agriculture
items. The rise in exports was principally in finished
industrial goods.

West German Foreign Commodity Trade
December 1950
(Thousand Dollars)

Categories Imports _ Exports
Food and Agriculture 121,749 8,828
Industry : 193,009 232,400
Raw Materials 103,399 23,108
Semifinished Goods 48,207 39,192
Finished Goods . Doe. 41,403 170,100
Total 314,758 241,228

Area
Total Non-participating Countries. 2... ° 124,724 77,671
USA. co ee ee 42,606 15,740
Canada plolalo lo 5 a sas 1,427 872
Latin America : 23,580 22,877
Non-participating Sterling ¢ Countries | 22,608 13,279
Eastern Europe : 13,340 12,336
Other Countries . 21,163 12,567
Participating Countries . 190,034 162,790
Non-Sterling : 153,508 147,900
Sterling 36,526 14,890
Unspecified te — 767
Total — 314,758 241,228

Import Surplus: December $73,530,000.

Dollar Trade: West German exports to the United
States totaled $103,000,000 for the year. During 1950
western German exports to America more than doubled
while total German exports increased 76 percent. The
importance of markets in the Western Hemisphere has
considerably grown, as its share in total German exports
tose from 7.4 percent ($83,100,000) in 1949 to 13.8 per-
cent ($266,300,000) in 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

Traditional German export commodities during Novem-
ber 1950 showed slight seasonal decreases from the
previous month. However, leading traditional commodities
exported to the United States during the first 11 months
of 1950 and their increases over the same period in 1949
were as follows:

Jan.-Nov. Percent Increase
1950 over 1949
Precision and Optical Instruments $6,692,000 125
Sewing Machines . $1,692,000 2,768
Glassware . : $1,237,000 714
Musical Instruments . $1,028,000 659
Cutlery . $ 481,000 104

The European Payments Union (EPU) deficit rose by
$42,000,000 in January, bringing the total cumulative
deficit as of Jan. 31 to more than $398,000,000 (pre-
liminary figure). The settlement to cover the January
deficit will involve a dollar payment of $14,000,000 and
use of the special credit line for the remaining $28,000,000.

One disquieting note in January was the increase in
the value of liberalized licenses issued per day. Toward
the end of the month they were running at $11,000,000
per day (with a large backlog of about $50,000,000 await-
ing consideration). This trend approaches the peak rates
of September and October. It is noteworthy January
dollar earnings on current account totaled $30,000,000.

Industry

In December the index of industrial production fex-
cluding food processing, building and stimulants) de-
clined by seven points (five percent), reaching 128 per-
cent of the 1936 level. The decline is mainly due to the
coal shortage, which caused many producers to work
shorter hours or to close down completely between Christ-
mas and New Year to conserve stocks. There were no
large-scale dismissals during December; total industrial
employment declined very slightly (less than one percent).

The production decline occurred in spite of well-packed
order books in almost all industries. A large part of
this demand represents export orders, orders for capital
equipment, and orders for the purpose of expanding in-
ventories in anticipation of higher prices or future in-
crease in consumer demand. Only a relatively small part
of the large increase in industrial demand during 1950
is due to increased aggregate consumer purchasing
power. Between the fourth quarter of 1949 and the fourth
quarter of 1950, consumer purchasing power increased
approximately 15 percent, while total production rose
35 percent. Furthermore, orders booked in the invest-
ment and production goods industries are running one-
third to ene-half higher than current production.

The daily rate of coal production reached a peak of
383,000 tons in November but declined to an average of
380,000 in December and in January. The output of
coal from extra shifts was much less in January than
in November or December. By January the added pro-
duction to be gained by this means had dwindled sub-
stantially — the miners having failed to live up fully to
their earlier agreement to work two extra shifts per
month during the current coal crisis.

Crude steel output in December at 959,000 tons was
about 15 percent below the level of November owing
principally to shortages of metallurgical coke and of coal

: for power. The preliminary figures for production in

January (1,042,000 tons), while above December, dis-
closed only a slight increase in the daily rate of pro-’
duction.

MARCH 1951)

--- Page 58 ---
Mechanical engineering firms enjoyed an ever-improv-
ing order-book situation in the last month. Firms which
are not fully booked, have almost reached their capacity.
Most firms could increase production on the potentials
of their present order book, except for possible raw
material and labor shortages. The machine tool] industry
showed the greatest gains in the field of mechanical
engineering, despite almost complete cessation of business
with the former large buyers of Eastern Europe. The
textile machinery industry has about a 10-month order
book at the present time.

A substantial increase of production in the fine
mechanics and optics industry started as early as the
spring of 1950. The monthly turnover amounted to
DM_ 51,400,000 ($12,233,200) in March, DM 55,900,000
($13,304,200) in June and DM 66,200,000 ($15,755,600) in
September. This steady increase has continued through
the end of the year. At the beginning of 1950, exports
were 17 to 18 percent of production, in June 26 percent
and at year’s end about 29 percent. The peak prewar
production level has been reached. Export of cameras
was 45 percent, spectacle lenses 49 percent and mathe-
matical instruments 85 percent of production.

In 1950 the turnover in the electrical industry was
DM 4,000,000,000 ($952,000,000). The production index for
this industry increased during the year from 204 to 313
percent of the 1936 level, which represents the highest
index of all the industrial branches, Only eight percent
of the total production has been exported in 1950 com-
pared to 11.5 percent in 1936. Price increases are expected
due to higher wages and raw material prices.

During January the chemical industry felt the effects
of the short coal, coke, electricity, and coke oven gas
supplies, and was forced to curtail production. It is
believed that the January production index will show a
decrease from the December index (120 percent of 1936).
There has been a steady decline in production during the
last quarter of 1950 from the September high of 138 per-
cent to 132 percent in October, and 126 in November.

A severe shortage is developing in crude sulphur.
Domestic production is small and limited, and western
Germany is dependent on imports from the United
States. This shortage has developed as a result of the
US reduction of sulphur exports. The synthetic fiber
and insecticide industries will be forced to curtail pro-
duction drastically unless higher imports of sulphur are
received.

The combination of insufficient generating capacity
together with shortage of coal resulted in continuation
of power restrictions to the heavy chemical and aluminum
industry in the southern area of the Federal Republic. In
an effort to partially relieve the situation the Federal
Government issued a decree whereby advertising and
display lighting are to be curtailed and a second decree
reducing consumption of all consumers averaging 2,000
KWH (kilowatt hours) per week by 25 percent and a
30 percent peak reduction in the demand of consumers
whose peaks have topped 1,000 KWH. However, the
application of these two decrees has not been uniform
State by state so that the expected results have not been
Tealized. Rainfall in the south has alleviated the situation
so that the expected severe cuts have not been applied.
Additional generating capacity in the amount of 40 MW
(megawatts), which was financed with ECA counterpart
funds, was added during the month. At the same time
generating capacity has been idle because of lack of coal.

Despite the restrictions, power consumption continues
to increase, averaging 18 percent above January 1950,
Present coal stocks available to the industry as a whole
average only seven days’ supply.

The coal allocations committed for the gas industry
by the Deytsche Kohlen-Bergbau-Leitung (DKBL—the Ger-
Man coal mining board) have not been delivered in full,
and coal stocks for the gas plants average approximately
Six days’ supply. Although the gas industry is still

MARCH 1951

53

applying restrictions to large industrial consumers, gas
consumption continues to average 20 percent above the
same period of last year.

Index of Industrial Production
1936 = 100

1950

Total all Industries Oct. Nov. Dec.

(incl. electricity and gas) 1/ . 130 1135 128

(excl. electricity and gas) 1/ 127 1132 125
Investment goods (total) 130 136 128

Raw materials . . . 105 106 95

Finished products . . 145 1155 149
General production goods

(incl, electricity and gas) 138 142 139

(excl. electricity and gas) . 129 131 127
Consumer goods... . . eee eee 120 1125 116

1/ = Excl. food processing, stimulants and building.

t = Revised.

Production of Major Commodities
Unit of -
Commodity Measure I/ Oct. r/ Nov. 1/ Dec. pt

Hard coal (gross mined) . . . 1,000tons 9,499 ~ 10,022 9,584
Crude petroleum . oe t 100,350 97,741 102,772
Cement . . t 1,189,495 1,009,721 740,736
Bricks (total) 1,000 454,341 411,691 323,335,
Pig iron . . t 918,959 864,296 773,641
Steel ingots D0 Dosa o t = 1,104,822 1,080,868 929,952
Rolled steel finished products . t 783,008 792,755 672,684
Farm tractors (total) 2/ . «pieces 9,116 8,800 8,663
Typewriters 3/. . . . . .-. pieces 21,698 22,562 21,563
Passenger cars (incl. chassis) . pieces 23,582 23,504 21,105
Cameras (total) . . . . | Pieces 190,311 202,838 144,405
Sulphuric acid (incl. oleum) t-SOs 108,451 108,603 113,387
Calcium carbide . see t 45,921 40,024 44,040
Soap (total). 2. . 2. + ee t 14,778 8,618 6,977
Newsprint... . . eee t 14,527 14,564 13,174
Auto and truck tires . . pieces 330,729 331,743 289,054
Shoes (total) « 1,000 pairs 9,214 9,409 7,603

1/ = All tons are metric tons.
xcluding accessories, parts and spare parts.

‘tandard, long-carriage and portable typewriters.

evised.

p/ = Preliminary.

The new mineral oil taxes, accepted by the Bundes-
tag and approved by the Allied High Commissioners,
were put into effect Jan. 21, 1951. According to the
new taxes, filling station prices have gone up from
DM 0.55 to DM 0.65 per liter of gasoline and from DM
0.38 to DM 0.45 per kilogram of diesel oil, which is
estimated to produce a DM 350,000,000 annual revenue
increase.

Communications and Transportation

During December, the telecommunications plant con-
struction program of the Bundespost continued, bringing
some relief to the present shortage of telecommunications
facilities. Three new manual and two automatic central
telephone offices were placed in service, while extensions
were added to three manual and 23 automatic offices. In
addition, three major long distance telephone trunk ex-
changes were extended, new TW (two-way teletype) ex-
changes were brought into operation at Siegen, Lueden-
scheid and Emden, and the capacity of the TW exchanges
at Stuttgart and Munich were increased considerably.

Negotiations were completed in December to reopen
international money order service between the Federal
Republic and the western sectors of Berlin and France,
Andorra, Monaco, Algeria, Tunisia, the French Overseas
Territories and the Saar. The service was reopened in
accordance with authority granted by the Allied High
Commission and will be operated in accordance with
Universal Postal Union regulations. Money orders. may
be transmitted by both postal and telegraphic means.
In July 1949, the United States was the first country to
resume a limited money order service with the Federal
Republic and the western sectors of Berlin. Service was
reestablished on an incoming basis and since that time, a
total of about $1,070,000 has been received by Germans.

There was the usual seasonal drop in traffic demands
on the railway in January, but demands were substan-
tially higher than in 1950. In spite of unfavorable weather,
especially in Bavaria, these demands could be met
easily. To conserve coal, the Bundesbahn cancelled 25

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
train pairs, which, however, amounted to only two-and-
one-half percent of the total passenger traffic and to
less than one percent of total consumption. The un-
usually heavy loadings during the preceding months
accomplished under minimum service standards have
brought a sharp decline in serviceable freight car parks.
The stocks available for loading dropped by 9,000 during
January to a total of 253,000. No orders for new freight
cars have as yet been placed.

On Jan. 1, freight rates were increased by an average
of 15 percent and commutation fares by 50 percent. These
increases were to offset the railway salary and wage in-
crease of October 1950 and the increased costs of
materials, particularly coal.

The tariff increase was in line with recommendations
of the Coverdale and Colpitts Report and with the seven-
point Bundesbahn program, submitted to the German
Cabinet by the federal minister for transport. The
Bundesrat (upper house), however, amended the resolution
of the Cabinet by excluding students’ tickets from the
50 percent increase in short-distance commutation fares.
Pursuant to the existing Allied Forces rail conventions,
occupational tariffs will follow the trend of commercial rates.

A particularly gratifying aspect of the tariff increase
was the fact that subsidy tariffs below railway operating
costs were increased much more sharply (40-50 percent)
than other tariffs (15 percent). As a result these tariffs
have now lost their character as hidden subsidies which
the Allied High Commission and the ECA Mission had
strongly criticized in the past.

Labor

Registered unemployment rose during January by
131,000 to 1,821,000. This was 11.5 percent of the wage and
salary earning labor force (10.7 percent in December) and
8.1 percent of the total labor force (7.5 percent in Decem-
ber). An encouraging sign that the winter peak may have
been reached came during the latter half of January,
when unemployment declined for the first time since the
end of October by 90,000. The threatening coal and raw
material situation makes it uncertain, however, whether
a definite reversal in trend has occurred.

Approximately 90 percent of the two-week drop was
registered among male workers, thus supporting pre-
liminary reports of a revival of outdoor work, particularly

building and construction, during the current mild weather.

period. The preliminary figure for manufacturing and
mining establishments having 10 or more employees
shows December industrial employment at 5,056,725. The
slight decline of approximately 42,000 during December,
about the same as in December 1949, confirms earlier
German employment service reports that the principal
effect of shortages on employment was a reduction in
working hours rather than large-scale dismissals.

The most serious postwar strike threat, scheduled for
Feb. 1, posed by 800,000 workers in the iron and steel-
producing and the mining industries, was averted by a
management-union agreement Jan. 25. Labor's demand
for a voice in the economic management of the in-
dividual enterprises in these industries was funda-
mentally met. The industry-labor pact provides for
continuation of 50 percent labor representation on the
boards of supervision in iron and steel-producing plants
subject to HICOM Law No. 27, and extends this ar-
rangement to the coal and iron ore mining industries. In
accordance with his promise to use a negotiated agree-
ment as the basis for legislation, the federal chancellor
expedited preparation and Cabinet consideration of an
appropriate bill. The draft has been transmitted to
parliament.

Commodity Prices

In December 1950 the three major price indexes show-
ed another increase. The basic material price index rose
five points (two percent) in December to a record of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

re)

229 percent of the 1938 level; the industrial component
of the index rose nine points to a high of 265 while the.
agricultural component dropped one point to 176 percent
of 1938. The index of industrial producer prices rose six
points (three percent) in December to a postwar record
of 195 percent of the 1938 base value. Sharp increases
in some groups, up to nine percent in the metals group,
seemed to continue to reflect the impact of rising world
market prices. The consumer price index rose another
point in December, reaching 151 percent of 1938.

Consumer Price Index (Bizonal Area 1/)
1938 = 100
(Wage/salary earner's family of four, with one child under 14)
1950 1951

Nov. Dec. Jan,
Total 2... ee 180 151 154
Food . 2... ee 152 155 157
Stimulants 6). 2. 2 e 275 275 275
Clothing 2. 189 192 197
Rett... 108 103 103
Heat and Light. © 2 2. 1. 119 119 121
Cleaning and Hygiene...) . (148 149 151
Education and Entertainment 142 142 143
Household Goods... . : 163 165 171
Traveling 2... 2) 183 133 148
1/ = The Consumer Price Index is not yet available on a Trizonal
basis.
Index of Industrial Producer Prices
Bizonal Area
1938 = 100 1950
Oct. Nov. Dec.
Total 2 2 ee ee 187 189 195
Basic Materials Price Index
1938 = 100 1950
Oct. Nov. Dec. p/
rr 0 177 176
Industry Po 249 256 265
Total. . . . 220 224 229

p/ = Preliminary.

Einance

One of the sharpest dilemmas facing the Federal Re-
public is the problem of containing West German demand
for imports within the bounds of its ability to pay.
German authorities hope to curb demand for imports by
tightening credit. The possibilities that these restrictions
might lead to a further drop in industrial production with
possible effects on unemployment have been the cause of
concern in some Allied circles.

The increase in short-term bank credit outstanding in
December amounted to DM 328,000,000 ($78,064,000). It
was slightly in excess of the November expansion and
followed steady month-to-month increases noted during
the preceding four months. There are indications that
there may have been a reduction in the amount of short-
term bank credit outstanding in the first three weeks of
January. Credits granted directly by the Bank Deutscher
Laender and Land (State) Central Banks continued to
remain at about the same level which has existed for the
past six months, DM 1,500,000,000 ($357,000,000).

As contrasted. with an increase in the volume of
money of DM 245,000,000 ($58,310,000) (revised) in
November, the money supply expanded by DM 730,000,000
($173,740,000) in December. This increase was somewhat
in excess of the average monthly expansion for the past
six months. After a substantial fall in October, reflecting
the increase in required reserves, a further decrease in
excess reserves occurred in November followed by @
sharp rise in December. The current level of excess
reserves, expressed as a percentage of legal reserves,
amounts to five percent as contrasted with 5.5 percent
in September, the month before legal reserves were
increased.

The Federal Cabinet has been developing a program
of revenue increases, most of which has recently been
submitted to the parliament in draft law form. A part of
the program has already been enacted, including the pro-
posal for a general broadening and substantial rate in-
crease of petroleum products tax, and the proposal for a

MARCH 1951;

--- Page 60 ---
general increase in the Berlin Aid income tax surcharge
retroactive to Jan. 1, 1951.

The federal finance minister estimates that the Cabinet
proposals will increase the federal and state combined
revenues by DM _ 2,350,000,000 ($559,300,000) over the
present annual rate, and estimates a DM 1,100,000,000
($261,800,000) revenue increase during the fiscal year
beginning April 1, 1951, induced by the expected increase
in national product.

Food and Agriculture

Precipitation was again heavy in January as the
weather changed from cold to moderate. Thawing snow
masses and heavy rainfalls swelled most of the rivers
and streams and flooded the valleys in the Federal
Republic. Flood damage was relatively extensive in the
cropland as well as the grassland regions. However, the
floods receded about Jan. 24 and drier weather. prevailed
for the rest of the month. The above-normal precipitation
during recent months has supplied ample winter moisture
to the subsoil, the water level of which had been below
normal in many areas during recent years. Because of
wet soil, however, cultivation work was impeded during
most of the month,

Final results of the root crop harvest estimates show
a record harvest with 26,000,000 metric tons of fodder
beets, almost 3,000,000 metric tons of rutabagas, and
175,000 metric tons of fodder carrots.

Total sugarbeet production for 1950-51, according to
final estimates, was almost 7,000,000 metric tons, 47 per-
cent over last year, and sugar production will be at least
880,000 metric tons (refined), as compared with 556,000
metric tons last year.

Efforts are being exerted jointly by German and US
authorities to bring West German meat specialities back as
an important dollar earner. The German food and meat
laws and their sanitation, health and quality standards
will be studied by officials of the US Department of
Agriculture, with a view toward permitting the entry
of high-priced German meat specialities into the Ameri-

can market. The existing supply-demand relationship
tends to indicate that the foreign exchange credit earn-
ings resulting from these high-priced meat exports will
far more than offset the slight loss in the West German
meat stocks. In addition, such meats are in abundant
supply in Germany at present, and are generally priced
out of reach of the average West German consumer.

Berlin

In the second half of January 1951, employment in
West Berlin increased by 3,274 and unemployment de-
clined by 3,373. This nominal reduction in the labor force
resulted mostly from the -withdrawal of self-employed
persons from the labor force. Of the employment increase,
the GARIOA Emergency Works Program accounted for
1,018 of the 3,274. The additional employment of more than
2,200 persons in the private sector, however, represents
a change which is distinctly counter-seasonal, since dur-
ing the same period of the previous year employment
declined by 9,226.

It is noteworthy that during November, December and
early January labor market developments in Berlin were
less unfavorable than in western Germany. West Berlin
has not felt the seasonal impact on employment in the
building industry which has been evident in western
Germany, since the building industry in the employment
structure of Berlin is of much less importance than that
of the Federal Republic.

West Berlin industrial production continued its upward
trend, but at a slower rate, during December, as the index
rose by one point to 44 percent of the 1936 level. The
seasonal decline expected in December may not occur
until a later date when the effects of shortages reach
Berlin. Thus far, the city has been only slightly affected
by the present West German difficulties in obtaining
industrial raw materials and coal. Output even in the
most sensitive branches of industry remained at the
level of the previous month. Consumer goods output
declined considerably, however, due largely to the
seasonal drop in clothing industry deliveries. + END

Grain Deliveries to

EST GERMANY HAS COMPLETED shipments of
67,000 tons of German-milled flour to Yugoslavia.

As a result of Western Germany's role in supplying
this flour, ECA has authorized $8,200,000 of wheat pur-
chases as replacement for the 67,000 tons of flour. At
current International Wheat Agreement prices, this sum
will allow Western Germany to purchase approximately
104,000 tons of wheat as replacement. This will be in
addition to regular Marshall Plan purchase authorizations
for Western Germany and be a net gain of 30,000 tons
of wheat and 4,300 tons of bran.

The first German shipment left Mannheim Nov. 23,.1950
{American Thanksgiving Day). Shipments were at the
rate of 10,000 tons per week.

A total of $12,200,000 worth of flour is being supplied
to Yugoslavia from Germany and Italy under the US
Government's stop-gap aid program. Italy's share is
$4,000,000 worth of flour.

Commending the West German Government, millers
and railway employees for their prompt cooperation in
the aid program, ECA Special Mission to Western Ger-
many’s chief, Jean Cattier, said: “On behalf of the
American government, I wish to extend appreciation

” MARCH 1951

Yugoslavia Completed

55

and thanks for the effective way in which this very
important program was promptly carried out in Western
Germany. The delivery performance considerably exceeds
our original expectations. As a result of the prompt
shipments before mid-December, the Yugoslavian Gov-
ernment was able to distribute the flour to remote areas
before winter conditions set in. These early shipments
together with the later ones have made a very sub-
stantial. contribution to the prevention, of widespread
starvation in drought-stricken Yugoslavia.”

A total of 3,400 West German rail freight cars were
utilized in the shuttle of the flour from mills throughout
Western Germany through Austria to railheads in
Yugoslavia. The program, developed on very short
notice, was handled with ease by the German railways,
thus demonstrating the vast improvement in operations
during the last two years. A HICOG economics official
stated that “only two years ago extraordinary efforts
were required to accomplish similar transport programs
on short notice. This latest achievement was accom-
plished with freight cars which are no more serviceable
than two years ago, while the West German railroad
system now has 70,0000 fewer employees.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
Personnel Notes

Mathewson Promoted Major General

Berlin's new US commander, Brig. Gen. Lemuel
Mathewson, has been promoted Major General following
his recent nomination to the two-star rank by President
Harry S. Truman.

General Mathewson replaced Maj. Gen. Maxwell D.
Taylor when the latter returned to Washington as
assistant chief of staff, G-3, Department of the Army.

The new commander is a native of Bath, New York.
He began his military career at West Point, from which
he was graduated in 1922. Further studies took him to
Madrid where he was a student at the Centro de Estudios.
Later he returned te the US Military Academy to teach
Spanish as well as history and to coach baseball.

Specializing in artillery, General Mathewson was as-
signed to the war plans division of the general staff in
1940. The following year he became chief of the Latin
American Theater Group in the same division. From 1943
until 1944 he served as military aide to the late President
Franklin D. Roosevelt. At close of World War II the new
two-star General was with the 18th Airborne Corps, which
linked up with the Russians north of Berlin. His last
assignment before going to Berlin was that of commanding
officer, Camp Campbell, Ky.

Allan King Takes Over Bremen Post

A large number of recent personnel changes in the
HICOG Office of Public Affairs have been announced.
The post of chief, Public Affairs Division, OLC Bremen,
made vacant recently by the departure of Duncan D.

General Mathewson welcomes his family to Berlin. Left to
tight they are Mrs. Mathewson, Melissa, aged four, Ellen,

13, and Betsy, 16. (Photo by Schubert, PRB BE - HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

MacBryde for a State Department position in Washing-
ton, has been filled by Allan Y, King. Mr. King had
been on leave as director of Social Studies for the
Cleveland public school systems to act as deputy chief,
Education and Cultural Relations Division, HICOG,

Stuart L. Hannon, who had been chief, Information Serv-
ices Branch, OLCW-B, since October 1949, has been
named as chief of the OLCW-B Public Affairs Division, a
position made vacant by the departure of H. H. Russel
to become special assistant to the head of the State Depart-
ment's International Students’ Exchange. Mr. Hannon
served with OMGUS and later HICOG after coming to
Europe in 1946 from government service in Washington
following a period as a special events commentator with
some of the major broadcasting chains.

W. J. Convery Egan has
been detailed to Berlin as
acting director of the Public.
Affairs Division there. Mr.
Egan's regular dutiesas chief
of the Information Services”
Division will be filled in
his absence by Theodore
Kaghan.

Meanwhile it was an-
nounced that charge of the
new Public Affairs Division
in Bonn has been assigned
to Mr. Jack Fleischer, for-
merly deputy chief of the
Public Relations Division in
Frankfurt. Mr. Fleischer’s
post there has been filled
by Hyman Charniak, whose
duties as chief of the Public Relations News Branch
have been assumed by Glenn R, Parson.

W. J. Convery Egan.
(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Deputy ECA Chief Marshall Resigns

Charles E. Marshall has resigned as deputy director
of the ECA Special Mission to Western Germany and the
HICOG Office of Economic Affairs, and returned to pri--

vate business. Mr. Marshall was appointed to the posi-

tion in January 1950. Previously he had been chief of the —
Germany-Austria Branch of ECA in Washington, during
which time he made six survey visits to Western Ger-
many.

Commending Mr. Marshall for his work as economics
adviser to the US High Commission and as a member of the
Economics Committee with the Allied High Commission
in Bonn, US High Commissioner John J. McCloy stated:
“There are few men whose departure I regret more than
Mr. Marshall's. His service has been long, distinguished
and deeply loyal. Mr. Marshall's infinite knowledge of
Germany's economic problems and how to cope with 7
them has been invaluable.” :

A native New Yorker and graduate of Yale University,
Mr. Marshall was employed by the US Rubber Company. :
as manager of the company's allied products depart- ~

MARCH 195%*

--- Page 62 ---
ment from 1936 to 1948 and during World War II served
as an officer aboard the USS Tennessee in the Pacific
theater.

‘ Andrews Discusses Food Problems

Stanley Andrews of the US Department of Agriculture
has been in Frankfurt recently to discuss West German
and world agricultural conditions.

A top US Military Government food and agriculture
nfficial in Germany from 1945 to 1949, Mr. Andrews
is now director, Office of Foreign Agricultural Relations,
US Department of Agriculture.

Mr. Andrews advised HICOG and German food repre-
sentatives on recent and expected changes in the inter-
national food situation, particularly with respect to food
availabilities in the United States.

The food official went from Frankfurt to India, where
he is making a survey of food conditions in the Far East.

Former IRO Official Joins OLC Bremen

William F, Bahlmann has been appointed chief, Dis-
placed Populations Branch, Political Affairs Division,
OLC Bremen. Mr. Bahlmann, a graduate of Chicago Uni-
versity, was a commander in the US Navy and assign-
ed at the end of World War II to the Allied Commission
administering the Italian fleet.

After leaving the Navy in 1947 the new Bremen official
took over three displaced populations camps in central
Italy, Later he became administrator of all International
Refugee Organization camps in Italy, Greece and Trieste,
from which post he came to HICOG's Bremen headquarters.

Kelleher Assistant General Counsel

Grant W. Kelleher, former head of the Decartelization
and Deconcentration Division, Office of General Counsel,
HICOG, has been appointed assistant general counsel.
Mr. Kelleher replaces John
A. Bross, who resigned after
holding the post since De-
cember 1949. Sidney Willner
will fill Mr. Kelleher's for-
mer post.

A specialist in anti-trust
work since his graduation
from Montana Law School,
Mr.Kelleher spent four years
as a special attorney with
the Justice Department and
10 years as special assistant
to the US attorney general.
He has been with HICOG
for the past year.

Mr. Willner is a graduate
of Harvard and came to
HICOG a year ago after
having served as chief of the Holding Company Division
of the Securities Exchange Commission.

Grant Kelleher.

MARCH 1951

57

Selke Named to E&CR Post

George S. Selke, former chancellor of the University
of Montana, has been named deputy chief of the Edu-
cation and Cultural Relations Division, HICOG. Mr. Selke
replaces Allen Y. King, who
has been appointed chief of
the Public Affairs Division,
OLC Bremen.

Born at La Crosse, Wis.,
Mr. Selke was educated at
the University of Minnesota,
Columbia University and at
the University of North
Dakota. He was a teacher,
principal and superintend-
ent of county and city
schools in North Dakota
and Minnesota from 1907 to
1918. Subsequently, he was
Minnesota state director of
rural, elementary and sec-
ondary schools, assistant
professor and lecturer atthe
University of Minnesota, and president of Minnesota State
Teacher College. He became chancellor of Montana Uni-
versity in 1945 after three years’ service in the Army.

Mr. Selke is a past president of the American Associ-
ation of Teacher Colleges and a director of the War
Manpower Commission in Minnesota.

George S. Selke.

Brooklyn Professor Joins OLCW-B

Dr. Seymour Beardsley, dean of admissions, Brooklyn
Polytechnic College, has joined the Education Section,
Education and Cultural Relations Branch, OLCW-B.
Dr. Beardsley is a graduate of Yale and Columbia Univer-
sities. He was accompanied to Germany by his wife, also
a doctor of educational psychology and a former professor
at Barnard College.

New Administrative Officials

Several changes in the HICOG Office of Administra-
tion have been announced. At Frankfurt headquarters
Chester E. Beaman has been appointed chief of the Per-
sonnel Division's Placement Branch while E. F. Armstrong
will head the Division's Employee Relations and Services
Branch.

OLC Bavaria has received two new district administra-
tive officers. James S. Randall was named administrative
officer for District V (Regierungsbezirk Schwaben) with
headquarters in Augsburg and Claude F. Wiggins to a
similar post in District III (Regierungsbezirk Ober- und
Mitteliranken) with headquarters in Nuremberg. The two
officials will supervise administrative services for all
HICOG elements within their districts, including trans-
portation, personnel, communications, procurement and
supply, repair and maintenance, and security. -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
Communications System Expanding Steadily

ESTERN GERMANY'S COMMUNICATIONS system
is gradually returning to its prewar position as one
of the most modern and efficient in the world.

During the past six months the Bundespost was
allocated DM 27,500,000 ($6,375,000) in Marshall Plan
counterpart funds for expansion of communications
facilities. In addition, far greater sums were invested
by the Bundespost itself in expanding services. The
Marshall Plan funds are being primarily utilized in the
rehabilitation and expansion of long distance telephone
exchanges and offices, the international cable network
and for improvement of international radio telegraph
and telephone facilities,

The major services continued an upward trend in the
past 12 months, reflecting increased business. Approxi-
mately 4,000,000,000 letters were handled during 1950.
The November 1950 volume of more than 335,000,000
letters represented a 25,000,000 increase over the number
handled in the corresponding month of 1949. This volume
also is well above the monthly average (306,000,000)
processed in the same area in 1937,

Telegraph services handled a volume of 1,900,000 mes-
sages, three times the monthly turnover in 1937.

UTGOING INTERNATIONAL parcel post service, re-
established less than a year ago, is now on a nor-
mal basis with every country in the world except Austria,
Albania and French Indo-China. The incoming parcel post

Mechanic services a HICOG vehicle at Frankfurt Head-
quarters motor pool, an installation of the Division of
Operating Facilities’ Motor Transport Branch. This unit
of HICOG's Office of Administration has as its major
task the provision of adequate and safe transportation to
meet official needs. US resident officers and other HICOG
officials who take their government's policy to the
remotest areas of the US Zone lean heavily on this
organization for efficiency in their work. Among the
Branch's many other duties are issuance of travel duty
authorizations; processing of accident reports and claims;
writing specifications for spare parts and accessories, and
operation of nine motor pools, six maintenance garages.
German employees total 1,700. (PRD HICOG photo)

service was expanded to include all countries more than.
four years ago.

Long distance telephone traffic rose to a monthly
volume of more than 28,000,000 calls, as compared to
25,000,000 in 1949, almost twice the 1937 volume.

The Bundespost currently has a backlog of some
500,000 applications for telephones, of which 80 percent
were filed by business organizations. During 1950 more
than 260,000 new telephones were installed, bringing the
total number of West German telephones to approxi- —
mately 2,290,000 (including 930,000 extensions). Com-
munications officials stated that the failure to meet the
demand for telephones is due to a severe shortage of
central office equipment and cable equipment resulting
from the lack of investment capital to expand.

The Bundespost collected $14,000,000 and paid out
$5,000,000 in the settlement of accounts for international
postal and telecommunications services with foreign ad-
ministrations during 1950. It was stated that the Bundes-
post collected a total of more than $2,200,000, £140,000
and 2,200,000 French francs for the provision of postal
and telecommunication services to the Allied Forces
during 1950. These funds accrue as export credits. 7

EVERAL STEPS WERE TAKEN during the year to

assist West Berlin's Deutsche Post. Control and re-
sponsibility of the Staatsdruckerei (State Printing Office)
in Berlin was transferred to the Federal Ministry for
Posts and Telecommunications. This step was taken to
expedite and finance the rehabilitation and expansion be
of that key installation, which formerly printed all stamps, ;
currency and stationery for the German government.

In Berlin, the federal ministry established a technical
and research office to be staffed by more than 100
employees. This office is responsible for maintaining
close coordination of communications services between.
West Berlin and West Germany. To achieve maximum ~
security of communication services to Berlin and to —
reduce dependence on land-line cables across the Soviet
Zone, the Bundespost engineered and installed high
frequency multi-channel radio equipment between Berlin
and the Federal Republic with more than 45 telephoné
channels. This system is currently under expansion,

A Bundespost program of housing and office building
construction is in progress. Work was completed on
approximately 8,500 housing units in 1950, bringing the
housing units constructed for employees since 1945 to —
a total of 17,500. Approximately 5,500 additional housing ~
units are presently under construction. +END

Rhine Passenger Ships to Resume
Rhine steamer passenger service 15 due to be resumed
this month. From March 22 to 27 boats will ply between
Cologne and Mainz and from March 28 to April 20 be- ©
tween Coblenz and Mainz. Beginning April 21, service be-
tween Cologne and Mainz will be operated continuously.

MARCH 195F

--- Page 64 ---
Calendar of Coming Events

CURRENT

March-May — Munich (Bav): National Mu-
seum presents: “Roman Treasures—from
the Straubing finds."*

March-October: Landau (RP): Flower show
in SUWEGA gardens.

APRIL

Early April — Berlin: International Free
Artists’ Lodge, 50th anniversary.

April 1 — Essen (NRW): Concert.

April 1 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Giant sla-
lom on the Jenner.

April 1 — Eisenstein (Bav): Long distance
(35-kilometer) ski race.

April 1 — Inzell (Bay): Giant slalom on
Rauschberg.

April 1-2 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra; Tibor Varga, violin; Sergiu
Celibidache, conductor.

April 1-2 — Hamburg: Philharmonic con-
cert; Vasa Prihoda, violin; F. Rieger,
conductor.

April 1-2 — Dortmund (NRW): Symphony
concert; M. Strub, violin. °

April 1-4 — Frankfurt (Hes): Fur fair.

April 1-29 — Heidelberg (WB): Collective
art exposition, W. Kramm.

April 1-30 — Brunswick (LS): German Phy-
sicists’ Society, congress.

April 2 — Wuppertal (NRW):
Yehudi Menuhin, violin.

April 2 — Frankfurt (Hes): 11th Museum
concert; G. Cassado, cello; B. Vondenhoff,
conductor.

April 2 — Freiburg (SB): Symphony con-

Prof. K. Boehm, guest conductor.

— Luebeck (SH): Symphony con-
cert; N. Soennerstadt, Stockholm, soloist;
Sten-Ake Axelson, Malmoe, conductor.

April 2 — Coblenz (RP): Rhenish Philhar-
monic concert; C. Winkler, conductor.

April 2 — Cochem/Moselle (RP): ‘Knipp
Monday," ancient folk festival.

April 3 — Marburg (Hes): Concert; H.
Schroeter, piano.

April 3 — Paderborn (NRW): Concert.

April 4 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; G. Cassado, cello; G.
Koenig, conductor.

April 4 — Constance (SB): Symphony con-
cert; K. Freund, violin; H. von Beckerath,
cello.

April 4 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Pascal
Quartet.

April 4-5 — Aachen (NRW):
concert; F. Raabe, conductor.

April 4-5 — Concert; C. Krauss, guest con-
ductor.

April 5 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; Vasa Prihoda, violin.

April 5 — Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert; G. Cassado, cello; H. Weisbach,
conductor.

April 5 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert;
Yehudi Menuhin, violin.

April 5 — Bad Driburg (NRW): Concert,
Staedtebund Symphony Orchestra; R.
Agop, conductor.

April 5 — Muenster (NRW): Concert; Re-
Nato Fasano, Rome, conductor.

April 5-6 — Munich (Bav): Symphony con-
cert; W. Schneiderhan, violin; E.Jochum,
Conductor.

April5-9— Muenster (NRW): “Send” festi-
val in Cathedral Square.

Concert;

Symphony

MARCH 1951

April 1 to May 15, 1951*

April 6 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert.

April 6 — Hamburg: Concert; Edwin Fischer,
piano.

April 6 — Krefeld (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; G. Cassado, cello.

April 6-8 — Mainz (RP): Fencing singles
championships.

April 7 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW):
Symphony concert; G. Cassado, cello.
April 7-8 — Goettingen (LS): Concert; H.

Schmidt-Isserstedt, conductor.

April 7-9 — Cologne (NRW): 100th anni-
versary, Cologne Hairdressers’ Associ-
ation— German hairdressing trade cham-
pionships.

April8 — Bonn (NRW): Symphony concert.

April 8 — Mainz (RP): Palace concert.

April 8 — Heidelberg (WB): 85th anniver-
sary-festival, “‘Concordia’’ male chorus.

April 8 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Horse-
racing.

April 8-9 — Stuttgart (WB): Symphony con~

cert, W. Schneiderhan, violin; F. Leitner,
conductor.

April 8-9 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra with Yehudi Menuhin, soloist; K.
Boehm, conductor.

April 8-9 — Brunswick (LS): Symphony
concert; G. Taschner, violin.

April 8-10 — Rhens/Rhine (NRW): Cherry-
blossom festival.

April 9 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; Joh. Schueler, conductor.

April 9 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony
concert; G. Krauss, conductor.

April 9 — Bremen: Vegh Quartet.

April 9 — Viersen (NRW): Symphony
concert. Cologne broadcasting orchestra;
Victor Desarzens, Geneva, conductor.

April 9 — Nuremberg (Bav): Stuttgart
Chamber Orchestra.

April 9 — Gelsenkirchen (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; Ros] Schmid, piano.

April 9-10 — Mannheim (WB): Academy
concert; E. Szenkar, conductor.

April 10 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert; -W. Schneiderhan. viol'n.

April 10 — Rheydt (NRW): Symphony
concert; E. Roehn, violin; G. L. Jochum,
conductor.

April 11-12 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert;
W. Schneiderhan, violin; G. L. Jochum,
conductor.

April 11-12 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; Vasa Prihoda, violin.

April 12 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony
concert; E. Kezur, piano.
April 13 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert:

Tibor Varga, violin; G. Floesser, piano.
April 13-15 — Baden-Baden (SB): German
Automobile Club (ADAC) convention.

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
‘WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzoliern.

59

April 14 — Mainz (RP): Symphony con-

cert; G. Cassado, cello; K. M. Zwissler,
conductor.
April 14 — Stuttgart (WB): Concert;

Yehudi Menuhin, violin.

April 15 — Neheim-Huesten (NRW): Or-
chestra and choral concert; H. Matthei,
tenor.

April 15 — Boppard (NRW): Spring and
blossom festival.

April 15-16 — Hamburg: Symphony con-
cert; North West German broadcasting
orchestra; W. Schneiderhan, violin; H.
Schmidt-Isserstedt, conductor.

April 15-16 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Con-
cert; J. von Karoly, soloist.

April 15-16 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
concert; S. Borries, violin; W. Fun-
waengler, conductor.

April 15-16 — Dortmund (NRW): Symphony
concert.

April 15-May 11 — Stuttgart (WB): ‘‘Sur-
face Treatment,’ meeting and exposition.

April 16 — Karlsruhe (WB): Symphony con-
cert; Chr. Purrmann, piano.

April 16-20 — Cologne (NRW): ‘‘Colorfilm
and Reality’ — film trade congress.
April17— Munich (Bav): Musica Viva con-
cert; A. Grumiaux, violin; Franz Andre,

Brussels, conductor.

April 18 — Leverkusen (NRW): Concert;
W. Schneiderhan, violin; E. Kraack, con-
ductor.

April 18 — Remscheid (NRW): Concert;
K. Roehrig, violin.

April 18 — Cologne (NRW): Horse-racing.

April 19 — Munich (Bav): Musical Aca-
demy concert; K. Boehm, conductor.

April 19 — Oberhausen (NRW): Symphony
concert; A. Steiner, cello.

April 19-20 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; W. Schneiderhan, violin;
H. Hollreiser, conductor.

April 19-29 — Frankfurt (Hes): First inter-
national automobile exposition.

April 20 — Neuss (NRW): Vegh Quartet.

April 20-May 1 — Munich (Bav): Restaura-
teurs’ exhibition (planned). *

April 21-23 — Weinheim (Hes): Blossom
festival.

April 21-Oct. 3i — Hanover (LS): West-
German garden show.

April 22 — Cologne (NRW):
“Music of Our Time."

April 22 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Con-
cert; Monique Haas, piano.

April 22 — Uelzen (LS): German cross-
country racing championships.

April 22 — Berlin: Grand Prize of Berlin
(motors).

April 22-23 — Hamburg: Philharmonic con-
cert; G. Cassado, cello; F. Rieger, con-
ductor.

April 23 — Coblenz (RP): Rhenish Phil-
harmonic concert; O. Winkler, con-
ductor.

April 23 — Kassel (Hes): Symphony con-
cert; W. Schneiderhan, violin.

Concert,

April 23 —— Nuremberg (Bav): Piano con-

cert, Erik Then Bergh.
April 23 — Wuerzburg (Bav): Symphony

concert, Wuerzburg Philharmonic Or-
chestra.

April 23-24 — Bremen: Concert; Haydn,
“Creation.”

* For late March events, see Information
Bulletin, February 1951 issue.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
April 23-24 — Bochum (NRW): Shakespear-
ean performances.

April 23-26 — Bremen: International history
of science congress.

April 24 — Luebeck (SH):
cert; G. Cassado, cello.

April 24 — Nuremberg (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; A. Grumiaux, violin.

April 24-May 9 — Rosenheim (Bav): Third
Southeast Fair.

April 25 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; W. Schneiderhan, violin;
H. Meissner, conductor.

April 25-26 — Aachen (NRW):
concert; H. Stanske, violin.

Symphony con-

Symphony

April 25-27 — Constance (SB): German
dairy centrals’ international general
meeting.

April 25-May 6 — Passau (Bav): Spring
fair.

April 26 — Stuttgart (WB): Zurich Cham-

ber Orchestra concert; Paul Sacher, con-
ductor.

April 26 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony
concert; W. Schneiderhan, violin; H.
Meissner, conductor.

April 26 — Muenster (NRW): Concert; J.
Martzy, violin.
April ‘26-27 — Munich (Bav): Haydn,

“Creation;’" E. Jochum, conductor.

April 27 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert; W.
Schneiderhan, violin; F. Fehringer, tenor;
O. Schmidtgen, conductor.

April 27-May 6 — Friedrichshafen
Lake Constance International Fair.

April 28 — Stuttgart (WB): Book and
Periodical Publishers’ Association, con-
vention and exhibition.

April 28 — Mainz (RP): Symphony concert;
W. Schneiderhan, violin; K. M. Zwissler,
conductor.

April 28-May 6 — Landau (RP): Spring fair.

April 28-May 12 — Schwarz-Rheindorf,
near Bonn (NRW): 800th anniversary of
the Twin Churches.

April 29 — Hanover (LS): Eilenriede motor
racing.

(SB):

April 29 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Horse-
racing.
April 29-30 — Stuttgart (WB): Symphony

concert; G. Cassado, cello; F. Leitner,
conductor,

April 29-30 — Hamburg: Symphony con-
cert; Northwest German Radio Orchestra;
Monique Haas, piano; H. Schmidt-Isser-
stedt, conductor.

April 29-30 — Brunswick (LS):
concert; Ros] Schmid, piano

April 29-30 — Frankfurt (Hes): Internation-
al auto tetst race in conjunction with
Frankfurt fair.

April 29-May 1 — Mannheim (WB): Horse
mart.

April 29-May 2 — Throughout Hartz Moun-
tains (LS): Walpurgis 1esuvais.

April 29-May 2 — Uffenheim (Bav): Wal-
purgis mart; expositions; riding and driv-
ing tournament.

April 29-May 8 — Hanover (LS): 1951 Ger-
man Industries Fair, technical fair.

April 29-May 14 — Mannheim (WB): May
mart and exhibition of agricultural uten-
sils.

April 30 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Piano con-
cert, Alfred Cortot.

April 30 — Frankfurt (Hes): Symphony
concert; B. Vondenhoff, conductur.

April 30 — Oberwesel/Rhine (NRW): Night
of Witches — election of “1951 Wine
Queen.”

April 30-May 1 — Cologne (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; S. Borries, violin; K.
Boehm, conductor.

April — Stuttgart (WB): Max Planck In-
stitute for Metal Research, meeting.

Symphony

INFORMATION BULLETIN

April — Flensburg (SH): Spring fair.
April — Cologne (NRW): Collective art
exposition, Josef Scharl. New York.
April — Kiel (SH): Motorcycle-racing.
April — Essen (NRW): Used car tar.

MAY

May 1-2 — Baden-Baden (SB):
Tuberculosis Society meeting.
May 1-3 — Dieburg (Hes): Dieburg triangle
motor-racing.

May 1-3 — Wiesbaden (Hes): International
automobile races.

May 1-11—Bonn (NRW): Concerts, Beetho-
ven festival.

May 2 — Wuppertal (NRW): Piano con-
cert, Alfred Cortot.

May 2 — Remscheid (NRW): Concert.

May 2-3 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert;
Monique Haas, piano; G, L. Jochum,
conductor.
May 2-5 — Stuttgart (WB):
tourist travel congress.
May 3 — Aachen (NRW): Second presen-
tation of international Karl prize.

May 3 — Hamburg: German Homeopaths’
Central Association meeting.

May 3-4 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Symphony
concert; H. Schmidt-Isserstedt, conductor.

May 3-5 — Duesseldorf (NRW); German
Association for Commercial Education,
meeting.

May 3-5 — Goslar (LS):
Club, congress.

May 3-6 — Mannheim (WB): ‘Baden Postal
Stamp Centenary," philatelic exposition.

May 4 — Wiesbaden (Hes): State Orchestra
Symphony concert; Alfred Cortot, piano;
L, Kaufmann, conductor.

May 5-6 — Goettingen (LS):
Solti, conductor.

May 5-6 — Munich (Bav): Riem track auto
races.

May 6 — Mainz (RP): Palace concert.

May 6 — Darmstadt (Hes): Symphony con-
cert; Chr. Purrmann, piano.

May 6 — Frankfurt (Hes): Rowing regatta,

May 6 — Cologne (NRW): International
long-distance bicycle races ‘‘Round about
Cologne,”

May 6 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Giant slalom
on Blaueis glacier.

May 6— Bruchsal (WB): Summer Day pro-
cession.

German

2nd German

German Rotary

Concert; G.

May 6-7 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Concert;
Elly Ney, piano.
May 6-7 — Dortmund (NRW): Symphony

Concert.

May 6-7 — Hamburg: Philharmonic concert;
Ros] Schmid, piano; J. Keilberth, conduc-
tor.

May 6-26 — Heidelberg (WB): Collective
art exposition, C. Westphal-Poecking.

May 6-June 3 — Stuttgart (WB): Sports
meeting.

May 7 — Hamburg: Overseas Day.

May 7 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony con-
cert; Tibor Varga, violin.

May 7 — Hanover (LS): Symphony concert;
G. Taschner, violin; Joh. Schueler, con-
ductor.

May 7 — Gelsenkirchen (NRW): Symphony
concert; A, Navarro, cello.

May 8 — Duesseldorf (NRW):
“Messiah,”

May 8 — Freiburg/Black Forest (SB): Sym-
phony concert; F. Wuehrer, piano.

May 8 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Piano con-
cert, Alfred Cortot.

May 8-11 — Munich (Bav): Auto races; Ger-
man Automobile Club (ADAC).

May 9 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Handel,
“Messiah;‘* G, H. Meissner, conductor.
May 9-10 — Bremen: Symphony concert;
A. Lueder, piano; H, Schnackenburg, con-

ductor,

Handel,

60

May 9-10 — Munich (Bav):
concert; G. Taschner, violin,

May 10 Bochum (NRW): Handel,
siah;"’ G. H. Meissner, conductor.

May 10 — Bamberg (Bav): Symphony con-
cert; G, Puchelt, piano; J, Keilberth, con-
ductor,

May 10-11 — Berlin: Concert, Berlin Phil-
harmonic concert; Wilhelm Furtwaengler,
conductor.

May 10-31 — Essen (NRW):
art exposition.

May 11 — Rheydt (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; M. Pinter, piano; G. L. Jochum, con-
ductor.

May 12 — Coblenz (RP): Reopening of Cob-
lenz ‘‘Wine Village.”

May 12-14 — Neustadt (RP):
light athletics meeting.

May 12-14 — Constance (SB):-International
Free Economy Union, meeting.

May 12-14 — Schwaebisch-Hall (WB): Open-
air plays.

May 12-14 — Constance (SB): International
costume festival, with Austrian, Swiss
and French groups participating.

May 12-14 — Leichlingen (NRW): Marks-
men's and folk festival.

May 12-14 — Hildesheim (LS): 70th anni-
versary, ‘Schubert-Bund"’ male chorus.
May 12-14 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW):
International roller-skaters’ hockey tour-

nament.

May 13 — Baden-Baden (SB): Symphony
concert; Monique Haas, piano; Hans Ros-
baud, conductor.

May 13 -- Koetzting (Bav): Whitsuntide
ride; election of ‘‘Whitsuntide Bride and
Groom."

May 13 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
Final slalom on Zugspitzplatt.

May 13 — Tettnang (WB): Upper Swabian
motorcycle-racing.

May 13-14 — Trier (RP): Catholic German
Women-Teachers’ Society, meeting.

May 14-15 — Berlin: Concert, RIAS Sym-
phony Orchestra; Alfred Cortot, piano;
Ferenc Fricsay, conductor.

May 13-14 —- Bergisch-Gladbach (NRW):
Marksmen’s outdoor festival.

May 13-14 — Kiedrich (RP): Spring festival
in “Wine Village.”

May 13-14 — Partenstein (Bav): Homeland
festival with open-air performances of
historical play, ‘In the Shadow of the
Oaks."

May 13-14 — Schwaebisch-Hall (WB): Tra-
ditional Saltboilers' Dance; openair plays.

May 13-14 — Bad Sooden-Allendorf (Hes):
Historic ‘Fountain Festival.”

May 13-14 — Vaihingen/Enz (WB): May
Day celebration; traditional plays, cos-
tume pageant.

May 13-14 — Engers/Rhine (RP):
singing contest.

May 13-15 — Cochem/Moselle (RP): Festi-
val, Cochem Pentecost Kermis.

May 13-15 — Rothenburg ob der Tauber
(Bav): Jubilee festival plays, 700th anni-
versary of “Master. Draught of Rothen-
burg;’’ 40th anniversary of ‘Shepherds’
Dance; 30th anniversary of Hans Sachs’
plays.

May 14 — Bentheim (NRW): Openair per-
formances beginning with Schiller's ‘‘The
Maid of Orleans."

May 14 — Unterhausen near Reutlingen
(WB): Nebelhoehle (Cave of the Mists)
festival.

May 14 — Hockenheim (WB): International
motorcycle and automobile races.

May 14-17 — Schwaebisch-Hall (WB): Pro-
fessional Association of German Women
Social Workers, annual meeting.

Philharmonic

“"Mes-

Ruhr District

International

Rhenish

May 15 — Frankfurt (Hes): Waeldchestag.
outdoor folk festival. -+-END
MARCH 1951:-

--- Page 66 ---
Occupation Log

44,000,000th US Gift Parcel Arrives

The 44,000,000th voluntarily donated US gift parcel to
be sent to Germany through parcel post channels since
the mid-1946 opening of this service has been distributed.
The total cumulative value of the 44,000,000 gift packages
is estimated at $375,000,000.

Although Americans are sending fewer gifts of food
and clothing to Germany now than in previous years,
due to improved economic conditions and rising stand-
ards of living, a totak of more than 4,800,000 gift
packages were sent by Americans to their friends and
relatives in Germany during 1950.

During January 1951, a total of 222,000 American gift
packages was delivered to Germany. Of this number
177,000 packages were distributed in West Germany,
including West Berlin, while approximately 45,000
packages were sent to Soviet Zone residents.

Communications officials point out that the American
shipments of gifts to Germany represent the “greatest
voluntary personal relief activity of this type in the
world's history between the people of one country and
the people of another. Postwar shipments of US gift
parcels to Germany have been several times higher than
shipments to any other European country.”

Boy Sends Thanks to Commandants

A 14-year-old West Berlin boy, recipient of one of the
10,000 pairs of shoes purchased for needy west-sector
children through a Christmas grant by the Berlin Allied
commandants, has written to thank the top officials for
their generosity.

Dieter-Michael] Ranft conveyed in his letter his ‘most
heartfelt thanks" for the pair of ‘wonderful street shoes"
he received. Distribution of the 10,000 pairs, which were
purchased with a grant of DM 200,000 ($47,600) from
Allied funds, was made during the Christmas season.

“Very Honorable Commandants,” the boy wrote, “since
my father is still held as a prisoner of war in Russia and
my mother is out of work, we receive welfare aid for my
mother and both my brothers. I got a certificate through
the family-aid organization (for shoes) from the grant of
the Allied commandants of West Berlin, and with it was
able to obtain a pair of wonderful street shoes.

“Though I was very pleased (to get the shoes), I do not
want to forget the commandants (and) to express in this
letter my most heartfelt thanks. My mother was so
pleased that I cannot describe it, because she was rid of a
great difficulty; and thus you have helped not only me,
but allofus,andmadeus happy. Again my deepest thanks.”

Shortly before Christmas the Yule gift of DM 200,000
was tumed over by the commandants to Mrs. Louise
Schroeder, deputy mayor of Berlin, for the purchase of
Shoes, at that time one of the most pressing needs of
many of West Berlin's destitute families.

MARCH 1951

Special Projects Fund Ends

The US High Commissioner's Special Projects Fund —
a DM _ 50,000,000 ($11,900,000) fund designed to assist
worthy German projects in educational, cultural and
related fields — has been completely allocated, Although
checks for the remaining projects now in process will
be distributed in the coming months, no new applications
for aid will be accepted.

The approximate allocations from the DM 50,000,000
were earmarked as follows: Youth Activities and
Self Help, DM _ 12,000,000 ($2,856,000); Education,
DM 10,000,000 ($2,380,000); Universities, DM 10,000,000
($2,380,000); Berlin Projects, DM 8,700,000 ($2,070,600);
Public Health, DM 4,000,000 ($952,000); Welfare,
DM 2,000,000 ($476,000); Cultural, DM 1,000,000 ($238,000);
and other projects, DM 2,300,000 ($547,400).

The Special Projects Fund was established by the
Office of the US High Commissioner in January 1950 to
aid German organizations or individuals sponsoring proj-
ects in the fields of youth, community, public health,
welfare and women's activities, academic and vocational
education, and the preservation of historic and cultural
monuments.

The source of this fund is the GARIOA (Government
and Relief in Occupied Areas) Special Account. So-called
GARIOA dollars, appropriated by the US Congress for
government and relief in occupied areas, have been used
to purchase food, fertilizers and petroleum products in
the United States. These goods are then imported into
Germany and sold to German consumers on the German
market. The Deutsche marks thus accumulated represent
the countervalue of United States assistance to Germany
and are deposited in the GARIOA Special Account.
Through the Special Projects Program and other similar
devices this money is re-absorbed into the German
economy. The Special Projects Fund is not charged
against occupation costs and is not derived from any
other German sources.

Since inauguration of the program last year, grants
have been approved for more than 230 German projects,
spread all over Western Germany and Western Berlin.

Each German application for Special Projects aid was
first reviewed by the local US resident officer and, after

Berlin's US Commander, Brig. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson,
presents check for DM 2,125,000 ($509,750) as second
quarterly installment of America's DM _ 8,500,000
($2,023,000) grant to continue Berlin's school-feeding
program during 1950-1951. The program supplies free
hot lunches to 325,000 students. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

--- Page 67 ---
Western European US ambassadors and leading Depart-
ment of State officials recently convened in Frankfurt for
a four-day conference on matters of mutual interest.
Seated, left to right, around table at HICOG head-
quarters are: Ambassador Charles M. Spofford, deputy
US chairman, North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Robert
D. Murphy, ambassador to Belgium; Walter S. Gifford,
ambassador to Great Britain; George W. Perkins, assistant
secretary of state for European affairs and conference
chairman; US High Commissioner for Germany John J.
McCloy, who was host to the conferees; David K. Bruce,
ambassador to France; US High Commissioner for Austria
Walter J. Donnelly; Milton Katz, ECA special represen-
tative in Europe, and Henry J. Tasca, trade and payments
director, OSR-ECA. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

endorsement by the US state commissioner concerned,
was submitted for final screening and approval to the
HICOG Special Projects Board, headed by Benjamin
J.Buttenwieser, assistant US high commissioner for policy,
and consisting of representatives from each HICOG
division.

Grants from the Special Projects fund were used exclu-
sively for capital outlay purposes. German sources normal-
ly supplied at least 50 percent of the total capital outlay.

Agreement on German-Assets Claims

Four European nations, Canada and the United States
have put into force an agreement for the settlement of
conflicting claims to German enemy assets.

The agreement, signed by Belgium, the Netherlands,
Denmark, Luxembourg and the two North American
nations, on Dec. 5, 1947, in Brussels, went into effect
Feb. 1, 1951, after US congressional approval was obtained.

Types of property covered by the agreement include
securities, negotiable instruments, currency, warehouse
receipts, foreign currency bank deposits, deceased per-
sons’ estates, trusts, and the property in one signatory
country of corporations organized under the laws of
another signatory country or of Germany.

The agreement sets up machinery,to facilitate obtain-
ing clear title to property without the long drawn-out
litigations that occurred after World War I regarding the
same problem.

The rules adopted for disposition of the property mark
the first comprehensive multilateral effort to resolve
conflicting claims.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

62

The agreement may also be signed at any time up to
Aug. 1, 1951, by the 13 other nations which are members
of the Inter-Allied reparation agency.

US Diplomats Meet in Frankfurt

Western European US ambassadors and leading State
Department officials met recently at US High Commission
headquarters in Frankfurt for a four-day conference to
consider mutual problems and discuss their views con-
cerning European affairs.

George W. Perkins, assistant US secretary of state for
European affairs, was chairman of the meeting, which
was one of the periodic conferences of ambassadors
inaugurated some time ago.

Other diplomats who attended were Walter J. Donnelly,
US High Commissioner for Austria; Ambassador Charles
M. Spofford, deputy US chairman of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization; Walter S. Gifford, ambassador to
Great Britain; Milton Katz, special representative of
ECA in Europe; David K. Bruce, ambassador to France;
Robert D. Murphy, ambassador to Belgium; Col. Henry
A. Byroade, director of the Bureau of German Affairs,
Department of State, and US High Commissioner for
Germany John J. McCloy, who was host to the group.

Soap Box Derby Has New Host

Sponsorship and operation of Western Germany's Soap
Box Derby has been relinquished by the German Youth
Activities (GYA) to the Adam Opel Automobile Co.

Transfer of GYA's control of the annual contest is in
line with current occupation policy, which grants German
nationals opportunities to assume responsibility for ac-
tivities previously conducted by Occupation Authorities.

The Opel organization, which has contributed material
support to the contest in the past, revealed tentative
plans for expanding this year's Soap Box Derby to include
entrants from all three Allied zones in Germany. As in
the past US troop units may sponsor entrants and will
provide an escort for the winner, who will compete in the
US finals in Akron, Ohio, Aug. 12.

ECA Funds Spur Bavarian Housing
A total of 40,000 housing units has been, is being or

will be built in Bavaria with the aid of ECA counterpart

funds during the 1950-51 fiscal year.

The ECA fund allocation amounts to DM 55,500,000 ©
($13,209,000), representing more than 20 percent of the ©

total of German public housing funds earmarked for
socia] housing in Bavaria during the 12-month period.

Of the ECA allocation, more than one-half was within —
ECA's general housing program, while the remainder ©
was set aside for the special refugee housing program ~

to improve living conditions of refugees directly engaged
in industry, export trade and agriculture.

Under the established procedure, the ECA counterpart
funds were transferred to the German Reconstruction —
Loan Corporation, from which they were distributed

through normal banking channels.

:
c
:

--- Page 68 ---
Berliner Offers Eye to Korea GI

An unemployed West Berlin cook has offered one of
\is eyes to a blinded United Nations’ soldier wounded
in Korea, and asked in compensation only the knowledge
that the soldier's sight, lost fighting aggressive Commu-
nism, be restored.

Walter Demand, 45 years old, reported to RIAS (Radio
in the American Sector) to make the offer. He said his
father had been wounded and totally blinded in World
War I and would have given anything to regain even
partial sight.

“I've been following the war news from Korea," Mr.
and said, “and I am sure there must be United Na-
tions’ soldiers who are in the same condition.”

iis offer was relayed to the medical department of
the United Nations’ forces in Korea.

US Students Tour Factory

Thirty-three sixth-grade American children attending
school in Stuttgart visited the NSU Werke, a bicycle and
motor cycle factory, in Neckarsulm recently.

The visit, endorsed by the Labor Affairs Division of
OLC W-B was second of a series initiated earlier this
year, and is designed to acquaint American children with
working conditions and methods of German factory people.

High Commissioner Guest at Russian Fete

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy was guest at
a reception commemorating the 33rd anniversary of the
Soviet Army held at the Haus der Kunst (House of Art)
in the Soviet Sector of Berlin Feb. 23. The reception given

Col. John S. Kelly (kneeling), chief, EUCOM Chaplain
Division, is invested with the robes of a domestic prelate
by, 1.-r., Very Rev. Msgr. Howard Smith, Vatican Mission,
Frankfurt; Chaplain Cyprian Lauletta, US Army, Austria;
and Chaplain Alfred C. Longley, Berlin Military Post.
The ceremony at Heidelberg was presided over by the
Most Rev. A. J. Muench, Regent of the Papal Nunciature
in Germany and Bishop of Fargo, N.D. Col Kelly's new
lille of Right Reverend Monsignor was bestowed upon
him for life by Pope Pius XII in recognition of dis-
tinguished service to the church, (US Army photo)

Kenneth E. Van Buskirk, chief, OLC Bavaria Field
Operations Division, receives a citation from Garmisch-
Partenkirchen citizens for his special efforts toward the
economic recovery of the city as a sports and tourist
center. Admiring citation is US State Commissioner for

Bavaria Dr. George N. Shuster (left). (OLCB photo)

by General of the Army V. I. Chuikov, commander-in
chief of the Soviet forces in Germany, was also attended
by representatives of the British and French high com-
missioners.

Accompanying Mr. McCloy were Benjamin J. Butten-
wieser, assistant US high commissioner; Samuel Reber,
director of the HICOG Office of Political Affairs; Col.
Maurice W. Daniel, commanding officer, Berlin Military
Post; Col. John Evans, chief of the US Military Mission
in Potsdam, in the Soviet Zone, and Paul P. Roudakoff,
US liaison and protocol officer in Berlin.

Recreation Specialists for Hesse

A week-long training course for future leaders in the
Hessian community recreation program was originated
recently in Frankfurt.

The trainees were prepared to act later as the initiators
of the program, which is to stimulate enthusiasm and
interest in leisure time activities, recreation and sports
for all age groups on a community level and to spur a
permanent development of these ideas in their local areas.

Twenty-four Hessian counties sent delegates.

Bavarian Resident Officers Meet

US resident officers stationed in counties and cities of
Bavaria met recently in Berchtesgaden. Representatives
of the resident officers’ program elsewhere in the Ameri-
can Zone and from the French and British Zones attended
as observers. The meeting covered the various phases of
HICOG's operations in Germany.

Among the speakers were Chauncey G. Parker, assis-
tant US high commissioner for operations; Dr. George N.
Shuster, US state commissioner for Bavaria; Samuel
Reber, director of the Office of Political Affairs, HICOG;

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
Glenn G. Wolfe, director of the Office of Administration;
David Wilken, chief, Personnel Division; Dr. L. E. Norrie,
chief, Community Activities Branch, and OLCB officials.

Berlin Americans Aid Widow

A check for DM 3,500 ($833) has been presented to
Mrs. Frieda Schulz, widow of a policeman murdered by
unknown assailants in January while guarding American
homes in the US Sector of Berlin. The check was a gift
of the American community in Berlin to “compensate in
however small part’ for the Schulz family’s loss. The
money will be used to continue the education of the two
Schulz children, Joachim, 15, and Lieselotte, nine.

Bremen Building Up Blood Bank

An adequate blood bank for Bremen has been assured
as the result of a DM 7,400 ($1,761) HICOG grant-in-aid.
The bank coupled with a protein research laboratory
will supply Bremen hospital patients with blood which
meets their specific requirements.

At present blood in Germany has to be purchased at
a high price. However, as soon as the new blood bank
is integrated with present facilities, it will be possible
for every healthy individual to register with the bank
and give a pint of blood at a time convenient to him
and the laboratory.

Berlin to Get New Library

Five million Deutsche marks ($1,190,000) have been
donated by the United States toward the construction and
stocking of a general public library in Berlin. The amount
was promised to Berlin's Mayor Ernst Reuter in a letter
from US High Commissioner John J. McCloy.

Of the sum, DM 4,000,000 ($952,000) will be utilized in
the construction of the building while DM _ 1,000,000

Sabina Lindenberg, HICOG secretary, examines some of
the 160,000 West German entries received in the Europe-
wide Marshall Plan Children’s Art Contest which closed
recently. Prizes totaling nearly $10,000 will be distribut-
ed for the best interpretations of “What the Marshall

Plan Means to Me.” (PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

64

A library of more than 800 American law books and
journals was presented to Frankfurt University by Hans
W. Weigert (right), German Justice Branch, Office of
General Counsel, HICOG, on behalf of US High Com-
missioner John J. McCloy. Prof. Helmut Coing (left)
accepted the gift on behalf of the University's law school.
Eight other universities in West Germany and Berlin will
receive similar gifts as part of the McCloy Special Pro-
jects Program. (PRD HICOG photo)

($238,000) will be used in the procurement of books.
Organization, content and structure of the library will be
determined by a conference of Berlin library experts and
those of the High Commission.

In his letter Mr. McCloy wrote:

“T trust that this library will endure through the years
as a lasting and expanding monument embodying the
admiration of the American people for the people of
Berlin and their valiant struggle for the cause of democ-
racy and freedom as well as a practical aid toward their
achievement.”

East Industrial Police Purge Ordered

A general purge on ideological grounds of the East
Zone Industrial Security Police has been ordered by Karl
Maron, chief of the Soviet Zone “People’s Police,”
according to the US overt newspaper in Berlin, Die Neue
Zeitung.

Specially-picked police officers are carrying out the
purge, Neue Zeitung said, adding that in future only
members of the “People’s Police’ designated by their
parent units will be accepted in Industrial Security Police
branches. The “reorganization” of the Industrial Security —
Police force has been given highest priority, and is to —
be completed within three months.

“The continuing infiltration of ‘Western agents’ into
industrial installations of the German Democratic Republic
is to be partially circumvented by prohibiting relatives of
workers to enter plant grounds, Neue Zeitung reported.

“On Maron's order the food stores and workers’ clinics
that until now have been located inside factory grounds —
will be removed. Other visitors, entering industrial
installations for official reasons, will be accompanied at
all times by a ‘People’s Policeman’ with a dog,’ Neue ~
Zeitung concluded. -+ END

MARCH 1954

--- Page 70 ---
(Continued from page 28)

Status of Denazification

these people had no grievance against him. They did
not judge him by his ideological beliefs but on his day-
to-day activities which, from their point of view, were
all in his favor.

On the other hand, the “little Nazi," who may have
been a cobbler, a postman or a petty foreman, and who
received severe sanctions and is often cited by. the
critics, may have been a fanatical Nazi. He may have
denounced his neighbors to the Gestapo, belonged to
the “hoodlums” of the community, caused the arrest of
his neighbors, their internment in concentration camps,
or damage to their property.

When such a “little Nazi came before the tribunal
composed of his neighbors, he was assessed a heavier
penalty. It was too much to expect these farmers,
artisans and workaday people to reason that had it
not been for the benevolent “big Nazi“ with his big
contributions to the party, hoodlums and Gestapo could
not have prospered.

Criticism of the law today, however, is based on
knowledge after the event. And in any case, this dis-
advantage of the law, if such it was, must be set off
against the benefits derived from its having forced the
local people, all over the US Zone, to review actively
what had taken place during the Nazi period.

RITICS OF THE DENAZIFICATION program also

point to the presence of former Nazis in important
positions and in the public service generally. It is true that
there are many former Nazis in public positions. Many
are schoolteachers, mail carriers, policemen. Some few
occupy higher positions, even in the state and federal
governments, Many businessmen holding important posts
were once members of the Nazi party. Millions of former
Nazis are re-employed, most of them in their former
vocations. But these are, with few exceptions, persons
who were found by the denazification tribunals to have
been only nominal party members not personally im-
plicated in the criminal activities of the party, or persons
whose minor involvement in such activities has been
expiated by legal process.

When exonerated Nazis with an active past seemed
to have fared too well in getting cleared, and have been
reinstated in responsible jobs, action has been taken.
A case in point was that of the teachers reinstated in
Wuerttemberg-Baden (US Zone), who had held high
positions during the Nazi regime. When the situation
was disclosed in 1950, US officials urged the minister
of education to re-examine it and to institute dismissals
wherever the facts warranted.

In the course of November 1950, the US High Com-
missioner emphasized the American position by declar-
ing to the ministers-president of the US Zone that
enthusiastic propagandists of Nazi doctrines should not
be permitted to teach the young generation of a demo-
cratic Germany. Although all the former Nazi function-

MARCH 1951

65

Teachers of dependent schoo] children at Frankfurt
Military Post recently held a meeting to discuss mutual
problems and plans. L. to r., Francesco M. Bianco; Mrs.
John V. Hefferman; Mrs. George T. Stump; Maj. A. L.

Bregnard and Mrs. Edward Fitzgerald. (PRD HICOG photo)

aries who were reappointed as teachers had been pardon-
ed by the Minister-President of Wuerttemberg-Baden,
the High Commissioner continued to press for their
ouster during the last quarter of the year. It remains,
moreover, the prerogative of the Allied High Commis-
sion to intervene in cases of appointment to high office
of persons dangerous to Allied objectives in Germany.

T WAS, IN FACT, one of the primary intentions of the

Denazification Law to make possible the reassimila-
tion of the great mass of nominal and minor Nazis into
German society at the earliest possible moment. It would
have been unthinkable and indefensible to try to keep
almost 8,000,000 former members of the Nazi party prop-
er — together with their dependents probably close to
30,000,000 people — outside the community or outcasts
from it.

With very few exceptions the former Nazis who now
occupy posts of any significance have been “‘denazified.”
In other words, they have been made eligible through
legal procedure to hold their present offices. That it
would be better if certain individuals were to remain
out of public life cannot be denied. Many Germans
would rather not see them in the positions they now
occupy. Sections of the democratic German press have
spoken out unequivocally against certain appointments
to public office.

However, once such persons have been duly appointed,
and in the absence of legal grounds for their removal,
there is generally nothing that can or should be done
except to rely upon the democratic system which has
been constructed in Germany to deal with the problem.
No democracy is perfect; a new one may perhaps be
allowed more than its normal share of mistakes. To
interfere with it from the outside will in many cases do
more harm than good. In all cases, intervention must
be carefully weighed, being offset against the obvious
danger of undermining the system in the confidence of
the people it serves. (Concluded on next page)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
[HERE HAVE BEEN widely-publicized instances of

the return of former Nazis to office. But the con-
verse is likewise true, as is illustrated by the case of a
former official of a federal ministry. The Nazi past of
this official had been given wide publicity and was
exposed in detail in a pamphlet circulated by the Ger-
man Trade Union Federation dealing with the return of
ex-Nazis to office. The official resigned his post in order
to seek an injunction against the circulation of this
pamphlet, but his request was denied by the court.

In this case German opinion forced a former Nazi out
of office, an action far more salutary than the expulsion
of such persons at the insistence of the Occupation
Authorities. In the final analysis, Nazism will stay out of
German life only if the German people reject it and
continue to ban it even when the Occupying Powers
are gone.

Allied policy at this stage is to repose trust in the
German Federal Republic. The Federal Government has
already assumed increased powers and will shortly be
assigned further prerogatives. Germany is to be admitted
eventually into full and equal partnership with the
nations of the democratic community. It must be expect-
ed that those leaders who will be charged with these
new responsibilities and powers will employ them for
constructive and peaceful ends. They will also be en-
trusted with the responsibility of insuring that the evil
elements of the Nazi era do not re-emerge and exercise
these powers to the detriment of Germany and of Europe.

HE WHOLE ISSUE of denazification as it stands

now on the eve of Germany's resumption of the
status of a free nation may be simply stated. The Occupy-
ing Powers performed the major surgical operation to
remove the evil of the Nazi regime from the German
body. The patient must now bring into play his own
recuperative powers.

The Office of the US High Commissioner is, however,
carrying out a broad program which in reality is an
extension of the denazification policy into a positive
field. This is the program of helping. the Germans build
a lasting democracy. In this connection, the difficulties
encountered by former German denazification officials in
their quest for employment should be noted. It is a
situation which undoubtedly requires correction by a
responsible and enlightened public opinion.

The success or failure of this effort rests, in the final
analysis, on the Germans themselves. The regeneration
of a people must come from within. There are in Germany
today, men and women of real stature, ability and
courage who are devoting their energies to this task.
There are such people in and outside the government, in
all walks of life. There is a free and democratic press.
There are broadening contacts with the free world out-
side. There exists a deepening conviction among Ger-
mans everywhere that the interests of Germany will
be best served not by the resurgence of a narrow
and chauvinistic nationalism but by the close associa-
tion of Germany with a free and integrated European
community. --END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

CRALOG (Council of Relief Agencies Licensed for ~
Operation in Germany) recently completed five years of
welfare work which has benefited thousands of needy ~
Germans. In Berlin, where the organization's work was ©
of particular importance, students of Western Berlin's
Free University (top) are recipients of butter, milk and”
other things. The 7,000 tons of food and clothing distrib-
uted in Berlin alone by CRALOG necessitated a large”
warehouse (center), from which material was distributed”
by Berlin Central Committee. Powdered eggs and butter”
were among more important items needed by Berliners”
(bottom) distributed by CRALOG, which represents 17”
major US welfare agencies. (PRB BE-HICOG photos)

MARCH 1951

--- Page 72 ---
(Continued from page 31)

The Socialist Unity Party

supposedly a non-party movement in which, according
to the same party resolution, all ‘patriotic’ forces must
unite to reunify Germany and gain its independence.
Thus, the party is openly attempting to assemble not
only the workers, but also the “patriotic’’ sections of
the middle class, merchants, entrepreneurs, artisans and
farmers into the National Front, allegedly to save the
nation from the “imperialism” of the United States, Great
Britain and France.

This means that, on the one hand, the party is pro-
claiming a goal of socialism, which, when carried out
via a “dictatorship of the proletariat, will destroy all
except the working class. Yet, on the other hand, most
of the “patriotic forces” to which the party appeals for
support of the National Front belong to these classes
which the party aims to destroy.

HE ULTIMATE GOAL remains the creation of a

German government and society which will approxi-
mate the model of the Soviet Union and which in
Marxist-Leninist terminology is called ‘socialism.’ The
“anti-Fascist, democratic’ regime of Eastern Germany
(not yet openly “‘socialist’) now often modifies its
words and public statements so as not to injure the
appeal of the National Front in Western Germany.
There, where —as all free elections demonstrate — less
than five. percent of the people are followers of the
Communist Party as such, the SED hopes to lure addi-
tional gullible, non-Communist Germans to support the
disguised Communist aims of the National Front.

It must always be kept in mind that the policy of
the Soviet Union is not merely to consolidate Com-
munist power in Eastern Germany as in Eastern Europe.
The larger goal, indeed, is to use enslaved Eastern
Germany as a base for expanding Soviet control to
Western Germany and Western Europe. This means at
present the disguise of nationalism in order to draw the
majority of Western Germany's people away from their
present support of the Western Allies and democratic
institutions. Instead, their allegiance is to be transferred
to the Soviet Union, the Communist Party and Com-
munist-controlled movements.

To this end, the SED plays down the Soviet and
Communist controls of the National Front in its self-
proclaimed campaign of “‘national resistance."

At the same time, the whole effort, which has been
Carried on since January 1949, to make the SED into
a “party of the new type” is a clear indication of the
Priority given to steps toward Soviet ‘'socialism’ inside
the Soviet Zone. The steps in this development involve
work both within the party and among the rest of the
Population.

ITHIN THE PARTY all members must subject
themselves to intense ideological training, which
includes evening lectures and study periods after regular
work as well as full-time schooling for periods from

MARCH 1951

67

several weeks to a year. The curriculum for the various
courses is also fixed with heavy emphasis on Stalin's
works, the history of the Soviet Bolshevist Party and
other Marxist volumes,

At the same time, all party members must work
greatly to expand their education of, and agitation
among, the masses. In fact, 1950 might almost be de-
scribed as the year of intense indoctrination efforts in
Eastern Germany. Despite all promises of consideration
for “progressive middle-class elements and respect for
their businesses and positions, the SED is undeniably
preparing for the liquidation of all classes except work-
ers, working farmers, and Communist intellectuals and
officials.

To state the aims and activities of the party provides
no estimate of their probable degree of success, How-
ever, this is undoubtedly the ultimate test, from the
Soviet viewpoint, of the usefulness of any Communist
party and deserves some attention.

Actually, one must differentiate at the start between
success in Eastern Germany and success in Western Ger-
many. Since the SED, thanks to the Soviet Military
Administration, holds every instrument of power, terror
and intimidation in the Soviet Zone, it is obvious that
the party has achieved a certain sort of success in that
area, which, however, is not without its weak spots.

VEN WITHIN THE PARTY, there are important

weaknesses. At least one-third of the members are still
former Social Democrats, who, despite all party school-
ing and indoctrination, cling to traditional Social Demo-
cratic ideas of tolerance, parliamentary and legal proce-
dures, and persuasion by argument.

Secondly, the party, with almost 10 percent of the total
population, is too large, as Communist parties go, for
effective fighting action. Inevitably, many members are
opportunists who have joined the party for personal ad-
vantage rather than from ideological conviction. There
is also a large group of old Communists who are dis-
satisfied with the Anti-Fascist, Democratic Bloc and Na-
tional Front policies of cooperation with non-Communist
groups, even if this is intended to be only temporary.

Party leaders have acknowledged these membership
failings by hinting during speeches at the Party Congress
and subsequently that a more or less extensive purge
will occur when all members must obtain new mem-
bership books in early 1951. The test as announced by
the Central Committee will be the attitude and loyalty
of the members toward the Soviet Union “as the leading
progressive force in which no doubt is possible.”

As a result of the recognition of party weaknesses,
the prolific party press must devote countless pages and
the party instructors countless lectures to overcoming
these internal weaknesses. Constant repetition is made of
one or more of a list of heresies and sins which all good
party members must avoid as they would a pestilence.

OME OF THESE ARE incomprehensible without ex-
planation to the uninitiated, but the list is an indica-
tion of party woes, and includes the following:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
The first entry blank of the Freedoms Foundation Award
Program is presented by US High Commissioner John
J. McCloy to Wolfgang Bernhardt of Berlin, who recently
returned from 60-day lecture tour of US schools. Con-
test, open to all West German and West Berlin youth
between ages of 12 and 18, calls for a one-page essay
on “The Free Way of Life. Four winners will be
selected to tour US for 60 days. In addition each will
receive $500. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

Bourgeois Objectivism:— Attempting oneself to deter-
mine the truth, not viewing everything as party propa-
ganda interprets it from a Stalinist point of view.

Conciliationism:— Dulling of the class consciousness
and loss of fighting, revolutionary spirit.

Cosmopolitanism:— Friendly and tolerant feelings of
brotherhood and solidarity toward non-Communistic, non-
working class groups and nations,

Formalism:— Cultural works which do not incorporate
art of socialistic inspiration.

Left Radicalism or Revolutionary Adventurism:— Reck-
lessly trying to achieve socialism in disobedience of
party orders and without consideration of needed tactical
twists and turns.

Opportunism: — Taking easy paths to achieve results
instead of the difficult “scientific routes of Stalinism.

Practicism:— Devoting attention only to practical tasks,
such as completing the Two-Year Plan, and forgetting
ideological issues.

Revisionism:— Believing that socialism can be attained
by means of parliamentary reforms without revolution
and class struggle.

Sectarianism:— Such narrow-minded devotion to
Marxist ideology and party work as to neglect propa-
ganda and agitation among the masses.

Scholosticism:— School teaching of facts as such with-
out slanting everything in “progressive’ fashion and in
terms of the class struggle.

Social Democratism:— A widely prevalent form of re-
visionism which plays into capitalist hands.

Trotzkyism, Titoism or Schumacherism:— Any devia-
tions from party policy and discipline, especially those

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

involving or leading to "spying," ‘'sabotage,” “aiding the
enemy,’ etc.

N ADDITION TO THESE internal difficulties, the

party has had, and will continue to have, serious
problems in winning the majority of Eastern Germans to
the Communist cause. One of the main reasons for this
is a series of Soviet policies which Germans cannot be
made to like. These include:

Soviet demands that all Germans recognize as final
the new Eastern borders of Germany;

Soviet industrial dismantling until 1948;

Soviet reparations seizures from current East German
production (officially scheduled for another 15 years) at
the rate of more than 1,500,000,000 East marks per year;

Soviet occupation costs of more than 2,000,000,000 East
marks per year;

Soviet failure to repatriate all German prisoners of war
in Soviet Union despite announcements to the contrary;

Reconstitution in Eastern Germany of a totalitarian po-
lice state very similar to that of Nazi days under Hitler;

Virtual forced labor for many of the more than
300,000 Germans who work in and around the Soviet-
operated uranium mines in Saxony;

Continuation of a standard of living much below that
of Western Germany with tremendous favoritism shown
to the SED elite, police and new army;

Complete communization of education and interference
with religous organization and activity;

Soviet ownership of many of the most important fac-
tories in Eastern Germany (the SAG's");

Steady progression to collectivization of agriculture,
which is already being organized into basic units of 1,200
hectares for “planning and mutual production" purposes;

Relentless pressure on the remaining middle class and
handicraftsman groups toward abandonment of their
property and right to exist; and

Restoration of a factory dictatorship for the workers in
which they have no voice in factory conditions, rules of
work, or wages, in which they cannot strike, and in
which strict factory discipline is enforced.

IROM THIS SURVEY of the SED, it is safe to conclude

that, while the party dominates the Soviet Zone and
perhaps cannot be removed from power without force,
it does so only by suppressing not only a large number
of its own nominal members, but also at least 80 per-
cent of the resentful population. If it retains power for
some years, however, after the new generation has been
educated in Marxist-oriented schools and in the Com-
munist youth organizations, cut off from true reports of
Western Germany and the rest of the world, a greater
proportion of the East German people may voluntarily
support, or at least complacently acquiesce in, the par-
ty’s work.

As for the SED's prospects in Western Germany, these
will vary inversely with the awareness, energy and cour-
age of the Western Germans and their determination to
work together with the Western world to preserve their
liberties. +END

MARCH 1951

--- Page 74 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Feb. 8

The 53rd meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Feb. 8. Present were Mr. John
J. McCloy, United States High Commis-
sioner (Chairman), Mr. Andre Francois-
Poncet, French High Commissioner, and
Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom
High Commissioner.

The Council:

{1) Signed a law harmonizing in three
zones the procedure by which the Occu-
pation Authorities will pay compensation
in Deutsche marks to persons who have
suffered loss or damage from the occu-
pation. The text of the law will be
published in the Official Gazette. (See
“Laws and Regulations.’’)

(2) Agreed to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg on Feb, 15, 1951.

HICOM Meeting of Feb. 15

The 54th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Feb. 15. Present were Mr. John
J, McCloy, US High Commissioner (chair-
man), Mr, Andre Francois-Poncet, French
High Commissioner, and Mr. J. G, Ward,
Deputy United Kingdom High Commissioner,
acting for Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick.

The Council:

(1) Discussed recent inexact press reports
concerning the question of occupation
costs, The Council affirmed that various
proposals are being studied by the commis-
sion in order to reduce the impact of future
increases in occupation costs due to the
reinforcement of Allied troops.

The Council expressed its particular
desire to correct the false impression that
the arrival in Germany of additional de-
fense troops can be made without an
increase in occupation costs and that there
is disagreement within the High Commis-
sion on this question or on the necessity
of making every possible economy in con-
cert with the Federal authorities. It was
stressed that under present arrangements
the impact of the cost of such reinforce-
ments will be borne by the Occupying Pow-
ers as well as by the Federal Republic.

(2) Noted that the Chairman High Com-
missioner has advised the Federal Chan-
cellor in a letter that “the moment is ap-
Proaching at which the governments of the
United Siates, France, the United Kingdom
and other members of the United Nations
will be able to terminate the state of war
with Germany in their own domestic legis-
lation." Accordingly, the letter invites the
Federal Government to speed enactment of
a law, now in draft form, eliminating from
German legislation all reference to the
State of war. .

(3) Agreed to invite representatives of

the Federal Government to discuss with
representatives of the High Commission
Certain aspects of a law concerning property
tights of the German Federal Post, adopted
by the Federal Government and submitted
to the High Commission for review.
__ (4) Signed a law, which will be published
in the Off.cial Gazette of the H.gh Com-
mission, depriving of effect numerous items
of the Occupation Statute.

(5) Agreed to hold its next meeting in
erlin on Feb, 22, 1951.

MARCH 1951

HICOM Meeting of Feb. 22

The 55th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held Feb. 22
at the United States Headquarters building
in Berlin, Present were Mr. John J. McCloy,
US High Commissioner (chairman), Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner, and Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, UK
High Commissioner,

The US High Commissioner introduced
to the Council Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathew-
son, the new US commandant in Berlin.
General de Brigade P, Carolet, French
commandant, and Major-General G. K.
Bourne, British commandant, also attended
the meeting.

The Council took the opportunity of its
visit to Berlin to hear from the comman-
dants a report on economic and political
developments in the city.

In connection with the proposed meeting
of the four foreign ministers, the Council
expressed recognition of the concern and
interest of the Federal Government in any
deliberations relating to Germany. It was
agreed to inform the Federal Chancellor to
the fullest possible extent of the discus-
sions and to give consideration to any
views that the Federal Government might
wish to present.

Laws and Regulations

Law No. 47
Compensation for Occupation Damages

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacts as follows:

Article 1

The Occupation Authorities will authorize
the payment in Deutsche marks of com-
pensation for occupation damages suffered
within the territory of the Federal Republic
by any person, natural or juristic (includ-
ing entities which are treated as such by
German Law), as hereinafter provided, sub-
ject, however, to such modifications with
respect to particular applications or classes
of applications as may be necessary for
equity or the accomplishment of the basic
purposes of the occupation.

Article 2

1. The loss or damage suffered must have
been caused by an act or omission of:

(a) The Occupation Authorities; or

(b) The Occupation Forces, their members
and the dependents of such members; or

(c) Non-German persons or agencies
whose presence in the occupied territory
is certified by the Allied High Commission,
by a high commissioner or by the com-
mander of any of the Occupation Forces
to be necessary for the purposes of the
occupation and who are not engaged in
commercial activity with a view to
proiit; or

(d) Nationais of the Occupying Powers
serving with the Occupation Authorities,
and the dependents of such nationals; or

(e) Other persons who are employed by
or serve with the Occupation Authorities,
the Occupation Forces or the non-German
persons or agencies referred to in Sub-
paragraph (c) above, provided that the act

69

or omission arises out of and within the
scope of their employment or service.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
article, applications for damage to re-
quisitioned premises occasioned by the
acts or omissions of any non-German
nationals occupying such premises with the
permission of the Occupation Authorities
or Forces shall be admissible hereunder

Article 3

The act or omission must be such as
would have given the person who suffered
the loss or damage a right according to
the provisions of German Law to recover
compensation from the person who com-
mitted the act or omission or who was
responsible for it.

Article 4

Payment of compensation will not be
authorized in respect of:

(a) Loss or damage arising from an act
or omission which occurred prior to Aug. 1,
1945;

(b) Loss or damage arising from the non-
fulfilment or breach of a contract;

(c): Loss or damage arising from the non-
fulfilment or breach of obligations or
rights in the field of domestic relations,
including liability for maintenance of
illegitimate children;

(d) Loss or damage in the field of in-
dustrial, literary and artistic property
rights when such loss or damage is the
result of orders issued by competent
Allied authorities;

(e) Loss or damage to foreign exchange
assets, gold or silver coin, gold, silver or
platinum bullion or alloys thereof in
bullion form, foreign currency, or any
other property or rights to be surrendered
in accordance with the provisions of
legislation of the Occupation Authorities
or of any authority to which they have
succeeded;

(f) Loss of or damage to property which
arises from the execution of repgration or
restitution measures, in so for as such loss
or damage is suffered by the owners of the
property subject to such measures;

(g) Loss of or damage to property which
arises from the execution of authorized
measures taken for the liquidation of war
potential in so far as such loss or damage
is suffered by the owners of the property
subject to such measures;

(h) Loss of or damage to property, or loss
or damage arising from the requisition or
use of property, of;

(i) The Federal Republic or a Land (State),
the former German Reich or any political
subdivision, agency or instrumentality
thereof, the former German Wehrmacht or
any occupation, association, firm, organi-
zation, or legal entity owned or controlled
by the former German Reich, with the
exception of the Bundesbahn and the
Bundespost;

(ii) The former German National Socialist
Party (NSDAP), its formations, affiliated
associations and supervised agencies,
including paramilitary and other National
Socialist institutions established as instru-
ments of party domination;

(i) Loss or damage arising from procure-
ment or requisition by the Allied Forces
of real or personal property, supplies,
facilities, materials, labor or services, com-
pensation for which is otherwise provided
out of the funds of the All'ed High Com-
mission Deutsche Mark Budget;

(j) Loss or damage caused by a person
mentioned in this Article, Paragraphs 1 (b),
1 (c) and 1 (d), in respect of which such
person is covered by a contract of insur-
ance, or for which such person pays com-
pensation out of his own means.

{NFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Article 5

1. In the case of loss of or damage to
requisitioned property including movables
situated on requisitioned premises, the
date of the act or omission for the purpose
of this law shall, where not otherwise
ascertainable, be the date of derequisition-
ing of the property.

2.In the case of irregular seizure of
movables not subsequently requisitioned,
and of loss of or damage to such movables,
the date of the act or omission for the
purpose of this law, shall be the date when
the movables were first seized.

Article 6

1, The amount of compensation authoriz-
ed to be paid

(a) shall in the case of damage to re-
quisitioned property not exceed the amount
of physical damage to the property during
the period of requisition and shall not
include compensation for reasonable wear
and tear and depreciation in so far as
compensation for the use of such property
is otherwise provided for out of the funds
of the Allied High Commission Deutsche
Mark Budget;

(b) may include any amount in respect
of any expenses reasonably and neces-
sarily incurred in connection with an ap-
plication for compensation in respect of
which payment of compensation has been
authorized;

(c) shall in all other cases as nearly as
possible redress the loss or damage suf-
fered and shall not exceed the amount
recoverable under German law.

2. Compensation for loss or damage
arising from an act or omission occurring
before June 21, 1948, shall be assessed in
Reichsmarks as of the date of the act or
omission, and

(a) in respect of death or permanent
bodily injury shall be paid on the basis
of parity between Reichsmarks and
Deutsche marks, and

(b) in respect of any other loss or
damage shall be converted on the basis of
one Deutsche mark for 10 Reichsmarks.

3. Assessments or payments not in ac-
cordance with the provisions of Para-
graph 2 (a) made after June 21, 1948, shall
be reassessed in accordance with such
provisions and any favorable balance paid
to the person entitled.

Article 7
Applications for compensation under the
provisions of this law shall be filed with
the Buergermeister (mayor) of the place
where the accident or incident occurred
or with such other agency as may be desig-
nated by the Occupation Authorities. Appli-
cations shall be supported by all relevant
evidence in possession of or obtainable by
the applicant. The Buergermeister or other
agency shall forward the application and
supporting evidence without delay to an
office designated by the Occupation Authori-
ties.
Article 8

1. Except as provided in Paragraphs 2
and 3, the application must be filed within
a period of 90 days from the date on
which the incident or accident occurred.

2. In cases of loss or of damage to
requisitioned premises or to movable prop-
erty on such premises, where the date
of the incident or accident cannot be
determined, the application must be filed
within a period of 90 days from the date
of derequisitioning.

3. The 90-day period provided in Para-
graphs 1 and 2 may be extended by the
Occupation Authorities either generally,
or in specific cases when the applicant

INFORMATION BULLETIN

shows good and sufficient reason why he
was unable to file the application within
the period.
Article 9
All German authorities and agencies shall
supply all evidence, testimony or other
information deemed necessary by the Oc-
cupation Authorities for the proper con-
sideration of the application.
Article 10
The Occupation Authorities of each
Zone and, in the case of the Bonn Enclave,
the Allied High Commission, will establish
the machinery for determining whether
compensation is to be awarded, for asses-
sing the amount thereof, and for charging
the expenditure to the appropriate heading
of the mandatory expenditure budget.
Article 11
The acceptance of compensation authoriz-
ed hereunder shall effect the release of
any person or agency referred to in
Article 2 from any liability with respect
to the incident or accident from which the
loss or damage arose.
Done at
Bonn, Petersberg, Feb. 8, 1951.

* x Ok

Compensation for Occupation Damages

In commenting on the law on compen-
sation for occupation damages, passed
Feb. 8 by the Council of the Allied High
Commission (See Laws and Regulations,
page 69), the Finance Division, HICOG,
has outlined procedures to be followed.

The law is designed to bring about
uniform compensation in the three occu-
pation zones and incorporate advice and
suggestions of the federal ministries of
finance and justice. It covers payment of
compensation for personal injuries and
property damage claims including claims
for damage to requisitioned real estate and
movable property. In general, the law
applies to present or future claims, but not
to past claims. It does not reinstate old
rights nor does it attempt to set aside the
currency reform law or regulations there-
under.

The law does not change the principle
followed at the present time that damages
occurring before currency reform are deter-
mined in Reichsmarks and are subject to
revaluation at the rate of RM 10 to DM 1,
except in certain cases of claims arising
from death or permanent bodily injury.
June 21, 1948, is the decisive date for
the determination of whether claims shall
be subject to devaluation. In cases of death
and permanent bodily injury only when the
damage was committed before June 21,
1948, and not compensated before that date,
compensation shall be assessed in Reichs-
marks and paid in Deutsche marks at a
rate of DM 1 to RM 1. For such a part of
a claim as directly pertains to death and
permanent bodily injury (incidental claims
for such items as medical expenses,
damage to property, etc., are not included)
in which assessments were made or paid
after June 21, 1948, on any other basis shall
be recomputed and any favorable balance
paid to the person entitled to the claim.
This involves reopening approximately
1,300 to 1,600 individual cases. Some of the
files on these cases have been sent to the
US, so the reopening of many cases will
have to await their return to Germany. The
recomputation will be done automatically;
no correspondence on the part of the
claimant is necessary.

The effective date on which claims must
be filed has been extended in the US Zone,
in the case of real estate and movable

70

property from 60 to 90 days, and in the
case of tort claims reduced from 120 to 90
days from the date on which the incident
or accident occurred. In cases where the
date of the incident or accident causing
damage to requisitioned premises or prop-
erty can not be determined, the date of
derequisition is taken as the effective date.
In such cases the claim must be filed
within 90 days of derequisitioning.

It is provided that the amount of com-
pensation for damage shall as nearly as
possible redress the loss or damage suf-
fered and will be based on German Law.

Under this law if a claim is based on an
act or omission of a member of the Occu-
pation Forces or Authorities who is
covered by insurance in respect of such
claim, payment of the claim is the respon-
sibility of the insurance company and not
of the Allied High Commission,

Regulations for uniform assessment of
the amount of damages in the three
western zones are to be issued shortly.

Fourth Regulation Under Law 27

The Allied High Commission has approv-
ed a fourth regulation for the reorgani-
zation of the German coal and iron and
steel industries under High Commission
Law No. 27.

Regulation No. 4 provides for the liqui-
dation of four more of the 13 companies
listed in Schedule “A” to Law No. 27 as
enterprises subject to reorganization to
prevent excessive concentration of eco-
nomic power. Provision for liquidation of
six other concerns was made in Regu-
lations Nos, 1 and 2 under Law 27.*

The companies with which Regulation
No. 4 is concerned are: Kohlenhandels-
gesellschaft “‘Glueckauf'’ Abt. Beck & Co;
Deutsche Kohlenhandelsgesellschaft Lue-
ders, Meentzen & Co; Kohlenkontor Wey-
henmeyer & Co; Kohlenwertstoff A.G.

Statements and Speeches

Agreement on Occupation Costs

The Office of the US High Commissioner
has flatly denied newspaper reports to the
effect that there is any disagreement among
the United States, British and French
delegations of the Allied High Commission
on the subject of occupation costs. All
three Powers have been endeavoring con-
stantly to reduce costs in concert with the
Federal authorities.

It was pointed out that the arrival in Ger-
many of additional defense troops would
mean increased costs to the Federal Gov-
ernment as well as to the United States,
British and French Governments.

Consequently, financial advisers of the
three governments are presently discussing
specific means of lessening future impact
of defense or occupation costs on the Ger-
man budget.

US Reply to Soviet Note

Following is the text of the US reply,
identical with those of France and the
United Kingdom, to the Soviet note of
Feb. 5, regarding a Four Power meeting
of Foreign Ministers, as delivered in Mos-
cow and released Feb. 21.

“1, The Ambassador of the USA has
the honor to acknowledge the receipt of
the Soviet Government's note of Feb. 5,

%* See “Action Starts on Steel Reorganization,”
page 11 of Information Bulletin, November 1950
issue.

MARCH 1951

--- Page 76 ---
1951, and under instructions from his
government, to reply as follows:

2. The US Government regrets that the
Soviet Government in its reply repeats
and further exaggerates inaccurate state-
ments about the policies and motives of
the US, French, the UK, as well as the
German Federal Republic. The Soviet alle-
gations are totally without foundation.

3. The attempt to eliminate the causes
of international tension is a subject which
so deeply touches the interest of all
peoples that it demands the most serious
and honest consideration. Clearly, if these
causes are to be eliminated, they must
first be correctly identified.

4, It is obvious that it is not the Ger-
man problem or the consideration of a
German contribution to the defense of
West Europe which is the root of the
present tension. The US Government
wishes to emphasize, moreover, that in
West Germany there do not exist any
German military forces, or any German
war industry and that the only fait accom-
pli in this field in Europe is the existence
of the huge armaments maintained by the
Soviet bloc which include forces raised
in East Germany. In short, as the US
Government stated in its note of Dec. 22,
the serious tension which exists at present
arises in the first instance from the gene-
ral attitude adopted by the Government
of the USSR since the end of the war.

5. The Soviet Government has referred
to the defense program undertaken by the
US and the free nations of Europe. It
must be as apparent to the Soviet Go-
vernment as it is to world public opinion,
that the free nations of the world, con-
fronted with the vast armed forces main-
tained by the Soviet Union and the nations
under its control, and in the face of the
frustration by the Soviet Government of
the sincere efforts of a large majority of
the members of the United Nations to
obtain the effective international control
and reduction of armament, have had no
course except to move to redress for their
own security the great disparity in armed
forces existing in the world.

6. The US Government wishes to insure
that the discussion at any meeting of the
four ministers shall include these real
causes of tension and that a suitable
agenda to that end be drawn up. Since
the Soviet Government has admitted the
Possibility of discussing questions other
than German, and has itself drawn atten-
tion to that of armament, the Government
of the US, which desires to raise this
question, assumes that the Soviet Govern-
ment does not object to the represen-
tatives of the four governments in the
preliminary conversations preparing an
agenda which will cover the causes of
tension in Europe, including the existing
level of armaments; problems affecting
Germany; the Austrian treaty. The for-
mulation of these and other subjects
which may be agreed upon as well as
their order on the agenda will naturally
be considered at the preliminary con-
ference,

7. If the Soviet Government agrees with
the basis outlined above for a preliminary
conference in Paris, the US Government
Suggests that the representatives of the

‘our Powers meet there on March 5. If,
&s the Government of the US hopes, the
Preliminary conference of the represen-
panes finds a mutually acceptable basis
or a meeting of the ministers, the
Government of the US suggests that the

reign Ministers of the US, France, the

MARCH 1951

UK and the Soviet Union meet in Wash-
ington on a date to be recommended by
the representatives. The Government of
the US is informed that these arrangements
will be convenient to the Governments
of France and the UK.”

Responsibility for STEG Operations

The following HICOG Staff Announce-
ment (No. 162), issued Jan. 30, 1951, defines
the functions, authorities, duties and re-
sponsibilities assumed by the Office of
Administration, HICOG, in the finalization
of STEG (German organization which sells
surplus US equipment in Germany) trans-
actions which concern HICOG,

1. Purpose

The purpose of this directive is to define
the functions, authorities, duties and
responsibilities assumed by the Office of
Administration in the finalization of STEG
transactions which are of concern to the
Office of the US High Commissioner for
Germany.

2. Basic Functions and Authorities

The Fiscal Services Division is charged
with the establishment and implementation
of policies to finalize these STEG trans-
actions and will be HICOG's central
source of official information on STEG
activities. The Division will:

a, Officially contact officers and em-
ployees of the US Occupation Forces and
Authorities for source material, and main-
tain liaison with officials of the Federal
Republic of Germany and/or Staatliche Er-
fassungsgesellschaft fuer Oeffentliches Gut
(STEG) and EUCOM.

b. Determine and develop adjustments be-
tween claims of the Federal Republic of Ger-
many and/or STEG and claims of the US
Occupation Forces and Authorities.

c. Review, consider and recommend
disposition in the settlement of all claims
against STEG raised by third party in-
terests resulting from action taken by the
US Occupation Forces and Authorities.

d. Effect such audits of records of the
Federal Republic of Germany, STEG,
EUCOM, and/or HICOG as are considered
necessary.

e. Prepare and submit to the US High
Commissioner a comprehensive report
showing the complete results and final
status of all STEG transactions.

3. Duties and Responsibilities

The Fiscal Services Division is charged
with duties and responsibilities necessary
to carry out its basic functions, These du-
ties and responsibilities will include, but
will not be limited to, the following:

a. Establish and maintain official HICOG
accounts for each property disposal pro-
gram carried on through STEG in which
the US Government has official interest.

b. Recommend to the US High Commis-
sioner the amount of the dollar charge due
from the Federal Republic of Germany for
disposal programs processed through STEG.

c. Act as official channel through which
the Federal Republic of Germany and/or
STEG and third party interests contact the
Office of the US High Commissioner for
Germany.

d. Render periodic reports to the Office
of the US High Commissioner for Germany
indicating the current status of the Divi-
sion's activities.

4. Effective Date

This directive formalizes the responsi-
bilities and procedures for STEG operations
which have been in effect since July 1, 1950.

71

Official Announcements

Clemency for Nine War Criminals

Acting on the recommendations of the
War Crimes Modification Board, General
Thomas T. Handy, Commander-in-Chief,
EUCOM, has reduced the sentences of
nine war criminals convicted in 1947 of
having participated in operation of the
Flossenburg Concentration Camp.

War criminals granted clemency and
the action taken in their cases are as
follows:

Wilhelm Brush, 58, and Alois Schubert,
38, from life to 15 years;

Bruno Skierka, 53, and Otto Pawliczek,
36, from life to 12 years;

Ludwig Buddensieg, 66,
the time already served;

Raimund Maurer, 42, from 30 to 15
years;

Peter Bongartz, 43, from 15 to 12 years;

Kurt Schreiber, 40, from 20 to 10 years;

Hans Lipinski, 49, from 10 years to the
time already served.

The Modification Board considered that
the degree of participation of each of the
accused in the operation of the Flossen-
burg Concentration Camp was such that
indicated reduction in their sentences was
warranted at this time as a matter of
clemency. — from EUCOM announcement.

from life to

EUCOM Applicants for SHAPE

Department of the Army civilian per-
sonnel of the European Command who
wish to apply for civilian employment
with SHAPE must do so through their
local civilian personnel offices. The local
civilian personnel officers will determine
the availability of the applicants, and for-
ward the applications to SHAPE,

Applications will indicate whether the
employee is available for immediate trans-
fer, or will be available for transfer after
a specific date; whether the employee is
recommended for a transfer; and the ex-
tent of security clearance granted the
employee.

SHAPE has announced that it will not
consider applications of EUCOM person-
nel which are forwarded in any other
manner, — from EUCOM announcement.

Coffee and Tea Rationing

A monthly ration of seven pounds of
coffee and three pounds of tea for all
EUCOM personnel over 16 years of age
having commissary privileges has been
authorized at Army and Air Force com-
missary stores in the European Command
beginning March 1,

Those with commissary privileges may
be able to purchase seven pounds of loose
or vacuum packed coffee and three pounds
of tea per month for each member of the
family who is 16 or older.

The rationing system does not remove
the authority of Military Post command-
ers to limit or control the sale of coffee
or tea if the item is in short supply, or
if sales are obnormally high. — from
EUCOM announcement.

EUCOM Personnel Quarters in France

EUCOM military and civilian personnel
with dependents who are transferred to
duty in France are responsible for ob-
taining quarters for themselves and de-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 77 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Customs Information for Exporters to
the United States, Treasury Department,
Bureau of Customs (Washington), March
1950.

The Socialist Unity Party as the Soviet
Instrument of Power in Eastern Germany,
HICOG, Nov. 15, 1950.

5th Quarterly Report on Germany, HI-
COG, Oct. 1-Dec, 31, 1950.

A Record of Progress in the ERP
Countries, Recovery Guides, No. 17, ECA
(Washington), December 1950.

1950 Berlin Constitution and Electoral
Law, HICOM, Jan. 15, 1951.

Summary Report of the 111th Plenary
Meeting of the Bundestag Held on Wed-
nesday, Jan. 17, 1951, Allied Secretariat,
HICOM, Jan, 18, 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 258,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Jan, 19, 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 259,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Jan, 26, 1951.

Spotlight (Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities), Vol. VI, No. 4, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, Jan,
26, 1951,

HICOG and Western Germany, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 4, I&E
Office, EUCOM, Jan. 28, 1951.

Current Unemployment Situation, Feder-
al Republic of Germany, January 1951,

Oftice of Labor Affairs, HICOG, Jan. 30.
1951.

Ojficial Gazette, No. 46, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, Jan. 31, 1951.

HEUTE (in German), No, 129, ISD HI-
OLC Bavaria (Munich), January 1951.

Schule und Gegenwart (Schools Today),
pedagogical monthly magazine in Ger-
man, Vol. 3, No. 1, Educational Office,
OLC Bavaria (Munich), January 1951.

Buecher-Vorschau (Preview of New
Books — in German), No. 47, Central Distri-
bution Section (Frankfurt), January 1951,

Germany, Report of the British High
Commissioner, Quarter October-Decem-
ber 1950, No. 1, January 1951,

Weekly Publication Analysis, No, 260,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Feb. 2, 1951.

Summary Report of the 48th Meeting of
the Bundesrat Held on Friday, Feb. 2,
1951, Allied Secretariat, HICOM, Feb, 3,
1951,

Burma — Asian Question Mark, EU-
COM Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 5,
I&E Office, EUCOM, Feb. 4, 1951.

Copies of publications etc, listed

in the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters

Spotlight (Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities), Vol. VI, No. 6, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, Feb.
9, 1951,

Weekly Publication Analysis, No, 261,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Feb. 9, 1951,

Turkey Looks Westward, Adapted from
Armed Forces Talk 352, EUCOM Informa-
tion Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 6, I&E Office,
EUCOM, Feb. 11, 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 47, Allied Secretar-
iat, HICOM, Feb. 14, 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No, 262,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Feb, 16, 1951.

Daily Press Review, Nos. 17-34, ISD
HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Jan, 25-Feb, 20,
1951.

Information Bulletin, February 1951, PRD,
HICOG, Feb. 22, 1951.

Soldier (The British Army Magazine),
Vol. 6, No. 12, February 1951.

Der Monat (in German), Vol. 3, No. 29,
ISD HICOG (Munich), February 1951.

The Department of State Bulletin, Vol.

XXIV, Nos. 601-606, Government Print-
ing Office (Washington), Jan. 8-Feb. 12,
1951.

Exports from the Three Western Zones
of Germany, Treaties and other Inter-
national Acts, Series 2109, Pub. 3982, Gov-
ernment Printing Office (Washington),
February 1951.

pendents in that country through private
arrangement.

Unaccompanied EUCOM personnel will
be housed in France in bachelor-officers
quarters until they can obtain family-type
billets, or make other arrangements if
they desire.

EUCOM warned that rental housing in
France is scarce and not always satis-
factory, and that hotels are expensive,
particularly in Paris. Therefore, sponsors
who are transferred to stations in France
should leave their dependents in assigned
quarters in the US area of responsibility
in Germany until they are able to secure
adequate quarters in France.

It was also explained that medical care of
American dependents in France is largely
the concern of their sponsor, Only limited
American medical facilities are available
to dependents in Paris, while in some areas
where EUCOM personnel may be stat.oned,
French doctors only are available at the
present time,

Dependents may be allowed to stay in
assigned quarters in Germany up to 90
days after their sponsor has been trans-
ferred to France. If the sponsor is not able
to obtain private rental billets in France
within that period of time, a request for
extension of the 90-day period must be
referred to EUCOM Headquarters. To com-
pensate EUCOM personnel for increased
expenses in France, a cost of living allow-
ance is authorized which is adjusted to
prevailing conditions in the different areas.
— from EUCOM announcement.

DP Marriage Registration Extension

The Allied High Commission has ap-
proved a law extending to Jan. 1, 1952,
the time limit for the submission of ap-
plications for the registration of those
marriages between displaced persons or
refugees which were solemnized in Ger-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

many and were validated by AHC Law
No. 23.

The law amends Article 7 of AHC Law
No. 23. The amendment was enacted on
the suggestion of the International Refugee
Organization (IRO) so that the marriages
by religious ceremony of several thousand
displaced persons and refugees who have
left Germany may be considered as valid
under German law.—from HICOM an-
nouncement.

Relaxations On Foreign Investments

New relaxations of restrictions on for-
eign investments in Germany have been
announced by the Allied High Commission.
This action follows the High Commission's
decision of last June (AHC Press Release
No. 152 of June 15, 1950) under a proce-
dure approved at that time.

The growth of investment under this
procedure was closely observed by the
Allied High Commission and it has now
been decided that a new stage can be in-
troduced in order to assist the develop-
ment of the economy. The new relaxations,
which are embodied in a detailed procedure
prepared by the financial advisers of the
high commissioners, have been the subject
of discussions with German financial and
economic authorities. By permitting trans-
fers of blocked marks under arrangements
to be made by the holders outside Germany,
and in any currency, the intention is both
to create fresh investment facilities for the
benefit of the German economy, and also
to assist foreign owners of idle blocked
marks and potential foreign investors.

The Bank Deutscher Laender has been
authorized to issue a general license under
Military Government Laws No. 52 and
No. 53 (revised) permitting the transfer of
Deutsche mark bank balances owned by
persons outside Germany to other non-resi-
dents. Funds so transferred will be desig-

72

nated ‘‘acquired blocked DM’s‘* and may
be used only for specified investment pur-
poses. At the same time, the bank was
authorized to issue another general license
permitting the use of such ‘acquired’ funds
by the new owner for the purchase of
securities issued by public bodies in the
Federal territory and the Western Sectors
of Berlin and ‘securities publicly dealt in
at stock exchanges in those areas, and the
resale, for DM's, of assets so obtained.

The Bank Deutscher Laender has also
been authorized to issue special licenses to
owners of “acquired blocked DM's” for the
acquisition and sale of unlisted securities
of, and participation in, private enterprises
in the Federal territory and the Western
Sectors of Berlin, the purchase and sale of
real estate, the construction and recon-
struction of buildings and the granting of
DM loans to natural or juridical persons
having their ordinary residence in those
areas.

Applications for special licenses are to
be filed with the Land (State) Central Bank
in whose district the applicant's account
is situated. Land Central Banks are being
instructed about the data required by the
Bank Deutscher Laender for proper exami-
nation of applications under criteria estab-
lished by the Allied High Commission.

Revenue from property acquired under
the foregoing procedure, as well as pro-
ceeds from the resale of such property,
must be credited to the owner's “acquired
blocked DM account," but will be available
for reinvestment as well as payment of
taxes, bank charges, fees and other ex-
pense arising from the acquisition, admin-
istration and sale of investment property.
However, “acquired blocked DM accounts”
(or property bought out of such accounts)
will not be placed automatically at the free
disposal of their owners should they take
up residence in Germany.—from HICOM
announcement.

MARCH 1951

--- Page 78 ---
N A CLUSTER OF BARRACKS across the Autobahn

(super highway) from Rhine-Main Air Base, near Frank-
furt, live a group of young men in black uniforms. Not
to be confused with the Industrial Police, who are largely
displaced persons, these 500 German civilians have been
employed to help the US Air Force with two problems:
internal security and engineering construction.

This group of Labor Service Units is part of a
EUCOM-wide program to relieve GI's for the vital job
of strengthening America’s defenses in West Germany;
and fully as important, to permit technically trained
troops to return to their specialities.

Since activation in September 1950, Labor Service
guards have taken over two-thirds of the guard posts
within the base. Many Labor Service technical construc-
tion units assigned to the engineer aviation battalion
have been employed in the heavy equipment and motor
Maintenance shops. Others have been assigned jobs in
base construction projects.

RAINING FOR THE LSU's does not stop when they

leave the base. Classes, similar to the Information
and Education instruction given the American airmen,
are conducted to keep these young Germans abreast of
current developments. The more advanced and more
ambitious of the trainees receive instruction in higher
mathematics and languages.

Youthful members of Labor Service Units at Rhine-Main Air Base receive on-the-job training from American airmen

The men’s high morale and self discipline (less than
one percent have desired to terminate their employment)
are attributed to such factors as good food, good pay,
comfortable barracks and wholesome recreation.

For many of them, employment with the Air Force has
turned into rehabilitation. With the exception of the
supervisors, the majority are between the ages of 20 and
25. Many were orphaned and made homeless by the last
war. After wandering for five years, the majority of
these young men appear to feel they have finally found
a home. +END

Songs of faraway homes bring men together in comfort-
able and spacious recreation center in which they while
away spare hours.

(USAFE photos)

--- Page 79 ---
Bronze trio by Knud C. Knudsen, noted young
German artist, symbolizes worldwide “Brother-
hood Week” sponsored in Germany Feb, 17-25
by the German Council of Christians and
Jews to emphasize the importance of religious
tolerance. The sculpture is a gift from the
German organization to its American counter-
part, the National Conference of Christians
and Jews. (Photo by Schoenborn, PRD HICOG)