--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION

MO THLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF

--- Page 3 ---
In some quarters, refugees in Germany have come
under a blanket judgment as an embittered, do-nothing
burdensome group, whose presence has crowded native
Germans from jobs and houses and taken bread out of
their mouths, Judgments like this have strangled progres-
sive moves to give refugees the help they need to get
back on their feet. To arouse public awareness that
refugees have something to contribute to German eco-
nomic life, the HICOG Public Relations Division during
June sponsored a US Zone tour of refugee enterprises
for -American and German press representatives. Cor-

German newsmen interview fugitive girl member of East Zone People's Police.

respondents visited farms and factories, craft shops and
a refugee transient camp, They learned how hard some
refugees had worked and the extent of their rewards.
They saw whole industrial communities born of refugee
initiative and sustained by their work, They noted that
the work of refugees was bringing significant returns to
the governments and private persons who had helped.
On this page photographs show correspondents as they
interview refugees and officials from Hesse to Bavaria,
trying to find out how refugees are making their way
in a renascent Germany. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Correspondents (left) inspect refugee-built tractors. Guy Swope, chief of HICOG Displaced Populations Division, answers
questions of AFN’s Bob Harlan (center) in radio interview. Hungarian expellee (right) shows off garden in Darmstadt settle-
ment. Information Bulletin staff writer Beth Burchard (far left) writes article “Refugees Helping Themselves” on page 7.

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

Bair’ wa:cis cen semis H. Warner Waid
Editorial Writer . . Aileen S, Miles
Editorial Writer ...... Beth Burchard
Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed in the plant of the Publishing
Operations Branch, Information Serv-
ices Division, at 39 Schelling Strasse,
Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as, the
source will be appreciated.

COVER PICTURE

Two expellees from the Sudetenland
talk over job prospects at the Gerets-
tied refugee. industry settlement near
Wolfratshausen, Bavaria. Now housed
in former slave-labor barracks, they look
forward to new Jobs, better homes. For
a story on economic Progress made by
refugees and expellees inthe US Zone,
See Refugees Helping Themselves
On page 7., (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS
August 1950

Model Classrooms (DIClOridl) o). 05525 stan ge ae oe he eS Z

Windows to the West 3
Article by Haynes Mahoney

Refugees Helping Themselves ... 2.0... 0.0.05 us cee ne dee te 7
Article by Beth Burchard

School, Clean-Up Hayes. hs cots ss ca oases ony cane aepetle 12
Article by George H. Godfrey

West Germans Oppose US Withdrawal .................. 14

The CARE Legend. pi fccsas codes tance ccse8 ca mites 15
Article by James Stanley

Ant-Polio!: Drive Spreads 32.22 Fos sce Os aiua'e alee sate tig 18

Youth Self-Help 19
Article by Everett G. Chapman

Exchangees Applaud US Visits 21

Summary of Fruits of Reorientation

Ruhr Todustry s:Proploms 0.5 05os canes nesecs sale okame 23:
Address by John J, McCloy

Rhine-Main's Adopted Children .. 26
Pictorial Article on New Family Life

Edeltraut's on Her Way! 28

Deggendorf Marks 1,200th Anniversary 29
Article by John J. Greeley

ASFIVG-V CAEN V CMUDEW rales ss .c miei #5 ainKgeieir vise. t.cwiateline sean 31
Survey by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser

Mainz Exhibiting Treasured Psalter ...................... 35

Dachau Refugee Camp (pictorial) ............. cece eens 36

International Brotherhood and the Radio ................ 40
Address by Ralph Nicholson

Parm Youth speaks Out vs\... Sse ener as seis mipsinarea'y eee AL
Article by James F, Keim

Nationalism and the Modern State ..................000. 44
Address by Stuart L. Hannon

Personnel Notes .... AG

Economic Review 48

Occupation Log 50

German Opinion in Editorials and Cartoons . + 0

Germany 1947-49 Pictured in Documents ................ 60

HICOM Regulations Nos. 7, 8 and 9 (text) .............. 61

Ofictal” NOUCES Ais. een wce> ore pees tie cetns vias wees CLR 69
Comin QUE 4 155 isin! ehs aks 6 4iess wince tase Rota sto viele oraiaraece 69
Laws and Regulations. . 69
Statements and Speeches tae 0
ABNOUNCOMENTS)! oo. So. Fs; sinicaissuaien eenslo nice Cs d wip.c cue 72

Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents .......... 12;

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

APO 757, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Model
Classrooms
Set Up.

In Bavaria

ODEL CLASSROOMS featuring. the latest in school

furniture and equipment have been set up by the
Office of US State Commissioner for Bavaria in a first-
grade classroom in Peissenberg, and a fifth-grade class-
room in Murnau, both in Weilheim County, to show
Bavarian educators the advantages of up-to-date teaching
facilities.

The two classrooms were completely redone. The old
cumbersome desks, into which four pupils normally
squeeze, were replaced with single desks which can be
rearranged and adjusted to fit the size of its youthful
occupant. The single dim overhead ceiling light in each
of the classrooms has given way to fluorescent lighting
which affords adequate lighting for each child. The
“guillotine’ type blackboard has been replaced with
blackboards which extend around each room, and the
walls were painted with light colors to give the class-
room a more cheerful atmosphere.

In one of the two classes, it had been customary for
the school to spread black tar-like oil over the wooden
floor in order to keep the dust down. To minimize this
unsanitary and dirty condition, the floors have been
covered with linoleum. At the same time, the podium,
upon which the Bavarian teacher normally stands to con-
duct classes, was removed so that the teacher in the
model classes conducts her lessons on a level with her
pupils.

Portable modern individual desks make it easy to conduct

classes outdoors in warm weather. {PRB OLCB photos)

O COMPLETE EACH classroom, bulletin boards to

display the pupils’ work were installed, washing
facilities made available so that the children may wash
their hands and paint brushes, adjustable shades put on
the windows, and a library corner was stocked with ap-
propriate children’s books and equipped with proper
chairs. Other features include ventilated cloakroom space
for the children to hang their outer garments and storage
facilities for the teacher.

Dr. Hermann L, Offner, chief of the Education Section
of OLCB’s Public Affairs Division, said the model class-
rooms, to be used for regular classroom sessions, give
visitors opportunity to see how much better education
can be carried on in bright, cheerful rooms.

He said the model classrooms are designed to show
educators that classrooms in old, dilapidated school build-
ings can be made modern and cheerful for both pupil
and teacher, and, at the same time, permit use of more
modern teaching methods and instruction in line with
recommended changes in curriculum and methods.

“One Bavarian educator who recently saw one of the
classrooms," Dr. Offner declared, ‘described it as a
‘room out of Utopia.’ Actually it isn't. It is just a sensible
rearrangement of a classroom. The same can be done by
other communities if they are really sincere in wanting
to improve educational facilities for their children,

“Frequently,” he added, “it is said by a community
that it needs a new building. However, these model class-
rooms show what can be done at little cost with old build-
ings simply by changing the equipment.” + END

First-grade classroom in Peissenberg school at left, below, is typical of such institutions of learning in Bavaria as well
as other parts of postwar Germany. Overcrowding is a common complaint as a result of war destruction with two schools
often splitting use of a single building. At right is the remodelled first-grade classroom in the same Peissenberg school,
now bright, cheerful and inspiring. Each pupil has his or her individual shiny new metal and wood desk — and loves it,

--- Page 6 ---
Windows to the West

By HAYNES R. MAHONEY
Chief, Bad Nauheim Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG 4

N THE SPACIOUS marble halls of the Munich building

where Hitler, Chamberlain and Daladier in 1938 signed
the ill-famed pact which opened an area of destruction
in Europe, scores of Germans today are discovering the
real America. Browsing through library shelves, listening
to music and lectures, attending classes, they are begin-
ning to comprehend the free opinion, the self-criticism
and the growing culture of America.

A symbol of terror and tyranny, the building was once
Hitler's Nazi party headquarters for all Germany. Today
the Stars and Stripes has replaced the red and black
Swastika on its severe graystone facade, and a large sign
proclaims: “Amerika Haus.” Under its new name, it has
become as familiar a landmark to Muencheners as it was
when the demoniac dictator raged from its broad bal-
conies,

The Munich building is now one of 25 US Information
Centers — or “America Houses,” as they are popularly
called — established in the major cities of the US Occu-
pation Zone of Germany and the US Sector in Berlin.
Opened by US Military Government and now operated
by the US High Commissioner's Office, they were origi-
nally designed to counteract the Nazi-spawned calumnies
about the United States by providing Germans with the
best in American books, magazines and newspapers.

But today they have expanded from their primary lib-
rary functions into centers of contact with Western cul-
ture, Lecturers, cultural leaders and artists from all the
Western democracies appear in Information Center meet-
ing rooms and auditoriums. Documentary films and exhi-
bits graphically portray the institutions of democracy,
life in faraway places, the purpose of the Marshall Plan
and a host of other subjects.

N A WEEK of daily visits to one US Information Center,

a culture-starved German: may get a varied fare from
lessons in English, to a public forum on “the protection
of civil rights," with a piano recital by an American artist
and a lecture on “the international influence of Mahatma
Gandhi" added for variety.

These varied activities are aimed at a threefold ob-
jective described in an official report by Patricia van Del-
den, chief of the Information Centers system in Germany:

“Dissemination of information about, and the creation
of understanding of, the United States of America, its
ideals, traditions, culture, government and institutions;
aiding Germany's integration into the family of nations
by promoting democratic practices in the community and
by familiarizing the German population with democratic
patterns and structures throughout the Western world;
and acquainting the German public with the objectives

AUGUST 1950

and achievements of international bodies whose aim is
the furtherance of peace and freedom."

These ambitious goals developed from a very modest
beginning in the US Zone city of Bad Homburg, Hesse,
when Military Government opened a small library for
Germans on July 4, 1945. When it was transferred to the
US headquarters city, Frankfurt, a few months later, the
library contained approximately 700 well-worn volumes
of educational and reference books, primarily from sur-
plus US Amny stocks.

Two years later, there were 20 Information Centers
in the US Zone and American sector of Berlin, offering
lectures, forums, movies and other services in addition
to their library facilities.

HERE WERE MANY compelling reasons why Military

Government had initiated this large-scale cultural
program in Germany. One of the most urgent was the
dearth of cultural materials, Germany had lost an esti-
mated 35,000,000 books through the inadvertent war
damage to public libraries and other institutions. Even
before the war, libraries were sorely depleted as Nazis
burned millions of volumes which violated their perverted
philosophies.

Up until currency reform in June 1948, when the de-
preciated currency was replaced with the respected
“Deutsche mark,” a good book was as difficult to buy as
a good cup of coffee. Even the limited and poor quality
new editions, including obstruse volumes on technical
subjects, disappeared from booksellers’ shelves as fast as
they were displayed, to be resold in the streets at fan-
tastic prices.

Even worse was the effective isolation of Germans inmany
cultural, social and professional fields through 12 years
of Nazism and war; doctors were out of touch with many
new medical developments; the reviving political and
civic leadership had been completely cut off from the
techniques and procedures of democratic. government;
the schools still operated on principles which had pro-
duced arrogant nationalists since the days of Bismarck.
A whole crop of editors, journalists, radio men and other
workers in the information fields, had to be developed
to replace the staffs which had been hardened in Dr.
Goebbels’ distorted propaganda molds.

Although the Military Government staff included a
corps of experts and technicians to provide leadership
and advice in developing liberalism and democracy in
these and other vital fields of public life, the need for
books, reference materials and informal places of con-
tacts with Americans was still acute. i

In addition, the real danger that American advice and
influence would be ineffective if Germans were not en-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
oa:

Shepard Stone, deputy director of the Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, addressed a capacity audience in German
to describe the US Information Center's program at
ceremonies marking opening of the new “Amerika Haus”
in Wiesbaden. L. to r., Mrs. Patricia Van Delden, Infor-
mation Centers chief, Hans N. Tuch, director, Wiesbaden
“Amerika Haus," and Mr. Stone. (PRB OLCH photos)

abled to realize that America was more than a nation of
lady wrestlers, bloody strikes and boogie-woogie fiends
such as Hitler had portrayed.

Thus the Information Centers’ program constituted the
US government's first co-ordinated program to bring the
real America to Germany's doorsteps. And as each In-
formation Center was opened its popularity began to
grow rapidly.

VEN THOUGH the first libraries contained mostly

English-language volumes, the number of Germans
who still remembered a few words of their public school
training in the language, and joined the Information
Centers’ clientele, was surprising, As German language
programs and English lessons were inaugurated, the at-
tendance rate climbed higher.

Another inevitable attraction during the winter, in
coalless electricity-short Germany was the delightful
warmth of the Information Centers. Many an American
speaker during those grim days discovered that a good
portion of his crowded audience was indifferent to the
lecture, but impressed with the comforts of the US-sup-
plied building. But Information Center officials noted that
attendance continued to grow in the summer and many
a person who came in to get warm returned later to
participate in the programs.

Today these economic boosts to the Information Cen-
ters’ patronage no longer apply since Germany's remark-
able recovery with Marshall Plan aid and currency reform
has improved living conditions and renewed the availa-
bility of books and cultural programs from purely Ger-
man sources. But the popularity of the US Centers has
continued to grow — now solely on their own merits.

The attendance has increased from around 600,000 visi-
tors monthly in the summer of 1949, to well over 1,000,000
monthly in 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ODAY THE 25 Information Centers, located in the

major cities of the US Zone, and Berlin, are supple-
mented by more than 100 auxiliary reading rooms in
smaller towns. Fifteen bookmobiles—libraries on wheels—
servicing outlying villages will soon start operating.
Several additional US Information Centers are being
opened in major cities of the British and French Zones,
such as Bonn, capital of the Federal German Republic,
Hanover, Duesseldorf, Mainz and Coblenz.

Each Center includes a library numbering between
10,000 to 18,000 books, including outstanding technological
and scientific publications, as well as political, cultural
and fiction works, supplemented by subscriptions to hun-
dreds of American and foreign periodicals. About 10 to
25 percent of the books are in German, purchased from
the countries where they are published — Switzerland,
Sweden and the Netherlands. In addition, all of the In-
formation Centers have lecture rooms or auditoriums,
children's libraries, music rooms equipped with records
of America’s finest classical music, and space for exhibi-
tions which are circulated throughout the Information-
Center system.

Entirely financed by the US government, each Informa-
tion Center is supervised by an American with extensive
experience in library and civic center operations, assisted
by a competent German staff, which for the most part the
supervisor himself has trained, To improve staff efficien-
cy, the Information Centers Branch of the Education and
Cultural Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, is currently operating a librarians school for its
German assistants.

For the most part, the Centers are located in former
Nazi or Reich-owned properties. Thus the light and cheer-
ful Augsburg Center is a renovated house of horror —
onetime Gestapo headquarters. In Marburg, the ancient
university city, a famous medieval inn, later appropriated
by the Nazi party, is now the house of the new world
culture. The best example, of course, is the conversion of
Munich's erstwhile capitol of Nazism from “a palace of
darkness” to “a castle of light," as it was described by
a German press service. In Wuerzburg the Information
Center is located in a quadrangle of temporary buildings
erected by the US Army early in the occupation.

EMOCRACY IN ACTION has been demonstrated to
Germans by the US Information Centers in numerous
and often unexpected ways.

Merely the manner in which the libraries were operated
has been an eye opener. The traditional German library
is a “fortress of culture’ which guards its books with
jealous care. To take out a volume, the prospective bor-
rower had to know exactly what book he wanted by title,
author and date of publication and sign for it, giving
character references and his reasons for wanting the
book. Browsing among open shelves was generally not
permitted, and a fee was usually required.

Entering an Information Center library, the German
visitor was not only invited, but urged by a friendly lib-
rarian to wander among the bookshelves and take his
choice. If he had a vague idea that he wanted to learn

AUGUST 1950

=

|
|

--- Page 8 ---
something about American history, he was loaded with
a half-dozen volumes in no time. And he was given a
card and the privilege of borrowing any book he wanted,
without paying a penny.

Even during the grimmest days of scarcity, an Informa-
tion Center lost no more books than does an American
community library.

“Germans have been so thoroughly disciplined and
taught such earnest respect for a good book, that the
failure to return a borrowed volume is a major sin with
them," said Max M. Kimental, deputy chief of the In-
formation Centers Branch,

The system has been so impressive that at least one
German library director has asked Information Center aid
in converting his institution to the same procedure.

HE LIBRARIES have functioned as much more than

a mere source for leisure reading. They have provided
a valuable supply of reference material for newspapers and
publishers, doctors, lawyers, government officials and
particularly students who have been the Information
Centers’ best patrons in preparing for examinations and
writing theses. The librarians seek to answer any question
and track down information on any requested subject.

They have provided books on public administration to
a city government, labor statistics to a German jabor
office, outline of parliamentary procedure to a fledging
professional society, surveys of English literature to a
university, magazines to hospital patients, and so on.

In addition to constituting an important source of in-
formation, the Information Centers are rapidly develop-
ing into an institution entirely new to German society —
community centers, where any worthy group of citizens
receives aid and facilities for organizing cultural pro-
grams and civic improvement projects, Thus one house
co-operated in the founding of a girl scout movement;
another turned over its halls for a German Agriculture
Week; many co-operate closely with and provide books
and records for the Adult Education Schools (Volks-
hochschulen), which once considered the US institutions
as unfair competitors,

In fact, the German adult schools are everywhere
beginning to recognize the valuable educational aid ren-
dered by Information Centers, as was recently sig-
nified in an advertising poster: "The Volkshochschule
has become, after the America House, the most inex-
pensive public institution for learning and adult educa-
tion in the city."

HE WIDE APPRECIATION for the Information, Cen-
ters’ community services can be judged by the fol-
lowing letter from a key official of a German district
government to the director of the Augsburg Center:
“During the past year, your contribution to the pro-
motion of popular education in Swabia has proved in-
valuable. Your direction of the America House activi-
ties has resulted in their complete identification with
the local cultural life of the community. Beyond that you
have effectively supported the activities of philo-
sophical and sociological clubs, societies of natural
science and art, and general adult education and cul-

AUGUST 1950

ture, For this all of us who have the interest of educa-
tion and culture at heart are grateful.”

Through such services, the Information Centers pro-
mote German willingness to listen to and participate in
discussions aimed at stimulating the development of
German democracy, “Protection of civil rights," “How
you can influence your government,” “Improving German
women's normally inferior position in society," and scores
of similar subjects of lectures and forums give the com-
mon man, long disenfrachised in authoritarian Germany,
a new concept of his rights and responsibilities in a de-
mocracy. Good press coverage of these programs, pro-
moted by Information Center directors, spreads the mes-
sage to a wider audience. The public appreciation of such
services was typified by one newspaper commenting on
a political discussion:

“This discussion was another proof of the fact that the
America Houses in Germany again and again take up
German problems for discussion, and that these institu-
tions are not, as some shortsighted people used to declare,
merely organs of the Occupation Power."

UPPLEMENTING AND WOVEN into all these activi-

ties is the Information Center program of interpreting
America to the Germans. Besides the books, exhibits and
films available on America, an important factor is the
voluntary participation in Information Center programs
by occupation Americans. In addition to the officials of
the US High Commissioner's Office, who speak on their
specific fields of activity, many army officers and men
lecture on a hobby, a specific field of interest, a section
of America he knows best, or other phases of American
life. The wives of US personnel have conducted kinder-
gartens, arranged children’s programs and taught classes
in the Information Centers, These institutions have now
become enlightening and mutually profitable places of
association for Germans and Americans.

Of course, they were not immediately accepted at their
face value. Many Germans evinced suspicion that the
Information Centers were high-powered propaganda
agencies, As the programs and services develop, however,
this distrust is rapidly disappearing. As one young stu-
dent wrote:

“Not so long ago I availed myself of the opportunity
of the lectures, language courses and other facilities of

Dr. James R, Newman, State Commissioner for Hesse,
speaking at Wiesbaden. L.-r., on platform, are E, K, Neu-
mann, chief, Public Affairs Division, OLCH; Johannes
Maas, Wiesbaden city councilor; Shepard Stone; Hessian
Minister President Christian Stock; Mrs. Van Delden; Hans
N. Tuch, Gertrude Moeder, interpreter, and Dr. Newman.

--- Page 9 ---
The only one of its kind in postwar Germany, the Kindergarten in Wiesbaden’s new “Amerika Haus" is source of fun
and interest to Dr. James R. Newman and Christian Stock, Minister President of Hesse, as they carry out an inspection.

the America House. Since (they) are free of charge I
was somewhat opposed to this institution, which I con-
sidered a regular instrument of propaganda destined to
influence and win youth — for certain American ideolo-
gies. This was my opinion about the America House be-
fore I took the opportunity of attending any of its activi-
ties...I have convinced myself of your high standards,
and I am really surprised and delighted..."

NOTHER IMPORTANT cultural attraction has been

the succession of visiting American and European
artists and lecturers touring the US Information Centers.
Although their services are voluntary, and there is no
money to pay them fees, the Information Center officials
are not above buttonholing any passing professor, mu-
sician or just plain tourist, who has a bit of American life
to convey and is willing to contribute his time.

And some very able representatives of America have
made the Information Center circuit: Yehudi Menuhin
gave concerts; the Yale Glee Club sang; Dorothy Sands,
Dr. John W, Draper of West Virginia University, Felix
Hirsch of Bard College Faculty and Christopher Lazare,
well-known editor and writer, all lectured at the US In-
formation Centers. Robert J. Flaherty, the eminent docu-
mentary film producer, showed samples of his films and
conducted discussions concerning them,

Perhaps the simplest but most effective statement of the
growing significance of the Information Centers to Ger-
mans was carried in a feature story of a German news-
paper at Heilbronn in Wuerttemberg-Baden recently:

The reporter described how he overheard two small
boys on a street car plotting their route to an unstated
destination in town.

“I was interested to know where these little fellows
were going all by themselves, and so I asked them what
they intended to do after they got off the street car.

“To the America House, of course!’ was the almost in-
dignant answer, for it was obvious that the little boys
were astonished that an adult would not realize that there
was just no other possibility...

“Tell me, what do little youngsters like you do there?’

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“‘Why, we read the books, naturally,’ was the little
fellow's prompt answer.

“And the picture books, too,’ the tiny brother hastened
to add in his enthusiasm.

“Finally we reached the street. The moppet took his
little brother by the hand and they started off earnestly
in the direction of the ‘America House, of course!'”

NE SHOULD TELL this little story to the American

taxpayers. They surely would be glad to know that
the America House which they support with their money
has become something important even for the youngest
citizens of the town," the reporter concluded.

The windows of Hitler's one-time Nazi headquarters
face to the west. Today, as the Munich “Amerika Haus,"
the entire building has become a symbolic “Window to
the West.” Through it, and other US Information Centers
in Germany, the US government is making one of its most
generous and enlightened efforts to restore the Western

cultural ties of a recently misguided and isolated people.
-FEND

Rebuilding of 15,000 Berlin Homes
Commences with Help of ECA Loans

The repair and rebuilding of nearly 15,000 Berlin dwell-
ing units has been undertaken since announcement of
a DM 35,000,000 ECA allocation for housing was made.

Up to mid-May, 275 individual housing projects financed
by the Marshall Plan had been started. They represent
an investment of DM 21,500,000 of counterpart funds,

Loans made so far range from a few thousand Deutsche
marks for repair of one house, to several of more than
DM 500,000 each for rehabilitation of large social-housing
projects. Housing space for 13,205 families now in emer-
gency use is being converted into permanent dwellings
through repair of war damage. An additional 1,639 units
are being regained through restoration of heavily damag-
ed buildings not presently occupied.

Approvals for further projects are now being granted
at the rate of 50 to 100 per week.

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 10 ---
Refugees Helping Themselves

By BETH BURCHARD

Information Bulletin Staff Writer

OST OF THE PEOPLE sat listlessly against the wails,
staring down at their hands, speaking little, just
waiting until they should be motioned into the interro-
gation offices. Outside, a sultry wind lifted dust from the
yard and swirled it around the weather-scarred barracks
where their companions awaited deportation or welcome.
That is the refugee transient camp in Giessen, Hesse,
where 250 German citizens each day make formal pleas
to set up homes in the western zones of Germany. Most
of them come from the Soviet Zone, searching for their
families, for new jobs, political asylum or a new way
of life.

Of the number who passively waited, the customary
two-thirds probably would not be accepted as legitimate
“refugees."’ These would receive rail tickets back to the
borders they had illegally crossed and disappear from the
task lists of German officials in Giessen. The remaining
one-third — approximately 85 each day — would receive
legal residence permits, a rail pass to their destination
and the right to find their ways among the complex social,
political and economic problems of Germans in Germany.
But these 85 would join a particular class — maligned,
neglected, coddled or eulogized, they were now a part of
a more than 8,000,000-strong and ever-growing band of
Germans expelled or fleeing from other European ter-
ritories into West Germany.

HE REFUGEE PROBLEM has assumed the depressing,
enervating and foreboding aspects of a black cloud
on the West German horizon.

The refugees need houses, jobs and in many cases day-
to-day supplies of clothing and food. They are, for the
most part, destitute newcomers who have drawn on the
one hand sympathy and on the other resentment and

have raised in the minds of German officials and Occupa-
tion Forces the demanding question: Can they be absorbed
into Germany?

To this question, a partial answer has been given by
US High Commissioner John J. McCloy: “History has
demonstrated that migrations have been of ‘great benefit
to the countries which have received refugees, and a
deep loss to the countries which have sent them away.
The talents and points of view which the refugees have
brought to western Germany can enrich German life..."

But how far along this path have the refugees come?
Certainly one of the strongest forces retarding absorp-
tion is the attitude of resistance found in some measure
on both sides.

The refugees still suffer from a real state of shock —
uprooted from homes of long standing, patterns of life
and jobs that represented security. Prosperous business-
men were relegated to pauperism and farmers were
settled in territories where there would be no possibility
whatever for farming again. Self-sufficiency, and with it,
self-respect, toppled. These circumstances bred inertia,
nostalgia, a sense of disbelief and the hope that such
changes were only temporary.

The native populations, themselves dislocated and im-
poverished, had little time or sympathy for refugee prob-
lems. To them, refugees were unwanted claimants for an
already too-small supply of bread, of jobs, of adequate
housing. The stability of their communities was rocked
with the intrusion of persons of different dialects, religions
and vocations.

One German official frankly admitted that “the refugee
is the last to be hired and the first to be fired.”

But some communities had been able to override the
vast psychological blockades, and “native elements,

Far from idle, refugees are hard at work in all states of US Zone, bringing new crafts and industries into West Germany.

Shown are a chocolate factory (left) and tractor industry (center) near Wolfratshausen, Bavaria. Right, Hessian glass-blowers.

--- Page 11 ---
A craftsman demonstrates small accordion made in one
of 11 refugee-owned music factories in Nauheim, Hesse.

throwing their weight behind that of the refugees, have
helped set up industries that prosper, bringing new returns
to all concerned, including the tax-gathering Federal
Republic.

One glass industry, in Stierstadt, Hesse, which today
employs 105 refugees, got its start because the local
mayor and the county administrator gave their help. In
the beginning the seven refugee founders couldn't boast
even pencils and paper. The mayor offered them these,
as well as a room in the city hall from which to do their
work, The mayor was running interference for approx-
imately 40 other small industries in the neighborhood in
the pre-currency reform days when it was almost impos-
sible to buy even a nail.

He had it so arranged that whatever supplies he could
obtain — perhaps a cubic meter of wood — would be
divided judiciously among the industries under his wing.
The fledgling glass industry, run by Sudeten refugees,
was not neglected. The mayor also spoke on their behalf
to obtain help of the finance minister of Hesse, so that
RM 50,000 credit was obtained.

The glass co-operative has blossomed since then, and
includes 59 ancillary shops in Stierstadt and Oberursel
which finish the raw glass, They export 85 percent of
their output, bringing new capital to western Germany.

Says Oberursel Mayor Heinrich Kappus today, “The
refugees are a valuable asset in every way. We never
had any industries before and now we're thriving.”

The musical instrument industries in Nauheim, Hesse,
are a like example. The refugees offered their good will
and know-how and the town officials ante-ed up the
necessary space to begin new factories.

“The mayor seemed very anxious to get refugees
established here,” says Resident Officer Tom Mulvehill.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The Dietzel textile firm in Munich employs 250 refugees,
has an annex which turns out shirts and underwear.

“He offered them old barns, dance halls and barracks,
and sent telegrams to places where there were skilled
workers to help do the jobs.” One of the original factories
was located in a hall used by day for instrument-making,
and by night for rehearsals by the fire brigade orchestra.

Today the 11 harmonica, woodwind and violin industries
in Nauheim are supporting 600 of the 750 refugee families
allotted to the area — and 25 percent of the native
population is profiting as well. Through a flourishing ex-
port trade, the musical instrument enterprises expect to
bring in more than DM 1,000,000 this year.

These musical industries are significant examples of
the refugees’ own will to regain self-sufficiency. They
started without a cent of ‘legal tender’ or a pound of raw
materials, and fought and wangled their ways to the kind
of success which affords them a decent living. They
themselves built many of the needed machines. Their
profits have been turned back into construction of 30
housing units; they hope to build 300 more through
housing loans, Proving their salt, they have been granted
a substantial sum by Hessian ministries.

OWEVER, NAUHEIM'S industrial cluster is not
without its continuing problems. Many needed,
valuable specialists cannot find housing sufficiently close
to the shops to take part in the production. The huge
burden that this entails is best illustrated by the “extra
motion” the musical industries have to go through:
partially completed instruments must be shipped to
refugees in far-off Bavaria for intermediate finishing, then
reshipped to Nauheim for completion. The industries are
in desperate need of credits to smooth out and to expand
their cumbersome but none the less profitable operation.
Nearby Darmstadt afforded another example of refugee
initiative. Faced with the inevitable housing problem, a
group of refugees from Hungary began swinging hammers
and straightening nails on their own. Blessed with steady

jobs in industrial Darmstadt and a number of skilled car- ~
penters and masons, the refugees there have completed —

50 houses and intend to finish 100 more. They built their

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 12 ---
‘Wey,

a SIR

East Zone refugee at Giessen repairs tire on taxi he
hopes will aid him in re-entering business world.

own steps, normally DM 18-25, for DM 5. They used
renovated rubble for building materials.

More significant, they put in as many as 35 extra hours
per week to erect them. When the men themselves weren't
at work, women and grandparents pitched into construc-
tion: “You can see grandmothers sitting on the roofs any
day, fitting the tiles.” A loan from the state of Hesse is
being repaid in the form of rents.

O MORE VALIANT story of refugee courage and
determination can be found than in Griesheim, Hesse,
where a group of some 50-60 uprooted Hungarian farm
families is seeking to wrest corn, melons and wine-grapes
from the sandy soil of a deserted glider-training area.
A Catholic welfare agency, the Kirchliche Hilfsstelle,
helped them start, negotiating with OMGUS and the State
of Hesse to acquire lease of the land. In February 1948,
41 families were selected to settle on the land, all ex-
farmers who had cultivated vineyards on their native soil.
When the native population learned they intended to
utilize this land in the same fashion, they were quick to
deride the already disheartened refugees.

But the refugees dug in. They lived at first in old
American and German military wooden barracks and
walked each day two hours to their land and back again
in the evening. On their feet 19 hours a day, they lost
between 10 and 15 pounds of weight apiece and in com-
pensation were generally undernourished. They managed,
however, to renovate their barrack quarters sufficiently
to bring in 12 more refugee families from the Wetzlar area.

They had no tools to cultivate, but by using crude, bor-
towed implements dug the land to a depth of two and one-
half feet to ready it for the vine. Still receiving welfare
allowances of from DM 15 to 19 per week, they managed
to save enough money to buy needed tools, and to acquire
105 pigs, seven cows, two horses, 34 goats and numerous
rabbits and poultry. Such property not only meant militant
frugality but the sacrifice of their last beloved valuables.

In August 1948, they began construction of 11 houses,
taking their stones from the ruins of Darmstadt and using

AUGUST 1950

Attractive employee shows one of items produced in
Munich textile factory, founded by expellee from Poland,

only their own labor. They cut the timber and built the
walls and roofs and had the 11 finished by December 1948.

In 1949, they built 16 more. A new wave of colonists in
that year built 18 stables of stone for temporary dwellings
and are now building farmhouses nearby. A tile-making
machine, donated by the church agency which still
shepherds the struggling flock, is helping out now, but
the colonists are putting aside, for construction later of
community schools and other buildings, one-tenth of all
the tiles and blocks they make.

Meanwhile their agricultural efforts have continued in
the face of “native” pessimism, and each of the refugees
has his own tiny plot of edible vegetables. They are turn-
ing over, however, at least 50 percent of their output to
a sales and purchasing co-operative, determined that
their futures will be better. They are still hopeful they
can turn out healthy grapes, but that test is yet to come.

In their colorful native costumes, hands at work on the
soil, the refugees at St. Stephan’s settlement are deter-
mined to succeed. Said one middle-aged man, staring out
at the dusty, deserted glider area, ‘We will succeed. Of
course, we will.”

LL OVER WEST GERMANY, the pattern is duplicated:
refugees had nothing but skill, or determination, or
“old connections,” or some raw materials, or some
finished goods which could be traded against needed
machinery. In some cases they began on bank loans at
dizzying interest rates, or won credit ‘guarantees from
their states. But where the refugee industries stand on
their feet, they do so because the refugees themselves
have first thrown their all into the effort.
The schemes of refugees still look risky to public and
private capital: in the first place, there is a dearth of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
ati ae a o =. ee

German expellees help build new homes in Hettingen,
Wuerttemberg-Baden. Their work paid up to 20 percent
of building cost. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

such capital available for circulation and in the second,
most refugees have nothing whatever to secure a loan.
These doubts bid fair to kill off some of the industries
‘which supply and demand have otherwise elected most
likely to succeed.

In Munich, a manufacturer of leather goods has a
backlog of Swiss orders that would mean the life of his
infant enterprise. But in weeks of searching, the man has
been unable to find a source of capital he needs in order
to buy the needed raw materials. The goods are ordered,
the factory and its employees ready. to manufacture them,
but there is no finance institution which will lend the
money to supply the necessary leather. This man's
industry, like many others, is doomed to close down.

It is especially significant that this illustration comes
from Bavaria, where an estimated 70 percent of the new
postwar industry has been established by refugees. Once
primarily an agricultural area, with all its land tied up
and none available for farmer-refugees, Bavaria now
boasts a variety of thriving industries: glass, ornamental
jewelry, violins, textile and cereal factories, all thanks
to the influx of new skills.

In one area — a 2,055-acre tract formerly producing
munitions for the German war machine — 36 industries,
21 handicraft trades, 14 shops and four guesthouses are
being operated by refugees.

In one county, more than 100 such refugee enterprises
have been founded.

HESE ARE NOT BURDENS—they represent real capi-
tal contributions to Bavaria’s economic health.

The ex-munitions tract in the county of Wolfratshausen,
now a separate community with its own town council,
was originally turned over by Military Government to
German state authorities, who in turn settled 1,500 refu-
gees in the area. In late 1946, these Silesian and Sudeten
refugees initiated small home-industries. By 1947, some
250 persons were employed, turning out 25 products from
jam to tractors. In late 1947, the German government
advanced RM 100,000 for the improvement of this in-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

dustrial area, and the Gartenberg-Geretsried Gesellschaft
grew by early 1950 to 77 firms, employing almost 1,000
refugee workers. Since their beginning, they have paid
DM 1,111,232 to the Bavarian state in taxes.

These industries, interspersed in the woodland area of
the tract and among the blasted bunkers and munitions
factories of its former occupant, represent a giant ad-
vance from the refugee settlement across the highway.
There, in flimsy, paintless barracks live hundreds more
refugees, not yet employed in the Geretsried industries,
and resigned for the most part to pacing away their days
in discomfort and idleness, There are approximately 2,500
in all living in the settlement at Geretsried; more than
three-fifths are as yet without means or employment.

But the refugee administration of the settlement is mak-
ing plans, requesting appropriations from the German
state, in order to return all of these people to the role of
bread-winners. They have been able to get sufficient
financing to provide houses for 1,000, and hope to eke
enough more from public and private sources to get all
their constituents out of the former slave-labor barracks
across the highway. Other capital enterprises, staking
their faith on the economic soundness of the Geretsried
community, have brought prefabricated housing into the
area and are selling it to the more financially prosperous.

This community appears “well on its way.’ Yet most of
the refugees there began on a shoe-string, before currency
reform had stabilized conditions and state credits had
been made available. Not wanting to buy machinery
against the inflated Reichsmarks, they traded whatever
goods or extra, salvaged machinery they had available for
the materials they needed. A chocolate factory, for instance,
got machines by allotting part of its chocolate ration to
other firms. These were for the most part exceptional
conditions; reserves are now gone and the firms need con-
solidation of present credits and an assurance of more.

OUNTY BAMBERG, where more than 100 refugee

industries have been instituted, brought to light an
interesting example. A list of 28 outstanding enterprises
in the city of Bamberg, county seat, included after all-
but-three of them the phrase, “established without sub-
sidies,"’ or “without subsidies or credit from the German
authorities.’ This meant refugee initiative assumed the
whole burden for financing. Yet by their own effort, they
had managed to bring in industries engaged in producing
foodstuffs, hats, fountains, wool, textiles, dental materials,
shoes, lumber, brandy and fine candies; there were an
advertising agency, bus service, goldsmith, tailor and
dry-cleaning shops.

Housing construction in Bamberg lagged behind the
creation of new jobs. There, however, the record of sub-
sidies from German authorities showed almost 100 per-
cent participation.

A number of refugee plants have been able to put up
housing with their own profits as base capital. The Eberau
plywood factory in Bamberg has agreed to pay 30 percent
of the cost of constructing 102 dwellings on the proviso
that a portion of them would be allotted to factory
workers. In areas such as Neue Heimat, near Buchen, in

AUGUST 1950

ee

--- Page 14 ---
Wuerttemberg-Baden, the refugees exchanged their labor
for as much as 20 percent of the dwellings’ cost, in this
way receiving financial grants from public or private
agencies. In Bamberg, the state has taken over and re-
novated a former caserne, providing sunny and sanitary
apartments in return for fixed rentals from the refugees.

OUSING IS CERTAINLY a universal problem,

especially when linked to promising industrial enter-
prise. For without houses for workers, badly-needed skills
are unavailable to get the businesses running smoothly.
It is true that refugees are in some instances adapting
themselves to conditions — ex-farm girls are at work in
Bamberg textile industries, workers who have never been
inside an instrument factory before are helping out at the
Nauheim music plants. But efficiency is being sacrificed,
again, through lack of credits.

While it is true that in many cases German authori-
ties have not dug deep enough into their pockets or their
time schedules to attend to refugee needs, it is also
apparent that where they have lent a hand, they are
reaping sizable dividends. (Accusations of indifference
could certainly not be made against a number of refugee
ministers, who themselves are caught in the complex of
psychological and economic protectiveness.)

Every one of the refugees who has been able to create
himself a job, or go to work with state or private credit
backing him, represents a gain to the government; in
several ways, aid is paying off. With the refugee at work,
he no longer is paid a welfare contribution by the state
authorities. He receives a taxable income, and is part of
an industry that is taxable. Moreover, his re-entry into
the field of self-sufficiency means he is a potential
customer for all the other struggling industries of West
Germany.

For example, the refugee now has an average of DM 50
per week to spend, rather than the standard welfare
allowance of DM 15-19.

The average DM 203 per month wage paid at the Stier-
stadt glass works is being taxed at the rate of DM 65.

The refugee firm Hugo Dietzel in Munich has more than
Paid back a DM 150,000 loan from the state government
in taxes alone, and is pouring into the economy an ad-
ditional DM 10,000 in wages each week.

Similar figures can be cited for almost all of the enter-
prises listed.

UT MORE THAN THIS, and more indeed than the in-

fusion of new skills into West German states as cited,
the refugees are in many instances providing in their
very own industries jobs for “natives'’ who would other-
wise be sopping up welfare funds. Refugee industries
(those founded by a refugee himself) sometimes have a
60-40 ratio of refugees to natives, depending on the nature
and location of the enterprise.

In many instances, then, the refugees represent not a
clogging, but a pump-priming effect on the German
economy.

Where the refugee status will go from here — mid-
1950 — is still a question.

AUGUST 1950

11

The German federal government is now propping its
hopes on the newly-founded Expellee Bank, to which it
has contributed an initial DM 3,000,000. Into the bank they
hope to deposit DM 70,000,000 in ECA counterpart funds,
OK'd in principle by ERP but not yet released, and an
ever-growing amount of money donated by welfare
agencies and, in the future, by foreign investors. This
organization would be, in the words of Werner Mittelman,
representative of the Bonn Refugee Ministry, ‘a sort of
German RFC” (United States’ Reconstruction Finance
Corporation). Whatever capital is deposited in the bank
would have to be regarded as a long-term investment
with a low initial rate of return.

Herr Mittelman admitted, ‘Something has been done,
but not enough. Six thousand industries, mostly with
states’ help, have been set up for refugees, 10,700 refugee
farmers re-established, and altogether 45,000 small artisan
shops begun (these, mostly on refugee initiative). His
concern, and that of most students of the problem, was
that one-half of the money paid out for refugee help
(DM 200,000,000 last year) goes toward direct relief, and
not into a returnable investment.

Certainly the re-activization of personal credit is the
first consideration in pushing refugee enterprise.

But the psychological barriers still exist and have to
be overcome.

TATE REFUGEE MINISTRIES are stating publicly that

they are “at the end of their tether" (Wuerttemberg-
Baden’s Edmund Novotny) and that there is no more
money available to help the refugees. They ask outside
help to cope with an “international problem.’ They are
being answered firmly by US authorities (State Commis-
sioner Charles P. Gross of Wuerttemberg-Baden) who
say “Germans do need help from the outside, but they
won't get any unless they tackle this... problem with
vision and good heart.”

The report of US Congressman Francis E. Walter's sub-
committee which in late 1949 studied the refugee problem
firsthand summed up the internal problem thus: “The
present attitude of German officials and of the German
public opinion characterizing this problem as an ‘inter-
national’ one is not only the basic deterrent to the solution
of the problem; but, if continued, will remove the pos-
sibility of international assistance, which, even if avail-
able, could not be effective in the face of a German policy
which strongly tends to prolong and isolate the problem
in Germany.”

This was a summary of the problem. Here, from James
A. Clark, chief of the Political Affairs Division, OLCB, is
a just summary of the possibilities:

“Tt is not true that the refugees are just a burden on
the native population. Experiences have demonstrated
that newcomers and their enterprises are proving a benefit
rather than a burden to the country. In many cases they
have succeeded in standing on their own feet through
personal and co-operative initiative.”

This statement, day by day, all over the US Zone of
Germany, is being proved by the refugees themselves.

+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
“School Clean-Up Day”

By GEORGE H. GODFREY

Senior Resident Officer for Munich

HE DIRECTOR of one of Mu-

nich's large schools was shak-
ing hands with a group of American
soldiers late one afternoon some
weeks ago.

“My English is so poor,” he said,
“but even if it were perfect, I could
not find words to thank you enough
for what you have done for us today.

“What has happened today is al-
most a dream. We thought it would
be many years before all the rubble
would be removed and our school
grounds once again made a fit place
for our children to play in.”

What had happened at this school
was duplicated at 42 other schools
of Munich as result of the city-
wide Schul-Schuttraeumungstag or
“School Clean-Up Day,” staged by
more than 2,000 volunteer citizens,

with the co-operation of Munich
Military Post and nearby Air Force
bases. The event was a perfect
example of civic co-operation.
Plans for work in each district were
made by committee members and
in every case more than enough
citizens volunteered.

The joint effort by Germans and
Americans has enabled the schools
of Munich to offer the youth bet-
ter playgrounds, cleaner buildings
and improved facilities. Originally
planned for one day, Saturday,
June 3, the work was continued
and completed on June 10.

The project, which was the direct
result of demands made by numer-
ous citizens at various town meet-
ings here, was planned and ad-
ministered by

the 41 district

citizens’ committees of Munich, in
co-operation with city authorities
and American military forces. Of-
fice Munich, HICOG, served as
liaison and co-ordinated details.

ROMPTLY AT 8 O'CLOCK on
June 3 more than 2,000 volunteer
workers, 150 trucks, 12 digger cranes
and two bulldozers were all in
action, The most important phase
of the work was clearing of several
thousand cubic yards of rubble
from school grounds, and removal
of ruins of buildings. However, it
was not possible to complete this
at 13 of the schools, and the work-
ers cheerfully agreed to return the
following Saturday.
At many schools the playgrounds
and other facilities were improved,

--- Page 16 ---
in addition to the thorough clean-
ing. The interest aroused by the
action is expected to result in
further improvements, school au-
thorities state.

Although equipment donated by
the army units and by private firms
in Munich took over the larger
projects, there was plenty of hard
work to be done by the individual
citizens, At many of the schools it
was not practical to move in
machines, There the volunteers,
among them many of the older
school children, cheerfully did the
work by hand.

HE SOLDIERS AND AIRMEN

who participated in this event
displayed the usual American
enthusiasm and zest, and one Ger-
man was overheard to remark,
“After watching these Americans
work it is no wonder that they won
the war!" The citizens were
especially amazed at the skill with
which the operators manipulated
the bulldozers and other machinery,
and at the cheerful attitude dis-

played on what would ordinarily
be a day off for the men,

Munich Military Post contribut-
ed 111 trucks, three crane shovels

'
}

George H. Godfrey, Munich's Senior
Resident Officer and author of this
article, was liaison man and co-
ordinated details of the gigantic volun-
teer clean-up effort described.

and other equipment for the event,
The 86th Fighter-Bomber Wing,
Neubiberg, sent a crane shovel and
eight trucks; Fuerstenfeldbruck
Air Base sent two bulldozers; and

from Erding Air Base, 19 miles
away, a crew came with a crane
digger and trucks. Other equip-
ment was donated by firms and
individuals of the city. Munich
breweries furnished ample food for
lunches and enough beer for all
workers,

In a letter to Office Munich,
HICOG, Dr. Anton Fingerle, super-
intendent of schools, warmly prais-
ed the US military units for their
co-operation in making the event
“a great success." He especially
thanked officers and men of the
Munich Post Transportation Sec-
tion, Munich Post Engineer Section
and of the Air Bases,

“We would never have obtained
this great success without the tech-
nical support and encouraging per-
sonal initiative of the Americans,"
he stated.

The action was similar to the
cleanup day held in Munich last
October, when more than 15,000
volunteers turned out for rubble
removal and other work. +END

--- Page 17 ---
FSUTTVINUUNUUUDUOLUUULUULUUCUOLUUUUULLDOLOOLUUULLLCLCOOUOOUULUEEOOOOOUODUEOOUOOOUUUDRULOOCCULUUUCUUDCOOOUUUUOULUOOUOUEUUUUUOOUUUULULLULOCOUUULLLUUCOCOCLUULULDLLOOLOUULOLLLLC Ocoee eeLLLLDeeU UL LULL

Majority of Germans Side with West in Cold War

MAJORITY OF US ZONE GERMANS are in general prepared to side with the West in the Cold

War, though a minority prefers to remain neutral. Almost no one in the US Zone, Berlin or
Bremen prefers the Russian side in the East-West struggle, and the predominant opinion is that
Communism has lost ground to Western democracy during the past few months.

These estimates of German attitudes toward the Cold War were disclosed June 20 in a survey
conducted by the Reactions Analysis Branch, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, A cross section of
the population, totaling 1,500 in the US Zone, 250 in Berlin and 160 in Bremen, was interviewed
by trained German personnel under professional American supervision during April, two months
before the outbreak of Communist aggression in Korea and the resulting impact on German opinion.

The survey showed that when asked what they would prefer personally, 54 percent of US-Zone
Germans voted for taking sides with the West, while 42 percent wanted neutrality. When the
question was put in terms of what ‘‘most Germans’ would like to do, seven out of 10 said they
would prefer to side with the West. Of the 25 percent who say that most Germans prefer neutrality,
few believe that neutrality is possible at present.

When the proximity of Russia to Germany and the possibility of a Russian invasion are
mentioned, then 86 percent state that West Germany would rather fight Russia than side with her.
Only one percent believe that most Germans would prefer to side with Russia in the event of war,
and 10 percent hold that Germans would prefer to take neither side.

NTIPATHY TOWARD RUSSIA and Communism generally is the most frequently stated reason
of those who personally want to side with the West. War weariness and an attitude of '‘a plague
on both your houses" led as reasons for wishing to be neutral.

As disclosed in the survey, the trend of opinion also favors the West on the question of the
relative strength of the Western and Eastern powers. According to 43 percent of the US-Zone
population, and 68 percent of West Berliners, the Western powers have scored greater success
throughout the world during the past six months, Economic gains are most frequently mentioned
as the reasons for this opinion. About 31 percent in the Zone and 23 percent in Berlin believe
the Communist powers have had more success, citing the gains in the Far East as the reason.

Regardless of attitudes on recent successes, majorities hold that the Western Powers are at
present stronger than the Communist powers, primarily because of industrial superiority, better
arms and equipment and the unity of the West, the survey showed. Few consider the Communist
powers as stronger. Large majorities also express confidence that the Western Powers will finally
win out in the East-West struggle.

Majorities say they are satisfied with US policy toward Russia, but a fairly large fraction are
not completely satisfied or withhold judgment. ‘Lack of firmness’ is the chief criticism made by
those dissatisfied with US policy toward the Soviet Union.

EFERRING TO COMMUNIST STRENGTH in western Germany, six in 10 US-Zone Germans
believe that it is little, 25 percent consider it ‘moderate’ and only five percent feel that Com-
munism is strong.

According to 18 percent of the Zone population, the possibility of Communist control of western
Germany increased during the last six months. But 26 percent say Communist prospects diminished
during this period, and 38 percent see no change in the situation.

In considering Communism in east Germany, nearly 50 percent in the US Zone and 84 percent
in Berlin believe that the number of convinced Communists there has declined during the past year,
and only a fraction think that Communism has been winning sincere converts, The survey showed
a similar ratio of opinion on the increase or decrease of ‘convinced’ Communists in the western
parts of Germany during the same period.

Majorities, ranging from 62 percent in the Zone and 88 percent in Berlin, say that the German
Communist parties (KPD/SED) are strongly under Soviet influence. Only a few persons consider
them independent. Most of these who think them influenced by Russia say they work mainly for
Russian, not German, advantage. Comparison with results obtained in a survey in February 1948
show that increasing numbers consider the Communist parties as Russian-controlled. Two years
ago, only 41 percent in the Zone and 74 percent in Berlin held this opinion. +END

i a

TVOTUUUNOOUUUCNEUUOUUNUUODLOOUUULUVOOUUUIUOOLOUUOOOOULUOOUUUOUNOUUOTOOOOOUOUOOOOUOONOUUUUOOOUUUUUOOOOUUNOOOUUUUNOOUULUOOUULNOOUOUUOUUCUTOUOULCUUULLCCOCUU LLCO LLOOU LOO U0 cc
INFORMATION BULLETIN 14 AUGUST 1950

--- Page 18 ---
CARE for kids: During the Christmas season,

By JAMES STANLEY
CARE Mission to Germany

EVERAL MONTHS AGO, German newsboys on the
S streets of Frankfurt hawked their evening papers with
the challenging cry:

“Hitler's vest found in CARE package! German family
is sent Hitler's vest!"

The announcement caused considerable curiosity on
Frankfurt streets, but in CARE's Frankfurt offices, in the
Chase Bank Building, it brought simply resigned frustra-
tion. As anticipated, an examination of the report showed
that it was not a CARE parcel that was involved, in the
strict copyrighted sense of the term, but a personal gift
package assembled and mailed by somebody's Uncle
Hans in Milwaukee. In it were several articles of cloth-
ing, including one jacket which was later discovered to
bear the mark of Hitler's private tailor.

How the garment got to the States in the first place, or
how it happened to be mailed back here, CARE did not
attempt to check. It was enough to discover what was
already known all too clearly — that “CARE Paket" has
become a generic term in Germany to cover any kind of
gift package.

In one respect, CARE realizes and appreciates the in-
direct flattery involved in the situation — the fact that
it has functioned so successfully that its name has come
to mean any welcome gift from overseas. During the past
three and a half years, the German recipient has come to
regard CARE almost as a synonym for American good
will, and on numerous occasions German cartoonists have

AUGUST 1950

15

CARE rented auditoriums or visited orphanages to deliver gifts and food
parcels to needy children. Shown above are youngsters unpacking cans of eggs, milk, bacon and other
center fingers one of many gifts donated by CARE staffers. CARE distribution parties for children

are continuing.

—

I

B," J

simply used the CARE package symbol to indicate the
American zone, or American occupation policies.

T THE SAME TIME, this over-optimistic appreciation
eae its own built-in penalty. If a parcel post
package fails to arrive, or if the Peachy Parcel Service,
operating out of Box 26, Chicago, Ill., delivers inferior
goods, CARE is apt to be blamed. Many people, including
Americans, continue to confuse CARE's non-profit welfare
services with the 24 pounds of coffee, nylon and penicillin
parcel systems, and cast a suspicious eye at CARE
whenever headlines proclaim another gift parcel racket
has been uncovered. Hitler's vest has become the price
of popularity.

Since August 1946, CARE has delivered in Germany a
volume of scarce foods and textiles which will shortly
total 6,000,000 packages. Statistically, this means a donor
contribution of about 120,000,000 pounds of goods, 90 per-
cent of which was food, or an aggregate gift of nearly
DM 500,000,000 worth of supplies if measured by pre-
vailing German prices. It means that, on the average, one
in every seven American families has sent a CARE
package to one in every two West German and Berlin
families, if distributed equally.

Something of the net impact of this $60,000,000 collec-
tive family-to-family good will was measured in a recent
HICOG survey. It revealed that more Germans are aware
of CARE than know about the vastly larger Marshall

INFORMATION BULLETIN

foods. Child in

--- Page 19 ---
Blind war veterans, members of Illinois group of Blinded
Veterans Association, present check to CARE executive
secretary Paul C. French to purchase CARE packages
for blind veterans in France, Italy, Germany and Japan.

Plan. Furthermore — unlike the Marshall Plan — CARE
is regarded as 90 percent pure and unadulterated friendship,
untainted by political or economic motives. In answer to
the question “Do you believe that CARE packages are
sent primarily to help, to gain a profit, or to gain a
political objective?”, percentages ranging from 86 in Ba-
varia to 94 in Berlin checked the first alternative. In
conclusion, the survey stated:

“It is noteworthy that only two persons (out of 2,000
polled) had volunteered such statements when asked
whether they had complaints about the organization. One
said ‘The organization is run solely for profit.’ The other
comment was ‘America sends the packages only to get
itself talked about.’

UCH OVERWHELMING ACCEPTANCE is primarily
due, of course, not to CARE but to the American
people who continue to send parcels in surprising volume
to Germany, and to 15 other countries in Europe and
Asia, without thought of political or economic return.
CARE has merely provided the non-profit channel for
this good will flow, insuring fast, guaranteed distribution.
To do this, it still uses the procedure, somewhat refined
but not basically altered, which proved so successful at
CARE's debut in Europe. Standard packages, now includ-
ing a wide selection of food and textile parcels, are stock-
piled all over Europe. When a package is ordered in the
States, instructions are sent over by air from CARE's
New York headquarters to release the desired parcel to
the recipient, and packages are now being regularly de-
livered within one to two weeks after the order has been
placed. The beneficiary in turn is asked to sign a receipt
which is returned to the donor, thus proving the delivery
of the proper parcel to the proper recipient.
The relative simplicity of this procedure, together with
CARE's bulk buying and ECA-subsidized shipping costs,
still result in a package whose contents cannot be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

duplicated in New York for CARE's $10 price, not to
mention costs of packing, mailing, insuring and receiving
a signed receipt.

There are two additional by-products of the CARE
procedure which are, perhaps, not so well known. The
first is CARE's practice of declaring ‘‘dividends" from
time to time out of the funds which in any other firm
would be retained as profits. CARE dividends, however,
are turned over to recipient countries in the form of
additional parcels. These are given, not by individual
donors but by CARE itself, and distributed strictly on a
basis of need by the leading German welfare societies, To
date, CARE has distributed $1,700,000 worth of dividend
parcels and bulk supplies to Germany.

Thus the donor aids not only his specified beneficiary,
but also contributes toward a parcel which will go to
some other particularly needy family.

HE SECOND BY-PRODUCT has reached an extent
which has been something of a surprise to CARE of-
ficials themselves. It is the result of the fact that many
Americans still address gift parcels, not to any specific re-
cipient, but to general relief. Sometimes they may specify
“A needy family in the Ruhr," or

“A widow with

A blind German worker, living in the basement of a
war-wrecked building, receives a food package from
Frankfurt CARE workers. At right is James Stanley, mem-
ber of the CARE Mission and the author of this article,

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 20 ---
children,” or even — in an attempt to find their exact
counterpart abroad — '‘A telephone employee with three
children under 10." In the great number of such cases, the
widow with children or the telephone company family
writes a letter of thanks to the donor, a warm cor-
respondence ensues, and the recipient is unofficially
adopted. The HICOG survey cited earlier disclosed that
as high as 20 percent of CARE recipients received, or had
first received, a package through general relief channels.

The immediate popularity of CARE in the years right
after the war was chiefly due to the fact that it offered
quick and ‘guaranteed delivery of a standard package
to meet a standard need. Clear across Europe, everyone
needed pretty much the same things.

Today, five years after the war, that standard need

does not exist to anything like the same extent. Countries °

and individuals have recovered at different speeds and
in different directions. In Germany, for example, there is
now an enormous spread between the haves and have-
nots; between what is available in the exclusive shops
and restaurants, and the standard of life in the average
or below-average income groups.

There are still great masses of people whose lot has
improved very little, if at all, from the dark days of 1945
and 1946. These would include most of the people in the
Soviet Zone, a large share of the more than 8,000,000
expellees and refugees in the West, the unemployed and
the university students. To these people, the lavish shop
windows are pure frustration.

O MEET THESE changing conditions, CARE has

widened the range of parcels available to include
not only several types of food packages, but household
linen, blankets, layette, woolen suiting, knitting wool,
and others as well. It has also made a more strenuous
effort to direct the flow of parcels toward the lowest
economic levels in the population.

During Christmas 1949 party at Children's Hospital at
Oberstetten, children performed nativity play. Mrs. John
J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner, distri-
buted collections of toys donated by CARE employees.

With general relief packages, and dividend parcels, this
selection of recipients is automatic. At the same time,
CARE has launched campaigns to direct the attention of
its regular donors to the expellees, the unemployed and
the students. These campaigns are still under way, but
recent checks of CARE recipients in Germany have re-
vealed that they have already begun to bear fruit. The
average CARE recipient still has a below-average income.
But he has a better than average opinion of America.

+END

Bulk Purchases from German Economy Authorized

Bulk purchases of food and agricultural products from
the German economy by the US Army Quartermaster,
European Exchange Service, US and Allied clubs and
similar organizations are authorized by a directive issued
by the Office of the US High Commissioner early in June.

Removal of restrictions on bulk purchase of food by US
and Allied groups and institutions is expected to result
in material benefit to the German economy, according to
officials of the Food and Agriculture Division, Office of
Economic Affairs, HICOG. Under the new regulation, the
German economy will be able to increase substantially
its dollar earnings.

Restrictions on individual purchases of non-rationed
items by members of the US Occupation Forces and their
dependents were lifted last September. Prior to issuance
of the new directive, which ends most remaining controls
on purchases of food from German sources, organizations
desiring to purchase in bulk quantities were required to
obtain advance clearance from HICOG headquarters,

AUGUST 1950

17

Purchases by US and Allied groups and individuals will
continue to be “limited to quantities normally required to
meet personal consumption needs of individuals and...
of personnel serviced by clubs or other institutions,” the
directive states. ‘No food will be mandatorily requisitioned
from the German economy.” The directive adds that “bulk
procurement may not be made for any food or agricultural
item on which the German internal price is subsidized by
the German government.”

Munich Medicos Fail to Cast Votes

Dr. Robert I. Hood, public health adviser of OLC Ba-
varia, declared recently that Munich physicians “clearly
indicated a woeful lack of interest in exercising their
democratic prerogatives" in the recent balloting for local
members of the House of Delegates of the State Medical
Society. More than 70 percent of the eligible physicians
failed to vote in the elections,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Anti-Polio Drive Spreads

UNICH's “‘PFENNIG PARADE,’ a drive

to raise funds to fight infantile paral-
ysis, continues to reap headlines through-
out Germany.

Initiated by the Munich German-Ameri-
can Men's Club, the drive was modelled
after the US ‘March of Dimes” and has set
a drove of German citizens to advertising
and collecting for the cause of good health.

First came the news that contributions
had topped DM 100,000 in Bavaria.

Other German states joined in to boost
anti-polio drives in their own areas, and
from Wiesbaden came announcement that

fantile Paralysis had been established.

Then, in mid-May, Australia’s Sister
Elizabeth Kenny, whose methods have
brought recovery for thousands, came to Munich to lend
her assistance in the Pfennig Parade.

When the plane of the famed ex-nurse touched down
at Munich-Riem airport, she was greeted by represen-
tatives of the German-American Club, by officials of the
Bavarian State Government, the City of Munich, the
Office of the US State Commissioner and of Munich Mili-
tary Post. Music and flowers were heaped upon her by
school children, American and German, and by the 30th
Army Band.

Thus began a six-day round of public appearances,
medical demonstrations and press conferences. She par-
ticipated in Pfennig Parade programs, received doctors

Sister Elizabeth Kenny, former Australian nurse who dis-
covered revolutionary treatment for infantile paralysis, is
greeted by leaders of the Pfennig Parade, sponsored by
the Munich German-American Men's Club. Left to right
are Mrs. Joseph Gigandet; Captain Gigandet, co-ordinator
of the drive; their son Michael; Sister Kenny; C.S. Wright,
US resident officer for Munich and initiator of the Pfennig
Parade; Valerie Harney, Kenny technician from the Kenny
Institute in Jersey City, N.J.; and Mrs.Wright (US Army photo)

Chester S. Wright initiated
the West German Foundation against In- what originally was merely
Munich's but now is all West
Germany's anti-polio drive,
“The Pfennig Parade.”

and nurses to lecture and demonstrate
Kenny techniques, visited a children’s
hospital, was whisked from one end of Ba-
varia to the other for public and social
appearances.

When she was ready to depart, she an-
nounced she would send, if possible, one
of her top technicians to Munich to con-
duct a training course in the Kenny theory
of polio treatment.

She also announced she would seek
establishment of a training school some-
where in Europe where medical men of all
European nations could share in the ad-
vances of polio care.

“I am particularly pleased,” she said, “to
co-operate with the German people who
are taking such an active part in the
‘Pfennig Parade Drive,’ for which they are to be con-
‘gratulated.”

ER VISIT, WHICH lent substantial aid to the drive

and to awareness of the polio problem, meshed well
with the announcement that West Germans now had their
own foundation for study and treatment of the dread
disease.

Articles of incorporation were filed in the office of the
Minister of. the Interior for the state of Hesse. Countess
Eleonore Matuschka-Greiffenclau was named as president.

As honorary president —in recognition of his having
initiated the “Pfennig Parade’ and his continuing interest
in the fight against polio — the foundation named Chester
S. Wright, Munich resident officer and American president
of the Munich German-American Men's Club.

The West German Foundation will carry on the Pfennig
Parade in all states of West Germany, and administer the
funds collected by the drive. -++END

Bavarian Blood Given Berlin

The Bavarian Red Cross has sent 70 liters of whole
blood by plane from the Munich Blood Bank to the Berlin
Red Cross. The airlift of whole blood to Berlin is the first
such transport in postwar Germany, according to Dr.
Robert I. Hood, public health adviser, OLC Bavaria.

The Munich Blood Bank was recently established with
American technical assistance primarily to serve hospitals
in the Munich area. The Bavarian Red Cross pointed out
that there is a continuing need for volunteer blood donors
to keep the blood bank fully active and in a position to
render needed service here.

Bremen’s Blood Center will be expanded so as to include
a blood bank to serve the entire state of Bremen, accord-
ing to the Public Affairs Division, OLC Bremen. Some
essential materials for the new Bremen blood bank are
expected in the near future.

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 22 ---
Youth Self-Help —

By EVERETT G. CHAPMAN

Adviser in Community Activities, Education and Cultural Relations Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

HE MOST IMPORTANT ASSET in any nation is its
youth. At the same time, youth can become the
greatest liability, if discouraged or misled, or given little
hope for the future. The great majority of youth in Ger-
many, co-operatively working with youth in other nations,
can become one of the greatest forces for peace and
democracy. But there is also the pressing danger that
they may follow the courses of extreme nationalism of
the right or left, which attracted so many jobless, dis-
illusioned, frustrated young Germans after World War I.
A large part of the German youth problem is economic.
How will they support themselves while studying? How
will they get jobs, once out of school? Where is their
place in the overcrowded German economy? Only when
young people have a reasonable answer to these questions
can they begin thinking of their constitutional rights,
participation in political parties, and — in short — develop-
ing into good citizens. : ¢
Although few constructive proposals have been made
and, where made, have produced little action in solving
the problem of German youth, a movement to help youth
help themselves is slowly spreading throughout western
Germany, fostered by enlightened leaders and progressive
civic groups, and stemming in large part from the initiative
of young people themselves. Through self-help programs,
young men and women have earned while they learned,
built the homes that they were to live in, and the class-
rooms for their own study, They have picked up trades
and skills, assuring them of a future, and in so doing,
have restored self-respect, emphasized individualism, and
have learned by living with their fellow men.

ERMAN YOUTH between the ages of 14 and 25,

numbering 2,761,000, constitute 15 percent of the
population but 26 percent of the unémployed in the
US Zone. According to statistics from the Federal Gov-
ernment, 550,000 youth are unemployed in western
Germany. There are some 170,000 applicants for appren-
ticeships which are unavailable. Investigation in Bavaria
showed 95,000 applicants for 9,000 apprenticeships, in
Hesse 26,000 for 8,000 apprenticeships. This situation is
aggravated by an estimated 4,000 youthful border-
crossers entering "west Germany monthly from the
destitute Soviet Zone.

In addition, youth unemployment is expected to in-
crease during the next five years as a growing number
of students leave formal education. Less than five percent
of youth are educated in universities. Study at special
schools is possible for an additional 10 percent. At least
85 percent of the youth have no formal education beyond
the age of 15 years,

AUGUST 1950

19

The universities, too, are in a difficult position. Average
enrollment of 1936-37, totalling 21,300 in the American
zone, has now increased to more than 61,000, a 290 percent
increase, On the other hand, 40 percent of university
facilities and equipment were damaged or destroyed dur-
ing the war.

Thus the program of such organizations as the Arbeits-
gemeinschaft des Jugendaufbauwerkes (Working Associa-
tion of Youth Reconstruction), Verband der Deutschen
Studentenwerke (Union of German Student Work), the
Association for Former American Work Students and
others have laid the groundwork for a solution to these
problems. Working together through the co-ordinating
efforts of the German Section of the International Council
on Youth Education and Self-Help, these groups have
helped thousands of youth learn new skills, continue their
education, establish contact with foreign students, and
often find a place to live.

IHE JUGENDAUFBAUWERKE has attacked the most

immediate and urgent youth problem, that of home-
less and wandering young people, uprooted by the war
and its aftermath. The agencies of this association have
been responsible for the establishment of 359 youth homes
and 269 workshops throughout western Germany. Others
are in process of construction. Using the self-help concept,
these projects create living facilities,
recreational opportunities, and work possibilities leading
to rehabilitation and independence of youth,

Entrance into the homes and workshops is entirely
voluntary, and the youth have participated in their con-
struction and improvement. Youth self-government is also
encouraged, An important concept of the program is that
the projects are not charity institutions. Assistance from
government and private sources should not result in
direction of these activities.

Typical of this program is the Friedensdorf, or Peace
Village, located in the former architect's offices of Hit-
ler's gigantic sport stadium at Nuremberg — once the
locale of Nazi party rallies. In the large two story build-
ing, which the youth themselves renovated, more than 100
boys, from ages 14 to 23, live and work. They are ap-
prenticed to qualified masters in’ workshops where they
receive training in such trades as leather working, cabinet
making, carpentry, upholstering and others.

Under guidance of the Jugendaufbau officials, the boys
have already completed two new buildings of a proposed
12-unit settlement, which will eventually take care of up
to 150 youth. Each building will be laid out like a large
“H" with the master and his family living in one wing,

the workshop in the center, and the youth living in the —

INFORMATION BULLETIN

educational and ©

--- Page 23 ---
opposite wing. Each of the 12 units will be :dedicated
to a different trade.

Friedensdorf is directed by an advisory committee of
local citizens, headed by a Nuremberg newspaper pub-
lisher, and financed through state contributions and
private donations. The sale of articles produced by the
youth in their workshops is expected to bring in addi-
tional funds.

HE JUGENDAUFBAUWERKsystem originated from un-
co-ordinated and sometimes confused efforts of many
local voluntary agencies to help youth in the early post-
war days. In 1947-48, state associations were formed,
which last year amalgamated in a meeting in Rothenburg
into a west German “Working Association." The Bonn
government recently allocated DM 4,500,000 for the con-
struction of mgre homes and workshops in the Jugend-
aufbau program, which is already serving 20,000 youth.
Most of Germany's university youth have faced severe
financial problems since the currency reform wiped out
the wartime savings of the young men and women in
1948. Today, local self-help organizations of students have
been established in all of west Germany's universities.
In October 1949, representatives of these local student
working groups formed a working committee to organize
the Deutsches Studentenwerk, Verband der Deutschen
Studentenwerke (organization of student working groups).
This organization will promote campaigns to obtain more
funds for. students from government and other sources,
and co-ordinate the programs of the local groups.

An interesting sidelight is the fact that expenses for
many of the delegates to the meeting last autumn were
contributed by prominent citizens, who had themselves
benefited from the student self-help program of the
Weimar period.

The student work groups are aiding about 80 percent
of the university youth in one way or another — primarily
through the operation of co-operative messes, providing
scholarships and aiding students to get part-time jobs.

ECOGNIZING THE URGENCY of the student situation,

HICOG education officials met with west German
university rectors in Bad Nauheim last year to develop
additional aid plans. As a result requests were made to
state finance ministers for government funds for the
student relief program and there is a good possibility
that money will be forthcoming from the Bonn and state
governments. A grant to the program by HICOG is also
under consideration.

A new program to provide a regular exchange of work-
students between Germany, America and European na-
tions is now being organized by a group of Germans who
participated in a similar program during the years 1925-33.
At that time some 200 German students were sent yearly,
through the co-operation of US agriculture and labor
groups, to work in the United States for two year periods.
About 140 alumni of this program have formed “The As-
sociation of Former America Work Students" and have
co-operated with the Occupation Forces in re-education
activities.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

Now occupying leading positions in German industry,
labor, government and education, this group has received
offers amounting to DM 100,000 to set up a revolving fund
for a new US-German student exchange. Now seeking an
appropriate US agency to sponsor the American side of
the program, the group plans to arrange for study and
work trips of worthy young Germans to the United States.
It also desires to accept American students on a reci-
procal basis.

HE HICOG EDUCATION Division in conjunction with

the Exchanges Division has already got this program
underway by arranging for one year visits of 26 students
to work on American farms and 26 students to work in
factories this year. They are to be sent to the US
as the first contingent of a regular work-student exchange
to be continued on a permanent basis. The State Depart-
ment in Washington is seeking a stateside sponsor for
the program which may also arrange to send American
students to Germany.

The program realizes a favorite Goethe philosophy that
every man should learn to work with his hands. Thus,
a doctor of philosophy may spend a year running an
American tractor, while an embryo lawyer may doa stint
on an auto assembly line. In this way the German students
learn the work, the experiences and the attitudes of the
average American working man. The student becomes
integrated into an American community for a time, and
attains firsthand experience of a democratic society.

To co-ordinate the many activities of the self-help pro-
grams for working youth and students, the German Sec-
tion of the International Council on Youth Education and
Self-Help has been organized. Specifically the agency
seeks to promote and co-ordinate self-help programs, seek
aid for these programs and to develop contacts and rela-
tionships with groups in other democratic countries inter-
ested in youth.

The council is comprised of an ‘advisory committee
upon which are represented German leaders from in-
dustry, labor, education, religion and youth, and an
executive committee comprised of representatives of the
various areas of self-help activities. Dr. Theodor Baeuerle,
education minister for Wuerttemberg-Baden, is chairman
of the organization.

HE SELF-HELP PROGRAMS now in existence are far

from providing the complete solution to the problems
of German youth. There are many thousands for whom no
place has yet been found in the limited facilities of these
efforts. But the organizations for self-help now developing
provide the best framework and channel through which
government and private agencies can contribute to the
rehabilitation of German youth.

In doing so they will not be providing the demoralizing
stopgap aid of grants, doles and charity, but will extend
to youth the facilities and opportunities for securing their
own future. In the process, the young people will develop
the individualism and self-confidence so necessary to a
democratic Germany. + END

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 24 ---
Kxchangees Applaud US Visits

HATEVER THEY LEARNED in the United States,
W scores ef German exchangees are determined to
spread among their colleagues. Just back from transatlantic
jaunts, these HICOG-sponsored visitors told members of
the Exchanges Division that they learned a lot and will
pass it on, despite resistance from skeptics at home.

The Germans; ranging from legislators to school
teachers, gave enthusiastic approval to the program at a
conference called by the Exchanges Division. They dealt
some criticism and numerous suggestions for improving
present schedules and procedures, They outlined for
fficials their most impressive experiences and told of
plans they have for applying newly-gained knowledge.

Aenne Brauksiepe, delegate to the West German
Parliament who visited the United States with 14 of her
colleagues, said that all members of the group were im-
pressed by the free spirit of debate and discussion in the
US Congress.

In our parliament, the delegates stand on the podium
and read long papers," she stated. “They often get very
excited and there is no real debate.”

She said that despite party differences, the members
of her exchange group were now on a friendly basis and
worked together to improve organization and procedures
n the German parliament. She agreed that strict party
discipline was partly responsible for the lack of free
exchange of opinion, and that many younger members
were opposed to the system which subjected them to

ntrol of party leaders.

They have been much encouraged by our reports on
the US Congress and we are slowly and carefully penetrat-
ing the party discipline system with our ideas," she said.

she applauded the American custom of writing letters
to congressional representatives on current issues, and
indicated that she was encouraging the people of her
Ruhr constituency to write their opinions to her.

I R. WILHELM NOWACK, member of the Bundestag
~ (federal parliament), from Bad Ems, French Zone, said
that a Bundestag reference library, similar to that in the

US Library of Congress, was being set up as a result of
the members’ visit to America, An official of the Congres-
Sional Library had already visited Bonn to advise the
Bundestag in this project, he added.

Several teachers and professors urged that the free
Spirit and effective citizenship training they had observed

in American schools be introduced into German class-
rooms.

Pointing out that German school children are strictly
controlled by the teacher, one teacher stated that the
American method could not be imposed in German schools
because the “pupils would not know what to do with so
ich liberty,

“We must start with the first grades and slowly teach
the children self-responsibility and individual initiative,”

m

AUGUST 1950

she said. ‘Discipline must be transferred from the teacher
to the children: they must learn to obey the teacher
without realizing discipline is being imposed — as it is
done in America."

Ursula Kalbfuss, of the programming department of
Radio Stuttgart, called for practical citizenship training
in German schools similar to the ‘‘junior citizenship pro-
gram" which she had observed in Kansas City during her
recent US study of youth leadership training,

“The students in a school there," she said, “have or-
ganized their own community, complete with a mayor,
student council, public health department, and their own
radio programs, They are even able to teach their parents
a few things about good citizenship.”

R. KATHARINA HUSSELS, public health officer for

a borough of West Berlin, urged that more people
from her field be sent to the United States. Pointing out
that public health work had been spurned by many
doctors because of its political perversion during the Nazi
regime, she said that the new and inexperienced per-
sonnel urgently needed study of American standards and
teaching in public health.

Dr. Hussels, recently back from the United States, said
she had gained many new ideas, particularly for promot-
ing more community interest in the Berlin public health
system,

In recommending methods to improve the HICOG ex-
change program, the recent returnees generally agreed
that more detailed briefing and more books and infor-
mation on the life, customs and government of the

Hazel Patch (right) of the Liaison and Planning Section
of HICOG'S Exchanges Division, in conversation with
some members of the Bundestag (Federal Parliament)
who were among 83 Germans recently returned from the
United States who attended an open forum at Bad Nau-
heim June 29 to discuss their experiences in America.
Left to right are Dr. Wilhelm Nowack, Bad Ems; Dr. Jo-
seph Trischler, Munich; Dr. Bernhard Reismann, Muenster;
Aenne Brauksiepe, Duisburg,and Dr. Adolf Ahrens, Bremen.

(Photos by PRD HICOG)

--- Page 25 ---
United States should be made available to the exchangees
before leaving. They urged that classes be conducted on
shipboard, so that more time would be allowed for
practical study when in the United States.

Dr. Ralph Burns, chief of the Exchanges Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, agreed to investigate this idea,
and asked for the conferees’ help in briefing some of the
hundreds of Germans scheduled to visit America this
year. The exchangees applauded this idea.

Opinion was divided on the question of sending more
young people, who could be expected to wield more in-
fluence in their communities when they returned.

HEPARD STONE, deputy director of the Office of

Public Affairs, stated that the program must be
balanced “since there is a long and short term problem
facing Germany.

“We know that youth is our great hope and as they
become leading citizens they will have a healthy influence
on securing German democracy," he said. ‘However, we
must also give today's leaders, who are currently engaged
in reconstructing Germany, the opportunity of benefiting
from American democracy.”

A problem which has long concerned HICOG officials
was raised by Horst Berenz, member of the German min-
ing administration, who pointed out that there was often
resistance to the ideas Germans brought back from US
trips.

“We hear protests like: ‘They have another climate in
California,’ ‘Conditions are different in America,’ ‘It will
never work here,’ etc.,"" he said, adding that people
“would give you 15 minutes to tell about your trip and
then return to something else.”

Led by Professor Walter Coing, professor at Frankfurt
University, several members of the conference contradict-
ed this statement and claimed it was exaggerated.

Alexandra Pleitner (left) of Heilbronn, and Maria Steffens,
of Wiesbaden, who are shown below wearing the con-
ventional German nursing sister's cap and costume, stud-
ied American public nursing organizations during their
three-month visits to the US as exchangees and told the
Bad Nauheim forum of what they had seen, heard and
learned. They recommended extension of the HICOG
exchange system in their particular field of endeavor.

Dr. Ralph A. Burns (right), chief of the Exchanges Divi-
sion, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, talks over: the
exchange program with Horst Berenz, of Frankfurt, who
as a recent exchangee studied the development of effective
modern democratic standards and methods in the _ field
of collective bargaining in American industrial centers.

“T have met no resistance in practicing new teaching
methods I learned in the States,’ Dr. Coing said. ‘I have
applied them from the first day I was back. My students
like them and my colleagues are eager to learn from me.”

In closing the conference, Dr. Burns urged that the ex-
changees call local conferences in their respective states
with other Germans who have returned from America to
provide criticism and advice to HICOG for continuous im-
provement of the exchanges program. +END

US Labor, Management “Striving
For Good Will," Exchangee Reports

Everywhere in America, labor and management are
“striving for good will. This is what most impressed
Heinrich Ebert, Munich labor market expert, during a
study tour of the US labor scene. He was one of 29 labor
representatives from Germany who have completed a
three-month survey under the sponsorship of the Office
of International Labor Affairs.

Reporting in Washington to US Government officials
and correspondents at a windup conference at the US
Department of Labor, Mr. Ebert said that “it seemed
unusual to find such tolerance between labor and
management."

The former trade union secretary also expressed
astonishment at the high productivity which he found in
America. In some offices “you would scarcely find a
bottle of ink or a pen,” he said. “Everything was done
by machine.”

Karl Frey, of Stuttgart, chairman of the City Central
Postal Workers Union, said he was particularly im-
pressed by the interest in “economic peace” in all parts
of the United States. He said he felt that “in Germany
more channels are needed for expression on both sides.”

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 26 ---
Ruhr Industry’s Problems

Address
By JOHN J. McCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

HIS VISIT TO THE RUHR gives me a welcome oppor-

tunity to discuss -with you the economic and social
problems that center in this great industrial area, problems
that are of crucial significance not only for Germany but
also for the world.

In inviting me to come here today I know that you want
me to discuss what I consider major issues. I shall talk
first about the major economic challenges you face and
then consider how they: fit into the larger context of
European world affairs.

We need not spend much time in recounting the great
economic progress Germany has made in the last two
years. Industrial recovery since currency reform and the
start of the Marshall Plan has been most impressive:
production has now reached 104 percent of 1936. With
all this progress, however, it is necessary to avoid any
complacency, for the German production index still lags
well behind those of the other ERP nations. The industrial
machine must work at even greater productivity if Ger-
many is to meet her long-term goals: to free herself of the
necessity for foreign aid, and to become a constructive
element in the community of Western nations. There is
not much time left under the Marshall Plan. With only
two years to run, the need for prompt action is obvious.

Among the immediate economic problems, two stand
out as pre-eminent: one is the problem of exports,
especially to the dollar areas, and the other is unemploy-
ment. Unless these twin problems are solved, economic
life at good standards will not be possible.

The vital necessity of increasing your exports is not
always appreciated by the average German, or indeed
by the average German business man. Simply stated, your
unfavorable trade balance is running at the equivalent
of $2,000,000 per day. Contemplation of that figure should
convince those who face ‘realities of the need for more
intensive action than has yet been noticeable. The plain
fact is that the essential food and raw materials will not
be available to serve as the base on which German
production can operate and expand unless German exports
do increase materially.

The export market is not an easy one to crack. It takes
time, it takes organization, it takes selling. But the need
is clear and it is urgent. The day will come soon when a
trade deficit will no longer be met by

The Federal Republic has been outstanding in liberalizing
trade policies. Although your balance with the OEEC
countries did suffer in the beginning, it is steadily im-
proving. With strenuous efforts to expand your exports,
I believe we can look forward to the day when Germany's

* balance with other countries will be within manageable

bounds.

In this connection let me say a word or two regarding
east-west trade. I know that many people, when thinking .
of Germany's trade difficulties, view the vast land area
to the east and think of a great expansion of east-west
trade as the answer to the German economic situation.
This may appear alluring, but to think of it as the solution
is an illusion. :

Naturally, prewar statistics do not wholly fit postwar
conditions, but I would remind you that 85 percent of
German trade before the war was with the west. And if
it is said the last 15 percent produced the profits, it is
still essential to recover the bulk of trade in order to
achieve a profit on any of it. This is quite apart from any
considerations of the vagaries of eastern trade with its
barter arrangements, unreliable deliveries and uncertain
payments. Undoubtedly east-west trade, like peaceful
trade with all parts of the world, should be developed as
fully as possible, but I repeat that the fundamental
solution of Germany's trade position lies in the west.

This solution will require European as well as German
action in freeing international trade from national restric-
tions. As ERP officials have been urging, the constant aim
must be to open the potential markets of Europe to the
products of all countries. Wider markets mean larger
opportunities.

At the same time, as you already know, such markets
become more competitive. The problem you face, -there-
fore, is becoming increasingly a problem of selling. If
an all-out effort, ingenuity and modern methods are
applied, German industry should be able to make larger
progress in expanding its sales.

LOSELY LINKED to expanding exports is the other
immediate economic problem: unemployment. Some
progress has already been made in attacking that problem,
and a slight downward trend in the number of jobless has
become evident. Yet, there is still far

levies on the earnings of foreign tax-
payers,

I urge all of you, therefore, to take
the greatest interest in the export drive
which has recently been launched with
the full support of your government.

This article is the text of an ad-
dress delivered by US High Com-
missioner John J. McCloy before a
dinner meeting of Ruhr industri-
alists, political leaders and bankers
at Duesseldorf-Graffenberg June 16.

to go. The causes for the current un-
employment are numerous and com-
plex and run the gamut of your
domestic economic difficulties—lack
of investment capital, a relatively
low level of production, lack of

AUGUST 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Four heads of missions were formally accredited to the
Allied High Commission at the Petersberg June 22 in a
ceremony that was Sir Brian Robertson's last official act
as British High Commissioner. .L.-r., Alfred Danielson,
Norwegian Minister; General Robertson; John J. McCloy,
US High Commissioner; d'Avilo Tello, Colombian Minis-
ter; Maurice Loze, Minister for Monaco; Thomas Clayton
Davies, Canadian Ambassador, and Andre Francois-Poncet,
French High Commissioner. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

housing, influx of refugees and your still meager export
trade.

In addition to increasing exports, the best way to. put
more people to work is to formulate and carry out an
adequate investment program. In formulating it there
must be no timidity—a bold, imaginative program must
be drawn up if the level of German industry is to be
raised to the point where it can absorb substantial num-
bers of the now unemployed, My economic advisers have
already pointed out that the projected investment pro-
gram is inadequate and would add few new jobs. This
investment program must be stepped up and enlarged
concurrently with making money available for medium
and long-term financing.

Just recently the High Commission has made it pos-
sible for foreign investors once again to place their money
in Germany. I would not, however, want you to believe
that the lifting of the foreign investment ban will be a
touchstone to prosperity. Judging by my experience, I
would not expect any flood of foreign moneys to stream
into Germany in the near future. It will depend upon the
Germans over the course of time to win the confidence of
foreign capital.

The solution to Germany's capital investment problem
must come essentially from within Germany itself. A large
amount of investment credit has and will continue to be-
come available toGerman industries through ERP counter-
part funds. But there again, those funds alone cannot do
the job. They comprise roughly only 20 percent of the in-
vestment capital needed. If Germany is to raise the level
of its industrial production and thus give jobs to more
people, some form of long-term financing must be found.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

24

It is the responsibility of your government in co-opera-
tion with bankers and businessmen to come forward im-
mediately with a program to provide adequate long-term
financing. In my opinion this will not be possible with-
out laying the foundation for the re-creation of a func-
tioning capital market. You must enlist your best finan-
cial and industrial brains in the development of plans to
call forth the savings of those who can and should save.
Provisions must be made for giving the potential investor
a realistic return. Like other countries which have gone
through currency reform, Germany must maintain con-
fidence in the stability of its currency.

HILE INSUFFICIENT, the amount of money now

available for investment from counterpart funds and
other sources is large. It is not only the quantity of such
funds which is at fault, but also the pace at which they
are being put to work.

If I may be permitted to say so, certain of your tradi-
tional banking practices are too slow for present German
needs. A sound investment program must be accompanied
by a speed-up in the distribution of funds to the indivi-
duals and firms which are ready to employ them for the
benefit of the entire German economy.

I have dealt first with these current economic problems
because they are immediate and pressing. They must be
solved in order to lay the foundations of a normal social
life for your country. But their solution poses other
problems, even more basic, which I want to turn to now.

If German industry is to provide employment and a high
standard of living for German workers and furnish the
means for paying for essential imports, it is clear that
Germany will have to rebuild an economic structure of
substantial size and strength. And, as in the past, much
of this industry will have to be located in the Ruhr.

To be perfectly frank, this development causes serious
doubts in the minds of many people. For many other
countries, the Ruhr is a symbol of industrial capacity de-
voted to aggression and its rebuilding creates concern for
their security. Looking at the past, they wonder whether
these factories and foundries will be used in the future
for peace or for aggression.

.

OR GERMANY ITSELF, the re-growth of industry is

certain to raise serious questions. Many Germans are
concerned lest their economy be dominated again by a
small group who will use their concentrated power to
control German political and social life. The question is:
Will the men managing the industries of the Ruhr use their
influence to support a liberal, democratic German state?
Or will they use it to stifle progressive elements and to
aid men and policies that in the past led Germany to de-
struction and have caused so much misery in the world?

In short, Ruhr industry faces the task of winning the
confidence of the German people and the people of the
world. You and others like you, therefore, have a tremen-
dous opportunity and responsibility. Your actions and
your attitudes can insure that the resources of German
industry are dedicated to a new and peaceful develop-

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 28 ---
ment of Europe. Your actions can contribute greatly to “

the creation of a genuinely democratic society and state
in Germany.

One immediate step toward these ends is the Allied
High Commission law for reorganizing the coal and steel
industries, originally known as Law75 and now re-enacted
as Law 27.*

This law is not in any sense a punitive measure against
either these industries or the German economy. On the
contrary, its purpose is to free them from the concentrated
control so detrimental in the past. Under this law our
intention is to create in these industries a mumber of
economically healthy enterprises. The restoration of com-
petition should encourage more efficient practices and
faster introduction of new and improved methods. And
finally, smaller enterprises will be better suited to a demo-
cratic order and will tend to reassure Germany's neighbors.

Since the policy behind this law is now settled, it is
clearly in the interest of everyone to carry it out promptly.
It will benefit everyone— workers, managers, consumers
and investors—to make the period of transition as short
as possible and to bring into full operation the new com-
panies in the steel and coal industries. Your co-operation
will, thereafter, be for the benefit of all.

This law does not, of course, stand in isolation. It is
part of a larger program to eliminate all restrictions on
competition which stand in the way of an expanding and
developing German economy. Needless to say, success
will depend in large part on the understanding of the Ger-
man people generally and the co-operation of men of indus-
try in particular. I believe that you owe it to yourselves
and to your fellow citizens to extend that co-operation.

N THIS SEARCH for economic welfare and security in

Europe, the profound proposal of M. Schuman is a
vital new factor. It has given renewed hope for a peace-
ful and prosperous Europe. It is a political and economic
fact of the first magnitude that France has proposed this
idea and Germany has accepted it.

While its details are yet to be worked out, the Schu-
man plan seeks in essence to make the coal and steel
resources of Europe available for the common good, and
to replace narrow nationalism with European co-opera-
tion. The Schuman plan is truly European in outlook. It
would enable the nations to work out their problems
together instead of on the basis of separate national
interests. If the Ruhr can thus be tied into the economy
of Europe, this plan will go far to allay the suspicions
and fears of Germany's neighbors.

In an effort to kill the plan, the Communists are spread-
ing contradictory rumors in France and Germany about
the motives behind it. The popular response to the plan
is the best answer to these canards. The real motive
behind the plan, I am convinced, is a sincere desire for
peace and better living standards.

Our British friends, of course, share these basic pur-
poses. Accordingly we must all regret their inability to
join in the negotiations at this time. Even so I feel sure

* For text, see Information Bulletin, July 1950 issue.

AUGUST 1950

25

that the other nations can work out a practical instrument
which will be of lasting benefit to all Europe. Indeed,
my own hope is that the Schuman plan will be only the
first step toward closer integration of the nations of
Europe, both economically and politically.

In the time at my disposal, I have tried to direct your
attention to some of the critical problems which face you
as industrialists and have, therefore, focused on them
from that point of view. But you are as fully aware as I
am, that the solution of these problems will require the
closest co-operation among all groups and interests in
Germany today.

In particular, it is essential that industrialists and
workers, anid their trade unions, should constantly strive
to find common ground in the solution of these problems.
Only co-operation in labor-industrial relations can avoid
some of the tragic mistakes of the past. If these relations
are marked by liberal and human understanding, and if
they recognize the social needs of all those who contri-
bute to the social product, they are certain to set a pat-
tern for a strong, democratic German state. If a gulf
between industry and labor divides Germany into hostile
camps, the inevitable result will be political unrest and
social instability.

ODAY, GERMANY occupies an ambiguous role in the

eyes of the world. It still suffers from widespread
distrust about its desire to become a peaceful member
of the community of nations. At the same time, there is in
the world widespread good will toward all those forces in
Germany which are striving to create a peaceful state.

Thus the labor and industrial leaders of Germany, and
especially of the Ruhr, face a tremendous challenge.
They have the opportunity to nurture the good will and
to destroy the mistrust by their attitudes and. actions
now and in the future. If they display an enlightened
citizenship, based on deep respect for the dignity,
liberties and civil rights of the individual, they can lay
the foundations for a bright future. At all costs it is
essential to avoid cynicism and calculated self-interest,
which can lead only to ruin.

In the days and years ahead you can help lead Ger-
many toward the common goal shared by all European
peoples. With effort and good will the Ruhr can one day
become a symbol of peace and progress in Europe. -+END

Books Given Berlin Medical Institutes

Twenty-three cases of medical books were given re-
cently ‘by the US Army Medical Service to the Free
University of Berlin. Most of the several hundred books
treat the subjects of nutrition, anaesthetics, psychiatry,
surgery and communicable diseases. Some reference books
were included. All these recent publications will help in’
bringing the Berlin medical profession up to date on
medical developments in the United States. The books
were distributed by the Free University of Berlin to the
Medical Faculty, the Robert Koch Institute and the
Institute for Psycho-Therapy.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
Rhine-Main’s
Adopted —
Children

CORES OF US CITIZENS on occupation duty in

western Germany scanned their newspapers with
more than passing interest during June, and there were
heartfelt family celebrations when the “right story
appeared.

In Stars and Stripes, the headline read: "New DP Act
OKs US Entry of 10,000 Europe Orphans." For more than
a few US families, this meant the end to seven months
of worry and dispersion of the threat that their families
might be split up or exiled for years.

The DP Act meant that US personnel who had adopted
German children had won permission to take these
children into the United States.

The question of taking children into the States had
been no small headache — at Rhine- Main Airbase
alone, more than 40 couples had adopted German children

Mrs. Kenneth Berninger, wife of Major Berninger, coaxes
her adopted son, Richard, to take just one more step.
Day this photo was taken, he first tried to walk alone.

-™

Messages to Congressmen to protest kiddies’ exclusion
from US discussed by anxious foster parents. As
question was one of principle, wives signed messages.

during the past two years. The new foster parents had
not realized, in changing the children’s status, that they
were treading on risky international ground. Everything
went smoothly with Rhine-Main couples who were trans-
ferred immediately after the Airlift ended, and with
families all over Germany who took their children to the
United States before November 10, 1949. And then sud-
denly, plans were dashed to pieces as parents applying
for visas were informed that German quotas were filled
and their children had no special priority.

OR MOST FAMILIES, the news came without warn-
Fr ing. They were faced with the alternative of leaving
their babies with friends who might in turn be trans-
ferred, placing them in overcrowded orphanages, or
requesting to stay on in Germany. Without exception,
the parents caught in this dilemma elected to stay.

The spirit in these foster families has proved to be
just as strong as the natural parent-child relationship.
When faced with the possibility of not being able to take
her child to the United States, one American mother said:
“Our baby is legally adopted, he bears our name, and we
aren't going home without him.” For months now, the
children have been provided with real homes, cherished,

Mickey Riddle (top left), born of German and Hungarian
parents, concentrates on block-building at US nursery
school near airbase at which foster father is stationed.

--- Page 30 ---
Ross Swett's (extreme left) face lights up as kindergarten
teacher, Mrs. Beth Brown, praises toy bear he made. Ross,
six, spoke no English last September, but learned fast.

and given the assurance that they “belong.” It has been
an exceptional experience for the new parents: the
certainly they were lifting orphans from a tragic environ-
ment and giving them a normal and carefree childhood.

In the United States, adoption agencies hesitate a long
time before allowing a child to be adopted by service
personnel because they are “transient. Even civilians
with good incomes and stable homes are often forced to
wait for two years or more. For this reason, service
families inGermany have doubly appreciated the privilege
of adopting a child, and are determined to prove that
travel is broadening and fun, and that family unity need
not suffer because of it.

For most of them, the ultimate pleasure has been to see
their babies develop from wan and spindly mites into
radiant, rosy-cheeked children.

DOPTION PROCEDURE in Germany, however, was not
A simple; about four months of paper work was re-
quired. Some American families adopted their babies
direct from the parents, others from orphanages, The
local Frankfurt adoption agency followed up each case
with home visits, to see whether the children were happy
and well-adjusted. Final Military Government approval

Seven-month-old Vicki is tucked into her crib for a
short nap by her foster mother, Mrs. Peter Verbeck.
The Verbecks expect “a blessed event’ this summer.

S Ks 3 eo

Cathy (leit) is helped to stand upright by foster mother,
Mrs. Alberta Wright, while Cathy's twin brother, Albert
Wright, held by Mrs. Warren Delker, looks on interestedly.

was received in Wiesbaden, and great pains were taken
to comply with all the often-complicated rules of the
foster father's home state.

All went well with the new families until November
1949, when the backlog of Germans who had been able
to prepare personal papers for immigration to the United
States pushed the children to the bottom of the quota list.
With the huge numbers of Germans seeking to fill the
26,000 quota, it looked as though if might be 10 years
before the children's applications could be considered.

But today this possibility has been dispelled and families
assured of unchallenged entry. For couples at Rhine-Main,
it meant an end to worry, the sense of hopelessness and,
for many, prolonged homesickness; most important, it
meant their new “German-American” families would re-
main indefinitely intact. -++END

Michel (in ring, facing camera), adopted daughter of T/Sgt.
and Mrs. Troy Riddle, enjoys the games played by three-
and four-year-olds at nursery school. (USAFE photos)

--- Page 31 ---
Kdeltraut’s on Her Way!

HE EXCITED GLEAM in Edeltraut
Schwarzer's deep brown eyes came
forth on a very special occasion.
Edeltraut was taking a trip.

Although just.15 years old, she'd
traveled before, and neither she, nor her
mother, nor her little brother Heinz, now
10, would ever forget the flight from
Nicholsburg, Sued Maehren—one of
the two largely German-populated areas
of Czechoslovakia—into Linz, Austria.
That was in 1945, and the Schwarzer
family was lucky enough to be alive,
even though they'd lost everything else.

With her mother and brother and a
baby girl named Eveline, Edeltraut found
a new home in St. Valentin, Austria. She
went to school there for the year until
her father, Josef, captured and detained
at an American PW camp, returned to
the family.

Then, all together, the Schwarzers took another trip. This
time they halted at Vaihingen-Enz, in Wuerttemberg-Baden,
and began a home, Edeltraut's parents started a small tex-
tile business, and Edeltraut went back to school.

This time Edeltraut is traveling without her family.
She's going with 34 boys and 31 other girls, all in their
teens or early twenties. All Germans, from rural districts
in Wuerttemberg-Baden, they are in the United States for
a year's school and work on farms. Edeltraut, the youngest
of them all, was excited from the minute the group of
youths gathered on the train platform in Stuttgart, bound
for Bremerhaven an a transatlantic steamer.

HE TALKED ON THE RADIO for the first time along

with Gerhard Eberle of Gross-Eichholzheim, who said
for them both that he was ‘deeply thrilled” over the op-
portunity which he and his companions have of going to
the United States on a HICOG exchange project.

Eva Maria Gfroerer, 15-year-old student of the borough
of Dahlem, in the US Sector of Berlin, is Germany's
representative on a good will tour of the United States
sponsored by the Department of State for 22 European
and Middle Eastern youths. The group assembled in
London July 4, when they were the guests of the US
ambassador, then were flown the next day to New York.
After stays at homes in Nashville, Tenn., two weeks on
Tennesseean farms and a camp operated by Youth, Inc.,
which extended the invitation, the group now is visiting
Washington, Chicago, Miami, Oak Ridge and a number
of other American cities. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Little Edeltraut Schwarzer, aged 15,
smiles happily as she arrives at the
Stuttgart railroad station en route to
a year's school and work on farms
in the United States as an exchangee.

28

She listened intently when Maj. Gen.
Charles P. Gross, state commissioner
for Wuerttemberg- Baden, told them:
“You are just starting on your trip to
the United States. We all
happy and enthused you are and we are
glad about it... We wish you sincerely
the best of luck for your undertaking.”

see how

She posed happily for photographers,
once by herself and again with General
Gross and the others.

Then Edeltraut, who intends to enter
the home economics school at Kirch-
heim-Teck when she returns, joined her
65 young companions on the train, and
settled down forthe long trip to America.

She had the final words of General
Gross to remember: “We are convinced
you will return to Wuerttemberg-Baden
and to your home community with the
resolution to be of better service to your
homeland. The new Germany ... in reconstruction will
need young people like you, and we believe that you will
follow this call. Good luck and bon voyage.” + END

4,000 Border-Crossers Arrested
Bavarian border police arrested 4,092 illegal border-
crossers who sought to enter the US Zone during May
while 349 persons who sought to leave the American zone
illegally during the same period were arrested.

AUGUST

1950

--- Page 32 ---
Degeendorf
Marks
1,200th

Anniversary

By JOHN J. GREELEY
US Resident Officer, Deggendorf

NCE UPON A TIME — in 750 A.D., to be exact — the

Duke of Bavaria, Odilo, built a court in the area where
the road to Bohemia crossed the Danube River. The duke
chose a man named Tekko as ruler of the court and put
him in charge of the peasants and fishermen who made
their living there. And so the city of Tekko began.

During the current month of August, the 17,000 people
who now live in the ancient river settlement of Deggen-
dorf,* formerly Tekko, will celebrate the city’s 1,200th
anniversary.

Visitors from all parts of Germany, western Europe and
the United States as well, will gather for the traditional
spectacle, celebrated once in every hundred years. A
spectacular “battle of flowers’ leads the list of events,
which includes native poet and composer competitions,
productions by folklore groups and a soccer match on
motorcycles.

A trade fair showing local Marshall Plan-aided enter-
prises will lend a touch of the modern world, and one day
has been especially designated to honor the town’s 16,440
refugees.

The majority of the events will call up the flavor of the
ancient city, and show trades and rural customs that have
survived the passing of centuries.

Five hundred white pigeons will be released to fly
across the city and herald the opening of the festival.

AARADES AND PAGEANTS will depict the city’s past.

The city will produce a pageant honoring Tekko, and
the Benedictine Monastery College of Metten will tell
the story of Charlemagne, who once held sway over
Deggendorf.

The city's Homeland Union will chronicle all of Deggen-
dorf's history. St. Godehard and Guenther will be honored
by the Niederalteich Monastery School. The citizens of
Datting will offer a pageant of the Pandurs.

Employees of Deggendorf's modern-day post office will
diess themselves up in the costumes of the old-timers and
ride on an old post carriage. Antique fire equipment, dat-
ing back hundreds of years, will be demonstrated. Young

* Pronounced ‘Dek-ken-dorf."*

AUGUST 1950

29

This was the winning poster in a competition conducted
in connection with the 1,200th anniversary celebrations
scheduled to commence in this old Bavarian city Aug. 11.

and old will sport the ancient guild costumes, one more
addition to the historic trappings which will transform
the city.

Bock beer for all will froth into the glasses of spectators
at the goat auction at the brewery Moos. Poultry and rab-
bit shows will highlight the forenoon of August 16. A
gigantic cattle exhibit and the awarding of prizes will
occupy Friday, August 18. For this, entries of prize cattle
have been received from all parts of western Germany.

URAL YOUTH DAY, aided by the local resident of-

ficer, is being booked by the local Farmer's Union.
Fruit and garden specimens from Lower Bavaria will vie
for blue ribbons. Public demonstrations will be given by
members of the Jungbauern, German counterpart of
America’s 4H Clubs. Youngsters will ogle exhibits of bee-
raising and fish-raising, and displays of small animals and
farm machinery.

As though this weren't quite enough to fill the nine-day
festival, there will also be boxing matches, football games,
productions by the band and artists of Radio Munich.
Swimming and boating events for adults and children are
threaded through the carnival schedule. On Refugee Day,
August 20, there will be exhibits of outstanding refugee
handicrafts and these newest residents of Deggendorf will
show their talents with songs and dances and poems.
Representatives of the Ministry of Interior and Bavaria’s
Refugee Ministry will inject a thoughtful note in speeches
on the outlook for refugees in Bavaria.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Resident Officer John J. Greeley (left), author of this

article, discusses celebrations with Mayor Dr. Hugo Leicht
of Deggendorf. They are standing beside fountain in the
town square in front of the centuries-old Rathaus (city
hall), Portion at left was built in 1450, the records say,
while the tower is reportedly a couple of centuries older.

A HICOG-sponsored School on Wheels will show the

people of Deggendorf and the Bavarian Woods the modern
approach to farm youth and to the problems of rural
women. Women will play a prominent part each day of
the festival and on August 15, when an all-day exhibit
of women’s products will be held on the festival grounds.

Against this background of Deggendorf's past and
present, the famous historical museum of the city, closed
for five years, will be reopened. There scholars may
learn about the very earliest beginnings of Deggendorf.

STUDY OF TEUTONIC tribal graves shows that the

area was inhabited as far back as 550 A.D. There is
ample evidence that settlements existed from Deggendorf
to Hengersberg at that time. But the more formal
chroniclers have named 750 A.D., and the reign of Tekko,
as the official beginning.

Christianity, was being spread throughout the land
about that time by missionaries from England, France,
Ireland and Italy. Deggendorf strongly felt its influence,
as can be seen by the surrounding monasteries and
churches,

Participating in the Bavarian revolt against Charle-
magne in 788, Deggendorf, along with the rest of Bavaria,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

was firmly defeated. Under Charlemagne, the little village
was elevated to the status of a ‘King’s Court.” Later it
became the property of the Arnulfingers, until the Duchess
Nudith awarded it to the Niedermuenster Monastery in
Regensburg.

Soon after its founding, the village threw a bridge
across the Danube. Being of wood construction, the bridge
was dismantled each fall and reassembled each spring
when the dangers of ice had passed. Visitors can still see
the original house of the bridge tollkeepers standing in a
fine state of preservation. It is Deggendorf's oldest
structure. Approaches to the bridge were controlled from
the Vindelstein castle, of which but a few blocks of stone
remain today.

N 1250, WHEN Duke Otto II of Bavaria saw that his

country was endangered by the inheritance claim of
the Bohemian king Ottokar, he decided to convert Deggen-
dorf into a fortress. Since the old site, between river and
hills, was far too narrow for a fortified city, plans were
drawn for the new city where the valley broadens. It was
provided with a wide and beautiful city square, centered
by the town hall, and surrounded by strong walls with
towers and gates, In the 19th century, the bridge was
moved up closer to the new city.

In the course of its history, Deggendorf has many times
been besieged and conquered. In 1843 it was burned down
to such an extent that only 33 houses were left standing.
Another catastrophic fire occurred in 1820. In 1634, the
population of Deggendorf was decimated by a plague.

In the early days, the city was famed for its grain, cattle
and pig markets, its breweries and numerous skilled
craftsmen, Later it became a center of commerce, because
it was at the crossroads of the Danube and Bohemian road.
Important soap and wax factories, textile enterprises, a
shipyard and, in the past decades, a Danube shipping fleet
have in later years become an integral part of the Deggen-
dorf scene.

And this year, the city that Tekko built, nestled in the
beautiful Bavarian Woods mountains, looks forward to
another 12 centuries of progress and change. +END

Florida Shells on Exhibit in Bavaria

Residents of two counties in eastern Bavaria — Deggen-
dorf and Bogen — are displaying keen interest for the
State of Florida as the result of an assortment of sea
shells recently received from there.

Twelve boxes of selected shells, sent by the Lee County
Chamber of Commerce at Fort Meyers, Fla., are being
exhibited in schools throughout the two counties.

“This is the first time," declared John J. Greeley, US
resident officer at Deggendorf, “that many of the children
in Deggendorf and Bogen have had the opportunity to see
such beautiful shells. As a result, interest is being aroused
for the State of Florida, particularly for Lee County.”

Mr. Greeley said that when the present exhibition tour
is completed in the two counties, the shells, properly
identified, will be placed in a permanent exhibition.

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 34 ---
A Five-Year Inventory

By BENJAMIN J. BUTTENWIESER

US Assistant High Commissioner

T IS SLIGHTLY OVER five years ago since Germany

capitulated, after the most devastating war in all his-
tory. The occupation began. It seems fitting that after five
years we should take inventory of jits results. What has
been accomplished by the occupiers, what by the oc-
cupied. Without in any way losing sight of it, or minimiz-
ing the vast services that have been rendered to Germany
by our allies, the British and the French, permit me to
portray what has been achieved for Germany by the
United States.

Properly to focus this discussion, it may be useful to
re-enunciate our occupation aims, although they have
been so often repeated that it is almost superfluous to call
them to the attention of any German audience. However,
so that this whole important subject of what we are seek-
ing to accomplish in Germany may be crystal clear, let
me reiterate that our major objective is to help the posi-
tive forces in Germany develop a nation which will co-
operate in maintaining peace, which will re-establish its
economic stability, which will be accepted back into the
family of nations and which will not again fall easy prey
to dictators or subversive influences, be they from the
right or the left. As your chancellor so aptly phrased it,
the chief task of the German people is “serving a peace-
ful Europe.”

Viewed against this background, let us consider what
the American people and the German people have contri-
buted toward attaining this goal. Any appraisal of this
nature and scope must cover two areas, one: material; the
other: ideological. The material aspect of any such evalua-
tion represents the easier facet, because it is susceptible
of more precise analysis. That does not connotate, how-
ever, that it is more important; for if Germany is to win
her way back into the fold of international acceptance,
she must demonstrate that she has emancipated herself
from the diabolic concepts and acts which led to the most
widespread and ruthless war of all time. Obviously this
demonstration must be along ideological, political and
sociological lines.

OW AS TO A consideration of what has been attained

along material lines. On May 8, 1945, Germany found
herself physically paralyzed and mentally in a state of
shock. Today, however, through a spirit of co-operation
on the part of the victors, which, so far as I am aware,
knows no parallel in history, your country is back on its
feet. However, with due regard for the industriousness of
the German people in digging themselves out of the rubble

the vast aid that has been rendered by -the American
people. The presence here today of the Marshall Plan-
ERP train and its exhibits aboard are a symbol of this
aid. Many of you, I am sure, have visited or will see the
exhibits displayed on this train. They will afford you a
realistic presentation of what ECA has done and is seek-
ing to do for the benefit of the German economy.

By way of summarizing this, however, let me merely
cite some figures which I think are as dramatic as they
are illuminating. Between July 1, 1945, and March 31,
1950, the American people extended to Germany in the
form of Government and Relief in Occupation Areas —
the so-called GARIOA aid — $1,961,000,000, while from
April 3, 1948, to March 31, 1950, there was granted to
Germany, through the ECA, $840,000,000. Furthermore,
American aid to Germany through STEG (German public
corporation for the collection and disposal of surplus war
material) represented a total value of about $1,000,000,000.
Bear in mind the total of these three sums — $3,801,000,000,
which is the equivalent of DM 15,964,200,000 — not merely
because of its enormity, but likewise because it should
be an ever-present reminder to you of the spirit in which
the victors met the vanquished.

Translated into plain language, this figure represents
vast quantities of bread-grain and other foods; petroleum
products for your motor vehicles; fertilizer for your
farms; cotton for your textile factories; and thousands of
other products which you see in your store windows and
in your homes; tangible evidence of American generosity
and good will. As to the assertion that Germany is indebted
to the US for this money, the subject of repayment has
not come up for discussion and I doubt whether it will
for a long time to come.

EVERTING AGAIN to the degree of your recovery

during the last five years, just afew salient factors may
demonstrate your situation today as compared, not alone
with the Germany of May 1945, but even with pre-war
Germany. The most recent index indicates that as of
April 1, 1950, your industrial production was 104 percent
of similar production for 1936, which is generally consid-
ered to have been a normal year for Germany within the
decade prior to World War II. In all fairness it must be
stated that, while this is a quite satisfactory status when
measured in absolute terms, relatively it is not quite so
reassuring, because a similar figure for a cross section of
your western neighbors would be about 130 percent.
However, considering the physical,

and building themselves back to their
present degree of physical well-being,
I think it must be agreed that they
could not have reached their current
Point of national rehabilitation without

This article is the text of an ad-
dress delivered by Mr. Buttenwieser
at the US Information Center in Heil-
bronn,Wuerttemberg-Baden, June 19

economic, financial, political and socio-
logical situation in which you found
yourselves five years ago, I think it
must be granted that this represents

AUGUST 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
To mark the 550th birth anniversary of Johannes Guten-
berg, Germany's ‘Father of Printing,’ the city of Mainz
staged a jubilee exhibition at its Gutenberg Museum and
a highlight of the occasion was first public display of
the 500-year-old Mainz Psalter since its return to Ger-
many following World War II, during which it disap-
peared. The Psalter has been lent to Mainz for three
months. Viewing the book are, l.-r., Assistant High Com-
missioner Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, a German Southwest
Radio reporter and Dr. Alois Ruppel, authority on
ancient printing and curator of the museum.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

accomplishment from which the German people may well
derive satisfaction and reassurance. Other factors of an
industrial and commercial nature, however, are not quite
so satisfactory. Much of your industrial plant was de-
stroyed or damaged. Shortage of capital has made its
replacement or rehabilitation either impossible or slow.
Consequently, in large sectors of your industry, produc-
tion costs are relatively high as compared with those of
your competitors in other countries. Furthermore, security
considerations require that some of your prewar industries
be prohibited or limited, while the common front against
the threat of Soviet imperialism requires restriction of
certain of your efforts.

These situations impinge upon your trade. Consequently,
when one considers that even prewar Germany, with its
larger agricultural areas, had to import approximately
20 percent of its requirements of foodstuffs and raw
materials, it is readily understandable how ‘the Federal
German Republic must import approximately 50 percent
of these requirements.

Time does not permit of my elaborating on the intri-
cacies of foreign trade, invisible exports and the like,
which facilitated Germany's meeting this prewar import
requirement, as against its greater impact upon the
present Germany's economy, truncated as it is by the
existence of the so-called “German Democratic Republic.”
As a result of all these factors, Germany's exports for
1949, expressed in dollars, totaled only $1,125,000,000
whereas her imports totaled $2,250,000,000. This gap of
$1,125,000,000 presents one of your great financial diffi-
culties. Fortunately, during the present year, your exports
are greater, your imports are less; consequently your

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

unfavorable trade balance is smaller. It would appear,
however, that it will still be in the neighborhood of
$750,000,000 for this year.

NCE AGAIN, without meaning to appear immodest
so far as the American people are concerned, it is
their aid, through ECA and otherwise, that has gone far
toward enabling you to meet this difficulty. Coping with
this problem, with unemployment which is directly related
to it and with your many other serious industrial and
fiscal troubles calls for prompt, constant, constructive and
co-operative effort on the part of the German people and
their governmental officials. regret that such efforts and the
sacrifice they may entail are not always as whole-hearted
or drastic as the urgency of your needs would warrant.
Through vast governmental and philanthropic aid from
America, Germany was practically saved from starvation,
Even up to the very present, you are being bounteously
aided in solving your economic problems by material
means and technical guidance of ECA. The very allusion
to guidance brings to mind the concept that ‘man cannot
live by bread alone.’ Consonant with that philosophy,
the American people in their objectives for Germany and
in the implementation of that program, have endeavored
to furnish even more than the material aid which I have
cited, tremendous though that has been.

Lest the German people have any illusions on this
subject of material aid, let me assure you that, although
our country is fortunately enormously wealthy and
although our people are blessed with vast resources,
none the less much of our productivity and industrial
ascendancy have been due to hard work and conscientious
and understanding co-operation by all segments of our
people in coping with our common problems. These are
qualities of the American people which are often lost
sight of by some of our neighbors who might well to
their advantage emulate, rather than disparage, these
desirable, American, national attributes.

ET ME SAY, TOO, what is often ignored. Our taxes
are high; higher than those prevailling in many of the
countries to which we have been rendering vast aid. The
American taxpayer, and this includes practically every
employed adult in our country, because our taxpaying
brackets reach very low in the scale of income, has
shouldered a colossal burden in meeting the costs of this
war and in the altruistic aid which our country is render-
ing throughout the world to ally and enemy alike.

The least that the purveyors of this help can expect is
that its recipients, especially German, will not alone
welcome it, but will make its use doubly effective, by
making it play an ideological as well as a fiscal role.
Equally are they justified in expecting that partisan or
political considerations, bickering and jealousies will be
set aside in coping with Germany's manifold difficulties —
be they economic, fiscal or political and be they domestic
or foreign. Only by such united effort can Germany hope
to overcome her manifold difficulties and thus merit the
continuing assistance and understanding which are being
so copiously and forbearingly accorded her by America.

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 36 ---
It is in the ideological aspect of this inventory that I am
endeavoring to sketch that I make the most earnest plea.
Surely it must be apparent to the Germans that we seek
no material gain of any type from our occupation. Many
of our Occupation Forces come here at great sacrifice,
personal and in many cases financial. I realize that this
contention may be countered by the German assertion
that it lies within our power to alleviate that situation by
leaving. Properly gauging from even a purely selfish Ger-
man standpoint the value of the Occupation Forces, I
sincerely doubt that thinking Germans would subscribe
to that sentiment. I admit it is almost axiomatic that an
occupation force is never popular with those who are
occupied. However, as Mr. McCloy only recently said,
“We are no longer primarily an occupying force, but a
force defending Germany and Europe against a revival of
dictatorship and oppression." That statement could well be
amplified by adding that we are here as helpers in the essen-
tial and far-reaching task of aiding the German people to
recast their thinking and living along democratic lines.

HE GERMAN PEOPLE and their leaders have often

suggested and, in fheir public utterances, stated that
five years after the cessation of hostilities we should
forgive and forget. We can forgive, but we can never
forget. Equally, we ask the German people that they
should not forget. Especially should they not forget the
subject of occupation. Germans were occupiers in the not
too distant past. Anything I may say on this subject is
based on study, but not on actual experience. Perhaps,
therefore, this part of my remarks would come with
greater force, though let me assure you with no greater
conviction or sincerity, if made by one of the French
occupation officials,

When we take down the signs, “Eintritt fuer Deutsche
verboten" (Admission forbidden to Germans), might we not
suggest that in the light of the beneficent role we seek
to play in and for Germany, we view with deep regret
signs and statements urging “Americans, go home." Even
more serious are some of the ill-founded and intemperate
public utterances of certain high German governmental
or state officials, derogatory of our occupation and some
of its officials, or their provocative observations on the
war guilt of Germany; or, in some instances, not alone
their failure wholly to condemn certain Nazi excesses and
intolerances, but even efforts to be apologists therefor;
or various public displays and statements of high officials
in connection with legal proceedings.

These are only a few disheartening instances to which
I could allude. They become the more disturbing and
regrettable when officials of even cabinet rank are in-
volved. Couple these offensive situations with increasing
criticism of the Occupation Forces; with endeavors to
magnify certain few and isolated instances of minor mal-
practices, which, I admit, do occur on the part of our
Occupation Forces; with a growing campaign to ex-
aggerate the cost and strain on the German economy of
the occupation; and you witness what seems to me hardly
to represent an appreciation of what the American occu-
Piers are attempting to do and are doing for Germany.

AUGUST 1950

i Bae ME BE SPECIFIC on this subject of occupation
costs. For the present fiscal year the total cost of
the occupation by all three Occupying Powers is estimated
at DM 4,048,500,000. This is DM 544,900,000 less than
the similar figure for last year. Of this year's total,
DM 3,263,100,000 is for occupation costs proper, meaning
expenses incurred by the Occupation Forces for goods
and services for the maintenance and welfare of the
Allied Forces stationed in Germany, but not for their pay.
Of this latter total, 78.1 percent is for labor, rents, utilities,
transportation and communication, all paid to Germans.

The additional DM 785,400,000 is for so-called mandatory
expenses, of which DM 461,600,000 is for services which
may be regarded as of direct benefit to the German
economy, including capital expenditures for new housing
for the Occupation Forces which will ultimately revert
to Germany.

Bear in mind that all of the entire total of over
DM 4,000,000,000 will be spent right here in Germany.
So, too, is a great deal more spent in the German economy
which Germans are prone to overlook. We of the American
Occupation Forces spend DM's totaling well in excess of
the equivalent of $50,000,000 per annum. This ‘gives Ger-
many much needed dollar exchange which comes out of
our US Government pay, not out of occupation costs.
What you may not realize is that, in addition to the share
of the total occupation cost which Germany is paying,
the occupying governments are shouldering a sizeable
financial burden in paying salaries and various expenses
of their Occupation Forces,

The German share of the occupation cost represents
approximately 21 percent of the total budgets of the
Federal Republic and the states. In our country ex-
penditures for our defense represent about 37 percent
of our federal budget, exclusive of interest on our govern-
mental debt. I make this latter deduction because Ger-
many has no present interest burden; therefore, a com-
parison which did not take that deduction into account

Mr. Buttenwieser on the speaker's rostrum at opening
ceremonies of the Gutenberg Museum's jubilee exhibi-
tion. With him is Dr. Franz Stein, mayor of Mainz, who
expressed gratitude for the recovery of the famed Mainz
Psalter, which is regarded as the first three-color work
in the art of printing. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

ite re

--- Page 37 ---
would not be valid. I have made this comparison with
our defense outlays also, because, let me reiterate, the
presence of the Occupation Forces is the answer to the
question that is often posed as to what takes the place
of the German remilitarization which we prohibit.

I allude also to German occupation of other countries
because the cost to Germany of meeting her portion of
the occupation cost is so very small as against the levies
she made on the countries which she occupied. My respect
for Germans’ sensitivity to any allusion to the occupation
of France, Holland, Belgium, Norway or Denmark, to say
nothing of the Eastern countries, precludes my even
mentioning some of the other aspects of their occupation,
other than to state that I am informed that in the German
occupation of France, from 1940 through 1944, the oc-
cupation cost represented 175 percent of France's budget-
ary receipts. I will not labor this subject longer, except
to suggest that we have adopted as our guide of conduct
in the occupation the concept that: — “We rise by raising
others and he who stoops above the fallen stands erect."

E AMERICANS MAY be accused of many things,

but never of lack of candor or frankness. You may
have divined a note of candor and frankness in this
speech, Let me be further frank. I am not suggesting, as
of today, that the Germans are a fallen people. I do sug-
gest, however, that May 8, 1945, found them sunk to as
low an ebb in world opinion as any people have ever
been. We have helped you to rise. We want to continue
in that benign effort. We have amply demonstrated that
we are prepared to have you stand erect with us, but
only if you demonstrate that you have earned that right.
We urge the German people not to make this rehabili-
tation and educational process difficult for the friends
— domestic and foreign — of such progress.

Various pleas have been made for better understanding
of the German people. In the véry forefront of these was
President Heuss’ forthright and stirring address on
“Courage to Love,” wherein he sought to establish for
the German people the thesis of demarcation between
collective guilt and collective shame. We earnestly com-
mend to the German people acceptance of the whole
concept of mental rededication which your president
advocated with such humility and eloquence. Only in
that spirit can we as the occupiers and you as the oc-
cupied reach our common goal.

‘However, there must be more than mere acceptance of
a philosophy of enlightenment and democracy, commend-
able and hopeful though that may be.. There must be
active implementation. It is of but litthe pragmatic avail
to enunciate high-ygunding thoughts, but then temporize
or even fail to e} ar egislation which would translate
such thoughts int: ; -ction.

We realize all “Soo well that democracy cannot be
achieved by fiat alone. It must be nurtured in the hearts
and minds of men. You have in your midst men and
women of such progressive outlook. We urge you in your
own interest, in the interest of a better world, to hearken
to their teachings and solicit your elected legislators and
officials to give wholesome thought to the building of a

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

Germany cast along democratic lines in every facet of
its life — be it governmental, professional, business or
communal. Only by the election and appointment of
officials of that trend of thought can you attain these ends.

Therefore, it behooves you to take more of an interest
in affairs of the day — political as well as economic — so
that by proper use of your franchise you assure for your-
selves a “government of the people, for the people and
by the people.” These were words uttered during a sad
and bitter conflict in our country. They apply with equal
cogency to your country at this very moment.

ET ME.SUMMARIZE and reiterate: —many Germans
do not like the occupation; many do. We Americans
do not like to be occupiers either. We deeply regret the
cause of the occupation. The decision as to the end of the
occupation is not one which rests with the Western Allies
alone. Equally, however, its cessation will not merely be
predicated upon action taken by the occupier of the
Eastern zone.

To a great extent, the ultimate factor in the ending of
our occupation will be the conduct of the German people,
the degree in which they give evidence, in as full and
convincing manner as possible, that they have learned to
walk in the ways of peace. In that demonstration of proof,
the tangible evidence they adduce of having become
reoriented along democratic lines will weigh heavily in
the balance. Let me assure you, though, that toward the
achievement of all these earnestly desired ends, the
American people, in general, and their Occupation Fortes,
in particular, have been lending and will continue to bend
every effort.

However, these efforts can meet with: success only if
the German people will be receptive to them, so that
Americans and Germans can work with mutual under-
standing and co-operation. Surely the German people
ought by now to recognize that, despite all the horrors
of the war, we are prepared to look to the future rather
than the past. The people of the German Federal Republic
must be well aware of the spirit and conduct which the
occupation reflects, as against the occupation of their
unfortunate fellow-countrymen who must bear the yoke
of living in the “German Democratic Republic," whose
only vestige of democracy lies in its name. G

Any interpretation of the underlying reasons and
motives for our presence here, other than as I have
endeavored to portray them, represents a sad illusion, In
emphasizing the danger of any such illusions which the
German people may have on this transcendently im-
portant subject, I know no more appropriate warning than
the immortal words of your great Schiller:

Gefaehrlich ist's den Leu zu wecken,
Verderblich ist des Tigers Zahn;

Jedoch der schrecklichste der Schrecken,
Das ist der Mensch in seinem Wahn.

Dangerous is it to wake the lion,
Pernicious is the tiger’s tooth;

But the most dreadful of all terrors
That is man in his illusion. +END

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 38 ---
Mainz Exhibiting Treasured Psalter

T THE FORMAL OPENING of the Johannes Gutenberg

celebration at the Kurfuersten Schloss in Mainz
June 24, US Assistant High Commissioner Benjamin
J. Buttenwieser presented to Dr. Franz Stein, mayor of
Mainz, the famed 500-year-old Mainz Psalter, which was
returned to Germany from the United States recently.

More than 600 Mainz citizens crowded the auditorium
of Kurfuersten castle in Mainz to hear brief addresses
from Mr. Buttenwieser, Mayor Stein and Dr. Alois Ruppel,
director of the Gutenberg Museum.

Although the greater share of the task of returning
historical documents and works of art lost or looted dur-
ing the war is now completed in western Germany, Mr.
Buttenwieser emphasized the serious effort that is still
continuing to locate German treasures abroad.

Citing the decision of the American government to
make special efforts to recover European treasures, Mr.
Buttenwieser pointed out that “it has been possible for
us to send back to Germany a number of items of con-
siderable importance which, in one way or another, had
been lost and found their way into the American market.
I might mention tapestries belonging to the Bavarian
national collections, a painting from the Bremen Kunst-
halle and a rare ivory from Kassel.

“By all standards the most spectacular of ‘these re-
covered items,” he continued, “is the Mainz Psalter, which
we are today placing in the temporary custody of the
city of Mainz for exhibition during the Gutenberg festival

“Therefore, personally and on behalf of my government,
it is with greatest pleasure and genuine gratification,
Mr. Mayor, that I place in your custody, for the duration
of the Gutenberg celebrations, this famous and precious
book — a book which served as a glowing and abiding
symbol of the enormous benefits to the increase of
learning, and hence the dissemination of democratic ideals,
which flow from the invention of printing in your histoti-
cal city.”

In a brief address following Mr. Buttenwieser, Mayor
Stein stated that the Mainz Psalter, which is particularly
honored and treasured in his city, will be given a position
of prominence beside the famed Gutenberg Bible, which

Mr. Buttenwieser delivers the 500-year-old Mainz Psalter
to Mayor Franz Stein of the city of Mainz. (PRB OLCH photo)

is also housed in the Gutenberg Museum of Mainz. He
emphasized the appreciation of his city for the efforts of
the US Government in returning the noted book to Mainz
for the celebrations.

Dr. Ruppel, one of Germany's leading authorities on
ancient printing, stated that few books iin the 500 years
since the printing of the Mainz Psalter can compare to it
for beauty and care in printing. +END

Bavarians Warned to Guard
Rights, Study New Community Law

Commenting on the draft of a new Bavarian com-
munity law, James A. Clark, chief of the Political Affairs
Division, OLC Bavaria, warned Bavarians not to limit
their political activity to an occasional vote, thus for-
feiting their chance to actively participate in community
matters. He gave this warning in his weekly broadcast
June 6 over Radio Munich.

“Since the word ‘SPECIALIST’ has always been written
with capital letters in Germany, it almost seems as if
those specialists do the ruling here instead of the people
and their chosen deputies,” he declared.

“And this state of affairs," he added, “exists while the
people, today more than at any other time, fervently wish
for self-administration. They want no ‘Fuehrer' who has
a lease on providence, but neither do they want ‘little
Fuehrers’ with a superiority complex, If it comes to the
worst, it is the people who are left helding the bag.”

The aim of the petty bureaucracy is to put a limit on
the people’s independent administration in the com-
munities, he said, adding that its argument is that people
have “not yet grown up enough” for the “‘real' democracy.

“To this I can only say," Mr. Clark pointed out, ‘that
although specialists were always over-valued here, they
could not prevent three total collapses: after the two
world wars and the Weimar Republic. There were
specialists galore in the ‘Kaiserreich,’ in the Weimar
Republic and in the Third Reich. Only the names of the
parties changed.”

In closing Mr. Clark said: “Especially in the com-
munity, a legal establishment of independent administra-
tion is of vital necessity. For in order to be able to exist,
democracy needs the community as the basis before ever
reaching the state government level. How can one ever
speak of democracy, if the citizen in the community is
already denied his rights? Pay attention to your new
community law, which will soon be brought up before
the state legislature. Be interested in it. Contact your
legislative deputies.

“The draft for the new community law is good and
democratic, but there are. powers at work to rob the
Bavarian citizen of his rights. Perhaps they mean well
and are really convinced that the people want no tutors,
especially not the Bavarians with their more than century-
old democratic tradition in community self-administration."

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
The many women in the large colony of
displaced persons, refugees and expellees.
at Dachau often have reason to visit the
sewing room, where stitching, darning and
knitting go onunendingly, month in, month
out. Woman shown is knitting sweater.

The camp hospital is small, has a total of
only 20 beds. Staff is furnished and paid
by the state, Due to inadequate equipment,
only minor operations can be performed
here. In photo an expellee-patient is hav-
ing an eye bandaged by trained nurse.

Community kitchen provides food
for all. Typical noonday meal con- 4
sists of soup, fish, potatoes, salad. 4

Transient Cam

Bavaria, largest of the states of the US Zome
mately 100,000 of the estimated total of 1,950,
its borders. The huge unit at Dachau, once é
guards, today is designated a “Transient Cam
housing it has quartered many families for m@

(Photos on these and next twoF

Four chosen inmates perform police
duty within the large camp com-.
pound. The guards are not armed. —

--- Page 40 ---
.
ir

ffici

disp]
ncen
(Dur«
han a

s by

ellee fromCzechoslovakia cheer-
les week's laundry. One of
is an old army blanket.

1intains 511 camps housing approxi-
ersons, refugees and expellees within
1 camp manned by the notorious SS
r), but due to lack of suitable
ling immigration or resettlement.

HICOG)

DM 10 ($2.38) pocket money, cake
of toilet soap and box of soap flakes
are given each inmate every month.

Row upon row of numbered barracks in
section which houses families with child-
ren. Each family is allotted one room,
sometimes two. Individual facilities not
being available, inmates must go to
washrooms scattered throughout area.

Softening evening shadows tend to con-
ceal many of camp's shortcomings as a
family of three takes an after-supper siroll.
Entire area is devoid of surfacing and
there is no likelihood of improvement
until the government appropriates funds.

--- Page 41 ---
org (above) is a Hungar-
1 aged 23 who fled Buda-
st—and doesn't know what
do with his time, a very
mmon complaint among
mp's 1,100 inmates. Georg
ecializes in pinups. Juvenile
linquency, petty theft are
mmonplace occurrences.

Left, a Yugoslavian refugee
of German origin who, ex-
pelled with entire family in
1947, saw Germany for first
time then. Right, jobless car-
penter, once slave laborer,
waits for chance to emi-
grate — to USA. Family has
temporary room in barracks.

Sudeten woman, among old-
est at Dachau, spends much
of her time in bed, where
she is about to eat noonday
meal, At left, Dora, only 21,
a refugee from Danzig, is an
orphan. Supervisor said some
jobless girls spend too much
time in the men’s barracks.

--- Page 42 ---
Kiddies at Dachau

In camp school every effort is made
to restore youngsters’ faith in life
and their own strength. Message
on blackboard urges youth never
to look back, “for what youth
achieves points forward." Food may
be simple, but boy (right) enjoys
his soup. Playgrounds are non-
xistent, so girls (left) play indoors.
Despite gifts from religious organi-
zations, worn-out shoes (right) are
a common sight. Below, classrooms
are in so-called hospital of Nazi days.

--- Page 43 ---
International Brotherhood and the Radio

Address

By RALPH NICHOLSON
Director, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

GENUINE BROTHERHOOD of mankind is the basis

of the Christian doctrine. It has been the goal of
centuries of struggle to make the world a better place in
which to live. The objectives of all the striving of the
Western world today could not be better summarized
than in the concept: international brotherhood. No
simpler formula has ever been devised.

But in this complicated technical world of ours today,
simple ideas are often lost in the confusion mankind has
created for itself. We must constantly endeavor to clarify
and put in perspective the basic truths. This is particularly
true in radio. Of all man’s inventions radio works most
swiftly and irrevocably. It penetrates into the farthest
corners of the world. It brings with the speed of light
the latest news and views. And when it has spoken, the
words cannot be recalled.

But radio is only a tool — a technical machine that has
no soul of its own. It may be used for the greatest good of
mankind, or the most sinister evil. It may bring enlighten-
ment to hundreds of millions, or may darken their minds
and sow confusion. We have seen, and are seeing again
today, to what varied ends this instrument can be used.

It is the task of all men of good will in the world today
to insure that radio—and all other media of information —
work for the peace of the world and not its destruction. We
must spread tolerance and not hate over the air waves; we
must repeat again and again the eternal values upon which
democracy is founded: dignity of the individual, objective
justice, respect for opponents’ opinions, freedom of religion
“and peaceful arbitration of differences. Above all, we must
devote ourselves to the telling of the truth — everywhere
and to everybody. Only on the basis of truth can con-
fidence of people in each other be developed.

I know that realization of these aims is not easy. In
the confusing pattern of the world today it is not always
easy to discern the truth or to state it clearly. But we must
not relax our efforts because the goal is difficult to achieve.
We must expose falsehood; we must combat error and pre-
judice. And we must speak out in defense of tolerance and
human dignity. To many it may seem futile to speak of
human dignity when behind the Iron Curtain millions of
human beings are condemned to the degrading misery of
concentration camps. And the hate-filled diatribes that
stream over the air from Moscow and its satellites tempt
even the mildest of men to righteous anger.

But we who believe in mankind must not be provoked
to answer in kind. We cannot allow intolerance and
hatred and abuse to shake our faith. The strength of the
West is rooted in it and we must continue to work for vin-
dication of this faith. We must strengthen and make more
secure the moral basis of our Western civilization, draw-
ing together groups and people into closest brotherhood.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

Through radio we can make a great contribution to this —
task. By allowing the views of all major groups to be
voiced over the ether, by bringing to the hundreds of ~
millions of radio truthful, objective reporting, by pledging
ourselves to tolerance and understanding, by assuring
everywhere that radio does not become an instrument of

the state or of any special group or interest, we can
serve effectively the cause of international brotherhood. —

ERMANY — FREE GERMANY, the area of the Federal |
Republic — is a splendid example of what can be
done. There great progress in this direction has’ been
made since 1945. German radio in the Federal Republic :
is no longer a tool of a propaganda ministry. It is the i
property of the people, controlled by public service —
corporations made up of representatives of the major ~
groups of the German people. It is pledged to a broad-—
casting code which emphasizes tolerance, honesty, truth- —
fulness and public enlightenment. And experience thus ~
far has shown it takes its responsibilities seriously. I am ~
sure that the free German radio, if it continues to remain ~
true to its ideals, will be a constructive force in the re- ~
alization of international brotherhood. ‘
Western German radio is not unique in this respect.
All over the free world there is evident a genuine desire
to foster greater inter-group understanding and tolerance, ~
The code of the American Broadcasters Association, —
translated daily into practice, has contributed greatly to i
furthering inter-group education in the United States. The
BBC and Radio-Diffusion Francaise are models of fair,
restrained reporting. The foundation for our further work
exists. Our task is to make such activities more effective, —
permanent and widespread. é
The creation of a world organization for brotherhood ~
is one of the steps to accomplishment of this task. Within
the framework of its over-all activities must be a group —
dedicated to fostering and strengthening the work of ©
interbroadcasting and drawing attention to practices which —
impede progress toward inter-group understanding. abs
should make appropriate proposals to proper international, 4
national and private bodies which can aid in correcting
undesirable trends and it should keep before the world —
through radio the ideals of this organization. :
The importance of stressing these ideals cannot bea
overestimated. They are the ideals of free and honest
men and women everywhere. They are the heritage of —
Western civilization. We must show our determination
to preserve them against the sinister forces of totali-
tarianism and intolerance wherever they exist. We must
progressively translate them into practice. If we do this, 3
we need not fear the ultimate outcome of the struggle for —
men’s minds which rends the world today. +END ~

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 44 ---
Farm Youth
Speaks Out

By JAMES F. KEIM

Communities Activities Adviser
on Rural Education and Agriculture
Public Affairs Division, OLCWB

HE YOUNG PEOPLE who will some day take over the
T land of Germany's Wuerttemberg-Baden flocked to
three Rural Youth Leadership Training Conferences dur-
ing April and May, and took such a vital interest in them
that officials made enthusiastic plans for a fourth *con-
ference which was held in June.

More than 200 young people, ranging in age from 20 to
30—of whom 40 percent were girls—turned out for
the initial conferences, held at the Hohenheim Agricul-
tural College.

Planning officials—the staff of the Community Activities
Section—were frankly astonished at the turnout. Origi-
nal planning called for one meeting for some 30 invited
rural youth leaders. It was with considerable foreboding
that the first invitations were dispatched. Observers said
that rural youth would not come: they were too busy.

But the first round of invitations brought 300 ac-
ceptances.

The conferences had the following objectives:

1. To bring rural youth leaders together for acquaint-
anceship and planning.

2. To hear firsthand their problems and give them op-
portunities to discuss them.

3. To bring them into closer contact with their agricul-
tural college (for 90 percent, it was the first visit to
Hohenheim).

4, To add to their prestige by recognizing their efforts
as youth leaders in their respective communities.

5. To provide an opportunity for them to hear what visi-
tors to other lands had learned about youth work.

6. To afford opportunity for agricultural and public
school teachers as well as rural community leaders to
meet, exchange experiences and decide upon program ob-
jectives, especially those which emphasize self-help.
(Teachers as well as young farm leaders participated in
the conferences.)

HROUGH ALL THIS, the intention of the HICOG
planners was to inspire the youth to greater efforts
on behalf of the groups with which they worked.

The conferences were not run on enthusiasm alone.
Planning for them involved discussion with the youth
leader of the Farmers’ Association of Wuerttemberg-
Baden and with the youth adviser who works with the
Agricultural and Home Economics Extension Demonstra-
tion Program at Hohenheim Agricultural College. Kathe-

AUGUST 1950

Al

Farm youth assemble at Third Rural Leadership Training
School, Hohenheim, to hear address by Wuertiemberg-
Baden State Commissioner Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross.

rine R. Shankland, youth leadership training adviser with
Community Activities Section, skillfully pulled together
the threads of interest and ideas to present a strong and
well-knit program.

The young people's observations on the value of the
conference, as well as their reports quoted below, in-
dicate some very definite ideas on the part of young
people from nearly every county in the state.

Speaking of migration from rural to urban areas, the
youth said: “We must show rural youth what advantages
they have over urban youth. The mental and cultural
interests in the community must be encouraged; we think
of community evenings, with parents, recreation, amateur
dramatics, libraries, youth meetings, etc., in the sense of
rural youth.”

On the question ‘‘How can rural youth achieve better
co-operation with other youth groups,” the youth replied:

“Farmers must be trained toward independence. Farm
youth should be united in a community group on an en-
tirely voluntary basis. If more such groups exist, the first
requirement is mutual respect and recognition. There
should be a friendly attitude between the individual
groups and their aims should be incorporated with other
professional organizations.”

Another group discussion revolved around a problem
pertinent to Wuerttemberg-Baden, where many persons
in rural jobs live in predominantly industrial areas:

“If many other youth groups are already established,
no separate rural youth groups should be organized, but
our interests are to be included in the existing groups. If
there are no groups, one should be established and the
professional aspects must be included in a wise and care-
ful manner.”

PPRENTICE TRAINING was also discussed, and there
was this significant statement in a report submitted:
“Every young person should be away from home for a
certain period of time, for professional as well as educa-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
tional reasons. It is therefore requested that this exchange
of young people in agriculture be expanded. This will
result in agricultural training on a much broader basis
than before, and it will be a topical matter in the com-
munity... Each apprentice should conclude his training
period with an examination. This will give him an aim
toward which he can work during this period. This will
also eliminate the exploitation of apprentices because the
farmers’ own children will be in the same position on
another farm.”

It is interesting that the young people recognized this
ever-present evil—exploitation of apprentices.

Another group discussing apprenticeships had this to
say:

“Rural youth should, like youth in the cities, get the
benefit of an apprenticeship. The question arises whether
the apprenticeship can be served on one’s parents’ farm.
At least a part of this period should be spent on a well-
managed farm elsewhere.

“Apprentices should not be given monotonous work.
Training them toward independent thought and action is
necessary and this can be achieved by assigning them
work in the form of a project. They should be provided
decent housing. Their washing should be taken care of.”

The question of expellee youth brought forth these rural
comments:

"Expellees should be contacted and their interest
aroused, They should be accepted in the community and
closer ties established between them and the local citizen.

“We are willing to take expellees into our groups at
any time, if they actively co-operate. We are sorry to
say that up to the present expellees have shown little
interest in our rural youth activities.”

NE OF THE PRESSING needs of agriculture in Wuert-
O temberg-Baden is the consolidation of farm land
which, at present, is scattered in strips and patches across
the countryside. Here is one comment:

“In the course of our discussion we came to the con-
clusion that land consolidation is one of the most im-
portant present problems in agriculture. Due to the lack
of manpower in agriculture and the necessity for cheaper
production in the future, the mechanization of agriculture
will have to proceed.

“If we want to exist economically, we can have no
more parceling of our land. Most farmers are still very
skeptical in this respect. Everyone likes his particular
field and is afraid of financial difficulties. We have to be
convinced that these difficulties must be overcome for
the benefit of future generations.

“Danish agriculture can be considered to be the highest
developed agriculture in the world and we can take it as
an example. This was achieved by land consolidation,
democratic constitution and the Volkshochschulen (adults
evening high schools). It would be desirable for Germany
to come to this realization.”

Another group said the following about education:

“First, new school reforms have been suggested. We
desire to have a village school with a village teacher. The
latter should, if possible, be a farmer's son or at least be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A2

4 4 ott q } a
Dr. Hermann Koch, youth adviser to Agricultural Exten-
sion Service, opens conference. L.-r., Professor Jonas

Schmidt, rector of college, Mrs. Keim, Mrs. Gross, Dr. Keim,
the author of this article, General Gross and Dr, Koch,

Panel discussion on agrarian politics is conducted by
Dr. Helmut Roehm (seated at head of table). At his right,
Regierungsrat Bernhard Heim, at his left Peter Diebold
and Government Councilor Martin Koch, facing camera.

Erich Fritschi, agricultural teacher at the Leonberg Agri-
cultural School, delivers address at the conference, which
proved so highly successful that two subsequent confer-
ences were arranged and held at the Hohenheim center.

AUGUST 1950

>

.
:
.

--- Page 46 ---
familiar with rural conditions and circumstances. The
transfer of city teachers to a village as a punishment must
stop. Also, the vocational and agricultural teacher should
be of rural descent because this will provide a closer con-
nection between theory and practice, which is of great
importance to the pupil.

“We would also appreciate an expansion of the Volks-
hochschule program so that it would be possible for more
young people to attend them. A community library would
certainly be appreciated by most of the young people.

“After all, the main thing is that our rural young people
should find their way back to agriculture and learn to
like and appreciate their profession and to be proud to
represent it. This can be achieved by means of a good
training and education."

NE OF THE MOST inspiring sessions of the confer-

ences was a panel discussion, ‘What we have seen
and liked in other lands,” conducted by German youths
who had been to Denmark, Holland, Sweden and the
United States.

Alfred Hetzel, youth leader for the Wuerttemberg-Baden
Farmers’ Association, spoke on Denmark: ‘Forty percent
of the Danish farmers voluntarily attend Volkshoch-
schulen, and one of the results of their attendance is the
formation of self-help organizations among themselves.”

Otto Waggershauser, a former work student, referred
to the United States: Young people over there have their
own responsibility in working with projects of their own
creation; they become proud of their profession as farm-
ers, conscientious, and self-confident of their abilities.”

A. Rude, student at Hohenheim, spoke of Switzerland:
“The rural population has a high standard of life, resulting
partly from a voluntary program of land consolidation.”

Erich Fritschi, a vocational agricultural teacher in
Wuerttemberg-Baden, said of his observation of vocational

Typically alert rural young men and women conducted
earnest group discussions on a wide variety of subjects.

educational methods in the United States: “The prin-
ciples of... (instruction) in the United States to farm
youth in vocational schools and also to those in 4-H
Clubs — the close co-ordination of teaching in the schools
and practical application through home projects — can
and should be applied in Germany.”

A panel discussion on agricultural economics and rural
sociology aroused much interest among those attending
the sessions. Students heard discussions on farm prices
and marketing problems, land consolidation, migration
from rural to urban areas, and the expellee problem.

Viewpoints expressed by experts on the panel aroused
much earnest discussion among the young people, dis-
cussion which the sponsors believe will be translated
into action in each of the communities from which dele-
gates came. +END

Hesse Farm Program Being Pushed

A far-reaching program, designed to increase produc-
tion efficiency on farms and to raise general farm income,
is being prepared and sponsored by the Food and Agri-
culture Branch, OLC Hesse. The program primarily in-
volves encouraging the use of more economical and
adaptable power machinery to go hand-in-hand with an
effective land consolidation program.

“In addition to the widespread need for land consolida-
tion," stated Eugene Epstine, deputy chief of the Food
and Agriculture Branch, “the most important requisite
to increase Hessian agricultural efficiency is a light,
economical, cheap, fuel-consuming, all-purpose tractor.

Upon initiative of OLC Hesse, the Hessian Agricultural
Ministry has applied for technical assistance in the field
of agricultural machinery, which will permit German
Specialists to study technical advancements in America.

The ministry also plans to import four to six complete
sets of American agricultural machinery, financed by
ECA funds, which will be used for demonstration pur-
Poses in Hesse. Mr. Epstine further disclosed that positive

AUGUST 1950

43

achievements in land consolidation in Hesse have been
hampered by a lack of state funds and laxity on the part
of some program officials,

The fact that present day production of German agri-
cultural machinery is greater than current demand is
misleading, he said. Purchase of machinery deemed
necessary for fullest requirements has been held to a
minimum due to the lack of farm cash and economical-
farm credit, he added.

The development of a lighter and cheaper tractor, as
well as other types of machinery, would go far in bring-
ing machinery prices into line with the farmer's pocket-
book, according to Mr. Epstine, The present day German
tractor is too expensive and too heavy and bulky for
small strip farming and the boggy clay soil in Hesse.

Cheaper machinery and an effective land consolidation
program could result in the elimination of one-third of
the present horse population, which would directly or
indirectly result in a proportionate increase of land food
production, Mr. Epstine concluded.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
Nationalism and the Modern State.

By STUART L. HANNON

Chief, Information Services Branch
Education and Cultural Relations Division, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden

HE WORLD HAS suffered long

enough from its unfortunate quota
of chauvinists and charlatans. I have
little use for the chauvinist who can
perceive evil only in other countries.
I have less use for the charlatans who
say that food and work and wealth will

funk

This article is a condensation of a
radio talk given by Mr. Hannon in
German over Sueddeutscher Rund-
(South German Radio) in
Stuttgart May 15 on the weekly
radio program of the state com-
missioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden.

nationalism and Communism are plants
of the same evil roots. Both are with-
out morality and therefore opposed
to humanity. As Ebbinghaus wrote in
his book “Deutschlands Schicksals-
wende” (Turning Point in Germany's
History): — “Moechten Sie aber auch ~

make any nation a democracy. The

world has suffered long enough from people who, on the
one hand, create dissension and hatred, and who, on the
other hand, recommend remedies which do not apply to
the real illness.

Nationalism is separatist and destructive. The specter
of nationalism is a distortion of love of country. Everyone
should naturally feel a bond of love with his country.
But one should also develop a love of the qualities or cul-
ture of other lands, and combine these with their own.
By expanding love there will be less room for hate.

When Bertrand Russell once said ‘a world full of patri-
ots may be a world full of strife," he was indulging in
the English art of understatement the greater to em-
phasize the point. Several modern thinkers, such as
Toynbee and Radhakrishnan, have agreed that state
worship or patriotism was the spiritual disease, the false
religion, of which Hellenism died. Certainly, since 1800,
it has been the negative legacy of nationalism as the
highest virtue, which has sidetracked men from the
pursuit of pure knowledge, culture and humanism.

N GERMANY, political nationalism began to appear
during the later years of Napoleonic tyranny, vigor-

ously expressed by men like Arndt, Fichte, Schlegel,
Jahn, von Kleist and Schleiermacher. Cultural nationalism
had appeared earlier, but the two forces were combined
eloquently by Fichte when he wrote: ‘There is no hope
of preserving a cultural Germany without a political
Germany!" Unfortunately, with the political ascendancy
of Germany under Bismarck, culture began to decline.
And when at last Hitler emphasized the element of
racism, Germany had attained the highest point of her
nationalism and the lowest ebb of her creative life.

In any country, when the state becomes the moral ab-
solute, the individual becomes a mere tool of tyranny.
Legality replaces morality; orders absolve conscience.
Hegel and his philosophical system prepared the way for
this when he wrote: ‘Der Staat ist die positive Verwirk-
Jichung und Befriedigung der Freiheit'’ (The state is the
positive realization and satisfaction of freedom). Hegel
also taught that class was the order of society, and that
war was a moral value.

This is all part of the rationalization of nationalism. It
is also part of the rationalization of Communism. Both

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

Jernen, dass, wer die Achtung vor den
Gesetzen der Moral untergraebt, ein Zerstoerer der
Menschheit ist’ (May you appreciate that he who un-
dermines respect for the laws of morality, is a destroyer
of mankind).

It is the duty of all of us, of every individual, to see
that all nations from community level to state level, ob- ~
serve this truth. It is time for the individual man to
mobilize his sovereignty, to stand.up to the modern
state, to guard every liberty under its law, to resist every ~ :
encroachment upon his rights. A state which is held”
strictly responsible for the rights of its own citizens will ~
not easily succeed in usurping the rights of other citizens.

FEW DAYS AGO I saw a Stuttgart motorist starting to
turn left into a main street. A policeman signaled —
the driver to the right, This was in order because a left
turn there was against the law. But the policeman came ~ :
to the center of the street, waving his arms and shouting
rudely at the motorist. The latter stopped his car and
refused to move until the policeman should act like a
servant of the law instead of its maker. “You have no
right,” said the motorist, “to shout at me. I shall turn
right when you behave properly.” a
After much discussion, and with traffic accumulating,
the policeman finally returned to the sidewalk and,
although still angry, calmly motioned the driver to turn
right. This was no arrogant driver, but a citizen who had
the courage to insist that he be treated like a citizen.
Such citizens are not likely to trample on the rights of ©
others, or succumb to the
bugle call of nationalism.
Every nation has tried to
teach its children that it is
the world’s outstanding na-
tion. Anyone who has stud-
ied the phenomenon of
nationalism must agree that
militant patriotism is hatched
in school history lessons. A
sort of gloating attention is
fixed on what and how we
won, how exceptional we
have been in history. H. G.
Wells once attacked this

Stuart L. Hannon.

--- Page 48 ---
matter in the following words: “I do not see the educational
benefit of throwing a sort of halo of prestige and glory
around the criminal history of royalty; the sooner we get
all that unpleasant stuff out of schools, and the sooner
we forget the quarrels of England, France, Scotland and
Ireland, etc., the nearer our world will be to a sane out-
look on life.”

In other words, to follow Mr. Wells, we should get the
glorification of nations and wars out of school books, and
stop burdening and perverting the minds of our children
with the nonsense that has perverted the last two genera-
tions so frightfully.

NFORTUNATELY — UNTIL’ NOW at least — the
l greatest potential force for dispelling the myths of
nationalism is in the hands of the state —the force of
education. Yet an intelligent home, an alert press, and
above all free citizens can counter-balance the influence
of the state, at least until it ceases to glorify itself.

Consider nationalism in music for a moment. Not so
long ago in Heidelberg, during a German-American dis-
cussion of music, one American recalled that during
World War I German music was banned in sections of
America. However, he added that throughout the most
bitter years of World War II, there was no talk or thought
of forbidding German music. His point was that nations
do in time overcome puerile prejudices. A German
woman present, intelligent and cultured, had this to say
in reply: “Well, of course, actually you had to play Ger-
man music in order to have concerts!"

Her nationalist development deprived her of awareness
that there are whole libraries full of great music which
is non-German; that there were immortal oratorios, mo-
tets and compositions of all kinds composed in France,
Italy and England 100 years before Bach was born; and
that without his great predecessors there would have
been no Bach, just as without Bach there would have
been no Beethoven,

Music is supposed to be a universal language, yet
people try to imprison it within a nation, Over the radio,
for example, we are reminded year after year that Schu-
bert is a German composer, that we are about to hear

a work by the French composer Lully, or the Russian

Moussorgsky, the Italian Verdi, ad nauseam. No escape

from the cage of nationalism. One day I attended a new

performance of “Lohengrin” to hear a Polish soprano. As

she received her first applause, I heard much discussion

behind me about what a pity it was that the Staatstheater _
couldn't have a German sing the role of “Elsa.”

We have all heard such remarks countless times, and
we know they are not meant to improve human relations.
It doesn’t matter whether they are said consciously or
sub-consciously. They reflect the ego, the arrogance, the
choler of nationalism, Yet this sickness is not a matter of
national character but of national behavior. Much of it is
a result of bad education and bad manners. A Stuttgarter
Zeitung (Stuttgart newspaper) author wrote recently that
“Hitler owed his success primarily to his nationalism,”
because he knew of its morbid, blind appeal.

T HE MODERN WORLD is too small for the monstrosity
of hate, and too poor for the luxury of war. Na-
tionalism in our world has been indeed expensive. The
last two wars cost 80,000,000 casualties, among them
30,000,000 dead. Nothing in past history compares with
this horror, this tragedy, the total cruelty which is the
consequence of man’s stupidity and egotism,

Just as guild mentality once replaced clan mentality,
so must we substitute universalism for nationalism. To
achieve this end we must discard our ignorance of each
other's ways, our mental in-breeding, and set new moral
and cultural standards. The political will then follow, as
it should, Man must again learn to venerate man, to
honor the human person. Let us try to revive this sense
of honor and each of us submit humbly to the poignantly
beautiful words of Walter von der Vogelweide:

“Who fears not, God, Thy gifts to take,

And then Thy Ten Commandments break,

Lacks that true love which should be his salvation.

For many will call Thee Father, who

Will not own me as brother, too:

They speak deep words from shallow meditation.”
-++END

Berlin Youth Groups Provided with Home

West Berlin's youth council now has a new home, and
the door is wide open to all youth in the three western
sectors.

Keys to the building, formerly used by OMGBS, were
turned over to the youth council by Dr. Christopher B.
Garnett, Jr., Berlin Element's Community Affairs adviser.

Speaking on behalf of the US commander, Dr. Garnett
Said: "The other day Mr. McCloy said in Berlin that
what German youth needs is more individual oppor-
tunity, opportunity to study and to inquire where and
what he will... Iam happy to be able to make a contri-
bution to the life of the youth in Berlin which will assist,

AUGUST 1950

45

though even in a small way, in providing a place where
you Berlin young people can have the kind of oppor-
tunity Mr. McCloy mentioned.

“You are not regimented into one group, but have
your six different organizations: the Falken (SPD's Falcons),
the Bund Deutscher Jugend (Federation of German Youth),
the Evangelische Jugend (Protestant Youth), the Katho-
lische Jugend (Catholic Youth), the Demokratischer
Jugendverband (Democratic Youth Union) and UGO
(Independent Trade Union). This is your Haus der Ju-
gend (House of Youth), and you can use it in a full
spirit of freedom and democratic co-operation.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 49 ---
Personnel Notes

Colonel Duke Leaves Berlin

Three thousand soldiers passed in review before Col.
James T. Duke as he took leave June 23 as commander
of Berlin Military Post, a job he had held since May 1949.

At Colonel Duke's side
during. the. ceremonies
was Col. Maurice W.
Daniel, deputy post com-
mander since October,
who has succeeded the
retiring commander. Colo-
nel Duke has returned to
the United States for
an assignment with the
Department of the Army
in Washington, D. C. He
had served four years in
Berlin.

The review was the
first held on the parade
ground constructed as part
of a post-wide improve-
ment program instituted
by Colonel Duke, a pro-
gram which included a
modern community shop-

When Colonel Duke (above)
and Mrs. Duke left Berlin
they left behind their daugh-
ter Mary Dolores and two
sons, Capt. James T. Duke,
Jr. of BMP and Lt. R. Leon-
ard Duke, who is with the

ping center he opened in Constabulary. (US Army photo)
ceremonies earlier that

morning. Despite threat of rain, hundreds of members of
the American community and German residents lined the
extensive parade area as Colonel Duke spoke his fare-
well. He thanked military and civilian post personnel for
their loyalty, wholehearted support and conscientious per-
formance of duty: “... There have been many events that
challenged you frequently. You performed outstandingly
in meeting these challenges, and for this I express to you
my deepest appreciation.

“Like all soldiers, who never say goodbye when they go
away, I say the best of luck to you until we meet again.”

The parade was led by Col. Louis P. Leone, new deputy
post commander.

A reception was held in the evening in honor of Colonel
and Mrs. Duke and Colonel and Mrs. Daniel.

Colonel Duke began his army career in 1917, and served,
before coming to Germany, as commander of the Tokyo-
Yokohama Port of Embarkation. In June 1946, he was
appointed Personnel Officier of OMGUS, where he served
until assumption of the command of Berlin Military Post.

Weiss Takes Up Berlin Post

Berlin had another newcomer in the person of William
E. Weiss, Jr., who was named to the job of chief of Berlin
Element Economic Affairs Division. Mr. Weiss, 37, takes
on the duties formerly discharged by Howard Jones, who

INFORMATION BULLETIN

46

now devotes full time to his assignment as deputy director ©

of the Berlin Element.

President of Natcon Industries, a chemical and cos-
metics concern, since 1946, Mr. Weiss was appointed
trade development specialist in the ECA Special Mission
to Germany early this year.

Urton at Hague Police Convention

U. Charles Urton, who took over the job of acting chief
of Berlin Element Public Safety Division early in June,
attended a week-long meeting of the International Criminal
Police Convention at the Hague.

The Hague convention, which brought together police
officials from most of the United Nations, was attended
by German police representatives for the first time in
more than 15 years.

For Mr. Urton, who is prominent in local, state and
national police activities in the United States, it was the
second time of attendance at the convention. Mr. Urton
took over the Berlin Public Safety job from Theo Hall,
who returned to his permanent assignment in the Office
of the Executive Secretary, HICOG, in Frankfurt. Mr.
Urton’s permanent post is as deputy chief of Public
Safety Branch, HICOG, also in Frankfurt.

British-US RO's Exchanged

A British Zone resident officer from the industrial area
around Duesseldorf arrived in Bavaria during June to
observe methods and operations of his American counter-
part. He is John J. Kerr, of London, the first resident

officer from the British Zone to visit Bavaria under a

“resident officer exchange program.”

Mr. Kerr and his wife, Edna, were guests for two weeks:
of Joe F. Hackett, US resident officer in Amberg County.
Mr. Hackett was to be guest of Mr. Kerr in the British
Zone at a future date.

Erion Economics Chief for Two States

George L. Erion has been named chief of the Economic
Affairs Division for the Offices of the State Commissioners
in both Wuerttemberg-Baden and Bavaria by West Ger-
man ECA chief Robert M. Hanes.

Mr. Erion, who has been chief of the Economic Affairs —

Division of OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, will have his prin- —
cipal headquarters in Munich. Paul S. Nevin was chief of
the Economic Affairs Division, OLCB, until his recent”
appointment as chief of the export promotion drive iy ‘
Western Germany.
In making the announcement, Mr. Hanes said: “This isa
the first time that the offices of any two Laender (states) —
have been consolidated. Mr. Erion,

Laender."
Mr. Erion was previously assigned to Munich. In June

1945 he organized the Economics Division of the Office —
of Military Government for Bavaria, and was transferred

AUGUST 1950

who has done :a—
splendid job in Wuerttemberg-Baden, will be directly —
responsible for economic affairs pertaining to both

+
$
+
i
5

-

4

--- Page 50 ---
to Wuerttemberg-Baden as Economic Affairs Division
chief in May 1946. s

A similar consolidation was made later in June when
Mr. Hanes extended the duties of Stanley H. Sisson, chief
of the Economic Affairs Division, OLC Hesse, to include
Marshall Plan, export promotion and investment programs
in Land Bremen.

Mr. Sisson has been chief of the Hesse economics di-
vision since December 1945, when he was assigned to the
Office of Military Government for Germany. He will make
his principal headquarters in Wiesbaden.

Dr. Brecht Returns as Consultant

Dr. Arnold Brecht, former high official in the German
civil service and now a political science professor at the
New School for Social Research, in New York, has return-
ed to Germany as an expert consultant in the field of civil
service,

Dr. Brecht will remain in Germany for the rest of this
year and will make a study of problems connected with
the new German civil service.

A member of the Federal and Prussian civil service for
many years, Dr. Brecht left Germany because of his
political convictions in 1933 and since that time has been
connected with the New York school. He has also served
several terms as visiting professor at Harvard and Yale
Universities.

In 1948, Dr. Brecht spent several months in Germany
in connection with preparation of the Bonn Constitution.

ECA Mission Announces Appointments

Six new appointments have been made within the Office
of Economic Affairs, HICOG, and the ECA Special Mis-
sion to Western Germany.

Sam T. Castleman, for the past six months special as-
sistant to Chief Robert M. Hanes, has been assigned as
acting deputy chief of the Finance Diwision.

Changing over from his post with the Allied Bank
Commission in Frankfurt is R. G. Leonard, who also be-
comes acting deputy chief, Finance Division.

Frank G. Milber, chief
of the Property Division
since October 1949, was

named special assistant
to the director.
William G. Daniels

moves up from deputy
chief of the Property
Division, to chief.
Stuart H. Van Dyke
replaces Henry C. Conrad,
former chief of the Trade
and Payments Division,
as acting chief. Mr. Van
Dyke has served in Ger-
many since July 1945.
H. C. Thomas has been
named acting controller,
ECA Special Mission.

William G. Daniels.
(PRD HICOG photo)

AUGUST 1950

47

New OLCH Finance Branch Chief

Marshall O. Exnicios has been appointed Finance Branch
chief for OLC Hesse.

Mr. Exnicios, a former
US Air Force lieutenant
colonel, is a veteran bank-
er, having served with
Robert C. Jones, invest-
ment bankers, the Chase
National Bank, Alexander
Brown and Sons, and the
National City Bank of
New York. Before joining
HICOG, he was a finance
expert with the ECA Mis-
sion to Greece.

In his new capacity, Mr.
Exnicios will supervise
the financial and budg-
etary activities of the
second largest state in
the American zone of occupation in Germany.

Marshall O. Exnicios,
(PRB OLCH photo)

Three New State Observers Named

Three new state observers have been appointed to the
staff of the US High Commissioner for Germany. The
new appointees, who will represent the High Commis-
sioner in the British and French Zones, bring the observer
staff to seven.

This completes the staff of US State Observers in Ger-
many. Others named previously are: Ulrich E. Biel, Lower
Saxony (British Zone); Joseph W. Darling, North-Rhine-
Westphalia (British Zone); Roy I. Kimmel, Schleswig-
Holstein (British Zone); and Robert R. Hutton, Wuerttem-
berg-Hohenzollern (French Zone).

The new appointees are Robert Taylor, for the Rhine-
land-Palatinate, who will be stationed in Mainz; Paul
Neuland, for South Baden at Freiburg; and Robert Cowan,
US Consul General in Hamburg, for that area in the
British Zone. All of them have been in government service
for a number of years.

Mr. Taylor joined the staff of the State Department in
1931 and has been in the Foreign Service in China, Paris
and Nairobi. He returned to Washington, D. C., in 1949 and
was detailed to the National War College until his latest
appointment.

Mr. Neuland entered government service in 1937. He
served as a captain in the Army overseas during the war
and joined the Foreign Service staff of the State Depart-
ment in 1947. He was in Berlin for two years, returning
late in 1949 to Washington, D.C., where he received his
present appointment.

Mr. Cowan has been a member of the Foreign Service
of the State Department since 1928, serving in Mexico,
France, the Near East and Zurich. He has been consul
general in Hamburg for the last year and will continue to
serve in that capacity in addition to his duties as state
observer. +END

' INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Economie Review

HE OUTSTANDING DEVELOPMENT in May was a
shift in the commodity trade balance of Western Ger-
many with the OEEC (Marshall Plan) area. From a deficit
of $4,000,000 in April, the May balance was plus by
$11,000,000, the first plus balance since November 1949,
The reversed position apparently represents a vindication
of the ECA trade liberalization program in which Western
Germany played a leading role by relaxing import
wrestrictions before other participating countries in the
Marshall Plan took similar action, Initially, Western
Germany's trade balance ran up a large deficit, but sub-
sequent relaxation of restrictions in other countries and
other adjustments have placed the situation more nearly
in balance, and at a higher level than before the trade
liberalization program was undertaken.

Otherwise, the month of May saw general improvement
in the Western German economy; it somewhat resembled
a convalescent partly recovered from a long illness but
needing further treatment for complete recovery. Indus-
trial production increased, further postponement of “‘dol-
lar" food imports was announced, unemployment declined,
the foreign trade and payments position improved and,
except for seasonal increases in fresh fruit and vegetable
prices, the price situation was stable.

Advances were still not sufficient, however, to warrant
unqualified confidence that the economy will soon attain
stability at or near the full employment level. Basic
weaknesses remain, principal of which is the necessity
for an increase in productivity in export industries, and
to this end investment problems are being carefully
considered by Occupation and West German authorities,
especially the investment of counterpart funds arising
from the sale of ECA and GARIOA financed imports.

Foreign Trade

In May, West German exports of more than $140,000,000
were the highest for any postwar month, while imports
fell to $161,000,000. Exports were 87 percent of imports
compared with 60 percent in the first quarter of 1950
and 50 percent in 1949. The import surplus was reduced
to $21,000,000 from $49,000,000 in April.

The most noteworthy development in the distribution
of the trade was the gain in exports to the OEEC
participating countries, which was concentrated in the
continental countries as exports to sterling participants
declined slightly. OEEC trade showed an export surplus
for the first time since November 1949. Exports totaled
$100,000,000; imports were $89,000,000.

The decline in imports was spread among all major
classifications. Receipts of textile raw materials were
considerably less than in April, but those of grains were
about the same. Most of the export gain was in finished
manufactures, notably machinery and cotton textiles.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

48

This monthly review of the German Federal Republic's
current economic picture, based on the latest figures
and trends available when this section of the Infor-
mation Bulletin went to press, was prepared by the
Analytical Reports Branch of the Program Review
Division of the Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG.

The following table gives the principal trade data for
the month:
West German Foreign Commodity Trade

May 1950
(Thousand dollars)

Categories Imports _ Exports
Food and Agriculture 66,271 1,964
Industry... . 91,839 138,328
Raw Materials 52,288 20,894
Semi-finished goods 18,199 26,523
Finished Manufactures 21,352 90,911
Total _ 161,110 140,292

Area
Total Non-Participating Countries 72,316 39,424
USA. 26,903 4,157
Canada |. 186 1,002
Central America 3,677 1,211
South America : 13,742 8,120
Non-Participating Sterli 13,037 3,927
Eastern Europe 6,235 14,166
Other Countries 8,536 6,841
Participating Countries . 88,760 100,484
Non-Sterling 77,587 93,476
Sterling . 11,173 7,008
Unspecified : 34 384
Total __ 161,110 140,292

Import Surplus: $20,818,000

Finance

Further steps were taken toward improving the invest-
ment picture in Western Germany, among them being
a detailed procedure for the progressive relaxation of
current restrictions on foreign investment in Germany
which was approved on June 15 by the Council of the
Allied High Commission. This action followed the approval
in principle by the Council on May 31 of the reopening
of Germany to foreign investment.

Prices .
The consumer price index increased three points in
May to 156 percent of 1938. The rise was due wholly to
seasonal increases in fresh fruit and vegetable prices.
The food index rose from 160 in April to 168 in May.
The basic materials price index rose one point to 197 per-
cent of 1938, owing to slight rises in numerous industrial
Taw products. The price indices were as follows for May:

Consumer Price Index
Bizonal Area
(Wage/salary earner’s family of four, with one child under 14)

1938 = 100
March 1950 April 1950 May 1950
Total 153 153 156
Food 159 160 168
Stimulants 285 285 285
Clothing 191 189 188
Rent. . . 102 102 102
Heat and Light. . . . 119 119 119
Cleaning and Hygiene . 148 148 147-
Education & Entertainment 141 141 140
Household Goods. . . . 166 164 163
Traveling... . 133 133 133

1) The Consumer Price Index is not yet available on a Trizonal basis.

2) Because of the seasonal increase in the prices of fruit and
vegetables (substituting in May the vegetables of the new harvest for
those of the old harvest), a consumer price index has also been
calculated for the two months, May and June, excluding the prices
of fruit and vegetables.

p = provisional.

T = revised.

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 52 ---
Basic Materials Price Index

1938 = 100
March = April May
Food 169r 168r 169p
Industry . 215 214 215
Total 197r 196r 197p
Industry

The May industrial production index (1936 = 100) was
106. The investment goods group increased from 99 in
April to 103, which results partly from the channeling
of counterpart funds into industrial investment, Other
major categories were unchanged from April. The
industries showing the greatest increases during May
were oil refining, coal by-products, stones and earths,
non-ferrous metals and vehicles. Steel ingot production
in May was 914,258 metric tons, which annually would
approach the 11,100,000 ton limitation.

The leveling off in consumer goods output reflects a
lag in consumer purchasing despite some improvement

in worker earning and declining unemployment. Also, -

merchants are holding sizable inventories which will not
move readily at current prices because of style and
quality factors. The production index and figures on-
production in major industries are as follows:

Index of Industrial Production

1949 1950
April, March = April. = May
TOTAL ALL INDUSTRIES
(incl. electricity & gas) a/ . . 86 101 104 106
(excl. electricity & gas) . 82 98 101 104
Investment goods (total) 93r gor 103
Raw materials . 79r 83 88
Finished products 101 109 112
General production goods
(incl. electricity & gas) 103 120 120 120
(excl. electricity & 928) te 95 112 M3r 114
Consumer goods . . 15 96 96r 96
a/ Excl. food processing, stimulants and buildings.
r = revised.
Pp = preliminary.
Production of Major Commodities
Unit of
Commodity Measure I/ March 1/ April r/ May p/
Hard coal (gross mined) thous.t 9,802 8,363 8,667
Crude petroleum Omdiolo oe t 90,135 89,524 93,844
Cement 2 2. 2. t 795,134 850,722 852,889
Bricks (total). 1000 198,174 252,646 350,573
Pig iron Danoogags t 767,094 682,629 719,770
Steel ingots . . 5 t 1,001,534 885,666 914,258
Rolled steel finished products t 650,101 574,526 625,228
Farm tractors (total) f/ . + pieces. 4,208 3,892 + 3,949
Typewriters d/ pieces 16,157 14,046 15,662
Passenger cars (incl. chassis) pieces 15,457 14,739 16,378
Cameras (total) . 2... pieces 139,003 132,046 150,588
Sulphuric acid (incl. oleum) tSOs 91,314 93,396 95,801
Calcium carbide ; t 55,440 . 58,456 62,630
Soap (total) t 8,095 6,621 8,390
Newsprint . t 14,985 12,586 14,792
Auto and truck tires | pieces 202,458 164,801 188,347
Shoes (total) : 1000 prs. 6,535 «5,522 «6,440

1/ = All tons are metric tons.

evised.

p! = Preliminary.

1 = Excluding accessories, parts, and spare parts.

d/ = Standard, long-carriage and portable typewriters.
Labor

Unemployment totaled 1,609,000 at the middle of June,
a decrease of 124,000 since mid-May. Mid-June unemploy-
ment was 10.5 percent of the wage and salary earning
labor force. Employment totaled 13,680,000 — larger by
210,000 than mid-May. Federal government work-creation
and housing projects have as yet contributed little to the
favorable employment trend, and the added purchasing

AUGUST 1950

49

power made available by rising employment has not yet
increased employment in consumer goods industties. In
fact, employment conditions in textile industries de-
teriorated.

Employment programs supported by some states,
however, contributed greatly toward relieving unemploy-
ment. Bavaria, Lower Saxony and Schleswig-Holstein,
which harbored most of the unemployment and most of
the refugees, were enabled by these work-creation and
housing programs to record declines which over the last
four months averaged about 70 percent of the total decline
in unemployment for Western Germany.

Average weekly gross earnings of manual workers in
the manufacturing and building industries continued to
rise during the first quarter, being two percent higher in
March than last December. The weekly earnings index
was 145.3 percent of 1938; the consumer price index was
153 percent of 1938.

Agriculture

As expected, an additional $16,000,000 of the 1949/50
dollar food import program was found.to be not im-
mediately required and shipments will be delayed until
after August 1. In place of the fats and oils originally
planned, approximately 36,000 metric tons of sugar will
be imported.

Despite some storm damage, crop prospects continued
to be favorable. Early fruits and vegetables are reaching
the market at relatively high prices because imports of
these commodities are not as large as this time last year.

Economic Situation in Berlin

Some improvement has occurred, but viewed realistical-
ly the economic situation in western Berlin remains un-
satisfactory, Industrial production during April was 30
percent of the 1936 production, as compared with 28 per-
cent in March. Production during May and June were
probably no higher than April. A lack of markets for
western Berlin's products is the principal barrier to in-
creased output. In some cases, however, where markets
are available, a lack of production facilities and a shortage
of working capital constitute the primary bottlenecks.

The increase in employment and decrease in unemploy-
ment in recent months were due primarily to the public
works program financed by counterpart funds. A total of
57,000 were employed under that program on June 24.
Unemployment was 271,000 on June 15, as compared with
308,000 on February 15. Were it not for the public works
program, unemployment in western Berlin now would be
around 330,000, considering that the labor force has in-
creased about 20,000.

During April shipments of goods from western Berlin
to western Germany were valued at DM 51,000,000, as
compared with DM 53,000,000 in March, and with a post-
blockade high of DM 67,000,000 during December 1949.
Direct exports of goods to foreign countries during April
1950 were valued at DM 6,338,000, as compared with
DM 6,483,000 in March. Shipments to Eastern Germany
continue at a low level. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
Occupation Log

New “Voice” Program

Voice of America has inaugurated a new program series,
“With Recording Van through America,” to be heard
every Friday as one of the regular Voice of America-Ger-
man language broadcasts, relayed by all American zone
stations and RIAS Berlin.

In the new program series, Voice of America reporters
will cover the entire United States by car, train and plane,
recording interviews with workers, housewives, students
and farmers. Each interview will be accompanied by a
running German translation so that German listeners can
follow the course of the conversation.

The program is planned in response to letters sent
monthly to the Voice of America by thousands of Ger-
mans seeking information about such aspects of daily life
in America as labor conditions, schools, problems of the
average citizen, cultural life and the way Americans
spend their free time.

“With Recording Van through America” will attempt
to answer these questions not by talking about people but
“by letting average Americans, representing a cross section
of American life, speak for themselves.

The Voice of America has invited ali German listeners
to tune in on the new program and has requested com-

Konrad Cardinal von Preysing, Bishop of Berlin, dedicated
June 18 a bronze plaque (inset) in memory of Father
Flanagan, founder of Boys’ Town, who died in the 279th
Station Hospital, Berlin, May 15, 1948, while on a US
government mission. Cardinal Preysing said he was
dedicating the plaque not only to a great man and a
great humanitarian, but also to a good friend of his
younger days, for he and Father Flanagan attended secular
school together as fellow-priests. (US Army photo)

P.

ments and criticism. Letters may be addressed either to
the radio station over which the program is heard, or to
the Voice of America, New York 19, N. Y., USA.

Bottled Milk Wanted

Hesse is beginning to feel the impact of its state-wide
“bottled-milk campaign,’ designed to increase the con-
sumption of quality whole milk. In Wiesbaden alone, milk
consumption increased approximately 10 percent during
the first two weeks of the campaign.

The fact that consumers are, in increasing numbers, de-
manding bottled, pasteurized milk instead of the old and
often unsanitary method of purchasing it from street
vendors in open cans indicates that consumers are begin-
ning to become milk-conscious and are switching over to
quality products, stated Eugene Epstine, deputy food and
agriculture chief, OLC Hesse.

In every Hessian city and county, a local milk council,
representing the producers, processors, consumers, as well
as the health and education authorities, and co-ordinated
with the state milk council, has been established to carry
the campaign into every hamlet.

US Film Pleases East Germans

More than 20,000 residents of East Germany, including
many members of the Freie Deutsche Jugend (Communist-
dominated “Free German Youth") and the so-called
“People’s Police,” roared hilarious approval of the clas-
sic film-satire ‘“Ninotschka" when it was shown in West
Berlin movie houses during late May and early June.

The reshowing* of “Ninotschka,” which had already
played to packed audiences in Berlin during 1948, coin-
cided with the ballyhooed FDJ rally in Berlin over Whit-
suntide and provided East Germans with an opportunity
to laugh openly at the self-stultifying bureaucracy of a
regime which is now being foisted upon them.

Block-long queues of East and West Berliners stood be-
fore the score of movie theaters which were showing the
film and on several occasions, proprietors reported, there
were near-riots among those who feared they would not
gain admission. In some cases FDJ members broke theater
windows to enter the halls to see the film, and in several
instances police had to be called to calm the over-enthu-
siastic crowds.

Movie-house owners during a two-week period sold ad-
mission tickets for both East and Deutsche marks and so
were able to gauge how many of their customers were
from eastern Germany. The estimates were well above
20,000. i

At one point along the Soviet-US Sector border, a group
of six members of the “People's Police” timidly approached
West sector police to ask if they might attend the film
showing without risk of arrest. Reassured, they joined
other East Germans in uproarious approval of the film.

In another area, a truckload of some 40 FDJ boys
entered the US Sector by mistake, driving in front of @

* See ‘Hollywood Stars Speak German” in June 1950 issue of the
Information Bulletin.

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 54 ---
L

Maj. Gen. Svend Callisen, chief of artillery for the Danish
Army, examines an American 40 mm rapid-fire gun during
visit June 19 to USAREUR Ordnance School at Eschwege.
The General was highly impressed with excellence of US
Army equipment and training techniques. (US Army photo)

theater advertising the film ‘Ninotschka." The truck
halted; the boys learned that they might pay the admis-
sion fee with East marks, and promptly deserted their tour
for a showing of the film.

Even well into June ‘“Ninotschka” was still being shown
in several West Sector theaters and proprietors reported
that attendance had not slackened.

New German-English Dictionary

Dr. Martin Mayes, education adviser of the Public Af-
fairs Division, OLC Bavaria, disclosed that American and
German education officials and lexicographers are study-
ing the possibility of revising Germany's now outmoded
German-English dictionaries.

He pointed out that the most complete unabridged Ger-
man-English dictionary dates back to 1899. It comprises
four volumes, He said a two-volume edition based largely
on the 1899 version and with only slight revisions was
issued in 1910, That was the last revision attempt made in
Germany, Dr. Mayes said.

“Language is a growing thing,” he declared, “and we
don't need to be reminded that many words and phrases
have been introduced since 1899."

He said any revision of the two-language dictionary
will take into consideration the frequent variations of
word usage in England and America. While the language
in the two English-speaking countries is basically the
same, Dr. Mayes explained, some words in England have
an entirely different meaning in America and vice versa.

“An elevator in America, for example, is a lift in Eng-
lond, while a bonnet in America is a type of hat while
in England it is also the hood of an automobile,” Dr. Mayes
pointed out. "These slight but significant changes naturally
lead to some confusion when Germans, using the present
dictionary as a guide, attempt to translate German words
into English."

AUGUST 1950

51

Bremen Gets Vinethen

A donation by CRALOG of 144 vials containing 7,200
cubic centimeters of Vinethen was handed over to Profes-
sor Hess, chief of the Bremen Children's Clinic, by Dr.
Eldon R. Burke, CRALOG'S field director for Germany,
June 5, in Bremen. Due to its mildness and almost com-
plete lack of after-effects, this drug is the most suitable
for the narcosis of infants.

Some time ago the Bremen Children's Clinic, which had
been unable, to get the Vinethen through German chan-
nels, asked for the aid of the Public Health and Welfare
Branch, OLC Bremen. This branch took up negotiations
with CRALOG, which ordered the Vinethen from the
United States. The shipment was financed by the German
Paintings Relief Fund, out of which $12,000 has been al-
located to the State of Bremen.

According to Professor Hess this supply of Vinethen
will last for more than half a year and will be a great
help to patients and physicians of the Bremen Children’s
Clinic.

Exit Permits Abolished

Relaxation of Allied travel restrictions on German
nationals and non-German residents in Germany was
announced June 17 by the Allied High Commission in the
abolition of “exit permits’ — permits to leave Germany
for travel abroad — which have been issued by Allied
permit offices since 1945. The decision became effective
July 1.

Under the new arrangements, a German national desir-
ing to leave the territory of the Federal Republic need
only be in possession of a valid temporary travel docu-
ment, issued in lieu of a passport, by Allied High Com-
mission permit-issuing agencies located in Germany and
abroad. The possession of a valid temporary travel
document enables any German national to leave Germany
and pass through any passport control checkpoint on the
frontier. Previously the temporary travel document had
to be supported by an exit permit valid either for single
journeys or for six-month periods.

Non-German nationals abroad are still required to hold
valid passports and to obtain from Allied High Com-
mission agencies abroad permits to enter the Federal
Republic. Non-German nationals legally resident in the
Federal Republic and desiring to return there after a
journey abroad need to obtain from offices of the
Combined Travel Board, before their departure, a re-entry
permit which enables them to resume residence in the
Federal Republic.

ERP Exhibits Attractive

Attendance at the first three of a series of ERP exhibits
being held in Bavaria this year had exceeded the 250,000
mark by June 1.

“On the basis of these figures,” declared Fred C, Meh-
ner, Chief of the Trade Branch of OLCB's Economic Affairs
Division, “it can be seen that one out of about every
42 Bavarians has attended one of the first three ERP
exhibits. Four or five more such exhibits are planned this

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
summer to give Germans elsewhere in Bavaria the oppor-
tunity of seeing firsthand the economic strides that have
been made by their industries.”

The exhibits, which have been held at Hof, Passau and
Bamberg, illustrate the economic progress made with the
assistance of the Marshall Plan. They feature various
Bavarian products, including textiles, leather goods, china-
ware, handicrafts and larger commodities such as autos,
tractors and railroad rolling stock.

Workshop for Social Studies

Nine outstanding American educators, specialists in
social studies, have joined German and other European
educators in a six-week international workshop on social
studies at Heidelberg.

Extending from July 17 to Aug. 26, the workshop
includes 80 representatives of the education system of the
four US Zone states and the American sector of Berlin,
as well as 10 education leaders from a half-dozen European
countries. In a series of conferences and seminars, the
group is to develop comprehensive proposals for effective
citizenship training through a broadened program of
social studies, such as history, geography and civics, in
German schools,

An extensive library of reference texts in this field has
been assembled by HICOG's Education and Cultural
Relations Division staff for the use of the workshop. The
conclusions and proposals of the workshop are to be
published and distributed to western German educational
officials, teacher training institutions and other education
agencies.

William Talbert (left) and Tony Trabert, ranking US net-
men, were Berlin visitors June 17-18 when, opposed to
Gottfried von Cramm and Karl Heinz Sass (right), they
gave exhibitions organized by the Red-White Club in
co-operation with the American Women’s Club of Berlin,
the proceeds going to various Berlin charities,(US Army photo)

Prior to the opening of the workshop, the American
educators worked with state commission officials to obtain
firsthand information about the German education system.
Members of the American group are:

Chris A. DeYoung, dean of Illinois State Normal Uni-
versity and chairman of the workshop.

Max Bildersee, Education Department, New York State,

Merrill F, Hartshorn, executive secretary, National
Council of Social Studies,

H. L. Ansbacher, University of Vermont.

Loretta E. Klee, social studies supervisor, Ithaca, N, Y.

Elsie M. Beck; social studies supervisor, Detroit.

Robert LaFolette, Ball State Teachers College, Muncie,
Ind.

Marcus W. Collins, lecturer on human relations and
social studies at Harvard.

Howard White, professor of political science, Miami
University, Oxford, Ohio.

I, Keith Tyler, Education Department, Ohio State Uni-
versity.

Tribute to Longfellow

Geisenheim, the Hessian vine cultivation center on the
Rhine, will receive a portrait of the American poet, Henry
Wadsworth Longfellow, as a gift of the Historical Society
of Portland, Ore.

According to a letter from the president of the society
to the community administration of the Rhine river
village, the gift is being made in appreciation of efforts
by the Geisenheim population toward German-American
understanding.

Last year, the Geisenheim population erected a Long-
fellow memorial in memory of the great American poet's
frequent visits to the Rhine valley. The memorial was
dedicated last August by Hesse Minister President Chris-
tian Stock. At the same time a Longfellow Committee,
part of the Steuben-Schurz Society, was founded to
stimulate a deeper appreciation of the poet's works,

During his visits to Geisenheim about 100 years ago,
Longfellow became greatly impressed with the river
scenery, which inspired several of his poems, one of them
glorifying the famous chimes of the local cathedral.

New ECA Aid for Farms

A grant-in-aid for agriculture of DM 20,000,000 has been
approved and released by the ECA Special Mission to
Western Germany to the German federal government. This
is the initial allocation from a DM 75,000,000 program to
provide financial help for critical sectors of the agricul
tural economy.

Releases for specific projects will be made on the basis
of detailed plans approved by the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture and the ECA Mission. Included will be
financial aid for agricultural winter schools, agricultural
research, short courses and farmer leader training, ex-
perimental and test equipment, a central extension ser-
vice institute, two college level home economics insti-
tutes, central state artificial insemination stations for
dairy cattle, land consolidation and West Berlin.

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 56 ---
These funds were released as a grant-in-aid only and
are not considered a replacement for normal budgetary
expenditures but rather as additional financial assistance
which will contribute to the agricultural and over-all
economic recovery.

Law Library in Munich

A law library “dedicated to public use and made
available to all those who desire to follow developments
in Anglo-American jurisprudence," was opened June 15
by the US District Court for the Eighth Judicial District
in Munich,

“Although the library is small," declared Leo M. Good-
man, chief presiding district judge for Bavaria, “it con-
tains the nucleus of a collection of law books and treatises
which I hope may eventually turn out to be a source of
legal reference and cultural enlightenment.”

The law library is located in the courthouse at 6 Sophien-
strasse, Munich.

Foreign Investment Plan

The first stage in the progressive relaxation of restric-
tions on foreign investments in Germany was’taken by
the Council of the Allied High Commission at its meeting
June 15 in Berlin in approving a detailed procedure pre-
pared by the council's financial advisers.

The formulation of this procedure, which is to be oper-
ated on a licensing system under the direction of the
Allied Bank Commission and based on Military Govern-
ment Laws No. 52 and No. 53, follows the approval in
principle by the Council May 31, of the reopening of Ger-
many to foreign investment.

The new opportunities which are to be granted to
foreign owners of property and funds in Germany, and to
foreigners wishing to bring new capital into Germany,
were the subject of prior discussions with the federal
finance minister and with the
Benelux governments.

representatives of the

In deciding on the new procedure which, it is hoped,
will contribute to the economic recovery of the Federal
Republic, the High Commission has had to take into
account a number of considerations, of which the most
important are the need to safeguard Germany's foreign
exchange position, to prevent undue concentration of
foreign capital in German industry and to provide equality
of opportunity and treatment as between existing foreign
Owners of property, prewar creditors and new foreign
investors and German investors.

Decartelization Studies

American anti-trust and fair trade laws are being studied
by nine German government officials, economic and legal
leaders in preparation for their advice and assistance to
the German government in drafting legislation designed
to eliminate restrictive trade practices in Germany.

The group left for the United States June 17 under an
ECA technical assistance project for 60 days for these

AUGUST 1950

53

Skyblazers Aloft — The US Air Force in Europe's famed
aerial acrobats, who have thrilled huge crowds at air
shows all over western Europe this summer, are snapped
by a B-26 cameraman near the Zugspitze, in Bavaria,
Germany's tallest peak, which is more than 9,500 feet
high. The Skyblazers, flying F-80 Shooting Stars, climax
their series of loops, rolls and Cuban eights with a new
hair-raiser, their “Bomb Burst,” all executed in perfect
formation and with precision. (USAFE photo)

studies. ECA assistance for this trip was requested by the
German Federal Republic. Prior to its departure, the group
conferred with officials of the ECA Special Mission to
Western Germany and of the Decartelization and Decon-
centration Division, Office of General Counsel, HICOG,

The three laws on which the group is concentrating its
studies are Section One of the Sherman Anti-Trust Law
which prohibits various types of unlawful trade practices;
Section Five of the Federal Trade Commission Act which
prohibits methods of unfair competition, and the entire
Public Utilities Holding Company Act.

The Germans participating in the project are:

Dr. Eberhard Guenther, division chief of the Federal
Ministry of Economics,

Dr. Walter Roegner, branch chief of the German Econo-
mics Administration.

Dr. Guenther Joel, chief of Economics Law Division,
Federal Ministry of Justice.

Dr. Franz Boehm, professor
Frankfurt.

Dr. Burkhardt Roeper, scientific assistant of Hamburg’s
Department of Education.

Rolf Carl Spaethen, economics chief of the German
Office Workers’ Union.

Dr. Wilhelm Schulte zur Hausen, lawyer.

Dr. Heinrich Muellensiefen, industrial adviser.

Dr. Heinrich Dohrendorf, secretary general of the Busi-
ness Association for Wholesale and Foreign Trade.

at the University of

Restocking Libraries

Twenty-three West Berlin vocational schools and four
welfare institutions have received HICOG grants-in-aid
totaling DM 14,315.50 to aid them in restocking their
libraries, preparing teaching materials and purchasing

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
Dr. Theodor Heuss, presi-
dent of the German Federal
Republic, and Mrs. Heuss
are shown in Stuttgart on
their way to the flower
show June 3, a magnificent
display which drew many
thousands of visitors to
the Wuerttemberg-Baden
capital trom all parts of
Germany. Record crowds
viewed the floral displays
in warm spring sunshine.
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

needed technical equipment, Public Welfare and Education
Branches of Berlin Element, HICOG, announced June 9.

Allocation of the grants-in-aid, drawn from US infor-
mation and education funds, is part of a continuing
HICOG program of assisting established Berlin organi-
zations which are engaged in educational and welfare
activities.

The vocational schools, ranging from apprentice indus-
trial, textile, applied and graphic art institutes to training
centers for seamstresses, carpenters and mechanics, have
a combined enrollment of some 20,000 young people. The
DM 10,000 allocated to them will assist in the purchase of
instructional and technical equipment and raw materials.

Four welfare institutes in West Berlin also received
DM 4,315.50 in grants-in-aid to assist in the purchase of
books and teaching materials. Three of the schools lost
almost their entire libraries during the war and have so
far been unable to restock them. The fourth institute
participated in the grant-in-aid to help in the preparation
of educational materials for use in similar institutes in
Berlin and throughout western Germany.

Medicine for Czech Woman

In response to a plea from an elderly refugee woman,
a US resident officer in Bavaria sent via special delivery
airmail a package containing 20 grams of aureomycin to
southern Czechoslovakia in an effort to save the life of
the woman's stricken daughter.

The medicine for the mercy shipment was received
June 20 from the German Red Cross.

John L. Jensen, resident officer at Guenzburg County,
said Mrs. Anna Mehrbrod, 72-year-old refugee woman
now living in Guenzburg, appealed to him for help after
she said she was unable to mail the vital drug to Czecho-
slovakia with any assurance from postal authorities that
it would be delivered.

She told Mr. Jensen that her daughter, ill in Budweis,
Czechoslovakia, was desperately in need of the aureomy-
cin to help doctors combat a rare malady. The elderly
woman said German postal authorities would accept the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

54

medicine for mailing to Czechoslovakia but could make
no guarantee as to the time required for delivery, the
condition in which it would be delivered, or even an
assurance that it would be delivered to her daughter.

Step for Narcotic Control

The Allied High Commission has invited the German
federal government to take steps to establish a central
administration for the control of narcotics in order that
the German authorities may eventually assume full inter-
national responsibility in this field.

At present, the French, UK and US authorities in Ger-
many are responsible to the narcotics commission of the
Economic and Social Council of the United Nations for
the contro] of narcotics in their respective zones of
occupation.

In a letter to the federal chancellery, the Allied High
Commission proposed that a German central adminis-
tration be established to fulfill the purposes of the final
act of the International Drug Convention of 1931. This
act calls upon governments to establish special administra-
tions to control traffic in narcotic drugs, to suppress illicit
traffic and to organize a campaign against drug addiction.

After the German authorities have taken the necessary
steps for effective administration of the control of nar-
cotics, the Allied High Commission will discuss with the
federal government the actual transfer of international
responsibility in this field.

Study in Diplomacy

Nine future members of Germany's postwar diplomatic
corps are gaining experience in international relations
during a 90-day study and observation tour in the United
States. The tour was arranged by the Exchanges Division,
Office of Public Affairs and the Office of Political Affairs
of HICOG, in conjunction with the State Department,
Washington.

During their American tour, they are attending the six-
week seminar at the University of Virginia, where they
join American students in the study of political science,
government and international relations.

The nine men, most of whom are less than 30 years of
age, represent the best educated and most democratically

Clarence M. Bolds,
who retired July 16
as State Commis-
sioner for Bavaria,
served as official
starter in Soap Box
Derby in Munich—
and tried out a mid-
get version of the
Volkswagen on ex-
hibit at the grounds.

(PRB OLCB photo)

--- Page 58 ---
inclined elements of German
youth, HICOG officials said.
They were selected by the
federal German government
on the basis of education,
knowledge of foreign lan-
guages, liberal political atti-
tudes, and their freedom
from any past affiliations
with agencies of the Nazi
party.

On return from their US
trip, the students will attend
a three-month course at the
German Foreign Service
School at Speyer University,
after which they will be

The Purdue University Glee Club, totaling 62 singers under
the direction of Albert P. Stewart, were guests July 4 at a
luncheon arranged by Gibson Morrissey of the Frankfurt
“Amerika Haus.’ The glee club is shown with ils German
guests from Frankfurt University on the terrace of the
Casino, Frankfurt. During its two-week tour the Purdue
glee club gave concerts in Berlin, Erlangen, Frankfurt, Hei-

Land Consolidation

Land consolidation is a
necessary forerunner to in-
creased farm mechanization
in Bavaria, the Bavarian
farmers were told in a recent
OLCB-sponsored Farm and
Home broadcast.

Dr. William H. Dankers,
chief of the OLCB Food,
Agriculture and Forestry
Branch, said, ‘Farm mechani-
zation is not very practical
on many of the small cut-
up farms. Therefore, land
consolidation is a very im-
portant program that must

assigned to German com-
mercial consulates now being
established throughout the
world, Members of the group are: Franz Josef Bach, Aachen;
Gerd Brand, Speyer; Christian Feit, Hamburg; Burckhardt
van Jeinzen, Springe-Meister; Kurt Mueller, Wuppertal
Ronsdorf; Schwidbert Schnippenkoetter, Cologne; Hartmut
Schulze-Boyson, Heidelberg; Karl-Gerhard Seeliger, Tue-
bingen; and Horst Wiessner, Bad Godesberg.

Democratization Activities

Attendance at democratization activities in Bavaria
during May totaled nearly 1,500,000 persons.

Kenneth E. Van Buskirk, chief of OLCB's Field Oper-
ations Division, said reports received from the US
resident officers showed that 1,442,948 Bavarians attended
democratization activities conducted during the month.

Film showings were most popular among Bavarians,
with attendance exceeding 800,000. Discussions were next
with attendance amounting to more than 260,000 Bava-
rians, followed by speeches, lectures and similar projects,
attended by nearly 190,000; town meetings more than
102,000, and public forums more than 82,000.

The resident officers reported that 15,491 individual
democratization activities were held in Bavaria during
the month,

Communist Loses Immunity

The Hessian state legislature lifted June 15 the parlia-
mentary immunity of Emil Carlebach, Communist deputy.
The action was requested by the chief prosecutor of the
Frankfurt court district, who announced intention to file
charges against the Communist for denying the dignity
of the Hessian legislature by insulting Hessian ministers
in public,

Carlebach, at a public meeting in March, had called
Werner Hilpert, Hessian finance minister, a “purchased
occupation-costs procurer” and charged that Hilpert had
used tax moneys for private business dealings. Further,
Carlebach had referred to Fritz Wagner, Hessian minister
of economics, as “Hesse's no longer normal minister."

AUGUST 1950

delberg, Marburg, Munich and Wiesbaden.

precede such farm mechani-
zation.” Dr, Dankers added
that land consolidation would
“considerably increase agricultural production, agricul-
tural efficiency and lower production costs." The farmers
who have had their formerly scattered fields consolidated,
he said, know that the real advantages gained therefrom
“far outweigh" the general objections.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Johann Gamperl of the Bavarian Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Forestry, speaking on the same broad-
cast, said ‘‘we have already been able to speed up the
technical procedures,” but, although regular land consoli-
dation is the "more ideal solution," there are still about
548,000 acres in Bavaria that could be brought together
with the financial aid of ERP funds, -+-END

Rhein-Main Airbase put an open-house policy into effect
May 26 with the opening of its civil area to German
nationals, Where once Air Police had turned back all
Germans but outbound passengers at the entrance gates,
today the welcome mat is out to all nationalities in the
civilian passenger terminal, the cafe and at the sidewalk
terrace overlooking the field. German workers at the
field are supervised by HICOG Civil Aviation Division,
represented by Richard Martin, administrator of airports
for Hesse. Mr. Martin and Frankfurt's Mayor Walter
Kolb marked the new policy by raising the American
and German flags at either side of the entrance gate.
Picture shows terrace and fountain-studded lagoon at
north side of huge field which served as main supply
base for the Berlin Airlift. (PRD HICOG photo)

--- Page 59 ---
German Editorials

This section is compiled from a summary prepared by the Press & Publications
Branch, Information Services Division, HICOG, of editorials in the German press.

The publishing of these German edi-
torlals is intended to inform the Ameri-
can readers of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, without interpre-
tation. The inclusion of any statement
from the German press does not give
concurrence to the view or opinion,

IHE HOSTILITIES IN KOREA have been the main

topic of the news and editorial columns of all
sections of the German press since the day in late June
that the North Korean Communists invaded South Korea.
Most editors then discussed primarily the possible world-
wide consequences and many drew a parallel between
Korea and Germany.

At the outset of the Korean conflict the press doubted
that the United States would go beyond the usual ap-
peals and protests, and opinions were voiced that, as a
result, both the UN and the US would suffer a loss of
prestige. Accordingly, President Truman's announcement
of intervention proved the more surprising.

Stuttgarter Nachrichten (Ind., Stuttgart) termed the
President's decision the gravest with which he has been
faced. His decision, it was emphasized, was taken in, the
full realization that more than the prestige of the Western
world was at stake. The present situation, it added, was
marked by the dangers attendant upon that decision.

Frankfurter Neue Presse (Ind., Frankfurt) believed that
“The United States, as the strongest counter-pole to the
Soviet Union, had to act decisively and swiftly. Nowhere
is there any doubt that the action in Korea is a trial
balloon of the Soviet Union. It was high time," declared
the paper, “to act fast and swiftly in order to prevent the
fire from spreading over the house.”

Mannheimer Morgen (Ind., Mannheim) did not believe
that the Soviet Union would assume the risk of another
world war: “... Moscow's silence seems to prove that the
Soviet Union is not interested in enlarging the conflict.

The Soviets have been pursuing clever tactics... design-
ed to make possible a Kremlin withdrawal without the
loss of prestige.”

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Ind., Frankfurt): "...The im-
mediate reason for action is the dangerous military
situation. Underneath, however, the White House knows
ful well what the stakes in this battle are. If the powers
of the Kremlin should occupy Korea completely, then
this would constitute a tremendous encouragement for
their further expansion plans and would result in strong
discouragement for all friends of the West. The results of
the 1930's and of the years since 1945, in the meantime,
have become obvious. Washington also has realized that.”

Korea and Germany

Badische Neueste Nachrichten (Ind. Karlsruhe):
“| ,, There, as here, the setting up of a zonal border; there,
as here, two governments; there, too, the establishment
‘of a sort of ‘People's Police’ in Russian North Korea which
later became a standing army. The only difference is that
occupation troops of both powers left in 1949. Hence the
conflict teaches a lesson to all who see salvation in the
neutrality of Germany and the departure of all occupation
troops. There can be no neutrality in a conflict where
the issues at stake are freedom versus forced labor in the
uranium mines."

Hamburger Freie Presse (FDP), Hamburg): “Except for
the latest Soviet move (withdrawal from Korea of oc-
cupation troops in 1949), the developments (in Korea
and Germany) have been absolutely the same. Are the

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, June 15)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

56

(Fraenkische Presse, Bayreuth, June 15)

Vishinsky: “And here we will set up the Demo-
cratic People’s Republic for the penguins, Joseph!"

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 60 ---
(Rhein-Neckar Zeitung, Heidelberg, June 15)

Burdens on the German Economy:

Obligations resulting from the war, the occu-
pation and social responsibilities.

meaning and the significance of the Korean case for us
understood?"

Neues Tagblatt (CDU, Osnabrueck): “One could say
that the Soviets in Korea have experimented with methods
which they hope to employ successfully in Germany some
day. It is also possible that the moves in Korea are
diversionary tactics. Hence we as well as the Western
Powers must be extremely careful."

Frankiurter Rundschau (Ind., Frankfurt), on the other
hand, thinks the parallel does not fit for two specific
reasons: “,..(1) President Rhee's party is a clique of
landowners with a system (of government) as corrupt as
Chiang Kai-shek’s was. Press and politicians of the
opposition were ruthlessly suppressed. These conditions
were an asset to the attacking Communists of the North.

“(2) A further important difference is the presence (in
Germany) of Western occupation troops.’ The paper sees
justification of its point of view that the occupation costs,
amounting to 22 percent of the budget, are not too high
to protect Germany against unwelcome surprises.

Consequences for Germany

Schwaebische Landeszeitung (CSU, Augsburg): ‘We
made our choice between East and West long ago. We
have chosen the West. On the other hand, the Lorelei is
being prepared for dynamiting, our police are being de-
centralized and German partisans are being recommended
by Lord Vansittart."

The paper calls for strong protection for Germany.
However, the paper believes that the Western Powers at
the present moment are in no position to protect Germany
from an invasion and terms all talk about "the Elbe Line”
as “just so many phrases.”

Muenchener Merkur (Bavarian Party, Munich): “We
have decided in favor of the West and hence we believe
ourselves in a position to demand from the West that we
be saved from the fate of Korea by timely announcement
of offers of help and by the repetition of a guarantee of
security.

“If it is made clear that real action is being taken for
Protection, then Germans can put their minds to the de-

AUGUST 1950

57

(Passauer Zeitung, Passau, June 14)

“In the meantime, we have -had to get started
without the English horn!"

fense and security of their country. We can eliminate
dangerous elements at a decisive moment; we can assist
such measures as the Occupation Powers may take and
thus safeguard the rear echelon.”

Between East and West

Die Zeit (Ind, Hamburg) declared the decision had
been made that Germany is to align herself closely with
the Western Powers. The Federal Republic must attentively
watch the aggressive Soviet policies in as much as the
Western Powers have not developed a strong plan against
Communism. The Federal Republic must take timely
measures against the cleverly-veiled moves of the Soviets
in Western Germany:

“.,.What is our policy toward the East?... The Mos-
cow Politburo still holds the initiative in action while
all measures taken by the Western Powers have been of
a purely defensive nature...

“For us, such a policy is inadequate in as much as
Germany is divided and partly occupied by Soviet Rus-
sians and Soviet-Poles and daily we are compelled to
meet the aggressive policy of the Kremlin. In order to
resist we need a concrete plan... We do not wish to
underestimate the defensive measures which the West

(Echo der Woche, Munich, May 26)

“Which hole shall I crawl into?”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
has so far taken in the Cold War... Marshall Plan funds
certainly have helped stabilize the economic situation in
Europe O00 °
“However, during that time Czechoslovakia was
sovietized, Poland got a Soviet dictator in the person of
Marshal Rokossovsky while in Bulgaria, Hungary and
Rumania all political groups and persons disagreeable
to the Kremlin were, exterminated. ..The Kremlin's tactics

for the Western Zone of Germany are to spread unrest by’

means of agents and collaborationists...

“The Soviets are masters in setting up free organiza-
tions — to name a few: the Society for the Study of the
Soviet Union, the Hamburg Society for All-German
Questions, the Nauheim Society, the Organization of the
Enemies of War, the Democratic Women's Organization
of Germany, etc. Furthermore, recently politicians from
the Soviet Zone have made propaganda speeches at out-
wardly harmless meetings... All this serves the one
purpose of painting a rosy picture of conditions in the
Soviet Zone...

“The German Federal Republic is compelled to limit its
battle to spiritual weapons within the framework of the
law while an underground offensive is carried out by
means of sabotage and unrest...

“The Federal Government must have plans of an offen-
sive and defensive nature and must promulgate such laws
that dangerous activities like those of the ambitious
Mr. Gereke will not go unpunished in the future. They
will be able to draw upon the experiences gained by
West Berlin in its fight with the Soviet Russians and the
Soviet-Germans and they should adopt the motto of the
brave Berlin organization, ‘Fight against Inhumanity.'”

France and Germany

France's desire for an end to the state of war with Ger-
many was welcomed by the German press. It is regarded
as a further step to terminate the disastrous traditional
enmity between these countries.

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Ind., Munich): “If the spiritual
and political relations among the free peoples of Europe
are to be drawn closer and Europe's trade is to be
liberalized, as is the aim of Truman and Acheson, then
the Germans must be liberated from a judicial concept
which is outdated in a changing world. It is to be expect-

(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, May 27)

Shei ean
VON Ses \Y
YO S SSCP SIN

FDJ in Berlin.
Hitler marched along in spirit.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

58

(Frankfurter Rundschau, Frankfurt, June 1)

ay we
oC)
WALGan

+ Seu TSCHLAND

Invitation to free elections.
Papa is hard of hearing.

ed that the US Government will have no objections, but
will be on the side of the British in following the French
suggestion.”

Wiesbadener Kurier (Ind., Wiesbaden): “One shouldn't
expect too much... But it is obvious that France and
Germany have recognized that only good relations be-
tween their two countries can safeguard the peace of
Europe.”

British Unpopularity

Europa Kurier (Ind., Hamburg) discusses the reasons for
the unpopularity of the British in Germany today. First,
says the paper, is the occupation policy, second the dis-
appointment over the average British member of the
occupation who closely resembles a German but who
has destroyed the illusions Germany had regarding the
British. “We can console ourselves," the paper continues,
“with the knowledge that the mistaken British policy
can be traced back to the British statesmen of today and
that an understanding between the German and English
people will come about sooner or later...

“We know that the British in Germany are unpopular,
to say the least. That regrettable fact will not be removed
by the United Kingdom's official position on the European
question... There have been discussions with England on
that subject and Germany has been reprimanded. These
reprimands contain the entire list of the vices the Ger-
mans have been accused of and include militarism and
nationalism, German arrogance and Teutonic aggression
as well as self-pity. But they missed the point. One must
look at the problem of Anglo-German relations from the
German point of view.

“One will find that there never has been any open
hatred of England among the German people, not even
during the period of the terror bombings of open German
cities. Instead there was a mixture of admiration, hatred
and love for the Englishman. The Germans had regarded
the British primarily as gentlemen.

“When the British occupied Germany with their armies,
the realization was forced upon the Germans that the

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 62 ---
(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, June 9}

British did not measure up to
their expectations. The aver-
age Briton was no different
from the average German...
Then came the second disap-
pointment, the British occupa-
tion policy...

“The stories of the experi-
ences of the German prisoners
of war in England were dif-
ferent. When the German soldiers had their first contacts
with the British population, they were overwhelmed by
their friendliness, their help and the fair behavior they en-
countered... Whatever was done in that field has become
questionable, however, as hardly a single ex-POW has
failed to change his mind after viewing the results of the
Foreign Office's occupation policy... Perhaps the British
policy in Germany was a failure because British history is
full of the subjugation of colonial peoples and they had
never had to deal with a people of equal standing who
perhaps were superior in some ways...

“Politicians can be changed from day to day, but the
people remain the same... The English mentality is closer
to the Continent than to Australia or New Zealand and
therefore there is still hope that an understanding between
the British and Germans will come about just when an
honest rapprochement among the rest of the people of the
Continent is getting started.”

Success for Democracy

The result of the North Rhine-Westphalia elections, in
which the Communists (KPD) lost 16 of their 28 seats while
gains were registered by the CDU, SPD and FDP, was
hailed by the entire German press as a victory for demo-
cracy and an open renunciation of the radicals, both
Right and Left. “One can gladly state,’ said the Sued-
deutsche Zeitung of Munich, “that the political maturity
of the German citizen is increasing.”

‘
(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, June 12)

Design for the new border stones
at the Oder-Neisse Line.

AUGUST 1950

Potato bug seen through Soviet glasses.

59

Stuttgarter Zeitung (Ind.,
Stuttgart): “People like Hedler
and Remer cannot bring sal-
vation to the Germans. This.
has been noted by most of
those who have also ignored
the Leftist radicals. Hence
the result of this election in
the most densely-populated
area of the Federal Republic
should demonstrate to pessimists abroad who see Hitler
and his tribe being resurrected that Germany can be
viewed in a more favorable light.”

Stuttgarter Nachrichten (Ind., Stuttgart): “Too readily
and too often, people abroad are willing to detect symp-
toms of the resurgence of Nationalism or neo-Fascism in
speeches by some Rightist radicals. One must learn a
lesson from the result of the elections, namely, that the
German people are ready to grow into a real European
unity.”

Criticism of Americans

Europa Kurier (Ind, Hamburg) criticized the ruling of
the United States Supreme Court denying the right of
appeal to persons sentenced by American courts outside
the territorial limits of the United States. The paper
declared the US had destroyed the basis of its own power,
namely, the law.

In France, too, the paper added, the collective sentences
on German prisoners of war would contribute to the
general confusion of the judiciary. By such practices, the
Americans are destroying the very things which they
have helped build up with their dollars.

Die Zeit (Ind, Hamburg) in a front page editorial
deplores the decision of the Supreme Court and terms it
“proof of the fact that there are two kinds of law in the
world.” +END

(Abendpost, Frankfurt, June 3-4)

America's tireless

Communist-hunter,

Senator McCarthy, searching for pro-

Russian sentiments in the Department of

State: “Very suspicious! Mr. Acheson
just ordered ‘Russian Eggs!'"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
Germany 1947-49 Pictured in Documents

The Department of State released recently Germany,
1947-49: The Story in Documents, which outlines Ameri-
can policy toward Germany and pertinent developments
in Germany during the period January 1947 to September
1949, This period embraces the rise and decline of Four-
Power consideration of the German problem, the results
of Soviet intransigence respecting Germany, the establish-
ment of the Federal Republic in Germany, the termination
of Military Government in the western zones, the entry
into force of the Occupation Statute, and the institution
of the Allied High Commission in September 1949.

The documents contained in this 677-page volume in-
clude international agreements, directives, policy ad-
dresses and press statements as well as reports by the
President, by officials of the Departments of State and the
Army, by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and by other govern-
mental agencies. In the four parts of the volume —
(1) Basic Principles and Objectives; (2) Political Develop-
ments; (3) Economic Developments, and (4) Educational,
Informational, Cultural and Religious Developments —
the documents are arranged chronologically within sub-
groups. Two lists at the begihning of the book provide
chronological and topical guides to the contents.

Although these documents have appeared in various
published forms, principally for official use, many have
been limited in distribution and not readily accessible
for public use (for example, various laws of the Allied
Control Council, of the United States Military Govern-
ment and of the German states). They are presented for
the first time in a comprehensive, topical arrangement
for the information of the general public and for con-
venient reference purposes.

Earlier documentation on occupation policy respecting
Germany was published by the Department of State in
Occupation of Germany: Policy and Progress, 1945-46
(Publication 2783, released August 1947). A few documents
of this period are included in the present volume because
of their continuing relation to the later period, such as the
Protocols of the 1945 Yalta and Potsdam Conferences, the
Directive te the Commander-in-Chief of the United States
Forces of Occupation, and the Stuttgart address of Secre-
tary Byrnes.

Copies may be obtained from the Superintendent of
Documents, United States Government Printing Office,
Washington 25, D.C., for $3.25.

Handbook Issued to Guide New HICOG Employees

56-PAGE HICOG HANDBOOK, with pen-and-ink sket-

ches and a pull-out chart, was distributed in late June
to all members of the Offiice of the US High Commissioner.
The booklet, prepared by the Personnel Division, Office
of Administration, was written to orient new appointees
to HICOG jobs, and will be handed out to recruits prepar-
ing to leave the United States.

A brief note of welcome from US High Commissioner
John J. McCloy christens six sections of information on
the methods and purposes of the occupation, the general
living conditions in Germany, services to occupation
personnel, work conditions, advice on travel and conduct,
and tips on how to get along in a foreign country.

In addressing newcomers, Mr. McCloy told them, “We
have the task of helping the German people obtain a firm
conviction that a political philosophy based on the con-
cept of freedom of thought and action is practical.

“The German people receive their major impressions of
American democracy from the Americans with whom they
come in contact. This puts a special burden on all of us.
How we conduct ourselves both officially and in our
leisure time is of crucial importance.

“Our... task requires the intelligent devotion to his
work of every member of the Office of the US High Com-
mission for Germany. As employees of the Government
of the United States, we are working for the American
people. Every effort we make toward the accomplishment
of our objectives is a service to them.”

A picture of Mr. McCloy accompanies his foreword.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

60

Organization of HICOG is depicted in a folding chart
appended to the inside back cover, and cartoons liven up
text presentation throughout. The booklet may be obtain-
ed from the Personnel Division, Room 464, HICOG Head-
quarters Building, Frankfurt.

Representatives of four nations meet socially at the home
of Count Andre de Marolles, French Observer to the State
of Hesse. Front row, left to right, are Dr. James Newman,

State Commissioner for Hesse; Lt. Gen. John K. Cannon, ”

Commanding General, USAFE; Andre Francois-Poncet,
French High Commissioner; and Brig. Gen. Cecil Cox,
British Observer to Hesse. In rear row, I.-r., are Christian
Stock, Minister President of Hesse; Dr. Erwin Stein, Minis-
ter of Education and Justice for Hesse; and Karl A. Geiler,
former Minister President of Hesse. (PRB OLCH photo)

AUGUST 1950 —

--- Page 64 ---
HICOM Regulation No. 7

(Ships and the Shipbuilding Industry under Law No. 24) j

Effective July 1, 1950

Control of Certain Articles, Products, Installations and Equipment

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion issues the following regulation:

Scope
Article 1

This regulation relates to the manufac-
ture, production, import, export, transport,
storage, possession, ownership and use of
the ships listed in Group IV (A), (C) and
(D) of Schedule A of the Law, the con-
struction, erection, reconstruction, re-erec-
tion, conversion and replacement of plant
and equipment for the purpose of pro-
ducing such ships, the increase in produc-
tion capacity of the shipbuilding industry,
the construction, erection, replacement or
reconstruction of plant or equipment for
production in the shipbuilding industry, the
manufacture and production of the ships
and vessels listed in Group II (A) and (B)
of Schedule D of the Law and the import
and acquisition from abroad of the vessels
listed in Group III (A) of Schedule D of
the Law,

Section A

Construction
Construction by License

Article 2

1. No person or enterprise shall con-
struct, except pursuant to a license issued
by the Military Security Board or as other-
wise authorized by the Allied High Com-
mission, any ship other than those listed
in this paragraph:

(a) dry cargo ships not exceeding 12
knots service speed or 7,200 G.R.T.;

(b) tankers not exceeding 12 knots serv-
ice speed or 7,200 G.R.T.;

(c) fishing vessels not exceeding 12
knots service speed or 650 G.R.T.;

(d) coastal vessels not exceeding 12 knots
service speed or 2,700 G.R.T.;

(ce) IWT barges not exceeding 12 knots
service speed;

(f) tugs not exceeding 12 knots service
speed;

(g) miscellaneous small harbor and river
craft not exceeding 12 knots service speed;

(h) ships of types not listed above and
not exceeding 12 knots service speed or
650 G.R.T.

2. No person or enterprise shall, except
pursuant to a license issued by the Military
Security Board or as otherwise authorized
by the Allied High Commission, alter,
reconstruct, rehabilitate, modify or convert
any ship so as to cause such ship to be-
come a ship the construction of which is
prohibited by Paragraph 1.

3. Nothing in the Law or this regulation

shall prohibit or restrict the repair of any
foreign ship.

AUGUST 1950

Article 3

1, Every person and enterprise shall,
before commencing any construction, alter-
ation, reconstruction, rehabilitation, modi-
fication or conversion prohibited by Ar-
ticle 2, file an application in accordance
with Article 7 of Regulation No. 1 under
the Law for a license to engage in such
work, except that such person or enterprise
shall file the application with the Federal
Government.

(a) Applications filed pursuant to this
paragraph for a license to construct a ship
will include three copies of the following
particulars:

(i) name of person or enterprise for whom
the ship is to be constructed;

(ii) name of shipyard in which the ship
is to be constructed;

(iii) length of ship (between perpendic-
ulars);

(iv) breadth of ship (molded);

(v) depth of ship (molded);

(vi) mean draught (at summer load line);
(vii) displacement (at summer load line);
(viii) Gross Registered Tonnage (G.R.T.};
(ix) estimated service speed;

(x) estimated trial speed;

(xi) type of main propulsion machinery;
(xii) number of propellers;

(xiii) maximum horsepower of propelling
machinery in terms of indicated brake or
shaft horsepower;

(xiv) number and type of boilers;

(xv) type of fuel used (i. e., coal or oil);
(xvi) endurance at economical speed;
(xvii) special equipment and installations;

(xviii) capacity of auxiliary electrical
generating machinery;

(xix) capacity of cargo lifting gear;

(xx) number of crew provided for in
crew's space;

(xxi) number of passengers provided for
in passenger accommodation;

(xxii) classification society and class in-
tended to be assigned;

(xxiii) general arrangement and midship
scantling plans;

(b) Applications filed pursuant to this
paragraph for a license to alter, recon-
struct, rehabilitate, modify or convert a
ship shall include the information required
in Sub-paragraph (a) hereof, Items (iii) to
(xxiii) inclusive, which information shall
describe the ship after the completion of
the alteration, reconstruction, rehabilitation,

61

modification or conversion,
lowing:

and the fol-

(i) mame of person or enterprise for
whom the work is to be done;

(ii) name of shipyard in which the work
is to be done;

(iii) particulars as to the alteration,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, modification
or conversion desired.

2, The Federal Government ‘shall cause
the application to be examined and shall
make a determination as to whether the
work for which a license is requested is
prohibited by Article 4.

(a) If the Federal Government determines
that the work is not prohibited by Article 4,
it shall cause the application and particu-
lars to be so marked and forwarded to
the Shipbuilding Branch of the Military
Security Board. Thereafter, the Federal
Government and the applicant shall act
in the matter as directed or ordered by
the Military Security Board, including the
assignment of an MSB/SHIP number.

(b) If the Federal Government determines
that the work requested in the application
is prohibited by Article 4, it shall so inform
the applicant, stating the reason therefor,
and shall forward a copy of the application
and particulars and statement of infor-
mation to the Shipbuilding Branch of the
Military Security Board. Thereafter the
Federal Government and the applicant
shall act in the matter as directed or
ordered by the Military Security Board,
including the assignment of an MSB/SHIP
number.

Prohibited Construction, Alteration, Recon-
struction, Rehabilitation, Modification and
Conversion

Article 4

1, No person or enterprise shall con-
struct any of the following ships or craft
or alter, reconstruct, rehabilitate, modify
or convert any ship or craft into a ship
or craft of any type listed herein:

(a) war ships;

(b) ships and floating equipment espe-
cially designed for war purposes (including
the servicing of war ships);

(c) ships designed or constructed for con-
version into war ships or for military use;

(d) submersible craft,submersible devices,
designed for military purposes.

2. No person or enterprise shall construct
any ship embodying any feature or charac-
teristic listed in this paragraph, or alter,
reconstruct, rehabilitate, modify or convert
any ship into a ship embodying any such
feature or characteristic or install in any
ship any of the equipment listed in this
paragraph:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
(a) Any special features or characteristics
which render it readily convertible:

(i) for amphibious assault operations;

(ii) to an aircraft carrier or for operating
aircraft;

(iii) to a repair or depot ship for sub-
marines, aircraft or coastal forces craft;

(iv) to a fighter direction vessel;

(v) to any other combatant or naval
auxiliary type of vessel.

(b) Any of the following weapons, equip-
ment and material:

(i) all items listed in Schedule A of the
Law (except radio direction and position
finders and radar equipment of normal
commercial marine type);

(ii) paravanes:

(iii) minesweeping gear of any descrip-
tion:

(iv) catapults for aircraft launching;

(v) rocket or missile launching devices,
except such as may be in normal com-
mercial usage for emergency signalling
and rescue purposes;

(vi) smoke-making equipment or ap-
paratus or special devices for concealment
purposes;

(vii) high concentration hydrogen per-
oxide or special submarine fuels or supplies;

(viii) depth sounding gear and radio and
gyrocompass equipment which do not con-
form to normal commercial marine types.

(c) Any special fittings or special struc-
tures readily adaptable for mounting, car-
rying or storing any of the items listed
in Paragraph (b) above.

(d) Any of the following main and
auxiliary machinery, and provisions there-
for:

(i) main and auxiliary machinery which
does not conform to normal commercial
marine practice in type, design, construc-
tion and installation; in particular special
machinery which in time of peace is nor-
mally used solely in war ships;

(ii) main and auxiliary machinery in
excess of that necessary for the approved
speed;

(iii) gas jet propulsion, atomic propulsion
or gas turbine propulsion;

(iv) auxiliary electrical generating ma-
chinery and equipment of capacity in ex-
cess of that normal to the type of vessel;

(v) cargo lifting gear in excess of that
hormal to the type of vessel.

(e) Any of the following features of
design and provisions therefor:

(i) hull form abnormal for and inappro-
priate to the approved speed of the vessel
where this would result in the vessel
having lines making it suitable for being
driven at a higher speed than that for
which it is first engined;

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(ii) subdivision significantly different
from that normal to the type of vessels
or which would facilitate the installation
of main or auxiliary machinery of in-
creased power;

(iii) evaporators of capacity in excess of
that normal to the type of vessel and for
the services intended;

(iv) oil fuel and fresh water capacity
in excess of that normal to the type of
vessel and for the services intended;

(v) hull and deck openings in excess of
those normal to the type of vessel which
in the opinion of the Military Security
Board constitutes a security threat;

(vi) unobstructed deck space in excess
of that normal to the type of vessel which
in the opinion of the Military Security
Board constitutes a security threat.

3. The prefabrication of hull sub-assem-
blies of vessels is prohibited except in
the shipyard in which such vessels are to
be built or except pursuant to license
issued by the Military Security Board. This
paragraph shall not preclude the procure-
ment from any source other than the ship-
yard in which the ship is to be built of
stern frames, rudder posts and other equip-
ment which may normally be obtained from
any such source.

4. It is prohibited except pursuant to a
license issued by the Military Security
Board to construct any vessel which is not
based on or which deviates materially
from the standards established by one of
the following: the American Bureau of
Shipping, Bureau Veritas, Lloyds Register
of Shipping, Germanischer Lloyd.

Declarations for Permitted Construction,
Alteration, Reconstruction, Rehabilitation,
Modification and Conversion

Article 5

Every person and enterprise, before com-
mencing any construction, alteration, re-
construction, rehabilitation, modification or
conversion in respect of any ship designed
to exceed 100 G.R.T. which is not prohibited
by Article 2 or Article 4, shall submit to
the Minister President of the Land (state)
in which the work is to take place three
copies of a declaration of intention to per-
form such work, together with three copies
of the particulars listed in Paragraph 1 of
Article 3, and may thereupon proceed with
such work. The Minister President shall
forthwith register the particulars and cause
such declarations and particulars to be
examined.

(a) If the Minister President determines
that the work is not prohibited by Ar-
ticle 4, he shall so advise the declarant
and shall register such declaration and
forward a copy of the declaration, parti-
culars and advice to the Shipbuilding
Branch of the Military Security Board.

(b) If the Minister President determines
that the work is prohibited by Article 2
or Article 4, he shall so inform the decla-
rant, stating the reason therefor, and shall
forward a copy of the declaration and
particulars and statement of the infor-
mation to the Shipbuilding Branch of the
Military Security Board.

62

Section B

Acquisition from Abroad
Acquisition by License

Article 6

1. No person or enterprise shall import
or acquire from abroad (both terms here-
inafter referred to as ‘acquire from
abroad"), except pursuant to a license
issued by the Military Security Board or
as otherwise authorized by the Allied
High Commission or in accordance with
Article 7 any ship other than those listed
in this Paragraph:

(a) fishing vessels not exceeding 12 knois
service speed or 650 G.R.T.;

(b) coastal vessels not exceeding 12 knots
service speed or 2,700 G.R.T.;

(c) IWT barges not exceeding 12 knots
service speed;

(d) tugs not exceeding 12 knots service
speed;

(e) miscellaneous small harbor and river
craft not exceeding 12 knots service speed;

(f) ships of types not listed above and
not exceeding 12 knots service speed or
650 G.R.T. -

2. Every person and enterprise shall, be-
fore making any acquisition prohibited by
Paragraph 1, file an application in accor-
dance with Article 6 of Regulation No. 1
under the Law, except that such appli-
cation shall be filed with the Federal
Government, together with three copies
of the particulars listed in Article 3, Pa-
ragraph 1 (a), Items (iii) to (xxiii) inclu-
sive, where available, and the name of
the ship and the name of the person from
whom the ship is to be acquired. The
Federal Government shall thereupon for-
ward three copies of the application and
particulars to the Shipbuilding Branch of
the Military Security Board and shall
request the issuance of a provisional li-
cense, The person or enterprise to whom
a provisional license has been issued shall,
prior to the date the ship first arrives
at a port in the territory of the Federal
Republic after the date of acquisition,
notify the Shipbuilding Branch of the Mili-
tary Security Board of the anticipated
date of arrival and shall, upon the order
of the Military Security Board, make the
ship available at the time of the first
arrival for inspection by the Military Se-
curity Board.

3. Should the Military Security Board
determine that the acquisition was not a
violation of this Regulation or of the Law,
the Board will confirm the provisional li-
cense and assign a final MSB/SHIP num-
ber. A final MSB/SHIP number issued with
respect to any acquisition shall be bind-
ing on all courts that the acquisition was
not in violation of this Regulation’ or of
the Law. Should the Military Security
Board determine that the acquisition was
such a violation it shall order the person
or enterprise to comply with Article 8 or
take such other action as may be appro-
priate.

Acquisition by Permit

Article 7

1, Every person or enterprise may, in
accordance with a permit issued by the
Federal Government pursuant to this ar-

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 66 ---
ticle, acquire from abroad tankers not
exceeding 14 knots service speed or 10,700
G.R.T. and dry cargo ships not exceeding
12 knots service speed or 7,200 G.R.T.

2.The Federal Government is hereby
authorized to issue permits authorizing
the acquisition from abroad of tankers
not exceeding 14 knots service or 10,700
G.R.T. and dry cargo ships not exceeding
12 knots service speed or 7,200 G.R.T.,
but the aggregate tonnage of acquisitions
from abroad since April 14, 1949 shall not
exceed 100,000 G.R.T. of tankers or 300,000
G.R.T. of dry cargo ships.

Removal of Prohibited Features
Article 8

Every person and enterprise acquiring
from abroad any ship embodying any of
the features and characteristics listed in
Article 4, or possessing any equipment
listed in that Article shall forthwith cause
such features, characteristics and equip-
ment to be removed.

Declarations for Acquisitions not Requiring
Licenses

Article 9

1, Every person and enterprise shall, be-
fore making any acquisition of a ship
from abroad, other than those which may
be acquired only as authorized by license,
declare the same to the Federal Govern-
ment and shall include therewith the par-
ticulars listed in Article 3, Paragraph 1 (a),
Items (iii) to (xxiii) inclusive, where avail-
able, and the name of the ship and the
name of the person from whom the ship
is to be acquired and may thereupon
proceed with the acquisition.

(a) If the Federal Government deter-
mines that the acquisition ‘is not prohibited
by Article 6 and that the ship does not
embody features, characteristics or equip-
ment specified in Article 4, it shall so
advise the declarant, register such decla-
tation, and forward a copy of the tegis-
tration and particulars of the Shipbuild-
ing Branch of the Military Security Board.

(b) If the Federal Government determines
that the acquisition is prohibited by Ar-
ticle 6 or embodies features, characteristics
or equipment specified in Article 4, it shall
so inform the declarant, stating the rea-
sons therefor, and shall forward a copy
of the declaration, particulars, and state-
ment of information to the Shipbuilding
Branch of the Military Security Board.

3. Such person or enterprise shall, prior
to the date the ship first arrives at a port
in the territory of the Federal Republic
after the date of acquisition, notify the
Shipbuilding Branch of the Military Secu-
tity Board of the anticipated date of arri-
val and shall, upon the order of the Mili-
tary Security Board, make the ship avail-
able at the time of the first arrival for
inspection by the Military Security Board.

Section C
Other Controls on Ships

Article 10

Nothing in the Law or.this Regulation
shall prohibit the transport, storage, pos-
Session or use of any ship owned by the
Occupying Powers and converted to peace-
time use pursuant to Military Government
or Allied High Commission authorization,

AUGUST 1950

Section D
Capacity of Shipbuilding Industry
Article 11

1, No increase in the production capacity
of any plant or equipment engaged in the
shipbuilding industry shall be permitted
where an increase would cause the pro-
duction capacity of the shipbuilding indus-
try to exceed that which, except for way
damage sustained, would have existed on
April 14, 1949, but not including the ca-
pacity existing on that date which has
heretofore been removed for reparations
or which is included in the following ship-
yards:

Reparation
Serial No.

Blohm & Voss, Hamburg . 1004

Deutsche Werft, Reihersteig,

Hamburg . Le ee 1287
Deschirag, Bremen . 3 and 16
Deutsche Werft, Kiel 1235
Germania Werft, Kiel . 1206
Kriegsmarine Arsenal, Kiel . 1210
Kriegsmarine Werft, Wilhelms-

haven soe ee ee 1013

2. For the purpose of this Regulation
the shipbuilding industry shall not include
establishments in which the plant and
equipment are solely engaged in the con-
struction and repairing of IWT barges and
tugs, small harbor craft and craft not ex-
ceeding 100 G.R.T. or 12 knots service
speed. It shall include, however, establish-
ments in which the plant and equipment
is engaged in the construction and repair-
ing of any other ships.

Productive Capacity of Shipyards
Article 12

1. In order that the total authorized ca-
pacity of the shipbuilding industry, as
prescribed in Paragraph 1 of Article 11
be not increased, no person or enterprise
shall, except pursuant to a license issued
by the Military Security Board, increase
the productive capacity of any of its plants
or equipment that are engaged or partly
engaged in the shipbuilding industry or
construct or erect any new plant or
equipment for production in the ship-
building industry or replace or recon-
struct any plant or equipment for pro-
duction in the shipbuilding industry which
has been removed or destroyed prior to
July 1, 1950, or which shall have ‘been
destroyed or removed by direction of the
Allied High Commission. Every person
and enterprise, before engaging in any
such activity, shall file an application in
accordance with Regulation No. 1 under
the Law.

2. For the purposes of this regulation
“plant and equipment engaged or partly
engaged in the shipbuilding industry”
shall be deemed to mean:

(a) launching slipways;

(b) cranes, derricks and other lifting
appliances adapted for use in shipyards;

(c) quays and wharfs;
(d) shipyard workshops;

(e) floating docks, floating dock pontoons
and graving docks;

(f) ship repairing slipways;

(g) key machine tools usually employed
and necessary for shipbuilding purposes.

63

Section E
Responsibilities of German Authorities

Article 13

1. By Oct. 30, 1950 the Federal Govern-
ment shall:

(a) register all ships exceeding 100 G.R.T.
or 12 knots service speed and owned or
chartered by German nationals on Sept. 30,
1950 and shall prepare and forward to the
Shipbuilding Branch of the Military Secu-
rity. Board a report stating the name,
principal dimensions, type, service speed,
and G.R.T. of each ship;

(b) register all ships under construction
in German shipyards on Sept. 30, 1950,
which are designed to exceed 100 G.R.T.
or 12 knots service speed and shall pre-
pare and forward to the Shipbuilding
Branch of the Military Security Board,
a report stating the principal dimensions
and type of’ each ship, the G.R.T. and
service speed for which the ship is de-
signed, the MSB/SHIP number assigned
or registration number assigned by the
Minister President pursuant to Article 5
and the name of the yard in which the
ship is under construction.

2. The Minister President of each Land
shall advise the Shipbuilding Branch of
the Military Security Board the date on
which the construction of any ship de-
signed to exceed 100 G.R.T. or 12 knots
service speed is begun in his Land and
shall at least ten days before the date of
the completion of construction notify the
Shipbuilding Branch of the anticipated
date of completion and the date of trials.

Section F

General Provisions
Definitions

Article 14

For the purposes of the Law and this
Regulation the service speed of a ship or
vessel shall be deemed to be 1.75 knots
less than the speed of the ship or vessel
when proceeding on trial at full power,
on measured course with clean hull, in
calm water, fully manned, fueled, stored
and provisioned for sea but without cargo.

Article 15

Control Council Directives 33, 37, 44
and 45 are hereby deprived of effect in
the territory of the Federal Republic.

Article 16

1. This Regulation, Group IV (A), (C)
and (D) of Schedule A of the Law, Group I
(A) of Schedule C and Groups II (A) and
(B) and III (A) of Schedule D shall be-
come effective on July 1, 1950.

2.To the extent Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8 and 9 of the Law apply to the Groups
of the Schedules specified in the preceding
Paragraph those Articles shall become
effective on July 1, 1950.

3.To the extent that Article 10 of the
Law repeals United States Military Go-
vernment Ordinance No, 37: (Limited In-
dustries), Ordinance No. 229 of the French
Commander-in-Chief in Germany (Limited
Industries) and British Military Govern-
ment Ordinance No. 200 (Limited Indus-
tries), with regard to shipbuilding, it
shall become effective on July 1, 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
HICOM Regulation No. 8

(Chemical Articles, Products, Installations and Equipment) ‘

Under Law No. 24

Control of Certain Articles, Products, Installations and Equipment

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission issues the following Regulation:

Scope
Article 1

This Regulation relates to the controls
on the manufacture, production, import,
export, transport, storage, possession,
ownership and use of certain articles and
products listed in Schedule A of the Law;
the manufacture and production of the
articles and products listed in Group II
of Schedule B of the Law; the productive
capacity of the synthetic ammonia, chlo-
rine and styrene industries; the maximum
production level of the styrene industry;
the construction, erection, reconstruction,
re-erection, conversion, replacement, dis-
posal, conversion to peacetime use, de-
struction and removal from Germany of
plant and equipment for the production of
certain articles and products listed in
Schedule A and Group II of Schedule B
of the Law; the productive capacity of
plant and equipment engaged in the syn-
thetic ammonia, chlorine and styrene in-
dustries; and the construction, erection,
replacement, reconstruction and disposal
of plant and equipment for production in
these industries.

Section A
Definitions
Article 2

1. For the purposes of the Law and this
Regulation:

(a) the term “synthetic rubber’’ means
any product of chemical synthesis pos-
sessing such properties that, when used
alone or after vulcanization or any similar
process, it can replace natural rubber or
vulcanized natural rubber in their princi-
pal applications;

(b) The following equipment, when uti-
lized in or adapted for the respective
industries specified below, shall be deemed
“key equipment” in those industries:

(1) The synthetic ammonia industry

(i) tanks, vessels and towers for gas
purification;

(ii) carbon monoxide converters;

(iii) compressor groups
and gas mixtures;

(iv) gas liquefiers and separators;

(v) precatalysis ovens, converters and
ammonia condensers;

for all gases

(vi) catalysts.

(2) The chlorine industry
(i) salt fusing vessels;
(ii) electrolytic cells;

(iii) compressors and vessels for lique-
fying chlorine;

(iv) transformers, motor generators, con-
verters and rectifiers.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(3) The styrene industry

(i) ovens for dehydrogenation of ethyl-
benzine;

(ii) stills and fractionating columns for
the distillation of styrene;

(c) The term “equipmeat'' includes cata-
lysts. 5

(d) Plant that is engaged in or partly
engaged in the synthetic ammonia, chlorine
or styrene industry, includes plant which
could be engaged in or partly engaged in
any of these industries.

2. The following equipment, when uti-
lized in or adapted for the production of
the articles and products specified below,
shall be deemed “key equipment” for
such production:

(a) Nitroglycerine, dinitroglycol

(i) Nitrators,
separators; .

(ii) washers and neutralizers;

(iii) nitric acid concentrating towers;

(b) Trinitrotoluene

(i) nitrators;

(ii) separators;

(iii) centrifuges;

(iv) neutralizers;

(v) washers;

(vi) purifiers;

(vii) melting vessels and driers;

(viii) flaking machines;

(ix) nitric acid concentrating towers;

control instruments and

(c) Dinitrophenol, dinitrotoluene, dinitro-
benzene

(i) nitrators;

(ii) separators;

(iii) washers;

(iv) neutralizers;

(v) purifiers;

(d) Picric acid and tetryl

(i) sulfonators;

(ii) nitrators;

(iii) filters;

(iv) stabilizing vessels;

(v) recrystallizers;

(vi) centrifuges;

(vii) driers;

(viii) nitric acid concentrating towers;

(e) Nitrocellulose

(i) nitrators;

(ii) centrifuges;

(iii) stabilizing vessels;

(iv) beaters;

(v) purifiers;

(vi) blending vessels;

(vii) presses;

(viii) nitrocellulose driers;

(ix) nitric acid concentrating towers;

64

perclorates;

(i) Black powder

(i) mixers;

(ii) grinding mills;

(g) liquid oxygen

(i) compressor groups;
ii) heat exchangers;
(iii) stills and columns;
(h) white phosphorus

(i) electric furnaces;
ii) retorts;
(iii) condensers;

(i) Articles and products mentioned in
Paragraph 1 of Article 3 and in Article 4
of this Regulation and not listed above.

(i) equipment other than ancillary and
general service equipment in common use’
in industry.

3. For the purposes of the Law and this

Regulation chlorine shall be deemed not
to come within the purview of Schedule A

of the law.
Section B
Production and Manufacture '
Article 3

1. After Aug. 31, 1950, no person or
enterprise shall manufacture or produce
any of the articles and products listed in
this paragraph except to the extent _autho-
rized by permit issued by the Federal
Government:

(a) phosgene;

(b) hydrocyanic acid;

(c) halogenated ketones;

(d) halogenated carboxylic acids and
their esters;

(e) cyanogen halides;

(f) lachrymatory halogen derivatives of

hydrocarbons;

(g) hydrazine hydrate of less than 25
percent concentration;

(h) white phosphorus;

(j) liquid oxygen;

(k) methylamine, ethylamine, and pro-

pylamine;

(1) dinitrophenol;

(m) dinitrotoluene and dinitrobenzene;

(n) nitroglycerine;

(o) nitrocellulose of less than 12.25 per-
cent nitrogen content;

(p) dinitroglycol;

(q) diethyleneglycoldinitrate;

(tr) lead azide;

(s) lead picrate;

(t) mercury fulminate;

{u) trinitroresorcin and trinitroresorci-

nates;

(v) black powder;

(w) fuse powder;

(x) industrial thermite;

(y) mononitromethane;

(z) potassium, sodium and ammonium

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 68 ---
(aa) nitric acid of 97 percent concen-
tration or higher;

(bb) trinitrotoluene;

(cc) tetryl;

(dd) pentaerythritol tetranitrate;

(ee) picric acid;

(ff) finished explosives, detonators, caps,
fuses, igniters and initiators for industrial
purposes;

(gg) propellent cartridges for devices for
the humane killing of livestock or the
saving of live at sea; propellant cartridges
for whaling harpoons;

(hh) ammunition for sporting weapons;

(jj) ammunition for weapons for civil
security purposes;

2. After Aug. 31, 1950, the annual pro-
duction of styrene shall be limited to
20,000 tons, and no person or enterprise
shall manufacture or produce styrene
except to the extent authorized by permit
issued by the Federal Government.

3. The manufacture and production of
chemical products for railway signalling,
pyrotechnics for signalling of surface
transportation and of fireworks for amuse-
ment purposes, including firecrackers,
roman candles, rockets and sparklers, are
hereby authorized.

Article 4

1. After Aug. 31, 1950, no person or
enterprise shall manufacture or produce
any article or product listed in this para-
graph and not listed elsewhere in this
Section, except under a license issued by
the Military Security Board.

(a) explosives, detonators, caps, fuses,
igniters and initiators;

(b) double base propellants (i. e. nitro-
cellulose propellants containing nitro-
glycerine, diethylene and glycoldinitrate
or analogous substances);

(c) single base propellants for any
weapons;

(d) nitroguanidine;

(e) chemicals particularly useful as poi-
son war gases (including liquids and solids
customarily included in this term);

(f) hydrogen peroxide of 37 percent con-
centration or higher;

(g) hydrazine hydrate of 25 percent con-
centration or higher;

(h) alkil nitrates;

(j) liquid hydrogen;

(k) highly toxic products form bacterio-
logical or plant sources, with the excep-
tion of those bacteriological and plant
products which are used for therapeutic
purposes;

(Il) nitrocellulose of 12.25 percent nitro-
gen content or higher;

(m) incendiaries and incendiary compo-
sitions, such as thermites and gell fuels;

(n) all special means for individual and
collective defense used in peace exclu-
sively by Armed Forces;

(0) synthetic rubber;

(p) butadiene;

2. After Aug. 31, 1950, no person or
enterprise shall, except under a license
issued by the Military Security Board,
produce gasoline, oil or lubricants directly
or indirectly by the Bergius hydrogenation
Process, the Fischer-Tropsch synthesis or
analogous processes.

3. After Aug. 31, 1950, no person or
enterprise. shall except under a license
issued by the Military Security Board,

AUGUST 1950

produce hydrocarbon waxes synthetically
by the Fischer-Tropsch process.

4, Application for licenses under this
Article shall be filed in accordance with
Article 7 of Regulation No. 1 under the
Law and Article 10 of the present Re-
gulation.

Section C

Activities Other than Manufacture or
Production Relating to Chemical Articles
and Products

Article 5

1. Except as otherwise provided under
or pursuant to any other Regulation under
the Law, the transport, storage, possession,
ownership and use for peacetime purposes
of the articles and products listed in Para-
graphs 1 and 3 of Article 3, other than the
following, are hereby authorized:

(a) trinitrotoluene;

(b) tetryl;

(c) pentaerythitol tetranitrate;
(d) picric acid;

2. After July 31, 1950, no person or
enterprise shall, except under license issued
by the Military Security Board, transport,
store, possess, own or use any of the fol-
lowing articles and products:

(a) trinitrotuluene;

(b) tetry]l;

(c) pentaerythitol tetranitrate;

(d) picric acid;

(e) those subject to the provisions of
Paragraph 1 of Article 4 with the excep-
tion of synthetic rubber and butadiene.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of Para-
graph 2, the transport, storage, possession,
ownership and use of picric acid in amounts
not exceeding two kilograms for peacetime
purposes other than for use as an explo-
sive are hereby authorized.

Article 6

1. The German agencies competent under
United States Military Government Law
No. 53 (revised), British Military Govern-
ment Law No. 53 (Amended), or French
Military Government Ordinance No. 235
may authorize imports and exports of the
following articles and products:

(a) those listed as items (a) to (x) in-
clusive, and (ff) and (gg) of Paragraph 1
of Article 3;

(b) those listed in Paragraph 3 of Ar-
ticle 3.

2. After Aug. 31, 1950, no person or
enterprise shall, except under license issued
in accordance with Article 10 of Regu-
lation No. 1 under the Law, import or
export any of the following articles or
products:

(a) those listed as items (y) to (ee), in-
clusive and (hh) and (jj) of Paragraph 1
of Article 3;

(b) Those subject to the provision of
Paragraph 1 of Article 4 with the excep-
tion of.synthetic rubber and butadiene.

Section D

Activities Relating to Chemical Plant
and Equipment

Article 7

1, The productive capacity of the chlorine
industry and that of the synthetic ammonia

65

industry in the area of the Federal Re-
public shall be limited to that remaining
after the removal of reparations.

2. The productive capacity of the styrene
industry in the area of the Federal Re-
public shall be limited to that necessary
to produce 20,000 tons annually.

Article 8

1, In order that the total authorized
capacity of the chlorine, synthetic ammonia
and styrene industries be not exceeded, no
person or enterprise shall, except pursuant
to a license issued by the Military Security
Board, increase the productive capacity
of any of its plants or key equipment that
are engaged or partly engaged in such in-
dustries or construct or erect a new plant
or key equipment for production in such
industries or replace or reconstruct any
plant or key equipment for production in
such industries which has been removed
or destroyed prior, to Sept. 1, 1950, or
which shall have been destroyed or re-
moved by direction of the Allied High
Commission. Applications for licenses shall
be filed in accordance with Article 7 of
Regulation No. 1 under the Law and Ar-
ticle 11 of the present Regulation,

2. Equipment for the chlorine, synthetic
ammonia and styrene industries which is
not key equipment is exempted from the ©
provisions of Article 3 of the Law.

3. Maintenance work which is necessary
for the care and operation of key equip-
ment, other than the replacement of key
equipment, is hereby authorized, provided
that no increase in productive capacity is
effected thereby.

Article 9

1. No person or enterprise shall, except
pursuant to a license issued by the Military
Security Board, construct, erect, recon-
struct, re-erect, convert or replace any
special purpose building or key equipment
for the purpose of producing any article
or product mentioned in Paragraph 1 of
Article 3 and in Article 4 of this Regu-
lation.

2. The construction, erection, reconstruc-
tion, re-erection, conversion and replace-
ment of any equipment which is not key
equipment and the execution of mainten-
ance work (other than the replacement of
key equipment) which is necessary for the
care and operation of key equipment are
hereby authorized, provided that no in-
crease in productive capacity is effected
thereby.

3. The construction, erection, reconstruc-
tion, re-erection, conversion and replace-
ment of plant and equipment for the pro-
duction of those articles and products men-
tioned in Paragraph 3 of Article 3 are
hereby authorized.

4, The Military Security Board is hereby
designated as the agency mentioned in
Paragraph 3 of Article 3 of the Law.

Section E
Procedure Relating to Applications
Article 10

Any person or enterprise applying for
a license in accordance with the provi-
sions of Article 6 or 7 of Regulation No. 1
under the Law to engage in any activity
for which a license is required under Ar-
ticle 4, 5, or 6 of the present Regulation

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
shall include with the application the fol-
lowing particulars:

(a) technical names and specifications of
the article or product;

(b) quantities in appropriate units;

(c) with respect to applications under
Articles 4 and 6, the proposed use or dis-
position of the article or product;

Article 11

Any person or enterprise applying for
a license in accordance with Article 7 of
Regulation No. 1 under the Law to engage
in any activity for which a license is re-
quired by Article 8 or 9 of the present
Regulation shall include with the applica-
tion the following particulars:

(a) a plan of the plant, showing the
proposed location of the equipment con-
cerned;

(b) the change in the productive capa-
city which would result from the proposed
activity;

(c) unless such information has already
been submitted pursuant to an order of
the Military Security Board:

(i) the existing key equipment;
(ii) the existing productive capacity;

(d) supplier of the key equipment.

Section F

Responsibilities of the Federal Government
Production Programs

Article 12

1. By July 15, 1950, the Federal Govern-
ment shall establish and submit to the
Military Security Board, production pro-
grams for every article and product listed
as items (a) to (ee) inclusive in Para-
graph 1 of Article 3, the production of
which the Federal Government deems
desirable for peacetime economy. The Fe-
deral Government may at any time sub-
mit additional or revised production
programs,

2. By July 15, 1950, the Federal Govern-
ment shall establish and submit to the
Military Security Board production pro-
grams for the articles and products listed
as items (ff) to (jj) inclusive in Para-
graph 1 of Article 3 to cover the period
beginning Sept. 1, 1950, and ending Sept.
30, 1950, By Sept. 15, 1950, and at three-
monthly intervals thereafter, the Federal
Government shall establish and submit to
the Military Security Board production
programs for such articles and products
to cover the quarter beginning on the
first day of the month following each of
such dates.

3. Programs under this Article shall set
forth:

(a) name, grade and
each article and product;

(b) names of the intended manufacturers;

(c) proposed maximum quarterly pro-
duction in appropriate units;

(d) production during the preceding
three months;

specification of

(e) manufacturers’ stock position;

(f) quantities of intended exports and
imports.

4. The Military Security Board may
approve, with or without modification, the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

total production figures proposed in the
programs.

Permits
Article 13

The Federal Government may, within
the limits of the production figures appro-
ved by the Military Security Board, issue
permits authorizing the production or
manufacture of the articles and products
in accordance with the requirements of
Article 3. The Federal Government shall
forthwith submit four copies of such per-
mits and any amendments or revocations
thereof to the Military Security Board
and one copy to the Office of the Com-
missioner of the Land (state) where the
manufacture or production is to take place.

Reports
Article 14

The Federal Government shall furnish
to the Military Security Board quarterly
reports of the total production, imports
and exports for each quarter and the
stock position at the end of each quarter
of each of the articles and products men-
tioned in Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 3
and in Article 4. The first report shall be
for the quarter ending Sept. 30, 1950.

Section G
Responsibilities of the Land Government
Article 15

Each Land Government shall prepare
consolidated purchase orders for each
article and product listed as items (ff) to
(jj), inclusive, in Paragraph 1 of Article 3
and shall submit five copies thereof to the
Office of the Land Commissioner at least
20 days before the commencement of each
quarter referred to in Paragraph 2 of Ar-
ticle 12.

Section H

Information and Reports to be Supplied by
Persons and Enterprises

Article 16

Any person or enterprise owning or
possessing any plant or equipment spe-
cially designed for the manufacture or
production of any article or product listed
in Paragraph 1 to Article 3 or Article 4
shall by Sept. 1, 1950, notify that fact in
writing to the Office of the Commissioner
of the Land in which such plant or
equipment is located, unless before that
date the Military Security Board has
acknowledged receipt of such information.

Article 17

1, Manufacturers and producers shall
submit quarterly production and stock re-
ports of articles and products coming
under the provisions of this Regulation.

2. Persons holding import or export li-
censes under this Regulation shall submit
quarterly statements of the articles and
products imported and exported by them
under such licenses.

3. Five copies of such quarterly reports
or statements shall bd submitted by the
fifteenth day following the end of the
quarter to the minister president for trans-
mission of the Office of the Land Com-
missioner.

4, The provisions of this Article shall
not require any person or enterprise sub-

66

mitting reports under Article 5 of Regula-
tion No. 1 under the Law to submit reports
concerning the same activities.

Section I
Effective Date

Article 18

1. Articles 12.and 18 of this Regulation
shall become effective on the date of its
publication. :

2. The other Articles of this Regulation
shall become effective on Sept. 1, 1950.

3. To the extent that Schedules A, B
and C of the Law pertain to the articles
and products covered by this Regulation,
they shall become effective on Sept. 1, 1950.

4. To the extent that Articles 1, 2, 3, 5,
6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Law apply to the
provisions of the Schedules referred to in
Paragraph 3 of this Article, they shall be-
come effective on Sept. 1, 1950.

5. To the extent that Control Council
Law No. 43 applies to the articles and
products covered by this Regulation and
to the extent that Article 10 of the Law
repeals United States Military Government
Ordinance No, 37 (Limited Industries),
Ordinance No. 229 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief for Germany (Limited In-
dustries) and British Military Governmeht
Ordinance No. 200 (Limited Industries)
with regard to synthetic ammonia, chlorine
and styrene, Article 1 shall become effec-
tive on Sept. 1, 1950.

HICOM Law Amending Law No. 8
(Industrial, Literary and Artistic
Property Rights of Foreign
Nations and Nationals)

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacts as follows:

Article 1

Article 2 of Law No. 8 is hereby amend-
ed by inserting the words ‘‘or French Mili-
tary Government Ordinance No. 120" after
the words “British Military Government
Law No. 59."

Article 2

Paragraph 2 of Article 6 of Law No. 8
is hereby amended by substituting the
words “Oct. 3, 1950 for the words ‘April:
1, 1950" and by inserting the following
provisions in place of Sub-paragraph (c):

“(c) If German nationals were not per-
mitted to file applications for industrial
property rights within the territory of
such nation prior to April 1, 1949, it permits
the filing of such applications by German
nationals and accords priority rights at least
as great as those specified by the conven-
tion and extends the time limit specified
in the said convention for claiming such
priority rights to a date not earlier than
Oct. 3, 1950 in respect of applications
filed with the filing office and applications
files with the patent office prior to April
1, 1950.""

Article 3

Article 13 of Allied High Commission
Law No. 8 is amended by inserting at the
end thereof the following sub-paragraph:

“(g) Ordinance on literary property
tights of British subjects, dated July 1,
1940 (RGBL. i. p. 947)."" .

Article 4

This law shall be deemed to have be-
come effective as of Oct. 1, 1949.

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 70 ---
HICOM Regulation No. 9

Fine Mechanics, Optics and Electronics other than Electronic Valves (Tubes)

Under Law No. 24

Control of Certain Articles, Products, Installations and Equipment

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission issues the following Regulation:

Scope
Article 1

This Regulation relates to the controls
on the manufacture, production, import,
export, transport, storage, possession,
ownership and use of the articles and
products listed in Group III (A) to (E) of
Schedule A of the Law; the construction,
erection, reconstruction, re-erection, con-
version and replacement of plant and
equipment for the purpose of producing
these articles and products; the manufac-
ture, production, import and acquisition
from abroad of radio transmitting equip-
ment, radio navigational aids, under-water
locating equipment and _ cryptographic
machines and devices listed in Groups II
and III of Schedule D of the Law.

Definitions
Section A

Article 2

1, The term “radio transmitting equip-
ment," as used in Schedule D of the Law,
shall mean any electronic device designed
for generating and propagating electro-
magnetic energy within the radio frequency
spectrum.

2. The term “radio navigational aids,"
as used in Schedule D of the Law, shall
mean radio range or direction finding
equipment and radio equipment designed
to enable air or sea traffic to fix its own
position as well as major components of
such equipment.

3. The term ‘‘under-water locating equip-
ment,"’ as used in Schedule D of the law,
shall mean any device employing vibra-
tions within or without the audible spec-
trum for the purpose of determining under-
water depths or of locating under-water
objects,

Manufacture and Production
Section B
General Authorization

Article 3

Pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph i
(a) of Article 1 and Article 4 (b) of the
Law:

1. The manufacture and production for
normal peacetime purposes of the fol-
lowing articles and products are hereby
authorized:

(a) binoculars, monoculars and_tele-
Scopes not equipped with mil-scaled grati-
cules or mil-divided circles:

(b) light beacons for navigation and
flood lights and spot lights for general
illumination purposes;

(c) devices using the infra-red spectrum;

(d) test signal generating equipment
with a power output of less than one watt

AUGUST 1950

and telephone and telegraph carrier equip-
ment;

(e) loop type direction finding equipment.

2. Any person holding an amateur license
from the Deutsche Post is hereby authorized
to construct and assemble for his own use
amateur radio transmitting equipment con-
forming to the terms of his license.

Authorizations Subject to the Filing
of Specifications

Article 4

Pursuant to the provisions of Article 4
(b) of the Law, the manufacture and pro-
duction for peacetime use of the articles
and products listed in this paragraph are
authorized, provided that prior to such
manufacture and production specifications
have been filed with the Military Security
Board. These specifications shall be in
duplicate and shali be transmitted to the
Military Security Board by registered post
or by any other means which will insure
that a receipt is obtained for their deliv-
ery. The specifications shall give the fol-
lowing particulars:

(a) with respect to radio transmitting
equipment other than radio navigational
aids:

(1) name and address of the person or
enterprise filing the specifications;

(2) power output of the radio transmit-
ting equipment;

(3) operating frequencies;

(4) type of emission;

(5) type of service for which the radio
transmitting equipment is intended;

(6) quantity and value.

(b) with respect to land or shore based
automatic radio transmitting equipment by
means of which international air or sea
traffic may fix its own position without
recourse to communication and which is
intended to be permanently located:

(1) name and address of the person or
enterprise filing the specifications;

(2) operating frequencies;

(3) power output of the transmitting
portion;

(4) method of operation;

(5) quantity and value.

(c) with respect to under-water locating
equipment of a commercial marine type:

(1) name and address of the person or
enterprise filing the specifications;

(2) power output;

(3) power input from the mains (watts);

(4) operating frequencies; .

(5) type of transmitting and receiving
head;

(6) method of presentation of data;

(7) purpose for which the equipment is
designed;

(8) quantity and value.

67

Manufacture and Production Subject
to License

Article 5

1, Pursuant to the provisions of Para-
graph 1 (a) of Article 1 and Article 4 (b)
of the Law, no person or enterprise shall
manufacture or produce any of the articles
and products listed in this paragraph except
as provided in Article 3 of this Regulation
or under license from the Military Security
Board. Persons applying for such licenses
shall comply with the provisions of Article7
of Regulation No. 1 under the Law and,
with respect to the articles and products
listed in Sub-paragraphs (k), (1), and (m),
shall give the particulars required by these
sub-paragraphs:

(a) range-finding apparatus of all kinds
for military purposes;

(b) aiming guiding and computing de-
vices for fire control;

(c) locating devices of all kinds for mili-
tary purposes;

(d) instruments, including all optical in-
struments equipped with mil-scaled grati-
cules or mil-divided circles, for obser-
vations of fire or for the remote control of
objects for military purposes;

(e) signalling and inter-communication
equipment and installations specially de-
signed for military purposes;

(f) apparatus intended specifically for the
purpose of producing radio interference;

(g) search lights having a maximum
diameter greater than 60 cms. or with mir-
ror diameter of more than 45 cms.;

(h) optical instruments specially designed
or intended for military purposes;

(i) devices using the infra-red spectrum
primarily;

(j) survey and cartographic equipment
and instruments of all kinds specially de-
signed for military purposes;

(k) radio navigational aids other than
those falling under the provisions of
Article 4 above:

(l) operating frequencies;

(2) power output of the transmitting
portion;

(3) method of operation;

(4) quantity and value.

(1) under-water locating equipment of
other than a commercial marine type:

(1) power output;

(2) power input from the mains (watts);

(3) opetating frequencies;

(4) type of transmitting and receiving
head;

(5) method of presentation of data;

(6) purpose for which the equipment is
designed;

(7) quantity and value;
(m) cryptographic machines or devices:

(1) method by which the text is set into
the machine or device, (keyboard, wheel
setting, voice or other);

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
(2) method of output of the enciphered
transmission, (print, wheel presentation,
teletype or Morse, scrambled speech or
other);

(3) method by which the deciphered
transmission is presented, (printed text,
wheel readings, clear speech or other);

(4) type of system, one-time or repetitive;

(5) purpose for which the machine or
device is’ intended, (commercial cipher,
police use or other);

(6) quantity and value.

Import and Export
Section C
General Authorizations
Article 6

1, Pursuant to the provisions of Para-
graph 1 (b) of Article 1 and Article 4 (c)
of the Law, the import and export for
peacetime use of the articles and products
listed in Sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
Article 3 of this Regulation and the import
and acquisition from abroad (both terms
hereinafter referred to as “‘import') for
peacetime use of the articles and products
listed in this paragraph are hereby author-
ized:

(a) radio transmitting equipment de-
signed for operation only on frequencies of
less than 250 megacycles;

(b) radio navigational aids designed for
operation only on frequencies of less than
250 megacycles;

(c) under-water locating equipment of
a commercial marine type.

Imports and Exports Subject to License
Article 7

1. Pursuant to the provisions of Para-
graph 1 (b) of Article 1 and Article 4 (c)
of the Law, no person or enterprise shall
import or export any of the articles and
products listed in sub-paragraphs (a) to (j)
inclusive, of Article 5 of this Regulation
or import any of the articles and products
mentioned below except under authori-
zation issued pursuant to Article 8 of this
Regulation or Article 10 of Regulation No.1
under the Law. Any person or enterprise
desiring to make such imports or exports
shall file an application pursuant to the
provisions of Article 6 of Regulation No. 1
under the Law and shall, with respect to
applications for articles and products
mentioned below, give the following ad-
ditional particulars:

(a) cryptographic machines and devices:

(1) method by which the text is set into
the machine or device (keyboard, wheel
setting, voice or other);

(2) method of output of the enciphered
transmission (print, wheel presentation,
teletype or Morse, scrambled speech or
other);

(3) method by which the deciphered
transmission is presented (printed text,
wheel readings, clear speech or other);

(4) type of system, one-time orrepetitive;

(5) purpose for which the machine or
device is intended (commercial cipher, police
use or other);

(6) quantity and value.

(b) radio transmitting equipment de-
signed for operation on frequencies of 250
megacycles and above:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(1) power output of the radio transmit-
ting equipment;

(2) operating frequencies;

(3) type of emission;

(4) type of service for which the radio
transmitting equipment is intended;

(5) quantity and value.

(c) radio navigational aids designed for
operation on frequencies of 250 megacycles
and above: °

(1) operating frequencies;

(2) power output of the transmitting
portion;

(3) method of operation;
(4) quantity and value.

(d) under-water locating equipment of
other than a normal commercial marine
type:

(1) power output;

(2) power input from the mains (watts);

(3) operating frequencies;

(4) type of transmitting and receiving
head;

(5) method of presentation of data;

(6) purpose for which the equipment is
designed;

(7) quantity and value.

Article 8

1, Subject to such further orders as the
Military Security Board may issue the
Federal Government is designated, pursuant
to Article 4 of the Law, as an agency for
the authorization of the importation of
the radio transmitting equipment and radio
navigational aids listed in Sub-paragraphs
(b) and (c) of Article 7 of this Regulation.

2. The Federal Government shall sub-
mit to the Military Security Board copies
of all authorizations issued by it for the
import of the radio transmitting equipment
and radio navigational aids listed in sub-
paragraphs (b) and (c) of Article 7 of this
Regulation together with copies of the
applications for the authorizations which
have been granted.

Transport, Storage, Possession,
Ownership and Use

Section D
General Authorizations
Article 9

Pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph
1 (b) of Article 1 of the Law:

(a) the transport, storage, possession,
ownership and use of the articles and
products listed in Sub-paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) of Article 3 of this Regulation are
hereby authorized;

(b) the transport, possession, ownership
and use for peacetime purposes of the
articles and products listed in Sub-para-
graphs (a) to (j) inclusive, of Article 5 of
this Regulation and in existence on the
effective date of this Regulation are hereby
authorized.

The Federal Government shall take
appropriate action to assure that the
articles and products referred to in Sub-
paragraph (b) are converted to peacetime
use or declared to the Military Security

68

Board. The Military Security Board may
require the surrender of such articles and
products declared to the Board.

Transport, Storage, Possession,
Ownership and Use Subject to License

Article 10

Pursuant to Paragraph 1 (b) of Article 1
of the Law, no person or enterprise shall,
except as provided in Article 9 of this
Regulation or under License from the Mili-
tary Security Board transport, store, pos-
sess, own or use any of the articles and
products listed in Sub-paragraphs (a) to
(j) inclusive, of Article 5 of this Regulation,

Plant and Equipment
Section E !

General Authorizations
Articie 11

1. Pursuant to Paragraph 1 (a) of Ar-
ticle 3 of the Law, the construction, erec-
tion, reconstruction, re-erection, conver-
sion and replacement of plant and equip-
ment for the purpose of producing for
peacetime purposes the articles and pro-
ducts listed in Sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and
(c) of Article 3 of this Regulation dre
hereby authorized.

2. For the purposes of Paragraph 3 of
Article 3 of the Law, plant and equip-
ment specially designed for the production
and manufacture of the articles and pro-
ducts listed in Sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and
(c) of Article 3 of this Regulation shall be
deemed converted to peacetime use.

Plant and Equipment Subject to License
Article 12

1. Pursuant to Paragraph 1 (a) of Ar-
ticle 3 of the Law, no person or enter-
prise shall, except as provided in Article 11
of this Regulation or under License by the
Military Security Board, construct, erect,
reconstruct, re-erect, convert, or replace
any plant or equipment for the purpose
of producing the articles and products
listed in Sub-paragraphs (a) to (j) inclusive,
of Article 5 of this Regulation.

2. Any person or enterprise desiring to
engage in any activity prohibited by this
Article shall file an application pursuant
to the provisions of Article 7 of Regu-
lation No, 1 under the Law.

Effective Date
Section F
Article 13

1. This Regulation and Group III (A) to
(E) of Schedule A of the Law and Group II
(C) and (E) and Group III (C) and (D) of
Schedule D of the Law shall become effec-
tive on July 1, 1950.

2. To the extent that Articles 1, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Law apply to the parts
of Schedules A and D specified in the
preceding paragraph, those Articles shall
become effective on July 1, 1950.

3. To the extent that Article 10 of the
Law deprives of effect Group III (a), (b), (C).
(d), (e), (h) and (i) of Schedule A to Con-
trol Council Law No. 43 (Prohibition of
the Manufacture, Import, Export, Transport
and Storage of War Materials), Article 10
shall become effective on July 1, 1950.

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 72 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting June 15

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion, at its 30th meeting in Berlin on
June 15, signed an Allied High Commission
law repealing certain Allied legislation
restricting freedom of movement within
the territory of the German Federal
Republic.

Present at the meeting were Mr. Andre
Francois-Poncet, French High Commissioner
(chairman); Sir Brian Robertson, United
Kingdom High Commissioner, and Mr.
John J. McCloy, United States High Com-
missioner.

The law repeals all Military Government
restrictions on movement of persons and
choice of residence within the territory of
the Federal Republic. It also specifically
deprives of effect in the federal area the
provisions of Article XI of Control Council
Law 18 (Housing Law) which enabled Mili-
tary Government to declare specific local-
ities as ‘‘critical areas" in which German
housing authorities could prevent persons
from taking up residence.

This decision followed a request from the
federal chancellor for repeal of restrictions
on movement and residence within the
federal territory in order that measures to
deal with unemployment and the resettle-
ment of refugees and expellees might be
facilitated. (For text, see “Laws and Reg-
ulations."’)

HICOM Meeting June 22

The 31st meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held June 22
at the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were
Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French High
Commissioner (chairman); Sir BrianRobert-
son, United Kingdom High Commissioner,
and Mr, John J. McCloy, United States
High Commissioner.

The Council: ©

(1) Agreed to discuss with the federal
chancellor the High Commission's previous
invitation to the federal government to
examine and endorse the principles formu-
lated by the High Commission concerning
freedom to engage in a trade, business or
profession in Germany. These principles
have been communicated to the federal
government and to the minister-presidents
of the state governments. (For text, see In-
formation Bulletin, July 1950 issue, page 70.)

(2) Noted that. the appointment of Mr.
Khub Chand, head of the Indian Mission,
will terminate on July 15, and that Mr.
Kewel Singh, first secretary, will be ap-
pointed acting head of the mission pending
the nomination by the Indian government
of Mr. Chand's successor.

The June 22nd meeting of the Council
was the last to be attended by General
Robertson who is relinquishing his appoint-
ment as United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner and is to be commander-in-chief of
British land forces in the Middle East.

At the end of the meeting, Mr. Francois-
Poncet expressed the loss which the Coun-
cil would feel at General Robertson's
departure, “May I," said Mr. Francois-

AUGUST 1950

Poncet, ‘thank General Robertson for the
help he has given to the High Commission,
for the generous and loyal spirit he brought
to it for his consciousness of the noble
aims we have tried to attain. When history
is written, his name will always be attached
to that of the High Commission. I express
all our wishes for his success in his new
duties and for the development of his
career."

Associating himself with Mr. Francois-
Poncet’s remarks and wishing General
Robertson ‘God speed in his new task,"
Mr, McCloy said he hoped that when the
time came for those to go who were now
staying on, they would be able to have,
some modicum of the satisfaction Sir Brian
Robertson must feel on his achievements in
the course of many vicissitudes inGermany
since 1945, and would have some modicum
of the esteem which he was taking with
him.

Replying, General Robertson remarked
that he could only repeat in a very heartfelt
manner his sincere thanks for his col-
leagues’ co-operation and kindness. “I
leave," he added, ‘‘wishing the very best
of fortune to the High Commission, of
which I have been very proud to be a
member.”

Meeting of HICOM June 29

The 32nd meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held June 29
at the Petersberg near Bonn. Present were:
Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French High
Commissioner (chairman); Sir Ivone Kirk-
patrick, United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner; and Maj. Gen. George P, Hays,
United States Deputy High Commissioner,
representing Mr. John J. McCloy.

The Council:

(1) Signed an Allied High Commission
law amending Allied High Commission Law
No. 8 (Industrial, Literary and Artistic
Property Rights of Foreign Nations and
Nationals). This amendment rectifies an
omission made in Law No. 8 when it was
drafted by including, in Article 2 of the
law, Ordinance No. 120 of the French
Commander-in-Chief in Germany; extends
the time limit during which Allied na-
tionals may address notifications to the
patent office from April 1, 1950 to Oct. 3,
1950; rectifies an ambiguity in regard to
the extension of the time limit for claim-
ing in a foreign country priority rights
by reason of an application initially filed
in Germany, and adds to the list of legis-
lation repealed by Law No. 8 a wartime
ordinance regarding literary property rights
of British nationals. (For text, see ‘Laws
and Regulations.)

(2) Signed an Allied High Commission
law amending certain legislation on banks
and monetary reform.. The amendments,
requested by the federal authorities, enable
the federal government to promulgate a
federal law permitting the minting and
issue of federal coinage. (For text, see
“Laws and Regulations.")

(3) Agreed to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg Thursday, July 6, 1950.

The June 29th meeting of the Council
was the first to be attended by Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, the new United Kingdom High

69

Commissioner, Mr. Francois-Poncet ex-
pressed a warm welcome to Sir Ivone,
observing that the Allied High Commis-
sion would benefit greatly from his ex-
perience. Major General Hays added: his
welcome on behalf of the United States
delegation.

Laws and Regulations

HICOM Law Amending Certain Legis-

lation on Banks and Monetary Reform

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacts as follows:
Article 1

The words “et monnaies” are hereby
deleted from the first sub-paragraph of
Paragraph 2 of Article 1 of : Ordinance
No. 158 of the French Commander-in-Chief
for Germany, and the words ‘‘and coins"
are hereby deleted from thé first sub-
paragraph of Paragraph 2 of Article 1 of
US Military Government Law No. 61 and
British Military Government Law No. 61.

Article 2

Ordinance No. 159 of the French Com-
mander-in-Chief for Germany is hereby
amended as follows:

Article 1: substitute the words “des bil-
Jets’ for the words ‘‘dessignes monetaires."”

Article 3: delete the words “et des
pieces.”

Article 4: substitute the following word-
ing: “Ja banque des pays allemands est
tenue de rembourser, les billets endom-
mages s‘il est possible de presenter plus
de la moitie du billet endommage.”

Article 6: delete the words “et les
pieces."

Article 7: delete the words “et les
pieces."

Article 8: delete the words “et Jes
pieces.”

Article 10: delete the words “ou pieces
de monnaie.”’

Article 13: delete the words “‘et pieces."

Article 14: delete the words “et de
pieces."

Article 3

United States Military Government Law
No, 62 and British Military Government
Law No. 62 are hereby amended as fol-
lows:

Article I, Paragraph 1, Sentence 1 and 2:
substitute the word ‘‘nofes’' for the words
“monetary symbols.” Paragraph 3: delete
the words ‘‘and coins.”

Article II, Paragraph 2: delete the words
“or coins’ in US Military Government
Law No. 62 and “and coins’ in British
Military Government Law No. 62.

Article HI, Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3: de-
lete the words ‘‘and coins."

Article IV, Paragraph 1:
words “or coins.’

Article V, Paragraphs 1 and 2: delete
the words “and coins.”

Article 4

The words “‘et des pieces de monnaie”
are hereby deleted in Paragraph 8 of Ar-
ticle 3 of Ordinance No. 203 of the French
Commander-in-Chief for Germany and the
words “and coins‘’ are hereby deleted in
Paragraph 8 of Article III of US Military
Government Law No. 60 (Revised) and of
British Military Govermment Ordinance
No, 129 (Amended 1).

Article 5

The words ‘et des pieces de monnaie”
are deleted in Paragraph 1 of Article 2
of Ordinance No. 155a°of the French
Commander-in-Chief for Germany.

delete the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
Article 6
The German text of this law is the
official text.
Article 7
This law shall become effective on the
date of its publications,

Regulations on Chemicals, Fine Me-
chanics, Optics, Electronics Published

Regulations Nos. 8 and 9 in implemen-
tation of Allied High Commission Law 24
(control of certain articles, products, instal-
lations and equipment) have now been
published by the Allied High Commission.
They cover the following fields:

Regulation No. 8 — Chemical articles,
Products, Installations and Equipment. (For
text, see page 64.)

Regulation No. 9 — Fine mechanics,
Optics and Electronics other than electronic
valves (tubes). (For text, see page 67.)

Allied High Commission Law 24 was de-
signed to prevent German rearmament and
to insure the maintenance of disarmament
and demilitarization in the industrial field
in Germany. The law, which was promulgat-
‘ed May 8, 1950, co-ordinated in one docu-
ment previous legislation of the Occu-
pation Authorities.

The first six implementing regulations
were published on May 8. The seventh
regulation was published on May 12, 1950.

Sporting Firearms and Other Articles
for Peacetime Use Permitted

The text of Regulation No. 10, implemen-
tation of Allied High Commission Law 24
(control of certain articles, products, in-
stallations and equipment) has now been
published by the Allied High Commission.

The regulation provides for the control
of miscellaneous articles and products and
for general authorization for the production
and use for peacetime purposes of a number
of articles and products which would
otherwise be banned.

Allied High Commission Law 24 was de-
signed to prevent German rearmament and
to insure the maintenance of disarmament
and demilitarization in the industrial field
in Germany. The law, which was pro-
mulgated on May 8, 1950, co-ordinated in
one document previous legislation of the
Occupation Authorities.

The first six implementing regulations
were also published on May 8. The seventh
regulation was published on May 12. The
eighth and ninth regulations were published
on June 5. (Announcement issued June 19.)

Statements and Speeches

HICOM Plan for Relaxation
of Restrictions on
Foreign Investments in Germany

At its meeting June 15 in Berlin, the
Council of the Allied High Commission
approved a detailed procedure prepared by
its financial advisers for the first stage in
the progressive relaxation of the present
restrictions on foreign investment in Ger-
many. Following are full details of the
foreign investment plan as outlined by the
Allied High Commission,

I. Foreign owners of DM balances may
utilize and dispose of such balances,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

including DM proceeds from settlements
referred to in Paragraph VI below, as fol-
lows:

(1) Disbursements which are now or
which may hereafter be permitted by gen-
eral licenses issued pursuant to MG Laws
Nos. 52 and 53. General licenses will be
issued which will enable foreign owners
to utilize and dispose of their DM balances
subject to the same limitations as apply
to German owners but only in so far as
foreign exchange control objectives of the
Federal Republic are not contravened. In
particular, the existing general license for
travel expense will be amended to permit
the account owner to withdraw up to
DM75 per day per person to cover the
travel expenses in Germany for himself and
members of his family provided the total
of such withdrawals do not exceed DM 200
per day.

2, Investments in .real estate and in
securities issued by public bodies and their
agencies and securities publicly dealt in
to be permitted in accordance with a
general license to be issued pursuant to
MG Laws Nos. 52 and 53 which will provide
that real estate and securities so acquired
shall be subject to the provisions of such
laws,

(3) Investments in private business ‘enter-
prises and loans will be permitted in ac-
cordance with special licenses to be issued
on a case by case basis pursuant to MG
Laws Nos. 52 and 53.

However, it is not intended that general
licenses issued pursuant to the above will
permit, for example, transfers between
foreigners, disbursements in the Federal
Republic on behalf of third parties or the
acquisition in the Federal Republic of
movable property for export or hoarding.

Il. Foreign owners of real or other
property in the Federal Republic of a non-
monetary nature will be permitted in ac-
cordance with special licenses to be issued

+ on a case by case basis pursuant to MG

Laws Nos, 52 and 53.

(1) To dispose of such property subject
to the same limitations which apply to
German owners of similar property on
condition that any DM or other proceeds
accruing therefrom shall be paid into
blocked account in the name of the foreign
owner, which may be utilized in the same
manner as outlined in Paragraph I above.

(2) To transfer title to any such property
to other foreigners for foreign exchange
considerations provided that such transfers
are not for the purpose of avoiding foreign
exchange control objectives of the Federal
Republic and that such property was not
acquired after the date of the lifting of the
investment moratorium.

III. Foreign owned or controlled business
enterprises organized under German law
and operating in the Federal Republic will
be freed by way of a general license from
any restrictions under MG Laws Nos. 52
and 53 which do not affect the operations
of German enterprises except for the con-
trol of investments to the extent set forth
in Paragraph I (2) and [ (3) above.

IV. Foreign persons will be permitted in
accordance with special licenses to be
issued pursuant to MG Laws Nos. 52 and 53
to bring into the Federal Republic capital
equipment, raw materials and semi-finished
goods, engineering and other technical
services for use in the Federal Republic
subject to the same regulations as apply
to: German-owned properties on condition
that any DM or other proceeds accruing

70

therefrom shall be paid into a blocked ac-
count in the name of the foreign owner,
which may be utilized in the same manner
as outlined in Paragraph I above,

V. (1) The Bank Deutscher Laender (Bank
of German States) will be authorized, under
the supervision of the Allied High Com-
mission or its: designated agency, to sell
Deutsche marks, at the current rate of ex-
change, against acceptable foreign curren-
cies including those placed at the disposal
of the Bank Deutscher Laender under
existing payment agreements or pursuant
to such subsequent payment arrangements
as may be set up. Foreign exchange derived
under this provision shall be held by the
Bank Deutscher Laender subject to the
same controls as other foreign exchange
resources,

(2) DM balances created or other assets
acquired as a result of the foregoing,
including income, shall be held subject
to the provisions of MG Laws Nos. 52 and
53 and may be utilized in the same manner
as outlined in Paragraph I above.

VI (1) Foreign owners of securities,
claims or other obligations expressed in
foreign currencies which represent debts
of private persons, firms or corporations
in the Federal Republic will be permitted
in accordance with special licenses to be
issued pursuant to MG Laws Nos. 52, 53
and 63 to enter into voluntary agreements
with the debtors for the settlement of such
debts in DM provided that:

(a) Such securities were issued or the
claims or other obligations arose to Sept. 1,
1939, and, except in the case of bonds,
were held by the present owner on the
date the lifting of the investment morato-
rium is announced.

(b) Any DM received by the foreign
owners as a result of any such settlements
shall be paid into a blocked account in
the name of the foreign owner, which may
be utilized in the same manner as outlined
in Paragraph (1) above.

(c) The security, claim or other obli-
gation, if subject to the provisions of the
Law for the Settlement of Matters Con-
cerning Foreign Currency Securities (Vali-
dation Law) when enacted, shall have been
duly validated pursuant -to the provisions
of such law.

(d) It is established that all other foreign
creditors of the German debtor involved
have been given at least. 60 days’ notice
of the proposed settlement by publication
and by registered letter where possible;
such notice to inform creditors that any
objections to the proposed settlement
must be registered with the designated
licensing authority within the stipulated
time. The licensing authority shall be
empowered to withhold a settlement, when,
in its opinion, a prima facie case of
reasonable objection has been established
by one or more creditors within the stip-
ulated time on the ground that the pro-
posed settlement would lead to a pre-
ference befween creditors or to bank-
ruptcy of or foreclosure proceedings
against the debtor.

(2) Public bodies and their agencies will
be permitted in accordance with special
licenses issued pursuant to MG Laws
Nos. 52 and 53, to enter into voluntary
agreements with foreign owners of foreign
currency claims to settle such claims in
DM provided that such settlements can be
made by the public body or agency thereof
without impairing other obligations or
causing additional borrowing and that the

AUGUST 1950

--- Page 74 ---
conditions set forth in Sub-paragraphs VI
(1) (a), (b), (c) and (d) above are met.

(3) As used herein, the term ‘‘foreign
owners" shall mean owners who are not
residents of the area constituting “Das
Deutsche Reich” (The German Nation) as
it existed on Dec. 31, 1937.

It is not intended that the provisions
of the above will result in unduly in-
creasing foreign ownership in industry and
commerce in the Federal Republic. There-
fore, appropriate limitations may subse-
quently be imposed on the above pro-
vision should determination be made that
an undue proportion of industry and com-
merce in the Federal Republic would other-
wise come under foreign ownership. More-
over, any licenses issued pursuant to the
above provisions shall provide that the
parties to the transactions are not thereby
exonerated from the requirements of full
compliance with decartelization and de-
concentration legislation in force in the
Federal Republic.

HICOM Policy on Police Training and
Use of Police in Disturbances

The Allied High Commission has ampli-
fied its policy regarding police training
and the use of police in the state to deal
with existing or threatened disturbances.
Details of this amplified policy are being
communicated to ministers-president by
Allied state commissioners.

Allied High Commission basic policy
concerning the police was published on
Dec, 2, 1949. (See A.H.C. press release
No. 34). This policy required that police
forces should be decentralized below state
level unless specified approval for state
police has been given by the High Com-
mission. Approval of this kind has only
been given in a limited number of cases,
such as Bremen and Hamburg, where
existing organization or special admini-
strative circumstances have warranted it.

It is now provided that in the event of
a disturbance or the threat of a disturbance
in an area having insufficient police to
cope with the emergency, the minister of
the interior of a state may, for the pur-
pose of that emergency, issue appropriate
instructions to provide for mutual assist-
ance by the forces within any one state.
The authority exercised by the minister
of the interior must be based on state legis-
lation which must stipulate that in cases
where police are transferred to a troubled
area they are to come under the command
of the chief police official of the area
affected.

In the earlier statement of policy there
was no Specific reference to police schools.
Now, the Allied High Commission has
given authority for the establishment of a
central police school in each state. The
administration of this school must, however,
follow these principles:

Use of the school by police agencies
within the state is optional.

Local police agencies may establish
their own schools.

Recruitment of personnel attending the
central school remains the responsibility
of the local police agencies or agency.

Policemen in training may be utilized in
the event of emergencies if their assistance
is requested by local police officials.

AUGUST 1950

If such policemen under training ‘are
required for emergency work, they shall
act under the operational control of the
chief police official of the area affected.
(Announcement issued June 21.)

Schleswig - Holstein Law on Public
Services Disapproved

The Allied High Commission has disap-
proved a Schleswig-Holstein law amending
the law on the organization of the public
services. The law was passed by the
Schleswig-Holstein Landtag (state legis-
lature) on May 3, 1950.

The High Commission's decision has been
communicated to the minister-president by
the state commissioner for Schleswig-Hol-
stein, Mr. W. Asbury. ;

The minister-president has been informed
that the High Commission considers that
the new law is incompatible with Para-
graph 2 (b) of the letter of instruction to
state commissioners concerning the organi-
zation, control and administration of the
state police which prescribes decentrali-
zation of the police below state level.

If this law were to become effective it
would be virtually certain to lead to a
considerable degree of centralization of

control of the police by the minister of the _

interior. In amplification of this, police
committees might consist principally, or
indeed wholly of civil servants who, as
members of such committees, would not be
bound by the instructions of their councils
and who (more particularly in the rural
police groups) are already directly respon-

sible to the minister of the interior in
certain fields. (Announcement issued
June 15.)

Procedure for Negotiating Foreign
Treaties

A procedure by which the German federal
government and German state govern-
ments may negotiate and conclude inter-
national agreements was announced by the
Allied High Commission June 8.

Details of this procedure have. been
communicated to the federal chancellor
and to the ministers-president of the states
of the Federal Republic.

The new procedure is for negotiations
by German governments of international

agreements other than trade and payments,

agreements in which latter sphere the
federal government was granted consi-
derable liberty of action last February.
In trade and payments’ negotiations, Ger-
man delegations must submit texts of pro-
posed agreements to the High Commission
at the “‘initialing stage.'’ In the case of
international agreements not concerned
with trade or payments, the procedure
grants wider liberty of action. German
delegations may actually sign the text of
such an agreement before submitting it to
the High Commission.

The High Commission will act upon the
agreement in accordance with its proce-
dure for scrutinizing legislation, i-e., if
no action is taken within 21 days from
the date of submission of the signed in-
ternational agreement, the federal or state
governments may then proceed to ratify
the agreement. If the federal government
decides to ratify the agreement condition-
ally or with reservations, that conditional

71

approval and the reservations will also
become effective according to the principle
of a 21-day period for scrutiny by the High
Commission. Final signature’ of inter-
national agreements will be the responsi-
bility of German authorities,
Other points from the procedure are:
German governmental authorities must
inform the High Commission of invitations
they have extended or received to enter
into negotiations, except where the nego-
tiations are with an international organi-
zation of which Germany is a member.
The High Commission reserves the right
to attend negotiations and to advise Ger-
man delegations of High Commission views.
Federal and state governments must
deposit with the High Commission a final
and authenticated copy of each inter-
national agreement and appropriate num-
bers of earlier copies to enable the 21-day
period for scrutiny to be observed.
State governments must submit details
through state commissioners and must
also inform the High Commission of approv-
al by the federal government of agree-
ments they have concluded.

Protest on North Korean Detention

The French, United States and British
High Commissioners in Germany trans-
mitted June 16 to General of the Army V. I.
Chuikov, chairman of the Soviet Control
Commission in Germany, a memorandum
urging Soviet action to secure the release
of German missionaries now imprisoned
or otherwise forcibly eee in North
Korea.

This memorandum was sent as a result
of a recent letter from the federal chan-
cellor to the three High Commissioners,
in which the chancellor called attention
to the situation of Benedictine missionaries
in North Korea. The memorandum. was
delivered by courier to General Chuikov's
headquarters at Karlshorst, Berlin. Text of
the memorandum follows:

“The French, United States and United
Kingdom High Commissioners for Ger-
many wish to inform the chairman of the
Soviet Control Commission in Germany
that their attention has been brought to
the lamentable situation wherein several
foreign missionaries are being detained in
North Korea under harsh and unbearable
circumstances.

“Information has been made available
to the French, United States and United
Kingdom High Commissioners that six
Benedictine fathers and a sister who are
German citizens are still imprisoned in
Pyongyang after their arrest more than a
year ago. Bishop Boniface Sauer, a Ger-
man citizen and head of the Benedictine
Mission, reportedly died in prison in
Pyongyang some time ago.

“Sixteen other Benedictine fathers, 26
brothers and 20 sisters, all of whom are
German nationals, with the exception of
one of the sisters who is a French
national, are understood to be held in a
concentration camp in the village of
Kirinli, near Kanggye, in North Pyongan
province. It has also been learned that
several Korean ordained priests are being
detained in this concentration camp. It is
reported that these missionaries are for-
cibly engaged in agricultural work or are
required to work in the coal mines, There

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Prison Journal, Vol. 1, No. 3, Prisons
Division, Office of General Counsel, HI-
COG, March 1950.

Teamed for Defense, EUCOM Informa-
tion Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 20, TI&E Office,
EUCOM, May 14, 1950.

Spotlight on the Balkans, EUCOM In- ;

formation: Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 21, TI&E
Office, EUCOM, May 21, 1950.

Five Years of Occupation, EUCOM In-
formation Bulletin, Vol. 5, No, 22, TI&E
Office, EUCOM, May 28, 1950.

Der Aussenhandel der Bundesrepublik
Deutschland, Teil 1, Zusammenfassende
Uebersichten (The Foreign Trade of the
German Federal Republic, Part 1, Compre-
hensive Surveys), Bizonal Statistical Of-
fice, Wiesbaden, May 1950.

The American Economic System, EU-
COM Information Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 23,
TI&E Office, EUCOM, June 4, 1950.

Your Personal Affairs, EUCOM Informa-
tion Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 24, TI&E Office,
EUCOM, June 11, 1950,

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 226,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), June 8, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report No. 34,
PRD HICOG, June 13, 1950.

Reactions of a Munich Movie Audience
to an Animated Film Based on the ‘‘Races
of Mankind,’ Special Report, Reactions
Analysis Staff, OPA HICOG (Bad Nau-
heim), June 14, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 227,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), June 15, 1950.

Monthly Report of the Control Commis-
sion for Germany (British Element), Vol. 5,
No. 5, Office of the UK High Commissioner,
June 16, 1950.

The Price of Freedom, Citizenship Series 9,
EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol. 5, No.
25, TI&E Office, EUCOM, June 18, 1950.

Copies of publications listed in the

Information Bulletin may be ob-

tained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 34, PRD
HICOG, June 20, 1950.

HEUTE (in German), No. 113, ISD
HICOG (Munich), June 21, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 228,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), June 22, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 229,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), June 29, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 35, PRD
HICOG, June 30, 1950.

Der Monat (in German), Vol. 2, No, 21,
IDS HICOG (Munich), June 1950.

The American Scene, EUCOM Informa-
tion Bulletin, Vol 5, No. 27, TI&E Office,
EUCOM, July 2, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 36, PRD
HICOG, July 5, 1950,

Information Bulletin,
HICOG, July 5, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey,
Nos. 95 to 132, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim),
May 9 to July 3, 1950.

July 1950, PRD

appears to be no doubt that these people
are living under abominable circumstances.

“On the grounds of humanitarian and
religious freedom, the French, United
States and United Kingdom High Commis-
sioners request the Soviet authorities in
Germany to urge their government to
exercise its good offices in approaching
the authorities in North Korea to obtain
the prompt release of these unfortunate
people."

Lorelei Demolition Stories

Mr. John J. McCloy, US High Commis-
sioner for Germany, when asked about
the stories of the demolition of the Lo-
relei, said June 20 that the ‘’Affair Lorelei”
was in the same category as the “Affair
Potato Bug’’.

While he had no doubt that there were
certain demolition plans in connection
with the defense of Germany against
aggression from the East, he was in a
position to assure all these who had any
anxiety on the subject that the Commu-
nistic propaganda regarding the flooding
of great areas and the damming of the
Rhine was sheer nonsense. He could also
give assurance that nothing was being
planned that could impair the face of the
Lorelei and interfere with the spell that
she casts over the Rhine.

He warned the Communists to beware
of that spell for, according to the legend,
“The man who sees her loses sight of
reason and he who listens is condemned
to wander with her for all time.”

Official Announcements

Clearance for Berlin

Personnel working for foreign consu-
lates and military missions in Berlin may
receive orders which will allow them to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ride US military trains between Berlin
and western Germany, providing they are
cleared by the Berlin representative of
the Protocol Division, HICOG, If the re-
quest for orders is approved, the orders
are issued by the Berlin Element, HICOG.
—from EUCOM press release June 5.

Permanent Passes Approved

Permanent passes have been approved for
deserving enlisted personnel of. the US
Army, Europe, authorizing absence from
billets or quarters until midnight on week
nights and until 1 a. m. Saturdays, Sun-
days and holidays, when not required for
duty, Special privilege passes have been
discontinued.

Enlisted personnel who are maintaining
authorized dependents’ billets at their posts
may obtain “sponsor's passes’, authorizing
absence from duty stations over night.
In addition, commanding officers may
issue over night passes to enlisted per-
sonnel of their organizations on an indi-
vidual basis——from EUCOM announce-
ment June 2.

Credit Union for HICOG

Establishment of a HICOG branch of the
State Department Federal Credit Union,
entitling HICOG and consulate employees
in Germany to loan privileges for emer-
gency purposes, has been approved by
the Federal Group, the Employee Relations
and Services Branch, HICOG, announced
June 19. ‘

Though complete details on the opera-
tions of the local branch are not avail-
able, its office will be in Frankfurt. Pur-
chase of one share of Union stock, costing
$5, will entitle a HICOG or consulate
employee in Germany to membership.

72

Interest on loans will be five percent,
and for loans of not more than $300, no
co-signers will be required. Larger loans,
such as for purchasing an automobile,
will require co-signatures of Union
members.

Union facilities also will include a sav-
ings plan paying 3.6 percent interest.

Reduction in Force Notices

Civilian employees of the US Army in
the European Command are entitled to
remain on the payroll for at least 30 cal-
endar days from the time they receive
notices of dismissal because of a reduc-
tion in staffs or elimination of jobs, accord-
ing to a new Civilian Personnel policy.

Heretofore, US veterans of military serv-
ice were the only ones having the right
to remain on duty status for 30 days after
reduction-in-force dismissal notices were
issued, Other employees were entitled to
15 calendar days in a work status.

Under the new policy, employees
eligible for return transportation to the
United States at government expense may
include travel time in the 30-day work
status period, Whenever practicable, how-
ever, EUCOM installations will attempt
to keep the worker in the European Com-
mand for 30 days before he starts back
to his point of hire.

An employee dismissed because of a
reduction in force may request up to
30 days of leave prior to returning home.
If this leave is taken, the worker will
not be returned to duty until he enters
travel status for his return to the United
States, unless his employing organization
especially requires his services pending
his departure.

The EUCOM policy was adopted in ac-
cordance with US Civil Service Commis-
sion policies.—from EUCOM announcement
June 20.

AUGUST 1950

bid,

--- Page 76 ---
Three cars zoom across the finish line at Stuttgart and head into
protective bales of straw in GYA-sponsored Soap Box Derby finals.

an . bah

p Gen. Thomas T. Handy, EUCOM commander,
congratulates derby champ Alfred Haenle as
Sgt. Aloysius Meehan, Berlin, who accom-
panies the German youngster to USA,
kneels at side. Left is Maj. Charles Pallette.

Cpl. Robert Gruner of Berlin Military Post watches young Werner Welp of Wiesbaden sits in his racer, The Lame
members of GYA Club put final touches on racer. Duck, after winning finals for his area. (US Army photos)
Karl-Heinz Diehm, Wolfgang Zschernitz and Horst Schwam- Karl Siebert was second, Hermann Robbers first, and Heinz

berger were first, second and third in Heidelberg finals. Scherbarth third in finals at the Weser Stadium, Bremen.

--- Page 77 ---
AUGUST

Om A eas SM

c

a
4
5
16
7
8
9

20
21
ee
23
24
pas)
26

27
28
29
30
31