--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATIO!

“MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

--- Page 3 ---
Interior of new synagogue. Speaker.is Max Meyer, board
of management member of Frankfurt Jewish Community.

Dr. Wilhelm Weinberg, Chief Rabbi of Hesse, delivers an
address during the widely-attended inauguration rites.

The choir of the Jewish community of Paris made the
Jong journey to Frankfurt to participate in ceremonies.

Franktfurt's largest synagogue was dedicated on Sept. 6,
when holy scrolls were placed in vault. Left to right are
Chief Rabbi Dr. Wilhelm Weinberg, Cantor Jakob Deitel,
who is chanting, and Rabbi Uri Blut. Reconstructed build-
ing, destroyed during the Nazi pogroms in 1938, is the
first postwar permanent synagogue to be restored in Hesse.
Its seating capacity is 1,000. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

FRANKFURT
SYNAGOGUE
DEDICATED

Numerous high officials present included, 1.-r., Robert M.
Hanes, retiring ECA Mission chief in Germany, who spoke
in the absence of US High Commissioner John J. McCloy;
Mrs. McCloy; Christian Stock, minister-president of Hesse;
Dr. Hans Lukaschek, federal minister tor refugees, and Karl
Bernard, president of the German Central Banking Council.

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

Editor Ss cee weiaee H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer
Editorial Writer ...... Beth Burchard
Editorial Writer .... Maurice E, Lee

Editorial Offices:
Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994
e

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

e

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

COVER PICTURE

LIGHT OVER BERLIN — The truth of the
free world blazes deeply into the Soviet-
dominated sector of Berlin from an electric
news sign located just inside the British
Sector, in Potsdamer Platz, the trouble
point of many East-West controversies. The
sign, erected by the West Berlin Publishers’
Association, procluims over the running
newscast “The free Berlin Press reports’
to East Berliners as far as two miles away.
East sector police try to keep the crowds
moving, but not very successfully, as
shown in photo taken from inside the Soviet
Sector. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS
November 1950

New Accent on: Youth jc. 02.29 tev e cee Sasaenes ee S
Article by Haynes R. Mahoney
East Side, West Side, All Around Berlin .................. 7
Analysis by Paul G. Hoffman
New Industrial Habits for Old ................0...0..00. 9
Article by Francis D, Murnaghan, Jr.
George C, Marshall House (pictorial) .................... 12
Trade Unionism Growing 14
Labor-Movement Pattern 15
Address by Harvey W. Brown
Need for Immunization . . 19
Article by Lt. Col. W.
Women's Responsibilities 21
Review of International Conference
Little Michel's sBear 01005324005 shot cea sce on oan 25
Article by Gisela Konopka
Teachers Go. Back: to;School ©. steos . << yan = oh Geis ot anne, 27
Pictorial Article on Teacher Institutes
Finding Dollar Markets asks 31
Address by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser
The: Talmud dteturns 2257-2 Goes iss de os Coes ae waco as 3
Article by Bernard Quinn
World's Students Talk Things Over (pictorial) ............ 36
The Press Replies 38
New Status of Germany 39
Address by John J. McCloy
The International Situation and Germany ................ 41
Address by Konrad Adenauer
Germany's ‘Civil Services) eos 56 Geiss tie oes stem cele 43
Address by Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross
German Experts Study US Tax System ................4. 46
Second RO's"Conterente®.5..032.50 sa sas eme nein Sante rae 47
Roundup of Activities and Speeches
Tasks for the Coming Year ........ Papy esa tie)
Address by John J. McCloy
Moral and Material Resistance ...... airs) BB
Address by Andre Francois-Poncet
Through British Spectacles..............40. 90
Address by Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick
Freedom BeM ee trai corte sees cee conan hee a ene 48
Article by Lowell Bennett
Historical Studies of the Occupation .................... 51
Medical Mission (pictorial) 54
Germany's Need for ERP Aid 57
Summary from ECA Annual Report
‘Washington cmenort-ic. <2. -2eg.ssinss se saue toate mene 63
Calendar of Coming Events.............. Oo
Personnel Notes ker! 3 <2 esses ae sere «= 66
Economic Review fone)
Occupation: Log 252) scn2cce wwe aut ads serksi8)
German Cartoons =. <2 soo .6 0. -aeneiermsies ees}
Young Visitors from America (pictorial) . Rew: 0)
Omicial “NOUCES sie us oe eine oa soe oe, . 94
Communiques . 94
Laws and Regulations 95
Official Statements .. 95
Announcements a a9D)
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents ........ 96

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
_ wiralle

wiralle

Haus Schwalbach, former hunting lodge, is one of four
HICOG-sponsored leadership training schools in US Zone.

Youth Advisory Council publishes brochures and maga-
zines on problems." Wir Alle” is widely-circulated monthly.

Nuremberg GY A Center, here scene of a puppet show, is one
of 30 such centers sponsored by Nuremberg Military Post.

Sport leaders train for jobs at Ruit youth training school.

St. George's Boy Scouts, typical of large, organized youth
groups, conducts program of hiking, camping, handicrafts.

: >ISTER
“NER Jt eueR Oe
y cpRISTUS

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 6 ---
US and German newsmen, touring the US Zone in September, visited

youth institutions and unofficial projects in three states. Here is one

writer's impression of the problems confronting German young people

today — and his estimate of the generation which will shape tomorrow's
history in this postwar state.

New Accent on Youth

By HAYNES R. MAHONEY
Chief, Bad Nauheim Branch, Public Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

IXTEEN-YEAR-OLD KLAUS Hoffmann came “black”

into western Germany about a year ago. There was
little to hold him in Saxony — his mother and a sister
died during the war; another sister disappeared, pre-
sumably into forced labor, and only his father — a war
invalid — was left. He wandered from one odd job and
one miserable refugee camp to another until he heard
about Friedensdorf and asked a Youth Welfare Office to
send him there.

Today he is learning the metal-working trade under a
master craftsman. He lives in an active community of
100 boys, with similar tragic backgrounds, and has
acquired practical experience in democracy as a re-
presentative on the “Peace Village's” youth council. He
has a new knowledge and respect for people of other
countries through his association with foreign students
who come each summer to live and work at the youth
settlement located in the outskirts of Nuremberg.

“T have found a home here, and I doubt iif-I will want
to leave them when my time is up in two years from
now,” said Klaus. ‘But maybe I'll feel differently then.”

At Esslingen, working parents leave their small children
at a place called The Home of the Open Door during the
day. There are games and toys, movies and a kindly di-
rector who gives the youngsters some of their first les-
sons in respecting the rights of others. In the afternoon
and evenings, the teen-aged youth pack the hall for
meetings of their various organizations, for public forums,
for handicraft training and other activities. The city
fathers are proud of their youth center, which has become
a model for other towns in Wuerttemberg-Baden.

A crowd of 600 persons, most of them teen-aged youth,
jammed an old gymnasium at Oehringen recently. They
had gathered for the town’s semi-annual youth forum, to
discuss whether ‘Germans should become soldiers again.”
A handful of Communist youth leaders, sent to the small
(8,000 population) Wuerttemberg town from other areas,
had infiltrated the crowd, as well as the speaker's panel.
For the first half hour the crowd applauded the Com-
munists’ phony talks about peace. But by the end of the
forum, more and more local young people were standing
up to speak of their new freedom.— not the totalitarian
brand — and the importance of defending it.

HE FRIEDENSDORF BOYS' Settlement, the Esslingen
Center and the Oehringen Youth Forum represent
partial answers to the burning problems of economic,

NOVEMBER 1950

social and political rehabilitation of German youth.
Behind them is the planning and advice and financial
support of the German government, of many private
organizations and public-spirited adults, and the aid of
the Allied authorities in western Germany. And although
these efforts have produced thousands of constructive
activities and enterprises throughout West Germany,
they are only a start in filling the needs of youth, whose
future will profoundly influence the future of German
democracy.

Germany's youth problems stem from Hitler's seductive
systems of flashy uniforms and syncopated militarism,
from the mystic paganism of hilltop bonfires and military
training in summer camps. In the feverish life of the
Nazi movement, young people learned to denounce their
fathers and to turn their backs on society; they became
a world unto themselves, arrogant, egotistic and trained
to absolute command and blind obedience.

But war and defeat shattered their world. Their leaders
disappeared into ignominy and prison; organizations dis-
integrated; physical facilities were taken over for other
purposes. The perverted idealism of the Hitler Youth
turned into bitter disillusionment, leaving a vacuum
which the Occupation Powers were challenged to fill
with new loyalities and opportunities for German youth.

The Soviet response was the Freie Deutsche Jugend
(so-called Free German Youth)* — a shabby resurrection
of the Hitler Youth with Communist slogans and Com-
munist heroes.

The Western Powers offered the idealism of democracy,
an abstraction which meant little to the mass of young
people emerging from 13 years of regimentation into the
bitter hardships of postwar collapse.

HE ECONOMIC SITUATION limited the facilities for

recreational and social activities, and denied a decent
future to so many youth. The economic problem is still
acute, with about 350,000 unemployed youth between the
ages of 14 and 25 in western Germany, including 60,000
15- and 16-year-olds shortly out of school for whom no
apprenticeship training is available. Among the older
youth, untold thousands have no basic skills due to the
interruption of vocational training and education by
military service. Each year several hundred thousand

* See ‘‘Youth under Communism" in Information Bulletin, May 1950.
issue.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
Germany's US Zone youth are at work on a number of self-help and training projects, Here are (left) Karl-Heinz Radan

and (center) Rudolf Rebhahn, both refugees, at work on the farm which provides food for their self-run Youth Village; at
right is Andree Peladan, French exchangee, who lived in tent,camp during summer, worked in kitchen of refugee youth home.

young people leave school, and a large part of them join
the labor market. In addition the Klaus Hoffmanns are
coming across the Soviet Zone border at an average rate
of more than 4,000 monthly and the number is growing.

Youth unemployment is so serious that Dr. Heinrich
Lades, youth official for the German federal government,
stated that “in 10 years Germany will have a desperate
shortage of skilled labor if something is not done to help
these youth get the training they have missed."

Dr. James R. Newman, US state commissioner for
Hesse, warned of Communism and increased agitation
for labor service and work battalions. He said that in-
dustry could absorb more youth into jobs if it would
reduce working hours, which have increased tremendously
since the war, and thus create more employment.

A growing concern for young men and women without
job futures is evident on all sides. Under direction of
Dr. Lades, a DM 50,000,000 ($11,900,000) youth program
is being drawn up for the federal government which will
include large sums to be spent in financing more ap-
prenticeship training for youth. HICOG also is providing
millions of Deutsche marks to institutions aimed at their
economic rehabilitation. Additional funds have been
allocated by state governments,

Perhaps the most effective work is being done by
private organizations such as the Jugendaufbau Werk, a
youth self-help program extending throughout western
Germany. This organization sponsors directly or indirect-
ly approximately 420 youth homes, many with apprentice
workshops attached, serving about 20,000 youth, as well
as 460 public works projects employing about 18,000 youth.

Forty international work camps, in which foreign youth
joined Germans in working on worthy community pro-
jects such as youth homes, public buildings and play-
grounds, were organized last summer by Jugendaufbau
and other organizations.

Also engaged in this type of activity are the various
religious welfare groups, the German branches of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Young Men's and Women's Christian Associations, as
well as a new agency, Jugendhilfe Land, aimed especially
at helping rural youth get jobs and agricultural training.

IRIEDENSDORF, OF COURSE, is an outstanding and

successful example of “youth reconstruction.” In the
summer of 1946, young Germans and foreign students
worked together in renovating the bombed-out architects’
buildings near the erstwhile Nazi Party stadium outside
Nuremberg to provide homes and workshops for refugee
youth and their master-craftsmen instructors. Because of
the original international flavor of this project, it was
called Friedensdorf or ‘'Peace Village.”

The boys are divided for apprentice training into 10
different trades, mostly in the field of building and
construction. They learn in the settlement’s own work-
shops or at firms and work projects in the city. Tents,
set up on the grounds of the youth village during the
summer, house a score of youth from western Europe
and the United States who spend several weeks or more
working with the Friedensdorf members, eating the same
food and joining in their evening sports and social pro-
grams. Although there are general complaints about hard
living conditions, lower dietary standards and low wages,
the foreigners generally express keen satisfaction with
their experience at Friedensdorf.

“We have learned a lot, and we didn't come here
expecting to live in hotels,’ a French student explained.

Among the German residents, all refugees from the
East, the spirit is surprisingly good, in spite of their
unhappy pasts, the hard work and low wages (about
DM 3 to 6 weekly — between 71 cents and $1.42). They
will stay from two to three years, according to how long
it takes to master the trade and take the job that the
Friedensdorf organization will help them find.

The youth settlement is financed through contributions
of the Jugendaufbau Werke, the Nuremberg city govern-
ment and private subscriptions, some of them from

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 8 ---
Harry Gerschwitz (left), a refugee from East Berlin, works in the blacksmith shop of Youth Village near Vaihingen; in
Oehringen gymnasium, 600 young people (center) atlend a semi-annual youth forum, similar to thousands promoted by
HICOG; at right, Manfred Paul gets apprentice training in masonry, thanks to Friedensdorf Youth Village in Nuremberg.

abroad. A brand new Friedensdorf settlement is now
under construction. Partially financed by HICOG, it will
house some 300 youths, who will live in groups of 10
with the master-instructor for their trade.

OVEL IN CLASS-CONSCIOUS Germany is another

type of self-help enterprise in which young workers
have joined German and foreign university students in
a co-operative living settlement. The Apprentice Workers
and Students Home in Munich boasts a clean modern
building, which houses 95 residents (average age 22)
who pay only DM 40 ($9.52 monthly) for their small but
comfortable rooms. An elected community council
“governs” the household and arranges social and recre-
ation programs, including discussion evenings with
local political leaders and public officials. A project of
the Bavarian Youth Social Work, the settlement is now
being expanded with the aid of HICOG funds to house
several hundred additional students and workers.

But the wants of youth comprise more than homes and
jobs — urgent as these problems are. Social and political
needs must be faced if young Germans are to become
democratic citizens some day.

Since the days of the Wandervogel movement in the
early 20th century, when youth turned its back on
society and went hiking in the hills, down through the
Nazi period, when they were artificially separated from
society by the Hitler Youth, young Germans had little
tradition for democracy and few opportunities to play a
proper role in the life of the community.

The schools, though rapidly improving through the
introduction of social studies, provided little training in
good citizenship in the past. In addition, about 85 per-
cent of the young people leave formal schooling at 14
years of age, and must depend on youth organizations
and programs for civic education, as well as constructive
leisure time activities.

NOVEMBER 1950

ODAY A GROWING RECOGNITION of this need

throughout western Germany has produced thousands
of youth organizations, community centers, leadership
schools, special publications and a new corps of pro-
fessional and volunteer councilors and leaders.

Among the 5,400,000 youth between the ages of 10 and
25 in the US Zone, approximately 1,500,000 belong to the
major youth organizations. About 40 percent of these are
members of religious organizations and 30 percent belong
to sports groups. The fastest growing are the trade union
groups, now including about 17 percent of the organized
youth, while the political youth groups, such as the
social democratic Falcons, as well as the Boy Scouts,
cultural, hiking and camping groups, claim the remaining
13 percent.

The Communist FDJ, with less than half of one percent
of the organized youth in the US Zone, makes a dispro-
portionate amount of noise through its well-knit and
well-financed organization and its constant agitation.
Distrust and ill-will toward the young Communists have
been increasing rapidly, and one county and state youth
council after another, has ejected the FDJ from membership.

Although most of these youth organizations provide
recreation and cultural programs, there is a tendency to
concentrate on training good socialists or strong trade
unionists or unwavering Catholics and Protestants while
giving less attention to producing tolerant and responsible
young citizens.

In addition the large organizations, with only 27 per-
cent of the youth population, often wield disproportionate
influence on youth affairs through their tradition and
prestige. The Bavarian Sport Union, for instance, recently
built a modern, well-equipped academy on spacious
grounds outside of Munich at a cost of DM 2,800,000
($666,400) to train sport leaders, Yet boys’ towns such
as Friedensdorf are overcrowded and inadequate to take
care of all homeless youth; university students are hard-
pressed to find decent places to live and study for lack

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
of dormitories and student centers; even the Bavarian
Leadership Training School at Niederpoecking, which
provides the all-important instruction in democratic group
work to all youth, can only handle 40 students in each
course. The Sport Union draws a handsome share of the
state soccer betting lottery, the government's major
source of finances for youth work, on the ground that
the ‘money is made off sports.”

3 ie US AUTHORITIES early encouraged the postwar
formation of youth organizations but also recognized
the necessity of sound programs for all young people,
including the majority who could not afford or were
wary of joining a major organization. Consequently
Military Government and later HICOG promoted the
formation of country youth committees, now numbering
266, with 6,600 members in the US Zone, where repre-
sentatives of schools, parents, labor, local government,
the youth themselves and others work together in
developing sound recreational, cultural and social pro-
grams for all local youngsters.

The Esslingen Youth Center is the product of this type
of co-operative effort, which besides benefiting the young
people, builds a new sense of local responsibility for
youth welfare. The City Youth Committee in Nuremberg
now plans a series of such centers throughout the city.
Some county committees, impressed with their respon-
sibility, have employed professional experts to work full-
time in promoting beneficial youth programs. Known as
Jugendpfleger, these men and women constitute a new
type of professional youth worker in Germany.

State youth committees have also been formed to
represent the interest of youth and promote youth
welfare on state-wide level.

But these mushrooming committees, programs and
activities for youth bring with them many new problems.
One of the most acute has been that of leadership.
Where do we find competent Jugendpileger; good youth
center directors; camp counselors, men and women who
understand methods of group organization and the
delicate intricacies of drawing young members into co-
operative planning of their own activities rather than
accepting a program handed down to them? After 13
years of dictatorship, such people are few and far between.

Laurence E. Norrie, HICOG’s Community Activities chief,
discusses the Munich Settlement House with Dr. Heinrich
Lenhartz (right), director of youth rehabilitation in
Western Germany, on a visit to the youth center, built
partly with the aid of HICOG Special Projects funds.

~

a
a

ANY ORGANIZATIONS and agencies have recogniz-

ed this need and various leadership training schools
are in operation. The Haus Schwalbach school in Hesse,
for instance, trains up-and-coming youngsters as well as
their adult leaders in youth psychology, democratic
group work and in the conduct of practical youth activ-
ities, such as sports and games, amateur dramatics,
handicrafts and camping. It is one of the four similar
schools in the US Zone and Berlin, promoted by HICOG
and supported with US funds, which have with their
extension programs trained almost 22,000 students in the
past two years. In addition, 83 youth leader schools and
institutes, sponsored by private groups and agencies,
provide useful training in recreation skills, although
restricted somewhat to the ideologies and specific needs
of their respective sponsoring organizations.

But not everybody can go to a leadership school, and
even among those who attend, a two or three weeks’
course doesn’t turn out a budding Lincoln. If Willi and
Hermann and the boys and girls of Neustadt-an-der-
Winkle decided to form a hiking and singing society,
chances are that there is no one in their rural com-
munity who can tell them even how to elect officers.
Willi, however, could write to the Youth Publications
Commission in Wiesbaden, for a sparkling little brochure
called Die Jugendgruppe (The Youth Group) or Sprechen
wir uns aus (Let's Talk It Over), or even a sturdy little
volume based on an American girl scout handbook, call-
ed Meine Gruppe und Ich (My Group and J), or any of a
half-dozen supplementary publications which would not
only tell him how to elect officers, build an organization,
and draw up a constitution, but also how to promote a
lively program which would keep the members coming
and paying their dues.

Willi might also subscribe to the Commission's Wir
Alle, a monthly magazine for youth leaders, which not
only keeps them abreast of progressive youth activities
throughout Germany, but includes valuable information
on how even a simple hiking and singing society can
build a co-operative spirit and a well-rounded personal-
ity. Headed by a German editorial board under super-
vision of the Office of the US State Commissioner for
Hesse, the Publications Commission is the only major
source in West Germany for instructional materials in
group leadership and youth activities. Wir Alle's circu-
lation has jumped from 7,000 to 14,000 during the past
year, indicating an increasing demand among youth
workers, leadership training schools, youth groups and
teachers throughout the Federal Republic.

In the same building with the Publications Commission
is another unique organization in Germany, designed to
back up the many private and public agencies engaged
in youth work with the necessary facts, figures and
helpful information on situation and programs. The
Jugendbeirat (Youth Advisory Council) convenes special-
ists in scores of committees to conduct investigation and
planning in social and cultural programs, sports, civic

education and youth legislation.
(Continued on page 78)

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 10 ---
East Side, West Side,
All Around Berlin

Administrator of Greatest Program of Reconstruction in World History
Draws Contrast between Economies of FreeDemocracy and ofCommunism.

The difference between West Berlin and East Berlin is the difference between
economic life and economic death. No more impressive demonstration of the con-
trast between the live and helpful hand of democracy and the dead hand of Kremlin
Communism can be found anywhere than in Berlin.

Thus spoke Paul G. Hoffman, retiring ECA administrator, Oct. 1 after he had
completed a tour of both the Russian and Western sectors of Berlin. He was in the
city for the inauguration of its International Industrial Exhibition.

M* HOFFMAN, who for two and a half years has
directed the greatest program of reconstruction in
world history, continued: “In West Berlin I saw rebuilding
in every block. The scars of war are disappearing. I saw
new stores, new office buildings, new workmen's houses,
new apartment buildings. I saw lights, I saw life.

“I got out of my car to visit rebuilt workmen's houses
where scores of families are now living. I was told that
reconstruction is being done so efficiently that it is
costing only $250 per apartment.

“I visited the rebuilt power station, one more element
of strength in the face of Soviet pressure. The Marshall
Plan made a major contribution to its rebuilding. The
reason it is an element of strength is the fact that West
Berlin has been depending for its electric power largely
on the power plant located in East Berlin and dominated
by the Soviets. Whenever the Soviets wanted to put
pressure on West Berlin they turned off the current.

“They did so again just four days before the opening
of the Berlin Industrial Exhibition. But what was their
surprise to find that, with the turning of a switch, power
came on from the new plant in West Berlin sufficient to
supply the Allied sectors of the city. The power plant is
one of the newest and best-looking in Europe.”

HEN MR. HOFFMAN TOLD of his visit to East
Berlin.

“In the Soviet Sector of the city," he said, “my prime
and almost only impression was that of desolation heaped
upon desolation. Rubble and the ghosts of once stately
buildings were everywhere. From the time we entered
the Soviet Sector at the famous Brandenburg Gate until
we left it, the picture was one of almost utter destruc-
tion. Here and there a dim little shop had been built at
a corner, or windows had been boarded up on a house,
but of rebuilding in the ordinary sense there was none.

“Oh yes, I saw some rebuilding. But what was it? One
was the Soviet so-called House of Culture, the propaganda
headquarters of the Soviets. Another was the magnificent
headquarters of the East German Communist Party.”

NOVEMBER 1950

Another was the still more magnificent building which
it is rumored will be the Soviet Embassy.

“The meager will to reconstruct in East Berlin was
almost all being regimented in the direction of these
public buildings. Of sound economic reconstruction I saw
virtually none.

“In block after block the rubble lay where the bombs
had blasted it. Building after building looked so crazily
ruined that they seemed dangerous to passers-by."

Paul G. Hoffman, retiring head of the Economic Co-
operation Administration, and Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife
of the US High Commissioner, tour the George C. Marshall
House, in which American exhibits were displayed at the
Berlin Industrial Exhibition Oct. 1 to 15. Mr. Hoffman
visited the Marshall House to attend a reception on
Sept. 30 prior to the official opening. (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

--- Page 11 ---
UT THE OUTGOING administrator, who was making

a tour of western Europe at the request of President
Truman, was even more impressed by the contrast.between
the people of West Berlin and those of East Berlin than
he was by the physical contrast of reconstruction and
the lack of reconstruction.

“To me," he said, ‘there seemed to be a world of
difference in the aspect of the people of West Berlin and
the people of East Berlin. Those of the Western sectors
thronged the streets; they looked at the brightly lighted
shopwindows; they seemed to have some place to go;
they seemed brisker, happier.

“IT would guess that there were 20 times more people
on the streets in West Berlin than there were in East
Berlin. In the Eastern sector the people were few and far
between; they seemed to have nothing to do, nowhere
to go, there was literally nothing for them to do outside,
for I saw not a single place of amusement.

“About all they had to look at were stupendous
monuments to the Soviet Army and gaudy posters urging
them to vote for candidates of the East German Com-
munist Party — the only candidates permitted to offer
themselves at the elections on Oct. 15.”

Mr. Hoffman said he could imagine nothing more
useful to the cause of the free nations than for East Ger-

mans to visit West Berlin and see for themselves the
vast difference existing between living conditions in the
two sectors.

“I'd like them to see for themselves the development
that has occurred in West. Berlin, particularly since Mar-
shall Plan aid came tc the city," he said. ‘Even a short
visit will refute all the lies told about us by the Soviets.”

R. HOFFMAN SAID he had been told that the lack
of initiative in East Berlin on the part of workers,
in view of the fact that there was little to buy with their
wages, had led to a serious decline in working efficiency.

“I was informed," he said, “that in a power plant in East
Berlin there are three times as many workmen ds before
the war, but the power output today is just one-half what
it was then. They say that a man on relief in West Berlin
is better off than a man with a job in East Berlin.

“If conditions in East Berlin, as I saw them and had them
described to me," he concluded, “are indicative of con-
ditions in the other satellite areas, then sooner or later the
day will come when the peoples of those lands will rise
to the heights of heroism and throw off the yoke that
oppresses them.” +END

Typical of Free Europe

Address*

By EDWARD PAGE, Jr. .
Director, Berlin Element, HICOG

T IS NO SMALL MATTER to be asked to receive the

key to a building of this size and importance — into
which so much effort has already gone and will con-
tinue to go, I believe I can say that no one realizes bet-
ter than I what this structure, the George C. Marshall
House, means in terms of value, or hours of labor, or just
plain sentiment.

It would also be appropriate, I believe, to take this
opportunity to congratulate the hundreds of West Ber-
lin workers who labored together, co-ordinated as a team,

to bring this job to completion in time for the opening»

of the Berlin Industrial Exhibition. I need not remind
anyone here that not more than a few short weeks ago —
it seems like yesterday — this ground was bare of any per-
manent developments. In the space of about 14 weeks —
since late July — a fine exhibition hall has been erected.

The job called for continuous night and day work at
top speed, under all conditions of weather. Yet you see
the result: the George C. Marshall House, finished and
just about ready to receive the first visitors,

As one of the workers here expressed it the other day,
“it could only have happened in Berlin.”

* Mr. Page gave this address of appreciation at a ceremony

Sept. 29 when he received from a Berlin worker a golden key to
the George C. Marshall House. For pictures see pages 12-13 and 70.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HE FACT THAT the George C. Marshall pavillon was

built with funds supplied by the Economic Co-opera-
tion Administration does not detract in the least from the
building's ‘significance as a triumph of construction. On
the contrary, it serves to point up the importance of the
German-American co-operative effort involved. Neither
of us could have brought this building into being, on this
spot, without the other's fullest co-operation.

Actually, this building typifies the phenomenon that
is taking place all over Free Europe today: the application
of ECA aid to provide constructive and profitable em-
ployment for thousands of Europe's workers. Thus, in my
view, this building could not have been more appropriate-.
ly named. It is a “George C. Marshall House” in every
sense; it not only bears the name of the founder of the.
Marshall Plan — it was built with funds allocated under
the program of European aid which he originated.

My own personal wish is that the Marshall House shall
be a major element in registering a resounding immediate
triumph in the Berlin Industrial Exhibition, 1950.

Whatever happens, it will stand as a symbol of ECA
assistance and of America’s heartfelt desire to complete
Berlin's economic restoration. +END

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 12 ---
New Industrial Habits for Old

By FRANCIS D. MURNAGHAN, Jr.

Decartelization and Deconcentration Division, Office of General Counsel, HICOG

REAKING A BAD HABIT is hard; teaching a good one
to replace it is harder. These are truths learned long
ago by doctors treating the sick. The same truths apply
when the “sick man“ is German industry and commerce.
In attacking its portion of the task of creating a peace-
ful and democratic Germany, the Decartelization and
Deconcentration Division of the Office of General Coun-
sel, HICOG, has been confronted with the natural human
tendency to follow the habits of the past, without stop-
ping to balance their merits against their faults.
“Business as usual’ had an understandable appeal for
the German people. By offering tried techniques, it helps
them avoid the fear of the unknown which is bound to
accompany innovations, however worthwhile they may
be. The fact that the business which is usual is the very
business which organized itself on the basis of artificial
scarcity and controlled production and ‘prices, without
regard to the interest of the consumer, is often over-
looked. The fact that the ‘‘usual’ practice of such “busi-
ness as usual” has been to encourage and abet absolut-
ist, militarist government is also frequently forgotten —
though the results of a war waged by such a government
in combination with a closely-knit, extremely concentrat-
ed German industry remain eloquently on the scene.
Prime illustrations of this instinctive preference for
what has been done before are the recent laws passed by
individual western German states requiring plumbers,
carpenters, chimneysweeps and the like to obtain licenses
before practicing their trades, These laws violate the
democratic concept that each man should be allowed
to choose his way of earning a living freely, so long as
he presents no threat to public health, safety and welfare.
They ignore the experiences of the past three years in the
US Zone where freedom of trade has existed and has won
the approval of more than 70 percent of the German people.

O COUNTERACT THIS RELAPSE of the German
states into old, bad habits, the Allied High Commis-
sion has adopted a statement of principles favoring the
freedom of individuals to choose their own occupations.
The federal government has been invited by the Allied High
Commission to pass legislation in accordance with these
principles, and it is hoped that through such legislation
the popular program of trade liberalization may thrive.
This reluctance to overcome and replace bad habits is,
of course, natural and can be overcome.

In time, each achievement in the field of trade liberal-
ization will, through its merits, defeat opposition based
solely on inertia and will begin to create behavior pat-
terns of its own. As the value of the right to choose one’s
trade or profession freely is more widely appreciated, it
is hoped that opposition will grow to restrictive licensing
laws, that legislatures will cease to pass them, and that

NOVEMBER 1950

freedom of trade will become the new habit pattern. Each
such habit which can be established in the German
economy will tend towards a break with the old and
encourage the development of other essential trade
liberalization policies.

Important areas in the German economy in which the
Decartelization and Deconcentration Division is current-
ly laboring to create healthy economic behavior patterns
are those industries which have been specifically desig-
nated in legislation of the Allied High Commission for
deconcentration and reorganization. The largest of these
is the coal, iron and steel industry, which is basic not
only to Germany's economy but to that of all western
Europe as well.

By Law 27 the Allied High Commission has provided
for the abolition of the excessive concentrations of eco-
nomic power which had grown up in this industry. The
history of the industry over the past 70 years has been
one of constant growth of a few large companies at the
expense of many small ones which have been absorbed
and have disappeared. The dominating giants have con-
sistently agreed among themselves on allotments of
marketing territories and quotas, on prices to be charged
and on quantitative limits on production. By means of
such agreements, the German consumer has been deprived
of the benefits of competition. .

HE REMEDY PROVIDED for this unhealthy state of
affairs by the High Commission is the regrouping of
the productive facilities of the important German coal,
iron and steel undertakings into new, smaller companies
which will compete with one another. One of the im-
portant functions of the Decartelization and Deconcentra-
tion Division is to assist in setting up the new coal and
steel companies and to distribute the coal, iron and steel
assets among them. Members of the Division work with
the Combined ‘Steel Group and the Combined Coal Con-
trol Group, the agencies designated to administer Law 27.
At the present time, provisional plans for various new
companies have been completed and it is hoped that they
will commence operation shortly. Further allocations of
coal, iron and steel-producing facilities to other com-
panies will be made until all assets falling under the law
have been disposed of. In September 1950, the first large
step in implementing the law took place when the Allied
High Commission ordered the six largest German coal,
iron and steel combines to liquidate themselves.

At the outset of this article, it-was suggested that in
some ways the Division's activities are similar to those
of a doctor seeking to cure a patient. The division's
responsibilities with regard to the German motion picture
industry further demonstrate the aptness of the analogy.
Sometimes a doctor's treatment must take into account

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
other things than just the condition the doctor is
primarily interested in curing.

N THE MOTION PICTURE field, the Division has not

only to deconcentrate a great monopoly, but also to
eliminate control by improper parties of an immensely
important medium of public information and education.
Under the Nazis, the industry was brought under govern-
ment ownership and control. Motion pictures, thereafter,
reiterated Nazi propaganda and were extremely effective
media for spreading Nazism's undemocratic dogma.

Allied High Commission Law No. 32 provides for the
deconcentration of the German motion picture industry,
and in addition excludes as possible owners German gov-
ernmental authorities, local as well as national, and
any political parties or individuals, such as former Nazi
officials, who might advocate the restoration in Germany
of an undemocratic political regime or restrict the demo-
cratic right of freedom of expression.

The deconcentration aspects of the law are equally
important. It provides for the sale of all government-
owned motion picture facilities to private persons in such
a way that no one shall be active in more than one of
the important divisions of the motion picture industry.
Thus, for example, the same person may not produce
motion pictures and also distribute them. Nor may anyone
acquire more than one film studio or three theaters.

Members of the Decartelization and Deconcentration
Division join with their French and British colleagues to
administer Law 32, and arrangements for sales of govern-
ment-owned motion picture assets are presently being
completed. It is expected that the first sales will take
place at public auctions'in November of this year. The
law calls for the completion of the sales by Jan. 1, 1952.

HE DIVISION IS ALSO charged with administering
in the US areas of occupation the assets of I. G.
Farbenindustrie A. G. This company represented an amal-
gamation of a great portion of the German chemical and
pharmaceutical industries into a single unit. As such it
threatened the development of a peaceful and demo-
cratic Germany not only because it was an excessive
concentration of economic power but also because, as the
experience of the Nazi era showed, it was a war machine
of great potential. Again, therefore, the Division finds
itself required to carry out its own primary deconcentra-
tion policy in conjunction with another major Allied poli-
cy, this time the elimination of a threat to world security.
The assets of I. G. Farben located in the US areas of
occupation have been divided into separate and distinct
units which operate independently of one another. For
security reasons, managements of the new concerns have
excluded important Nazis and leading I. G. Farben of-
ficials who might seek to re-erect the former empire.
The Allied High Commission has recently promulgated
Law 35 dealing with the dispersion of I. G. Farben assets
throughout western Germany. Under it, the Farben assets
will be distributed among a group of independent cor-
porate units, each strong enough to compete with the
others and with other European chemical concerns.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

For example, the dyestuff and sedative drug manu-
facturing facilities located in Frankfurt-Hoechst will be
set up as an independent company under the name of
Farbwerke Hoechst. As a leading manufacturer of in-
sulin, novocain, pyramidon and other important drugs, it
will have to compete actively with other new companies
created out of former I. G, Farben drug manufacturing
properties. No longer will these competitors be able to
market their products through a central sales organization.

Formerly through such an organization high prices
could be set since I. G. Farben had a virtual monopoly in
the drug producing field. Hereafter, competition between
the independent successors to I: G. Farben will lead to
lower prices and thereby benefit German consumers,

O HABIT OF GERMAN industry and commerce has
proved more imbedded than the practice of com-

petitors getting together to reach understandings as to:

prices, market areas, quotas and production limitations.
Such agreements are generally known as cartels and they
inevitably prove very worthwhile — to those who enter
them. The fact that the agreements are directed against
those not privileged to participate in them — the German
consuming public — is always conveniently overlooked.
It is also often forgotten that the high-price policies and
production limitations expressed in such agreements
reduce the amounts of goods produced and thereby raise
for the laboring man the spector of unemployment.

Perhaps, from the point of view of direct impact on the
consumer, the most noteworthy example is the Phoebus
agreement between the world’s leading electric light bulb
manufacturers, including the most important German
company, Osram GmbH KG. This agreement, which re-
cently was found by an American court to violate the US
anti-trust laws, began its existence in 1924 and flourished
uninterruptedly until the outbreak of World War II. The
agreement provided for the fixing of market quotas for
each member, both within its domestic market, and in the
common export market. It called for the formulation of
general pricing policy by the central cartel administration,
and established a propaganda division whose function
was to increase the sales of cartel members’ lamps at the
expense of those of non-members.

The effect on the consumer of the cartel's production
restrictions and price policies is strikingly demonstrated
by a comparison of German retail prices for 1938 with
those of the United States for the same year. The Ger-
man prices for 25-watt, 40-watt, and 60-watt metal filament
bulbs were, in dollar equivalents, 30, 36 and 48 cents res-
pectively. In the United States, all three types sold for the
same price, 15 cents. The cartel, in other words, maintained
prices at two to three times the true competitive level.

LARGE PROPORTION of the Division's time is de-
A voted to obtaining evidence of such agreements,
which understandably the parties keep as quiet as pos-
sible. Since the promulgation in February 1947 of US
Military Government Law No. 56 and the substantially
identical British Military Government Ordinance 78, by
which cartel practices were made illegal, the number of

NOVEMBER 1950

ve

--- Page 14 ---
improper agreements has greatly diminished. In the US
Zone alone, the number of agreements which have been
formally terminated by the parties to them because they
infringe Law 56 amounts to more than 6,000. However,
there are signs of a revival of such agreements and recent
investigations of the tripartite decartelization group are
intended to detect and prevent them.

The most recent action taken by the Division against a
cartel involved an agreement among the members of an
association of German abrasives manufacturers and with
their French competitors. The agreement, signed in No-
vember 1949, imposed limits upon the amounts of French
abrasives to be sold in Germany and of German abrasives
to be sold in France; the prices for all such international
sales were also fixed. Similar controls were imposed upon
sales by the Germans in the domestic market. In the
spring of 1950, an indictment of the German trade associa-
tion and several of its members was filed charging viola-

tion of Law 56. The defendants all pleaded guilty and
fines totaling DM 140,000 ($33,400) were imposed,

The Division has evidence of similar infringements of
Law 56 in its possession and is currently preparing to
take the necessary steps against the violators.

HE DIVISION FIRMLY believes that a few years of

living in a cartel-free economy will convince the
German public of the merits of shedding the old habits
and taking on new ones, and for that reason is especially
active in suppressing cartels.

The new way must be. assured of a fair, unhampered
presentation to the German people. Our friend the doctor
cannot hope to cure his patient simply by prescribing
treatments. He must also convince his patient that the
results of the treatments will be beneficial to him. Simi-
larly the Division must do more than decry cartels; it
must also present concrete evidence that life is better
without them. +END

Action Starts on Steel Reorganization

HE LIQUIDATION AND REORGANIZATION of six |

iron and steel companies, representing 85 percent of

West German crude steel production, is now underway.

This implementation of the recently published first
three regulations of Allied High Commission Law 27 is
not intended to hinder German steel production but is,
in carrying out the principles of the law itself, a means
of preventing the continued dominance of the industry
by a few big concerns. The companies affected are:
. Vereinigte Stahlwerke Aktiengesellschaft.
. Fried. Krupp.
. Mannesmannroehren-Werke.
. Kloeckner-Werke Aktiengesellschaft.
. Hoesche Aktiengesellschaft.

6. Gutehoffnungshuette Aktienverein fuer Bergbau und
Huettenbetrieb Gutehoffnungshuette Oberhausen Aktien-
gesellschaft.

arwne

It was always the Allied intention that the work of
reorganization should march hand in hand with the de-
concentration of the old concerns. Therefore liquidation
proceedings have been delayed until now when reorgani-
zation plans for the industry have taken shape.

The present liquidating procedure does not mean that
the operation of the factories and businesses will be
interrupted or discontinued. Business is scheduled to
continue as usual in co-ordination with reorganization plans.

To insure this continuity of business, the regulations
Provide that existing management boards be appointed
to act as the initial liquidators. Such appointments can
be subject to reconsideration within 90 days and the
Combined Steel. Group (the Allied High Commission
authority in this matter) has the power of appointment
or removal either upon its own initiative or upon re-
commendation of interested groups.

NOVEMBER 1950

11

N GENERAL, LIQUIDATIONS will follow German law

where such exists and is compatible with the general
objective of Law 27. However, since German law does
not fully cover this type of extraordinary liquidation, it
will be necessary for the Allied High Commission to
promulgate new laws as the need arises.

It is not possible at this stage to establish the per-
centage of foreign capital involved since much of the
concerns’ shares were held in the form of bearer. shares.
Too, the question of assets abroad is also difficult since
it raises questions of enemy property control over which
the Group has no jurisdiction. In the United States, for
example, German property was claimed by the Alien
Property Custodian. A US stockholder, on the other hand,
was in the same position as any other stockholder or
bondholder. Claimants, however, will receive the whole
proceeds arising from the liquidation and reorganization.

The Steel Trustee Association, the German body
responsible for reorganization planning, is expected to
produce the complete plan for one unit company very
soon. Plans tor the formation of other unit companies
should follow in rapid succession.

Several German interests, affected by the reéorgani-
zation, have submitted their own plans to the Group,

_ which has in turn made them available to the Steel

Trustee Association for possible action.

Law 27 has no jurisdiction over the steel quota since
this is a subject for discussion between the Allied High
Commission and the German government. However, any
quota decisions will directly affect the production
capacity and must be brought into reorganization plans.

It might also be pointed out that this law affects only
the colliery assets of I.G. Farbenindustrie A.G. since the
deconcentration of the Farben organization is separately
provided for under Law 35. -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
View of George C. Marshall House from Plaza of the
Nations with the “Funkturm' (Radio Tower) at right.

Uniformed guides study photographs illustrating American
way of life before opening of international exhibition

View from radio tower of George C. Marshall House (right),
British hall (left) and other ERP countries’ structures.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

George C. Marshall House

Berlin Industrial Exhibition
— October 1 to 15, 1950 —

INETY-FIVE PERCENT of the 453,000 visitors from

Soviet-controlled East Germany to the Berlin Indus-
trial Exhibition during the first 15 days of October included
a tour of the George C. Marshall House to get a truthful
picture of American life and the benefits of the Marshall
Plan to participating countries.

An electrically-operated diorama of a typical American
port city; large photographs and models depicting com-
munity, social, political and economic achievements in
the United States, and graphic charts explaining the
operations of ERP aid interested more than 750,000 visit-
ors to the Marshall House. Distributed were 2,000,000
pieces of literature, including copies of the US-published
Die Neue Zeitung, publications of Amerika Dienst (US
Feature Service) and ERP pamphlets.

Five officials from American labor unions were on
hand to answer questions and confer with visiting Ger-
mans. Two representatives of the US Department of
Commerce met with German exporters to explain proce-
dures and assist in business contacts. The 235-seat movie
theater was always filled for its continuous hour-long
showing of documentary films on American life and scenes.

Diorama of transportation in typical American port, includ-
ing electric trains, wharf, airport, municipal installations.

Interior of the newly-constructed George C. Marshall House.

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 16 ---
These services, promoted and co-ordinated by Berlin
Element-HICOG, contributed to the success of the in-
auguration of the George C. Marshall House, which con-
tinues as a permanent building of Berlin's exhibition
grounds to serve as a meeting place and exhibition hall.
Mr. Marshall, whose appointment as US secretary of
defense prevented his attendance, cabled: ‘Mutual con-
fidence in business, industrial and agricultural relations
is a firm foundation on which to rebuild economic stabil-
ity and the security which all peaceful people seek.”

One spectacular feature of the exhibition was the re-
lease of 99,000 gas-filled balloons, to be wind-carried
over Communist-dominated areas with an ERP message.
Prizes were offered replies from the greatest distance.
But the return of less than 100 cards indicated censorship
or destruction by East-German postal officials.

The Berlin Industrial Exhibition, also including displays
of German exports and products of other ERP countries,
attracted 1,110,000 persons, besides holders of exhibitor,
special and season passes. Gerhardt Wiemer, Berlin's
director of fairs and exhibits, remarked: ‘‘We have not
only given the world an overwhelming demonstration of
true democratic ideas, we have also demonstrated that
the nations of the free world are working side by side
for their mutual welfare in the field of practical co-
operation." +END

Photographs by Claude Jacoby for PRD HICOG (4); Elmer

Cox for Exhibition Section, HICOG (1); M. Kratjewsky

for Public Affairs Division, BE-HICOG (3); PRB BE-
HICOG (1); US Army (1).

Closeup of the ERP exhibit in wing on second floor.

Stairway leading to diorama and ERP exhibit on upper floor.

NOVEMBER 1950

Paul G. Hoffman, retiring ECA administrator, gets help
in releasing first balloon to carry ERP message to East.

Part of big display created by HICOG's Exhibition Section.

Dedication ceremony with US High Commissioner John J.
McCloy addressing assembled dignitaries and spectators.

--- Page 17 ---
Trade Unionism Growing

RADE UNION MEMBERSHIP in the Federal Republic
has climbed to an all-time record, exceeding the peak
membership in this area during the Weimar Republic.

Recent union reports disclose that approximately
5,222,000 wage earners, salaried employees, and civil
service officials, representing 41 percent of the organi-
zable working population, belong to a labor union. Mem-
bership grew to this peak from 2,002,000 in 1946. It re-
gistered startling growth in the pre-currency reform days,
and by June 1948, the labor movement in West Germany
had virtually been re-established. During these years, the
unions expanded their geographical jurisdiction through
amalgamation on a state or zonal basis.

Even after this period and its currency reform, the rate
of membership growth has far exceeded the rate of ex-
pansion in employment; the 461,000 union enrollment in-
crease is greater than the 380,000 employment rise in the
two years that have followed. This indicates that the
desire to belong to a union was not dampened by the
creation of “hard money."

The majority of the combined union membership in the
republic is concentrated in the 16 trade unions affiliated
with the Western German Trade Union Federation (DGB).
Most of these 16 DGB member unions cover one or more
major industry with the largest union, the metal union,
claiming more than 1,200,000 members.

As the accompanying chart shows, union organization
has penetrated most deeply in the mining industry, where
about 96 percent of all employees are union members.
Other fields where more than one-half of all employees
are organized include the railway, chemical, paper,
ceramic, public administration and service, post and
telegraph, and printing and metal.

On the other hand, union organization has not made
deep inroads in commerce, banking, insurance, agriculture
and forestry, having only 10 percent enrolled.

S MIGHT BE EXPECTED, the extent of union member-

ship is greater among men (47 percent) than among
women (25 percent), with the only exception being in the
leather industry. Persons under 21 years of age, constitut-
ing 20 percent of total employment and of whom many
are apprentices, determine 8.2 percent of the total DGB
membership.

West Berlin's degree of union membership (202,500 or
about 31 percent of potential membership) is highly
creditable in view of the adverse economic circumstances
there. The problem of recruiting new members was
intensified by the unions’ inability to obtain wage in-
creases in most branches of employment because of the
uncertain economie situation.

A few months ago, the West Berlin unions, affiliated
with the non-Communist Berlin Trade Union Organization
(UGO), merged with their counterpart unions in the DGB
and with the DAG (German, Salaried Employees’ Union),

“ which had previously operated only in the Federal Republic.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

Through these amalgamations, the free and democratic
trade union movements of Western Germany and West
Berlin have united 5,400,000 voluntary members in labor
organizations which are determined to prevent the re-
surgence of any totalitarian regime,

Extent and Degree of Trade Union Organization
in Proportion to Working Population in the Federal Republic
of Germany (excluding Berlin),
June 30, 1950

Total Union
Union Member-
Member- — ship in

ship (DGB Percentage

Trade Union andDAG) of Wage

and Salary

Earners

Total Total
Total 5,221,765 Al
Metal G : + 1,202,607 52
Public Services, Transport, Traffic - 687,766 60
Mining . . ooo .6 565,295 96
Railway . 424,927 76
Textile and Clothing . 382,035 37
Chemicals, Papers and Ceramics 374,175 70
Building, Stones and Earths . 349,593 24
Food, Beverages, Restaurants 234,349 33
Woodworking 174,100 33
Post and Telegraph a 163,047 60
Commerce, Banking, Insurance : 123,253 10
Printing and Paper . 117,696 56
Gardening, Agriculture, Forestry . 109,132 10
Leather 6400 90,076 42
Others . 223,714 27

Trade Union Schools’ Methods
Improving, Labor Education Expert Finds

The German trade unions in Bremen are taking a wider
view of their educational tasks than they did in the pre-
Hitler days, according to W. Burmeister, University of
London faculty member and a visiting consultant on
adult and labor education of the Education and Cultural
Affairs Division, HICOG.

Mr. Burmeister was particularly impressed with the
work of the German Federation of Trade Unions’ school
at Blumenthal, one of the many such schools and
agencies he visited in his comprehensive study of this
subject in the US Zone. At Blumenthal the visiting con-
sultant found the students lively, intelligent and keenly
interested, with nearly everyone participating in the
question and discussion periods.

This was in contrast to previous German trade union
education when, according to Mr. Burmeister, the re-
sidential courses of this kind were looked upon as a
means of filling the students with the maximum amount
of information with little discussion taking place. Cur-
riculums were overburdened with endless talks, many
of them theoretical in their approach and offering little
opportunity for genuine exchange of view.

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 18 ---
Labor-Movement Pattern

Address

By HARVEY W. BROWN
Director, Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG

HEN I WENT TO GERMANY a little over a year

ago, one of the first things which I learned was
that I would have to discard a great many concepts
about the labor movement which I had spent a lifetime
in building and developing. They just did not fit the
German pattern.*

And so even now I do not pretend to speak as an
authority, but I believe that you will be interested in
learning something of the background and present problems
of German labor as I have seen them in the past year.
I do not want to bore you with too much history but,
in general, it is necessary to view European labor move-
ments, including that of Germany, in the light of their
early developments. European labor organizations were
part and parcel of the growth of social consciousness
during the nineteenth century and of the industrial
revolution,

In Germany, prior to the Hitler regime, the trade unions
were split ideologically and politically into a number of
groups. The largest was the group of Socialist-oriented
unions comprising about 65 percent of organized labor.
The Christian Democratic unions and the Free Democratic
unions ranked next in size, Both the Socialist and the

* Also see “Labor Picture’ by Mr. Brown in Information Bulletin,
January 1950 issue.

Harvey W. Brown, director of the Office of Labor Affairs,
HICOG, delivered Oct. 14 the speech which forms the
text of the accompanying article, before the convention
of the Railway Machinists’ General Chairmen's Associa-
tion in Chicago, Ill.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Christian Democratic unions were, in effect, the labor
arms of the Social Democratic Party and the Christian
Democratic Party, respectively, the latter representing
the Catholic element.

Although the labor movement was split up in this
fashion, it did manage to co-operate on purely labor
objectives. Contracts negotiated and signed jointly with
management were possible and usual during this period.
In spite of the difference in political allegiance, the unions
were able to co-operate in demands for certain types of
social legislation.

SURVEY OF THE GERMAN labor scene would not
be complete without mentioning the works councils,
Early labor demand for worker representation within the
individual plant inspired the Works Council Law of 1920.
This law furnished legal basis for establishment of works
councils and required their formation within each enterprise.
The works council is simply a group of workers elected
by all the persons working in a particular plant. The
basic purpose for its formation is to deal with manage-
ment on behalf of all the workers; to represent the
worker with management in the settlement of individual
grievances; to consult with management on sanitary,
health and accident matters; possibly to aid in the manage-
ment of plant-operated canteens or other social or recre-
ational projects and to negotiate with management a
plant agreement concerning the application of the over-all
collective agreement to the plant and on matters of plant
interest only. The Works Council Law also permitted
representation on the board of directors of the plant.

In actual fact, the works council, as it operates in
Germany, performs many of the functions which the
trade-union shop stewards and trade-union locals perform
in the United States. It differs radically, however, in
that it is not legally an arm of the trade union and
that members of the works council may or may not be
members of the trade union. In highly organized industries,
they generally are. In poorly organized industries, they
may or may not be. In either case, their first responsi-
bility is to the workers of the plant and not to the
trade union.

When Hitler achieved power in Germany, one of his
first acts was to dissolve the German trade unions, to
arrest the leadership and to confiscate trade union prop-
erty. The works councils were also dissolved when the
Works Council Law of 1920 was replaced by the Law
for the Organization of National Labor. From that time
until the beginning of the occupation in 1945, German

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
labor was organized into the Deutsche Arbeitsfront (Ger-
man Labor Front), an arm of the National Socialist Party.

ONG BEFORE THE WAR CAME to an end, the policy
makers of the US Government were engaged in
planning for the re-organization of Germany along demo-
cratic lines. It was early recognized that German labor
constituted a reservoir of potential democratic strength
and that, to realize that strength, the establishment and
functioning of democratic trade unions must be encouraged.
The Potsdam Agreement and early policy directives
teflected this conviction. Consequently when Military
Government began functioning in conquered Germany,
local Military Government officers encouraged the re-
establishment of trade unions, beginning at the grass-
roots level.

Despite encouragement, German labor did not find it
an easy job. Many of the old labor leaders had died
in concentration camps, many had fled the Hitler terror,
most of those who were left were no longer young.
Those who participated in the rebuilding of the German
labor movement, however, were determined not to repeat
the old mistakes. The pattern which emerged and was
solidified by a western German amalgamation last year
was that of 16 industrial trade unions combined into a
federation, the German Trade Union Federation.

Unlike their predecessors, the new German trade unions
and federation maintain neutrality on political and reli-
gious questions. Policy-wise, the federation probably
exercises a greater degree of influence upon its affiliated
trade unions than do the AFL or the CIO. However, the
financial and organizational autonomy of the member
trade unions is assured.

Both the federation and the 16 industrial unions main-
tain district organizations corresponding to the state level
and again at the county and sometimes city level in
cases of large centers. There are no locals, however, in
the sense in which we understand that term in the United
States. The lowest level of the organization exercises
geographical jurisdiction over all workers in its areas.
At this level, local business is transacted, including the
collection of dues,

INCE 1945, THE MEMBERSHIP of the trade unions
has grown tremendously. At the present time, the
federation claims approximately 5,100,000 members in
western Germany. The total dependently employed popu-
lation is now estimated at 14,000,000. Of the 16 industrial
unions, the Metal Workers claim 1,200,000 members or 24
percent of the total. Public Service and Miners come
next with 12.7 and 11.4 percent respectively. The least
in point of membership is the Union of Professional
Artists and Entertainers, claiming eight percent.
In general, jurisdiction disputes have not proved to be
a disrupting influence to German trade unions except in
one instance. A White Collar Workers Union, originally
confined to the banking, insurance and commercial fields,
decided that white collar workers, in whatever industry,
have a community of interests which cuts across industry

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

lines and, accordingly, alleges that a separate organization
is required for this category.

Organizing in fields pre-empted by the industrial unions
quickly brought the White Collar Workers Union into
conflict with the industrial unions, and, eventually,
resulted in exclusion from the federation. Since that time,
it has operated independently of the federation and now
claims a present membership of some 300,000. However,
the jurisdictional battle has not prevented this union from
working closely with the various industrial unions in
joint contract negotiations affecting its membership.

The new German trade unions have succeeded in
preventing splits along political or religious lines. Al-
though trade-union leadership all down the line is predom-
inantly Social Democratic in political belief, a concerted
effort has been made to assure representation of non-
Socialist elements through participation at all levels of
trade-union activity. To maintain this unity, trade-union
leaders are required to exercise considerable restraint
when dealing with political issues.

INCE THE FEDERATION has existed since January

of this year only, itis a little early to assess the part
it will play in the political life of Germany. It is, of
course, exceedingly active in supporting labor legislation,
with particular emphasis on co-determination, which I
shall deal with a little later. In many areas, particularly
on economic policy, it frequently finds itself at odds with
the right-wing Federal Government,

Before leaving the subject of the organization and
growth of the German trade unions, it might be of
interest to briefly sketch the economic background of
postwar Germany within which they grew. It is difficult
today, in the face of the tremendous economic improve-
ment of Germany, to visualize the conditions which
existed in the years immediately following the surrender.
In order to forestall economic chaos, Military Govern-
ment was compelled to freeze wages and prices of
rationed goods and to maintain strict rationing and other
economic controls, Outside of the controlled areas, money
gradually ceased to have much value.

Under these conditions, direct commodity exchange or
barter became increasingly prevalent and goods did not
reach store shelves since the population at all levels
preferred to hoard goods rather than to exchange them
for a currency of doubtful value. This wage freeze
prevented any sort of collective bargaining by the trade
unions, except for special permission granted to certain
depressed groups. It was not until May of 1948 that the
trade unions were permitted to bargain for a wage increase
up to 15 percent. In June of that year, the old Reichs-
mark was replaced by the present Deutsche mark at a
rate of 10 to 1. It was not until November of that year’
that the wage freeze was finally lifted.

TRANGELY ENOUGH, the trade unions did not
NS) immediately begin negotiations for higher wages.
The leaders claim that they were apprehensive lest a
series of wage demands at that time would have endan-

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 20 ---
gered the value of the new currency and that a wage-
price spiral would have started in which the worker
would have been the chief loser. Instead, the trade
unions concentrated on demanding continuation of ration-
ing and price controls on rationed articles.

When the high prices of consumers’ goods prevented
purchase by the workers, they demanded a program for
producing standardized, low-priced, so-called every man
commodities, such as shoes, clothing and other essential
articles. Such a program was instituted and probably
contributed a great deal toward pacifying the workers.

Actually, except fora sharp spurt upward immediately —

after currency reform, prices of consumer goods showed
a gradual decrease. Stores became well stocked with
goods which were of increasingly higher quality. Food
was plentiful as compared to the period immediately
preceding currency reform and rationed food was in-
creased in quantity and availability. It is possible that the
German workers needed at this time a period of recuper-
ation from the grim days of semi-starvation and worry.

As I have said before, the policies of Military Govern-
ment were directed toward encouraging the reorganization
and growth of the German labor movement. Policy-wise,
all that could be done was to provide an appropriate
atmosphere in which the trade unions could collect their
shattered membership and leadership and make the first
steps toward organization. The Military Government
policy of restitution of Nazi-confiscated property per-
mitted the trade unions to claim and secure the return
of all former trade union property, such as office buildings,
schools and other identifiable assets. Scarce items, such
as paper, were procured for the printing of newspapers
and informational material. .

Everything possible was done in order that trade-union
schools, banks, co-operative societies and recreational
areas could begin operations. They were encouraged to
resume their relationships and affiliate with international
trade-union bodies and to travel outside of Germany and
resume contacts with labor movements in other countries.
In all this, the United States trade unions and those of
Great Britain, France and other European countries aided
in every way. In particular, the German trade unions are
indebted to the United States unions for thousands of food
and clothing packages which went to trade union leaders
and schools and aided substantially in tiding them over.

T MAY BE SAID that the present period of German

trade-union development began with currency reform.
Currency-reform and the consequent lifting of the wage
freeze gave them a reason for existence and a possibility
of normal functioning in the economic field. From that
time, development was rapid. The industrial unions kicked
off by a series of conventions, which amalgamated their
organizations on a-Western Germany level and plans
were developed for a Western German federation.* After
the complete break with the Communist-dominated Eastern
Germany unions, the federation was established in October

* See “Trade Union Federation" in Information Bulletin, Issue No. 165,
July 12, 1949,

NOVEMBER 1950

17

of last year. I was privileged to attend that convention
and address the delegates.

I have indicated before that the majority of the Ger-
man trade-union leadership of today are members of the
Social Democratic Party and, therefore, are strongly in-
fluenced by the Social Democratic ideology. Accordingly,
their position on the economic problems confronting Ger-
many reflects that point of view. They are convinced
that a planned economy is necessary to insure that the
worker receives his fair share of the industrial product.
They insist that, as representatives of the workers, they
must share in such planning on an equal basis to. secure
these objectives.

In particular, they wish to prevent unreasonable exploi-
tation of the workers and to prevent the emergence of
an unholy alliance of those holding economic power with
extreme right or left-wing demagogues. Not without reason
are they suspicious of elements who supported the Nazi
regime and who, they feel, are ready to support any
equally vicious element which holds out the promise of
maintaining them in power. It is easy to see why the
trade union leadership is apprehensive of the future unless
it can develop sufficient influence to keep Germany on
the democratic track.

EGINNING WITH GOVERNMENTAL controls over
B industry and possibly the socialization of basic in-
dustry, trade union leadership advocates a.careful policy
of economic expansion concurrent with extensive housing
development projects,’ particularly in industrial areas.
It believes that such a policy holds out the only hope
of eventually overcoming the unemployment existing in
Western Germany today. It argues that progress along
these lines is the only effective bulwark against Com-
munism, which breeds and flourishes under conditions of
economic want and distress.

There is no question of the fact that German trade-
union leadership is firmly anchored to co-operation with
the Western democratic countries. As bitter as it was
to accept the fact of the partition of German labor through
the realization that the Eastern zone trade unions were
an arm of the Communist Party, I believe that they now
recognize the finality of this fact under the present
circumstances. :

Although there are a sprinkling of Communist leaders
in the trade unions, they are few and far between at
the highest levels. Punctuated by the march of recent
events, there has been a perceptible stiffening in the
attitude of trade-union leadership toward the Communists
in their ranks, which may very well lead to gradual and

“ complete removal.

Beyond a doubt, the problem of unemployment in
western Germany is one of paramount importance, not
only to the German trade unions but to the economy as
a whole. It is almost as difficult to deal briefly with such
a complex subject as it is to solve the many economic
problems inherent in such a situation, It may seem to
you to be paradoxical, but in western Germany employ-
ment levels are now the highest they have been since

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
the occupation and, at the same time, a reservoir of
some 1,300,000 unemployed are left. This represents a
decrease of 700,000 from the unemployment high point
of more than 2,000,000 reached in February of 1950.

The problem is enormously complicated by the continuing
influx of refugees from the East. Consequently, the adult
population is growing more swiftly than available job
opportunities, Another factor is the relatively high female
population.

P TO NOW, THE POLICY of the German government

on resettlement of uprooted Germans has been to
distribute them in rural or small town areas. Although
this policy was undoubtedly necessary in order to provide
housing, it has resulted in a concentration of the
unemployed in areas where there is no possibility of
providing jobs. Housing in industrial areas as well as
an expansion of industry is a prerequisite for the absorp-
tion of a large part of the unemployed. This is clearly
recognized by trade union leaders, who have at every
opportunity urged the government to adopt an over-all
plan, including factors for both short-range and long-
range solutions.

The existence of the huge reservoir of unemployed has
complicated the problem of the trade unions in seeking
a readjustment of the wage-price level. The problem was
not acute as long as government subsidies kept the price
of basic food items stabilized.

Over trade-union protests, however, the German gov-
ernment, in the spring of this year, decided on suspending
the subsidies on corn, flour and bread. This resulted in
a notable increase in food prices, not only of those
directly tied to the subsidies but, also, of meats, sugar,
eggs and cheese. Increases ranged from seven to 25
percent. Bread, which is a major item in the German
workers’ diet, showed increases from 10 to 22 percent
for different kinds of bread.

In the face of such increases, a wave of worker protest
broke over western Germany and resulted in a wholesale
cancellation of collective agreements by the trade unions.
However, since the notice period for cancellation -of
contracts is usually from one to two months, negotiations
for increased wages have been taking place only recently.

HE CONSTRUCTION WORKERS were one of the

first to begin negotiations and found themselves -

confronted by a solid front of employer opposition, alleg-
edly backed by major groups who feared the establish-
ment of a higher wage pattern. To break the resistance,
the union called a strike in one major city. Almost
immediately, considerable numbers of the smaller- and
medium-sized firms signed separate agreements with the
union on the basis of the union demands.

The larger firms, however, made no move until the
government, alarmed by the spread or threatened spread
of the work stoppage to other large cities, brought
together the parties to the dispute and persuaded them to
arbitrate. After several days of hearings, a settlement
at the rate of 14 pfennigs (3'/s cents) per hour increase
was accepted by the unions and the employers.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

Since that time, the metal workers in Hesse have been
able to negotiate a 13-pfennig (three-cent) per hour in-
crease without resorting to a strike. Other industries as
well have achieved increases. On the bases of these
agreements, it is likely that the general wage level for
the German worker will stabilize at approximately 10 to
15 percent above that of last spring.

There is little doubt that this increase can be absorbed
by the vast majority of German enterprises without
resorting to increase in prices. If this at least. partially
occurs, the outlook for industrial peace in Germany in
the immediate future is good. A gemeral increase in the
price level would, however, undoubtedly foment further
wages demands, since the trade unions have lost the
battle with government for direct or indirect price con-
trols in exchange for maintaining the former wage level.

OU PROBABLY KNOW that there exists a serious

housing shortage in western Germany due to the
destruction of World War II and the great influx of
German refugees from the East. The German trade unions
have tried to undertake low-cost-housing developments
but have met with only partial success.

In Schleswig-Holstein, the use of American funds has
resulted in the planning and completion of 10,000 housing
units for German refugees in 1950.* These, however, are
a mere drop in the bucket in the face of the existing need.

In another part of Germany — Lower Saxony — another
8,000 housing units for refugees are being financed by
ECA funds. Here again, the trade unions have succeeded
in a plan for low-cost housing. In Bavaria, however, the
Bavarian government was unwilling to let- the trade
unions participate in the planning of low-cost housing,
with the result that these houses in Bavaria are being
built at much higher cost and higher rents,

The Office of Labor Affairs has insisted that American
funds will be used only if our requirements are met, and
one of our requirements is that the American taxpayers’
money shall not be wasted but shall be used efficiently
for the good of the people. The American funds earmarked
for Bavaria are to be withheld until it is proved to our
satisfaction that our money is being used efficiently.

On the other hand, the good example of Schleswig-Hol-
stein is now being discussed in all quarters of Germany.

_ and we expect that, from that example, the necessary les-

son will be drawn on a governmental level. It is hoped.
that other parts of Germany, including Bavaria, will follow
the example.

NE ISSUE WHICHIS presently uppermost in the minds

of the German trade unions is that of co-determination.
By co-determination is meant the right of labor, through
their unions, to have a voice in management of industrial
enterprises.

Co-determination is closely tied in with works councils.
As I related earlier, works councils came into being in the
early 20's. They were reintroduced by permission of the
Occupation Forces and, in some of the states, are now
ee (Continued on page 81)

* See ‘New Homes for Refugees” in Information Bulletin, May 1950
issue and ‘ERP House Building’ in September 1950 issue.

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 22 ---
Analysis of Some of the Problems Facing Medical Affairs and Public
Welfare Branch in Connection with Communicable Disease Control

Need for Immunization

By LT. COL. W. R. deFOREST
Chief, Medical Affairs and Public Welfare Branch

and

Vv. K. VOLK, M. D.
Public Health Adviser
Education and Cultural Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

BVIOUSLY MANY THOUSANDS of cases of com-

municable diseases occur which could be prevented,
and many hundreds of lives could be spared, if the
methods which already have proved highly effective in
the United States were widely applied in Germany. The
disappointing fact is that German physicians are reluctant
to use the multiple immunization agents which are widely
accepted in many parts of the world.

A detailed analysis as to why this is so is impossible
in a short report but some of the factors are presented
here to give a picture of what difficulties lie ahead for
the Medical Affairs and Public Welfare Branch and the
German medical and public health profession.

It must be remembered that large segments of the
medical profession before, during and after the war were
aloof from contact with medical literature of other coun-
tries, particularly of the United States. Thus they were de-
prived of knowledge of newer trends and developments in
the field of prevention of certain communicable diseases.

Although communicable diseases statistics leave no
doubt that various immunization procedures represent a
new day in the art of preventive medical science, the
German medical and public health professions are unwill-
ing to accept these findings until they have made their
own investigations. Unfortunately every doctor here
seems to trust only his own figures. The result is that the
immunization program in Germany is at very low ebb and
a great many cases develop with many needless deaths.

HE ATTITUDE THAT the work of scientists beyond

the German border needs to be checked first, is un-
fortunate because duplication of some of the studies
requires years of observation. Such a delay, at this time,
in our opinion, is not justified. Thus not enough is done
in the field of immunization because of lack of knowledge
and without knowledge there is no incentive to promote
immunization programs.

Some particular objections to whooping cough vac-
cination are very hard to dispel. They are based upon
attitudes rather than objective evidence — current publi-
city that whooping cough vaccination per se may be a
contributing factor in the development of poliomyelities
(entirely unfounded) helped to defer the immunization
program against whooping cough.

NOVEMBER 1950

19

Diphtheria immunization is compulsory in some parts
of Germany. In those sections the health department of-
ficials apparently do not feel motivation for health educa-
tional efforts to promote diphtheria immunization. They
fail to realize that health education will interpret to the
public the many physical and economic advantages and
will create in people the desire for this and other public
health services and particularly will create a demand for
other immunization services for certain communicable
diseases just as dangerous and deadly as diphtheria.

Lack of educational stimulus to the public reflects the
apparent apathy of the newspapers on matters of public
health. While in the United States the newspaper space
for public health is very much appreciated by every
thoughtful and progressive health officer, it is not con-
sidered to be a good approach in Germany.

The immunization against tetanus is objected to because
“there are not enough deaths" to warrant such efforts. We
are fully convinced that immunization in itself is com-
pletely harmless, and if it saves only a few people, it is
still worth the effort, since the disease, once established,
is highly fatal. Of course, there are other factors such
as that injured persons, previously immunized, need not
receive tetanus antitoxin but, instead, a small injection
of tetanus toxid. The advantage is that tetanus antitoxin
is apt to produce sensitization which may be disastrous
to a patient who may later need some other life-saving
serum but who cannot receive it because of the fear of
anaphylactic shock. Not much consideration is given to
the trifling injuries which may lead to tetanus, and may
be masked as cases of meningitis.

OME ECONOMIC FACTORS which, in our opinion,

are of great importance are these:

The present medical care organization definitely handi-
caps the program because the medical insurance boards
will not accept immunization as compensable medical
service. It means the people must pay for services, which
they are reluctant to do after generations of not paying
for any other medical service. This is especially true when
one remembers there is little or no educational stimulus
to make people want and demand the preventive service.

The other aspect is that immunization is provided by
health department physicians. If the practice of immuni-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
zation is widespread we know it will reduce the incidence
of certain diseases tremendously and will greatly reduce

- the number of deaths. The bold facts are that immuni-
zation will reduce the sickness rate and inasmuch as the
physicians are working on fee schedule this will greatly
curtail their medical income, by reducing the number of
patient visits.

This is not stated as critically of German physicians,
because the doctors, as everyone else, must have security
and while none intentionally will withhold the preventive
measures, the facts indicate the situation is not such that
it would warrant encouragement for the use of multiple
antigens for immunization by private physicians.

HAT THEN IS THE ANSWER to the problem in its
many complexities?

There is no solution that is applicable to all parts of
Germany but much can be done by encouraging realiza-
tion by the medical profession that great progress has
been made in the control of communicable diseases and
by imparting this information to the doctors in every
possible way, such as by:

1, Direct contact with medical groups.

2. Encouraging publication of authentic literature in
German medical publications.

3. Encouragement of health education and creating in-
terest in general newspapers in public health advances.

4, Providing on demonstration basis of multiple im-
munization preparations through use of US funds until
such a time when the profession and population will be
convinced of the effectiveness of multiple immunization.

5. Teaching of health personnel, physicians and nurses
in modern public health practices, by sending some
promising personalities to the United States. These are
all expensive items and will require years to achieve.

OWEVER, MUCH IS already being done and the fol-

lowing is the example of what has been accomplish-
ed, The following is but a brief review of the efforts of
the Medical Affairs and Public Wel-

DIPHTHERIA

Case and Death Rates in US Zone, incl. US Sector of Berlin,
and in the State of Michigan, USA
CASES

1948

1949 Il
T

eee ie ae |
r

= — +

Rate per 10,000 Populotion per Annum

oe

\ORTALITY

Germany ——=

=== Michigan

7. Detailed medical publications are subsidized to pro-
mote the knowledge in newer trends in public health and
the medical field.

At present a project is being developed to provide free
immunization to 25,000 infants and pre-school children
as a demonstration project, in the hope that once the
medical profession becomes convinced it will encourage
acceptance of the extended immunization by German
health officers.

Finally, influence is being brought to bear upon hospital
insurance boards to accept immunization as compensable
medical service and to make them aware that it is much
cheaper than the care of those who are sick from pre-
ventable diseases. In short, we are attempting to sell to
the insurance boards and to the medical and public health
profession the idea that an ounce of prevention is worth
a pound of cure. -+END

fare Branch of HICOG and consultants:

1, Regional health advisors and
public health specialists visit health
officers on the state and district level.

2. Deans of medical schools are
contacted and aid solicited in im-
parting the newer knowledge to the
younger doctors and medical students.

the United States.

Morbidity Figures
Diphtheria
Pertussis .
Measles . .
Scarlet Fever
Typhoid Fever .
Tuberculosis*

3. Pediatric professors are contacted
for the same purpose.

4. Talks are given before the medi-
cal groups.

US Zone incl. US Sector of Berlin

5. Health commissioners are en-
couraged to promote lay educational
programs.

6. Health officers are urged to get
newspapers behind their program and
to help make German people want the
health protection.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Mortality Figures
Diphtheria
Pertussis

Measles .. .
Scarlet Fever... .
Typhoid Fever .. .
Tuberculosis* ...

Comparison of German vs. US Statistical Data

The extremely high incidence of many communicable diseases in Germany has been
of great concern to Medical Affairs and Public Welfare Branch, Education and
Cultural Relations D:
comparison of statistical information obtained from official sources in Germany and

ision, Office of Public Affairs, This may be seen from a

State of Michigan, USA

Jan.- Jan.-
(Population 1949 — 19,100,700) July (Population 1949 — 6,500,000) July
1946 1947 1948 1949 1950 1946 1947 1948 1949 1950

44,152 30,971 19,061 15,363 7,344 385 238 126, 119 55
24,934 14,933 26,871 26,975 13,968 8,116 10,472 2,668 4,157 6,013
14,054 28,763 19,103 15,240 15,934 42,261 9,574 42,952 20,279 36,971
9,763 9,937 15,926 29,184 18,059 5,977 4,834 5,934 8,852 3,352
6,081 4,596 3,877 2,359 668 85 77 49 48 20.
34,936 52,246 49,200 37,696 19,672 5,548 6,470 6,109 5,953 2,806
1,637 1,082 526 344 182 27 23 8 11 2
127 107 144 203 60 44 63 9. 22 19.
25 Sa 34 49 15 AT 5 43 33 26

63 55 80 % 38 3 6 1 4 1
540 392 316 172 48 6 5 4 1 3
8,466 9,002 8,543 6,253 2,950 1,843 1,643 1,561 1,400 666

*German figures taken from monthly reports. Note: Pertussis is medical term for whooping cough.

20

aap

NOVEMBER 1950

z
2
a

--- Page 24 ---
Women’s

‘

= me
sponsibilities

Women of seven nations occupy the speakers’ table at the first morning panel discussion. Left to right, they are Jeanne
Driessen, senator from Belgium; Mrs. Maurice Moore, chairman of the Foreign Division, National YWCA, United States;
Emmi Beckmann, superintendent of schools, Hamburg, Germany; Sylvi Visapaa (standing), national general secretary of
the YWCA and head of the Girl Scout movement of Finland; Mrs. Elly Heuss-Knapp, wife of the president of the Ger-
man Federal Republic; Mrs. van der Goes, vice president of the Women's Group of the Labor Party, Holland; Else-Merete

Ross, Danish representative of UNESCO; Else Chevally, president of the Social Service, France.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

“The Individual Responsibility of Women in Meeting the Cri-
tical Issues of Today’ was the theme of an international confer-
ence of approximately 150 leading women of Europe, America
and Asia in Bad Reichenhall, eastern Bavaria, late in September.

ERMANY HAD NOT SEEN such an assembly of

women for decades. They came from 16 nations of
Western Europe and North America and one came even
from India. They were professional women, governmental
officials, representatives of the United Nations, leaders of
women's groups as well as students and mothers and
housewives.

Numbering about 150, they were influential members
of their home communities and organizations, who gather-
ed in Bad Reichenhall, Bavaria, from Sept. 25 to 30 for
an international conference to determine “women's
responsibility in meeting the critical issues of today.”
They passed no high-sounding resolutions, nor did they
organize a new international agency. Instead they set up
a brisk exchange of ideas, and ripped away the veil of
mistrust and misunderstanding that had resulted from
the last war; they crystallized their opinions on what
women could do to secure peace and freedom for a
world in which both were threatened.

How well they succeeded only each individual par-
ticipant could say, but even a casual observer could
hardly fail to note the purposeful enthusiasm which
developed during the conference and the determination

NOVEMBER 1950

21

of many delegates to return home and put their new
ideas into action.

The conference was sponsored by the Women's Affairs
advisers of the French, British and US High Commis-
sioners, working for many months in its preparation with
an advisory German committee.

TS FIRST SESSION opened under the chairmanship
of Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US high commis-

sioner. Other guests of honor included Mrs. Elly Heuss-
Knapp, wife of the president of the Federal Republic,
Mme. Francois-Poncet and Lady Kirkpatrick, wives of the
French and British high commissioners; Dr. Hans Ehard,
minister president of Bavaria, and Dr. George N. Shuster,
US state commissioner for Bavaria.

Among the conferees were representatives of the
International Labor Office, UNESCO, UN Food and Agri-
culture Organization and other international agencies.
Approximately 80 of the conference delegates were Ger-
man, including many younger women whose interest and
enthusiasm indicated a new appreciation for their role
in civic affairs.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
Margaret Hickey, public affairs editor of the Ladies
Home Journal, launched the conference into the heart
of its work with her major address on the conference
theme — “The Individual Responsibility of Women in
Meeting the Critical Issues of Today."

During the following morning an international panel
further enlarged on Mrs. Hickey’s remarks and called for
discussion from the floor. In the afternoon, the women
divided into smaller committees to consider the practical
relationship of the evening's address to specific areas of
life, such as home and family; education; social and
religious welfare; business, professional and industrial
life; public office and politics.

HIS WAS THE GENERAL daily procedure throughout
the conference. A major address each evening,
covering one or more fields of women’s problems and
interests, was discussed the following day in an inter-
national panel session and by special interest committees.
An electric, simultaneous translation system, well-
known at United Nations meetings, largely eliminated
language hindrances, while the friendly and tolerant
attitude of the participants produced a brisk interplay
of ideas. Perhaps the most effective results of the
congress, however, developed from talks over luncheon
tables in the Grand Hotel Axelmannstein, or late evening
discussions in hotel rooms, or during a quiet moment in
an afternoon trip into the mountains. It was through
these asides that initial prejudice, doubts and mis-
understanding were dissolved, and the basis for co-
operative work established.

A Dutch delegate confided that she had approached
the conference with fear that she could not face German
women calmly after the experiences of the war. But she
added that after an hour with one of them she realized
that there was a basis for a new relationship.

“When I was told that I was to attend an International
Women's Conference,” said the pretty, vivacious secretary
from Wiesbaden, “I expected to find a group of aging
feminists delivering pompous speeches. But now I have

Dr. Maria Elizabeth Lueders, member of Berlin's City
Council, was key speaker at a panel urging women to
accept their responsibilities as citizens of their community,
the nation and the world. The time is past when we can
escape (these) responsibilities," she said, (Amerika Dienst photo)

Mrs. John J. McCloy (left), wife of the US High Commis-
sioner, takes time out with Margaret Hickey, American
magazine editor. In a keynote address Mrs. Hickey said:
“Politics, though a new industry for women, is every
woman's business." (Amerika Dienst photo)

met so many people, heard so many new ideas, that I
am so excited I can't sleep at night.”

At lunch one day a German housewife was saying that
foreign women couldn't be expected to understand their
problems; for instance, there was the destruction... A
nearby Dutch participant pointed out that Holland was
pretty badly destroyed also... But the food shortage,
continued the German... And we faced endless queues
and starvation, too, said the Dutch lady... In fact the
problems of economics, of education, of politics seemed
all to be very similar. It was the first time the two had
realized they were women with common problems before
they were women of different nationalities.

HEIR DISCOVERY EXEMPLIFIED the remarks of
Mrs. Hickey in her opening night address:
“Women can make a unique contribution in the field
of international statesmanship, because they are concerned
with the individual effect of national and international
politics on the lives and homes of people... They can
humanize the vast issues daily presented to the public.
There is no better test than the effect of policy on the
individual's home. Women know that foreign policy is
getting food to people’s stomachs, medicine to sick
children, pencils and books to faraway classrooms, water
to parched desert lands, and women know that the local
community cannot escape the fate of humanity itself.”
She pointed out that politics, “though a new industry
for women, is every woman's business.” She urged women
to seek out positions of political influence and with the
help of women's organizations make certain that “a new
humanitarian standard of citizenship is raised, that moral
and spiritual values take precedence over personal and
so-called political advantage.
“Then, there is a job for every woman in the field of
good civic housekeeping. The battle for a decent world
starts very close to where you are — schools, libraries,

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 26 ---
clinics, housing, improvement of child labor laws, and
working conditions, equal pay for equal work, the prob-
lems of the aged — these are essential tasks. The ex-
perience gained by the alert woman taking them on is
the best training for the higher posts in the business of
government.”

Mrs. Irene Manceaux, mayor of a French city and a
shining example of women’s growing civic role, placed
women's responsibility in meeting the critical issues
even closer to home — within the family itself. In her
address, read in her absence by Mrs. G. Carrez, Women's
Affairs adviser to the French high commissioner, she
pointed out that the woman's unique influence in the
family gave her the opportunity for creating a spirit of
tolerance and unity among members of the family and
for training the children in good citizenship. In the
family, “the woman will find an activity worthy of her
and she will play a part that is absolutely irreplaceable.”

She underscored the importance of the family as the
basic unit of society and deplored the failure of most
states to allow the family to play its proper role in public
affairs. The totalitarian state tended to destroy the
identity of the family altogether, she said.

“We think that in a democratic regime, in addition to
the representation of individual, political and economic
groups, we should have a representation of family
groups,” she said. ‘We think that not only the presence
of the family in all political organisms is necessary...
but we think even more that the interests of the family
should be carried forward by special organisms in both
national and international organizations.”

This did not mean, however, that Mrs. Manceaux, or
any other member of the congress, dismissed women's
responsibility with the adage “her place is in the home.”

HERE WAS THE FIRM resolution that women must

be given the right and the opportunity to play a signi-
ficant role in civic affairs, But throughout the conference,
main emphasis was on what this role should be, and
how women could play an effective part in the life of
their communities and nations. The conferees had no
intention of reviving the old-style “feminist movement”
in which women attempted to compete with men in

Portion of audience shown listening to the addresses at the
opening ceremonies of the conference, (PRD HICOG photo)

Guests of honor were, left to right, Lady Kirkpatrick, wife
of the Brilish High Commissioner; Mrs. John J. McCloy;
Mrs. Elly Heuss-Knapp, wife of the president of the Federal
Republic; and Mme. Francois-Poncet, wife of the French

High Commissioner, (PRD HICOG photo)

public affairs. They were concerned with establishing
ways in which women could co-operate with men in
creating a better society.

Many suggestions were made for creating such op-
portunities for women.

The Committee on Home and Family proposed that the
whole family share the household’ duties, that kitchen
arrangements and household efficiency be improved, and
community institutions, such as libraries, be set up, to
make the women’s burden lighter and give her time to
take on community responsibility.

Reporting for the committee, Helena Deneke, member
of the English National Federation of Women's Institutes,
urged that an international institute be established to
conduct scientific research and issue information con-
cerning improvement in home and family life. It was
urged that UNESCO be approached on this project.

HE COMMITTEE ON INDUSTRIAL, professional and

business life asserted that women, married as well as
single, have a moral right to work, and urged that the
training requirements for feminine workers as well as
the wages, which run 10 to 40 percent lower in Europe,
be equalized with those of the men.

Representatives of the International Labor Office, and
the Women's Bureau of the US Department of Labor,
promised to provide the delegation with literature and
more information on this subject.

More civic education for girls in school was recom-
mended by the Committee on Politics and Public Affairs,
It was agreed that social studies should be introduced
into vocational schools where the great majority of
European youngsters finish their formal education.

The problem of the working women, as well as men,
in this industrial age was the special concern of Dame
Caroline Haslett, member of the Central Committee of
the British Electricity Authority, in her address dis-
cussing the “preservation of human values in business
and industrial life.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Discussions didn't end with formal sessions. Continuing
here are Ruth F. Woodsmall, chief, Women's Affairs
Branch, HICOG; Else-Merete Ross, Danish representative
at UNESCO; Katherine Kleikamp, German consultant,
Women's Affairs Section, Office of the UK High Com-
missioner; Sarah Chakko, schoolteacher, India; Margaret
Hickey, public affairs editor, ,Ladies Home Journal,”
United States; Frieda Walter, German newspaper cor-
respondent; and Anna Haag, member of the Wuerttem-
berg-Baden state legislature. (PRD HICOG photo)

"In the old days it was the machine that mattered;
now it is the men or women controlling the machines
that are of prime importance. We know the capabilities
and efficiency of every machine we produce, but we can
never finally assess the potentialities of the human work-
er," said Dame Haslett. She emphasized the importance of
“good personal management in developing the skills of
workers, in providing in-service training, and in placing
workers in jobs that stimulate ability and initiative.”

PEAKING WITH THE EXPERIENCE of a politician in

one of the most politically complex cities, Dr. Maria
Elisabeth Lueders, a member of the Berlin City Council,
urged women to assume their responsibility as citizens
in the community, the nation and the world. She warned
against the indifference of women to the affairs of state,
and called on them to exert their influence in politics.
Thus they would gain power, the power to help others
and secure individual freedom, she said.

“The time is past when we can escape our responsibili-
ties," she concluded. In Germany where two-thirds of
the voters are women, her words had special significance.

Although Mrs. Lueder’s words were charged with the
tensions of the East-West conflict which had split her
city, the issue of Western freedom versus Red dictatorship
was not allowed to deflect the conference from its
essential purposes. The women had not convened for
anti-Communist demonstrations, which so often have
little practical effect. There was no doubt of their
opinions on the issue, however, as Mrs. Maurice Moore,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

chairman of the Foreign Division of the American YWCA,
pointed out.

Americans had been distressed last year to hear of the
development of false peace drives, and the spread of
“neutralism” in western Europe, she said.

“But at this conference I have not heard of one single
person who was for peace at any price," she said. “All
of us now realize we must be strong to resist aggression.”

N THE CLOSING SESSION, Mrs. C.M. van Asch van

Wijck, vice president of the World YWCA and a prom-
inent Dutch churchwoman, described the “new femi-
nism“ which had developed during the conference, a
feminism which placed emphasis on. women's service
and co-responsibility with men in civic affairs, rather
than on an aggressive but misguided struggle for women’s
rights.

“I am sure that out of this conference will come a
stimulus for women’s groups in many countries to put
this concept in the foreground..." she said.

“The. woman has crossed the threshold of her home.
She knows that she had to take this step for her husband
and her children, for society and for herself. With open
eyes she must face social and political life. The entire
world needs the influence of women in developing a
fruitful life for all mankind. Women may no longer leave
men alone in the struggle with social crises than they
would leave men alone in the solution of family problems.”

Although most of the participants can hardly evaluate
the full worth of the conference until they begin to imple-
ment many of its findings weeks or months later, all
were agreed on one immediate and inestimable benefit
— the development of international contacts. This was
especially true for German women, who had been
culturally isolated for so long. Many intended to preserve
these new contacts with their counterparts in other
countries, and even those who were unable to do so,
spoke of a new understanding for European unity.

HATEVER RESULTS EVENTUALLY stem from the

Bad Reichenhall meeting, the fact that even a few
of the 150 delegates, who represent millions of women
throughout the Westein nations, may continue these
relationships was a considerable contribution.

Mrs. Heuss-Knapp emphasized this important achieve-
ment when she stated: “At times we found here a faint
notion of that which the United States of Europe may
ultimately become.”

She also commended the efforts of Ruth F. Woodsmall,
HICOG's Women's Affairs adviser, and her small staff,
who had carried the administrative responsibility for the
conference.

In closing the conference Miss Woodsmall said that
“if the meeting had created a new spirit of co-operation,
and promoted a new courage among the women to face
their tasks and responsibilities, it had more than fulfilled
its purpose.

“The conference has ended,’ she concluded, “but the
real work is just beginning.” +END

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 28 ---
Little
Michel’s

Fear

By GI

ELA KONOPKA

OU ARE IN A GERMAN training school for delin-

quent boys and you have admired the excellent
workshops well equipped for apprenticeship training and
you ask ‘Why are most of the boys here?" You expect
the usual reasons — “runaways,” “loitering,” “stealing” —
but you get the answer that opens up the whole problem
of Germany's dealing with emotionally upset youngsters:
Schlechte Erbmasse (bad character heritage).

How often those words Erbmasse or Anlage jump at
you when you visit such institutions and talk to teachers,
social workers, administrators and home educators. It is
this biologic thinking that was furthered by the Nazis
and that prevents so much a deeper understanding of
the causes of delinquency and allows too much for a
punishing or, at least, a rigid attitude toward those
youngsters. It even often prevents the adults seeing
them as they really are:

“Have you a large range of intelligence among your
youngsters here?’ you ask. “If they were intelligent,
they would not be here," is the answer.

You talk with a bunch of 14-year-old boys. They all
want to know about America! They know astonishingly
much and not only about cowboys. They ask about the
Constitution, about our parties. And suddenly a bright-
eyed lively youngster asks, “Well, why did you come

here — to Germany?’ You can see distrust in his face
and some fear that he is too “forward.” And you like
him — like him for his courage to ask a question and

show resentment openly and you know you have to take
this question seriously, because this youngster is in-
telligent, because many of them are

Through individual attention and therapeutic group (or play
group) activity practiced inGermany’s new child guidance
clinics, delinquent and unstable children are acquiring self-
confidence and an understanding of their responsibilities.

ND THIS IS WHERE my article really starts. It
does seem a good idea. Under the HICOG exchange
program, many experts are sent across the ocean — both
ways. The aim is Exchange, not only in persons, but
incorporated in them thinking and ideas. “The best way
to send knowledge is to wrap it up in a person," once
said the great physicist Oppenheimer. That is what Ex-

change does.
In the field of social work, immense strides have been
made in the United States in the past 15 years — in the
years when Germany was cut off from

and because a world has pushed them
off.

You think for a moment and you
say: ‘There are many boys and girls
in all countries like you — who
are unhappy and feel not wanted
and do all kinds of things because
of that — and many of us would like
to help. We don't always know how.
We think if we come from many
countries, exchanging ideas, finding out
about people—we might do a better
job and really give some help. You
can help, too." The boy looks thought-
ful, “Seems a good idea,” he says.

Gisela Konopka, visiting US con-
sultant on child guidance, emigrated
to the United States from Germany
in 1941. In 1947, following gradua-
tion from the University of Pitts-
burgh’s School of Social Work and
staff work in a child guidance
clinic, she became assistant pro-
fessor of social work at the Uni- to the better handling of human
versity of Minnesota. Author of
numerous articles and one book,
“Therapeutic Group Work with
Children,‘ Mrs.Konopka also super-
vises instruction centers in youth-
serving agencies,
clinics and children’s institutions
in mental hospitals.

child guidance

the world. Modern mental hygiene
thinking has permeated the whole
welfare field, and a new profession
with its own body of knowledge and
skill has been born that with its two
main methods, social-case work and
social-group work, contributes greatly

relations.

The Medical Affairs and Welfare
Branch of HICOG has had a tremen-
dous task in the past years in terms
of helping fulfill such basic. human
needs as shelter and food when the
situation in Germany was desperate.

NOVEMBER 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
But now it can move into the area of much deeper human
needs, of help with emotional difficulties and of the
awakening of real self-help and community participation
in welfare needs. The field is huge, reaching into every
age group and into almost every human problem.

If work with emotionally disturbed children and youth
in Germany is presented here it is because this is the
most recent concern of the Medical Affairs and Welfare
Branch and because its work has much importance in
helping spread principles of mental health and with it a
deeper understanding and respect for every human being.

HE BRANCH HAS HELPED establish several child-
guidance clinics in Germany on the American prin-
ciple of team work among the psychiatrist, psychologist
and social worker. The idea of such a team is almost
revolutionary in Germany and an education of pro-
fessional people in itself. There is still the thought that
one profession alone can handle the job, so why use
the ‘others? Or if finally it is agreed to have all three
on the staff, why not make one (sometimes the
psychiatrist, sometimes the psychologist, seldom the so-
cial worker) so important the others are only assistants?
Co-operation among equals is not easy to learn. Yet
it can be done, with some patient help from Americans
and the growing enthusiasm for true team work among
(often the younger) German professional workers.

Then there is a new approach in dealing with people
in need: No more advice: giving, no more quick judg-
ments, no more manipulation of the outside situation.
Instead of all this — so dear and familiar to German
doctors and social workers and so close to the whole
authoritarian pattern — and instead of this patient listen-
ing (and even listening to children), there must be slow
groping for the cause of difficulties, no accusations, no
quick remedy, but real understanding, real acceptance.
The child and his parents are helped to find their
own way.

It is not simple. The pattern has been so different for
so very considerable a time past.

ITTLE MICHEL COMES into the psychiatrist's office.
Michel is a thin 11-year-old boy. He trembles and
chokes back tears. Gently the young doctor smiles at
him, reassures him that nothing will happen to him
— what is he afraid of? The doctor knows from the
social worker on the team that the family welfare worker
considers removing Michel from his aunt — because
“the whole family is not good” — and Michel might be
neglected and perhaps he is not very intelligent.

Michel still cannot talk, but under the warm reception
tears flow freely. The doctor does not press. He gives
a simple physical examination, letting Michel listen to
his own heartbeats as he explains the instruments.
Slowly Michel gains confidence. Suddenly he can talk:
he is afraid, he thought the clinic would send him away
from his aunt — he loves her, she is the best he has —
she loves him, too.

While Michel talks the psychiatrist can form his
diagnosis: physically healthy child, slightly under-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

Finger-painting as a means of building group relation-
ship and understanding is demonstrated to teachers of
Berlin's Pestalozzi and Catholic Women's Schools by
group work specialist and HICOG consultant Gisela Ko-
nopka (second from right), who is the author of the ac-
companying article, (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

nourished, sensitive, apparently quite intelligent, only
emotionally upset by the fear of separation. Michel talks
freely now about a time he was buried in a cellar after
a bombing — he has carried away little emotional da-
mage — only the threat of separation hangs over him.

Meanwhile, the social worker has talked to the aunt,
has gained a clear picture of the home situation — poor,
also confused family relations, but, a close bond to
Michel. The aunt too fears separation.

Aunt and little Michel go into the waiting room. The
psychologist will see Michel later on regarding his
school ability, but the two agree that the threat of
separation should be removed. They tell Michel and the
aunt that they think they both get along fine together
and will discuss it with the social worker. Michel, is
asked to come back to a small therapeutic group — a
“play-group" to him.

Little Michel looks already different when he appears
the next time, freer, happier, but still somewhat shy.

Two of the boys start painting. Michel takes a brush,
but does not do a thing. How long Michel had heard
that he can’t do things. The social-group worker pushes
some modeling clay toward him: “You don't have to
paint, Michel, maybe you like this." She knows how shy
children love the feel of the soft pliable material that
they can change and rechange at will.

Michel rolls it, bends it. And for one hour Michel, the
supposedly ‘dumb’ child, creates little pieces of true
art, figures that show an amazing sense of detail and
even humor. His eyes dance while his hands move. He
gets new ideas. He gains approval and recognition from
the other boys in the small group. He glows. Michel has
not only achieved and found friends, he has freed himself
from a cloud lying over him and he has found a new
inner knowledge of his own strength.

OT ALWAYS CAN the clinic help as quickly as in
little Michel's case. But there are many who get this
inner help. And besides this the clinic begins influencing
others — the aunt, the father, the mother, the teacher,
young family doctors and the social workers. What
(Continued on page 30)

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 30 ---
Intense interest in group technique discussion is shown by Bavarian teachers in their quest for new teaching methods.

Teachers Go Back to School

SERIES OF “TEACHER INSTITUTES” held through-
Aout Bavaria last summer indicated that the state's
teachers and educators were responsive to the program
for democratizing their schools. These one-day sessions?
held to acquaint approximately 30,000 public school teach-
ers with the aims and progress of school reform, showed
that some new changes were occurring in the school
system that will open the eyes of even the severest critics.

Twenty progressive Bavarian educators, who had been
experimenting for more than a year with democratic edu-
cation policies in their schools, were formed into teams,
which held a one-day stand in each county of the state
during May and June. Drawing on personal experience,
the educators discussed with county education super-
visors, school principals and teachers four fundamental
subjects in the democratic reform of Bavarian education:

“A new curriculum for elementary schools,”

“The aims of Bavarian school reform,"

“More and better education for elementary school
teachers,” and

“The development of social studies in the first eight

grades of school."

Possibly the most important of the four subjects — be-
cause of its imminent application— was the new curri-
culum which is being tried in all Bavarian elementary

NOVEMBER 1950

schools for one year starting this fall. The visiting edu-
cators sought to explain and interpret the new program,
which introduces many democratic concepts into the
school system and modifies teaching methods that have
been traditional for generations.

Among the important features of the new curriculum
is ‘integrated subject matter” through which several sub-
jects may be combined around a local problem in one
lesson. For anstance, the ‘Three R's'* might be taught
in one lesson, using practical examples from daily life
in lively discussions, as compared to the old method of
teaching each subject separately in an abstract way that
left the pupils dozing in their seats.

History and geography, which often meant dull hours
of memorizing names and dates, are being broadened >
into a “social studies" program to include civics, some
economics and some basic sociology. The children begin
to learn the composition of their society, their rights and
responsibilities in the community and the social and
economics development of peoples and nations.

F tpenseeones TO THE NEW program, teachers physi-
cally and figuratively have to come down off their
podiums and bring children into the lessons. Encouraging

* Reading, (w)riting and (a)rithmetic.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
discussions, getting the children to ask questions and
helping them to think for themselves are cardinal points
in breaking down the old authoritarianism of the German
classroom.

Thus Ferdinand Kopp, teacher of a Tutzing school,
urged the seven or eight thousand teachers who heard
his discussion, to break up the seating arrangement in
classrooms. Speaking from experience in his own school,
he said that ‘when the children sit in long rows like little
soldiers, you see them as regimented mass. If they sit in
a semi-circle around you, or in a small group, you sud-
denly see them as individuals and, what is more, they
feel themselves to be individuals.”

Aging but energetic Franz Weigl, formerly county edu-
cation supervisor at Amberg, pointed to the need for more
activity by pupils in school. Have them rub their hands
together briskly to demonstrate that friction generates
heat; get a sandbox and let them make the mountains
and rivers of the geographical area they are studying;
simple toys made by the children themselves from paper,
a cardboard or tin cans can teach them laws of physics
or the theorems of geometry better than abstract lectures.

Another purpose of the Teacher Institutes was to re-
solve some of the doubts and resentments which had
arisen against many of the new proposals for Bavarian
education. Discussing the aims of “school reform," the
educators attempted to show teachers that they had a
large part in developing a democratic education system.
They sought to dispel an erroneous but common idea that
school reform represented some heretic educational pro-
posals which are being imposed upon them by the Ameri-
cans or a small group of radical Germans.

EW PLANS FOR TEACHER education have also

created confusion among Bavarian teachers. Discus-
sions in the Teacher Institutes brought home the fact that
elementary school teachers — who handle the entire
school population during their most formative years — re-
quire just as good an education as the teachers in the
elite gymnasiums — the German Latin high schools. This
would mean that instructors of the lower grades, long
relegated to an inferior rank in the teaching profession,
would also get the equivalent of a collége education with
a broadened curriculum to include studies of modern
teaching methods, social studies, child psychology, etc.

An OLC Bavaria-sponsored Teachers Institute draws groups
of educators out to catch up on some 12 years of progress.

Catholic nuns, in contributing their efforts to improve
teaching in Bavaria, learn latest test correction methods,

Demonstration schools and education research centers
are additional features planned for the teacher training
colleges. A bill including these progressive changes is
now being prepared by the Bavarian Education Ministry
for presentation to the state legislature.

The basic importance of improved teacher education is
that the Bavarian youth who have no opportunity to
attend high school — about 90 percent of the school popu-
lation — will have better trained teachers in the elemen-
tary schools, and thus get a better education.

A fourth period of the Teacher Institutes was devoted
to the teaching of “social studies" in the elementary
grades, because of the importance of this instruction to
developing responsible citizens. The educators outlined
ways and means of instructing pupils in the functions of
government, their responsibilities in a democratic society
and the historic development of modern civilization.

PI\HE TEACHER INSTITUTES were originated at the

suggestion of the Education Section of OLC Bavaria,
and were organized by the School Reform Directorate, a
group of well-known Bavarian educators appointed by
the State Education Ministry to plan and promote inno-
vations in the traditional Bavarian school system. More
than a year ago, a public opinion poll showed that very
little was known by the rank and file of Bavarian teachers
about the new proposals for school reform, As a result
the directorate, which is located at Kempfenhausen, near
Munich, called in all the county education supervisors
for a one-week course in the basic changes required for
democratic education.

A later check, however, disclosed that many of the
supervisors had failed to pass on the information to the
schools in their area. Thus the directorate resolved to go
directly to the teachers with their new ideas.

Five teams of four educators were formed to hold one-
day sessions of talks and discussions in each county of
the state. The Education Ministry co-operated by allow-
ing the teachers a day off to attend the Teacher Institute.
OLC Bavaria assisted by providing travel expenses for the

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 32 ---
touring teams, as well as for many teachers who could
not otherwise afford the luxury of spending a day at the
county seat.

The men selected to conduct the institutes. were mem-
bers of the Bavarian education system who commanded
the respect of their colleagues. They spoke from practical
experience gained in applying the reforms in their own
classrooms. In addition many of them were so-called
schwarze Katholische (good Catholics) whose remarks
would be ‘acceptable to the many nuns and priests attend-
ing the institutes in the strongly-religious areas of Bavaria.

N COVERING THE STATE, the educators made some

curious discoveries about the progress in Bavarian
school reform. In some counties they found that the
teachers listened patiently, but then complained that
they had heard nothing new — they were already prac-
ticing the proposals presented in the lectures, It was
obvious in these areas that a progressive school super-
visor, who had taken to heart the instruction received at
Kempfenhausen, headed the county school system.

This unexpected progress was sometimes found in sur-
prising places, Thus in one of the poorest and traditionally
backward counties of Bavaria it was found that many
of the new education methods had already been adopted,
and that despite the evident poverty, modern school furni-
ture had been installed in 70 percent of the schools. In
a neighboring county, however, the teachers had hardly
heard of school reform.

It was too early to estimate the results of the Teacher
Institutes. But there were some indications. The circulating
education teams reported general interest and enthusiasm
from 99 percent of the teachers. Reports from many US

Weilheim County evinces desire to improve its educational methods
and institutions by holding a school demonstration week. Below
exhibition hall offers proof of recent teaching improvement while
including the garden typical of German elementary schools. At
right, two Bavarian youngsters get an idea of what is expected of
them in days to come. Weilheim, like other Bavarian counties, is
making use of the state's efforts to better its schools. (PRB OLCB photos)

NOVEMBER 1950

resident officers: confirmed this impression. So many
requests have been received from teachers for copies of
the lectures, that the educators are preparing to publish
them. More than one county supervisor, formerly cool
towards school reform, was noted to warm up consider-
ably after seeing the enthusiastic reactions of his teachers
to the new ideas. :

During the discussion periods in the Teacher Institutes
so many questions and so many new ideas had been
raised, that the directorate is now planning similar pro-
jects for the future, to carry teachers into subsequent
steps of school reform.

The educators have also decided that two sets of lec-
tures will be needed. Teachers in the few, but growing,
number of progressive counties will want more advanced
discussions than the basic lectures prepared for the lag-
gard areas.

In every county, the educators proposed that local
committees be set up to organize and promote the new
methods in local schools. Whether this would be done
could not be foretold. Whether the enthusiasm generated
at the Teachers Institutes would continue during the fol-
lowing school year, was another big question.

Unbending school supervisors or certain reactionary
elements of the Education Ministry, who had long impeded
progressive change, might also dampen the ardor of
newly-inspired teachers.

But whatever the immediate effects of the Teacher In-
stitutes, it was now certain for the first time that the
basic principles of school reform had been directly com-
municated to 90 percent of the Bavarian public school
teachers and considerable ferment in the education system
had begun. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
(Continued from page 26)

Little Michel’s Fear

happens usually to the little Michels? Nobody asks them.
They get pushed around taken from one institution to
another — the number of children’s institutions in Ger-
many is terrifying. Nobody means. to be harsh. Every-
body means well. Only thinking in terms of self-deter-
mination has not yet penetrated. It begins in many
places, among them the child guidance clinics.

Certainly those are very specialized settings, and the
staff of the Medical Affairs and Welfare Branch knows
that this knowledge and this approach to people must
spread farther and faster. Training courses for social
workers are arranged in the different German states with
American experts teaching methods.

Social workers in Germany are not as well trained
yet as their colleagues in the United States, but they
are lively, interested persons for the most part. They have
always worked with people and their burden. Most of
them have chosen their profession because they like people.

They reach out eagerly for new understanding and
they regain courage for their own work in hearing about
a country which bases its social work on the respect
for each human being and believes in their inner
strength. They want to learn more about the case work
method when they deal with one individual alone.

They also see the possibility of carrying self-deter-
minations combined with help into institutions. They
want to know more about the group work method. They
want to learn how to individualize in their often much
too large groups, how to help youngsters to express
their feelings and to help them handle them. They are
aware of the dreariness and restricting atmosphere in
many of their institutions, especially those for girls.

OO OFTEN GIRLS are only allowed to work all day

and nobody helps them to get at the root of their
difficulties. Slowly it becomes clear in the course of case
discussions that many of these youngsters become delin-
quent because they try to recapture tenderness and
attention they missed as children. And Germany is full
of youngsters who never were allowed to be children,
first in the years under the Nazis when they were used
for political purposes and later during the war. When
this is understood, a different treatment can start.

There is also the beginning of thinking in terms of
prevention and co-operative work between other forces
in the community to help youngsters, such as the school
and youth workers. By helping German social workers to
take training in schools of social work in the United
States, the much broader conception of social welfare
and its relationship to all community life is becoming
better known in Germany.

It is just a beginning. -+END

Productivity Center To Aid Dollar Drive

A Productivity Center to spur industrial output and aid
the German dollar drive has been established by the
German government in Frankfurt with district groups
operating in Berlin, Duesseldorf, Munich and Stuttgart.

Known as the Rationalization Board of Trustees of the
German Economy (RKW), it has assumed the job of
rallying all forces of the German economy concerned with
productivity. It was built largely on the framework of the
former Rationalization Committee of the German Economy,
which was founded in 1947,

In its communication to the German government June 30,
the Marshall Plan administration said: “Prime considera-
tion should be given (in establishing the center) to the
earning of dollars and the attainment of international
viability; this goal should be sought, however, as part of
the development of a balanced national economy, ex-
pressed in a rising standard of living. The program is
intended to outlast the Marshall Plan: its establishment
on a sound basis by 1952 is considered, therefore, to be
an important objective.”

It is expected that the Productivity Center, when in full
operation, will be responsible for promoting standardized
practices to bring about mass production; arranging
exhibits of selected products to show German manufac-
turers outstanding examples of successful productivity;
arrangement for showing motion picture shorts on such

NOVEMBER 1950

30

related subjects; promoting co-operation between labor
and management; improvement of statistical services;
setting up of engineering consultation services from abroad
and arranging travel to other countries for German
productivity experts.

ECA dollar funds will be made available for measures
chargeable to technical assistance projects, and the Ger-
man government has been informed that costs of operating
the center would be considered favorably as a counterpart
fund project.

All regular members of the board of trustees are
representatives of economic, scientific, technical, manage- _
ment and administrative rationalization organizations and
associations. Special members may be added if they are
considered experts in a particular field. A board of
counselors consists of 40 members, 10 from each of the
following fields: economy, management, trade unions and
special branches of trade and industry.

Books Distributed in Hesse
More than 5,500 professional and general books — gifts
from the USA —are being distributed throughout Hesse
by Dr. George F. Donovan, Religious Affairs adviser, Edu-
cation and Cultural Relations Branch, OLC Hesse.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 34 ---
Finding Dollar Markets

Address
By BENJAMIN J. BUTTENWIESER

Assistant US High Commissioner for Germany

ARLY THIS SUMMER one of Germany's fundamental trade problems was

the dollar gap. Your trade leaders, and occupation officials on your behalf,
were concerned with finding new markets for German products in the
Western Hemisphere, so that Germany could establish outlets for her wares
and earn the dollars she will so definitely need when Marshall Plan aid ends.
After Korea, however, several new questions were posed for those who would
bridge this dollar gap, Roughly, these questions were: Will the United States
buy more from Germany and Europe now that defense needs are mounting,
or will the US buy little or nothing; will Germany and Europe be in a position
to sell more goods to America, or will conversion of many European plants
to defense activities, which implies greater production of capital as against
consumer goods, preclude them from meeting this increased Western
Hemisphere demand?

These were among the questions which confronted government and
business leaders, both here and in America, after the attack in Korea.
Obviously, the answers to these questions are not yet completely available;
but we have begun at least to strike a balance — to learn to live in a pre-
carious world where we sharpen a sword with one hand and make a better
plowshare with the other.

The American people and, I trust and believe, the German people share
the common philosophy that the best hope for peace lies in facing the future
unafraid. Europe is being strengthened because of the conviction that willing-
ness to face aggression squarely and unflinchingly will forestall it. This con-
viction led the three Western Allies, at the recent meeting of their foreign
ministers, to state unequivocally that “the Allied Governments consider that
their forces in Germany have, in addition to their occupation duties, also the
important role of acting as security forces for the protection and defense of
the free world, including the German Federal Republic and the Western
sectors of Berlin. To make this protection more effective the Allied Govern-
ments will increase and reinforce their forces in Germany. They will treat
any attack against the Federal Republic or Berlin from any quarter as an
attack upon themselves.” ‘ ui

HE WESTERN ALLIES presented this united front after careful deliber-

ation. Their main problem is Germany's problem too; for they had to
decide how best to prepare for the defense of Western liberty without, on
the one hand, destroying the economic rehabilitation we have all achieved
during these past two and one-half years in which the Marshall Plan has
been in effect and, on the other hand, not impinging upon the liberal thinking
and democratic processes which constitute that very liberty.

This intention to stand firm in Germany is an integral part of the new
defense program. From this and from the building up of military preparedness
which follows from it, we can pursue our recovery policies, secure in the faith
that there are being developed strong and co-operative economies which
are the very prerequisite to-the additional responsibilities which defense of
our liberties will demand from all of us.

Would that I could assure you that living standards will be higher next
year; that life will be easier or more pleasant. In the present situation where
we are confronted by the grim choice between instruments of war and the
attributes of peace, the Western world is trying to apply the rule of reason.

NOVEMBER 1950 31

Benjamin J. Buttenwieser.

Munich Export Club

Host at “Export Week” —

pp pts MUNICH city
hall was the scene of wel-
coming ceremonies for US High

Commissioner John J. McCloy —

during his visit to the historical
city during its “Export Week."
“Das Muenchner Kindl” (The
Munich Child), symbol of the
city, greeted the US statesman
and read a poem especially
written for the occasion. Ameri-
can and German officials of
government, industry and com-
merce attended. ¢
Welcoming address for the~
Export Week activities was

given by Munich Mayor Walther —

von Miller. Mr. McCloy was in-
troduced by Dr. Lothar Rohde,
president of the sponsoring
Munich Export Club.

Mr. McCloy said he was
“deeply appreciative of the
honor accorded me this morning.

“Munich,” he said, “is not —

new to me, but each time I come’

to your city I am refreshed by |

the hospitality and warmth of
the people here.”

He then introduced Mr. But-
tenwieser, who delivered the
main address reproduced here.
Mr. Buttenwieser described
himself as a “feeble mouthpiece”
who was speaking in the stead
of the High Commissioner since
Mr. McCloy had been too oc-
cupied with the Conference of
Foreign Ministers to prepare an
adequate speech.

=
INFORMATION BULLETIN. ;

oe

--- Page 35 ---
At present, neither must be sacrificed; but, if the defense
effort is to be adequate, it obviously follows that certain
things will again be in short supply.

All will have to make sacrifices in the concerted effort
to create a defense strong enough to discourage aggres-
sion. It should be crystal clear, however, that all who
are to benefit from the protection of this common de-
fense which: includes Germany, must share the burden of
those sacrifices. The Western Allies cannot be expected
to make such sacrifices on Germany's behalf, unless Ger-
many herself will similarly make the sacrifices entailed
in shouldering her fair share of this burden.

This, however, is a situation which may, at least in

part, prove to be a boon to some. In the United States, ‘

where an industrial conversion to defense production is
expected to create considerable shortages of consumer
goods, there may well be new markets for European
products. In this new field, Western Germany may readily
earn the dollars which will go far toward improving her
economic and financial picture. However, to accomplish
this she will have to orient part of her production and
marketing methods toward gaining a foothold in that
substantial buying area. :

OTH GERMAN AND AMERICAN officials are deeply
interested in Germany's dollar drive. They have
watched recent developments carefully and are eager to
help exploit any market which may become available as
a result of the factors I have endeavored to portray. In
this connection, I am gratified to be able to compliment
Bavarian producers upon the ready and effective action
they have taken toward achieving that end. However,
despite the most resourceful and energetic efforts to al-
leviate the present dollar gap, it is now practically a cer-
tainty that neither through the Marshall Plan nor other-
wise will this gap of Western Europe be overcome by 1952.
Since 1947, the United States has given or loaned
between $4,000,000,000 and $5,000,000,000: annually to
Western European countries to bridge this chasm. Even
in the face of this colossal help, the Council of the OEEC
has recently reported that the member countries expect
to have a dollar deficit of about $2,000,000,000 for 1951-52.
If with all this aid, coupled with improving economic
conditions and co-operative measures by all concerned,
this gap still remains at the very sizable dimensions just
indicated, it is quite clear that the United States must
continue to export capital after 1952 to continue to help
alleviate this situation. At this time, it is not known to
what extent private American investment abroad can be
expected to provide these funds. But it is abundantly clear
that the United States will not permit the abandonment
of the firm foundation for peace and security in Western
Europe and the world, of which this dollar aid has been
such an integral part.

Even though the Marshall Plan has been referred to in
terms such as ‘enlightened self-interest’’ — and we Ameri-
cans do not take umbrage at this — none the less, I sub-
mit, it must equally be conceded that it represents an exam-
ple of international aid and co-operation unparalleled in
the annals of history. In this spirit the United States will

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

continue to assist Western Europe and the rest of the
peace-loving world in solving their economic problems.
As we pursue this parallel course of economic recovery
and defense preparations, we are reassured by some very
recent German history. I refer to the Soviet blockade of:
Berlin. We have only to recall the stirring events of the
Airlift to convince ourselves that the course we follow
today is right and effective. The accounts of that brilliant
and, one might well say, heroic effort attest that free and
united peoples, standing together against an aggressive
power, can cause that aggressor to relent in the appli-
cation of naked force. That is the lesson of Berlin — the
lesson which motivates our defense preparations today.
Too often we in the Western world forget or minimize
our freedoms. We take for granted a free press, freedom
to govern ourselves, freedom of thought, speech and reli-
gion. You in Germany, who so recently were denied all
these, can the better appreciate why Western Europe is
now impelled to defend them. The countries of the Mar-
shall Plan are united in their common determination to
resist aggression in Western Europe. Their governments
well know that the best hope for peace lies in effectively
preparing to meet any threat; and that such preparations
can only be adequately made if the economic systems of
such countries remain strong and resilient. It is to this end
that the Marshall Plan countries rededicate themselves.
As one, they are convinced that the better plowshare
may well prove to be the sharper sword. +END

Mrs. McCloy Addresses Opening
Session of Munich Women’s Club

“Individual responsibility’ was the keynote of an
address delivered by Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the
US High Commissioner. for Germany, during a luncheon
meeting which opened the 1950-51 season of the Munich
Women's Club. .

Mrs. McCloy told her audience of American women
in the Munich area that women have a definite role in
the building of a world “not only free of fear and op-
pression but a world that can think and act independent-
ly." This, she added, can be accomplished only “if we all
feel our individual responsibility.”

Referring to her recent trip to the United States, Mrs.
McCloy said she was “impressed and thrilled anew at
the interest and the eager sympathy of the American
women for the women of Europe," declaring that their
good will “was astonishing, especially im the face of
their heartaches over Korea.”

Adding that American women had written to her from
all over the United States asking how they could help in
promoting a more peaceful and understanding world,
Mrs. McCloy replied: “If each family everywhere would |
determine to be a good neighbor — a neighbor to a
family of another nationality — if we share in their
difficulties and have respect for their point of view, we
will have gone far on the way toward national and inter-
national co-operation and understanding — the goal we
all so ardently crave.”

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 36 ---
Il took four years to print 50 sets of the Talmud. Each set consists of 19 volumes, weighs 160 Ibs., cost DM 4,100 ($1,000).

The Talmud Returns

By BERNARD QUINN

Feature Section, Public Information Division, EUCOM

N A PRINTING SHOP in Heidelberg, large sheets of

paper, caught by tender hands as they slipped from
{he press, were carefully guided into an attached bin
— one on the other — and smoothed with the greatest
of care. The ultimate in tenderness and concern was
required in the handling of such unusually important
sheets of paper, each one larger than the top of an office
desk. On every sheet were eight separate pages of print-
ing in Hebraic and Aramaic* characters — print which
had been banned in German printing establishments dur-
ing the reign of the Nazis.

That was on Nov. 9, 1948, and that date in Heidelberg
was particularly significant for one fact: 10 years earlier,
to the day, a crowd of boisterous Heidelberg citizens
demonstrated around a bonfire near the Neckar River
— only a few hundred yards from the same printing shop.
Excitement spread through the gathering as the flames
licked at the pile of Jewish literature that had been
gathered in a citywide search — a duplicate of the anti-
Jewish violence that flared throughout Germany on that
black November 9th in 1938.

The hoodlums and their elders cheered deliriously as
they saw the large books in the pile commence to
burn. They were witnessing the destruction of Talmuds

+ A group of Semitic languages and dialects of which the most im-
portant, according to Webster, are the Syriac, Biblical and Palestinian
Aramaic. The tongue spoken by Jesus was Aramaic.

NOVEMBER 1950

— the encyclopedia of Jewish tradition originally pro-
duced in the Palestinian and Babylonian academies during
the Aramaic period — and eventually completed at the
end of the fifth century in the Christian Era.

The Talmuds, like all other Jewish books, papers and
documents, had been tossed from the old city’s only
synagogue by mobs of young Nazis bent on destroying
every vestige of Judaism on paper.

Rabbi Samuel Jakob Rose of Munich, vice chairman of the
Chief Rabbinat of the US Zone of Germany, is shown proof-
reading an eight-page signature, a painstaking task for
which he was qualified by 15 years of study. (US Army photos)

--- Page 37 ---
HEN THE WILD FANATICS burned the Talmuds

they were undoubtedly ignorant of the fact that they
were desecrating one of the world's great achievements
in the field of literature — burning volumes that sum-
marized more than seven centuries of cultural growth,
concerned with law and life. The volumes include copious
discussions in the fields of religion, ethics, social and
civil institutions, history, folklore and science.

The Talmud, ostensibly the corpus juris of the Jews
from the first century before the Christian era, is inter-
preted by them as their whole religion, in terms of law;
wherever a Jewish center, its chief intellectual interest
centers around the Talmud.

The old city synagogue in Heidelberg — and synagogues
throughout the Third Reich — were destroyed on that
November night in 1938 as if some automatic force had
reached out from the night and rubbed them out of exist-
ence — by fire or by explosion. Coincident with the almost
complete erasure of Jewish religious centers from the Ger-
man scene, all types of Jewish literature were burned.

It was, therefore, something more than simple irony
that 10 years after the bonfire in Heidelberg, craftsmen
in that city would-be engaged in printing a special edition
of 50 sets of the Talmud, and the United States Army in
Germany would be vitally interested in the success‘of the
project — one which was to take four years to complete.

HE STORY BEHIND the printing of the foremost

Jewish work starts at the end of World War II in
Europe. Thousands of European Jews, then officially iden-
tified as “displaced persons” were scattered across Ger-
many. The few who had survived the Nazi oppression
were a bewildered people — they were lost in a strange
and unfriendly sea. They needed much, but most im-
portant for their minds and hearts they needed Talmuds,
for they had not seen any for years. Their rabbis wanted
them too, for it was they, among their people, who knew
and understood the venerable and voluminous work.

In the summer of 1945, there were few collections of
Talmud volumes anywhere in Europe. There was no way
the text could be made available to the Jews in Germany
unless it was printed in Germany. The necessary type
was not available — it had been destroyed in the Nazi
raids on Jewish printing shops. The first requirement
would be to obtain old Talmuds which could be utilized
in the printing of new sets by lithograph.

It was an American rabbi, Philip S. Bernstein, who led
the vigorous campaign to locate Talmuds in Europe. At
the time he was serving as adviser on Jewish affairs to
the commander-in-chief of the US Forces in Germany.
With the aid of rabbis from all over Europe, Rabbi Bern-
stein set in motion the search and eventually the acqui-
sition of a complete set of the Talmud.

Several volumes were obtained through sheer luck
—they were found in a Jewish cemetery in Munich, where
they had remained undetected since they were hidden
in 1938. A workman there, checking after the war on some
old collections of material hidden under one of the ceme-
tery buildings, uncovered several heavy books. It de-
veloped that he had come across volumes of the Talmud,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

printed on parchment. Some of the recovered volumes -
were in preliminary states of disintegration — they had
been buried for as long as eight years.

Three volumes came from Switzerland. Three other
volumes were obtained in France. The remaining volumes
needed to fill out the six principal sections called “Se-
darim,” which comprise the Mishnah part of the Talmud,
were obtained from the United States.

T WAS NOT UNTIL the spring of 1946 that Rabbi 7
Bernstein was able to take the next step. With a dele-

gation, he visited US Army Headquarters in Frankfurt,
where he outlined his problem to Gen, Joseph T. Mc-
Narney, commander-in-chief of US Forces in Germany.
The rabbi was anxious to learn if the American Army
could assist the Jews in their unusual and important task
of getting the Talmud printed in Germany. General Mc-
Narney, stating that the Army would do what it could
to help in restoring the sacred document, extended his
official approval for American aid in the undertaking.

Under the approved plan, the US Army Quartermaster
in Germany would procure ink, paper and other neces-
sary items, and arrange for contracting. The Army's Civil
Affairs Division, vitally concerned in any activity per-
taining to “displaced persons” or their interests, would
arrange for the financial aspects of the project. The Ger-
man economy would pay all costs connected with the .
printing.

Putting the plan into operation was another matter.
Almost from the start the problems multiplied. It was not
until the spring of 1949 that the first volume of the unique
edition was completed. Between those dates the work had
been halted several times, chiefly because of paper
shortages. .

An important chemical, collodion, necessary in the
process of transferring the photographed print from old
Talmud pages to zinc plates, was unobtainable. Prior to
the war the ingredient had come from Zwickau — in the
Soviet-occupied zone. Its manufacture had been banned
by the Allies as a war material. That stalemate was over-
come when the American Army obtained a sufficient
quantity in the United States and had it shipped to Ger-
many in order that the work of printing the special
Heidelberg Talmud volumes could commence immediately..

pews THE GREATEST stumbling block toward suc-
cessful progress was the instability of the old postwar
German currency, the Reichsmark — practically worth-
less in 1947. Like all other German workers, printers had
no desire to do a day's work when a handful of Reichs-
marks would bring almost nothing in return. It was not
until currency reform in June 1948, with its new stabilized
Deutsche mark, that steady work got underway.

In May 1949, when the first volume was completed,
Harry Greenstein, then Jewish adviser to the US Army-
commander in Germany, flew to Berlin and presented the
precious document to Gen. Lucius D. Clay, as a gesture
of thanks to the EUCOM Commander-in-Chief from the
Jewish people, for the part the American Army had
played in bringing the Talmud back into Germany.

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 38 ---
Proofreading of all Talmud pages was required once
they were processed onto zinc plates. Because some of
the volumes obtained in Europe were damaged, it was
the task of a 34-year-old rabbi from Munich, Samuel Jakob
Rose, to study with painstaking care all 750 pages in
each of the 19 volumes, and draw on his memory in cor-
recting the proofs from approximately 1,800 zinc plates.

It is unlikely that any other young rabbi in Europe
was more ably qualified for the important and exacting
task than Rabbi Rose. At the age of 25 he had completed
15-years of Talmud study — apparently obeying the com-
mand in the Talmud, expressed as follows: “At the age
of 10 years a child should begin the study of the Mish-

Jewish Book Month Ends
With Beginning of Hanukkah

EAPPEARANCE IN GERMANY of the venerated
Talmud becomes especially significant to those
who observe the 25-year-old US tradition of Jewish
Book Month, this year between Nov. 3 and Dec. 3.
Bookmaking was an early art among the Jewish
people. The world’s greatest book — the Bible —
was produced and reproduced by them. From
comments, explanations, laws and customs based
on the Bible ‘grew the Talmud. It represented the
fullest collection of Hebraic law.

As soon as Hebrew type was available in the
16th century, the Talmud had its first printings.
Hebrew printing presses were set up throughout
the world. Hebrew books and their translations,
books about Jews and Judaism in the vernacular
came forth in great quantity.

Beginning in 1925, the observance of Jewish
Book Month began in the United States to en-
courage the production and acquisition of the best
Jewish books.

The final night of Jewish Book Month — Dec. 3
—marks the beginning of Hanukkah, a Jewish re-
ligious feast. Hanukkah (the word means rededica-
tion) commemorates the rededication of the Temple
after it was taken back from the Syrians in the
second century. The Syrians had banned religious
worship and study during their rule; the victory
oft he Maccabees ended this.

In the reconquered temple was found one small
cruze of oil, undefiled. Just enough to burn for one
day, it was lit and miraculously burned for eight
days; by then new oil had been prepared. The
festival commemorates this. On the first night a
single candle is kindled. On each successive night
for eight days the ceremony is repeated, each night
adding a candle. On the eighth day the Hanukkah
candelabra is filled.

The festival has come to signify faith and hope
in religious liberty, intellectual enlightenment and
social freedom.

NOVEMBER 1950

35

nah.” The Mishnah is the original text of the Talmud,
and some of it was set down by rabbis more than 2,000
years ago, Taken with the Gemara, which is the com-
mentary on the text, the two phases constitute the Talmud.

Rabbi Rose studied the Talmud at Slabodka Yesiwa in
Kovno, Lithuania, an institution devoted to the study
of the Talmud. In 1941, he was presented with his Semi-
chach, or ordination, as a rabbi. A few months after his
ordination the Germans invaded Russia and poured into
Lithuania. The rabbi was picked up at Kovno and placed
in a ghetto there with 40,000 other Jews. He remained
there for three years. In August 1944, he was sent to Ger-
many to a branch of the Dachau concentration camp. A
brother and sister sent with him starved to death there.
With their death, Rabbi Rose had lost his parents, his
only sister, and three brothers — all victims of the Nazis.

The Americans reached the camp in May 1945 and
found Rabbi Rose seriously ill. An SS detail had been left
behind to kill those too sick to be marched away, but
before they could accomplish their task the Americans
reached the vicinity and the SS men fled. Rabbi Rose was
taken to a sanatorium in Bavaria, and spent the next. four
months there, regaining his health.

HEN THE US ARMY granted its support to the

project of printing the Talmud, the rabbis concerned
agreed that 16 volumes would be sufficient to complete
one set. On that premise it was eventually started, After
printing was underway for several months it became ob-
vious that all the Talmud matter could not be crammed
into 16 volumes. Consequently, the Rabbinat in the
European Command appealed again to the US Army. They
wanted approval for the printing of three additional
volumes to complete each set. Civil Affairs Division
arranged for the necessary funds.

One 19-volume set of the Heidelberg Talmud weighs
approximately 160 pounds. It cost approximately DM 4,100
($976) to print the full set. More than four tons of paper
was required for the 950 volumes. Nearly four years were
to pass from the time the American Army in Germany
promised the necessary backing, and the day the last '
volume was bound — late in February of this year.

In every volume of each of the special Talmud sets
there is a dedication in English, as follows: “This edition
of the Talmud is dedicated to the United States Army.
This Army played a major role in the rescue of the
Jewish people from annihilation and, after the defeat of
Hitler, bore the major burden of sustaining the DP’s of
the Jewish faith. This special edition of the Talmud,
published in the very land where, but a short time ago,
everything Jewish and of Jewish inspiration; was ana-
thema, will remain a symbol of the indestructibility of
the Torah. The Jewish DP’s will never forget the generous
impulses and the unprecedented humanitarianism of the
American Forces, to whom they owe so much.”

Once again the millions of words of the Talmud are
back in Germany — available to a people in whose hearts
the special Heidelberg Talmud volumes will serve as
contributions to the hallowed memory of Europe's mar-
tyred Jews. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
A group of student leaders, representing universities of western
Germany, a dozen European countries and the United States met
at Koenigstein im Taunus, a resort in the Taunus Mountains, in
Hesse, last summer for a seminar on student government and
self-help. The program was arranged through the efforts of the
US National Student Association, the Rockefeller Foundation,
the German Students’ Union (Verband Deutscher Studenten-
schaften’') and the Community Activities Branch of HICOG.

Seminar director Robert Lynn Fischelis of Harvard talks
with Dr. S. Mueller, Frankfurt official (left); discussions
wax hot and heavy among students (below) from Sweden,
USA, Italy, Switzerland, Finland, Germany and England.

--- Page 40 ---
The lawn serves as work place for committee debating
influence of sludents on teaching and administration.

Another project of the US National Student Association,
a Darmstadt work camp, is visited by international group.

Students digest lunch, beer, the morning's discussions and
common problems over table at University of Heidelberg.

German-American
Relations Improving

W* ARE NOT TRYING to force American democracy
on anyone,” Dr. Oron J. Hale, deputy US. state
commissioner for Bavaria, told the audience in German
over Radio Munich Oct.17 during an interview with
correspondent Watsche Abeghian.

Dr. Hale continued: “We are not telling Germans who
visit the United States that American democracy is the
best and they must establish a so-called American way
of life here. We want our visitors to observe objectively
and to bring back with them any ideas that may be
applicable to community life in Germany. A democratic
system established and maintained here must be a 'Ger-
man Democracy.’ *

Dr, Hale, on leave from his professorial post at the
University of Virginia, is an author and specialist on
German affairs and history who has made several visits
to Germany.

After commenting on the fact that he has in the past
visited Bavaria many times, he stated, ‘The Bavarians
will pull through if anyone does. Only a courageous and
optimistic people would have undertaken reconstruction
in the face of such difficulties.”

The economic field was termed by Dr. Hale as being
the most important facing the Bavarian people, but
followed closely by the cultural and scientific fields.

As an example of co-operation now extant in the
cultural fields Dr. Hale said: “Only last week a represen-
tative of the Germanistic Society was in my office, This
society, together with the Rockefeller Foundation and
other similar organizations, is organizing the exchange
of cultural, scientific and technical periodicals between
Germany and the United States. This is not a one-way
street. Here in Germany... Bavaria’plays an important
role because of its libraries and its cultural institutions.”

N ANSWER to Mr. Abeghian’s question on whether

animosities aroused during the past war were on the
decrease or not, Dr. Hale stated that he clearly thought
that the relationship of the two peoples was improving.

He said: “I think I can say that the German people are
being judged by their actions today. Americans are
traditionally a reasonable and practical people. Their
grudges are shortlived. We have demonstrated our con:
fidence in the Germans and I hope they have confidence
in us.”

When asked to predict the possible future of Germany
Dr. Hale answered that he viewed the future with “op-
timism and confidence.”

“Two weeks ago we witnessed a futile attempt by
Communist elements in western Germany to create fear
and dissension. The failure of that effort can be attribut-
ed to people like yourselves who fearlessly fight for
what you think and know is right. The Communist defeat
in Korea has encouraged the friends of freedom every-
where,” he concluded. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
The Press Replies

S HIGH COMMISSIONER John J. McCloy'’s October
U radio address concerning Germany's prime political
issues was warmly received by the German press, which
particularly noted its frank and friendly tone.

Delivered by the US High Commissioner in German,
the “fireside chat'’ was greeted by one newspaper, the
Frankfurter Neue Presse, as ‘candid, factual and warm-
hearted... an unmistakable tribute to this country.” His
references to conditions in Germany, the paper continued,
disclosed an astonishing inside knowledge of the troubles
confronting Germans. The High Commissioner's emphatic
statement that the United States will never bargain for
German support nor force anybody to become its ally
impressed the paper as being a reference to those persons
who try to poison the atmosphere by saying the Allies
want to “buy” German assistance.

The Neue Presse also went on to call Mr. McCloy’s
appeal to the German youth “some of the most beautiful
words a foreigner has yet addressed to it.”

Another Frankfurt paper, Frankfurter Rundschau, point-
ed to the lack of direct and definite information from
spokesmen of the federal government or the Bundestag
opposition and therefore praised Mr. McCloy’s initiative
in giving the German people a clear picture and explana-
tion of the New York resolutions and their effect on Ger-
many's foreign as well as domestic situation.

The Rundschau welcomed Mr. McCloy’s statement that
the Occupation Authorities will “drastically curtail" their
powers, arguing that a nation cannot win its democratic
freedom under continued tutelage, even of a friendly-dis-
posed occupation power. Essentially, the paper continued,
every nation must win its freedom by its own efforts and
strength, and Germany is no exception.

It is true, the paper asserted, that German youth is
seriously occupying itself with the problems of new forms
for the life and government of the German people. How-
ever, the apparently non-political German youth, with its
desire for freedom, has not sufficiently made itself heard
in political discussions. The desire for freedom no doubt
exists, but, the paper asked, is it sufficiently widespread
in our still rather shaky democratic state?

The paper suggested similar considerations may have
prompted Mr. McCloy's statement that ‘the High Commis-
sion will act only if basic democratic principles upon which
the Federal Republic rests are threatened or violated.”

It is “noteworthy, according to the Rundschau, that
Mr. McCloy treated the question of the new German
mobile police not from the police-technical or military
point of view but from the aspect of the police being a
servant of the people, which must not become the center
of any rebirth of Nazism or militarism, or a facade for
_any army. To this the paper remarked it is the responsi-
bility of the Germans themselves to be watchful and to
forestall such a development.

Mr. McCloy's statement that German participation in
European defense is only desirable “if the people, the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

38

parliament and the government of the Federal Republic
actively favor and support it," was called by Frankfurter
Rundschau evidence of a truly democratic way of think-
ing. “How to come to an understanding with the other
nations in the matter of European defense,” the paper said,
“is now given into our own hands and is left to our free
decision. The solution of this problem will be achieved to
the same extent to which we succeed in creating a state
and community as free and without frictions as possible,
and in establishing good relations between the citizens and
their government.”

Sueddeutsche Zeitung stated that Mr, McCloy told the
German people nothing new, but confirmed what was
already subconsciously in their minds: that they cannot
shirk certain responsibilities. “Although it is emphasized
that German military assistance will not be bought and
is only desirable if favored and actively supported by the
people and its parliament — what other choice is left to
us? There is no point in having illusions in this matter.”

The paper welcomed Mr. McCloy's clear statement that
a German national army “will not be permitted,” and
continues: “To our knowledge the German people had
not asked for an army...”

HE FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE ZEITUNG remarked

Mr. McCloy was right when he said that such serious
questions as rearmament, which might cost the lives of
thousands of young Germans, must not be made the
object of a bargain, otherwise undesirable half-measures
will be the result. Approaching the problem of rearmament
without prejudice and taking into account the real con-
ditions, it is obvious, the paper says, that if young Ger-
mans have to shoulder rifles again, it would be wrong
to try and make the sacrifice attractive. The only way is
to show them clearly the idea behind it.

The aim of a German rearmament, the paper continues,
has clearly been stated by foreign statesmen: maintenance
of peace, if that is possible; but in an emergency,
defense of liberty and freedom — those principles com-
mon to all Western nations, The Allgemeine Zeitung ex-
pressed doubt whether German public opinion clearly
understands this aim yet. .

From England came a more measured response. Said
the influential London Times: “Mr. McCloy's speech re-
tlected the American contention that Western Europe can-
not be effectively organized for defense unless German
troops are enlisted..He did not say how these German
contingents...could be prevented from leading to the es-
tablishment of a national army; and his speech cannot have
been altogether reassuring to the French...If western Ger-
many sees the Western cause as her own, well and good;
but it would do no service to the peace of Europe to give
Germans the impression that the army of the North At-
lantic could be made the instrument for unifying by force
the two halves of Germany." +END.

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 42 ---
New Status of Germany

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

I AM HAPPY TO HAVE this opportunity to speak
with you tonight. J think we have now reached a
new stage in the relations between Germany and the
Western Allies, as well as a turning point on the road
to European security. I shall talk frankly, and trust that
what I say will be accepted in the same spirit in which
I speak, which is one of realism and good will.
The recent decisions of the New York Conference of
* Foreign Ministers and of the North Atlantic Treaty
Powers are of far-reaching import. You are all deeply con-
cered with their effect on Germany's position as a free
nation; on German security; and on your daily lives. With
this in mind, I want to discuss three questions:
What was decided in New York?
What does it mean for Germany?
What does the future hold?
First then what was decided? I can summarize the
main results in two basic statements:
First, the authority of the Federal Republic is being
substantially increased; .
Second, the security of the Federal Republic is being
greatly strengthened. —

ET ME SAY A FEW WORDS about the new status of
the Federal Republic. The Western Allies have
recognized the Federal Republic as the only legitimate
government in Germany today. To formalize their actual
relations with the Federal Republic, they will end the
present legal state of war. In external -affairs, Germany
will have its own foreign office with diplomatic repre-
sentatives in most of the free countries, though for the
time being the relations with the three Western Allies
will be carried on through the High Commissioners in
the interest of clarity and efficiency.

In the internal field, the Western nations are drastically
curtailing their authority over domestic affairs. They will
relinquish many of their present powers just as rapidly
as the necessary arrangements can be made to permit
their assumption and exercise by the federal government:
This means that German jurisdiction over ordinary
domestic matters will be greatly enlarged. In this area
the High Commission will act only if
basic democratic principles upon which

sulting from the New York decisions: the strengthened
security of the Federal Republic and of Europe.

You all know of the direct threat declared by the
Communists against the people and the institutions of
Western Germany and Berlin. To counteract this threat,
the Foreign Ministers have authorized the creation of a
new mobile German police force, strong enough to cope
with any internal subversive attacks on the democratic
institutions of the Western zones and Berlin.

This force must of course be subject to safeguards to
assure that it is a firm defender of liberties of the
citizens. In short, this police force must truly be a
servant of the people. It is essential that it must not
become the center of any rebirth of Nazism or militarism.
I believe that the responsible German leaders agree with
the High Commission that this force must be a police
force only, and not a facade for any army.

N EXTERNAL SECURITY, the decisions made in
New York were so important that I want to repeat
the exact text of one of those decisions tonight:

“The Allied Governments consider that their forces
in Germany have in addition to their occupation duties
also the important role of acting as security forces for
the protection and defense of the free world, including
the German Federal Republic and the Western sectors
of Berlin. To make this protection more effective the
Allied governments will increase and reinforce their
forces in Germany. They will treat any attack against
the Federal Republic or Berlin from any quarter as an
attack upon themselves.”

These words are clear, pointed and significant. No
nation and no group of men should underestimate their
meaning..An attack on any part of Western Berlin or
‘Western Germany, no matter from what source, will be
considered an attack on Britain, France and the United
States. Moreover, the three Allies are sending more
troops here to give living and concrete backing to this
guarantee. As another major defensive step, the Western
Allies together with the other members of the Atlantic
Pact, have decided to create a unified army for the

defense of Europe, an army under a

the Federal Republic rests are. threat-
ened or violated. In a few specific
fields, such as security, restitution and
deconcentration, the High Commission
will retain its authority, but even in
these fields we shall be consulting
with the German authorities. I now
come to the second basic advance re-

US High Commissioner John J.
McCloy delivered the accompany-
ing address on the future of Ger-
many over all radio stations in
Western Germany and RIAS in Ber-
lin Oct. 6. He spoke in German.
The address was repeated by Mr.
McCloy in English over the Armed
Forces Network.

single commander with an integrated
staff. Steps are being taken to make
this army a vital force within a short
time. :
Naturally, in creating such an army
with the mission of defending Europe,
including Germany, the question of a
possible German defense contribution
was bound to arise. Though no defini-

NOVEMBER 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
tive decisions have been taken, two things are clear:
First, any German contribution would have to be on
a just basis and within the framework of an integrated
European defense. That means that no national German
Army will be permitted.

Second, the Western Allies fully recognize that a Ger-
man contribution is possible or desirable only if the
people, the parliament and the government of the Federal
Republic actively favor and support it.

ERTAINLY NO SANE PERSON can be in favor of
reviving militarism in Germany. Any German role
in European defense must be taken by men with firm
democratic convictions. There is no room for militarist
cliques or societies, or for reactionary doctrines. The
democratic political leaders of Germany are aware, I
believe, of the necessity of avoiding any such tendencies.
Even this brief summary indicates that many positive
decisions of major importance were taken at New York.
They should be most heartening to all of us who wish
to see Germany as a peaceful, democratic member of a
secure Europe.

These decisions are not a departure from previous
Allied policy in Germany, but rather the latest steps
toward a goal that has been constant since 1945.

Five years ago, Germany was in physical, social and
economic ruin. That ruin was caused, it must be re-
membered, not by Yalta and Potsdam, but directly by
the callous brutality of Nazi aggression. Yet immediately
after the German defeat, Military Government in Western
Germany and Berlin began to restore the essentials of
life. It brought into Germany huge quantities of food
which saved from starvation millions of German men,
women and children. It started and carried through a gigan-
tic and unprecedented recovery program to help the Ger-
man people to rebuild their homes and their country.

‘Of course, many things have yet to be accomplished.
The refugee problem remains enormous. Millions of
Germans still live in overcrowded and unhealthy homes;
too many are unemployed, their earnings and their
standard of living are too low. But compared with five
years ago, Western Germany has made phenomenal ad-
vances, as each of you knows.

This recovery could not have been started without
the Western Powers. It was carried on by the skill and
determination of the people of Western Germany and
the steadfastness of the people of Berlin. In short, it has
been a great joint undertaking of immeasurable benefit
both to Germany and Europe.

GAINST THIS BACKGROUND, the decisions in New
York are the culmination of five years of progressive
effort toward a common goal. That goal is to help Ger-
many become a constructive partner in the democratic
European community, living in friendly co-operation with
all peoples who seek freedom and are ready to defend it.
In some quarters it has been suggested that our re-
cent actions are prompted by the desire to “buy” Ger-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

man military help in a time of danger. In all earnestness,
I urge the German people not to be misled by such
suggestions. The fact is that the United States and the
Western nations are not bargaining for German help,
and they do not intend to do so. We are neither “buy-
ing” allies, nor are we coercing any.

So much for the significance of the New York de-

cisions. What then of the future? What does it hold for
Germany?

Now, and for the future, the West profoundly desires
two things: the first is to preserve individual liberty and
human dignity from all forms of tyranny. The second is
to maintain peace. Unless I am badly mistaken Western
Germans and indeed all Germans share this yearning
for freedom and peace.

These are noble ideals but they can be attained only

by sacrifice and effort. Those who really want them |

must be prepared to pay that price.

HE UNITED STATES, I believe, has shown that it is

willing to do so. The attack on Korea drove home -

the lesson that we must be ready at all times to defend
ourselves effectively against aggression. Americans, with
a good reason, do not want to leave their homes and
careers for military service, but they are doing so to
build up the strength of the Western world. Our mighty
effort to mobilize men and equipment has just one pur-
pose: to maintain peace. We seek only to deter those
who might be tempted to attack the unprepared. We do
not believe that war is inevitable. On the contrary, we
are convinced that a strong West can prevent war.

For Germany also freedom and peace can be won only
with effort and sacrifice. All who share the faith in a
free society must seek common ground for their pro-
tection and must bear unwanted and costly burdens. As
I have said, our steady aim has been to enable the Ger-
man people to create a vigorous democratic society and
to regain a respected place in a united Europe. Such a
European community with Germany as a partner will be
the best safeguard for peace and security.

The need for a united Europe is made more urgent by
a threat from the East but it would still be pressing even
without that threat. Only a united Europe will provide
healthy and peaceful outlets for the economic, political
and spiritual forces in Germany.

In carrying through these tasks, Germany should be
greatly aided by the attitude of its young people. I have
heard of the sense of frustration and even nihilism of
German youth. But from what I see of them, I believe
that the youth of Germany are realistic, vigorous and
forward-looking. “s

I also have the impression that many of them, and
probably most of them, consider a united Europe and a

united Western world in which Germany has its proper «

place as their great ideal for the immediate future. Ger-

man youth, in my opinion, is no longer interested in the»

old national rivalries, in the balance of power, in pro- °

(Continued on page 45)

NOVEMBER 1950 *

--- Page 44 ---
The International Situation
and Germany

Address

By DR. KONRAD ADENAUER
Chancellor, German Federal Republic

ARGE GROUPS OF THE GERMAN people have been
roused to vigilance by speeches, articles and news
dispatches published in German and foreign papers. There
have been certain public letters, too, which do not, by
the way, reflect a particular feeling of responsibility. In
a few words I shall attempt to make the situation clear.
But let me first speak about the open letters published
by some Germans, not because I think they are of pri-
mary importance for the German people, but because
I do not want to mingle the much more important state-
ments I have to make with comments on these letters.
It was maintained in these letters that under my authori-
ty German rearmament is being energetically pushed
everywhere in the Federal Republic. I can only say that
this assertion is a mere invention. In the interest of the

originators of such assertions I assume that they fell _

victims to mystifications and I ask them no longer to
listen so credulously to evil talk. When the writer of one
of these letters says that persistent rumors speak of
agreements between the federal chancellor and Mr.
McCloy and perhaps the British high commissioner, too ——
to the effect that many German divisions would soon be
established — I can but reply that the writer has no
notion whatsoever of political and constitutional condi-
tions either in the Federal Republic of Germany, in the
United States or in Great Britain,

Such an assertion, to put it cautiously, is more than
absurd. These people should be careful not to hurt other
nations’ feelings by such words.

ET ME NOW TURN to the main subject of my state-
ments today, which I would call “The International
Situation and Germany." Through events in Korea or
connected with Korea, every German, I think, now clearly
understands the significance of the dangerous tensions
which have developed in recent years between the two
groups of powers that now control the world. For us Ger-
mans — andI mean all Germans on both sides of the Iron
Curtain — another serious sign of warning is the concen-
tration of Soviet troops in the East zone, the establishment
of the “People’s Police’ army and the

“With regard to the external security of the Federal
Republic, the three Powers have declared that they will
regard their troops in Germany not only as occupation |
troops, but as troops on whom the protection of the
Federal Republic and the Western sectors of Berlin is
simultaneously incumbent." .

The three Powers expressively added that any attack
upon the Federal Republic or Berlin, wherever it may
come from, and even if it were from the People’s Police,
without any Soviet intervention, would be regarded by
them as an attack on themselves,

Every word of this declaration was carefully chosen.
Since the three Powers say they will regard any attack
on us or Berlin as an attack on themselves, we may as-
sume that they will oppose any such attack as though it
were against their own country — which means that they
would repel it at the frontier.

In my opinion, the German people must note with great
satisfaction and delight that the previously expfessed idea
of a delaying defense back to and even west of the,Rhine
now definitely belongs to the past.

CCORDING TO THE LATEST REPORTS I have re-

ceived, we can be convinced that these resolutions
are no mere phrases, but that the Western Allies have
already started to apply them in practice.

The Western Allied troops,. which are to be rein-
forced, are not occupation troops, but security forces.
Their presence will naturally entail numerous incoven-
iences for us — as it will for these troops themselves —
but comparing these inconveniences with the great asset
of security, I think we all will be prepared to undergo
the inconveniences.

In foreign papers and the speeches of foreign politi-
cians we read and hear of lively discussions about the
German nation and the right time to make use of its
resources. May I ask all people discussing these problems
to bear in mind that Germans are paying close attention
to the tone of such arguments. I also request them to
consider that the German people ‘may rightfully expect

to be trusted, in view of its attitude

threats addressed to us by the respons-
ible men of the Soviet Zone republic.

More important for us are the
resolutions of the New York Con-
ference of Foreign Ministers, which I
shall read to you now as they were
communicated to me:

West Germany's chancellor join-
ed world leaders in discussing
German rearmament in October.
His address, translated here, was
broadcast over a trizonal hookup
to all West Germans on Oct. 11.

during the past years.

In this connection I would like to
address a few words to French orators
in particular. We Germans have so
often stated (and also proved) our firm
resolve to go together with France in
the future that I think by now they

NOVEMBER 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
should stop distrusting us. Distrust never breeds trust on
the other side, but only infects with distrust again. At the
meeting of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, repre-
sentatives of all participating countries made excellent
statements and took resolutions which demonstrated
their feeling of European solidarity. This feeling should
now prove itself strong and alive.

ONSIDERING THE STATEMENTS of politicians — and
by this I mean the politicians of all countries — one
sometimes has the impression that politicians see simple
things, simple truths and fact as a little too complicated,
whereas non-politicians have a sound sense for the
needs and dangers of the time and see the important
facts in.a clearer and not so complicated way. Everybody
knows and feels what Europe needs, and everyone should
act correspondingly.
Among the Western Allies, the United States is more

or less the leading power. Its policy has been very *

clearly expressed in two speeches by Secretary of State
Dean Acheson. In one address he explained that negotia-
tions with Russia are possible only on a basis of equality,
that is, if both sides are equally strong.

From our experience during the time of the National
Socialist regime, we Germans can fully confirm his state-
ments about negotiating with totalitarian states. Further-
more, last Sunday, in a speech directed against certain
“silly talk," as he called it, Mr. Acheson condemned a
preventive war and emphasized once more that the aim
of American armament is to secure the peace of the world.
It is this very same aim that the federal government, and,

as I know, also the federal parliament most heartily ap-
prove,

In reply to allegations made here and there of certain
obligations upon the Federal Republic of Germany in
regard to the establishment of German divisions, I ex-
pressly state that no such obligations exist. The Western
Allies have been informed that only the federal parlia-
ment can decide this question, and that it can take such
a decision only if the Western Aliies officially ask clearly- -
defined questions of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Whether such questions will be addressed to us, and
when that might eventually be, must be left to the future.

ET ME ADD the following: There has been some talk
of a plebiscite being necessary. The Basic Law pro-
vides for no such plebiscite and for no dissolution of the
parliament, except in one particular instance, which,
however, does not apply.

In closing, let me say the following, to preclude any
misinterpretation of my statements: We Germans love
peace more than anything else. But we also know what
slavery means, and we appreciate freedom as the highest
asset. We came to know slavery during the time of Na-
tional Socialism and we see today what is happening to
our brothers and sisters in the Soviet-occupied zone.

We Germans — and I mean also those on the other
side of the Iron Curtain — most honestly and wholehearted-
ly vote for freedom. We do not want slavery under
any circumstances. Goethe's statement that only he earns
his freedom and existence who daily conquers them anew,
applies to everybody — including ourselves, +END

Germans Endorse Firm Stand against Aggression

SUBSTANTIAL MAJORITY of Germans have con-

fidence in America’s determination to stand firm
against further Communist aggression, to defend Germany
in case of war, and in its ability to win the war in Korea,
the HICOG Reactions Analysis Staff reported as a result
of a Public Opinion Survey made before the current UN
Korean offensive and the Foreign Ministers’ Communique
pledging defense of Western Europe. .

The survey also showed that dominant sentiment in the
US occupied areas was that America was preparing as
well as possible for future international developments.
Another notable note of confidence disclosed in the
survey is that a majority believed America is doing all
it Should for the security of West Germany.

Sampling the opinions of some 1,500 persons in the US
Zone, 300 in Berlin and 200 in’ Bremen, the Reactions
Analysis Staff conducted the survey from Aug. 8 to
Sept. 8. It was pointed out that the general confidence
in the West has probably increased since then because
of the UN offensive and the Foreign Ministers’ Conference.

The dominating opinion is still in the East-West strug-
gle. Most Germans prefer to side with the West rather
than to stay out completely or side with the Russians.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A2

However, the number believing Germans prefer neutrality
rose from one-fourth to one-third since the outbreak of
the Korean aggression,

Despite heavy Communist propaganda, there is no
doubt among Germans that the Communists were unjusti-
fied aggressors in Korea. Almost all Germans sampled,
who had opinions in the matter, felt that the North Korean
attack was instigated by Russia.

The persistent Communist theme of ‘“Amis*, Go Home”
never had much appeal in the areas, and since the example
of Korea now has even less.

The survey showed that three-quarters of US Zone re-
sidents (85 percent in Berlin) believed that Germany
would not be “politically secure’ if the Occupation Pow-
ers withdrew.

Preponderant opinion held that the Communists do not
intend a general war by their Korean aggression, hut
only a test of Western power. But on the larger question .
of whether a world war can be avoided during the next
decade, the majority was pessimistic, although there has
been no appreciable change in opinion since the outbreak
of the Korean conflict. -++END

* German slang term for Americans.

NOVEMBER 1950 .-

--- Page 46 ---
Germany’s Civil Service
By MAJ. GEN. CHARLES P. GROSS |

US State Commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden

AM PLEASED TO HAVE this opportunity of thinking

through with you one of the Germany's most perplex-
ing problems — the reform of the German civil service.
I have no concern about the final decision on a problem
when it is freely discussed with the decision freely ar-
rived at. If more groups of citizens were to follow your
example, the struggle for democracy would be well on
the way to success. However, I have been sad to see
many past efforts encounter opposition from some who
close their minds and emotionally cling to the past for
no other reason than that it is traditional.

I wish to make it plain at the outset that I am telling
of conditions and tendencies in Western ‘Germany as
a whole and not with particular reference to the State
of Wuerttemberg-Baden. If anything, prospects for a
healthy public appear brighter within Wuerttemberg-
Baden than in many other states. A number of worth-
while steps have already been taken. In a recent contro-
versy in the state legislature, the Wuerttemberg-Baden
government defended the need for the maintenance of
an impartial personnel authority to observe the uniform,
fair administration of the state personnel program.

In the present day, to a large degree one’s attention
is pulled to’events in Korea and to tendencies in other
areas. There is a natural concern among Germans that
the new Germany and other freedom-loving peoples re-
main free from the threat of authoritarianism — a rule
which recognizes neither the dignity of the individual
nor the ethics associated with the religions of the peoples
of the world.

UT DESPITE THIS CONCERN and the attention it
requires, I caution you that within even Western
Germany authoritarianism has not yet been completely
eradicated — democracy has not yet been won. It is true
that constitutions have been adopted and certain broad
basic laws have been passed which provide the legal
basis for a democratic government. But the citizen who
criticized recently the quality of his local police at a
community meeting was a few days later tried and fined
some 75 marks for “insulting” the police.
In at least some of the states, it is still proper under
the law for a minister to levy a fee up to 2,000 marks
against a citizen who may file a com-

or utterance against government agencies; this punishment
is levied by the minister or mayor or government official
concerned and not by a court.*

The German people have before them a difficult task.
On the one hand, they wish to live under a democratic
government and social structure, enjoying their individ-
ual, rights and their duties and responsibilities as citizens.
On the other hand, their own experience ‘and the ex-
perience of those serving them in public office, is that
acquired under authoritarian control.

When I talk of experience the word is synonymous with
tradition. Much of this experience has been excellent
and has been emulated in the United States and other
countries over the world. Other traditions have been
the cause for concern in that they violated the dignity
of the individual and therefore indirectly constituted a
threat to the peace-loving peoples in much the same
way as does the struggle which goes on in Korea today.

I wish to emphasize that Germany cannot become a
democratic nation and still retain all of its past traditions.
Had this been fully recognized in the Weimar period per-
haps the history of the past 20 years might have been
different. The German people have the task of examining
and re-evaluating each of their traditions with a view to
retaining those which are compatible with democracy and \
relegating to history those which tend to hinder.

AM CONVINCED that the reactions of ordinary Ger-

mans are fundamentally the same as the reactions of
people the world over. Thus the German people will
achieve the democratic way of life they desire and their
neighboring countries will have no cause for suspicion
or alarm if the policies of the new Germany mirror clearly
the composite judgment of the German people as a whole.
This means that instrument of government must be con-
tinually accountable to the German people.

This factor of accountability will be found useful as a
standard to evaluating many German traditions. It is of
help in reviewing the system of elections, in deliberations
on a free press, in strengthening: the self-administration
of the local governments and in many more. It is particu-
larly significant in considering the civil service where
so many of the practices and traditions, coming down

almost unchanged from the days of

plaint which, in the judgment of the
minister, is unfounded. It is still pos-
sible in at least part of Western Ger-
many that a fine up to 1,000 marks
or imprisonment up to three days be
levied against'a person who commits
contempt through improper behavior

This article was adapted from
the text of an address delivered
by General Gross before the Evan-
gelical Academy's Conference on
the German Civil Service, held
Sept. 9 in Bad Boll, near Goepping-
en, Wuerttemberg-Baden.

the empire, continue to obstruct the
development of accountability.

A German civil servant is not a mere
underling occupying a subordinate post
in government. He sits in the legis-

* See “Insult Law“ in Information Bulletin,

NOVEMBER 1950

Issue 161, May 17, 1949.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
lature, helps to control the political parties, holds all key
government positions below cabinet level, and may make
up a majoritiy of the cabinet itself.

It is perfectly evident that this powerful group is better
trained in the processes of German government than
anyone else in Germany. They have a tradition of edu-
cation, of honesty and efficiency. Unfortunately, they
have also a tradition of authority. They hold the view
that the expert can best run the government. What they
do not realize is that in a democracy the important poli-
cies of government must in the final analysis be determin-
ed not by the expert but by the common citizen. It is
this tradition of authority inconsistent with the principle
that all government is accountable to the people which
needs to be re-examined.

N PRINCIPLE EVERYONE agrees today that the public

servant is to be the servant of the people, not their
master, and the constitutions so provide. But the elimination
of the old tradition of authority and the establishment of
the principle of accountability will not be realized merely
by decree.

It is true that the Occupation Authorities have hoped
to see reforms in the German public service. But their
objectives and objections have been gravely misunder-
stood. We have never attempted to transplant to Ger-
many personnel systems as they may exist in the United
States or other countries nor do we attempt it today. We
have never required that the good features of the former
system be destroyed nor do we seek it today.

We have, however, been concerned that the German
people themselves effect the reform of their public serv-
ice. We have asked that they re-assess their traditional
practices and procedures with a view to incorporating
certain minimum principles so as to bring the public
service into harmony with democratic principles in
public service the world over and thereby within the
control of the German people.

These basic principles are in essence the freedom of
access for every citizen to the public service, the uni-
form impartial administration of the personnel program,
and a restriction on the active participation of public
servants in politics. These apply to all public servants
and not just to the officials.

T IS SELF-EVIDENT that every citizen who is loyal

to democratic principles should have access to the
public service with appointment and promotion being
based solely on the relative fitness of the individual to
discharge the responsibilities of the particular post and
without discrimination on account of creed, social ante-
cedents, race, sex or politics. The employing authority
is and should be interested in obtaining the services of
the person who possesses to the highest degree the skills
and abilities actually needed on the job to be filled. The
method by which the individual applicants have acquired
these skills and abilities should be of little concern to
the employing authority.

In Germany, however, it has been the tradition to rely
almost exclusively on certificates of schoolroom instruc-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

General Gross, US state commissioner for Wuerttemberg-
Baden, spoke at Bad Doll Sept. 9, when he delivered the
address from which this article was adapted. (US Army photo)

tion, a tradition which excluded from practical considera-
tion persons who may have acquired the skills and abili-
ties in business and other ways. Through the public an-
nouncement of job opportunities and through a competi-
tive measurement of the applicant's possession of needed
skills and abilities, each German citizen would have the
right of access to the public service. The result would be a
public service more representative of all German citizens.

It seems necessary that there should be maintained an
impartial and appropriate personnel authority responsible
under the law for the application and enforcement of the
law relating to the public service and every public serv-
ant should have the right to appeal to this authority from
any decision affecting him which he considers to be
unjust. Of course, the public servant must obey valid
instructions from his office superior but he must not be
an unthinking Roboter (robot); he must recognize his
responsibility to the public. When the individual public
servant is treated as a respected individual by his own
superiors, it will be natural for him in turn to deal with
the public as respected co-equals.

HE PARTICIPATION of a public servant in political

activity should be restricted and ought not to be such
as to represent him to the people at large as an active
supporter of a specific political party or program. The
public servant must serve impartially all freedom-loving
citizens and must hold himself above the suspicion that
he*may be giving special attention or privilege to a
particular political group or program.

It is incompatible with the separation of the exercise
of legislative and executive powers for a public servant
to continue in his public post after accepting election to
a legislative body. Frequently have I read in legislative
proceedings where a Beamte (professional public serv-
ant) member was asked whether he was speaking as a re-
presentative of his ministry or as a member of the legis-
lature.

In the past five years some of these concepts have
found their way into legislation, but it has been an uphill
battle. The opposition from many well-meaning, honorable
people has been motivated by clinging to tradition at

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 48 ---
!

all costs without really realizing what the tradition they
defend implies.

Today at least some of the states are in a position to
serve as examples of the benefits that can accrue from such
a reform and can demonstrate that these reforms are not
something merely visionary and theoretical but do in fact
have practical benefits.

RIGINALLY THERE WAS only dissatisfaction with

conditions, but the people had no idea how to cor-
rect the situation. Then there developed within the citi-
zenry a self-confidence in their right to publicly discuss
the problem and the conviction that a change could be
effected. The newspapers of Germany were highly public
spirited in presenting the pros and cons of the argument.
The German trade unions added their voices.

Resulting from this, one can observe the transition from
the point where the people were merely being against
something, to the situation today where a majority ‘of
the people seem to be for certain rather definite reforms.
These forces, although they worked hard on the federal
law, fell just short of being successful in influencing a
change in the system as represented in the federal pro-
visional civil service law.

Since the Allied High Commission also is concerned in
the eradication of authoritarianism, it was able to coun-
teract a complete reversion to the traditional civil service
System. There is no point in closing our eyes to the fact
that the opposition to change in the civil-service system
came from the ranks of the civil servants, especially of
the higher level. .

It is understandable that an individual's first reaction
would be that of loyalty to a system with which he is
well acquainted and it is likewise understandable that
he might fight to protect such status, power and. advan-
tages which he may enjoy. But the fact that there is a
cohesive organized group which because of the strategic
location in government possesses power out of all pro-

Services Offered for Korea

...And since I have gathered considerable experi-
ence in military medical service I would like to ask
you, General, to let me assist in Korea and let the
wounded profit from my experience. I am no ad-
venturer. However, it is unbearable to have to sit
around here idle while there the wounded cry for
help. If I could go there by bicycle I would already
be in Korea. I would like to take my 17-year-old
son along, as he already has been trained as a
Red Cross helper.

Please, General, let us Germans do our share in
this fight for freedom, because we are greatly in
debt to the American people and it would give me
a great deal of inner satisfaction if I were allowed
to help the sons of American mothers... There is
perhaps a possibility, General, to find some more
fair thinking people in order to set up a well-trained
ambulance corps...Excerpt of German letter read
at OLCWB press conference in Stuttgart Sept. 7.

NOVEMBER 1950

AS

portion to its size, emphasizes the need for appropriate
counter-measures. It points out the need for stronger
public organization in order to overcome this obstacle.

HE FIGHT FOR THE REFORM of the civil service

goes on. In the Federal Assembly in the next few
months a new civil service law will be debated. In Wuert-
temberg-Baden certain aspects of the administration of the
state civil service law are being discussed. Other states
are likewise giving attention to their public service.

It will be a major triumph for democracy in Germany
when the German people are successful in eradicating
authoritarian practices from their governments and thus
in making them truly accountable to the will of the
citizenry. +END

(Continued from page 40)
New Status of Germany

vincial jealousies. It is interested in wider horizons and
in healthy co-operation with all who are attempting to
solve the world’s great problems.

HE WEST CAN FACE the future with confidence. Its

strength lies not only in its greater resources and in-
dustrial capacity but in the faith of free peoples whose
energies are not sapped by constant fear. With this
faith a strong Western Europe can help to revive a
democratic and free Western Europe. And the same
faith can speed the day when Germany will become
united in democratic freedom.

Europe has many memories yet to be overcome, many
wounds that have yet to heal.

We are moving toward a community of interest built
on strength and democratic ideals. In this direction lies
the best hope for the future — the future of Germany,
of Europe and indeed of the entire world. -+END

Meteorological Service Set Up

An Allied Meteorological Board has been established by
the Allied High Commission to co-operate with German
authorities in the creation of a central federal meteor-
ological service. This action, the result of a study, will
merge all such official agencies in the Western zones.

At present, in the US Zone the meteorological ‘service
is established as a public corporation controlled by an
official Kuratorium (council or directorate) of the states:
It has a budget of DM 6,500,000 for this year.

In the British Zone the service is financed by the
federal government on a budget of the Ministry for Trans-
portation, amounting to approximately DM 4,000,000.

In the French Zone, each state has its individual service,
with no administrative link connecting the - various
services. Each is financed by a ministry of the state
government while the total budget of the three
French Zone states for these services is approximately
DM 1,000,000.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
German Experts Study US Tax System

HE FIRST GERMAN TAX system can be improved

and certain inequalities can be removed, according
to five German financial experts who have been ana-
lyzing the American tax structure for eight weeks.

In the United States under the technical assistance
program of ECA, the German experts observed certain
techniques which can be usefully adapted at home. A
report of their study during August and September was
to be submitted to the federal minister of finance.

The experts admitted that they had not reached any
conclusion, but would give careful consideration to the
German tax system when making their report.

The group, led by Wolfgang Mersmann, director in the
federal Ministry of Finance, left for Germany Sept. 22,
after having studied tax practices and administrative
procedures in the Bureau of Internal Revenue of the US
Treasury Department and in various state and local tax
departments. Other members of the team were: Herbert
Senftleben, counselor in federal Ministry of Finance;
Dr. Frederick Strobel, deputy chief of Tax Department,
Wuerttemberg-Baden Ministry of Finance; Dr. Fritz Ter-
halle, professor of economics, University of Munich, and
Herbert Weichmann, comptroller general, City of Hamburg.

Observing that the system of exemptions for dependents
in the United States is much simpler than that in Ger-
many, the team said it would study the subject further
to determine the extent it could be applied to Germany.
The experts also examined the US system of allowable
deductions, particularly in entertainment expenses, which
are closely scrutinized.

The team said it became highly interested and im-
pressed by the manner in which the Public Relations

Western Germany's new and only home economics testing
Jabatory and kitchen is put into operation in Stuttgart.

Lucia Batzilla, testing program chief does the honors
while Marie Doermann, Rutgers University nutrition spe-
cialist, and Paul F, Taggart, chief, Food and Agricultural
Branch, OLCWB look on. (PRB OLCWB photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

46

Two well-known publishers, Dr. Fritz Nohr of the “Rhein
Post’ and Adalbert Schmidt of the “Giessen Freie Presse,”
leave in a group 15 German journalists to study US jour-
nalistic methods as exchangees, (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Section of the Bureau of Internal Revenue helps the
taxpayer to “fulfill his duties toward government.

“While the business of filling tax returns and paying
taxes may nowhere be a popular and pleasant occupa-
the team observed, “the way the American tax-
payer is approached by his administration contains
certain educational features designed to impress the
taxpayer, which are lacking at present in German methods.
Posters as well as texts, as we saw them, appeal to the
patriotic feelings of the American citizen. He is not
regarded as a presumptive lawbreaker, upon whom must
be impressed the severity of the law, but rather as a
person willing to give’the government what the govern-
ment is entitled to.”

Mr. Mersmann, speaking for the group, said that the
government is not presented as an abstract notion “but
the outgrowth of the people and, therefore, entitled to
natural loyalty by the people. We will have to urgently
consider an introduction of similar educational methods.”

tion,”

LTHOUGH THE TEAM could not make any decision
Ace whether the same system could be applied to
Germany, it saw certain “undeniable advantages’ in
American pay-as-you-go tax methods.

The team was also interested in American methods of
eliminating tax evasion. On its return, it intends to bring
to the attention of tax authorities the methods used
there. “There is little tax evasion in the United States,”
Mr. Mersmann said, “which indicates that the American
system in its simple form works well and has the desired
result on the public-spiritedness of the citizen.”

Another subject on which the team expects improve-
ment is the method of settling tax disputes. In America,
Mr. Mersmann said, great importance is attached to
settlement procedures in the interest of both the tax-
payer and the government.

“We will recommend some changes in our own settle-
ment devices," he said. +END

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 50 ---
Second RO’s Conference

ROM THE BIGGEST CITIES and remotest county areas, HICOG's ambassadors in the field con-

verged on Frankfurt during October for a three-day progress meeting. Their mission was tositdown
with headquarters officials to smooth out the kinks of internal administration and to formulate bet-
ter ways of carrying out HICOG policies and problems in the US Zone.

The meeting marked the second time since inception of HICOG that US county resident officers
had got together over the hundreds of divergent problems which harass their days.

OST OF THE 156 resident officers attended; with them

were representatives of the US state commissioners,
state observers and US Information Centers, as well as
envoys from EUCOM headquarters and each military post.
To this representation was added the tripartite flavor: Brit-
ish and French were on hand in the person of one resident
officer and the state commissioner. or his representative
from each of the seven states in the British and French
Zones. The high commissioners of all three Western zones
addressed the conference.

Opening the meetings, US High Commissioner John
J. McCloy told 400 participants, crowded into the HICOG
Headquarters Building dining room, that the resident
officer's job must now be carried out by “more examples,
more. persuasion, less direction and less decree.”

“We must seek out the democratic forces, and there
are many vigorous ones in Germany,” Mr. McCloy said.
“With this quadripartite relationship of the Americans,
the British, the French and the Germans, I don’t despair
at all of the future. I feel that with all the setbacks we
have encountered and all the perversities of mind, there
is a march ahead, in spite of all the fears that have cut
across the continent.”

Speaking in English, French High Commissioner Andre
Francois-Poncet told the conference that many people in

Speaking extemporaneously, US High Commissioner John J. McCloy (at micro-
phone) makes opening remarks at the second Resident Officer's Conference in
Frankfurt. Other speakers included (left to right) Benjamin J. Butitenwieser,
assistant US high commissioner; Lt. Gen. Manton S. Eddy, commanding general,
US Army, Europe; Gen. Thomas T. Handy, commander-in-chief, EUCOM; Andre
Francois-Poncet, French high commissioner; Mr. McCloy; Maj. Gen. George P.

France were alarmed over the return of so many powers
to the Germans. But “the risk would be greater,’ he said,
“would we insist on holding a tight rein on Germany,
refuse to relax our controls and stubbornly consider her
as an enemy without holding out any hopes of different

-treatment.”

General Thomas T. Handy, commander-in-chief, EUCOM,
stressed both the HICOG and EUCOM programs to im-
prove German-American friendship. He pointed out that
during the past year 4,000 properties had been derequi-
sitioned by the Army and only one residence requisition-
ed. The general said dissemination of such facts by the
resident officers would doubtless aid the relationship
between Americans and Germans.

Reviewing the decisions on Germany reached by the
Foreign Ministers at their September meeting, Maj. Gen.
George P. Hays, deputy US high commissioner, outlined
the major tripartite work which was in progress to carry
them through. He stressed the considerable time which
would be necessary in working out technical details and
said “the relaxation of controls will be made progressively
rather than waiting until final agreement can be reached

on all matters under discussion.”

Lt. Gen. Manton S. Eddy, commander, US Army in
Europe; Lt. Gen. John K. Cannon, commanding general,
US Air Forces in Europe; and Rear
Admiral John'Wilkes, commander, US
Naval Forces in Germany, greeted the
resident officers and pledged their
assistance to HICOG in carrying out
its mission to the German people.

Hays, deputy US high commissioner (hidden by rostrum); Lt. Gen. John K, Can-

non, commander, US Air Forces in Europe; Vice Admiral John Wilkes, com-
mander, US Naval Forces in Germany; and Col. Basil H. Perry, commanding
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

officer, Frankfurt Military Post.

if Wert

JOLLOWING THE KEYNOTE

SPECHES, the conference split up
into six seminars: such topics as com-
munity programs, educational pro-
grams, political guidance, the HICOG
exchange program and HICOG-
EUCOM co-operation came under
discussion. It was in these seminars
that the RO's thrashed out their
weightiest problems. They disclosed —
the major obstacles hindering their
efforts in the field and sought advice
at the headquarters level concerning
different phases of their reorientation
mission. (Continued on page 84)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Freedom Bell
Tolls Message
Of Hope and Faith

By LOWELL BENNETT

Chief, Public Relations Branch,
HICOG-Berlin Element

HE DEEP BRONZE TONES of the World Freedom

Bell pealed out a message of hope and of faith from
Berlin's City Hall tower at high noon on Oct. 24. Nearly
half a million Berliners, massed in the vast square below,
and millions of radio listeners throughout the world, heard
the great bell toll and knew this was the symbolic call
for a global crusade for freedom.

It was an inspiring tribute to this city’s stalwart stand
against the unceasing pressures of Communism. And it
was an impressive climax to the growing determination
of free men everywhere to destroy the evil roots of
oppression and terror.

Gen. Lucius Dr. Clay, former US military governor
of Germany and now national chairman of the Crusade
for Freedom, returned to Berlin on that day to dedicate
the bell. Flanking him at the City Hall ceremony were
John J. McCloy, US high commissioner for Germany,
Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US commander of Berlin,
and Prof. Ernst Reuter, mayor of Greater Berlin. With
them was a galaxy of leading political and diplomatic
representatives from 30 nations, gathered together for the
ceremony on a free island 105 miles behind the Iron Curtain.

It had been shipped across the Atlantic to Bremerhaven
on the naval transport ‘General Blatchford" —a freedom
ship which had carried 13,833 refugees and displaced
persons from Europe to sanctuary in the United States —
and brought on a covered railroad flat-car to Berlin. With
it came “freedom scrolls which bore the signatures of
millions of Americans from all walks of life, men and
women who signed the declaration of freedom:

“T believe in the sacredness and dignity of the individual;

Berliners (above) register determination for freedom as crowd estimated at 500,000 (below) turns out for dedication ceremony,

--- Page 52 ---
US and United Nations flags wave over freedom ceremony.

“I believe that all men derive the right to freedom
equally from God;

“I pledge to resist aggression and tyranny wherever

they appear on earth.”

HE GREAT BRONZE BELL, standing eight feet high

and measuring 98 inches in diameter at the base,
was designed by Walter Dorwin Teague, one of America's
leading industrial designers. Around the body of the
bell in bas-relief are five figures representing the major
races of man. Each figure stands with arms outstretched
and the joining hands hold torches symbolizing freedom.
Around its rim is the inscription: ‘That this world, under
God, shall have a new birth of freedom," a paraphrase
of Lincoln's immortal words at Gettysburg in 1863.

The bell and its dedication ceremony in Berlin were
sponsored by the National Committee for a Free Europe,
and its Crusade for Freedom.

Dignitaries from throughout the free world attended
the dedication ceremony. They included the three Allied
high commissioners and leading members of their staffs;
several Allied ambassadors accredited to European capi-
tals and to the Allied High Commission; and Dr. Konrad

Mr.McCloy:"'Berlin has become acity symbolic of freedom."

Participants stand as General Clay presses switch to start
Freedom Bell tolling punctually at high noon on Oct. 24.

Adenauer, chancellor of the German Federal Republic,
and top members of his government.

With General Clay came a 17-man group from the
United States including Gov. Luther W. Youngdahl of
Minnesota, Maj. Gen. Ray G, Barker, US Army (retired)
and other prominent leaders of the Crusade for Freedom.

REE BERLIN WAS ENTRUSTED with custody of the

bell because, in the words of Mr. McCloy, "This
city has known tyranny and was destroyed through

General Clay gives his autograph as Mayor Reuter assists.

--- Page 53 ---
SOc

tyranny. But this is also a city from whose ruins a new
spirit has arisen, with a new courage to resist oppression
and all its shackling consequences. Because Berlin resist-
ed the Communist blockade and defeated the infamous
effort to starve millions of human beings into political
submission, it has become a city symbolic of freedom."

The widest broadcast hookup ever attempted by radio
carried the speeches and the booming peals of the bell to
all parts of the world and deep behind the Iron Curtain.
Thousands of radio stations were linked together to
provide millions of listeners with an ear-witness par-
ticipation in the ceremony. The Voice of America, RIAS
and Radio Free Europe beamed powerful transmitters to
blanket eastern Europe.

But by far the most eloquent and most moving demon-
stration of faith was the massive participation of nearly
500,000 Berliners — the largest crowd to collect in one
place in Berlin since the war's end — who jammed the
great square of the City Hall in the borough of Schoene-
berg, in the American sector, and filled the eight streets
leading into it.

The swelling emotion of the great crowd was every-
where visible when Mayor Reuter solemnly pledged,
“More than ever we must not slacken in our courage so
that we may stand up to the great struggle that has not
yet come to an end. The ebb-tide is passed, and now the
flood-tide has set in... We promise we will never rest
nor relax until freedom, the torch of which has been
lighted here in Berlin, will shine over all nations.”

And there was the dignity of conscious pride as the
multitude heard General Taylor say, ‘Through the bitter
years from 1945 to the present time the Berliners have
known the scourge of the Red Army, the privations of
blockade and the steady malignity of the Communist
purpose. But these hard years have brought Berlin rec-
ognition as the symbol of democratic resistance and have
won it the respect and admiration of the free world.”

ENERAL CLAY, himself visibly moved, stepped to the
microphone and spoke clearly with measured tones:

“It was here that I learned a lesson that will always
mean very much to me, and that lesson was this: Free-

Packages containing scrolls bearing signatures of millions
of Americans on display at ceremony. Right, vault under
the City Hall tower in which the scrolls are to be placed.
Legend over the door reads: ‘Here lie the scrolls of mil-
lions of American citizens who have signed the Manifesto
for Freedom." (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG and PRB BE-HICOG)

Cf mentees

Cael

CRUSADE FOR
es FREE :

pus

dom exists and comes about only as it is in the hearts of
every citizen. And when the people of a place or of a
country are determined to live as individuals, to partici-
pate in the choice of their officials, they cannot be kept
from freedom. You who are here today have demonstrat-
ed your will to be free, and in the face of many diffi-
culties you have maintained your freedom behind the

‘Iron Curtain in an area where there is no other spot of

freedom...

“Because you have shown the will to be free, you are
given custody of this bell in the firm belief that in your
hands it will henceforth and forever ring for freedom,
and in doing so it will carry the message that you have
learned: Where men have the will to be free, they will
be free. You have done your part in maintaining freedom.
There remains the part that the rest of the world must
continue to play until there is, everywhere, freedom."

At the close of his dedication address, General Clay
declared ‘In a moment I will throw the switch that will
ring the Freedom Bell. As it sends forth its message of
freedom and faith, let all of us — wherever we may
be — rededicate ourselves, and join together in a silent
prayer ‘That this world, under God, shall be free.’

It was one second before noon. The heavy autumn sky
which until then had been solidly obscured by grey
clouds suddenly cleared and bright sunshine flooded the
vast square. General Clay pressed the switch and then,
exactly at noon, the majestic, full-throated peals of the
World Freedom Bell rang out across the square and, by
radio, to the far corners of the earth.

ERLINERS WILL LONG REMEMBER the words of
their friend, General Clay, as they hear the tolling
bell each day at high noon:

“May its voice lift the hearts of freedom-loving people
everywhere. From this day forward, as it rings, may it
strike a note of warning to all oppressors; a sound of
confidence and courage to those called upon to defend
their freedom; a message of hope and sympathy to those
who are enslaved.” -+END

--- Page 54 ---
Historical Studies

T IS PROBABLE that many who see the words “His-

torical Division," ‘Historical Project’ and ‘‘Historical
Staff" on office doors, on organization charts and in
various reports have only a vague notion of exactly what
has been done and is being done in writing the history
of the occupation, And that is not a reflection upon their
intelligence at all.

The dividing line between the writing of history and
the preparation of reports of various types, the carrying
on of research on contemporary problems, and the issuing
of public-relations releases is not always entirely clear,
The fact that there has been some difference in the
procedure of various historical groups dealing with the
occupation of Germany has likewise contributed to the
lack of clarity. This brief article is intended to shed as
much light as possible on the historical studies of the
occupation, particularly on the program of the Historical
Division of HICOG,

The writing of history has sometimes been regarded
as a sheer luxury or perhaps something confined to the
spare moments of the academician in cloistered seclusion.
In this day and age, at least, it is just as utilitarian in
character as many other activities of a public agency.
Actually its basic purpose is similar to that of the other
staff services of an organization: contributing to the
greatest extent possible to the effective operation of the
agency and of the government of ‘which the latter is a
part. The emphasis and method of procedure may, how-
ever, be quite different from those of a reports branch,
a personnel division or some other subdivision.

HE LARGE NUMBER of reports which are character-

istic of present-day administrative agencies usually
stress the current situation. They may cover a considera-
ble area, but in general they are likely to deal with
fairly limited problems of a specific type. They are in-
tended to furnish information essential to a problem
which requires immediate attention. Public-relations re-
leases and articles are, of course, primarily directed
toward the general public with the aim of building up
an informed citizenry, which is so essential to modern
democratic government,

Historical studies differ from reports and press releases
in that they usually cover a wider field, stress long-range
rather than immediate problems and deal more in perspec-
tives. They may be intended primarily for the use of
policy-determining officials of the government, but in
such instances they ordinarily serve as guides to long-
range policies rather than immediate problems. Most
historical studies ,are designed for the use of serious
students of significant human experience both within and
without the government.

A large measure of credit for initiation of wartime
historical programs goes to John J. McCloy, US High
Commissioner for Germany, when he was assistant secre-
tary of war. Bearing responsibility for military-govern-

NOVEMBER 1950

ment plans and operations, he was aware of the lack
of detailed information relating to the occupation of the
Rhineland following World War I and other experiences
of the United States in this field. Despite manpower short-
ages, he felt it essential that provision be made for his-
torical staffs for various elements of the armed forces,

The German Country Unit of SHAEF, which did pioneer
work in planning for the occupation, included a small
historical staff. The US Group, Control Council for Ger-
many, also provided for a modest historical section, How-
ever, it was not until after V-E Day that facilities per-
mitted anything like adequate recognition of the need
for historical studies. OMGUS maintained a fairly sizable
historical staff in Berlin and this was later reorganized
into Military Government History Branch of the EUCOM
Historical Division, with headquarters in Frankfurt, until
its termination June 30, 1950.

HE HICOG HISTORICAL DIVISION was organized
in the spring of 1950 after Dr. G. Bernard Noble, chief
of the Division of Historical Policy Research, Department
of State, had visited Germany and, after consultations,
drafted a careful plan for its staffing and operations,
The Historical Division of HICOG is a subdivision of
the Office of Executive Secretary. Compared with many
other subdivisions of HICOG it is small in size, consisting
of six professional historians from the United States, three
German research assistants and a secretarial staff of three
Americans and four Germans. Main offices are located in
Frankfurt in the Headquarters Building and sub-offices
are maintained at Bonn-Mehlem and at Berlin,
Chief of the division is Dr. Harold Zink, who was earlier
a staff member of the German Country Unit of SHAEF
and the US Group, Control Council for Germany. He has
been borrowed from a professorship in political science
at Ohio State University. He is the author of various
books dealing with public affairs, including “American
Military Government in Germany," “Modern Foreign

Mrs. Perle Mesta chats with members and guests at the
Juncheon of the Wiesbaden German-American Club after
delivering an address on her recent visit to Germany, On
arrival from Luxembourg, the US Minister to the tiny
duchy was welcomed to Wiesbaden by Mrs. Frances Healy,
president of the club, and Mrs. Helen Hathcock, president
of the Federated German-American Clubs. (PRB OLCH photo)

--- Page 55 ---
Governments” (with F. A. Ogg), and "Governments of
Wartime Europe” (with Taylor Cole) plus numerous
articles and reviews dealing with German problems.

+ Dr. Hubert G. Schmidt, deputy chief in charge of eco-
nomic and labor affairs, served earlier in the Military
Government History Branch of EUCOM and is on leave
from an assistant professorship in history at Rutgers Uni-
versity. He has written “Rural Hunterdon, An Agricultural
History," and a number of articles on economic history.

Dr. Elmer Plischke, who had been lent by the Navy
to the US Group, Control Council for Germany, and is
an associate professor of political science at the Uni-
versity of Maryland, heads the Bonn sub-office and is
responsible for studies in the political affairs, tripartite
relations and military security fields. He is the author of a
recent book ‘‘The Conduct of American Foreign Relations.”

Dr. Henry P. Pilgert, formerly with the Economic Co-
operation Administration and Army historical projects in
the United States, is covering public affairs activities.
He is the author of the ‘History of Foreign Surplus Prop-
erty Disposal, 1945-1949" and several text books used in
the War Department training program.

Dr. Guy A. Lee, once a member of the Clark University
History Department and more recently a staff member of
the National Archives and the National Security Re-
sources Board, deals with the general administrative his-
tory, the Offices of General Counsel and Intelligence
and the field organization at the state and county levels.
He is co-author of “National Archives Guide," has written
several reference information circulars and check-lists,
analyzing historical sources, and has published various
articles on administrative and economic history.

Dr. Beryl R. McClaskey, at one time with Control Office
of OMGUS and the Military Government History Branch,
is in charge of the Berlin sub-office and carries on studies
relating to the Berlin experience.

HE ACTIVITIES of the early historical staff members

in Germany were largely confined to collecting ma-
terials and preparing daily and monthly summaries for
use in later work. The OMGUS historians were given the
task of preparing over-all histories of every phase of
military government in Germany. They collected ap-
proximately 80 four-drawer filing cases of documentary
material and prepared substantial quantities of preliminary
manuscripts. After the reorganization and move to Frank-
furt, they produced a dozen more finished but unpublished
studies dealing with specific phases of the occupation.

Another related project is the current preparation, by
the Army Historical Division in Washington, of a two-
volume history of the development of occupation policy.
Though primarily interested in tactical rather than occupa-
tion, history, the Historical Division of EUCOM located
at Karlsruhe should be also mentioned.

Profiting from the experience of earlier historical staffs
in Germany and elsewhere, the plans for the Historical
Project of HICOG differ materially from those outlined
above. Instead of being directed to prepare an over-all
history of the events since 1949, the HICOG Historical
Division is specifically restricted in its" activities to the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

preparation of manuscripts on significant aspects which
are sufficiently matured to permit historical study. The
directive also makes much clearer the type of writing to
be carried‘on — it is not to be preliminary drafts but
carefully executed manuscripts of reasonable length ap-
propriate for publication.

While the basic procedure employed by the Historical
Division is along the line of monographic approach, its
directive emphasizes the selection of significant topics
with a view to as complete coverage as_ possible.
Examples of studies under way include: “The History of
the Liberalization of Foreign Trade, ‘An Appraisal of
the Result of the Cessation of Licensing of Newspapers
and Communications Media," “The Establishment of
HICOG; the Takeover by the State Department from the
Department of the Army," “The Establishment and the
Development of the Structure and Procedures of the Allied
High Commission for Germany,” and “The History of the
Cold War in Berlin since the Lifting of the Blockade.”

HE OCCUPATION of Germany presents a unique ex-

perience which is of the greatest importance to State
Department officials, military personnel and _serious-
minded persons outside of the government. While other
aspects of World War II involve developments which
are well worth serious historical study, the question may
be posed whether there is any other field connected with
World War II where previous experience was so limited,
where so many difficult problems had to be faced, where
so many lessons were learned and where future stakes are
so high as in the occupation of Germany.

It is therefore of the greatest importance that those
both within and without the government responsible for
future decisions be familiar with the record in Germany
beginning in 1944 and continuing to the withdrawal of
the Occupation Forces. Preparation of the necessary basic
studies on which such familiarity will depend in sub-
stantial measure is the difficult assignment of the histo-
rians. -++END

Pic. Joseph D'Angelo, Co. A, 382nd MP Service Battalion
at Bremerhaven, receives a wrist watch and scroll from
Wilhelm Kaisen, president of the Bremen Senate, for
saving Ernst Dowidat, seven-year-old schoolboy, from

drowning in the Geeste River. (US Army photo)

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 56 ---
With Eyes on Tomorrow and Their Building Needs
Germans Are Studying America’s Latest Designs

US Architects Display Ideas

HE RECONSTRUCTION-MINDED PEOPLE of Stutt-

gart now have a better idea of architectural things
to come, This is a result of the recent exhibition “Con-
temporary Architecture in the United States 1947-1950"
which was viewed by more than 20,000 people in the first
month of its visit to Stuttgart’s State Trade Museum,

Originally organized by the American Institute of
Architects for the VIIth Pan-American Congress of
Architects held in Havana, Cuba, last April, the ex-
hibition’s European tour is under the sponsorship of US
Information Centers and various ministries of the Ger-
man government.

Three exhibit models and 475 panels were done by 140
individual architectural offices in America which donated
the work as a contribution to international professional
relations. The US Department of State assisted the
American Institute of Architects in assembling and
shipping the exhibition.

In interpreting a new era of architecture, the exhibit is
not only a showing of brilliant artistry but also a de-
monstration of the efficient results of peaceful enterprise.
Visitors have an opportunity of seeing the latest trends
in design in the science of building applied to all phases
of construction in America. To better demonstrate the
particular fields of contemporary architecture, the dis-
plays are divided into eight groups:

Residential buildings, educational facilities, hospitals,
public and commercial structures, office and govern-
mental buildings, city planning and housing, university

student work and a section of miscellaneous types which
covers decoration, construction systems and equipment.

HILE THE MAJOR PART of the display was ex-

ecuted by members of the American Institute of
Architects, the only national professional society for
architects in the United States, the exhibit also contains
works of non-members and other professional groups in-
cluding landscape-architects, engineers, city-planners,
decorators and designers.

A majority of the outstanding architects and designers
in the United States are represented. Work from every
region of the country is included and the entire exhibit
is the most comprehensive showing of modern US
architecture assembled in recent years.

It is interesting to note the exhibit’s range of con-
temporary design — from the more formalistic examples
influenced by international modern design theories to the
indigenous regional expressions. The exhibit demonstrates
(which an observer from another country might not
realize) the marked increase, since the war, in modern
design in the United States, both in exterior plan and in
interiors, including furnishings. This may be a reflection
of the fact that a majority of architectural schools in the
United States now stress training in contemporary design
with many offering courses in city planning.

Following its Stuttgart run, the first stop in Europe, the
exhibit will continue on a tour of the principal cities of
Western Germany. +END

Below are pictured two of the three models recently shown along with 475 panels at the “Contemporary Architecture in the
United States 1947-1950" exhibition in Stuttgart. The display, which is currently touring Western Germany, is the work
of 140 US architectural offices. Left, a model of the 100-bed Bristol Memorial Hospital in Memphis, Tenn. Right, a layout

NOVEMBER 1950

of the Astoria Houses project in New York City, which provides 1,104 apartments at an average rental of $41 per month.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
INFORMATION BULLETIN

7,

Dr. Willson performs an operation before German students and professors in demonstration of US surgical techniques.

ee

54

x

s ‘

‘ Medical Mission

The medical professions of the United
States and Germany moved closer together
this summer when 10 US doctors made a
two-month tour of German medical schools
and hospitals. Their tools of friendship were
information on new US developments in
medicine, a willingness to impart it through
demonstrations, lectures and operations, and
the hours they spent in conference with
interested German doctors and students.

Sponsored by the US State Department
and the Unitarian Service Committee, the
team visited the Free University of Berlin,
and universities at Frankfurt, Marburg,
Tuebingen and Hamburg. It was the second
visit of a medical group under Unitarian
Service Committee auspices. The first, in 1948,
brought word of thé world’s medical advance-
ments during the war years.

Members of the mission demonstrated modern
anesthetics, performed demonstration opera-
tions, and spent long, informal hours with
students and professors alike. At the Uni-
versity of Marburg, the visitors were recipients
of four-week guest professorships.

Reaction of the Germans was cordial. The
American doctors themselves praised German
progress, went home with pockets full of
addresses for use in continuing personal con-
tact with the German medical profession,

Students hear Yale's Dr. Thomas R. Forbes
Jecture in German at Anatomy Institute,

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 58 ---
A patient in Marburg University hospi-
tal is examined by Dr. William P. Long-
mire, Jr. and Dr. John B. Dillon, both of
the medical mission, while white coat-
ed director of the surgery clinic looks
on. The patient is recovering from a
heart operation by Dr. Longmire which
saved the smiling young German's life.

Obstetrical practice is discussed by Dr.
Kauffmann, director of the Frauenklinik
(Jeft) and Dr. Willson (center). Partici-
pating are staff members of clinic, rang-
ed about amphitheater of University
of Marburg. US doctors devoted much
time to informal talks with German stu-
dents, professors and doctors, and
gave demonstrations of new techniques.

Members of medical mission shown below are, l.-r., Dr. Alfred Farah, pharmacology, Washington University; Dr. John
B. Dillon, anaesthesia, University of Southern California; Dr. Halvor N. Christensen, biochemistry and nutrition, Tutis Medi-
cal School; Dr. William P. Longmire, Jr., Surgery Department, UCLA; Dr. James R. Willson, Obstetrics and Gynecology
Department, Temple University; Dr. Erwin W. Strauss, chairman of mission and director of professional education and
research, Veterans Hospital, Lexington, Ky.; Mrs. Helene Matthey, mission executive officer; Dr. Eric Ogden, Physiology
Department, Ohio State University; Dr. Thomas R. Forbes; anatomy, Yale University; Dr. Francis F, Schwentker,
pediatrics, Johns Hopkins University and Mrs. Marie Danielson, secretary of mission. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

5

®

. ‘

z Re

etna ~!
oc

aus

NOVEMBER 1950 55 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
Youth Unemployment Serious Berlin Problem

OLUTION OF WEST BERLIN'S youth-unemployment
problem can only be achieved by greatly expanding
the vocational training and guidance programs," Dr. Ru-
dolf Schindler, director of training of the New York Vo-
cational Advisory Service, said on a recent visit to Berlin.
“The programs should give the student opportunity to
learn specialized theory and at the same time to apply it,”
Dr. Schindler added. “This is the key to any successful on-
the-job training."

Noting that lack of funds is hindering the efforts of
youth and labor officials in Berlin to overcome “a very
serious unemployment situation,’ Dr. Schindler said that
in his opinion the present means of combating unemploy-
ment among youth are realistic and energetic, “but as yet
inadequate.”

“West Berlin officials deserve all the support that can
be given them," he said. At the outset, setting up a new
and broadened program would necessitate also the train-
ing of many more vocational guidance counselors and
employment specialists.

“In a large-scale effort more emphasis would have to be
placed on individual attitudes,’ Dr. Schindler pointed out.
He added that “the time to start is now, since the youth-
unemployment problem will become more acute for the
next two or three years, as larger groups of young people,
born during the early years of the Hitler regime, reach
school age."

Dr. Schindler conferred with West Berlin youth and
labor officials, with vocational guidance specialists, and
with officials and staff members of training schools and
institutions. His Berlin visit was part of a HICOG-spon-
sored Germany tour.

“I have been asked numberless questions during my
stay here,’ the American consultant said. “I believe that

Sweaters made by refugee women of Fulda are on sale at
the Wiesbaden Air Base Officers’ Wives’ Club through a
helpful arrangement under which the wives supply the
refugees with English wool, then pay them for the knit-
ting as sweaters are delivered. These are sold at cost to
occupation personnel. Mrs. W. E. Perry and Mrs. E, W.
Gregory (sitting) organized the work while Mrs. P. W.
Dahl (left) aided as publicity director. Mrs. Lowrie Welton
is holding one of the German-made cardigans. (USAFE photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

56

the foundations for a successful battle against unemploy-
ment are already in existence in Western Berlin— to judge
by the skill and ingenuity shown in the methods thus far
in effect. But more training opportunities, more job open-
ings, can and must be created if the handicaps of Berlin's
position are to be neutralized.”

He cited as ‘major difficulties” the chaos that existed in
Berlin during and immediately after the war, ‘with the
concomitants of poverty, shortage of food, lack of indus-
trial activity, black marketing and so on. Because Berlin's
problems are so unique,” he concluded, “they can only be
solved through the wholehearted co-operation of employ-
ers, labor, social and youth officials, and vocational guid-
ance counselors.”

Organized Labor Powerful Force
Against Communism’'s Aggressive Designs

LLOWING IS THE TEXT of a special Labor Day
broadcast by US High Commissioner John J. McCloy
on the American Forces Network, Monday, Sept. 4.

The first Monday in September is set aside in the United
States as labor's own day. On this day the American
people formally pay tribute to the dignity and worth of
the working man and woman. This day marks the end
of the summer holiday season, and thereafter everyone
is prepared to face the work of the fall and winter, In
Europe, labor's special day is May 1.

I believe it would be well if, on both sides of the
Atlantic, we did not limit our ‘salutes to labor to national
boundaries. For the role of the working man and woman —
their hopes and aspirations — are essentially the same
in all free, democratic nations. This year, as the Com-
munist dictators become ever more brazen in revealing
their desire to crush individual freedom, it is more than
ever vital that free working men and women throughout
the world be prepared to defend their liberties and rights

One of the greatest forces in the free world in its stand
against the aggressive designs of Communism is the or-
ganized labor movement. This movement probably has
achieved its most vigorous form in the United States, In
the German Federal Republic this movement embraces
more than 5,000,000 men and women in the free trade
unions which they were able to re-establish after another
dictatorship had ruthlessly suppressed them.

Today, although it formally is Labor Day only in the
United Staates, I urge the working men and women in
every country where they are free to shape their destinies
to strengthen their resolve to stand firm against this
menace which so crassly threatens their individual and
collective liberties and rights.

In Germany, the democratic labor movement in my
judgment is entitled to full support in its efforts to gain its
legitimate aims, including an improved standard of living,
full employment, a fair share of the fruits of its toil and
preservation of individual freedom, without which the
working man and woman cannot attain, as history has
demonstrated, the material benefits they deserve.

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 60 ---
Germany’s Need for ERP Aid

in 1950-51

HE ECONOMIC RECOVERY of Germany after the

beginning of the European Recovery Program was
rapid and dramatic. While the recovery was from very
low levels, its vigor reflects the inherent German industrial
potential, and it was achieved in the face of serious and
continuing political difficulties.

Progress has been most rapid in the industrial field,
which was also the most depressed at the time the pro-
gram began. As compared with the spring of 1948, in-
dustrial production generally has doubled; steel output
has more than doubled, and the production of motor
vehicles has increased more than 400 percent. The specific
industrial bottlenecks which had retarded progress have
been in a large measure overcome; supplies of coal and
steel are adequate at present levels. of industrial pro-
duction, and the transportation system is meeting all the
demands upon it.

Agriculture has also made very substantial progress,
aided by two years of good crop weather. The production
of basic crops substantially exceeded expectations, both
in 1948 and 1949. A substantial start has been made on the
long-range program of improving agricultural efficiency.

The gross national production in the current fiscal year
is estimated at DM 92,600,000,000 or about equal to the 1936
level, although the population of western Germany is now
22 percent greater than in 1936. This is an increase of
16 percent over the fiscal year of 1948-49, when the
figure was DM 80,000,000,000.

MPROVED PRODUCTION has been accompanied by a

large increase in exports. In the second quarter of
1948, commodity exports from the Bizone and the French
Zone combined were at the annual rate of about
$500,000,000; in December 1949 the rate for the Federal
Republic was about $1,400,000,000 — almost three times
as great. A large part of this increase went to the par-
ticipating area and represented an important contribution
on the part of Germany to the recovery programs of her
European neighbors.

Consumption levels have improved very greatly. In the
winter of 1947-48, the diet of the average German was at
a precarious subsistence level; it was clearly insufficient
to maintain an efficient industrial population. Food sup-
plies were strictly rationed. Today the average diet has
recovered to a level not far below prewar in quantity,
though it is still significantly poorer in quality. With the
exception of sugar,‘all foods have been derationed, The
availability of other consumer goods has also improved
vastly. Over-all expenditures for consumption in 1949-50
are estimated at DM 56,100,000 compared with DM
45,600,000 for fiscal 1948-49, an increase of 23 percent.
The strictly controlled German economy of two years

NOVEMBER 195@

57

ago has now given way to an economy that is basically
free. In the spring of 1948 price controls were almost
universal; all essential commodities were rationed; most
industrial supplies were under allocation; foreign trade
was subject to the most detailed sort of restrictions, and
the currency was virtually valueless. Today the great
bulk of these administrative controls has been lifted and
the currency has resumed its normal economic function.
Germany has been in the forefront of the trade liberali-
zation movement.

Moreover, the removal of controls was accomplished
with relatively little disturbance of the basic price struc-
ture; commodity prices rose substantially during the first
half-year after the currency was reformed and controls
removed, but prices have since stabilized and in fact
eased somewhat during the past year.

OLITICALLY ALSO THERE have been major strides.

A functioning federal government for Germany has
been established; Military Government control has been
replaced by a more limited form of civilian supervision;
a new bilateral agreement for ECA aid has been con-
cluded with that government, and Germans have replaced
occupation personnel in the councils of OEEC. A German
Mission to ECA has been organized in Washington to
handle the work which had previously been performed by
the Department of the Army.

All thgse advances have been achieved in the face of
very considerable political and economic difficulties. The
impact of these difficulties has become increasingly
evident in recent months, and current trends in the Ger-
man economy are a matter of very serious concern. The
expansion of industrial production, which was very sharp
during the latter half of 1948, tapered off greatly during
1949, while unemployment increased alarmingly.

One of the fundamental difficulties with which Germany
must contend is the sharp and continued rise in population.
Before the war there were less than 40,000,000 persons in
the area now comprising the Federal Republic; at present
the population is approximately 48,000,000. The major
part of the increase occurred during the first few years
of occupation, representing expellees from the area east
of the Oder-Neisse area and the Sudetenland, but it is
estimated by the German authorities that some 30,000
refugees still cross the border each month from the powict
Zone and Berlin.

In the past 15 months the working population of the
Federal Republic has increased by about 1,300,000 persons,
reflecting natural increase as well as returning prisoners
of war and refugees and infiltrees. Moreover, the problem
is aggravated by the fact that the refugees are very un-
evenly distributed within the Republic with excessive

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
concentration in agricultural states, such as Schleswig-
Holstein, Lower Saxony and Bavaria, which are least able
to provide them with work.

Unemployment has risen very sharply since currency
reform in June 1948. In June 1948, less than 500,000 persons
were out of work. (As of March 1950) approximately
2,000,000 persons* were unemployed in the Federal Re-
public, and, in addition, some 300,000 were unemployed
in western Berlin. Since November 1949 — over a period
of five months —the roster of unemployed had jumped
more than 600,000. The situation is potentially explosive.

HE PROBLEM OF putting more people to work is

essentially one of credit expansion and of providing
needed investment funds, since industrial capacity is
generally adequate. Private investment has not recovered
satisfactorily; there is as yet only a small general capital
market in Germany. The sale of bond issues for re-
construction purposes has proved very disappointing.

To a considerable extent this reflects a maldistribution
of purchasing power rather than lack of it. Excessive
funds are flowing into consumption rather than invest-
ment channels, particularly on the part of upper-income
groups. This trend is favored by a tax structure which
bears more heavily upon lower than upper income groups.
The entire field of German tax policy is undergoing
review by the ECA Mission.

Direct government contribution to the investment pro-
gram is hampered by the fact that the government is at
present running a budgetary deficit of significant, though
probably not alarming, proportions. In general, combined
federal and state budgets will show a deficit of at least
DM 1,500,000,000 for the fiscal year ending March 1951
out of total expenditures approximating DM 20,000,000,000.

Following liberalization of import restrictions, Ger-
many's imports from the participating area increased very

* This total had declined to 1,409,156 in mid-August 1950, West
Berlin unemployment also declined.

Two Berlin newspaper people prepare to leave for the
United States under the sponsorship of the HICOG Ex-
changes Program. The pair, Helmut von Brauchitsch (right)
of the Berlin bureau of the Associated Press, and Ingeborg
Baelz, employee of the publishing house Mauritius Verlag,
will study journalism in US schools. (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

58

sharply —much more rapidly than did exports to the
participating area. This has resulted in a very large pay-
ments deficit with the participating area — amounting to
about $160,000,000* for the three months November 1949
to January 1950 alone.

If this situation continues, it could imperil the entire
trade liberalization program. However, some improvement
in this situation is expected to result from a number of
probable developments. In the first place, part of the
explanation for the fact that exports have not expanded
as rapidly as imports lies in the fact that Germany's ex-
ports consist of a larger proportion of manufactured goods
than its imports, so that there is a greater lag between
order and delivery: consequently, the mere passing of
time should redress the situation somewhat.

Moreover, Germany's easing of import restrictions was
not matched by a corresponding relaxation of restrictions
against imports from Germany into certain other partici-
pating countries; German exports should, therefore, ex-
pand as these restrictions are lifted. The Netherlands with
which the recent trade deficit has been particularly large
has already taken steps in this direction, and negotiations
with the United Kingdom are under way.

Finally, German demand for consumer goods has been
abnormally high, because it was so long unsatisfied;
some reduction may, therefore, be anticipated as im-
mediate consumer demand is filled. Whether these develop-
ments will be enough to close the gap remains uncertain;
if not, other measures will be required, particularly in the
field of tax policy.

ERLIN CONSTITUTES, and will continue for a con-

siderable time to constitute, a serious drain upon the
resources of Western Germany. The economy of Berlin
has been disrupted by the drastic removal of equipment
by the Russians prior to Quadripartite occupation; by the
loss of the political, administrative, financial and com-
mercial functions which Berlin previously performed as
the capital of a united Germany, and by the acute diffi-
culties during the blockade.

The rehabilitation of Berlin's industry has been delayed
by the constant political uncertainties. The sheer physical
expense of hauling freight between Berlin and Western
Germany has contributed to impairing the competitive
position of Berlin industries in the West German market.

The fact that Western Berlin is an island of relatively
hard currency surrounded completely by an area with
greatly depreciated currency has had an extremely ad-
verse effect upon Berlin's important service and pro-
fessional trades; anything from dental work to dressmak-
ing costs far less in the Eastern than in the Western
sectors. All these factors have been reflected in the very
high unemployment ratio and in a substantial and in-
evitable budgetary deficit of the local government.

Intensive efforts are being made toward Berlin's eco-
nomic rehabilitation; the Federal Republic is helping to
finance the city’s deficit; the ECA has released counterpart
funds for Berlin's investment program; some government

* Marked improvement was shown in import expenditures in June and
July 1950, See ‘Economic Review,” Information Bulletin, Oct. 1950 issue.

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 62 ---
offices have been moved from Frankfurt and Bonn to
Berlin; tax measures have been instituted for the purpose
of improving Berlin's competitive position.

It is hoped that Berlin can become more nearly self-
supporting over the next few years through these and
other measures, but as long as the present political situa-
tion continues Berlin will inevitably constitute a drain
on the resources of Western Germany.

N THE CURRENT FISCAL year Germany is receiving

about $730,000,000 of direct United States aid, including
both ECA and GARIOA funds. This aid has formed the
essential basis of the very substantial recovery which
has been achieved; without it the food supplies of the
population would have fallen well below the subsistence
level and German industries would have had to curtail
operations drastically because of lack of essential raw
materials.

Restoration of a viable German economy and the
elimination of the need for extraordinary aid can best be
appraised in two steps. One phase of the problem is the
balance of Germany's over-all accounts with the world
as a whole; the second is the problem of the dollar gap
itself. Obviously, these two objectives are concurrent and
not consecutive; the steps needed to achieve both must
be undertaken simultaneously.

However, it will simplify the problem to consider these
two phases separately, reviewing first the steps needed to
achieve a global balance of Germany's accounts and then
the specific steps needed to eliminate or narrow the
dollar gap.

Balancing Germany's trade account with the world as
a whole requires not so much the addition of new in-
dustrial capacity as the effective employment of Ger-
many’s existing resources. If Germany's unemployed men
and machines are put to work, if Germany's agricultural
resources are properly utilized, and if its export drive is
pushed vigorously, it should be possible to raise its total
export level to wellsover $2,000,000,000 a year; or to a rate
that would permit at least an approximate balance of
Germany's total import needs.

HIS OBJECTIVE cannot be accomplished, however,

unless the responsible German authorities take the
most vigorous steps to insure the maximum use of Ger-
many's available resources. Among the most important
fields in which action is essential are the following:

1. The redirection of fiscal policy is an essential step
toward the development of an investment program of the
scope and character needed to put men back to work.
Above all, the immediate urgent task is to reduce un-
employment drastically, both because Germany cannot
afford to leave idle its most valuable resource — human
skills — and because of the explosive political implications
of a continued high level of unemployment.

2. Consequently, fiscal and monetary policy must be
thoroughly re-oriented and effectively implemented. The
tax structure must be revised with the basic objective of
inducing substantially increased private investment, as
well as for the purpose of increasing over-all government

NOVEMBER 1950

59

Three members of President Truman's Public Advisory
Board of ECA recently visited Frankfurt to confer with
HICOG and ECA officials. L.-r., George S. Eccles, consul-
tant to the board, Mrs. Eccles, Mrs. Hinckley, Robert H.
Hinckley, board member and vice-president of the Ameri-
can Broadcasting Co., and Gordon E. Reckord, secretary of
the board, (PRD HICOG photo)

revenue. The repressive character of the existing structure
should be modified and direct steps taken to discourage
luxury consumption and to shift income to savings.
Vigorous steps to improve tax morality and curb tax
evasion will be needed to make this policy effective.

3. The development and implementation of a sound and
effective fiscal and monetary policy will depend upon a
considerable improvement and simplification of present
administrative relations and responsibilities. Better co-
ordination in the formulation of the fiscal policy is needed
between the Occupying Authorities, the federal German
government and the individual states.

4. Investment should, of course, be directed and en-
couraged toward industrial modernization and the general
structural changes that will permit Germany to compete
effectively in export markets generally and in the dollar
market particularly. Expansion of over-all industrial
capacity is not of prime urgency in Germany, though
specific sectors of industry, particularly power, may re-
quire some additions to provide a balanced and efficient
structure. Emphasis must be placed instead upon moderni-
zation and upon steps to permit full utilization of existing
capacity, including, for example, construction of adequate
housing for workers in many industrial areas where the
current need for added labor cannot be satisfied simply
because living accommodations are not available.

5. A considerable amount of investment is required to
improve the efficiency of agricultural production. Some
land reclamation projects are required. Fertilizer applica-
tion must be intensified, land reform must be pressed,
mechanization consistent with Germany's farm structure
must be provided and adequate agricultural services
established.

6. In this connection, agricultural price policy needs
substantial revision. (As of March) bread prices are sub-
sidized, and the bulk of the federal deficit represents the
cost of maintaining domestic grain prices far below world

INFORMATION ‘BULLETIN.

--- Page 63 ---
price levels. This policy not only constitutes a serious
drain upon the federal budget, but also represents an im-
portant obstacle to increased agricultural production. If
internal wheat prices are permitted to rise to the world
price level, farmers would both produce more wheat and
feed less grain to livestock. It is hoped that this step will
be taken or at least announced before the spring wheat
planting.

7. However, investments of the kind described above,
while essential to Germany's economic viability, can pro-
vide only a partial answer to the employment problem.
Manufacturing production should be raised at least 20 per-
cent over the present level, but the great bulk of this
added production should be achieved through higher labor
productivity. Similarly, no significant expansion of labor
opportunities in agriculture can be expected in achieving
higher farm output. The principal immediate source of
increased employment must come, therefore, from a large
and well-planned construction program. This will include,
in the first place, housing.

T IS ESTIMATED that the present housing shortage in

Germany, reflecting both war destruction and the
greatly increased population, is of the order of magnitude
of 4,000,000 to 5,000,000 housing units. German authorities
are now planning housing construction at the rate of
about 250,000 units annually; it is believed that the rate
should be substantially greater, or probably about 350,000
units. More housing will provide direct employment on
the site, increased labor in the building material industries,
and labor opportunities in industrial areas where accom-
modations for workers are now preventing expansion.

8, Other essential construction projects are also needed.
The secondary road system should be improved in order
to raise Germany's internal transportation efficiency.
Hospital facilities are grossly inadequate. These and many

Four US Congressmen visited Frankfurt recently after
attending the Interparliamentary Union meeting in Dublin.

Shown arriving at Rhine-Main airport are, l.-r., Sen.
Claude Pepper (D.-Fla.), Rep. William R. Poage (D.-Tex.),
Rep. Harold D. Cooley (D.-N.C.), and Sen. Owen W.
Brewster (R.-Me.). (PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

60

other programs, all of an essential nature, must be relied
upon as a major source of increased employment.

9. The development of Germany's trade with the par-
ticipating area has been already greatly assisted by the
steps which the federal government has taken toward the
liberalization of its import policy and the steps which
some of its neighbors are taking toward lifting restrictions
on German imports. Negotiations with countries which
still maintain hampering restrictions on German exports
are going forward and it is hoped that these will prove
successful in the reasonably near future,

All of these steps, if boldly conceived and vigorously
implemented, should permit Germany not only to balance
its accounts with the non-dollar area but to show sig-
nificant surplus in its trade with western Europe.

The problem of the dollar gap will, however, be
considerably more difficult. The dollar gap can, of
course, be narrowed in two ways; by increased dollar
exports, and by reducing dollar imports. The reduction in
dollar imports can in turn be accomplished both by in-
creased internal production of dollar substitutable items
and increased import of such items from non-dollar areas.

Germany's exports to the United States and the Western
Hemisphere have increased considerably during the
course of the present fiscal year and further increases are
anticipated. United States tariff restrictions represent a
serious problem, particularly since Germany has never
negotiated a tariff agreement with the United States under
the provisions of the Trade Agreements Act. Germany's
long isolation from the Western world has resulted in the
destruction of its normal trade contacts, which are being
slowly rebuilt.

Intensive efforts are needed to acquaint German manu-
facturers with the preferences and requirements of the
dollar markets; to reduce German production costs to
permit effective competition; and to develop the com-
mercial contacts and aggressive sales efforts required to
increase the volume of trade. The .re-establishment of
consular relations should help, The ECA Mission to Ger-
many is co-operating with the German authorities in every
phase of the ‘‘dollar drive.”

Germany is also intensively seeking to develop its
Latin American market and has concluded satisfactory
trade agreements with a number of important Latin
American countries. Exports to Latin America have
shown a considerable increase during the past year
($11,000,000 during the last quarter of 1949 compared
with $5,000,000 in. the first quarter) and substantial
further expansion* is to be anticipated. Germany should
be able to obtain from Latin America an increasing share
of the food and basic raw materials needed by its
economy in return for its exports.

Before the war, a large part of Germany's require-
ments for the commodities it is now importing from
the Western Hemisphere were obtained from eastern
Europe and from eastern Germany. This trade is
now at a low level because of the existing political

* See ‘Economic Review,’ Information Bulletin, September 1950 is-
sue, for details of recentiy-concluded Latin American trade agreements,

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 64 ---
tensions, but it has recently shown considerable ex-
pansion. In the last quarter of 1949 Germany exported
about $28,000,000 worth of commodities to eastern Europe
(excluding the Soviet Zone of Germany) and imported
$39,000,000, compared with $10,000,000 of exports and
$20,000,000 of imports in the first quarter of the year.
The future of this trade depends, of course, in good part
upon political developments over which Germany would
have little influence and no control.

In the field of increased internal production, the
principal easing of the dollar requirements must, of
course, come in the field of food products, particularly
the basic staples — grains, fats and oils, and sugar.
These three groups of commodities in the current fiscal
year account for 60 percent of Germany's dollar imports.

As already pointed out, internal German production of
grains can be expanded by appropriate expenditures in
the agricultural field and by adoption of a sound agri-
cultural price policy. It should be stressed, however,
that Western Germany was never self-sufficient in food
before the war and cannot possibly become self-sufficient
in the foreseeable future, particularly in view of the
great influx of. population.

Germany can also achieve some increase in its out-
put of industrial raw materials, and it has reduced the

cost of petroleum imports’ by increasing its refining
operations. Germany's needs for imports of machinery
and equipment from the United States have declined
rapidly as German industry has expanded.

‘N SUMMARY, GERMANY 'S dollar requirements should
decline over the next two years, and its dollar earn-
ings should increase. However, some gap will inevitably
remain. It is to be hoped that part of this gap can be
covered by some conversion of Germany's earnings from
the non-dollar area; this will depend, of course, both
upon the extent of recovery in the participating area as
a whole and upon the institutional arrangements which
will be developed. It is also hoped that new investment
from abroad may cover a portion of the remaining gap.
Total direct aid by the United States to Germany in
the current fiscal year is about 30 percent less than it
was in 1948-49 and for fiscal 1951 a further cut of 25 per-
cent is proposed.

Of the total expected imports from the United States
in 1950-51, more than 90 percent would be food and agri-
cultural commodities; industrial imports, while including
such critical items as petroleum and non-ferrous metals,
are relatively small. Consequently, the impact of any
further cut in aid would necessarily fall almost entirely

Annual Totals

Index of Industrial Production = ;
roduction
and | ina Prewar Year | 946 | 1947 | 1948 | 1949
Production Statistics of Selected Industries | ,,., a
Index of Industrial Production a/ 1936 = 100 |
Total... ee ee ee ee ee ef 1936 | 100 34 40) 60 89
General production goods (including gas & electricity) . 1936 100 NA. 65 | 84 105
Capital goods. ........ 5 1936 100 N.A. 29 50 83
Consumer goods ......... 5 1936 100 N.A. 33 55 81
Machinery (excl. elec. equipment) . . ‘ 1936 100 N.A. > 32 51 94
Chemicals . 0... 1. ee ee ee es 1936 100 N.A. 40 61 88
Textile... 0. ee ee ee 1936 1c0 N.A. 28. 46 82
Fuel and Power
Coal (excluding pitch and lignite) . . . . Million M. Tons 1938 | 137.0 53.9 71.1 87.0 103.3
Electricity b/ . . tee Million K.W. H. 1937 | 24.588 23.820 25.656 31.344 38.350 p
Manufactures & Semi-Manufactures :
Pig iron and ferro-alloys . 1000 M. Tons 1938 15,096 2.088 2.268 4.635 7.146
Steel ingots and castings... ....-.- do. 1938 17.892 2.556 3.060 5.552 9.143
Cementc/ ...... ... . =. do. 1936 9.072 2,592 3,000 5,568 8,464
Cottonyam... 2. ee eee nee do. 1936 266.2 47.9 788 119.2 226.9
Wool yarn Bdd0o0dg0de 5550 do. 1936 473 d/ 27.0 “38.6 66.0
Rayon yarn and fibers. ....... | do. 1936 49.9 23.9 30.1 688 | 1278
Motor vehicles ........ Thousands 1936 210.5 23.4 23.0 596 | 1603
Railway Freight Traffic. . . . Million Net-Ton Kilometers d/ d/ | 32,700 | 41.825

Note: Most recent data subject to revision.
p/ = Preliminary estimate.

a/ = Index of Ministry of Economics. Indexes are for Bizone through 1948; for Federal Republic for 1949. Federal Republic index is adjusted for
number of working days. Bizone index for 1947 and 1948 not adjusted for working days.

b/ = Bizonal data includes production of establishments generating electricity for their own use.

c/ = Production of artificial cement (including Portland) and natural cement.

d/ = Data not available for Federal Republic.

NOVEMBER 1950

61

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
upon the food and agricultural group. In effect, most of
any cut would have to be reflected in reduced food
consumption, but part would be reflected in reduced im-
ports of cotton and curtailed output of cotton yarns and
fabrics.

The principal burden would of necessity fall upon the
supply of basic foods. While it would be theoretically
possible to cut back somewhat on the livestock pro-
gram by reducing feed imports, the result of any such
action would almost certainly be that farmers would feed
more breadgrains to livestock so that the net offset
would be the same.

S A RESULT OF adequate imports and good crops,

Germany has been able in the past few months to
remove its rationing controls on all foods with the ex-
ception of sugar. On the basis of the balance foreseen
for the next fiscal year, including a reasonably favorable
crop, it would be possible for Germany to continue to
keep basic foods unrationed. This does not mean that
consumption of basic foods is lavish, but merely that
price has resumed its normal economic function as the
basis for distribution. It should be emphasized that
average food consumption in Germany, despite the lifting
of ration controls, remains below the prewar level.

The food supply balance foreseen for the next fiscal
year leaves no substantial margin between supply and
requirements. The impact of any reduction in supply
would fall most heavily on the low-income groups in the
population since it would be the large volume of basic
rather than the small volume of luxury foods which would
be adversely affected. It is doubtful whether any signi-
ficant reduction in the availability of grains or fats and
oils could be absorbed without the reimposition of
rationing controls. Certainly, if crops failed to come up
to expectations, the result could be very serious.

The situation is aggravated by the overriding urgency
of achieving a substantial increase of employment in
Germany. Obviously, employed workers have larger
consumption demands and consumption requirements

Eleven iron lungs arrive at HICOG warehouse in Frank-
furt. Donated by the US government, the lungs are being
distributed to German university medical schools in
Cologne, Duesseldorf, Erlangen, Goettingen, Heidelberg,
Kiel, Mainz, Munich, Tuebingen and Wuerzburg. The
uncrated one shown goes to the University of Frank-
(PRD HICOG photo)

furt's Children's Clinic.

Percentage of Food Consumption
Derived from Net Imports a/

Imports as percent
of total consumption a/
Preliminary
1949-50 1950-51

Commodity
Prewar 1947-48 1948-49

Food Consumption:
All foods (calorie
weighted) b/

Bread grains . 34 #55 45 36 47
Rice -. 100 — 100 100 100
Other grain used for food 65 85 97 94 95

Total grain ... 36 59 50 40 51

340047 AN

SUgak jucuse 53 55 44 48 53
Potatoes sews Ad tf 1 1 _
Fats, incl. butter (fatcont.) 50 17. 83 46 4l
Meat ween” 1A = 4 5 3

Fish 36 44 54 39 35

BQGS os vere 23 23 i? 12 vf
Whole milk 4 14 7 11 uP
Cheese .... 29 0 Z 13 8
Dry legumes 69 72 69 vie 78
Vegetables 20 2 9 9 11

24 Li 28 34 37

a/ = Percentages calculated on the basis of quantity (tonnage) except
for “All Foods.” That portion of the various livestock products
domestically produced, included on a gross production basis,
without adjustment for imported feed. The adjustment has been
made in “All Foods.”

b/ = Imports adjusted to include contribution to livestock production
made by imported feed.

Fruit and nuts

than unemployed, and any substantial reduction in un-
employment would bring with it the need for some in-
crease in imports, both of immediate consumption goods
and of the raw materials required by the enterprises in
which the workers would be employed. Consequently,
the problem of spreading less food over a significantly
increased working population might well destroy the
relatively precarious balance between the deflationary
and inflationary forces in Germany and result in price
increases that might require the reimposition, not only
of rationing, but of other detailed administrative controls
over prices and markets.

REDUCTION IN the supply of cotton in the face of

the strong German demand for consumer goods
would also have a number of potentially serious con-
sequences. Basic clothing, next to food, is the item most
required by the German working population, and the
one for which demand would be most affected by any
increase in the working force.

In short, any significant further reduction in the
amount of United States aid to Germany for the next
fiscal year would necessarily imperil the success of the
recovery program and would certainly endanger the
effort to restore a free economy in Germany.

If the resumption of price and rationing controls be-
comes necessary, the shock to the economy would be
serious. It could also induce a trend toward autarchy
which would be difficult to reverse even if conditions
improved subsequently. +END

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 66 ---
Washington Report

US Foreign Policy Defined

O REMAIN A FREE and independent nation and to

help other peoples to achieve independence and to
enjoy the fruits of freedom — that in essence is the foreign
policy of the United States as outlined in a new US State
Department publication entitled “Our Foreign Policy.”

In a foreward to the booklet, President Truman explains
that it was prepared at his direction in order that the
American people might have a simple and clear statement
of ‘what we are after in our relations with other govern-
ments and their peoples.”

Under the American Constitution, the shaping of foreign
policy is vested with the President. In actual practice,
however, it mirrors.the character and traditional values
of the American people, which have remained constant
throughout the years. Some of them are summarized by
the Department of State follows:

“We attach the highest importance to individual free-
dom, and we mean to keep our freedom.

“We are a peaceful people, and we want to get rid of
wars and the threat of wars.

“We have a comparatively high standard of living. We
want to raise the standard so that everyone in the United
States will eventually have a chance to earn a decent and
secure living.

“We are a friendly people. We have no traditional
‘enemies’ and we want to be on good terms with every
other people.”

However, the specific measures by which these values
are preserved must necessarily depend on changing
circumstances. Today the determining factor of totali-
tarian expansionism has focused American attention on
the need for building. up the strength of the free world.
The publication explains:

“Helping to create situations of strength in many parts
of the world is the number one policy of the United States
in the year 1950. This policy holds out the best hope of
reaching eventual agreement with the Soviet Union.

“This policy involves action to carry out the charter
of the United Nations so that the UN organization may
serve as a powerful bulwark of peace and a deterrent to
aggression. It involves action under the charter to build
up and pool the military defenses of the United States
and other free nations.

“It involves action to weld the free nations together
politically and develop collective policies for a construc-
tive, dynamic peace.

“It involves economic action to enable the free nations
to produce and trade and prosper, so that their peoples
will see in voluntary co-operation the promise of a better
life for themselves and their children.

“Finally, it involves action to promote the flow of ideas,
of information, of people and of goods to invigorate the

NOVEMBER 1950

free societies and to make the benefits of freedom clear
to all people on both sides of the Iron Curtain.”

It is this paramount need to create situations of
strength in the free world which underlies the purposes
of the European Recovery Program, the Mutual Defense
Assistance Program, and the Point Four Program for help-
ing the underdeveloped areas, the Department emphasizes.

The booklet traces the history of American efforts to
promote international security through the United Nations
as part of a long-range purpose to transform the pioneer
international society of today into an orderly community
of free nations. It shows how this purpose has been
hampered by the failure of the Soviet Union to co-operate
and by its “repeated violation of the spirit and letter of
the charter.”

But despite these “discouraging and sobering ex-
periences,” the United States “continues to put its long-
range hopes for a peaceful and secure world order in the
United Nations.”

The publication also reviews the repeated threats to
Security, created by Communist pressure and guerrilla
tactics in various parts of the world, which the United
Nations was not yet equipped to meet. It shows how
these threats led to the Truman Doctrine and the extension
of economic and military aid to Greece and Turkey, to
the Rio Pact and the North Atlantic Defense system. And
how now, as a result of the aggression in Korea, they are
responsible for the present American effort to strengthen
the defenses of the free world.

American policy is not dedicated to maintaining the
status quo, the State Department stresses.

“Americans belong to a minority of the human race
which is the bearer of the liberal revolution toward
freedom and progress," the booklet says.

“The foreign policies of the United States are an ex-
pression of the revolutionary democratic ideas by which
we live. We want all other people to understand these

Roger Baldwin (right), national chairman of the Civil
Liberties Union, was briefed on the progress of civil liber-
ties in Hesse under HICOG by State Commissioner
Dr. James R. Newman on his recent visit to Wiesbaden.
(PRB OLCH photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
ideas and to have an opportunity, in time, to practice
them: to ‘govern themselves, to think for themselves, to
work for themselves, and to enjoy the fruits of their
labor.”

The United States recognizes that not all people are
now ready to shoulder the burdens of independence and
self-government, but it affirms the right and the capability
of all people to work toward them, the State Department
says, adding:

“In recent years the United States has had a chance to
prove that it is still the traditional friend of young
nations, still the champion of peoples seeking their in-
dependence. Since the end of the second world war more
than 500,000,000 people have gained their independence.
Eight new nations have been born. The United States has
assisted at the birth of these nations, as far as it could.
It has vigorously supported their membership in the Unit-
ed Nations.

“In the Philippines we had our best opportunity to de-
monstrate that American policy means what it says. The 20,-
000,000 citizens of those islands celebrated their independ-
ence July 4,1946 as aresult of apromise we made and kept.”

In the case of Korea, the booklet affirms America’s
purpose to help to restore the independence of that
country and to help the Koreans to become a united
people. It says:

“The tragic case of Korea illustrates clearly the plight
of small young nations seeking to live an independent
life in the neighborhood of a predatory power. It brings
home to all nations, great and small, the truths that have
been staring them in the face: that the only real security
is collective security and the only hope of peace is in
strong collective action by the decent, law-abiding mem-
bers of the community.”

As for the ultimate liberation of China from foreign
domination, the Department says that this will depend on
the will of the Chinese people and the toughness of other
Asian peoples in standing up for their independence
against Communist pressure, as well as on the help which
the free world can give them.

“We shall be deluding ourselves,” the publication
states, “if we think that American policy can, by itself,
bring about the liberation of the Chinese people or

Rural students inspect cattle during a recent conference at
Hohenheim Agricultural College in Wuerttemberg-Baden.
The gathering was attended by 65 youth representing
every county in the state.

(PRB OLCWB photo)

guarantee the progress of independence and freedom in
Asia as a whole. By our own enlightened choice, we are
part of a great coalition which is learning how to mobilize
the power of free nations for peace. Our first duty is to
strengthen and unite that coalition and to identify it
beyond all doubt in the minds of people as the spearhead
of the liberal revolution for freedom and progress. That
is our long-range purpose, as expressed in the charter
of the United Nations. We belong to the free community,
and our role is one of partnership.”

* kx

MGA Members to Convene

Generals Lucius D. Clay and Mark W. Clark head an
impressive array of speakers to appear before the third
annual Military Government Association convention in
New York's Hotel McAlpin, Dec. 9.

More than 2,000 invitations have been issued to
military government and civil affairs personnel who
will have an opportunity to meet in.“unit reunions” and
discuss old times.

The day's activities will be climaxed by the evening
dinner, at which time a special message from President
Truman will be read and an address given by General
Clay. Opera stars Gladys Swarthout and Lawrence Tib-
bett will perform for the guests, who will include Gen.
Dwight D. Eisenhower, president of Columbia University.

x oe OK

Stamp Club Features Contest

European stamp collectors with an understanding of
the English language are now learning about United
States stamps and American philatelists through the
“Voice of America Stamp Club.”

The club's program is broadcast to Europe, on both
medium and shortwave, at 4.45 p.m. on Thursday in the
13, 16 and 19 meter bands. VOA is also distributing
recordings of the program throughout Europe for broad-
cast by local stations.

The awarding of prizes for the most interesting
questions concerning US stamps is a feature of the
broadcasts. For the best questions, to be read and an-
swered on the program, VOA will award 10 packages
of 50 stamps of the world, taken from VOA mail. Only
overseas listeners are eligible to enter the contest.

Programs already broadcast have included a discus-
sion of the Washington sesquicentennial series of com-
memorative stamps and excerpts of a regular meeting

of an average small-town stamp club in the United States.
+END

Elfriede Ketzer Elected
Haus Schwalbach Board President

The board of directors of Haus Schwalbach, the Hesse
community education center in the Taunus Hills, has
elected Elfriede Ketzer of Hofheim as president for one
year. Miss Ketzer, who was a member of the board during
its first year of existence, replaced Dr. Otto Appel, of
the Hessian Ministry of Education.

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 68 ---
CALENDAR

of Coming Events

This calendar is initiated to present
a single list of the cutstanding events
of general interest scheduled in Ger-
many during November and December.
Entries for this list have been furnished
by the German Tourist Association
(Deutsche Zentrale fuer Fremdenver-
kehr) and various HICOG offices.

CURRENT (Events in progress Nov. 15

with only closing dates given)

Nov, 21 — Aachen (NRW): Exhibition in
commemoration of A. Kampf; master
prints by Piper, Hanfstaengl, Bruck-
mann, Albertina.

Nov. 26 — Heidelberg (WB): Photo show
by the Swiss Working Federation.

Nov. 30 — Munich (Bav): “Munich as a
City of Sculptors, 1850 to 1950," Len-
bach Gallery.

Nov. 30 — Mannheim (WB): Special exhi-
bition of American architecture,

Dec, 3 — Krefeld (NRW): Paintings, water-
color paintings, ceramics, H. Zang.

Dec. 31 — Krefeld (NRW): Exhibition of
Krefeld artists.

Dec. 31 — Mannheim (WB): Special exhi-
bition: Today's Italian art.

NOVEMBER

Nov, 5-26 — Frankfurt (Hes): Paintings and
wood carvings: Frans Masareél.

Nov. 11-16 — Flensburg (SH): Food and
beverage fair,

Nov. 14-16 — Cologne (NRW): German
Union of Cattle Trade.

Nov, 14-18 — Brunswick (LS): Festival of
modern chamber music.

Nov, 15 — Duisburg (NRW): Rome Quartet
concert.

Nov. 15 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Schnei-
derhan Quartet concert.

Nov. 15 — Heidelberg (WB): Concert by
Stross Quartet, with Vienna Trumpeters’
Union.

Christmas fairs, traditional markets
for sale of trinkets, novelties and
seasonal decorations with many amu-
sement attractions, will be held in
practically all German cities and
towns varying from one day to most
of the month during December.
Notable among these will be Berlin,
Nuremberg, Stuttgart, Essen, Heidel-
berg, Kiel, Mainz, Bonn, Bayreuth,
‘Wuerzburg, Aschafienburg, Flensburg,
Mannheim, Bad Wimpfen, Neustadt
(Haardt) and Idar-Oberstein.

Christmas art exhibitions will be
held in Trier, Heidelberg, Passau
and Frankfurt, Johannes Sebastian
Bach's famous Christmas Oratorio
will be presented in Duesseldorf Dec.
4-5, Bremen Dec. 10, Karlsruhe,
Brunswick, Lueneburg and Frankfurt,
Dec. 17. Other special Christmas
events include: Christmas Fair of
German Women's Culture in Kiel,
Dec. 3-7; Bakers Guild’'s pageant and
presentation of Advent candle to
mayor and city council in Cadolz-
burg, Bav., Dec. 2-4; People’s Festival
at Hamburg Cathedral in November
and December.

NOVEMBER 1950

NOV

EMBER

Ss M T

wo F F <i

5 6 7é
12 13 14
19 20 21
26 27 28

1 2 3 4
8 9 10 11
15 16 Ay. 18
22 28 24 25
29 30

Nov. 15 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Fall
meeting of farm youth.

Nov. 16, 18, 19 — Gelsenkirchen (NRW):
Festival performances of Beethoven's
“Fidelio;’ conductors: Dr. L. Romansky,
and M. Meissner.

Nov. 16 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony
concert, with M. Strub, violin soloist.
Nov. 17 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert with

G. Casado, cello soloist.

Nov. 17 — Heidelberg (WB): Concert by
Elly Ney, piano, and Ludwig Hoelscher,
cello,

Nov. 19 — Mainz (RP): Castle concert.

Nov. 19 — Dortmund (NRW): Horse racing.

Nov. 22 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Brahms con-
cert, including Requiem.

Nov. 22 — Bremen (LS): Brahms concert,
including Requiem, with Bremen Cathedral
Choir and Philharmonic Orchestra.

Nov. 22 — Frankfurt (Hes): St. Cecilia
Union concert: Brahms’ Requiem; Sing-
ing Academy: Verdi's Requiem.

Nov, 22 — Schwerte (NRW): Bach's B-
minor Mass.

Nov, 22-23 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert
with G. Casado; conductor: G. L. Jochum.

Nov. 26 — Brunswick (LS); Bach’s B-minor
Mass.

Nov. 26 — Lueneburg (LS): Bach, cantatas,
and Mozart's Requiem.

Nov. 26 — Mainz (RP): Verdi's Requiem;
conductor: G. M. Zwissler.

Nov. 26 — Berlin: Bach, St. John’s Passion.

Nov. 26 — Krefeld (NRW): Horse racing.

Nov. 26 — Frankfurt (Hes): Horse racing,

Nov. 27 — Luebeck (SH): Chamber orchestra,
with G. Puchelt, piano soloist.

Nov, 27-28 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert, with G. Casado, soloist; con-
ductor: Hermann Abendroth.

Nov. 29 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; conductor: G. Koenig.
Nov. 29 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Har-

ness racing.

Nov. 29 — Krefeld (NRW): Horse racing.

Nov. 29.-Dec. 2 — Hannover (LS): Meeting
of the Industrial Mining Federation.

DECEMLER

Dec, 1 — Freiburg (WB): Symphony con-
cert, with Wilhelm Kempf, piano soloist
and A. Busch, violin soloist.

Dec. 1-3 — Frankfurt (Hes): Poultry show.

Dec. 1-20 — Solingen (NRW): Bergisches
Land (hill district) technical art exhi-
bition.

Dec. 2 — Mainz (RP): Symphony concert,
with Tibor Varga, violin soloist; con-
ductor: G. M. Zwissler.

Dec. 3 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Harness
racing.

Dec. 4 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum concert,
with Tibor Varga, violin soloist.

Dec. 4 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony con-
cert (municipal orchestra).

65

Dec. 4-5 — Mannheim
concert.

Dec. 4-7 — Aschaffenburg (Bav): St. An-
drew's fair.

Dec. 5 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Hessian State
Orchestra: symphony concert.

Dec, 6 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Amster-
dam String Quartet.

Dec. 7 — Bochum (NRW): Festival concert;
H. Meissner, conductor.

Dec. 8 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert.

Dec. 8-10 Hamburg: North-German
poultry show.

Dec. 9-10 — Stuttgart (WB): Poultry show
on Killesberg.

Dec. 9-10 — Bonn (NRW): Special sym-
phony and philharmonic concert.

Dec. 10 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Harness
racing

Dec. 11 — Luebeck (SH): Verdi's Requiem,

Dec. 11 — Karlsruhe (WB): Baden State
Orchestra: symphony concert.

Dec. 12 — Neheim-Huesten (NRW): Cello
concert, Prof. Ludwig Hoelscher.

Dec. 13-14 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert,
with F. Bruckbauer, violin soloist; con-
ductor: G. L, Jochum.

Dec. 15 — Bochum (NRW): Loewenguth
Quartet, Paris.

Dec, 16 — Mainz (RP): Symphony concert.

Dec. 17 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Harness
racing

Dec. 18-19 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert; Prof. G, Wand, conductor,

Dec. 19 Bonn (NRW): Philharmonic
concert.

Dec. 20-21 — Brunswick (LS): Violin con-
cert, Heinz Stanske.

Dec. 24 — Biberach
ceremony.

Dec. 25 — Mainz (RP): Castle concert.

Dec. 30 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Special con-
cert; O. Schmidtgen, conductor,

Dec. 31 — Cologne (NRW): Musical end

(WB): Academy

(WB): Santa Claus

of the Cologne city jubilee: Handel's
Messiah."

Dec. 31 — Recklinghausen (NRW); Harness
racing.

(For comprehensive list of Principal German
Winter Sport Events, 1950-1951, see page 96.)

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
Personnel Notes

Dr. Oron James Hale Joins OLCB

PROFESSOR OF EUROPEAN HISTORY has been

assigned to Bavaria as US deputy state commissioner.
Dr. Oron James Hale arrived in Munich in late Sep-
tember to join the staff of Dr. George N. Shuster, Bavaria’s
state commissioner.

Dr. Hale was granted leave from his professorial post
at the University of Virginia to accept the position.

No stranger to Germany, Dr. Hale has specialized in
German history and affairs and is the author of books
and articles dealing with German history. He spent the
summers of 1927 and 1928 doing research in Germany,
returned for a longer research project in 1932-33. He
again visited Germany in 1945 as a member of a special
War Department historical commission which was then
operating in Germany under the direction of Dr. Shuster.

Dr. Hale spent four war years with the War Depart-
ment General Staff, leaving active service in September
1946 as a colonel.

Three New Deputy Directors Named

The deputy director spots of three HICOG Offices
underwent changes at the end of September.

Theo’ E. Hall, former deputy executive secretary of
HICOG, moved to the job of deputy director in the Of-
fice of Administration. Mr.
Hall replaces A.G. Sims,
who returned to Washing-
ton to accept a new State
Department position. The
35-year-old, | Kansas-born
Mr. Hall was first deputy
chief and later chief of the
Public Safety Branch of
OMGUS in Berlin. His first
position in Germany was
as public safety adviser for
a US military group.

Taking over Mr. Hall's
post as deputy executive
secretary of HICOG was
Sam P. Gilstrap. A regular
Foreign Service Staff of-
ficer, Mr. Gilstrap came
here from Cairo, where he
served as executive officer in the American Embassy.
The 43-year-old Oklahoma-born official was administrator
for the Office of Price Administration in Puerto Rico and
the Virgin Islands from 1944 until his appointment in
the Foreign Service. From 1942 to 1944 he served with
the Overseas Branch of the Office of War Information
in San Francisco.

Rudolf F. Bertram has been appointed to the position
of deputy director of the Office of Labor Affairs. He

Theo E. Hall.
(PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

66

Dr. George N. Shuster (left), state commissioner for Ba-
varia, welcomes his deputy, newly-arrived Dr. Oron James
Hale, who is on leave from the University of Virginia,
where he is professor of European History. (PRB OLCB photo)

succeeded John K. Meskiman, who is returning to the
United States because of ill health.

Mr. Bertram is German-born with a lengthy record in
personnel relations in the United States. In 1943 he was
dppointed head labor relations officer for the Tennessee
Valley Authority; in 1948 he joined the staff of the Man-
power Division of OMGUS, where he served as executive
officer.

Glenn E. Garrett, former chief of the Labor Affairs
Division for OLC Hesse, succeeded Mr. Bertram as chief
of the Labor Division.

Riddleberger Assumes Paris Post

James W. Riddleberger former director of HICOG's
Office of Political Affairs reported to Paris late in Sep-
tember to take on the post of political adviser to Marshall
Plan Ambassador Milton Katz.

Mr. Riddleberger, a career diplomat, has served
with the US State Department since 1929, beginning as
vice-consul in Geneva and going from there to several
posts in Western Europe and Washington.

He joined the occupation administration in 1947, serv-
ing in Berlin as director of the Office of Political Affairs,
OMGUS and political adviser to Gen. Lucius D. Clay.

Pennsylvania Honors Harvey W. Brown

Pennsylvania’s Chamber of Commerce looked to Ger-
many for the selection of one of 25 former Pennsylvan-
ians to be named “Pennsylvania Ambassadors.”

Harvey W. Brown, director of the Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, and labor adviser to the ECA Mission
in Germany, received the honor for “outstanding
achievement in the best tradition of the Commonwealth.”
The awards have been made annually since 1948. ‘!

Mr. Brown, former president of the International As-
sociation of Machinists, returned to the United States
to receive the award and simultaneously was to address
the convention of the Railway Machinists General Chair-
men’s Association in Chicago. (See text of address on
page 15.)

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 70 ---
Gerhardt Promoted to Colonelcy

Harrison A. Gerhardt, special assistant to the US High
Commissioner, has been promoted to the rank of full colonel.

Colonel Gerhardt has served in Germany four years.
Prior to his appointment with HICOG he served as US
secretary of the Allied Con-
trol Commission's Allied
Secretariat in, Berlin for
three years. From 1943. to
1945, when Mr. McCloy
was assistant secretary ,of
war, Colonel Gerhardt
served as executive to Mr.
McCloy. In that capacity
he was awarded the Dist-
inguished Service Medal.

In 1948, he was recalled
from Germany to Washing-
ton for duty in the Gen-
eral Staff of the Army
and assigned to political-
military affairs. Since 1945
Colonel Gerhardt has serv-
ed as adviser to the US
delegation at numerous meetings of the Council of
Foreign Ministers. He was military adviser to the UN
General Assembly in 1948.

A graduate of West Point, Colonel Gerhardt was
later instructor and assistant professor of economics,
government and international relations there. In 1942 he
received an MA degree from Columbia University.

Col. Harrison A. Gerhardt.
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

First US Woman Judge Named

The first woman judge in the US court system in Ger-
many took the oath of office in October. She is Sadie
Belle Arbuthnot of Orlando, Fla. former US district
attorney at Stuttgart.

Chief Justice William Clark, who administered the
oath, said Miss Arbuthnot’s appointment was a tribute
to her “fine character, great legal ability and splendid
record as an assistant district attorney.” She is assigned
to the Eleventh Judicial District, with headquarters at
Bad Kissingen.

Miss Sadie Belle Arbuthnot, of Orlando, Fla., former US
district attorney at Stuttgart, has been appointed the first
woman judge in the US courts system in Germany. She is
being administered the oath of office as a magistrate of the
US Courts of the Allied High Commission by Chief Justice
William Clark. Assigned to the 11th Judical District, Judge
Arbuthnot will have her headquarters in Bad Kissingen.

Watching proceedings is Associate Justice Juan A Sedillo.
(PRB OLCB photo)

Rothfelder to Push Trade Promotion

William E. Rothfelder has taken on added respon-
sibilities in Germany's Dollar Drive, the campaign con-
ducted by HICOG's Trade Promotion Branch to expand
German exports, particularly to the dollar areas.

Mr. Rothfelder moves up from the post of tourist and
invisible exports specialist to that of deputy chief, Trade
Promotion Branch, Industry Division, Office of Economic
Affairs.

Tuch Heads Frankfurt Information Center

Frankfurt's US Information Center had a new chief
this month with the transfer of Hans N. Tuch from the
directorship of Wiesbaden's, center.

In his new capacity, Mr. Tuch is also in charge of
reading rooms in Buedingen, Gelnhausen, Hanau, Offen-
bach, Bad Homburg and Bad Nauheim.

Gibson Morrissey, former chief of the Frankfurt center,
left for a similar post in Darmstadt. His transfer was
made in recognition of the vast interest shown in music
in the Darmstadt area. Mr. Morrissey, previously served
with the Theater and Music Branch of HICOG.

Burkhardt, Brown Join Public Affairs

Frederick H. Burkhardt and Richard R. Brown joined
the Office of Public Affairs in Frankfurt at the end of
September.

Dr. Burkhardt, president of Bennington College, Ben-

nington, Vt., has been given "
a year's leave to take on
the’ job of special consul-
tant. During the war, he
was detailed from naval
duty to the Office of Stra-
tegic Services; in 1945 he
was transferred to the De-
partment of State and ap-
pointed acting chief of the
Division of Research for
Europe.

Mr. Brown has taken up
his duties as general man-
ager of the Office of Public
Affairs. Since 1949 he has
been executive director on
the staff of the assistant
secretary of economic af-
fairs in the State Department. From 1944 to 1948 he was
chief executive officer and deputy director general of
UNRRA.

Richard R. Brown.
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Akselrad Moves to Bavaria

Richard Akselrad, former chief of OLC Bremen’s Press,
Film and Publications Branch, moved to Bavaria in
September to take up similar duties with the state com-
missioner's office there.

His duties in Bremen were meanwhile temporarily
taken over by Howard W. Calkins, chief of the Public
Relations Branch in Bremen. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
Eeonomic Review

This monthly review of the German Federal Republic's
current economic picture, based on the latest figures
and trends available when this section of the Infor-
mation Bulletin went to press, was prepared by the
Analytical Reports Branch of the Program Review
Division of the Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG.

MPROVEMENT IN ECONOMIC activity for Western

Germany continued at an accelerated pace during the
month of August. Industrial production increased spec-
tacularly. Unemployment continued to drop as employ-
ment increased. Exports rose and the trade deficit was
reduced to the lowest level since May 1950.

With these good signs, certain difficulties character-
istic of an expanding national economy in an expanding
world economy also appeared: world market and some
domestic prices rose sharply, and there developed

shortages of certain raw materials, semi-finished products

and types of skilled labor.

Industry

The index of industrial production (excluding building,
stimulants and food processing) rose 6.5 percent during
August to reach 114 percent of 1936, a new postwar
record and the greatest single month-to-month increase
since the index was established in January 1949. The
increases were spread with comparative uniformity over
almost the whole of industry, and are attributed to a
marked increase in orders received since June, and to the
vacation shutdowns in some industries in July.

Among the industries whose production on a daily
average basis rose to new postwar records were: iron
ore, salt and potash mining, crude oil extraction, oil
refining, coal by-products, stones and earths, iron and
steel, vehicles, electrical equipment, other metal goods,
chemicals, hollow glass, paper production, rubber prod-
ucts, gas and tobacco.

Coal production in August amounted to 351,000 metric
tons per day, compared with the postwar high of
364,000 metric tons in April, but had risen again to
355,000 tons per day in the week ending Sept 24. The
failure of coal production to increase since last spring, to-
gether with the increase in demand resulting from the gen-
eral revival of industry, especially steel, is now expected
to result in shortages of coal during the winter months.

It is estimated that the productive capacity is about
390,000 tons per day as compared with anticipated daily
requirements of 400,000 to 410,000 tons. The demand for
coal has been further stimulated by the expectation of
an increase in the domestic price of coal, since the
director general of the DKBL (Deutsche Kohlehbergbau-
Leitung) has announced that wages must be increased to
attract more workers to mining, and that this wage in-
crease cannot be absorbed by the coal companies.

Orders for hot rolled finished steel received during
September amounted to 1,465,000 tons, compared with
2,016,000 tons in August and 1,523,000 tons in July; export
orders amounted to 175,000 tons in September and
360,000 tons in August. Average delivery time required
for steel products is now about six months, but delivery
delays quoted for light steel sheets have gone up to
14 to 16 months with heavier steel plates and sheets
requiring seven or eight months. Daily average pro-
duction of crude steel was 40,400 tons in September,
compared with 39,800 tons in August and 39,900 in July.

Both internal consumption and exports of raw and
semifabricated non-ferrous metals have risen substan-
tially since June. The average monthly exports of these

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

materials during the first half: of 1950 amounted to
17,412 metric tons, valued at $5,000,000 but in July rose to
$6,200,000 and in August to $8,300,000.

Removal of restrictions upon the size, speed and num-
ber of commercial cargo ships built for export will
necessitate readjustments in the shipbuilding industry.
Vacant shipbuilding capacity exists mostly in the smaller
yards since the larger yards have now received sub-
stantial export orders, but in many cases they must first
finish or subcontract orders for repair work and smaller
vessels before beginning on these orders,

Large diesel engines suitable for export ships requir-
ing more than 5,000 horsepower will probably be scarce.
Delivery date from the only two producers in Germany
of such engines were running from one year to 18 months
before the lifting of restrictions on shipbuilding was
announced. One of these firms moved into a new factory
Oct. 1 and will now be able to expand output somewhat.

Faced with the continued rise in the price of raw rub-
ber, the rubber industry is directing more attention to
maximizing the use of scrap rubber. The price of tires
has increased by as much as five percent, and technical
rubber goods prices have increased by as much as 10
percent. Stocks of tires were nearly exhausted by heavy
purchases during July and August, but production is suf-
ficient to replenish stocks within the next few months,
as well as keep pace with the increased demand.

Index of Industrial Production

(1936 = 100) 1950
June July — Aug.
Total all industries
(incl. electricity and gas) 1/ . 108 107 114
(excl. electricity and gas) . 1106 105 it
Investment goods (total) . 107 106 112

Rawmaterials . .. . sl.) 8 93 97

Finished products . . 117 114 122
General production goods

(incl.electricity and gas) . 121 123 130

(excl. electricity and gas) - Soo oO 117 124
Consumer goods . . 94 191 97
1/ = Excl. food progressing, stimulants and building.
Tt Revised.
p = Preliminary.

Production of Major Commodities
Unit of
Commodity Measure 1/ June © July r/ Aug. py
Hard coal (gross mained). thous. t 8,978 9,169 9,445
Crude petro.eum. . . . . . t 91,540 95,874 98,800
Cement .. 2... 1... t 1,023,352 1,087,476 1,131,087
Bricks (total) » oe. 1000 440,544 458,937 476,088
Pig iron. . 2. t 750,179 818,715 858,056
Steel ingots. 5 t 980,383 1,024,108 1,060,173
Rolled steel finished products . t 683,381 690,442 751,290
Farm tractors (total) 2/ pieces 3,764 4,281 4,931
Typewriters 3/ pieces 17,308 15,037 17,756
Passenger cars (incl. chassis) pieces 18,737 15,976 _ 20,394
Cameras (total) pieces 197,393 202,797 176 532
Sulphuric acid (incl. oleum) « t SO3 95,114 96,034 100,479
Calcium carbide... . . . t 59,702 58,140 59,333
Soap (tota}. . . . 2... t 8,646 11,067 15,701
Newsprint) . . Sooo t 14,984 14,737 15,026
Auto and truck tires | pieces 241,886 267,880 287,487
1000 pairs 6,208 4,896 6,645

Shoes (total)

1/ = All tons are metric tons.
xcluding accessories, parts and spare parts.
tandard, long-carriage and portable typewriters.
evised.

p = Preliminary.

Foreign Trade

Commodity exports from Western Germany increased
in August’ for the fourth consecutive month to.reach a
new postwar record of $177,600,000. Commodity imports,

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 72 ---
amounted to $205,300,000, and the resultant trade deficit
of $27,700,000 was the lowest since the $20,800,000 deficit
in May 1950. Exports to the United States of $10,000,000
also set a new postwar record. Imports from the United
States were $24,100,000, and the trade deficit the lowest
in the postwar period.

For the first time since April, imports from countries
participating in the European Recovery Program exceeded
exports. Exports to Marshall Plan countries, however,
reached a new high of $126,100,000. Exports to Eastern
Europe amounted to $10,600,000, somewhat less than in
July; imports increased, however, probably reflecting the
beginning of seasonal agricultural shipments.

West German Foreign Commodity Trade
August 1950
(Thousand Dollars)

Categories Imports _ Exports
Food and agriculture . 95,029 2,848
Industry... . 110,301 174,707
Raw materials 50,275 24,425
Semi-finished . . . 33,846 37,106
Finished manufactures . +. «26,180 113,176
Total” 205,330 177,555

Area
Total Non-participating Countries 72,210 50,896
USA 24,100 10,034
Canada ae 456 967
Central America - 4,483 2,419
South America. | | 9,405 11,098
Non-participating Sterling Coun 10,296 7,125
Eastern Europe Bintan 10,331 10,620
Other Countries : 13,139 8,633
Participating Countries 133,118 126,104
Non-Sterling . 114,715 115,008
Sterling : 18,403 11,100
Unspecified . toe 2 555
Total 205,330 177,555

August Import Surplus: $27,775,000.

Agriculture

Total meat production in Western Germany in 1949-50
amounted to approximately 1,400,000 metric tons as com-
pared to the prewar average of 1,900,000 metric tons. Plans
for 1950-51 call for the production of 1,600,000 metric
tons;
availabilities indicate that this goal can be reached.

There’ was a marked decline in hoarding of fats, oils
and sugar in September, caused by the general feeling
-that the international situation had improved and, in the
case of fats and oils, by the fact that supplies continued
to be available in spite of the hoarding.

In view of diminishing stocks and the possibility that
trade agreement sources of supply may be curtailed, the
Federal Republic intensified efforts to obtain maximum
imports of fats, oils and sugar. For the first time in
18 months, dollars from exports have been made availa-
ble for these items. Funds were authorized for the
purchase of 62,500 tons of soybeans; 9,100 tons of soy-
bean oil; 6,800 tons of copra and 7,135 tons of fish oil.

Furthermore, in an effort to counteract rising meat
prices, the Federal Republic, in addition to stepping up
meat imports from trade agreement sources, also author-
ized the expenditure of $3,500,000 from export proceeds
for canned meat from the United States.

Finance :

The board of directors of the Bank Deutscher Laender
has increased the minimum reserve requirements of
banking institutions in Western Germany. Demand de-
posit requirements are increased from 10 percent to
15 percent in the larger cities and from eight percent to
12 percent in the smaller cities, and time deposit re-

NOVEMBER 1950

current livestock numbers and feed and fodder ,

69

quirements from four to eight percent. Savings deposit
requirements remain unaffected. The increases became
effective on Sept. 1 and are described as a warning signal
prompted by recent tendencies of an inflationary character.

Berlin

A draft agreement between Federal Finance Minister
Schaeffer and Berlin Mayor Reuter concerning budgetary
aid to Berlin was signed at Bonn Sept. 8, 1950. The
agreement, which was to go into effect Oct. 1, provides
that the Federal Republic will take over DM 500,000,000
of the Berlin budget deficit for 1950-51, including 80 per-
cent of occupation costs, 75 percent of the costs for the
war injured and dependents of war casualties, 75 percent
of pension and 50 percent of unemployment payments.

It is also provided that after the first three months,
changes to correspond with the financial position of
Berlin may be requested by either contracting party. The
government has listed in its budget DM 300,000,000 for
Berlin aid. DM 125,000,000 out of GARIOA funds will
also become available. The government has promised to
raise the remaining DM 75,000,000, but the source of
these funds has not yet been settled.

Labor

Unemployment continued to decrease during Septem-
ber, though at a slower rate than during the past four
months. At the end of September the number of un-
employed was 1,271,647, a decrease of 69,559. The number
of employed wage and salary earners was 14,297,192 on
Sept. 30. Unemployment thus was 8.2 percent of the labor
force compared with 10 percent at the end of June.

The trade union drive for higher wages, initiated in
mid-July by sudden increases in consumer Prices of
bread, meat and fats, had brought pay increases to ap-
proximately 2,500 clerical and manual workers as of
Sept. 25. About 18 percent of the wage and salary earn-
ing labor force received increases which averaged 10
percent. Most of the new agreements can be terminated
in three or four months.

Prices

The index of basic materials prices increased by more
than one percent from July 21 to Aug. 21, while the
index of consumers’ prices declined by less than one
percent in about the same period. The averages cover,
however, a number of diverse tendencies. In general,
prices of meats continued to rise, although not .as fast
as in the preceding month, bread prices remained about
the same and cereal] prices increased slightly.

Consumer Price Index — Bizonal Area 1/
(Wage/salary earner’s family of four, with one child under 14)

(1938 = 100)

June July Aug.
Total 151 149 148
Food . . . 157 153 150
Stimulants . 284 284 285
Clothing 185 183 182
Rent. . 2. . 103 103 103
Heat and light... 118 118 118
Cleaning and hygiene . : 147 147 147
Education and entertainment 141 141 140
Household goods 162 161 159
Travelling . 133 133 133

1/ The Consumer Price Index ‘is not yet available on a trizonal basis

Basic Materials Price Index

(1938 = 100) 1950

June July Aug.
Food. 168 176 177
Industry 218 222 227
Total. 198 204 207p

p = Preliminary.

- INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
Occupation Log

Rural Youth Meet in Wuerttemberg-Baden

HICOG's continuing effort to aid rural German youth
was evidenced at a recent meeting at Hohenheim Agri-
cultural College. Sixty-five rural students and youth leaders
from every county in Wuerttemberg-Baden attended.

The program as outlined by James F, Keim, Community
Activities adviser, Rural Agricultural Education, OLC
Wuerttemberg-Baden, included discussion of methods for
organizing people's college programs, dramatics for rural
youth groups, sport groups and land vocational activities,
such as courses in clean milk production, identification of
various kinds of fruits, flowers and grains.

The urgent need for building rural youth centers for
those who wish to make agriculture their life work was
stressed by one of the youth leaders, Werner Stender.

Three American students — Elaine Serfass of Pennsyl-
vania, Dean Allen of Michigan and Ivan Schmedemann
of Kansas — who lived and worked on farms in Wuert-
temberg-Baden for a month, attended the conference.

Church Group Aids HICOG Effort

The Brethren Service Commission* and the Public
Affairs staff of OLC Hesse have agreed to link their
reorientation efforts wherever possible.

“Since our goals are almost identical,” said E. K. Neu-
mann, Public Affairs chief, “and our methods so similar,
a close working co-operation between ourselves and the
commission can only lead to greater efficiency in the
field of reorientation.”

The Brethren Service Commission, the social-welfare
arm of the Church of the Brethren, maintains its German
headquarters in Kassel and maintains several social pro-
jects throughout Germany.

Besides helping run a home for delinquent juveniles,
the commission has also contributed labor to build

* See ‘Fellowship of Love,” Information Bulletin, April 1950 issue.

Edward Page, Jr. receives golden key from Berlin worker,
symbolic of completion of the George C. Marshall House
on Berlin's exhibition grounds. (See pages 12-13.) At a
ceremony Sept. 29, the director of HICOG-Berlin Element
gave an appreciation talk. (See page 8.) (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

homes. for incapacitated refugees, established welfare
and child guidance centers and co-operated on the Heifer
Project Committee, designed to increase the milk supply
in Germany.

Former Exchangees Continue Meetings

Seventeen West Berlin teachers — recent three-month
visitors to the United States as exchangees — plan to hold
periodic conferences to discuss results of their study in
America.

Hostess at one such late meeting was Hildegard Quant,
instructor at the Droste-Huelshoff secondary school. The
discussion concerned the exchangees’ respective projects:
operating methods in home economics schools, public
school administration procedures, curriculum programs
and materials and methods used in kindergarten work in
America.

ERP Exhibit at Munich's “Oktoberfest

The ERP exhibit formerly seen by more than 300,000
people in four West German cities played a prominent
part in Munich's recent Oktoberfest as part of the festival's
electric fair.

The extensive exhibition, housed in specially-con-
structed futuristic-type buildings, illustrated the aims and
operations of the Marshall Plan through special displays,
a huge relief map and a series of panels of illuminated
photographs. Ten of the 20 main displays were mechani-
cally-operated.

The exhibition was opened by Dr. George N. Shuster,
US state commissioner for Bavaria, and Robert M. Hanes,
until recently HICOG economic chief, with advisory board,
and Gordon Reckford.

Encyclopedias for Bremen

Eight Bremen state educational institutions will receive
as a gift from .the Bremen’s US Information Center 12
complete sets of the latest edition of Compton's Pictured
Encyclopedia and Fact-Index.

In presenting the 15-volume gifts, the Bremen US Infor-
mation Center director, John F. Toedtman, emphasized
that the US State Department, through the US information
program, is interested in providing additional basic
reading material to German educational institutions in the
form of American publications and books not available
in Germany.

German Postal Service Increased

Outgoing international money order service and inter-
national postal transfer service will be re-established for
the Federal Republic as soon as the necessary arrange-
ments can be made with the foreign agencies and govern-
ments concerned. The service will be operated in ac-
cordance with applicable Allied High Commission and
German regulations concerning the transfer of foreign
exchange.

Incoming international money order service was pre-
viously approved by Military Government in 1948 but to

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 74 ---
ee Ras

Seven members of the editorial staff of Frankfurt High
School's paper “Blitzlicht’’ (Flashlight) recently enjoyed a
week-long holiday at Berchtesgaden arranged by the Frank-
jurt Resident Officer in recognition of their work. They
were housed in the GYA's House of Youth. (US Army photo)

date only the United States Post Office Department has
agreed to open the service. Insured letter and box service
between the Federal Republic and the Western sectors of
Berlin to foreign countries has also been re-established.

Students from 14 Nations in Berlin

Eighty-seven students from 14 countries recently
attended an International University Vacation Course
aimed at evolving an “Idea for a European Community.”

Five students from the United States were among the
group, which was divided into eight classes for the study
of science and philosophy, churches, European art, edu-
cation, politics, German-French relations, England and the
Continent, and Europe and the United States. It was the
second school of its type to be held here and was
sponsored by West Berlin's colleges and universities.

Besides the United States and Germany, the 87 students
participating in the course represented Italy, France, Eng-
land, Finland, China, Norway, Sweden, Australia, Holland,
Ireland, India and Denmark. Sixty were male students, the
rest co-eds,

Funds to enable some of the participants to travel to
Berlin for the course were provided by the Education
Branch, HICOG.

HICOG Aids Bremen Youth

Youth of Bremen and Bremerhaven will profit from a
grant-in-aid of DM 50,092 awarded by the US High Com-
missioner, The funds will be used to establish free rec-
reational programs, which will include unorganized
youth, and to promote the training program for youth
leadership in Bremen state.

In breaking down the total sum, James D. McKinley,
chief, Youth Affairs Section, OLC Bremen, disclosed
DM 38,560 would be allotted to Bremen and DM 4,500 to
Bremerhaven for recreation programs. Of the remainder,
to be used for youth leadership programs, Bremen will
receive DM 5,992 and Bremerhaven DM 1,000. The offices
of the Bremen Senator for Schools and Education and

NOVEMBER 1950

71

those for the promotion of youth activities in Bremen
and Bremerhaven will be responsible for the proper
implementation of the programs.

The ‘grant will financially aid the attendance of select-
ed youth personnel to youth leadership training schools
and conferences within Germany and visits of German
youth experts to Bremen along with the purchase of
equipment and materials to further these and other
youth-aid programs.

US Information Center Sponsors Tours

German students of the arts are having unusual op-
portunities to visit European centers of culture through
the efforts of Donald B. Hall, chief of the US Information
Center in Karlsruhe.

Eighteen music students between 17 and 20 spent eight
days in Salzburg, Austria, at minimum cost during which
they attended the Salzburg Musical Festival performances
of “Fidelio,” “Capriccio” and a Bach concert. Part of their
time was spent mountain climbing and visiting castles.
The same group recently performed Kurt Weill's student
opera “Down in the Valley” at Karlsruhe’s US Informa-
tion Center.

In the near future another group of 18 art students,
under Mr. Hall's sponsorship, will visit Paris.

Hesse Holds Safety Check

To combat the ever mounting curve of traffic accidents,
the Hessian minister of the interior recently held a traffic
supervision week. The continued increase in accidents
during the past years has been caused, according to the
Hessian authorities, by the lack of adequate traffic
discipline, which did not keep pace with increasing
motorization after currency reform.

During the first half year of 1950, 10,588 traffic mishaps
were reported in Hesse, compared to 3,537 in 1947, 4,966
in 1948 and 15,865 in 1949. The damage caused by the
accidents during the first six months of 1950 amounts to
DM 2,800,000, compared to a total damage of DM 3,700,000
for 1949.

Jesse W. Callahan, public safety chief, OLC Hesse, said
the supervision week emphasized checking the’ technical
condition of motor vehicles, the load weights of trucks
and trailers, and safety devices. Further emphasis was
placed on the strict observance of speed limits, with
moving and fixed police controls putting up barriers on the
streets under control.

During the week, all traffic offenses were filed for prose-
cution, and all vehicles with technical deficiencies were
taken out of traffic.

Berlin Magistrat Handles Party Licensing

The Allied Kommandatura in Berlin, in a further effort
to grant the inhabitants of Berlin the maximum amount
of freedom in their political and communal life, has re-
linquished its authority to license political parties to the
Magistrat (city council). However, the Kommandatura

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
still exercises the right to ban any party which it regards
as undesirable or against the public interest.

In considering the applications of future parties the
Kommandatura recommended the Magistrat be guided by
the following principles: democratic programs and aims;
sufficient difference from parties already recognized, and
contribution to the benefit of the people of Berlin.

When such applications are found undesirable the
Magistrat has been instructed to place the matter before
the Kommandatura with appropriate comments for their
decision. Likewise, when any party is approved a full
report regarding such action will be given the Kom-
mandatura.

Until such time as a law governing party system is
enacted and in turn approved by the Kommandatura,
the new order governs political party licensing in Berlin.

Dismantling Not Yet Over In US Zone

Demilitarization and dismantling operations as well as
reparations shipments will continue in the US Zone until
a definite stop order is received. R. J. Lamoureux, HICOG
Reparations and Restitution liaison officer in Bavaria,
made this answer to an erroneous newspaper report which
alleged that US Zone demilitarization and dismantling
would be terminated soon.

Mr. Lamoureux said the misunderstanding arose from
a recent letter to the Bavarian Ministry of Economics, ex-
pressing HICOG's desire that reparations shipments of
capital industrial equipment from Bavaria be completed,
as far as possible, by Oct. 1.

Actually, this order affects only two plants in Bavaria
— the Suedwerke in Kulmbach and the Flusspatwerk in
Stulln. A third plant mentioned was the VAW in Toeging,
of which the ministry was requested to complete the
current dismantling of one of its halls by the date set.

New Refinery in British Zone
A DM 36,000,000 oil refinery will be built adjacent to
the newly developed Ems oil fields in Holthausen, thanks

Some of 20 Berlin referendars who were selected to carry
out research and studies on subjects of special current
interest discuss the project with Galen Snow (left), chief
of the BE-HICOG Exchanges Branch, and H. W. Weigert
(second from right), chief, Office of General Counsel in
Bad Nauheim. DM 10,000 was earmarked by HICOG to
defray cost. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

Former Master Sgt. Owen W. Tromberg, the first airman
in USAFE to be recalled to active duty as a commissioned
officer since the beginning of the Korean War, takes oath
of office as a second lieutenant. Capt. Kenneth Stewart,
adjutant of the 36th Fighter-Bomber Wing, administers oath
as the wing's commanding officer, Col. Richard A. Legg,
wails to pin bars on Lieutenant Tromberg. (USAFE photo)

to ECA financial assistance of $550,000 (DM 2,100,840),
made available to the Gewerkschaft Refinery.

The sum will cover costs of engineering services and
equipment in the United States. The remainder of the
DM 36,000,000 will come from the federal government's
investing program, Niedersachsen state and company
funds. The plant will be operated by the owners of the
principal fields in the Ems area, British Zone.

At present, Ems crude oil is processed in plants at
Wesseling and Gelensberg. Due to the extreme heaviness
of the oil and the distance of the processing plants, the
method has proven very expensive.

The proposed refinery is expected to save dapprox-
imately $1,142,400 a year and will be so constructed as
to enable expansion. Production of Emsland crude oil
is expected to reach 1,100,000 tons a year by the end of
the Marshall Plan in June 1952.

Visual Aids Expand in Hesse

The visual aids program in the state of Hesse is now
within reach of practically every Hessian citizen and is
becoming more extensive and intensive every month,
according to Dr. Howard Oxley, chief of Community Ac-
tivities, OLC Hesse.

With the addition of 11 new film titles with 142 copies,
a total of 208 titles with almost 1,600 copies are presentlv
in operation in the Hessian program. Performances can
now be made in almost each of Hesse's 2,600 communities,
with 208,441 children and 69,229 adults attending a total
of approximately 3,000 performances during the month of
September. Seventy-two visual aids assistants operate the
program.

Labor Migration Discussed

Negotiations have commenced with federal govern-
ment representatives for the establishment in Western
Germany of an International Labor Office Mission to
facilitate German emigration. Heading the discussions,
which were agreed upon by the Allied High Commission,
is D. Christie Tait, consultant on manpower for the Inter-
national Labor Office.

Subject of the talks is the establishment of an ILO Mis-
sion to promote emigration from the Federal Republic.

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 76 ---
Such a mission would assist in finding openings for Ger-
man emigrants abroad and would give advice to the emi-
gration authorities in Germany and other countries on
such matters as selection, movement and vocational train-
ing of emigrants.

DP Kasernes Go to Additional Troops

To accelerate the long planned absorption of the dis-
placed persons in the German economy, and to provide
space and permit repair and rehabilitation of kasernes in
time to care for additional troops which are to be sent
to Germany to strengthen Western European defenses,
US High Commissioner John J. McCloy has directed the
evacuation of 11 former Wehrmacht kasernes and instal-
lations in the US Zone now occupied by DP’s. Twenty-five
other kasernes are to be evacuated later.

The moving of DP’s from the kasernes has been planned
for some time, but the action has now been speeded up in
order to accommodate additional troop units to implement
the agreement by the Council of Foreign Ministers to
defend Western Germany against possible attack, as
requested by the German Federal Government.

Five of the installations to be evacuated are pipeline
camps administered by the International Refugee Organi-
zation and occupied by approximately 10,000 DP’s schedul-
ed for emigration and awaiting transfer to resettlement
camps for final processing.

The six other kasernes are administered by German
authorities and are occupied by approximately 5,650 DP’s,
that is, those who have little likelihood of resettlement or
repatriation, because of ineligibility, age, health and other
reasons. More than 10,000 residual DP’s live in the 25
kasernes to be evacuated later. These will be moved to
private housing and absorbed into the German economy.

The eventual absorption of the residual DP’s into the
German economy has been planned since last July when
Mr. McCloy directed US state commissioners to inform

Pictured is one of four SB-29's, aerial search and rescue
version of the Superfortress, on arrival:at Wiesbaden Air
Base. The planes are equipped with radar equipment and
lifeboats. The main item, the A 3 li‘eboat, is 30 feet long
and can be dropped from 1,400 feet and remain upright. Its
engine carries up to 200 gallons of gasoline and can be

started and guided by radio. (USAFE photo)

NOVEMBER 1950

73

Some of the 85 recently-arrived F-84 Thunderjets are
shown at Fuerstenfeldbruck Air Base, home of the 2nd Air
Division's 36th Fighter-Bomber Wing. With a 600-plus
mile-per-hour speed, each plane has six 40-caliber machine
guns as well as rockets, and will greatly enhance air tacti-

cal support of US Army forces in Europe. (USAFE photo)
the German authorities that they should provide housing
for the residual DP’s by the end of the year. Because of
recent world developments, he has issued instructions to
the state commissioners of Bavaria, Wuerttemberg-Baden
and Hesse, and to IRO Headquarters, calling for the
evacuation of the kasernes.

Mr. McCloy directed that space allocations within all
IRO centers be reviewed to insure maximum utilization of
billet spaces. He also suggested that German authorities
be requested to investigate the number and location of
any other kasernes or installations under German control
which may be rehabilitated for use as alternate resettle-
ment or billeting facilities.

Frankfurt Becoming German Book Center

Frankfurt is supplanting Leipzig as the book publishing
center of Germany. This opinion, expressed by George
Fleischer, publications chief, OLC Hesse, was largely
based on evidence shown at the second West German
Book Fair held in Frankfurt recently.

Fifteen thousand volumes — twice as many as at last
year's fair — were displayed, with 5,000 of this number
being recent publications. The fair exhibited works of
300 German publishers, many of whom were formerly
associated in Leipzig. Switzerland followed in represen-
tation with 40 publishers, France with 30 and Austria
with 20.

“America Week” Held in Hanover

A comprehensive story of American life and institutions
was presented to the people of Hanover through a recent
“America Week” conducted by the US Information Center
in that city. The story of American culture, politics, eco-
nomics and geography was told in a six-day program of
lectures, panel discussions, films and musical programs.

Leading American officials and visiting personalities
participated, including E. K. Neumann, chief, Public Affairs

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 77 ---
Division, OLC Hesse; Allen Y. King, deputy chief, Edu-
cation and Cultural Relations Division, HICOG; Egon
Jameson, columnist for Die Neue Zeitung; Mrs. Ona Lou
Ackley, radio singer and concert artist; Dr. James C. Flint,
visiting expert in religious affairs and former dean of
Chapel Carleton College, and Dr. Theodore Huebner,
director of foreign languages in the New York City
schools,

“America Week" was organized by Wallace W. Littel,
director of the newly established US Information Center
in Hanover, in conjunction with the education ministry of
Lower Saxony in response to numerous requests for more

information concerning America,
2

State Election Law Rejected

A Wuerttemberg-Baden law which would allow most
judges and civil servants to hold legislative and executive
offices simultaneously, has been provisionally turned
down by the Allied High Commission.

The election law, passed in August, specified that chief
judges and leading civil servants be placed on inactive
status before accepting election to the state legislature.
But the law left all other civil servants and judges free
to do double service.

The law was found inconsistent with a High Commis-
sion statement that a civil servant elected to a legislative
body should resign before accepting election.

The disapproval will hold until the state government
has taken steps to make sure that all public employees
elected to the legislature transfer to inactive status be-
fore taking up their new posts.

Berlin Checks Anti-Democratic Press

West Berlin propagandists have been forbidden to utilize
printed matter to obstruct the aims of the Allied occu-
pation.

Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US commander, has issued
a restrictive order on behalf of the Berlin Element of
HICOG in conjunction with the British and French
authorities. The order specifically forbids anyone in West
Berlin to use “written, printed or inscribed matter" to
incite the Germans against the Occupying Powers, to
spread militarist, Fascist or anti-democratic ideas, or to
foment disorder or obstructionism to Allied aims within
the city’s Western sectors. The order was forwarded to the
Magistrat (city council) of Greater Berlin.

The use of the Deutsche Post or any other transport
facilities in the unauthorized distribution of such matter
is also prohibited.

Nine Trawlers Added to Fishing Fleet

Both fishing and shipbuilding industries in the Bremen
area received a boost when the Allied Military Security
Board approved a German firm's purchase of nine fishing
trawlers from a Belgian company.

Sold to the Weser Fishery for its own use or resale,
the vessels will need from DM 3,500,000 to DM 4,000,000
worth of construction work done on them over a period

INFORMATION BULLETIN

74

See

Gen. Hoyt S, Vandenberg (left), US Air Force chief of
staff, visited EUCOM Headquarters Oct. 16 to meet Gen.
Thomas T, Handy (right), commander-in-chief, EUCOM,
and other ranking officers of the Army, Navy and Air
Force. In center is Maj. Gen. William F, McKee, deputy
chief of staff, US Air Force. (US Army photo)

of 12 months. This will relieve the labor situation in
Bremen by employing 400 shipyard workers.

Each is a 450 ton craft, with an 850 horsepower engine
and a loading capacity of 3,800 to 4,000 baskets.

ECA Train Visits Rhineland-Ruhr

Citizens of 50 West German cities in the Rhineland
and Ruhr will visit the 15-car train of Marshall Plan
exhibits during its current three month tour.

The train, seen by more than 500,000 people on its
Wuerttemberg-Baden tour, was officially re-opened in
Bonn's main railway station by US Deputy High Com-
missioner Maj.Gen. George P. Hays and other high Allied
officials, along with President Theodor Heuss and Vice-
Chancellor and ERP Minister Bluecher of the Federal
Republic.

In a brief address General Hays voiced hope that the
train would bring the message of the Marshall Plan to
people along the route. He also mentioned the two tasks
of the plan: to raise the European standard of living,
toward which much progress has already been made,
and to integrate European economies so that a united
Europe can face the economic, social, political and
military problems which beset it.

“Let us not be misled in the belief that a series of
relatively small nationalistic states can by themselves
solve the complex problems of today's world — they
cannot,” continued the Deputy High Commissioner. “it
is only by banding together — by having each work not
only for himself but for his neighbor that Europe can
reach the goal of an economically stable and politically
peaceful Europe.”

In his speech, Vice-Chancellor Bluecher thanked the
American people and their government for the aid given
Germany under the Marshall Plan which he said created
the “prerequisites for the reconstruction of the Western

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 78 ---
German economy. It has given Europeans renewed hope,
it has brought them together in co-operative work to
raise the living standard of the great masses of the
people and has thus safeguarded peace.”

The train exhibits, which graphically illustrate how
Marshall Plan assistance has helped Europe toward re-
covery and economic integration, also feature a show of
Western German export products made possible through
ERP assistance.

Shotguns Authorized For Sports Only

Germany's sportsmen are enjoying their first hunting
season since the end of the war. The ban on the use,
production and sale of shotguns and rifles has been
lifted by the Allied High Commission to allow use of
25,000 rifles and 50,000 shotguns this season.

The quotas were determined on the basis of available
information, but should it be later established that more
persons wish to hunt, the High Commission has agreed
to review its decision.

Berlin Exchangee Doctors Meet

Eight West Berlin doctors, all former exchangees, have
made plans for maintaining contact with new develop-
ments in American medicine. The doctors returned to
Berlin recently from the United States after completing
medical and public health exchange study tours lasting
three to six months each.

At a meeting, also attended by representatives of the
Public Health and Welfare Branch, HICOG, the doctors
agreed to hold informal gatherings regularly, and to dis-
cuss the best means of applying the knowledge and ex-
perience acquired during their Stateside visits to improve
medical services in Berlin.

In the group were Dr. Kaethe Hussels, head of the
Zehlendorf Health Office, and Dr. Herbert Wendel, who
visited the United States last year under a three-month
exchange project, then remained to accept a one-year
fellowship offered him by the University of Pennsylvania.
Among the eight were a pediatrician, a gynecologist, a
surgeon, a pharmacologist, a psychiatrist and an intern.

German Youth Win Pennant

It may not have been the World Series pennant, but
to members of the Tempelhof Air Base GYA “Babe Ruth"*
baseball team, it was the next best thing. They had won
the German Youth Baseball Championship.

The young Berliners were flanked by two leading Ber-
lin GI teams, the Tempelhof Flyers and the 16th Infantry
Green Hornets, as they assembled to receive their flag
of victory from Col. John E. Barr, base commander.*The
GYA nine earned the award by winning two out of three
Berlin series and winning the zone finals undefeated.

Following the award, which was made on the Tempel-
hof diamond, team members presented Colonel Barr with

* See ‘Babe Ruth Club” by Caroline Camp Leiser in the Information
Bulletin, Issue No. 160, May 3, 1949,

NOVEMBER 1950

75

Old friends meet in Stuttgart as Elaine Serfass, Palmerton,
Pa., arrives for brief stay with German farm family and
meets Nicholas M. Rahn (center), OLCWB Extension Work
adviser, and Dr. James F. Keim (right), HICOG Agricul-
tural Education adviser in Stuttgart. (PRB OLCWB photo)

a baseball bearing their autographs as a memento of the
Babe Ruth team and as an expression of their appreciation
for his encouragement and support.

Magazine Circulation Up

Ways to New Education, a monthly educational
magazine issued under the sponsorship of the Berlin
Element General Education Section and an editorial board
of German educational specialists, will be increased to
7,000 copies as a result of increased demand from West
Berlin and West German teachers and educators, General
Education Section officials announced.

Started in March 1950 as an informational German-
language publication on educational subjects, Ways to
New Education has expanded rapidly in response to re-
quests from members of the German teaching profession.

Articles in the various issues cover a wide range of
educational topics, including psychological and methodi-
cal problems, and are written by educational specialists,
lecturers, youth leaders and students at West Berlin
universities. The publication also prints translations of
educational pieces by American writers appearing in
educational journals, and reports on courses, meetings
and discussions for teachers and students.

German Exchangees Return

Forty-seven German boys and girls of high school age
have returned from the United States, where they spent
a year studying in American schools under the HICOG
youth exchange program.

The group left Germany for America on Sept. 14, 1949.
They lived with families in small rural communities in
different parts of the United States and attended local high
schools as part of a youth reorientation project sponsored
by the Brethren Service Committee. -++-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 79 ---
(Ulmer Zeitung, Ulm, Sept. 1)

wy

German Opinion
in Cartoons

(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, Sept. 22) (Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, Sept. 19)

Stalin: ‘Oh, Columbus, if you
only hadn't discovered Americal”

German Rearmament.
“What we need are weapons that (Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, Sept. 14)
can only shoot eastwards!”

Vishinsky: “I propose we
disarm by one-third.”

{Die Welt, Hamburg, Sept. 27)
[Neues Deutschland (Soviet-licensed),
Russian Sector, Berlin, Sept. 22]

The Korean Boomerang.

(Duesseldorfer Nachrichten, Duesseldorf,
Sept. 16)

How Acheson looks
to the Communist Press.

Rape of the Angel of Peace.
Vishinsky: “Frau, come!"

(Schweinfurter Tagblatt, Schweinfurt, Aug. 26) “No wonder it won't move!”

(Weser Kurier, Bremen, Aug. 31)
(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Aug. 28}

West Germany to Sweden
to the Soviet Zone:
“Certainly not. We won't furnish Prices and Wages. Strasbourg Mid-Summer Night's Dream.

you with steel!” A sport Germany can't afford. Moonlight over United Europe.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 76 NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 80 ---
(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, Sept. 14)
Z

European Defense.
Let Germany contribute a division

The Information Bulletin is
discontinuing the publishing of
excerpts from leading editorials
of the German press — long a
popular feature with readers of
the Information Bulletin — be-
cause of a recent change in the
policy of the service which has
furnished the translations for the
past five years.

(Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen, Sept. 23)

East Zone Elections,

of politicians.

(Nordsee-Zeitung, Bremerhaven, Sept. 2)

High Commission to KPD:
“Open your big trap as much as you like,
bui quit stirring things up."

(Rheinpfalz, Ludwigshaven, Sept. 13)

“Nothing doing, Ivan. She's my girl!"

(Hamburger Freie Presse, Hamburg, Sept. 13)

German Rearmament,
“How about getting me out first?”

NOVEMBER 1950

77

“Sure, sure, choose any suit on display!"

(Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Munich, Sept. 28)

Li

Mao to Joseph:
“I guess we'd better train a little more!”

(Nordsee-Zeitung, Bremerhaven, Sept. 28)

Soviet Peace Feelers.

(Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, Sept. 30)

SEcERI

The Chancellor “‘ueber alles.”

Chancellor Adenauer introduces Foreign Minister
Adenauer and Police Chief Adenauer!

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 81 ---
(Continued from page 6)
New Accent on Youth

From the council, a school principal, youth organi-
zation or community council can find out how to organize
a summer camp for democratic living as well as recre-
ation, what books should go into a youth library, how
to put on amateur plays, etc. One committee has prepar-
ed a draft law for youth protection for the Hessian
parliament, another drafted an improved program for
youth welfare and relief. Currently the council is circulat-
ing an exhaustive questionnaire to a cross-section of the
Hessian youth population, which will eventually provide
a scientific picture of living conditions, educational situa-
tion and leisure time activities and desires of youth.

UT THE AID TO YOUNG GERMANS comes also
from another source than purely German.

If you can recall your Aunt Hattie’s house on a rainy
afternoon with a half-dozen kids running through it and
multiply this situation by 100, you can get an approximate
picture of the US Army’s GYA Haus der Jugend (House
of Youth) in Nuremberg, on any afternoon of the week.
In a huge gingerbread mansion, the onetime home of a
wealthy industrialist, and later headquarters for the local
Gestapo, several hundred youngsters from six to 20 years
of age, are creating happy pandemonium.

A closer look, however, shows a subtle hand of guidance
and control beneath the confusion. In the old drawing
room, a group of girls are practicing folk dancing, in
another room children are producing puppet shows, boys
are learning woodworking, the quieter types are study-
ing music. Upstairs a quiz program is in progress —
today it concerns films and music, last week it was cur-
rent affairs. In the basement a movie theater has been
built by youngsters themselves, and in the attic a hostel
has been set up for overnight stops of touring youth.

The center is one of the best of the 248 US Armed
Forces-sponsored centers in the US Zone, which provide
a well-balanced recreational and cultural program for
more than 500,000 German youth. In addition to the
DM 4,500,000 ($1,071,000) contributed from HICOG funds
to operate GYA, the Army and Air Forces have donated
untold amounts of surplus equipment, relief supplies and
transportation to the operation of the centers and their
related programs.

GYA has been extremely popular with unorganized
youth, but has drawn considerable criticism from Ger-
man officials and youth organizations who look covetously
at its physical facilities. Admittedly all the centers are
not good, some stand largely empty for lack of super-
vision or programs. But GYA began in the bleak days
before currency reform when German agencies were
either unwilling or unable to help youth, and it has
made a significant contribution.

ECENTLY LAWRENCE E. NORRIE, HICOG's chief of
the Community Activities Branch, which heads up
the HICOG youth program, listened to complaints of the
Bundesjugendring (Federal Youth Council) against GYA

INFORMATION BULLETIN

78

is a Nuremberg city
project maintained by public contributions as well as
donations by the city and HICOG. In it 100 youthful
refugees, mainly from the Soviet Zone and also from
Eastern Europe, are learning building trades from master
craftsmen-instructors. They live as a co-operative, self-
governing democratic group, get small weekly wage.

Friedensdorf, the ‘Peace Village,

and the request that its installations be transferred to
German control. Mr. Norrie replied:

“When you can show me that you have committees of
responsible citizens ready to run those centers without
political favoritism of special interests, so that they
serve all youth, organized or unorganized, and that you
will staff them with competent and sincere personnel,
then I will be glad to sit down with you and the Army
and discuss the possibilities of transfer.”

Eventually, of course, GYA facilities will be turned
over to the Germans, but not before American authorities
are satisfied that they will be operated with the same
democratic spirit and sincere interest.

The Armed Forces program is the only direct, operational
assistance rendered to German youth by US authorities.
But a good part of the many progressive activities in the
youth field can be traced to HICOG's advice, assistance
and financial support.

“We operate no youth program of our own, except for
a few model or demonstration activities which are trans-
ferred to German control as soon as they can be as-
similated," said Austin J. Welch, Youth Activities ad-
viser in Mr. Norrie's organization. “We seek out the
progressive and democratic German programs, leaders
and youth agencies on which to build.”

HE SMALL YOUTH STAFF at HICOG headquarters,
plus two or three advisers in each Office of the US
State Commissioner, works closely and constantly with the
likeliest leaders and organizations of German youth.
They are aided by various visiting experts from the
United States. The Youth Activities budget is used
judiciously not only to support productive projects, but
also to create models for other communities and organi-
zations to follow.
Thus in Bavaria this year, DM 200,000 ($47,600) will
be spent on setting up a series of model youth centers
similar to that in Esslingen, which also was _ partly

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 82 ---
financed by HICOG. The leadership training schools are
financed 50 to 100 percent by US funds; the expansion
of such youth homes as Friedensdorf and the Munich
settlement is made possible by HICOG support. HICOG
financed conferences of youth-serving agencies resulting
in improved programs, international youth forums con-
tributing to international good will and civic education
and subsidized the extension of youth programs into
rural areas.

ICOG WILL SPEND approximately DM _ 6,400,000

($1,523,200) on. a sound youth program this year,
supplemented by generous grants from the High Com-
missioner's DM 45,000,000 special projects fund, most of
which will go into youth work. Two important strings
tied to all HICOG grants, however, are that they must
go for projects or activities benefiting youth generally,
regardless of faith, creed or organization, and that the
Germans themselves must at least match the grant with
funds or equivalent materials and services from their
own sources. The latter requirement has been a strong
stimulus to- community action for the benefit of youth.

In all these activities, the US resident officers have
played a major role, both in prodding German officials
and promoting their own programs for the benefit of youth.

To re-establish international youth contacts and
broaden the education of youth leaders, HICOG sent
168 youth leaders ‘to the United States last year, and
more than 300 German teen-agers left last summer to
live with American families for a year. Another 162
youth leaders will be sent in 1951. German and inter-
national agencies have enabled scores of German youth
to visit other countries, while bringing some 2,000 foreign
youth to Germany in 1949 and 1950 to work on* com-
munity projects in international work camps.

According to Dr. Lades, the federal youth program
will provide for increased aid to unemployed youth,
erection of youth homes and centers, expansion of inter-
national youth exchange and improved civic education.
In the latter field, the federal youth officials hope to
establish a youth leader school at Bonn, where pro-
gressive young people can study the machinery of
the federal government, visit parliament
and discuss current issues and problems
with governmental and political leaders.

HE POLITICAL ORIENTATION of
German youth has become one of
the most urgent problems, in view of the
rising Communist propaganda and agita-
tion. It is not that the FDJ is gaining in

Modern, well-equipped academy in the
Neue Gruenwald section of Munich, cost-
ing DM 2,800,000, was built by the Ba-
varian Sports Union with funds derived
from football lottery taxes. Sports lead-
ers are to be trained in the school, which
was completed only late last summer.

(All photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

NOVEMBER 1950

79.

strength, but that a few highly trained functionaries,
traveling far afield to attend local assemblies or meet-
ings, can tie up a forum such as that at Oehringen with
their clever propaganda chatter. They attempt to cloud
the issue of freedom versus slavery with their demands
for peace and unity, often confusing the less perceptive
youngsters and drawing them unwittingly into supporting
such propaganda snares as the Stockholm “peace petition.”

Many observers have criticized current HICOG and
German youth programs for failure to face the East-
West issue squarely and train youth in current political
problems in the youth organizations and leadership
schools and courses.

Mr. Norrie’s answer is that “the best defense against
Communism is militant democracy.”

“Not all anti-Communists are good democrats," he
pointed out, “and you cannot build a positive youth
program on such a negative approach. We believe that
it is more urgent to train youth to live and work together
co-operatively, to recognize the rights of others, to
develop into well-rounded, responsible citizens who
appreciate human freedom and the necessity of defend-
ing it. When that is accomplished there need be no fear
of Communism or any other totalitarian system winning
German youth again.”

OW WELL GERMAN YOUTH will learn this lesson

and how long it will take, are still to be seen, but a
statement of 10 of their leaders from major youth
organizations and agencies of western Germany made to
the US High Commissioner recently, indicated that they
had recognized the challenge:

“The German youth rejects, after the bitter years of
no freedom, every totalitarian system. They declare
themselves for freedom of belief, and conscience of the
individual as well as of society, and demand social
justice for all segments of the people. They know that
their ideals can be realized only in a free democracy.
They are therefore ready to participate with all their
strength in the construction of a democratic Germany
as a member of a free Europe in a free and peaceful
world.” +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 83 ---
Co-eds of Beaver College, Jenkintown, Pa., crowd into a
Wiesbaden delicatessen. Students toured Germany, Eng-
Jand, France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Italy and
Spain. For their European field trip they receive six units
of college credit. They were briefed on HICOG activilies
by OLC Hesse personnel in Wiesbaden. (PRB OLCH photo)

Young Visitors

North Carolina students on 10-week tour of Germany wel-
come letters from home at meeting with Methodist Church
officials during Berlin visit. L.-r., Herbert Waldrop, Shirley
Stough and Owen Fitzgerald, students; Pastor Ernst Stolz,
Methodist district superintendent in Berlin; Nat Harrison,
Mary Dawson and Catherine Wike. (PRB, HICOG-BE photo)

A group of Americans for Democratic Action on their
second annual study trip abroad met with Dr. James R.
Newman, state commissioner for Hesse. The group also
spoke to other Allied occupation officials as well as the
“man in the street’’ in the Western zones and Berlin. L.-r.,
Leonard Moche, Ellen Wechsler, Frances Adams, Trip
Director Jack Bik, Dr. Newman, Barbara Luther, John R.
Churchill and Walter Berndon. (PRB OLCH photo)

From America

Party of students and professors of San Francisco State
College prepare to leave Tempelhof Air Base after week's
stay in Berlin in course of nine-week European tour spon-
sored by the college during which the group worked with
a variety of youth and welfare. organizations on re-
construction and other projects. (PRB, HICOG-BE photo)

--- Page 84 ---
(Continued trom page 18)
Labor-Movement Pattern

regulated by state law. Basically, these councils are
factory committees, elected by all employees in the plant
without regard to union affiliation.

While agreements are negotiated by the trade unions
and employers or employer organizations, the adminis-
tration of the agreement at the plant level is the
function of the plant management and the works council.
This has the effect that, on the union side, the agreement
is administered by a third party over which the union
has no direct control except in so far as the works coun-
cil members may be union members. This is not always
the case, and it is precisely these bodies which the
Communists are continually trying to dominate.

The unions believe that the councils, in collaboration
with the unions, should be given increasing power of
co-determination with management in economic questions
involving the plant.

The federal Legislative Assembly has pledged itself
to give early consideration to this question through a
federal works council law. Earlier this year, the Trade
Union Federation and the leading employer associations
held a series of conferences in an effort to work out
a mutually acceptable proposal for consideration by the
legislature. The conferences failed to reach agreement
on basic points. Now the trade unions have issued a
proposal of their own. They consider this a proposal
for the reorganization of German industry, for the pur-
pose of democratizing the industrial and commercial
structure and the recognition of labor as an equal
economic partner.

Under the trade union proposal, there would be
established at the federal and state levels economic
advisory bodies composed in equal numbers of employer
and trade union representatives. It would be the func-
tion of these bodies to advise the political bodies on
all economic matters.

In addition, the proposal provides for equal represen-
tation on regional semipublic agencies, which up to the
present have been made up of representatives from
commerce and industry. These bodies, which have a
long history, are looked upon as representing the over-
all economic interests of a region. In that capacity, they
are on one hand delegated to administer certain public
functions and on the other to give advice to local and
regional political bodies.

Furthermore, the unions propose equal representation
of labor on the boards of directors of large corporations.

HESE BASIC DEMANDS of the trade unions for a
reorganization of the economy are based on the
conviction of the trade unions that a democratic Ger-
many can develop only if labor and capital are given
equal rights and responsibilities for operating industry
in the public interest.
The employers look upon the union proposéls as an
attempt on the part of the union to secure complete

NOVEMBER 1950

81

control of German industry. They argue that to permit
the unions to appoint one-half of the directors of each
major enterprise would, in effect, give the unions
complete control over German industry. The employers
are willing apparently to grant the workers represen-
tation on the boards of directors, provided such represen-
tation is limited to one-third of the board members and
provided further that the representatives be selected by
and from employees of the company, not by and from
the trade unions.

The trade unions feel so strongly on the justification
of their demands and the employers feel so strongly in
their opposition that the works council legislation is
shaping up to one of the major political issues in the.
German parliament.

Three bills dealing with the subject have been in-
troduced in parliament, but the debate on them has not
started and it is difficult to predict the final action.

This issue is strictly a German question, peculiar to
the German political and economic situation. Accordingly,
the Occupation Powers remain neutral on the issue.

OU WILL BE INTERESTED to know about the state

of the German economy. As you know, by the end
of the war, German industry was pretty much destroyed.
The Allies were considering whether a rebuilding of the
industrial capacity should be permitted or whether in
the interest of peace in Europe, Germany should be
developed into primarily an agricultural economy.

We did dismantle remaining industrial capacity which
was primarily potential war industry. Beyond that, we
permitted and assisted in the rebuilding of adequate
industrial capacity for peacetime use. This, it was soon
realized, was necessary if we expected Europe, including
Germany, to get on its feet, economically speaking,
within a reasonable period of time.

The result has been that German industry with our
assistance, both financially and otherwise, has made
considerable progress. Coal and steel production, which
are the backbone of the industrial machine, show today
an impressive comeback. But, also in the manufacturing
line, Germany is able to produce not only for the internal
market but is beginning to actively enter the world mar-
ket. According to some estimates, about one-third of all pro-
duction in the automobile and tool industries is exported.

Shipbuilding, which up until now was kept at a
minimum because of its war potential, has recently
been given a new lease on life by permission to the
shipyards to produce cargo vessels for foreign customers.

The main problem in the industrial and commercial
field has been the question of monopoly or cartels.

OR AN AMERICAN, the many tools employed in

Germany to prevent free competition are appalling.
The most ingenious restrictions on freedom of action are
in existence. I understand that this is generally true
throughout Europe. It has been difficult for us to break
down these barriers to a free economy.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 85 ---
Our major aim in this field has been to break up the
combines in the major industries, such as coal, steel
and chemical.*

Contrary to our experience in the United States, one
finds that in Germany there is no basic objection to
cartels, but the issue is rather over who should control
them. We frequently find labor joining German manage-
ment in opposition to our decartelization and decon-
centration program, in spite of the benefits which labor
would receive from a more competitive industry.

It is difficult to get across, therefore, our concept that,
to the extent to which competition in an industry is
stifled, the industry becomes sluggish and inefficient
and that the results are high-priced products and low
standards of living for the workers,

I sincerely hope that, in spite of changing emphasis,
which will have to accompany the mutual defense
arrangements which are becoming the major European
question, we will succeed in making German industry
more competitive. I believe that this is the major step
in which we can help both to increase the well-being
of the German common people and, at the same time,
to break the grip of the financial backers of the Hitler
regime on the German people.

NE OTHER PROBLEM to which I have already
referred relates to the refugees.

The area making up the Federal Republic of Germany
has today a population of 48,000,000. This is about
10,000,000 more people than lived in this territory in
1939. The increase in population is made up for the most
part of Germans expelled from territories formerly a
part of the German Reich and from foreign countries in
southern and southeastern Europe. Substantial numbers are
Germans who formerly made their home in the Soviet-oc-
cupied zone and who have voluntarily moved to the West.

In this connection, you may be interested to know
that, at the present time, about 1,000 a day across the
border from the Soviet Zone of Germany to settle in
the Federal Republic. That the absorption of this increase
in population created a tremendous problem to the
rebuilding of western Germany I need not emphasize.

Unfortunately, because of the housing problem,
especially in the industrial centers, the refugees were
temporarily settled in rural areas, especially in Bavaria
and Schleswig-Holstein. They were, of course, unable
to find employment in these rural.areas and, thereby,
unable to integrate themselves into the economy.

Slowly, very slowly, larger numbers of them find their
way into areas where they are being absorbed in the
labor force. Meanwhile, in many places, new enterprises,
often small, self-help plants, are starting up to provide
employment.

This new segment of the West German population
can be a tremendous asset to the young German republic
if their productive capacity can be utilized. It can be
a tremendous threat to West German political stability
if they fail to find their rightful place. Through ECA

* See ‘New Industrial Habits for Old" on page 9.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

82

assistance and other means, we are assisting in solving
this problem.

HE POLITICAL SITUATION in Germany is complex.

The leading political parties in present-day Germany
are middle-of-the-road parties which sincerely believe
in and work for a democratic Germany. There is no
immediate danger from the anti-democratic forces which
operated on the left and the right.

The Communists have constantly lost strength in poli-
tical elections. Their importance, however, cannot be
underestimated. Backed and heavily financially sup-
ported by Moscow, they try to exploit every opportunity

that offers itself. The trade unions, which are naturally

one of their major targets, have lately, as I already
stated, shown considerable determination to eliminate
individual Communists from official positions in the
unions. Thereby, they have reduced the possible grip
of the Communists on the rank and file workers,

The unions’ success in completely eliminating Com-
munist influence over labor will depend, however, on
the extent to which the unions are able to secure improv-
ed living standards for the working population.

This brings us to the other extreme of the political
pendulum, the former Nazi elements. A number of
extreme rightist parties exist. These parties and political
groups still quarrel among themselves and juggle for
position and prestige. They, therefore, do not at present
constitute a real danger to the young German democracy.

As far as I can see, a potentially greater danger from
this group exists in the infiltration of former prominent
and less prominent Nazis in important positions in the
political and business community.

While I would be the last to argue that former Nazis
must be forever excluded from active participation in
the rebuilding of Germany, I am frankly suspicious that
many of them, who are today in strategic positions, have
not abandoned their Fascist ideology and, therefore,
constitute a continuing threat to the country and to the
democratic world.

To allay this suspicion, which I share with the Ger-
man trade unions, this group will have to show by its
action that it has abandoned its autocratic philosophy
and is determined to make democracy work both on
the political and on the economic front.

N THE TIME REMAINING, I want to briefly comment

on the job still to be done in Germany. At the begin-
ning of the occupation, we carried on all functions of
government. In the labor field that meant that we
carried on all the types of functions handled in the
United States by the federal and state departments of
labor and other governmental agencies in the labor field.

Gradually, the various functions were returned to German
agencies established under over-all control by the Occupa-
tion Authorities. With the organization of the German
Federal Republic in the fall of 1949, most normal govern-
mental functions were returned to the Germans. The Occu-_
pation Authorities retained specific control over foreign ,
relations, military security and decartelization.

NOVEMBER 1950 .

--- Page 86 ---
As you know, since that time and especially over the
last few months, the emphasis has been on incorporating
the Germans in the community of free Western nations,
Under this program, one of our tasks is to develop the
German productive capacity and to channel this capacity
so that it will make its contribution to the collective
economic strength of the Western democratic nations.

This change in emphasis from control to co-operation
still leaves us with a ‘substantial job to do. In the labor
field, our remaining responsibilities are to observe,
report, advise and assist on international and internal
trade union activities, industrial relations, management
associations, wages, employment, unemployment, housing,
social insurance, price, wage, cost-of-living relationships
and labor productivity. We report and advise on the
effect of High Commission and ECA policies on workers
and on the industrial relations policy of the US Occu-
pation Forces with respect to their German employees.

ITHIN THIS SCOPE of remaining functions, a con-

tinuing, important task is democratic reorientation,
which throughout the occupation has been one of our
long-range objectives.

The underlying concept of this reorientation program
is based on the assumption that a peaceful Germany
can develop only if the German people understand and
appreciate the democratic way of life and if they cast
off the autocratic practices which in the past neve domi-
nated both public and private life.

In the field of labor, it means that both the unions
and the management come to rely less upon legislation
to regulate the relationships between labor and manage-
ment. It means that they must get a fuller appreciation
of the effectiveness of collective bargaining to handle
their relationships, to establish grievance machinery that
will be effective in settling disputes without having to
tun to the courts, and to establish co-operative rela-
tionships through which the unions and management
jointly attack mutual problems within the plant.

We have developed a threefold program to aid in
this reorientation task. The first and to me the most
important phase of this program is the machinery under
which we, in co-operating trade unions and management
groups, select leaders in the labor relations field for
visits to the United States where they observe firsthand
what. we mean by the democratic way of life. This
program is operated in co-operation with the US Depart-
ment of Labor and through the assistance of the trade
unions and other interested groups.

These visits of normally 90 days, during which Ger-
man leaders get the opportunity to study and observe
how their counterparts in the United States operate in
a spirit of democratic give and take, has a tremendous
effect. Those people come back home with new ideas,
and I can assure you that the assistance that you have
given us in this activity is a good investment.

HE SECOND PHASE of our program involves
assistance given to the trade unions and other
groups in Germany. Through financial assistance and

NOVEMBER 1950

83

guidance from our staff, we have helped in necessary
research work, in buying books for the trade union
libraries, in strengthening thé workers’ education activi-
ties, in organizing conferences, in sponsoring trade union.
youth activities, and in making available to the unions
and management information on industrial relations
activities outside of Germany.

The third phase involves bringing over a limited num-
ber of specialists from the United States and other
democratic countries to assist on specific projects under-
taken either by us directly or by the Germans under
co-operative projects. Under this phase, we have had
US specialists in Germany on workers’ education, on
labor journalism, on labor statistics and on labor research
and related matters,

In this program, we have the full co-operation of the
German trade unions. They realize that through 15 years
of isolation from the outside world, Germany has remained
uninformed of developments outside of Germany. They
are anxious to exchange ideas with their fellow trade
unionists from other democratic countries in order to
make up for what they have lost.

I have given you a summary picture of the German
situation. I hope that, with it, I have conveyed to you
the importance of the task in Germany. On our ability
to rebuild Germany into a healthy, democratic nation
depends the future of a free Europe. The task is difficult,
but I believe we are making progress. + END

Employment Reaches 14,000,000
To Set All-Time High for Western Zones

Employment has passed the 14,000,000 mark, probably
an all-time high, for the area of the Federal Republic of
Germany, the Manpower Analysis Branch of the Office
of Labor Affairs, disclosed in releasing its mid-August
report on employment and unemployment. Unemployment
has been turned back to the level of last November.

The new employment figure is a prewar and postwar
record for Western Germany, it was pointed out. No
employment registration statistics for the area are availa-
ble for the war period.

The decline in registered unemployment in the first half
of August was 42,766, of whom 35,942 were males.

Responsible for the new employment mark are increased
building activity, rising exports and seasonal factors. The
rise in the number of wage and salary earners was wide-
spread despite the complete shutdown of many manu-
facturing establishments during late July and in August
for their annual summer vacations.

Of the total unemployment of 1,409,156 in the Federal
Republic at mid-August, the Federal Ministry of Labor
estimates that between 200,000 and 250,000 are not easily
employable.

Hesse Doubles Foreign Exports
With more than $16,000,000 worth of goods shipped to
foreign countries during August, Hessian firms have
doubled their export volume since the beginning of the
year, official statistics show.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 87 ---
US Zone county resident officers along with other American and Allied officials make up the large audience which
gathered at HICOG headquarters in Frankfurt for a three-day conference in October. The conference, the second of its
kind since inception of HICOG, brought the 156 US resident officers together to discuss HICOG's latest policy, programs
and problems. The affair was highlighted by addresses of the three Allied high commissioners and ranking officers

of the US Army, Navy and Air Force stationed in Germany. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)
(Continued trom page 47) Mrs. Patricia Van Delden, chief of Information Centers
Second RO’s Conference Branch, told the visiting wives that they should empha-
size the American way of life in their contact with the
While the men sat in closed working sessions, their Germans and not the American standard of living. “Ice-
wives debated their own roles. Mrs. McCloy, wife of the boxes are delightful," Mrs. Van Delden explained to her
US high commissioner, told the assembled women they audience, “but they are not an answer to faith."
could be highly instrumental in carrying out the HICOG
policies in the field, and that they should serve as an LIMAXING THE THREE-DAY conference, Sir Ivone
example in democratic living to their German neighbors. Kirkpatrick, UK high commissioner, addressed the
Both German and American women, Mrs. McCloy said, closing session and warned the Germans that they must
are seeking the formula for freedom and peace. But, she learn to shoulder responsibilities as well as enjoy rights
continued, we must remember that the real fabric of if Germany is to be accepted back into the Western com-
peace lies in the daily lives of the people. munity of nations.
“Any woman,” Mrs. McCloy said, “not active and in- The Western nations, the UK high commissioner de-
terested in community problems is no help to our mis- clared, will not tolerate attempts by the Germans to seize

“petty advantages” or indulge in recriminations and party
politics as a result of East-West tension.

sion here.”
She urged the wives of American personnel in Germany

to open their homes to German groups and to seek the Mr. McCloy, in closing the conference, emphasized
understanding of the Germany people which comes only again the urgency of the work being done by the resident
with personal contact. officers.

Ruth F. Woodsmall, chief‘ of the Women’s Affairs “The fighting in Korea should be a spur to our efforts,”
Branch, Office of Public Affairs, told the women that the he said. “However, I do not wish to leave the impression
Allied occupation of Germany marked the first time in that we don’t think you are doing your part. In my travels
history that an occupation power participated in the cul- through the zone, I have been impressed by the devotion,
tural and moral reconstruction of the country it occupied. imagination and initiative that you gentlemen have put

“Our mission here,” she said, ‘depends on persuasion into your work.” +END
and personal contact and it is in this work that women (Complete text of the addresses by the three Allied
can play a significant role.” high commissioners follow on pages 85-93.)

INFORMATION BULLETIN 84 NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 88 ---
Tasks for the Coming Year

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

AM VERY HAPPY to welcome you all here for this

second meeting of the Kreis (County) resident officers.
I also want to welcome both for myself and on your behalf
the many very distinguished visitors, from some of whom
we are going to hear. I think that probably this session is
more marked than the last in the number of our colleagues
who are present from the Army and the French and UK
Zones. Let me say how important I think that is. You all
know that we're shortly to be faced with a substantial
increase in troops in our areas as a result of the New York
decisions, and in the course of taking care of those troops,
it's already been decided that all matters of zonal bounda-
ries may be disregarded. I think that's a very good sign.
It strikes the commonality of our objective and the
inevitable union of our operations. Therefore, I think that
the more we can learn of what is going on in the other
zones, the more that we can merge our practices and
operations with what is going on in those zones, the more
concentrated our impact will be.

I urge you all not only to take advantage of the princi-
pals who will be here in this session and in the seminars
we are going to hold, but constantly to take every oppor-
tunity you can to learn from observers and representatives
of the other zones what is going on in the other zones and
perhaps our procedures can be improved by observation
of them.

I am very glad, indeed, that Mr. Francois-Poncet, the
French high commissioner, has been able to be here today
and you will hear from him shortly. I think he, of the
Allied high commissioners, is the one who is most versed
in German affairs; he speaks the language in an aus-
gezeichneten form. Not only is he a great stu-
dent of the German tongue but he is a great
student of German culture, widely experienced
in German history, and he is as deft and as
logical as the greatest of the French logicians.
He is one whom I know you are all most anxious
to hear from and I want to thank him again for
the inconvenience he has gone through in order
to be here this morning.

LSO, I KNOW you will want to welcome

warmly the representatives of the military
forces who are here: General Handy, General
Eddy, General Cannon, Admiral Wilkes. You
will all hear something from them, The impor-
tance of our relationships with the military is
very great, as you all know. We will have to
take care of increased numbers of troops. It will
make our task probably more exacting because
it will provide inconveniences; it will furnish

NOVEMBER 1950

inconveniences to the German population. Our whole
anxiety will be to co-operate and co-ordinate to the
greatest extent possible in order to make the impact felt
as little as possible.

We have got to think — we have to face the fact it will
involve increased burdens that will have to be adjusted
and the relationships between ourselves and the military
are most important. I have had a number of conversations
with General Handy about these relationships and he
has co-operated to, may I say, the full in working out the
problems that arise as a result of our new relationships
with the German people. I feel that from now on we will
have a constantly improving series of exchanges and dis-
cussions with the military officials on their problems.

In that regard, I'd be less than frank if I said that I were
not aware that from time to time there are difficulties in
some areas. In those areas the difficulties will have to be
ironed out as they have been in others. In some cases our
interests appear to conflict. We must all bear in mind we
are all on a common team. The Army is here for the same
purpose as we, and if the Army appears to make demands,
we must bear in mind the Army has its great demands
and requirements to fulfill. The relationship works both
ways. We have a number of acute problems in this field
that will be discussed in the course of this conference and
I am sure we will all benefit from it.

I read an article which appeared in a Stuttgart paper
complaining bitterly about your presence — the presence
of KRO’s in Germany — and stating that the time has come
to have them go. As far as I am concerned, when the
KRO’s go, it will be the beginning of the real end. I can't

A portion of conference participants listen to a discussion on re-
orientation and political guidance, one of six different seminars held
in connection with the RO's conference.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 89 ---
conceive that the KRO's should leave Germany before
any other element of our administration leaves. It would
be deeply significant if they did. It would mean that we
were merely really ending our tour here and it would also
mean the end of military representation here. I suggest
that the German population bear that in mind in consider-
ing the position of the KRO. So long as we are here in
any size at all, it seems to me indispensable that we
should have you gentlemen and ladies on the ground.
Certainly when increasing our strength and maintaining
our military strength, your presence throughout that com-
munity is indispensable.

In welcoming all the distinguished people I forgot to
welcome the ladies present — the wives of the KRO's. We
all know that you bear the major burden. We hope that
we will have an opportunity for you to unpack your hearts
as well as to have your husbands do the same thing. I am
delighted you were able to come. You are at least half
the team and the manner in which you do your work and
your job is directly related to the success of the careers of
your husbands.

LOT OF THINGS happened since we were last together

— I suppose the most vivid and striking were the
events in the Far East. There were a lot of crises in Europe
in one form or another, but the events in Asia stood out
more sharply, than anything that occurred since the last
meeting. We were able to take in stride, in our emotional
stride, the coup d'etat in Czechoslovakia, but this one
thrust aside the curtain and we saw the ugly realism of
the world situation.

Fortunately, the thing has taken a turn which has given
some confidence to Europe, to Germany and all the world.
But we must bear in mind the threat is still there and the
situation is fundamentally the same as before Korea.
Korea only disclosed to us somewhat fortuitously the

necessity for being on the alert and being conscious of the
sinister aspect of the threat. In Korea we have an army
employed, but you must bear in mind that that army and
what they are doing in Asia are only an element of what
we're doing here.

Two great morals are to be drawn from that. One is the
affinity of interests throughout the free world and the
intimate contact which the United States has with those
interests. The other is that you also are doing here the
same sort of thing that the Army is doing there. If you
haven't been assiduous, if you might have been lax or if
you have been tempted to become a little routinized, I
urge you to think of the people in Korea — the men who
are going out there to fight in a very disagreeable climate,
fathers of families. When I was back in New York I heard
of three cases of men no longer youngsters but fathers of
three or four children who were being called up to go out
and endure the hardships of a strenuous military cam-
paign. They are doing that for the salvation of Western
Europe as well as the salvation of Korea.

We must constantly look upon our position here as one
of another sort of army striving for the objective of free-
dom and peace throughout the world. The issue remains
the same — the issue remains one of the free world against
the slave world, the issue of the NKVD police state
against the free democracies of the West, the issue in terms
of war and peace. It's hard to state it in such a way, but
it marks the deepest significance for us and our country.

HEN I WAS HOME RECENTLY I sensed throughout

the entire country the feeling of a destiny that was
facing it. I don't suppose ever in our history have we been
faced with uglier problems. It will require the highest :
degree of statesmanship and capability to cope with them.
The country is alert.

Resident oificers' wives played a prominent part. Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner, tells her
audience the role they can play in making the work of their husbands the more effective,

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 90 ---
When I hear people say that the United States wants
war or is prepared to take greater risks than the others in
connection with this issue, I am greatly disturbed because
I don't believe in any place in the world is there a greater
abhorrence of war than there is in the United States.
The standards of living are high, people have just finished
the adjustments necessary as a result of the last war. Now
we find ourselves against this ugly alternative again, and
it is with the greatest resolution and greatest searching
of souls and with all determination. We are not going at
this with any relish, I can assure you.

We have passed, for the time being at least, through the
Korean episode and have seen the ups and downs in the
German public mind as a result of it. You have heard a lot
about the question of the security of Europe. You have
heard a good bit and probably will hear more in your
counties as to the possible contributions of Germany to
the security of Europe. I am not going to dwell on those
questions; you all know enough about them. But if you can
instill in the German population some steadfastness of
mind and spirit — there was evidence of some lack of that
during the Korean episode — it might be well.

The change that took place in the attitude of the German
from the time I left until the time I came back from New
York was amazing to me. I have the deepest understanding
of the fears that do beset the German population, but I
think there is also a steadier faith that could be inculcated
here in the strength and potentials of democracy. If you
can instill in Germans that faith in the strength of democ-
racy not as dependent on the Airlift in Berlin or the landing
in Inchon as many other elements, I think we will be able
to have a more stable and a more constructive community.

HAT WILL BE YOUR JOB in the coming year as the

result of the decisions in New York? It will mean
more and more examples, more and more persuasion, less
and less direction, less and less decree. But by those
tokens the job becomes more important. It requires more
tact, more co-operation and more industry. As I said a
year ago when we were here, the time is very short and
the job is shorter by a year, and you will have to pack
into this next year all the energy you can. The objectives
of the occupation remain fundamentally the same. They
have to be stated in generalities; it can’t be otherwise.
You know them as well as I or you really have no business
being here. Iam sure you do know them.

I would like to say one thing more before I close. I want
to emphasize what a great thing it is that we are here
associated with the French and British in endeavoring to
bring security and freedom to this community. We make
mistakes, but I think that no one can charge us with any
other objective than that which we announce: the creation
of this area into a constructive, democratic, unified state.

The British and the French are with us — the British,
from whom we broke at the time of our birth, and to whom
we owe all the heritages of the liberty that we live by
and the concepts of the Magna Charta and the Bill of
Rights, who generated in our bosoms what we call freedom,
and the French, to whom we owe only a little less than the
debt we owe the British. I don't know if I should say less.

NOVEMBER 1950

87

High Commissioner John J. McCloy accepts a liter mug
of beer, an important Bavarian item of export, from “Die
Muenchner Kindl” (The Munich Child) during traditional
ceremonies of welcome when he arrived Sept. 30 to visit
the Bavarian capital at the invitation of the Munich Export
Club (See page 31). Left to right above are Dr. George
N. Shuster, state commissioner tor Bavaria; Walter von
Miller, mayor of Munich; Mr. McCloy; Dr. Lothar Rohde,
president of the Munich Export Club, and “Die Muenchner
Kindl,” clad in the city’s traditional black and golden
robes and hood. (PRB OLCB photos)

Necessarily, it was quite natural that we should carry
with us the institutions of the mother country; but the
French, with their brilliant and incisive thinking, also
attracted us to the concept of individual liberty and free-
dom which is a tribute to the French nation.

HE FRENCH, THE BRITISH and ourselves were all

involved in the creation of a free society in the new
world. We find ourselves now attempting to do the same
thing in the old world, and we're doing it and we must do
it in conjunction with the people who are here. This is
nothing that can be inculcated from outside. We must
seek out democratic forces and there are many vigorous
ones in Germany.

With this real quadripartite relationship I don’t despair
at all of the future. I feel with all the setbacks that we
encountered, all the setbacks we met and all the per-
versities of mind sometimes encountered, there is a march
ahead in spite of all the fears that have cut across the
continent, in spite of the fact that 175 or more Soviet
divisions behind the curtain are casting a pall over the
world, in spite of the fact there is beating on your ears
and German ears the propaganda machine of the East anda
fifth column warfare with all the energies of a vast nation.

In spite of all that, still the spirit of the West is prevail-
ing and it will prevail if all of us keep on our toes and
never become routinized, never become cynical. If we
relinquish our powers, our courage and our determination
should be the greater.

Someone called my attention the other day to an old
English lay. It was a lay of the battle of Malden. I wish
I could claim credit for finding it myself, but I didn't. It
does have a couplet in it that I think describes our position
very well. It reads: “Mood shall be more as our might
lessens.” “Mood,” I suppose, in that old English form,
comes very close to being the same as the old German
Mut (courage) and you all know what that means. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 91 ---
Moral

and
Material
Resistance

Address
By ANDRE. FRANCOIS-PONCET

French High Commissioner for Germany

BOUT A MONTH AGO I would not have dared speak

to you in English, but since then I have spent 10 days

in the Melting Pot, the action of which was decisive. The

results were amazing; here I am today, endowed with a

perfect Yankee twang. That was about the best I could

do, but I was never able to acquire that tasty Oklahoma

drawl so dear to General Hays. After all, you can't
expect miracles in 10 short days.

I am extremely grateful to my good friend and colleague
Mr. McCloy for providing me this opportunity to be
amongst you. I yield to no one in my conviction that one
of our first necessities in Germany is to maintain between
us that happy understanding, that solidarity of thought
and action of which we have always given proof, and
display these to the watching Germans.

In this respect I cannot but feel gratified at the excellent
relations which exist among the three high commissioners.

Just a year ago, the High Commission came into being
and both my American colleague and myself assumed our
new functions. Since then, General Sir Brian Robertson,
that man of great distinction, was followed by Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, who does no less honor to his country. I may
say that during all that time, although we have sometimes
had a few differences of opinion, these were always settled
peacefully and have left no clouds in the clear sky of our
mutual relations. It is with great pleasure that I find a
similar understanding at all administrative levels and first
of all at the level of our state observers.

HE FRENCH OBSERVERS are unanimous in their

praise of the treatment they are receiving and the
confidence expressed to them by the US and UK state com-
missioners. I may safely say that the system of observers,
which was initially applied with some reluctance, has
proven most beneficial in the light of experience.

We all understand the importance of cultural action and
itis gratifying to note that none of us in this field has tried
to acquire in his zone specific advantages to the prejudice
of the others. The Germans should be afforded equal facil-
ities to become acquainted with the language and culture
of any of our three countries according to their preferences.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

88

Andre Francois-Poncet (right), French high commissioner,

answers reporters’ questions. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

I wish, for my part, to thank my US and British col-
leagues for their kind co-operation in the establishment
of French institutes in several large German cities.

You are of course aware that recent developments in
Germany have occurred at a quicker pace than expected
a year ago. The Korean campaign, so brilliantly conducted
by the US Army under the UN flag, has brought the
Soviet threat to full light and evidenced the pressing need
for action. Whether the North Korean aggression is a
prelude to similar operations in other parts of the world,
particularly in Europe, or whether this thwarted attempt
will have no immediate consequences, is hard to tell. One
thing is certain — Soviet Russia, using as a springboard
those bases she has acquired in Eastern Germany, will
never give up her attempts to grab, at least by propaganda,
Western Germany under the Soviet version of unification,
thus creating a new satellite of Moscow.

Therefore, if we wish to save Europe, the cradle of our
civilization to which we remain so deeply attached, it
remains for us to organize our moral and material resist-
ance with increased efficiency and to induce federal Ger-
many to turn its eyes to the West and take her place in
our ranks. That is why the Allies have a duty to give
back to Germany, sooner than they had originally con-
templated, a greater degree of freedom and independence
and, following up on the New York decision, to modify the
Occupation Statute accordingly.

N MY COUNTRY, some people in good faith believe

that we are running a great risk in surrendering too
many freedoms to Germany and they fear that, once the
Germans have extracted from us everything possible, they
will suddenly perform an about-face.

It is useless to deny this danger because it is not outside
of possibilities. However, the risk would be greater should
we insist on holding a tight grip on Germany, refuse to

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 92 ---
relax our controls and stubbornly consider her as an
enemy without holding out any hope of different treatment.
It must be realized that no course of action is devoid of
risk and that statesmanship essentially consists of choosing
from among different risks.

You all know that the member nations of the Atiantic
Pact, assembled in New York a few weeks ago, have de-
clared themselves in favor of the creation of an European
army for common defense under a single commander and
a single staff, the equipment and financing of which would
be a joint and planned responsibility. In this connection,
the question was raised of the part to be played by Ger-
man contingents in this army, these contingents to be re-
cruited and maintained by the federal government, with-
out implication as to the reconstitution of a German
national army.

In this respect, some differences of opinion arose be-
tween France and her allies —I do not conceal the fact.
This should not surprise you, because no one could deny
that the emergence of a German armed force even incor-
porated within a European army 10 times its size, repre-
sents a fact which is hard to swallow. Hard to swallow for
those to whom the destruction of .the German military
might was pictured, not so long ago, as Objective No. 1,
for which millions gave their lives.

This is one of those decisions I referred to, which open
the door to a great risk. You all understand that, if only
from that standpoint of German international policy, a
measure of this kind would entail serious repercussions
and, therefore, deserves serious consideration. I may add
that I sincerely hope that the differences which have come
to light may be settled as soon as possible.

S FAR AS THE GERMANS are concerned, regardless
of their assertions that they are fed up with being sol-
diers and unwilling to don the uniform once more, claim-
ing that they are flatly opposed to remilitarization under
any form, there is no question in my mind that they feel,
none the less, flattered that their victors are already con-
sidering some assistance on their part. Many of them have
underscored it ironically; others, not few, have interpreted
the Allied attitude as a retrospective rehabilitation, not
only of the former military circles, but also of the basic
principles advocated by Hitler and the Nazis.

As far as the German government is concerned, it may
have given its agreement in principle, but it is, none the
less, embarrassed at having done so, knowing very well
that German public opinion is not yet ripe and that it
would regard with little enthusiasm the prospect of taking
up arms again.

The Social Democrats are not alone in opposing remili-
tarization, even of a partial kind. The majority would
favor a neutral attitude, being of the opinion, since the
Allies are the masters of Germany, they should undertake
the defense of the territory which they occupy. Com-
munists agents constantly reiterate that if the Germans
make no move the Soviet invader will treat them as
friends. If, on the other hand, they fight on the side of the
Allies, they will be treated as enemies and the cities which
they are starting to rebuild, will be razed to the ground

NOVEMBER 1950

89

once more. There can be no doubt that a great number of
people are affected by this reasoning.

That is why the federal government hopes to gain a
little time. The German public and the government itself
would like, before lining up finally on the side of the
Western Powers, to see the latter give proof that they are
capable of a serious, swift and full military effort with real
prospect of success.

RMA THERE IS NO LACK in German governing
circles of men who understand and feel that the recon-
stituted German military forces must be animated by a
new spirit, the like of which was unknown to the Wehr-
macht. These men believe that this now-born army should
be neither trained nor commanded by the old type of gen-
erals who are raising their head again, conspiring to-
gether and having recourse to public demonstrations, but
rather by younger generals who are entirely devoted to
the present regime and whose outlook is at once sincerely
democratic and liberal. But obviously, to bring about a
transformation in the present military spirit in Germany
—a spirit which may all too readily flare up again in the
future — is a task which cannot be accomplished within
the space of a few months.

When we see what is happening in Germany, one of the
reasons why we may feel a certain anxiety with regard to
Russian plans is that Communist propagandists are clearly
much more active than they were three months ago. There
is no doubt that in the states, and particularly in the Ruhr
basin, Communist cells have received orders to intensify
their efforts to stir up trouble. Agents have arrived to
direct operations and they appear to have powerful finan-
cial backing. It is theréfore essential to fight this fifth
column and its activities which, in the usual Soviet fashion,
consist first of all in bringing about internal disruption in
those countries which it is intended to attack, just as soon
as this internal disruption would seem to have reached the
desired point.

It is this which makes the problem of the organization
of an efficient security police force so.urgent; it is this
which explains why the three Allied ministers in New
York devoted a part of their deliberations to consideration
of this problem of an internal security police force capable
of maintaining order in Western Germany. It is also why
they have expressly stated that they would regard any
attack against the Federal Republic or against Berlin, from
wherever it might come, even if it came only from the
Volkspolizei (so-called People’s Police), as an attack
against the Allies.

The police force to be set up will be formed on a state
basis, but with the necessary mobility, cohesion and uni-
formity. The strength, at the start, will amount to 30,000
men. At the same time, the municipal police and the state
police are to be improved and rendered more efficient.
What happened on the first of October, the way in which
the present police faced up to Communist attempts to
create disorder, is encouraging and suggests that Germany
will soon have a powerful internal police force, capable
of meeting the requirements of the situation.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 93 ---
I WOULD LIKE TO STRESS one striking fact, the reper-
cussions of which should be watched. \

Organizations of young anti-Communists are appearing
who are showing their desire to use force against the
Communist demonstrators and the troops of the FDJ. It
must not be forgotten that this was how Nazism started
and that it was in fighting the Reds that the SA (Sturm-
abteilungen) made itself popular in Germany. It is to be
regretted that in the present circumstances, and in view
of the troubled course which events may take, the federal
government in Bonn is not a greater moral authority in
the country. Perhaps even we are not doing all we should
in this respect.

Federalism does not necessarily mean that the federal
power is weak. A healthy federalism, within its prescribed
limits, should have at its head a vigorous federal authority
which commands respect and which enjoys real power
and prestige. I believe that, at any rate in the field of
foreign affairs, the policy carried out by Dr. Adenauer has
been useful to the Bonn government. But, once again, I
feel that we, for our part, should leave no stone unturned
to give Bonn the appearance of a federal capital, able to
arouse curiosity, to attract visitors and to shine with a
certain brilliance amid the cities of the Western republic.

O SUM UP, and with apologies for having detained
you with such a long speech, I would say that we are
in the presence at this moment of a certain moral recovery
in Germany. To use a familar expression, one might say:

“They are spreading their wings again. The economic
recovery is no less worthy of note. During recent months,

. there has been an impressive drop in unemployment.

What is Germany's ultimate destination? Whither is she
marching? Is she deliberately and sincerely going forward
on the road to democracy? That is my hope. I do not feel
that it is possible to make any well-founded prophecy. But
the German mind has always been a problem and involves
in itself many and often contradictory possibilities.

From this I draw no pessimistic conclusion. I feel that,
standing shoulder to shoulder, we should redouble our
efforts to make Germany understand that her true intel-
lectual and moral, as well as her material interests, com-
mit her to identifying her cause more and more with those
peoples who in this world are the most zealous defenders
of peace and freedom.

Some of our great kings have gone down in history
under various names given to them by popular belief. We
had Louis the Saint, Charles the Bald, Richard the Lion-
Hearted, William the Conqueror.

Well, it appears as though my friend McCloy and my-
self are about to become famous too.

An American paper has conferred on Mr. McCloy the
adjective “candid,” and on myself the less enviable one
of “serpentine.”

Now, gentlemen, you have listened to me, and I am
sure you feel that I am indeed much more “candid” than
“serpentine.” +END

Through British Spectacles

Address
By SIR IVONE KIRKPATRICK

United Kingdom High Commissioner for Germany

AM PLEASED TO HAVE this opportunity of meeting
you all this afternoon because, although British and
American policy today are completely in harmony, there
are, as you know, tinges of differences in the field which
flow from national characteristics and from our outlook

Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, British high commissioner, arrives
at HICOG headquarters in Frankfurt to address closing
session of three-day meeting. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

on life. By exchanging ideas we can eliminate such dif-
ferences and produce the integrated action which is es-
sential to the peace and future of the world.

I propose, therefore, to ask you to submit for a short
time to looking with me at these affairs through British
spectacles. I don’t think you will find through British
spectacles there is much difference, although in our
country spectacles are free and in your country you
must pay for them.

In order to understand the essence of the world problem
it is necessary to realize that the last 40 years have
brought with them three revolutionary changes of vast
importance.

First, we have to recognize that up to 1914 the world
was ruled from Europe and by Europe, that is to say,
by the so-called concert of European powers. In those
days the United States of America played no part in
world affairs and had no desire to do so. And indeed,
it is amusing that we did not think it worthwhile raising
our legation in Washington to the status of an embassy

NOVEMBER 1950.

--- Page 94 ---
until 1893, that is to say, during the lifetime of many
people now in public affairs. Asia had not awakened and
it was then true to say that the nation which ruled
Europe was likely to achieve its measure in the world.,

URING THE CENTURY which elapsed between 1815

and 1914 the concert of Europe did a very good job.
That century, except for a few localized and sporadic
outbreaks of war, lived in a surprising unprecedented
period of peace. During that century the average European
probably spent fewer man hours of fighting than the
average American. This happy state of affairs came to
an end in 1914 and the following two world wars trans-
formed the political face of the globe. Today we have
two large blocs with an undefinable British common-
wealth floating nebulously alongside. Power has shifted
to the East and the West. Two large blocs face one
another and exhausted Europe today is only a battle-
ground between the two great blocs.

This is the vast revolutionary change which has occur-
red during the last 40 years: It will be seen from this
that Germany's effort to dominate the world by first
dominating Europe has been overtaken by events.

The second revolutionary development has been the
multiplication and complication of modern armaments.
Up to and including the war of 1914 armaments were rela-
tively simple and soldiers were armed with 1,000 rifles
per battalion and, given numerical parity, small countries
could compete with large ones. Thus in the first world
war Turks, Bulgars and Yugoslavs all played a manful
and creditable part. Indeed, the Turks very nearly in-
capacitated me and I have the highest respect for their
achievements.

By the time the second world war broke out armaments
had developed to such a pitch that only highly industrial-
ized nations could compete at all. The little countries
became more of a liability than an asset. In the inter-
vening years which followed the war of 1914 the develop:
ment of weapons reached such a stage that by 1939, only
20 years later, only those countries could compete which
had reached vast industrial potential. During the war of
1939 the progress in the perfecting of weapons went a
stage further and the end of the war saw further develop-
ments — production of atomic bombs.

A similar development is taking place now, and it is”

becoming clear that the expense and energy required to
produce modern weapons of mass destruction is beyond
the capacity even of a highly industrialized nation of
50,000,000 or 60,000,000 inhabitants. Atomic bombs, bac-
teriologic bombs, strategic air forces, tactical air forces,
navies, armored divisions, anti-aircraft formations, togeth-
er with the necessary scientific research can only be in
general obtained by a rationalization of effort. If this be
accepted, it is again clear that Germany as an independent
unit is out of the race. .

The third revolutionary development which colors the
world scene today is the emergence of Communism,
which has declared ideological warfare on the rest of the re-
maining world, and in places, resorted to the use of force.

NOVEMBER 1950

91

ITH THIS BACKGROUND let us consider for a

moment what British policy has been. As soon as
it appeared evident in 1947 that it would be impossible
to reach an understanding with Russia, the British
Government came to the conclusion that safety, could
only be sought by the creation of a so-called Western
Union, that is to say, combining of all like-minded states
armed to preserve their unity and independence, morally
and physically, against the Russian assault.

It was realized that this union could only be pro-
gressively realized, and as early as January 1948 we
conceived that this might best be done in two pre-
liminary phases: First, the creation of what we might
call a hard European core. That was achieved by the
Brussels treaty in March 1948. Secondly, the creation of
a wider supporting Atlantic system. .

When, this had been done it might be possible to
consider the extension of the Atlantic system to include
all those nations who were resolved to resist Com-
munism. The Brussels treaty was signed in March 1948
and at the ceremony messages were exchanged with the
United States government which indicated that a further
extension of this security system might be envisaged.
This process was greatly accelerated and assisted by the
Soviet Union who, by repeated acts of aggression at
Prague and Berlin, for example, stimulated our people
in their instinct for self-preservation. To that extent we
owe a debt of gratitude to the Soviet government. Now
we have to reflect whether the Atlantic system can be
enlarged by adding those nations who have like ideas.

Thus we have the structure for a great moral and physi-.
cal Western alliance designed to shield our peoples from
the ideological and physical peril of the East. We have
the Atlantic community and had added to it the British
Commonwealth, which is a loosely-knit corporation but
one which has twice proved itself in war to be an im-
pregnable bastion. If need be, it would do so again.

I should like to deviate for a moment to say a few
words about the Commonwealth but I realize that Ger-
many is on the agenda. So I will only say this, the
capacity of the Commonwealth to act effectively has
often been underrated in the past and tends to be under- ~
rated today. The resources in men, industrial potential
and raw materials are enormous: Our citizens are nurtur-
ed in the Anglo-Saxon tradition of freedom and it will
be a bad day for Western civilization if anything is done
to weaken the ties which now unite the commonwealth
countries or impair the efficiency of their action. So
much for the background as it exists today.

OW WHERE IN THIS framework does Germany
come in? One thing is certain. Germany, even if she
wishes it, cannot choose neutrality unless by neutrality we
mean the neutrality of the rabbit in the face of the stoat.*
It was originally the design of the victorious powers
to bring Germany back to a world community based on
the United Nations. This is why in the Potsdam Agree-
ment the signatory powers undertook to prepare for the
eventual reconstruction of German political life on a

* The stoat is a weasel-like animal which preys on rabbits.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 95 ---
democratic basis and for the eventual peaceful co-
operation in international life by Germany. It was only
in 1947, when the truce broke with the Russians in
Berlin and we discovered they had no intention of
fulfilling this and other obligations in the Potsdam Agree-
ment, that the Western Powers determined to carry out
the policy, in so far as they were able, in the three
zones over which they had control.

Whether the Germans realize it or not, it remains a
fact that on every ground, political, cultural, historical
— Germany's interests lie with the West. We are there-
fore doing no violence to Germany or her people when
we declare as we have done that the aim of our policy
is the integration of Germany into the comity of Western
peoples. This aim has consistently inspired our conduct
over the last five years, and when we see how much
progress has been made in so short a time we have a
right to feel a certain pride in our achievement and a
certain sense of indebtedness to the Allied staffs who
have done what has been done in the field.

WORKED IN THIS building (Headquarters Building,

Frankfurt) in May and June of 1945 and when we
look back at that period when no trains were running,
when no shops were open, no trams running, no ad-
ministration, it seems incredible that German political
life should be brought to the pinnacle it is today. We
can certainly feel proud of what we have done for
Western Germany since the war. No nation in history
has been treated with such tolerant magnanimity after
total defeat. Never in history has so much effort and so
much money been spent by the conquerors in raising a
fallen foe from the dust. Never have nations who have
been deeply wronged been so ready to forget the past.
But, although we have achieved much, we have not yet
reached the end of our road and I would like to devote
our last moments to directing our gaze to the future.

It seems to me that before we can lay down our re-
sponsibilities there are several things to be done by us
and by the Germans.

First of all, if the German republic is to subsist we
must assure the defense of the whole German territory
as well as of Western Europe. It is melancholy to reflect
that this should be necessary only five years after the
second world war. We have to think of these things and we
must face them. The necessary military measures, the re-
inforcement of our troops here, will require a severe and
sustained effort on the part of the Western nations.

I personally do not believe that our peoples would for
long tolerate a situation in which they were called upon
to make vast sacrifices of blood and treasure to defend
a Germany which claims equal rights but which remains
free of all obligations. The character and extent of these
obligations must be determined, but as the United States
High Commissioner has pointed out to you we have no
intention of coercing Germany or of soliciting her support.

HE SECOND THING we have to do is to create the
necessary conditions and the necessary political
atmosphere to enable Germany to collaborate with us
effectively in all fields. We can do a lot here by unilateral

INFORMATION BULLETIN

92

action. Mr. McCloy spoke to you Monday about the
steps which you in your own field can do to create a
better understanding. But, of course, our efforts alone
will not suffice. If while the Western nations are taking
a broad and generous view of the needs of the hour the
Germans were to fall below the level of events, if they
were to seize the opportunity to attempt to secure
petty advantages, to indulge in party politics, to enjoy
recriminations with the Allies, without regard to the
importance and urgency of our common task, it would
be impossible to achieve the complete integration of
Germany with the West.

To put the matter simply, the people in Berlin have an
urgent and immediate experience of Communism and its
perils. This circumstance has created in Berlin a happy
atmosphere of mutual confidence and active collaboration
between the Germans and ourselves. We must create in
Western Germany the same atmosphere. This requires
an effort of will on our part and a greater effort on the
part of the Germans. For it is easier for the victors to be
magnanimous than for the vanquished to be magnanimous.

“Our third task is to establish in Western Germany as
soon as possible an independent effective government on
democratic lines which is capable of assuming the rights
and shouldering the responsibilities of a partner in this
great enterprise. Now here again our task is easier than
the German. We are accustomed to the idea of partnership.
He is not. He has never been a partner. We are ac-
customed to compromise. The German is not. He expects
100 percent concessions and at once, and the German
government which fails to secure this is deemed a failure.

OW IF WE CAN DO these three things — assure the

defense of the West, create the necessary conditions
for the assumption of a partnership with Germany, and
finally, establish a German government which is capable
of shouldering the responsibility as well as enjoying the
rights of independence, I think we have achieved our
program.

On this general conception our governments have
agreed. It is our duty to see to it that in Germany, Allied
staffs work in equal harmony to implement this joint
policy. As you have been told, the coming reinforcement
of Western troops in Europe will lead to the deployment
of troops where they are most required and thus to the
breakdown of the purely zonal system. I personally wel-
come this development, not only on military but on broad
political grounds. The creation of a Federal Republic has
put in train an evolution which should impel us to think
of Germany as a federation and not as a country arti-
ficially divided into three zones. If we think on these
lines we shall find it easier to apply uniformly through-
out Germany the agreed policy of our governments.

The staffs of the Allied Control Commissions are in
sense public relations officers representing our govern-
ments here in Germany, and whatever their functions, it
is our duty to understand, and to implement, our policy.
You will all be returning shortly from this meeting to
your day-to-day functions in the American zone, and if
there is one last thought I should like to plant in your

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 96 ---
minds it is this. We are engaged in Germany on a joint
enterprise, an enterprise which is only likely to succeed
if we work coherently and cohesively with a joint sense
of purpose.

In relation to this major task such minor differences of
practice or of outlook as have obtained in the British and
the American zones are of no consequence. These dif-
ferences should be eliminated, a process which again
will require some conscious effort of will and I think this
very thought was well expressed, if in a somewhat ex-

aggerated form, by a British prime minister who said to
his cabinet: “It-does not matter in.the least what we say
so long as*we say the same thing.” But the thought is
still there and by grasping it we can achieve much more
even if we are not quite right.

Come and see us'in the British Zone and find out what
we are doing and tell us frankly when you catch us de-
viating. If you do come I can assure you you will be
welcome, as welcome as you have made me today and I
can't make you a fairer promise than that. + END

Exchangees Impressed by US Medical Progress

ROGRESS IN MEDICAL research and technique in the

United States puts the American medical profession
ahead of the European, in the opinion of two West Berlin
doctors who returned recently from three-month exchange
tours of the United States.

The doctors, Dr. Erich Jung of Charlottenburg and Dr.
Alexander von Lutzki of Lichterfelde, left last May for
US tours during which they visited hospitals, took part in
operations, conferred with noted American specialists
and students, and conducted their own research. On their
return both doctors stressed that they are convinced of
the value of the HICOG Exchanges Program as a means
of maintaining contacts with foreign countries and for
broadening opportunities of study in specialized fields.

They named the following specific points as the
highlights of their discoveries:

American doctors have learned the meaning of team-
work, While in Germany — partially because of a lack of
essential facilities— doctors generally work on their
own, in the United States research specialists and medi-
cal men often pool the results of individual study and
experimentation, thus saving time and effort.

The method of operating blood banks in the United
States was described by the doctors as “very admirable."
They were surprised, they said, at the willingness with
which blood is donated by both youth and grownups.

Dr. von Lutzki, a medical research assistant and sur-
geon in the Moabit City Hospital's Surgical Clinic in
Berlin was especially impressed with American tech-
niques in the use of anesthetics, and in the methods of
application by special apparatus.

Advances in obstretics impressed Dr. Jung, chief physi-
cian of the Neukoelln Maternity Hospital. “American-

Wildtraut Schmidt (left), 16, of Ansbach, and Rosa Schirm,
23, of Lauirgen/Donau, wait to be processed along with
350 other German university students, teachers and teen-
agers before leaving for a year's study in the United States
under HICOG's exchange program. Miss Schmidt will
attend high school in Fairmont, W.Va., while Miss Schirm
will enroll in a Memphis, Tenn., college. Inset, Eva Gross-
neide, 16, of Berlin-Britz, the youngest girl in the second
batch of 350 German exchangees to go to America this
year. Eva will enter high school, live with a family having
children of high-school age. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

NOVEMBER 1950

type pre-natal training programs and exercises could be
profitably introduced in Germany," he said.

The doctors added that they hope to be able to in-
fluence medical schools in Berlin to adopt some of the
instruction techniques in use in American schools, Stu-
dents there, they pointed out, are permitted to attend and
at times assist operations, must pass thorough examina-
tions at the end of school terms, and in many cases are
assisted through medical school with fellowships granted
by major chemical firms.

The returnees also emphasized plans to publicize their
Stateside experiences as widely as possible. In implemen-
tation of these plans, Dr. Jung said he would lecture at
the Berlin state health office. Dr. von Lutzki, noted writer
on medical subjects, planned to prepare a series of re-
ports for publication in German medical magazines.

--- Page 97 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Sept. 21

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission held its 40th meeting at the
Petersberg Sept. 21. Present were Mr.
Armand Berard, French Deputy High Com-
missioner (chairman), acting for Mr. Andre
Francois-Poncet; Mr. C, E. Steel, United
Kingdom Deputy High Commissioner, act-
ing for Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, and Maj.
Gen. George P. Hays, United States
Deputy High Commisioner, acting for Mr.
John J. McCloy.

The Council:

1, Agreed that political experts of the
High Commission would meet with rep-
resentatives of the Wuerttemberg-Baden
state government and legislature to dis-
cuss the provisional disapproval by the
High Commission of Wuerttemberg-Baden
Law No. 372 concerning the legislature
elections. This meeting with the High
Commission, which was requested by the
Wuerttemberg-Baden Council of Elders, is
scheduled to be held at the Petersberg on
Friday, Sept. 22.

2. Noted that, in accordance with an
earlier instruction from the Council, the
Combined Travel Board had reduced the
fees for temporary travel documents issued
to apprentices and students. The reduced
fee is DM 10.

3. Examined a report from the federal
minister of economics to the Military
Security Board that during the period
Oct. 1, 1949, to Sept. 30, 1950, because of
increased export demands, the limited an-
nual level for crude steel production of
11,100,000 tons would ‘be exceeded by up to
one percent. The Council considered the
minister's request for authorization of this
excess which would be compensated for
in the course of the year 1950-51 if no
change ensues in the present ordered pro-
duction level. The Council agreed to this
request.

4, Agreed that the date of the next meet-
ing of the Council should be fixed by the
High Commissioners following their return
to Germany from New York.

HICOM Meeting of Sept. 28

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion held its 41st meeting Sept. 28 at the
Petersberg, Present were Mr. Andre Fran-
cois-Poncet, French High Commissioner
(chairman); Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United
Kingdom High Commissioner, and Mr.
John J. McCloy, United States High Com-
missioner.

The Council:

1. Considered how the decisions of the
Foreign Ministers at New York concerning
the Federal Republic could most expedi-
tiously be implemented. The Council in-
structed various compétent committees to
prepare, each in its own field, the meas-
utes which they must take either by them-
selves or in conjunction with represent-
atives of the Federal Government. The
Deputy High Commissioners will co-ordi-
nate the work of the committees.

2. Decided to instruct the Military Se-
curity Board to take the necessary meas-
ures to fulfill the decision of the Foreign
Ministers at New York to remove forth-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

with all restrictions on the size, speed and
number of commercial cargo ships built
for export. The Military Security Board
will continue to insure observance of se-
curity regulations pertaining to ship con-
struction. The Council affirmed that oil
tankers, banana boats, whaling vessels
and ships for carrying mixed cargoes are
included among the vessels construction
of which now is authorized.

3. Approved a proposal by the Vereinigte
Stahlwerke for the investment of such
sums of money as are necessary to enable
the August Thyssenhuette A.G. Hamborn,
to produce up to 600,000 tons of pig iron
and 117,000 tons of open hearth steel
yearly. The employment of the money will
be subject to the scrutiny of the com-
petent Allied agencies who will insure
that the investments are limited to the ex-
tent necessary to re-establish the authoriz-
ed production level.

4, Continued its provisional disapproval
of Article 10 of the electorial law of the
State of Wuerttemberg-Baden, while
authorizing the taking of effect of the
remainder of the law. In place of Article
10, provisions of the Wuerttemberg-Baden
civil service law of 1946 will continue
to vapply.

5. Discussed with the Berlin Comman-
dants, who attended the meeting in the
afternoon, the special provisions of the
Foreign Ministers’ decisions relating to
Berlin. The commandants are to review the
statement of principles governing relations
between the Allied Kommandatura and
the Berlin city autorities and will make
recommandations to the Council for modi-
fications of the principles so as to liberal-
ize the present controls.

6. Decided to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg at 11 am. on Thursday,
Oct. 5.

(On Oct. 5, a special meeting was held
at the Petersberg. No communique was
issued. The next regular meeting of the
HICOM Council was scheduled for Oct. 12.)

HICOM Meeting of Oct. 12

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission held its 42nd meeting at the
Petersberg Oct. 12. Present were Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner (chairman); Mr. John J. McCloy,
United States High Commissioner and Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner.

The Council considered a draft docu-
ment, to be submitted to governments,
which had been prepared by political and
legal experts of the High Commission
setting out the amendments to the Occu-
pation Statute which will be made as the
result of the New York decisions of the
Foreign Ministers.

At the Oct. 12th meeting, the High Com-
missioners paid farewell tribute to Mr. C.
£, Steel, United Kingdom deputy high com-
missioner, who is leaving Germany to take
up an appointment in Washington. Sir
Ivone Kirkpatrick said that the Council
deeply regretted Mr. Steel's departure and
extended good wishes for his future. Mr.

94

Francois-Poncet spoke of the knowledge
and co-operation which Mr. Steel had
brought to the High Commission. Mr. Mc-
Cloy added that the high standard of
public service which he had found within
the Allied High Commission was typified
in Mr. Steel.

The next meeting of the Council will be
held at the Petersberg on Thursday, Oct. 19.

Following the accreditation ceremony
the High Commissioners were hosts at
luncheon to the Deputy Prime Minister of
Greece, Mr. George Pandreou; Mr. Antonio
Maria Aguirre Gonzalo, head of the Spanish
Mission; Mr. Christos Diamantopoulos,
head of the Greek Mission; and Mr. von
Herwarth, chief of protocol to the Federal
Government. Mr. Carlos A. Clulow, newly
accredited head of the Uruguayan Mission,
was prevented from attending the luncheon
because of a speaking engagement in
Hamburg.

Later, the High Commissioners held one
of their periodic meetings with the federal
chancellor.

Ruhr Authority Meetings of Sept. 12-13

The Council of the International Author-
ity for the Ruhr held meetings on Tues-
day, Sept. 12, and Wednesday, Sept. 13,
1950.

1. The chairman opened the meeting by
welcoming the new US representative, Mr.
Livengood, who succeeds Mr. Parkman,
who has been appointed head of the ECA
Mission in Paris.

2. The Council took cognizance of the
proposals of the Federal Government re-
garding the new schedules of maximum
coal prices for export, applicable as from
July 1, 1950, approved them. The Council
has charged a working party with the task
of carrying out certain technical verifica-
tions within the framework of the decision

‘made by the Council at its last meeting

held on July 11, 12 and 13, 1950, which
provided for a 20 percent reduction of the
differential existing, for pithead revenues,
between export and internal prices.

3, The Council approved a new alloca-
tions procedure for coal exports which
takes into account the last decisions of
the Allied High Commission and of the
ECE in Geneva on the matter.

Ruhr Authority Meeting of Oct. 6

1. The 18th meeting of the Council of
the International Authority for the Ruhr
was concluded on Friday, Oct. 6, 1950.

2. The Council examined the question
of allocations for the fourth quarter of 1950.
It took cognizance of the proposals for-
warded on Oct. 3 by the Federal Govern-
ment. Pending a thorough examination of
these proposals and in order to avoid any
interruption in deliveries to importing
countries it was agreed that steps should .
be taken to insure an export of 2,300,000
tons of solid fuels for October, as a pro-
visional advance on the allocations for
the fourth quarter, such measure to be
without prejudice to the final decision to
be taken at the Council's meeting of
Oct. 16, when the agreed study would have
been concluded. The object of the study
is to examine the internal needs of Ger-
many as well as the requirements of im-
porting countries.

3. A letter from the International Trade
Union Committee for the Ruhr, amplifying
its previous offer to participate in the
work of the Authority and requesting that

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 98 ---
a trade union consultative committee be
formed and attached to the International
Authority for the Ruhr, was noted by the
Council. The representatives on the Coun-
cil agreed to transmit this communication
to their respective governments.

4, The chairman read a letter of farewell
from Sir Vaughan Berry, until recently the
United Kingdom representative on the
Council, who had in the interval between
the council’s last two meetings accepted
an appointment on the board of the newly
created British Iron and Steel Corporation.
In his letter Sir Vaughan stressed that his
departure from Duesseldorf did not imply a
change in his government's attitude toward
the International Authority for the Ruhr.
On behalf of the Council the chairman
expressed regret at Sir Vaughan's depar-
ture and recalling that he had served as
the Council's first chairman, expressed
appreciation of his contribution to the
work of the Authority.

Laws and Regulations

US Sector Order 501 on Control
Of Written, Printed or Inscribed Matter

Office of the US High Commissioner for
Germany, Berlin Element, United States
Sector Order 501 for the control of written,
printed or inscribed matter went into effect
Sept. 16, 1950. A copy of the order, which
is issued in agreement with the British and
French Military Governments, has been for-
warded to the Magistrat (city council) of
Greater Berlin. Following is the text of the
order:

It is hereby ordered as follows:

1, Without the permission of the Com-
mandant of this Sector or his authorized
representative, it is prohibited in any
manner whatsoever, to import into, possess,
distribute, post, print, inscribe or reproduce
within this Sector of Berlin any written,
printed or inscribed matter which

(a) contributes toward the spreading of
militarist, fascist or anti-democratic ideas
or which

(b) contains derogatory statements con-
cerning any of the Occupying Powers, or
which

(c) spreads rumors designed to cause
distrust or a hostile attitude on the part of
the German people toward any of the
Occupying Powers, or which

(d) is designed or likely to cause unrest,
disorders or riots within this Sector or
which

(e) is designed to obtain support for any
organizations whose object is the intro-
duction of a totalitarian regime or which

(f) appeals to persons to take action
against democratic measures undertaken
by, or on behalf of, the Commandant of
this Sector of Berlin.

2. The use of the facilities of the Deutsche
Post, or of any other transport facilities, in
the unauthorized distribution of the written,
printed or inscribed matter described in
Paragraph 1 is hereby prohibited.

3. Any written, printed or inscribed
matter falling under the provisions of this
order will, with the authority of the Com-
mandant of this Sector of Berlin, or his
authorized representative, be seized or con-
fiscated.

4. Offenders will be prosecuted for any
breach of this order either in the Occupa-
tion Courts of this Sector or in the appro-
priate German Courts.

NOVEMBER 1950

5, This order takes effect on Sept. 16, 1950.
(Dated Berlin Sept. 11, 1950.)
(signed) Maxwell D. Taylor,
Major General, USA,
US Commander, Berlin.

Tripartite IG Farben Control

The tripartite IG Farben Control .Group
of the Allied High Commission which,
under Article 9, Paragraph 2, of Law No. 35
has been called upon to administer the
provisions of that law, issued Sept. 19
the following statement:

1. Law No. 35 may be regarded as the
Allied instrument for the implementation
of the quadripartite Law No. 9 in Western
Germany. Its enactment was necessary:

(a) To unify and co-ordinate the policy
applied by the three Western Allies since
Law No. 9 was promulgated. .

(b) To establish a legal framework for
the tripartite dispersal of IG Farben-owned
and controlled assets.

(c) To provide a legal basis for the
transfer of title to property.

2. The pattern of deconcentration which
is contemplated will be the distribution
of securities in the new unit companies
to the present shareholders of Farben. A
limiting factor in giving effect to this
principle may be the necessity of realiz-
ing sufficient liquid funds to provide the
new companies with working capital, a
factor which may also necessitate satisfac-
tion of long-term creditors by the issue of
securities. Such disposals as are deemed
necessary either of individual assets or
of shares, will be carried out on recogniz-
ed commercial principles.

3. As the time limit set by the recent
appeal to creditors has not yet expired,
no statement can yet be made as to the
total amount of claims to be met. It is

the considered opinion, however, of the -

members of the tripartite IG Farben Con-
trol Group that the assets available, in
terms of DM values, will materially exceed
the equivalent in that currency of all
claims which will be authenticated and
admitted to rank for payment. This ap-
plies without restriction to IG Farben itself;
it also applies to the overwhelming major-
ity of its subsidiaries.

4. The reference in Article 6 of the law
to the opportunity which may be afforded
to claimants to present their views on the
treatment to be accorded to their respec-
tive interests may be taken as referring
principally to any recognized bodies, com-
mittees or other organizations of interest-
ed parties to represent their common
interests. An independent legal procedure
will also apply if bonafide claims are
disputed as to their merits.

5. The rights of pensioners, past, present
and future, will be protected. A unified
scheme applying to the currency area is
being worked upon which, if possible, will
be enacted even before the deconcentra-
tion program is completed. The measures
already taken by the three control officers
have resulted in total payments to pension-
ers in 1949 exceeding in DM the figures
paid in 1938, the last prewar year, in RM
(Reichsmarks).

6. The basis of the dispersal action is
that the assets shall be dispersed among
a number of economically sound and in-
dependent companies. A great deal of
planning work has already been carried
out in this connection by the staffs of
the control officers, by the German body
Fardip, and by a committee of independent

95

Allied scientific experts to whom the
Fardip reports were made available and
whose own reports and recommendations
are shortly expected. Full consideration
is also being given to suggestions and
recommendations which have been advanc-
ed from time to time by other German
groups. The program will be executed by
the existing Allied agency, the tripartite
IG Farben Control Group, which has al-
ready at its disposal a competent German
staff and will proceed with the tasks in-
volved, together with a German committee
whose members will be appointed after
consultation with the Federal Republic and
other German authorities or bodies,

7. The mew companies to be formed will
be organized in accordance with German
jaw and will have their own newly ap-
pointed or elected management bodies.
Such special regulations will be issued
as may appear necessary for the purpose
of the deconcentration procedure required
by Law No. 35 in addition to those already
incorporated in the law itself.

Official Statements

Permission for Agreements

The Allied High Commission has agreed
to the opening of negotiations between
the Federal Government and the govern-
ments of the United Kingdom, Luxem-
bourg, the Netherlands and Austria, with
the object of drawing up bilateral agree-
ments for reciprocity in social security mat-
ters such as health, disability and old
age insurance.

The High Commission has also agreed
to the opening of bilateral negotiation be-
tween the Federal Government and the
governments of South Africa, Sweden and
Luxembourg concerning the recruitment of
German labor for these countries. The
talks between the Federal Government
and the South African Government will
be concerned with the recruitment of mid-
wives and nurses.

Similar negotiations between the Federal
Republic and New Zealand concerning the
recruitment for employment in New Zea-
land’ of domestic and industrial workers
have already taken place. These negotia-
tions resulted in the drawing up of a
draft agreement which is being consider-
ed by the two governments.

Chartering of Aircraft

Article 6 of Regulation No. 12 under Al-
lied High Commission Law No. 24 pro-
vides that German nationals wishing to
charter aircraft in Germany shall obtain
a license for each flight or series of flights.
The High Commission has decided that
applications for such licenses should be
made to the Allied Civil Aviation Board,
which has authority to grant licenses in
all appropriate cases.

The Civil Aviation Board will refer ap-
plications to the Military Security Board
in cases where, in their view, a threat
to security might arise.

Official Announcements

Purchase of Deutsche Marks

Additional money conversion points may
be established on military posts. by post

INFORMATION BULLETIN ©

--- Page 99 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Amerika-Haus Review, E&CR Div, OPA,
HICOG (Frankfurt), July 1950.

A Guide to: Education and Cultural Re-
lations ECR Div, OPA, HICOG (Bad Nau-
heim), July 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 31, OEA, CCG (BE), Aug. 30, 1950.

Der AufSenhandel der Bundesrepublik
Deutschland, Teil 1, Zusammenfassende
Ubersichten (The Foreign Trade of the Ger-
man Federal Republic, Part 1, Comprehen-
sive (Surveys), Bizonal Statistical Office,
Wiesbaden, August 1950.

Participating Countries, Recovery Guides,
No. 15, ECA (Washington), August 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No, 238,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Sept. 1, 1950.

Civilian Employees of the Armed Forces,
EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol. 5, Nr. 36,
AFI&E Office, EUCOM, Sept. 3, 1950.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 239,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Sept. 8, 1950.

Formosa—An Island Neutralized, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 37, AFI&E
Office, EUCOM, Sept. 10, 1950.

HEUTE (in German), No. 119, ISD HICOG
(Munich), Sept 13, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 240,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Sept. 15, 1950.

The Question of Remilitarization in
Western Germany, Report No. 36, Series
No. 2, OPA HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Sept.
15, 1950.

Realites Allemandes (Facts of Germany),
No. 19-20,, July-August, 1950, High Com-
mission of the French Republic in Germany,
Sept. 15, 1950.

Monthly Report of. the Control Com-
mission for Germany (British Element),
Vol. 5, No. 8, August 1950, Office of the
UK High Commissioner, Sept. 16, 1950.

The Armed Forces as a Combat Team,
EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol.5, No. 38,
AFI&E Office, EUCOM, Sept. 17, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 241,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Sept. 22, 1950.

The Republic of the Philippines, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 39, AFI&E
Office, EUCOM, Sept. 24, 1950.

Copies of publications, etc. listed

in the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters,

Germans View the Korean Outbreak,
III. Over-all Opinions and Group Differences
in the US Occupied Areas, Report No. 37,
Series No. 2, OPA HICOG (Bad Nauheim),
Sept. 28, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 242,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Sept. 29, 1950.

Der Monat (in German), Vol. 2, No. 24,
ISD HICOG (Munich), September 1950.

3rd Quarterly Report on Germany (April 1
to June 30), HICOG, October 1950.

Teamwork and You, EUCOM Information
Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 40, AFI&E Office,
EUCOM, Oct. 1, 1950,

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 243,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Oct. 6, 1950.

The Situation in Indo-China, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 5, No 41, TI&E
Office, EUCOM, Oct. 8, 1950.

What the U.S. Resident Officer Should
Know about the Marshall Plan in Western
Germany, PRD HICOG, Oct: 9, 1950.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 244,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Oct, 13, 1950.

Daily Press Review, Nos. 180 to 191, ISD
HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Sept. 20 to Oct. 10,
1950.

Information Bulletin, October 1950, PRD
HICOG, Oct. 27, 1950. .

commanders where Deutsche marks may
be purchased by authorized occupation
personnel for Military Payment Certificates.

Such locations may include hotels and
transient billets operated for occupation
personnel, as well as officer, non-
commissioned officer and civilian clubs.

All conversions of Military Payment
Certificates into Deutsche marks will be
at the official rate of exchange. Deutsche
marks will not be accepted for exchange
into Military Payment Certificates.

The actual conversion of MPC's into DM's
will be made by authorized desk clerks

or cashiers at hotels or clubs. The
purchaser will be required to sign a
form showing name, rank, service or

AGO number, organization and dollar value
of the Military Payment Certificates and
the Deutsche marks involved in the trans-
action,

Heretofore, Deutsche marks could be
purchased for Military Payment Certificates
only in Army, Navy and Air Force finance
offices or at authorized banking facilities. —
from EUCOM announcement.

Importation of Coffee

All members of the US Armed Forces
in the European Command must comply
with a recent HICOG ordinance amendment
which prohibits occupation personnel from
importing coffee into the US occupation
zone of Germany through Army Post Office
facilities.

Any member of the Armed Forces who
violates the provisions of the HICOG
ordinance governing prohibited transactions
and activities will be subject to discipli-
nary action,,

The ordinance is applicable within the
states of Bavaria, Bremen, Hesse and
Wuerttemberg-Baden, and the US Sector
of Berlin. — from EUCOM announcement.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Continued from Page 65)

Calendar of Coming Events
Principal German Winter Sport Events, 1950-51

Nov. to March — Garmisch-Partenkirchen,
Fuessen, Berchtesgaden, Riessersee (Bav);
Duesseldorf, Cologne, Krefeld (NRW);
Bad Nauheim (Hes): Skating shows and
ice hockey matches.

Nov. to March — Braunlage, Clausthal-
Zellerfeld, St. Andreasberg, Hahnenklee-
Bockwiese/Harz Mountains (LS): Sled and
bobsled races; winter sport week with

_ German and state skiing championships.

Nov. to March — Eisenstein/Arber, .Zwie-
sel/Bayer, Wald (Bav): Skiing shows.

Nov. to March — Warmensteinach, Markt-
redwitz Fichtel Mountains (Bav): Skiing
shows.

Nov. to March — Willingen, Wintersberg/
Sauerland (NRW): Skiing shows.

Dec, 17 — Bad Wiessee (Bav): Opening of
winter season; until March: Night slaloms
and night club matches on the lighted
Sonnenbichl and Prinzenruhe slopes.

Dec. 17 —- Gmuend/Tegernsee (Bav): 8-.and
10-kilometer (5- and 6.25-mile) distance
skiing; ski jumping.

Dec, 31 — Rottach (Bav): Trophy ski jump-
ing for the ‘‘Golden Sea Leaves’ on the
Tegernsee valley ski-jump at the Ringberg.

January to February — Titisee/Black Forest
(WB): Ice races on Titi Lake.

Jan. 14 — Hollerath/Eifel (NRW): Ski relay
races (4 and 7 kilometers or 2.5 and 4.38
miles); special slalom,

Jan. 20-21 — Tegernsee (Bav):
jumping competition.

Jan, 20-28 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
7th International Winter Sport Week.
Jan, 25, 18-kilometer (11.25 mile) distance
skiing, special slalom; Jan 26, down hill
skiing and down hill skiing combined
with ski-jumping; Jan. 27, ski relay races
(4 and 10 kilometers or 2.5 and 6.25

State ski

96

miles), slalom; Jan. 28, special skiing
with jumping on the Olympia ski-jump.

Jan. 27-28 — Bad Wiessee (Bav): Alpine
state youth skiing matches.

Jan. 28 — Hollerath/Eifel (NRW): Youth
skiing championships.

February — Todtnau/Black Forest (WB):
Winter sport week commemorating 60th
anniversary of oldest German ski club;
German students’ ski championships.

Feb. 3-4 — Oberaudorf (Bav): North Bava-
rian ski championship

Feb, 3-4 — Nesselwang
youth ski championship.

Feb. 10-11 — Oberstaufen (Bav):
Bavarian ski championship.

Feb. 12 — Bad Wiessee, Kreuth, Tegernsee
(Bav): Ski week in Tegernsee valley.

Feb, 16-18 — Neustadt/Black Forest (WB):
Nordic German championship. .

Feb. 23-25 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
German Alpine ski championships

Feb, 24-25 — Inzell. (Bav): 35-kilometer
(21,85-mile) nonstop skiing.

Feb, 28 to March 4 — Oberstdorf (Bav):
Week of flying tests.

March 4 — Kreuth (Bav): Grand slalom on
the Hirschberg. 7

March 11 — Schliersee (Bav):
clubs’ relay championship.

March 18 — Rottach (Bav): Seilschaftslauf
(ski races by groups of 3 to 4) at the
Setzberg,

March 19 — Kreuth (Bav): Josefi ski jump-
ing on the Tegernsee valley ski-jump at
the Ringberg. ’

March 25 — Feldberg/Black Forest (WB):
Traditional Easter ski-jumping with inter-
national participation.

April 22 — Mittenwald (Bav): International
cities — skiing in the Dammkar.

(Bav): Bavarian

Alpine

Bavarian

NOVEMBER 1950

--- Page 100 ---
Teacher Ellen
Schuetz reveals
kitchen secrets.

280 fair - goers
per hour visit
US model home.

“Dream kitchen”
(left) delighted
students (right

Study-Time
at Berlin Fair

IHE AMERICAN MODEL HOME at
Berlin's Industry Exhibition became
a classroom for one hour while a home
economics teacher treated her students
to a firsthand lesson in US home-making.

The teacher, Ellen Schuetz, of the
“Lette-Verein,” took her class of 17 first-
year home economics students to the
model house to show them life-sized
samples of typical American home ap-
pliances and facilities, and to demon-
strate ways in which US domestic
problems are being solved.

The girls found the daily lesson a
little spicier when they could test chairs
and couches, peer into the home's re-
frigerator and slide back the doors of
built-in closets. They were entranced
spectators during Miss Schuetz's demon-
stration of a mixmaster, They gave forth
appropriate oh’s when pleased, and
groans when they noticed the kitchen
cupboards were empty. By 10 a.m. their
class was over, and they ducked out of
the six-room frame house in time to
free it for the invasion of fair-goers
which daily descends on the model
home.

Taking the girls through the home was
no task for their enthusiastic teacher.
Miss Schuetz, who has been teaching
at the Lette-Verein since 1937, was one
of 16 West Berlin teachers and educators
who went to the United States as an
exchangee early this year, After her
three-month visit, she was a qualified
expert in the workings of an American
home, + END

--- Page 101 ---
West Berlin police inspect gun em-
placements and foxholes thought to
have been dug during infantry
exercises of the Soviet Zone's
“People's Police.’ This fresh ex-
cavation in a field in Berlin's US
Sector 100 yards from the East zone
border, is believed to have been
dug during the night as no “People’s
Police” had been seen during day-
light hours, It is possible the‘’Volks-
polizei" dug the holes and left when
they discovered their error. Reports
of discovery came from police in
thinly-populated district on US Sec-
tor's outskirts, | (PRB HICOG-BE photo)