--- Page 2 ---
NFORMATIO)!

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

mu ai. ef RE ct 4} oo

--- Page 3 ---
The 26th US Information Center (in German, Amerika
Haus) in Germany was opened Aug.7 in Hamburg with
ceremonies participated in by American, British and Ger-
man officials. Located in one of the busiest sections of the

city, the Center features a library of 13,000 books, reading
rooms, a lecture and moving-picture hall and a children’s
room. The rotunda is used for exhibitions. Director of the
Center is Miss Helen Jean Imrie, of Brookline, Mass.

(Photos by Jacoby and Schoenborn, PRD HICOG)

Front view of the Center in Hamburg, once a bank building.
Left, Examining book during opening ceremonies are,
1.-r., Jean Cattier, chief of Finance Division, HICOG, and
principal speaker at the dedication; Max Brauer, mayor
of Hamburg; Miss Imrie, director of the Center; and
Dr. J.K. Dunlop, the British state commissioner,of Hamburg

Below: Miss Gisela Schmalhans, children's dayroom super
visor, reads a German fairy tale to a small group of very
young German visitors, who intently follow each word

Doli dU

-_Ottitielle Erétinung
_ Erotinung tir das Pubtikum
Bemerkungen eines Reports
: 2 a ao | Left: Program of the first week: Monday, official open- .
ing; Tuesday, public opening; Wednesday, piano recital

by Robert Wallenborn; Thursday, remarks of a news-
paper reporter; Friday, discussion of modern graphic arts.

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

Editors rece talseta sri H. Warner Waid
Editorial Writer . . Aileen S. Miles
Editorial Writer .. Beth Burchard
Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG., It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
APO 757-A, U.S. Army

German mailing address is:
Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
HICOG Hochhaus
Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS
October 1950

Allied: Policy on Germany=< 03-2 o nee k scee aes eee 2

Text of Foreign Ministers' New York Communique

Germany Views Foreign Ministers’ Communique ........ 4
Roundup of Press Reaction by Wilfried Saliger

Fallacy of Stockholm Resolution ........................ 8
Letter by John J. McCloy

DS -State Observers scission cn Seis fe eee 9
Article by Bradford Wells

New Career - - at 76! ....... Brno alviech jee Ba sic nlbin's ose ee 12

Plight of Book: Publishers ais ...4 jcc ciewayn oops s cae 13
Article by Haynes Mahoney

US ‘Consulates; Come: Back vo cisiccs vuss «saa saviva's oye 17.
Article by Mildred Smith

They Gotthe Bus: Rolling 5.5 cs eee ences sstiss vo ie 21
Article by William T. Neel

Fighters: against Inhumanity: 40005. o 3: ta vais, Se see hae 23
Article by John T. Butterwick

HICOG Learns Germania. Sn cose ta tteanes koane 27
Article by William G, Moulton

OBEG@: Track Caravan 3 /es. 2 sss aan eenn seeannc Menace e 33
Article by Howard Calkins

Gl-German Relations ® is < sn!<c ous sig salon Maw hoes os ane 35
Address by Brig, Gen. Edmund B. Sebree

Classroom Discussions 37
Article by Noble Hiebert

Medical Reform in Prisons Urged ...................0000e 40

One, Year Of HICOG oii 7g sinew sca vio «= ayaisain sc emirates 41
Pictorial and Chronological Review

800 New Dwellings for Refugees Dedicated (pictorial) .... 57

The Exchangees Say... 58
Summary by Beth Burchard

Adding the Human Element... .. 0... eee cee cece 63
Address by John J. McCloy

Freedom of Trade .........-2-2+.eceeee eee ecsseres scene 65_
Address by Robert R. Bowie

Calendar’ ot Coming Events 25.22: ~ 3.20 sro cate cae ee 69

Personnel Notes .......... - 70

Economic Review 74

OCHA OM LG oo: ore aie tie-eya oss wad cise ma Sig a aie ike wag aa ae 76.

Decartelization Law Violators Fined ...........0 50000045 82

Soviet: Zone -“Five-Year-Plais is ois. us cs sb ernonneee 83

Washington Report 85

German Editorials 88

Official Notices <2 o.fecetta  p ee NO Re sa ns ea 92
Communiques 92
Laws and Regulations 92
Speeches and Statements 94
Announcements 95

Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents.......... 96

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Allied Policy

The following communique was made public Sept. 19 following the meeting of the -
Foreign Ministers of France, the United Kingdom and the United States in New York.

baa FOREIGN MINISTERS have reviewed the situation in Germany and Allied relations °

with the Federal Republic, in the light of developments since their last meeting in
London in May 1950. They have taken into account in their examination the views which
have been expressed on recent occasions by the government of the Federal Republic.

They and their governments share the desire of the German people for the unification
of Germany on a basis which respects the fundamental liberties. Despite their efforts to
achieve this end, it will obviously not be realized so long as the Soviet Union continues
to ignore proposals for democratic all-German elections, and to stage controlled elections
such as the one to be held in the Soviet Zone on October 15. Pending the unification of
Germany, the three governments consider the government of the Federal Republic as the
only German government freely and legitimately constituted and therefore entitled to speak
for Germany as the representative of the German people in international affairs.

They reaffirm their desire, of which they have already given many proofs, to integrate
the Federal Republic into the community of free nations. They are convinced that the
overwhelming majority of the German people want to take part in building the European
community, and strengthening its common civilization. It appears to them that the time
has now come to take a new step toward the attainment of these aims.

5 THE SPIRIT of the new relationship which they wish to establish with the Federal
Republic, the three governments have decided, as soon as action can be taken in all
three countries in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements, to take the
necessary steps in their domestic legislation to terminate the state of war with Germany.

This action will not affect the rights and status of the three powers in Germany, which
rest upon other bases. It will, however, create a firmer foundation for the developing
structure of peaceful and friendly relationships and will remove disabilities to which Ger-
man nationals are subject. It is hoped that other nations will find it possible to take similar
action in accordance with their own constitutional practices.

The three ministers have given serious consideration to the problem of the security
of the Federal Republic in both its external and its internal aspects. They recognize the
fact that outright military units have been created in the Soviet Zone of Occupation and
this fact together with recent events in Germany and elsewhere have given rise to a
situation of great concern.

The Allied governments consider that their forces in Germany have in addition to their
occupation duties also the important role of acting as security forces for the protection
and defense of the free world, including the German Federal Republic and the Western
sectors of Berlin. To make this protection more effective the Allied governments will
increase and reinforce their forces in Germany. They will treat any attack against the
Federal Republic or Berlin from any quarter as an attack upon themselves.

The ministers are fully agreed that the re-creation of a German national army would
not serve the best interests of Germany or Europe. They also believe that this is the view
of the great majority of the German people.

The ministers have taken note, however, of sentiments recently expressed in Germany
and elsewhere in favor of German participation in an integrated force for the defense of

ee Tr ELtLTTTTTLLLLTLILLLLLenLLLLLLOLUULUGOeeAOOOILULLLLLLOOUOUTeeeOOOORnUULUULOLUOOOOOOOOOLUULLOUOOUUOOOOMOOUOLLLLLEEDEUOUUUCOOOOUOLLUeLLOOUUUUOOOOOHOULULOOUUU Oooo

Fl

INFORMATION BULLETIN 0) 4 OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 6 ---
ULC

on Germany

European freedom. The questions raised by the problem of the participation of the German
Federal Republic in the common defense of Europe are at present the subject of study and
exchange of views.

As regards internal security, the Foreign Ministers recognize the necessity for ensuring
that the German authorities are enabled effectively to deal with possihle subversive
activities. To this end the Foreign Ministers have agreed to permit the establishment of
mobile police formations organized on a Land (state) basis but with provisions which would
enable the Federal government to have adequate powers to make effective use of all or
part of this force in order fully to meet the exigencies of the present situation. The High
Commission and the Allied forces in Germany will render such assistance as may be
feasible in the rapid establishment of this force.

TS NEW PHASE in the relations between the Allies and the Federal Republic will be
marked by major extensions of the authority of the Federal Government. To make this
possible, the Occupying Powers are prepared to amend the Occupation Statute while 2
maintaining the legal basis of the occupation, and the Federal Republic will be expected
to undertake certain commitments and other actions consonant with its new responsibilities.

In the field of foreign affairs, the Federal government will be authorized to establish
a ministry of Foreign Affairs and to enter into diplomatic relations with foreign countries
in all suitable cases.

In other fields, and particularly in relation to internal economic matters, far-reaching
reductions will be made in existing controls, and the present system of review of German
legislation will be modified. In certain cases, the Allied Powers will cease as soon as the
Federal government has given undertakings or taken suitable action. The High Commission
will promptly begin discussions with the Federal government to work out the necessary
agreements for such undertakings.

The Foreign Ministers have also agreed that a review of the prohibited and limited
industries agreement shall be undertaken in the light of the developing relationship with
the Federal Republic. 5

Pending this review the High Commission has been instructed to remove forthwith all
restrictions on the size, speed and number of commercial cargo ships built for export and
to allow steel to be produced outside the present limitation where this will facilitate the
defense effort of the West.

Te THREE GOVERNMENTS pay tribute to the continued steadfastness of the people of

Berlin in the valiant struggle of the city to preserve its freedom. They will continue to
Oppose aggression in any form against the people of the city, and are taking steps to
strengthen Allied forces there. In view of the heavy price Berlin has had to pay to defend
its freedom, the governments will continue their efforts to alleviate its economic situation.
They have directed the High Commission to review the statement of principles governing
the relationship between the Allied Kommandatura and Berlin, and to liberalize Allied
controls in the city to the maximum extent practicable.

These decisions mark an important stage in the normalization of the relations and
should contribute toward the creation of an atmosphere of mutual confidence and under-
standing. They represent a major advance toward the progressive return of Germany to
partnership in Western Europe and the consolidation of the Western nations in their efforts
to establish a firm basis for the future peace of Europe and the world. +END

MMMM MMMM

OCTOBER 1950 3 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
Germany Views
Foreign Ministers’ Communique

By WILFRIED SALIGER
Chief, German Editorial Section, Public Relations Division, HICOG

N. ONE RESPECT all German morning papers of

Wednesday, Sept. 20, were uniform: front page head-
lines exclusively went to the final communique of the
Foreign Ministers’ Conference in New York, and four
columns were the minimum play.

Foremost ranked the news that the Western Allies
would defend Germany against any attack, expressed in
such banner headlines as ‘Western Powers Will Protect
Germany," “Western Guarantee for Federal Republic and
Berlin," ‘Security For Western Germany” and “Any
Aggression Means War.”

Other papers hailed Germany's progress toward equal-
ity with other nations and headed their stories “Sub-
stantial German Requests Granted," ‘Great Progress In
New York,” “Closer To Full Equality" or ‘More Freedom
For Bonn.” .

Immediately after the communique was issued, Federal
Chancellor Konrad Adenauer called a press conference
to express his satisfaction. “We have made considerable
progress,” he said. ‘This is a document that has to be
read carefully. It will be supplemented in future ne-
gotiations with the High Commissioners.”

To the German people he appealed for modesty and
patience, emphasizing that the tenor of the communique
was “much warmer and better” than that of similar Allied
announcements in the past.

NE DAY LATER, after a special cabinet meeting, the
Federal Government issued an official statement
summarizing the future prospects. It read:

“Although the decisions reached in New York do-
not fulfill all German requests, the Federal Govern-
ment considers the declaration of the Allied Foreign
Ministers a welcome step on Germany's way from
an occupied country to a free nation... Regarding
the revision of the Occupation Statute, intensive
joint work will be necessary to realize what has
been announced in the communique."

Opposition .leader Kurt Schumacher acknowledged
accomplishments in secondary matters, but asserted that
no “policy of real decisions’ had been pursued. The
Social Democratic Party (SPD) had not nursed such high
hopes as the government, he said, adding that the New
York conference had restricted itself to the minor prob-
lem of ‘ways and means.”

Speaking for the German labor movement, the German
Trade Union Federation declared that, notwithstanding
a “certain progress in dealing with the German problem,”
the Federal Parliament, Federal Council and Federal

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Government should continue to devote their principal
attention to domestic German problems. A reorganization
of the national economy, full employment and labor's
right of co-determination were just as important to the
working population as the termination of the state of
war, the trade unions felt.

News stories were followed almost immediately by
comments in practically the entire German press. The
overwhelming majority of the editors approved of the
New York decisions and expressed their satisfaction.

There were some who felt that once more Germany
had failed to reach full sovereignty and that the Western
Powers had again not shown enough courage “to break
with the past and to establish new relationships with
Germany.”

And there were even editors who, with an eye on the
division of Germany, expressed relief that Bonn had not
been granted more sovereignty by the Big Three.

N GENERAL, HOWEVER, the press praised the New

York document as a milestone on Germany's road
back into the community of nations and used this op-
portunity to discuss the outlook for the future, especially
the expected negotiations — in which they vested high
hopes — between the Allied High Commission and the
Federal Government.

In an article headed ‘Security, the Koelnische Rund-
schau, Cologne, often considered the mouthpiece of the
Federal Chancellery, reminded its readers of the fact
that, since last November, Dr. Adenauer has continually
demanded a guarantee for the security of the Federal
Republic, and was, therefore, looked upon by many
people as a preacher in the desert, by others as an
obstinate character who could not understand that the
Western Allies would never give such a guarantee.

But now, the paper added, the foreign ministers of the
three Western Powers have solemnly recognized his
demand, declaring that any attack on the Federal Republic
will be regarded as an attack on themselves. The Rund-
schau stressed that though almost one year had passed
before Dr. Adenauer's demand was granted, it was not
too late now to give the people a feeling of growing
security:

The paper then commented on the almost complete
rescission of the restrictions in the building of merchant
ships, and called this “a proof of the good will on the
side of the Allies, especially Great Britain, for whom
this concession is more important than the permission
for Bonn to establish a foreign ministry.”

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 8 ---
The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Frankfurt, stated
that many wishes of German politicians and the German
public have now been fulfilled. “A foreign minister, the
outward sign of equal rights in foreign politics, will no
longer be withheld from the Germans," the paper said.

The paper further commented on the necessity to over-
come the distrust of Germany still widespread in France,
Great Britain and even the United States, and to con-
vince the public in these countries that the justly van-
quished enemy of yesterday will be the ally of tomorrow.

N THE OPINION of the Frankfurter Rundschau, Frank-

furt, the greater majority of the German people will be
grateful that the much disliked German remilitarization
has not been hastily decided in New York.

The Frankfurt paper emphasized the two challenges
which confront the Germans as a result of the new
situation: First, the Germans must put their relations to
the “occupying power" on an entirely ‘different basis.
Reasons for complaints will always exist as long as
troops are stationed in a country where they have the
twofold function of protection and occupation, “but these
matters are of secondary importance in comparison to
the decisive fact, that we are an ally of the Western
Allies and included in their area of protection. This
change of attitude is primarily a matter of becoming
aware of it, but also a matter of tact in daily life.”

Secondly, it would be wrong to rely entirely on the
Allied security guarantee and to abandon Germany's
own efforts as no longer necessary. The possibility of
German military contingents cannot be taken into con-
sideration as long as Western Europe has no political
authority at the top. “But we must co-ordinate our own
powers all the more... The refugee problem, the equali-
zation of war burdens and many other problems of
similar importance are not solved, some even not yet
tackled in all earnest. The rearmament boom will not
solve them. These problems cannot be simply postponed.
We think the time has come for putting up a com-
prehensive political and social program and for starting
its realization with the purpose of establishing a fairly
sound basis in Germany.”

“Even a hasty perusal of the ... communique shows
that the Allies have dropped their attitude of command-
ing victors and that they really wish to integrate Ger-
many into a community of free nations,” commented the
Frankfurter Neue Presse, Frankfurt, in an editorial headed
“From An Enemy To A Partner."

EGARDING THE RESTRICTIONS and controls to re-

main in force, the paper felt that the Allies might
have certain plans in these fields or that they could not
act otherwise in view of a part of Germany being under
Russian occupation. “Particularly this applies to the
statement about the termination of the state of war,
which says, quite insignificantly, that necessary legal
action has been initiated. Nevertheless; the Frankfurter
Neue Presse was sure that future events might supplement
the picture, but would hardly impair the positive impres-
sion this communique has made.

OCTOBER 1950

“The political status of the Federal Republic," said
Die Welt, Hamburg, “becomes more and more normal and
thereby the incorporation of the Federal Republic as a full
member in the community of free nations is gradually
being completed.” .

The paper continued by pointing out that the security
problem has not yet been solved by the declaration, but
that the first phase toward a solution has been reached.

A final evaluation, in the opinion of Die Welt, of the
resolutions decided upon at the foreign ministers con-
ference will be possible only after they have been applied
to the revision of the Occupation Statute. However, there
is no reason for disappointment. ‘The communique is a
true expression of the will for reconciliation, and re-
conciliation is also the foremost aim of German politics.” -

The Hessische Nachrichten, Kassel, said that’ the Ger-
mans should read between the lines of the communique,
and that, by doing so, they would see that US Secretary
Acheson had gained a full victory. Great Britain and
France had nothing to match the strong US arguments
for a German participation in the Atlantic defense
system, the paper continued, but the conference had to
respect French public opinion.

HE MUENCHNER MERKUR, Munich, placed emphasis

on the “spirit of new relations’ expressed by the New
York document. It paid tribute to the United States and
its secretary of state, to whom it attributed the principal
merit for this favorable development at a time when the
French cabinet felt unable to share the responsibility,
and called upon the German people to express their firm
belief in the principles of democratic freedom, to justify
the confidence of the world.

The Braunschweiger Zeitung, Brunswick, said that the
“sovereignty” of the Federal Government has been in-
creased in a way which would have seemed impossible
months ago and that Germany is about to become a state
again, in the sense of international law.

“The Occupation Statute will practically be rescinded,"
the paper commented. “The German Federal Republic
will receive an almost incredible independence in foreign
politics. Controls in the field of economics, industry and
seagoing shipping will disappear... This program means
the liquidation not only of the Morgenthau-mentality*,
but of practically the entire unfortunate inheritance of the
last war." The attitude of the Foreign Ministers toward
the problems of German security was called sensational.

The Rhein Echo, Duesseldorf, said that the communique
of the Foreign Ministers contained those pledges to the
Federal Republic, of which prospects had been held out
to the Germans lately. Yet it expressed some disappoint-
ment at the present limitation of steel production to
11,100,000 tons not having been rescinded. For urgent
economic reasons, it argued, one might have expected a
steel production quota of 14,000,000 tons per year.

Regarding the promise to increase the number of
occupation troops for the. defense of Germany and the

* Example of the oft-repeated German theme of harping against a
proposal made by Henry Morgenthau, Jr., when he was US secretary
of the treasury, to make Germany principally an agricultural state, The
plan was never put into operation.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
security guarantee, the paper was completely satisfied.
“But the foreign ministers should clearly bear in mind,"
the paper warned, ‘that — if ever — tthe establishment
of military units can only be acceptable to the Federal
Republic, if its full sovereignty is simultaneously re-
stored.”

The Offenbach Post, Offenbach, wrote that “although
Germany was not officially represented at New York, it
was, so to say, present in the background, as its future
is closely connected with that of the whole of Europe,
even perhaps of the whole world which is involved in
the struggle for power between East and West." The
wish of the Federal Republic for security has been fulfil-
led, no matter for what reasons, and will have a favorable
effect on domestic politics, said the editor.

HE BADISCHE ZEITUNG, Freiburg, began its com-
ments with the remark: “Only those who thought the
German collapse of 1945 was nothing but a misprint of
world history immediately to be corrected by all
participants, can be disappointed by the result of the
New York conference.” The wide scope the communique
leaves to further negotiations, the paper continued, is an
asset and offers all opportunities. ‘After our deep fall
we are gradually considered on an equal level again...
and the security guarantee, in this unequivocal form,
makes us something of a passive member of the Atlantic
Pact... The road ito freedom and independence, which
once seemed interminable, is coming slowly to its end."
“If we recognize the difficulties of the Allied policy in
Germany,” wrote the Mannheimer Morgen, Mannheim,
“being divided between hopes and experiences, between
necessities and possibilities, we must admit that the
New York communique is a useful basis for further
developments. The actual results of the conference can
only be evaluated after some time when their full effect
is felt, the paper concluded. “The aim of patient and
wise politics must be to-make use of the opportunities
offered by these new developments to overcome Ger-
many’s misery and difficulties.”

The Rhein-Neckar Zeitung, Heidelberg, called the New
York decisions “a compromise between the sometimes
widely divergent views of the Occupation Powers on
the German problem." It expressed disappointment at the
Allied refusal of a strong federal police force and ad-
vised caution in respect to the maintenance of the
supreme Allied authority in Germany, which it con-
sidered incompatible with the spirit of the preamble to
the communique.

Placing all hope in the future Allied-German negotiations
on the revision of the Occupation Statute, the paper finally
demanded a ‘strong German attitude," in order to “make
the best out of the realities and at last to gain full freedom
for our state.”

The Duesseldorf daily Rheinische Post admitted a certain
disappointment at the results of the foreign ministers’
conference. ‘‘We do not hesitate to repeat what our de-
mands were: the rescission of the Occupation Statute, not
its revision, and the redesignation of the high commis-
sioners as ambassadors... .

INFORMATION BULLETIN:

“But it is not the material result of the New York meet-
ing that constitutes the progress we have mdde, it is the
tenor of the communique... Maybe the chancellor will
succeed in annulling the Occupation Statute de facto while
it will remain in force de jure. Maybe even the high com-
missioners and the chancellor are more or less in agree-
ment on that point. But even so... the restrictions con-
tained in the communique will not serve to strengthen
feelings of confidence in the Federal Republic for the
defense against Bolshevism. This is the tribute Germany
has to pay to... public opinion in France and England."

NALYZING THE RESULTS from the military point of

view, the Wiesbadener Kurier, Wiesbaden, stressed
the fact that Germany need no longer depend on the clause
of the Atlantic Pact which pledges mutual assistance in
case of an attack on the Allied Occupation Forces in Ger-
many. “The world knows, of course, that for the time be-
ing, a defense on the Elbe and the guarantee for Berlin are
substantially only good intentions... But in view of the
present situation, marked by the beginnirig of the Com-
munist withdrawal in Korea, this intention may be con-
sidered sufficient by human standards. In any case, even
pessimists will have to admit that the chances for peace
must be judged more favorably in the light of these de-
cisions than a few weeks ago.”

The Hamburger Freie Presse, Hamburg, spoke of “a first
polite diplomatic gesture, submitting the New York com-
munique to the federal chancellor before it was made
public.” The paper called the communique a sign of good
will, but also proof of the fact that it is difficult in politics
to turn away from previous conceptions, in this case to
overcome the distrust of a past which must be forgotten
if the future is to be won.

However, the paper itself did not quite keep to this
principle, when it expressed the view that after a German
national army under German command has been refused
— apparently due to French pressure — the Western
Powers must not assume that they can make use of the
military strength of 49,000,000 Germans by using them as
mercenary soldiers under their command.

“This conference has been a progress,” stated the West-
deutsche Allgemeine, Essen, adding that it was now up to
the federal chancellor to make the best of the results.
“Dr. Adenauer said we should display modesty and
patience. Indeed, he certainly cannot accuse the public
of being too hasty. The public will retain its reserve, and
the chancellor would be well advised to keep that in mind
in his future negotiations."

HE SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG, Munich, was satisfied
that the Allied foreign’ ministers had not restored more
“sovereignty” to the German government and warned
political leaders to keep aware of the Federal Republic's
weaknesses: "Security is what we need, not sovereignty.”
The paper felt that Bonn's constant clamor for transfer
of sovereignty might have persuaded the Allies to give
Bonn what they asked for and then to declare that the
struggle between the “sovereign” West and East German
states was a “domestic German affair and none of their

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 10 ---
concern. Comparing this prospect with the principal result
of the New York conference, namely, the security guar-
antee, it held that there was reason to be greatly relieved.

In Bremen, large prewar German shipbuilding center,
both press and officials welcomed the communique with
enthusiasm in general and the removal of restrictions for
ships built for export specifically.

President of the Bremen Senate Wilhelm Kaisen hailed
the decision of the three foreign ministers and said
“especially for the Hanseatic cities with their extensive
shipyard industry, which has been utilized only to a minor
extent, it represents a possibility to reduce unemployment
within a reasonable space of time.

“Moreover,” Kaisen continued, “it will be possible to
invigorate the whole German economy by the export
shipbuilding, since its effects will be perceptible far back
in the hinterland with suppliers’ industries.”

Bremen Senator Gustav W. Harmssen said that “so
many queries from all parts of the world concerning the
building of bigger and smaller ships have been received
by the German shipyards that we can expect to supply
work and a living for thousands of men in Bremen alone
after the restrictions have been removed.

“Apart from the improvement of the employment situa-
tion the removal of restrictions for the German shipbuild-
ing will have a positive effect upon our balance of pay-
ments, since it will certainly be possible to receive pay-
ment for part of the orders on a dollar basis."

The Bremer Nachrichten, Bremen, called Sept. 20 a day
of big headlines. All over the Western world the decisions
of the foreign ministers’ conference will be regarded as an
event that will decisively influence the future fate of the
freedom-loving nations. “For Germany as a whole — not
for the Federal Republic alone — these decisions," the
editorial continued, “represent the guaranty of Germany's
national existence and the change-over from the status of
an occupied area to that of a country protected by the
Western Powers and on friendly terms with them..."

HE VOICE OF THE MAN in the street was heard

through the Frankfurter Rundschau, Frankfurt, which
published the results of an opinion poll on the question:
What is your opinion on the guarantee for the security of
the Federal Republic? 0

A 29-year-old mechanic said: “Our country is occupied
and we have only the rights that are conceded to us by the
Occupation Powers, whose duty it therefore is to take
over the defense of our country as if it were their own.
The Berlin blockade already showed that they know how
to look after our interests.”

A 28-year-old worker told the newspaper: “The question
is, whether the Americans can actually guarantee our
security. Considering their manpower, will the Americans
be strong enough to withstand the East? Why did the
Western Allies not want to give us arms in the past, and
why do they turn to us now that danger is growing every-
where? For the defense of Western Europe it is necessary
that the Germans should also be given the chance to defend
themselves. The foreign ministers’ declaration cannot be
final. I assume they have not yet had full authority.”

OCTOBER 1950

A 38-year-old lumberman stated: “According to what
we have seen to date, the Western Powers will react only
slowly to an attack. If Berlin were attacked today, it would
be lost. I do not think that the mecessary measures to
counteract such an attack could be taken quickly enough.
The ones to suffer will be Berlin and the Federal Republic.

A 21-year-old cartographer answered: “If the Western
Powers safeguard the peace through troop concentrations,
the Russians will not dare to attack because that would
mean the end of their power. The foreign ministers’ de-
claration is a warning that nobody should try to gamble
with the Western countries."

N BERLIN, WHOSE continued existence as a free en-

clave deep in eastern Germany depends largely on
Western words and actions, the communique had been
awaited with practical concern.

Highlights of the communique were telephoned to Ernst
Reuter, mayor of Berlin, immediately after it was issued.
After studying the text, Mayor Reuter, to whom free West
Berliners look as their symbolic and actual spokesman,
said:

“The New York communique can be regarded as a
further step ahead on the road toward the inclusion of
Berlin in Western Europe. It is characterized by extra-
ordinary clarity in its appreciation of political necessities.”

West Berlin's press reported the communique in banner
headlines. Radio and press coverage left no doubt that
to crisis-hardened Berliners the single most significant
sentence of the foreign ministers’ announcement was their
pledge that the United States, France and Great Britain
“will treat any attack against the Federal Republic or
Berlin from any quarter as an attack upon themselves."

The two words “or Berlin” in particular were hailed as
a firm Allied stand which in turn gave Berlin itself more
cause to stand firm. .

Simultaneously, the Soviet Sector press displayed prom-
inently its own reports on the foreign ministers’ com-
munique. The alternately scornful and bitter treatment
from the East-licensed press and radio indicated that the
significance of the announcement from New York had
not been lost on officials directing propaganda behind the
Iron Curtain.

Led by Soviet-overt Taegliche Rundschau, the Soviet-
licensed newspapers called the communique “a decision
against Germany.”

The Taegliche Rundschau maintained that the com-
munique virtually reaffirmed the colonial status of the
German Federal Republic and “the New York decisions
must be regarded as illegal."

The Communist Party organ Neues Deutschland top-
played a statement issued by the German Communist
Politburo claiming that the main objective pursued with
decisions reached in New York by the three foreign
ministers consists of efforts to increase rather than to
withdraw occupying forces in Western Germany, to use
West German youths as cannon fodder, and to utilize
West German industries as an armament center for plans
of aggression prepared by US imperialists. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
SSUUTUSVUUTOCEUULTUEOOUEEUCUEEEELEEEECT TA:

Fallacy of “Stockholm Resolution”

8 eee FOLLOWING LETTER was sent by US High Commissioner John J. McCloy on Aug. 24 to
the Communist-sponsored Freie Deutsche Jugend group in Kemptau/Erzgebirge, Saxony (Soviet
Zone) in response to the youth group's letter of July 10 asking Mr. McCloy to become a signatory
of the "Stockholm Resolution.”

Freie Deutsche Jugend, August 24, 1950.
Kemptau/Erzgebirge,
Saxony, Soviet Zone.
Lianne Roessler, Helmut Weber, Dieter Elener, Lothar Drescher,
Anita Uhlig, Margot Wieland, Willi Zimmer, Karl Fischer,
Getraude Beck, Alice Uhlig, Christa Loeffler,

Thank you for your letter of July 10, 1950, which asks that I subscribe to the Stockholm Resolution.

When it first appeared I carefully read the Stockholm Resolution. My inability to become one of
the signatories comes I think from a greater interest in peace than that which you profess. My
inability comes from the certain knowledge that there are important and glaring omissions from the text
of the resolution about which you and many others appear to have been kept completely unaware.

The Stockholm Resolution seeks to promote the utterly illusory and unenforceable Soviet proposals
concerning atomic energy, ignoring the effective control plan approved by the overwhelming
majority of United Nations and opposed only by the Soviet Union and four of its satellites. The
plan approved by the overwhelming majority provides for bomb-destruction, international ownership,
true international inspection and effective controls. The Soviet-sponsored plan provided for bomb-
destruction, no genuine international inspection, and no genuine controls. The Stockholm Resolution
makes the same major omission.

The second omission from your resolution concerns aggression. The Stockholm petition condemns
the atomic bomb and does not say anything else. It purposely does not cover the aggression in
other forms presently being practiced by Communist forces. As a result of this omission signers of
the petition seem obliged to agree that it is all right for one country to attack another with all
weapons except the atomic bomb. The signers of the petition would also condemn as “aggressor” a
country brutally attacked by another in the event it were to use atomic weapons in its own defense.

I would be more disposed to believe this petition was designed to induce peace if it condemned
the only really aggressive instrument in the world today, which is the vast and fully mobilized forces
of Soviet Russia and her satellites. Indeed I cannot understand how 11 young people such as I assume
you to be can indulge in the hypocrisy of an appeal for peace in the face of the fact of cold
aggression and slavery perpetrated against those all about you and still call yourselves “free”
German youth.

I am in firm disagreement with people who, like you, are permitting themselves to be deceived
and misled into believing, or pretending to believe, the paradox that aggression is not aggression,
or that an attacker can be called the victim. The basic hypocrisy of the “peace appeal’ is illus-
trated by the fact that, just before the North-Korean armed forces launched their unprovoked attack
against the Republic of Korea, more than half the population of North Korea was reported to have
signed the petition.

Your petition attempts to divert attention from Communist aggression; to divert attention from
Soviet opposition to effective international controls of atomic production; and to induce the free
nations to divest themselves of the weapon which, combined with airpower, has served to deter
Russian aggression at such different times as in Iran during 1947 and in Germany during the
blockade of Berlin. It is a shocking thing that such fine words as peace and freedom can be so abused.

For these reasons in my judgment you should not have signed the Stockholm Petition and for
these reasons I will not.
Sincerely yours,

s/ JOHN J. McCLoy,
United States High Commissioner for Germany.

ee re ee er TTT TSTTT TITTTTTTTTGEETITTTennOTiTrOneoinLUinscOcOnGcecetiT COCTTH A DOGTTIUIIOOCONTTAUIIOOOTTTTITIOOOTITITITUONITIITEOCEATITOOTTITIIUOOITTUCTTOT ic

INFORMATION BULLETIN 8 OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 12 ---
US State Observers

By BRADFORD WELLS

Internal Political and Governmental Affairs Division
Office of Political Affairs, HICOG

EST GERMAN MAPS may paint rings around the US,
UK and French Zones, but since birth of the Allied
High Commission, all three have been treated as one big
unit. True, each zone has its separate Allied administra-
tion, but all are bound together by the same rules and
purposes, as set up by the three-power High Commission.

One of the latest additions to the job of co-ordinating
these three zones is the system of State Observers*, which
is now making an effective contribution to the over-all
operation of the High Commission.

The primary purpose of the system is to encourage
closer tripartite co-operation on the state level. To this end,
each Western ally has appointed Observers to serve in the
capitals of the states not within its zone. Thus, US Ob-
servers are serving in each state of the British and French
Zones, and the French and British have like appointees in
states not under their direct jurisdiction. The State Ob-
servers help to implement tripartite policies, and are the
primary channel of co-ordination among the zones in mat-
ters below the level of the Allied High Commission itself.

The concept of State Observers was first announced in
Washington, the three Occupying Powers concluding an
agreement as to tripartite controls, setting up a program
for fusion of the three zones and for creation of the Allied
High Commission.

The agreement stated:

“All powers of: the Allied High Commission shall be
uniformly exercised in accordance with tripartite policies
and directives. To this end in each Land (state) the Allied
High Commission shall be represented by a single Land
Commissioner who shall be solely responsible to it for
all tripartite affairs. In each Land the Land Commissioner
shall be a national of the Allied power in whose zone the
Land is situated. Outside his own zone each High Commis-
sioner will delegate an observer to each of the LandCommis-
sioners for purposes of consultation and information.”

HUS THE OBSERVER system was created as an inte-

gral part of the trizonal fusion agreements. The Allied
High Commission was set up to deal with the Federal Ger-
man Republic on a unified basis; and to assist in carry-
ing unification down to the state level.

This system grew from the changing relationship of the
Western Allies to the German people. Through the recent
years of occupation, Allied policy has been to encourage
development of democracy in Germany, and to return
governing powers to those forces which have proved them-

* The official title is “US Land Observer.’* Land (pronounced lahnt)
is a German term meaning “‘state,“ and should not be confused with
the English word “‘land."* Germans apply “Land” to governmental
components of the Federal Republic such as Bavaria, Hesse and North
Rhine-Westphalia, and also to the entire United States (die Vereinig-

ten Staaten). To clarify the term for its American readers, the Informa-
tien Bulletin uses the translated form.

OCTOBER 1950

selves responsible. Culmination of this policy was writing

of the Occupation Statute and founding of the German —

Federal Republic.

During these years, the occupation changed from a
military administration — first zone by zone, then on a
bizonal-plus-French-Zone basis —to the civilian trizonal,
tripartite agency, the Allied High Commission. With this
changeover, the significance of zonal boundaries dimin-
ished and tripartite co-operation has become increasingly

more effective. The Observer system has played an im-

portant part.

Setting up the Observer system required much discus-
sion over Allied conference tables, but by September 1949,
when the Department of State took over the occupation
responsibility from the US Army, its outlines were sub-
stantially drawn. Today, all State Observer posts have
been filled. In several cases, the British and US High Com-
missioners appointed the consuls general, already in the
state capitals, to the additional post of State Observer,

IHE ORGANIZATIONAL PATTERN of the Observer
system is as follows:

In the first place, the Observers are responsible to their
high commissioners; US Observers represent Mr. McCloy.
They are accredited to the state commissioners of the state
to which they are assigned, and rank immediately below
them. At any time when the opinion of the United States
is desired by the British or French state commissioners,
the American Observers are consulted. In any matter of
tripartite interest, such as High Commission decrees,
implementation of tripartite agreements, or legislative re-
view, the Observers act as American spokesmen. At the
same time, they inform the British and French state com-
missioners of the ways in which similar matters have been
carried out in the US Zone.

As a secondary job, the American Observers report all
events within the particular state which are of interest to
the United States and to HICOG. Much report material is
made available to them through the state commissioners,
although the Observers often prepare original reports.

In filling the American Observer posts certain special
abilities were looked for, besides the usual executive re-
quirements of such positions. Among these were the abil-
ity to speak German, or German and French for a French-
Zone post; the ability to take action quickly and consis-
tently, in view of the isolation of each post from HICOG
headquarters; and the willingness to endure and overcome
the logistic difficulties entailed in such isolation. Ques-
tions of schooling for children, office supplies, transporta-
tion, even grocery supplies, took time for solution.
However, most of these questions have been settled in
co-operation with the British and French authorities.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

\

--- Page 13 ---
7

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy met the top re-
presentatives of Hesse at a recent reception tendered by
Hesse State Commissioner Dr. James R. Newman. Seated,
l.-r., Karl Rehbein, mayor of Hanau; Dr. Newman; Hesse
Minister - President Christian Stock; Mr. McCloy; Ernst
Schroeder, mayor of Darmstadt, and Walter Kolb, mayor
of Frankfurt. Standing, 1.-r., Dr. Heinrich Fligg, mayor of
Offenbach; Dr. Otto Engler, mayor of Giessen; Colo Raabe,
mayor of Fulda; Carl Th. Bleek, mayor of Marburg;
Dr. Hans’ Redlhammer, mayor of Wiesbaden, and Willi
Seidel, mayor of Kassel. (PRB OLCH photo)

HE AMERICAN OBSERVER for North Rhine-West-

phalia, stationed in Duesseldorf, is Joseph W. Darling.
Employed before the war by oil companies in the United
States and Venezuela, he spent four years in the Army.
He served in Berlin from 1946 to 1949, leaving as deputy
chief of the Economic Branch to go to Duesseldorf.

Dr. Ulrich E. Biel is the Observer in Hanover for Lower
Saxony. A native-born German, he went to the United
States in 1934 and was later naturalized. Discharged as a
captain after four years in the Army, he served with
OMGUS and the Political Affairs Section in Berlin. -

Robert H. Hutton, the Observer in Tuebingen for Wuert-
temberg-Hohenzollern, was for many years European man-
ager of an American firm in London. After a period with
the American Red Cross, he joined OMGUS, as French ad-
viser to the State Commissioner of Wuerttemberg-Baden.

In Hamburg, Consul-General Robert T. Cowan was
designated as Observer. A career Foreign Service officer,
his previous posts took him to South America, Zurich,
Port Said, Casablanca, and Windsor, Canada.

Roy I. Kimmel, the Observer in Kiel for Schleswig-Hol-
stein, has a long background in agricultural affairs. During
the war, he headed the US Lend-Leasé Mission to New
Zealand, and later he was a lieutenant colonel in the Army.
Upon discharge, he entered the Foreign Service and his
most recent post was as agricultural attache in Berlin.

The Observer's job in South Baden is done by Paul
A.Neuland, former college professor and linguistic con-
sultant to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. After serv-
ice in the Army, he became assistant to the deputy US
chief of counsel at Nuremberg, and was also in the War
Crimes Division of the Office of the Army Chief of Staff.
Since that time, Mr. Neuland has been a member of the
State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency.

Robert Taylor was appointed in June as Observer for
Rhineland-Palatinate in Coblenz. A career Foreign Service
officer with duty in China, Mexico and France, Mr. Taylor

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

last served as consul general in Nairobi, and in 1949
attended the National War College in Washington, D.C.

HESE AMERICAN OBSERVERS are assisted in their

jobs by small staffs, ranging in size from one profes-
sional assistant in the smaller states to three assistants in
North Rhine-Westphalia. Four of the assistants are political
officers, and five are economic officers. There is also an
agricultural officer in Hamburg, whose area of responsi-
bility extends throughout northwestern Germany, and a
labor officer in Duesseldorf who keeps close watch on
labor developments in the Ruhr and other north German
industrial centers. The British and French Observers have
staffs of approximately similar size and composition. Size
of the staffs was decided by tripartite discussions, and any
changes in size would likewise be a three-power decision.
However, to date, the present staffs have been adequate
to meet the demands of Observer responsibilities.

The first six months of operation have been, as with all
new organizations, a shakedown period; the newness of
the Observer idea has added to the growing pains. How-
ever, certain patterns of action have emerged which indi-
cate the direction in which the system will develop.

Certainly the most important phase of the Observers’
work is the exchange of views and co-ordination of Allied
policy throughout western Germany. No specific methods
were required of the pioneer Observers for this phase of
the job; instead they have been left to develop their own.
The Observers have generally received from the state
commissioners every available service. Conferences and
consultations have been frequent. The Observers are
entitled to attend the state commissioners’ staff meetings.
There is a regular interchange of information and reports
between the Observers and the commissioners.

In the American zone, the state commissioners are thus
given the benefit of keeping abreast of official British and
French positions on specific problems as they arise from
day to day. Similarly, the British and French commissioners
in the other zones are kept informed of American policy,
practices and opinions. This has been the most immediate
and important benefit of the Observer program, and is the
primary channel of co-ordination among the three Allied
organizations ona level below that of the High Commission.

EGISLATIVE REVIEW is another Observer responsi-

bility. In the charter of the Allied High Commission,
each state commissioner is held responsible for “initial
consideration and prompt transmittal to the Council (con-
sisting of the three High Commissioners) of state legis-
lation, together with his ‘recommendations thereon.” In
such actions, the state commissioner customarily consults
with the Observers. They in turn give their opinions in
the light of their governments’ policy on each particular
issue, and in the light of their experience and insight into
local affairs. In some cases, they consult first with their
respective headquarters. In this way, differences of opinion
or of interpretation are ironed out before they reach the
High Commissioners, and the handling of legislation is
considerably speeded. Laws are transmitted with com-
ments and recommendations for approval or disapproval.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 14 ---
The reporting functions of the Observers have proven
mutually beneficial to all governments and their represen-
tatives in the field. Informative reports are exchanged
between Observers and state commissioners. The Ob-
servers also furnish a channel through which requests for
information can be efficiently made of the other occupa-
tion authorities. In some instances, the American Observer
staffs have provided reports or information on topics
which are of particular interest to HICOG; for example,
HICOG may seek information on ERP activities or the use
of counterpart funds in a certain area. They hand in re-
ports on day-to-day events of immediate interest or im-
portance.* Finally, the Observers’ staffs may provide gen-
eral reports on subjects of continuing interest to HICOG,
written from the point of view of an on-the-scene reporter
and interpreter, and giving HICOG a broader foundation
upon which to base policy judgments and decisions.

* See typical comments in “Europa Union Plebiscites” in Informa-
tion Bulletin, September 1950 issue.

A preliminary evaluation of the Observer program
would emphasize three aspects which have proved them:
selves to be of immediate and practical benefit to the three
Western Powers. First of all, the Observers perform a sub-
stantial amount of representation for their respective High
Commissioners. Such representation has proved vital in
creating closer working relationships with both German
and Allied officials and in presenting American attitudes
to the German people.

Secondly, they fulfill certain reporting functions that have
proven valuable in assisting the interchange of informa-
tion among the three control authorities. The Department
of State as well as HICOG relies upon Observer reports to
keep its policy makers fully informed on internal develop-
ments throughout the British and French Zones,

Finally, the Observers are an instrument of tripartite co-
operation and consultation, playing a valuable and flexible
role in the evolution of occupation controls. -++END

“Voice of America” Programs Rated Good

HE MAJORITY OF US ZONE and Western Berlin

residents interviewed in a poll of current attitudes
regarding the Voice of America broadcasts described the
programs as “good” because they are informative and
instructive.

The poll, completed by the Reactions Analysis staff of
the Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, in which trained
German interviewers made a representative sampling of
opinion of 3,000 in the zone, 500 in Berlin and 300 in
Bremen, also disclosed that the Voice of America audience
in West Berlin had increased by 17 percent since June
1949 when a similar study was made. This audience is now
estimated at 55 percent of the population of western Berlin.

In the US Zone, there has been little change in the size
of the audience. Of those polled, 36 percent said they
generally listen to the broadcasts which are especially
tailored for German audiences and beamed direct from
New York for relay by Radio Bremen, Radio Frankfurt,
Radio Munich, Radio Stuttgart and RIAS in Berlin. Listener-
ship in all places surveyed was 39 percent of the total
public, and 60 percent of German radio listeners.

Polling Germans on the Voice of America broadcasts
heard daily at 7 p. m. over the German stations in the zone

Educators of 12 countries met at Jugenheim Aug. 23 for
the greatest educational conference held inGermany since
the war. Occasion marked re-admittance of Germany to
the Pedagogical World Movement on its 25th anniver-
sary. Countries represented included Australia, Austria,
Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy,
Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States and Vietnam.

and RIAS in Berlin, interviewers found that 89 percent of
the people who customarily listen at that hour regularly
or occasionally tune in on the Voice, while part of this
impressive coverage arises from the fact that it is possible
to tune in on other programs at that hour, including an
hour-long classical music program of the American Forces
Network in Germany and a music presentation from Radio
Leipzig (Soviet Zone). 7

In analyzing Voice of America listenership, the survey
found that it is not confined to special groups but repre-
sents a cross-section of the German public in the areas
surveyed. This audience distribution, indicative that the
broadcasts are effective in its themes and appeals to
Germans in all walks of life, was revealed in surveying
population groups by education, income, city size, sex,
age and religion.

Asked to give an opinion on the quality of the programs,
the majority described them as “good.” For the minority
who considered them ‘fair’ or “poor,” the reasons assigned
included lack of interest, bias, ignoring of German
interests, overemphasis on politics and poor reception.

About half of the people who found the Voice programs
good declared their most valuable featuré to be infor-
mation about the American way of life. The second most
frequently mentioned reason was their clarity and instruc-
tive value. Other reasons included objective reporting,
interesting lectures and talks, and assurances of the US
desire to aid Germany. °

The majority opinions also were that the Voice broad-
casts gave East zone Germans a favorable impression of
the United States, the main reason being that they are
informative. Other leading reasons given for saying that
the programs ‘impress Eastern Germans are that they
awaken longing of the people for Western ways, Western
standards, and union with West Germany; give the people
support, hope and encouragement, and point up the
difference between Russian and American conditions.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
New Career

-- at 76!

OR A GREAT-GRANDMOTHER in Stuttgart, coming to
Germany to be with her son meant the’ start of a
painting career.

Mrs. George L. Erion was 73 in 1947 when she left her
Arkansas home to join her son, George L. Erion, Jr., in
Stuttgart, where he was employed with the Office of the
State Commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden,

Finding time on her hands — and recalling a dream of
early childhood — she enrolled in a beginner's painting
class, Today she has 30 ambitious landscapes to her credit.
She takes two two-hour lessons per week and devotes four
days out of every seven to her oils.

Mrs. Erion wanted to paint from the earliest days of
her childhood, but her parents insisted that she learn to
play the piano. So piano it was — and painting it wasn't
— until three years ago,

In Stuttgart, she began her painting under the tutelage
of Herr Otto Brightling in the State Theater and has

Great-grandmother Mrs. George L. Erion, aged 76, surveys
canvases she has turned out during three-year career as
artist, begun in Stuttgart in 1947, (Photos by Studio Schwarz)

continued with him for these three years. Today the
lessons are given at the Crossroads Service Club in
downtown Stuttgart.

Although she specializes in landscapes, she has tried
her hand with still-life paintings of flowers. Her completed
canvases have already been publicly exhibited once,

HIS NEW VENTURE followed on the heels of another
painstaking hobby — the weaving of rugs, of which
she has made more than 40 during the past 15 years.

Mrs. Erion wishes she had begun her painting earlier
and feels modestly that she could have gone far with
palette and brush. She plans to continue her art studies in
Munich, where her son has recently been transferred as
the chief of the Economic Affairs Division for both
Bavaria and Wuenrttemberg-Baden.

‘Sometime soon, however, she will fly to the United
States for a visit in her home state.

“My son George wanted to see if I would be able to fly
and still be in good condition,” twinkles the 76-year-old
great-grandmother. “So he accompanied me on a plane
from Frankfurt to Berlin. It was a test flight for ME — but
I stood the trip better than he did.”

INCE HER ARRIVAL in Europe, Mrs. Erion has visited
France and Switzerland and has toured almost all of
Germany. Austria is next on her list.

Such travel must seem strange to a woman who lived
in Little Rock, Arkansas for 50 years, moving only once,
and then to another house in the same block.

But she is looking forward to the Munich move, for
there she will be in daily contact with her two great-
grandchildren, whose father, George L. Erion III, is an
Air Force pilot at the Munich-Riem Airport.

Mrs. Erion has, in all, three sons, four grandchildren
and two great-grandchildren. She is a member of the Great |
Eastern Star in the United States, and the American
Women's Club in Stuttgart. In addition to her painting and
rug-making, she is an excellent cook. -+-END

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 16 ---
Plight of Book Publishers

By HAYNES R. MAHONEY
Chief, Public Relations Branch, Bad Nauheim, HICOG

INCE THE DAY Gutenberg turned out his first crudely

printed page, book publishing was one of Germany's
world renowned industries. The handsome luxurious
volumes of the classics were eagerly sought by German
speaking peoples everywhere, while precise and detailed
scientific and technical works had wide circulation in
many non-German countries as well.

After suffering Nazi interference, war destruction and
the economic ravages of the postwar era, however, the
West German publishing industry is struggling against
formidable problems to regain its former reputation. To-
day the publishers’ presses are rolling industriously, book-
store windows are filled and many people stop to look
with interest. Like many other German industries, how-
ever, these outward trappings of success are deceptive.
Relatively few people are buying books.

The reading public no longer has the time and the
money to put into good quality editions. Traditionally
lovers of leatherbound, gilt-edged volumes, the Germans
today have little space for library shelves in crowded liv-
ing quarters. And even if they did, the urgent need for new
clothes, furniture and other essentials is claiming a large
part of the money which once went for books.

Paradoxically, there has been over-expansion in the
publishing industry as a majority of the old, established
publishers resumed business and new entrepreneurs entered
the field. Almost anyone who has a little capital and
acquires the rights to one book can become a publisher.

PPROXIMATELY 1,000 NEW titles are published
monthly in western Germany, including small books
and pamphlets of the “how to do it" type, scientific and
technical volumes, and school books, but also comprising
a large number of new works aimed at the general reader.
Successful publishing, however, requires substantial funds
and considerable experience in judging manuscripts, public
tastes and other factors, which have already brought many
of the new entrepreneurs into serious difficulties.
According to officials of HICOG's Information Services
Division, the book publishing field is fairly clear of pub-
lishers with notorious political pasts. The major Nazi
publishers were eliminated from the beginning under
Military Government's licensing system, and most have
been barred from renewing their publishing operations
through sentences of the denazification courts. Since the
licensing controls were abandoned last year, ISD has ob-
served no major influx of Nazis into the book trade, al-
though a few have re-entered publishing operations under
cover of front organizations or in secret partnership with
politically clean individuals.
Another problem facing the industry is the dearth of
good manuscripts now being submitted to publishers in
western Germany. During the war, literary circles ex-

OCTOBER 1950

pected that a fresh generation of writers, who had lived
through an era of life-and-death urgency, would rush to
their typewriters to turn out prose of life-and-death signi-
ficance, once peace was regained.

A few excellent books by new authors such as Theodor
Plivier's “Stalingrad,” Hans Richter's ‘‘Die Geschlagenen"
and Bruno Werner's “Die Galeere,’’ have been published.
But prospective best-selling authors are too busy digging
ditches or working on newspapers for a living to unloose
their creative talents.

HE PUBLISHERS’ PROBLEMS are also a serious con-

cern of the officials of HICOG's Information Services
Division, who are fully aware of the importance of a
healthy publishing industry to insuring broad cultural ties
between Germany and the democratic world. They have
an especial interest in the success of good American books
in Germany, not as a means of enhancing the fame and
fortune of US writers, but as a channel for interpreting
recent history and communicating the inside story of life
in a free society.

Although the names of Hemingway and Wilder, Gen-
eral Clay and James Burnham and many others, are pro-
minent in German bookstores, the success of their works
is variable. Translation costs and royalties have pushed
foreign books up to DM 15 or 20 ($3.47 to 4.76) per copy,
and any salability American books find with the reluctant
reading public represents a substantial achievement.

Inspite of their numerous problems, West-German pub-
lishers by no means find the situation hopeless. They are
convinced that the book business is bound to improve as
people begin to gain a little leisure, save money and built
new dwellings, in short, as economic normalcy is attained.

Book exhibit in windows of US Information Center draws
many passers-by. Now being circulated to all “America
Haeuser” it features 190 American books published in
German through the Information Services Division pro-
gram aimed at giving Germans a broader insight into
American attitudes toward international affairs, principles
of democratic government and the future of Germany.

--- Page 17 ---
Realizing that this will take time, the publishers have
initiated numerous efforts to rebuild interest in good
books. Through public relations activities, the publishers
have obtained more space in the press and more time on
the radio for reviews and discussions of German books
and authors. A national “Book Week” was conducted in
May, during which practically all major West-German
newspapers and periodicals carried feature stories high-
lighting new books and urging their readers to renew their
interest in good literature.

EVERAL PUBLISHERS have turned to another solution

to the problem of German reluctance to invest in ex-
pensive books by publishing large editions of paper-bound
volumes or pocket books. Germans have traditionally
treasured expensive, sturdily bound volumes. Even the
shopkeeper and the working man usually had at least a
few fine-quality volumes of the classics on display in his
small abode; he derived a certain sense of comforting
stability in having them around.

Costing around two Deutsche marks (about 50 cents) at
newsstands and bookstores, the flimsy volumes are gaining
in popularity and creating a new trend in the book-buying
tastes of West-Germans*. They include the works of
Graham Greene, Thornton Wilder, Ernest Hemingway and
other good foreign and German authors in addition to the
cheap novels and mystery stories. It may well be that the
paperbound volumes will comprise a major part of the
future German book trade, just as they have become so
popular in France and Italy.

Commercial lending libraries, now beginning to flourish
in West Germany, are another innovation to the reading
public. There are more than 5,000 of them, and their
number is increasing, providing the reader a wide selection
for 20 or 30 pfennigs (five or seven cents) weekly.
Unfortunately a large portion of their offering is the so-
called kitsch literature, trashy novels, ‘“who-done-its" and
westerns which are likely to have the largest circulation.
But many good books are included, and publishers view
these commercial ventures as more helpful than harmful,
since they at least keep the names and works of many
good authors before the public until the people agaim have
money to buy them. |

German publishers are now making a strong bid to
regain their export markets, and are achieving moderate
success in the technical and scientific fields. A book ex-
hibit.has been held in Switzerland and others are planned
for north European countries beginning with Finland.

Export sales, primarily in such professional works as
medicine, science and engineering, has achieved steady
expansion. About DM 2,000,000 ($476,000) worth of these
books were exported in 1948 and the amount increased to
DM 8,500,000 ($2,023,000) in 1949. This is still a far cry
from Germany's prewar export average of approximately
DM 33,000,000 ($7,854,000) worth yearly, but the increase
is encouraging.

* Pocket editions in the lowest-price bracket were first published in
Germany by a big Berlin publisher after World War I, but even price
did not make them as widely popular then as they appear to be today.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

EST-GERMAN PUBLISHERS, who feel that they have

dire problems, however, find themselves in a
reasonably healthy situation when they consider the plight
of their Eastern colleagues. Little is seen from the once
great publishing houses of Leipzig, formerly the capital
and guiding spirit of German publishing. A few academic
and technical works, for which Leipzig publishers were
once famous, are still coming off the presses, though in
much inferior quality to prewar production. Other pub-
lishers have confined themselves to the comparative
safety of re-issuing the classics and oldtime favorites,
including such American perennials as the works of Edgar
Allan Poe, Jack London and Mark Twain.

The works of Stalin, Lenin and other Communist leaders,
as well as outstanding Russian authors (who have not yet
been labeled “bourgeoisie") are appearing in substantial
numbers. But the books in most cases are cheaply pro-
duced, poor quality and indicative of the economic
doldrums of eastern Germany. According to western Ger-
man publishers, their eastern counterparts are closely
controlied by their Communist masters and they are nevér
sure of what they can publish and what has suddenly
become unacceptable. One well-meaning publisher brought
out an edition of Pushkin, safe enough in itself, but he got
into trouble over the introduction — it did not quite
comply with “the spirit of the proletariat revolution.”

In western Germany consumer demands and reading
tastes have substantially changed during the postwar
period. Fachbuecher (professional and technical books),
school texts and small volumes on how to raise vegetables,
or build a flat-boat, are selling more than the works of
fiction and nonfiction of general interest. Luxury volumes
of the standard classics have a brisk sale around Christmas
time and also find a substantial market among the well-
educated classes who are replenishing their libraries,
destroyed during the war.

But in the general and popular reading field, books
that reach 5,000 copies sold are doing very well, and those
few which attain a sale of 10,000 to 20,000 are considered
extremely successful. The public is turning more and more
to “escape fiction’ — historical novels, mystery novels,
adventure tales — for its reading fare. Historical novels
like Bruno Wermer's “Die Galeere‘’ and Kenneth Robert's
“Northwest Passage,” are having a good run, while Mar-
garet Mitchell's “Gone with the Wind" is still one of the
best selling books ever printed in Germany.

UBLISHERS NOTED a declining interest in works

concerning World War II and the postwar era, unless
they are unusually good. Plivier's “Stalingrad” when first
published in 1946 scored a major success but is now hardly
selling at all. The sensational accounts of the Nazi
hierarchy and heroes, such as the volume by Hitler's
interpreter, Dr. Paul Schmidt, or Dr. Hjalmar Schacht's
“Reckoning with Hitler," are no longer appealing to the
general readers, while the biography of Rommel by
Desmond Young sold well to a limited group — mostly
ex-members of the Afrika Korps and former career
officers, but did not reach a wide public.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 18 ---
Two exceptions to this trend have been Norman Mailer's
“The Naked and the Dead," which has passed 30,000
copies, and the first two volumes of Churchill's memoirs,
which are being bought by a broad, general audience.

Among the foreign books, now appearing in Germany
translations, the works of American and British authors
have the most popularity with German readers. Ernest
Hemingway, Thornton Wilder, Margaret Mitchell, Louis
Bromfield, T. S, Eliot and Aldous Huxley are ranking
favorites among the few Germans who are buying books
today. Although the Frenchmen, Jean Paul Sartre, Albert
Camus and Antoine de St. Exupery have also been
successful, no other foreigners have achieved the popu-
larity of the Anglo-Saxon authors.

A survey of books at the Deutsche Bibliothek (German
Library) in Frankfurt, to which West-German publishers
submit copies of all their new publications, showed that
more than 700 American titles had been published in
Germany since the war. This is not an impressive number
compared to prewar years, but it is favorable in terms of
foreign editions today. Most American books are brought
out in Germany today through direct negotiations between
German publishers and the US copyright owners, although
the ISD Press and Publications Branch is ready to aid
German publishers in getting a good American work into
print by placing sizeable advance orders for copies or
ironing out transatlantic complications when they arise.
The Branch also issues a circular, Buecher aus Amerika
(Books from America), which reviews new works for the
benefit of German publishers, translators and literary agents.

The enthusiastic response to this service is indicated
by the receipt of 90 to 100 requests monthly for additional
information or sample volumes of this or that American
book. During April, for instance, German members of the
book trade asked for contracts for “Roosevelt and the
Russians" by Edward Stettinius, Faith and History” by
Reinhold Niebuhr and ‘The Labor Leader” by Eli Ginz-
berg. Two publishers expressed interest in the Kinsey
report and another asked for John Erskine’s “Venus, the
Lonely Goddess." The publishers were advised to contact
the respective American firms directly.

N THE PERIOD before the currency reform (June 1948),
when dollar funds were almost unavailable, ISD played

a major role in enabling Germans to publish American
books. Contracts were negotiated and advance royalties
were paid by the US government for books in which Ger-
man publishers — and the US Government — were
interested. Emphasis was placed on those books which
would help Germans understand democracy and the events
of the past two decades. Thus Jacques Barzun’s “Of Human
Freedom" was outstanding in this field, and, in a cheap
edition, attained an extraordinary circulation of more
than 100,000 sold copies.

A book exhibit featuring 190 US titles published in Ger-
many through the ISD program, is now being circulated
to US Information Centers in Germany. It is crammed with
the books which have brought Germans a broader insight
into American attitudes and politics toward international
affairs, principles of democratic government and the

OCTOBER 1950

Exhibit featuring 190 titles is made up of four principal
sections: books for youth and children; science and re-
search; history and biography; short stories and novels.

--- Page 19 ---
future of Germany, such as: Byrnes’ “Speaking Frankly;"
“Jefferson and Hamilton” by Claude G. Bowers and ,,Ger-
many, Bridge or Battleground” by James P. Warburg.

Nearly 2,000,000 copies of well-known American books
have been printed in German as a result of Military
Government's and HICOG's service program to publishers.
This number is increased several times when books
published as a result of direct negotiations between Ger-
man and US publishers are added.

But the success of American books in Germany is closely
tied up with the progress of the publishing business in

general. Today German publishers are hopeful but not
overly optimistic. They know that a long struggle lies
ahead in which many will lose out, particularly new-
comers to the field who lack the credit resources and the
experience to weather the economic doldrums, Meanwhile,
until the reader has more time, money and space for
books, and new Thomas Manns and Hermann Hesses
appear, the publishers must continue to press their public
relations campaigns, experiment with cheap editions, and
weigh carefully the risk in bringing out every new and
untried book in western Germany. +END

Popularity of US Information Centers

HE US INFORMATION CENTERS, known in Ger-

many as Amerika Haeuser, have become well-known
institutions in the US Zone and patronage has increased
markedly during the past two years, it was disclosed in
a HICOG public opinion survey conducted in May by the
Reactions Analysis Branch, Office of Public Affairs.

The survey disclosed that majorities ranging from 62 per-
cent in the US Zone to 74 percent in Bremen are aware of
the existence of such centers of US information. In addi-
tion, the people who are aware of the centers usually
know something about their programs.

Considering the population as a whole, the survey
showed that 38 percent of the US Zone residents can specify
one or more offerings of the Information Centers, a
marked increase over the survey taken in February 1948,
when only four percent could do so. Even though the
US Information Centers are located in the larger cities,
the survey disclosed that the greatest proportional in-
crease in awareness has occured in rural villages. In May
1950, more than 20 times as many villagers knew what the
Information Centers offered as did in February 1948,

The features best known about the Information Cen-
ters seemed to be their library and periodical services,
with lectures and discussions running a close second.
Officials of the Information Centers Branch considered
this an indication that the centers were developing
satisfactorily toward their major objective of becoming
community centers for democratic discussions and group
activities in addition to libraries.

AATRONAGE OF THE US Information Centers has

also increased since February 1948, when only one
out of every 100 claimed to visit the centers as compared
to seven. out of every 100 now, the survey showed. In
West Berlin, patronage has increased from two percent
to nine percent of the population and in Bremen from
three to 15 percent.

Considering the limitations of accessibility and physical
capacity of the centers, the present patronage figures
show healthy progress. In the US Zone seven percent of
the entire population, over 15 years of age, or roughly
931,000 persons, claimed to have visited a US Information
Center one or more times.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

In examining the type of patronage, the survey showed
a greater tendency for clients to come from the more
informed groups, such as the better educated, the more
prosperous classes, and the professional and white-collar
occupations. However, the comparison showed that a
significant number of the Information Centers’ visitors
also come from the less informed groups.

The proportions of persons having general knowledge
of the US Information Centers extended fairly evenly
throughout all segments of the population.

Today there are 24 US Information Centers in the
major cities of the US Zone, Bremen and Berlin, with 122
auxiliary reading rooms serving smaller communities. In
addition, two US Information Centers have been opened
in the British Zone. In February 1948 there were 22 US
Information Centers and approximately 50 reading rooms.

The findings of the May 1950 survey are based on
interviews with a cross-section of the population num-
bering 3,000 persons in the US Zone, 500 in West Berlin
and 316 in Bremen. +END

Illustrative of the service offered at the US Information
Centers in Germany is this view of the library in the
recently-opened center in Hamburg. Of the 13,000 volumes
on the shelves, two-thirds are in English and the other
third in German. Shown examining a book (background)
is Haynes Mahoney, chief of the Bad Nauheim Branch,
Public Relations Division, HICOG, who wrote the article
“Window to the West" in the August issue of the Informa-
tion Bulletin, explaining the work and achievements oj the
US Information Centers. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 20 ---
US Consulates Come Back

By MILDRED SMITH

US Consulate General, Frankfurt

WO DAYS AFTER the United States declared war

against Germany in December 1941, the skeleton staff
still working at the American Embassy in Berlin received
a telephone call. It was the German Foreign Office, and a
voice announced, although it was already 2 p.m., that all
heavy luggage must be delivered at the Embassy before
dinner-time. Absolutely nothing, the voice said, would be
shipped out after that.

The Americans — there were 120, including families —
followed directions to be at the Embassy themselves at
9 a.m. the following day: Promptly at that hour they were
taken in buses to a waiting train, destination unknown.
Diplomatic privileges had come to an abrupt halt, and
State Department personnel still vividly remember rever-
sion to German rations and their five months’ internment
at Bad Nauheim, 20 miles north of Frankfurt, to wait for
an exchange of persons to be arranged.

The American Consulate in Berlin today is “way across
town," both literally and figuratively, from the ruins of
the Embassy beside the Brandenburg Gate, just inside the
Soviet Sector. Where once the Embassy was engaged in
negotiations of world-wide importance with the German
government, the present consulate is primarily engaged in
citizenship and passport activities. Consul Francis A. Lane,
until recently chief of the 56-member staff, made a sym-

Ruins of the US Embassy in Berlin, adjoining the famed Brandenburger Tor (Gate), front on what was known in prewar

bolic statement when he said of a request put to him
concerning commercial firms in the Soviet Sector: “This
matter ‘will be simple to expedite. It is impossible.”

Besides having served both in Bremen and Stuttgart
during his 21 years in the Foreign Service, Mr. Lane spent
the war years on the staff of the Supreme Headquarters,
Allied Expeditionary Forces and that of the US Political
Adviser for German Affairs, SHAEF,

However, in keeping with State Department policy of
periodical transfer of its Foreign Service officers, Consul
Lane has been sent to Gibraltar and replaced by Robert
B. Streeper, former consul general in Madras, India.
Pending the arrival of Mr. Streeper, a member of the
consulate staff, Bryant Buckingham, acted as consul.

LONG WITH THE present five American consulates

general in Germany, Berlin was opened for the third
time in its history early in 1946. Bremen dates originally
from 1794; Frankfurt, 1829; Stuttgart, middle of the 19th
century; Hamburg 1865; Berlin, about 1870, and Munich,
1879. The last reopenings took place between March 1 and
May 1, 1946. Former offices not reopened were Cologne,
Dresden and Leipzig.*

* For earlier article, see ‘‘US Consulates in Germany," Information
Bulletin, Issue No. 51, July 22, 1946.

co

years as the Pariser Platz (Paris Square). The Brandenburger Tor today is the dividing line between the Soviet Sector,

in which the former Embassy building is situated, and the British Sector of the quadripartite city.

OCTOBER 1950 7

(Information Bulletin photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Right after the war, Berlin and Frankfurt were sét up as
“consular branches,” not yet full-fledged consular offices.
Although Frankfurt has been “promoted” to a consulate
general, Berlin still is in the consulate stage, thus coming
under direct supervision of the Office of Political Affairs,
HICOG. The remaining consular offices, all consulates
general, also come under the Office of Political Affairs and
Director Samuel Reber, but in a less direct fashion. They
form a division, headed by Supervisory Consul General
Albert M. Doyle, who succeeded retiring Consul General
Marshall M. Vance on July 31. His office supervises all
consular functions and channels information to and
from HICOG.

In the early days of 1946 an elderly German gentleman
entered the building at 11 Bockenheimer Anlage, Frank-
furt, and told the receptionist he had come to “exercise
option for citizenship.” His father, he explained confi-
dently, had fought in the Civil War and when hostilities
ended, had been offered an option for citizenship on the
basis of service. Father had, however, returned to Ger-
many, married and remained, and so today he, the son,
would like to take up the option. What must he sign?

A former active Nazi.with a destroyed factory to rebuild,
he deemed the opportune moment had arrived for him to
step forward. He was among the first of the thousands of
claimants to American citizenship — ‘American DP’s,"
they were tagged—tfo tread a soon well-worn path through
the rubble to the Frankfurt consulate.

OT ONE OF THE former consular buildings in Ger-

many survived the destruction. The office at Bocken-
heimer Anlage, housed in a renovated doctor's home, was
manned late in 1945 by three officers and one secretary
who answered telephones all over the building and replied
“yes,” when callers asked, ‘Is this the Consulate? -— the
Embassy? — the Consulate General? — the State Depart-
ment? — the Consular Branch?" In those days, no one in
or outside the office knew.

In accordance with the Presidential Directive of Dec. 22,
1945, a procedure was established to resume immigration
from Germany to the United States. In the subsequent
screening of these claimants to American citizenship (some
with more and some with even less claim than the son of
the Civil War soldier), it took until 1948 for the offices to
expedite the enormous case backlog. This processing, and
the issuance of 37,326 non-preference visas to displaced
persons between April 1946 and July 1, 1948 (when the
Displaced Persons Commission came into being), was the
principal work of consular personnel in the early post-
war days.

Claimants caught in Germany by the war, displaced
persons and ethnic Germans (Germans expelled from
Eastern countries under the Potsdam Agreement) have
created “‘diplomatic’’ work which has set precedents beth
in type and amount.

For instance, Mr. Doyle, the supervisory consul general,
serves as the immigration co-ordinating officer for the Dis-
placed Persons Program in Austria, Germany and Italy.
He thus supervises the 12 DP visa-issuing subposts estab-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

lished when the Displaced Persons Act went into effect
July 1, 1948. Consular officers at these subposts decide on
the eligibility of prospective immigrants under US
nationality laws. This step comes after their eligibility as
displaced persons has been ascertained by the DP Com-
mission. Nine Foreign Service officers, 33 Foreign Service
Staff officers, and 35 Foreign Service clerks and secretaries
are currently assigned to this program.

Aside from visa-issuing, however, offices gradually have
resumed functions normal to a Foreign Service post. Poli-
tical.and economic reporting, citizenship services, pro-
tection of American interests and trade promotion are
common to all posts in Germany today. The degree of im-
portance attached to certain types of work in different
areas varies with the office's geographic location.

ECAUSE IT IS situated so conveniently close to the

HICOG Headquarters: Building, the Frankfurt Con-
sulate General has been chosen to house the Office of the
Supervisory Consul General. The Frankfurt office is there-
fore the scene of conferences bringing together consuls
general, DP visa-issuing officers and other groups as the
need arises.

To centralize and simplify procedures, the Frankfurt
Consulate handles all visa and passport work for German
government officials going to the United States from Bonn.
It has the busiest Citizenship and Passport Section in Ger-
many by virtue of the large American community created
by HICOG and the relatively high proportion of military
personnel there. All procedures for establishing or deter-
mining American citizenship are included in this section,
and in recent years the registration of births has been a
significant part of the work.

Numerous services, passport and otherwise, are per-
formed at Frankfurt for visiting government officials and
for the increasing number of business men entering Ger-
many. Explanations for this are Frankfurt's status as a
transportation center and her position at least temporarily
as a commercial, financial and government center of
western Germany ever since the truncation of the country.

Frankfurt, in the six-month period ending last May 1,
prepared 1,860 trade letters, more than three times the
number sent out from any other office. The many queries
directed there are the result of association in the writers’
minds of Frankfurt as the “headquarters” of everything in
Germany. All incorrectly addressed letters are also for-
warded to that office. Only those seekittg knowledge of a
particular district are sent to another consular office for
acknowledgment.

This office also has performed thus far this year the
largest number of notarial services (legalization of docu-
ments), the 2,450 total being the result again of the large
number of Americans in the vicinity. Frankfurt's most
recent publicity came when the Jubilee Plaque, placed on
the old building by the City of Frankfurt on the consulate
general's 100th birthday in 1929, was uncovered in a Frank-
furt junk pile. For administrative purposes the DP visa-
issuing subposts at Butzbach and Schweinfurt are as-
signed to this office.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 22 ---
HE CONSULATE GENERAL at Bremen* is the oldest

consular office in Germany, its 1794 charter bearing
the signature of President George Washington. Its early
duties were concerned with shipping between the Free
Hanseatic City of Bremen and the United States still in its
early years of existence.

In postwar Germany, Bremen has about-faced. The pres-
ent restrictions on the German merchant marine have
curtailed her shipping services but the increasing indus-
trial and political importance of the district, which includes
towns ofthe Ruhr such as Duesseldorf and Essen as well
as Cologne and Germany's present capital, Bonn, have
resulted in more political and economic reports originat-
ing there than from any of the other consular districts.

In the six-month period ending May 1, the Bremen office
prepared 223 political and 226 economic reports. The only
office approaching the latter figure was Hamburg, which
produced 159 political reports; no office approached the
total for economic reports. The importance of reports
never can be measured by number alone, but here it is
an accurate reflection of the amount of activity in the
Bremen area.

The Bremen office certified the largest number of con-
sular invoices, 2,227 in the six-month period, because of
the heavy industry exports from that area. Frankfurt, a
center with many finishing industries, certified just over
2,000 in the same period.

The Bremen office has under its jurisdiction what may
well be the smallest consulate in the world, that at Bremer-
haven. One officer and one clerk comprise the staff. Their
duties consist only of shipping and notarial services. The
office is a forwarding branch for the US Government Dis-
patch Agent handling supplies for Germany and Austria
and is the only port of debarkation for the Army in Europe.

Consul General Maurice W. Altaffer was in charge of
the Bremen office, until his transfer in August to the
State Department in Washington, being succeeded by
Laverne Baldwin, formerly stationed in Istanbul. Its staff
is composed of 75 persons.

HE ONLY CONSULAR office which began operating

as a regular foreign service post immediately upon
reopening its doors was Hamburg. With a district situated
entirely in the British Zone, it was never within the sphere
of influence of OMGUS or HICOG. It issued no displaced
persons’ visas until a visa-issuing subpost was established
at Wentorf in January 1949. Before the war, a considerable
portion of the consular work done in this largest of Ger-
man seaports was based on shipping activity. Because
shipping restrictions have continued, other work comes to
the force in reviewing consular functions. When figures
are considered, political reporting predominates with eco-
nomic reporting, passport and visa work following close
behind.

State Department personnel in Hamburg have been
receiving all community needs, including both home and
office accommodations, from the British Control Commis-
sion for Germany. However, the Hamburg Consulate Gen-

* See ‘Oldest Consulate in Germany, “Information Bulletin, May 1959.

OCTOBER 1950

19

Albert M. Doyle (left), Supervisory Consul General, heads
the division formed by the US consulates general in Ger-
many, supervises all consular functions and channels in-
formation to and from HICOG. Mr. Doyle replaced Consul
General Marshall M. Vance, who retired from the Foreign
Service on July 31. Above, Secretary Mary McDonald, in
behalf of Frankfurt personnel, presents going-away gift
to Mr. Vance. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

eral, will be the first in Germany to move again into
government-owned quarters when its transfer is made next
January to buildings at 27 and 28 Alster-Ufer Strasse.

Consul General Robert T. Cowan heads the staff of
slightly more than 100 members.

Despite current shipping inactivity, the Hamburg con-
sulate broke into the headlines with “shipping” news last
June when three of its secretaries and one of its vice con-
suls discarded their shoes and pocketbooks for a half-hour
sail before lunch on the Baltic-Mecklenburg coast, and
eight hours later’still were trying to reach land in the face
of driving wind and rain. Finally they reached the Soviet
Zone shore. The four set out at a fast barefoot pace toward
the nearby zonal border but soon were approached by Ger-
man and then Russian police. The only identification which
could be produced was a paper verifying the vice consul
had once served in Spain. And no one could understand
the lack of shoes. It was only after a night spent in a
guarded farmhouse and 24 hours of “negotiations” involv-
ing various offices, nations and people that the four were
released at Luebeck.

IHE CONSULATE GENERAL in Stuttgart was in the

1930's one. of the six largest visa-issuing offices in the
world and one of the three largest visa-issuing posts in
Europe, Warsaw and Naples heading the list. At that time
all immigration visa work in southern Germany was cen-
tralized there while in the north it was divided between
Hamburg and Berlin. Stuttgart’s postwar visa-issuing has
been limited to her own consular district, the state of
Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Stuttgart administers the subpost visa-issuing offices at
Ludwigsburg and Rastatt. The latter, located in the old
castle of the Grand Duke of Baden, boasts the most auspi-
cious visa-issuing surroundings in Germany. Consul gen-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
eral at Stuttgart is Patrick Mallon, who administers a staff
of 72 persons,

The American Consulate General at Munich has had an
unusual function hinged onto its program: that of adminis-
tering the European relay base of the United States Infor-
mation Service broadcasts from New York, or the Voice
of America. Although in no way responsible for the
program material, the consulate general has on its staff
85 persons connected with the relay station, including
15 engineers and 45 local technicians.

With the largest consular district in Germany, this of-
fice also has the largest staff. Its more than 250 employees
made it the largest consulate general in the world two
years ago when the latest figures were published, There
were only five embassies in the Foreign Service larger
at that time. Consul General Sam E. Woods, who holds the
personal rank of minister, is in charge.

The fact that the state of Bavaria, which the consular
district entirely covers, is the largest of the German states
and that in Munich one finds the headquarters of that
area's many separatist and independence movements, make
its political reports of particular interest. The location of
the Bavarian Alps in the Munich district has also made
that office a tourist activity reporting center.

Munich is the only consular district which had under its
jurisdiction three DP subposts. On Dec. 31, 1949 the post
at Amberg was closed, but those situated at Augsburg and
at Funk Barracks in Munich still are functioning. Funk
Barracks, of all the subposts, has issued the largest number
of DP visas since more displaced persons were concen-
trated in that area.

'HE VISA WORK, for ethnic Germans, common to all

consular offices in Germany, is a type of immigration
never before undertaken in American history. For the first
time, people are immigrating to the United States on the
quota of a country in which they were not born.

Ethnic Germans under the DP Act are those displaced
populations of German origin who were born in Czecho-
slovakia, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Ru-
mania or Yugoslavia, or areas under the control and domi-
nation of any such countries. Most came from countries
with quotas so low their turns for immigration could

FLAG OF FREEDOM — This sign, recently erected at the
boundary of the US Sector of Berlin, faces the Soviet Sec-
tor and gives the addresses of HICOG-Berlin Element's
Headquarters and of the US Military Police. (US Amy photo)

13 penning oer fu
vey te tt TOMA ROE
Rube Gott EDU HE REN
‘fee ayaa fa ange neat
Tn Sr RE TM
Res HONE rire
ee

es i RL wat

hardly have been predicted. This situation exists because
the US quota system was set up under the Immigration
Act of 1924 on the basis of the percentage of blood stock
of each country in the United States in 1890. It resulted in
low Eastern European country quotas.

Section 12 of the DP Act attempted to alleviate the ethnic
German problem by setting aside for these people 50 per-
cent of the German and Austrian 1949 and 1950 quotas.
For the opportunity of immigrating immediately, stringent
rules were enforced. In contrast to usual German immigra-
tion regulations, no former member of the Nazi Party or
a subsidiary group could qualify.

It became the duty of the consular screening officer to
establish ethnic German status through interviews and
documents presented. The ethnic could be several possible
combinations of the following: of German blood stock,
educated in a German school, brought up in a German
community where German customs, holidays, etc., were
observed, have spoken the German language, have been
culturally as well as racially German.

Normally, public records are available for the consulates
to check alleged truths. Since interview statements in
these cases could not be proved through documents other
than those presented by the prospective immigrants them-
selves, an unusual responsibility has been attached to the
judgment of the consular officers who passed the 9,207
ethnics who had received visas through May 31, 1950.

IHE CONSULAR OFFICES here have maintained fruit-

ful relationships in Germany with the two tragic
exceptions of World Wars! and II. Some humorously recall
Frankfurt’s “Civil War Incident'' when local citizens won-
dered whether to continue “fruitful relations with the
ousted US consul from Louisiana or his replacement from
Michigan. The ex-consul refused to leave the city, nego-
tiated a loan for his “‘country,"’ the Southern States, and
busied himself finding financial support for outfitting pri-
vateers to harry Northern shipping.

His replacement, with the personal blessings of President
Lincoln, also began negotiating loans for his “country”
and became so perturbed over the activity of his predeces-
sor that he obtained special permission from Congress to
fly the American flag and display the American seal on
his office to convince the Free City that he still represented
all of the United States. (Before that incident, it had never
been the custom to display the flag regularly.) He must
have succeeded. He negotiated five loans for the United
States.

The consular offices have a tradition to maintain im-
portant for the effectiveness of US representation in Ger-
many inthe future: that of continuing the close and friendly
relations with the German public which they have tried to
cultivate for a century. Consular functions should not be
confused with occupation policy. Consular functions are
continuous; occupation functions are temporary.

Veteran consulate personnel of Germany feel that only
by keeping the complete confidence of contacts and of the
public can the Foreign Service function most successfully
in the future in Germany. +END

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 24 ---
Little Mueckenloch’s 1,000 Inhabitants Were Weary of Isolation and
Through Demands for Transportation Voiced at a Town Meeting

They Got the Bus Rolling

By WILLIAM T. NEEL
US Resident Officer, Heidelberg, Wuerttemberg-Baden

i ge: on came s PROBLEMS constitute some of the
major headaches of the people of the small rural com-
munities in the Odenwald mountain range. Mueckenloch,
a town of 1,000 inhabitants in Heidelberg County, had
been such an isolated mountain town until July 16, 1950.
The numerous commuters to industrial plants in Mannheim
and Heidelberg were compelled to walk to distant rail-
road stations,

But today, one of the bright yellow buses of the Bundes-
post (German Postal System) connects Mueckenloch to
the railroad station in Neckargemuend. Commuters no
longer need to be away from their families for 12 or 14
hours every working day.

How was it possible that an age-old problem was solved
at a time when town and county governments were con-
fronted by a host of postwar problems which sometimes
appeared to frustrate all efforts of local administrators?
The Rhein-Neckar Zeitung, a Heidelberg newspaper, gave
the answer in its July 18 issue. "A Mueckenloch Woman
Asked for It at the Forum,” said a three-column headline.

The forum referred to was held on October 13, 1949. One
hundred and eighty citizens of Mueckenloch gathered in
the ‘school hall in order to discuss their problems with
Mayor Karl Wieder, County Supervisor Herbert Klotz,
County Councilor Karl Wetzler, Dr.Hermann Knorr, a
deputy to the state legislature, and the HICOG Resident
Officer stationed at Heidelberg.

FTER MAYOR WIEDER had agreed to comply with the

popular request for public town council meetings,
Fraeulein Herbeck took the floor. She demanded a bus
line to connect the litthe mountain town with the rest of
the world. The transportation problem was thoroughly d's-
cussed by all present and the interest of both the com-
munity and the panel members became focused upon it.

Two weeks later, Mayor Wieder invited the local county
councilors, the mayor of Neckargemuend, the chairman
of the Neckargemuend traffic improvement association,
the Neckargemuend postmaster and the press to a con-
ference in the nearby city of Neckargemuend. There
Mayor Wieder successfully pleaded for the establishment
of a bus line. >

The postmaster who had been contacted immediately
after the town meeting, announced that the Bundespost
was willing to run a bus line from Neckargemuend to
Mueckenloch, provided the county highway was properly
repaired, widened and maintained. Four days before the
conference, the Mueckenloch town government had ad-
dressed a petition to the county council, requesting repair
of the county highway.

Deputy Knorr, publisher of the Rhein-Neckar Zeitung,
campaigned in his paper for the bus line. ‘Bus Line to
Mueckenloch Urgently Required; Commuters Entitled to
Transportation,” the paper proclaimed in its headlines,
The county councilors advocated the establishment of the
bus line and voted an appropriation for the repair and
widening of the highway.

On April 22, at another town meeting in Mueckenloch,
County Councilor Wetzler was able to report that con-
struction work on the county highway was under way and
that Mueckenloch would soon have its bus line.

HE INAUGURATION of the new bus line on July 16

was marked by a grand municipal celebration. Flags
flew from all houses, the main street was decorated with
young birch trees, and school children lined the high-
way. A brass band marched in, followed by the bus, which
carried guests from the neighborhood towns. The school
choir greeted the gaily decorated bus with a song, Talks

The first bus to arrive in the little Wuerttemberg-Baden mountain town of Mueckenloch (pop. 1,000), is serenaded by its brass
band. Center: William T. Neel (left), author of this article, and Mayor Heinrich Held of Neckargemuend were among
spectators at ceremonies marking inauguration of the bus service, for which all of Mueckenloch’s inhabitants turned out.

--- Page 25 ---
First passengers to ride the Neckargemuend-Mueckenloch
bus arrive in the Odenwald mountain town for festivities.

were delivered by the mayors of Mueckenloch and the
neighboring communities, the county supervisor and
postal officials.

Neckargemuend’s Mayor Heinrich Held emphasized that
it was the town meeting which had initiated the efforts
leading to the opening of the bus line. “The new bus line

d ne

Oberpostrat Hils formally opens bus line. In background,
in dark suit, is Mayor Karl Wieder of proud Mueckenloch.

will bring progress to the community,” declared the
county supervisor.

To the people of Mueckenloch, their little yellow Bundes-
post bus today demonstrates that the people can con-
tribute to the solution of local problems through the in-
strument of the town meeting. +END

Socialization of Industry Opposed

HE MAJORITY of residents of the US Zone of Germany

do not believe that the worker would be better off if
industry were socialized, a survey conducted by the
Reactions Analysis Staff, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
revealed.

Results of the survey also disclosed that there has been
a considerable shift of opinion on whether social owner-
ship of industry offers the most advantage for the worker
since November 1947, when a similar survey was conducted
in the American zone and in western Berlin.

The 1950 survey, embracing a representative sampling
of approximately 1,500 cases in the zone, 250 in Berlin and
160 in Bremen, showed that 54 percent do not feel that
socialization would improve the lot of the worker. This
represents an increase of 13 percentage points from the
41 percent who held such a view two and a half years ago.

Berliners registered an even greater shift of opinion

-with more than two out of three persons rejecting the idea
that socialized industry would improve the economic
position of the worker.

The workers themselves also thought far less of the
socialization idea than they did in 1947. Their opinions are
in line with those of the public at large. In the US Zone
58 percent — a 17-percent increase — said that the worker
would not be better off. In Berlin the figure was higher,
with 72 percent expressing such an opinion.

LONG WITH ASCERTAINING current opinion on
benefits to the worker, trained interviewers also delved

into the extent of support of socialization. They found in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22,

the 30 months since the first survey that opposition to
socialization of industry rose from 24 to 37 percent. At the
same time, approval of socialization — for all or heavy
industry — dropped from 49 to 38 percent. The opposition
was most marked in Hesse, where there was a 23 percent
change in opinion.

In Berlin, a similar trend has occurred where support for
complete socialization has dropped from 22 percent in 1947
to 11 percent this year.

Searching political party attitudes in this field in which
the Social Democratic Party (SPD) formerly espoused
socialization, pollsters found there is far from unanimous
conviction that even heavy industry — coal mines, iron
and steel — should be socialized. On this particular issue,
polling of SPD members in 1947 showed 50 percent in favor
whereas in this year’s survey support dropped to 38 per-
cent. Disapproval in the SPD ranks has grown to where
32 percent oppose even partial socialization. Berliners,
following the same trend, showed among its SPD adherents
that opposition to socialization of only heavy industry
had risen from 27 to 43 percent since 1947.

The survey also disclosed that the sharp decrease in
support for socialization of German industry in whole or
in part is general among all groups, rather than being
confined to any particular segment. In no population group
examined in the current survey did support for complete
socialization exceed 14 percent, whereas in 1947 more than
25 percent in many groups were in favor. The study
included groupings by education, income, sex, size of town,
age, religion and occupation.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 26 ---
Fighters
Against
Inhumanity

By JOHN T. BUTTERWICK

ANY AMERICANS are closer to the Germans living

in the East zone than are some Germans living in the
West." This tribute to American understanding of pro-
blems confronting East German residents in the postwar
period is the opinion of Dr, Rainer Hildebrandt, young and
courageous founder and leader of the Fighting Group
Against Inhumanity, with headquarters in Berlin.

Nominally a German political organization, the group
ironically considers itself non-political — their main fight
is directed against concentration camps located in the
Soviet occupation zone of Germany or in German terri-
tory which now lies east of the Oder-Neisse line. Hilde-
brandt is quick to point out that the group is equally con-
cerned with crimes against humanity whether they are
committed in the Eastern or Western sphere of influence.

Hildebrandt also insists on the prime importance of the
distinction between Russians on the one hand and Com-
munists and Stalinists on the other. For those who have
just returned from Soviet concentration camps and tremble
at the mere mention of the word “Russian,” this rather
neat but indubitable difference is particularly difficult to
embrace.

The raison d'etre of the Fighting Group rests on the fact
that since the close of the war, the majority of all the in-
mates of Soviet concentration camps located in East Ger-
many have been starved to death or otherwise annihi-
lated or deported, and that the surviving prisoners face
the same fate. This is revealed by the latest statistics
compiled by the group, according to which at least 185,000
persons have been arrested since 1945 and thrown into

Fort Freiheit

mit der eo

ines pai Wahlen
in

Regierung Ost und West

“F-for-Freedom’ (in German the “'F" stands for ‘‘Freiheit')
has been the symbol of the Fighting Group Against In-
humanity since July 1949. Thousands of stickers like that
above, pamphlets bearing the same “Down with the SED
Regime’ message and “F's” painted on walls and doors
have penetrated many areas far behind the Iron Curtain.

concentration camps. Of these, 37,000 have been deported
to the Soviet Union. Of the remainder 96,000 have died
from hunger, privation, tuberculosis and other disea§es.
Nor does it seem that this diabolic situation will alter
materially so long as the Communists remain in control.

Because of this it is the purpose of the Fighting Group
Against Inhumanity to place the whole world in the posi-
tion of being aware of this system of terror and slavery
which is contrary to the accepted laws of humanity. The
group reasons that each man will thus be confronted with
a decision of conscience and believes that whoever tries
to evade the decision and not transform his conviction into
deeds becomes an accomplice in crimes against humanity.

MIMEOGRAPHED BOOK, entitled ‘'Concentration
A Camps in the Soviet Occupation Zone of Germany”
and issued in March 1950, lists the location of the follow-
ing 13 main concentration camps in Soviet-occupied Ger-
many since 1945:

Weesow, near Werneuchten,
Tost, Silesia.

Landsberg an der Warthe.
Posen.

Reminders of the need to fight for freedom mysteriously bob up in the Soviet Zone: Left, outside a Soviet-licensed “Free
Shop" in Halle, in Saxony; center, on wall at intersection in Kamenz, also in Saxony; and, right, on Halle post office door.

haoaa

--- Page 27 ---
Hohenschoenhausen, near Berlin.

Ketschendorf, near Fuerstenwalde.

Jamlitz, near Lieberose.

Torgau and Forst Zinna.

Muehlberg.

Neubrandenburg.

Buchenwald, near Weimar.

Sachsenhausen, near Oranienburg.

Bautzen.

Three of these camps — Buchenwald, Sachsenhausen and
Neubrandenburg — existed as concentration camps in the
SS State. Muehlberg was a prisoner-of-war camp prior to
1945, Bautzen and Torgau were penal institutions as well
as old prisons, Jamlitz was an SS penal camp, and Weesow
was a temporary camp where male and female inmates
were crowded into the barns and stables of the village.
Included in the important innovations introduced by the
Soviet Secret Police (MVD) was the fencing off of the in-
dividual barracks buildings by barbed wire and the segre-
gation of criminal elements from the political internees.

IROM THE MANY reliable reports of former inmates
ofconcentration camps in Soviet-occupied territory, col-
lected by the Fighting Group Against Inhumanity, the fol-
lowing picture of the MVD system of political internment
on German soil as a political weapon is revealed.
The arrests by Soviet military forces began immediately
after occupation. At first they were carried out by the

Wreath is laid at foot of Soviet War Memorial in Berlin
by Hubertus von Tibien, the Fighting Group's press officer.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Soviet Army or at any rate under the direction of the
Soviet secret police, formerly called the GPU and currently
designated as MVD, with central offices in Moscow. Since
the spring of 1946, the East Zone German police (Volks-
polizei) have been entrusted More and more with carrying
out arrests as ordered by the MVD.

Those arrested may be divided into two main groups.
The first was composed of former members of the Nazi
party, war criminals, Nazi criminals and those guilty of
crimes against prisoners of war and foreign workers. Ac-
cording to information of the group, most of these were
“little” party members. In 1945 this category comprised
50 percent of those arrested for political reasons, How-
ever, after 1946 the percentage of former Nazis arrested
not only decreased, but they almost exclusively com-
posed the first two waves of releases in 1948 and 1949,

This was after the founding of the National Democratic
Party (NDP), the Communist stooge party designed to
appeal to former Nazis and extreme rightists with ultra-
nationalist training who would be averse to joining the
Socialist Unity Party (SED) — the avowed German Com-
munist party.

The second group was composed of the intelligentsia
and the bourgeoisie; members of the Social Democratic
Party (SPD) who were taken over by the SED in the Soviet-
forced merger of the German Communist Party (KPD) and
SPD in 1946, but who could no longer go along with the
Communists’ program which became progressively trans-
parent; and those suspected of sabotage.

Also included were members of the East Christian Demo-
cratic Union (CDU) and Liberal Democratic Party (LDP)
who lacked the “correct ideological conception," and stu-
dents who represented the SPD, CDU or LDP standpoint
and who were almost always charged with Werwolf
activities — in the majority of cases, without justification.
Also falling in the clutches of the Soviet secret police were
those denounced by informers, or those luckless persons
who became involved through no fault of their own or be-
cause they knew “too much.” In the “closing” of the con-
centration camps in January 1950, this second group,
especially former Social Democrats, were not released.

FTER ARREST, according to stories told the Fighting

Group by former inmates, came the interrogation with
mental torture used in addition to severe kicking, whip-
ping with rope, and beating with steel rods in order to
force confession. Other methods used were the alternate
dashing of icy and boiling water on the naked victim,
ceaselessly glaring light-bulbs, and awaking the victim
every two hours during sleep, so that in a matter of weeks
the prisoner became virtually insane.

Whether or not the victim finally signed a confession
mattered little in deciding his fate, as he was either sent
to a concentration camp or exiled to the Soviet Union.
Now, the torture is general without violence. One method
is to make the victim sit in the same position on a low
stool for hours on end without moving so that the limbs
swell and psychological resistance is broken.

Pronouncement of the sentence was performed by an
MVD official. In this case also, signing the document

OCTOBER 1950

\

--- Page 28 ---
SCHWEIGEN

20. UND 21. JULI

At press conference in Berlin headquarters, Ernst Tillich
(left), deputy leader, stands beside Dr. Rainer Hildebrandt,
the youthful founder and active head of the Fighting Group.

prepared in Russian made no difference. The sentence
generally called for delivery to a so-called work or cor-
rection camp but which turned out to be a concentration
camp.

The difference between concentration camps of the East
zone and the penal camps in the Soviet Union must be
pointed out. The penal camps in the Soviet Union are
labor camps from which the miserable political internees
are dispatched to perform the heaviest type of work. In
contrast the MVD camps in eastern Germany have been
characterized by complete idleness and only very recently
has work been introduced in some of them. A system of
controlled slow starvation is in effect with rations dimin-
ishing day by day. The maximum caloric content of the
daily ration amounts to 1,200 and the minimum 500.

The monotonous diet, never relieving the ever-present
aching, gnawing hunger, is as follows: One or at the most
one and one-half quarts of watery soup in the morning
containing slightly more than two ounces of barley and
one grated potato per person; at noon the same broth
which made inmates feel like vomiting because of the
smell alone; in late afternoon a pint of herb tea or ersatz

coffee with an average of one pound of soggy and sour
bread,

The body weakened by this process not only loses spir-
itual and mental resistance, resulting in the complete

OCTOBER 1950

25

degradation of the prisoner, but eventually fails to func-
tion physically. Incidence of severe edema, tuberculosis
and infectious diseases is high with a mortality of approxi-
mately 64 percent.

ORPSES AT SACHSENHAUSEN were disposed of by

strictly segregated burial squads who interred the re-
mains either in mass graves inside or outside the camp. The
latter were later camouflaged by vegetation.

The underlying reason for such barbarous and system-
atic extermination of elements which resist the relentless
sovietization of the East zone is no doubt largely political
and represents one of the main Soviet pillars supporting
their totalitarian state.

Not only are the intelligentsia and bourgeois elements
decimated but the knowledge of the insupportably cruel
methods used in the camps, spread by released prisoners,
strikes terror in the hearts of those living in the East zone
and further enslaves them by paralyzing their will to
resist. Russian hatred toward the Germans also probably
plays a part. One prisoner was told, “You are criminals.
The punishment is hard but it is just."

The work of the Fighting Group Against Inhumanity in
exposing MVD methods through the press and radio was
instrumental in arousing public opinion and in embarras-
sing German Communists to such an extent that finally
the latter were granted their request to Soviet authorities
for concentration camps to be “dissolved.”

That, however, did not prevent the secret establishment
in March of new penal camps for Germans in Silesia and
in other Eastern territory, under the direction of the Volks-
polizei. Early reports indicate that conditions have wor-
sened since the change. MVD prisons in all the larger
cities remain and the so-called labor camps in the nature
of concentration camps —Schneeberg in Saxony and in
Ruedersdorf near Berlin — also continue to exist.

A list of 21 non-Germans who have died in concentration
camps, published by the organization, contains the names
of two Americans— Otto von Koekeritz and Charles
Nobies. Americans allegedly in concentration camps at
present are Hopkins (first name unknown), Petterson (first
name unknown), Miller (possibly spelled Mueller, who
was in uniform until 1947), and Johnny Nobies, son of
Charles Nobies.

N JULY 20, 1949, the Fighting Group Against Inhu-

manity instituted an F-for-Freedom action which is
symbolic and patterned after the V-for-Victory symbol
originated during World WarII by Winston Churchill.
Almost immediately the letter F was found painted on
fences and buildings throughout the Soviet-occupied area,
For the massive demonstration staged at the Platz der
Republik in Western Berlin on May 1 the “F" was incor-
porated in the Berlin Bear .

During the past year thousands of "F” handbills, urging
passive resistance and a continuation of the struggle for
freedom in the East zone, have been distributed at the
risk of life.

A search service for ascertaining the whereabouts and
the fate of persons arrested in or displaced from the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
Eastern zone is conducted by. the group and counsel and
support are given to political refugees from the Eastern
zone and other victims of crimes against humanity.

It was also the idea of Dr. Hildebrandt that the names of
informers be broadcast over RIAS, the US-controlled radio
station in Berlin, so East zone Germans would be aware of
the identity of those giving information to the MVD. Each
night an announcer’s warning voice calls out “Achtung!
Achtung!" (Attention! Attention!) followed by the names
of informers, their addresses and personal descriptions.

Before any person is mentioned he must be named by
three separate reliable sources so that innocent people may
not be harmed by inaccurate or malicious information.

Of the 30 members who work at the headquarters of the
Fighting Group Against Inhumanity and who receive just
enough to cover living expenses, several were persecuted
and arrested under the Nazis and eight have been in MVD
prisons or Soviet camps. Ernst Tillich (SPD) is deputy
head of the group and furnishes strong political leadership
and administrative ability. A board of six prominent
citizens from various professions decides on policy as well
as financial and personnel problems. It is noteworthy
that each of the democratic parties of Berlin is represented
on the board.’ This is another indication of the living unity
of the West Berliners against the Communist threat.

HE DESIRE TO HELP those who are or have been in

prison, according to Hildebrandt, derives from his
own personal experience in World War II when three of
his closest friends were executed by the Nazis and he
was twice in prison for his suspected connection with an
anti-Hitler group. A contact man for Albrecht Haushofer,
who was killed after the July 20 plot against Hitler in
1944, Hildebrandt was first arrested in April 1943, and not
released until June of 1944. He was again taken prisoner
following the abortive attempt on Hitler's life on July 20,
1944, and held in a German army prison camp until Novem-
ber of that year, at which time he was released in order to
continue his duty as a private in the German army.

Although his version is undoubtedly correct, as far as
it goes, it is reasonable to assume that the origin of his
crusading spirit reaches farther back into the mysticism
and romantic idealism which apparently are two of his
main characteristics.

Twice, unsuccessful attempts have been made to kidnap
him. Last June armed members of a group from the East
sector waited outside his home in the Nikolassee section
of Berlin with three cars. When Hildebrandt entered the
car waiting for him, two of the cars attempted to stage an
accident in order to block the street. Those in the third
car were to enter Hildebrandt's car armed, place an ether
sponge over his face and abduct him. The attempt failed
as the street was not blocked quickly enough. Later one
of the group defected and reported on the whole plan. As
a result three of the 20 conspirators were arrested.

The Berlin Magistrat (city council) which helps the
association financially for the group's assistance to the
municipal refugee center, also supplies an armed guard for
its headquarters. It is striking that most of the contribu-
tions to the organization come from Soviet Zone residents.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

ESPITE THE EFFECTIVENESS of Dr. Hildebrandt in

this field it is perhaps only natural that he should be
subjected to a certain amount of criticism. Various claims
have been made that he is not sufficiently rational, has
displayed instability in speches, possesses insufficient po-
litical experience, and times has not sufficiently condem-
ned the Nazis.

Hildebrandt is of the opinion that the unification of
Germany is an Allied problem so that it is impossible to
predict when such a development may be successfully
attained, but that if the West continues to act strongly
the Soviet position in the East zone will become so
difficult that they no longer can master the situation.

He believes any Western plan should provide for (1)
amity with the Russian people and enmity for Stalinism
(the word “Russian” should not be used in connection with
inhumanities), and (2) every possible support and attention
to all people living under the Communists who are willing
to resist Stalinism.

For example, establishing an European radio station in
Berlin which would carry programs and news to those in
the satellite countries and in the USSR. He is loath to
grant the inevitability of war and thinks that a 100-percent
effort should be made to avoid it. In his opinion the West
has no right to push back the Communists with force and
war unless it knows without any question that the needed
strength cannot be obtained by peaceful and moral means.

“Until today," he says, “we have employed only 25
percent of our potential strength in the East-West struggle.
If we look for all possibilities, including passive resistance
in the East zone and the Eastern European countries, we
can find the other 75 percent to force the Soviets to with-
draw and thereby allow the re-establishment of human
dignity and freedom.”

ILDEBRANDT, WHEN speaking of passive resistance,

definitely rules out the use of sabotage, acts of terror
and other violent methods. He possesses a sublime faith
that, if the conditions of suppressed peoples are exposed,
and passive resistance is used, the Soviet position will
become untenable and the threatening totalitarian machine
unable to digest the East zone. Although the power of the
free press and radio is unquestionably momentous when
certain human and civic rights are safeguarded — passive
resistance alone certainly appears insufficient at present
to make the Soviet position untenable.

It must be remembered that if it were not for the power
of America, coupled with spiritual, moral and legal rights,
that neither RIAS, nor the Fighting Group Against
Inhumanity, nor any other democratic organization would
at present exist openly in Berlin.

In the struggle against inhumanity, terror and brutality,
the tremendous value of a free city in the center of
Soviet-dominated territory, which gives hope to millions,
must never be forgotten. There can be no question that the
great majority of them are ready and willing to fight, in
one way or another, against inhumanity and against the
false promises of a foreign dictator. And in this fight Dr.
Hildebrandt and his organization are playing an eloquent
role, +END

OCTOBER 1950

a

--- Page 30 ---
HICOG Learns German

By WILLIAM G. MOULTON

VER IN FRANKFURT they tell the story of the Ameri-

can who lost his way down in the middle of town.
Summoning his courage, he approached the next person
who came along and asked, in a rich American accent,
“Verzeihung, wo ist der Bahnhof?"

“Gehen Sie hier geradeaus und dann rechts,” came the
answer — in an equally rich and beautiful American
accent,

“Danke schoen," replied the first man. And then, as he
was about to walk off, a great light dawned: “HICOG
language class?"

“Yeah,” replied the second man, “unit one.”

Cee een |

AYBE THE WHOLE THING never happened, but it
could have. Because right now there are some 171
HICOG employees in Frankfurt attending German classes,
part of a total of 583 State Department employees scat-
tered throughout western Germany and Berlin. And right
along with them, squeezing in German lessons wherever
he can, isthe 584th: US High Commissioner John J. McCloy.
If you ask them why they're bothering to twist their
tongues around those ii's and 6's, or gargle those r’s,
they'll give a variety of answers. Stenographers will say
it helps when they try to give directions to their maids.
Branch and division chiefs say it makes all the difference
between staring silently at German guests and actually
talking with them — even if the German language gets
slightly mangled in the process. And US Resident Officers
will say quite honestly that a good working knowledge

of German is the most valuable single asset they can have
for doing their jobs.

This mass attack on the German language is the result
of an elementary bit of logic. The biggest job Americans
have to do in Germany is to understand the Germans: to
find out what they think about, what they talk about and
why they behave the way they do. To learn these things,
obviously, we must talk to Germans, and if we want to
talk to them, we've got to know their language. Ergo:
learn German.

Mr.McCloy himself had this to say about the importance

of speaking to the Germans in their own language, in a
speech last December to resident officers: “I am convinced
that you can have no entirely satisfactory access to the
German people and their thoughts when conversational
contacts with them are limited to those you must carry
on through an interpreter, or when your conversations
are inhibited by a too limited knowledge of the German
language. I realize that to really learn a language... is
a considerable chore, but it is a chore we must-all face if
we are going to do the job successfully.”
_ So much for top level policy. Mr. McCloy also told the
resident officers how this policy was to be implemented:
“Tam therefore making special provisions for funds, tutors
and other language aids in order that your program of
learning the German language can succeed.”

ESS THAN A MONTH after this statement was made,
Glenn G, Wolfe, director of the Office of Adminis-
tration, set the HICOG German Language Training

William G. Moulton.

|O THE LEFT, dear students, is the gentleman who wrote That Book
on “Spoken German" from which you have been studying. He is
William G. Moulton —a doctor of languages who abhors being called
doctor for fear people will expect him to give medical diagnoses, In
1943-44, he taught German to future military government officers at the
Yale Civil Affairs Training School. He went to Washington in 1944 as
a civilian and later as a captain in the Army to supervise Japanese
language instruction in the six Far East Civil Affairs Training Schools
then being conducted under the Provost Marshal General. After the
war, he worked on re-education of German prisoners of war interned in
the United States. He visited Germany in May and June 1947, for the
War Department, to see how these ex-PW's were doing and find out
what effect their special training had had on them... Results: surpris-
ingly good. In 1947 he joined the faculty at Cornell, where he is profes-
sor of Germanic linguistics.
Mr. Moulton tells in his article how his book “Spoken German”
happened — and why.

OCTOBER 1950

27

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Almost 600 HICOG employees attend German-language
classes conducted daily under the HICOG German Language
Training Program. Pictured is a typical class in Frankfurt,
where 171 responded to the request of US High Commis-

sioner John J. McCloy. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)
Program in motion with a memorandum which began with
these words: “It is the desire of the High Commissioner
that all HICOG officers and employees whose official
duties bring them into frequent contact with Germans
acquire a reasonable conversational fluency in the Ger-
man language.”

Groundwork for the program was laid during December
by Dr. Henry Lee Smith, Jr., director of the School of
Foreign Language Training at the Foreign Service Insti-
tute in Washington. With the aid of the HICOG Training
Officer, Harry T. Searl, the general outlines of the pro-
gram were drafted, estimates obtained on the number of
students to be taught, and letters sent out to all parts of
the American zone asking that suitable teachers be
temporarily engaged.

In February, another member of the Foreign Service
Institute, Dr. John Echols, came to Germany and set the
wheels in motion. Training conferences were held in
Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart and Berlin for prospective
teachers; by March, classes were launched. Since then
the classes have swung along under the watchful eyes of
Mr. Searl and the German supervisor of the program,
Walter Regel.

That's the official explanation of why it is you may
see a HICOG employee stumbling down a corridor with
a paper-bound book in his hand, mumbling German noises
as he goes. There's no reason for alarm: he’s just en route
to German class. Classes are held during working hours,
because everyone concerned with the program feels it's
worth sacrificing an hour a day, five days a week, if it
will help teach HICOG employees to speak German.

F YOU REALLY WANT to find out about the program,

stand outside one of the classroom doors while one of
the sessions is going on. If the class is taught right, you
never hear any silence, and seldom any English. What
you should hear is a constant babble of German noises
(some of them may sound pretty American at the
moment!). Perhaps you will hear a single voice for a few

INFORMATION BULLETIN

28

seconds, then a chorus of voices immediately afterwards.
That will be the students learning new material — the
teacher says it for them first, and the whole class repeats,
imitating the German sounds as hard as they can.

Or maybe you'll hear two voices alternating, with a
sprinkle of ah’s and um’s in between. That will be two
students carrying on a conversation: they've learned the
new material, they've been drilled on it, and now they're
trying to use it on their own in a more or less free con-
versation. If all of a sudden the whole class bursts out
laughing; it's 10-to-1 that someone has pulled a real
blooper. But give him time. Practice makes perfect —
Uebung macht den Meister — especially in the business
of language-learning.

To find out still more, open the door and walk in, You'll
see maybe half a dozen students ranged around the table
— all ages, ranks and descriptions. At one end of the
table is the teacher (distinguishable as the one who uses
the fewest ah’s and um's), who may be either old or young,
male or female. From the first moment you discover this
heartening fact: everybody seems to be having a good
time. This is a class where attendance is voluntary, and
there's no homework. Yet, if you've picked a class that's
been going on for several months, you'll find the students
have learned a surprising amount of German. They can
actually stand up on their feet and talk it.

EXT, TAKE A LOOK at the book they're using. This,

too, is like nothing you ever had in school. Remember
the tedious French book you had, and all the translations
you had to make from it in class? In this class there is
rarely any translating, because right alongside the Ger-
man in this book is a parallel column with the translation
already given. Because it's the German, not the English,
that the class is really working on. They're going to repeat
it over and over so many times that by the time they've
finished a particular lesson they can practically say it
in their sleep. Technically, they're doing what education
people call “overlearning:" they're learning the new
material so thoroughly that even after a normal amount of
forgetting, it will still stick with them.

In your old French class, one of the drudgeries was
writing increasingly complex sentences, But in these
classes, there's no writing at all. There’s common sense
to this omission: when Americans meet Germans on the
street, in offices and restaurants, or at their homes,
they're not going to start passing little notes back and
forth. They'll open their mouths and start talking. Writing
will take care of itself in time; in the beginning, it only
gets in the way.

Another unusual feature of the book — instead of
sentences on “I give the pencil to my teacher, you give the
pencil to your teacher, he gives the pencil to his teacher,”
or stories about the fox and the wolf, the main body of it
is made up of conversational material built around a
particular topic. There are learning units (lessons) on
meeting people, on seeing the sights, buying clothes,
driving an auto; others tell you how to order a meal,
order clothing, get a haircut or rent a room; there’s even
one telling about going out on a date. What the book

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 32 ---
tries to do is avoid the traditional grammar-fable-fairytale
type of approach and concentrate instead on the things
a person actually wants to say in a foreign country. One
grateful student told me he had found his way to Frankfurt
from Bremerhaven with his new car solely on the basis
of having learned rechts, links and geradeaus (left, right
and straight ahead) in Unit 1. “Honest,” he said, “they
really use those words all the time.”

LOT OF AMERICANS feel with great discouragement
that they just aren't gifted in foreign languages the
way other people are. But fortunately they are the victim
of what is merely an old wives’ tale — all one needs to
learn are the usual vocal apparatus and a lot of practice.
One good reason Americans developed inferiority
complexes about language-learning was the type of
instruction received in the schools and colleges. Many
Americans who had spent four full years in college
studying French were appalled to learn, on disembarking
in France, that they couldn't understand the French — and
the French couldn't understand them! Of course, there
have been shining exceptions to the general language
teaching in the United States and this is not intended
as a wholesale indictment of the system. But it is true
that a language student customarily spent most of his
language-study time poring over great works of French
literature. That, actually, is one of the things a college
student ought to be studying. But he was learning to read,
with no guarantee that he would ever learn to talk.

Another trouble was that the student spent all his time
learning about the language, but very little time on
learning the language itself. He could reel off the rules
and the irregular verbs — but he couldn't stand on his
feet and talk like a Frenchman.

The HICOG program attacks the problem from an
entirely different angle. The basic principle is: get your-
self a native speaker of the language you want to learn,
and try to talk just the way he does. Since you yourself
are in no position to know whether you have made a
reasonably good imitation of him, you've got to rely on
his judgment — if what you say doesn't sound right, he'll
make you repeat it over and over after him until it
does sound right.

F YOU'RE GOING to learn a language by imitating

what a native speaker says, the next question that
arises is: what do you want him to say? Certainly not any
more of that business about “Where is the pencil of the
rich uncle’s brother?" You'll want down-to-earth, prac-
tical material, and you'll want to begin with easy things
and build up as you go along,

Knowing what you want to say may be easy for you,
but for getting the grammatically graded material, you'll
need someone who has made a study of the language and
knows what constructions are common and what rare, and
which will be the easiest for you to learn first. What you
want, in short, is a “linguistic scientist.”

If every person learning a new language had to have
both a native speaker and a linguistic scientist constantly
at his side, that would be quite a large order. There's

OCTOBER 1950

29

missioner for Bavaria in Munich is the scene of this Ger-
man class. Instructor Frau Ottilie Lohmann (second from
right) speaks both English and German fluently, Her stu-
dents, I.-r., are Dr. Harold J.Clem, Paul W. Deibel, Miss
Maudie Y. Howell and Jacob Fullmer. (PRB OLCB photo)

no way of getting around the native speaker — you've
got to have him. But fortunately, the linguistic scientist
can write a book.

When he does, he’s got to promise that he’s really
giving you the kind of material you'll be using in daily
life, and he’s got to start off with things that are
relatively easy and build up as he goes along. A large
order — but when his book is done, you and the native
speaker can go to work on it.

In the HICOG German Language Training Program,
the role of the native speaker is played by the 166 teachers
that have been hired so far. The one absolute requirement
is that they should have been born and brought up
speaking German.

There are other requirements for teachers: they should
be able to keep the class going at a lively clip and be
committed to the ideal of keeping the students speaking,
in German, all the time.

HY ALL THIS EMPHASIS on talking? Well, for one

thing, that's what you're trying to teach the student
to do. But there’s also a theoretical reason: learning a
new language is not primarily an intellectual activity, but
a matter of acquiring new habits. And the only way to
acquire new habits is through practice, practice, practice,
until it becomes almost second nature. Of course, a
certain amount of intellectual equipment is required, but
it can't be more than that possessed by any normal five-
year-old child, since a child of that age knows how to
handle his native language almost perfectly.

The fact that language-learning is so much a matter of
habit is precisely what makes it so much harder for adults.
It's a common experience to have a HICOG language
student mourn, “I wish I could speak German like my
five-year-old kid. He picked the whole thing up in the last
six months, too.”

The reason for this is that the five-year-old has no fixed
language habits as yet. He spends all his early years
learning to talk and can pick up one language just as
easily as another. An adult, however, has spent years
and years wearing down a fixed number of habit grooves

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
in his native language. When you suddenly ask him to
start making new grooves, he finds it very difficult.

Since a teacher must learn certain new techniques to
teach adults in this particular method of ‘language train-
ing, each goes through a training session which explains
as much as possible the theory and practice underlying
the HICOG program. Dr. Echols gave the training at the
outset; now, when new teachers are to be hired they train
under the German supervisor, Mr. Regel.

Actually, the teachers are the one indispensable part
of the program. Some students confuse the relationship
between teacher and book. They feel that if they study
the book long enough and hard enough, they will end up
being able to speak German. Nothing could be less true:
they might learn to read German in this way but never
to speak it — at least, not in a manner recognizable as
German. To make the right noises, you must imitate a
native speaker of the language.

HE BOOK USED in the HICOG program bears a
relatively harmless title, “Spoken German." An added
notation gets a bit more complicated: “War Department
Educational Manual 518-519." But then.comes the stopper:
“Published for the United States Armed Forces Institute
by the Linguistic Society of America and the Intensive
Language Program, American Council of Learned So-
cieties."" Any book with a designation like that, no matter
how harmless its title, certainly bears further looking into.
Back in 1939 a group of linguistic scientists and others
interested in languages came to the conclusion that the
United States possessed very few competent speakers of
some of the more exotic languages (Korean, for example);
that we were soon going to need considerable numbers of
such speakers; and that when the time came, we would
need them in a hurry. These same people were also
skeptical about the value of traditional language training
in the States.

In order to test some of their new ideas and to work at
the same time on establishing a pool of people who
would be able to speak some of the exotic languages, they
turned for help to that organization with the fabulous
name: the American Council of Learned Societies. The
ACLS eagerly agreed, and in 1940 organized its Intensive
Language Program. As director of the program they
selected the secretary-treasurer of the Linguistic Society
of America, Professor J. Milton Cowan, now director of
the Division of Modern Languages at Cornell.

Within a short time, Cowan had the Intensive Language
Program going full force — little groups of students in all
parts of the country were busy learning Hindustani, Anna-
mese and the like. Now the Army began to get interested.
One of the outstanding young linguistic scientists in the
country, an enthusiastic reserve officer, was the Henry
Lee Smith, Jr. already mentioned. Partly through his own
efforts and partly through the influence of the ACLS, he
obtained an assignment with the Information and Educa-
tion Division working on language materials.

IHINGS BEGAN TO HUM. Cowan became consultant
to the Army on language instruction under the Army
Specialized Training Program, and assisted in drafting the

INFORMATION BULLETIN \

30

ASTP language and area curriculum. And from Smith's
office there began to pour a stream of foreign language
dictionaries and manuals, large and small, including those
millions of little language guides which helped troops
learn handy phrases in the language of the country they
were about to enter.

In late. 1942, realizing that a supplemental course would
be needed to teach some soldiers to speak foreign
languages reasonably well, Smith worked out a plan for
a general purpose language manual — a plan that could be
used for any language, with the needed variations. In
early 1943, he and Cowan set to work farming out the
various languages to linguistic scientists who had special-
ized in them. Before they were through, manuals had
been completed in well over 20 languages.

As this particular victim of their machinations can
testify, Cowan and Smith were a terrifyingly effective
team. Once they had picked their man, they wheedled,
cajoled, threatened and intimidated him until the job was
done. Work on “Spoken German" began in April 1943;
exactly one year later, a broken man, I sent final copy to
the printer. Since during that year I was also teaching
German to military government officers at the Yale Civil
Affairs Training School, plus handling normal under-
graduate and graduate classes, Spoken German" had to
be written in what I hopefully call my “spare time.”

Fortunately I had the help of my wife, a native speaker of
German, who, though quite untrained with the pedantries of
linguistic science, was also an experienced language teacher.
Without her help the book would never have been finished.

POKEN GERMAN" — like all the books in the spoken

language series — is based on the principles already
described: that to learn a foreign language, you get hold
of a native speaker and copy him as exactly as you can;
and that you learn a language by constantly talking it,
until the new sounds and forms become a matter of habit.
The book contains 25 Learning-Units (plus five Review
Units), all built upon the same pattern. They contain a
set of Basic Sentences, which the student learns by heart
with his teacher; following these are Hints on Pronun-
ciations, which tell him to watch for new sounds and give
suggestions on how to imitate them.

Along with his Basic Sentences, the student gets a
section called Word Study, calling his attention to such
things as endings, thus helping him to memorize the Basic
Sentences and showing him how they can be varied. This
is followed by some exercises which test whether he
understands what he has been saying and gives him prac-
tice in applying the material of the Word Study.

By now he has pretty well mastered the new material
and is ready to use it in sample conversations called
Listening Ins. Next, having been guided slowly toward
independent use of what he has learned, he is ready for
the real thing: free conversation — which is the goal of
the whole course.

With suggestions to help him and to keep him within
the bounds of what he has learned, he begins talking. He
makes mistakes, of course, but the teacher is there to

correct him. He doesn't translate, but tries to put his

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 34 ---
conversation together out of bits of sentences already
learned by heart. Nor does he reason out cases and tenses
and moods of each word — he says lots of things just
because they “sound right" — that is, because they have
become matters of habit.

OR THE LINGUISTIC scientist, grammar of a language

is the total description of the way speakers of that
language talk. And to find out the way they talk, he just
listens. He does not worry about what is “correct,” though
he does note (since he is part anthropologist) that different
forms are used at different social levels.

Most people tend to believe that grammar of a language
explains why the Germans (or the French, or whatnot)
talk the way they do. In actual fact, a grammar “explains”
nothing at all; it merely analyzes and systematizes what
the linguistic scientist has heard. It can tell you that the
German word zu is always followed by a type of form
which people usually label the dative; but it can’t tell you
why this should be so, The only answer as to “why” is
simply that "Germans talk that way.”

But, without allowing grammar to “get in the way,"
the HICOG language program attempts to utilize it in two
ways: first, it calls the students’ attention to grammatical
items which they might otherwise have missed, thus
helping them to learn new material more easily. Secondly,
a little grammar can show a student how to vary the
material he has just learned.

The student who knows a lot of grammatical rules may
possess some very fine knowledge — indeed, it is often
a source of great pleasure to him — but when he's trying
to talk, it will never do him any good until he's practiced
applying the rules enough so that they come auto-
matically.

Dr. K. Goeritz, chief of the Orthopedic Hospital, near Kassel,
guides Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commis-
sioner, and Dr. James R. Newman, state commissioner of
Hesse, on a tour of the clinic which he had transferred
from Eastern Germany. Right: Clinic technicians show Mrs.
McCloy a model of a wooden leg they have made by hand
for a patient. (PRB OLCH photo)

OCTOBER 1950

And by that time, he has no more use for his rules.

The emphasis in the HICOG program, then, is placed
exclusively on applying grammatical rules. The students
are shown how a given grammatical feature works and
given a few examples. Then, with books closed, the
teacher gives the English of these examples, has them
translated into German, and follows this with further drill
illustrating this same grammatical point.

VERY IMPORTANT reason why the study of grammar

is restricted to applied grammar is that no person,
without special training, can make sensible statements
about his native language. If you don't believe this, ask
some German to explain to you what position the word
nicht occupies in a German sentence. And if that isn't
enough, watch what you yourself say the next time a Ger-
man asks you when you say “I saw" and when you say
“I have seen” in English. It's a wise teacher who has
learned to say “I don't know.”

This brings us around’ again to the most essential
feature of language learning: it is primarily a matter of
habit, not of intellect. A linguistic scientist, with his
expensive training, may be able to give you a fair
statement about the position of nicht or the distinction
between "I saw" and “I have seen." But after nearly half
a century of good scientific work, linguistic scientists
still don't feel they are anywhere near able to give a full
description of the grammar of any one language. And
yet the normal person has practically mastered the use
of these complicated forms by the time he is six years old.
Here is a beautiful example of how habit and practice can
attain something which not even the best intellects can
equal. Perhaps it will explain why the HICOG program puts
so much emphasis on habit, and so little on grammar.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
URING JULY and August, I served as consultant to

HICOG on the German Language Training Program;
I was to examine the whole setup, see as many classes as
possible, and make suggestions for improvement. I had a
typical busman's holiday: I saw classes at Frankfurt,
Wiesbaden, Bremen, Bremerhaven, Hamburg, Bonn, Ber-
lin, Munich, Augsburg and Stuttgart and paid visits to
about 25 different resident officers in Hesse, Bavaria and
Wuerttemberg-Baden. And when I was through, I wrote
the inevitable final report.

There is no question but that the program is in good
shape. The students are learning to speak German, and
they seem to like it. If there is any word of wisdom I might
pass on to them, it would be this: keep up the good work,
but try to attend classes more regularly. Even if you don't
owe it to yourself, and to your fellow-taxpayers, you owe
it to your teachers, who are an extraordinarily fine lot.

During my travels from place to place, I heard an awful
lot of German. Most of it was good, some of it excellent,
and some of: it — well, you can't have everything. I had
people rush up and shake me by the hand and tell me this
was the most brilliant language book they have ever
studied from. Others rushed up and shook me — and asked
why in heaven's name I had used the old-fashioned Fraktur
type for the German part of the text (answer: everybody
used it in 1939, the last time I had been in Germany;
Hitler later ordered the use of roman type so the occupied
peoples could read German more easily); or why I used
that ridiculous speaking in the Aids to Listening (answer:
the printing is there only to remind you of what you
heard your teacher say and the funny spelling does this
a lot more efficiently than the regular spelling); or why
I hadn't arranged the cases in the Latin order (Answer:

Little refugee happily exhibits new clothing received in
package from America. Right, John Reitzel, county exten-
sion agent from Raleigh, N. Carolina, a HICOG visiting
consultant with the Food, Agriculture and Forestry Branch,
OLCB, presents gift package to needy family at Schoental,
in Eastern Bavaria. It was one of 63 packages from 4-H

Clubs of Coventry and Tolland, Conn. (PRB OLCB photos)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

since this wasn't Latin, I just arranged them in the
sequence in which you learn them and called them 1, 2, 3
and 4). All in all, I got off rather well — for an author.

ART OF THE FUN for me was hearing the little legends

and stories that have already grown up around the
book and the program. I've already told the one about the
two Americans in Frankfurt. Let me close with another
one — which I know is true, because the two victims told
it to me.

It seems that two charming American girls (as a result
of their experience, they're now attending class religiously)
went for a weekend in Austria, to a certain city where
they would join two other girls for their holiday. When
the first two arrived, they went to their hotel room and
lay down for a brief rest.

A few moments later, there was a knock at the door.
Thinking it was their friends, one girl gave a loud “come
in!" It turned out ito be the hotel maid, who was im-
mediately embarrassed at having disturbed them, Wanting
to put the maid at her ease, the girl tried to explain she
had said “come in” because she thought it was the friends
they'd been waiting for. She knew that “wir warten auf
unsere” means “we're waiting for our," and she knew
that friends was “Freunde.” What she didn't know was
that this means boy friends, and that the word she needed
was Freundinnen (girl friends).

At any rate, what she said, lying there in bed, was:
“Wir warten auf unsere Freunde.” The results were quite
spectacular. The little Austrian maid gasped, turned red
to the roots of her hair, walked out and was never seen for
the rest of the weekend. All of which goes to show what
a big difference a little ending can make!’ +END

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 36 ---
OEEC Truck Caravan

By HOWARD CALKINS
Chief, Public Relations Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC Bremen

“The task of this exhibit must not be underestimated because historical examples clearly
prove that during the past it was frequently negligence or misunderstanding on the part of the
people that decided the fate of the nations. Therefore, we welcome the fact that the exhibit
depicts the aim and the progress of the joint European Recovery Program initiated by the
Marshall Plan, which is neither a gift nor a marauding expedition but a plan giving to all
countries a chance to overcome hunger and misery in order to be again independent."

HEN ON THE OCCASION of the opening of the

Organization for European Economic Co-operation's
Traveling Caravan Exhibit on July 22, the head of the
Free Hanse City of Bremen, Mayor Wilhelm Kaisen, spoke
these words, part of his audience, the dead-tired French
crew members and locally hired German workers, felt
that a measure of the applause of officials of the Senate,
Office of the US State Commissioner, consulates, economic
circles, trade unions and civic organizations in attendance
could justifiably be considered as commendation of their
efforts to meet a 24-hour advance in the opening.

In carrying out its mission of bringing to the People of
Europe the story of European recovery and the improve-
ments wrought under the Marshall Plan, the caravan
had had other openings before. Starting out from Paris in
April the giant four-trailer caravan, loaded with the latest
in demountable displays, exhibit panels, documentary
movies and other informational devices, has followed the
traditional routes to Europe's principal international fairs.

Towed by five heavy tractors it has rolled over high-
ways used since the Middle Ages by bands of craftsmen
and merchants, troubadors, jugglers and storytellers,
buyers and plain citizens, There were timed openings in
several cities of Belgium and Denmark, including Brussels
and Copenhagen, but due to a last minute change in the
opening date never before had time been more precious
than in Bremen, the Caravan’'s first stop in Germany.

So in the early morning after arrival the Caravan crew
had gone to work, backing up the heavy 15-ton trailers
to a neat triangle forming a forecourt to the tent display,
unfolding the sides of the 39-foot trailers, supporting them
by steel legs and inserting false roofs and walls of plexi-

“Europe Builds, ERP’s traveling exhibition, was opened
in Bremen with ceremonies at which Wilhelm Kaisen
(tight), Bremen’s Senate president and mayor, spoke to a
distinguished audience. Below, one of the Caravan’'s three
big trailers all set for visitors.

(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

glass and canvas giving shelter to the tripled display
area thus provided.

UE TO THE FINE co-operation extended by the Bremen

Panel for Economic Research to the OEEC Traveling
Exhibit during its stay in Bremen, a dozen German workers
had been hired and were on hand to combine their efforts
with those of the Caravan technicians, They had laid out
the canvas of the big gaily-topped 103-foot diameter tent
as well as the parts of its unique light-metal construction,
and had unloaded display panels, loudspeakers, floodlights,
cinematographs and heavy cable drums.

Visitors to the scene of the exhibit at the front corner
of the Bremen Buergerweide (Municipal Park) on the night
prior to the opening could note nothing but confusion,

However, shortly before noon on Saturday, July 22, the
OEEC Traveling Caravan Exhibit was ready for the
first tide of visitors. Two dozen men, speaking different
languages and belonging to two nations which historians
have recorded as ancient enemies, had done the job.

Immediately after the opening visitors crowded into the
tent. Routed unobtrusively by panel screens along a wind-
ing display course they saw a lineup of exhibits graphi-
cally explaining what the Marshall Plan has done to revi-
talize Europe's war-shattered economy with emphasis
placed on the co-operative nature of the recovery program
interwoven with the theme of closer integration to help
make of Europe a single market in which specialization
and mass production will bring lower costs, lower prices
and a higher standard of living to 275,000,000 consumers.

Outside the wedge-shaped theater in which they paused
to view a 20-minute movie of European recovery they

--- Page 37 ---
were given an opportunity to see other
short documentaries combined with
static displays in novel arrangements
utilizing rear-projection films. Other
devices in the exhibit included elec-
trically operated question-and-answer
panels, in which questions on such
broad subjects as harvests and public
health had their answers indicated
electrically on an Europe-wide basis.

A telephone dialing device permitted
the reception of answers to questions
concerning the free inter-European
exchange of goods. In addition to this
12 young hostesses, students of the
Bremen Art and Music College, were
at hand to answer special questions
from the visitors. One of the main
attractions outside the tent consisted
in the distribution of big colored balloons, 30,000 of which
were sent off with an attached card bearing greetings
to an unknown European. Many answers were posted back
to Bremen from all parts of western Germany and from as
far away as Norway.

A puppet show dealt with the abolishment of European
custom barriers and state boundaries. The French artist
handling the puppets had to move them according to the
French text in his ear-phones while a loudspeaker over-
head emitted a synchronized German translation!

“This exhibit is no museum,” stated a Bremen mason,
leaving the -circular tent, “it tells a story —still more, its

&

Soviet Radio Attempts to Distort
Friendly, Co-operative Gesture

A commentator of the Soviet-controlled Radio
Berlin charged on Aug. 14 that the toy balloons
released at the ERP exhibition in Bremen were
designed to provide data for American bacteriological
warfare projects.

Some 30,000 balloons with postcards attached
telling of the aims for ultimate economic co-operation
in Europe were released in Bremen during the fair
exhibit. The balloons were one of the popular
features of the exhibit, especially among the Bremen
children who released the greater majority of them.
Finders of these good will messages were invited to
post the attached cards back to the releaser.

With the commentator’s claim that the return of
the postcards offered a possibility of observing wind
direction and drift for military purposes, the Soviet-
controlled radio attempted to distort a friendly co-
operative gesture on the part of European peoples
to make it appear as if Western Germans were
becoming unwitting tools of “American specialists
on bacteriological warfare.”

Perhaps the Soviets had not been informed that the
German Wetterdienst (weather service) has been
providing accurate wind direction data for the past
75 years.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Young and old enjoyed releasing 30,000
balloons bearing map of Europe and a
good will message—only to reap Soviet
charges of a “propaganda campaign.”

34

story is interesting and understandable.
I have heard the words Marshall Plan
and European Co-operation before and
quite often, but I never knew how it
worked. I will be back tomorrow with
my son and daughter. They're both in
their teens and should know about this
great idea.”

A former teacher, now working for
an insurance company, was more skep-
tical. “We have been exposed to all
kinds of propaganda," he said, “I just
don’t know what to believe any more.
But considering the tremendous am-
ount of reconstruction which is going
on everywhere in Germany, there
must be something in it.”

In spite of unfavorable weather con-
ditions approximately 10,000 Bremen
citizens had visited the exhibit in three days and officials
of the Caravan's office had received several letters from
the people of Bremen dealing with the idea of European
Co-operation. One of the most significant letters came
from salesman of Bremen-Walle:

“Iam just a man in the street who, though interested
in everything, does not have time enough to dig deeper.
For quite some time I have pondered over the following
problem: Why don't we simply remove all custom barriers
and national borders between the democratic countries?
I am convinced that if common men of all nations would
gather around one table such a proposal would at once be
unanimously accepted. Why can’t the present European
statesmen do the same?

“Evidently the purpose of your exhibit is to address the
man in the street. Why? We are willing to work hard and
it is not our fault if the aims of the Marshall Plan have not
yet been achieved. It would be better to tell the European
statesmen to really do what they are suggesting in their
own books on European co-operation. That would be the
sound foundation upon which the new house could be
built. The United States of America does exist! So, why
not the United States of Europe?”

HILE SEVERAL LOCAL newspapers printed this let-
ter, one, the Weser-Kurier, commented that the
“man-in-the-street'’ must make his governmental leaders
responsible to his wishes through concerted community
action instead of resigning himself to only grumbling.
Improved weather conditions aided by good newspaper
and radio publicity resulted ina considerable increase in the
number of visitors during the balance of the week. When —
the OEEC Traveling Caravan Exhibit closed on Sunday
evening, July 30, one out of every seven of the popula-
tion in Bremen over 14 years of age had seen the exhibit.
On the following Tuesday morning the outline of the
big tent already familiar to thousands of people passing
the Bremen Buergerweide every day, had vanished. The
fair grounds were again bare. The Caravan was gone, roll-
ing again on the highway — to Hamburg, to Stockholm,
to Italy and to Greece. + END

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 38 ---
GI-German Relations

Democracy in Action,
Aim of EUCOM Drive

The European Command, in close co-
operation with the Office of the US High
Commissioner for Germany, is initiating
an educational campaign aimed primarily
at members of the US Armed Forces and
their families in Germany, urging increas-
ed mingling of Americans and Western
Germans wherever possible.

The campaign stresses these points:

1, Strong reasons exist for good will
between Americans and Western Germans,
because Americans are in Germany to
demonstrate a practical and fair-minded
democracy in action, while the Western
Germans are trying honestly to establish
such a democracy.

2. Mutual understanding and friendly
relations are essential to bring about the
establishment of a sound democracy in
Germany.

3. Occupation personnel should obtain
a working knowledge of the German
language in order that fluent exchanges
of ideas and increased social relations
between Americans and Germans can be
put into effect.

Media to be used in aggressively en-
couraging friendly relations between US
Armed Forces personnel and the West
German population include post news-
papers, radio programs, instruction of
pupils attending EUCOM's schools, pro-
grams in youth organizations, sports con-
tests and discussions with German civic
leaders.

Endorsement of this program outlined
by the office of Gen, Thomas T. Handy,
EUCOM commander, was given by US
High Commissioner John J. McCloy. In
his statement of Aug. 15, Mr. McCloy said:

“T heartily endorse the policy enunciat-
ed by the European Command. I am con-
vinced that relations between the Armed
Forces of the United States in Germany
and the German people are good; how-
ever, they can be improved to the mutual
benefit of both sides.

“With a real effort on the part of both
Americans and Germans, minor irritations
can be removed and constructive attitudes
can be maintained.

“T am delighted that General Handy is
enunciating this policy to the forces under
his command, and I urge the same attitude
upon all members of the staff of the
Office of the United States High Com-
missioner for Germany. We will heartily
co-operate with the policy which General
Handy has announced.”

OCTOBER 1950

By BRIG. GEN. EDMUND B. SEBREE*

Commanding General, Munich Military Post

THINK WE HAVE made much progress with regard to the rela-

tionship between the German people and the Occupation Forces.
We continue to have conflicts and unpleasant incidents, but these
seem to be disappearing, or at least diminishing, to an encouraging
degree. It appears to me that there is both a negative and a positive
approach to this problem of integrating ourselves into the German
community and removing as far as possible points of friction. We
will perhaps never be able to do this completely, at least until the
housing situation improves, and that is something which will take
both time and money.

Regarding the negative approach to this problem, I feel that we can
reasonably be expected to conduct ourselves as ladies and gentlemen
toward the Germans. I have demanded this, and I will continue to
demand it of all members of my command. The High Commissioner,
as well as the American people, has a right to expect this of every
member of the occupation, but I wonder if this is enough?

Our positive approach to the problem is manifested by GYA and
the various German-American societies which are doing a lot of good.
Unfortunately, we have the language barrier, and I really believe the
Germans are doing more to overcome this than we are.

POINT ABOUT WHICH there seems to be some dispute is the

matter of who should initiate the contact to improve mutual
respect and good feeling. In other words, opinions differ as to whether
Germans should make the first approach, or whether it should come
from us. I really do not consider this of prime importance. During my
three years in Munich, more by accident than anything else, I have
formed a few very happy associations with German people, and I hope
they have profited from it as much as I have. It seems to me to be a
question of the efficacy of direct salesmanship as opposed to the
indirect approach.

I can't help but feel that we have made some impression on the
German community indirectly and solely because of our association.
I think we will continue to make our presence felt by dealing with
the specific instances as they occur purely on their merits, but this at
best is a long-range pull, and I think we should all give serious
thought to the matter of taking the initiative or rather of being alert
to seize the initiative when the opportunity offers.

I want subpost commanders to give thought to the extension of the
common use of facilities, particularly those of recreational and social
activities. I want you to make a resurvey of your facilities with a view
to recommending derequisitioning of those, if any, which have out-
lived their usefulness, or which can be released without serious
impairment to your mission.

Recently I attended the festival in Landshut and saw a remarkable
display of joint communal activity. A military commander, Colonel
McWilley of the Constabulary, gave a luncheon which was attended
by both Americans and Germans, and the German authorities held an
open house in the residence to which Americans and Allies were
invited. The military community assisted actively in the festival, and

* This article is the text of a radio address delivered by General Sebree over
Station AFN.

35 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
there was evident on all sides a feeling of friendliness and
mutual respect.

WISH YOU WOULD examine your local and personal

situation and see just how much of an effort it will

be for you to show a little more interest in doing your

~ part toward improving an important relationship. The

fact that it is the desire of the High Commissioner is

sufficient in itself to brand it as important, but there are

many other reasons which are hardly appropriate to a

radio talk which make the matter of vital importance
at the present time.

We Americans are all pretty well aware of our rights
and we are not slow to assert them. We sometimes forget
that we have obligations as well which we must recog-
nize and meet, despite our personal feelings.

There is considerable food for thought for all of us in
a speech made last December at Wiesbaden by President
Theodor Heuss of West Germany. It shows that much

which is decent has survived in this country. Said he,

and I quote:
“The worst thing that Hitler did to us — and he did
much to us — was that he forced us into the shame of

having to bear the name of German simultaneously with
his henchmen. We dare not forget those things, that
people, for convenience’s sake, like to forget. We dare
not forget the Nuremberg laws, the Jewish star, the burn-
ing of synagogues, the deportation of Jews into foreign
lands, misery and death. The gruesome thing about these
events is not that they involved the fanaticism of the
pogroms. The cold gruesomeness of national pedantry,
that was the strange German contribution to these events.
We have to stop asking, ‘Is a man an Englishman, a
Frenchman, a German or a Jew?’ We have to get back
to a free evaluation of the individual... We need the
courage to love. Hate stems from the sluggishness of the
heart; it is cheap and easy. Love is always a risk, but
only a risk brings victory." -+-END

Majority Endorses Adenauer Government

ORE US-ZONE GERMANS than ever before express

satisfaction with the actions of their federal govern-
ment and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, and believe the
government places the public interest over party politics,
it was disclosed in a HICOG public opinion survey.

Since the inception of the Federal Republic, the Re-
actions and Analysis Branch has periodically measured
German attitudes toward the Bonn government. The latest
survey, taken in May, indicated that the government has
made substantial progress in gaining public confidence.
Since last December, when a check showed that only 36
percent of the US Zone residents were satisfied with Bonn
actions, the May survey disclosed that:

Majorities ranging from 51 percent in the US Zone to
77 percent in West Berlin expressed satisfaction with the
government,

62 percent of US Zone residents and 75 percent in Berlin
were satisfied with the chancellor's performance.

52 percent in the US Zone and 71 percent in West Berlin
felt that the public welfare rather than the aim of their
own political parties was the primary concern in Bonn.

However, as many as a third in the US Zone felt that
political party considerations weighed more heavily with
the German government.

In expressing their satisfaction with the government, the
most frequent comment of US Zone Germans was “I can't
complain.” Next in order of mention was the improvement
in living conditions. Most frequently mentioned source of
dissatisfaction was the West German government's alleged
indifference to the public in general and specific groups in
particular such as refugees and disabled veterans. High
taxes and unemployment were other causes of complaint.

In the past half year, more persons — except in Bre-
men—have come to the opinion that the Bonn government

INFORMATION BULLETIN

36

was sufficiently independent of the Occupation Authori-
ties. However, in the US Zone, 44 percent still felt that the
Western Powers have too much influence, while in West
Berlin 38 percent held this opinion. Few of these holding
that the Occupation Powers were too influential, however,
believed that the federal government was a mere puppet.

On the issue of relative dependency of the western and
eastern governments, an increasing majority — now three
out of four — named the East government as more de-
pendent. Almost eight out of 10 US Zone residents held
the East government to be no more than a Soviet puppet.

The findings were based on interviews by the Reactions
Analysis Branch personnel with a cross-section of the
public consisting of 1,500 persons in the US Zone, 250 in
West Berlin and 150 in Bremen.

GYA Programs Attract Hessians

A total of 153,000 Hessian boys and girls at present par-
ticipate in German Youth Activities, a number much
higher than in previous years, it was disclosed by Dr.
Howard Oxley, chief of the Community Affairs Branch,-
OLC Hesse. According to a special study, 58 GYA centers
are now available in Hesse to take care of the local youth.

Thirty-four military officers and enlisted personnel and
204 German personnel are assigned on a fulltime basis to
the Hessian centers, while an additional 154 military per-
sonnel, 77 civilian Americans and 444 Germans are work-
ing on a voluntry basis with GYA to help in the setting
up and carrying through of the various programs.

Dr. Oxley further revealed that there is now no finan-
cial burden for GYA on the German economy. Since last
spring the cost of the program has been borne by the
United States.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 40 ---
Classroom Discussions

By NOBLE HIEBERT
Adviser in Educational Affairs, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden

“High school students just aren't mature enough to express their own opinions on contro-

versial questions.”

“If we allow students to speak freely, we will lose all semblance of discipline in our class-

rooms.”

“We do not have time for such methods in our schools.”

EACHERS AND ADMINISTRATORS in German sec-

ondary schools made these statements — statements
which indicate the vast job needed to promote a liberal
discussion and recitation technique in the schools.

The pattern for instruction in German schools can proba-
bly be traced to the “militaristic’ theory that only by
weight of authority can discipline be maintained — and
that only through the strictest discipline can the desired
level of high school learning be attained.

Students are given little opportunity, if any, to express
their own ideas in the classroom. That's part of the pattern.

Many examples are still available where the teacher
regards his job as one where he must stand punctually on
his platform each day in order to “get through” the year’s
required materials — and ignore the pupils who hear him!

There have been instances in Wuerttemberg - Baden
where teachers and pupils have worked together to ana-
lyze these tendencies, with a view to changing them where
advisable. How have such attempts succeeded?

AKE THE EXPERIMENT in Ruit, near Stuttgart, as an

example. There, in the buildings of a former German
air corps officers’ school, 30 teachers, 60 students and a
number of government officials were convened by the
Ministry of Education for a week's conference. Their topic
was, “Discussion techniques and their place in everyday
discussion.”

Ridicule and skepticism underlay the opening session,
as such opinions as these came forth: “Why should we
express our opinions when we know that Russian spies
will hear us and prepare a Siberian vacation for us, as
soon as the Reds take over Germany;" “There is no need
for us to express our opinions, for everything is dictated
by the Ministry, anyway; and “Opinions should be ex-
pressed by teachers only, since they are educated.”

Moderator for the group was Dr. Erich Weis, a teacher
in the Zeppelin High School in Stuttgart. He guided group
discussion of the classroom problem, and co-ordinated
speeches by representatives of the Education Ministry,
radio, HICOG and the secondary schools.

Teacher and pupil were openly opposed in their think-
ing. Student reaction was: ‘‘Why should we ask questions
in the classroom — our teachers won't answer them, any-
how." The teacher attitude was: ‘Students aren't mature
enough to select their own topics for discussion.” The re-
sulting stalemate brought the realization to both that
teacher-student co-operation would be necessary to reach
any kind of solution.

OCTOBER 1950

HEREAFTER, THE WEEK'S discussion progressed to
a number of conclusions.

The participants agreed that:

1. Student discussions are an excellent means of instruc-
tion in that they (a) promote the activity of the student,
further critical thinking and give formal training for
citizenship; (b) promote a better relationship between
teacher and student; (c) bring real-life problems much
closer to both student and teacher.

2. The discussion of current problems is a necessity for
all schools in Germany, as a valuable means to reduce the
gap between education and public life.

3. Discussion by teacher and student of present-day
problems should be co-operative.

4, Family, community or politics are suitable topics for
class discussion.

5. Discussion periods and the study of current events
are sufficiently valuable that time should be provided for
them in each school’s program.

Before disbanding, the participants agreed to work for
utilization of these new ideas. Each teacher pledged to
acquaint his school director and fellow faculty members
with the value of discussion, while each student agreed
to introduce the new method to his fellow students. Unani-
mous approval was given a proposal that a copy of the
resolutions and suggestions be forwarded to the minister
of secondary education for his study and consideration.

The Ruit conference had its repercussions. The interest
it generated resulted in a series of “demonstration”
conferences for the North-Baden cities of Mosbach

The traditional pattern of German educational methods is
yielding slowly but surely to change as this joint student-
teacher discussion at Schloss Comburg in November 1949
indicates. Initial ridicule and skepticism have given way
in many instances to genuine enthusiasm and co-operation.

--- Page 41 ---
Another view of a discussion hour at Schloss Comburg
showing students take an active, highly-interested part.

and Tauberbischofsheim, with students and teachers
from neighboring high schools. invited to participate. This
series of meetings was the first venture into the territory
which is dominated by the authoritarian gymnasiums,
where the ancient languages and civilizations are studied.

Dr. Heinrich Dietrich, minister of secondary education
for North-Baden, provided a fitting introduction to the
meetings with the following comment:

“We, the German people, would certainly be foolish to
ignore progress in the educational system according to our
own experiences, plus those of other nations. We must be
willing to take reform methods into our own educational
system, which will absorb the educational gap caused by
our country's isolationism in the last 15 to 20 years.”

It was Dr. Dietrich’s insight into the values of “‘social-
ized" instruction that was instrumental in dispersing the
initial skepticism of participants.

The program provided for demonstration discussions by
both students and teachers. Although technically the
demonstrations may have been weak, a deep impression
was made on those present by the one new fact — opinions
can be exchanged with mutual benefit to all concerned.

Succeeding days of the conference introduced some
capable student discussion leaders — young people who
showed an ability to learn the techniques of controlled
discussion and to represent through them the wants of
German secondary school students, But the “‘old school"
showed itself in force during the discussions — the per-
sons who insist upon retaining systems and methods
according to long-standing traditions.

ID THE CONFERENCE have any effect? By the time

it was over, there seemed to be a better understand-
ing between students and teachers, and a united appeal
was sent to the state education officials for help in in-
troducing such practices of freedom in the classroom.

But, one instance illustrated that such were not the
results everywhere. During the rather heated exchange
of opinion on the topic: “How can we better the teacher-
pupil relationship?", several students were outspoken in
describing possible faults in the teachers’ attitudes. One
teacher reacted, according to reports, by instructing her
class the next day to ignore the students who had spoken
so freely in public, for after all, they could be classed as
“the rubble of the student body.”

Following the conference at Tauberbischofsheim, the
director of Crailsheim secondary school issued an invita-
tion to the author to give advice on his project to create
a better student-teacher relationship. He was introducing
a program whereby both students and teachers partici-
pated in the planning and execution of school affairs, Most
interesting part of the resulting visit was a meeting of the
student body and faculty to discuss a discipline problem
in a music class. Accusations of many kinds had been
made privately by both teacher and students. In the joint

Many teachers looked askance at the idea of student-led discussions in classrooms, but experiments conducted at Ruit,
near Stuttgart, in Wuerttemberg-Baden, convinced a growing number of the real worth of this “revolutionary” change.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

OCTOBER 1950

q

--- Page 42 ---
meeting, however, all viewpoints of the question were
aired and an amicable solution reached.

Perhaps such an incident may seem trivial to the reader.
But when we consider that, according to the school direc-
tor, that was the first attempt in the school's history to
solve a discipline problem through pupil-teacher co-oper-
ation, we must realize that any break with the strong
traditions of the past must be regarded as a hopeful act
of progress.

T LUDWIGSBURG, where students and teachers of

three local high schools were invited to participate
in a two-day demonstration session, the teachers pre-
sented, at the outset, a “very cold front. Every reaction
seemed to indicate that students had been well-coached
to show contempt toward the “school reform” program
being promoted by Americans. However, the second day's
sessions witnessed a decided change.

As the discussion demonstrations progressed, first the
students and then the teachers began to realize that the
conference was not an American attempt to force some-
thing upon them, but a means whereby they could dis-
cover new methods of instruction for their own benefit.
The final sessions found the entire group so absorbed in
solving their own immediate problems that the antago-
nism of previous sessions practically disappeared.

“What can education do to prevent another war?" was
the topic selected by the teachers for final discussion,
and their constructive suggestions were heartening, as
illustrated by the following quotations: ‘We must acquaint
our youth with current affairs," "We must teach under-

standing among nations," ‘We must act positively and -

through education find a way to broadcast a peace
theory," “Our history courses teach only about war—they
must be changed," and “Students should be taught about
all dangerous theories so they can prepare a defense
against them.”

The pupil discussion group chose the topic, ‘Pupil-
Teacher Relationships, and student remarks produced
some rather sharp criticisms of teachers and teaching
methods: ,

1. Most teachers know their subject field well, but know
very little of pedagogy and psychology.

2. Teachers should have more confidence in their pupils.

3. Each teacher thinks that the subject he teaches is the

most important of all and forgets that the student must
have time for other subjects.

HE EXCHANGE FINALLY developed into a period of

constructive examination of the problems affecting
both elements in the Ludwigsburg schools. The director of
the Moerike High School distilled the sentiment of all when
he said, “I must say, that today we have come to realize
that through free discussion with pupils and teachers on
a common level, we can solve many knotted problems in
our schools and arrive at.a more pleasant and efficient
method of instruction. I shall see that, in my school, the
methods learned in these past two days will not be laid

OCTOBER 1950

39

aside and... (that they shall be given) an integral place
in our school.”

‘But when workshops of this nature were over, the ques-
tion inevitably arose, “How can these discussion methods
be used in the instruction plans of an already overloaded
curriculum?" It became apparent that teachers had to be
spurred into trying out these new discussion techniques.
As a result it was decided to work with teacher institutes.
Markgroeningen, elementary teacher education institution
in the county of Ludwigsburg, was selected for the initial
experiment.

One class — with teacher — was chosen to illustrate the
method before a group of 200 prospective teachers. An
excellent example resulted—the students led an open
discussion of the class assignment, the teacher remained
in the background — and it was effectively demonstrated
that the benefits of these discussions could be obtained
without simultaneously losing precious time from the
regular class schedule.

Three other teacher education institutions were visited,
programs and results were similar.

Their reactions indicate that the coming crop of teach-
ers is both willing and eager to use this “more efficient
and pleasant" method of presenting subject matter. A sub-
sequent visit to the institution at Markgroeningen showed
considerable progress in the shift from traditional to prac-
tical methods.

Foxowe VISITS to several of the schools repre-
sented at these discussion conferences have been
made, They reveal in some instances an absolute refusal
to utilize the new methods, in others a lukewarm recep-
tion, and in still others an active enthusiasm. A teacher in
the Bad Mergentheim High School said, .‘‘We are making
slow but steady progress in influencing the older teachers
to see the definite values of socialized recitation."

A student at the Tauberbischofsheim Gymnasium said:
“Our director is so strongly against any innovations that
the teachers and students are afraid to show any enthu-
siasm."

The director of the Wertheim Gymnasium: “It is very
difficult to get our teachers to understand the value of
socialized recitation methods.”

From a gymnasium student at Ludwigsburg: “Our direc-
tor will not allow any change in methods, but our teachers
show their reception of the new methods by allowing us
to express our own opinions in class discussions and have
also encouraged the formation of a student council group,
so that we students will also have an opportunity to ex-
press ourselves on school problems.”

It is yet too early to make a final estimate of the impact
of this new method. We do not know how many teachers
in the tradition-bound secondary schools are utilizing the
discussion idea. But it can be said that the seed has been
conscientiously sown in the secondary schools and teacher
training institutions in Wuerttemberg-Baden and that
young people are demanding the right to accept the
responsibility for their own words and deeds. Only time
will witness whether or not the tree bears fruit. -++-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
Medical Reform in Prisons Urged

OINTING OUT DANGEROUS deficiencies in medical

care of inmates of German civil prisons, Dr. James B.
Spradley, eminent American prison director, after a survey
of German prisons, urged an improved medical administra-
tion system for prisons, new equipment for their hospitals
and infirmaries and repeal of outdated legislation concern-
ing prison medical facilities.

Based on a three-month study of the German prison
system, Dr. Spradley’s recommendations were included in
a report submitted to the Prisons Division, Office of Gen-
eral Counsel. The visiting consultant, a psychiatrist with
30 years’ experience in the New Jersey prison system,
returned to the United States in July.

Fortunately the ‘deplorable inadequacies” were not uni-
versal, Dr. Spradley reported, and some of the prisons as
well as a majority of institutions for young prisoners had
new or remodeled buildings, higher standards, better
medical service and administrative officers who were striv-
ing to improve efficiency.

“It was most pleasing to note the progress being made,
the understanding of the medical problem and the support
given the physicians by these properly trained and effi-
cient wardens," his report stated.

Dr. Spradley found that medical procedures in German
prisons were materially influenced by precedent and the
degree of professional recognition obtained by the prison
physician. There was reluctance to use new techniques
until the “Professor Doctors” at universities or big clinics
had endorsed them, he said.

Finding considerable variance in professional training,
he said that prison physicians fall into three general cate-
gories: the older doctors with years of government service
who are satisfied that old routines cannot be improved,
medical records are unnecessary and changes will add to
duties; a younger group better trained and interested in
medical progress but handicapped by precedent; and the
recent graduate, lacking in basic training and experience
and uninformed of progress outside his particular school.

To correct these deficiencies, Dr. Spradley recommended
that each state director of prisons recruit a consulting
board of outstanding physicians, non-salaried, who would
inspect prisons and recommend new procedures and en-

courage modernization of routines, The board should also
require monthly reports from prison doctors.

A state director of prison medical services should be
appointed on recommendation of the consulting board,
with authority to establish and maintain medical proce-
dures in prisons. Prison doctors should be responsible to
him, and wardens relieved of any control over medical
services. Incompetent medical personnel should be reas-
signed or replaced.

E URGED RESTUDY of “the adequacy of nursing serv-

ices, modifying the current practice of locking all

sick people in isolated rooms or wards that precludes
necessary continuous observation and unnecessarily
limits their activities.’ He found that in nearly all cases
dormitories and isolation wards are kept locked, and sick
prisoners are unobserved except when entrance is
necessary for feeding or other specific purposes, He
found only two operating signal systems for calling
attendants, no night supervision, and an alarming fire
hazard due to small stoves maintained in most rooms
for heat.

“Some hospital units are located in old buildings with-
out central heat, sometimes without showers or tubs for
bathing, hot water obtained by heating on a stove and no
flush toilets," he reported. ‘Beds are without springs, mat-
tresses are thin and bed linen and towels woefully in-
adequate.”

Dr. Spradley also recommended psychiatric examina-
tion for all newly admitted adult prisoners serving a year
or longer sentence, and all juveniles; modern diagnostic
equipment including portable X-rays, and a centralized
laboratory, which would be less expensive than using
private laboratories for testing specimens.

He said that many prison physicians had criticized cur-
rent prison policies which were ‘so inflexible that proven
advances in the care of the sick could not be instituted.”

“Only after those who occupy positions at the highest
administrative levels in the national government manifest
a real interest and change in attitude toward the so-called
criminals can one expect any important and sustained
improvement in the medical care of the prison inmates,”
he concluded. +END

Designed and constructed by the Exhibition Section, Office of Administration, HICOG, this United States exhibit was
among 16 nations represented by displays of their penal operations at the International Penal and Penitentiary Congress
in The Hague, the Netherlands, Aug. 13 to 16. In the HICOG exhibit representation was given the US Federal Bureau
of Prisons, the Department of Institutions and Agencies of New Jersey, the Departments of Corrections of New York, Cali-
fornia and Maryland. Supervising the setting up of the exhibit in The Hague were Edgar M. Gerlach, chief, Prisons Division,

Office of the General Counsel, HICOG; Elmer Cox, chief, and Ernst A. Scholmann, deputy chief, Exhibitions Section.

B

--- Page 44 ---
E-One Year

a Oct. 16, 1949 to Oct. 15, 1950

of the Headquarters Building: of the Office of the US High Comm

Signing at the Petersberg on Sept. 21, 1949, the Occupation
Statute which defined the relations of the Occupying
Powers to Germany and permitted the inauguration of the
Federal Republic under specific restrictions are the three
Allied High Commiss 3: (left to right) Sir Brian Robert-
son, representing the United Kingdom; M. Andre Francoi.

Poncet, France, and Mr. John J. McCloy, United States.

oner for Germany, located in Frankfurt.

Meeting at the Petersberg on Sept. 25, 1950, to discuss
instructions contained in the Communique of the three
Allied Foreign Ministers for relaxing certain restrictions
in the Occupation Statute are (left to right) Mr. McCloy;
Dr, Ludwig Erhard, German minister of economics; Sir
Ivone Kirkpatrick, new UK high commissioner; Dr, Konrad
Adenauer, German chancellor, and M, Francois-Poncet.

--- Page 45 ---
Office Directors and State Commissioners

Office of Office of Office of Military Security
Labor Affairs Administration Intelligence Board

4 hy

Harvey W. Brown Glenn G. Wolfe Benjamin R. Shute Maj. Gen. J. P, Hodges

Director Director Director US Commissioner
Office of Office of the State Commissioner

Executive Secretary for Bavaria (OLC B)

James E. King, Jr. M. D. Van Wagoner Clarence M. Bolds Dr. George N. Shuster

Executive Secretary State Commissioner State Commissioner State Commissioner
(- Dec. 49) (June-July ‘50) (July 50 -)

OLC Bremen OLC Hesse OLC Wuert.-Baden Berlin Element

WN is P
Capt. C. R. Jeffs, USN Dr. James R. Newman Maj. Gen, C, P. Gross Maj. Gen. Maxwell Taylor
State Commissioner State Commissioner State Commissioner US Commander

--- Page 46 ---
Office of US High Commissioner for Germany

John J. McCloy
Pee US High Commissioner fs
Maj. Gen. George P. Hays Benjamin J. Buttenwieser
Deputy US High Commissioner Asst. US High Commissioner

Office Directors and State Commissioners

Office of Political

raat

Affairs Office of Economic Affairs

wi

J

James W. Riddleberger Samuel Reber Norman H. Collison Robert M. Hanes
Director (- June ‘50) Director (June ‘50 -) Director (- Nov. ‘49) Director (Nov. ‘49 -)

Office of General Counsel Office of Public Affairs

Robert R. Bowie Chester McLain Ralph Nicholson Shepard Stone
General Counsel (Jan ‘50-) General Counsel (- Jan ‘50) Director (- Sept. ‘50) Director (Sept. ‘50 -)

--- Page 47 ---
i a mt: (oes oo
General Taylor gives first of DM 1,000,000 grant to Berlin Free University.

HICOG sponsors leadership training conferences jor German youth inHesse.

October 1949

(including pertinent dates prior to HICOG's
formal assumptionof responsibility on Oct.16)

June 6—President Truman issues Executive
Order No. 10,062, establishing the po-
sition of United States High Commis-
sioner for Germany.

July 1—Mr. John J. McCloy arrives in
Germany to assume position as US
High Commissioner for Germany.

July 1 to Oct. 16—Office of US High Com-
missioner for Germany (HICOG) is
organized, with new officials appointed
by Department of State taking over
duties from retiring officials of Mili-
tary Government (OMGUS).

Sept. 21iI—Allied High Commission (HICOM)
is formally inaugurated as three com-
missioners sign Occupation Statute
and German Federal Republic comes
into being.

Oct. 1—Soviet Government protests to
United States, United Kingdom and
France establishing of the German
Federal Republic.

1—German Patent Office commences oper-
ations in Munich.

6—Last British airlift plane arrives in
Berlin.

7—Federal Chancellery declares creation
of a Soviet-Zone government illegal
since it is not based on the legality
of free elections.

8—An interzonal trade agreement provid-
ing for the exchange of goods worth
DM 600,000,000 (5142,800,000) is signed
between Germany and Soviet Zone.

10—HICOM issues a communique declar-
ing East-zone government is _ not
authorized to represent either East
Germany or all of Germany since
its establishment is not based on
legal elections.

16—Department of State officially takes
over civilian occupation responsibility
in Germany from Department of Army.

20—HICOM extends ERP aid to West
Berlin under the same conditions as
applied in western Germany.

21—HICOM publishes declaration assuring
Berlin of “fullest moral and material
support.”

30—Germany admitted as full member

nation of the Organization for Euro-

pean Economic Co-operation (OEEC).

31—Public-opinion survey shows seven
out of 10 Germans in US Zone aware
of ERP aid to Germany.

--- Page 48 ---
November 1949

2—Department of State establishes Bureau
of German Affairs due to increased rp-
sponsibilities with regard to German's.

3—Paul G. Hoffman, ECA administrato:,
compliments western German authori-
ties on efforts to liberalize trade.

3—Federal Parliament chooses Bonn as
capital. The Petersberg is established
as HICOM headquarters.

9—Foreign Ministers of United States,
United Kingdom and France meet in
Paris to discuss problems of future
policy in Germany.

10—HICOM gives German government
power to negotiate foreign trade and
payment agreements.

11—Secretary of State Acheson arrives in
Frankfurt for four days of meetings
with Allied and German authorities.

15—Members of House Appropriations
Committee begin survey of foreign aid
and ECA activity in Germany.

15—Chancellor Adenauer reports to federal
parliament on conferences with HICOM.
Adenauer states dismantling to be
slowed down at six important plants;
federal republic to co-operate with
Military Security Board and_ Inter-
national Authority of the Ruhr, and
to support decartelization efforts.

18—Radio Technical Institute at Nurem-
berg, last radio organization in US
Zone still under American adminis-
tration, transferred to German control.

18—Three-Power agreement on German
shipbuilding signed in London. Ger-
many permitted to construct limited
number of faster and larger cargo vessels.

22—Allied high commissioners and Ger-
man chancellor sign Petersberg Pro-
tocol which includes agreements to
halt dismantling in 18 major factories,
to grant concessions in shipbuilding,
to permit joining international organi-
zations, to participate in International
Authority of the Ruhr, to co-operate
with Military Security Board and to
eliminate totalitarian tendencies,

23—Economics Minister Erhard announces
derationing of coal.

25—Mr. McCloy departs for London to con-
fer with Ambassador Lewis Douglas.

29—HICOG abolishes licensing of Ger-
man political parties in US Zone.

Secretary Acheson and Mr. McCloy meet with Germany's President Heuss,

Two nations get acquainted at German-American Club in Wiesbaden (left).
Berlin labor leaders (below, right) confer with US Commander Taylor.

--- Page 49 ---
US, Germany sign first major pact as Germany becomes ECA member.

At Christmas, Mrs. McCloy addr children's festival in Frankfurt church;
visiting soprano Mary Maddox sings for American and German audiences.

December 1949

1—Berlin West power station, completely
dismantled by Russians at beginning
of occupation, reopened. Reconstruc-
tion made possible by ERP funds.

i—German government applies for mem-
bership in International Authority of
the Ruhr.

3—Inter-Allied Reparations Agency in
Brussels decides to award no more
dismantled German plants to Russia’
because USSR has not fulfilled agree-
ment to repay 15 percent of its share
with food for western Germany.

3—Soviet government reports all German
prisoners of war except those ‘known
to have committed crimes against
humanity’’ will be returned home by
Christmas. Russians say German pris-
oners returned would total 350,000 in
1949. This brings announced returns
to about 1,000,000. Russia originally
listed 3,730,000 German prisoners, leav-
ing 2,700,000 unaccounted for,

9—Walter Ulbricht, who bears title of
deputy minister-president of East-zone
government, states Berlin Whitsuntide
rally (May 28) of 600,000 Communist
youth “will be the signal for a
national revolt."

12-13—Conference of 155 US Resident
Officers in Frankfurt.

15—Mr. McCloy and Chancellor Adenauer
sign ECA Bilateral Agreement bring-
ing Germany into Marshall Plan as
full member.

15—Heads of missions of 12 countries
are formally accredited to HICOM in
ceremony at the Petersberg.

16—ECA releases DM 1,036,000,000
(3247,000,000) of ERP counterpart funds
for developing German industrial and
agricultural capacity; DM 95,000,000
to go to West Berlin.

17—Federal Vice Chancellor and ERP
Minister Franz Bluecher appointed
German representative on International
Authority of the Ruhr.

--- Page 50 ---
January 1950

3—HICOG Exchanges Division reports
953 professional leaders and students
went to US for observation and study
during 1949; announces plan for send-
ing additional 1,500 Germans in first
six months of 1950.

6—HICOG's Office of Economic Affairs
announces 1949 iron and steel pro-
duction of western Germany represents
postwar record.

10—First group of German experts under
ECA Technical Assistance Program
leaves for US.

16—Federal Republic announces rationing
of all foodstufis, except sugar, will
end March 1.

21—Mr. McCloy arrives in Washington for
discussions with President Truman and
Secretary of State Acheson.

22—Federal chancellor informs HICOM
of his government's interest in decon-
centration of coal, steel and iron
industries in order to create sound
competitive enterprises.

23—Mr. McCloy, in important broadcast
from Washington, gives “progress re-
port on Germany," states Germany
has spiritual resources from which
can emerge a democratic state.

26—HICOM allows German government
to establish consular and economic of-
fices in US, United Kingdom and France.

26—Mr. McCloy, in radio address in
Boston, says US representatives are
in Germany to help German people
take a democratic road as they go
forward toward political independence.

27—Chancellor Adenauer appeals to world,
calling attention to large number of
German prisoners of war still held in
eastern Europe despite Soviet announce-
ment all PW's have been freed.

30—Traffic restrictions lifted at interzonal
checkpoints of Marienborn and Helm-
stedt on Federal Republic-Soviet Zone
border.

30—French-German trade agreement signed
in Paris.

31—Vice Chancellor Bluecher, in meeting
of OEEC Council in Paris, states Ger-
many will do all in its power to
continue policy of co-operation with
Western nations eventually to form
European Economic Union.

a
HICOG

s Glenn Wolfe, Frankfurt's Mayor Kolb sign lease for housing project.

Mr, McCloy confers with Cardinal Faulhaber, Catholic leader in Bavaria.

+ Dr. Newman (left) looks over exhibition of books banned US editors | touring Germany to study effects of Marshall
by Nazis, now available in all Hesse Information Centers. Plan aid interview Chancellor Adenauer in Frankfurt.

dries Dritheo Reich, ©
asebotee warce /

--- Page 51 ---
Chancellor Adenauer delivers letter to Mr. McCloy announcing Federal
Republic's formal ratification of ECA agreement between two nations.

German women scan US fashion magazines at Stuttgart Information Center.

US, British, French officers meet envoys
of UNESCO, World Youth in Bad Nauheim.

February 1950

6—Mr. McCloy, opening new US Infor-
mation Center in Stuttgart, delivers
major speech on US policy in Ger-
many, stating Germany should develop
its political independence and should
be integrated into a free Europe.

7—In Washington, Secretary of State
Acheson receives German Vice-Chan-
cellor Bluecher, who expresses thanks
for US aid.

9—HICOM advises German chancellor
that, from June 30, federal govern-
ment will have administrative respon-
sibility for greater part of displaced
persons (DP’s) remaining in Germany.

10—Mr. McCloy, in press conference in
Berlin, states steel embargo to Soviet
Zone is completely justified, because
East-zone deliveries in interzonal trade
are in arrears.

10—Appointment of first German economic
representative to US announced.

12—Soviet authorities begin actions caus-
ing delays and difficulties along
highway, rail line and canal in inter-
national corridor between Helmstedt
and Berlin.

16—HICOM economic advisers send mem-
orandum to German government ex-
pressing dissatisfaction with steps to
improve economic situation, particu-
larly in matter of unemployment,
which by mid-February had _ risen
above 2,000,000.

18—Three Western commandants of Ber-
lin protest to Soviets on interference
with movement of persons and goods
between Western zones and Berlin.

26—Steel embargo to East zone is lifted.

28—Mr. McCloy in statement reaffirms
American policy “‘of political unifi-
cation of Germany on the basis of
free all-German election.”

--- Page 52 ---
March 1950

1—Federal Ministry for Refugee Affairs
reports 7,600,000 refugees and expel-
lees from eastern European countries
are in western Germany, in addition to
1,000,000 to 1,500,000 refugees from
Soviet Zone.

2—State Department press officer states
United States is doing everything in
its power to conclude peace treaty
with Germany.

2—HICOM promulgates law on control
of materials, facilities and equipment
relating to atomic energy.

3—HICOM authorizes federal government
to establish nine additional consulates
in foreign countries.

5—Ground broken for first block of
dwellings for refugees in Neumuenster,
in the state of Schleswig-Holstein.
Total of more than 10,000 dwellings to
be built with the assistance of ECA
counterpart funds to provide suitable,
low-rent housing in several refugee-
crowded areas of state,

6—German chancellor proposes a union
between Germany and France.

8—OEEC adopts resolution providing for
inclusion of Germany in European
Payments Union.

9—HICOM transmits to German govern-
ment estimates for occupation costs
and mandatory expenditures for year
1950-51, totaling DM  4,048,500,000
(3963,543,000), or DM 544,900,000 less
than previous year.

12—Gerhart Eisler, chief of Soviet-Zone
Information Office, announces Com-
munist youth will march through
whole of Berlin at Whitsun rally
“regardless of any prohibition.”

15—US Department of Agriculture states
International Wheat Council conven-
ing in London has accepted Germany
as member state.

15—Fifteen members of German Federal As-
sembly (lower house of Parliament)
are invited by US High Commissioner
to go to United States ‘‘to observe
and study the American government
and American institutions and socie-
ties."

15—HICOM authorizes establishment of
civil air service between Belgrade and
Frankfurt.

16—During debate in House of Commons,
Winston Churchill calls for Western
Germany's active participation in de-
fense of Western Europe.

17—The Mainz Psalter, 500-year-old, three-
color masterpiece of printing by
Gutenberg, recovered in United States,
is returned to Germany.

21—Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, deputy
high commissioner, breaks ground for
first large-scale HICOG housing pro-
ject in Frankfurt.

25—Mr. McCloy, at press conference in
Rome during American ambassadors’
conference, describes dismantling in
Germany as practically ended.

25—Federal Ministry of Labor announces
unemployment in western Germany
has shown decrease for first time
since 1948,

28—Federal Republic invited to participate
in first US International Trade Fair
in Chicago.

30—HICOM in letter to federal chancellor
defines principles governing its con-
trol of German steel industry.

31—HICOG appoints three-man clemency
board to hear petitions filed in behalf
of war-crimes prisoners.

Commissioner McCloy leaves Ger-
many to “report to people” in US.

Frankfurt evening school will use
leather donated by US student group.

Americans, Germans exchange folk-
lore; here, old-time ‘‘weenie-roast."’

--- Page 53 ---
1—Defense ministers of the 12 Atlantic
Pact countries meeting in The Hague
discuss co-ordination of Germany into
Atlantic Pact.

i—Federal government establishes an of-
fice in Berlin.

3—Mr. McCloy states before Congress
in Washington that Soviet Union is
exercising such strong pressure in
Germany that a ‘‘serious crisis‘ could
develop.

4—Council of Ministers of the OEEC
elects seven German representatives
to executive committee.

4—Mr. McCloy delivers address at Pil-
grims' Society dinner in London.

4—Assistant High Commissioner Benja-
min J. Buttenwieser, in Berchtesgaden
address, outlines fundamental com-
ponents of US policy in Germany:
enabling German people to develop
political independence along demo-
cratic lines, support and encourage-
ment of democratic elements in Ger-
many, gradual withdrawal of occupa-
tion controls, assistance to German
people in sharing in economic benefits
of free Europe, seeking goal of a uni-
fied Germany on a democratic and

April 1950

federal basis, fostering fair trade prac-
tice, and taking active steps to pre-
vent Germany from falling prey to
a new Soviet imperialism.

5—Western Powers establish an Allied
General Staff, with headquarters in
Berlin, to go into action in case of
emergency,

7—Germany invited to take part in Gen-
eral Agreement on Tariff and Trade
conference in Torquay, England.

10—HICOG lifts suspension of co-deter-
mination laws in Wuerttemberg-Baden
and Hesse. Laws provide for partici-
pation of employees in administration
of private enterprises.

11—Soviets extend transportation impedi-
ments to German and Allied trains.

11—ECA publishes report that West Ger-
many’s economic recovery since ERP
has been ‘fast and dramatic."

17—Fifteen members of German federal par-
liament leave for five-week visit to
US to observe operation of American
government on national, state and
municipal levels.

18—Chancellor

28—HICOM withdraws provisional

28—HICOM

Adenauer advocates for-
mation of European Federation with
Germany as a full partner.

20—HICOM disapproves provisionally Ger-

man income tax law on ground it
would increase budgetary deficits of
Federal Republic and states by de-
creasing tax revenues.

23—German production index announced

as reaching 100 in March, 15 points
over March of previous year.

26—For second time, Berlin's city govern-

ment rejects Communist request to
permit 500,000 youth to march through
West Berlin at Whitsun.

dis-
approval of new income tax law after
federal authorities submit statement
of measures to be taken to meet
HICOM requirements.

agrees to authorize West
Germany to act as independent state
in Council of Europe assembly.

29—Federal Council (upper house of par-

liament) unanimously decides to join
World Wheat Council, Under this
agreement Federal Republic will buy
1,800,000 tons of wheat, 70 percent
of its total wheat imports.

US educators (right), on tour of Ger-
many, chat with HICOG's Buttenwieser.

Forty-millionth US gift parcel sent to
Germany opened by Frankfurt family.

Members of German parliament meet
Mr. McCloy before leaving on US visit.

--- Page 54 ---
A crowd estimated at 500,000 gathered in Berlin's Platz der
Republik to observe traditional May Day rally (right).

Roving US Ambassador Harriman, Berlin's Mayor Reuter
talk over the city's industrial progress, Marshall Plan aid.

1—Operational responsibility for dis-
placed persons in US Zone transferred
from European Command, US Army
(EUCOM) to HICOG.

2—ECA Ambassador-at-large W. Averill
Harriman renews US guarantees on
defense of West Berlin.

5—Mr. McCloy, commenting on Soviet
statement that all German prisoners
of war have been sent home, says “‘I
do not believe it.”

6—In declaration before Federal As-
sembly, Chancellor Adenauer requests
Soviet Union supply information about
missing 1,500,000 German prisoners of
war.

8—Russia tells Western Allies it would
agree to city-wide election in Berlin
if Occupation Forces withdraw from
Berlin, among many other conditions.

9—Western Allies reject Soviet conditions
on Berlin election.

9—Adenauer cabinet votes for West Ger-
many to join Council of Europe.

10—Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, state
commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden,
replies to letter from Dr. Reinhold
Maier, state minister president, criti-
cizing lack of prosecution in Stutt-
gart denazification bribery trials.

10—In speech before Pilgrim Society in
London, Secretary of State Acheson
calls for acceptance of Germany into
“family of Western civilization."

May 1950

11—Federal Republic accedes to Central
Rhine Commission as full and equal
member with Belgium, Netherlands,
Switzerland, United Kingdom and
United States. >

12—HICOM grants greater shipbuilding
liberties to Federal Republic by Re-
gulation No. 7 to Law 24, allowing
seven categories of ships’ up to
maximum speed of 12 knots without
Allied approval.

12—German UNESCO Committee consti-
tuted in Frankfurt.

14—Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith
in Chicago cancels address by Mr.
Buttenwieser, who publicly releases text
which states Nazism in Germany “has
been destroyed never to rise again.”

15—HICOM lifts last remaining restric-
tions on international telephone and
telegraph services in Federal Republic.

16—HICOM approves Law No. 27 con-
cerning reorganization of German coal
and steel industries,

16—HICOM withdraws its provisional dis-
approval of Federal civil service law.

16—German Federal Council unanimously
approves Schuman Plan and forms
study group to examine proposal.

22—Mr. Buttenwieser announces lifting of
several restrictions on private invest-
ment in Federal Republic.

23—Great Britain, France and United Sta-
tes protest establishment of militarized
police in Soviet Zone.

24—HICOG Office of Economic Affairs
and ECA Special Mission to Western
Germany outline plans for nationwide
“dollar drive’ to reduce Germany's
large dollar gap.

25—Combined Travel Board eases restric-
tions on international travel for Ger-
mans. :

26—Three Western high commissioners
transmit proposals to Soviet Control
Commission for political and economic
unity of Germany on truly democratic
basis.

26—29—Whitsuntide rally is only tame
affair with not more than 400,000 Com-
munist youth attending. Although no
attempt is made to march into Western
sectors, thousands of youth slip
through Communist guards to observe
and enjoy advantages of Western life.

27—Soviet Zone rejects Allied proposals
for general free elections for all Ger-
many.

29—Mr. McCloy states Communist-direct-
ed Whitsuntide demonstration in Ber-
lin is failure due to firm determination
of West Berliners.

--- Page 55 ---
3—Germany prepares to negotiate for
tariff concessions with 14 countries at
forthcoming General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trades conferences,

3—HICOG says question of German police
force under study.

6—Public opinion shows three out of four
Germans in US Zone oppose withdraw-
al of Occupation Powers because
they fear Communist aggression.

7—Mr. McCloy, issuing statement on al-
leged Soviet boundary agreement on
Oder-Neisse line, says questions of
Germany's eastern boundary cannot be
settled until valid peace treaty with
Germany is concluded,

7—Berlin's week-long motor show draws
400,000 visitors, including many youth
who slipped away from Communist
Whitsun rally.

7—Mr. McCloy recommends issuance of
large German national loan to alleviate
financial, social and unemployment
burdens of Federal Republic.

8—State Department announces Soviet
determination of Oder-Neisse line as
final frontier between Poland and
Germany is illegal and in violation of
Potsdam Agreement,

June 1950

8—HICOM grants German government
wider liberty of action in entering into
international agreements.

9—Soviet-Zone Socialist Unity Party (the
Communistic SED) calls for campaign
to prevent Soviet-Zone residents from
listening to Western radio stations and
reading Western newspapers.

14—UNESCO inaugurates expanded pro-
gram in Germany.

15—Soviets hold up two US Army pas-
senger trains at Marienborn checkpoint
for more than eight hours.

16—Nine members of German government
leave for study tour in United States
for course in international relations in
preparation for posts in German diplo-
matic corps.

16—HICOM approves procedure for first
stage of progressive relaxation of
restrictions on foreign investments.

16--Speaking in Duesseldorf before Com-
mittee for Study of French-German
Economic Relations, Mr. McCloy states
solution in principle of German trade
problems must be looked for in West
exclusively. Idea of enlarging exports

to East, although highly tempting,
cannot be regarded as a possible solu-
tion of German economic problems, but,
nevertheless, East-West trade should
be developed as far as possible.
17—HICOM announces abolition of exit
permits to leave Germany for travel
abroad. These had been issued by
Allied permit offices since 1945.
23—Maurice Tobin, US secretary of labor,

confers in Berlin with trade union
representatives, Allied and German
officials,

24—Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick becomes British

high commissioner, succeeding Sir
Brian Robertson.
25—ECA approves’ release of DM

1,150,000,000 of counterpart funds for
expansion of industry and agriculture.

27—Commenting on Communist aggression
in South Korea, Mr. McCloy points to
“the utter sham of the so-called peace
offensive of the Communists‘ and the
“deep significance of the presence of
Allied troops in Germany.”

28—Dr. Heinz Krekeler arrives in New
York to open German consulate.

30—German-American Trade Promotion
Company organized to promote exports
to dollar area.

Exchangees, back from United States visit, talk
over experiences at Bad Nauheim conference.

Mr. McCloy addresses leading Ruhr industrialists,

Mr. Buttenwieser, principal speaker at Gutenberg
jubilee festival in Mainz, views Mainz Psalter.

--- Page 56 ---
July 1950

1—Soviets cut off supply of water and
electricity to West Berlin and state
they will follow up action by inter-
rupting elevated train service in non-
Communist part of Berlin.

2—Russia sends note to US, repeating
charges made by Communist East-
German regime that American planes
dropped potato bugs on East Germany.

3—United States High Commissioner for
Germany John J. McCloy says in inter-
view on anniversary of his entering
upon office in Germany that German
unity must be sought by free nation-
wide elections,

4—Mr. McCloy declares in Frankfurt that
Federal Republic does not need a mil-
itary guarantee as Western Powers
consider an attack against Germany
an attack against themselves.

7—Department of State announces that
through exchange of notes with Brit-
ish Embassy in Washington an
agreement has been reached on settle-
ment of outstanding financial issues
under bizonal fusion agreement.

10—HICOM approves establishment of
dollar export bonus to German ex-
porters,

13—Federal Republic accedes to Council
of Europe.

14—Federal government assumes respon-
sibility for non-German religious and
political refugees.

14—US Ambassador in Moscow presents
note to Soviet Minister of Foreign
Affairs, asking for explanation of Soviet
delay in  repatriating German pri-
soners of war and Soviet's repeated
refusal to furnish information concern-
ing them and asking Soviets to per-
mit investigation by impartial inter-
national body. Similar notes were
transmitted to Kremlin by British and
French Ambassadors.

18—Mr, McCloy, meeting 10 German youth
leaders in Frankfurt, says United
States is prepared to support new
plans for vocational training and self
improvement, and to encourage new
opportunities for German youth.

20—HICOM signs Law No. 32 on “Dis-
position of Former Reich-Owned Mo-
tion Picture Property," fostering sound,
privately-owned motion picture in-
dustry, organized to preclude excessive
concentrations of economic power.

26—US court in Frankiurt imposes fines on
two trade associations and five in-
dividuals charged with violating de-
cartelization law in first action of its
kind.

26—Federal Assembly appeals to Kremlin
to release all prisoners of war still held
in Soviet Union. Urges sentences of
those convicted of war crimes or
other offenses should be reviewed in
a proper legal manner.

28—HICOM agrees fundamentally to in-
crease strength of police forces in
states of Federal Republic.

30—HICOM states Communist officials in
Federal Republic will be held respon-
sible for actions in support of Com-
munist policy of organized resistance
to Western Occupation Authorities
and to Federal Republic.

31—The four US state commissioners warn
leading officials of Communist Party
not to follow a policy of organized
resistance.

31—Number of unemployed in Federal Re-
public decreases to 1,451,922.

Students who fled East zone visit ERP Caravan with Bremen's Mayor Kaisen.

30,000 medical books in Frankiurt prior

to distribution to universities.

--- Page 57 ---
Jean Cattier opens large new
Hamburg Information Center.

Mr. McCloy off for Washington
talks prior to Big Three parleys.

Homes for refugees in Schles-
wig-Holstein rise, aided by ERP.

August 1950

1—Crude steel production for July hits
postwar record—1,035,000 tons.

1—HICOM establishes Bonn enclave for
Allied authorities,

4—Mr. McCloy dedicates Germany's first
big penicillin plant in Hoechst.

7—Germany third largest exhibitor at first
US International Trade Fair in Chicago.

9—350. German students, teachers and
leaders in various fields leave for one
year of study in United States.

10—Interzonal trade agreement extended
for three months.

15—Mr. McCloy endorses EUCOM an-
nouncement on friendly relations with
the Germans.

16—Trade agreement between Germany
and Great Britain signed in London,

17—HICOM enacts Law 35 providing for
dispersion of assets of IG Farben.

19—Prompted by recent smuggling over
zonal border of valuable special ma-
chines and materials, HICOG expresses
dissatisfaction with handling of export
controls by federal government.

24—Ban on ERP counterpart funds for
German shipbuilding lifted and DM
95,000,000 of ERP funds earmarked
for this purpose.

24—Allied commandants abolish rationing
of food in Berlin.

25—19 German war criminals, convicted
by American tribunals at Nuremberg
and imprisoned at Landsberg, freed
because of time off for good conduct.

28—Three Western commandants of Berlin
protest Soviet interference in postal
traffic: up to Aug. 18 Soviets had
taken 3,000 parcels.

29—Trade agreement between Federal Re-
public and France extended to Oct. 31.

29—Federal Government enacts budget for
1950-51 of DM 13,000,000,000.

30—Federal Republic allocated $939,900,000
in ECA funds.

31—German government passes draft law
concerning right of co-determination.

31—HICOM in formal statement, says it
will hold German Communist party
leaders responsible for Communist in-
spired incitement to disobedience and
resistance to its over-all authority.

--- Page 58 ---
September 1950

i—Department of State announces US
will hold USSR responsible for any
attack from Soviet Zone against West
Berlin and Federal Republic,

2—Eleven countries give consent to estab-
lishment of German consulates.

3—Second 1950 batch of 350 exchangees
leaves for year in US schools.

4—In Labor Day broadcast, Mr. McCloy
describes organized labor movement
as greatest force in the free world
against Communism.

5—German consulate in New York opens.

5—Mr. McCloy tells press in Washington
that in a discussion with President
Truman he approved of German partici-
pation in defense of western Europe
and reinforcement of US troops in
Germany. Mr. McCloy describes East-
zone forces as permanent menace.

6—HICOM reminds German authorities
of their responsibility in preventing
export of strategic materials to Iron
Curtain countries.

15—Unemployment in Federal Republic
and West Berlin drops to new low —
a total of 1,230,000 idle,

19—French, British and US foreign minis-
ters, after meeting in New York, publish
communique on Germany, expressing
desire to intergrate Federal Republic
into community of free nations, to
work for the unification of all of
Germany, to terminate state of war
with Germany, to increase security of
Federal Republic. Allies declare “new
phase” in relations with Federal Re-
public beginning, and that Occupy-
ing Powers are willing to amend Occu-
pation Statute. Federal Government
authorized to establish ministry of
foreign affairs. Allies to review pro-
hibited and limited industries agree-
ment, remove restrictions on ship-
building for export, allow steel to be
produced outside present limitations.
Allies pay tribute to continued stead-
fastness of people of Berlin.

28—Germany takes part in conferences on
General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade at Torquay, England. 39 coun-
tries discuss tariff concessions.

Glenn Wolfe hands certificates
to first German-class graduates.

Religious editors of German
papers confer in Bad Nauheim.

Student-exchangees relate US
experiences after year's visit.

--- Page 59 ---
Articles and texts published in the In-
formation Bulletin, recording the policies,

programs, development and achievements
of HICOG and affiliated activities, include:

Occupation Statute (interpretation), No.
160, May 3, 1949.

Occupation Statute for Western Ger-
many, Text of, No. 161, May 17, 1949.

Executive Order No. 10,062, “Establishing
the Position of United States High Com-
missioner for Germany" (text), No. 163,
June 14, 1949 (with amendment in Septem-
ber 1950 issue).

The Basic Law (interpretation and text),
No. 163, June 14, 1949.

Paris Conference, statement by Secretary
Acheson, No, 165, July 12, 1949.

High Commission Charter (text), No. 165,
July 12, 1949,

Germany and the Foreign Ministers (in-
terpretation), No. 165, July 12, 1949.

Bibliography of Development of German
Unity, No. 165, July 12, 1949.

HICOG Organization, analysis of basic
plan with organizational chart, No. 167,
Aug. 9, 1949.

Western Germany Has Very Greatly Pro-
gressed Since the Surrender, address by
Mr. McCloy, No, 168, Aug. 23, 1949.

Progress in Germany, summary by State
Department, No, 168, Aug. 23, 1949.

US Attitude on Bonn, statement by Mr.
McCloy, No, 170, Sept. 20, 1949.

Organization Chart of Office of US High
Commissioner, No, 170, Sept. 20, 1949.

Birth of a Republic (summary), No. 171,
Oct. 4, 1949.

Message to HICOG Personnel, address
by Mr. McCloy, November 1949.

HICOG's Objective, statement by Gen-
eral Hays, December 1949.

Secretary Acheson Visits
(review), December 1949.

Germany

October 1950

1—Berlin’s International Industries Fair
opens with dedication of George C.
Marshall House with Mr. McCloy and
ECA Administrator Paul G. Hoffman
participating.

1—Communist-publicized demonstrations
in western Germany fizzle with only
few disturbances which are quickly
subdued by German police.

8—Mr. McCloy explains Foreign Ministers’
decision and German security in Ger-
man-language radio speech.

9-11—Second Resident Officers’
ence is held in Frankfurt.

Confer-

Bibliography

Our German Problem Today, digest of
address by Henry A, Byroade, January
1950.

Constitutional Development, review by
A. F. Pabsch and S, L. Wahrhaftig, January
1950.

Resident Officers, summary of zonal con-
ference, January 1950.

Report on Progress, address in Washing-
ton by Mr. McCloy, February 1950.

Mission for 1950, speech by Mr. Nichol-
son, February 1950.

Allied Watch on the Rhine, feature on
Allied High Commission operation by Hay-
nes Mahoney, March 1950.

Speeches of US High Commissioner De-
livered in Stuttgart and Boston (texts),
March 1950.

Stuttgart Speech, resume of world reac-
tion, March 1950.

American Policy in Germany,
by Mr. Buttenwieser, May 1950.

Germany in‘a United Europe, address by
Mr. McCloy, May 1950.

Five Years after Potsdam,
Mr. Nicholson, June 1950.

HICOG Staff Planning, review by David
Wilken, June 1950.

The Reorientation of Germany, address
by Mr. Buttenwieser, June 1950.

Defense of Democracy, address by Mr.
McCloy, July 1950.

Germany Today — Economically and
Financially, address ‘by Mr. Buttenwieser,
July 1950.

address

address by

A Five-Year Inventory, address by Mr.-

Buttenwieser, August 1950.
Allied Policy on Germany,
Foreign Ministers’ Communique,
1950.
Germany Views Foreign Ministers’ Com-
munique, press reaction, October 1950.

text of
October

Aerial view of Berlin's International In-
dustries Fair, opened Oct. 1 by US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy and ECA
Administrator Paul G. Hoffman, had at-
tracted more than 1,000,000 visitors in
less than two weeks. Tens of thousands
of Soviet Sector and Soviet Zone residents
were admitted despite efforts to prevent
their attendance. They paid East marks
on proferring proof of residence. In center
is the new George C. Marshall House,

Other publications pertaining to HICOG
and affiliated activities include:

US Resident Officers’ Conference, com-
pilation of speeches and _ statements,
published by Field Division, HICOG,
January 1950.

Activities of the Office of Public Affairs,
published by Special Publications Branch,
Public Relations Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, January 1950.

Basic Law and Occupation Statute,
published by Policy Reports Secretary,
Office of Executive Secretary, HICOG,
Feb, 1, 1950.

Germany's Parliament in Action, pub-
lished by CFM & Research Branch, Foreign
Relations Division, Office of Political
Affairs, HICOG, Feb, 15, 1950.

US Resident Officers’ Conference (supple-
ment), published by Field Division, HICOG,
March 1950.

ist Quarterly Report on Germany (Sept,
21 to Dec, 31, 1949), published by Reports
and Statistics Division, Office of Adminis-
tration, HICOG, May 1950.

HICOG Handbook, published by Person-
nel Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, June 1950.

The Kreis Resident Office, published by
Personnel Division, Office of Administra-
tion, HICOG, July 1950.

2nd Quarterly Report on Germany (Jan.
1-March 31, 1950), published by Reports
and Statistics Division, Office of Adminis-
tration, HICOG, July 1950.

3rd Quarterly Report on Germany (April
1 to June 30, 1950), published by Policy
Reports Secretary, Office of Executive
Secretary, HICOG, October 1950.

Other pamphlets, brochures and periodi-
cals have been issued by various offices,
divisions and branches of HICOG, ana-
lyzing current situations or reporting
specific activities.

--- Page 60 ---
800 New Dwellings

For Refugees Dedicated

Dc LIVING QUARTERS at low rentals are the
J cornerstones of a truly free and democratic way of
life," Harvey W. Brown, adviser to the ECA Mission in
Germany and director of the Office of Labor Affairs,
HICOG, said in dedicating 800 units of a refugee housing
project in Luebeck, Schleswig-Holstein.

This depelopment, the largest in the Schleswig-Holstein
refugee housing program, was named Aug.9 as the Harvey
W. Brown Settlement in tribute to Mr. Brown and the
American labor movement. The houses were partially
financed by ECA counterpart funds. Mr. Brown and mem-
bers of his staff have been a great assistance to the pro-
gram since its inception.

The ceremony was arranged by Ernst Damm, minister of
social affairs in Schleswig-Holstein, with the help of Lue-
beck trade unions and refugee organizations. Other speak-
ers were Minister Damm, City President Miemdorf and
Luebeck Senator Knapp. Senator Knapp paid tribute to
Mr. Brown and to the American trade unions in making
the dedication. Mr. Brown in addition to his formal address
said in accepting the dedication:

“I thank you for the honor that you have conferred upon
me. I know that by naming this settlement the Harvey W.
Brown Settlement, you wish to honor the American trade
union movement which, together with your trade unions,
endeavors to assure for the working man that share of
prosperity which is due to him. In that sense, I gladly
accept the honor, thanking you in the name of the US
High Commissioner and in the name of American labor.”

i ‘

HICOG Labor Affairs Director Harvey W. Brown dedi-
cates mammoth refugee housing project in Luebeck. Below:
Partial view of the 800 new homes. (PRD HICOG photos)

--- Page 61 ---
The Exchangees Say...

Summary

By BETH BURCHARD

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

EMEMBER THE ADVERTISING slogans of World

War II — slogans and songs and conversational
sentiments which defined America as the corner drugstore,
blueberry pie and Saturday afternoon at Ebbets Field?

Well, it's possible that an American, looking at the
United States, would name these things as "'the best" in his
country —but Germans who have visited the United
States as exchangees see it a lot differently.

Germans are impressed by such intangibles as the spirit
of helpfulness among people, the trust they show in one
another and the way Americans can stand in a group and
give speeches, And with the professional know-how and
the freedom of women.

Seen through the average exchangee's eyes, America is
a place from which a great deal can be learned.

Many American institutions, however, are not applica-
ble to Germany as she is today, they feel; on the other
hand, many should be imported in.toto.

One exchangee says of his fellows: ‘Most young visitors
I met on the way back said they would like to return to
America forever, A lot of older people said they would
never go back again, not even for thousands of dollars."

YRIAD DIFFERENT impressions of America are con-

tained in a compilation by the Exchanges Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, in which exchangees
reported on their findings. Through them, one can glimpse
something of the course the experiment has taken.

Between January 1949 and May 1950, some 1,300 Ger-
mans have gone to America under the reorientation-ex-
changes program, a means of acquainting Germans with
American technical skills and the democratic approach.
The Exchanges Division admits this is a relatively small
number when considered in relation to the 48,000,000 per-
sons in western Germany, especially the 18,000,000 in the
US Zone, from which most of the selectees were drawn.

The division has, moreover, repeatedly warned against
making generalizations as to the success of the program,
despite isolated incidents of conversion to democratic
ideas and the enthusiasm shown by the greater part of
those Germans who have participated.

A survey taken in March 1950 among West Germans
shows that a high percentage of those surveyed by
HICOG pollsters have heard of the program and that
a large majority of these have a favorable opinion of it.

Totalling 350, the largest group of Germans ever to go to
the United States under the HICOG cultural exchange pro-
gram assembled at the Casino at HICOG's headquarters
in Frankfurt to hear an address by High Commissioner
John J. McCloy (see page 45). They sailed in mid-August
from Cannes, France. Below, 26 Berlin students and teacher-
trainees, en route to the United States to start one-year
scholarships granted under the HICOG Exchanges Pro-
gram, wave goodby as they prepare to depart from Tempel-
hof Air Base, (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG and PRB HICOG-BE)

--- Page 62 ---
A majority believe that Germans can learn from Ameri-
cans.

The survey also shows that most of the Germans are not
prejudiced against those of their countrymen who take
part in the program.

It is interesting to note that articles written on experien-
ces in the United States by the Germans and published in
German media are outspokenly favorable to the program
and follow closely the comments in reports and letters on
file in the HICOG headquarters, most of which are pre-
pared either for the administrative division which planned
the program or addressed to individuals associated with
it. The fact that reports to HICOG resemble closely ac-
counts to the German people is a sign of advancement —
earlier in the occupation there had been a marked tend-
ency on the part of Germans to try and please the Ameri-
cans by reporting only those things they thought Ameri-
cans would like to hear.

OR THE MOST PART, exchangees are open in their

comments on what they observe in America. Although
one participant says “We all go to America with the
‘occupation complex,’ most returnees seem to give frank
appraisals of what they see. They take a realistic view
on the possibilities for adapting to Germany the most
desirable features of American —and democratic — life.

Many seem surprised at their genuine welcome in
America.

“T am very often asked questions about Germany and
her people... Sometimes I don't even know the answers.
So far I have not heard anything about Germany that was

Final processing (below) of the exchangees in the group
of 350 Germans sent to the United States in mid-August
took place in Frankfurt. The college and high schoo] stu-
dents, experts in various fields and civil servants were
drawn from all parts of Western Germany, with the
majority coming from the US Zone. Right, another group
of Berlin students and teacher-trainees, totaling 34, pre-
pare to board their plane at Tempelhof on their way to a
year of study in universities and schools in the United States.

bad. Everybody wants to help Germany," admits student
Gerhard Wulf.

Teen-ager Willi Traub is particularly pleased with the
“extremely good comradeship" among his fellow students,
stating that he has not experienced anything to support
the general belief that Germans are often disliked or re-
jected in the United States. ;

“The Americans’ hospitality was far above our expec-
tations,” according to Dr. Kurt Landsberger. “We were
received, both in public and privately, with a true cor-
diality, courtesy and joyfulness. This wonderful character
of the American people left a deep impression with all
of us...”

Among the 1,300 exchangees are persons of varying
fields and professions: educators, medical, law and indus-
trial experts, newspaper men, trade unionists and farmers.
Student experts-to-be make up a goodly percentage.

N THE COURSE of their tours through businesses and

institutions in which they are particularly interested,
the exchangees draw a number of comparisons between
American and German institutions.

School life is judged, and finds its strongest praise in
the realm of development for citizenship.

Elections to student councils are hailed by one educator
as an activity in which “the students rely on their own...
experience to judge whether a candidate makes out well
or fails them... They become familiar with election tech-
niques. How many people in Germany are kept from the
polls by their own inhibitions, or do not know at all to
whom they give their votes, what the stakes really are,
or how to behave in the election booth?”

--- Page 63 ---
Another comparison by the same author, Anton Brenner
of Stuttgart: ‘When do our children learn to find their way
through a library? American children learn this in the
fourth grade..."

Writes German textbook expert Dr. Ursula Fritsch of
Brunswick: “I have been deeply impressed with many
traits of the Americans: their energy when confronted by
new problems. The analytic method plays a large part,
not as an end in itself but in the form of the question
‘what is to be done?’ — and until the ‘know-how’ is under-
stood."

Another education expert, Helmut Hesselbach of Munich,
thought that physical education should play a larger role
in German schools. “Camping-and more outdoor life in the
German school curricula can do a valuable job in improv-
ing the German educational system... Camping ‘can carry
a tremendous task in helping improve the quality of our
citizenship."

IBRARIES, CLOSELY LINKED to the educational system
of any country, were carefully scrutinized by visiting
Germans.

“As to libraries, I can only say I have the deepest
respect for American library ideas and institutions,”
writes Eva Marie Hollweg. "...I am sorry to say we are
much behind in Germany in this respect... I see several
reasons for this, but... it must be admitted that one of the
main reasons is the lack of interest of the average citizen
and... the authorities.

“So there was one thing which struck me during my
(American) visit... that is the interest the public and the
individual take in the library question."

This library expert was impressed, too, with American
school-libraries. ‘We were struck at the size of most of
these libraries and at the interest both the students and
the teachers take in them.” She thought Germans, both
students and teachers, would be enthusiastic about such
a library, too, and made recommendations in her report
for action whereby funds could be obtained.

Students had their own observations of the educational
system.

“An advantage in (American) college life is the close
contact between the college and the family, writes
Melissa Dressel.

“It is very progressive in this country that in all fields
of welfare for youth there is...co-operation between
parents and teachers. Perhaps this has been a fault in Ger-
many — parents did not have anything to say about the
public education of their children.”

Hans Uhlerr, a student at the University of Mississippi,
wrote his impressions of a summer camp. “Camp Pratts
was a most important factor in filling out the program of
foreign student exchange. It provided... an opportunity
to see what American camps are like. This was specially
important for us Germans, who in most cases were
acquainted only with the camps of the Hitler Youth, and
who as a result had a dislike for camps as a whole. Camp
Pratts showed us that a camp need not be dictated by
military discipline, but that it can be a resort of relaxation;

INFORMATION BULLETIN

60

that a camp is not necessarily a place to train fanatic
nationalists, but that it may be a center of international
understanding and mutual friendship.”

IHE THING MOST ASTONISHING," says Willi Traub,
“is that in American schools teachers and pupils~are
like friends, the teachers never losing their tempers or
doing injustices to their pupils, as well as the complete
absence of the German method of so-called ‘iron disci-
pline,’ which is so feared in the German school system..."

A sidelight observation, here, by student Edgar Bless-
ing: “It is a pity that basketball games now are over. I
enjoyed them very much. When I saw the first game I
found it funny —not the game itself, but the noise. The
students of each side were shouting and yelling for their
teams, but soon the spirit of the games laid a hold on me,
too, and I started to shout also.”

Of the students of America, Dr. Kurt Landsberger of
Berlin-Charlottenburg made this observation, after visit-
ing a US law school: “It is impressive to see the frank and
unaffected bearing of the young undergraduates. Candidly,
free from any exaggerated aspect, not in an arrogant
manner, they face their instructor, ask questions of him
freely and in the discussions they often show a remarkable
thetorical assurance. Indeed, the art of speaking clearly
and intelligibly to the common folk appears to enjoy
special care in the United States.

“Tt was a striking impression to observe the seriousness
and enormous diligence that American undergraduates
apply to their studies.”

OMEN IN THE RURAL areas of the United States

were regarded enviously by Erika Gittinger, who is
in charge of rural home economics schools in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden. “To be able to better understand the organi-
zation of the Home Economics Extension Service in the
United States, it must be said that there is not a great dif-
ference between a rural and an urban household. For this
reason, there is less distinction between the fields of work
of a city woman and that of a farm woman. Indeed, many
farm women feed their chickens, etc., but the work of feed-
ing is very simple because of prepared feeds. Above all,
no livestock feed is prepared in the house. Furthermore,
the dwelling or home on the farm is usually separated
from other buildings, whereas our farms form a closed
living and working unit.”

Along the same line was a top official's observation:
“T found out that the farm woman in America is just not
the slave of her work as very often is the fate of our farm
women. Without any doubt, under these circumstances
the farm women can devote more time to cultural affairs,
in the house and especially to the training of her chil-
dren...”

The above is reported by Heinrich Stoos, Wuerttemberg- *- ,

Baden's minister of agriculture.

He goes on, “The practical side of farming in the United
States (differs) very, very much from our methods of
operation. Also the farmer himself is different; he is more
the type of a businessman and much better informed about
market opportunities than the average German farmer is.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 64 ---
In comparison, I should say, he rather should have a bit
more of what characterizes the German farmers, and the
German farmers should learn more of the business orien-
tation his American colleague has...

“The shortage of farm labor forces farmers to do inten-
sive farming with a minimum of labor and with the money
they have. Everybody concéntrates on the business side
of a job, a project. There is no such thing as aristocracy
of the blood. Problem number one seems to be to make
much money and fast. And this is what our farmers can
leam from their American colleagues...

“Their technical means, in comparison, makes us appear
backward. We have no idea how great the mechanical
development in the United States really is...”

Bernhard Gruber reports on the Agriculture Co-opera-
tive Extension Servicé: “I was especially impressed that
the Extension Service in the US Department of Agricul-
ture, although it gives directions to the states, emphasizes
that it never interferes directly with the field of work of
the colleges. Fhe programs are not ordered, but offered...
the colleges can accept them or not.”

OMMENT ON AMERICAN law from experts in that
field emphasizes differences in the systems of justice.

“American law is so different from continental European
law, especially German law, that individual institutions
and its rules can hardly be transferred to German law. It
is based on Anglo-American traditions — and was fixed
in an immense number of judicial decisions, the study of
which requires many years... (But) the basic principles
of law in both systems are finally the same ones..." This
is reported by Walter Roemer, official of the Bavarian
Ministry of Justice. °

“IT was especially interested in the criminal law,” writes
Volmar Borbein, public prosecutor at the district court at
Kassel. ‘The rights of the accused (in America) are more
extensive than in Germany. The accused often has the
right to demand that the judge check the measures taken
by the police. Often he makes use of his right to refuse
a statement. By that the prosecution is compelled to pull
the evidence together very carefully ... As to the sentence
itself, the appointment of probation officials is of special
importance. I am of the opinion that this institution could
give valuable suggestions to our criminal law, too.”

Visiting attorney Dr. Kurt Landsberger makes these
comments: "The American law system has the advantage
that the judge is not so closely bound to written law as
in Germany.

“In the criminal procedure the right and the freedom
of the accused are carefully watched.

“Here is an example worthy of imitation: fewer judges,
good judges, and well-paid judges.

“The American legal education system does not provide
a practical training ‘in the courts as is customary in Ger-
many. It is true, at the universities there are so-called
moot courts (but) these exercises are not sufficient to give
the students the thorough knowledge German lawyers
gather by their preparatory service at the courts. In this
respect...the German system seems more advantageous.”

OCTOBER 1950

61

To Dr.Hans Anschuetz of Heidelberg, there are other
flaws in the American system. “I doubt that the (observer-
referee role of the judge) in getting evidence, especially
from. witnesses and likewise in crimimal cases, where
psychological research into the personality of the criminal
is limited, will yield results which help in determining
the truth." . .

However, says he, “a judicial crisis in the US will be
less possible than in Germany, as the nation itself, repre-
sented by a... selected jury exercises jurisdiction,”

N BOOK PUBLISHING, Dr. Fritz Woelcken, German

publisher, comments: “I have been impressed by two
things: the great care that is given to editing, even in such
a venture as the pocket books, editing of a kind which is
practically unknown in our country. The other impressive
fact is the care given to promotion and marketing. There
is little haphazard about selling books..."

On labor in America, Markus Schleicher, president of the .
Wuerttemberg-Baden Trade Union Federation, observes:
“The AFL Trade Union Congress made a deep impres-
sion on me, because it took a stand in contradiction to the
assertion that the American trade unions were not poli-
tical; I naticed the close connection of the trade unions
with the church; I heard a judge talk who was still able
to laugh and joke (almost an impossibility in Germany);
I was favorably impressed by the positive point of view
of the congress on the German problems..."

Comments on the social structure point up the vitality
and fluidity of the people as a whole, as seen by the
Germans.

“Amazingly often you find people who have several
professions... I met many farmers who had practiced
other professions. Many laborers went through other pro-
fessions, too. If you ask for the reasons you learn that
the present profession is more lucrative. You do not find
that people pay so much attention.to preparatory training
as in Germany. This has, in my opinion, remarkable con-
sequences, The individual gets well acquainted with dif-
ferent social conditions,

“It does not matter where you come from, but how
efficient you are... At the same time everybody is
esteemed only for his work and not for the social authority
resulting from. the nature of his job. Therefore, there are
no class differences in our sense. The relations between
the people thus are free and unaffected..."

HE WOMAN IN AMERICA takes much more zealous

interest in all events in political and public areas than
a woman in Germany would. The League of ‘Women
Voters is a women's organization spread all over the
States with the end of informing and instructing their
population — not only women —on a basis that should
be called impartial, and in order to raise interest in the
problems of public, social, political, international and
legal life.

“I had the opportunity to attend immense assemblies
of this organization (as well as) small local meetings. The
open-mindedness of the women concerning political events,
and the skill with which even a simple housewife was

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
able to express her thoughts was astonishing. The organi-
zation of a similar movement in Germany, it seems to me,
would be of great advantage...

“I was most impressed by the fact that Americans prin-
cipally try to make life for others and for themselves as
comfortable and simple as possible. Social life, it seems to
me, runs along much more harmoniously and in better
balance than in our country... They are the consequence
of minds full of tolerance and sympathy and because of
this attitude they respect even the personality of a child.”

Mrs. Juliane von Campenhausen describes her first visit
to New York: “It is very easy to find one’s way in Man-
hattan without having much sense of direction .. for there
is always someone ready with kind information. If you are
standing at any... busy intersection, somewhat dolefully
because you are at a loss as to where to turn, someone is
bound to step up to you within no more than two minutes
to ask whether he can help you...

“People go to church in America. This is a matter of
course, and it would occur to no one to laugh at a church-
goer as is often done elsewhere... We had the impression
that Americans generally take their Christianity seriously.
This, by the way, is the only explanation of their help-
fulness. We know how America has helped Germany; we
also know what would have become of Germany but for
this help. But I suppose (we did) not know... that this
aid has by no means come always out of the superabun-
dance of this immensely prosperous country. It has been
a large sacrifice for many people to provide this help."

RS. VON CAMPENHAUSEN is also amazed at a

jovial priest who supplied her with "the most accurate
information about ‘Toni,’ the permanent wave... This is
most typically American. They are not stiff but always
ready for fun or joke. The most difficult situations are...
mastered with a joke.”

Wonderment accompanies her descriptions of Ameri-
can drugstores — “they carry cigarettes, stationery, alarm
clocks, chinaware and umbrellas. You can even eat there.”

In a more serious vein she observed, “In America you
can be of a different opinion without giving other people
the idea that they are obligated to knock you over the
head. After all, this tolerance does not come all by itself.
It is... taught im the schools.

“As regards social legislation, USA is less advanced
than we," she wrote. ‘They are now studying compulsory
health insurance. The existing invalidity and old age
pension insurance was only introduced under Roosevelt.
They honestly admit, however, that we are more advanced
in this field, and that they have adopted many of our
principles.”

Student Melitta Dressel found that, for her, “it was as
important to study the American way of life from practical
experience. I was hugely surprised to see that packages
and mail are left beside a mailbox for hours! No one takes
them away and then the mailman comes and picks them
up. Moreover, I can go into a restaurant and eat what I
wish and the cashier believes, without a check, what I
have had. It must be that the system of being honest and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

62

confident toward our fellowmen works out successfully,
else it would be abolished.”

Through visiting other lands, she writes, “One slowly
loses the feeling of being superior to others, because after
all, everybody is the same. We are all people.”

“One of the most impressive things to me," testifies
Bernhard Gruber, agricultural exchangee, “is the fact that
there is not so much done by order as in Germany but by
discussion and teamwork.”

ARI-COLORED AS ALL these observations seem, in

such an abundant variety of fields, it can be perceived
that the exchangees receive some positive impressions
of America and learn to respect many of her institutions.
Indications are, from the reports, that the exchangees
intend to carry through in disseminating information
concerning their trips and working toward changes in
German institutions they deem advantageous or desirable.
Many are giving talks and writing articles in addition.
Final accounting as to the worth of the entire project is
necessarily a task for the future.

But these are typical of the remarks:

“I have learned immeasurably much for my work...
and it is my most important task to take these thoughts
and ideas home.”

“This idea I want to stress and emphasize over and over
again in my work in Germany and wherever I may be
in Germany, that we must respect people of other countries
and try to understand them, even if their customs are very
different from those to which we are accustomed. We must
learn, above all, to understand and to respect each other
in Germany.” +END

Churches Cleared of Rubble
By College Students from America

Ten college students from the United States were among
a group of 60 young people from six nations who worked
on several reconstruction projects in West Berlin during
the summer.

The work, which was in progress from July 28 to the
end of August, was planned by the World Baptist Youth
Conference in co-operation with the Berlin Student Friend-
ship Work Camp. Student-workers cleared rubble at the
site of two Baptist churches, one in Steglitz and the other
in Lichterfelde-West, and cleaned and repaired the former
Siemens Castle in Wannsee, which was turned over to the
Berlin Free Churches by the Magistrat (city council).

Among students from other foreign countries working
on the several projects were four from the United King-
dom, six from Sweden, two from Norway and one from
Denmark. All traveled at their own expense and lived
individually with German families in Berlin. Spare time
was taken up with forums, lectures and sightseeing tours.

The major rehabilitation of the Siemens Castle made pos-
sible the establishment of an international poliomyelitis
research and treatment center with 135 beds. HICOG
contributed DM 157,016 in July toward its construction.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 66 ---
Adding the Human Element

S HIGH COMMISSIONER John J. McCloy bade “bon

voyage" Aug. 9 to approximately 350 German
students, teachers and leaders in various fields, leaving
for periods of up to one year of study and work in the
United States. The group is visiting America under the
HICOG exchange program.

After briefing and processing, during which they heard
a farewell address from the High Commissioner at the
HICOG Headquarters Building in Frankfurt, the group
departed by special train for Cannes, France, where they
embarked on the Italian steamer S.S. Brazil for the United
States.

In addition to studying one semester in US teachers’
colleges, 100 young German -teachers, included in the
group, will have an opportunity to visit and practice
teaching in American schools, as part of a program to
acquaint them with the democratic aspects of American
education. Twenty-five teen-agers will spend a year with
American families and attend US high schools in urban
communities.

Most of the remainder of the group are undergraduate
university students who will study for an academic year
at American universities and colleges, specializing in
economics, political science, journalism and other social
studies, designed to equip them for future roles of respon-
sibility in a democratic Germany. A few experts and
leaders in economic, social and political fields who will
study American institutions in their respective vocations,
are also in the group.

Most of the visits of the exchangees, who come from all
parts of western Germany, have been arranged and
financed by the State Department, in conjunction with
Exchanges Division, Office of Public Affairs. The Stateside

Lt. Gen. Manton S. Eddy, commanding general of the US
Army, Europe, paid a courtesy call Aug. 23 on High Com-
missioner John J. McCloy shortly before Mr. McCloy’s
departure for Washington. General Eddy succeeded retir-
ing Lt. Gen. Clarence R. Huebner. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

arrangements were made in co-operation with numerous
American universities and civic groups.
The text of Mr. McCloy's address follows:

AM VERY HAPPY to join you briefly in the pleasant,

though rather involved, task of preparing you for a trip
to the United States. They say that “travel is broadening”
but some of you may find yourselves thinner after com-
pleting the complicated processing required by our
efficient Exchanges Division staff in getting you on
board ship.

However, I am sure that all of you will cheerfully bear
these problems when you consider the difficulties of travel
and the fluctuations of shipping space these days. More-
over, you are about to embark upon one of the largest
and most complex programs of this kind ever undertaken
by the government of the United States.

For many years, all free nations have promoted the
exchange of students, teachers and experts between
themselves. The United States has participated generously
in these programs. But never before have we organized
the exchange of so many people for such serious purposes
with another country as has now been instituted between
our nation and Germany.

Last year some 1,500 of your fellows from all parts of
western Germany and Berlin and from all walks of life
were brought to the United States. Others were aided in
visiting other democratic nations. Scores of American and
European experts and leaders in the many vocations of
democratic life were brought to Germany. This year an
even greater number will join the international exchange.

N SPONSORING SUCH a vast program, there is danger

that our motives will be misunderstood. In fact, there
has already been some evidence of this and we have heard
whispered insinuations that our efforts are a grandiose
propaganda scheme, an attempt to “Americanize” the Ger-
man visitors, a move to transplant American customs and
institutions to Germany. This is all a parcel of nonsense
which pervades so much of the irresponsible comment and
so much of the deliberately distorted comment one has to
endure these days.

It is, of course, true that we hope to bring about a better
understanding between our countries by this exchange of
persons. International understanding is always a major
factor of world peace. But our ultimate objectives are
broader and deeper than these limited aims and I hope
that you will all approach this trip with the conviction
that our objectives are as we state them. For if you do
not, I fear you and your country will not gain anything
of value from the visit.

In the first place, we do not restrict our exchange
program solely to an operation involving Germany and
the United States. We are equally interested in having

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
intelligent, forward-looking Germans visit other nations
of the western world, just as we are eager to bring many
of the leaders and experts from these nations to Germany,
and we are prepared to give’very substantial financial aid
to bring this about. For you and we are concerned here
with the tasks of renewing and strengthening the cultural
ties which once bound Germany to western democratic
civilization.

Under the perverted policies of the Nazis, and through
the isolation of years of war, the benefits of growth and
change in the free world were barred to Germany. Such
precious things as the independence of the judiciary, the
objectivity of education, free expression in music, art and
literature, the rights of labor, to name but a few examples,
were distorted or suppressed by the police state.

ODAY GOOD PROGRESS has been made in restoring

the major freedoms in Germany and the vestiges of
the autocratic past are gradually being modified. The free
exchange of ideas and information between Germany and
the western world is steadily increasing. Through the
cultural exchange program we hope to hasten this
restoration of Germany in the society of free nations, and
— even more important — add the human element to
Germany's relations with other nations.

In America you will meet many colleagues and counter-
parts whose works and interests are similar to yours. You
will form lasting contacts which will grow in value and
mutual benefit for years to come. It is these millions of
threads of friendship and respect which form the enduring
bonds between nations in a peaceful international society.

Another inestimable product of aiding Germans to visit
America and other western nations is the daily experience
of living and working in a country which for a century
and a half has dwelt under a representative and democratic
form of government with no class distinctions. The
people's control of government, tolerance for the ideas
and faiths of others, and the jealous protection of im-
dividual rights, are the keystones of that government; and
if you see these principles breached here and there, you
will still find that they are the basically accepted
foundations of the: American society, and if and when they
are breached you will find a strong reaction.

A few months in America should, and I believe will,
aid you immeasurably in vivifying these principles and
arm you with the experience and knowledge to stiengthen
them in Germany.

E DO NOT HOLD UP the institutions and customs of

the United States as paragons of virtue and progress.
Every society has its imperfections, and there are many
in America, though public-spirited citizens are trying con-
stantly to rectify them. We certainly do not expect anyone
to attempt the literal transfer of American techniques to
Germany. -

Nor do we expect or wish any propagandistic utterances
from you on your return. Strictly American teaching tech-
niques would probably produce confusion in German

_ Classrooms. An American-style newspaper would hardly

INFORMATION BULLETIN

64

attract a large German following. The institutions and
customs of a society are bred by local conditions and
heritages. A foreign product can never be introduced
without some modification.

However, I am eure that all of you will find, as we find
here, new ideas, fresh approaches to common problems
and other innovations which can be adapted and combined
with the best elements of both countries to the greatest
benefit of yourself and your fellows. :

Certainly that is one way that America progressed —
by accepting from other nations, fusing with our own
achievements and thus developing a superior product, an
improved institution, a better technique. For example, we
are indebted to the German social security system for
parts of our own; German education has contributed much
to the American school system. It is time now that Ger-
mans recognize the great progress and changes which
have occured in the world outside, and look objectively
at other societies for the improvement of their own.

T IS OBVIOUS that the success of the cultural exchange

program depends in large part on the understanding
co-operation of the German people. If Germans returning
from the United States and other countries meet only
indifference or resentment from their colleagues and
members of their community, as has happened in some
cases — then the value of their travel has been limited.

An increasing number of Germans will be returning from
the United States in the future; many will have new pro-
posals and ideas which are certainly worth an objective
hearing and a fair trial. By making use of the experience
of these travelers many groups and communities can reap
benefits from the program and this is an aim.

In many cases we have found that liberal and progres-
sive Germans, whom we would like to offer a tour of
study or observation in the Unitéd States, are unable to
go because of the opposition of the employer, fear for the
job, or lack of financial support at home. Here, again, the
interest and co-operation of the German people is needed
for the continued success of cultural exchange. In such
instances, a little interest and co-operation by the respon-
sible persons might compensate in new experiences and
skills for the temporary loss of the individual.

Within a month you will be scattered throughout the
48 states. You have my best wishes that the associations
and experiences you find there will be pleasant and en-
riching. When you pass that impressive statue in New
York harbor —the Statue of Liberty —remember many
millions of people have passed her before you and she
has power to be a reality to all of them.

You will find the country concerned, unhappy, but
determined — you will be there during a period of some
strain. But I know you will be all the more interested as
you will see a great democratic nation reluctantly but cer-
tainly organizing itself to meet another threat not only to
its own liberty but to liberty throughout the world. Think
of that and what it may mean to the preservation of the
culture and enlightenment of Europe when you pass that
statue. -+END

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 68 ---
Freedom of Trade

By ROBERT R. BOWIE

General Counsel, Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany

HE CORE OF the American policy in Germany is to

help liberal German forces develop and maintain
a strong and peaceful democratic state; a state responsive
to the will of the people, zealous and able to protect the
rights of individuals; a state which will not again fall
easy prey to warlike dictatorship, whether from the
right or the left, whether from within or without.

We look forward to the day when a truly democratic
German state will be integrated, on a basis of full equality,
into the Western European community. We believe that
the majority of Germans share these same hopes.

The building of such a German state presents tremen-
dous problems. It will take too long to discuss most of
them, or how Allied policies bear upon them. Accordingly,
I will confine my remarks to certain of our policies in the
economic field. More specifically I will discuss the Al-
lied programs for dividing up large combines and outlaw-
ing cartels,

Many Germans do not understand these policies or the
motives behind them. They seem to think that their pur-
pose is punitive, That is simply not true. Actually, these
policies are intended to assist in building a sound German
democracy, which will promote the welfare of the aver-
age man.

These policies have three related aspects.

1, We want to break up certain hugh combines which
have been in a position to dominate markets and produc-
tion and even to control or strongly influence government
policy. It is our purpose to divide them into a number
of independent and economically efficient units which
will freely compete with one another. Outstanding exam-
ples of these hugh combinations are I.G. Farben Industry,
certain companies in the coal, iron and steel industries,
and the former German Reich motion-picture monopoly.

It is not our purpose to diminish the total of industrial
capacity in any of these fields: Our program is simply to
replace one or more dominating combinations with a num-
ber of smaller, economically sound, competitive enterprises.

2. We want to|do away with cartel restrictions on trade.
Thus, agreements among producers or sellers to restrict
production or marketing are to be eliminated so that
industry will be free to develop maximum productive
efficiency. Each unit in an industry will be compelled by
competitive pressure to match the standards set by the
most efficient units in that industry, No one engaged in
any trade shall be required to be a member of any trade
association. No trade association shall be permitted to
usurp the powers of government.

3. We want to promote greater freedom of economic
opportunity. We strongly believe that everyone shall be
free to follow any trade or profession for which he is
qualified. For that reason we have been opposed to recent

OCTOBER 1950

licensing legislation of the states which, without any
social justification, deprived individuals of the right to
engage in many trades and businesses.

HESE ARE, in skeleton form, three policies which we

believe essential to the economic basis of a truly
democratic state. Now let me turn to the political and
economic reasons which underlie these policies, First, the
political reasons.

Both history and our own experience have convinced
us that the survival and vitality of a democracy depend
upon wide diffusion of power within the community.
With us this idea is traditional. For Thomas Jefferson the
ideal state was composed of small independent proprie-
tors, farmers and artisans. The last century has greatly
changed this picture, but we believe that Jefferson's idea
is still valid. If dominant power is concentrated in the
hands of a few men, whether they claim to use it for the
good of all or for their own selfish ends, it will be used
sooner or later to oppress and exploit the community.

In modern society, power has many and various forms:
It may be political, it may be economic, it may be power
over public opinion. One basic problem in a democracy
is how to control these types of power. In our opinion,
the surest and safest way is to diffuse such power among
a great many persons and groups and agencies.

Political power must be controlled by dividing it up.
Every citizen must have a vote and the right to exercise
it freely. Power must be diffused with the government

Mr. Bowie delivering the speech which is the text of this
article at the US Information Center opened in Hamburg
Aug. 18, At right is interpreter.

(PRD HICOG photo)

--- Page 69 ---
That concept is now exemplified in the Basic Law of the
Federal Republic of Germany. Political power is divided
between the federal government and the states, and
between the executive and the legislature.

The Basic Law provided for, and we hope there will
soon come into being, a constitutional court, to protect
the rights of the individual from abuse of power by either
the executive or the legislature. These various devices
make it difficult for a small group to seize the key centers
of power and impose its will upon the rest of the country.

But the effective control of political power also depends
on an alert and independent public opinion. No one
should know better than Germans the disastrous results
of a concentration of power over opinion, when every
medium of information and education becomes only a
mouthpiece of a few men, or one man — who may be a
fanatic or a criminal, or actually insane. Hence we believe
in the maintenance of many independent centers of
opinion — the universities, churches, newspapers, radio
and labor unions, to name a few of the most important.

N OUR COUNTRY, one safeguard against a monopoly

of power over public opinion is the Bill of Rights,
which is part of our Constitution. Every man is guaranteed
the right to say and write what he thinks, so long as he
refrains from inciting to violence or disorder or organiz-
ing insurrection, No matter how wrongheaded his opinion
may seem to the majority or to the government, he has
the right to try peacefully to persuade others to agree
with him. Likewise, every man has the right to read or
hear whatever he wants. Similar guarantees are now
enshrined in the German Basic Law. It is our hope and
belief that these rights can be protected and enforced in
Germany as they have been in Great.Britain and America.

For similar reasons, we believe that it is just as dan-
gerous to democracy to concentrate too much economic
power in the hands of a small group. Indeed, such a group
can use its power to help create political dictatorship.
Hitler's rise was aided in no small measure by the exist-
ence of great economic concentrations such as I. G.
Farben and Krupp. The task of regimenting German
industry under the Nazi standards might have been much
more difficult, if there had been a larger number of
independent centers of economic power.

Hessian State ERP Exhibit in Wiesbaden, staged to enable
Germans to see the Marshall Plan “through German eyes,”
was attended by more than 40,000 Visitors below see how
ERP has been a shot in the arm to German industry. Ex-
hibit is now touring Hesse to carry firsthand information
on ERP to every hamlet in the state. (PRB OLCH photo)

a

Dr. James R. Newman, state commissioner for Hesse, talks
over ERP with group of Offenbach schoolgirls on visit to
the Hessian ERP Exhibition held in September along with

the Offenbach Leatherware Exhibition. (PRB OLCH photo)

Our decartelization and deconcentration policy aims
to diffuse economic power more widely and to prevent
the concentration of too much power in too few hands. In
this way we believe it contributes to a sounder political
base for a stable democratic order.

These policies, we believe, also promote democracy in
a second way. We know from experience that democracy
requires a stable but progressive economy; an economy
which can give the average man reasonable security
combined with a rising standard of living. It is too much
to expect a man to vote intelligently when he must spend
his whole time struggling for the bare necessities of
existence. The problem, therefore, is to achieve such an
economy, and to do it without jeopardizing political
freedom.

American experience may throw some light on that
problem. On the basis of our experience, we are con-
vinced that the existence of independent, industrial units
leads to a dynamic, free competing, progressive economy,
which can support improving standards of living for the
average man.

We do not claim to have a perfect and immutable eco-
nomic system. But, to date, we have managed to secure indi-
vidual freedom and a high and rising standard of living. I
think, therefore, that our experience is worth considering.

HEN THE UNITED STATES was first established,

its founders believed in freedom of trade — it was
another aspect of the emancipation of the common people
from oppression by the privileged few. Jefferson and the
other founders were in revolt not only against political
tule by the few, but also against ‘‘mercantilism,’’ which
was the economic policy of the monarchies and _ oli-
garchies of the era.

“Mercantilism” was a system of governmental promo-
tion and friendly control of big business, plus wide control
of economic affairs in general — not for the purpose of
improving the economic welfare of the people, but for the .
benefit of privileged minorities and to bolster the military
power of the state. Legal monopolies were granted to

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 70 ---
groups of established big businessmen, and multitudes of
restrictive regulations were imposed on the activities
of little businessmen, farmers and working men. In some
ways this policy was in essence very much like Nazi
economic policy,

The men who founded American democracy were na-
turally opposed to such an economic regime. Stated in
the broadest terms, they believed in an economic system
of free opportunity, free trade, free competition, with a
minimum of government intervention. Their idea was
that economic freedom for everyone would subject the
old monopolies and business in general to the stimulus
of competition and would give every man a chance to
use his talents for the benefit of himself and the public.

HE JEFFERSONIAN IDEAL of a society of small in-

dividual producers has had to be modified because
of the great technological advances of the 19th century.
The industrial revolution required and created larger
economic units than had been needed for the hand in-
dustries and small populations of Jefferson's day. And,
as the 19th century drew to a close, we discovered that
selfish businessmen, if unchecked by government, could
create pernicious monopolies by abusing their economic
power.

Whether such restraints of trade are called trusts or
cartels, they have the same purposes and the same re-
sults; and those purposes and results are’ inimical to the
common welfare. The central idea of a trust or cartel is
to throttle competition and restrict production, in order
to increase the profits or security of the members.

It is based on the concept of a static economy, which
sacrifices progress to preserve the status quo, and which
holds back the most efficient producers in order to pro-
tect the least efficient. To this end technological advances
are suppressed, because they might render our production

German social workers and volunteers discuss social wel-
fare problems with Professor Dorothea Spellmann (right),
American social studies expert and head of the Work Group
Section of the University of Denver's School of Social
Work, at meeting at Kreuzberg Neighborhood Center, Ber-
lin. In group, I.-r., are Kaethe Mueller, Gisela Bitterbing,
Margot Pulz and Erna Appelt, Berlin welfare workers.
(PRB HICOG-BE photo)

facilities obsolete, cut profits and force some producers
out of business. Prices are often kept too high, thus
limiting the market for the product. The aim of the cartel
is to make profits out of high prices and low production.
rather than low prices and high ‘production. Producers
who seek to compete actively are forced out of business.

The consequences of such restraints are familiar, They
effectively put a brake on the rise of the standard of
living. They restrict quantity and improvement of quality.
They block the creation of new enterprises which might
jeopardize the less efficient members of the cartel.
Moreover, when competition is eliminated, the whole
system of production is in danger of breaking down. If
there is real competition, prices find their fair level,
and the result is more goods and more work. But when
competition is suppressed and prices artificially raised,
this reduces the amount of goods and of work. If this
process becomes widespread, the cumulative effect may
be depression and unemployment. Democracy cannot
long survive under such conditions. In Germany, they
led directly to Hitler.

In the face of such trends, it becomes clear that gov-
ernment must not only refrain from granting monopo-
lies; it must also prevent private individuals and groups
from arrogating monopolies to themselves.

OVERNMENT CAN TAKE two courses. It can itself

take over the industry and operate or regulate it in the
public interest. Certainly, America has not rejected that
solution entirely. We regulate many industries in the
public interest. But we feel that widespread government
ownership of industry poses great risks: it destroys the
factor of competition and itself creates a serious con-
centration of power.

As Germans know, or should know, better than anyone
in the world outside the Iron Curtain, when governments
concentrate in themselves political and economic power,
they are capable of turning into machines for exploitation
and oppression far more ruthless than private capitalists,
however selfish.

Thus, we Americans still believe in the Jeffersonian
concept of wide diffusion of power, economic and poli-
tical, among the masses of the people. We do not, of
course, have a completely free economy. Perhaps no such
thing is possible in modern industrial society. But, by
and large, our government intervention has generally
been directed toward the diffusion of economic power
among all the people and often toward breaking up and
preventing undue concentrations of power.

We have passed laws to prevent monopoly, to keep
trusts and cartels from limiting production, from keeping
prices up and from generally restraining trade. We have
engaged in constant efforts to insure that manufacturers
and businessmen do not conspire among themselves to
suppress competition. Where monopolies have developed,
the government has stepped in to break them up.

We have passed laws which safeguard the right of
labor to organize and to bargain collectively with
employers for labor's fair share of the benefits of our
system of production. Where completely free competition

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
is not feasible — as, for example, in the field of electric
power or transportation — we have taken steps to insure
as much competition as is practicable, and we have
created public bodies to regulate the industry in the
general interest,

E BELIEVE THAT Germany and its citizens could

profit from a similar approach. Yet many Germans
believe in a protected and limited system of production.
Some argue that shortage of capital in Germany makes
it necessary to limit production and to maintain high
prices. But our experience has been that a constant effort
to increase production and lower prices expands the
purchasing power of the masses of the people, and the
markets for products, and permits industry to grow to
meet the public's need for the product.

Other opponents of this policy argue that labor can
receive high wages only if prices are kept high. My
answer to that is pragmatic. As everybody knows,
American real wages have long been by far the highest
in the world. Organized labor in America has vigorously
supported the strengthening and enforcement of the anti-
trust laws, because it has found that competition leads
to high production at low prices and to high real wages.

American production is the highest in the world, and
average Americans, whether farmers, tradesmen or fac-
tory workers, have had the highest standard of living,
while at the same time preserving their personal freedom.

By the same token, we are convined that the right to
follow any trade or profession one chooses is a strong
bulwark of democracy. For that reason, we have objected
to some recent licensing legislation of the state. The
Allied High Commission has, in fact, sent to the federal
government and to each of the states a statement of prin-
ciples which we believe should govern such legislation.

Those principles are in substance (1) that no license
should be required to engage in an occupation unless
necessary to protect public health, safety or welfare;
(2) that even where licensing is justified, the only test
should be the competence of the applicant; and (3) that
applicants should be protected against discrimination.

N THIS FIELD we believe that the policy we urge is
in accord with the best German tradition. From the
time of the middle ages the individual's right to follow
a trade depended upon approval by guilds, which exer-
cised iron-clad control. They determined the standards

Directors of each of the six US Sector borough adult educa-
tion programs were presented with a movie projector by
Chauncy L. Vanderbie, chief of HICOG- Berlin Element's
Adult Education Branch (left, standing). Presentation took
place at the Haus der Jugend in the American sector
borough of Steglitz in Berlin.

(US Army photo)

ee vq

for admission to a trade; they decided who should be
excluded and who should be expelled. Every artisan was
compelled by law to belong to the guild governing his trade.

The fact that many Germans were kept from following
the trade of their choice naturally created opposition of
the guild system, particularly among liberal democratic
elements in Germany. The result was the passage in 1869
of legislation which stripped the guilds of most of their
powers and established for the first time in Germany the
principle of Gewerbefreiheit (freedom of trade). For 65
years, therefore, the principle of freedom of trade
prevailed in Germany.

One of the first acts of the Nazis was the abrogation of
this freedom. In 1934, they restored to the guilds and other
associations the medieval controls which they had lost
in 1869. Guild membership was again compulsory, and
the guilds had once again power to license admission to
the trades. Licensing authorities had almost unlimited
discretion to decide who might and who might not prac-
tice a trade. The consequence of that system should be
fresh in one's memory. It is our hope to restore in Ger-
many the liberal pre-Nazi approach to this problem,
which is, in fact, again embodied in the German Basic Law.

We also believe that this basic principle of freedom
of trade is valid internationally. We must admit that our
practice respecting tariffs has not always been as good as
our principles. But, by and large, especially in recent
years, we have made very substantial progress toward
tariff reduction, through reciprocal agreements and the like.

In Europe, the United States favors integration, both
economic and political. Such developments as the Coun-
cil of Europe, of which Germany is now an associate
member, and the Schuman Plan, recently proposed by
France, are steps toward this goal. We have been par-
ticularly glad to see Germany, so long a center for car-
tels, meet the magnanimous and progressive French
proposal in the spirit in which it was made.

N CONCLUSION, let me briefly sum up. The United

States has basically just one objective in Germany:
to encourage the growth of a healthy, firmly rooted and
peaceful democracy which can be accepted as a full part-
ner in the community of free democratic nations.

To that end, and that end only, an important goal of
our occupation policy has been to do away with the ex-
cessive concentrations of economic power.

We want to spread in Germany the belief that the
economy should be dynamic — that industry should be
constantly striving to produce more at lower prices, and
that individuals should be free to follow any trade or
profession of their choice and to compete freely in the
production of goods or services.

We believe that this policy strengthens democracy in
two ways: by diffusing economic power among the
people, and by raising their standard of living, Thus it is
a constructive policy in the most fundamental sense, It
contributes directly to the stability and growth of a’
strong, peaceful democracy, which will best serve both
Germany and the world. -+-END

OCTOBER 1950 *

--- Page 72 ---
CALENDAR
of Coming Events

This calendar is initiated to present
a single list of the outstanding events
of general interest scheduled in Ger-
many during October and November.
Entries for this list have been furnished
by the German Tourist Association
(Deutsche Zentrale fuer Fremdenver-
kehr) and various HICOG offices.

CURRENT (Events in progress Oct. 1 with
only closing dates given)

Oct. 1, Munich (Bav):
festival.

Oct. 1, Bernkastel-Kues (Rh-P): Wine car-
nival,

Oct. 2, Stuttgart (WB): Cannstatt folk festi-
val ‘On the Wasen."

Oct. 2, Ingelheim (RP): Red-wine festival,
with election of ‘‘Red-Wine Queen 1950."

Oct, 8, Neustadt/Haardt (RP): German wine
harvest festival, election of German
“Wine Queen” and christening of the
new vintage.

Oct. 8, Cologne (NRW): West-German hotel
and restaurant show.

Munich October

Oct. 8, Brunswick (LS): Lower-Saxony ex-
hibition, “Between the Harz and the
Heath."

Oct. 8, Coblenz (RP): Middle-Rhenish indus-
tries and trade exhibition (MIGA).

Oct. 8, Nuremberg (Bav): Agriculture show,
“Nuremberg Calls to the Green Week.”

Oct. 11, Augsburg (Bav): Swabian agri-
culture show.

Oct. 20, Stuttgart (WB): German garden
show and convention.

October, Bamberg (Bav): Exhibition of
Flemish and French Gobelin tapestry.

November, (NRW): Catholic

pilgrimage,

Kevelaer

OCTOBER
Oct. 1, Koenigswinter (NRW): Wine and
vintagers’ festival.

Oct. 1, Oberkirch (SB): Wine and folk
festival, pageant, ‘‘Kirschwasser” prize
contest,

Oct. 1, Bacharach (RP): Wine festival.

Oct. 1, Wiesbaden (Hes): Taunusring auto-
mobile and motorcycle races.

Oct. 1, Luebeck (SH): Hansaring auto-
mobile and motorcycle races.

Oct. 1-2, Weinsberg (WB): ‘‘Weibertreu”
(women's faith) fall festival.

Oct. 1-6, Bremen: Philosophers’ Congress.

Oct. 1-15, Berlin; German Industry Ex-
hibition.

Oct, 1-31, Bad Hersfeld (Hes): Eight special
days of Lullus festival, folk festival
1,000 years old.

Oct. 2-6, Frankfurt (Hes): 2nd German
Congress for Free Christendom

Oct. 4-5, Cologne (NRW): ist general
meeting of the Max Planck Society for
the Promotion of the Sciences.

OCTOBER 1950

OCTOBER

n
=

T WwW T F S)

3
10
17
24
31

22 2
29 3

is
nn
a
OWnvon

4 te) 6 /.

18 19
= 25 26 20 28

12 13 14
20 21

Oct. 4-10, Neustadt/Haardt (RP): Association
of German Film Clubs during the German
wine festival.

Oct. 5-6, Berlin: Bach .Commemoration,
Berlin Philharmonic, Carl Schurich con-
ducting “St. Matthew Passion.”

Oct. 6-8, Kassel (Hes): Kassel Music Days.
Old music on period instruments, also
contemporary music.

Oct. 6-9, Cologne (NRW): German Live
Stock Traders’ Association meeting.

Oct. 7-8, Kempten/Allgaeu (Bav): Horse
riding and driving tournament.

Oct. 7-9, Boppard/Rhine (RP): Wine festival.

Oct. 7-9, Bad Honnef/Rhine (RP): Wine and
vintners’ festival.

Oct. 7-9, Gelnhausen (Hes): Traditional
“Schelmenmarkt” (Rogues’ Market), an-
cient folk festival.

Oct. 8, Iphofen/Franconia (Bav): Vintagers’
play.

Oct. 8-10, Frankfurt (Hes): German watch-
makers’ day.

Oct. 8-11, Bad Pyrmont (NRW): 4th German
health resorts day.

Oct. 8-11, Bremen: International Congress
for History of the Science.

Oct. 12, Columbus Day (American).

Oct. 13-14, Tuebingen (SB): Society for
Comparative Jurisprudence.

Oct. 14, Duesseldorf (NRW): Architecture
exhibition by the Association of German
Architects.

Oct. 14-15, Rheinfeld (SH): Traditional
carp festival.
Oct. 14-15, Munich (Bav): International

whippet races.

Oct. 15, Iphoven/Franconia (Bav): Vintagers’
play.

Oct. 15-22, Frankfurt (Hes):
fair.

Agriculture

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

69

Oct. 15-22, Freiburg (SB): Autumn fair.

Oct. 15-Nov. 5, Trier (RP): Modern indu-
strial graphics show.

Oct. 16, Heidelberg (WB): Concert, Wil-
helm Furtwaengler conducting Vienna
Philharmonic Orchestra,

Oct. 20-21, Bochum (NRW): Accident Treat-
ment First Aid Congress,

Oct. 21-22, Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW):
German indoor bicycle championships.
Oct. 23, Vierzehnheiligen/Upper Franconia

(Bav): Christ The King pilgrimage.
Oct. 23-Nov. 26, Heidelberg (WB): Swiss
Work Association, photo show.

Oct. 26-28, Karlsruhe (WB): 125th anni-
versary of Karlsruhe Technical College.

Oct. 28-Nov. 5, Hanover (LS): Lower-Saxon
postal stamps exhibition; “Home and
Fashion” Show.

Oct. 28-Nov. 12, Wuerzburg (Bav): All-
Saints’ fair.
Oct. 29-Nov. 5, Wunsiedel (Bav): Bach

Week.
Oct. 30, Hallowe'en (American festival day).

NOVEMBER

Nov. 3-4, Wuerzburg (Bav): South-German
young poultry show.

Noy. 5-8, Tauberbischofsheim (WB): St.
Martin's Fair, with vintagers’ festival.
Nov. 6, Bad Toelz (Bav): Leonhardi Ride,

ancient folk festival.
Nov. 10-12, Essen (NRW): Poultry breeders’
exhibition.

Nov. 11, Cologne (NRW); Duesseldorf
(NRW); Mainz (RP); Munich (Bav): First
carnival session.

Nov. 11, Armistice Day (American).

Noy. 11-19, Flensburg (SH): Food and
beverage trades exhibition.

Nov. 11-19, Gelsenkirchen (NRW): Festival
performances ‘'Fidelio.” j

Nov. 12, Heidelberg (WB): St. Martin's
Pageant — children’s festival.

Nov. 14-18, Brunswick (LS): Modern cham-
ber music festival.

Nov. 23 — Thanksgiving Day (American).

Nov. 26-30, Hanover (LS): Drawings by
children from all over the world.

Nov. 29-Dec. 2, Hanover (LS):
Workers’ Unions’ Congress.

November/December, Cadolzburg/Franconia
(Bav): Advent Mart — Baker's Guild's
Pageant.

Mining

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
Personnel Notes

Colonel Textor Recalled to Army

Col. Gordon E. Textor, director of the Field Division,
HICOG, has been recalled to active military duty in the
United States. An officer in the Regular Army, he has been
reassigned to Washington, D.C., to serve with the Office
of the Chief of Engineers, Department of the Army.

Colonel Textor was de-
tailed to HICOG when the
Office of Military Govern-
ment (US) was deactivated
in 1949, For a brief period
he was deputy director of
the newly established Of-
fice of Public Affairs. His
appointment as director of
the Field Division was an-
nounced on Sept. 21, 1949.
In that capacity he served
as a personal representa-
tive of the US High Com-
missioner with the US state
commissioners and _ their
staffs, His division is prima-
rily responsible for observ-
ing policy implementation
in the field and insuring
close contact between HICOG and the offices of the state
commissioners,

Previous to his service with HICOG he was director of
OMGUS Information Services Division. In that position,
which he had held since March 1947, he supervised the US
information program in Germany. He was instrumental in
enacting democratic press and radio laws and later in
supervising the termination of Military Government licens-
ing of individual German newspapers and publications.

Col. Gordon E. Textor.
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Special Assistant in Public Affairs

Experience of nine years in US governmental programs
for projecting American ideas in information and educa-
tion to foreign fields was brought to HICOG with the
appointment of Mrs. Mildred E. Allen as special assistant
to the director of the Office of Public Affairs. She assumed
her new duties Aug. 23.

Mrs. Allen, affectionately known as “Pat” to her co-
workers and friends, is well informed on Public Affairs
activities in Germany, both through her previous work in
the Department of State in Washington and from three
postwar assignments on temporary duty with the occu-
pation.

In the fall of 1945, she spent three months in Germany
at the invitation of the director of the Information Control
Division to make an inventory of various OWI produc-
tions for ICD. In the summer of 1949 she was a member

INFORMATION BULLETIN

70

of the State Department's
survey team on information
and education. From Sep-
tember 1949 to February
1950 she was on detail in
an advisory capacity to the
Office of Public Affairs.
Mrs. Allen's work in the
field of foreign information
and education dates from
July 1941 when she joined
the staff of the Co-ordinator
of Information, working with
Robert E. Sherwood, direc-
tor of the Foreign Informa-
tion Service. On the reorga-
nization of COI on a war-
time basis, she continued
with Mr. Sherwood in the Office of War Information,
Overseas Branch. In 1944, she was detailed for a short
time to the OWI office in London and again in 1945 to the
Psychological Warfare Division, SHAEF, in Paris.

Mrs. Mildred E. Allen,
(Photo by PRD HICOG)

With the phasing out of OWI after the war and the com-
pletion of her ICD assignment, Mrs. Allen returned to
Washington, becoming associated with the information
and education program of the State Department in 1946.
Since 1948 she has been chief of the Secretariat of the US
Advisory Commission on Information. She was transferred
from the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Af-
fairs, Department of State, for her assignment with HICOG.

From 1935 to 1941, Mrs. Allen was in the Office of the
US Commissioner of Education, working in the adult civic
education program. Previously she had studied and worked
in New York with Dr. Alfred Adler in the field of indivi-
dual psychology. In 1930, she visited Holland, Germany,
Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Switzerland, Austria and
France, taking a summer course in psychology and educa-
tion at the University of Vienna.

DP Commission Chairman in Frankfurt

Hugo Carusi, chairman of the US Displaced Persons
Commission, has arrived in Frankfurt to take charge of
European operations for the Displaced Persons Commis-
sion, pending a decision concerning the selection of a co-
ordinator to succeed Alex E. Squadrilli, recently resigned.

Richard J. Derving remains as associate co-ordinator.
Robert L. Fisher has arrived from the United States to
serve as administrative officer. Mr. Carusi will administer
the US DP program in Germany, Austria and Italy for an
indefinite period.

Medical Affairs Chief Changed

Col. Karl Lundeberg, chief of the Medical Affairs and
Public Welfare Branch, has returned to the United States,
and his deputy, Lt. Col. Walter R. DeForest, has been
named branch chief in the Education and Cultural Rela-
tions Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 74 ---
Colonel Lundeberg was recalled by the US Army to be-
come professor of preventive medicine at the Army Medi-
cal Field Service School, Fort Sam Houston, Texas. He
became chief of the branch in October 1949, after serving
two years as assistant health officer in the Panama Canal
Zone. He was previously in Germany in July 1949, when
he made a study of public health problems in the US Zone.

Colonel DeForest has served with medical affairs agen-
cies of the occupation since 1945, when he was staff sur-
geon at the Potsdam Conference. Later he was succes-
sively deputy surgeon, US Sector, Berlin; commanding
officer of the 121st General Hospital at Bremerhaven, and
after a short period of study at Harvard University in
1947, served as chief of preventive medicine with the
Office of Military Government, before transferring to
HICOG as deputy chief of the Medical Affairs and Public
Welfare Branch.

Sims Returns to United States

Albert G. Sims, deputy director of the Office of Adminis-
tration and one of those associated with plans and prepara-
tions for HICOG organization during the summer of 1949,
has transferred to the Department of State in Washington.

Mr. Sims has completed
three tours of duty with
the American Occupation
Authorities in Germany. He
first came to Germany as an
army officer in August 1945,
and served nine months
with the Manpower Divi-
sion of the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Ger-
many (US). In April of 1947,
he returned for two months
as a member of the US
Bureau of the Budget Group
of Consultants to the Com-
mander-in-Chief.
= His third tour of duty be-
gan in August 1947, when he
came to Germany as deputy
chief of the Organization and
Program Branch, Control Office. He also served with the
Committees on Bipartite and Tripartite Military Govern-
ment Organization. In April 1949, he was named deputy
control officer for OMGUS.

Alfred G. Sims.
(PRD HICOG photo)

Changes in Bremen Consulate

Maurice W. Altaffer, formerly consul general at Bremen,
has been transferred to the Department of State in Wash-
ington. He is succeeded by LaVerne Baldwin, formerly
consul general at Istanbul, Turkey.

Mr. Altaffer has been chief of the Bremen office since
he opened it May 1, 1946. He started his Foreign Service
career in the consulate general in Berlin and has since
served at Frankfurt, Stuttgart, Dresden and Zurich.

Consul General Baldwin's Foreign Service posts have
included Ottawa, Geneva, Managua (Nicaragua), Madrid,
Ankara and Istanbul.

OCTOBER 1950

71

Further changes in the Bremen consular office are the
assignment of Consul Robert P. Chalker, executive officer,
to the Foreign Service Institute in the Department of State
for German language and area specialization training. He
is succeeded by Consul Richard S. Huestis, who has had
posts in Jamaica, Poland, The Netherlands, Britain and
until last September, at Hamburg. Mr. Huestis comes to
Bremen from an assignment in the Department of State, ;
Washington, D. C.

E&CR Official Resigns

Five years’ service with OMGUS and later HICOG came
to an end Aug.1 for Dr. John P. Steiner, chief of Educa-
tion and Cultural Relations
Branch, OLC Wuerttemberg-
Baden.

Dr. Steiner, former super-
intendent of schools in Por-
tales, N.M., resigned to be-
come public relations chief
for the New Mexico Educa-
tion Association.

Dr. Steiner was one of
five US Army officers who
came to Stuttgart in July
1945 to take over for Mili-
tary Government in North-
Wuerttemberg and he has
been head of the educa-
tion division there under
OMGUS and HICOG since
that date.

Dr. John P. Steiner.

New US Ruhr Representative

Charles A. Livengood, newly appointed US representa-
tive on the Council of the International Authority for the
Ruhr, has arrived in Germany to take up his duties.

Succeeding Henry Parkman, who left the Council to head
the Economic Co-operation Administration Mission to
France, Mr. Livengood has had long service in commercial
and economic posts abroad for the American Government.

Mr. Livengood is a career officer in the US Foreign Serv-
ice with the rank of minister. He most recently served as
consul general at Batavia, Java.

New Resident Officers for Bavaria

Fifteen Americans who recently completed county-
level training, have been assigned as resident officers in
Bavaria. The 15 are among 27 recent graduates of the US
State Department's Foreign Service Institute in Washing-
ton, D.C., who arrived in Germany last April. Following
training at HICOG and state level, 15 were assigned to
Bavaria in May for additional training in the counties. The
remaining 12 were assigned posts in Wuerttemberg-Baden
and Hesse.

The 15 new Bavarian resident officers and their posts
are: Robert J. Bernard, Washington, D.C., to Neu Ulm;
Emerson M. Brown, Washington, D.C., to Schwabach;
William A. Chapin, Chicago, Ill., to Munich; Robert W.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Dean, Chicago, Ill., to Kitzingen; Adolphe Dubs, Chicago,
Ill., to Kulmbach.

Warrick E, Elrod Jr., Atlanta, Ga., to Bad Kissingen;
Richard T. Foose, Wheeling, W.Va., to Guenzburg; Emmet
E. Ford, Jr., Raleigh, N.C., to Karlstadt; Thomas F. Koeter,
New York City, to Vohenstrauss; Francis X. Lambert, Hud-
son, Mass., to Fuessen.

Kenneth W. Martindale, Chicago, Ill., to Mellrichstadt;
Mathews D. Smith, Jr., Washington, D.C., to Waldmuen-
chen; Lee T. Stull, Washington, D.C., to Hassfurt; Arthur
T. Tienken, Yonkers, N.Y., to Naila; and Harry I. Odell,
Washington, D.C., to Bamberg.

Josselson Resigns Berlin Post

Michael Josselson, a member of the Public Affairs staff
in Berlin, has resigned from HICOG because of protracted
illness.

Mr. Josselson joined the Army in 1943 and rose to the
rank of first lieutenant. Before the war he was European
manager for the buying offices of two New York and a
Texas department stores.

Personnel Shifts in Hesse

In recent personnel shifts in OLC Hesse, Ernst Anspach,
formerly chief of the Legal Division, was appointed chief
of the Political Affairs Division. Stanley H. Gaines, deputy
chief of the Legal Division, has been promoted to fill the
job of chief. Mr. Anspach is a veteran in occupation serv-
ice, having worked under OMGUS as a legal and denazifi-
cation officer.

James L. Hockenberry has been named personnel chief
for OLC Hesse. Having served on the Civil Service Com-
mission for Pennsylvania, as personnel consultant of the
War Assets Administration and chief of Employee Utiliza-
tion for the US Army in Germany, Mr. Hockenberry, in his
new capacity, is responsible for the complete operation of
the German personnel administrative program and for per-
sonnel services for the American personnel of OLC Hesse.

Dr. Leroy Vogel, OLCH education chief, has returned to
his post of professor of history at Centenary College,

Stanley H. Gaines. James L. Hockenberry.

(Photos by Public Relations Branch, OLC Hesse)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Shreveport, La., from which he was given a two-year leave
of absence.

David Rosendale, formerly deputy chief of the Field
Operations Division, OLCH, has been appointed acting
chief of the division, replacing Samuel R. Combs who has
returned to his home in Glenwood Springs, Colo., to re-
sume work with the US Department of Agriculture.

Dr. Thomas M. Venables, formerly agricultural educa-
tion specialist of OLC Hesse, has terminated his service
with HICOG and has returned to his home in West Lafa-
yette, Ind.

President of Extradition Board

Richard C. Hagan of the Office of the General Counsel,
HICOG, has been appointed president of the HICOG Extra-
dition Board succeeding Leo F. Lightner.

Mr. Hagan will serve as president of the Extradition
Board in addition to his other duties as an attorney adviser
in the HICOG Justice Branch of the Administration of
Justice Division at Bad Nauheim. Mr. Lightner, who was
formerly chief of the HICOG Justice Branch, has left Ger-
many and returned to the United States.

The Extradition Board considers applications for the
extradition of common criminals and war criminals from
the US occupied area of Germany to other countries. Other
members of the board are Ulrich Urton, of the Public
Safety Branch of the Office of Political Affairs; Raymond
Lisle, of the Foreign Relations Division of the Office of
Political Affairs, and Thomas Carver, of the Office of
Intelligence.

Curran Heads Military Security Division

Owen S. Curran, a veteran of five years’ work in Ger-
many with OMGUS and HICOG, has been named chief of
the newly-established Military Security Division of the
Berlin Element, HICOG. Prior to his present appointment,
Mr. Curran was industry adviser with HICOG-BE’s Eco-
nomics Division,

The Military Security Division is responsible for the
promulgation of Allied High Commission laws in the US

David Rosendale.

Dr. Leroy Vogel.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 76 ---
Sector of Berlin in three specific fields of activity: laws
which control rearmament and military potential of the
German industry; laws which control and prohibit the
storage, use or manufacture of materials utilized in the
development or production of atomic energy; and laws
which control and limit the activities of scientific research
establishments.

New Berlin Personnel Chief

William E. MacFarlane has been assigned as chief of the
Personnel Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG, and P.R. Tho-
mas, former acting personnel officer, has been named
deputy chief.

Prior to his assignment in Berlin Mr. MacFarlane served
for two and one half years in Economic Co-operation Ad-
ministration headquarters in Washington. As Far East area
officer, he was in charge of the ECA's six missions in
China, Korea, Indo-China, Indonesia, Thailand and Burma.

General Huebner Says Farewell

On the eve of his departure for the United States, Lt.
Gen. Clarence R.Huebner, deputy commander-in-chief and
chief of staff of the European Command and commanding
general of the US Army in Europe, made the following
statement to members of the American Forces in Germany:

“When I returned to Europe in August of 1946 for occu-
pation duty in Germany, the scene was not an encourag-
ing one: ill-fed, badly-housed and poorly-clothed, her
people milled about in confusion and unemployment;
black markets flourished; and even some of our American
troops were suffering from postwar doldrums.

“That, though, was four years ago; and today it is hard
to believe that we have accomplished so much. Conditions
are immeasurably better, the outlook is increasingly favor-
able, and hope has been restored to the German people.
This amazing return to normalcy has been brought about
only by the sheer hard work of all our Occupation Forces.

“In eliminating these hardships and cultivating a spirit
of democracy, it has taken a tremendous amount of con-
centrated, continuous effort on the part of each officer,
each enlisted man and woman, each civilian employee and
the dependent wives, sons and daughters. Even with our
present success, however, there are still many problems
and difficulties to overcome, but I have the greatest

Lt. Gen. Manton S. Eddy, new Commanding General,
USAREUR, and Mrs. Eddy were welcomed to Germany
when the transport General Patch docked at Bremerhaven
by Mrs. George A. Horkan (left), wife of EUCOM’s QM,
and Mrs. Charles D. W. Canham (right), wife of the com-
manding general, Bremerhaven Port of Embarkation.

A guard provided by the Army and Navy lined the four-
mile route covered by Lt. Gen. Clarence R. Huebner,
retiring Commanding General, USAREUR, in motoring
from the Bremerhaven port area entrance to the transport
General Rose, aboard which the general and _ his family
returned to the United States in August. (US Army photos),

amount of confidence in your sincerity, ability and tenacity-
of purpose. zs

“We are now traveling firmly up the center of the road.
We have built up and are maintaining an effective, efficient
military force. We have well-trained and well-equipped.
field forces which are among the Army's finest. We no.
longer need fear the effects of a hostile military force
short of a general war. +

“The Office. of the High Commissioner has been estab-
lished and procedures are being followed daily to fulfill
our moral and physical obligations. The German Federal
Republic has been formed through democratic processes.
and is taking a place in world events by serving as a
stabilizing yardstick for freedom-loving people throughout
the unsettled world.

“IT should like to thank each of you — military and
civilian — for the loyalty and devotion you have put
forth in bringing about this marvelous change, and I ask
each of you to dedicate yourself anew to the duties you
have undertaken to maintain the personal pride and
conduct which have earned the admiration and respect
of all Europe. :

“As I leave for the United States and retirement, I do
so with sad heart and fond memory. It is difficult to leave
my fellow soldiers; I am proud of each of you.

“May God bless you."

General Milburn Returns to US

Maj. Gen. Frank W. Milburn, deputy commanding gen~
eral of the US Army in Europe and former commander of
the 1st Infantry Division, has returned to the United States
to receive a new assignment.

The wartime commander of the XXI Corps in the
European Theater of Operations returned to Germany in
the spring of 1946 to assume command of the 1st Infantry
Division. He was named deputy commanding general of
the US Army, Europe, last year, and served for a time as.
its commander during the temporary absence of Lt. Gen.
Clarence R. Huebner. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 77 ---
Economic Review

This monthly review of the German Federal Republic's
current economic picture, based on the latest figures
and trends available when this section of the Infor-
mation Bulletin went to press, was prepared by the
Analytical Reports Branch of the Program Review
Division of the Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG.

HE ECONOMY OF WESTERN GERMANY began to
react in July to the influences set in motion by the
Korean war, and early indications were that these reactions
would become more pronounced in August. It is not pos-
sible to predict how far the present influences will extend,
however. The earlier picture was somewhat anomalous in
that the employment situation, foreign trade, agriculture
and sales turnover continued to show the favorable move-
ment of recent months; but industrial production was
slightly less than in June, there was a certain amount of
disturbance in retail markets from “scare” buying, the con-
sumers goods price index declined while the basic mate-
rials price index increased, and certain small industries
with limited access to credit were forced to curtail opera-
tions and release employees while larger firms increased
operations.
This state of uncertainty may continue for a considerable
period, and may require basic changes in economic and
financial policy.

Foreign Trade

For the third consecutive month, Western Germany's
July exports reached a new postwar high. The figure of
$172,200,000 represented an increase of $18,300,000, or
11.9 percent, over June. Imports climbed much more, to
$225,400,000, the highest figure since January. July imports
were 20 percent higher than the June total of $187,900,000.

The July figure for total trade ($397,600,000) topped the
previous postwar gecord of December 1949 ($390,800,000);
put with trade at this new high level, the trade deficit in
July ($53,200,000) was only one-third the size of that of
last December ($160,600,000).

West German Foreign Commodity Trade
July 1950
(Thousand Dollars)

Categories Imports Exports
Food and Agriculture . + 101,567 2,412
Industry : +_123,841 169,755
Raw Materials . 74,017 25,751
Semi-finished Goods 25,639 36,042
Finished Manufactures . 24,185 107,962
Total 225,408 172,167

Area
Total Non-participating Countries 104,704 48,310
USA 55,494 7,034
Canada : 883 813
Central America - 12,407 1,928
South America. . 10,123 9,220
Non-participating Stenting Countries” 14,906 6,632
Eastern Europe : 6,711 11,502
Other Countries +__14,180 11,171
Participating Countries «120,690 123,267
Non-Sterling 105,327 110,046
Sterling . 0. 15,363 13,221
Unspecified 6 6 6 0 ee 14 590
. “Total” 225408 172,167

Import Surplus: July $53,241,000

The continued rise in exports has been largely in the
field of industrial manufactures. July imports reflected
the large volume of ECA, procurement authorizations
issued in May and June, Of particular significance for the
future was the proposal by the German government in
August of a large forward-buying program. The program
stems from the desire to hedge against anticipated com-
modity price rises on the world markets as a result of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

74

Korean War. HICOG is closely following the effects of
this program on the still weak foreign exchange position.

The Western-German July total trade deficit of $53,-
200,000 roughly coincided with the figure of $48,500,000,
the amount of the deficit with the United States alone.
Although July exports to the United States set a postwar
monthly record of $7,000,000, imports from the United
States climbed sharply over the June total of $34,900,000
to reach $55,500,000 in July, marking the highest figure
since January 1950. This rise in deliveries largely was the
result of the heavier volume of ECA procurement authori-
zations issued in May und June, 1950.

Agriculture

All grains had been harvested by the end of August.
According to preliminary estimates of the Ministry for
Food and Agriculture, the 1950 bread grain harvest is
expected to yield 5,790,000 metric tons as compared with
last year’s bumper crop of 5,950,000. The total fodder grain
production is estimated at 4,350,000 tons, compared to
4,250,000 last year. Thus, the total grain harvest — based
on these figures, which are considered conservative —
would be only one-half of one percent under last year.

Preliminary estimates on rape and rapeseed indicate
that the total production will be 77,000 tons, compared to
140,000 for 1949, as a result of an approximate 18 percent
reduction in the area planted and a 10 percent decrease in
the yield per acre.

Total production of early potatoes will be about 1,200,000
to 1,300,000 tons as compared with 1,500,000 last year
because of the reduced planting area. The second cutting
of hay is proving sufficiently better than last year to more
than offset the slight production drop of the first cutting.

Adequate quantities of all classes of fertilizers were
available, but farmers’ shortage of money and credit
continued to prevent maximum utilization of fertilizers.
Phosphate plants are reportedly operating at only 50 per-
cent of capacity because of large stocks on hand.

The “‘scare” buying which began early in July appeared
to subside during August. Sugar and canned edible oils
continued to be the only two items in short supply. Canned
edible oils disappeared entirely from the regular market
in most areas, and sugar was often difficult to obtain.

August sugar releases to wholesalers totaled approxi-
mately 100,000 tons (refined), which represents normal
requirements at this season. The major portion of the
August supply was provided from ECA shipments. The
Food Ministry estimated that effective demand during
August, however, totaled 130,000 to 140,000 tons. The
sugar supply in September is expected to be slightly
smaller than during August.

Industry

The index of industrial production (excluding food
processing, stimulants and building) for July was 107 per-
cent of 1936, a decrease of one point from the revised June
figure. This decrease occurred, despite record output in
many major industries, because of adjustments for number
of working days.

Crude steel production was among the records estab-
lished; output totaled 1,035,000 tons, exceeding the

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 78 ---
previous postwar high in March by about two percent.
July orders totaled 1,500,000 tons, of which one-third was
for export. Total orders on hand were 3,100,000 tons.

Index of Industrial Production

(1936 = 100)
May June July
1950 1950 1950

TOTAL ALL INDUSTRIES

{incl. electricity and gas) a/ 107r 108 107

(excl. electricity and gas) . 105r 105 105
Investment goods (total) 1041 107 106

Raw materials : 8or 93 93

Finished products . . . 1137 117 114
General production goods

(incl. electricity and gas) 121r 121 123

(excl. electricity and gas) : 114 115 117
Consumer goods 5 97r 94 90
al = Excl. food processing, stimulants and buildings.
t Revised.
P = Preliminary.

Production of Major Commodities
Unit of 1950

Commodity Measure I/ May June July
Hard coal (gross mined) thous. t 8,667 8,978 9,169
Crude petroleum t 93,844 91,540 95,874
Cement . . . t 951,771 1,023,352 1,087,446
Bricks (total) 1000 373,336 440,544 454,653
Pigiron . . . 2... ot 719,770 750,179 818,855
Steel ingots . 2 ot 914,258 980,383 1,024,138
Rolled steel finished products eat) 625,228 683,381 690,442
Farm tractors (total) - pieces 3,964 3,764 4,164
Typewriters d/. . pieces 15,737 17,308 += 14,852
Passenger cars (incl. chassis) . pieces 16,378 18,735 15,759
Cameras (total). pieces - 153,300 197,393 201,241
Sulphuric acid (incl. ‘olewm) « t-SOa 97,575 91,261 95,769
Calcium carbide Dinlboo OG 64,220 59,702 58,142
Soap (total)... . 1... tt 8,548 8,646 10,841
Newsprint . 5 ooo 14,026 14,984 14,737
Auto and truck tires’ pieces 189,216 241,886 268,951
Shoes (total) : 1000 prs. 6,450 6,208 4,894

i = All tons are metric tons.

Revised.

Preliminary.

Excluding accessories, parts and spare parts.

= Standard, long-carriage and portable typewriters.

In view of the growing scarcity of non-ferrous metals,
German authorities now require that metal purchases be
paid in full upon placing the order. Only established and
reputable firms will be granted import licenses.

Approval has been given the federal minister for the
Marshall Plan to release DM 20,000,000 ($4,760,000) of
ERP counterpart funds to the Bundespost (German Postal
System). These funds will be used to rehabilitate and
expand its long-distance telephone trunk exchanges and
facilities serving the European network, to rehabilitate
and expand its local exchanges, and to expand its inter-
national radio telephone and telegraph facilities.

Housing -construction in Germany is at the rate of
300,000 units per year as compared to 220,000 for 1949 and
Jess than 100,000 in 1948. The building cost index has fallen
from 217 percent of 1936 in 1948 to 186 (estimated) in 1950,
which trend, in spite of enormously increased demand,
may be explained by the fact that materials and labor are
not in short supply and that orders for higher priced
houses are not readily obtainable.

Labor

The employment situation showed further improvement
during August. The total number unemployed was
1,341,206, a decrease of 110,716 from July. The total number
of employed wage and salary earners was 14,160,000, an
increase of 170,000 over July. The unemployed thus were
about 8.7 percent of the total wage and salary earning
labor force.

Scattered reports were noted indicating that small firms
were finding it difficult to maintain operations and in some
cases actually released employees, whereas larger firms
were expanding because of easier accessibility of credit.

OCTOBER 1950

75

Prices and Turnover

The consumer price index for July was 149 (1938 = 100)
— two points below June. The decrease was due to the
abundance of seasonal fruits and vegetables and to sum-
mer sales of clothing and other items. These sales plus
“scare buying greatly increased turnover, and many
lines, especially textiles and shoes, sold virtually all
available stocks. If present tendencies continue the decline
in the consumer price index may be halted in August.

Consumer Price Index (Bizonal Area‘)

(1938 = 100)
(Wage/salary earner's family of four, with one child under 14)
June July
1950 1950
Total . 151 149
Food . 157 153
Stimulants . 284 284
Clothing 185 183
Rent 103 103
Heat and Light | 118 118
Cleaning and Hygiene > 147 147
Education and Entertainment . 141 141
Household Goods oe 162 161
Traveling 5 133 133
Basic Materials Price Index
(1938 = 100)
June July
1950 1950
Food » 168 176
Industry . 218 222
Total . , 198 204p
Notes: The Consumer Price Index is not yet available on a Trizonal
Basis.
p = Provisional.
The basic materials price index was 204 (1938 = 100) in

July — an increase of six points over June. Both agri-
cultural and industrial materials increased, and the
probable cause is the general rise in world market prices.

Finance

The enactment on Aug. 10 of High Commission Law
No. 33 transferring to the federal ministries, the federal
courts and the Bank Deutscher Laender (Bank of German
States) responsibility for the implementation and enforce-
ment of foreign exchange control, is an important step in
the systematic transfer of authority within this field.

The Federal Budget Law for 1950-51 was presented for
approval to the Cabinet. on Aug. 29. It consists of an
ordinary budget with expenditures of DM 12,253,000,000
($2,940,004,000) and an extraordinary budget with expen-
ditures of DM 720,000,000 ($171,360,000). The elimination
of double counting between the two budgets gives
revenues of DM _ 11,452,000,000 ($2,705,576,000) and
expenditures of DM 12,672,000,000 ($3,016,936,000). Thus,
the Federal Finance Ministry expects ordinary revenues
to fall short of budgeted expenditures by DM 1,220,000,000
($290,360,000), which is to be financed by DM 500,000,000
($119,000,000) from the issue of coins and by DM 720,000,000
($171,360,000) in loans to cover the extraordinary budget.

The Federal Government has reduced its estimate of the
Berlin budget deficit for which it is prepared to accept
responsibility from DM _ 540,000,000 ($128,520,000) to
DM 500,000,000 ($119,000,000).

To cover the Berlin deficit of DM 500,000,000, the Federal
Government has allotted in its budget the sum of
DM_ 300,000,000 ($71,400,000), and an additional DM
125,000,000 ($29,750,000) may become available for this
purpose out of counterpart funds. To obtain the remaining
DM 75,000,000 ($17,850,000) the Federal Finance Ministry
is giving consideration to enacting increases in the special
Berlin Aid tax, or as alternative measures, taxes on artifi-
cial beverages and paper production. -+-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 79 ---
Occupation Log

Check on American Reports

More than 75 exchangees, heading for visits in the United
States, have been invited to check on the accuracy of what
American representatives in Germany have said during
the past five years about American life and institutions.

Addressing a group of students, teacher trainees and
teen-agers, Capt. Charles N. Jeffs (USN) Bremen’s state
commissioner, said: ‘We should like to have you study
our system of government and our social order closely
with the thought that you may find many features in them
which might well be adapted to the social, cultural and
political customs and traditions of Europe and Ger-
many...” He hoped for their aid in a Germany of the
future, ‘which will be an outstanding champion of demo-
cratic institutions and of the Golden Rule in international
relationships.”

Captain Jeffs asked the exchangees to check on the
statements of American occupation personnel, “to see
whether or not we have correctly translated to you what
is in the hearts and minds of our countrymen back home.”
Other members of his staff joined in a session briefing the
young people on social, governmental and historical facts
about the United States.

Spiritual Nourishment

Dr. George N. Shuster, US state commissioner for
Bavaria, greeted the news of a gift shipment of books from
the United States to Munich's students as an important
contribution to international friendship. Dr. Shuster is
president of World Student Service Fund, the American
organization which sponsored fund-raising for the gift.

Mrs. Bartlett Heard (second from right), well-known
American authority on women’s affairs, meets with Ger-
man leaders interested in promoting the role of women in
German community life. L.-r., Erna Schlepper of Wies-
baden; Erna Machwirth, city councilor of Darmstadt; Betsy
Knapp, OLC Hesse Women's Affairs adviser; Mrs. Heard
and Regina Kilian, Wiesbaden president of the Young
Christian Workers. (PRB OLCH photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Brig. Gen. Frank L. Howley, who retired as Berlin's US
Commandant last year, revisited Berlin in August and was
welcomed at Tempelhof by many officials, including Dr. J.
Stumm (right), West Berlin police chief. At left is James
W. Burke, Indianapolis News correspondent. (USAFE photo)

The books were purchased from funds collected among
students at Women’s College of the University of North
Carolina, the Dakota Wesleyan University in South
Dakota, the Forest Grove School in New York and ‘the
Vermont Academy.

“Beyond food and material relief,’ Dr. Shuster said,
“spiritual nourishment is essential today to the building
of a world which can enable a better life and under-
standing for ourselves and future generations.”

Prof. Walther Gerlach, president of Munich University,
expressed his appreciation to the American students
responsible for the books, valued at more than $1,000, and
for American aid received in the past.

Discussion Starts Book-Rush

Women leaders of Hesse, given a thorough briefing on
the United States recently by American and German
experts, immediately started taking a greater interest in
America, it was reported by Betsy Knapp, Women's
Affairs adviser, OLC Hesse. The Hessian women who
participated in the informational seminar have started
asking at the US Information Center library for books
recommended by the experts.

More Help in the Kitchen

A home-economics testing laboratory and experimental
kitchen got underway in Stuttgart recently.

The newly-opened laboratory-kitchen comprises the
first section of a Home Economics Institute, which later
will be a center for teaching and research, said Paul F.
Taggart, chief of OLCWB's Food and Agriculture Branch.
Other sections will include food and nutrition, textiles and
clothing, home management, family relations and child
development, institution management, housing and equip-
ment, and vocational homemaking education.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 80 ---
Research will be conducted in these fields and the
results disseminated through schools, advisory programs,
bulletins and other media~to housewives, to enable them
to conduct their work. more efficiently and improve the
standard of living of their families.

The teaching program will be of college level and
completion of the three-year course will entitle the student
to a diploma in home economics. There will also be short
refresher courses given for home economics teachers and
advisers who wish to improve their professional training.

According to Mr. Taggart and Marie C. Deermann, home
economics consultant of the OLCWB staff, this is a most
forward step taken in Wuerttemberg-Baden to give useful
and gainful training to women, and it will prove to be
extremely important if Germany is to make use of the
vast reservoir of woman power in that women outnumber
men approximately 140 to 100.

Opposition to Red Domination

Berlin's US Commander, Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor,
told West Berliners that the United States would back
them to the hilt in their fight against domination by their
Soviet Zone neighbors.

He said the United States objective was to help
“a unified, free city to become a healthy, integral segment
of the free world.”

Addressing members of the international press, he
answered the question “How are we doing in Berlin?" by
citing facts in three fields of activity: .

In politics: "We are determined that democratic pro-
cesses will determine the future of Berlin. We will not be
coerced bythe German Democratic Republic (Communist-
directed government of the Soviet Zone), which is a cat’s-
paw for the Soviets in their manipulations of Eastern
Germany. We may look forward to a turbulent fall period
when the Communists will attempt to give some sort of
validity to the single-list elections in the East zone. The
question of whether Berlin is to become a 12th state in the
German Federal Republic is one which we shall have
to face up to in the not-too-distant future.”

International educators enroute to a world committee
meeting of the International YMCA visited Wiesbaden
Aug. 10 to observe Hessian Education Advisory Board
specialists in action. Standing, 1.-r., are Heinz Kiel; S.
Nagai of Japan; Raymond Healy, Youth Activities adviser,
OLC Hesse; Dr. Gottfried Herzfeld; Paul Limbert, president
of Springfield College, Springfield, Mass.; Hugo Grassi of
Uruguay and Dr. Harold C. Cofiman, president of George
Williams College, Chicago, Ill.; Seated, 1.-r., Gustel Birka,
Rosa Franke and Hans Kottusch. (PRB OLCH photo)

Dr. George N. Shuster (right), US state commissioner for
Bavaria, and Professor Walther Gerlach, president of the Uni-
versity of Munich, peruse some of the books at Munich's
“Studentenwerk.” The student library is receiving more
than $1,000 worth of books purchased with funds donated
by several American colleges and schools through the
efforts of the World Student Service Fund, (PRB OLCB photo)

In economics: “Our aim has been clearly stated; it is
to bring back economic normalcy in Berlin, The long-term
health of the city depends... on its ability to compete...
with West German industry for markets, The goal of ECA
capital here has been to improve industrial production
and thus (her) competitive position.

Psychologically, the most encouraging phenomenon of
the past year has been... the unfailing high morale of
West Berliners.’ General Taylor named as factors the
prompt US aid to Korea against Communist aggression,
and the threatened Communist-Youth march across west
Berlin, which welded Berliners together in purpose with
the Allies.

Ban on Coffee Import

A new HICOG ordinance adding coffee to the list of
commodities which occupation personnel are prohibited
from importing into Germany has been signed by the
US High Commissioner.

Officials said coffee is being placed on the prohibited
list to aid the German government in its tax problems and
its anti-smuggling campaign. It is believed that the allow-
ances of coffee from the Army-operated commissaries and
PX's are sufficient to meet the needs of occupation
personnel. ‘

The new ordinance is in the form of an amendment to
Military Government Ordinance No. 38 on "Prohibited
Transactions and Activities.’ One section authorizes the
use of the Army Postal Service by occupation personnel
for the import and export of property “other than tobacco
products, currency or any property for resale.’ The new

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 81 ---
ordinance applies to all civilian occupation personnel.
Similar action is being taken by the Army.

American History Explained

To brush up on your American history, you can consult
the 76-page outline of American history currently being
prepared for distribution in West Berlin high schools.

Profusely illustrated with photographs, sketches, paint-
ings and maps, the booklet is “in no sense a definitive
history of the United States,"’ but supplies answers to the
most common questions on American history in “concise
and convenient form.”

The magazine-type outline is being printed in English
and German and will be available early next year to
advanced history students and Berlin libraries.

In seven separate chapters the book covers the colonial
period, the winning of independence, formation of a
national government, westward expansion, sectional con-
flict, the era of expansion and reform, and America in the
modern world.

Distributed by the US Information Service, the booklet
concludes with a list of ‘a few of the authorative works
available for the thorough study of American history.”

Dividend from CARE

A dividend of $160,000 worth of food and textile parcels
has been given to the German people from CARE, Inc.

This brings the total of such dividend gifts to $1,767,000
distributed during the past four years. Germany, like other
countries where CARE operates, received the dividend
parcels in direct proportion to its share of CARE volume.

These periodic gifts, the CARE Mission to Germany
explained, are not to be confused with the normal delivery
of CARE parcels, which in Germany has totaled well over
$50,000,000.

The dividend represents the few cents per parcel dif-
ference between the amount the donor pays for a gift
parcel and the actual cost of contents and delivery. This
procedure is followed to provide a financial cushion

Major John R. Strevig, Chaplain’s Section, EUCOM, wel-
comes Lt. Col. Wm. C. Shure of the Army Chief of
Chaplain's Office and four civilian clergymen as they
arrived for a month's tour of Germany under the auspices
of the Armed Forces’ Chaplains’ Board to confer with
EUCOM Army, Navy and Air Force chaplains. L.-r., Rabbi
Benjamin Friedman, Syracuse, N. Y.; Rev. Daniel J.
O'Keefe, New York City; Colonel Shure; Dr. Lester A.
Welliver, Westminster, Md.; Major Strevig and Dr. Victor
Nelson, Minneapolis, Minn. (US Army photo)

Paul Comly French (second from right) presented 251.
medical volumes to Dr. Hans von Kress, president of the
Free University, Berlin, and dean of its medical school. At
Jeft is John C.Thompson, chief, Education and Cultural
Relations Branch, HICOG-Berlin Element. At right, Donald
A. Ostrander, Care Mission head in Berlin, (US Army photo)

against price changes and business conditions, but under
CARE's non-profit policy, all this money is ultimately
distributed to recipient countries in the form of additional
CARE parcels or other merchandise.

These goods are distributed through German welfare
groups and through the American relief organizations
which make up CARE. They are handed out strictly on
a basis of need.

Houses for Displaced Persons

Dr. James R. Newman, US state commissioner for Hesse,
has written a letter to the Hessian government urging
speedy transfer of displaced persons from camps to
individual housing.

Although most phases of the integration appear to be
well-covered, Dr. Newman wrote Minister-President Chris-
tian Stock, housing plans do not give any assurance that
state authorities contemplate providing private accom-
modations for displaced persons within a reasonable
period of time.

Dr. Newman said that since July 1947 the 18 member
nations of ithe IRO had moved approximately 400,000 DP's
from the US Zone and that 75,000 more will be moved by
March 1951. Eighty thousand of those who have already
been resettled, as well as 35,000 of those to be moved,
have lived on the German economy in private accom-
modations.

Dr. Newman pointed out that this magnificent accomplish-
ment would be marred if the 20,000 to 30,000 displaced
persons who remain in the US Zone were to be housed
in DP camps as a separate group.

It is the earnest wish of the US High Commissioner that
all DP’s be furnished individual housing, wrote Dr. New-
man, and that the transfer of these families and single
persons to private housing units be completed by the end
of this year.

“Both Mr. McCloy and I are confident,’ Dr. Newman con-
cluded, “that the local authorities can meet this problem
and we are certain that they will realize the political
soundness and humanitarian justice of this policy."

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 82 ---
All-German ERP-Exhibit

The first all-German Marshall Plan exhibition, giving
a complete survey of German economic recovery under
the American aid program, opened in Wiesbaden during
August.

The show, which was the work of the Hessian Ministry
of Economics under the sponsorship of the Federal ERP
Ministry, was the first of its kind not specifically arranged
by American authorities. This was ERP as seen through
German eyes.

The exhibit told the origin and planning of the Marshall
Plan, the flow of two different forms of rendered aid in
goods and credits into the channels of German economy,
the future aid to be expected, and a special section entitled
“Who is going to pay for it?”

Another section depicted the influence of the Marshall
Plan aid in the postwar development of Hessian agri-
culture. Processing of some raw materials being imported
into Germany via ERP was also shown — complete
manufacture of cigarettes in a modern machine and the
weaving of cotton into cloth.

To visit 30 Hessian cities, the exhibition will be used
as a model for other exhibitions to be shown by the federal
authorities throughout the republic.

Group Sends Two Professors

An organization formed to step up cultural relations
between the United States and Germany will send two
American professors to the staff of Berlin's Free Uni-
versity.

Established by Ferdinand Thun in 1930, the Carl Schurz
Memorial Foundation of Philadelphia has voted $10,000 to
finance the project. Two suitable US scholars will teach
American literature and history at the university.

“In Germany the values of western civilization must be
reasserted. The need for purely physical relief has di-
minished. Now is the time to strengthen mind, not by
preaching but by practicing the values upon which western
civilization is based; the dignity of the individual, freedom
of worship, of expression, of assembly and social justice.

Swift co-operative action by HICOG, the US Army and
the US Air Force rushed two urgently-needed iron lungs
from Berlin and Bad Nauheim to Stuttgart and Heidelberg,
where they were used to treat children stricken in season-
al rise of polio in Wuerttemberg-Baden.

(US Army photo)

Edward Page, Jr. (leit), director of HICOG, Berlin Element,
presents DM 300,000 check to Dr. Paul Piechowski, head
of West Berlin's Health Office. Grant from HICOG Special
Projects Fund will finance reconstruction of an isolation
ward at and addition of a children's ward to the Behring

Hospital in Zehlendorf. (PRB, HICOG-BE photo)
These values must be realized in order to survive the
ideological storm still raging.’ This statement comes from
the foundation's publication, the German-American Review.

More Heifers for Refugees

Twenty-five heifers of various dairy breeds — the
donation of American farmers to German refugees — were
released during August to farmers in Bavaria. The cattle
had spent a period of recuperation and quarantine in
Bremen stables following their arrival aboard the S.S.
American Importer. Distribution was handled by a com-
mission established under the auspices of the Heifer Pro-
ject Committee, sponsor group. The cattle were designated
for refugee farmers.

Under the Heifer Project Committee, more than 500
heifers have been given to refugee farmers in Germany.

German FM Development

The frequency modulation broadcasting system now
being developed in Germany compares favorably with that
of the United States and within two years will become
the most important medium of information and entertain-
ment in the US Zone, according to Robert D. Linx, radio
engineer with the Federal Communications Commission
of the US Government.

Mr. Linx spent four weeks in July and August consulting
with German broadcasters and radio manufacturers on
their FM plans. His visit was sponsored by the Radio
Branch, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, to provide the
German radio industry with latest information on FM
developments in the United States.

He said he was surprised at the progress which has been
made in Germany and that by 1952 complete FM networks
would be in operation in the US Zone, providing excellent
service to every community in these areas.

For demonstration to German radio manufacturers, Mr.
Linx brought with him an inexpensive FM converter for
medium wave radio sets which he had developed in the
United States. He said, however, that the Germans had
already produced a cheap converter similar to his, and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 83 ---
that most radio sets, except for the cheapest models, were
being manufactured with built-in FM converters.

Mr. Linx pointed out that FM broadcasting was one
answer to the problem of Europe's crowded airwaves,
which has caused interference with medium wave broad-
casting in Germany. Because. of the high frequency, there
is little danger of interference from other stations in FM
broadcasting, and the same high quality service can be
provided night and day, with little atmospheric disturb-
ance during even the worst weather. The disadvantage is
that FM receivers cannot pick up distant stations, and
listeners will be limited to one or two programs.

Better Religious Tolerance

Special publications, seminars for teachers, formation
of youth groups and inter-faith cultural events will be
utilized in West Berlin for the cause of religious tolerance,
according to Willard Johnson, HICOG consultant in inter-
faith relations and for 14 years a staff member of the
National Conference of Christians and Jews. Mr. Johnson
aided existing inter-faith groups in Berlin to map out a
program to promote better understanding.

Mr. Johnson surveyed methods of furthering tolerance
through talks with leading members of the Berlin Magistrat
(city council) and heads of the local Jewish-Christian
Society's committees on education, religious affairs, com-
munity, press, theater and motion pictures. He also con-
ferred with RIAS officials on plans for including principles
of inter-faith action in special radio broadcasts.

Officials of the society worked with him to plan a West
Berlin ceremony in keeping with Brotherhood Week in
February 1951.

Assistance to Church Leaders

Catholic leaders from the United States and Europe are
working with leaders of their church in Germany to solve
political, social and economic problems during the forth-
coming year.

Brought to Germany under the HICOG cultural ex-
changes program, the religious leaders will also gain
experience and information for their work at home.

Romaine Smith (center), assistant professor of Nursing
Education at Western Michigan College, Kalamazoo,
Mich., who visited Berlin recently under HICOG auspices,
takes part in anatomy class for student nurses at the
Tempelhof City Hospital. Teacher in class she visited is
Sister Johanna Seifert (right).

(PRB, HICOG-BE photo)

Dr. James R. Newman (second from leit), state commis-
sioner for Hesse, and Deputy State Commissioner Francis
E. Sheehan (right), say goodby to Brig. Gen. Augustus F.
Gearhard, one of the two USAFE general officers in the
Chaplain Corps, on his departure for the United States.
At left is Dr. George F. Donovan, adviser on Religious

Affairs, OLCH. (PRB OLCH photo)’

Four outstanding American Catholic officials were in
Germany during August to contact Catholic leaders in the
fields of church-state relations, social action programs
among working youth, worker education programs and
church community programs.

They are the Reverends John C, Murray of Woodstock
College, Md.; Joseph D. Munier of St. Patrick's Seminary,
Calif.; William J. Quinn of Chicago, Ill., and Dr. Anthony
N. Fuerst of Cleveland, O.

Six more Catholic leaders from America are due in
Germany later this year. In addition, 19 Catholic leaders
from other countries in Western Europe will be in Ger-
many under HICOG sponsorship.

DP Unemployment Low

Of the 7,500. displaced persons for whom the state govern-
ment of Wuerttemberg-Baden accepted responsibility on
July 1, only 1,500 had registered by July 15 as unemployed.
A survey which has been prepared by the Manpower
Analysis Branch, Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG, noted,
however, that 1,000 of the DP’s are still employed by the
International Refugee Organization and that most of these
are under notice of termination.

For most DP’s, one of the first moves toward integration
into the German economy was to register at a public
employment office. In the state of Lower Saxony, 6,200
registered in July and in the Federal Republic as a whole
it is estimated that 20,000 DP’s were registered as un-
employed by the end of July.

The survey is the first to be made since German
authorities assumed responsibility for the DP’s on July 1.
It is limited to the state of Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Summer Work for Students

Summer jobs — with vacation undertones — were
handed out in Bavaria during August-to approximately
350 needy students. Their jobs in youth guidance work

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 84 ---
took them to summer camps, youth community centers and
to playgrounds in the largest state of the US Zone.

Funds to cover the employment were donated by the
HICOG Reorientation Program, according to Harold C.
Patrick, Youth Activities adviser, Public Affairs Division,
OLCB., For Bavaria, DM 262,400 had been allocated.

The program was open to university students and
students of teacher training colleges and technical insti-
tutes. Its administration in Bavaria came under the
Studenten-Werk, the Bavarian Youth Ring and the student
government organization ASTA. These organizations were
given the task of selection, in co-operation with HICOG
officials in that field.

Answer to Every Question

The “RIAS Answer Man” boasts as his motto “No
Question Without An Answer."

With the Economic Co-operation Administration, RIAS,
the American- sponsored radio station in Berlin, has
launched a series of 15-minute informational programs
which deal with historic, economic, cultural, technical and
scientific subjects.

Broadcasts are scheduled for Mondays, Wednesdays and
Fridays at 11:30 a.m. Questions are sent to the “RIAS An-
swer Man” at 69 Kufsteiner Strasse, Berlin-Schoeneberg.

The answer man show replaces two other question-an-
swer programs previously aired by RIAS—‘“'The Oral
Answer" and "Berlin Answers the Zone.”

Farce of SED Congress

RIAS, the American radio station in Berlin, charged
Aug. 24 that the SED National. Front Congress scheduled
for the following weekend in Berlin was “a perfidious...
and deliberate misuse of public opinion.” The broadcast
was addressed to the population of eastern Germany and
was aired on the eve of the Communist meeting.

The broadcast said that the three to four thousand
‘delegates’ to the Congress were absolutely unrepresenta-
tive of the German people, that they were hand-picked
by the Communist SED Party and carefully screened be-
fore being allowed to attend the meeting in Berlin. “It can,
therefore, be anticipated, RIAS said, ‘that the Congress’
resolutions will be adopted with overwhelming majorities
and that no unexpected events will occur.”

"Delegates" from Western Germany, RIAS warned, in
no way represent the population. Almost invariably they

Hans N. Tuch (center), director of the US Information
Center at Wiesbaden, addressed I&E leaders of Wiesbaden
Military Post and urged increased American participation
in its activities. Discussion was arranged by Major Anna
L. Briggs (right), WMP AI&E officer, as part of the USAFE
orientation and reorientation program on German-Ameri-
can relations for occupation personnel.

(USAFE photo)

Ernst Strobel, Wiesbaden Military Post German employee,
set new European long distance record when he swam the
Rhine river from Biebrich to Bonn, a distance of 100 miles.
He is being greased by one of three men who accompanied
him on the swim in a small rowboat. (USAFE photo)

were selected from obscure “choral, sports and hiking
associations” and at best can be described as ‘‘political
adventurers.”

The weekend congress in Berlin recalls to mind the
“National Front” of such men as Hitler, Hugenberg, Dues-
terberg and Seldte, RIAS said. Those men, and the dis-
astrous National Front they established 18 years ago in
Bad Harzburg, “were precursors of Ulbricht and his accom-
plices.”

RIAS reminded its audience, estimated to average more
than 80 percent of Soviet Zone radio listeners, that despite
Communist propaganda promises that the SED has nothing
to hide there are indeed a good many outstanding ques-
tions behind the Iron Curtain:

“What of the millions of prisoners of war, of men and
women and children deported?

“What of the concentration camps, and the fate of their
inmates?

“What of the truth of the Soviet war reparations policy?

“What of the thousands of People's Police being secretly
trained in the use of Red Army weapons?

“What of the Soviet-Zone October elections which are
neither free nor secret?”

RIAS charged in conclusion that the National Front
Congress was aimed solely and explicity at increasing the
activities of Communist agents, and that in fact the week-
end meeting in Berlin was nothing more than ‘a conven-
tion of Communist agents." -+-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 85 ---
Decartelization Law Violators Fined

HEN JUDGE M. J. ROBINSON in the Fourth Judicial

District, US Courts for Germany, recently imposed
fines totaling DM 140,000 upon two trade associations and
five individuals for violating the Decartelization Law, it
marked the first time since the occupation that defendants
had faced trial on charges of violating this law.

Each of the associations, the Fachverband Schleifmittel-
Industrie and the Verein Deutscher Schleifmittelwerke,
which include in their membership practically all manu-
facturers of abrasives in Western Germany, was fined
DM 25,000 for fixing prices for all kinds of abrasives on
the domestic and export markets, and joining a cartel
agreement with French abrasives manufacturers.

Defendants Hans Brauers, Paul Nordmann and Fritz
Brinkmann were fined DM 5,000 on each count, but one
DM 5,000 fine was suspended for each individual. Alfred
Sutter and Ejner Christiansen, charged on only one count,
were fined DM 5,000 each.

Shortly after the charges were filed last May 19*, attor-
neys for the defense presented a motion, charging lack of
jurisdiction on the part of the court as the defendants were
residents of the British Zone.

Judge Robinson denied the motion July 17 and said
in part:

“Each of the defendants was served with process per-
sonally in the city of Frankfurt within the jurisdiction of
this court. At the time of service as well as when they
raised the challenge to the jurisdiction of the court, they
submitted that the service as well as their appearance did
not constitute or shall not be construed as an acceptance
of the jurisdiction of the court or a waiver of any facts or
arguments which can be made to contest the jurisdiction
of the court.

“The challenge to the jurisdiction of this court over the
persons of.the defendants seems to be predicated on the
fact that they are residents of the British Zone. With ex-
ceptions not here material, jurisdiction of this court over

* See ‘Decartelization Law Prosecutions Filed’ in Information Bulle-
tin, July 1950.

Dr. Charles D. Winning, chief of Public Affairs Division,
OLC Bavaria, is shown presenting a check for DM 212,000
to Professor Walther Gerlach (center), president of the
University of Munich. Looking on is Dr. Martin Mayes of
OLCB’s Education and Cultural Relations Branch. The
money, given to the university from the HICOG Special
Projects Fund, will be used to build a student dormitory
and recreational rooms. (PRB OLCH photo)

a person is dependent not upon residence, domicile,
nationality or any other personal attribute. It depends
solely upon presence, That the defendants are present is
evident; that they were served with process within the
jurisdiction of the court is admitted. The reservation with
which they accepted service or made their appearance is
not binding upon the court, and in any event is a proce-
dure unknown to our criminal practice..."

N JULY 26, ALL defendants changed their pleas to

guilty before Judge Robinson in the Fourth Judicial
District, US Courts for Germany. Attorneys for the prose-
cution, after outlining the case and the charges against
the defendants, said in part:

“Offenses against Law 56 (Decartelization Law) are
serious crimes against the long-standing policy of the
Occupation Authorities and against the healthy and demo-
cratic Germany economy which that law seeks to build.
The eliminating of discriminatory, unfair and restrictive
trade practices and the promoting of market conditions
designed to guarantee equal opportunity under a free
competitive system are basic objectives of the United
States. To secure these objectives requires the preven-
tion of restrictive conditions which will interfere with
production and distribution, and the insuring of conditions
allowing full production in a free competitive market.

“Law 56 is designed to prevent restraints on free com-
petition in business and commercial transactions which
tend to restrict production, raise prices or otherwise con-
trol the market to the detriment of purchasers and con-
sumers of goods and services. Such restraints amount to a
special form of public injury. Undertakings ‘which have
the purpose or effect of restraining domestic or inter-
national trade, or which foster monopolistic control of
such trade are clearly condemned. The fundamental prin-
ciples of free enterprise, which had their origins in Ger-
many around the middle of the last century, are protected
by provisions of Law 56..."

N ENTERING THE PLEA of guilty, attorneys for the
defense presented a statement admitting guilt of the

defendants on all counts but claiming that extenuating
circumstances should be considered. In conclusion they
stated:

“The defendants have conceded by their plea that they
violated Law 56. They respectfully urge upon this court
that the violation was not motivated by deliberate obstruc-
tionism but rather grew out of ignorance and the belief that
what they were doing was most beneficial to the economy.

“Since the time the US Decartelization Office began its
investigation of the industry, the defendants have ceased
all activities of the kind included under Count 1 and have
advised the French industry that the arrangement covered
by Count 2 could not in any part be carried out." -++END

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 86 ---
The Communist-dominated regime of the Soviet Zone of Germany pro-
mulgated in July, with much fanfare in the press and on the radio, a

“Five-Year Plan" for bolstering its industrial production. The Berlin
edition of “Die Neue Zeitung’ published on July 28 a critical analysis of
the plan, a condensed translation of which is presented here.

Soviet Zone Five-Year Plan

CCORDING TO THE TEXT of the “Five-Year Plan for

the Development of the People’s Economy in the Ger-
man Democratic Republic," Eastern German industry's
paramount and unqualified task is to insure the exact and
strict fulfilment of eastern Germany’s reparations obliga-
tions toward the USSR and the Polish Republic, in ac-
cordance with the quantity, types and quality of products
claimed. The entire plan is based on the achievement of
these top-priority commitments.

This, of course, does not mean that Soviet-Zone indus-
try is to produce only for reparations deliveries, but the
economic plan for the Soviet Zone is part and parcel of
the USSR’s over-all plan embracing all countries coming
within the sphere of Soviet domination. Its characteristic
note is that deliveries to the USSR, not offset by Soviet or
Polish counter deliveries, are to be a permanent and not
a temporary feature in Eastern German industrial produc-
tion plans.

The contemplated production increases in the Five-Year
Plan evidence to what extent future production of the parti-
cular commodities to be delivered to the USSR as repara-
tions or as export goods is to be stepped up in order to
meet the growing demands of the Soviet armaments
industry. At the same time, the figures of the plan disclose
the present level of production in regard to a number of
essential products.

Apart from the percentage figures calculated for pro-
paganda effect, in some cases precise figures are stated
which make it possible to assess the true value of the
Socialist Unity Party's (SED) estimate of eastern Ger-
many’s 1950 industrial output. For some of these items,
1936 production figures are available, so that the alleged
present level of production can be compared with that of
1936. In this connection, one should bear in mind that the
over-all industrial capacity of the Eastern zone increased
by approximately 50 percent between 1936 and the end of
the war,an important factor to be taken into consideration,
particularly in assessing the effects of Soviet dismantling
in eastern Germany.

OMPARISONS DRAWN between rough estimates of
1950 industrial production in western Germany, based
on results known so far and on the visible tendency of
further industrial development during the year, and Eastern
German figures, disclose the relative unimportance of
numerous Eastern German production increase claims.
At first glance, it may be surprising that in some cases
Eastern German industrial output is higher today than in
1936. Upon investigation it is invariably found that the

OCTOBER 1950

83

commodities in question have only been manufactured
since 1936, as for instance staple fiber, the present Eastern
German production of which is more than three times that
of 1936. In western Germany staple fiber production in-
creased at a far more rapid rate.

It is characteristic that the situation in the older rayon
industry is entirely different. According to the certainly
not pessimistic SED estimates, 1950 East-zonal rayon pro-
duction will reach only approximately four-fifths of the
1936 level, while in western Germany production will pre-
sumably be almost doubled, as compared with 1936.

In certain other instances figures refer to products not
even manufactured in eastern Germany before the war, as
for instance flat glass, which is therefore able to show
startling percentage production increases. Even in heavy
industry where, on paper; remarkable advances are
claimed, precise output figures are still relatively low, as
in the case of pig iron output, which is claimed to be
50 percent higher than in 1936; in reality it will be no more
than 335,000 tons, or approximately four percent of Wes-
tern German production. Steel production has not even
reached the low prewar level of 1,200,000 tons.

Brown coal production increases are offset by the lack
of hard coal in the Eastern zone, home production of which
is quite insignificant (3,000,000 tons in 1950 as compared
with 105,000,000 tons in western Germany). Hard coal
imports being entirely inadequate, fuel and power supply
in eastern Germany is very poor in spite of increased fuel
production.

Production of Essential Goods in the Soviet Zone

Western

Estimate Planned German

Commodity Unit 1936 1950 in 1955 estimate

for 1950

Browncoal. . . . milliontons 101 132 205 75
Brown coal briquettes 1 24 38 56 15
Hardcoal . ee ow 3.5 3.0 4.0 105
Potash (K:O) . + 1,000 4 850 1,250 2,000 850
Pigiron. 2). ee on 202 333 1,250 8,500 -
Ingot steel... - ) no 1,200 962 3,000 11,100
Cement... . . . 1,675 1,350 2,600 10,000
Bricks. million bricks 3,225 1,620 3,000 = 4,000
Window glass. . 1,000sq,m. 2,155 15,000 16,000 40,000
Sulphuric acid (SOs) ° 1,000 tons 300 257 400 1,100
Soda... ee ee ow 295 102 380 750
Caustic soda (NaOH) 124 147 250 360
Yams. ee ee 193 139 240 450
Socks and stockings . mill.pairs 322 116 230 =
Leather footwear mo 15.3 8.0 21.0 50.0
Rayon... . . . 1,000tons 12.4 10.2 32.0 48.0
Staple fiber»... on 16.7 53.5 126.0 120.0

HE RELATIVE WEAKNESS of practically all the
favorable estimated and planned production increases
shown in the above comparative production table, is self-
evident when compared with Western German figures.
It is particularly significant that a wide range of impor-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 87 ---
tant products show output figures far below prewar level.
Cement production, for example, is still lagging at approxi-
mately one-fifth below prewar output, while in western
Germany prewar figures have been considerably exceeded.
Production of bricks in eastern Germany has reached only
approximately 50 percent of the prewar level, and condi-
tions are no better in the basic chemical industry. 1950
production of sulphuric acid is assessed at 257,000 tons of
SOs, that is approximately 20 percent less than in 1936,
although the estimate appears very optimistic. Western
Germany is producing much more than in 1936.

Soda production in the Soviet Zone attains merely one-
third of the prewar output. In view of such unfavorable
figures for a great number of basic chemical products, it
is difficult to understand how the present level of the
entire chemical industry has been assessed at 167 percent
of 1936 figures in the Five-Year Plan,

It isno less significant that the small number of consumer
goods items for which production figures are available,
also show up in an unfavorable light. 1950 production of
socks and stockings is expected to reach merely one-third
of the 1936 level. In the current year, 139,000 tons of yarn
are to be produced, that is 30 percent less than in 1936,
while the production of leather footwear is assessed at
a little more than 50 percent of the 1936 level. It must be
kept in mind that the standard of production is also very

Edward Page, Jr., director of HICOG Berlin Element, was
host Aug.23 to US Sector borough mayors as well as
division and branch chiefs of HICOG-BE and US Army
officials, who informally discussed problems. of mutual
interest, Pictured are, front row, I.-r.: Dr. Werner Wittgen-
stein, deputy mayor of Zehlendorf; Helmut Mattis, mayor
of Steglitz; Erich Wendland, mayor of Schoeneberg; Mr.
Page; Dr. Erwin P. Brauner, chief, HICOG-BE Public Health
Section; Willi Kressmann, mayor of Kreuzberg; second
row, Howard P. Jones, deputy director, HICOG-BE; Dis-
trict Councilor Alfred Leiner, deputy mayor of Neukoelln;
Col. Maurice W. Daniel, commanding officer, Berlin Mili-
tary Post; Rebecca G. Wellington, chief, Berlin Affairs
Branch, HICOG-BE; Leon J. Steck, chief, HICOG-BE Pro-
gram Branch; back row, Wilhelm Winzer, deputy mayor
of Tempelhof; Dr. Gerhard Schroembgens, German ad-
viser, USCOB; Eric Wendelin, chief, HICOG-BE Political
Affairs Division; Dr. Christopher B. Garnett, Community
Affairs adviser to Education and Cultural Relations Branch,
HICOG-BE; Wesley F. Pape, chief, Legal Affairs Division,
HICOG-BE; Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US Commander,
Berlin; Karl F, Mautner, US Liaison Officer with Berlin
City Council and member of staff of Political Affairs Divi-

sion, HICOG-BE, (US Army photo)

much below prewar quality standards. Yarn, for example,
was in 1936 mainly produced from wool and cotton, a
mixture little used in eastern Germany today, wool and
cotton fabrics appearing at rare intervals on the Eastern
German home market.

OMPARISONS BETWEEN present Eastern and Western

German production rather than against 1936 figures
are equally illuminating. By 1955 East-zonal production of
trucks is to be 10 times higher than in 1950, an impressive
prospect, but the present output is only 2,400 trucks as
compared with 55,000 produced in western Germany
in 1949,

The Five-Year Plan is more modest in its figures for
passenger Cars, envisaging by 1955 a two and one-half fold
increase on 1950 figures, but total 1950 production amounts
to only 10,000 passenger cars, as against the 1950 esti-
mate of 180,000 cars in Western German motor industry.
Conditions are similar in many other branches of industry.

A close scrutiny of East-zonal planned figures shows
that the SED clamor over an enormous rise in industrial
production is not supported by the figures it publishes.
Although it is not possible to make exact over-all calcu-
lations, it is certain that industrial production in the
Soviet Zone, as compared with the 1936 level, is lagging
very considerably behind western Germany's industrial
achievements.

It must not be forgotten, either, that a great part of the
still small over-all production of the Soviet Zone goes to
the USSR as reparations, thus greatly impairing not only
supply to the population, but also supply to industry of
capital goods urgently required for rehabilitation and
rationalization.

The Eastern German plans for further industrial develop-
ment seem very impressive at first sight, but do not stand
up to close investigation, Comparisons with Western Ger-
man production place the claims of gigantic economic
advances in their true perspective. 1955 production is to
be 90 percent larger than in 1950, that is an annual increase
of less than 20 percent, while in western Germany indus-
trial output has risen by approximately 25 percent during
the last 12 months. In addition, it must be emphasized that
the standard of production in western Germany is high.
What is thought of the quality of East-zonal products, is
evidenced by the continuous and bitter complaints of the
population appearing in the Soviet-licensed German-
language press. +-END

10,600 Berlin Boys, Girls Sent
To Western Germany for Vacations
Approximately 10,600 members of Berlin youth organi-
zations were sent to Western Germany for summer vaca-
tions, The boys and girls lived, for from two to six weeks,
at picturesque vacation spots in the federal area and were ~
accommodated in camps, homes, and with private families.
The coung visitors represented the Catholic and Prot-
estant youth organizations, the SPD-sponsored Falken, the
Bund deutscher Jugend, the Naturfreunde and the UGO,

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 88 ---
Washington Report

German Participation in Defense

HE ELECTION LAW passed by the East German

puppet regime for elections now set for October is a
brazen example of “typical Communist degradation of the
democratic process," according to US Secretary of State
Acheson,

In a statement at his weekly news conference in Washing-
ton Aug. 30, Mr. Acheson pointed out that the law makes
no provision for a secret vote and that anyone voting
against the single so-called “unity” ticket will be recog-
nized automatically as an anti-Communist.

A correspondent reminded Mr. Acheson that a Com-
munist army newspaper had said the East-German election,
scheduled for Oct. 15, would be “truly free" because it would
be “free from the demagoguery of opposition parties.”

The Secretary replied that it was a new definition of
freedom and, of course, the East-German elections are free
from any opportunity for the voter to register his wishes
except in one way.

The correspondent referred to a leading editorial by the
Soviet army's official newspaper in Berlin, Taegliche
Rundschau, which said the elections would be free from
contests and “anti-Soviet agitation.”

The election originally was scheduled for last October,
but was repeatedly postponed. Press reports have said
the postponements were because the Soviets were un-
certain they could dominate the elections until they
strengthened their controls.

The election has been set up by the Communists to give
the "provisional" East-German government an appearance
of permanence.

The Communist Party is allotted approxtenatelfy 70 per-
cent of the candidates on the list and the other 30 percent
are distributed among the remaining political parties with
candidates restricted to those acceptable to the Com-
munists.

Following is the text of Mr. Acheson's statement:

“have been advised that an election law for the Oct. 15,
1950, elections to the East-German parliament has been
passed by the so-called German Democratic Republic, the
puppet Communist regime which the Soviet Union has
established in Eastern Germany. Contrary to one of the
basic principles of democratic practice, this election law
makes absolutely no provision for a secret vote. I under-
stand that according to the law, the voter is handed the
ballot as he enters the voting place. His name is checked
off a list. If he desires, he may then make a change on the
ballot although no booth or other secret place is provided
for him to do that.

“If he makes a change he is automatically recognized
as an anti-Communist, for those voting the Communist
ticket do not have to make any indication whatever on the
ballot. The voter is then required to drop his ballot into

OCTOBER 1950

85

an urn. This entire process takes place in front of the
voting board, the members of which are all members of
the Communist Party or its affiliated organizations.
I hardly need point out how brazen an example this is of
typical Communist degradation of the democratic process."

* * *

German Participation in Defense

Secretary Acheson has declared that it is important to
find an appropriate way in which Germany can participate
in the defense of Western Europe.

He told a news conference in Washington Sept. 6 that
US High Commissioner John J. McCloy was stating an
obvious and proper objective when he said the Gerrmans
should be enabled, if they so desire, to defend their own
country.

Mr. Acheson pointed out that the purpose of strengthen-
ing the forces of West Europe was to protect the entire
Atlantic area against aggression and, since the German
people are in that area, it was highly desirable to find an
appropriate way for them to share in the defense effort.

Mr. McCloy, after conferring with President Truman
in Washington the previous day, told reporters that the
German people should be enabled to defend themselves
against the threat of aggression.

“In some manner or some form the Germans should be
able, at least if they want to, to defend their own country,”
he said, adding: “It seems too difficult to say to these

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy (left) in conver-
sation with Glenn G. Wolfe, director of the Office of
Administration, HICOG, at Rhine-Main Airbase prior to
his take-off for conferences in Washington with President
Truman and Secretary of State Acheson and to attend the
Foreign Minister's Conference in New York, Mr. McCloy

returned to Frankfurt Sept. 21. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 89 ---
people that you cannot share in the defense of your coun-
try if attacked.”

Mr. McCloy made it clear that he was speaking of the
West German people and that the implied threat came
from the Communist-controlled Eastern zone, where, he
said, between 50,000 and 60,000 “‘alert troops’ were being
trained as soldiers, using heavy weapons. He said. these
troops could not be ignored and added that the Occupation
Authorities were having trouble with them.

Mr. McCloy, who was in Washington for a series of
talks on Germany, said that his conference with President
Truman had coveréd “general economic, political and
social conditions in Germany.”

Asked whether he had recommended the rearming of
Western Germany, Mr. McCloy said that “some steps
could be taken to improve Germany's internal and external
security,” and that the subject would be considered by the
US, British and French foreign ministers’ meeting in New
York the following week.

On the question of sending more US occupation troops
to Germany, which has been suggested in some quarters,
Mr. McCloy said that this was a matter for the US Defense
Department Joint Chiefs of Staff to determine. He indicated,
however, that he would favor such a move if the troops
could be spared from other areas.

* * *

“Freedom Bell’ on Tour

The specially forged 10-ton bronze Freedom Bell —
symbol of the “Crusade for Freedom" that aims to
combat Communism by taking the truth behind the Iron
Curtain — has gone on display in the United States.

The bell, constructed at Croydon, England, was placed
on a specially-designed float and paraded Sept. 8 through
downtown New York to the city hall. It was officially
received by acting Mayor Vincent R. Impellitteri, leaders
of the major American religious denominations and offi-
cials of the Crusade.

The bronze bell, larger than London's Big Ben, arrived
in the United States Sept. 6 aboard the steamship American
Clipper. After its New York exhibit, the Freedom Bell
went on a tour of 21 American cities.

The bell will be shipped to Berlin and rung on Oct. 24,
United Nations Day, with radio hookups scheduled to
carry its peal throughout the world.

The Crusade seeks to spread the truth through the
medium of radio in Europe. Americans are being asked
to sign a declaration of freedom and to contribute funds
to expand Radio Free Europe, a non-governmental radio
station in West Germany. .

The Crusade is sponsored by the National Committee
for A Free Europe, Inc., directed by General Lucius D.
Clay, former US military governor in Germany.

* * *

International Refugee Organization

Abstracted from report by George L. Warren, adviser on
Refugees and Displaced Persons, Department of State, as
published in the Department of State Bulletin, July 10, 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

86

The General Council of the International Refugee

: Organization (IRO) held its fifth session.in Geneva from

March 14 through March 22, 1950. The Executive Com-
mittee met concurrently from March 8 through March 21,
1950...

With respéct to the problem of protection of refugees
particularly in Germany the Council recommended to the
High Commission for Germany that the German Federal
Government be requested to give consideration to ad-
hherence to the draft convention on the protection of
refugees* presently under consideration by the Economic
and Social Council when this convention becomes open
for signature...

A decision was also reached by the General Council
with respect to the termination of the International Tracing
Service which has done commendable work in reuniting
members of families, in-locating missing children, and in
supplying invaluable records concerning the experiences
of refugees and displaced persons during the war. The
director-general was instructed to reduce the staff of the
service progressively with the view to the ultimate
transfer of the function of tracing missing persons to the.
High Commission for Germany on March 31, 1951.

* * *

Mobile Libraries

The State Department has issued invitations to bid on
the construction of 20 attractively streamlined “book-
mobiles” for use in Western Germany. These bookmobiles
will have a capacity of approximately 4,000 volumes each,
and will be used primarily as lending libraries.

Plans are for them to make one-day stands at various
points throughout Western Germany at monthly intervals.
Books lent on one trip will be due for return on the next
trip. An experienced librarian will be in charge of each of
these mobile libraries which will contain books in both
English and German.

In appearance, the bookmobile will somewhat resemble
a large bus. A unique feature, however, will be that stacks
are provided both on the inside and outside of the vehicle.
Similar libraries have been used in the United States, but
this will be the first time the State Department has
furnished them for use abroad. — from Foreign Service

Newsletter.
* * *

Review of Soviet Policy

Recent trends of the Soviet Union in international
relations reveal a record of treaty violations, of obstruc-
tionism in the solution of international problems and of
territorial expansion, according to a compilation made
public Aug. 28 in Washington by US Rep. John Kee, chair-
man of the House Foreign Affairs Committee,

Mr. Kee said that the compilation, based on published
documents, was prepared on his instructions by committee
staff consultants as background information on current
Soviet policy trends, and was designed to “educate the

*In an announcement made public Aug. 9, the Federal Republic

declared its intention to guarantee the rights of DP’s and refugees
formerly cared for by IRO, See Information Bulletin, Sept. 1950 issue.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 90 ---
American people” on the difficulties of dealing with the
Kremlin.

The document lists about 60 major violations of treaties
and agreements which the Soviet Union had made at
international conferences since the latter part of World
War II, and indicates that Russia “has kept her agreements
only when it was to her advantage to do so," Mr, Kee
asserted.

It also traces Soviet obstructionism in the United
Nations and in four-power occupation councils, and the
record of Soviet territorial gains in World War II.

Included in the list of broken treaty obligations are
Soviet violations of agreements providing that final
delimitation of the German-Polish frontier should await
the peace settlement; that Germany be treated as a single
economic unit; that all democratic political parties be
allowed and encouraged; that freedom of speech and press
be guaranteed; and that all German prisoners of war be
repatriated by Dec. 31, 1948,

* * *

Rhine Boatmen Agreement

Representatives of seven governments have given final
approval to two agreements establishing minimum em-
ployment conditions and social security protection for
Rhine boatmen.

The agreements were approved at a conference called
in Paris in July by the Intemational Labor Office after
a previous meeting of representatives of governments,
employers and workers of the interested countries in
Geneva last-year. Governments represented ‘at the Paris
meeting were the German Federal Republic, Belgium,
France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United
States and Switzerland.

The social security agreement covers sickness, maternity,
death, invalidism, old age, employment, injury,
employment and family allowances. It also provides that
each contracting country shall treat Rhine boatmen from
other countries as its own nationals.

The agreement on working conditions covers manning
of boats, rest periods, overtime, holidays and special
allowances.

An administrative center for social security of Rhine
boatmen will be set up with representatives of workers,
employers and governments. A tripartite committee also
will be appointed to prepare an annual report on the
application of the agreement.

The agreements are open for signature by the countries
represented on the Central Commission for Rhine Navi-

gation and are subject to ratification. — from State

Department Daily Wireless Bulletin.
* * *

Churchill’s Proposal Supported

Winston Churchill's proposal that a unified European
army be formed to meet the threat of Soviet invasion has
met with wide approval in the American press.

Referring to the support given Mr. Churchill by the
Consultative Assembly of the Council of Europe, meeting

OCTOBER 1950

un- ©

87

force for freedom.”

at Strasbourg, The New York Times said: "The assembly's
vote is another demonstration of Europe's reviving will
to live, and as such it is more than welcome."

The Times continued: ‘But as Mr. Churchill warned, to
translate that will into action will require more speed and —
more drastic steps than the individual governments have
displayed thus far. In that estimate he i8 in full accord
with the American authorities, who likewise find that
though the European governments are now bestirring
themselves and have voted considerable increases in
their defense budgets they must go farther and faster if

Europe's defenses are to go beyond the planning stage.”

The Hartford (Conn.) Courant, commending Mr. Chur-
chill, stated: ‘Even if the Western European nations don't
unite behind his leadership, the very suggestion is wel-
come, for it shows that Europe is increasingly aware of
its lack of adequate defenses. Committees cannot fight
tanks, and the time for leisurely talk is past. Let's hope
all our friends in Western Europe are now impressed
with that fact.”

The. Atlanta (Ga.) Constitution, taking up the contro-
versial question of West Germany's participation in-a
unified defense force, said:

“Military men believe that any scheme for a common
defense of Western Europe must include rearmament of
Western Germany, which would be the first point of
contact with an invading Soviet force. Many Germans do
not want rearmament...

“Obviously, there would be a risk, and it is that risk
which the past victims of German aggression eye cau-
tiously. But the problem of creating a strong defensive
organization is infinitely more complicated, perhaps
impossible, without Germany. The question is whether
the risk from a possibly resurgent Germany would be
greater than the current risk of Soviet invasion.

“Mr. Churchill believes inclusion of Germany is

necessary. Nearly all military men agree with him, With
or without Germany, under a unified command as proposed

. by Mr. Churchill for the ‘integrated’ force of the North

Atlantic Pact, Western Europe’s defenses need to be
strengthened. We hope Mr. Churchill's warning will bring
more action.”

The Minneapolis (Minn.) Tribune wrote:

“West Germans and the world must understand, in
Churchill's words, ‘that if the West Germans will throw
their lot in with us, we shall hold their safety and their
freedom as sacred as our own.' In such a mood it should
be possible to enlist hundreds of thousands of West Ger-
mans along with other Western Europeans in a defense
+END

125 DP's Leave for Ethiopia
Approximately 125 displaced persons have left Hesse
for new jobs in Ethiopia, according to Peter Stanne,
OLCH Displaced Populations chief. The Ethiopia-bound
DP’s were personally selected several months ago by a
close relative of the Ethiopian king.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 91 ---
German Editorials

This section is compiled from a summary prepared by the Press & Publications
Branch, Information Services Division, HICOG, of editorials in the German press.

The publishing of these German edi-
torials is intended to inform the Ameri-
can readers of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, without interpre-
tation. The inclusion of any statement
from the German press does not give
concurrence to the view or opinion,

US Foreign Policy -

Due to Navy Secretary Matthews’ speech in Boston and
Gen. Douglas MacArthur's message sent to war veterans
in Chicago, American foreign policy moved back into
the spotlight of German press attention at the end of
August. Newspapers expressed great anxiety lest the
militant elements in American public life seize the helm
of US policy. Such a development would be disastrous,
in the view of German editors.

The West German press was general in its disapproval
of the idea of a preventive war such as outlined by
Secretary of the Navy Matthews. It was no less definite
in its rejection of General MacArthur's purely strategic
conception of the role of Formosa and feared the political
consequences of such a policy if it were to be put into
effect. It was with great relief, therefore, that German
newspapers noted President Truman's and Secretary of
State Acheson's prompt disavowal of both statements.

Further editorial anxiety was expressed over develop-
ments in the Far East. Although the current situation in
Korea was regarded as favorable, the German press feared
that direct intervention by Red China was imminent.
Many newspapers urged the United States to leave no
stone unturned to prevent this from happening. Some
papers, in discussing the Formosa problem, went so far
as to recommend US measures which would in effect
amount to a sacrifice of prestige. The paramount problem,
according to these editors, was the preservation of world
peace. The press was virtually unanimous in declaring
that a Sino-American conflict at this time would certainly
lead to a third world war.

Gen. Douglas MacArthur came in for a shower of criti-
cism, some of which was couched in very strong terms.

The term “Pro-Consul" was generally applied to the
general. The Hamburg weekly Sonntagsblatt said: “Rome
was ruled by the Consuls and the Senate. They wore
themselves out in an exhausting struggle for political
power and money. Meanwhile, the battles began on the
frontiers where the Pro-Consuls ruled. The centuries of
the Caesars began... For the past five years MacArthur
has ruled as Pro-Consul in the Far East and now is
fighting in Korea just as his historic predecessors in Gaul
did. He rules the roost and often enough most arbitrarily.”

MacArthur's alleged arbitrariness seems very dan-
gerous to most German editors in the present state of
affairs. This view was most clearly expressed by the
Stuttgarter Nachrichten, Stuttgart, which said: “In such
a delicate situation the UN. needs a man who will carry
out its policy rather than that of the United States or
what appears to be his own."

Many newspapers pointed to the sad experiences of
Germany with political generals. The Fraenkischer Tag,
Bamberg, cited Ludendorff as an example.

An exception was the Braunschweiger Zeitung, Bruns-
wick, which in a detailed analysis speculated whether
General MacArthur's policy of decisiveness would not
perhaps be better, after all.

Grist for Propaganda Mills

Most newspapers feared that what they considered
thoughtless expressions of American public figures
would furnish Soviet propaganda with ammunition. The
Frankfurter Allgemeine, Frankfurt, went so far as to
declare that Matthews and MacArthur had furnished the
Kremlin with “invaluable material’ while the Hessische
Nachrichten, Kassel, said that MacArthur's statement

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, Aug. 1)

(Muenchner Merkur, Munich, Aug. 12-13)

“We'll be in goal and you on defense —
then let them attack!"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

88

Europe: ‘How can he grow up to be healthy if he
doesn't get a bigger playpen?"

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 92 ---
(Echo der Woche, Munich, Aug. 4)

Bringing Culture?

coincided completely with the intentions of the Soviets,
who have every interest in seeing the conflict in East
Asia spread to Red China.

A number of newspapers declared that the Western
World would not tolerate American policy based upon
purely military considerations as set forth by Matthews
and MacArthur. The Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Munich, for
example, pointed out that US leadership since the end
of the war has been based upon the conviction of the
West that the United States was actuated by an uncon-
ditional will to peace. A change in this respect would
be disastrous.

Rhein Echo, Duesseldorf, referring to MacArthur,
declared that the United Nations action in Korea sprang
simply from a determination to resist aggression and did
not go beyond that.

Fraenkischer Tag, Bamberg, stated that in the event of
a war of prevention, the European nations could not be
counted on as allies. Pupils of democracy in Germany
were wondering how it was possible for Matthews to
remain in office in a democracy after his speech.

Hannoversche Allgemeine, Hanover, asked anxiously
how long Truman and Acheson would be able to control
American foreign policy. At any rate, the paper pointed
out, Europe must speedily merge in order to be prepared
for all eventualities and to prevent a third war by func-
tioning as a third power.

Nuernberger Nachrichten, Nuremberg, was critical of
all United States foreign policy in recent years: “One
cannot expect that the United States would establish
a foreign political tradition overnight. What concerns
us Europeans is the constant change, which looks like
improvisation.”

Communist Activities

A large part of the press was concerned with what
it termed the intensified and increasingly dangerous
forms of Communist agitation in the Federal Republic.
Wilhelm Pieck’s action program for the “liberation” of
West Germany at the National Front Congress in Berlin,
in August, caused widespread excitement. A minority
of the press even spoke of civil war.

OCTOBER 1950

89

The press was unanimous in declaring that the Federal
Republic must take swift and energetic action to counter
an incipient fifth column, While the majority of the
newspapers confined themselves to vague generalities
regarding public defense measures, a number made
detailed suggestions.

Darmstaedter Echo, Darmstadt, was of the opinion that
“the federal chancellor now has sufficient justification in
his demand for a strong police force.”

Kasseler Post, Kassel, demanded that Communists be |
removed from important public posts.

Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, recommended
that Communists and their followers be prevented from
using public media to influence public opinion. In this
connection the Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, applauded
the ban on Communist newspapers.

Freedom and Internal Security

Newspapers agreed that it was a mistake to continue
to accord Communists democratic freedom which they
use to undermine the state and to establish a dictatorship.
The Bundestag (Federal Assembly) and government must
take the proper measures to safeguard domestic security
even if it means the sacrifice or infringement of demo-
cratic principles.

Frankfurter Neue Presse, Frankfurt, pointed out that
the Communists were intensifying and exploiting the
West German aversion to remilitarization to further their
own ends and promote sabotage.

Wage-Increase Strikes

Press opinion on the strikes in various cities of the
Federal Republic was divided. The leftist press naturally
was largely on the side of the labor unions while most
of the other papers disapproved of the wage increase
demands. The Frankfurter Rundschau, Frankfurt, and a
number of other newspapers held that the government
was responsible for the strikes inasmuch as it had done
little or nothing to close the widening gap between food
costs and the decrease in real wages.

The Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, an SPD paper, con-
demned the unreasonable attitude of employers who

(Fraenkische Presse, Bayreuth, Aug. 8)

The accomplices.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 93 ---
(Westdeutsche Allgemeine, Essen, July 29)

UN Security Council Complete.
Moscow's Malik: ‘Now, where were we again?"

expected workers to increase their income by overtime
and piecework. Such demands, in this paper's opinion,
endanger social peace in the Federal Republic.

A considerable number of newspapers believed that
the timing of the strikes was very bad. The stoppages
would result in a great loss of production and the socially
very necessary building of dwellings would be paralyzed.
The production of export goods, so important for Ger-
many at this time, would also decline. In any case, the
strikers themselves would suffer the most.

All newspapers were agreed that present real wages
stand in very unfavorable relationship to prices. Many,
however, admonish the workers to be patient, pointing
out that the present situation may lead to inflation. The
leftist-press view was that wage increases were neces-
sary in order to permit the masses to accumulate a modest
capital. The gap between the cost of living and income
must be closed.

Council of Europe

Disappointment was displayed over the developments
in Strasbourg in mid-August although some optimistic
voices saw signs of increasing European consciousness
in the Council of Europe. Most of the press saw the
principal hindrance to be the attitude of the British and
also deplored the fact that party politics still hold sway.
_ Deutsche Kommentare, Heidelberg, regretted that the
contrast between the British and the Continental Eu-
ropeans seems now to have been carried over into the
Consultative Assembly as well. Hope must now be cen-
tered on the Schuman Plan, the paper said.

Die Zeit, Hamburg, pointed out that party -political
considerations often play a disastrous role in Strasbourg
and found it significant that the German SPD often voted
with British Labor while the CDU played ball with the
British Conservatives.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

90

Winston Churchill

Aside from their position on German participation in a
European army, most newspapers praised Churchill as a
great and realistic statesman. The Badische Neueste
Nachrichten, Karlsruhe, hailed the British wartime leader
as the “third man,” on a level with Stalin and Truman,
and as the man who will succeed in mobilizing Europe's
strength.

The Communist press excepted, attacks on Churchill
were rare. The Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen, however,
called him a demagogue who carries through his policies
in cold and matter-of-fact fashion.

Participation in European Army

A possible European army and Germany's place in it
rated the widest press discussion in mid-August, four
weeks before the Foreign Ministers’ Conference in New
York. Most German newspapers stressed the conditions
which should be insisted upon if Germany is to partici-
pate. The conditions singled out most often were equal
rights for Germany and the establishment of a European
government,

Winston Churchill's proposal for a European army in
the Consultative Assembly on Aug. 12 was taken up by
the entire press. Approximately one-half emphasized that
certain conditions must be met before German participa-
tion could be even discussed. Forty percent were opposed
to the proposal while the remaining 10 percent were un-
conditionally in favor.

Most newspapers declared revision of the Occupation
Statute must be a basic condition. Later demands were
added for release of German soldiers held in Allied
prisons, persons, sentenced, it was argued, not according to
law, but rather on the basis of collective discrimination.

While most of the papers were content to make only
the general demand for equal rights, the weekly Christ
und Welt, Stuttgart, made the following seven detailed
demands for German security.

1. A two-year guarantee by the US to fight against the
Soviet Union with'all its might should there be an attack
upon the Federal Republic.

2. The establishment of an independent European army
within this period. There should not be an Atlantic Pact
army, for the US and Europe joined individually are

(Hannoversche Presse, Hannover, July 29)

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 94 ---
stronger than an Atlantic world having its center in the
US and European satellites.

3. Establishment of German units within the European
army.

4. Full and equal rights for German soldiers. This should
also be retroactive, that is, all measures which have been
taken against German soldiers, other than those who
have committed crimes, should be cancelled.

5. The Occupation Statute should be amended so that
the limitations on the Federal Republic's sovereignty be
set aside. On the other hand, the number of American
troops in Germany for the protection of Europe should
be increased. :

6. The establishment of German units solely on a volun-
tary basis.

7. Considering the political emergency, a more re-
presentative government in Bonn should be established,
including representatives of the SPD and the trade unions.

European Government Wanted

A significant number of papers demanded as a condi-
tion for the establishment of a European army, the prior
establishment of a European government in which Ger-
many would have equal rights. The weekly Sonntags-
blatt, Hamburg, did not feel that a European army could
function unless that condition were fulfilled. Europa
Kurier, Hamburg, which, with its appended Stimme der
Vertriebenen, is an organ of the refugees, demanded also
a declaration: by the states participating in a European
government that they consider Germany's 1937 border
as the border of “United Europe.”

« The SPD press as a group also made the establishment
of a European government its first condition. It did not
demand this in the emotional manner of the weekly
papers, however, but pointed out more calmly that the
Consultative Assembly's vote in favor of Churchill's
proposal had only the value of a declaration inasmuch
as the Ministerial Council had the last word.

Corrections

Three recent letters-from editors of German news-
papers called attention to incorrect identifications
given as to the political complexion of two news-
Papers and the source of one cartoon in the “German
Editorials“ section of the August issue of the Infor-
mation Bulletin. The editor regrets these errors and
makes the following corrections.

Under “Consequences for Germany" on page 57,
both the Schwaebische Landeszeitung of Augsburg
and the Muenchner Merkur of Munich should have
been identified as independent (non-party) news-
papers.

The cartoon “Potato bug seen through Soviet glas-
ses‘* on page 59 was the work of the cartoonist Pitt of
the staff of the Neue Ruhr Zeitung of Essen and origi-
nally published in that paper. It was later reprinted
with proper credit in the Hamburger Echo.

OCTOBER 1950

91

A number of other newspapers, such as the Badische
Zeitung, Freiburg, pointed to the great difficulties which
would have to be overcome before a European army
could be established.

Echo der Woche, Munich, felt that a European army
could not be established by the Council of Europe. Ap-
proval would have to be forthcoming fronr the individual
governments. It felt that a more successful approach
would be to broaden the Schuman Plan to include defense
measures. Proposals of this nature, implying or expressly
stating that political and military unity would have to be
reached due to Britain's unwillingness to participate
fully, gained adherents as the discussions continued to-
ward the end of August.

Reconstruction First

Very few papers were unconditionally in favor of
German participation. Among the influential organs were
the Braunschweiger Zeitung, Brunswick; Neues Tageblatt,
Osnabrueck; Nordseezeitung, Bremerhaven; Frankfurter
Neue Presse, Frankfurt, and Rhein-Neckar Zéitung,
Heidelberg.

A number of newspapers voiced explicit opposition
to participation. The Nuernberger Nachrichten, Nurem-
berg, and Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, maintained
economic and social reconstruction was more important.
The Nuremberg paper proposed instead that the United
States trade atomic control for the junction of the Soviet
Zone to the Federal Republic, thus reaching a balance
of power without rearmament.

Another argument was used by the Kasseler Zeitung,
Kassel, which complained that Germany was being held
to democratic ideas without being given democratic
rights. The Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, de-
clared military participation on the part of a demilitar-
ized and dismantled Germany was too much to expect.

Much of the editorial opinion against participation was
based on the claim that the German people had had
enough of militarism and were opposed to it. The
Koelnische Rundschau, Cologne, for instance, declared
Germany was sick of the Prussian militaristic spirit and
that without it German troops would be useless anyway.

Die Gegenwart, Freiburg semi-monthly, expressed
itself more decisively: “German remilitarization would
have value only if Germany were resurrected as a
military power. The European countries will not permit
that, however. Since doing less would be criminal non-
sense, anything to do with German remilitarization is
criminal foolishness." The paper fears that for the mass
of the German people rearmament would only prove that
Germany did not lose the last war. “And, adds the paper,
“God protect us from those who have ‘won anyway.'”

Civil War Feared

Die Zeit, Hamburg weekly, clung to its belief that
there was less danger in Germany of a war than of a
civil war. To meet this danger a German police force of
at least 100,000 men was held to be necessary. Europa
Kurier, Hamburg, demanded the establishment of a federal
border police force as a temporary measure. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 95 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Aug. 10

The 36th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held Aug. 10
in the US Headquarters in Berlin. Present
were Mr. John J.McCloy, US High Com-
missioner (chairman); Mr. Armand Berard,
French Deputy High Commissioner, acting
for Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French High
Commissioner, and Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick,
UK High Commissioner.

The Council:

(1) Briefly discussed the Berlin budget,
prepared by the Magistrat (city council) of
that city, for the fiscal year 1950-51. After
a preliminary exchange of general views,

* particularly concerning the problems aris-
ing from the anticipated deficit, the Council
agreed to instruct its financial advisers to
proceed with a detailed study of the budget.

(2) Signed an Allied High Commission
law on “Application of Land Reform Legis-
lation to Property of Non-German Natio-
nals." This law defines the conditions
under which land owned by non-German
nationals will be subject to land reform
legislation. The law will have no practical
effect in the US Occupation Zone because
land owned by non-Germans has been
subject to state land reform legislation in
this zone ever since such legislation was
enacted there about four years ago.

(3) Noted the signature by the Chairman
Deputy High Commissioner of an Allied
High Commission law on ‘Foreign Ex-
change Control." This law confers wider
powers upon the German authorities to
implement US/UK Military Government
laws No, 53 (revised) and Ordinance
No. 235 of the French High Commissioner,
all concerning control of foreign exchange,
and authorizes German courts to exercise
jurisdiction in respect of violations of pro-
visions of this legislation.

(4) Signed an Allied High Commission
law “Depriving of Effect in the Territory
of the Federal Republic Certain Control
Council Laws.'' These laws pertain to
rationing of electricity and gas and punish-
ment for theft and unlawful use of rationed
foodstuffs, goods and rationing documents.

(5) Decided to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg Aug. 17.

HICOM Meeting of Aug. 17

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission for Germany held its 37th meeting
Aug. 17 at the Petersberg, near Bonn.
Present were Mr. John J. McCloy, United
States High Commissioner (chairman), Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner, and Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United
Kingdom High Commissioner. .

The Council:

(1) Approved an Allied High Commission
law on “dispersion of assets of I.G. Far-
benindustrie, A.G." which supplements
Control Council Law No. 9 (providing for
the seizure of property owned by I.G.
Farbenindustrie and the control thereof).
The new law will enable the Western
Allied Powers to carry out the intention
expressed in Control Council Law No. 9,
namely, to deconcentrate, dissolve and
disperse the Farben assets.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(2) Decided to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg Aug. 24.

HICOM Meeting of Aug. 24

The three Allied High Commissioners,
Mr. John J.McCloy, United States (chair-
man), Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, France,
and Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom,
met informally Aug. 24 at the Petersberg,
near Bonn,

Primary purpose of the meeting was to
enable the High Commissioners to ex-
change views on a number of subjects cur-
rently under consideration by various agen-
cies of the High Commission or by the
High Commission and the Federal Govern-
ment.

Matters considered included:

(1) Implementation of Allied High Com-
mission and zonal legislation designed to
permit Germans to possess certain types of
sporting weapons and again engage in
hunting.

(2) Further procedures to improve inter-
zonal trade controls exercised by the High
Commission and the Federal Government.

In addition, the High Commissioners
agreed to annul Article 3, and the last sen-
tence of Article 8 of a Hesse state ordi-
nance concerning restitution for damage to
life and limb, because these two provi-
sions, in effect, would impose restrictions
not contained in the parent law which this
ordinance implements.

- The Council of the High Commission will
hold its next meeting at the Petersberg
Aug. 31.

HICOM Meeting of Aug. 31

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion held its 38th meeting at the Petersberg
Aug. 31. Present were Maj. Gen. George
P. Hays, ‘United States Deputy High Com-
missioner (Chairman), acting for Mr. John
J. McCloy; Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet,
French High Commissioner, and Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner.

The Council dealt with a short agenda
involving general discussion of various
current matters and adjourned its meeting
at lunchtime preparatory to a meeting with
the federal chancellor in the afternoon.

It was decided to hold the next meeting
of the Council at 11 a.m. on Sept. 7 at the
Petersberg.

HICOM Meeting Sept. 7

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission held its 39th meeting Sept. 7 at the
Petersberg. Present were: Mr. Andre Fran-
cois-Poncet, French High Commissioner
(Chairman); Mr. C. E. Steel, United King-
dom Deputy High Commissioner, acting for
Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, and Major-General
George P. Hays, United States Deputy High
Commissioner, acting for Mr. John J.
McCloy.

The Council:

(1) Agreed to a law to harmonize and
introduce relaxations into existing Allied
legislation affecting foreign business ope-

92

rations of German insurance companies.
Financial experts of the High Commission
are also engaged in studies directed toward
further relaxations in this field.

(2) Agreed to a law to prolong until
Sept. 21, 1951, the period during which the
federal government has the right to take
over properties of the former German
Reich which are now held in trust by the
various states under unilateral Allied legis-
lation.

(3) The date of the next meeting of the
Council is to be fixed later.

Laws and Regulations

HICOM Regulation No. 10
Miscellaneous Articles and Products
Under HICOM Law No. 24

Control of Certain Articles, Products,
Installations and Equipment

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission issues the following regulation.
Scope
Article 1
1, This regulation relates to the controls
on the manufacture, production, import,
export, transportation, storage, possession,
ownership and use of certain articles and
products listed in Schedule A of the law
and to the controls on the plant and equip-
ment for the production of such articles
and products.
Section A
Manufacture, Production, Import,

Export, Transport, Storage, Possession,
Ownership and Use

Article 2
1. No person or enterprise shall manufac-
ture, produce, transport, store, possess,

own or use, any of the following articles
and products, except under a license issued
by the Military Security Board or any
other agency designated by the Allied
High Commission or pursuavant to the
authorizations of this regulation and Re-
gulations Nos. 1, 8 and 9 under the law:

(a) Weapons, including atomic means of
warfare, or apparatus of all calibers and
natures capable of projecting lethal or
destructive projectiles and liquids, their
carriages and mountings.

(b) Apparatus capable of projecting gases
or toxic substance.

(c) All projectiles for articles listed in
Sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) and their means
of projection or propulsion.

(d) All military means of destruction in-
cluding grenades, bombs, torpedoes, mines
depth mines, depth and demolition charges
and self-propelled charges, all types of
fuses thereof and all apparatus for the
guiding, control and operation thereof in-
cluding timing, sensing and homing devices.

(e) All military cutting or piercing
weapons including bayonets, daggers,
swords and lances.

(f) Vehicles specially equipped or design-
ed for military purposes including tanks,
armored cars, tank-carrying trailers and
armored railroad rolling stock.

(g) Armor of all types for military
purposes.

(h) Military engineering tools, machinery
and equipment specially designed for mili-
tary purposes.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 96 ---
(i) Special machinery, equipment and in-
stallations which in time of peace are
normally used solely for warships.

(j) Special equipment pertaining to sub-
mersible devices of all kinds designed for
military purposes.

(k) Military landing devices.

(1) Material, equipment and installations
for the military defense of coastal areas
and harbors,

(m) Aircraft of all types, heavier or
lighter than air, with or without means
of propulsion, and all auxiliary equipment,
including aircraft engines and component
parts, accessories, and spare parts specifi-
cally designed for aircraft use.

(n) Ground equipment for servicing,
testing or aiding the operation of aircraft
including catapults, winches and beacons;
material for the rapid construction or
preparation of airfields including landing
mats.

(o) Drawings, specifications, designs,
models and reproductions directly relating
to the development, manufacture, testing
or inspection of war materials or to experi-
ments or research in connection with war
materials,

(p) Spare parts, accessories and compo-
nent of the articles and products listed in
Schedule A of the law.

(q) All special means for individual and
collective defense used in peace exclusively
by armed. forces.

(r) Apparatus, devices and materials
specially designed for training and in-
structing personnel in the use, handling,
manufacture and maintenance of war
material,

2. No person or enterprise shall import
or export any of the articles or products
listed in paragraph 1 except under authori-
zation issued pursuant to Article 10 of
Regulation No. 1 under the Law.

Section B
Sporting Weapons
Definitions
Article 3

1, The term “sporting weapons” as used
in this regulation and in other regulations
issued under the law, shall mean the
weapons listed in (a), (b), (c) and (d) below
if they are designed to be fired from the
shoulder, have sporting type stocks and
have fixed sporting type or authorized
telescopic sights.

(a) Rifles having a caliber not exceeding
8.0 mm., a magazine capacity not exceeding
five rounds and designed for a muzzle
velocity not exceeding 2,800 feet (850
meters) per second.

(b) Shotguns having a gauge of 12 or
of any number above 12 and a magazine
capacity not exceeding three rounds.

(c) Combination type weapons, the rifle
and shotgun components of which conform
to the restrictions applicable to rifles and
shotguns respectively under Sub-paragraphs
(a) and (b),

(d) Combination type weapons in which
the rifle component is of the single shot
type, has a caliber not exceeding 9.3 mm.
and is designed for a muzzle velocity not
exceeding 2,000 feet (610 meters) per second
and in which the shotgun component con-
forms with provisions of Sub-paragraph (b).

2. The term “sporting weapons’ does
not include pistols or revolvers with
auxiliary stock or semi-automatic weapons.

OCTOBER 1950

Manufacture, Production, Import,
Export, Transport, Storage, Possession,
Ownership and Use

Article 4

1, The manufacture, production, import
and export of the sporting weapons listed
in Paragraph 1 (b) of Article 3, the spare
parts, accessories and component parts
thereof, and the import and export of the
sporting weapons listed in Paragraph 1 (a),
(c) and (d) of Article 3 the spare parts,
accessories and component parts thereof,
may be authorized by the federal govern-
ment by the issue of permits. The federal
government shall forward to the Military
Security Board two copies of each permit
issued.

2. The transportation, storage, possession,
ownership and use for sporting weapons
listed in Paragraph 1 of Article 3, the
spare parts, accessories and component
parts thereof may be authorized by such
agencies and on such terms as may be
prescribed in rules issued, after approval
by the Military Security Board, by the
federal government.

3. The Military Security Board shall, after
consultation with the federal government,
fix the number of sporting weapons which
may be authorized in the Federal territory
under this article.

4, Notwithstanding the provisions of
Paragraphs 1 and 2 the federal government
shall not authorize the transportation, pos-
session, storage, ownership or use of any
weapon not legally manufactured or pro-
cured under the conditions provided for
in those paragraphs.

5. Any state commission or military
commander may require the surrender of
the weapons in his area if he considers
this measure necessary in the interest of
the security of the Allied Forces.

Section C

Transport in Transit of Articles
and Products

Article 5

1. The federal government shall issue
rules, after approval thereof by the Mili-
tary Security Board, to cover the trans-
portation in transit through the territory
of the Federal Republic of the articles and
products specified in Schedule A of the law.

Such rules shall provide for:

(a) The issuance and registration of trans-
portation permits.

(b) Security controls.

2. Within 30 days after the last day of
each quarter the federal government shall
submit to the Military Security Board a
report of the articles and products trans-
ported during that quarter under Para-
graph 1. This report shall include a de-
scription of each consignment, the names
of the consignor and consignee and the
dates and the points of entry and exit.

3. The federal government shall immedia-
tely advise the Military Security Board of
any consignment which has not left the
federal territory within the scheduled time
or at the fixed point of exit.

* Section D
Plant and Equipment
Article 6
1. No person or enterprise shall, except

under license issued by the Military Se-
curity Board, construct, erect, reconstruct,

93

re-erect, convert or replace any plant for
the manufacture of the articles listed in
Paragraph 1 (b) of Article 3 or any plant
or equipment for the manufacture of any
article or product listed in Paragraph 1
of Article 2 and not listed in Paragraph
1 (b) of Article 3. No such license shall
be required in réspect of plant or equip-
ment for the manufacture and production
of articles and products falling under the
provisions of Paragraph 1 of Article 7 or
in respect of equipment for the manufac-
ture or production of the articles listed in
Paragraph 1 (b) of Article 3.

Section E
General Authorizations

Article 7

1. The manufacture, production, trans-
portation, import, export, storage, posses-
sion, ownership and use for peacetime
purposes of the following articles and prod-
ucts are hereby authorized:

(a) Explosives appliances for industrial
and other peaceful uses including blasting
machines and devices for the humane kil-
ling of livestock.

(b) Underwater cutting equipment for
peacetime purposes.

(c) Harpoons, breeches buoys, lifesaving
rockets and equipment.

(d) Apparatus designed for civil use ex-
pelling liquids or gases.

(e) Ground equipment for servicing,
testing or aiding the operation of aircraft
provided such equipment is not specially
designed for military use and is intended
for use at airports under the control of
the Occupation Authorities.

(f) Spare parts, accessories and com-
ponent parts of those articles and prod-
ucts listed in Schedule A of the law where:

(1) The manufacture or production of the
article or product has received general
authorization or

(2) (except in the case of articles and
products listed in Group V A of Schedule A)
where the spare part, accessory or com-
ponent part has a normal peacetime use.

(g) Equipment for fencing.

2. The transportation, storage, possession,
ownership and use for normal peacetime
purposes of the following articles and
products are hereby authorized:

(a) The articles and products listed in
Paragraph 1 (0) of Article 2, to the extent
that they are contained in printed matter
normally available to the general public
or pertain to articles and products whose
possession and use is authorized.

(b) Articles and products listed in Sche-
dule A of the law (except aircraft of all
types) which have been converted to peace-
time use or whose manufacture or pro-
duction has received general authorization.

3. The transportation, storage, possession,
ownership and use of firearms for civil
security purposes shall be governed by
such legislation or orders as the Occu-
pation Authorities have issued or may
hereafter issue.

4, Nothing in the law shall apply to:

(a) Smooth bore air guns of a caliber
not exceeding 6 mm. and _ projectiles
therefor.

(b) Toy guns.

(c) Guns capable only of exploding a
mixture of chemical explosives for sound
effect.

(d) Bows, cross-bows and arrows.

(e) Museum specimens and specimens of
historical value.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 97 ---
Section F
Effective Date

Article 8

1. This regulation and such portions of
Schedule A of the law as ate not covered
by Regulation Nos.1 to 9 shall become
effective on July 1, 1950.

2. To the extent that Articles 1, 3,5, 7,8
and 9 of the law apply to such portions of
Schedule A those articles shall become
effective on July 1, 1950.

3. To the extent that no provision is
made in Regulations 1 to 9 for the coming
into effect of the law, the law shall be-
come effective on July 1, 1950.

Done at Petersberg on June 7, 1950 by
order of the Allied High Commission.
(Announced June 19.)

Procedure for German Federal and
State Authorities to Legislate and Act
in Fields Reserved to Allies

A procedure governing notifications by
the German federal and state governments
of their intention to legislate and act in
fields reserved to the Occupation Authori-
ties has been announced by the Allied High
Commission. /

The procedure governs German legis-
lation or action under Paragraph 4 of the
Occupation Statute. This paragraph pro-
vides that the federal and state govern-
ments “‘shall have the power, after due
notification to the Occupation Authorities,
to legislate and act in the fields reserved
to these authorities, except as the Occupa-
tion Authorities otherwise specifically di-
rect, or actions taken by the Occupation
Authorities themselves.”

The prodecure will be applicable to all
German governmental action in the reserved
fields for action relating to the negotiation
of trade and payments and other interna-
tional agreements for which special com-
parable procedure already exists. It does
not, however, affect existing arrangements
based on Paragraph 5 of the Occupation
Statute for the submission to the High
Commission of federal or state legislation
in non-reserved fields..

Normally the procedure stipulates a 21-
day period for scrutiny by the Allied High
Commission of notification by federal or
state governments of their intention to
legislate or act in reserved fields. Full de-
tails of the purpose and scope of the
legislation or action contemplated, giving
reasons why it is thought necessary and
describing the form which the legislation
or action is to take, must first be submit-
ted to the Allied High Commission. Further
steps to put into effect the proposed legis-
lation or action may be taken by German
governmental agencies after 21 days unless
the High Commission raises an objection.
The High Commission may issue specific
directions to which the proposed legisla-
tion or action must conform’ in order to
avoid objection.

If a government proposed law is contem-
plated, notification to the High Commission
must be made before the bill is presented
to the legislature; if a proposal for a law
is made by any individual or group other
than the government, notification must be
made at the earliest possible moment after
the government has received notice of pro-
posal. If legislation other than a law is
contemplated, the notification must be
prior to signature by the issuing authority.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

If action other than legislation is contem-
plated, notification must be made prior to
the taking of such action.

Statements and Speeches

Communist Bomb Lie Denounced

US High Commissioner McCloy denied
emphatically in Berlin Aug. 10 Communist
charges that American planes dropped in-
cendiary bombs over the Soviet Zone. His
statement:

“The motivation behind this latest charge,
as with the potato bug story, is somewhat
difficult to appraise, but the pattern is the
same — it is the Hitlerian technique in the
use of the big lie.

“T am sure that nobody will believe these
ridiculous allegations and no one can tell
what will be tried next. All I-can say is that
if any incendiary bombs were actually
found in the Soviet Zone the Communists
must have put them there themselves, for
the Americans did not."

Security of Western Europe

Commenting on remarks made at a press
conference Aug. 23 by German Federal
Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy issued the
following statement:

During recent months the governments
of the democratic powers have given
serious study and have been making plans
to strengthen the security and defense off
Western Europe, including Germany. These
security needs, including those of Ger-
many, have been considered and dealt
with by the High Commissioners in con-
junction with the highest authorities in
Washington, Paris and London.

German security is enhanced rather than
retarded by the present relationship be-
tween Germany and the Western Powers.

Western Europe must be and will be
strengthened. Defense of Europe must be a
joint effort and strength will be achieved.
This will include Germany and require of
the German people and their representa-
tives straightforward and co-operative

action. This is the time for resolution and,

straight-thinking on the part of all the
democratic peoples and their governments.

As for the American army and other
United Nations forces in Korea, they are
fighting and dying for the cause of free-
dom — the freedom of other nations quite
as much as American freedom. Democratic
peoples may be slow to start but they can
and do generate overwhelming power and
they are victorious. Several times in his-
tory American military strength has been
underestimated —I think one should hesi-
tate to do it again.

Attitude toward Communists

In connection with recent provocative
Communist statements and in reply to
questions as to the Allied High Commis-
sion's reaction, the following announcement
was made at the Petersberg Aug. 30:

“The attitude of the High Commission to
the KPD is as follows:

“Unlike the practice in reactionary or
totalitarian countries, opposition parties
are not prescribed in Western Germany
merely because of disagreement with their
doctrines. So long as the KPD functions
like all genuine political parties, it is free

94

to preach its political doctrines and to
carry on all other activities permitted by
law to political parties as part of the life
of a democratic state. But any incitement
to violence, subversive activities or resist-
ance to authority, constitute abuses of
democratic principles and breaches of law.

“The Allied forces of occupation are in
Germany by right and virtue of the declara-
tion of unconditional surrender of June 5,
1945. In consequence, the High Commission
will not tolerate Communist-inspired incite-
ment to disobedience and resistance to its
over-all authority. This applies with added
force in the case of action undertaken by
individuals in Western Germany in obe-
dience to instructions from foreigners and
others outside the Federal Republic such as
certain leaders of the SED. Individuals and
associations responsible for illegal activi-
ties will be subjected to the penalties laid
down by law.”

Berlin Constitution

The three Western Commandants of Ber-
lin issued Aug. 29 the following statement
to mark promulgation of the new Berlin
constitution:

“The new constitution of Berlin, which
has been approved by the Allied Komman-
datura, accomplishes three important pur-
poses: it gives to the people of Berlin a
constitution developed by their own elected
representatives; it thus establishes Berlin
still more firmly as a partner in the demo-
cratic community; and, finally, it gives
Berlin the legal status of a state as well as
of a city.

“The American, French and British com-
mandants consider that the promulgation
of this constitution will marke a big step
forward in Berlin's postwar development.
The reservations which they have expres-
sed in approving the constitution represent
merely a clarification of the intent of the
constitution itself and do not in any way
detract from its significance as a milestone
in the development of self-administration
in Berlin."

Protest on Parcel Post

The three Western Commandants of
Berlin released the following text of a
letter sent on Aug. 23 to Sergei Dengin,
Berlin representative of the Soviet Control
Commission in Germany. No answer had
been received by Aug. 28.

“1, The Western Commandants desire to
refer to your letters of July 15 and Aug. 5,
1950, with reference to the alleged vio-
lation of postal regulations in the shipment
of postal parcels between the Western
sectors of Berlin and the Western zones
of Germany. You refer in particular to the
provisions of the Co-ordinating Committee
Agreement of April 29, 1947 (document
CORC/P(47)84/1) governing parcel post
service between Berlin and the Zones of
Occupation.

"2, The provisions of the Quadripartite
Agreement of April 29, 1947, were certainly
never intended permanently to subject the
operations of the mails in Germany to ab-
normal restrictions. As a matter of fact,
action has been taken by the postal authori-
ties of the Soviet Zone as well as of the
Western zones of Germany to liberalize
these provisions. In this connection we
should like to draw your attention to the
provision contained in Amtsblatt Nr. 42
der Hauptverwaltung Post and Fernmelde-
wesen der Deutschen Wirtschafts-Kommis-

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 98 ---
sion fuer die Sowjetische Besatzungszone,
dated Oct. 8, 1949, Paragraph No. 211/1949,
and Amisblatt Nr. 49 des Ministeriums fuer
Post und Fernmeldewesen der “Deutschen
Demokratischen Republik, dated Nov. 23,
1949, Paragraph No. 251/1949. It is obvious
that the postal authorities in the Soviet
Zone have abolished the former maximum
weight of seven kilograms in favor of a
maximum weight of 20 kilograms, and have
made this regulation applicable to postal
parcel shipments between Berlin and the
Soviet Zone of Germany. Similarly, the
postal authorities in the Western zones
have introduced liberalized regulations
governing shipment of postal parcels be-
tween Berlin and the Western zones of
Germany, which likewise provide for a
maximum weight of 20 kilograms. This
action is in accordance with the agreement
of the Foreign Ministers at Paris in June
1949 to encourage the free flow of goods
and services between Berlin and the West-
ern zones of Germany.

“3, The reference in your letter of July 15
to “accompanying documents” required
under the Co-ordinating Committee Agree-
ment of April 29, 1947, is not understood.
There is no mention of such documents in
CORC/P(47)84/1). That paper refers only
to the normal dispatch note exchanged
between the sending and receiving post
offices, which does not accompany the
parcel.

“4, As regards the contents of the parcels,
there has never been a quadripartite
agreement on this subject except for the
restrictions specified in the Co-ordinating
Committee Agreement of April 29, 1947.
We do not admit any right of the authori-
ties in the Soviet Zone of Occupation to
impose any additional restrictions uni-
laterally, which are, furthermore, in con-
travention of the New York and Paris
Agreements of May and June 1949.

“5. In the light of the foregoing facts we
renew our protest against the interference
by officials in the Soviet Zone of Germany
with the parcel post service between the
Western sectors of Berlin and the Western
zones of Germany. We are not aware of
any quadripartite agreement or other regu-
lation which authorizes such interference
with this postal service. However, should
you so desire, we should be prepared to
instruct our experts to discuss with your
experts the problems which have arisen
in connection with the application of the
postal regulations."

Reorganization of Southwest States

In order to make perfectly clear the
position of the Allied High Commission on
the advisory referendum scheduled for
Sept. 24, on the question of territorial re-
organization of the southwest states, the
High Commissioners wish to emphasize
that this is a problem for solution by the
Germans themselves.

While the implementation of any such
German decision is subject to approval by
the High Commission, the chief Allied
interest is to assure that the solution
represents the will of the German people
concerned and is in accordance with the
pertinent provisions of the state con-
stitutions and the Basic Law.

Necessary administrative arrangements
between the Occupation Powers, resulting
from any territorial changes agreed by the
German people, will be worked out by the
Occupation Powers concerned. (Released
Sept. 8.)

OCTOBER 1950

Official Announcements

Claims for Private Property

HICOG has recently received from the
Department of State a statement of the For-
eign Service Regulations, Section V-56,
Note 4, applicable to the filing of claims for
Foreign Service personnel for loss of per-
sonal property under unusual or emergency
conditions.

Several informal suggestions were attach-
ed which might be helpful to employees in
preparing their claims. These suggestions
are summarized herein.

When claims are received and approved
by the State Department Claim Board they
are transmitted through the Bureau of the
Budget to the Congress with a request for
appropriations necessary for their payment.
The time usually required for processing
the claims is from 12 to 18 months, depend-
ing, of course, upon the number of claims for
the board to pass upon and the time it takes
for congressional committee clearances.

Since 1943, only one report on Foreign
Service losses has been made to the Con-
gress each year, but it is not-known at this
time whether this practice will be changed
and more than one submitted. However, it
is appropriate that employees transmit their
claims to the Department at the earliest
date possible after their property is known
to be lost and cannot be recovered.

In view of the possibility of such future
claims, all personnel are urgently advised
of the necessity in the immediate future of
an inventory of privately owned household
goods and personal effects. This inventory
should not be a general listing, but an item-
ized account of the articles and pieces, ty-
pes, etc., each article or type being broken
down and described in a word or two. To
name simply ‘“‘linens — $3.90, clothing —
$5,00,"" for example, would be incomplete
evidence for the purpose of this inventory.
The inventory should include the cost of
each article and the year purchased, and all
household articles and clothing should be
enumerated.

Reimbursement for a possible loss will be
limited to articles which are reasonably
necessary for the employee and his family
to have in their possession in any and all
conditions in which the employee may have
been required to serve, No claim will be
entertained for luxuries; for souvenirs; for
articles having a purely sentimental value;
for articles that cannot properly be regarded
as useful, reasonable and necessary in the
service; for approved articles that may be
in excess of reasonable needs, or for worn-
out articles or those which cannot be class-
ed as good and serviceable. None of the
items enumerated above should be included
in the inventory.

Of paramount importance in the disposi-
tion of a possible future claim is the deter-
mination of negligence, and in this respect
the failure of the claimant to carry insur-
ance on his property might be construed to
constitute negligence. Consequently evid-
ence should be obtained that there was a
reasonable effort to obtain adequate insur-
ance coverage.

Copies of each individual inventory should
be filed at a bank or with friends or relativ-
es in the States. The Department has no
objection to accepting copies for filing in
the event employees can make no other
arrangements, but it, of course, cannt be
held legally liable in case of loss or misfil-
ing.—from HICOG Daily Bulletin, No. 102.

95

Government Employees’ Insurance

New benefits offered by the War Agen-
cies Employees Protective Association, a
non-profit service organization providing
life insurance for US civil government em-
ployees serving overseas, have been an-
nounced by Stacey K. Beebe, general mana-
ger, on arrival in Germany to explain them
to all units of the US Government and to
make the insurance available to a greater
number of personnel. Employees may obtain
details from their respective administrative
officers.

Pointing out that membership in the War
Agencies Employees Protective Association
has been offered to HICOG employees since
last December, Mr. Beebe explained that
its program is somewhat comparable to the
National Service Life insurance program
provided for members of the Armed Forces.
Membership is obtained by completing an
application form which must be certified
by the employee's supervisor, . indicating
the applicant to be a government employee.
The form also carries a short statement of
health to be completed by the employee.

Cost of insurance and amount of coverage
depend on age and salary classification.
There are three age groups — up to 40 in-
clusive, 41 to 50, and 51 to 60 — and two
salary groups, the first consisting of those
employees earning less than $3,200 yearly
and the second of those earning more.
Those in the lower salary category may
apply only for the basic $5,000 life insurance
policy; those earning more may apply only
for the basic dollar policy.

Under the new plan, total coverage for
members with the $5,000 policy amounts to
$13,500. This includes the basic $5,000 plus
a $1,000 dividend policy and $7,500 acci-
dental death benefit. Monthly premiums by
age groups for this policy are $4.17 monthly
for persons up to 40 years old, inclusive
$5.21 for those 41 to 50 years old, and $6.15
for those 51 to 60 years old.

For the higher salary group total cover-
age amounts to $27,000. This includes the
$10,000 base policy, plus two $1,000 divi-
dend additions and $15,000 accidental death
benefit. Monthly premiums for this coverage
by age are: $8.33 for those up to 40 inclusive;
$10.42 for those 41 to 50, and $12.50 for
those 51 to 60.

These terms include the following new
benefits voted recently by the association:
decreased rates based on a graded premium
system, 20 percent increase in the face
amount of the basic policy without extra
contributions, and the accidental death
benefits of either $7,500 or $15,000.

Membership in the association and group
life insurance are offered to all US govern-
ment employees of American citizenship
now outside the continental limits of the
United States.

Termination of membership and insurance
is by resignation, wpon retirement, separa-
tion from government service or nonpay-
ment of premiums,

Within 31 days after separation from
government service it is possible to convert
the association's policy into a life policy in
any one of the forms customarily issued by
the underwriter.

Since its establishment early in World
War II, it was pointed out, the association
has enrolled 13,500 members, In eight years
more than $2,500,000 in benefits have been
paid or accrued to the membership.

The association's group life insurance
plan is underwritten by the Equitable Life
Assurance Society of the United States,
with the accidental death benefit under-
written by the Accident and Casualty Insur-
ance Company of Winterthur, Switzerland.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 99 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

1, No. 5, Prisons
General Counsel,

Prison Journal, Vol.
Division, Office of
HICOG, May 1950.

Twenty-third Report for the Public Ad-
visory Board, ECA (Washington), May 31,
1950.

Participating Countries, Recovery Guides,
No. 14, ECA (Washington), June 1950.

Trends in Opinions on the West German
Federal Republic, Report No. 28, Series
No. 2, OPA HICOG (Bad Nauheim), July 31,
1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 27, OEA, CCG(BE), July 31, 1950.

2nd Quarterly Report on Germany Jan. 1
to March 31, 1950, HICOG, July 1950.

Der Aussenhandel der Bundesrepublik
Deutschland, Teil 1, Zusammenfassende
Uebersichten (The Foreign Trade of the
German, Federal Republic, Part 1, Com-
prehensive Surveys), Bizonal Statistical
Office, Wiesbaden, July 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 40, PRD
HICOG, Aug. 2, 1950.

German Reactions to the American-
Sponsored Newsreel, “Welt im Film,”
Report No. 29, Series No. 2, OPA HICOG
(Bad Nauheim), Aug. 4, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 234,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Aug. 4, 1950.

The United States Air Force, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 32, I&E
Office, EUCOM, Aug. 6 ,1950.

Billing Procedures for Communication
Services, Staff Announcement No. 67 (First
Amendment), Office of Administration,
HICOG, Aug. 7, 1950. .

Industry Highlights Report, No. 41, PRD
HICOG, Aug. 9, 1950.

Accreditation and Support of Foreign
Governmental Personnel, Staff Announce-
ment No. 126, Office of Administration,
HICOG, Aug. 11, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 235,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Aug. 11, 1950.

The Mountain and Prairie States, EJCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 33, I&E
Office, EUCOM, Aug. 13, 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 29, OEA, CCG(BE), Aug. 14, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 236,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Aug. 18, 1950.

Copies of publications, etc. listed

in the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters,

The United States Army, EUCOM Infor-
mation Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 34, I&E Office,
EUCOM, Aug. 20, 1950.

‘German Economic Press Review, Series II,
No. 30, OEA, CCG(BE), Aug. 21, 1950,

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 237,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Aug. 25, 1950.

Our Stand in Korea, EUCOM Information
Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 35, 1&E Office, EUCOM,
Aug. 27, 1950.

A Summary of Trends in Radio Listening
in West Berlin, Report No. 34, Series No. 2,
OPA HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Aug. 28, 1950,

HEUTE (in German), No. 118, ISD HICOG
(Munich), Aug. 30, 1950.

The Kreis Resident Officer, Office of
Administration, HICOG, Aug. 29, 1950.

Trends in German Public Opinion 1946
through 1949, OPA Reactions Analysis,
August 1950.

Der Monat (in German), Vol. 2, No. 22/23,
ISD HICOG (Munich), July-August, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 238,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Sept. 1, 1950.

Information Bulletin, September 1950,
PRD HICOG, Sept. 5, 1950.

HEUTE (in German), No. 119, ISD HICOG
(Munich), Sept. 13, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey,
Nos. 154 to 179, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim),
Aug. 3 to Sept. 19, 1950.

Immigration to US

Instructions for submitting assurances on
behalf of persons of German ethnic origin
(born in Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Hungary,
Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Rumania, Russia
or Yugoslavia), for Immigration to the
United States:

1. In order for a person of German ethnic
origin to be considered for immigration
to the United States under Section 12
of the Displaced Persons Act of 1948, as
amended, an assurance must be submitted
in his behalf by either a US citizen, or a
recognized voluntary agency, residing or
established in the United States, to the
Displaced Persons Commission, Washing-
ton 25, D.C.

2. If submitted by a US citizen, this
assurance must be in notarized affidavit
form (in quadruplicate).

3. Assurances must contain the following
statements:

a, The sponsor's assurance that he wishes
to sponsor a German ethnic person (give
name and address) and his/her spouse and
minor children for immigration to the
United States under the Displaced Persons
Act of 1948, as amended.

b, Assurance that the person(s) sponsor-
ed will be provided with safe and sanitary
housing accommodations, without displac-
ing any other persons from such accom-
modations.

c. Assurance that suitable employment
will be furnished to the person(s) sponsor-
ed, at prevailing wages, without displacing
any other person(s) from such employment.

d. Assurance that the person(s) sponsor-
ed will be met on arrival and that any

INFORMATION BULLETIN

transportation costs from the port of de-
barkation in the United States to final
destination will be borne by the sponsor.

e. Assurances that the person(s) sponsor-
ed will not become a public charge.

4, No assurance should be sent to any
of the European offices of the Displaced
Persons Commission. All assurances must
first go to the headquarters in Washington
where, after being officially approved, they
are forwarded to the appropriate European
office. The person(s) sponsored should not
apply to any of the Commission's European
offices. He will be advised automatically
when his case is ready for review.

5. The above instructions apply even
though affidavits of support may have been
filed with an US consulate in connection
with an application for visa under the reg-
ular quota immigration laws of the United
States.—Announcement Sept. 22 by US
Displaced Persons Commission office in
Frankfurt.

Credit Union Opened

A suboffice of the State Department Fe-
deral Credit Union, membership in which
is limited to US State Department and ECA
employees in Germany, opened Aug. 10 in
Room 156 of the Headquarters Building in
Frankfurt. The Credit Union will be author-
ized to accept from and make loans to
members only. Shares of stock are valued
at $5 each and membership may be obtained
by the purchase of a minimum of one share
of stock and the payment of a 25-cent
entrance fee. For the present, members
are limited to a deposit of not more than
$50 per month.

Employees belonging to the Credit Union
in Washington are not entitled to member-
ship in Frankfurt, but may effect a transfer
of membership to Frankfurt.

The Credit Union is a co-operative organ-
ization designed to encourage thrift and at
the same time make loans at reasonable
rates of interest. Dividends from the opera-
tion of the Credit Union are declared annu-
ally. In 1948 and 1949 depositors received a
dividend of 3.6 percent.

A member may borrow up to $300 on his
own signature but loans over this amount
require collateral, usually in the form of a
co-signer, Interest on loans must be paid at
the rate of one percent per month on the
unpaid balance with slightly less interest
(/s%o) on loans of $600 or more. It is anti-
cipated that loan applications can be pro-
cessed and the money made available to the
applicant within a period of seven days.—
from HICOG Daily Bulletin Aug. 10.

Extended Military Service

The normal foreign service tours of all
personnel in the United States Army,
Europe, and of all those who have voluntar-
ily extended their foreign service tours in
the European Command have been ex-
tended for six months, effective Aug. 31,
USAREUR Headquarters announced July 27.

The extensions affect both officers and
enlisted men. Orders that have been issued
for the rotation of personnel scheduled to
leave EUCOM after Aug. 31 will be
revoked. Cases of undue hardship resulting
from this policy will be documented and
reported to Headquarters of the United
States Army in Europe.

OCTOBER 1950

--- Page 100 ---
Mayor Michael Poeschke of Erlangen
jumps into pool after ceremonies in
which Germans presented new pool
to Americans. Below left, dedication
stone; right, on platform, L-r., are
Mayor Poeschke; Alfred D. Sims,
HICOG resident officer at Erlangen;
Col. R. R. Robins, commanding officer,
Erlangen subpost; and Brig. Gen. Chas.
E. Hart, commanding general, 1st Di-
vision Artillery, stationed in Erlangen.

Let’s All Go Swimming

VERYONE IN ERLANGEN, in Bavaria, has a place to
swim now and German-American relations are on a
smoother basis. This, because a swimming pool contro-
versy between citizens of the university city and US Oc-
cupation Forces has been amicably settled.
US Resident Officer Al D.’Sims said relations between
the two had been somewhat strained since 1946 when the
US Army requisitioned the city's only swimming pool,

yONATED
BY THE.

CITY OF ERLANGEN
TO U.S. ARMY
DEDICATED 15 JULY 1950

Schenkung —

der

Stadt Erlangen

an die U.S. Army
Ubergeben am 15.Juli 1950

leaving some 10,000 youth without a safe place to swim.
Co-operation worked out the solution. After it was pointed
out that the Occupation Forces could get along with a
smaller pool, the citizens agreed to build an adequate-sized
pool for the troops in exchange for the requisitioned one.
The plan was accepted by the Army and carried out with
Deutsche marks contributed by individuals, industry and
the Erlangen city council. (US Army photos)

--- Page 101 ---
George Fryhofer,23,Emory
University, Atlanta, Ga.,
Jaw student, who made
bicycle tour. of Europe
this*summer, plots route
through Bavaria with aid
of Lt. Col.“ Sydney Head,
commanding, officer. of
7112th Supply Co., USAFE,
who was his host in Wies- ©
baden. Fryhofer’. cycled f
more than .650 miles, saw ~
nine countries in 15 weeks
of travel. (USAFE photo)