--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
us HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

lission of Peace
_ (See page 36)

pie

--- Page 3 ---
The
Wichita
Special

By T. W. SEELYE
US Resident Officer, Mosbach

OW WICHITA, KANSAS, came to Mos-

bach, Wuerttemberg-Baden, is the story
of how an enterprising public relations
officer helped strengthen the ties of Ger-
man-American friendship while helping
the good name of his Stateside amuse-
ment park.

Robert G. Langenwalter, young publicist
of Joyland Amusement Park in the Kansas
metropolis, thought it was time the chil-
dren of his town did something for the
children of some town in Germany. The
State Department, at his request, furnished
him with the name of Mosbach, which had
already submitted a brochure to Wash-
ington for candidacy in an adoption
scheme envisaged several years back.

The idea was accepted with great en-
thusiasm by Wichita’s schoolchildren and
it was decided that each child’ would
bring to school an item of school equip-
ment for a child in Mosbach. In June, on
the day school ended, the gifts — swelled
by cash contributions of nickels and
dimes — were collected in a big cele-
bration.

The correspondence that had been car-
ried on in the meantime between Mr.
Langenwalter, the Mosbach Mayor Wil-
helm Schwarz and a local newspaper man
of the “Neue Mosbacher Zeitung” created
an air of great expectancy among the
children of the Wuerttemberg-Baden town.

‘When the big day came there were no
less than 1,200 children to greet the
Wichita couple along with the mayor
and curious townspeople. All joined to
give the Langenwalters a real reception
in the townhall. The speeches that took
place during the ceremony emphasized
the hope that this was the first step

Townspeople escort their guests about expellee camp.

toward a lasting friendship between the
two cities. The linkup was accentuated
when the Langenwalters visited a Mosbach
family whose daughter now lives in
Wichita.

The young American couple left their
week of festivity in hospitable Mosbach
with the firm resolution to strengthen the
bond of friendship which now existed

between the two cities. In an effort to
make their resolution lasting, they intend-
ed to show to various groups in Wichita
the films and pictures they had recorded
during their visit.

Wichita had come to Mosbach and now
a little bit of Mosbach was bound for
Wichita. And what about Joyland Park?
It hadn't suffered one bit! +END

Eager eyes, happy expressions await presentation of gifts.

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin.

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

Acting Editor ........ Aileen S. Miles
A ant Editor , Alfred L. Meyer
Editorial Writer ...... Beth Burchard
Editorial Writer .... Maurice E. Lee

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: - 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994
e

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, U.S. Army

German mailing address is:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division

HICOG Hochhaus

Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

e

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
Source will be appreciated.

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS
February 1951

Landsberg, A Documentary Report ...................... 2
Statement of US High Commissioner ................ 3
Final Decisions of US High Commissioner 5
Introduction to Clemency Board's Report .. 57

Biographical Background on Condemned War Criminals 63

Decisions of Gen. Thomas T. Handy
No- Conditional-Unity (35-0 ses tase ae a ae ee 9

Statement by Federal Chancellor Konrad Adenauer

Detroit onthe dsaro925 025510 oo eee ee ee 11
Intéegration‘ofits Way. sic22<.2o0< 2 nic, Soe oe Dale 12
Article by Max Zachman
Youth and German Defense™ 225.. 205.020 .262545 ss he aS
Exchange of Letters with US High Commissioner
East Zone Press Continues Attacks ...................... 16_
Intelligent Understanding ............022.2.0..0-ce+teus 17
Speech by Mrs. John J. McCloy
HICOG Houses Its Employees ..............0..0000c0eee 19
Feature by Dorothy Chadbourn
Message from: ‘America. 222022 sce oe 2 Se 24
Interview with Wolfgang Bernhardt
Surveying -the-Occupation=~.............2. 00 can bates 25
Review by Charles M. Emerick
Hood for Thought sris.o5 7 auntie: ak sot mies Ne RES 2d.
Article by William F. Keefe
AS View of Eaborsigss0 029. GG c.caen ee et es ence eee Zs)
Article by Lowell Bennett
Swabia; Speaks @Uyp testes. 32is2 chal e aan a eee 31
Article by A. B. Trowbridge
General Taylor Leaves Berlin ................0.0..00005 33)
Democracy Stalks the Library -...... 0.0.0.0. 20. cs csee ees 35
Article by Robert Behrens
A, Mission of Peate. 2.7. 2. 2.52 oon overs rans aes ea as 36
Review of Genera] Eisenhower's Visit
HCOMOMIC: Review: ssn. Sosni ge a do Haney cea ease eee 39
Personnel Notes 42
Exports:to:US Top-$100,000,000: a6. eos Csce ae 44
Occupation Log. 45
A Spot of History 51
Calendar of Coming Evenis 53
Message to German Youth 68
Official “NOHCO8 od Se. Sas aes Sa eae Re ee ek 69
Communiques 69
Laws and Regulations 69
Statements 71
71
aie iess 72

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
xy TT

Preface to Landsberg Documents

INAL DECISIONS on the sentences of war criminals convicted by the OMGUS Military Tribunals at
Nuremberg and still confined in Landsberg Prison were announced Wednesday, Jan. 31, by US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy.

Following in large measure the recommendations of his Advisory Board for Clemency, Mr. McCloy
commuted to imprisonment 10 of the 15 death sentences originally handed down by the Military Tribunals
and still under consideration. Five of the death sentences were confirmed. Previously, seven sentenced to
death in the Medical Case had been executed—in April 1948 at Landsberg—and one death sentence com-
muted—also in 1948 by the US Military Governor.

An additional 69 prisoners, including 19 sentenced to life imprisonment, had their centences substan-
tially reduced by the High Commissioner's decisions. :

Of the five whose death sentences were confirmed, Paul Blobel, Erich Naumann, Werner Braune and
Otto Ohlendorf, leaders of the SS extermination units, were responsible for the slaughter of many of the
2,000,000 persons killed in the ruthless liquidation program.

The fifth condemned prisoner, Oswald Pohl, personally supervised the destruction of the Warsaw ghetto
in which 56,000 Jews were murdered or deported, and led the organization which administered the con-
centration camps in which hundreds of thousands perished.

ONCERNING THESE FIVE, Mr. McCloy said: “The enormity of the crimes for which these men were +

directly responsible was such as to place clemency out of reason." In a statement announcing his de-
cisions, the High Commissioner stressed that sentences were reduced wherever a legitimate basis for
clemency appeared. He granted such reductions, he said, where:

The sentence was out of line with sentences for crimes of similar gravity in other cases.

Reduction appeared justified on the ground of defendants’ relatively subordinate authority and responsibility.

New evidence, not available to the court, supported such clemency.

A defendant on some occasion had the courage to resist criminal orders at a personal risk.

Acute illness of the prisoner or other special circumstances of a similar nature existed.

Mr. McCloy concluded: “I am satisfied that the dispositions now finally made in the individual cases
are just to the individual and society. I have attempted to apply standards of executive clemency as they
are understood in a democratic society... All of my decisions have been rooted in the firm belief in the
basic principle of the rule of law which all must respect and to which all are answerable. With this
principle, I have striven to temper justice with mercy.”

The cases on which Mr. McCloy acted were those resulting from the 12 trials conducted before the
OMGUS Military Tribunals in Nuremberg in 1947 and i948. They did not include the trial of the 22 top
leaders of the Nazi regime before the International Military Tribunal in Nuremberg in 1945-46. They also
did not include the trials conducted before the Military Courts in Dachau, which were exclusively under
US Army jurisdiction. However, simultaneous with Mr. McCloy’s final decisions were announced the final
decisions of Gen. Thomas T. Handy, commanding general of the European Command, concerning EUCOM
clemency in the Dachau cases.

HE DOCUMENTS MADE PUBLIC on Jan. 31, are printed in this issue. They were previously reprinted

in an English-language brochure, entitled “Landsberg, A Documentary Report,” by the Special Publi-
cations Branch, Public Relations Division. A similar brochure, in the German language, was published and
distributed by the Editorial Projection Branch, Information Services Division.

On the following pages are the documents, presented in five parts:

Series A is a statement by Mr. McCloy in which he generally discusses the basis for the clemency
review; it explains the causes for delay in the final disposition of these cases and discusses some of the
arguments which have been advanced against carrying out death sentences.

Series B contains the actual decisions on the sentences of each prisoner. This part includes a very
brief resume and discussion of the cases and the action taken on the individual sentences. This action is
listed in table form at the conclusion of each resume.

Series C is the text of the introduction of the Clemency Board's report. This board spent several
months in Germany examining the clemency petitions which had been filed in behalf of the prisoners,
reviewing the records and judgments in the 12 cases and interviewing each prisoner.

Series D contains a brief description of the crimes committed by those prisoners under sentence of
death whose sentences have not been commuted.

The final decisions of General Handy in respect to the review of cases under the jurisdiction of EUCOM.

MMMM MMMM MMT

INFORMATION BULLETIN 2 FEBRUARY 1951 E

--- Page 6 ---
Landsberg

A Documentary Report

Series A

High Commissioner’s Statement

Mr. John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner for Ger-
many, announced Jan. 31 his final decisions regarding
requests for clemency for war criminals convicted at
Nuremberg. In releasing these decisions which cover all
the cases over which he, as US High Commissioner, has
jurisdiction, Mr. McCloy made the following statement.

INCE MY ARRIVAL in Germany I have received many

letters and petitions asking clemency for war crimes
prisoners convicted at Nuremberg and confined in Lands-
berg Prison.

It is a fundamental principle of American justice that
accused persons shall be given every opportunity to
maintain their innocence. If found guilty, it is recognized
that they should be permitted to establish mitigating
circumstances. In conformity with this latter principle I
decided to appoint an impartial board to review these
petitions, to examine each case and to consider whether
any basis existed for clemency.

Such a board was appointed in March, 1950, and was
composed of three well-qualified, distinguished and im-
partial Americans who had not previously been identified
in any way with the Nuremberg trials. Its members were:
the Hon. David W. Peck, Presiding Justice, Appellate
Division, First Department, New York Supreme Court,
chairman; Commissioner Frederick A. Moran, Chairman,
New York Board of Parole; and Brig. General Conrad E.
Snow, Assistant Legal Adviser, Department of State. The
Board commenced its deliberations in Washington and,
in July of 1950, established itself in Munich, Germany,
where it conducted proceedings during the course of the
summer, =

The Board submitted its recommendations to me at
the end of the summer. In a statement which is being
released at this time, the Board has described the gen-
eral basis on which it proceeded. After reviewing ‘the
Nazi criminal programs which were the basis of the
Nuremberg trials, this considered statement disposes of
certain general arguments commonly made on behalf of
a number of the defendants. These arguments include
the following: (1) the excuse of ‘superior orders’; (2)
claims that the offenders are being punished under ex
post facto laws; (3) the allegation that the delay in
carrying out the death sentences should itself be suf-
ficient grounds for commuting them. I urge everyone to
tead the Board's statement. I call attention to the com-
ments of the Board on conditions in Landsberg Prison.
(See page 62.)

FEBRUARY 1951

ITH THE ASSISTANCE of the Board's recommenda-

tions, I have considered each individual request for
clemency and in every case I have made the final
decision.

Sentences have been reduced in a very large number
of cases. They have been reduced wherever there ap-
peared a legitimate basis for clemency. Such reductions
have been granted where the sentence was out of line
with sentences for crimes of similar gravity in other
cases; where the reduction appeared justified on the
ground of the relatively subordinate authority and res-
ponsibility of the defendants; where new evidence, not
available to the court, supported such clemency. Where
I was convinced that a defendant on some occasion had
the courage to resist criminal orders at personal risk,
I took such facts into consideration. It is notable that
several of the defendants did have the courage to resist
or repudiate such orders without suffering any serious
consequences. In certain cases my decision to grant
clemency has been influenced by the acute illness of
the prisoner or other special circumstances of similar
nature.

Fifteen of the prisoners convicted at Nuremberg and
now at Landsberg are under sentence of death. In these
cases I have taken into account every factor which
could justify clemency and have resolved every doubt
in favor of the convicted man. Ten of the sentences will
be commuted to imprisonment.

F.\HE REMAINING FIVE sentences will be confirmed. In
each of these cases the enormity of the crimes for
which these men were directly responsible was such as
to place clemency out of reason. Four of them were
leaders of the SS Einsatzgruppen or extermination units
which were engaged in the ruthless liquidation of all
possible opponents of Nazism in the conquered territo-
ties. Their crime was the slaughter among others of Jews,
gypsies, insane people and communists who fell into
their hands. In all, approximately 2,000,000 helpless
human beings were exterminated in the program.

The other prisoner sentenced to death at Nuremberg
whose sentence is not commuted is the former leader
of the organization responsible for the administration of
the concentration camps (WVHA). Hundreds of thou-
sands of people died of starvation or abuse or were
murdered in these camps. In addition to many other
atrocities this man personally supervised the destruction
of the Warsaw ghetto in which 56,000 Jews were mur-
dered or deported.

Objection has been voiced to the execution of these
death sentences as contrary to the provision of the Basic
German Law of 1949, abolishing the death penalty in
Germany. This provision, however worthy of respect,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
does not control this situation. It can not affect my obliga-
tion to honor the judgments of courts constituted pursuant
to international action before the adoption of the German
Basic Law.

HE CRIMES FOR which these judgments and sentences

were imposed were committed mainly outside Ger-
many and against non-Germans. The flood of criminality en-
gendered by the Hitler regime resulted in an international
demand for justice. Courts were established to try in-
dividuals accused of a program of deliberate and cal-
culated crime, of historic proportions, perpetrated not on
a national but on an international scale. The crimes for
which they were found guilty have no counterpart in the
ordinary criminal law and the present German law con-
cerning capital punishment cannot be accepted as the
standard of punishment.

Some have suggested that the delay since the death
sentences were imposed makes it inhumane or unjust to
carry them out. These views fail to take account of the
facts which induced the delay and the extent of it.

Actually the time which has elapsed since the sentences
were imposed has been much shorter than is generally
realized and has been taken up with reviews for the
benefit of the condemned men. The defendants were ori-
ginally sentenced in April and August of 1948. The law
under which these cases were tried required that death
sentences be reviewed and confirmed by the Military
Governor. After this review General Clay* confirmed all
death sentences except one which was commuted to life
imprisonment. This process of reviews necessarily took
considerable time.

A further delay was caused by investigations of cer-
tain of the war crimes trials by committees of the Con-
gress of the U.S, These investigations were undertaken
to make sure that the trials were fair in all respects
and gave the defendants an adequate opportunity to
present their defenses, While the investigations were in
progress, a stay of execution was issued for all capital
sentences imposed by Military Tribunals or Military
Commissions in Germany. It is now no longer in effect.

N THE MEANTIME, however, all of the prisoners

under death sentence had filed petitions for review of
their sentences in the Courts of the United States. Appeals
in certain of these cases were taken to the Supreme
Court of the United States. The last of these petitions
was dismissed in November 1950. I naturally would not
permit any executions to take place as long as there
was any possibility for legal review.

Finally, the work of the Clemency Board, followed by
my own examination of petitions for clemency, has re-
quired more than eight months.

As I have said, all of these reviews — by the Military
Governor, by the Committees of Congress, by the United
States Courts, and by the Clemency Board — have been
designed to make sure that each defendant had the full
benefit of a fair trial and of any possible legal appeals,
and of any grounds for clemency which could be assert-
ed on his behalf. The result of all these reviews has

% General Lucius D, Clay, US Military Governor in Germany, 1947-49.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

‘been that eleven of the original death sentences have
been commuted, one by the Military Governor and ten
on the basis of my own review. Had the death sentences
been carried out when they were originally imposed,
men whose sentences have since been commuted would
have been executed.

There is one other matter in connection with the
Nuremberg sentences upon which I wish to comment
generally. It is the charge that sentences against certain
former members of the German army malign the Ger-
man military profession as a whole.

HE SENTENCES rendered at Nuremberg against mem-

bers of the military profession were based on char-
ges of excesses beyond anything which could possibly
be justified on the grounds of military security. The
individuals in question were convicted for directing or
participating in savage measures of reprisal and oppres-
sion against civilian populations far exceeding the limits
of international law or accepted military tradition. When-
ever the heat of battle or true military considerations,
could persuasively be pleaded, a conscious effort has
been made to moderate the sentences. In reaching my
conclusions I have recognized, as did the courts and the
Clemency Board, the bitter character of partisan warfare
on certain of the fronts. But with every allowance for
these considerations there still remain excesses which
can not be rationalized or excused. Where sentences
were imposed upon former officers, they have, of course,
been based on individual responsibility and participa-
tion. These sentences reflect upon the individuals con-
cerned, not upon the honor of the German military
profession.

I am satisfied that the dispositions now finally made
in the individual cases are just to the individual and
society. I have attempted to apply standards of exe-
cutive clemency as they are understood in a democratic
society. I have made every effort to decide each indi-
vidual case objectively, dispassionately and on its own
merits. With the subordinate or less influential figures,
I have endeavored to grant a greater measure of cle-
mency than to those whose high positions pee on
them a greater responsibility.

All of my decisions have been rooted in the firm belief
in the basic principle of the rule of law which all must
respect and to which all are answerable. With this prin-
ciple, I have striven to temper justice with mercy.

Series B

Final Decisions
of US High Commissioner

AM ANNOUNCING herewith my decisions on the

review which I have undertaken of the sentences
rendered by the Military Tribunals established under US
Military Government Ordinance No. 7 for the trial of war
criminals.

In large measure my decisions are based on the report
of the Advisory Board for Clemency for War Criminals
which was appointed to review these cases.

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 8 ---
In all cases where the Board has recommended com-
mutation of a death sentence I have accepted the re-
commendation. A very limited number of additional death
sentences have been commuted, although the Board, in
its report, found no ground for clemency. As regards
sentences of imprisonment, in a few instances my own
examination of the circumstances of individual cases has
resulted in my reaching a result slightly different from
that recommended by the Board as to the precise degree
of modification warranted. In general, however, my de-
cisions follow the substance of the Board's report.

I have adopted certain general recommendations made
by the Board. One of these was the increase in the
amount of time credited to prisoners against their sentences
for good behavior from five to ten days a month. This
is the amount generally allowed in prisons in the United
States. Moreover credit for good behavior is a standard
and effective method of enforcing prison discipline.

N THE RECOMMENDATION of the Board I am also

granting all prisoners credit against their terms of im-
prisonment for all forms of pre-trial confinement imposed
by Allied governmental agencies subsequent to May 8,
1945. Such a credit has heretofore been allowed in a
number of cases but in some it appeared that full credit
had not been given.

My conclusions as to modification of specific sentences
of prisoners at Landsberg under my jurisdiction and cer-
tain general comments which I have to make concerning
these cases are as follows:

* * *
Case 1 — Medical Case

Defendants were charged with performing medical

experiments on concentration camp inmates, including

high altitude tests, freezing, experiments with the use
of typhus and malaria germs, artificially induced
infections, salt water tests, etc.

The direct or indirect participation of professional
practitioners in these crimes is a betrayal of the medical
profession. The experiments were never the result of a
free and voluntary proffer of their bodies by the un-
fortunate victims. They were imposed upon helpless
human beings who had neither the opportunity nor the
power to avoid the tests. Death or agony was the usual
Tesult of these experiments.

The worst offenders in this category of crimes have
already been dealt with, but all of those presently im-
prisoned had a guilty part. Several of the men for whom
clemency is asked were not only physicians, but also
professional soldiers of very high rank.

If there had been any sense of obligation to either
profession, they would not have played any consenting
part in these outrages. Though difficult to find room for
clemency, the Board has found, for reasons such as lack
of primary responsibility, age and limited participation,
a certain basis for the modification of sentences.

Accordingly, after reviewing these recommendations,
I have arrived at the following decisions:

Fritz Fischer
Karl Genzken

— from life to 15 years
— from life to 20 years

FEBRUARY 1951

Siegfried Handloser — from life to 20 years
Gerhard Rose — from life to 15 years
Oskar Schroeder — from life to 15 years
Hermann Becker-Freysing — from 20 years to 10 years
Wilhelm Beigelboeck — from 15 years to 10 years
Herta Oberheuser — from 20 years to 10 years
Helmut Poppendick — from 10 years to time
served
* * *

Case 2 — The Milch Case

Delendant was Erhard Milch, State Secretary in Her-
mann Goering’s Air Ministry, who was convicted for
advocating and exploiting slave labor.

The sole defendant in this case is the former Field Mar-
shal Milch. The conduct of this former officer in the field
of military affairs is not subject to question. It is his
almost violent advocacy of, and pressure for, slave labor
and disregard for the life and health of such labor in the
airplane factories which is the gravamen of this offense.

His petition for clemency urges instability of tempera-
ment due to nervous strain, aggravated by a head in-
jury. The board has recommended a reduction of sentence
from life to fifteen years. This is a sharp reduction con-
sidering the high responsibility of this man, but I am
prepared to follow it.

* * *

Case 3 — The Justice Case
Defendants were leading judges, public prosecutors
and government officials who perverted law to suit
the arbitrary requirements of Nazi racial ideology and
presided at the“ People's Courts” and ‘‘special’’ courts.
The defendants in this case, as in the Medical case, cast
discredit on the professions of which they were members.
There are offenders in every calling, but it is peculiarly
disheartening to find them among those who are called
upon to uphold law and impartial administration of
justice. These defendants were not only prepared, but
in most cases eager to disregard judicial and legal prin-
ciples in order to advance the most brutal racial and
political ‘principles. I have had difficulty in finding a
justification for clemency in any of these cases. As in
the medical case, however, the Board for reasons such
as limited responsibility has recommended certain re-
ductions which I have followed with relatively minor
modifications.

The results are as follows:

Herbert Klemm — from life to 20 years

Guenther Joel — from 10 years to
time served

Rudolf Oeschey -- from life to 20 years

Oswald Rothaug — from life to 20 years

Ernst Lautz — from 10 years to
time served

Wilhelm von Ammon — from 10 years to
time served

Franz Schlegelberger — from life to release

on medical parole

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
Case 4— The SS and Concentration Camp Case
Defendants were administrators of the concentration
camps or of economic enterprises of the SS conducted
with slave labor. Some of the defendants were directly
identified on a large scale with the genocidal program
of the Third Reich.

The case is concerned with the administration of the
Concentration Camps as an adjunct of the SS. Two of
the defendants were sentenced to death. One of them,
Oswald Pohl, was found to have had personal respon-
sibility for the administration of the camps. The liquida-
tion of the Jews in the Auschwitz camp, the destruction
of the Warsaw ghetto and the pillage of the Jews in the
East in the action known as “Action Reinhardt’ were
among the crimes chargeable to this organization. Not
only was Pohl, according to the judgment, the head of
this administration, but he personally directed and super-
vised the destruction of the Warsaw ghetto, and he
personally selected prisoners for medical experiments.
I naturally can find no basis for clemency, and the Board
recommended no modification of the sentence.

On the other hand, in the case of Eirenschmalz, the
only other defendant sentenced to death in this case,
I have ordered a radical commutation of his sentence.
This is due to the introduction of new evidence dis-
sociating him from the offenses on which the original
death sentence was chiefly based. Though he was a
part of the whole criminal organization, his individual
connection with exterminations has by reason of the
new evidence become remote.

Kiefer likewise benefits from the new evidence re-
lating to Eirenschmalz. The Board has found reasons for
recommending the reduction of other sentences in this
case, and I have generally followed its recommendations.

My conclusions in these cases are as follows:

Oswald Pohl — Death. No modification
Franz Eirenschmalz -— from death to nine years
Karl Sommer — from life to 20 years

Dr. Leo Alexander, Boston psychiatrist and neurologist,
gives expert testimony on the neurological and other in-
juries suffered by a Polish woman when she was operated
and experimented upon by defendants in the Medical Case.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Karl Mummenthey — _ from life to 20 years

August Frank — from life to 15 years

Heinz Karl Fanslaw — _ from 20 years to 15 years
Georg Loerner — from life to 15 years

Hans Loerner — from 10 years to time served
Hans Baier — from 10 years to time served
Hans Bobermin — from 15 years to time served
Hermann Pook — from 10 years to time served
Leo Volk — from 10 years to eight years
Erwin Tschentacher — _ from 10 years to time served
Max Kiefer — from 20 years to time served
Hans Hohberg — from 10 years to time served

No mention is made of Case No. 5 (Flick) or Case
No. 6 (Farben) as all of the defendants have been releas-
ed or are now eligible for release.

* * *

Case 7 — The Hostages Case

Defendants were generals assigned to southeastern

Europe, charged with criminal disregard of the civiliz-

ed rules of warfare in respect to the treatment of

hostages and civilians.

In the so-called Hostages or Southeast Generals Case
the Board has recommended no alleviation of the sen-
tences of former officers Wilhelm List and Walter
Kuntze, nor can I find any extenuation for the energy,
as demonstrated by their own signed orders, with which
they appear to have carried out the terrorization policy
of their Command.

Their high rank set a certain tone to the brutalities
practiced in this area and their own orders can only be
read as incitations to excess. There is, in short, more in
these cases than the mere transmittal of a patently
illegal order, bad as that might have been, In spite of
an effort to give full weight to the harassing character
of the local partisan and guerrilla warfare which these
and other officers had to face in this campaign, the con-
clusion is inescapable that these highly responsible of-
ficers, as the Board found, passed far beyond the limits
permitted by justifiable military considerations, both in
their acts of omission and commission.

While the tribunal recognized that in extremity, and
as a last resort, the shooting of hostages under certain
restrictions was a concomitant of warfare of this type,
the evidence established that many of the executions in-
volved hundreds of gypsies and Jews and others who did
not bear the slightest relation, either in location or causa-
tion, to any incidents against German troops. The taking
and shooting of hostages were also in arbitrary and grossly
excessive ratios to the offenses prompting the action.

The Board suggests that List and Kuntze, both elderly
men, may have such physical infirmities as to raise the

desirability of further medical examination to determine _
whether any medical parole is appropriate. In accordance _
with this suggestion and in accordance with a practice \

which has become standard in the administration of
United States prisons in Germany, I have directed that

FEBRUARY 1951 |

--- Page 10 ---
Case No, 9 (Extermination Squads): left to right, front row: Otto Ohlendorf, Heinz Jost, Erich Naumann, Erwin Schulz,
Franz Six, Paul Blobel, Walter Blume, Martin Sandberger, Willi Seibert, Eugen Steimle; second row: Ernst Biberstein,
Werner Braune, Walter Haensch, Gustav Nosske, Adolf Ott, Waldemare Klingelhoefer, Lothar Fendler, Waldemar von

Radetzky, Felix Ruehl, Heinz Hermann Schubert, Mathias Graf.

medical examinations be made of them and that a report
be rendered which would provide a basis for a deter-
mination of this matter,

The sentences of other officers charged with excessive
reprisals have been reduced because they had lesser
responsibility or, in some cases, showed evidence of
humane considerations,

The decisions are as follows:

Wilhelm List — life. No alteration

Walter Kuntze — life. No alteration

Lothar Rendulic -— _ from 20 years to 10 years
Wilhelm Speidel — from 20 years to time served
Helmut Felmy — from 15 years to 10 years

Ernst von Leyser from 10 years to time served

Hubert Lanz from 12 years to time served

Ernst Dehner - fromseven years to time served
* * *

Case 8 — The Race and Settlement Case
Defendants were high officials in the Race and Settle-
ment Office of the SS Elite Guard, RUSHA, the Repatri-
ation office, VOMI, or the main staff office of the
RKFBV. These organizations carried out systematic
programs of genocide by kidnaping alien children;
performing abortions on non-German workers; steri-
lization; forced evacuation of enemy populations and
iorced Germanization of enemy nationals and a
number of other excesses.

The individuals were all connected with former govern-
ment ministries charged with carrying out the almost
unbelievably brutal racial concepts of Hitler and Himmler.

Though guilt attends all of these defendants in some
Measure, the Board has based its recommendations on
the relatively restricted nature of the relationship of
these defendants to the crimes, their relatively sub-
ordinate roles, and certain other extenuating circum-
Stances. I have followed those recommendations. The
decisions are as follows:

Rudolf Creutz — from 15 years to 10 years
Werner Lorenz — _ from 20 years to 15 years
Heinz Brueckner — from 15 years to time served
Otto Hoffman — from 25 years to 15 years

FEBRUARY 1951

(US Army photo)

Fritz Schwalm — from 10 years to time served
Herbert Huebner — from 10 years.to time served
* * *

Case 9 — “Einsatzgruppen” or Extermination

Squads Case

Detendants were officers of the SS Elite Guard and in

charge of the extermination squads which were

responsible for the murder, as the International

Tribunal found, of 2,000,000 people.

This case includes most of the death sentences which
have heretofore been confirmed but which have not
been executed. These men, or at least many of them, are
typical of the most inhuman and degrading aspect of
the whole Nazi spectacle. Their organizations were one
of the chief instruments of the extermination policy of
the Nazi regime.

The political and racial character of most of their
victims, which included women and children, belies any
pretense that the wholesale executions were military or
bore any relation to military security. The murders
which certain of these organizations committed weré
on such a large and vicious scale that the mind has
difficulty in comprehending them. Certain of the crimes
are of truly historic proportions. The evidence in these
cases consists mainly in undisputed reports of the
organizations, the statements of the leaders themselves,
some of whom are among the defendants.

Whereas a careful examination of these cases and the
Board's recommendations does afford grounds for clem-
ency in certain individual situations, no rationalization
or explanation whatever can justify the existence of
these organizations themselves, or the policy which
motivated them, In some of these cases, no matter how
one strains to find an area for the application of clem-
ency, the responsibility of the defendants is so clear
and direct and the nature of the offenses so shocking
that clemency has no meaning as applied to them. In
these individual cases no mitigating circumstances what-
ever have been found.

There are other defendants where, with difficulty, I
have found a basis for commutation of the death sentence
to one of confinement for the rest of their natural lives.
Though deeply guilty it can be said of them that their

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
offenses as proven by the record were on a less impos-
ing scale.

In cases of still other individuals where the sentence
of death has been heretofore confirmed, I feel injustice
would be done if the sentences were carried out. This
is due largely to the introduction of new and persuasive
evidence which has recently been made available. The
Haensch and Steimle judgments are examples. Though
guilt still attaches to them the directness of their con-
nection with the crimes is substantially lessened by this
evidence. Had it not been for the lapse of time since
the original sentence, this evidence would not have been
considered. In such cases I have not only commuted the
death sentence, but have substantially reduced the time
of future confinement.

In ordering the reduction of sentences I have followed
very closely the recommendations of the Clemency
Board, and my action is based upon the prisoner's sub-
ordinate responsibility, or the relative remoteness of his
connection with the murders, and in some cases, the
refusal of the prisoner himself to continue in this brutal
business. In no case have I permitted the execution to
take place where the Board recommended clemency.
In certain cases I have commuted the death sentence,
though the Board itself recommended no clemency.

In order that it may be known why no clemency was
granted in certain cases, I have appended to my de-
cision in each such case a brief statement of the crimes
for which the defendants were adjudged and sentenced
and for which, after extended examination and review,
no extenuation could be found.

The results in these cases are as follows:

Paul Blobel — death. No modification
Ernst Biberstein — from death to life im-
prisonment
Walter Blume — from death to 25 years
Werner Braune — death. No modification
Walter Haensch — from death to 15 years
Waldemare Klingelhoefer — from death to life im-
prisonment
Erich Naumann — death. No modification
Otto Ohlendorf — death. No modification
Adolf Ott — from death to life im-
prisonment
Martin Sandberger — from death to life im-
prisonment
Heinz Hermann Schubert — from death to 10 years
Willi Seibert — from death to 15 years
Eugen Steimle — from death to 20 years
Heinz Jost — from life to 10 years
Gustav Nosske — from life to 10 years
Waldemar von Radetzky — from 20 years to time
served :
Erwin Schulz — from 20 years to 15 years
Franz Six — from 20 years to 10 years
Lothar Fendler — from 10 years to
eight years
Felix Ruehl — from 10 years to time
served

(Continued on page 55)

Case No. 4 (SS and Concentration Camps): Oswald Pohl is shown on the extreme left in the first row. Others in the
photograph include: Hans Baier, Hans Bobermin, Franz Eirenschmalz, Heinz Karl Fanslaw, August Frank, Hans Hohberg,
Max Kiefer, Horst Klein, Georg Loerner, Hans Loerner, Karl Mummenthey, Hermann Pook, Rudolf Scheide, Karl Som-
mer, Erwin Tschentacher, Joseph Vogt, Leo Volk

(OCCWC photo}

INFORMATION BULLETIN

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 12 ---
No Conditional Unity

; Statement

By DR. KONRAD ADENAUER
Chancellor of the German Federal Republic

INCE THE ESTABLISHMENT of the

Federal Republic, the Federal
Government has devoted all its efforts
to the re-establishment of German
unity founded on liberty and peace.
The Federal Government was the first
to espouse the cause of German unity
founded on liberty and to make con-
crete proposals for the peaceful at-

East-German

Soviet Zone.

Printed here
ext, translated from German, of
‘he statement by Dr. Adenauer
Jan. 15 in rejecting the proposal
of Otto Grotewohl for a “unity
council” and talks between the
German Federal Republic and the
regime. Grotewohl
has the title of “premier” in the secret and direct elections to an all-

HE GERMAN BUNDESTAG (Upper

House of Parliament) has always
supported the Federal Government in
its efforts to restore German unity,
and on Sept. 14, 1950 again urged it
“formally to request the Occupation
Powers to secure free, universal, equal,

the complete

German parliament under interna-

tainment of this end. To mention only
one of the most important steps taken, the declaration of
the Federal Government of March 22, 1950 on the car-
rying-out of All-German elections may be recalled. In
this it was said:

“Since its establishment, the Federal Govern-
ment of Germany has known no duty more bind-
ing than the re-establishment of German unity. It
is fully aware that the desired form of government,
to include the whole of Germany, must be the out-
come of the free decision of the whole of the Ger-
man people... Conscious of the responsibility,
which the preamble and the concluding provisions
of the Basic Law impose upon it, the Federal
Government issues an appeal to all Germans, to
all the Occupation Powers, and beyond this to the
public opinion of the world, to assist the German
people in its re-unification founded on liberty and

peace.”

HE MOST ESSENTIAL POINT of the declaration of
March 22, 1950 reads: “After the promulgation of an
Election Law by the four Occupation Powers, all-German
elections to a National Assembly for the drawing up of a
constitution should be proclaimed.” The prerequisites for
such elections are laid down in the declaration as follows:

1. Freedom of action for all parties over the
whole of Germany, and abstention on the part of
the Occupation Powers from influencing the forma-
tion and the activity of political parties.

2. The guarantee by all the Occupation Powers,
and by the German authorities, of security of per-
son and protection from economic discrimination
before and after the election for all persons acting
for political parties.

3. The licensing and liberty of distribution for
all newspapers over the whole of Germany.

4, Freedom of movement over the whole of Ger-
many and the abolition of interzonal passes.

L FEBRUARY 1951

tional control in all the occupation
zones.” These proposals were submitted to the Allied High
Commission on Oct. 1, 1950, and were forwarded by the
latter on Oct. 9, 1950 to the President of the Soviet Con-
trol Commission for Germany, General Chuikov. The
Federal Government states that as yet no reply to this
has been received from the Soviets.

To the declaration of the authorities of the Soviet
Zone, in their letter of Nov. 30, 1950, that they are striv-
ing for the unification of Germany, the objection may be
raised that those who in the Warsaw Agreement renounc-
ed all claims to German territory east of the Oder and
Neisse, do not appear legitimately entitled to talk of the
unification of Germany.

In the opinion of the Federal Government, the following
prerequisites are indispensable for free all-German elec-
tions:

1, German citizens living in the Soviet Zone must be
guaranteed the measure of liberty and security of person
irremissible in a state recognizing the rule of law.

2. Germans and their organizations in the Soviet Zone
must be guaranteed such political liberties as are usual
under a democratic government, such as the right to
hold meetings, to form political organizations and to
carry on political activities. The so-called “Law for the
Protection of Peace,’ which came into force in the Soviet
Zone on Dec. 16, 1950, cannot be reconciled with this,
even if the terms of this law are directed against ‘war-
mongering” and similar offenses, the comments upon it
in the SED press show clearly that in reality every free
expression of opinion, in particular any criticism of the
conditions prevailing in the Soviet sphere of power, is to
be suppressed by it.

3. In the opinion of the Federal Government, the con-
stantly increasing People's Police of a military type which
has existed for some time in the Soviet Zone, represents,
above all, in view of the fact that it is the tool of a for-
eign intent, a menace to the German population. No such
People's Police exists on Federal territory. An all-German
solution achieved in complete freedom has no room for
a party instrument subject to any foreign power.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
HE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT agrees with all Ger-

mans that nothing will be left unattempted in order
to re-establish German unity founded on liberty and
peace. The Federal Government can, however, only enter
into discussion on German reunification with those who
are willing unconditionally to recognize and to guarantee
a regime based on the recognition of law, a form of
government which respects liberty, the protection of
human rights and the maintenance of peace.

With respect to the allegations contained in the in-
troduction to the letter of Nov. 30, that “the remilitariza-
tion and the inclusion of Western Germany in the plans
for the preparation of war have widened cleavage of
Germany," the Federal Government emphatically states:

The unfortunate cleavage of Germany is due to the
system of government introduced in the Soviet Zone,

which is contrary to German tradition -and to the Ger-
man character,.which robs the population of this zone of
every possibility of freely shaping its political, economic —
and social life, and by which they are cut off from mixing ~
freely with their kin in the West. 3

In this way an organic integration of Germany on a
foundation of liberty has been forcibly prevented. This
cleavage has been intensified by the creation of a strong
People’s Police, which is all the more ominous, since ‘it
represents part of the extraordinary expansion of the
military power of the Soviet-Russian Occupation Power,
while the authorities of the Soviet Zone cannot be un-
aware that the Federal Government has up to now
refrained from taking any military measures whatsoever, —

-+END

Survey Exposes Soviet Zone Education

SURVEY BY the Public Affairs Division, Berlin

Element, HICOG, of current educational practices
in the Soviet. Zone of Germany has disclosed that
political attitude rather than scholastic aptitude is the
key to success for students and teachers alike, and that
the whole school system serves rather to regiment than
to educate youth.

The survey was based entirely on official literature
of the so-called “German Democratic Republic's”
Education Ministry, on its ordinances, school exami-
nations and public statements by its hierarchy. It brought
to light an excessive preoccupation with Communist
institutions, especially in study courses in the field
of history and current events.

There was repeated evidence of students being dis-
qualified for “displaying an unsatisfactory social
attitude.” In a single Soviet Zone secondary school, 40
percent of the senior class were not even admitted to fi-
nal examinations because of “social political weaknesses."

A number of rejected Soviet Zone students have come
to West Berlin where they passed their examinations
without exception. These groups constitute a new type
of refugee, since they can only continue their education
in West Berlin or Western Germany. .

IMILAR IRON-BANDED Communist regimentation is

current in the Soviet Sector of Berlin under the
direction of school councilors Ernst Wildangel and Paul
Oestreich. School directors and teachers in East Berlin
have been obliged to disqualify nearly 50 percent of the
upper class students for their unwillingness to espouse
Communist theory. As a result, more than 500 applica-
tions to West Berlin schools have been filed by Soviet
Sector students with the West Berlin School Office.

Councilor Wildangel, in several recent newspaper
articles, openly deplored the “‘unprogressive attitude” of
teachers and students in the upper classes, and he

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

warned that measures would be taken to correct their
“neutrality and dangerous objectivity.” He added that
the school administration would insure that upper schools
in the future are purged of elements ‘indifferent or
hostile toward society.”

To make sure that universities will also be populated
by local Communist elements, the Education Ministry
recently published a message urging “activists” to
attend the higher schools. Industrial groups were ex-
horted to recommend candidates fromthe ranks of young
activists, “quality brigades,"
competitions and other categories of tested Communists.

STUDY OF A TYPICAL history examination for
A eighth-grade students of the Soviet Zone shows that
no fewer than 34 of the 40 questions asked are politically
loaded. Some examples: Describe the life and importance
of J. V. Stalin; discuss why we are fighting for German
unity; what demonstrates that the Soviet Union is our
best friend and supporter; why is the Oder-Neisse border
a peace line?

The propaganda line is inherent even in such exami-
nations as those completing courses in German language
and literature. The following are typical questions: Name
works and their authors who glorify the heroes of work; _
discuss progressive poems and explain why they are ©
progressive; describe the significance of the Deutschland —
Treffen (Communist sponsored Free German Youth 1950
Whitsuntide Rally in Berlin) for world peace and the
unity of Germany.

Heavy stress is laid both in classroom lectures and
examinations on loyalty to the “German Democratic
Republic” and exalting the Soviet Union as Germany's —
best friend and the world’s leader.

Trickiest question was found in the examination for

3

advanced students of the Russian language. It asked:
“Discuss how the Soviets changed nature.” --END

FEBRUARY 1951)”

winners of vocational

--- Page 14 ---
Detroit on the Isar

+N THE ROAD TO DACHAU, outside Munich, the
US Army maintains a vast automotive works where

a wider variety of engines and parts are rebuilt than at
any other plant in the world. Close to 4,700 skilled
German workers, supervised by nearly 200 American
soldiers and civilians, man what has come to be known
as “Detroit on the Isar'’— the Karlsfeld Ordnance Depot.

The plant was once an integral part of the German
war machine, turning out 1,000 airplane engines a
month, So cleverly was it camouflaged with thick chemi-
cal clouds and heavy wooded areas, that it was almost
untouched by Allied bombers, Captured in 1945, it was
set up by the Americans to serve as an automotive
hospital for jeeps, tanks, trucks and power train units
from all parts of the US Zone of Germany.

The vestiges of its wartime activity can still be seen.
Portions of it, though small, had been damaged through
air attacks, Portholes can still be seen through which
SS guards watched thousands of slave workers, At its
peak the Karlsfeld airplane works employed more than
14,000 men of every conquered nation in Europe.

he ITS INCEPTION as an American installation,
the automotive plant has rebuilt 115,273 engines and
568,083 power train units. It has also manufactured mil-
lions of new parts, ranging in size from small screws to
transmission housings. During 1948 and 1949 it complete-
ly rebuilt two-and-one-half ton trucks, reaching a peak
production of 15 per day.

On its 261 acres, the Army Ordnance Corps has set up
a mass production system that has won high praise from
experts, In addition to the job of rebuilding, the depot
has purchased millions of Deutsche marks worth of spare
parts from the German economy. The depot maintains

an engineering department which prepares designs and
specifications needed for procurement. It maintains a
complete chemical and metallurgical laboratory for
inspection of stocked parts.

The Supply Division cleans, tests, paints and preserves
in hot wax huge piles of rebuilt materials. This division
also ships finished units to Army installations through-
out Europe.

Most colorful part of the plant, however, is the build-
ing which houses the huge assembly lines. There engines
are broken down to the smallest parts which are in turn
routed to various points for inspection and reclamation.
When it is time for re-assembling, patts flow back onto
mechanized conveyor lines as in a Stateside automotive
plant. Completed engines are then tested with a variety
of highly complex and demanding machines. Engines or
units are then stored in waterproofed boxes, built in a
special factory on the depot grounds, This box factory
is.a large-scale operation in itself, daily handling enough
lumber to build three good-sized frame houses.

ARLSFELD ORDNANCE DEPOT has its own elec-
tricity and heating plant and even sells excess
power to local German utilities.

KOD is staffed by military personnel from three units:
the 7840th Ordnance Depot detachment, headquarters
and headquarters detachment, 80th Ordnance Battalion
and the 148th Ordnance Motor Vehicle Assembly Com-
pany. While Munich Military Post offers certain logistic
support and exercises certain administrative jurisdiction,
KOD is under operational control of the Chief, Ordnance
Division, USAREUR, through the commanding officer,
Ordnance Automotive Center. Commanding officer of
the depot is Lt. Col. Robert E. Lee Masters, +END

Lt. Col. Robert E. Lee Masters (left) examines model of 261-acre Karlsfeld Ordnance Depot plant. Maj. Martin Steward

(righ) inspects rebuilt jeep engine. Tank engine is shown at extreme right.

(Munich Military Post PIO photos by Kay Brennan)

--- Page 15 ---
Refugee building association built this
apartment unit at Stutigart-Degerloch.
New homes mean children like those
at right need no longer play —and
live—in underground air-raid shelters.

(Ilse Steinhoff photos)

Former toilet shacks are
used as housing units at
Camp Schlotwiese, home
to approximately 1,100
evacuees from Yugoslavia.

--- Page 16 ---
Integration on its Way

By MAX ZACKMAN
Deputy Chief, Displaced Populations Branch, OLC W-B

SSIMILATION OF THE 9,000,000 expellees and refu-
A gees living in Western Germany has always been
a major objective of the, US High Commission. In all the
years since the armistice, however, American efforts
have run up against the stone wall of facts: there is a
critical shortage of housing in Germany.

On Sept. 30, 1950, the state of Wuerttemberg-Baden
had a population of nearly 4,000,000 persons, more than
900,000 of them expellees and refugees. Since May 17,
1939, the population of this state had increased by no less
than 23 percent, while the amount of living space was
greatly diminished through war damage. In some com-
munities, such as Neurtingen, the population rose by as
much as 63 percent over 1939's. Without housing to ac-
commodate them, almost 12,000 persons, all expellees,
still live in former air-raid shelters and the like; 28,000
live in substandard housing.

Camp Schlotwiese, in Stuttgart-Zuffenhausen — just
a short distance from the newly-erected and luxurious
Zuffenhausen City Hall — is typical of the mass quarters
in which the expellees live. Consisting of 18 wooden
barracks, this camp was constructed during the war years
to house foreign slave laborers. Today it houses 963 per-
sons, of whom 252 are children.

According to Dr. Hans Koch, chief of the German Ref-
ugee Office for the Stuttgart area, close to 400,000 ethnic
Germans living in Yugoslavia were evacuated to Thur-
ingia when German troops retreated. With hostilities
ended, large numbers of these evacuees wished to return
{o their native country; hence, they joined together in a
march toward Yugoslavia. As these marchers crossed
the US Zone, they were halted at Military Government
order, and the majority of them retained inside Germany.
It is these Yugoslav-Germans who today live in Camp
Schlotwiese. They have lived there since Aug. 13, 1945.

(CONDITIONS AT FIRST were abominable. Young and
A old, sick and crippled, juveniles and children, all
were compressed into filthy and infested barracks. Sever-
al families had to be accommodated in one room, often
without a roof over their heads.

Due to an error, UNRRA initially undertook the care
and maintenance of these refugees. Later the city of
Stuttgart had to assume the responsibility for the 1,100
inhabitants when it was determined that these persons
were not Slavs but Germans, whose forefathers had
emigrated to southeastern Europe some 200 years ago
to help colonization of the Balkans.

After the initial shock of deprivation the expellees
resorted to self-help. The city helped them by organizing
community kitchens, repairing the damaged barracks and
caring for the aged and sick. Both combined to build a

FEBRUARY 1951

church, annexed to one of the barracks. A school was
established with two teachers; a kindergarten, a sick-
room with physicians and nurses, a choir and a chess
club were added to provide the bare necessities of com-
munity life.

Each family cultivated a tiny vegetable garden and
raised small farm animals which were of considerable
help in the trying days of food shortage. Health of the
inhabitants was catastrophic in 1946-47, Tuberculosis was
particularly widespread; of the 250 children under 14
years of age then living there, 110 were afflicted,

The head of the camp is employed and paid by the
City Welfare Office. He is aided by a committee of 10
expellees elected by the inhabitants.

INCE CURRENCY REFORM the employable men and

youth have found work in nearby plants and factories
and are helping rebuild the city, although the majority
of them are former independent farmers or farm laborers.
The women and girls also work in factories or as house-
keepers, contributing their share to family finances.

Some families have a net income of up to DM 400
(about $95) each month, and could move out of these
barracks if suitable quarters were available. Others with
an equal income prefer to stay in the camp until they
can accumulate sufficient capital to buy membership in
a building cooperative and furnish new quarters.

Rent in the camp is very low — only 30 pfennigs per
square meter, compared with DM 1.10 in apartment
buildings (about seven cents compared with 26 cents).
In any event, the city has decided to tear down these
barracks during 1951 and the Schlotwiese will again
become a huge sport ground as it was before the war.

Barber Maerkeli poses at entrance of his former home.
“Bedroom measures 40 inches from ground to straw roof,

--- Page 17 ---
As the expeilees will now have to move to different
quarters — whether they are financially ready or not —
the process of assimilation will be somewhat speeded.

In some instances the refugees themselves have been
able to make major improvements in their lot.

"Help yourselves and others will help you,” was the
slogan Dr. Fritz Kleiner, a refugee from Silesia, went by
in 1948 when he tackled the housing problem. Dr. Kleiner
was a large building contractor before the war, but was
destitute when it ended. With nothing but his own deter-
mination, he established in July 1948 a refugee building
cooperative. After months of tireless negotiation, without
money and later with borrowed money, on foot, by train,
in villages and cities, in refugee circles and in offices
of officials, he finally succeeded in assembling the first
100 members for his cooperative association.

HE CITY OF ESSLINGEN made money available for
the first group of apartment buildings from public
funds; the first and second mortgages had to be met by
Dr. Kleiner. As construction on the first building began,
so many refugees wanted to join the cooperative it was
necessary by spring 1950 to stop accepting new members.
In addition to the apartment houses in Esslingen with
124 housing units, the cooperative constructed 192 more
units at the Rotweg settlement in Stuttgart-Zuffenhausen
not far from Camp Schlotwiese. Sixty-three families from
that camp have alfeady moved in. Ulm followed with
80 units, Boeblingen with 36, Sindelfingen with 36, Her-
yenberg with 12, Backnang with 27, Mohat with 24,
Plochingen eight (single family houses), Heilbronn 48
and Ziegelhausen with 15. Considering the difficulties
involved, this is a great accomplishment: more than 650
units built by a single cooperative group in two years.
Each cooperative member makes two payments of
DM 300 (about $71) each, which remain in the association
as operating capital. The buildings have two- and three-
bedroom apartments with kitchen and bath and rent at
the rate of DM 1.10 (about 26 cents) per square meter.
It is estimated that each apartment costs about DM 12,000
(about $2,856) to build. Dr. Kleiner states that ap-
proximately one quarter of the construction on first
mortgage (DM 600,000 from a total of DM 2,400,000) comes
from ECA counterpart funds.

OW EXPELLEES CAN ACQUIRE suitable living
quarters through self-help and strong will is dem-
onstrated by the working group Rudolph Partsch in
Nuertingen. Immediately after currency reform, Partsch,
an expellee carpenter from Czechoslovakia, procured a
lot and together with other expellee men and women
started to break ground. With picks and shovels bor-
rowed from the city administration, they dug gravel from
the Neckar River. Through the efforts of Federal Deputy
Emst Paul the group obtained as a gift from Sweden a
concrete-making machine which permitted them to make
their own blocks. Wood was hauled from nearby forests.
The entire work of construction — carpentry and wood-
work included — was carried out by group members.
On weekdays the men reported for work in factories and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

Healthy young man gurgles happily at bath time in his
brand new home, That's a mere routine occurrence now,

plants and in evenings and on Sundays they built their
own homes. Each family devoted more than 1,600 hours
of its free time to the settlement. Twenty-four apartments
are already occupied, with 12 more slated for completion *
during 1951.

The group did not receive any ECA counterpart funds
and the request for financial aid made to the city about
a year ago has remained unanswered. A private banking
concern finally financed the project. Rent is DM 30 (about
$7) a month for a two-room apartment with kitchen and
bath. After 20 years the tenants become owners. These
expellees are now solidly anchored in their community
and have no desire to return to their homeland.

Said Rudolph Partsch, initiator of the project: “At first
they thought we were crazy, but now our houses are
built. If others follow the same path, they will also soon
have their own home.”

R. PARTSCH'’S WORDS may be prophetic. Between
March 31, 1949, and Dec. 30, 1950, some 35,100 new -
housing units were built or made available through
reconstruction. At least half of these went to refugees,
According to the Ministry of the Interior DM 187,200,000
(about $44,553,600) has been allocated since currency
reform from public funds for the rehabilitation and con-
struction of 70,000 dwelling units. DM 31,200,000 was con-
tributed by Wuerttemberg-Baden and DM 56,000,000 by
the federal government. Included in these figures are
DM 19,100,000 from ECA counterpart funds, made available
during 1949 and 1950. Encouraging though these figures
are, 400,000 additional dwelling units are required to
house all those in search of quarters.

Success of integration — the finding of permanent
homes for Wuerttemberg-Baden's refugees and the weav-
ing of these uprooted populations into community life —
must depend upon the availability of housing. Continued
effort to supply it will be necessary on the part of ref-
ugees and native populations if the task is to be ac-
complished. +END

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 18 ---
Youth and German Defense

The defense of Western Germany has been a subject
of extensive discussion during the last few weeks. In the
following letter, a young German writes the US High
Commissioner his opinion in the matter. Mr. McCloy’s
reply follows.
Bad Neustadt/Saale
Dec. 12, 1950

His Excellency John J. McCloy

US High Commissioner for Germany

Sthloss Petersberg

Ueber Koenigswinter, NRW

Sir:

Though I hardly believe that it will have any influence
on the way things go, I must tell you what a great
number of us German youngsters think about fighting
for a free world. We would love to fight as free soldiers
under equal conditions, but we will passively and actively
resist if you want us to fight as lower-classed people.
Those who come just on account of the good living will
not be the best because they do not know what they
are fighting for. We cannot understand that you do not
take any economic action against those chauvinistic
politicians who are supremely dangerous for the future
of the free world because they don’t do what is necessary
instead of sticking to half-wits’ ideologies and prejudices.

I suggest the status of an inter-European citizenship for
all soldiers on duty because it is simply crazy to have
national armies and the only ones who have be inter-
national are the Germans. I consider it as an insult or
almost a crime to put us outside the Geneva Convention;
according to international law the German “battle
groups" are no regular army.

Briefly, there are more good will and idealism in Ger-
man youth than you dare think —and our reasons are
not the arguments of nationalists —but when we fight
for justice and humanity we want to believe in those
ideals, We would believe it if you were honorable,
humane and gentlemanlike in your actions —l'm sorry,
but up to now you have not been.

Very sincerely yours,
s/Hersert G. Roske, Jr.
P.S.: There really are officers in Germany who neither
are Nazis nor reactionaries nor professional drunkards —
you have not seen them because they are gentlemen
who do not put themselves on the screen of publicity.
Coie So

HE FOLLOWING is the full text of High Commis-
sioner McCloy’s reply:

Dear Mr. Roske:

I have your note of Dec 29th. Unfortunately it went
to the Petersberg where I only appear at meetings of
the High Commission, and this accounts for my delay in
replying to you. Your letter has a fundamental misunder-
standing of my attitude, and what I believe to be the
attitude of my Government. I have decided, therefore,

Jan. 15, 1951

FEBRUARY 1951

15

to take some pains to write you in the thought that I
may be able to clarify our point of view in your mind.

In the first place we are not pressing, or even asking,
German youth or Germany to fight for us or anybody
else, including Germany. The United States and the other
Allied Powers were asked by your Government to guar-
antee the security of Germany. In response to that re-
quest and in order to increase the security of West
Germany and West Berlin, the United States, Great
Britain and France stated that they would treat as an
attack on themselves any attack which occurred against
West Germany or West Berlin. I do not suppose you
have any conception of what a revolutionary step that
was for the United States to take, and it was a most un:
usual step for the other two countries to take.

At approximately the same time it was decided that
an attempt should be made to create a European force
to which the United States was prepared to contribute
both in material and manpower, assuming there was a
determination on the part of the Europeans to defend
themselves. If Germany is to be defended in the sense
of being able to fend off an invasion it is obvious to
everyone that Germany would have to contribute some
of its strength to such defense. It would be anomalous if
the only effort to defend Germany was contributed by
foreigners. It would scarcely be Gleichberechtigung
(equality of rights), a word of which I hear much, from the —
point of view of the young American, British or French
soldier who had the job of fighting if that were the case.

F, ON THE OTHER HAND, Germans were prepared to

join with other Europeans for the defense of the West-
er Community of Nations, including Germany, it is
obvious they should be treated on an equal basis and I
have steadfastly maintained that any other basis is un-
realistic. But above all, let me assure you that there
will never be any necessity for you, either passively
or actively, to resist any attempt on the part of the
Allies to make you enlist, for there will be no such
attempt. If Germany does not willingly and voluntarily
participate there will be no participation.

In ancient times Rome forced Germans to fight in her
legions and perhaps today pressures can be exerted in
the East against Germans to compel them to serve as
soldiers, but there is nobody in the West who 1s going
to do it or even think of doing it

I believe very strongly in the concept of an inter-
national force; I believe we can create one which would
be efficient and spirited. Perhaps your idea of inter-Euro-
pean citizenship is a good one. I have not thought it
through, but I am attracted by it. The suggestions that
have been put forward, so far as I am aware, have all
been to the effect that all those who join an inter-
national force would be on the same basis.

In this connection I want to point out that the United
States and some other countries have obligations in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
other parts of the world which require them to maintain
forces to deal with those obligations. To the extent that
they apply forces to European defense, however, they
have indicated that they are prepared to become a part
of an international organization. It so happens that Ger-
many does not have obligations outside of Europe and,
therefore, I do not see in these facts any point of dis-
crimination. Moreover, I have never heard any ideas
advanced by anyone that Germany should be outside
the Geneva Convention.

You also have great misapprehension of my attitude
toward German youth. If you have ever read my speech-
es I think you would find in them many statements
that, of all the groups I have seen in Germany, I get
the most satisfaction out of the youth groups with whom
I talk. I have denied the charges made by Germans
themselves that the modern German youth is nihilistic
and apathetic. I have a contrary impression after rather
extensive contacts with them. I have also stated in many
reports to Washington that I felt there was a greater
spirit among the German youth for the international
concept than I believe was the case in any other
European country, which is saying a good bit.

Ec I MAY SAY SO, I think your letter indicates you —
are fighting windmills. You, like many Germans, are

too sure that people are against you when actually most’

people are trying very hard to help. Another bit of this
type of thinking is contained in your postscript. I do not
believe you can find any substantial opinion which
holds the belief regarding German officers that you
suggest. Certainly I do not.

Ihave seen many German officers and I have a number
of friends among them, but this constant emphasis that
I find in so many places in Germany about the honor
of the German soldier is unfortunate from the German
soldier's own point of view. To be secure, honor has”
to be taken for granted, and I can assure you that in
regard to the officer group as a whole it is taken for
granted even by Germany's former enemies.

I hope you will take a new look at things, be less
defensive and more objective, and at the same time
maintain all the idealism and enthusiasm that your
youth can give you. :

Sincerely yours,
s/ Joun J. McCtoy.
-+END

East Zone Press Continues Attacks

ARGETS OF INVECTIVE appearing in the Soviet-

licensed Berlin newspapers since the beginning of
this year number several hundred and indicate that the
major enemies of the Communist peace camp include
President (“Atom-Bomb Harry") Truman, Dwight D.
(Salesman of Death’) Eisenhower, and General Douglas
("Butcher of Korea’) MacArthur.

Organizations representing great danger to the Com-*
munists appeared, on the basis of frequency of mention,
to be NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization), the
US Government, Jehovah's Witnesses, the Hanover
police, RIAS (Radio in American sector, Berlin), and the
Federal Ministry for All-German Affairs.

A partial list of the more than 100 individuals con-
demned by the Communist-licensed press includes: Dean
Acheson; Winston Churchill; Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Tay-
lor; John J. McCloy; Herbert Hoover; Theo Friedenau
of the investigating committee of Free German Jurists;
Melvin J. Lasky, editor of Der Monat; Kurt Schumacher,
SPD leader; Berlin's Mayor Ernst Reuter and the late
Lt. Gen. Walton Walker.

Among organizations distinguished for their en-
mity to the cause of peace were the entire US Army,
with special emphasis on those of its representatives
stationed in West Berlin and Korea; the Union of Victims
of Stalinism; all West German political parties excepting
the Communists; the whole of the West Berlin press; the
Allied High Commission; the Association of Former Ger-
-man Career Soldiers in West Germany, and all European
governments, police forces and national groups which
participated directly or indirectly in, or approved of,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

measures taken by the various Atlantic Pact signatories
to head off anti-Eisenhower demonstrations.

Terms used by the East Berlin press to describe their
opponents are descriptive in the extreme, and include:
imperialists, warmongers, mercenaries, cannon-fodder
vendors, traitors, saboteurs, enemies of the people, spies,
war criminals, neo-fascists, Nazi storm troopers, murderers
and bomb terrorists.

US Senator Robert A. Taft and ex-President Herbert
Hoover were among several on the Communist press
blacklist who also expressed views sufficiently enlighten-
ed and progressive to merit laudatory quotation in one
or more of East Berlin's 10 daily papers.

Held up as one of the leaders of the “widespread
American movement” which outspokenly resists Presi-
dent Truman’s war policy, or some phase of it,
Senator Taft was quoted on several occasions since the
turn of the year, notably by Taegliche Rundschau on
Jan. 7 and Neues Deutschland on Jan. 26.

While approvingly reprinting Senator Taft's objections
to the President's decision to send American troops to
Europe, the Rundschau explained that the senator was
sounding a call for prudence in the matter “even though
he has openly expressed his hatred of the USSR and
China." This apparently did not affect the validity of —
the statements, among which was one, quoted by the ©
Rundschau, to the effect that “neither Napoleon nor
Hitler was able to beat Russia on the ground, though
they had stronger forces than we." In its Jan. 26 issue
Neues Deutschland headlined: “US Senator Taft: Re-
militarization Means the Total Destruction of Germany.” _

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 20 ---
Intelligent Understanding

Address
By MRS. JOHN J. MeCLOY

AM VERY PROUD to speak to

you because I have such a deep
respect for the women of Berlin,
whether they be German or American,
and for the courageous and tireless
efforts they have put into the tasks
that Berlin has demanded of them.

I can't help feeling somewhat shy
besides, because many ladies in this
audience have had to face tremen-
dous and difficult problems that have
never come my way, and you have
all been at the job of striving toward
peace and freedom far longer than I.

We sometimes delude ourselves that GEES

Mrs. McCloy, wife of the US High
Commissioner for Germany, de-
livered this address at the meeting
Jan. 9 of the members of the
American Women's Club of Berlin
and their guests, the wives of
many Berlin civic officials. During
a two-day visit in Berlin, she also
met 35 women representing local
trade union groups, toured four
city-sponsored apprentice training
schools, visited Berlin's largest
youth home and conferred with 30
representatives of Berlin women’s

much about the group of expellee
women living in our vicinity, of their
hardships, problems and their great
longing for home. She also told me
that as yet they did not feel part of
the community. At that time I felt
pretty lost myself and we, thus, ar-
ranged a tea party. About 50 ladies
came and we had a fascinating after-
noon together. I heard many tragic
stories but best of all was the impres-
sion of the energy and will these ladies
were showing in their effort to build
up a new life. Together we planned
possible sewing rooms and because

peace is the product of international
conferences and the wisdom of statesmen, but the real
fabric of peace is the decent life of people as you live
it here in Berlin,

Anyone today who is not tolerant, kind and actively
interested in human problems, is no help to the great
tasks our countries are undertaking,

After nearly 18 months of living and working in Ger-
many I have become convinced that personal contact
and the mutual will to understand not only our problems
but the perplexities and difficulties that face our
neighbors as well, is the all important task.

peas I CAN BEST explain to you what I mean
by telling you of some of the experiences I have
had here in Germany. Each morning when I am either
in Godesberg or in Bad Homburg, countless people come
to discuss with me their difficulties or that of their
neighbor, or they come for some sort of help for them-
selves or an undertaking in which they are interested.*

The story of my friend from the East zone has already
ome quite famous. He wrote asking for an interview.
tried to urge him to write us his problem, but no,
he insisted on a personal meeting. Finally the day arrived
and by 9:30 he and I were chatting in my living room.
My secretary had told him that I had very little time
and so after a few minutes I asked what he thought I
could do for him. To which the answered, “Really
nothing, Mrs, McCloy; while in the East I had heard
that anyone could come to see you — I didn't believe it
but now I know it's true. This nice young man had
hitchhiked from southern Germany, where he now lives,
to be convinced of this and as a result we have become
good friends,

When I first arrived in Germany, I happened to meet
a delightful refugee woman from Breslau. She told me

See article ‘‘Private Citizen Mrs. McCloy’’ by Rosemarie Sponner
une 1950 issue of the Information Bulletin.

be

in

FEBRUARY 1951

of the impetus this little gathering
gave us we now have approximately 30 Naehstuben
(sewing rooms) functioning actively throughout the
American zone.

Not long ago I had the privilege and the fascinating
experience of making a little trip along the Eastern
border towns. We started at Wuerzburg and by way
of Mellrichstadt, Bad Kissingen, Coburg, Koenigshofen,
Kronach, Naila and many others we finally ended up
in Tirschenreuth. In each town I met the ladies active
in local organizations and always, you must remember,
we were only about 10 kilometers (six miles) from the
border itself. As you here in Berlin know, it took great
courage for some of these ladies to gather together with
me for always, we well knew, agents were among us.
And to my surprise — this was particularly true of a
town directly on the border — not just a few came to
the meeting but well over a thousand.

Mrs. McCloy (center), before start of meeting of American
Women’s Club in Berlin Jan. 9, chats with Mrs. Maxwell
D. Taylor (left), wife of the retiring US commander in
Berlin, and Mrs. M. W. Daniel, wife of the commanding
officer of Berlin Military Post. Mrs. Daniel is president
(PRB-HICOG-BE photo)

of the club.

--- Page 21 ---
NTELLIGENT UNDERSTANDING can accomplish so

much, In Bira, near Koenigshofen, a beautiful little
town with a 12th-century castle, our welcome was par-
ticularly warm. Later I found that a young American
officer, looking for billets and recognizing its rare beauty,
had put it off limits, except by invitation. And, needless
to say, hundreds came by invitation. His order is still
tacked to the castle gates. As I left, the leader in the
town asked whether I could give him the address of this
understanding young officer. The people of the town
wanted to send him a Christmas package. I did find his
address — he is fighting in Korea.

But understanding must not be limited to the problems
and sorrows of one country or people alone. Recently
a young German teacher in America on the exchange
program was asked to speak at a women’s gathering as
I am speaking here today.

She told the American ladies in a Connecticut town
of the dreadful hardships of the last years of the war
and the times directly after, but she proved too that she
had a thorough comprehension of the sacrifices and
heartaches of the Americans.

Her audience was deeply moved and when the speaker
sat down a tall lady in deep black rose and said, “It was
hard for me to come to this meeting for I lost my only
son over Cologne. Today you have carried me beyond
my own sorrow.”

You can imagine that daily many unpleasant problems
come my way. I am sure you have the same experiences.
Sometimes it is difficult not to lose courage but I don't
because to offset the discouraging letters and interviews
I have many that are thrilling and uplifting ones. Here
is an example of one gentleman who wrote me a little
Christmas letter. In short: “An appreciation of help

already given and the longing to build a new world out 3
of mutual confidence and love." 4

ND NOW I WOULD LIKE, in conclusion, to leave
you with a very serious and earnest thought, a thought
about which I talked this morning to another group of
ladies. Perhaps the most disquieting impression of the
talks with my daily visitors and through my tremendous
mail is the widespread lack of knowledge of the facts
that my visitors bring to me: the distorted picture that
so many have of German as well as American objec-
tives. Let me give you an example:

So many seem to think that the coal shortage is due
to forced exports from Germany and that these are in
the nature of reparations rather than a very productive
and important revenue. By selling coal Germany can get
the most direct return in terms of Devisen (exchange)
with which food and all other commodities can be bought.

This is just one example. I could give many others,
but my reason for citing it is to point out now we
cannot afford misunderstandings based upon misinfor-
mation. The times are too serious and we all know
what massive and deliberate effort is being made to
stimulate trouble between freedom-loving nations. Let
us women, therefore, set a goal for ourselves to do our
best to learn the facts and then prevent the spreading
of propaganda and rumors that make for trouble,

Until recently this was perhaps not so important but
today with so many families whose sons are in Korea,
misinformed criticism may have disastrous results.
I perhaps need not say this to you women of Berlin,
except as you represent those who give the lead to
important thinking, for you have already made such
tremendous sacrifices for the preservation of freedom
and truth in your city. + END

Status of Co-ed

HE STATUS OF WOMEN in German university life
has considerably improved since the end of the war,
but discrimination against women students still exists,
according to results of a study made in five German
universities by Elizabeth L. Fackt, visiting consultant
to the Women’s Affairs Branch, Office of Public Affairs.
The majority of students polled look upon women as
welcome members of the student body, the survey in
the universities of Frankfurt, Hamburg, Marburg, Munich
and Tuebingen revealed.

Only two percent of the student bodies polled believe
that women are unwelcome in university life while
42 percent of the women queried and 22 percent of the
men say women are merely tolerated in the student body.

A greater percentage of women believe women stu-
dents to be unwelcome than they actually are in the
opinion of men. Comments indicate the majority regard
it as a matter of course that women should study in the
universities and that women should be considered equal.
The most frequent reason for the opinion that women

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Greatly Improved

18

are welcome at universities was that this right is a self-
evident recognition of equality provided for in the
constitution of the Federal Republic. Approximately
21 percent of those who gave this as a reason for voting
favorably were women while 79 percent were men.

The deciding factor in admitting women to universities
should be individual qualifications, was the second most
frequent comment. About 68 percent of those holding this
opinion were women, while only 32 percent were men.

Traditional German attitudes were manifest in such
comments as: “The future mother should devote herself
to other things rather than to iry to develop a high
intellectual personality.”

“The weaker sex should prepare for her future pro-
fession, namely, that of the housewife.”

The summary of this pilot study was made jointly by
a group of women students and faculty members from
the five universities working with Miss Fackt. The
group has officially requested the HICOG Women's
Affairs Branch that the study be carried further.

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 22 ---
HICOG
Houses

Its
Employees

By DOROTHY CHADBOURN
Special HICOG Feature Writer

Space, light and comfort are outstanding features of each living room.

HE UNITED STATES has erected a living monument

in Frankfurt—a monument built to stand for dec-
ades —a reminder to Germany of the high standard of
living earned by the people of the United States through
democracy,

This monument is the HICOG Housing Project.

It was first envisioned with the shiftover of occupa-
tion responsibility from Military Government to the De-
partment of State, when HICOG centered its adminis-
trative agencies in a Frankfurt headquarters. Though this
meant increased efficiency from an administrative point
of view, it was an impossible task to find adequate hous-

Letter of Friendship

“In view of the successful completion of the out-
standing Carl Schurz Housing Settlement I can-
not but extend to you the deep gratitude of the
city of Frankfurt-on-Main for the execution of this
most important and widely acclaimed project.” So
wrote Frankiurt’s Mayor Walter Kolb in a letter
to US High Commissioner John J. McCloy.

“The housing project is an exemplary achieve-
ment of American and German. cooperation and
visible evidence of common efforts made by men
of our two nations in an ideal spirit of good will.

“This American housing settlement in Frankfurt
justly bears the name of a man who is famous for
his ingenious accomplishments and who will, at
all times, be looked upon as the prototype of a
great democrat and champion of good will and
understanding among nations. When those Ameri-
can families who are now occupying the hous-
ing settlement... return to their native country,
the beautiful houses which they leave behind in
Frankfurt will always remind us of the fact that
friendship and cooperation alone are the basis of
prosperity among the people of all nations.”

FEBRUARY: 1951

19

ing for the influx of personnel. Here is the situation
which greeted planners:

Frankfurt was crammed far beyond its housing capa-
city as expellees, displaced persons and Germans from
the rural areas sought jobs and better wages in the city.
Seventy-five percent of all Frankfurt housing had been
partially or completely destroyed in bomb raids; avail-
able space was loaded with an average of 1.6 to 19
Germans per room,

Occupation quarters, requisitioned in 1945 from the
houses which remained, were in continual need of re-
pair, and by mid-1950 many had deteriorated to a point
where repairs were no longer economically justifiable. _

Close to 200 quarters inhabited by HICOG personnel
were considered substandard and were used only be-
cause nothing else was available.

With the HICOG move to Frankfurt, many had to be
quartered in hotel rooms, often outside the city. Others
drew small apartments which lacked such necessities as
iceboxes, adequate heating equipment and operating
sanitary facilities. Many employees were forced to leave
families for months at a time in other German cities,
awaiting the availability of homes.

UCH CONDITIONS DEFLATED morale and interfered

with efficient work.

In facing this problem, HICOG officials simultaneously
felt it was time, by 1950, to begin vacating requisitioned
property; the infant German Federal Republic should not
be burdened economically with additional requisitioning.

Against this background came the decision to build
the 420-unit housing project which last fall opened its
doors to HICOG personnel.

From it have come many benefits:

German morale is higher because Americans are build-
ing of their own volition and paying for it. ;

The Frankfurt housing situation looks brighter as
derequisitioning of old apartments becomes a possibil-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
os — ee

Architect's drawing exterior of typical apartment in the

ity and Germans are aware that the project will one
day be turned over in its entirety to the city.

Moreover, the project will perhaps present a challenge
to German traditionalism in the housing field. It will be
a focal point and yardstick around which modern Ger-
man housing may be constructed, an advancement for
all concerned.

The HICOG project stands out today as the highest
quality building job in Germany since the end of the war
and is similarly its largest postwar housing development.

O ACHIEVE THIS RECORD, hard work and good
will were required on the part of both Germans and
Americans.

Trail-blazing in German-American relations began when
HICOG officials and Frankfurt authorities sat down to nego-
tiate for a plot of land on which the project could be built.

The result was the first lease-agreement drawn up
between Germans and the American occupation govern-
ment, with both acting as equal parties and concessions
coming from both sides of the conference table.

Twenty-four acres, approximately a quarter-mile north
of the headquarters building, close to the commissary
and shopping center, were granted without charge by
the city for as long as the United States requires the
property for housing purposes.

In return for this temporary property loan, the city
will inherit the project block by block as US housing
requirements diminish.

At the same time, HICOG agreed to release “those
housing units which are presently under requisition in
the city and which are no longer needed.” It was left to
HICOG to determine which units are no longer required.

Compromises were made by both parties on almost
every article included in the agreement.

HICOG yielded to the city’s plea of no funds in agree-
ing to pay for installing utilities sewage system, streets
and lighting—in the project area.

The Americans consented to conform to the city’s 50-
year roadway plan and to lay out and construct the
streets in accordance with city specifications.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HIC

20

‘OG Housing Project in Frankfurt pictures front

of building.

In every practicable instance HICOG assented to use
of building materials produced by the partly-city-owned
rubble processing company, while Frankfurt building
firms and local labor were promised preference where
conditions were equal.

HE CITY ASSUMED responsibility for moving a small

number of truck farmers, then cultivating sections. of
the chosen site, to suitable farmland nearby, and further
agreed to pay substantial damages for crop losses result-
ing from the move. .

The city conceded to the planners’ wishes on landscap-
ing and architectural requirements.

In sum, the agreement was hailed in the German press
as an important step on the road to fruitful democratic
relations.

The city of Frankfurt had another part in this project:
the city assembly passed a resolution to call the settle-
ment the Carl Schurz Siedlung, after one of Germany's
illustrious contributors to American history. Two new
thoroughfares inside the project were christened Ernst
Schwendler Strasse and Jakob Leisler Strasse.

A retrospective glance identifies all three men with the
building of American tradition.

German-born Schurz served not only as US minister to
Spain under President Lincoln, but also as a major
general in the Union Army. Climax to a busy career came
when he was named secretary of the interior under
President Hays.

Schurz’ name is inscribed on a bronze plaque set in a
modest monument on the settlement site, presented
HICOG by the city in tribute to the friendly relations
sustained during the project's development.

Ernst Schwendler was the first American consul in
Frankfurt, the city in which he was born.

Another Frankfurter, Jakob Leisler once served as
lieutenant governor of New York.

N ADDITION TO FRANKFURT officials, German con-
tractors cooperated to such a laudable extent with
HICOG representatives that construction often was com-
pleted before deadlines, The desire to participate in erec-

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 24 ---
tion of the modern American settlement in many cases
exceeded financial considerations.

Layout and plans for basic structure were prepared by
the American project engineer, Lt. Col. George G. Davies,
who also supervised construction, but HICOG sought a
German architect.

Frankfurt’s two architectural associations were con-
sulted for the names of their 10 top members. Specifica-
tions and plans were submitted to them and their esti-
mates invited on costs. This method of selection varied
from the usual German procedure whereby architects
compete for a drawing prize.

When blueprints and specifications had been prepared
by the selected architect, all qualified contractors in the
US Zone were given a chance to bid on construction.

As there are no safeguards for the builder in Germany,
comparable to American bid bonds and performance
bonds, each firm wanting to bid had to qualify financially
as well as on the basis of past performance. All interested
bidders were screened by HICOG representatives.

It was decided that firms excluded from the bidding
could align themselves, if the general contractors so
desired, with any of the selected bidders.

OMPETITION WAS STIFF, It was quite evident that

the question of prestige and experience again moti-
vated to a great extent concessions made by competing
firms. The great majority of those selected were Frank-
furt concerns. Many reliable losing contractors were
able to take on sub-contracts with winners; others
concentrated on obtaining contracts for outside work.

To spread contract benefit, the work was let out to
four general contractors.

With workers so aligned, construction was launched
with an official ground-breaking ceremony. The nearly
200 Germans and Americans there heard it emphasized
that all work would be done by Germans —to aid the
German economy.

An American official described the ceremony as a
“significant occasion which marks another high point
in the good relations between the Office of the US High
Commissioner and the City of Frankfurt," and added that
“the project was undertaken in pursuance of our policy
to de-requisition as much housing as possible.”

The ceremony closed with praise from Frankfurt's
mayor for the good will of American taxpayers whose
money would finance the project.

HERE WERE MANY PROBLEMS which the builders

faced. It was difficult to avoid regimentation in a
housing development which would contain 420 units.
The solution was a garden-type layout; the 32 buildings
Were kept low and spread over the site at a generous
distance from one.another, separated by spacious lawns.
Each building was ranged at an angle to guarantee it
both morning and afternoon sun,

This method contrasts sharply with existing German
housing developments where rigid apartment blocks are
built almost wall to wall.

Of Spanish influence architecturally, the buildings are
designed with vertical lengths of pale red or green com-

FEBRUARY 1951

21

pressed rubble, in contrast with
exteriors.

Except where absolutely necessary, roads passing in
front of buildings are eliminated—a farsighted safety
measure for children who can play within apartment
areas without hazardous crossing of streets.

For landscaping, the 5,000,000 plants — flowers, shrubs
and trees— donated by the city of Frankfurt, were set
in clusters interspersed with large plots of grass. Within
the scheme of landscaping and building arrangement,
there have been provided emergency repair shops, play
areas, tennis courts and a billeting office.

HICOG used the basic building elements available in
Germany for permanent construction. Masonry, tile,
structural steel and concrete went into the fundamen-
tal structure, Steel was used in all window frames as it
was in doors and door frames in basements and attics.
The tile roofings rest on steel frames.

the cream-colored

Scores of German officials inspect newly-completed project.

Use of wood is limited in Germany as it is not con-
sidered permanent enough, although this opposes most
US building opinion.

Used extensively in the HICOG project were building
blocks, both solid and cellular, wrought from rubble
scraped out of Frankfurt's ruins, Use of this material,
made available by an organization jointly owned by
city and private interests, aided considerably in the
city's cleanup program. Project engineers believe this to
be the first time reconditioned rubble has been exten-
sively used, and it has since been employed for several
other projects in and near Frankfurt.

WO MONTHS AFTER the ground-breaking — and four

weeks ahead of schedule — the framework of almost
half the buildings had been completed. American officials
joined German construction supervisors and laborers ina
Richtfest, the traditional German roof-raising ceremony.
» By German custom, laborers constructing a new build-
ing ask the owner to give a party or festival to “en-
courage” them towards completion. Should he refuse,
a broom, omen of ill luck, is affixed atop the building,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
rather than the good luck symbol.of a beribboned tree
or bough.

HICOG observed this tradition by distributing gift
packages containing food and tobacco, and by serving
beer after the ceremonies to the 2,500 workers gathered
to hear speeches and the music of a Bavarian band.

A German speaker said the HICOG settlement was the
first postwar opportunity for local builders to employ
their full capacities.

Tradition was again followed with the reading of the
Richtspruch, a poem composed and recited by a member
of the carpenters’ guild, The carpenters were garbed in
the costumes prescribed for their trade by custom —
bell-bottomed black trousers and vests, full white shirts
and wide black hats.

In climax, the huge green wreath, twined with floating
streamers, was hoisted into the rafters of one of the near-
by buildings, after which, according to the English transla-
tion of a German newspaper article, “German workers
delightedly waved their beer bottles" in approval.

S BUILDING PROGRESSED, and interior finishing
became the task, new problems and policies arose.
Numerous features were new to German construction
and had to be carefully worked out between the project
engineer and German architects, builders and manufactur-
ers, Germans were highly receptive to all new ideas.

The maximum degree of privacy was among the first
considerations in planning. Service, living and sleeping
areas are completely separated.

Spaciousness in the living areas was accomplished
through liberal use of built-in furnishings in bedrooms,
yielding this gained space to the living room.

Bathrooms were completely Americanized, incorporating
in one room all facilities — toilet, shower, tub, washbasin.

Many other American features were incorporated, but
not without a fusing of German building ideas.

One example of American know-how which may be of
far-reaching value to Germans is the US practice of stand-
ardizing window sizes, reducing the cost substantially.

Further reduction in window costs would also be possi-
ble if an American-type casement or double-hung window

Project, shown in table model, contains 72 apartments with
one bedroom, 174 with two, 174 with three, totals 420 units.

Mark of friendship — Frankfurt's Mayor Walter Kolb
signs as Glenn G. Wolfe, Office of Administration chiel,
holds pen ready. At left is Jack Lennon, project coor-
dinator, and at right Karl Rasor, Frankfurt notary public.

(PRD-HICOG photos)

were used. The project also introduces provision for fly-
screening, which is practically non-existent in Europe.

ICOG HAS EXERTED a strong influence in German

kitchens through the project. The HICOG kitchen
is being used in some instances as a German trade name
and has created widespread interest among Germans,

The HICOG variation is a bit more elaborate than
lower incomes can afford, However, it has given German
manufacturers numerous ideas, and contractors who
manufactured and installed the HICOG kitchens have
already developed kitchens of various sizes for German
use. Influenced by HICOG design, German industry will
soon present a sample kitchen prefabricated down to the
piping for sinks.

The HICOG kitchen is typically American, planned on
a functional basis, from layout to placement of the final
tile,

The entire project is heated by a system of circulating
hot water, pumped from the central heating plant which
services the entire area of the headquarters building.
This hot water supply likewise serves the basement
laundry room and the American automatic washing
machines installed there on a concession basis in each
building block.

One Frankfurt firm took on the complete job of fur-
nishing the apartments, then parceled out the enormous
undertaking to sub-contractors.

N A COSTLY EFFORT to increase West Berlin employ-
ment, more than one-third of the sub-contracts were

placed with manufacturers in that city. This meant an”
added cost of from 12 to 17 percent over the cost of US-"

Zone manufactured items. In addition, inspections had

to be conducted in Berlin, and a transportation system ©

worked out with great difficulty.

It turned out to be one of the toughest problems in the

whole project. The difficulty of assuring compliance of
Berlin manufacturers with specifications, completion

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 26 ---
dates and coordination of transportation schedules
through the Soviet Zone combined to retard the project's
finishing date by several weeks.

Remaining furniture contracts were awarded to nearby
manufacturers,

Careful selection as to quality and design — and crea-
tion of several new designs — went into the furnishing of
each apartment. Furnishings were arranged according to
12 different layouts.

When the keys were turned over to first occupants,
each apartment contained the best that mass-produced
German design could afford in basic removable-type furni-
ture, built-in furniture, rugs and draperies, table silver,
chinaware, glassware and complete kitchen utensils.

AKING STOCK UPON COMPLETION of the project,
Germans and Americans alike could point to a
number of benefits which evolved with the building.

Employment of German construction workers reached
2,500 at the peak of the building period; almost all of
Frankfurt’s skilled labor was employed. Construction
speed was evenly maintained, except during the two-
week building workers’ strike and slowdowns in tile
setting and fine-wood finishing, both of which trades
lacked skilled labor.

Though project work came to a standstill, HICOG
maintained a hands-off policy in the Hesse-wide strike.

American ideas, developed by German manufacturers,
in several instances were seed for German patents. Locks
on the apartment entrances were later patented as were
the suspension and track for the retracting sliding doors
in bedroom wardrobes.

Several struggling businesses got a much-needed boost
through sub-contracts. Thanks to project orders, a number
of small businesses took root and expanded considerably.

Financial rules set up for bidders were relaxed in one in-
stance to include two associations of small refugee wood-
working firms. Though their financial position was weak,
the two groups formed associations in order to command
the necessary manpower and machinery required to pro-
duce the minimum quantity allowed in the bidding.

HAT HICOG RECEIVED remarkable value for the
GARIOA (Government and Relief in Occupied
Areas) counterpart funds spent would be apparent if a

Project pioneered in use of renovated rubble for building.

i
{

Beribboned wreath marks completion of building framework.

rough comparison were made between cost of the Frank-
furt project and a similar one in America. Fundamental
estimates — though difficult to arrive at due to variance
in conditions — show a 25 percent savings on the Frank-
furt buildings. Important, of course, is the lower cost of
labor in Germany.

In an American city of the size of Frankfurt, no con-
tractor or real estate firm could afford the construction
as designed for HICOG. Where this settlement took root
on borrowed, city-owned land, high real estate costs in
the United States would require investors to build ver-
tically rather than spread out as the HICOG project was
able to do.

An equally spacious US housing development could
only be erected on cheap land some distance from the
metropolitan area, whereas the HICOG project is but a
few minutes away from downtown Frankfurt.

HICOG's building achievement continues a source of
intent interest to Frankfurt citizens. Large numbers have
visited the site, while contractors, architects and builders
in no way connected with the work kept close tabs on
construction efforts. Tours were arranged for German
newsmen as well as a home economics group.

Perhaps through the project's example, better housing
will emerge where rubble marks the vast destruction of
war. Perhaps the necessity of building again can be
turned into an advantage for Germany's next generation
if higher housing standards are given a chance to con-
tribute to building a new, healthy mentality. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
IDE-EYED AND BRIMFUL of enthusiasm for the life

he found in the United States, 16-year-old Wolfgang
Bernhardt returned to his Berlin home early in January
to tell his countrymen behind the Iron Curtain “what
democracy means and how it works.”

He participated in a series of broadcasts over RIAS
(Radio in the American Sector) describing the very real
freedoms he said he found throughout his 8,500-mile
nationwide tour of the United States. RIAS is regularly
heard by more than 80 percent of Berlin's radio audience
and a large percentage of listeners in the Soviet Zone.

Wolfgang toured most of the 48 states in two months
and spoke with an estimated 6,000,000 students and
15,000,000 adults through both personal appearances and
15 radio or television shows. He visited scores of Ameri-
can high schools, speaking before student audiences and
answering questions about Berlin.

Everywhere, he said, he had two constant impressions:

“Democracy in America isn't just a formula or a slogan:
it's a way of life which is very real and very practical.”

“Americans are determined that aggression and the
tyranny of Communism must be halted.”

OLFGANG, SON OF A PROMINENT Berlin phy-

sician, flew to the United States with Gen. Lucius
D. Clay after the World Freedom Bell dedication on Oct. 24.
At the end of that month he participated in the annual
Freedoms Foundation National School Award presenta-
tion ceremony at Valley Forge, Pa., which was carried
on a national radio hookup. Shortly afterward, scores of
schools invited Wolfgang to speak to their students —
to tell of life in Berlin and in the oppressed areas be-
hind the Iron Curtain. Thus resulted his tour.

“I couldn't help but get the impression, everywhere
I went," Wolfgang said, ‘that there is really a free life in
the United States. Over there it's called ‘The American
Way of Life,’ but I don’t see why we couldn't have it here
in Germany, too. I couldn't find anything tricky or ex-
clusive in it. As far as I could see, it was simply that
people have learned to work together, to help and to
respect each other. I think we've also been learning that
here since the war, especially in Berlin, but there is more
to do before we can really say we have achieved the
free life I found in America.”

Wolfgang said he was particularly struck by American
schools, which he found far advanced over those in Eu-
tope. “Schools in the United States," he said, ‘are not just
places to study. They're places where people learn how
to be good citizens, how to make good homes, how to
work with each other. Most of all, schools in the States
are places where young people learn they are personally
responsible for the society in which they live, and indi-
vidually responsible for the kind of government they get.”

He spoke of student government in American schools
which he said was an eyeopener. He was impressed by
the existence in nearly all high schools of “school news-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

% E :
Back from a two-month tour, Wolfgang has enthusiastic-—

ally told fellow-Germans behind the Iron Curtain what
he saw and heard in the United States, (RIAS-Rudolph photo) ~

papers — which are actually prepared and published by
the students themselves.” He was impressed, too, by the
co-educational school system, by the large number of
practical subjects studied by the pupils and by the wealth
of audio-visual teaching aids and the large school audi-
toriums “which are as big as our biggest movie houses,”

NOTHER VIVID RECOLLECTION was that he was ~
not once asked to show his identification papers”
anywhere, and no one ever shouted at him.

“Come to think of it, though," he said reflectively,
“once in St. Louis, Mo., I heard a policeman yell at a
motorist who was jamming traffic on a busy street. But ~
that was the only time. And I think the reason people ~
don’t shout at each other in the States as much as in |
Europe is because they have more respect for each other.”

Wolfgang reported widespread US curiosity about the
situation in Berlin and about conditions in the Soviet Zone.

“It was kind of embarrassing to act as a spokesman for
Berlin before so many groups,” he contessed, “But I was
able to tell them that we Berliners learned what freedom
meant, and that we learned it was something which had
to be earned during the blockade and the months which
followed it. I was amazed at the interest of Americans ~
in our welfare and at their appreciation for the morale of
the Berliners.”

The young man concluded by saying that the aim of ©
his broadcasts over RIAS was to inform people of what
he saw and experienced in the United States.

“T want to report,” he said, “that America is not a rich ©
country simply because of its natural resources. I want
io show how its wealth comes instead from the energy ©
and the freedom of the people. 4

“T want to tell how I found people living and working —
together in harmony, and how out of that cooperation —
and mutual respect have come strength and freedom, 4

“IT hope what I have to say is heard by many people in ©
Eastern Germany.” --END

FEBRUARY 1951 _

--- Page 28 ---
Surveying the Occupation

Broadcast

By CHARLES M. EMERICK

Resident Officer, Fuerth, District 11], OLC Bavaria

O REVIEW OBJECTIVELY the

American occupation of Germany
is a big task. Nevertheless, one cannot
have been continuously a part of-this
occupation since Feb. 15, 1945, without
having formed some impressions and
without having come to certain con-
clusions. This short review is strictly
my own, a reaction to the experiences
of almost six years both as an Army
officer in Military Government and
as a HICOG resident officer. Perhaps

A flood of commentary via
mail and telephone greeted Resi-
dent Officer Charles M. Emerick
at the conclusion of his broad-
cast, reprinted here, over the
American Forces Network in
Nuremberg. His talk was one of
a series entitled “Your Resident
Officer’ designed to acquaint
Americans, Allies and English-
speaking Germans with US aims
and activities in Germany.

In the winter of 1945-46 and 1946-47
hunger stalked the land. Many of us
can recall the saddening sight of empty
store windows at Christmas in 1945
and 1946. You remember the German
people who were working for the
Americans living on one meal a day
which was furnished by the occupation.
You remember the amazing and ridi-
culous blackmarket in cigarettes, the
value of a pound of coffee or a pound
of butter. Most people felt that in

retribution all these agonies were

some of it will be helpful. It is my
sincere hope that some things I say
may contribute to the better performance of our mission.
We are fortunate to be members of the American
occupation of Germany and to see at first hand the
development of a great plan. Each of us should ex-
perience satisfaction that we too are helping. I believe
it is safe to say that never before in the history of the
civilized world has a victorious group treated a vanquished
people with so much consideration. But the position of
the United States Government is not the subject of this
little speech. What is important is the effectiveness of
our stewardship of the American zone. I think it is well
for those of us who make up the American occupation
group to review thoughtfully our stay in Germany.

N THE SPRING OF 1945 we came into a totally de-

feated Germany — a nation suffering from all of the
agonies of bad government, mistaken leadership and a
misled people; a country devastated, disorganized, for-
lorn, and a people hopelessly dejected. Either through
fear or because of the vicissitudes of the past they were
willing to jump with childlike eagerness to our smallest
wish or command,

Millions of DP’s streamed through every avenue of
escape and on every thoroughfare. These DP’s had been
gathered up like corn in the conquered lands and brought
to Germany as workers. They were mistreated, starved,
unclothed and made vicious by the pitiless monstrosity
of Nazi administration. There were also German refugees
moved from Berlin, from the Ruhr and other bombed areas.

At the same time thousands of Germans were fleeing
to the West from a horror which was most difficult for
the Americans then to understand. The transportation
System was in a shamble, the cities destroyed, the govern-
Ments disorganized. Leaders in government had fled.
There were no telephone communications, no post office,
no fuel and no automobiles.

FEBRUARY 1951

25)

justly coming and deserved to be

heaped upon the German nation. Into this came the mil-
lions of refugees fleeing from the places that had been
their homes for centuries, forced to move because they
insisted they were Germans and would remain Germans.
These things were what we as an American occupation
inherited, Added to this we as conquerers were deter-
mined to crush out of Germany anything which we
believed had been causes of the terrible conflict. Despite
the lack of food in the early days of our occupation,
there were few, if any, people that died of starvation.
Few people died for lack of medical assistance, if that
assistance were in the possession of the Occupation Forces.

ET'S LOOK AT THE PICTURE NOW. December 1950
found the store windows full of goods, people
again fairly well dressed, women with clothes of their
own choice and an opportunity to earn a decent living.
The trains are running on time. Telephone communications
have been re-instituted all over Germany with inter-
national hookups; there is a post office department that
is extremely good. Windows now have glass in them,
not dark and dismal cardboard, wood, rags and other
unsightly materials. Government has returned to the
people and with it free elections, free press, free speech.
There is a police force that is gradually beginning to
understand what is meant by giving service rather than
demanding service from the citizens, The people are
unafraid. They meet and discuss their
problems. They criticize the occupation,
and aggravating though it may be,
sometimes even tell us where we have
made mistakes. They do this without
fear of arrest. Now we find ourselves
in a normal society. When we look

Charles M. Emerick
(Photo by Harren, Fuerth)

--- Page 29 ---
back at our record, we can be proud. Mistakes we have
made, but the over-all planning and the execution of the
plans have been good.

Our main objective here has been to assure the world
that Germany never again would use its resources to
the disadvantage, harm and personal degradation of other
people. We believe in America that this can not occur
when the avenues of free will are safeguarded and when
the institutions and the government of Germany are
controlled by the will of a free people. Then Germany
will become a cooperative member of the Western
society. To this great objective we have set our course.

Our government in cooperation with the Allies has
assisted the German people to build a house of freedom
in western Germany. Compare it to a man who has been
given sufficient money to build a new home. How the
man lives in this house is another matter. The home
may assist a man to be a better citizen in his community,
but a fine house alone will not guarantee good citizenship.
He must have had experiences which make him believe
good citizenship is worthwhile. Examples of good citi-
zenship we as Americans must display to the Germans.

E HAVE SET OUR TASK to assist the German to put
their house in order and guide the occupants toa
more democratic way of life. We know well the Western
nations have had a long and continued struggle towards
a more democratic society. Democracy was not given to
the United States, it was inherited, earned, developed.
The advantages of a democratic state have not been
prevalent in Germany. The German individual must be
given faith if he is to accept democracy. His experiences
have not been too satisfactory. He has been puffed up
by false philosophy, he has been organized and militariz-
ed and ruled in an empire which led him after false gods
and to a major defeat. He has seen a democracy estab-
lished in word and misused in fact. He has seen that
democracy flow into a dictatorship which brought tragedy,
shame and complete destruction to his home and his
nation. Naturally he is inclined to be skeptical.

He is inclined to be skeptical of the type of govern-
ment offered by the Allies. Our weapons and superior
strength he understood, respected and feared. The or-
ganizations and mechanics of a more democratic society
he can understand, but this is not enough. Somehow and
from somewhere Germany must feel the profound spiritu-
ality of democracy. Perhaps the spirit can be caught
from the individual members of the American occupation
forces. This means all of us — soldiers, officers, civilians,
every man, woman and child of the occupation.

HE GERMAN PEOPLE MUST BE MADE to believe in

this article we are trying to sell. We are the models,
wearing a garment designed by the hands of a
free people. There are only two exhibitors, the East
and the West. When we indicate our apparent feelings
of superiority at every opportunity, we are not display-
ing our garment to its best advantage. A victorious
people can well afford to be generous and tolerant. Yet
I have seen many manifestations of our own boastfulness

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

and intolerance. Sometimes we like to remind the Ger-
mans who won the war. We must remember that the
Germans do not like the occupation, the humiliations
of which consciously or unconsciously make them aware
of our victory and our generosity even though they don't
admit it. These people are traditionally proud, maybe
arrogant and likewise critical. Nevertheless, they are
capable of catching the spirit of a democratic society.
By our actions we can assist them. .

An example of what I mean: In June of this year I
was making a long distance telephone call at the Ex-
celsior Hotel in Munich. I had booked my call and was
waiting. I was chatting with the hotel clerk and the
telephone operator. Both understand English very well.
An American woman came and booked a call. She an-
nounced quite energetically that she wanted that call
put through to Augsburg immediately. She then began
to condemn the German telephone system in the pres-
ence of these people. She said: “And have you seen
this city? I replied that I had. She said: ‘What an aw-~
ful mess it is. She thought that the German people
were the laziest people on earth, just waiting around’
for the Americans to come and help them. I asked her
how long she had been in Germany and she replied,
“Six months.” The hotel clerk walked away, the oper-
ator went back to her board and I went and got a drink.
I ask you, just what good did that remark do?

I have had a few Americans express to me over the*
telephone in my office their resentment and dislike of
Germans, forgetting entirely their obligations to. our
mission, and their responsibilities as members of the oc-
cupation., Such little things do us much harm. Unpaid
debts, unnecessary quarrels with Germans — in the
month of October alone in the county of Fuerth there,
were 24 minor disturbances in cafes, broken windows
and so forth. Add to that the incident of the bomb ex-
plosions in the city of Fuerth. These things I have seen
ad infinitum. These thoughtless acts and words have a
staggering and destructive impact upon our well thought
out plans and policies.

UR GOVERNMENT HAS KEPT its word to the Ger-

man people, much to their surprise. Many of them
have admitted to me that when they were told five
years ago how this occupation was to develop they con-
sidered it so much propaganda. But to the average Ger-
man, the rank and file, the worker, our employees, the
man on the street car, the people in the cafe, to these
people, we are the occupation. How we conduct our-
selves, in the final analysis, will determine whether or
not the German people buy our garment.

These responsibilities we cannot escape. I believe all
of us in the past have regarded the effect of our actions
with too little consideration. Many times I have seen.
our good high level contributions lost track of because
one of us has forgotten, momentarily, the dignity that
a free people inherit and possess. The chips are down.
This is not a struggle for peanuts and peppercorn. If
you don't know what the struggle is about and why we
are here, you'd better find out, and quickly. + END

FEBRUARY 195

--- Page 30 ---
By WILLIAM F. KEEFE

Staff Writer, Public Relations Branch
Berlin Element HICOG

\RANSLATED INTO COLD, official prose the letter
T said that the project was of great value to needy
school children. A full report on the subject might have
added that the program had proven effective both as a
means of increasing classroom efficiency and as a
health measure.

As written, the letter ran: “People who receive
friendly gifts generally like to say ‘thank you' to the
donor. That is why I am writing you .

“My son has attended school since last March, and
as long as I had a job which prevented my being home
at noon the food was of special value. Now that I am
unemployed, and in a financially poor position as a
refugee, it is a necessary help to us .

The writer was referring to the School Feeding Pro-
gram for West Berlin, under which some 325,000
students in west sector educational institutions are
receiving one hot meal daily. Her sentiments, mailed to
Dr. Harry B. Wyman, chief of the General Education
Section, Berlin Element-HICOG, reflect the feelings of
West Berlin parents with children of school age, many
of whom have joined with local teachers in expressing

Mrs. Louise Schroeder, Berlin's deputy mayor, receives
DM 2,125,000 ($506,000) check to cover first quarter of
current year's school feeding program from Edward Page,
Jr., director of Berlin Element of HICOG. Right, Dr. Harry
B. Wyman, chief, General Education, BE-HICOG, samples
meal at Mariendorf school. (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

Young Berliners queue up for free hot, noontime meal.

their gratitude — in more formal terms — at the decision
which allocated DM 8,500,000 (around $2,023,000) to
finance the program in Berlin.

Approved by US High Commissioner John J. McCloy,
the feeding program is supplying hot noon meals to
students in primary, secondary and vocational schools,
and in universities and special institutes.

T IS ESTIMATED that in the 1950-51 school year the

program will make possible provision of 68,000,000
meals to students ranging in age from six to 25 years
and older.

A check for DM 2,125,000, first installment of the
funds set aside for the project, was turned over on
Nov. 1 to Mrs. Louise Schroeder, deputy mayor of Berlin.
Presentation was made by Edward Page, Jr., Berlin

--- Page 31 ---
Element director. Speaking for West Berlin’s youthful
school-going population, Mrs, Schroeder expressed her
“deep. appreciation” to Mr. Page and the Office of the
US High Commissioner for the contribution.

City Councilor Walter May, head of the Magistrat's
Main School Office, and John C. Thompson, then chief
of the Berlin Education and Cultural Relations Branch,
were also present at the brief ceremonies, held in Mrs.
Schroeder's office in the West Berlin Town Hall.

Now well into its third full school year, the feeding
program provides each of its participants — estimated
to total 95 percent of the entire student population of
West Berlin, which includes thousands of refugee
youngsters from East Germany—an average of 360
extra calories daily. Main items on the menu are
enriched soups, stews, chocolate, cocoa and rolls. Only
food of the highest quality is used.

Administrative charges, including costs of cooking
the food in centrally-located kitchens and for distribut-
ing it to the schools, are borne by the City Council,
which has provided DM 5,000,000 for that purpose.

ICOG EDUCATION OFFICIALS say the School

Feeding Program is “extraordinarily beneficial” in
Berlin, where, because unemployment remains an acute,
unsolved problem, many families rely on relief checks
for an income. Thus many of the program's beneficiaries
would get very little—-in some cases, nothing — for
lunch if they were left to their own resources.

In addition, it is pointed out, the general health of
the student is materially benefited by provision of a hot
noon meal. Classroom efficiency rises proportionately,
both on a long-range basis and from the day-to-day
viewpoint.

Best recommendation for the program, according to
school officials responsible for its successful operation,
is the enthusiastic response of the students themselves
— boys and girls of all ages, youngsters of all walks
of life.

As one of these officials said, “Just to watch those
kids go after that hot food is a pleasure. As far as I'm
concerned, money couldn't be devoted to any better
purpose.” -+END

You know this lad; he has
at you from posters at US /
Forces installations throughout
West Germany. Six-year-old Larry
Gross, shown here with his father,
Chief Warrant Officer Jim W.
Gross of the 2105th Air Weather
Group, stationed in Wiesbaden, is
the boy who posed for the Armed
Services March of Dimes poster
in the 1951 campaign, which was
launched throughout the US Zone
Jan, 15 and closed Feb. 10 after
establishing new records in dona-
tions at most EUCOM military
posts. A victim of polio before
he was two years old, Larry has
now shed the crutches and one of
the braces he wears in the poster
picture — thanks mainly to treat-
ments financed and supervised by
the National Foundation for In-
fantile Paralysis. Larry lives in
Wiesbaden at present, a_ first-
grade student in the Dependents’
School. As one of the youngsters
who should know its worth, Larry
helped kick off the Wiesbaden
area drive for funds to combat
polio, carrying from office to office
an old cigar box inscribed with
a sign, “Give to the March of
Dimes," (USAFE photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 32 ---
A View of Labor

By LOWELL BENNETT
Chief, Public Relations Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG

HIRTY BERLINERS, RETURNING from visits to the

United States as labor specialists under the HICOG
exchange program, were quick to praise the role of
trade unions in American political and economic life,
but noted a number of shortcomings, too.

Of those West Berlin residents who have made US
visits during the past two years on labor exchange
grants, 21 studied US trade union organization, four stud-
ied arbitration and conciliation methods as well as
collective bargaining procedures, two studied workers’
education, one studied problems of social security and
two others investigated the work of public agencies.

As a result of these visits, according to US Berlin
labor officials, there has been a remarkable strengthen-
ing and activation of the Berlin labor movement brought
about by new viewpoints and experiences. There has
been increased interest in worldwide problems as well
as in experimental activities to improve trade union work.

What the 30 exchangees learned during their visits
has been diffused locally to a wide group, by word of
mouth, by radio broadcasts, newspaper articles, public
forums and meetings within the works’ councils of their
own plants.

“A growing understanding of American ways and
ideals can be noted among German trade unionists as a
result of these exchanges,” a US official said. ‘This
understanding in turn has developed an increasing will-
ingness to act in the furtherance of democratic ideas.”

OST OF THE VISITORS were particularly impress-
N ed by social and political freedoms and the lack
of class-consciousness which they found in the United
States. They were equally struck by the deep sense of
personal civic responsibility which they found among
Americans. A third positive impression most of the
exchangees reported was that American labor and man-
agement seem able to work together effectively toward
common goals.

One visitor said she was “amazed at the miraculous
spectacle of the 48 states, each jealously preserving its
individual rights and yet cooperating wholeheartedly in
national affairs."

The same Berliner, Lotte R. Lauterbach of the US Sector
borough of Neukoelln, said also that she found, how-
ever, that American women enjoy neither the favorable
working conditions nor the remuneration for their labor
that is common practice in Germany. Miss Lauterbach,
39, is a member of the women's committee of the Berlin
Post Office Union.

“I was appalled," she said, “to see that in the United
States there are many places where the working condi-
tions for women are harder than they are in Germany.
Unless private agreements have been made, for example,
American women do not even have the benefit of a

FEBRUARY 1951

29

maternity law. I also found that, although it is every-
where true in Germany, the principle of ‘same wages
for the same kind of work’ is nowhere adhered to.”

Miss Lauterbach, however, was very favorably im-
pressed with the American educational system, which
she flatly described as “better than ours in Germany."
She was especially struck by the civic training for
youths which she found to be an integral part of the
schooling. “Young Americans are taught the importance
of personal responsibility,’ she said, ‘and this is an
extraordinarily healthy program.”

BERLIN NEWSPAPER COMMERCIAL editor, Dr. Er-
frid Heinecke, 51, of Schoeneberg borough, said he
was “astonished at the thorough understanding of European
problems which I found in all strata of the population.
And there was an especial interest in German questions."
He hailed the progress achieved in collective bargain-
ing and the high degree of cooperation and understand-
ing between labor and management. “There seemed to
be no struggling proletariat as we have so long known
it in Europe,” he recalled. ‘There was no embattled
self-consciousness among the poor. And there was, I
found, a fundamental refusal to classify people, divid-
ing them as in Europe, among the ‘officials,’ the ‘em-
ployees’ and the ‘workers.’

Dr. Fritz Kucharski, 57, of Nikolassee borough, who is
chairman of the Berlin Social Insurance Office, urged
upon his return to Berlin that “the knowledge should be
spread throughout Germany that the government and
its agencies are not venerable and fearful powers, but
are simply the means to resolve the problems which
arise in a modern community of millions of individuals.”
In the United States, he said, it is widely acknowledged
that “the government is the servant and not the boss.”

He was also struck by the successful intermingling
of so many nationalities within one national framework.
“There seemed to be no clear-cut economic classes in
America, and there seemed to be an understood and
unspoken tolerance among all the people for each
other.’ Collective bargaining in the United States, he
pointed out, “is a successful operation. Europeans must
learn to use it asa helpful instrument, not as a medium
for making the consumer pay more for goods.”

HE ABSENCE IN MANY American plants of ade-
quate safety facilities was a negative note sounded
in the report of Erich Kuss, 53, of Siemensstadt borough.
He said he had the impression that both employers and
employees “seemed too preoccupied with making
money" to establish sufficient safety provisions in some
of the factories.
On the other hand, Mr. Kuss, who is a member of the
Siemens’ works council, said he was favorably impressed

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
with the union leaders he met, and with their energy
and enthusiasm for their jobs. “In Germany, with the
Nazi epoch behind us," he said, “we still have a lot of
work to do in the direction of developing high-caliber
union leadership and union management.”

Another Berliner who paid tribute to American union
officials was Hans Peter Ohlshausen, 51, of Siemensstadt.
Mr. Ohlshausen, also on the Siemens’ works council,
returned full of appreciation of the “growing awareness
of the leaders of the big American unions that the work-
ers themselves are co-responsible not only for wages
and working conditions in their own plants, but for the
US economy as a whole.”

He pointed out, however, that “the working pace in
America is murderous. I'm sure it is far faster than the
German average. This may be one reason for the acci-
dents and lower efficiency of Americans after about 20
years of work. And it indicates, I think, that the US
unions should pay closer attention to the speed of the
work." Mr. Ohishausen also said he felt that social in-
surance in Germany is still well ahead of America,
because here it grants the workers “extensive, legally-
guaranteed security for old age and sickness.”

Like the others, though, Mr. Ohlshausen marveled at
the “natural, healthy individualism expressed in every
way in daily life.”

LRICH BISCHOFF, 30, a student at the Berlin Col-
lege. of Political Science, who lives in Spandau
borough, reported that “American trade unions are un-

doubtedly more realistic, more practical than ours in q

Germany. German unions are perhaps more sound, ideo-
logically, but somehow they are not as close to the
workers, and they don't keep the workers as busy.”
He was especially impressed with the local union offices
and meeting halls with their recreational activities, mod-
ern furnishings and audio-visual aids.

“American unions seem to refrain far more than their
German counterpart from the idle examination of poli-
tico-economic theories — and confine themselves to
practical activities. Here in Germany, there are a few
one-sided political economists, and there is the mass of
the followers who simply parrot their very theoretical
suggestions like gospel.”

Ludwig Sabel, 46, is the press manager of the Social
Security Institute of Berlin. His highest praise of his three-
month US visit was for the idea of exchanges as such. He
found the HICOG Exchange of Persons program “proof
that the United States is so strong it has nothing to
hide .. . and even shows foreign visitors its weak points
as well as the things of which it is justifiably proud.”

Mr. Sabel said, “No one even tried to stop me from
taking snapshots; no one ever asked for my papers; and
I was able to talk quite freely with anyone I wished.”

He called for the establishment of “exchangee associa-
tions’ in Germany, among groups who had visited the
United States and other Western countries since the
war, so that the ideas they learned and brought back with
them may be crystallized and brought to effective
fruition. + END

DIDEG Acts against Electrical Manufacturers

HE DECARTELIZATION and Industrial Deconcen-

tration Group (DIDEG) of the Allied High Com-
mission has acted to protect the public from the effects
of illegal price-fixing and cartel arrangements in the
sale of electrical fittings.

DIDEG has charged two German trade associations, the
Zentralverband der Elektrotechnischen Industrie, (ZVEI),
and the Fachabteilung Installationsmaterial, a sub-divi-
sion of ZVEI, with having violated Allied decartelization
laws through activities designed to eliminate compe-
tition among manufacturers of electrical fittings.

The two trade associations are alleged to have issued
price regulations and to have promoted agreements to
maintain uniform and non-competitive prices, terms and
conditions of sale in both domestic and export markets.

ZVEI, located in Frankfurt, comprises a large number
of manufacturers of all types of electrical equipment
and is the major trade association for the electrical in-
dustry in the Federal Republic. The Fachabteilung Instal-
lationsmaterial, with its main office at Schalkmuehle,
Westphalia, includes approximately 200 manufacturers
producing various types of electrical fittings, such as
plugs, switches, sockets, fuses, junction boxes and simi-
lar articles.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

Specifically, DIDEG alleges that the two trade organi-
zations have violated US Military Government Law 56,
British Military Government Ordinance 78 and the
French Commander-in-Chief's Ordinance 96. It is alleged
that representatives of these trade organizations negoti-
ated with groups of foreign wholesalers and with foreign
manufacturers in an attempt to conclude agreements
establishing prices and eliminating competition in foreign
markets. One particular agreement, supposedly, was made
with Belgian manufacturers and Dutch wholesalers for
the purpose of controlling the Dutch market; under the
terms of this agreement manufacturers bound themselves
to sell solely to specified wholesalers who, in turn,
agreed to purchase only from manufacturers who had
signed the agreement and adhered to established prices.

The two trade associations have been called upon to
“show cause’ why DIDEG should not order them to
terminate their activities in restraint of trade, to cease
negotiating cartel agreements with foreign manufacturers

and distributors, and to abandon their participation in —

illegal foreign agreements. The respondents are also
asked why they should not be required to dissolve the
Fachabteilung Installationsmaterial as the subsidiary
organization of ZVEI for the allegedly illegal activities.

FEBRUARY 1951

essere

--- Page 34 ---
One great difficulty confronting US Resident Oificers, especially those of the
remote communities, is the instituting of “Citizen's Committees’ — an important
project in the effort to introduce Germans to democratic action. Here an officer
tells about the barriers with which he was confronted and how he overcame them.

Swabia Speaks Up

By A. B. TROWBRIDGE
US Resident Officer, Heidenheim County, Wuerttemberg-Baden

OTHING IS REAL or likely to be permanent unless
N it is understood and voluntarily agreed upon. No
statement could better explain the future of town meet-
ings and citizen's committees in the county of Heidenheim.

I no sooner had arrived at my posit in the heart of
Swabia* when I realized that citizen’s committees formed
by the order of a resident officer are of little value, that
committee members are bound to lack fundamental un-
derstanding of their duties and usefulness, that they
would collapse overnight if the officer were to take exit.
While persuasion is a strong medicine, there is a limit to
its use in the democratization process.

One of the first and most important duties of a US
resident officer is the formation of a citizen's committee
(Buergerausschuss) in each town of his area, generally
a county. The chief duties of the committees entail the
organizing and conducting of public forums.

Heidenheim was to be no exception.

However, upon my arrival last spring I was informed
that Heidenheim’s mayors and town councils felt quite
competent to handle whatever problems arose in their
villages. In surveying the situation I found that during
1949, forums had been held in 37 out of the county's 39
towns. Called by the local Military Government officer,
these meetings generally were well received, giving the
local citizenry their first opportunity in nearly 20 years
to give voice to their grievances,

N CONTRAST TO 1949, the first seven months of 1950

had not produced one single forum in the entire county.
An investigation made it obvious that local officials had
no intention of calling such meetings.

A hopeful beginning had been made in Steinheim,
where a friendly mayor welcomed the establishment of
such a committee. On the very day of my arrival my
predecessor, a state legislature official and I were invited
to a ‘discussion evening.” There we met with the mayor,
the town council and persons representing the sporting
Club, the singing club, the school, farmers, church and
local business..Before the evening's end a lively discus-
sion had ensued. The outcome of this meeting was the
formation of the first citizen's committee in Heidenheim
County.

Despite newspaper publicity and the favorable local

Tesults of this firstventure, there was little if any indication
==

The areas of Wuerttemberg, Western Bavaria and Hesse, in the
US Zone of today, which made up the Duchy of Swabia (Schwaben)
in medieval Germany.

FEBRUARY 1951

31

from the other towns that they had any intention of
following suit.

Discouraged but determined to get to the bottom of both
the hostility and apathy, I forwarded 300 copies of the
booklet Das Gemeindeforum (The Town Forum) to all county
mayors and a selected list of schoolteachers, churchmen
and other leading citizens. This pamphlet, ably prepared
by three experienced resident officers, explained in detail
the purpose of public forums as a vehicle of encourage-
ment in the democratic participation of citizens for open
discussion of community problems. “Citizens should
speak in open meetings and feel frée to constructively
criticize the local administration. Such action is a definite
responsibility of the citizen.”

The booklet went on to explain how citizen's com-
mittees are selected; what kinds of community problems
can profitably be discussed in public meeting and how a
committee can plan an interesting program throughout
the year in consultation and with the support of the
mayor and the town council.

NOWING THAT CIRCULATION of the book was

not enough, I selected, with the aid of a Heidenheim
County map, six or seven centrally located villages
within the county and asked the respective mayors to
invite their counterparts about them to meet with me
when next I visited the village. In two months, through
a series of luncheons, I had met with every mayor in
Heidenheim County. At these meetings I invariably came
to the subject of the citizen's committee and found that
interest in this subject was definitely lacking.

The forums of 1949, complained my dinner guests, pro-
duced discussions, the subjects of which were too
general and which usually dealt with world problems
beyond the interest or comprehension of the villagers,
Some felt that the forums only brought up problems
without solving them while others said the meetings
only stirred up antagonism within the village. Some even
admitted that it was most embarrassing and undignified
to. be exposed to criticism and questions which they were
not prepared to answer. Opinion was general that forums
had a place in large cities, but not in the small community.

Despite the disagreements and highly opinionated dis-
cussions which took place, the series of informal lunch-
eons proved to be interesting and the mayors seemed
highly pleased to be invited. And for me there was one
immediate and lasting reward. A flood of requests from

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
the villages resulted in my attending children’s festivals,
singing festivals, school ceremonies and trips of inspec-
tion to kindergartens, schools, public baths, laundries,
water tanks, housing projects, bakeries, cooperatives
and even the slaughterhouses. Each visit renewed my
contact with the mayors, all of whom seemed ap-
preciative of my interest in their problems.

OW IT WAS TIME to meet Mr. Public. During the

summer I organized a series of discussion evenings
in selected villages with a view to winning leading
citizens behind my movement. The response was astound-
ing; not one mayor refused or ignored my request. Despite
the fact local farmers had a daily dawn-to-darkness
schedule, turnouts were tremendously encouraging — in
one village alone an invitation to 25 persons resulted in
more than 200 participants.

But defeatism seemed to be the theme. The hold of
some of the mayors over their villagers was often so well
organized that many groups voted against the instituting
of a citizen's committee.

My defeat at one evening discussion was amusing. To
my amazement 210 persons came to what been announc-
ed as merely a discussion evening. With such a large
audience and its apparent enthusiasm fully in mind, my
assistant and I presented a thorough explanation of our
citizen's committee plan. After a two-hour discussion a
vote was called. In complete shock and bewilderment
I saw three hands rise in favor of the plan. With a roar
of laughter 207 voted in opposition. Esteem for the town
officials was seconded by boasts that there was no finer
town council in all of Swabia.

On the other hand a favorable vote at another town
meeting came as somewhat of a shock to the mayor.
From his opening words he made it clear that there was
no place for such a committee in his village. Our answer
to his arguments apparently convinced the assembled
villagers — the committee plan received 68 votes, the
opposition five.

These meetings often presented evidence that youth,
generally strongly in favor of the citizen's committee idea,
were browbeaten by mayors or council members who
treated them with extreme discourtesy.

NE THING NOTABLY LACKING at the gatherings

was the presence of women. The humble position of
the female in the Swabian villages made it possible for
as few as two women to put in an appearance at a meeting
of 120 persons. Only in one town did several women
have the courage to take an active part in a discussion.
The need of correcting the situation was well illustrated
wherever I went.

Another disturbing barrier to the success of the program
was the fierce animosity which existed on the part of the
old citizens toward the “new citizens'' — mostly refugees.
Cften the first to speak in favor of our proposals, these
individuals, many of them intellectuals and university
graduates, created an air of extreme bitterness among
the less educated older citizens. Consequently defeat
was often a register of village differences rather than merit.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

The importance of having respected and influential .
citizens on our side was attested by the incident of a
newspaper reporter who made it clear early in a meeting
that the plan was useless to his village. But the con-
clusion of the debate found him in a reversed stand and
leading the villagers in the selection of a committee.

EWSPAPERS IN HEIDENHEIM in noting the work

of the committees suddenly realized that none
existed in the city of Heidenheim. The press has been on
our side ever since.

The three permanent committees which exist in Hei-
denheim at present hardly seem profit for the effort
invested and far short of progress compared to the many
successful ones in other communities in existence for
several years.

But the three do symbolize success — their careful
planting and continuous cultivation are insurance of frui-
tion. The program for Germans must be led by Germans
— it must above all be believed in and worked for by
Germans. +END

ECA Aids Lead and Zine Industry

ERMAN OFFICIALS and members of the ECA Special

Mission to Western Germany have signed a contract
for financing the development of one of Germany's largest
lead and zinc ore producing areas.

Under the agreement, ECA will provide DM 2,400,000
($571,200) from US  five-percent counterpart funds to
Stolberger Zink A.G. fuer Bergbau und Huettenbetrieb
(Stolberger Zinc Mining and Smelting Corporation) in
Maubach, near Aachen, North Rhine-Westphalia. Repay-
ment in metals will be made over a five-year period.

The Maubach mine is situated on the northern slope
of the Eifel mountains. The area was mined as early as
the 13th century and has been in intermittent operation
since 1862, Average grade of ore is estimated to be
three percent lead and two percent zinc. A two-phase
program has been laid out for exploitation of the de-
posits, estimated at 28,000,000 metric tons.

The first phase entails building a 400 ton pilot mill
and operating it for at least three years. During this
period, ore dressing processes will be improved, and
deposits will be systematically prospected in depth and
the mine developed to produce 3,000 metric tons of ore
per day. The ECA advance will complete the financing
of this first phase, costing DM 8,500,000 ($2,023,000).

The second phase entails enlarging the capacity of the
mill by an additional 2,600 tons and equipping the mine
to furnish 3,000 tons of ore daily. Cost of the second
phase is estimated at DM 20,000,000 ($4,760,000). The
company is presehtly considering plans for financing the
second phase.

During the exploratory phase the company will pro-
duce at the rate of 400 metric tons of ore per working day,
yielding approximately 1,600 metric tons of lead and 1,050
metric tons of zinc per year. Repayment is to be in zinc
and lead of commercial quality. Deliveries will begin in
1951 at the minimum rate of 500 tons per year.

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 36 ---
General Taylor Leaves Berlin

AJ. GEN. MAXWELL D. TAYLOR, US commander

of Berlin for more than 16 months, has left for his
new assignment as assistant chief of staff, G-3, Depart-
ment of the Army in Washington. He has been replaced
in Berlin by Brig. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson.

The former Berlin commander before departing paid
tribute to the city. Speaking before a plenary session of
the Berlin Magistrat (City Council), General Taylor said,
“The period which I have passed in your city has been
most happy for me. I have found people here possessing
the courage and character which Germany and the
Western world direly need. I have found sympathetic
British and French colleagues who have attached them-
selves without stint to the common cause of maintaining
Berlin as a stronghold of the West. Elsewhere in Ger-
many people marvel at the solidarity of the Allies and the
West Berliners in maintaining a common front on all
vital matters.

“We in Berlin may not see eye to eye on all subjects —
few sincere men do — but we have never known the
doubts, the fears, the hesitancies and the divisions which
fetter the full development of democratic strength in the
West. Why is this, Iam constantly asked? My answer is
that Berliners know the political facts of life; they know
what Communistic domination brings; they know what
the occupation of the Red Army means.

“Here is the spirit of the front line which brings to you
West Berliners and to us transients in your midst a feel-
ing of camaraderie and a solidarity found nowhere else
in Europe. You know what the alternatives are; you have
not buried your head in the sand, hoping that the
threatened Sovietization will not materialize after all.

“I am proud to have been part of the Berlin team for
the last year and a half. Despite my regret at leaving,
I am happy that American determination to support Ber-
lin has never been firmer than now. I have seen the plans
for economic aid during the coming months and consider

that they are most adequate — provided, of course, the
Berliners continue to help themselves as they have in
the past.

“Tam also happy with the selection of my replacement,
General Mathewson. He is an old and respected friend
who brings proved qualities of imagination and leadership
to cope with the problems of Berlin. I am sure that he
will come to know and to prize, as I have, the spirit of
this great city. I am sure that you will give him the same
measure of cooperation and understanding that I have
enjoyed. I am confident that he, too, will be another
American who came to occupy Berlin, stayed to defend
it, and left a Berliner.”

N PAYING TRIBUTE to the former Berlin commander,

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy stated that
during the general's service as US commander of Berlin
he “once again displayed his resolute devotion to the
principles for which we stand and to the service of which
he is an illustrious member. The manner in which he has
performed his difficult and varied duties has symbolized
to free Berliners the community of interest we have with
Berlin and her free citizens." _

Mr. McCloy was joined in his praises by General
Taylor's Allied counterparts in Berlin,

In welcoming the new commander, the High Commis-
sioner spoke of General Mathewson’s record and the
certainty that he will “add a.further effective contribu-
tion to the history of West Berlin, and will carry out his
weighty responsibilities with thoroughness and under-
standing.”

ENERAL TAYLOR TOOK over the Berlin command
from Brig. Gen. Frank L. Howley Sept. 1, 1949, after
serving as chief of staff for the European Command
(EUCOM). His career began in 1922 when he graduated
from West Point, to which he returned from 1945 until
1949 as superintendent. He also is a graduate of the Com-

Berlin's new US commander, Brig. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson (center, left) is welcomed to Germany by US High Commis-
sioner John J. McCloy. Looking on is the former US commander of Berlin, Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, who has left for
Washington to accept a. new assignment in the War Department. Below, right, General Mathewson inspects informal
honor guard of the Berlin Military Post's mounted detachment. Directly behind the new commandant is his predecessor,
(Photos by Jacoby PRD HICOG and PRB BE-HICOG)

General Taylor.

--- Page 37 ---
mand and General Staff School as well as the Army War
College.

An assistant military attache in Tokyo when the Ja-
panese invaded China in July 1937, General Taylor later
went to Peiping as Japanese expert on the staff of US
Military Attache Joseph Stilwell. After his return to the
United States he carried out, between 1940-1941, a military
survey in Latin America

The early years of World War II brought General
Taylor to the European Theater of Operations where in
March 1943 he was assigned as artillery commander of
the 82nd Airborne Division. The following year he un-
dertook a secret mission into Rome to confer with Mar-
shal Badoglio on a possible landing of the division in
Rome to relieve German pressure on the Allied armies
to the South. However, the plan was never carried out
because of Badoglio’s refusal to cooperate.

During the Battle of the Bulge, General Taylor, then —
commander of the 101st Airborne Division, hurried back _
to Europe from Washington, where he had been on con+
sultation, and rejoined his besieged division at Bastogne
Dec. 27, after driving a jeep three miles across enemy-
held territory.

General Mathewson comes to Berlin from Camp Camp-
bell, Ky., where he has been serving as artillery com-
mander of the 18th Airborne Corps. The native New
Yorker is a graduate of West Point and has been in the
Army since 1918. During World War II he served as
artillery officer of the 18th Airborne Corps under Lt. Gen,
Matthew Ridgeway, present commander of the 8th Army in
Korea.

From 1943 to 1944 General Mathewson served as
military aide to the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt.

+END

West Berlin Sees Improved Economy

"PXHE YEAR 1950 GAVE West Berlin new hope for an

improved economy with an increase in the index
of industrial productivity, volume of industrial produc-
tion, exports to both Western Germany and foreign
buyers, and tax revenues.

A survey by the Berlin Marketing Council reveals a
100 percent rise in industrial productivity between July
1949 and August 1950. “A further strong revival has
taken place since then,’ according to the report.

The rise in exports from West Berlin has developed
at a still more spectacular rate. In the 15 months ending
in October 1950, exports were nearly tripled, rising 180
percent. The year 1950 was the first postwar year in
which heavy stress was made on selling Berlin-made
goods in foreign countries.

Among other factors contributing to regular export
increases in 1950 were improvements in production
methods and marketing techniques by Berlin firms pro-
ducing goods for export; increased confidence in the
ability of Berlin exporters to deliver; and development
of specific foreign markets, among them the American,
through participation in fairs and expositions such as
that held last August at Chicago. Following this fair,
imports of Berlin-made goods into the United States in-
creased more than 100 percent over a one month period.

From a low of DM 75,000,000 (nearly $18,000,000)
registered in the third quarter of 1949, West Berlin tax
revenues jumped to DM 180,000,000 (about $42,000,000)
in the third quarter of 1950. Total of industrial produc-
tion scored parallel gains, rising to DM 944,000,000
(almost $225,000,000) in the third quarter of 1950.

Gains in employment were described as “very modest
compared with the rise in production with approxima-
tely 13,000 workers added to industrial payrolls between
July 1949 and October 1950. However, while expanding
their payrolls only slightly over the 15 month period,
West Berlin industries succeeded in nearly doubling the
efficiency of the individual worker.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

The marketing council, which prepared the report, is
in itself considered a good omen for the future of West
Berlin's economy. The council is made up of Allied
advisers working with a German management commit-
tee, representatives of all major West Berlin industries
and Berlin civic authorities and banking officials and is
aimed at boosting sales of local manufacturers through
study of all problems of production and export.

Gun Parts Being Made in Soviet Zone

The “Vera” steel mill in the Soviet Zone has been
producing gun parts for the Red Army for the past
several weeks, the US newspaper, Die Neue Zeitung,
in Berlin, reported. The finished gun parts are tested by
Soviet officers and then crated and transported by
trucks of the Red Armyor the East zone ‘People's
Police," the newspaper added.

Workers at the plant, located at Crossen, near Eisen-
berg, in Saxony, have been explicitly forbidden to go
farther than six miles from their homes without special
permission. When they were hired, special precautions
were taken to insure that all of them were members of
the Communist-run Socialist Unity Party (SED).

Red Army Tanks Given “Volkspolizei"

Fifteen Red Army T-34 tanks have been placed at the
disposal of the Soviet Zone “People’s Police’ for their
spring maneuvers to begin in March, the US newspaper, —
Die Neue Zeitung, in Berlin reported Jan. 3. Nearly
2,000,000 gallons of gasoline and 2,000 tons of diesel oil
have also been allocated by the Soviet-Zone Ministry of
Trade and Supply to supply the tanks, the report added.
Officers from both the Red Army and the armies of
the Soviet satellites in Eastern Europe will also partici-
pate in the spring maneuvers with the paramilitary
“People’s Police,” the Neue Zeitung said.

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 38 ---
Democracy Stalks the Library

By ROBERT BEHRENS

Director, US Information Center, Stuttgart

N AMERICAN, let loose in a German library for the

first time, would doubtless be more than a little
puzzled about procedures. His habit of browsing among
2 shelves, pulling out an occasional volume, and maybe
choosing three or four, would do him no good there.
Patrons in German libraries never see a book until the
librarian fetches it for them,

By using the closed-shelf system, the German library
takes better care of its books than of its readers’ minds.
Under this system, a man could request a book from the
librarian and be turned down cold — all because the
librarian has decided the patron hasn't the education, the
background—and perhaps the reading habits—which war-
rant his borrowing it. It sounds far-fetched, but it happens.

To the American way of thinking, this is deliberate
suppression of information. But the German librarian
will argue that it is his duty to prevent wear and tear
on books. And he will say that the closed-shelf system
necessitates fewer library employees, since there is less
chance of stealing. In a limited sense this is true. But the
basic question is: what is the function of a library? Is
it a dignified mortuary for the preservation of books?
Or is it a center to which people freely can come and
freely take away the books they wish te read? The latter
definition is, of course, the one Americans have chosen
and practiced.

The US Information Centers, and their appended read-
ing rooms, carry this philosophy into Germany. The res-
ponse, in terms of the number of patrons, has far surpassed
the number totaled by similar German installations. Ger-
man readers have run into something new, and they like it.

Pa WITH these facts, German librarians are

prone to say: “Of course, but our audience is more
select than yours.” This is shallow rationalization; per-
haps the educational elite are the only group with courage
enough to tackle the German system. But the elite turns
up at the Information Centers, too, along with persons
in much lower educational brackets.

As a result, there is competition, of a friendly nature,
between the German and the Information Center libraries.
But there are indications that the US library idea is
making inroads on the German.

In Wuerttemberg-Baden, some of the town libraries
are giving the open-shelf system a try. Without benefit
of school-developed prejudices (town librarians are
usually not graduates of library schools), they have taken
their cues from the Information Center reading-rooms
which are established in 20 towns within the state. They
report surprising success. Reversing the claim of their
counterparts in the large cities, they are finding there
is no such thing as a monopoly of interest in books ‘by
one class. They are finding to their amazement that the

FEBRUARY 1951

35

commodity of books, like the ubiquitous commodity of
the refrigerator in America, finds more customers as it is
made more easily availabie to the public.

The influence of Information Center reading rooms is
well illustrated in the town of Leonberg, Wuerttemberg-
Baden. There the American library began with two Army
foot-lockers full of books. Its success was immediate, and
eventually it was given headquarters in a small room for
low rental by the city’s mayor. The continuing populari-
ty of the library convinced the mayor that the towns-
people really believed in the American book-dispersal
system. Although the town already had a library of its
own, a proposal was made that the US reading room be
given larger quarters and that the town library be in-
corporated with it under the American system. With the
mayor signifying his willingness, the idea was tried.
Attendance doubled and trebled. Today the townspeople
can read the books they want, when they want them.

The books are on open shelves in other areas, too. In
the town of Bruchsal, badly damaged in the war, both
the German and American libraries are run by the Ameri-
can library representative,

LL LIBRARIANS in the US Information Center reading

rooms are Germans. In most cases, just one person
is needed to handle the job. In July, a peak month,
76,000 persons visited the American libraries of Wuert-
temberg-Baden. In all cases but three, these libraries were
operated by one person. This persuaded German librari-
ans that the open-shelf system was feasible from a prac-
tical point of view. And as a result, other German librari-
ans in other towns began to seek advice on how to
convert their old systems to the new. Bad Mergentheim,
a resort town, adopted the US system, and so did Tauber-
bischofsheim in the northern part of the state. As time
progresses, the picture is changing in all 20 of the towns
where there are US reading rooms. But for some people,
it is still not moving fast enough.

In Backnang, a small industrial town, the readers
themselves went on a strike to hasten the process. They
declared they would not use the town library until it
instituted the open-shelf system. This is the type of public
opinion pressure found all too rarely in Germany, but it
illustrates that free information is worth a strike and that
a good idea is bound to catch on. +END

Information Center Book Loans Grow
Approximately 60 town libraries and 15 schools,
universities, hospitals and other public institutions of
northwest Germany have been supplied, since May 1948,
with books and publications through a large-scale book-
loan program sponsored by the Bremen US Information

Center. To date 27,000 books have been distributed.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
INFORMATION BULLETIN

36

A Missio

MAN FAMED the world over as a leader in war
A came to Germany in January on a mission of peace.
General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower, supreme
commander of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
returned to the scene of his greatest victory as the
symbol, this time, of Germany's chance to join in the
free world’s defense.

Within minutes after his arrival at Rhine-Main Air
Base, General Eisenhower assured the troubled German
nation that he did not represent the forces of a new
war. “The organization in which I am participating has
only a peaceful purpose. Its object is to discourage
anyone that may be tempted by our currently seeming
weakness to use force against us.”

He made clear that he came as a friend, a man devoted
not to old prejudices but to a fight for the future. ‘For
my part," he told the Germany of 1951, “bygones are
bygones.” He stated frankly that during the last war he
bore a definite antagonism toward Germany and a hatred
for all that the Nazis and Hitlerites stood for. But today,
he continued, “I bear no resentment whatsoever against
Germany as a nation and I certainly do not bear any
against the German people.”

“Today I would like to see the German people lined
up with all other free peoples in a unified defense of
the Western way of life.”

RANKFURT WAS THE next-to-last European stop for

the general, who was touring the NATO capitals in
a brisk fact-finding tour before setting up headquarters.
In Germany to confer with Allied officials and com-
manders, he was trying to determine what had been
done and what more could be done to build an effective
military barrier against new war.

“Freedom cannot be expected to grow by itself like a
weed. There must be something done to protect it,
to give it a sheltering wall behind which it can thrive.”
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization had been con-
ceived from the longings of men and nations for security
against aggression. General Eisenhower, as commander
of the organization, was the man who could answer
many of the questions Germans had about their possible
participation.

Assuaging fears that German soldiers might have
second-class status in a European army, the general said
he would never allow German soldiers to serve under
him except on a basis of equality. He made it clear,
however, that he was not referring to specific details
on the size of Germany's contribution. He was speaking
of the soldier's state of mind and said he would not
assume command of any organization “whose soldiers
were not there believing that they were serving their
country and civilization and freedom.”

“I firmly believe that underneath all of this talk about
political agreement, all of this talk about organizations

FEBRUARY 1951

t
3

--- Page 40 ---
that we must build up, if the heart isn’t there, there is
no use trying. The heart must be right, and if the heart
is determined to support and defend freedom, then we
shall win,”

HERE WAS LITTLE POMP surrounding the general's

visit. He went about quickly conferring with the com-
manders and officials he had come specifically to see.
Welcomed at the airport by US High Commissioner John
J. McCloy, other top HICOG officials, Gen. Thomas
tT. Handy, EUCOM commander-in-chief, and military
leaders from all branches of American, British and
French forces in Germany, the grave but smiling general
talked for 20 minutes with the press, then whisked off
to the European Command headquarters in Heidelberg.
There British, French and US Army, Navy and Air Force
units paraded before him, symbols of the military merger
effected by NATO.

General Eisenhower visited the Darmstadt headquarters
of the First Division and there, as at Heidelberg, trooped
the line of welcoming soldiers.

Sandwiched in with public appearances were the pri-
vate informational conferences which told him the status
of politics and preparedness inside western Germany.
General Eisenhower, who calls himself ‘‘a soldier — not
a statesman, diplomat or politician," met at Bad Hom-
burg with top officials of Germany's Federal Republic.
It was at this meeting — a reception honoring him at the
home of Mr. McCloy — that the five-star general had his
first opportunity to sound out German sentiment and to
offer on a personal basis his assurances as to the pur-
poses of NATO.

N OFF-THE-RECORD TALKS he conferred with Chan-

cellor Konrad Adenauer, parliamentary opposition
leaders Erich Ollenhauer and Carlo Schmid, and the
chancellor's defense advisers, former German generals
Hans Speidel and Adolf Heusinger.

Commenting on his meeting with General Eisenhower,
SPD official Schmid said, “I feel now there will be no
third world war."

Before departing Germany for Paris the next morning,
the general had these comments to make concerning the
German fighting-man. “I have come to know that there
is a real difference between the regular German soldier
and officer and Hitler and his criminal group. For my
part, I do not believe that the German soldier as such
has lost his honor. The fact that certain individuals com-
mitted in war dishonorable and despicable acts reflects
on the individuals concerned and not on the great
majority of German soldiers and officers.”

He also expressed his pleasure at having met with
Bonn leaders at the home of Mr. McCloy.

“From what I have seen and heard,’ General Eisen-
hower remarked, “I am heartened by the political and

FEBRUARY 1951

With famous smile of confidence, General of the Army
Eisenhower returns to Germany (Stars and Stripes photo)

General Eisenhower is greeted on arrival at Rhine-Main by
Mr, McCloy (center) and General Handy. (US Army photo}

The NATO commander lunches with Lt. Gen. Manton S.
Eddy (left), US Seventh Army head, Maj. Gen. John E.
Dahlquist (second from right), First Division chief, and
General Handy. (US Army photo)

--- Page 41 ---
economic progress Germany has made since 1945 toward
a democratic society. I am very pleased I was able to
meet many German leaders who now are doing so much
to help rebuild this country.”

Regarding his mission of welding Western military
units into a force for peace, he said: “I hope that in the
coming months all of us will make progress toward
unity and strength. In unity and strength we have the
best chance to preserve our freedom and peace.”

Back in the United States, in his report to Congress
Feb. 1, General Eisenhower assured America that Europe
had the spirit for a successful job of defense. Comment-
ing on Germany, he said he thought there had “to be a
political platform achieved, an understanding that will
contemplate an eventual and earned equality on the
part of ‘that nation, before we should start to talk about
including units of Germans in any kind of army."

HE GENERAL'S CONFIDENCE in the West's ability
to defend itself was reflected in the nation’s news-
papers.

“Eisenhower's visit," wrote the Muenchener Merkur
(Munich), “points the way to a policy which — although
not without danger — still promises under certain con-
ditions a favorable outcome.”

His straightforward statement that “bygones are
bygones" was warmly received. Hamburg’s Die Welt
said “this formula of Eisenhower's provides a good start-
ing point for the solution of every problem which
burdens us and the entire free world... He has cleared
the air and removed some of our doubts; his second
sojourn in Germany has been an undeniable success."

Said the Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt): “His well-
chosen and heartfelt words prove that Eisenhower is a
master of supra-national co-ordination and (that he) has
the stature which enables him to take the essential step
from war resentment to human understanding.” The
Allgemeine also noted with gratification the general's

First Division Honor Guard stands inspection by Allied
Supreme Chief and General Dahlquist. (Stars and Stripes photo)

mene u

Allied military chiefs, led by the NATO commander (left),
review combined units of Britain, France and US parading
in honor of the five star general during his visit to the
US Army's European Command headquarters in Heidel-
berg. Beside Genera] Eisenhower is General Handy,
EUCOM commander-in-chief. (Stars and Stripes photo)

stated belief in the “essential freedom-loving character
of the German people,” and agreed with him that
neutrality is “utopian.”

The Wiesbadener Kurier, Wiesbaden, said that although
no one would expect ovations for General Eisenhower
in a country to which he first came as a conqueror, “his
clear and unprejudiced words and his readiness to forget
the past cannot be overlooked by us.” The Darmstaedter
Echo, Darmstadt, predicted that “even his former enemies
may soon be calling him ‘Ike.’ ;

To the traditionally rightist and nationalist Kasseler
Post, Kassel, General Eisenhower seemed an important
ally in Germany's efforts to “win the future.”

HESE COMMENTS WERE a reassuring contrast to
the silence, and in some cases, the hostile remarks
which preceded his arrival.

The general's visit was summed up by the Berliner
Anzeiger as follows: ‘The schedule of General Eisen-
hower's trip was very short. This very brevity illustrates
America’s determination to achieve the most within the
shortest possible time. The general's arrival in Germany
was marred neither by Communist demonstrations nor
strikes. There was, however, a certain reserve on the
German side —psychological barriers erected by the
last war. Perhaps the meeting at Bad Homburg will
mark the beginning of a new era in which these bar-
tiers will be torn down.”

In the months to come, Germany would have to decide
for herself whether to link her material strength to the
forces of freedom. General Eisenhower's visit had made
the issues clear and had opened the door to European
partnership for the German people. +END

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 42 ---
Economic Review

This monthly review of the German Federal Republic's
current economic picture, based on the latest figures
and trends available when this section of the Infor-
mation Bulletin went to press, was prepared by the
Analytical Reports Branch of the Program Review
Division of the Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG.

EW HIGHS IN ECONOMIC RECOVERY were reach-
N ed in the Federal Republic of Germany in late 1950.
Seasonal factors and shortages would reduce activity
during the months following, but for November, at least,
payrolls, employment, industrial production, exports and,
for most Germans, real income.were at the highest level
in the postwar period.

Industrial Production

Stimulated by a record backlog of orders, the industrial
production rate increased substantially in November
despite the threat of coal, power and raw material
shortages. The Federal. German index of industrial pro-
duction (excluding buildings, stimulants and food pro-
cessing) rose four points to a record of 134 percent of
the 1936 level — as against an eight point rise in August,
a 10 point jump in September, and a five point gain in
October. Postwar records were set in 25 of the 32 groups.

Production has expanded by one-fourth (27 index points)
since last July when demands brought on by the Korean
war launched the current boom. Since currency reform
in June 1948 output has risen more than 160 percent.
Only iron, steel and leather production, steel construc-
tion and shipbuilding are below the 1936 level. Total
output is now more than 10 percent above the 1938 level.

The largest increases in November were flat glass (17
percent), ceramics (eight percent), coal mining (eight
percent), oil refinery products (eight percent), electrical
equipment (seven percent), iron ore mining (seven per-
cent), miscellaneous metal goods (seven percent), ferrous
castings (six percent), electricity (six percent), shoes
(five percent) and machinery (five percent). Decreases
occurred in stones and earths (eight percent), chemicals
(four percent) and coal by-products (three percent).

Per-capita production has now exceeded the 1936 level
by about seven percent. The principal groups which lay
below this level are the consumer goods industries, coal
and gas, and the metal industries. However, consumer
goods, which have increased by more than one-third
since last July, are almost up to the prewar per-capita
level, and in fact textiles and ceramics passed this level
in November. On the other hand, shoes and leather pro-
duction are still far below prewar per-capita output.

Demand for most industrial products has remained
high. Orders received by manufacturers in October 1950,
while about 10 percent less than the peak rate reached
in September, were still more than 50 percent higher
than the level last May (shortly before the outbreak of
war in Korea), and almost double the 1949 average. In
spite of expanding production and sales, backlogs of
orders continued to increase in most industries during
October. Although industrial sales reached a postwar
peak of more than DM 8,000,000,000 ($1,904,000,000) in
October, new orders received during the month were
estimated to exceed sales by more than one-fourth.

Output per man hour in industry has increased by
almost one-fifth since a year ago and is now virtually
at the 1936 level. While increased investment in in-
dustrial plants, new machinery and workers’ housing
have all played a role in the higher productivity, a large
part of the gain is due to the economies stemming from
fuller and more rational utilization of capacity within
individual plants and in the economy as a whole.

Steel

In December the daily rate of steel production declined
by more than 10 percent from the postwar record set in
November 1950, Total December production of crude

FEBRUARY 1951

oa

steel — 959,000 metric tons — fell below the 1,000,000-ton
mark for the first time since May 1950. While absenteeism
and plant shutdowns for the Christmas holidays affected
production, most of the decline was due to the coal
shortage and not to any weakening of demand.

The steel supply became increasingly critical in De-
cember with a backlog of orders for hot rolled steel pro-
ducts extending to nine months. November exports of
hot rolled steel products — 148,000 tons — amounted to
about one-fifth of November production.

Index of Industrial Production

1936 = 100
1950

TOTAL ALL INDUSTRIES Sept. Oct. —_ Nov.

(incl. electricity and gas) 1/ 125 130 134

(excl. electricity and gas) 1/ . 123 Srey 131
Investment goods (total). 124130 134

Raw materials 1031105 106

Finished products . 1381145 152
General production goods

(incl. electricity and gas) . 1371138 141

(excl. electricity and gas) . 131 129 131
Consumer goods . 1121120 124

1/ = Excl. food processing, stimulants and building. t= Revised.

Production of Major Commodities

Unit of

Commodity Measure 1/ Sept. r/ Oct. r/ Nov. p/
Herd coal (gross mined) thous. t 9,216 9,499 10;022
Cmde petroleum... + . t 95,265, 350 97,741
Comentario at eel t 1,147,216 1,189,495 1,018,210
Bricks (total) | 1000 463,785 454,341 412,361
Pighiton apecet ete ae t 875,912 918,959

Steel ingots . t 1,050,176 1,104,822

Rolled steel finished products . t 761,841 783,008

Farm tractors (total) 2/ . . . pieces 9,486 9,116
Typewriters 3/ . Pieces 19,961 21,698
Passenger cars (incl. chassis) « pieces 21,026 23,219

Cameras (total) . pieces 174,987 190,311
Sulphuric acid (incl. oleum) t-SOs 102,740

Calcium carbide . . as t 60,691

Soap (total): Se. t 17,755

Newsprints 2 40 5.0 t 13,987

Auto and truck tires | : pieces 319,250

Shoes (total) +1000 pairs 8,379 9,214

1/ = All tons are metric tons.

Excluding accessories, parts and spare parts.
Standard, long-carriage and portable typewriters.
Revised.

p = Preliminary.

Coal and Power Shortage

The present tight fuel and power supply in the German
Republic stems from the fact that industry asa whole has
expanded much faster during the past year than coal
and electric-power production. Because of substantial
gains in the efficiency of coal and power utilization by
industry the impact of these shortages is considerably
less than would otherwise have been the case. Between
October 1949 and October 1950 industry boosted total
production by 40 percent while consuming only 30 per-
cent more power and 16 percent more coal. However, in
the same period, production of electric power went up
only 20 percent and production of coal only seven percent.

In December hard coal production declined to 9,578,000
metric tons, 444,000 tons below the postwar record set
in November 1950 (but 453,000 tons above December
1949). The decline was due primarily to the fact that
Sunday and holiday production was lower in December
than in November. Average daily hard coal] output (ex-
cluding Sunday and holiday production) was 380,100
metric tons in December — down slightly from the high
of 382,800 in November 1950, but up six percent from
the daily average of 359,900 in December 1949.

Although the production rate expanded in most in-
dustries during November, the coal shortage in December

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
began to affect many segments of industry seriously. For
example, the pulp and paper industry was allocated
50 percent of November consumption of coal for Decem-
ber, newsprint manufacturers about 55 percent and the
rayon industry 60 percent.

Power consumption has continued to increase. The
November 1950 consumption was 17 percent above that
for November 1949 while available capacity increased
by only 14 percent over the same period. Insufficient
generating capacity together with the shortage of coal
has necessitated the application of power restrictions to
the heavy chemical and aluminum industry in the southern
area of the Federal Republic. An unusually favorable
supply of hydroelectric power permitted the restriction
to be held at a lower level than was anticipated at the
beginning of the critical season.

Coal difficulties continued to affect the gas industry.
Gas consumption by large industries connected to the
gas grid systems was severely restricted. Coal allocations
to the gas works are low, and so relief from this shortage
may not be expected for some time. Gas consumption is
averaging about 25 percent above that for 1949.

Commodity Foreign Trade

Exports from western Germany (including the west
sectors of Berlin) rose by $18,000,000 (eight percent) in
November to a postwar record of $232,000,000 — almost
three times the $88,000,000 exported in November 1949.
The rise was almost wholly in finished goods. The most
substantial gains by area were in exports to Latin America
(24 percent to a postwar high of $27,000,000) and to OEEC
countries (six percent to a high of $153,000,000), Exports
to the United States rose five percent, reaching $17,000,000
— more than triple the value a year ago.

Imports declined by $26,000,000 (eight percent) to
$287,000,000 — the second highest monthly mark in the
postwar period. The decline (mainly seasonal) was almost
entirely in food and agricultural products. Foreign-aid
imports dropped by $11,000,000 to $38,000,000 — 14 per-
cent of total imports; non-foreign aid imports dropped
to $229,000,000 — $14,000,000 less than the postwar high
reached in October. Imports from eastern Europe fell off
28 percent, from the United States 23 percent and from
Marshall-Plan countries 10 percent.

The trade deficit — $55,000,000 — was the lowest since
August 1950, when both exports and imports were con-
siderably less. The trade deficit, excluding foreign-aid
imports, dropped to $17,000,000, as against $49,000,000
in October and $44,000,000 in September and as against
a slight surplus in the May-August period.

‘West German Foreign Commodity Trade
November 1950
(Thousand Dollars)

Categories Imports Exports
Food and Agricultur 113,703 8,639
Industry... . 172.940 223,377
Raw materials. . . 84,395 26.870
Semi-finished goods . 48,013 36,111
Finished goods : 40,532 160,396
Total 286,643 232,016

Area
Total Non-participating Countries 105,226 78,862
USA. ee 32,859 17,102
Canada Le 1,588 1,369
Latin America. 2.) 1 ee ee 23,371 26.825
Non-participating Sterling Countries 21,582 12,651
Eastern Europe... ..... 10,710 10,253
Other Countries - 15,116 10,662
Participating Countries 181,417 152.601
Non-Sterling . : 149,327 135,178
Sterling 32,090 17,423
Unspecified Lt 553
Total 286,643 232,016

Import Surplus: November $54,627,000.

Foreign Payments Position

The deficit with the European Payments Union rose
by $33,000,000 in December — the smallest increase since
last July — bringing the cumulative total to more than

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

$357,000,000 ($37,000,000 above the original EPU quota
assigned to the Federal Republic of Germany). The slower
rate of increase in the deficit during November and De-
cember was partly due to tightened confrols on imports.
Since western Germany's original quota has been ex-
hausted, the European Payments Union in December ex-
tended a special credit line to the Federal Republic to
cover a further $180,000,000 in deficits which may occur
up to the end of April 1951.

Labor

In spite of sustained employment in the manufactur-
ing industries, unemployment in December shot upward
seasonally by 28 percent to 1,690,000 at the end of the
month — 131,500 higher than at the end of December 1949.

The unemployed constituted 10.7 percent of the wage
and salary-earning labor force (10.3 percent in December
1949) and 7.5 percent of the estimated total labor force.

The number of employees working short-time (less than
40 hours a’ week) rose substantially as a result of coal
and raw material shortages, especially in Bavaria and
other southern states. Some plants, notably the Volks-
wagen Automobile Works, closed down for the holidays
from Dec. 23 to Jan. 2 since stocks of fuel and materials
were too low. This fact is not reflected in unemploy-
ment or employment figures, however, because employees
affected were not stricken from the payrolls.

Labor offices warned that employment in the manufactur-
ing industries may decline in the next few months be-
cause of coal and sheet metal shortages in particular,
unless an improvement in production and distribution
takes place.

So far wintry weather and other purely seasonal factors
rather than fuel and material shortages have been re-
sponsible for the rise in unemployment. Two heavy snow-
falls and temperatures as low as plus five degrees
Fahrenheit caused more numerous layoffs in building

, and construction as well as in some building materials

industries than in the previous mild December of 1949,

It is estimated that 60 percent of the increase in un-
employment was due to decline in employment in the
building trades, 10 percent to employment declines in
those branches of the metalworking and woodworking
trades concerned with the manufacturing of Christmas
specialities (toys, jewelry, trinkets, musical instruments)
five percent in agriculture, five percent in transport and
communications, and the remainder in retail trade, food
processing, except sugar refining, and other seasonal
industries. The number of employed building workers at
the end of December 1950 was about 15 percent lower
than in September 1950, whereas in 1949 the December-
September decline was only six percent.

The estimated number of gainfully occupied persons
declined by almost 200,000 in December to 20,900,000, of
whom the quarterly census showed 14,160,000 employed
as wage and salary earners, the lowest since August
1950. The number of dependently employed probably
went down about 100,000 during December. Due to the
holidays some states counted employed persons shortly
before Christmas and the unemployed on Dec. 28 or
later. The double counting involved may account in part
for the abnormally large increase during the fourth
quarter of 1950 of 344,000 in the total labor force (283,000
in the wage and salary earning labor force).

Labor Relations

Industrial relations further deteriorated at the top
levels over the issue of “co-determination,” evidenced
in acrimonious verbal exchanges between trade union
leaders, the manufacturers’ association and the government.

The annual delegates’ convention of the Mine Workers
Union, Dec. 1, following the lead of the steel workers,
instructed the union executive committee to prepare a
referendum on the question whether the miners are
prepared to strike to enforce in the contemplated de-

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 44 ---
cartelization of the coal industry the same degree of
worker participation in’ managefnent as now exists in
the steel industry. The referendum was to be held Jan. 17.

The Steel Workers’ Union, bowing to Chancellor Aden-
auer's threat that a strike for co-determination would be
unconstitutional, has requested the steel workers in-
dividually to resign effective Feb. 1, unless the govern-
ment pledges to retain existing rights and privileges of
the union and of the workers in the management of the
industry when it leaves Allied control and becomes a
German responsibility.

Wages

Many small collective agreements were signed during
December either for straight wage increases of from 10
to 20 percent or cost of living supplements. Primarily
affected were office workers in public and private em-
ploy and manual workers in food processing industries.

Prices

All three major price indexes (now calculated by the
Federal Statistical Office) increased in November —
consumer prices by one point, industrial producer prices
by two points and basic material prices by four points.
Since the Korean war began last June basic material
prices have jumped 13 percent and are at a postwar
high; industrial producer prices have gone up six per-
cent and are at the highest level since February 1949;
the consumer price index which had dipped slightly (to
a postwar low) during the summer, is back to the June level.

Increases in domestic coal prices were announced
effective Dec. 1 and averaged DM 4.50 (about $1.07) per
ton. The Bundestag has accepted a government proposal
to increase steel prices DM 28.50 (about $6.78) per ton
with details to be announced later.

The Federal German government has approved tariff
increases for the Bundesbahn (federal railroad system)
which will correspond to the railroad salary and wage
increase of Oct. 1, 1950, and to the increased costs of
materials, particularly coal. Freight rates were to be in-
creased effective Jan. 1, 1951 by an average of 15 per-
cent and commutation fares by 50 percent (except
students’ tickets). Exceptional freight tariffs below the
level of operating costs (subsidy tariffs) have been raised.

Consumer Price Index (Bizonal Area 1/)

(1938 = 100)
(Wage / salary earner's family of four, with one child under 14)
Oct. Nov. Dec.
Total 149 150 151
Food 150- 152 155
Stimulants 275 275 275
Clothing 187 189 192
Rent . . . 103 103 103
Heat and light _ 118 119 119
Cleaning and hygiene . . 148 148 149
Education and entertainment 141 142 142
Household goods . oo 161 163 165
Traveling. 2 1. 1 ee ee 133 133 133
te = The Consumer Price Index is not yet available on a trizonal
asis,

Money and Credit

Short-term credit increased by only DM 217,000,000
($51,646,000) during November to a total of DM
13,372,000,000 ($3,182,336,000) as compared to increases
of DM_ 592,000,000 ($138,920,000) and DM 613,000,000
($145,894,000) (both revised) during September and Oc-
tober respectively. The volume of money (currency plus
deposits) increased DM 309,000,000 ($73,542,000) in No-
vember, reaching DM 26,245,000,000 ($6,247,000,000), as
compared to an October increase of DM 637,000,000
($151,606,000) (revised). Excess reserves as a proportion
of minimum reserves continued to decrease to 2.3 per-
cent at the end of November from 2.9 percent at the end
of October and 5.5 percent at the end of September.

To all appearances, the rate of monetary expansion
seems to have been retarded. Preliminary reports for

FEBRUARY 1951

41

December, based on samples, indicate a slightly acceler-
ated rate of expansion, probably attributable to pre-
Christmas retail activity.

Food and Agriculture

The original program to ship some 30,000 metric tons
of flour from the Federal Republic to Yugoslavia* was
expanded in December to a total of approximately
67,000 tons. In return for the flour shipped to Yugoslavia
western Germany will receive from the United States an
equivalent amount of wheat, in addition to an estimated
28,500 tons of wheat and 4,250 tons of mill products as
compensation for millings, labor, transportation and other
Deutsche-mark costs.

Immediate delivery to Yugoslavia has been essential
to permit distribution before heavy snows curtail opera-
tions. As a result of exceptional cooperation among
various Federal Republic agencies, 10,000 tons were
shipped in November, 37,000 tons jn December, and the
balance of 20,000 tons was to be delivered by mid-
January. Yugoslavian representatives in western Ger-
many have expressed complete satisfaction with the
quality of flour received and with the speed of delivery.

The program, developed on short notice, has been
handled with ease by the German railroads — illustrat-
ing the great improvement in their operation. Only two
years ago extraordinary efforts were required to ac-
complish similar programs. The achievement of the rail-
roads was accomplished with no more freight cars than
two years ago and approximately 70,000 fewer employees.

Feeds

Because of excellent growing conditions during the
spring and summer and despite a sharp reduction in
area, hay production in 1950 reached 22,000,000 metric
tons dry weight equivalent, about two percent higher
than in 1949. In addition, substantial increases have
occurred in the production of fodder roots (about 4,000,000
metric tons to more than 25,000,000 tons), intermediate
field fodder and other fodder plants. Furthermore, the
increased production of beets of all kinds has provided
more fodder from beet tops.

Approximately 12,500,000 metric tons of the total
potato harvest of 28,000,000 metric tons are expected to
be fed animals during 1950-51 — some 6,000,000 metric
tons more than fed last year — and enough for more
than one ton of potatoes per hog estimated to be on
farms during 1950-51. Feed grain production during 1950
has been about 150,000 metric tons, or 3.5 percent more
than in 1949, Feed grain imports during 1950-51 planned
by the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture and Forestry
will approach those of the previous year.

As a result of the sharp rise in world market sugar
prices, the price of sugar-beet molasses to be exchanged
with the United States, at the ratio of three to one, has
been increased to $40 per metric ton f.o.b. German ports,
from the $35 originally agreed. The Federal Republic
has to date made firm commitments for the delivery of
15,000 metric tons molasses during March 1951.

Berlin

Industrial production (as estimated from the value of
sales by manufacturers) reached a postwar record of
43 percent of the 1936 level in November 1950 — 10 per-
cent (four points) above the October level and almost
60 percent above the level a year ago. This sharp rise
in production since a year ago has been accomplished
mainly through a lengthening of the average work day
and higher output per manhour. Industrial employment
has gone up by only about 14 percent.

Unemployment rose seasonally by approximately 9,000
in December 1950, reaching 286,500 — 20,000 less than
the high point reached in February 1950. -++END

* See Economic Review in January issue of the Information Bulletin.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
Personnel Notes

Parker New Assistant High Commissioner

Chauncey G. Parker has assumed his position as as-
sistant US high commissioner for operations in Germany.

Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, assistant US high commis-
sioner, continues as aide to the US High Commissioner
in matters of policy and representation.

Mr. Parker had previously served as a special adviser
to US High Commissioner John J. McCloy during the
late summer of 1949, at which time he took part in the
transfer of occupation duties from the Department of
the Army to the Department of State and the resultant
organization of HICOG. In his new position Mr. Parker
is responsible to Mr. McCloy for all operations of the
Office of the US High Commissioner and for carrying
out US policies and programs in Germany.

Mr. Parker, who is on leave as director of administra-
tion of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (World Bank), was born in Greenwich,
Conn., and educated at Concord’s St. Paul’s School and
Harvard University. During World War I he served as
a second lieutenant and in World War II held the rank
of colonel on the staff of the Fleet Marine Corps in the
Pacific. {

He has also served as deputy director of the Selective
Service System, chairman of the Navy Price Adjustment

Chauncey G.-Parker

(PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

42

Board, vice-chairman of the War Contracts Price Ad-
justment Board and from 1946 to 1947 as special assistant
to the Secretary of the Navy. He is a senior partner of
the investment firm of Auchincloss, Parker & Redpath,
of Washington, Philadelphia and New York.

Six Economic Affairs Appointments :

Six OEA staff appointments have been announced by
Jean Cattier, director, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
and chief of the ECA Special Mission to Germany.

Richard G. Leonard of Philadelphia, Pa., is the new chief
of Finance Division and deputy financial adviser. At the
same time Samuel T. Castleman of Louisville, Ky., who
had been acting deputy chief of Finance Division, was
confirmed in that post. Mr. Leonard, who had been serving
as US member of the Allied Bank Commission, will be
succeeded by James E. Wood of Willows, Calif., US
Treasury representative in Germany.

A new position as special assistant to the director was
assigned to Henry A. Weismann of New York City, former
chief of External Claims Branch and special assistant to
the financial adviser. This position is in addition to that
held by Frank J. Miller, the present special assistant to
the director.

Dr. Karl F, Bode, professor of economics at Stanford
University, was appointed deputy economic adviser, to
be stationed in Bonn. Named to succeed him as acting
chief of the Program Division was George B. Gardiner
of Lynn, Mass., former deputy chief of the division

Observer Offices Combined

Robert T. Cowan, US consul-general and US state ob-
server at Hamburg, has been assigned to the additional
post of state observer for Schleswig-Holstein replacing
Roy L. Kimmel. Mr. Kimmel left in December for the
United States, en route to his new assignment at the US
Embassy in Wellington, New Zealand.

Mr. Cowan's appointment as state observer for Schles-
wig-Holstein marks the first time that the observer func-
tions for two states have been combined.

Mr. Cowan resides in Hamburg, having appointed an as-
sistant, Laurence P. Ralston, who will be stationed in Kiel.

Moran to Represent HICOG Institute

For the second consecutive year, William J. Moran,
deputy chief, Field Operations Division, Office of the
State Commissioner for Bavaria, represented HICOG at
the State Department Foreign Service Institute's session
on Germany held recently in Washington.

Mr. Moran lectured on resident officers and their
duties, and assisted in the training of resident officer
candidates for duties in US areas in Europe.

A resident of Parkersburg, W.Va., the OLC Bavaria
official was selected from the US Zone of Germany :
because of his extensive experience in field operations
in occupied territories.

A University of West Virginia law graduate, Mr. Moran
has served in Bavaria since 1945, when he was among
the first to enter Munich with the Military Government

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 46 ---
field detachment. He served as an MG officer and later
area commander in Bavaria until April 1948, when he
was promoted to deputy chief of the Field Operations
Division,

New Berlin Public Safety Chief

Caesar Joseph Scavarda of Lansing, Mich., for many
years an official of the Michigan State Police; has been
appointed chief of the Public
Safety Division, Berlin Ele-
ment, HICOG.

The Berlin post has been
vacant since the resigna-
tion last spring of Ray
Ashworth. In the interim
the position has been tem-
porarily filled by Ulrich C.
Urton, deputy chief, Public
Safety Branch, HICOG,
more recently by
Claude Broom, deputy chief,
Public Safety Division, Ber-
lin Element, HICOG.

Mr. Scavarda’s work with
the Michigan State Police
brought him from the ranks
of trooper in 1917 to direc-
tor of the safety and traffic division and also director in
charge of police training when he resigned in 1949 to
become public relations representative for the Michigan
Trucking Association. For a period of five years be-
ginning in 1927, Mr. Scavarda served as chief of police
and later as city manager of Flint, Mich.

and

Caesar J. Scavarda
(PRB BE-HICOG photo)

Dr. LaFollette to OLC Bavaria

Dr, Robert LaFollette has joined the Public Affairs
Division, OLC Bavaria, as educational adviser for teacher
training. The new OLCB official is on leave from his post
as professor of education at Ball State Teachers College,
Muncie, Ind.

Dr. LaFollette visited the Bavarian area last June during
a tour of the US Zone when he was a participant in the
Heidelberg’ Social Studies Workshop. In 1949 he was
attached to the OLCB staff for a 90-day period as an
education consultant.

Former OLC Bremen Official Killed

Ernest B. Smith, en route to Hamburg for his permanent
return to the United States, was killed Dec. 20 in an auto
accident near Meckelfeld. The former chief of the
Operating Facilities Branch, OLC Bremen, was a native
of Tennessee. He joined Military Government in 1945
While with the Army and later the Office of the State
Commissioner for Bremen.

Berlin Education Chief Resigns
John C. Thompson, chief, Education and Cultural Re-

lations Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG, has resigned to

FEBRUARY 1951

43

return to Washington for a new assignment in the
government's defense efforts. Following his wartime
liaison work with the British Army and his later assign-
ments with the American First and Seventh Armies,
Mr. Thompson reverted to civilian status in November
1946 as a reserve military intelligence officer and chief
of Religious Affairs Branch in Berlin. Later during his
tour of seven continuous years of European service he
became chief of the branch from which he resigned.

Duncan MacBryde to State Department

Bremen’s public affairs chief, Duncan MacBryde, has
been transferred to the State Department's International
Information and Educational Exchange Program in
Washington. The official, who departed for the United
States Jan. 13, stated his
regret in leaving his work
and so many friends in
Germany but reiterated his
keen desire to take part in
the global “campaign of
truth” which will also give
him a chance to continue
his assistance to Germany.

Mr. MacBryde, a native
of North Carolina, served
as assistant US military
attache to Syria and Leba-
non from 1942 to 1944.
During the following two
years he held the position
of chief, Foreign Press Sec-
tion in the War Depart-
ment, Washington. The
public affairs head moved to Bremen in 1947 from Ber-
lin where he served as deputy for zonal affairs, Infor-
mation Control Division, OMGUS.

Duncan MacBryde
(PRB OLC Bremen photo)

Hesse Economic Adviser to US

Dr. Herfried Kopp, former economics adviser with the
Office of the State Commissioner for Hesse, has gone
to New York, where he will serve as economics expert
with the German Consulate. Dr. Kopp formerly served
for several years-with the Hessian branch office of the
Joint Export-Import Agency (JEIA) and later with the
Economic Affairs Division, OLC Hesse.

Seven New Resident Officers Assigned

Seven new resident officers assigned to Hesse have
completed their training and have been given temporary
duty stations in that state. Neil Goedhard has gone to
Hanau to assist Neely Turner, resident officer for that
area; John L. Behling, Jr. to Offenbach as assistant to
Zeno Stangwilo; Paul R. Phillips to Giessen to aid John
D. Gough; Cornelius J. Bakker has been assigned to Mar-
burg to work with Raymond Didlo; Benjamin R. Moser
will remain in Wiesbaden to assist Emil P. Jallouk;
Edwin C. Pancoast has moved to Dieburg and John D.
Healy to Dillenburg. -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
Exports to US Top $100,000,000

ESTERN GERMANY INCREASED its exports to the
United States in 1950 to more than $100,000,000,
thus more than doubling 1949's total.

Increased German exports and new world markets for
German imports of food and raw materials also resulted
in narrowing the West German dollar trade gap from
$791,000,000 in 1949 to an estimated $400,000,000 in 1950.

The increase in sales to America was by no means con-
fined to unfinished and semi-finished goods stimulated
by the Korean war. Germany's finished products, its
traditional and long-term export goods, kept abreast of
the spurt in sales of the unfinished goods, such as iron
and steel. With the rise in exports of goods which have
a long-range possibility of helping to close the dollar
gap, sales of traditional goods such as precision and
optical instruments increased 109 percent over 1949 to a
total value of $6,700,000 in 1950.

Other traditional items which found an increasingly
receptive market in the United States include musical
instruments, which amounted to more than $1,200,000,
a rise of 633 percent over 1949; leather goods, to more
than $500,000 in 1950; glassware rose 556 percent to more
than $1,300,000; German book sales, to $420,000; cutlery,
to $942,000; and toys and Christmas decorations gained
22 percent to top $875,000. In addition, sewing machines
found a greatly increased market in the US during 1950,
totalling $1,700,000 compared with $76,000 in 1949.

NCREASED GERMAN EXPORTS connected with

Western defense in 1951 will be accompanied by con-
tinued vigorous efforts to encourage the sale of German
goods generally to the United States. The drive in
Western Germany to promote the sale of its finished
goods in the American market, thus allowing Germany
to pay its own way in the dollar market, continues to be
one of the major aims of the Marshall Plan.

Several factors, in addition to the influence of the
Korean war, were responsible for the rapid gains in
exports to the United States. They include the accelerated
demand for traditional German products in the United
States market, and the discovery of new American mar-
kets previously inaccessible, such as electro-technical
products and automobiles. Western Germany's own
efforts as well as several programs within the Marshall
Plan in Germany are additional factors responsible for
the greater sale of goods in the United States.

On the German side, the German-American Trade
Promotion Company, with offices in Frankfurt and New
York, has disseminated vital trade information, answered
thousands of queries from industry on how to find mat-
kets in the US, and sent replies to thousands of queries
from American importers wishing to buy German goods.

S THE QUANTITY AND QUALITY of German prod-
ucts rose during the past year, German manufactur-
ers and exporters became increasingly aware of sales
possibilities in the United States. Meanwhile, the efforts
of the ECA Mission are now increasingly paying off.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

Wide dissemination of information concerning Ameri-
can customs and tariff regulations is reducing this bogey
to normal size, in the minds of European manufacturers
and exporters. The flow of new ideas on marketing, sales
possibilities, new markets through the Chicago Trade
Fair, the visits of German businessmen to the United
States and American importers to Germany and the ex-
change of key technicians under the ECA Technical
Assistance Program have all been contributing factors.

In future months, Western Germany's export potential
is expected to expand through creation of centralized
export organizations for various types of small and
medium-size businesses. +END

Deutsche Mark Law Changes
HE CEILING ON IMPORTATION of Deutsche marks
for Allied personnel rose from DM 40 to DM 1,000
— then fell back again — before many were aware of
the change.

Allied High Commission Law No. 40 went on the books
in October 1950 and contained a provision raising the
Deutsche mark import allowance to DM 1,000. A further
law — AHC Law No. 45 — was in effect an amendment
to the first and returned the allowance to DM 40. (Text
of AHC Law No. 45 on page 71.)

Here are the reasons why:

Soon before Law No. 40 was promulgated, the Bank
Deutscher Laender advised the Allied High Commission
that it intended to issue a regulation or ‘license’ raising
from 40 to 1,000 the amount of Deutsche marks travelers
could bring into Germany, and raising to 100 the Deutsche
marks he could take out. Accordingly, the drafters of the
law wrote in these new, higher figures.

But after Law No. 40 was on the books, the German
authorities changed their plans and never raised the
ceiling to the higher figure for non-Allied travelers. So
for three months, from last October until January 1951,
Allied personnel were allowed to import DM 1,000 or
export DM 100 — a favored position which had not been
intended but which had resulted because of the last-
minute German change in plans.

Very few if any Allied personnel are said to have
taken advantage of the higher ceilings and it is doubtful
if most were fully aware of the change brought about
by Law No. 40, reported for the first time to the general
public in the January issue of the Information Bulletin.

To equalize treatment of Allied and German personnel
in this respect, however, the Allied High Commission
has now amended its Law No. 40. The amendment says
in effect that Allied personnel may import or export the
same amount of Deutsche marks which the German
authorities permit under the general licensing power
that the Germans exercise. This change merely means
that Allied personnel go back to the old, pre-October
limitation of DM 40 per person going into or leaving
Germany.

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 48 ---
Occupation Log

HICOG Headquarters to Bonn

Mr. John J. McCloy, US high commissioner for Ger-
many, has announced that HICOG Headquarters will be
transferred from Frankfurt to the Bonn Enclave as soon
as housing, office space and other facilities can be con-
structed. This is expected before Sept. 1.

“The Bonn move is a basic step directed toward the
establishment of normal relations with the German
Federal Republic at its seat of government,’ Mr. McCloy
stated, ‘This move will simplify our working relation-
ships with the federal officials without sacrificing our
contacts with the states. It is especially gratifying to
me that it can be accomplished without expense to the
German people, as the construction costs and related
expenses will be paid from US counterpart funds and
will not be charged against occupation costs.”

Mr. McCloy’s personal headquarters will be included
in the move to Bonn, but he will continue to maintain
an office in Frankfurt. Certain HICOG units will
probably remain in Frankfurt following the shift to
Bonn until they are phased out or can be accommodated
in the Bonn area. The recently-completed housing project
in Frankfurt will be retained during that time and for
such additional time as necessary for HICOG and US
Army personnel, As soon as feasible, the space will be
released, as originally planned, to the city of Frankfurt.

The construction in the Bonn area will include office
facilities and permanent type housing accommodations
for both American and German employees, plus other
auxiliary requirements. Construction will be financed
from Deutsche marks accruing from dollar expenditures
in western Germany.

It was pointed out that though the Bonn move will
probably speed up the planned contraction of the HICOG
Headquarters and Laender (states) staffs, most of the
reduction in personnel would come through normal
attrition during the next year in any case; thus the move
is not expected to result in large-scale release of state
or headquarters personnel.

US Protests Border Stops

A protest against Soviet interference with American
vehicles containing German passengers, traveling on the
international highway linking Berlin with West Germany
has been sent by US authorities in Berlin to the Soviet
Military Administration for Germany.

The protest was prompted by a series of approximately
30 instances, over a period of several weeks, in which
Red Army. border control guards halted American
vehicles at checkpoints on the highway between West
Germany and Berlin, threatened German passengers or
drivers with arrest, and in some cases refused to allow
the vehicles to pass.

FEBRUARY 1951

The Germans involved—although they were properly
and fully documented for interzonal travel—were forced
to leave the vehicles and to proceed on foot or by
German bus to the frontier.

Adenauer Celebrates 75th Birthday

Dr. Konrad Adenauer, chancellor of the Federal Re-
public, was the recipient of three artistically bound and
illustrated volumes on the works of Corot, Rubens and
English painters of the 18th century. The gifts, from
the British, French and US high commissioners, were
presented to Dr. Adenauer on the occasion of his 75th
birthday Jan. 5. ;

New ECA Counterpart Funds Program

A total of DM 1,350,000,000 ($321,300,000) has been
authorized for release in Western Germany's 1950-51
Marshall Plan counterpart investment fund program, it
has been announced by Jean Cattier, chief, ECA Special
Mission to Western Germany.

Of this total, DM 135,000,000 ($32,100,000) has been
earmarked for the Western sectors of Berlin, while the
remainder will be distributed through various West Ger-
man economic fields, with a substantial sum to be held
in reserve. Mr. Cattier stated that in the near future the
breakdown of the total will be announced.

The program is the third of its kind since the begin-
ning of Marshall Plan aid in Western Germany in mid-
1948 and brings the total of Marshall Plan counterpart
funds authorized for release to more than DM 4,000,000,000
($952,000,000).

Although over-all approval has been given for the
total amount in this latest program, approval for release
of funds will be made at several monthly intervals dur-
ing the year. The Deutsche marks for this program are
accumulating from the dollar authorizations of the Mar-
shall Plan during the 1950-51 fiscal year.

Submitted by the German Federal Republic on Nov. 28,
1950, to the ECA Special Mission at Frankfurt, the new
program has been studied and reviewed by Marshall

Seven members of the Department of State's permanent
Foreign Service working in Germany were the recent
recipients of commendation and service award certificates
presented by US High Commissioner John J. McCloy.
L. to r., S. Huston Lay; Edward D. McLaughlin; Byron B.
Snyder; Robert A. Griggs; Mr. McCloy; Walter J. Mueller;

Fritz Westphal and Allen E. Lightner, Jr.
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 49 ---
Plan offices and headquarters in Paris and Washington
as well as Frankfurt.

Mr. Cattier said Marshall Plan counterpart investment
funds are “paying dividends in recovery in all vital
sectors of the German economy. Each release of these
investment funds is activating and generating additional
large-scale investments from various public and private
sources far in excess of the sums involved in the counter-
part investment programs.”

East Goes West on Lenin Holiday

More than 1,500 persons attended a series of special
film showings for East Germans at the Berlin US Infor-
mation Center Jan. 21, the 27th anniversary of the death
of Lenin.

Minutes after RIAS (US sponsored radio in West
Berlin) broadcast the announcement of the showings, the
first East sector Germans began to arrive at the center.

By early evening the film, ‘Nanook the Eskimo,” had
been shown eight times to capacity audiences, To accom-
modate the overflow crowds, simultaneous showings
were held in the center's theater and lecture hall.

The performances’ for East Germans were the first
advertised by radio, a method of announcement which
will be continued.

Bonn to Deal With Extraditions

To establish normal relations between the Federal
Government and other governments in the field of ex-
tradition, the Allied High Commission has decided that,
with three classes of exceptions, federal authorities are to
deal with extraditions to and from the federal territory.
The federal authorities will be responsible for all extra-

Lt. Gen. Lauris Norstad (left) arrived at Wiesbaden Air
Base Jast month to take command of the US Air Forces in
Europe. He was met by Lt. Gen. John K. Cannon, USAFE
commander for 27 months, who has returned to the United

States to take over the Tactical Air Command. (USAFE photo)

INFORMATION. BULLETIN

46

Mrs. John K. Cannon (center), wife of the former com-
manding general of US Air Forces in Europe, was honor
guest at a recent German-American Women’s Club coffee
hour prior to her return to the US, where her husband is
assuming a New command. At left is Mrs. Prevost Mar-
shall, American president of the club, and right, Mrs.

Walter Korn, German president of the Wiesbaden group.
(USAFE photo)

ditions of persons wanted for common crimes, and will
deal directly with foreign authorities when making or
receiving requests for extradition.

Unless authorized, the federal authorities will not deal
with extraditions between the federal territory and
France, the United Kingdom or the United States, with
extraditions of persons accused of war crimes and with
extraditions of persons exempted from the jurisdiction
of German courts under High Commission Law No. 13.

German authorities will notify the High Commission
of requests for extraditions which they have received
from or are making to foreign countries and of final
decisions regarding the extradition of persons from the
Federal Republic. Persons to be extradited may not be
removed from the federal territory until 30 days
after this notification. This procedure will permit the
High Commission to consider the German decisions in
connection with the reserved powers and the require-
ments of security.

India Ends State of War

The government of India, through its Military Mission
in Berlin, has notified the Allied Control Council of its
termination of the state of war with Germany.

1950 EUCOM Fatalities Show Drop

There were 183 American deaths reported to the
European Command Adjutant General during the past
year as compared to 257 in 1949. The annual report of
the Adjutant General also showed the number of
seriously ill fell from 229 cases in 1949 to 153 in 1950.

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 50 ---
Only 21 cases of American occupation personnel being
detained by a foreign power were reported as compared
to 58 in 1949.

British Art Shown in Stuttgart

An exhibition of 47 drawings and watercolors by
contemporary British artists, was recently shown in
Stuttgart under the sponsorship of the Office of Cultural
Affairs, OLCW-B, in collaboration with the British
Consul-General of Stuttgart.

The exhibition, which was held in the Lindenmuseum,
included works by John Craxton, drawings by Henry
Moore and figures by sculptors Graham Sutherland and
Christopher Wood.

First Community Recreation Conference

Local responsibility for community recreation and co-
ordinated planning of citizens groups with local govern-
ment in making recreation a free community service
was emphasized at the first West German Workshop
and Training Conference on Community Recreation held
recently at Haus Schwalbach, near Bad Schwalbach.

The meeting, attended by 70 specialists from all parts
of Western Germany, marked the first time city planners
as well as recreation specialists had attended a com-
munity recreation conference in the US Zone.

Munich Publishing Firm to be Dissolved

Appropriate steps to insure the dissolution of the
Albert Langen-Georg Mueller-Verlag, a Munich publish-
ing house, have been requested of Bavarian Minister-
President Dr. Hans Ehard by US State Commissioner for
Bavaria Dr. George N. Shuster.

The request was prompted by the fact that the pub-
lishing house, in the opinion of the US High Commission
General Counsel, had been directly controlled by the
Nazi Party (NSDAP) and with the promulgation of Law
No. 5 ceased legally to exist. .

Swedish Booklet on Berlin Exports

More than, 3,000 Swedish businessmen are learning
the advantages of importing manufactured goods from
West Berlin. The story is contained in a booklet
prepared by two of Sweden's leading trade organizations
and published by the ECA Special Mission to Sweden.

The booklet, written as a result of a visit by a Swedish
trade delegation to Berlin last November, stresses the
advantages of buying goods from Berlin and urges
Swedish businessmen to investigate Berlin's products
and their availability.

Attractively illustrated and printed, the booklet is a
joint effort of two of Sweden's largest trade organi-
zations, the Sveriges Grossistfoerbund and the Swenska
Handelsagenters Foerening. The ‘booklet was sent to
some 3,000 Swedish importers and import agents.

FEBRUARY 1951

47

Boy, Girl Scout Commissioners to be Named

Appointment of Boy Scout and Girl Scout district
commissioners to organize and supervise scouting activi-
ties in EUCOM districts has been authorized by Gen.
Thomas T. Handy, commander-in-chief, EUCOM. The
districts, aS established by the EUCOM Scout Advisory
Council and which correspond to the military post areas
in the command, will have two commissioners each.

Boy Scout and Girl Scout councils were set up in
EUCOM under the EUCOM Scout Advisory Council in
December. The Central Welfare Board has allocated
$25,000 for scouting activities.

Each district, after the pattern of the Boy Scout and
Girl Scout organizations in the United States, will have
a council, an executive board and two commissioners.

New US Center for Ruhr

Excavation for the construction of the US Information
Center Ruhr, in Essen, has begun. The Information
Center will be the headquarters for the USIE program
in the Ruhr and will have branch libraries in Cologne
University, Duesseldorf City Library and the Dortmund
City Library. The building will be completed in the fall.
Its cost will be paid for out of US counterpart funds.

The site, owned by the City of Essen, has been leased
by the US Government for 15 years. The building will
cover 1,200 square yards with gardens planted by the city.

The building will be U-shaped of reinforced concrete
with brick finish, trimmed in natural stone, with a patio
in the center. There will be a library, periodical room,
auditorium, book storeroom, children’s library, work-

cd

Hesse’s newly elected cabinet was recently honored at a
reception by Hesse State Commissioner James R. New-
man. Seated, |.-r., Minister-President Dr. George A. Zinn,
Dr. Newman and Minister of the Interior Heinrich Zinn-
kann, only re-elected member of the former cabinet.
Standing, Heinrich Fischer, minister of economics, labor
and agriculture; Ludwig Metzger, minister of education,

and Dr. Heinrich Troeger, minister of finance.
(PRB OLCH photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
John Sherman Cooper (center), American ambassador-at-
large and Republican Party adviser to the State Depart-
ment on bipartisan foreign policy, recently visited cities
of Germany, including Munich, where he met US State

Commissioner for Bavaria George N. Shuster (second
from right) and leading German officials. L. to r.: George
L. Erion, chief, Economic Affairs Division, OLCB; Thomas
Wimmer, mayor of Munich; Ambassador Cooper; Dr.
Shuster and Dr. Wilhelm Hoegner, deputy minister-
president of Bavaria. (PRB OLCB photo)

shop, conference room, offices and an exhibition room.
The entire building will be air conditioned and fireproof.
A playground will be located in front and this area will
be used in the summer for evening concerts and lectures.

Berlin Receives Typhoid Fever Drug

The threat of a major typhoid fever epidemic in Berlin
has been lessened with the arrival from the United States
of enough Chloromycetin, a recently developed antibiotic
heretofore unknown in Germany, to aid 300 persons. Val-
ued at $3,000, it will be used as an oral medication,

The drug was supplied by HICOG Berlin Element
Health and Welfare officials as an expedient toward
eliminating typhoid fever as a major infectious disease
in Berlin. Fifteen deaths out of 193 typhoid cases were
reported in the city last year. ‘

Hesse Guards against Rabies

Hessian health authorities have taken strong measures
to control the spread of rabies from other Western
German areas into Hesse. Transferred by dogs, the epi-
demic began in the Eastern sector of Berlin and spread
to Schleswig-Holstein and Hamburg as well as the East
zone. While there is no law in the Federal Republic
which requires the immunization of dogs, all those
coming into Hesse are screened carefully and, if neces-
sary, are kept in quarantine,

Selected hospitals in the three governmental districts
of Hesse have quantities of specific vaccine and facili-
ties to care for human cases. It has been suggested by
Dr. Charles H. Benning, OLC Hesse Public Health chief,
that all Americans should have their dogs vaccinated
or revaccinated against the dread disease.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

48

German Art to Visit Paris

Parisians will soon have an opportunity to view 119
German owned paintings valued at DM 40,000,000 (nearly
$10,000,000) to be exhibited in the French capital's “Petit
Palais." The paintings are part of more than 200 works
which were found by American troops in a central
Germany salt mine toward the end of the war. After
a tour of America, the paintings were returned to Ger-
many and entrusted to the custody of the Hessian
government in Wiesbaden.

The collection of mostly German and Dutch masters
was seen last year in Brussels and Amsterdam and will
remain in Paris for two to three months, beginning
sometime in February.

US Students Visit German Industry

Students of the Stuttgart Military Post High School
are getting a firsthand view of German industry at work
through a series of visits to Wuerttemberg-Baden
industries. The first of these, sponsored by the school’s
Parent Teacher's Association in cooperation with the
Wuerttemberg-Baden Ministry of Labor, brought ninth
grade students to the Maschinenfabrik Esslingen where,
following a tour of the plant, the students were guests
of the management at a luncheon.

The comparison of working conditions and methods
of German factory workers, particularly apprentices, with
those in America and greater American-German friend-
ship are stressed,

Bonn to Issue Travel Permits

The New York, Washington and London offices of the
Allied High Commission Combined Travel Board have
closed and transferred their duties to the German consu-
lates-general in New York and London. All persons
other than Allied occupation personnel and their de-
pendents must apply for permits to visit Germany at

More than 10,000 Americans and Germans in seven major
cities of Germany recently heard the famed pianist Jose
Iturbi. Sponsored by EUCOM Special Services, the con-
cert and movie artist donated his services during his

whirlwind six-day tour. (EUCOM Special Activities photo)

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 52 ---
US High Commissioner John J. McCloy makes the first
HICOG donation to Frankfurt Military Post's “March of
Dimes’ drive. Accepting donation is G. P. Timboe, chair-
man of HICOG headquarters collections. (US Army photo)

the German consulates-general in either of these cities.
Allied occupation personnel obtain such permits either
in a designated office of the British Foreign Office or
the US Department of State.

The closing of the offices brings to an end the Allied
control of travel into Germany which followed the
cessation of hostilities, Since 1948 the London office
issued more than 419,000 such permits. The New York
and Washington offices issued a total of more than
187,000 in the same period.

Meanwhile the Combined Travel Board's office in
Paris and its sub-offices in Colmar, Metz and Strasbourg
have closed and transferred their duties to the German
Consulate-General in Paris. German nationals in France
desiring passports should apply to the consulate as
should all non-German nationals wishing to enter Ger-
many and in need of the necessary visa. However,
British, French and US nationals resident in the three
French departments of Haut-Rhin, Bas-Rhin and Moselle
may apply for such visas from a new Combined Travel
Board office. to function in Strasbourg.

Members of the Allied forces and their dependents in
France will obtain German entry permits from the
French Foreign Office in Paris.

Old Hebrew Bible Given Chaplain Chief

An early Hebrew Bible that was saved from the hands
of the Nazis by a German Christian librarian has been
presented to Maj. Gen. Roy H. Parker, chief of Army
Chaplains, as a gift of a Mannheim Jewish community
group. General Parker, in turn, has presented it to his
alma mater, William Jewell College at Liberty, Mo.

The Bible, 237 years old, was found among an old col-
lection of Jewish books in Mannheim by Lt. Col. Henry
Tavel of the Chaplain Division, EUCOM,. and went to
General Parker at the request of many members of the
community who had heard him speak at synagogue
services in Heidelberg during his recent visit to EUCOM.

FEBRUARY 1951

49

US Customs Handbook for Germany

German businessmen, hampered in the past by a lack
of authentic and factual information on US customs, are
the recipients of an ECA booklet in the German language
clarifying and explaining in detail, American customs
procedure.

Prospective German exporters will find in the 100 page
booklet of the Bureau of Customs of the US Treasury,
instructions on preparation of invoices and requirements
for packing, marking and labeling as well as facts con-
cerning duties, prohibited and restricted imports, import
quotas and other import details. A total of 13,000 book-
lets are being distributed by the German-American Trade
Promotion Company.

“Model House” Becomes Group Center

One exhibit -of Berlin's October German Industrial
Exhibition has extended its use as a “model house” and
is now serving as community center and meeting place
for Berlin group discussions. The six-room prefabricated
house which gave thousands of Berliners at the fall
fair an idea of America’s latest in housing, continues
to be on exhibit during the daytime hours.

200 Berlin Exchangees Visit US

More than 200 West Berliners including teachers,
students, doctors, trade-unionists, journalists, lawyers,
religious leaders, librarians, policemen, social workers
and representatives of industry, civil administration and
the fine arts, visited the United States in 1950 under the
HICOG exchanges program. Students, totaling 76, all of
whom received one-year scholarships headed the list.

This year's expanded program will produce 74 travel
grants in the first quarter of the year alone, with
students again making up the largest single group.

Shuster Honors Cardinal Faulhaber

The 17th anniversary of Michael Cardinal Faulhaber's
Advent sermons delivered in 1933, in which the Bavarian
Catholic prelate severely rebuked the Nazi Party for its
anti-Semitism, was commemorated recently at a luncheon
reception attended by Cardinal Faulhaber at the home
of Dr. George N. Shuster, US state commissioner for
Bavaria, and Mrs, Shuster.

The series of four sermons, which expressed complete
opposition to the Nazi Party, and delivered at a time
when Nazi oppression against religion was gaining
momentum, provided spiritual strength to Germans who
opposed the totalitarian doctrine.

Closer East, West Student Contact

Closer contact between East German students and “the
free world of the West" was predicted in a recent North-
west German Radio broadcast, beamed to the Soviet
Zone, by an American student at Heidelberg University.
The student, David B. Tinnin, who attended an 18-day
international conference of young publicists held last
fall at Koenigswinter in the French Zone, told of plans

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
concluded at the conference: to do everything possible
to guarantee for the spiritually isolated Soviet Zone
students more contact with the Western world and to
-provide physical aid in the form of high-calorie food-
stuffs and medical supplies to needy fellow-students in
the Soviet Zone.

The Koenigswinter conference was attended by re-
presentatives of East zone student groups, as well as
American, West European and West German students.

Unemployed Berlin Writers, Printers Aided

The publishing of a book about Berlin's economic life,
the proceeds of which will aid unemployed printers and
writers in the city’s western sectors, was made possible
by a DM 4,000 (nearly $1,000) grant to assist in its
publication. In presenting the check to Heinrich Churs,
chairman of the Berlin Dienst am Menschen, Maj. Gen.
Maxwell D. Taylor, then US commander, expressed the
hope that the book will engender good will for Berlin's
economy and aid the political and economic ad-
vancement of the city.

The 150-page illustrated book surveys the city’s com-
mercial and industrial potential and is intended to
serve ag a symbol of the Berlin motto: “Help Berlin:
Berlin helps itself."

Ten German Police Officials Visit US

Ten police officials from Kassel, Homberg, Fuersten-
feldbruck, Kempten, Munich, Karlsruhe, Berlin, Bremer-
haven and Stuttgart of the US area of control are on a
90-day tour of law enforcement facilities throughout
America, including the school of Police Administration
at Michigan State College in Lansing, Mich.

This is the fifth group of German police officials to
visit the US under the exchanges program. Twenty-five
such officials made the tour in the previous four trips.

Agricultural Teachers Meet

How to “keep them down on the farm" might easily have
been the theme of a recent week-long meeting of 100
agricultural vocational teachers from Hesse, Meeting in
Neustadt, near Marburg, the educators discussed ways
and means of improving agricultural vocational schools
and training that would make farm youth proud of their
occupation,

In warning that more and more rural youth are turning
each day to livelihood in the cities, the group recom-
mended an extension of agricultural vocational training
from two to three years, such as exists in all other trades
and professions, and a more thorough training of agri-
cultural vocational teachers in the religious field.

Erding Air Base Heavy Contributor

The Erding Air Base 85th Air Depot Wing gave new
emphasis to its standing reputation as “the base with a
big heart, according to final composite figures on
various charitable activities during 1950.

Erding airmen set the pace for Air Force and Army
units around the world in the 1950 March of Dimes.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

50

Breaking all previous records, they turned in contribu-

tions totaling $30,841 for an average of $11.67 per person.
In the mid-year Air Force Aid Society drive, Erding

airmen contributed $14,778 for a per capita $6.37.

Throughout 1950, Erding’s GYA center operated to
capacity, extending its facilities and aids to some 19,000
youth in three counties. Funds were contributed toward
numerous camps and, during the Christmas season alone,
Erding airmen gave an average of one dollar per person
toward 24 GYA holiday parties for children in that area.

Six local orphanages and the old folks’ home were
“adopted" by Erding personnel and received gifts,
clothing and other assistance during the past year. A
hobby shop was built at one of the orphanages and an.
ice skating rink at another. ‘

In connection with the annual Marsch der Mark, a
polio fund raising drive initiated by the 85th Wing's
German employees, more than DM 3,000 (more than $700)
was donated to the children's orthopedic ward at
nearby Ascheau hospital. Other record contributions
went to Red Cross and to memorial funds.

Handicraft Materials Arrive for Youth

A US Zone-wide handicraft contest sponsored by Ger-
man Youth Activities and scheduled for May received
a boost with the recent arrival from the United States of
1,000 pounds of handicraft materials. It was the first
cargo resulting from a nationwide drive conducted by
the General Federation of Women's Clubs in America.
The shipment was financed by the General Clay Fund
for German Children.

Hesse Women's Affairs Study Begins

Eight Hessian women students have been commissioned
by the Wiesbaden Society of Public Affairs to prepare
individual studies in an effort to enable Hessian women's
organizations to intensify their activities. The writers
have been given a tentative period of one year in which
to complete their studies and will be paid an allowance
of DM 100 (nearly $25) per rhonth during the interim.

HICOM Reimposes Magazine Ban

The Hamburg weekly magazine Der Stern was banned
from publishing its Jan. 14 and 21 issues, as a result of
an Allied High Commission ruling. The incident resulted
from an article in the magazine's Dec. 31 issue entitled
“Hoopla, We are Living on Occupation Costs.” The High
Commission had previously lifted its ban on the Jan. 21
issue when it received an apology from the publishers,
who also pleaded the restriction would impose financial
hardship on the publication.

In the meantime the publishers distributed a leaflet to
their readers in place of the Jan. 14 issue, in which they
described the Allied High Commission's action in a pro-
vocative and one-sided manner. The original ban was
reimposed, based on the article's offense to Law No. 5,
which forbids the publication of material prejudicial to
the prestige of the Occupation Forces. +END

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 54 ---
History

NOTHER CHAPTER in the 142-year-old history of

Wiesbaden's famed Kurhaus (‘Cure House") was
written when Brig. Gen. Fay R. Upthegrove, commanding
general, Wiesbaden Military Post, and Mayor Hans Redl-
hammer signed the contract returning to German use the
right wing of the building.

Since 1945, when Col. H, H. Harris, of the 12th Army
Group, handed the Kurhaus over to the American Red
Cross, it has been the Eagle Club, a recreation center for
US personnel with Germans admitted only as guests.

The new bi-national arrangement, effective immediately,

will not alter the regulations of admittance to the Ameri-
can side. It has not been definitely established what the
Germans will do with their wing, which includes the
bombed-out concert hall, library, former Special Service
offices, billiard room and sunporch. All American activi-

ties in the section have been transferred to the newly-
redecorated left side of the building.

ee HOWEVER, IS NOT NEW to the Kurhaus,
which has stood through the heyday of monarchies,
the rise of republics, the Nazi regime and every war
Since the 1800's.

The original Kurhaus went up during the reign of Duke
Frederick August of Nassau when the Napoleonic wars
were raging in Europe. The second and. present Kurhaus
opened its doors in 1907. It cost the city the equivalent
Of $2,000,000, And the Kurhaus continued its reputation
as one of the major European centers for social and aristo-
cratic life with overtones of culture and health.

The main season, which ran from May to September,
Was opened by the 10-day Festspie] (Drama Festival), in
the presence of the Kaiser, in the Opera House to the

FEBRUARY 1951

Sl

Wiesbaden’s famed “‘Kurhaus,’' dubbed the Eagle Club by
Americans, as it appears today. (USAFE photo)

right of the Kurhaus. The world's finest singers, dancers,
orchestras and conductors filled the programs. To the left
of the Kurhaus, the colonnade offered mineral waters,
carried from the Kochbrunnen (“Boiling Spring") in
especial constructed china pipes, and the famed Trauben-
kur (grape treatment), using the juice of grapes from the
choice Rhineland vineyards.

In the Kurhaus itself, two orchestras played daily in
the large concert hall during the winter and in the park
during the summer. The reading room contained 150 dif-
ferent newspapers and periodicals in all languages, reflect-
ing the cosmopolitan group Wiesbaden attracted. The
Kurhaus‘ excellent wine rooms, beer halls and restaurants
were known throughout Europe.

HILLIP KOENIG, German manager of the Eagle Club
and headwaiter in prewar days, recalls the time when

_ there were 31 cooks, 250 waiters and eight wine stewards

staffing the building's restaurants. Their wine cellar, of
international repute, was filled with 100,000 bottles, not
counting champagnes, bearing price tags all the way from
Reichsmarks 2.50 to 200 (then $1 to $80).

Three-hundred and fifty persons could be served in the
main restaurant, known then, and now, as Crystal Court
from its chandeliers, which Napoleon III presented to the
Kurhaus. The walls of the room are imported cherry wood
with mahogany inlay. There, Marshal Bluecher danced the
night before he crossed the Rhine to join Wellington at
the Battle of Waterloo.

Every room in the Kurhaus has its store of memories.
Wagner drank beer on the terrace... Top Nazis dined in
what is now the State Lounge... Hermann Goering gave
a small party on his honeymoon in the room now occupied

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
Airmen and US director of the Eagle Club try to visualize
“Kurhaus" concert hall in its heyday. Bomb hit it in 1945.

by the billiard tables...in Column Hall, Sarah Bernhardt
performed; Caruso and Melba sang; Liszt arid Brahms
gave concerts.

Audiences over the years included such diverse per-
sonalities as Czar Nicholas of Russia and Karl Marx;
four generations of the German imperial family; King
Edward VII of England and the Crown Prince of Japan.
Empress Eugenie of France spent many hours in the lib-
rary and legend has it that she scratched her name on
one of the windows with a diamond ring.

Legends, as if historical facts alone were not colorful
enough, have had a way of attaching themselves to the
Kurhaus. The most persistent one is that there is a third
cellar where music forbidden by the Nazi party was hidden.
Repeated explorations by Americans have failed to find it.

Mr. Koenig emphatically denies that it exists, and he
terms romantic fantasy the rumors that tunnels link the
Kurhaus with the Opera House, the Schwarzer-Bock hotel,
the Neroberg and the railroad station.

“There is an underground passage to the station,’ he
said, “but it happens to be the city sewer.”

HEN THE AMERICANS took over the Kurhaus in

1945, the Red Cross immediately set up one of its
traditional free coffee and doughnut kitchens. From that
simple beginning, the recreation center, dubbed the Eagle
Club after the insignia of the 12th Army Group, grew until
today it is a hub for Wiesbaden‘s occupation personnel
of all ages. gin October 1950, average daily attendance
exceeded 6,000.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

It offers entertainment, recreation and education seven
days a week, 14 hours a day, under direction of 10 Special
Service hostesses. Community clubs use it for meetings;
children attend kindergarten and dancing school there;
Protestant church services are held Sundays in the build-
ing; and a branch Post Exchange and EES snack bar are
among its facilities.

The shift to the building's left wing will not curtail the
club's multiple activities. The 12,000-volume library has
moved to a series of rooms formerly occupied by the Red
Cross, now located in Camp Lindsey, The new arrange-
ment will permit the library to set up a separate room
devoted to children. Plans are underway to establish a
writing room on the front inside balcony of the rotunda
and after a re-covering job, the billiard tables will be
ready for use in what was formerly the craft shop. Con-
struction of a compietely-equipped craft and hobby shop
in the basement is a future project. The old standbys of
the club — nightly dances, bingo games, weekly concerts
—will continue as before,

In signing the contract, General Upthegrove said: "It is
the aim of both Occupation Forces and German authorities
to sponsor mutual understanding and better social associ-
ation. Joint usage of the Kurhaus will be a step in this
direction, as well as restore to the city economy a portion
of their lost tourist income. Purely American activities
will continue to be supplied as before, In addition, we
may share in many of the fine programs sponsored by

the city administration." +END

Control of Civil Aviation

Defined by Allied High Commission
Military Security Board administration of German

civil aviation activities has been further defined by the
Allied High Commission.

Powers in this field are reserved to the Occupation
Authorities by the Occupation Statute and prohibilions
against the employment of German pilots, the manutacture ,
in Germany of aircraft or aircraft engines and the pos-
session or operation of aircraft by Germans or German
organizations continue.

Financing of civil airports remains on a local basis.
Licenses for German acquisition or ownership of an air-
port are only granted by the Military Security Board to
a state government, a municipality or combination of such.

Germans under the supervision of Occupation Authori-
ties can, however, work in such aeronautical activities
as passenger and freight handling, repair and maintenance
of aircraft and ground facilities including communications
and other aids to navigation. Radar operation and main-
tenance is excluded.

While Germans are not permitted to manufacture, pos-
sess or fly gliders, there is no objection to their activity
in the field of model aircraft-so long as it is not intended
or related to the development, manufacturing, testing or
repair of aircraft.

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 56 ---
Calendar of Coming Events:

Closing

March 4— Hanover (KS): German Indus-
tries Fair 1951, sample fair.

March 4— Oberstdorf (Bav): International
ski jump contests.

March 6 — Cologne (NRW): Collective ex-
positions of foreign exhibitors in the
House of the Nations in conjunction with
Cologne Spring Fair.

March 25— Heidelberg (WB): Reproduc-
tions of contemporary German and French
masters.

April— Muenster (NRW): Used automo-
biles and motors fair.

February
Feb. 20— Nuremberg (Bav): Choral concert.

Feb. 20 — Gelsenkirchen (NRW): Adolf
Busch Quartet.
Feb. 20— Bad Godesberg (NRW): Stross

Quartet.

Feb, 20 — Paderborn (NRW): Symphony
concert.

Feb. 21—Duisburg (NRW): Adolf Busch
Quartet.

Feb. 21— Aachen (NRW): Concert;
Ney, piano soloist; L. Hoelscher,
soloist.

Feb. 21 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Modern
music studio.

Feb. 21-22— Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; F, Rieger, conductor.

Feb. 21-22 Hanover (LS): New Italian
Quartet.

Feb, 22 — Tuebingen (NB): Symphony con-
cert, Academic Orchestra.

Feb. 22-23 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; Hermann Abendroth, con-
ductor.

Feb. 22-23 — Munich (Bav): Bach: ‘‘St. Mat-
thew’s Passion;’* E. Jochum. conductor.
Feb. 22-25 — Braunlage (LS): Winter Sports
Wee downhill, slalom and jump-run

contests.

Feb. 23 Wiesbaden (Hes): Brahms con-
cert; Elly Ney, piano soloist; O. Schmidt-
gen, conductor.

Feb. 23 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Song festi-
val, German Singers’ Association (DSB).

Feb. 23 _ Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert: H. Stanske, violin soloist; H.
Weisbach, conductor.

Feb. 23-24 — Remscheid (NRW): Bach, ‘St.
Matthew's Passion.”

Feb. 23-25 — Goslar (LS): German Hunting-
Dog Association.

Feb. 23-25 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
German Alpine ski championships.

Feb, 24 — Berlin; National Indoors Sports
Festival.

Feb, 24 Hahnenklee-Bockswiese (LS): 2nd
and 4th bobsled races for Lower Saxony
Prize.

Feb. 24-25 — Clausthal-Zellerfeld (LS): Ski
Jumping and long-distance contests.

Feb. 24-25 Marburg (Hes): German col-
lege gymnastics championships.

Feb. 24-25 — Inzell (Bav): Ski endurance
Tace (35 km.).

Feb. 25 — Verden-Aller (LS): Spring auc-
tion of Hanoverian saddle-horses.

Feb. 25 — Bad Kreuznach (RP): Verdi, ‘‘Re-
quiem,"*

Feb. 25 — Mainz (RP): Palace concert;
Brahms, “Requiem.”

Feb. 25 Stuttgart (WB): Brahms, “Re-
quiem;"’ Prof. W. v. Hoogstraaten, con-
ductor,

Elly
cello

FEBRUARY 1951

Feb. 20 to April 15, 1951

Feb. 25— Frankfurt (Hes): Matinee, Elly~
Ney, piano.

Feb. 25 — Berlin: Indoor bicycle racing.

Feb. 25 — Marktredwitz (Bav): Junior ski
jumping.

Feb. 25 — St. Andreasberg (LS): Giant sla-
lom, jump-run.

Feb. 25—Hinterzarten (WB): Ski jump-run.

Feb. 25— Oberaudorf (Bav): Ski jump-run.

Feb. 25-26 — Hamburg: Symphony concert;
Fritz Busch, guest conductor.

Feb. 25-26 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra; H. Knappertsbusch. conductor.

Feb. 25—26 — Brunswick (LS): Concert with
W. Hanke, violin soloist.

Feb. 25-27 — Cologne (NRW): Spring Fair I,
household utensils and hardware.

Feb. 25-March 6 — Cologne (NRW): Foreign
collective exposition in House of Nations,
in conjunction with Spring Fair.

Feb. 25-March 25 — Heidelberg (WB): Re-
productions of contemporary German
and French masters.

Feb. 26 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen
Ski-jumping on Olympia jump.
Feb. 26— Wuerzburg (Bav): Symphony con-

cert, Wuerzburg Philharmonic Orchestra.

(Bav):

Feb. 27 — Freiburg (SB): Concert; Walter -

Gieseking, piano.

Feb. 28 — Bad Neuenahr (RP): Concert; Pe-
ter Anders, tenor.

Feb. 28 — Remscheid (NRW): Concert; L.
Hoelscher, cello.

Feb. 28 — Berlin: Indoor bicycle racing.

Feb. 28-March 4 — Hanover: German Indus-
tries Fair 1951, sample fair.

Feb. 28-March 4 — Oberstdorf (Bav): Inter-
national ski jumping contests.

February — Heidelberg (WB):
Truebner memorial exposition.

February — Cologne (NRW): Lyonel Fein-
inger, new water colors.

February — Kassel (Hes):
Japanese artists.

February-March — Stuttgart (WB): “So
Lives America," touring exhibition.

February-April — Bamberg (Bav): Munici-
pal gallery, exposition of paintings in
new hall.

February-May — Hanover (LS):
art, 1400-1800.

March é

Early March — Hanover (LS): German Gar-
den-Architects' Association meeting.

Early March — Wuppertal (NRW): Civil
service, traffic and transportation, com-
mittees on rail vehicles, and freight car
building industry, conferences.

Early March— Hamburg: 25th anniversary,
Hotel, Restaurant and Confectionery Fair.

March 1— Bonn (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; Vasa Prihoda, violin; O. Volkmann,
conductor.

Wilhelm

Paintings by

European

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
‘WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

“53

March 1 — Kassel (Hes): Symphony concert;
K. Elmendorf, conductor.

March 1— Wuppertal (NRW): 50th an-
niversary, Wuppertal suspension trolley.

March 3 — Mainz (RP): Symphony concert;
K. M. Zwissler, conductor,

March 3— Bischofsgruen (Bav): Night ski
jumping.

March 3-4 — Goettingen (LS): Concert; Tibor
Varga, violin.

March 4 — Blankenstein-Ruhr (NRW): Hay-
dn, “The Seasons.’*

March 4 — Heidelberg (WB): Summer Day
procession.

March 4 — Neustadt/Weinstrasse (RP) :Sum-
mer Day pageant, Palatinate costume
festival.

March 4— Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
Alpspitz relay race.
March 4 — Hahnenklee-Bockswiese (LS):

Final toboggan and bobsled races.

March 4— Berchtesgaden (Bav): Downhill
race from Watzmann.

March 4 — Bischofsgruen (Bav): Downhill
race from Ochsenkopf.

March 4— Warmensteinach (Bay):
distance ski race, 35 km.

March 4-5 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Concert;
L. Hoelscher, cello.

March 4-5 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra with Chamber Choir, St. Hedwig's
Cathedral Choir; Ferenc Fricsay, con-
ductor.

March 4-5 — Hamburg: Philharmonic con-
cert; Joseph Keilberth, conductor.

March 4-5 — Dortmund (NRW): Symphony
concert; G. Kelir, violin.

March 4-6 — Cologne (NRW): Spring Fair II,
textiles and clothing fair.

March 5— Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; J. Schueler, conductor.

March 5 — Coblenz (NRW): Rhenish Phil-
harmonic; A. Vogt, conductor.

March 5— Freiburg (SB): Symphony Or-
chestra; H. Roloff, piano.

March 5-6 — Freiburg (SB): Symphony con-
cert; H. Roloff, piano,

March 5-6 —Mannheim (WB): Academy
concert; E. Szenkar, conductor.

March 6 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Symphony
concert; State Orchestra with W. Back-
haus, piano; W. Kaufmann, conductor.

March 6 — Marburg (Hes): Concert; W.
Backhaus, piano.

March 6 — Muelheim-Ruhr (NRW): Sym-
phony concert with D. Krauss, piano;
E. Jochum, conductor.

March 7 — Constance (SB): Symphony con-
cert; M. Egger, Zurich. piano.

March 7-8-— Duisburg (NRW): Concert;
Vasa Prihoda, violin; G. L. Jochum, con-
ductor.

March 7-8 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic

* concert; W. Backhaus, piano.

March 7-12— Nuremberg (Bav):
Toy Trade Fair.

March 7-13 — Berlin: 6-day bicycle race.

March 8 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; H. Meissner, conductor.

March 9 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert; H.
Walcha, cembalo; K. M. Zwissler, bari-
tone; O. Schmidtgen, conductor.

March 9 — Bremen: Koeckert Quartet.

March 9-10-— Cologne (NRW): German
Dentists’ Association meeting.

March 9-11 — Muenster (NRW): Riding and
driving tournament.

March 10 — Hamburg: Choral concert.

Long-

German

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
March 11 — Stuttgart (WB):
Backhaus, piano. .

March 11 — Essen (NRW): Bach, ‘St. Mat-
thew’'s Passion.”

March 11 — Leverkusen, (NRW): Bach, “‘St.
Matthew's Passion.”

March 11 — Schliersee (Bav): Bavarian club-
relay championships.

March 11— Warmensteinach (Bav): Wehr-
mann Brochters memorial ski jumping.

March 11-12 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra; J. Keilberth, conductor.

March 11-14 — Hanover (LS): German Soc-
iety on Pathology, meeting.

March 11-16 — Frankfurt (Hes):
tional Spring Fair,

March 11-18 — Stuttgart (WB): Study week
for modern music.

March 12— Karlsruhe (WB): Symphony
concert; K. Kraus, violin soloist; Th.
Engel, guest conductor.

March 13 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Bach, "'St.
Matthew's Pass'‘on."*

March 13 — Neheim-Huesten (NRW): Piano
night, Carl Seemann (Freiburg).

March 13-14— Bonn (NRW): Bach, “St.
Matthew's Passion;’* O. Volkmann, con-
ductor.

March 14-15 — Bremen:
Schnackenburg, conductor,

March 14-16 — Constance (SB): German
Federal Railroad's research conference.

March 15— Bochum (NRW): Symphony
concert; H. Meissner. conductor.

March 15 — Stuttgart (WB): Piano concert,
Wilhelm Kempff.

Concert; W.

Interna-

Concert; H.

March 17 —M.-Gladbach (NRW): Bach,
“St. John's Passion.”
March 17-18 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Bach,

“St. Matthew's Passion;"' M. Hollreiser,
conductor,

March 18 — Heidelberg (WB): Bach, ‘‘St.
Matthew's Passion.”
March 18— Mainz (RP): Bach, “St. Mat-

thew's Passion” (unabridged).

March 18 — Marburg (Hes): Verdi, ‘‘Re-
quiem.”

March 18 — Muenster (NRW): International
indoor handball tournament.

March 18-19 — Hamburg: Philharmonic con-
cert; Fritz Rieger, conductor.

March 18-19 — Berlin: Berlin . Philharmonic
Orchestra; E. Jochum, conductor.

March 19 — Nuremberg (Bav): Concert; Elly
Ney, piano; L. Hoelscher, cello.

March 19 — Frankfurt (Hes): 10th Museum
concert; G. Krauss, guest conductor.

March 19— Viersen (NRW): Bach, “St.
Matthew's Passion; E. Jochum, con-
ductor.

March 19— Aachen (NRW): Bach, ‘‘St.

Matthew's Passion.” (In the Cathedral.)

March 19 — Kreuth (Bav): St. Joseph jump-
ing on Tegernsee Valley jump on the
Ringberg.

March 19 — Oberwarmensteinach (Bav): St.
Joseph jumping on Franken jump.

March 19-20— Coblenz (RP): Bach,
Matthew's Passion."

March 20-21 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Bach,
“St. John's Passion.”

March 21 — Hamburg: First bestowal ot the
Bach Prize of the Hanse Town, Hamburg.

March 21 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW):
Brahms, “Requiem.”

March 21-23 — Cologne (NRW): 7th sym-
phony concert; Prof. G. Wand, conductor.

March 23 — Darmstadt (Hes): Bach, "'St.
Matthew's Passion.”

March 23 — Wuppertal (NRW): Frank Mar-
tin, ‘'Golgatha” Oratorio.

March 23 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Bach, ‘'St.
Matthew's Passion.”

March 23 — Munich (Bav): Bach, "St.
Matthew's Passion.’

"St.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

March 23 — Nuremberg (Bav): Bach, ‘St.
John's Passion."

March 23 — Oberhausen (NRW): Bach, “St.
Matthew's Passion.”

March 23-24-— Remscheid (NRW): Bach,
“St. Matthew's Passion.”

March 24-25 — Kassel (Hes): German Man-
dolin and Guitar Players’ Association
festival.

March 24-26 — Bad Kreuznach (RP): 26th
International Easter hockey tournament.

March 25 — Baden-Baden (NB): Symphony
concert; H. Roloff, piano soloist; Carl
Schuricht, conductor.

March 25 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
Fancy ice-skating events, with Maxi and
Ernst Baier, .

March 25-26 — Feldberg/Black Forest (SB):
Traditional Easter international ski jump-

ing.

March 25-26 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony
Orchestra; C. Krauss. conductor.

March 25-26 — Hamburg: International
hockey tournament on 50th anniversary
of Uhlenho:st Hockey Club.

March 26 — Mainz (RP): Palace Concert.

March 28-29 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; G. Cassado, cello; Fritz Rieger,
conductor,

March 28-Apr. 1 — Schwaebisch-Hall (WB):
International congress on medical anthro-
pology.

Maich 29 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Symphony
concert; Vasa Prihoda, violin; L. Kauf-
mann, conductor.

March 29 — Bamberg (Bav): Symphony con-
cert; J. Keilberth, conductor.

March 30-Apr. 4— Munich (Bav): six-day
bicycle race.

March 31 — Mainz (RP): Beethoven concert;
H. Merkel, violin; K. M. Zwissler, con-
ductor.

Late March — Solingen (NRW): Bergish
Land art exposition.

Late March — Aachen (NRW): Easter out-
door folk festival ‘‘Oecher Bend.”

March — Brackenheim (WB): Wine-press
christening and folk festival, Federal
President Theodor Heuss participating.

March — Cologne (NRW): Collective art
exposition, Otto Dix.

March — Wuppertal (NRW): “'Miserere,”
graphics collection by George Braque.
March — Trier (RP): Graphics by the French

painter George Braque.

March — Stuttgart (WB): Metallurgical
society, scientific meeting.

March — Kiel (SH): Dairy week.

March-April — Muenster (NRW):
automobile and motor exposition.

March-May — Munich (Bav): National Mu-
seum presents: ‘Roman Treasures — from
the Straubing finds,”

April

Early April — Berlin: International Free Ar-
tists’ Lodge, 50th anniversary.

Apr. 1 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Giant slalom
on the Jenner.

Apr. 1-2 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic Or-
chestra; Tibor Varga, violin; Sergiu Celi-
bidache, conductor.

Apr. 1-2 — Hamburg: Philharmonic con-

Used

cert: Vasa Prihoda, violin; F. Rieger,
conductor.
Apr. 1-2 — Dortmund (NRW): Symphony

concert; M. Strub, violin.

Apr. 1-4 — Frankfurt (Hes): Fur fair.

Apr. 2 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert,
Yehudi Menuhin, violin.

Apr. 2 — Frankfurt, (Hes): 11th Museum
concert; G. Cassado, cello; B. Vonden-
hoff, conductor.

Apr. 2 —. Freiburg (SB): Symphony con-
cert; Prof. K. Boehm, guest conductor.

54

Apr. 2 — Luebeck (SH): Symphony concert;
N. Soennerstadt, Stockholm, soloist; Sten-
Ake Axelson, Malmoe, conductor.

Apr. 2 — Cobienz (RP): Rhenish Philhar-
mony; C. Winkler, conductor.

Apr. 2 Cochem/Moselle (RP): "Knipp
Monday,” ancient folk festival.

Apr. 3 — Marburg (Hes):
Schroeter, piano soloist.
Apr. 4 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Symphony

concert; G. Cassado, cello soloist; G. Koe-
nig, conductor. .
Apr, 4 — Constance (SB): Symphony con-

Concert; H.

cert; K. Freund, violin soloist; H. von
Beckerath, cello soloist.
Apr. 4-5 — Aachen (NRW): Symphony

concert; F, Raabe, conductor.

Apr. 4-5 — Bremen: Concert; C, Krauss,
guest conductor.

Apr. 4-5 — Marburg (Hes): Blind Musicians’
Day, Association of Blind Brain-Workers.

Apr. 5 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; Vasa Prihoda, violin soloist.

Apr.5— Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; G, Cassado, cello soloist; H. Weis-
bach, conductor.

Apr. 5 — Duesseldorf
Menuhin, violin.

Apr. 5-9 — Muenster (NRW): ‘‘Send’’ festi-
val on Cathedral Square.

Apr. 6 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Special concert.

Apr. 6-8 — Mainz (RP): Fencing singles
championships.

Apr. 7-8 — Goettingen (LS): Concert; H.
Schmidt-Isserstedt, conductor.

Apr. 7-9 — Cologne (NRW): 10th, . anni-
versary of Cologne Hairdressers’ Asso-
ciation — German hairdressing trade
championships. ~

Apr. 8 — Heidelberg (WB): 85th anniversary
of the male chorus ‘‘Concordia.”

Apr, 8 — Bonn (NRW): Symphony concert.

Apr. 8 — Mainz (RP): Palace concert.

Apr. 8-9 — Stuttgart (WB): Symphony con-
cert; W. Schneiderhan, violin soloist;
F, Leitner, conductor.

Apr. 8-9 — Berlin. RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra with Yehudi Menuhin, violin
soloist; K, Boehm, guest conductor.

Apr. 8-9 — Brunswick (LS): Symphony
concert; G, Taschner, violin soloist.

Apr. 9 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; Joh. Schueler, conductor.

Apr. 9 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony con-
cert; C. Krauss, conductor,

Apr. 9 — Bremen: Vegh Quartet.

Apr. 9 — Viersen (NRW): Symphony con-
cert, Cologne broadcasting orchestra;
Victor Desarzens, Geneva, conductor.

Apr. 9 — Nuremberg (Bav): Stuttgart Cham-
ber Orchestra.

Apr, 9-10 — Mannheim (WB):
concert; E, Szenkar, conductor.

Apr. 10 — Cologne (NRW): Beethoven con-
cert; W. Schneiderhan, violin.

Apr. 11-12 — Duisburg (NRW): Beethoven
concert; W. Schneiderhan, violin; E.
Jochum, conductor.

Apr. 11-12 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; Vasa Prihoda, violin.

Apr, 12 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; E, Kezur, piano.

Apr, 13 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert; Tibor
Varga, violin; G. Floesser, piano.

Apr. 13-15 — Baden-Baden (SB): General
German Automobile Club (ADAC) con-
vention.

Apr, 15-16 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Concert
with J. v. Karoly, soloist.

Apr. 15-16 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
concert; S. Borries, violin; W. Furt-
waengler, conductor.

Apr. 15-16 — Dortmund (NRW): Symphony
concert. + END

(NRW): Yehudi

Academy

FEBRUARY 1051:

--- Page 58 ---
(Continued from page 8)

Landsberg, A Documentary Report

The case of Defendant Strauch who was extradited to
Belgium where he was sentenced to death for murders
committed there was not reviewed.

* * *

Case 10 — The Krupp Case
Defendants, who were among the highest executives
in the Krupp industrial empire, were charged with col-
Jaboration with the Hitler Government in the use of
slave labor and in spoliation for the aggrandizement
of the concern,

This case involves a charge of spoliation and plunder
relating to certain property in France and Holland. There
is also a slave labor count involving the illegal employ-
ment of civilians, concentration camp inmates and pris-
oners of war in various Krupp plants.

On the first of these charges the defense is that the
Krupp concern had no part in the confiscation of the
property; that it was done entirely by German govern-
mental authorities and the property was allocated to
Krupp at prices set by the government and paid by Krupp.

On the second count the defense is that the slave labor
was allocated by governmental authorities and the con-
ditions under which the labor was confined and worked
were directed entirely by the concentration camp com-
manders in the case of the civilians and by the army
in the case of the war prisoners. Employment was illegal
in the case of the civilians and contrary to the Hague
Convention in the case of the prisoners of war.

There is no doubt whatever that this labor was in-
humanly treated, being constantly subjected to corporal
punishment and other cruelties. There is likewise no
doubt that the industrial concern and its management
were not primarily responsible for this treatment. The
judgment does indicate that several of the defendants
were involved with certain-of the illegalities but it is
extremely difficult to allocate individual guilt among the
respective defendants.

I have come to the conclusion that whatever guilt
these defendants may have shared for having taken a
consenting part in either offense, it was no greater in
these cases than that involved in-the Farben and Flick
cases. I have accordingly reduced the sentences in Case
Number 10 so that the terms served will conform ap-
proximately to the sentences in similar cases.

The decisions in this case are as follows:

Alfried Krupp von

from 12 years and confis-
Bohlen und Halbach

cation of all property to
time served and no confis-
cation

Friedrich von Buelow
Erich Mueller

from 12 years to time served

from 12 years to time served
Eduard Houdremont

from 10 years to time served
Friedrich Janssen
Karl Eberhardt

from 10 years to time served

— from 9 years to time served

FEBRUARY 1951

55

Case No. 2 (Milch): Erhard Milch (left) with his counsel,

Dr. Friedrich Bergold, at trial. (US Amy photo)

Max Ihn
Heinrich Korschan

— from nine years to time served
— from six years to time served
Heinrich Lehmann — from six years to time served

One feature of this case is unique, namely, the confis-
cation decree attached to the term sentence against
Alfried Krupp. This is the sole case of confiscation de-
creed against any defendant by the Nuremberg courts.
Even those guilty of personal participation in the most
heinous crimes have not suffered confiscation of their
property and I am disposed to feel that confiscation in
this single case constitutes discrimination against this
defendant unjustified by any considerations attaching
peculiarly to him. General confiscation of property is
not a usual element in our judicial system and is gener-
ally repugnant to American concepts of justice, as
Mr. Justice Jackson has said in opposing such sen-
tences in connection with the jurisdiction granted to the
International Military Tribunal.

I can find no personal guilt in defendant Krupp, based
upon the charges in this case, sufficient to distinguish
him above all others sentenced by the Nuremberg Courts.
As one of the compelling motives of this review is to
introduce a certain uniformity in the sentences I have
determined to eliminate this feature from the defendant
Krupp’s sentence.

I would point out that by so doing I am making no
judgments as to the ultimate title to the former Krupp
property. The property of Firma Fried. Krupp will be
subject to AHC Law Number 27, “Reorganization of the
German Coal, Iron and Steel Industries," and is not
affected by this decision.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
Case 11 — Ministries Case

Defendants were high-ranking officials who played an

important part in the political and diplomatic prepara-

tion for initiation of aggressive wars, violation of in-
ternational treaties, economic spoliation, diplomatic
implementation of the genocidal program.

I have determined to follow the recommendations of
the Board in all these cases. There is one case, how-
ever, which I feel deserves special comment. This is the
case of Gottlob Berger, who was originally sentenced to
twenty-five years imprisonment,

Berger was a Close official associate of Himmler; he
was active in the Heu-Aktion program by which children
were evacuated from the Eastern territories and sent to
training camps for armament industries. He was prom-
inent in the creation of and gave protection to the
units presided over by the notorious Dirlawanger.

On the other hand, Berger appears to have been un-
justly convicted of participation in the murder of the
French General Mesny. At least there is substantial
evidence to show that he protested the affair and did
what he could to prevent it. Also, Berger, toward the
end of the war, actively intervened to save the lives
of Allied officers and men who under Hitler orders were
held for liquidation or as hostages.

The judgment shows without contradiction that this
prisoner is culpably responsible for much that was ille-
gal and inhumane in the Nazi program and his close

association with Himmler is a serious indictment in
itself. However, I feel compelled to eliminate entirely
from the consideration of the weight of his sentence any
participation in the Mesny murder and to give perhaps
somewhat greater weight than did the Court to certain
humane manifestations toward prisoners which at least
in one period of his career he displayed. For these
reasons I have approved the recommendation of a reduc-
tion in sentence from 25 years to 10 years which the
Board has made as a very liberal act of clemency. I have
already commuted the sentence of the defendant Ernst
von Weizsaecker to time served.

The conclusions of this case are therefore as follows:
Gottlob Berger
Hans Heinrich Lammers — from 20 years to 10 years

— from 25 years to 10 years

Edmund Vessemayer — from 20 years to 10 years

Hans Kehrl — from 15 years to time served
Paul Koerner — from 15 years to 10 years
Paul Pleiger — from 15 years to nine years

Wilhelm Keppler

Count Lutz von
Schwerin-Krosigk

— from 10 years to time served

— from 10 years to time served
* * *

Case 12 — High Command Case

Defendants were charged with personal responsibility
for ordering the killing and mistreatment of prisoners

Case No. 3 (Justice), left to right, front row: Josef Altstoetter, Wilhelm von: Ammon, Paul Barnickel, Hermann Cuhorst,
Karl Engert, Guenther Joel, Herbert Klemm, Ernst Lautz; second row: Woligang Mettgenberg, Guenther Nebelung, Rudolf

Oeschey, Hans Peterson, Oswald Rothaug, Curt Rotheberger, Franz Schlegelberger.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(US Army photo)

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 60 ---
>

Case No. 10 (Krupp): left to right, last row: Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach, Eduard Houdremont, Erich Mueller,
Friedrich Janssen, Karl Pfirsch, Max Ihn, Karl Eberhardt, Heinrich Korschan, Friedrich von Buelow, Heinrich Lehmann,

Hans Kupke,

of war and fostering and participating in a program

involving the deportation and abuse of civilians in

occupied areas.

It is important to note that in these cases the defendants
involved are men of very high military rank, They were
tried and convicted not for excesses participated in by
them or by units under their command on the battlefields
and in hot blood, but for promulgating or participating
directly or indirectly in the orders leading to the execu-
tions of or killing of civilians, political undesirables, Jews,
gypsies, Allied fliers, those having “anti-German atti-
tudes” and others having in large part no connection
with the conduct of military operations. The testimony
in these cases is mainly based on documents, the reports
of the officers themselves, and those of their command
of which they had knowledge.

The offenses also embrace responsibility for or a con-
senting part in the deportation of civilian populations,
their enslavement, and the slaughter of commandos. The
association of certain of these officers of the highest
rank* with the liquidations conducted by the SIPO and
the SD, was closer than is generally admitted, and their
personal conduct in this connection places them beyond
military justification.

With every disposition to grant consideration because
Officers are impelled to take measures calculated to
protect their country and their command, there still re-
Mains, in these cases, an area of real guilt which,
whatever his nationality, a professional soldier sensitive
of his responsibilities cannot countenance.

Much has been said about the honor of the German
Soldier and of the German officer. The suggestion has
been made that condemnation of individual officers is a
reflection on the German military profession as a whole.
To condemn those who were not faithful to their pro-
fessional obligations is not to condemn the whole pro-
fession any more than to condemn the doctors and
lawyers who participated in the medical experiments

and in the administration of the people's courts under
ee

* Reinecke, for example, was a lieutenant general, chief of the AWA
and chief of the National Socialist Guidance Staff'of OKW, and had
charge of Prisoners of War Affairs.

FEBRUARY 1951

57

(OCCWC photo;

the Nazis is to condemn the medical and legal profes-
sions as a whole,

Where sentences have been substantially reduced it
has been the result of more detached responsibility and
other extenuating circumstances brought out mainly
since the trials. Wherever evidence appears that any of
these officers did resist or attempt to moderate in part
certain of the excesses, due consideration was given
such action either in the original sentence or by the
present action.

The decisions in this case which closely follow the
recommendations of the Board are as follows:

Hermann Reinecke -

Walter Warlimont _

life. No modification
from life to 18 years
Georg von Kuechler — from 20 years to 12 years
Hans von Salmuth from 20 years to 12 years
Herman Hoth — 15 years. No modification
Hans Georg Reinhardt 15 years. No modification
Kuechler is 70 years of age. Since the Court sentenced
this defendant to a term less than life, I have reduced
the sentence so as to give, with time served and time
off for good behavior, a prospect of release from prison

during his lifetime.

Series C

Introduction to Clemency
Board Report

Advisory Board on Clemency for War Criminals

August 28, 1950
To: The United States High Commissioner for Germany.

Pursuant to the directions of John J. McCloy, United
States High Commissioner for Germany, the Advisory
Board on Clemency for War Criminals was convened in
Washington, D. C. in March, 1950 as follows: David
W. Peck, Presiding Justice, Appellate Division, First De-
partment, New York Supreme Court, Chairman; Frederick
A. Moran, Chairman, New York Board of Parole; and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
Case No. 1 (Medical): left to right, front row: Karl Brandt,* Siegfried Handloser, Paul Rostock, Oskar Schroeder, Karl

Genzken, Kar] Gebhardt,* Kurt Blome, Joachim Mrugowsky,* Rudolf Brandt,*

Helmut Poppendick, Wilfram Sievers;

second row: Gerhard Rose, Siegfried Ruff, Victor Brack,* Hermann Becker-Freysing, Georg August Weltz, Konrad Schae-
fer, Waldemar Hoven,* Wilhelm Beigelboeck, Adolf Pororny, Herta Oberheuser, Fritz Fischer. (* = These seven were exe-

cuted June 2, 1948.)

Conrad E. Snow, Assistant Legal Adviser, Department of
State.

Commissioner Moran proceeded to Germany in April,
returning to the United States with the judgments and
the Board then commenced its study and consideration
of the cases. The Board convened at 28 Prinzregenten
Strasse, Munich, on July 11, 1950, and proceeded im-
mediately to consider the petitions for clemency filed
by or on behalf of the defendants who were convicted
in Cases Numbers 1 to 12, inclusive, which were tried
by Military Tribunals established in accordance with
US Military Government Ordinance No. 7, as amended.
The Board has sat in Munich for 40 days, has read the
judgments (over 3,000 pages) in the cases of 104 de-
fendants now in confinement as a result of the above
mentioned trials, the appeals filed by counsel, the
petitions for clemency and all supporting documents,
and has heard 50 counsel representing 90 of the defend-
ants. Commissioner Moran has personally conferred
with the prisoners at Landsberg Prison. All considera-
tions of the Board have been in accordance with the
direction of the High Commission, as contained in Staff
Announcement No. 117, dated July 18, 1950.

The Board submits herewith its findings and recom-
mendations with regard to clemency, in accordance with
Paragraph 3 of the above mentioned Staff Announcement.

Respectfully submitted,

Davip W. Peck
Freperick A, Moran
Conrap E. Snow

INFORMATION BULLETIN

58

(OCCWC photo)

HE AVAILABILITY TO the individual defendant of

an appeal to executive clemency is a salutary part of
the administration of justice. It is particularly appropriate
that the cases of defendants convicted of war crimes be
given an executive review because no appellate court
review has been provided.

There were twelve trials before six United States Mili-
tary Tribunals at Nuremberg, involving over one hundred
defendants, these trials being known as the American
Nuremberg trials. Some of the defendants have asserted
that standards of judgment varied between the several
courts and that there were inequalities in sentences. There
seems also to be a feeling upon the part of the defendants
that the time of their trial, shortly after the war, was un-
favorable and prejudicial. It is important, therefore, that
all the cases be reviewed at one time by one body under
conditions which guarantee objectivity.

While your Advisory Board has worked under a direc-
tive that it was not to review the judgments on the law
or the facts, we have felt that the authority to review
sentences required a differentiation between specific facts
found and established in the evidence and conclusions’
that may have been drawn therefrom. We have considered
ourselves bound by the former but not by the latter. We
have closely examined the judgments, carefully con-
sidered the petition and supporting documents of each
defendant, heard counsel in each case, and through one
member of the Board interviewed each prisoner at Lands-
berg Prison.

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 62 ---
rJ\HE NUREMBERG TRIALS were more than the trials

of individual defendants for individual crimes. They
were group trials of men who, while participating sepa-
rately, were engaged in a vast criminal enterprise against
international laws and humanity. We think that three
things of equal importance should eventuate from these
trials and be pointed up in this report.

(1) Recognition of laws of humanity which no people or
state can flaunt and the certain knowledge that the indi-
vidual engaged in their violation will be held accountable
to society and punished.

(2) Education of the people of the world as to what took
place under the Third Reich, that they may become ever
alert to guard against the risks of repetition.

(3) Individual justice for the individual defendant. He
must not be assimilated to the government, party or pro-
gram. His individual action and circumstances must be
scrupulously observed to the end that he be held account-
able only for his own misdeeds and not have visited upon
him the misdeeds of others,

We duly appreciate that our province and concern is
with the individual. We believe that our report and recom-
mendations reflect an attention to all individual considera-
tions in accordance with the standard set. We think it
necessary as well as desirable at the outset, however, to
outline the scope and showing of the trials, the manifold
but unified criminal activities in which these defendants
participated.

HE TWELVE TRIALS were separate proceedings, each
concerning a segment of the Nazi program: the SS,
the army, the concentration camps, the courts, the govern-
ment, the industrial front. All were integrated in a massive
design which despite its madness was thoroughly worked
out to incorporate every endeavor. The concept which
underlay the design and aggressive action was the idea
that the Germans were a master race destined to conquer,
subjugate and enslave the inferior races of the east, but
that even the master race must be ruled by a dictator who
would have complete control over their lives. It was not
a new idea, this glorification of state and ordering of the
lives of all individuals to serve the state, but it had never
been conceived and carried out on such a large and ruth-
less scale as it was by Hitler and the Nazis.
The parts of the master plan all carried out in unison were:
(1) War to conquer and bring within the Nazi domain
the territories of the east.
(2) The elimination of all actual and potential opposi-
tion, by the extermination of political leaders and those
who had any promise of becoming political leaders in

Opposition, or their collection and removal to concentra-

tion camps.

(3) The elimination of Jews, occasionally by deportation,
but generally by outright slaughter. This organized busi-
ness of murder was centered in SS groups which accom-
Panied the army for the purpose of eliminating the Jews,
Gypsies and all those even suspected of being partisans.
No less than 2,000,000 defenseless human beings were
killed in this operation.

FEBRUARY 1951

(4) The subjugation of the people of the conquered
eastern territory and suppression of all resistance by cal-
culated terrorization. This was Hitler's direction to and the
deliberate policy of the High Command (OKW), carried
out by many of the commanding generals in the southeast.
Departing from military measures and in violation of laws
of war, the southeast army engaged in the murder of poli-
tical leaders captured with troops, collected the civil popu-
lation, and after destroying their villages held them as
hostages to be shot together with prisoners of war in
arbitrary reprisal ratios as high as 100 to 1 for the death
of any German soldier or for any act of sabotage. Not in-
frequently this army was employed in rounding up Jews
and other “undesirables” and turning them over to the
accompanying SS for liquidation.

(5) Pillage of property and enslavement of the popula-
tion of the invaded eastern territories to feed the machine
of war. Local industry was preempted to fashion German
arms, or machinery and material were removed to Ger-
many for the purpose, and the local population was con-
scripted for local labor service or deported to Germany
and placed in concentration camps near war plants, where
they were set to work 12 hours a day until many thousands
died from exhaustion, exposure, starvation or brutal
treatment.

(6) The resettlement program which had the dual pur-
pose of permanently ousting the non-Germans from their
homes, eliminating their culture and even their existence,
and settling Germans in their place. Included in this pro-
gram was bringing back to the Reich from the eastern ter-
ritories German nationals or ethnic Germans, regardless
of whether they wished to come or not, kidnaping of non-
German children with racial characteristics considered
desirable and their removal to the Reich for strengthening
the race, the deportation or reduction of non-Germans to
a position of virtual slavery, and an elaborate program to
end the propagation of the inferior races by means of ste-
rilization, abortions and the imposition of the death penalty
for forbidden sexual intercourse. All this was done on a
systematic basis, of racial examinations which determined
the disposition of all the people involved. This gigantic
uprooting of people regardless of ties of home, family or
their wishes, was carried out in a thoroughly businesslike
way by agencies of the government set up for the purpose.

Members of the HICOG Advisory Board on Clemency are
(left to right) General Snow, Justice Peck and Mr. Moran,
shown while working on their reviews in Munich.

(PRB OLCB photo}

--- Page 63 ---
Helmut Felmy.

HE MEDICAL EXPERIMENTS, which constituted one

entire case, will be touched on here only as an illus-
tration of the attitude and philosophy which dominated
the whole program. They included a variety of experiments
with diseases, inoculations, mutilating operations and
physical tests on human beings, all made on concentration-
camp inmates and involving a large number of deaths.
While it is contended that the experiments were useful
and conducted properly, despite the many deaths result-
ing, the noteworthy fact is that free subjects were not per-
suaded to make the sacrifice for country or humanity,
which is the elementary legal requirement for experiments
on human beings, but the imposition was made solely upon
those helpless human beings for whom the Reich had no
use or respect. The number that died by medical experi-
mentations was not comparable to those who died by
other means, but hundreds of concentration-camp inmates,
without their consent and in violation of every tenet of
law and professional ethics, were subjected to torture and
death by experiments, including their infection with
mortal disease, the breaking and transplanting of bones,
exposure to freezing, high altitudes and other physi-
cal tests.

Of course, none of this could happen where law existed
or was observed. Hence it was a necessary part of the pro-
gram to eliminate law, and law was eliminated. There was
an outright substitution of Nazi ideology for law. Judges
were frankly instructed that in dealing with non-Germans
they were not expected to apply or observe the statutes,
but were to be guided by Nazi ideology. The judge was
thus left loose and free from law to vent his will, and ina
discriminatory manner based only on considerations of
who the parties were, the antithesis of law, the courts
reached decisions and inflicted penalties and punishment,
including death for the most trifling offenses if the
defendant was a Pole or Jew.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

60

Walter Kuntze, Hermann
Foertsch, Kurt von Geitner, Lothar Rendulic, Ernst Dehner, Ernst von Leyser, Hubert Lanz, Wilhelm Speidel. Not shown:

(DPA photo)

HILE NO LAW WAS above the judges in these

cases, there were ministers and party leaders above
them, and decisions were closely watched even by
Hitler or Himmler to make sure that the courts did their
part in the Nazi program. Their interference in court
proceedings, particularly with dispositions and sentences,
was common. If a decision was not satisfactory to the
party or government, it was recalled and a dictated dis-
position made. Only puppets or party stooges could serve
as judges in such circumstances. The administration of
justice was thus corrupted and prostituted and harnessed
to the Nazi will.

What manner of men were these SS leaders, com-
manding generals, judges, prosecuting attorneys, in-
dustrialists and government ministers, what their psycho-
logical reactions were at the time and whether they
enthusiastically or reluctantly bent themselves to their
allotted tasks is not clear. While all now pretend to a
distaste of their work, the hard fact remains obvious
that with most of them willingness must have entered
into their performance. No one man can make an entire
nation goose-step to his will. Among the leaders down
the line, even among the minor ones where the defend-
ants now vie to place themselves, there had to be will-
ing cooperation. If it had not largely existed among
these defendants, Hitler and the small coterie at the top
could never have come or remained in power.

The almost universal attitude and explanation of the
defendants is that they were caught in the web, were —
unable to extricate themselves, and under coercion of
superior orders, without any alternative but execution
or suicide, were obliged to carry out their assignments. ~
A few of the defendants had the courage and character |
by one means or another to remove themselves from
those assignments. Nothing too serious happened to

FEBRUARY 195!

--- Page 64 ---
them, proving that for persons in the defendants’ po-
sitions there was an escape for those who really had the
character and desire to put humanity and decency above
personal security at any price.

OME OF THE DEFENDANTS have made the impression
S upon us of genuineness in their professions. Perhaps
several traveled the road one describes as the “ridge
between obedience and rebellion.” Yet while none at-
tempts to justify his actions as a humane matter, the
main impression given, and one that is most disappoint-
ing, is that the majority of the defendants still seem to
feel that what they did was right, in that they were
doing it under orders. This exaltation of orders is even
more disturbing as an attitude than as a defense.

The defense is both uniform and consistent. Every de-
fendant in this case has raised it, as every defendant in
the International trials raised it. It does not matter how
high or how low the defendant was. There was always
some superior, eventually up to Hitler, who gave the
orders, and there is reflected here a complete acceptance
of what was the basic evil in the Hitler regime, a
dictatorship not only in fact but in philosophy, so that
no one was expected to think or have any standards of
official or personal performance except the thoughts and
standards laid down by one man.

And now we have, five years after his end and the
end of the war, all of these defendants chanting superior
orders and contending that in the entire nation of sixty
millions of people there was only one man, or a very
small group of men, responsible for any and all of the
things which happened, and that no one else was respons-
ible for anything, and that so long as there was an order
which trickled down from the top, everyone in the wash
of it enjoyed an immunity bath. It may be as consoling
a philosophy as it is a blind philosophy. But if it is to
be negated and there is to be a world of law and justice,
individuals in positions of some authority at least must
be held answerable for their acts. However mitigating
the circumstances may be, depending upon the position
of a defendant and the actual coercion under which he
may have acted, the defense of superior orders must be
rejected as an absolution as it was rejected by the Tri-
bunals on the trials.

Case No. 8 (Race and Settlement): left to right: Otto Hoffman,

NLY BY EDUCATION of the people and the preser-

vation of political power in them can repetition of
what is shown here be avoided and the aspiration of the
common man everywhere for peace and justice be real-
ized. The other essential is the maintenance of law, and
it is law which the Nuremberg trials observed and vindi-
cated.

An elaborate legal attack was made upon the jurisdic-
tion of the Tribunals at the trials upon the ground that
the law being applied was ex post facto law and that the
defendants had not known that they would be held ac-
countable under such law when they were acting under
German law. We are not permitted to reexamine this
subject, but as we have undertaken to make a few general
observations on the trials, it is appropriate to say that
there was nothing ex post facto about the law applied
in these cases. Rudimentary laws of humanity, including
elementary laws of war such as those relating to the
treatment of prisoners, reprisals and hostages, were old
and international law long before the Nazi war machine
was set in motion, and were as much a part of German
military and civil law as they were of international law.
There was no German law that these defendants were
observing at the time they were violating all tenets of
international law and natural law, unless they wish to
assert as law the very lawlessness of Nazi ideology,
which violated and suspended German law as well as
international law. This legal defense comes down to
nothing more than superior orders. It is the assertion
again in legal jargon that officers of the army and of-
ficers of the state were entitled to do whatever a Fuehrer
decree directed, regardless of the fact that it was con-
trary to all legal concepts everywhere and the dictates
of humanity. i

HERE THERE IS any room for question, we certain-

ly would not hold a defendant criminally liable. But
no law can be called upon to defend the murder of Jews
or gypsies, the enslavement and accompanying cruel
treatment of masses of people, and the wide program
of racial examinations and valuations which determined
who would be resettled and who would be enslaved or
destroyed. Murder, pillage and enslavement are against
law everywhere and have been for at least the twentieth
century.

Werner Lorenz, Fritz Schwalm, Rudolf Creutz, Heinz

Brueckner, Herbert Huebner. Original defendants not shown: Ulrich Greifelt, Konrad Meyer-Hetling, Otto Schwarzenber-

ger, Richard Hildebrandt, Max Sollmann, Gregor Ebner, Guenther Tesch, Inge Viermetz.

FEBRUARY 1951

61

(OCCWC photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
Case No. 12 (High Command): left to right, front row: Wilhelm von Leeb, Georg von Kuechler, Herman Hoth, Hans Georg
Reinhardt, Hans von Salmuth, Karl Hollidt, Otto Schniewind, Hugo Sperrle, Karl von Roques, Hermann Reinecke; sec-
ond row: Walter Warlimont, Otto Woehler, Rudolf Lehmann.

The law existing, the concomitant is that the violators
be held accountable. What Nuremberg means is that the
law remains at all times over all people, including the
leaders of state and all who follow in their train, and
that the individual will be held answerable to society.

What we have said is a necessary introduction to a
consideration of the individual cases because, as we have
observed, these individual defendants did not act in a
vacuum or entirely on their own. It is quite as important
in their behalf as it is against them to place them in the
larger canvas and view them in perspective. We have
said before, and we re-emphasize, that the individual is
not to have visited upon him the sins of others. There
is a guilt by association only to a limited degree. A man
who joins and actively participates in a criminal organiza-
tion, knowing that it is criminal, should be held respon-
sible to some extent for the acts of the organization he
enters and supports. A conviction of being a member of
a criminal organization is not visiting upon him the
crimes of that organization but is merely holding him
accountable for his own association and action in enter-
ing into it and participating in it. Even in this respect
and the limited punishment which we approve for it, and
certainly in all other respects, each defendant is to be
judged and punished solely upon the basis of his in-
dividual action.

O THAT END it is necessary to guard against the
enormity of the program in which a defendant was
engaged distorting our view of his position in it. We have
found that in several cases the defendants occupied such
subordinate positions, with little authority, although
their titles may have sounded impressive, that in reality

INFORMATION BULLETIN

62

(US Army photo)

they were little more than common members of a crimi-
nal organization. We believe that the adjustments in
sentences which we have recommended are due and
proper recognition of differences in authority and action
among the defendants and place them in proper relation
to each other and the programs in which they partici-
pated. We have not hesitated where we thought it call-
ed for, to recommend sharp reductions in sentences.
Likewise, where after all allowances were made, the
stark fact remained that a defendant held a position of °
leadership in a project of murder, we have not been
moved by the argument that by remaining long under
sentence of death, the defendant has suffered so much
as to be entitled to consideration on that ground. Delays
in executing the death sentences have been due to the
defendants’ efforts to have every possible review of their
cases and to the time necessarily consumed in such re-
views and extending to the defendants the fullest possible
consideration of their cases. It always takes time in any
civilized society to exhaust the salutary processes of
the law for the individual's protection. Those defendants
who will be spared execution by these processes will
undoubtedly think the time so spent worthwhile, as ob-
viously it is worthwhile in every case. It must follow,
however, that in the cases remaining, where no con-
sideration of clemency could possibly justify a change
in sentence, there is no basis for making a change simply
because the execution has been delayed in making doubly
or triply sure that the judgment should be carried out.

WORD SHOULD be said of Landsberg prison. We
have been reminded of the effect of prison confine-
ment on a prisoner's health and morale. That factor
has undoubtedly inclined us towards reducing sentences

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 66 ---
where any proper ground for reduction could be found,
but it should be stated and understood that conditions
at Landsberg prison are ideal prison conditions. Commis-
sioner Moran, who has a wide familiarity with prisons
and is an authority on prison administration, has inspected |
the prison and talked with all the prisoners. There are
no complaints whatever as to prison conditions or ad-
ministration. On the contrary, the prisoners recognize
and we are satisfied that the care, treatment and attention
given to the prisoners are all that could be asked and are
in keeping with the highest standards of prison adminis-
tration. :

There have been urged upon us tenets of charity and
generosity. Even in the case of one of the worst offend-
ers we were asked to give an example of generosity to
his family and to the people. Clemency, where any
grounds can be found for exercising charitable instincts,
may be an encouraging example, but a mistaken tender-
ness toward the perpetrators of mass murder would be
a mockery. It would undo what Nuremberg has ac-
complished, if in the end we were guided entirely by
considerations of sympathy or generosity. Executive
clemency does not exist to that end.

E HAVE TAKEN into consideration every mitigat-

ing circumstance urged upon us, including superior
orders, and we have given that consideration effect in
proportion to the position occupied by each defendant.
In our recommendations we have made all possible allow-
ances, and if we have erred, we have erred on the
side of leniency. Justice requires the observance and
enforcement of standards of law by punishment of those
guilty of serious crimes in proportion to their guilt. We
are not entitled to grant relief beyond that warranted
by mitigating circumstances and fair consideration of
individual situations. We believe that the sentences
which remain are no more than fair and just in the
interest of both society and the individual.

Series D

Biographical Background
on War Criminals
Condemned to Death

Paul Blobel

(Einsatzgruppen or Extermination Squads Case)

A free-lance architect by profession, Paul Blobel joined
the SA (Sturm Abteilung) and the SS (Schutz Staffel) in
the early days of Nazism, and in 1933 received an order
as an architect to furnish an SS office in Duesseldorf.

He joined the SD (Sicherheits-Dienst), rose to the
Position of leader of the Abschnitt (Section) Duesseldorf,
a position which he held until June, 1941. Called to
Berlin, he was placed in charge of Sonderkommando
(Special Command) 4a with the rank of colonel in the
SS and sent into Russia.

Blobel’s unit was implicated in sixteen separate re-
Ports involving mass murders, many of them referring

FEBRUARY 1951

63

to Blobel by name. The Military Tribunal at Nurem-.
berg found him guilty of ordering the killing of ,60,000,
including over 33,000 Jews who were murdered in the
notorious two-day massacre at Kiev in September, 1941,
and sentenced him to death, Blobel said on the witness
stand that in his opinion not more than half of this
number had been shot at Kiev.

In one operation Blobel's kommando killed so-many
people that it took 137 trucks to haul away the clothing
of the victims.

In June, 1942, Blobel was entrusted with the task of
removing the traces of executions carried out by the
Extermination Squads (Einsatzgruppen). To this end, he
ordered the firing of a mass grave near Kiev which burn-
ed for two days. So intent was he on wiping .out the
incriminating evidence of the killings that he tried to
destroy the corpses by means of dynamite but was
unsuccessful. The actual work of destroying these mass
graves was carried out by Jewish work units, furnished
by the Auschwitz concentration camps. The Jewish work
units, upon finishing their particular task, were them-

selves shot.
* * *

Werner Braune

(Einsatzgruppen or Extermination Squads Case)

Braune received his law degree from the University of
Jena in July, 1932, and in the following year became
Doctor of Juridical Science. Subsequently, he passed the
necessary examinations for becoming a judge, prose-
cutor or attorney-at-law, and in 1939 was appointed
government counsel in the Interior Department.

He joined the Nazi party in 1931 and in 1934 went to
work for the Security Police (Sicherheits-Dienst). When
the war started Braune was an assessor assigned to the
Gestapo at Coblenz. In 1940, he became chief of the Ges-
tapo in Wesermuende, and in October, 1941, he was
appointed commander of Einsatzkommando 11b with the
rank of colonel in the SS,

Probably the most spectacular achievement of this
defendant was his carrying out of the “Simperopol”
massacre. In this operation thousands of Jews and gypsies
were slaughtered, men, women and children, all between
the beginning of December 1941 and Christmas, Braune
testified of the slaughter as follows: “It took place under
my responsibility, I was at the place of execution with
Mr. Ohlendorf and there we convinced ourselves that the
execution took place according to the directives laid
down by Ohlendorf at the beginning of the assignment.”

This was not the only operation of Braune. He super-
vised in the early part of 1942 an extensive operation
in which all undesirable elements were to be gathered
up — (they included Jews and Communists) and when
asked what happened to the Jews he testified they were
all shot “just as all Jews were shot.”

* * *
Erich Naumann
(Einsatzgruppen or Extermination Squads Case)

Naumann joined the SA in 1933 and the SD in 1935.
He was sent to Russia in November, 1941, to be chief of

INFORMATION BULLETIN *

--- Page 67 ---
Case No. 11 (Ministers): left to right, front row: Ernst von Weizsaecker, Gustav Adolf Steengracht von Moyland, Wilhelm
Keppler, Ernst Wilhelm Bohle, Ernst Woermann, Karl Ritter, Otto von Erdmannsdorf, Edmund Vessemayer, Hans Hein-
rich Lammers, Wilhelm Stuckart, Richard Walter Darre; second row: Otto Dietrich, Gottlob Berger, Walter Schellenberg,

Count von Lutz Schwerin-Krosigk, Emil Puhl, Karl Rasche, Paul Koerner, Paul Pleiger, Hans Kehr.

Einsatzgruppe B with the rank of brigadier general in the
SS. He was in command of this group until March, 1943.
During this period thousands of innocent people, mainly
Jews and gypsies, were executed by his unit. His unit
operated on the central front in the direction of Moscow,

One of the reports introduced at the trial showed that
the kommando units within Naumann’'s group killed 3,539
persons during the period from March 6 to March 30, 1942.
Of this number 3,306 were Jews while the remainder
were described as Communists, partisans, gypsies and
criminals,

The tribunal which tried the Einsatzgruppen case found
that Naumann received the ‘‘Fuehrer order” for the liqui-
dation of Jews, gypsies and Communist functionaries from
Reinhardt Heydrich, the chief of the Einsatzgruppen, and
that he carried this order out,

Asked at the trial if he saw anything morally wrong
about this order, Naumann replied,

“I considered the decree to be right because it was part
of our aim of the war and, therefore, it was necessary.”

In the summer of 1943, after having commanded one of
the Einsatzgruppen in Russia for sixteen months, he was
made chief of the SD and Security Police in Holland.

* * *
Otto Ohlendorf
(Einsatzgruppen or Extermination Squads Case)
Ohlendorf studied law and political science at the Uni-
versities of Leipzig and Goettingen, and practiced in the
courts of Alfeld-Leine and Hildesheim. Subsequently, he
became deputy section chief of the Institute for World

INFORMATION BULLETIN

64

(OCCWC photo)

Economics in Kiel, and then chief of the Institute of
Applied Economic Science in Berlin. In 1936 he became
economic consultant in the SD where his duties involved
the establishment of an information service and the
gathering of economic and cultural information.

In his defense, Ohlendorf contended that he attempted
to make the SD purely a “fact-gathering organization” and
during the early days he had frequent clashes over policies
with Himmler, head of the SS, and Mueller, Gestapo chief,
Nevertheless, Ohlendorf, with the rank of major-general
in the SS, led Einsatzgruppe D into Russia and was in
command of this group from July, 1941, to July, 1942.

During this period this unit, in an incredible campaign
of wholesale slaughter and extermination, killed ap-
proximately 90,000 people. It probably would not be
believed were it not recorded in his own reports or
admitted.

In the beginning, these executions were carried out by
firing squads. Those who were to be executed were led in
groups of fifteen or twenty to the brink of a mass grave
and were ordered to kneel. As the victims were shot, they
fell, as a rule into the grave, and the next batch of fifteen
or twenty was brought up.

Eventually, however, this wholesale slaughter created
what was described as ‘emotional disturbances" among
the members of the firing squads so that they aimed badly,

To relieve the situation, gas vans were brought into
use. Women and children were lured into these vans with
the announcement that they were to be resettled. Doors
were sealed. When the driver stepped on the accelerator,
monoxide gas from the exhaust streamed into the van and

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 68 ---
by the time it arrived at its destination the occupants
were dead.

On the witness stand, Ohlendorf readily admitted
receiving the “Fuehrer Order’' and related how he
executed the order. He never denied the facts of the kill-
ings and his only defense was that of superior orders.

Ohlendorf appeared as a witness before the International
Military Tribunal in the first Nuremberg trial, involving
Goering and the other top Nazis, and describing under
oath the entire Einsatz program of extermination. With
but minor exceptions he confirmed this testimony in his

own trial.
* * *

Oswald Pohl

(Pohl Case)

Pohl was head of the SS Wirtschaft und Verwaltungs
Hauptamt (Main Economic and Administrative Office of
the Elite Guard). This office had charge of the adminis-
tration of all concentration camps in Germany and Pohl
was the principal defendant in this case, which has
become known as the Pohl case.

Under the Nazis, Pohl was a man of many titles and
terrible responsibilities. He had acted as chief of staff
of the entire Schutz Staffel (SS); as adjutant-general and
quartermaster-general of the SS. In January, 1942, his
official title was chief of the WVHA and he held the
rank of general in the SS.

His office had charge of the business in which Nazi
party funds and slaves and convict labor were used to
make goods in SS-owned factories. He was in charge
of the administration of the concentration camps and
constantly strove for longer hours, more production
and stricter supervision. He was a slave driver on a
scale probably never before equaled in history.

The destruction of the Warsaw ghetto, including the
deportation or extermination of more than 56,000 Jews,
was personally committed to him. He personally selected
prisoners for medical experiments and his organization
played the major role in “Action Reinhardt," the name
for a plan which was carefully devised to make the Jew
pay with his property, his labor, his goods and his life,
for the assassination of Reinhardt Heydrich in Czecho-
slovakia.

All Jews were rounded up in the occupied areas and
were ordered to take their belongings with them to the
concentration camps. At Auschwitz or any other ex-
termination camp to which they were taken, the Jews
turned in all their belongings “for safe keeping” before
entering the gas chambers. Some idea of the extent of the
Operation can be gleaned from the fact that these “‘belong-
ings" amounted to approximately 100,000,000 Reichsmarks.

Decisions of General Handy

ENERAL THOMAS T. HANDY, commander-in-chief,
European Command, announced Jan. 31 his final action
in the cases of the thirteen war criminals under his juris-

FEBRUARY 1951

65

Testifying for the prosecution at the “Kommando 99"
trial at Dachau in December 1947, the witness stands
before a model wall to illustrate how Russian prisoners
of war were shot in the back of the neck by a special
SS detail firing through a slot in the wall. The witness, a
Polish national who was a master sergeant in the SS,
was at the time under sentence of death on conviction
in the Buchenwald concentration camp trial.

(US Army photo)

diction who are now held in Landsberg Prison under
death sentence. He is extending clemency to eleven war
criminals by commuting death sentences to life imprison-
ment and is denying clemency to two others under like
sentences,

The death sentences imposed by the trial courts in
these cases were originally approved by General Lucius
D. Clay in 1948. General Clay ordered further reviews
of these cases on the basis of petitions which were filed
on behalf of the prisoners.

A War Crimes Board of Review and the then Judge
Advocate, European Command, concurred in the find-
ings that the thirteen were justly convicted, properly
sentenced, and that there were no reasons or evidence
set forth in the petitions which justified modification of
the death sentences imposed. General Clay reaffirmed
the death sentences in early 1949,

The cases were also reviewed by the Judge Advocate
General of the Army; by a committee headed by Justice
Gordon B. Simpson of the Texas Supreme Court, appoint-
ed by the then Secretary of the Army Royall and by
committees of the United States Congress. Nothing was
found by them to disturb the finding of guilty arrived
at by the courts which tried these prisoners.

Subsequent to reaffirmation of the sentences, the con-
demned again addressed petitions to General Clay;
additionally, to the President of the United States and
other high officials of the executive department, to
members of Congress, and petitions to the United States

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
Supreme Court for writs of habeas corpus, two of which
were as late as Feb. 10; 1950. All applications for writs
of habeas corpus were denied by the United States
Supreme Court.

INCE BEING IN this Command,” General Handy stated,

“T have received numerous petitions to extend clemency
to these men. All of these petitions have received
thorough consideration. Each has had ample opportunity
to refute the evidence against him. Additionally, out of
an abundance of caution, the trial records have been
reviewed many times. Even at this time, I am asked to
consider more petitions for clemency, To allow them
could only occasion further delay. Previously submitted
petitions have contained no new evidence of material
value and there is no reason to presume that, if allowed,
additional ones would.

“T have studied each of these cases most carefully and
particularly with a view to determining if there were
any reasonable doubts in any case as lo the guilt of the
accused or the severity of the sentence. The sentences
of eleven prisoners have been commuted to life. Their
guilt as charged is unquestioned and their offenses are
of such a nature that each should be required to serve
a sentence covering his natural life.

“There are two prisoners to whom I cannot rightfully
grant clemency. These prisoners are Schallermair and
Schmidt. They were guilty of atrocities in concentration
camps. I found that they not only contributed to the
infamous record of torture and killing which characteriz-
ed the worst of the concentration camps but also went
beyond what they were expected to do in performance
of their duties at their respective camps and, on their
own initiative, caused the death of many inmates.

“In the concentration camps established and operated
in Germany, hundreds of thousands of victims were
beaten, tortured, starved and exterminated by various
procedures. The records found at Mauthausen reflected
approximately 72,000 deaths. At Buchenwald, during the
latter part of the war, approximately 5,000 inmates
perished monthly. It was the same in other camps, and
in addition to the main camps, many of the hundreds of
sub-camps carried on the same type of tortures and
exterminations. The infamy of these concentration camps
is well known and requires no further comment.

"Georg Schallermair, denominated a roll-call leader,
was directly in charge of prisoners at Muehldorf, a sub-
camp of Dachau. Large numbers of inmates died as a
result of beatings which he personally administered. Of
300 people’ brought to the camp in the fall of 1944, only
72 survived some four months later. He visited the
morgue daily with an inmate dentist to extract the gold
teeth from the dead bodies from the camp. There are no
factors or arguments which can possibly justify clemency
in this case.

“Hans Schmidt was the acknowledged adjutant of the
Buchenwald concentration camp for approximately three
years. It was estimated that at one period while Schmidt
was assigned to this camp, approximately 5,000 prisoners,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

66

including substantial numbers of French, Russian, Polish
and Czech nationals, died each month as a result of the
conditions under which they were forced to live and the
cruelties inflicted upon them by the SS. As the SS adju-
tant, Schmidt was in a very responsible position in the
administration of the camp, frequently acting as the
temporary commander during the absence of Colonel
Pister, the camp commandant. According to the state-
ment of Pister, Schmidt participated very actively in the
activities of the camp, and had to be restrained because
he frequently assumed greater authority than was
actually delegated to him.

“He was in charge of all executions of inmates, includ-
ing the execution of several hundred prisoners of war
by a special unit called ‘Kommando 99.' These execu-
tions were carried out in a former horse stable converted
into what appeared to be a dispensary. As.the unsuspect-
ing victims were purportedly being measured for height,
they were shot in the back of the head with a powerful
air pistol concealed behind the wall. Sometimes as many
as thirty victims were thus disposed of on a single
occasion. Some of the executions supervised by Schmidt
took place in the camp crematory where the victims
were hung from hooks on the wall and slowly strangled
to death. I can find no basis for clemency in this case.

HAVE decided to commute the death sentence im-

posed on six war criminals convicted in the Malmedy
Case to terms of life imprisonment. The commutation of
the death sentences does not mean that there is any
doubt whatsoever that each was guilty of the offenses
charged. The crimes for which these men were convicted
occurred in the area of operations of one specific combat
unit that spearheaded the Ardennes Offensive. No one
who has actually read the record of the trials can
question the fact that 142 unarmed American soldiers
who had surrendered were grouped in a field at the
Malmedy crossroads and were then machine gunned from
armored vehicles which were deployed partially around
the group. Many were later individually shot and killed
as they lay wounded on the ground. .One hundred and
thirty-six frozen bodies in four close rows were found
where they had fallen in ranks in the snow when the
“Bulge” was reduced. All were without firearms and
many had their hands above their heads as they were
held prisoners. Likewise, specific killings of unarmed,
surrendered prisoners of war or civilians at other definite
places, to wit: Bullingen, Cheneux, La Gleize, Stoumont,
Wanne and Petit Thier, were each conclusively shown
to have been committed by certain specified ones of
these six prisoners.

“The leader of the combat group which perpetrated
these crimes was Joachim Peiper. His protagonists
represent him as a most forceful, inspiring leader who
was the active moving spirit in the actions of his organi-
zation. Many petitions submitted in his behalf have been
based solely on the statement that as fine an officer
and soldier as he, could not have been guilty of the

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 70 ---
Some of the 52 defendants on trial at Dachau in June 1946
for cruel treatment given inmates of the Flossenburg con-
centration camp. Seated in front are Lt. Col. Robert W.
Wilson (right), chief defense counsel, and his two as-
sistants, Russell S. McKay (left) and Albert W. Hall
(center). (US Army photo)

crimes charged. I am convinced that Peiper was a
remarkable leader; that he was the moving spirit of the
armored unit which spearheaded the desperate attempt
of the Battle of the Bulge. General Clay said in his final
affirmation of Peiper's death sentence, ‘There is no
question in my mind that Peiper was in fact, the prin-
cipal in the Malmedy Case.’ I am likewise convinced
that Peiper was the motivating spirit of the terror-
spreading, killing-prisoners-of-war procedure of this
spearhead. The very arguments presented in Peiper's
behalf as to his ability as a leader will convince any
unprejudiced observer that the killings of prisoners of
war which took place in so many different localities
covered by the operations of his unit could not have
taken place without his knowledge and consent, and, in
fact, without the force of his driving personality behind
them. No fair-minded man who knows the facts would
give a more severe penalty to any other participant in
the Malmedy massacre than is given to Peiper.

“The record of trial is detailed and voluminous. The
evidence is compelling and has convinced everyone who
has read it objectively that these criminals committed
the acts as found by the court which tried them. For
four and a half years the execution of the sentences has
been delayed by a continuous and organized flood of
accusations and statements made to discredit the trial
and the repeated reviews and studies requested by and
on behalf of the prisoners themselves. However, the
record is convincing that these men are guilty. Investi-
gations carried on by Congressional Committees and the
teviews by trained judges have failed to unearth any
facts which support a reasonable doubt as to the guilt
of these prisoners.

“The commutation has been based upon other facts,
which are deemed to mitigate in favor of less severe
punishment than death. First, the offenses are associated
with a confused fluid and desperate combat action, a
last attempt to turn the tide of Allied successes and to
reestablish a more favorable tactical position for the

FEBRUARY 1951

67

German Army. The crimes are definitely distinguishable
from the more deliberate killings in concentration camps.
Moreover, these prisoners were of comparatively lower
rank and, other than Peiper, they were neither shown to
be the ones who initiated nor as far as we know
advocated the idea of creating a wave of frightfulness
to precede the advance which we usually refer to as the
Battle of the Bulge. I cannot overlook the fact that the
Army Commander, his Chief of Staff, and the Corps
Commander are each serving only terms of imprison-
ment. Four of the six condemned in this case were
sergeants, one was a major and the highest ranking,
Peiper, was a lieutenant colonel.

ASTLY, THE BOARD, headed by Judge Simpson, of the

Texas Supreme Court, which reviewed this case, though

not questioning the guilt of these accused, recommended

that these sentences be commuted to life imprisonment

The Secretary of the Army upon the recommendation of

the Judge Advocate General recommended that the
sentences to death be reconsidered.

“The sentences of Gustav Heigel and Max Seidl, both
SS sergeants, have been commuted to life imprisonment.
Although these individuals participated actively in the
brutalities of the concentration camps to which they were
assigned for duty, their positions were relatively sub-
ordinate. Though nothing can justify the brutality of
their personal conduct, still the records do not show that
they went out of their way to add to the brutalities.
I have decided in these cases to commute each of their
sentences to imprisonment for life.

“Hermann Dammann, Richard Schulze and Kurt Hans
were sentenced for participating in the murder of
American and Allied airmen who parachuted from
disabled planes. There is no question as to their respon-
sibility for these murders. However, certain mitigating
circumstances, such as the excitement resulting from the
aerial activity, the offenses being committed after heavy
bombing, and the fact that their crimes did not show a
pattern of their character have been advanced along
with many other reasons which I deem less important.
I feel that I can commute the death sentence of each to
imprisonment for life.”

N ADDITION TO the review of the cases of prisoners

under death sentence, the European Command War
Crimes Modification Board is in the process of review-
ing the cases of all war criminals confined in Landsberg
Prison under the jurisdiction of the European Command.
Reviews of some one hundred and twenty cases have
been completed. There remain over three hundred non-
capital additional cases to be reviewed. The review of
this board has resulted in recommendations for sub-
stantial modification of sentences. A system of giving
credit to prisoners for good conduct time in line with
the best prison practices in the United States has also
been instituted. This credit for good conduct time has
resulted in the release of ninety-one war criminals prior to
the expiration of sentences imposed by the court. -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
Message to German Youth

Excerpts from a recent radio address to German youth
by State Commissioner for Bremen Rear - Admiral Charles
_R. Jeffs (Retired) over Radio Bremen.

OUTH IS PROVERBIALLY IDEALISTIC and optimistic
but not always realistic. Youth is also impression-
able and impulsive and therefore not always rational in
its actions. There exists today a conviction which in
Germany certainly, is widespread among both youth and
adults, that one of Europe’s and the Western world’s
best and most promising guarantees for an economically
worthwhile existence in peace and freedom lies in the
early realization of the plan for international cooperation
usually referred to as the Europa-Union. That this idea
is enthusiastically endorsed by European youth is testified
to by such incidents as the tearing down of border control
barriers, the march on Strasbourg, the frequency of dis-
play of the unofficial Europa flag and similar incidents.
While in no sense wishing or intending to discourage
enthusiasm for and wholesome support of the idea, it is
certainly not out of place to point out that there are
very real problems which must be faced and solved before
the Europa-Union can become an actuality. It is neces-
sary to realize that the governments of the countries
concerned in these negotiations are the representatives
of groups of people, each constituting a nation.

To use an old American expression, ‘The people in a
democracy get. the kind of government they deserve."
That is to say, where there is constitutional provision for
the control of government, any misgovernment or mis-
representation of the national conviction and belief is the
fault of the people because they have failed to impress
their collective will on their government. That is as true
in Bremen and in Germany as it is in Strasbourg or any-
where else.

WOULD URGE ALL... youth... to carefully examine

their own minds and consciences and to strike a balance
between the privileges which they enjoy in a community
of free citizens under a constitution and the responsibili-
ties which are theirs to discharge towards themselves,
their neighbors, their community, and their state; not to
forget their state's neighbor states.

Idealism and the hope to improve upon history as
written by their forebearers are not new in youth circles
either in Germany or abroad. Hitler recognized that fact
and misused it. We need not look very far to the east-
ward to discover a present-day example of misdirection
of youthful energy and enthusiasm. And yet I fear that
too many West German youth today, in common with
too many of the adult citizenry in this and other demo-
cratic countries, are perfectly willing to accept all of the
privileges inherent in life in a democratic community,
but are much too loath to recognize and discharge their
responsibilities toward their fellow citizens and their
government and at the same time and, as one might

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

expect, are indifferent to the responsibilities of govern-
mental agencies to the people for their actions.

it is illuminating to discover among the population of
Land (State) Bremen that almost three-fourths of the youth
and one-half of the adult citizens would be unwilling to
accept a local political office if they were personally
requested to do so, that 70 percent of the youth of
Western Germany disclaim all interest in political affairs
and that as late as last July, four out of 10 youth in
Western Germany could not state the name of the
present chancellor of the Federal Republic. Youth can,
and will, I hope, improve on this record,

Authoritarianism develops when the average citizen
loses his self-confidence and surrenders his sense of
responsibility bit by bit to a central power.

T IS TO BE REMEMBERED that, in the beginning,

neither Hitler nor Mussolini held forth to their
people, in recognizable form, the idea of total dictator-
ship. In the light of past experience there is probably
little need to fear in either Germany or Italy that a new
Hitler or Mussolini will arise without his potentialities
for evil being early recognized and identified. Never-
theless, the fact remains that a people can be only as
strong and as free as the average citizen.

The fundamental and greatest conflict which exists in
the world today is a conflict between, on the one side,
the forces which believe in the freedom and dignity of
the individual and, on the other, those which believe in
regimentation by the state. In its struggle for world
domination one of the principal methods of Communism
is to seize control by a minority of a previously free
government. Every state in Western Europe which has
become totalitarian has become so through this method
and often by a very, vety small minority.

He who holds his civil liberties lightly and neglects to
perform those civic duties which are his as a free man
and citizen is unwittingly today a helper of Communism.

I recommend to you then that you formulate your
New Year's resolutions in the realization that if you and
your children and grandchildren are to remain free, this
new year and those immediately succeeding may well
be decisive. The answer to the question, “Freedom or
slavery?” will be resolved in large measure by the
degree of determination you and all of us exercise in
recognizing and in discharging our responsibilities to
our neighbors, our communities, our own countries and
our neighbor countries in the community of free nations
and a free Western world. Free men can not be happy
in slavery. -++END

1,445 Reds Nabbed in Berlin
Arrests of 1,445 Communist agitators and other classes
of propagandists were recorded in the US Sector of
Berlin in the last seven months of 1950. All were picked
up for illegal propaganda activities.

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 72 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Dec. 21

The 50th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Dec. 21. Present were Mr Andre
Francois-Poncet, French High Commissioner
(chairman); Lt. Gen. Sir Gordon N. Mac-
ready, representing Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick,
United Kingdom High Commissioner, and
Mr, John J. McCloy, United States High
Commissioner,

The Council:

i, Approved Regulation No. 3 in imple-
mentation of AHC Law No. 5 (press, radio,
information and entertainment). This regu-
lation is designed to prevent the influx into
the Federal Republic of literature pre-
judicial to the prestige and security of the
Allied Forces, Text of this regulation will
be published shortly in the Official Gazette
of the High Commission.

2. Approved a law and an implementing
regulation on customs control of Allied
Forces. This legislation, which harmonizes
and replaces previous unilateral legislation,
provides that members of the Allied Forces
shall enter or leave the Federal territory
at specified frontier crossing points. It also
defines the customs control of unaccom-
panied consignments to or from members
of the Allied Forces, Texts of the law and
regulation will be published shortly in the
Official Gazette of the High Commission.

3. Approved a law, which will be pub-
lished in the Official Gazette, to provide
for the issue by the Civil Aviation Board
of regulations for the operational and tech-
nical control of civil aviation and for the
administrative control of activities con-
nected with civil aviation in the Federal
Republic. These technical regulations will
be similar to those drawn up by the Inter-
national Organization for Civil Aviation
and arrangements are being made for their

ublication in the Bundesanzeiger (Federal
zette).

HICOM Meeting of Jan. 11

The 5ist meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Jan, 11, Present were Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Comis-
sioner (chairman); Mr. John J. MacCloy,
United States High Commissioner, and Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner.

After a short business session, the Council
adjourned to receive the head of the newly
accredited Portuguese Mission.

The next meeting of the Council will be
held at the Petersberg on Jan, 18. (No
meeting was held on that date.)

HICOM Meeting of Jan 25

The 52nd meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at
the Petersberg Jan. 25. Present were Sir
Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High
Commissioner (chairman); Mr. John J.
McCloy, United States High Commissioner;
and Mr. Armand Berard, French Deputy
High Commissioner, acting for Mr. Andre
Francois-Poncet.

FEBRUARY 1951

The Council:

1, Signed a law amending Allied High
Commission Law No. 40 concerning re-
strictions on transactions and activities of
members of the Allied Forces in Germany.
The amendment provides that members of
the Allied Forces shall not import or ex-
port German currency in excess of the
amounts authorized by general license to
be imported or exported under US/UK Mil-
itary Government Law No. 53 (revised) and
French Ordinance No, 235. Text of this
Jaw will be published shortly in the Offi-
cial Gazette of the High Commission. (also
see page 71.) e

2. Signed a law amending Article XV of
UK/US Military Government Law No. 63
and Section XV of French Military Gov-
ernment Ordinance No. 160. The amend-
ed legislation concerns monetary reform.
The amending law provides that the ac-
ceptance by a creditor who is a United
Nations national, in payment of a debt,
of the rate of conversion fixed in the
monetary reform legislation, shall not in-
validate his rights to participate in further
payments at other rates which might be
decided upon in a finat settlement of
Reichsmark debts owing to United Nations
nationals. Text of this amending law will
be published shortly in the Official Ga-
zette of the High Commission. The Ger-
man text will be the official text.

3. Agreed provisionally to hold its next
meeting at the Petersberg on Feb. 1, 1951.
(No meeting was held on that date.)

Laws and Regulations

Law No. 43
Customs Control of Allied Forces

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion enacts as follows:

Article 1

The Allied Forces and the organizations
whose presence in the occupied territory
is certified by the Allied High Commission
to be necessary for the purposes of the
occupation shall be subject to such customs
control as is provided by this Law and any
Regulations issued thereunder.

Article 2

1.No member of the Allied Forces shall
enter or depart from the territory of the
Federal Republic elsewhere than through
one of the approved ports, airports, road
or rail crossings (hereafter referred to as
“crossing points’’) specified in Schedules
A and B to this Law. These schedules may
be modified by decision of the Allied High
Commission.

2. Members of the Allied Forces violating
the provisions of this article shall be sub-
ject to all measures of customs control
by Allied officials or officials of the Federal
Customs Administration as well as to the
penalties provided in Article 8.

Article 3

At crossing points supervised directly
by Allied officials (Schedule A), members
of the Allied Forces and the property of

69

the organizations mentioned in Article 1
shall be subject to all normal measures of
customs control exercised by or under the
supervision of Allied officials; at such
crossing points bodily searches of members
of the Allied Forces shall be carried out
only by Allied officials.
Article 4

At crossing points supervised directly
by officials of the Federal Customs Ad-_
ministration (Schedule B), members of the
Allied Forces and the property of the or-
ganizations mentioned in Article 1 shall
be subject to all normal measures of
customs contro] exercised by such officials
acting es agents of the Occupation Authori-
ties.

Article 5

Allied officials may detain members of
the Allied Forces found committing or
attempting to commit an offense against
this Law or against Allied High Commis-
sion Law No. 40. Any person so detained
shall be handed over forthwith to the near-
est Allied police.

Article 6

1. In addition to the powers conferred
by this Law and by Article 9 of Allied
High Commission Law No. 40, officials
authorized to exercise customs control
shall have power to require the making of
written or oral declarations and to seize
means of transport used for, or in con-
nection with, the commission of an offense.

2. The making of a false declaration shall
constitute a violation of this Law,

3. The provisions of Article 9 of Allied
High Commission Law No. 40 shall apply
to seizures made under the present Article.

Article 7

Official consignments of the Occupation
Authorities and Occupation Forces shall
be subject to customs control in accordance
with regulations made in pursuance of
this Law. B

Article 8

Any person who violates any provision
of this Law or of any regulation made
hereunder shall be liable to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding six months,
or to a fine not exceeding DM 25,000 or
the equivalent thereof, or to both such
imprisonment and fine.

Article 9
This Law has no application to move-
ments between the territory of the Federal
Republic and Berlin.

Article 10

The following legislation is hereby
repealed:

Order No. 1 of the United Kingdom High
Commissioner under Allied High Commis-
sion Law No. 40.

US Military Government Law No. 17
and any Regulation thereunder.

Done at

Bonn, Petersberg, Dec. 21, 1950,
* * *
Schedule A

Crossing Points Supervised directly
by Allied Officials

{A) US Zone
Ports: =
Bremen;
Bremerhaven;

Farge (POL Depot);
Karlsruhe/Rhein (April through Sep-
tember),

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
Highways:

a) Austria
Fuessen;
Griessen;
Mittenwald (Scharnitz);
Kiefersfelden (Kufstein);
Melleck (Lofer);
Schellenberg (Salzburg);

Schwarzbach — Autobahn (Salzburg);

Neuhaus (Passau);
Zugspitze (pedestrian).
Czechoslovakia
Waidhaus (Opf.).
Rail:
a) Austria
Griessen;
Mittenwald;
Kufstein;
Salzburg;
Passau. ~
b) Czechoslovakia
Furth i. Wald;
Schirnding.
Airports:
Bremen-East;
Rhine-Main;
Nuremberg;
Stuttgart-Echterdingen;
Munich-Riem.

(B) British Zone

D

Ports:
Hamburg.
Highways:
a) Denmark
Flensburg (Kupfermuehle).
Netherlands
Nordhorn;
Kleve (Wyler-Nijmegen) ;
Straelen (Venlo);
Aachen (Maastricht).
c) Belgium
Aachen (Bildchen-Liege).
Rail: .
a) Denmark
Flensburg.
b) Netherlands
Bentheim;
Emmerich (Elten-Arnheim);
Kranenburg (Groesbeek-Nijmegen) ;
Kaldenkirchen (Venlo);
Munich-Gladbach (Vlodrop).
c) Belgium
Aachen (Herbesthal).
Airports:
Hamburg (Fuhlsbuettel);
Bueckeburg;
Duesseldorf (Lohausen);
Cologne (Wahn).

b

(C) French Zone

Highways:

a) Luxembourg
Echternacherbrueck;
Wasserbilligerbrueck.

b) Saar
Schloosthorn (Falzen);
Freudenburg (Trassen);
Hermeskeil;
Neubruecke;
Pfeffelbach;
Vogelbach;
Zweibruecken.

c) France
Schweigen;

Kehl;
Breisach.

d) Switzerland

Weil-Otterbach.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

e) Austria
Linda.

Rail:

a) Luxembourg
Igel.

b) Saar
Wincheringen;
Neubruecke;
Bruchmuehlbach;
Zweibruecken.

c) France

Neuenburg.
Switzerland
Basle (Bad. Station).
e) Austria

Lindau.

qd

* * ok

Schedule B
Crossing Points Supervised directly by
Officials of the Federal Customs
Administration

(A) US Zone
Ports:

Bremen: Holzhafen;
Getreideverkehrsanlage;
Industriehafen;
Bremen-Vegesack;
Bremen-Blumenthal.

a) France
Karlsruhe-Rhein (October through
March),
b) Austria
Passau-Donauland,
Highway:

Austria:

Schwarzbach;

Freilassing;

Laufen;

Burghausen.

Rail:

Austria

Simbach.

(B) British Zone
Ports:

Luebeck (Travemuende);

Kiel;

Flensburg;

Brunsbuettelkoog;

Cuxhaven;

Emmerich,

Highway:
a) Denmark
Harrislee (Padborg);
Suderlugum (Saed),
b) Netherlands

Bunde (Nieuweschanz);

Ruetenbrock;

Ruehlertwist;

Emlichheim (Laarwald);

Bentheim;

Gronau (Glanerbruecke) ;

Vreden (Zwillbrock) ;

Oeding (Kotten);

Bocholt (Hemden);

Emmerich (Huthum);

Kaldenkirchen (Schwanenhaus-Venlo) ;

Kaldenkirchen (Heidenend-Tegelen) ;

Elmpt.

c) Belgium
Aachen (Am Bildchen-Eupen) ;
Monschau (Eupen).

(C).French Zone
Ports:

a) France
Plittersdorf;
Weil-Friedlingen.

70

b) Switzerland
Friedrichshafen.

Highway:

a) Belgium
Hallschlag;
Kehl;
Deutschesteinebiueck.

b) Saar
Greimerath-Panzhaus;
Hirschfelderhof;
Waldmohr.

c) France

Hornbach;

Hirschsthal;

Neulauterburg.

Switzerland

Weil-Friedlingen;

Loerrach-Stetten;

Grenzacherhorn;

Rheinfelden;

Saeckingen;

Lautenburg;

Waldshut;

Rotteln;

Buehl;

Lottstetten;

Altenburg;

Stuhlingen;

Neuhaus;

Bussingen;

Bietingen;

Randegg;

Rielassingen;

Oehningen;

Constance;

Constance-Emmishofentor.

e) Austria
Neuhaus;
Niederstaufen.

Rail;

a) Saar
Saarburg;
Serrig;
Hermeskeil;
Schoeneberg-Kuebelberg.

b) France
Winden;
Kapsweyer;
Berg.

c) Switzerland
Waldshut;
Jestetten;
Erzingen;
Gottmadingen;
Singen;
Rielassingen;
Constance.

d

Regulation No. 1

Under Allied High Commission
Law No. 43

Customs Control of Allied Forces

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission issues the following Regulation:

Article 1

Unaccompanied consignments of mem-
bers of the Allied Forces and of the organi-
zations mentioned in Article 1 of the Law
entering or leaving the territory of the
Federal Republic shall be cleared by
Allied officials. In their absence clearance
may be given by officials of the Federal
Customs Administration.

Article 2

Postal consignments sent by or addressed
to members of the Allied Forces and by
or to the organizations mentioned in Ar-
ticle 1 of the Law, shall on entering or

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 74 ---
leaving the territory of the Federal Re-
public be subject to clearance by officials
authorized by the Occupation Authorities,

Article 3
Members of the Allied Forces shall,
upon request, establish their identity by the
production of an identity document issued
by or under the authority of a High Com-
missioner or a Commander of any of the
Occupation Forces.

Article 4
An official seizing property shall give
a receipt therefor.
Article 5
Bodily searches may be carried out only
if there is good reason to suppose that a
person is carrying any property which he
is attempting to import or export in vio-
lation of Allied High Commission Law
No. 40.
Done at
Bonn, Petersberg, Dec 21, 1950,

Law No. 45

Law No. 45 amending Law No. 40 (Restric-
tions on Transactions and Activities of
Members of the Allied Forces). The Coun-
cil of the Allied High Commission enacts
as follows: —

Article 1

Article 4, Paragraph 1 (c) of Law No. 40
is hereby amended to read as follows: —

“(c) German currency not in excess of
the amounts authorized bv general license
to be imported or exported under United
States Military Government Law No. 53
(revised), British Military Government Law
No. 53 (revised) and Ordinance No. 235 of
the French High Commissioner in Ger-
many.”

Article 2

Article 4, Paragraph 3 of Law No. 40 is
hereby amended by adding the following
words at the end of the paragraph: —

“provided that no such authorization
shall be required as between the territory
of the Federal Republic and the western
sectors of Berlin.

Regulation No. 3

(Prohibition of Importation of Certain
Publications and Productions)
Under Allied High Commission

Law No. 5
(Press, Radio, Information and
Entertainment)

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission issues the following Regulation:

Article 1

In this Regulation:

The words “publication or production”
include any newspaper, pamphlet, poster,
leaflet, brochure, periodical, magazine,
book, sound recording or motion picture
film and any other printed or mechanically
reproduced matter.

The word “enterprise’’ has the same
meaning as in Allied High Commission
Law No. 5.

Article 2

The bringing into the Federal territory
of any publication or production of any
enterprise, where such publication or pro-
duction

(a) urges resistance to the Allied Forces;
or

(b) incites to riots or disorders pre-

judicial to the security of the Allied
Forces; or

FEBRUARY 1951

(c) is otherwise likely to prejudice the
prestige or security of the Allied
Forces

is prohibited.
Article 3

1, Any publication or production impor-

ted into the Federal territory may be seized
by any authorized Allied or German
official if he considers it to be in violation
of Article 2 of this Regulation.

2.As soon as possible after such a

seizure, and in any case not later than
seven days thereafter, the official making
the seizure shall furnish to the Land (State)
Commissioner of the Land (state) in which
the seizure was made particulars thereof
and a statement of the grounds therefor.

3. The Land Commissioner shall give

directions to the official concerned about
the disposition of such publication or pro-
duction,but no action (other than the steps
necessary for’the preservation of the pub-
lication or Production) shall be taken on
such directions until the expiry of 30 days
from the date of seizure or until a decision
has been reached on any representations
which may have been made pursuant to
Article 4 of this Regulation,

Article 4

1. Any person feeling himself aggrieved
by action taken under the foregoing pro-
visions of this Regulation may within 28
days of the seizure make written represen-
tations to the Land Commissioner of the
Land concerned, These representations
shall be accompanied by a statement of his
interest in the publication or production
seized and in the bringing thereof into the
Federal territory.

2. Each Land Commissioner shall appoint
such agency or agencies as he may think
appropriate to examine any such represen-
tations and report thereon.

3. If, after considering the report of such
an agency, the Land Commissioner con-
firms that the seizure was justified or if
no representation is made to him within
the time specified in Paragraph 1 of this
article, the directions given by him under
Article 3 shall be put into effect.

Done at
Bonn, Petersberg, Dec. 21, 1950.

Statements and Speeches

ONA Story Denied

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy
has denied reports to the effect that a cable
has been sent to Washington suggesting
that American dependents be sent back to
the United States because of the inter-
national situation,

An Overseas News Agency dispatch from
Frankfurt alleged that the High Commis-
sioner urged immediate evacuation of
American families.

Mr. McCloy flatly denied that any such
action has been taken or is contemplated.

Appeal to Civilian Employees

The following is a recent message to all
US Army civilian employees from Secretary
of Army Frank Pace, Jr.:

We enter 1951 facing a grave national
emergency. I am addressing this appeal to
you individually and collectively as the
civilian arm of the Army establishment. If
circumstances permitted, I would choose
a more personal and direct method of
addressing you, but the size of our civilian

71

force precludes a more intimate approach.
I feel very strongly, and very humbly, the
responsibility you and I have for exerting
our greatest effort, as public servants and
citizens, to help our country through this
grim and trying period.

Many of you, I know, are personally
affected by the present situation in which
we find ourselves, by having a husband,
a member of your immediate family, or
someone else close to you in service in
Korea or elsewhere. To you, as well as to
all other civilian employees, I appeal for
ever-increasing attention to your jobs.
I urge you to look for ways in which your
particular duties could be performed more
efficiently, faster, and with less effort, You
may have many excellent ideas which
would be helpful to our management people,
who are constantly examining our programs
to determine what activities might be cur-
tailed or eliminated in favor of work more
directly related to strengthening our de-
fenses. These ideas should be passed on to
your supervisors either in discussion with
them or through the suggestion program.

During the past few years, officials of
this department have devoted a great deal
of time and attention to improvement of
policies and procedures designed to enhance
the rights, privileges, status and pay of
employees of the Army.

In this time of emergency, however, we
may be called upon to work longer hours,
take shorter vacations and otherwise give
up for a while many of the things which
make our day to day living more com-
fortable and pleasant. These sacrifices are
insignificant, of course, compared with the
sacrifices many of our men in uniform are
making daily in an attempt to preserve the
principles of democracy.

Our freedom, and the freedom of demo-
cratic peoples throughout the world, is at
stake, Satisfy yourself that, in whatever
capacity you are serving, you are doing
your utmost to protect that freedom, That
is the sum of my appeal to you.

Official Announcements

RTO Opened in Paris

A Rail Transportation Office (RTO) is
established in the lobby of the SNCF Gare
de l'Est in Paris. The new RTO is open
from 8 a.m, to 5:30 p.m. daily to serve
Allied forces personnel traveling through
the Paris area on competent orders. The
telephone number of the installation is
Nord 4356. Shipments of baggage and
household goods also will be coordinated
by this office.—from EUCOM announcement.

New Interzonal TDY Travel Form

All US occupation personnel on tempo-
rary duty travel to the French and British
Zones of Germany after Jan. 1 must possess
a new interzonal travel form titled ‘Duty
Authorization,” in addition to normal duty
orders.

The use of the “Duty Authorization” was
agreed upon by US, British and French
Occupation Authorities to identify interzonal
duty travelers by means of a common
document. The new form will permit US,
French and English occupation personnel
to use facilities to which duty personnel
are entitled during their temporary duty in
any of the three zones.

Transportation officers, billeting agencies
and finance officers in the US Zone will

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Monthly Report, Bank Deutscher Laen-
der (Bank of German States), (Frankfurt),
November 1950.

Official Gazette, No. 40, Allied Secreta-
riat, HICOM, Nov. 29, 1950.

Official Gazette, No. 40, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, Nov. 29, 1950.

You and Your America — The Southwest
and Coast, EUCOM Information Bulletin,
Vol. 5, No. 50, IE Office, EUCOM, Dec. 10,
1950.

Tibet, Roof of the World, EUCOM In-
formation Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 51, I&E
Office, EUCOM, Dec. 17, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 254,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Dec. 22, 1950.

What Is at Stake in Europe? EUCOM In-
formation Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 52, I&E
Office, EUCOM, Dec. 24, 1950.

Official Gazette, No. 42, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, Dec. 28, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 255,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Dec. 29, 1950.

Stop That Rumor, EUCOM Information
Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 53, I&E Office, EUCOM,
December 31, 1950.

Official Gazette, No. 43, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, Dec. 30, 1950.

Buecher-Vorschau (Preview of New
Books), Nos. 42, 43, 44, US Information
Centers Branch, E&CR, HICOG, December
1950.

Schule und Gegenwart (Schools Today),
pedagogical monthly magazine, No. 12,
Educational Office, OLCB (Munich), De-
cember 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 256,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Jan. 5, 1951.

The World in Review, EUCOM Informa-
tion Bulletin, Vol. 6, No, 1, I&E Office,
EUCOM, Jan. 7, 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 44, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, Jan, 10, 1951.

Report on Employment and Unemploy-
ment, Federal Republic of Germany and
Western Berlin, End of December 19590,
OLA, HICOG, Jan. 12, 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 257,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Jan, 12, 1951.

Copies of publications, etc. listed

in the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters.

Honor — Hallmark of the Serviceman,
EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 2,
I&E Office, EUCOM.

A Program to Foster Citizen Participation
in Government and Politics in Germany,
OPA, HICOM, Jan, 15, 1951.

HEUTE (in German), No. 128, ISD HICOG
(Munich), Jan. 17, 1951.

Der Monat (in German), Vol. 3, No. 28,
ISD HICOG (Munich), January 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 45, Aliied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, Jan. 22, 1951.

Prison Journal, Vol. 2, No. 1, Prisons
Division, Office of General Counsel,
HICOG, January 1951.

Buecher-Vorschau (Preview of New
Books), Nos. 45, 46, US Information Cen-
ters Branch, E&CR, HICOG, January 1951.

Information Bulletin, January 1951, PRD,
HICOG, Jan. 22, 1951.

Daily Press Review, Nos. 302 to 16, ISD
HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Dec. 18, 1950 to
Jan. 24, 1951,

Landsberg, A Documentary Report, PRD,
HICOG, Jan. 31, 1951 (Compilation of offi-
cial statements on clemency reviews of war-
crimes cases of Nuremberg and Dachau).

recognize the ‘Duty Authorization’ as
authority for the use of military rail trans-
portation, billeting accommodations, Mili-
tary Payment Certificates and other facili-
ties by French and British occupation per-
sonnel on official duty. The transportation
officers may issue duty rail tickets for
sleeper authorizations, if required, to hol-
ders of the new interzonal permits—from
EUCOM announcement.

Issuance of POL Products

Effective Jan. 1, procedure for the receipt
and issuance of POL products, follows:

The previous procedure of issuance of
letters of authority, authorizing bulk gaso-
line and other gasoline products, is dis-
continued, and coupons are issued in lieu
thereof. These coupons are Army and
BAOR types, and cover gasoline and engine
oil. Requirements for diesel fuel, kerosene
and grease are approved by letter, which
may be presented to the POL Supply Points
with the Property Issue Slip upon which
those products are issued.

On or before the Sth day of each month,
a complete report indicating the previous
month's usage of POL products, the total
number of vehicles involved and the total
miles traveled by the vehicles with a
request indicating the new month's POL
requirements, are forwarded to the chief
of Motor Transport Branch, Operating Facili-
ties Division at Frankfurt, for review,
approval and issuance, This report is pre-
pared at state level by the administrative
officer, and includes all units within his
jurisdiction. Reports are also forwarded by
separate organizations, such as US consu-
lates, HICOG Element Bonn, Combined Coal
and Steel Group or other authorized head-
quarters.

Upon approval of the request, the POL
Section forwards by registered mail, prior
to the 10th of the month, sufficient coupons
to cover a 30-day period. Coupons can then
be exchanged for bulk issue by the using

INFORMATION BULLETIN

unit at the Army POL Supply Point. A 10
days’ supply of POL products is authorized
to be on hand at all times,

The POL Section also notifies each using
unit by letter, the amount approved for
that period. A copy of this authorization
is forwarded to the appropriate Supply
Point to permit proper stockage.

Gasoline and oil allocations approval is
based on the number of vehicles and takes
into account approved consumption rates
for each type of vehicle and the total miles
traveled per month,

Coupons on hand at the beginning of each
month are taken into consideration when
authorizing new issues; coupons can not be
allowed to accumulate in excess amounts,
and periodic inspections and audits are
made. BAOR coupons issued in lieu of
Army types, must be turned in to the POL
Section quarterly, by the 20th day of March,
June, September and December, to allow
for exchange, as the type of coupon is
changed quarterly.

POL products issued to agencies not
chargeable to funds of the Motor Transport
Branch, are on a reimburseable basis, and
transfer of funds are made through Fiscal
Services Division. All such issues must
indicate a quotation of funds chargeable.
Reimbursement for diesel fuel or kerosene
or grease to the Military Posts concerned,
will be made on the Standard 1080 Form
by HICOG Headquarters.—from HICOG
Circular No. 5.

College Plan Abandoned

A survey recently completed shows that
an insufficient number of graduates of
the American schools in Germany are
interested in taking Junior College courses
to warrant the establishment of a Uni-
versity of Maryland Junior College in the
European Command, according to the
EUCOM Dependents’ Schools Division. —
from EUCOM announcement.

72

Travel Control Transferred

The Allied High Commission announced
that after Feb. 1, 1951, important functions
of travel control, which have been carried
out since the end of the war by the Com-
bined Travel Board, will be taken over
by the German authorities who will act
under the German passport legislation of
1932 and 1938.

Functions to be assumed by the German
authorities are:

(1) Issue of passports to German nationals
in the Federal Republic, This will be the
first time that German passports have been
issued since the end of the war. They will
replace the Allied temporary travel docu-
ments which have been issued in the
interim.

(2) The documentation of German merchant
seamen and bargemen.

(3) The issue of passports (Fremdenpaesse)
to stateless persons and those of undeter-
mined nationality resident in the Federal
Republic who are not the responsibility
of the International Refugee Organization.

(4) The issue of re-entry permits to non-
German residents who wish to leave the
Federal Republic temporarily for visits
abroad.

These functions will be carried out by
local passport issuing offices of the county
supervisors (Landraete) or mayors. Ap-
plications will be dealt with in these offices
instead of being passed to an office of the
Combined Travel Board.

German nationals holding Allied tem-
porary travel documents may, if they wish,
exchange these for German passports after
Feb. 1. The temporary travel documents
may also be used until the expiration of
their validity after which a German pass-
port must be obtained for further journeys
abroad.

Occupation personnel, as defined in Al-
lied High Commission Law No. 2, will
continue to be dealt with by the Combined
Travel Board.

FEBRUARY 1951

--- Page 76 ---
Tomorrow’s Artists

CHILDREN OF FRANKFURT have their own art colony these days. Sponsored by the
American Friends Service Committee Center, the young Picassos, Utrillos, Renoirs and
what-have-you's have made excellent use of old newspapers and easily eraseable powder
paint. In expressing their moods and ideas through this medium, the young people,
encouraged by their Quaker sponsors, are making good use of their time and who
knows, perhaps some are on their way to a career in the profession of the palette
and brush. (Photos by Claude Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 77 ---
Playground equipment for the Youth Center at Urban Park, in the US Sector borough
of Kreuzberg, was unloaded in Berlin Jan. 29 and is now being installed. The
shipment, totaling two carloads, was bought in the United States with a grant from
the HICOG Special Projects Fund. (PRB HICOG-BE photo)