--- Page 2 ---
Berlin Industry Exhibition:ry of the

* (See page 48)

OCT 24 1950

2
3

University of Wisconsin

Al EXAIAIT? )

om
watervctionalism Builds Better Schools | Communist Press

Midway on the Main America Is Different

SEPTEMBER
1950

"7 Congress for Cultural Freedom European Union

--- Page 3 ---
“Bird Life, plaster and tempera, by Hans Jaenische, 43,

Art Exhibition in Bonn

uters and sculptors

“Reclining Figure," cement, by Bernhard Heiliger, 34.

“The Sanctum,” oil on cardboard, by Willy Robert Huth, 60.

--- Page 4 ---
Information our 251990 tapi OF CONTENTS

jo

UNIVERSITY OF

B ll . WISCONSIN — September 1950

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

Editoriiccinperssienigets H. Warner Waid
Editorial Writer ...... Aileen S. Miles
Editorial Writer ...... Beth Burchard
Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones:’ 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed in the plant of the Publishing
Operations Branch, Information Serv-
ices Division, at 39 Schelling Strasse,
Munich,

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

e ’
COVERS FIC hu RE
Berlin Industry Exhibition — This

sketch is the architect's idea of the
George C, Marshall House, being erect-
ed in Berlin's radio tower (Funkturm)
grounds for the Berlin Industry Exhi-
bition Oct. 1-15. Viewed here from the
Plaza of the Nations, this building will
house the American and ERP exhibits.
Details of the exhibition and other
sketches of grounds are on pages 48-50.

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

EFICE CHICOG! Housing Project Nears Completion (pictorial) .... 2

Internationalism Builds Better Schools
Article by Dr. James Morgan Read

Communist Press in West Germany ...................... 5
Article by F. Gardner Cox, Jr.

ERP Housing Project for Refugees (pictorial) 8

Declaration of Rights of Displaced Persons 10

Midway: on the Matt <7. 7-2 cig. one ie ses ce ss qt
Article by Dr. Leroy Vogel and Hillard A. Rhoades

Europa Union Plebiscites 20.35/75. 0 ica astro ahece sees 15
Review by Allen C. Siebens

Congress for Cultural Freedom (..0.00.00800 ec. wwsets wae 18
Review by Wolf von Eckardt

Soviets Delay Repatriation of PoW's . 24

America la Ditferent soc ove: vases cele: reign one yaar 25
Article by Friedrich G. K. Grohe

ein Glas Milch, Bitte liso < aeieiere 5's sec baris wets etl a Nek See 30
Article on campaign to popularize milk

Child Guidance: ii55o5s. no as osc sa haGA « ole eee 33
Article by Haynes Mahoney

“Spontaneous” East-Zone Protests Exposed 35

ERP Caravan (pictorial) 36

Hesse to Combat Intolerance .... 38
Letter of Minister President Christian Stock

“ReverenCe: lor male si... 6c Fore cae seek ola se cae liceeaae 39
Statement by John J. McCloy

Farmers; from -AMeCriCa so:<55's wistyis vja.0s sidnasia asin Comoe ns eowe Al
Article by Trudy Kriegsmann

US Press Cites Fraud in Communist ‘Peace Petition” ...... 43
Roundup of American editorial comment

Settlement of Bizonal Fusion Agreement .................. 45

Penicillin Plant Dedicated 47

Berlin Industrial Fair (pictorial) 48

Preservation of Democracy 51
Address by Maj. Gen. Charles P, Gross

Objective: -Prientisiip: vscn sacs Gat die. 66a. Aco caune be 2}
Address by Dr. George N. Shuster

Practicing the Golden Rule: .~. 3.0... is.) eee ce ete 55
Address by Capt. Charles R. Jeffs, USN

Germans Jolted, But Morale Stable ...................... 59
NBC Interview with US High Commissioner

Washington Report 0.6 5 eo) Paes gig at tis 61

Calendar ot Comitig Events: 2 i ayae'. Jeuroces ay Gaps 62

West German Steel Industry .............-.......0. 0s eee 64
Survey tracing postwar development

Personnel Notes .. & 72

Economic Review 76

Tale of the Potato Bug (survey) 79

Frankiurt Stopover (pictorial) .. 81

Occupation Loge. ois). ceil i See aan 82

German Opinion in Editorials and Cartoons .............. 88

Official Notices 94
Communiques .. 94
Laws and Regulations 94
Announcements 95

Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents . 96

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

APO 757, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
The first of 420 apartments for HICOG
personnel under construction near the
Headquarters Building in Frankfurt were
open for inspection in August. Built en-
tirely from GARIOA iunds on land owned
by the City of Frankfurt, the one-, two-
and three-bedroom apartments are to be
furnished with the most modern household
equipment available in Germany. The four-
story buildings will be beautified by sur-
rounding shrubs and flower-groves; a play
area, paved walks and hard-surface park-
ing lot will be constructed. Eventuaily the
project will revert to the German economy.
(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

: HICOG

Housing

Project

Visitors to HICOG
housing project saw
this large living room
. and dining room (in
background), part of
three-bedroom apart-
ment. Basement of
each building affords
electric washing ma-
chines; maids rooms
are on fourth story.

Living room in two-bedroom
apartment is divided by
curtain from dining alcove.
Central heating will eliminate
smog, coal deliveries. Assign-
ment of apartments among
personnel is now underway;
420 units are expected to be
completed before October 1.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 6 ---
Internationalism Builds
Better Schools

By Dr. JAMES MORGAN READ

Chief, Education and Cultural Relations Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

CHOOLTEACHERS — BOTH GERMANS and Ameri-
S cans alike — should remember that their mutual re-
lations in the field of education did not begin in 1945,
but go back through more than a century of interwoven
interests.

Present German-American educational relationships,
therefore, cannot be viewed in the light of the “occupied”
and the “occupiers,” but must be in the spirit of friendly
and willing exchange of ideas as has been the case in the
past.

Americans are always eager to learn. Americans are
not in Germany today to foist upon the Germans our
ideas on the organization of their school system. We are
here in Germany to help and advise the Germans in
their task of developing their educational system into a
living and vital part of a democratic society.

The German educational system of the past had many
good aspects and has contributed to educational methods
now in use in both European countries and in America.
For more than 100 years, American educators have
studied the German educational system with great
interest and have applied many of its better points to
educational processes in the United States.

ERMAN-AMERICAN RELATIONS in education be-

‘gan in a curious and roundabout way. In 1831 the
French educator, Victor Cousin, wrote a report to his
government on the Prussian school system. Three years
later it was published in English in New
York and parts of it appeared in all peda-
gogical periodicals throughout the United
States,

Through this report the ideas of com-
pulsory school attendance and state pro-
vision for public education first fired
American minds. In Massachusetts, a spe-
cial government department was there-
upon established as early as 1835.

Two years later, the state of Ohio sent
Calvin Stowe, one of its leading educators,
to Germany. Stowe, whose wife, as the
author of “Uncle Tom's Cabin,’ has been”
widely read in Germany, visited Prussia
and southern Germany. His report, which
the school authorities distributed to every
school in Ohio, pointed to the higher edu-
cational standards of the teachers and the

SEPTEMBER 1950

Dr. James Morgan Read.
(PRD HICOG photo)

3

better educational methods employed in primary schools
in Germany.

The report gained wide attention and was later
published in five other states and distributed among
schools and educators. This marked the beginning of a
mutually beneficial intercourse in the educational field
between the United States and Germany.

Later in the century, one of America’s most prominent
educators, Horace Mann, visited Europe on a tour of
educational methods. He returned to the United States
with a report on the school systems of England, Scot-
land, France, Belgium, Holland and Germany which be-
longs to the classic American literature on pedagogy.

N AMERICA, HOWEVER, Mann's report failed to win

wholehearted approval and in numerous cases gave
rise to vehement protests, especially from Boston school
teachers. There were some, as there are in every
country, whose national feelings were hurt by the
assertion that certain things abroad were better than
they were at home.

To them Horace Mann retorted:

“I would think it extremely strange, if we could not
find valuable hints for our own work in other countries,
whether these be warnings or good examples. There are
many things abroad, from which we could learn to our
advantage. If the Prussian school teachers have better
methods of teaching reading, writing, grammar and
geography and thus obtain better results
in half the time, we should adopt these
methods. This does not mean that we
should simultaneously adopt their attitude
of absolute submission to the government
and blind acquiescence in church dogmas.”

This progressive view that we’can profit
by studying the educational systems of
other countries and adapting their best
features to home conditions has gradually
gained ground in the minds of American
school teachers. Today we owe an enor-
mous debt to other nations whose educa-
tional achievements we have adopted.

The German democrats who came to
America during and after the German
revolution in the middle of the last cen-
tury brought us the institution of the Kin-
dergarten which has retained its German
name and spread throughout the country.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
New German school textbooks were discussed when
almost 100 American, German and other European edu-
cators of note gathered at Heidelberg in mid-July for a
six-week international social studies workshop sponsored
by HICOG to develop plans for improved social education
in German schools. Examining new books are, I.-r., Dr.
Read; Elsie M. Beck, director of Social Studies, Detroit
Public Schools; Dr. Theodor Baeuerle, Wuerttemberg-
Baden state minister of education, and Allen King, US
consultant in education. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Later, America carefully studied the ideas on child
education put forward by Johann Friedrich Herbart. A
Herbart association was instituted in the United States
and its members discussed Herbart’s theories at their
meetings and wrote about them in their books. American
educators examined and analyzed these new concepts
until the progressing knowledge of child development
led to still newer ideas which seemed no longer consistent
with Herbart's theories.

MERICA'S PROGRESS in the field of child psychology,

too, has been influenced by German thinking. The
first Americans who supported these new ideas were
followers of the great German psychologist, Wilhelm
Wundt of Leipzig, and in child psychology research
close contact with German scientists was constantly
maintained.

The concept of the intelligence quotient, widely dis-
cussed in America for many years, was taken from the
German scientist William Stern who, after the sad events
of the 1930's, took refuge in an American university
where he found a new field of activity.

American universities, ‘too, owe much to their German
counterparts. Until well into the second part of the last
century the study of advanced sciences in American
universities was still in the initial stages of develop-
ment, and many of our best men in all branches of
science obtained their final education in Germany.

Goettingen University, especially, counted numerous
Americans among its students. In its early days, Johns
Hopkins University in Baltimore, the first major Ameri-
can university to devote its studies chiefly to graduate
work, followed the German example in many ways.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Prior to the first world war, the lively exchange of
ideas between Germany and the United States was at
its most active in the field of vocational schools. After
1900 American high schools developed into schools for
pupils from all ranks of life rather than only for those
who intended to go on to higher education and expand-
ed their courses to include subjects giving practical as
well as theoretical knowledge.

At that time the well-known German educator, Georg
Kerschensteiner, was trying to give young people attend-
ing German vocational schools a general education along
the lines of their respective vocations. It was no
coincidence that these two movements — the progressive
development of our high schools on vocational lines and
the development of the German vocational schools on
more general lines — sought contact’ with one another.

On his study trip to the United States Georg Kerschen-
steiner obtained valuable hints to further his own work
and at the same time gave useful tips to American school
teachers. His name ranks high in educational circles in
the United States and particularly in vocational schooling.

ERMAN-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL relations, inter-

rupted by the first world conflict, were quickly
resumed at the close of the war. Far-seeing German
schoolteachers, hoping to find new ideas to help them
in the reformation of the German school system went
to America to study democratic education. On their
return to Germany they made the name of John Dewey,
one of our most outstanding educators, known throughout
the country.

An exchange system for university professors between
the two countries was worked out. One of America’s
major pedagogic colleges, Teachers College of Columbia
University, made study trips to foreign schools a regular
part of a future teacher's education and established an
institute for comparative pedagogy which made a yearly
report on the status of education in other countries.
Leading educators of Columbia University made it their
life-work to study foreign, and especially the German,
systems of education.

Hitler and a world war rudely interrupted these re-
lations and their resumption after 1945 was strained
by the relationship of victor and vanquished. In the
early days of occupation, things had to be done which
appeared unfriendly and which have left their scars.
Certainly not everything that was done was good and
right. War and occupations are always military affairs;

in the educational field the undoing of Nazi injustice

was as unpleasant and painful as in many another less
sensitive area.

It is for this reason that Americans and Germans
cannot view their present day educational relationships

in the light of war and occupation. Rather both nationali- ~

ties should go back over the record of years of under-
standing and should strive to work together in a spirit
of friendly co-operation which will link not only Ameri-

cans and Germans but all educators in all countries all —
-+ END —

over the world.

SEPTEMBER 1950 ©

;
:
q
F

--- Page 8 ---
Communist Press
in Western Germany

By F. GARDNER COX, Jr.
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

ROBABLY THE EASIEST writing job in Western

Germany is for one of the 16 Communist news-
papers. For a newspaperman who could bring himself
to accept the principles of the Communist Party, the
assignment would be easy: “Look for examples where
you can claim people are being oppressed. If they are
suffering injustice, that’s even better. Especially try to
find evidence that the ‘bosses’ or the Western Allies are
the oppressors."

The prospective candidate for such work could forget
most of what he already knew about writing news
stories. He would be expected to introduce violent
editorial opinion into the simplest item. He would not
be called to account for the accuracy of his facts. He
would be permitted to make the broadest allegations, in-
cluding libelous ones, against groups, persons or, in-
stitutions. He must know how to overestimate attendance
at a Communist rally by several hundred percent and
minimize the attendance at anti- or non-Communist
gatherings. He must see support for Communist aims
where no support exists. And he should end the major-
ity of his stories with two or ‘three of the dozen slogans
which are currently emphasized in Soviet propaganda.

He must know how to threaten Soviet conquest while
pleading for peace, and characterize aggression as ‘'self-
defense." He must profess that Western economies are
catapulting to ruin while Soviet and satellite economies
march upward and onward; that Marshall Plan aid means
exploitation; that Military Assistance constitutes dump-
ing; that the North Atlantic Pact is aggressive; and that
the Cominform is a benevolent association.

Atomic bomb testing beyond the Urals constitutes “the
moving of mountains for a gigantic and peaceful ir-
rigation project, and the “progressive brothers of
yesterday become the ‘'Tito-Fascists’’ of tomorrow's
edition. The Communist journalist writes on. The assign-
ment is easy, and the writer has time to concentrate on
developing his style.

HE 16 NEWSPAPERS which require such talents
comprise a tightly knit chain extending from one
end of the German Federal Republic to

The newspapers are:

British Zone
Freies Volk (Free People), Duesseldorf.
Die Wahrheit (The Truth), Hanover.
Hamburger Volkszeitung (Hamburg People’s Paper), Ham-
burg.
Volksstimme (People’s Voice), Cologne.
Neue Volkszeitung (New People’s Paper), Dortmund.
Volksecho (People’s Echo), Detmold.
Norddeutsches Echo (North-German Echo), Kiel.

French Zone
Unser Tag (Our Day), (printed in Mannheim), Offenburg.
Neues Leben (New Life), (printed in Mannheim), Ludwigs-
hafen.
Unsere Stimme (Our Voice), Schwenningen.

US Zone
Suedbayerische Volkszeitung (South Bavarian People’s

Paper), Munich.

Nordbayerische Volkszeitung (North Bavarian People’s

Paper), Nuremberg-Fuerth. |,
Sozialistische Volkszeitung (Socialist People's Paper),

Frankfurt.
Badisches Volksecho (People's Echo of Baden), Mannheim.
Volksstimme (People's Voice), Stuttgart.

Tribuene der Demokratie (Tribune of Democracy), Br emen-

Bremerhaven.

These 16 papers follow a unified policy dictated by
the directives of the KPD. Their editors are the leading
party functionaries of the locality, many of whom hold
important positions without salary as one of their regular
party duties. Their readers are party members, actual
and prospective, and the curious (who buy oc¢asional
copies at newsstands). j

It is impossible for any of these readers to distinguish
between the newspapers and the Communist Party, for
each paper is considered an arm of the party by the
KPD itself. The KPD owns, staffs and produces all of its

newspapers, and owns all but a few

the other. The network is headed by
the Freies Volk, of Duesseldorf. It is
the central organ of the Kommunisti-
sche Partei Deutschlands (Communist
Party of Germany, or KPD), and party
functionaries throughout west Germany
are expected to read it in addition
to the KPD newspaper of their locality.

Bulletin, was

nature.

This article, originally written
by Mr. Cox for the Information
released by the
Public Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, on Aug. 16
for immediate use as background
material because of its timely

of the presses which print them.
HE IMPORTANCE which the KPD
attaches to its newspapers stems
not only from their usefulness in keep-
ing the rank and file abreast of the
latest ramifications of the party line.
Prior to currency reform in June 1948

SEPTEMBER 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
the KPD “information sheets" were able to supply the
party with a steady and appreciated income. The “‘in-
formation sheets," which were made to look as much like
political party newspapers as the regulations would allow,
were then operating under conditions where paper was
strictly rationed and subject to price control for the entire
publishing industry. They were materially assisted by
shipments of precious paper from outside Communist
sources.

The regulations which hindered publication of political
party newspapers were ended in the late summer of
1949. The KPD “information sheets” developed into
tabloid-sized newspapers. As quickly as possible their
frequency of publication was increased from once a
week to three times weekly, and then, in many cases,
to daily. With newsprint no longer rationed, there was
less advantage to be gained in receiving paper ship-
ments from the Soviet Zone.

Also printing costs were higher than before currency
reform, and the KPD was losing political ground rapidly.
Popular support for the KPD had melted away since the
peak days of 1946-1948, and paying customers for the
party's publications generally melted away with it. Dur-
ing the past year Soviet actions and the party line itself
in West Germany have shown many Germans that Com-
munism and the best interests of Germany had nothing
in common.

Today, party printing presses, originally purchased in
Western Germany from party funds or shipped in from
the Soviet Zone, are operating at a severe loss. KPD
headquarters has ordered that strenuous efforts be made
to cut costs, boost circulation and increase advertising
in order to lessen or eliminate the heavy deficits. At the
same time the KPD looks eastward to its source of
ultimate support for material help.

ECAUSE COST FACTORS, circulation methods, ad-

vertising departments and outside support of KPD
newspapers are wholly unlike those of other papers, it
is most profitable to examine them as keys to the KPD's
system of operations.

Salaries of responsible editors are partial or non-
existent, since leading party functionaries have editorial
responsibilities in addition to their other duties. Re-
porters and others on the staffs also have dual functions,
such as making available classified reports to KPD head-
quarters, for transmission via Berlin to upper Communist
echelons outside the Federal Republic. By utilizing every
paid, and unpaid, party worker in every capacity jhe
can fill, the KPD can hardly expect to reduce over-all
costs beyond the bare minimum it has already reached.

In recent months, seeking contributions for press
facilities, the party has even called for and hailed con-
tributions which were made by returned prisoners of
war from money they received after their belated return
from captivity in the USSR. This would indicate that the
barrel is being vigorously scraped for contributions from
party members and sympathizers.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

KPD newspapers are continually pressing for increased
circulation. Canvassers are unpaid. Party members or
sympathizers are expected to solicit on the job and on
their own time. As support for the KPD has melted
away, there have also been continuing circulation drives
to keep old subscribers from canceling or changing over
to one of the “bourgeois” newspapers. Party members in
good standing are required to subscribe as a matter of
course. The impression that KPD members collectively
own their newspaper is probably fairly general since
most of them have been paying out subscription money
for it, campaigning for it, and seeking new subscribers
for it since days when it was an “information sheet.”

N THE ADVERTISING department, bona fide party mem-

bers are the solicitors. The work calls for specialized
talents. Advertising solicitors must convince representa-
tives of shops and firms that it is profitable in business
or in other ways to contribute to the KPD. The current
drive for increased advertising is an integral part of the
Communist campaign of threats which is being waged
overtly and covertly in Western Germany. Those who
advertise in KPD newspapers roughly break down into
five categories.

First and most numerous are those who want to ex-
ploit the market represented by the KPD membership. In
view of the current internal propaganda against “ob-
jectivism" (which includes the sin of reading any news-
paper not following the Communist line) these ad-
vertisers are partially correct in assuming they cannot
reach KPD readers through any other medium.

Secondly, there are, of course, advertisements placed
by men who are themselves party members or followers;
and thirdly, some are placed by firms which feel the
expenditure may assist their efforts to sell in the East.

Fourth, there is the contributor who allegedly is
motivated by the desire to have factory equipment stay
in good working order, and avoid the possibility of
entirely unexpected machinery “failures.” Such in-
centives appear to have been particularly persuasive in
areas where the KPD is strongest within the factory
groups or within the company’s labor force in general.

The fifth type of advertiser is the reputable firm
which has given in to a combination of cajoling and
long-range threats by “‘solicitors.” They are told they
should play it safe in case Communist aggression from
the East should conquer Germany and elevate the KPD
to power. Such firms report that KPD "solicitors" make
heavy-handed references to the possibility of a Soviet-
inspired move into Germany, even while soliciting ad-
vertisements for a newspaper which for months has
been piously avowing its desire for peace and the out-
lawing of the atom bomb (but not the outlawing of
naked aggression). The central party organ, Freies Volk,
recently came ‘out with a special supplement prominent-
ly featuring advertisements by most of the important
Ruhr steel and coal companies.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 10 ---
It is further indicated that there are firms which
contract for advertisements they know will never appear;
the money is directly deposited in the party's coffers.

N ADDITION TO COST cutting, circulation drives and

the “soliciting” of advertisements, the KPD press-and-
party can receive outside support when it can show it
has exhausted all other means. Local deficits have been
helped out through bulk shipments of fine porcelain,
optical equipment, textiles and other, products from
Soviet*seized enterprises and “people’s-own enterprises,”
for sale within the Federal Republic by KPD fronts. KPD
members are further assisted by periodic bulk shipments
of National Front propaganda, which arrives from the
Soviet Zone in box-car lots (variously listed on the
manifests as upholstery material, typewriters, etc.). The
KPD pressures its members to buy the material for 10 to
30 pfennigs per item and to sell also to anybody else
who will buy. Receipts cushion the deficit of the party
and of the KPD press.

The question is inevitably raised, “How effective is
the Communist press? The answer must be qualified.
Its circulation and readership is not considered
significant. Its organization is more cohesive than that
of any other affiliation of newspapers in Western Ger-
many. Its voice is disproportionately loud for its size,
and has the advantage of speaking for the most
tuthlessly disciplined political group in the area. Its
principal danger to the Federal Republic and to the
Western Allies lies in the unscrupulousness of the party
which it represents and helps to weld.

Like a matched chorus the KPD chain has sung each
new line composed for it in Berlin and beyond. The line
is becoming bellicose, more strident, increasingly libelous
with each Kremlin move and with each propaganda
directive.

HERE ARE FEW LIMITATIONS on the freedom of

the press in Western ‘Germany, but the Communist
press has overstepped them all. In addition to generally
well-conceived German legislation, the KPD press, like
other newspapers, is subject to High Commission regu-
lations which have been administered with intentional
forbearance. These regulations contain prohibitions
against encouraging sabotage, insurrection or subversion
to the prejudice of the Allied Forces, and Law No.5 pro-
vides penalties against enterprises or persons who act ina
Manner “affecting or likely to affect prejudicially the
prestige or security of the Allied Forces.”

On a number of occasions between September 1949
and August 1950 the High Commission has suspended
individual Communist enterprises (newspapers) ° for
periods of one or two weeks at a time. In most cases
the regular subscribers of the suspended paper have
received a sister-paper in its place for as long as the
suspension was in effect. In two instances the replace-
Ment paper was printed at the same party-owned press
as the paper which had been suspended. In a British
Zone case where a Hanover Communist paper and its
press were closed down during a court trial of the re-

SEPTEMBER 1950

sponsible party officials, the suspended paper was re-
placed within two days by another having the same
format, same subscribers and much of the same staff,
but bearing a new masthead. Until the trial ended, print-
ing was done at a sister-press in nearby Hamburg.

Following every suspension, the remaining newspapers
in the KPD chain have tended toward repeating the
offense which brought on the original action, and have
campaigned against the injustice which the suspense-
action allegedly represented.

Between the Hanover case in November 1949 and
Aug. 3, 1950, no occupation authority has exerted its
power to take suspense-action against a printing plant.
The Allied High Commission has sought, as a matter of
principle, to avoid the harsher measures at its disposal.
The organizational pattern of the KPD press, its effective
evasive tactics and its heightening tone of - vilification
have brought it under closest scrutiny. One Allied ob-
server has summed up the situation in stating “The
Communist press cannot be permitted to occupy a
position which is above the law or outside the law."
The non-Communist press, both independent and political
party, is and has been judged under the letter of the law.

HAT THE HIGH COMMISSIONERS have devoted

personal attention to the foregoing problem is shown
in the announcement made public after their meeting on
July 13. It states that the High Commissioners “examined
a report on the activities of the Communist press in
Germany, particularly with respect to the publication of
material in violation of Allied High Commission Law
No. 5,* and that “they agreed... to deal with such
violations including, if necessary, the suspension of the
operations of printing plants involved."

Such action was taken Aug. 3 when the Allied High
Commission through the US state commissioner for Hesse
ordered the three-month suspension of the Frankfurt
KPD daily, Sozialistische Volkszeitung. German police
were also ordered to lock up the KPD-owned printing
plant in Frankfurt to prevent any evasion of the order.

The Sozialistische Volkszeitung had carried on Aug. 3
specific items apparently calculated to test the High
Commissioners’ decision of July 13. Its editorial sought
also to misrepresent the tenor and intent of conversations
between Allied state commissioners and KPD leaders of
their respective areas on the limits beyond which the
KPD and its press could not go.

The editorial and accompanying items, besides warp-
ing the conversations in characteristic Communist man-
ner, impugned the motives and recent actions of the
Allied High Commission and of its state commissioners.

Similar action had been taken against nine other
newspapers and their publishing houses by Aug. 16.
These were the Communist organs published at Duessel-
dorf, Hanover, Hamburg, Cologne, Dortmund and Det-
mold, in the British Zone; Ludwigshafen, in the French
Zone; and Mannheim and Stuttgart, in the US Zone.

-+END

* Law on Press, Radio, Information and Entertainment; for full text
see Information Bulletin, Oct. 4, 1949, page 34,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
E-R-P
SONDERPROGRAMM #02 DEN BAY VON ‘ .
10,000 FibcHTUNOSWORMUNGEN | ERP House Building for Refugees

MUNG > AUSLITSGIMEINSCHALT 108

>. FLO CHTIIM Kiet ~ WIK

Progresses in Schleswig-Holstein

ovornanin, vinianortts temanewsreay Housing for refugees — 10,000 units in all — is
Cn yasennenie SEetETE) going up in 26 towns and cities of Schleswig-Holstein.
To be built in areas where steady jobs are likeliest,

the entire project was initiated by the German Trade
Union Federation at the suggestion of ECA. It has
been designed as a guide for similar housing projects
in other areas of west Germany. Trade unions, con-
tractors and architects teamed up to work out eco-
nomical designs for the biggest project of its kind
yet undertaken in any state of postwar Germany.

ERP counterpart funds are helping (Photographs furnished by Arbeitsgemeinschait fuer produktive
finance plan for 10,000 refugee homes. Fluechtlingshilfe of Kiel)

Wi)

eT Ue

Abandoned airport at Neumuenster will now house village. These units will give comfortable homes to 425 families.

At Kappeln, foundation walls are poured, forms re-used. Concrete plant near Luebeck turns out standard sections.

--- Page 12 ---
At Uetersen houses are being completed in record time. Women workers at Kaltenkirchen do

=

To reduce costs, pre-cast concrete blocks are made at many of the building sites.

Steel pilings needed in soft soil of Luebeck add to costs. One of several different designs in vast housing program.

--- Page 13 ---
Beckton of Rights of Displaced Persons

HE GERMAN FEDERAL government has declared its
intention to guarantee the rights of displaced persons
and refugees formerly cared for by the International
Refugee Organization in the federal territory and of its
readiness to become a party to any convention on the
international status of displaced persons which may be
agreed by the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The declaration was prepared in connection with sub-
mission to the legislature of a draft federal law defining
the status of displaced persons and refugees. The declara-
tion was made public Aug. 9.

On Feb. 9, the Allied High Commission had informed
the federal government of the approaching curtailment
of the responsibilities of the International Refugee Organi-
zation in western Germany, and notified the federal
government that all displaced persons and refugees in
western Germany who had been the concern of the IRO
and who were not in the process of resettlement would be-
come the financial and administrative responsibility of the
federal government with effect from July 1.

The Allied High Commission requested the federal
government to undertake the enactment of suitable legis-
lation defining the precise legal, political, social and
economic status to be accorded to these displaced per-
sons and refugees. On July 1, the federal government
assumed responsibility for the care and maintenance of
some 100,000 displaced persons and refugees who proba-
bly will remain in western Germany after the cessation of
the work of resettlement by the IRO.

The declaration emphasizes the federal government's
willingness to co-operate fully with United Nations’
agencies on all matters concerning displaced persons and
refugees and stresses its wish to make a contribution
toward the international solution of this problem. The
declaration goes on to express the federal government's
intention to guarantee every facility for displaced per-
sons and refugees to be integrated into the German com-
munity, noting, however, the rights of individuals to
return to their homeland or to emigrate if they so wish.

ISPLACED PERSONS and refugees will enjoy the

basic rights provided for in Articles 1 to 19 of the
Basic Law of the Federal Republic and will be treated
in accordance with the principles and the spirit of the
United Nations declaration concerning human rights and
other international conventions relating to the humane
treatment of refugees.

The statement by the federal government on the occa-

- sion of submission to the legislature of a draft bill on
the legal status of displaced persons in the federal ter-
ritory follows:

On the occasion of the transfer to German responsibility
of refugees and displaced persons not in the process of
resettlement and for whom the IRO have, until now, pro-
vided care and maintenance, the government of the
Federal Republic of Germany considers it appropriate to
clarify its position with regard to these displaced persons.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

The federal government has noted with satisfaction the
preparatory work of the ad hoc committee established
by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations
to study the problem of refugees and displaced persons
and declares that it agrees with the spirit of the draft
convention and protocol drawn up by this committee.

In an endeavor to co-operate with the appropriate
agencies of the United Nations in all matters affecting
refugees and displaced persons, and wishing to make a
contribution toward the international solution of the
problem of refugees and displaced persons, and in view
of the special urgency of solving this problem, the gov-
ernment of the Federal Republic of Germany wishes to
make the following declaration even at this early stage.

Article 1 — The displaced persons for whom the fed-
eral government has assumed responsibility will have
every facility to be integrated into the population of the
Federal Republic. They may be expelled only for reasons
of public safety and order and after having exhausted
all rights of appeal. They will not be extradited, expelled,
deported or sent back to a country where their life or
liberty is in danger on account of race, descent, origin,
creed, religious or political convictions. However, if they
so desire, the right to return to their homeland or to
emigrate may not be denied them.

Article 2 — The displaced persons for whom the Fed-
eral Republic has assumed responsibility shall enjoy the
basic rights pursuant to Articles 1 to 19 of the Basic Law
of the Federal Republic of Germany.

Article 3 — The displaced persons for whom the Federal
Republic has assumed responsibility shall be treated in
every other respect in accordance with the principles
and the spirit of the statement of the United Nations
concerning human rights, the convention concerning the
international status of refugees of Oct. 28, 1933, and the
draft convention and protocol drawn up by the ad hoe
committee of the UN Economic and Social Council.

In order to implement the principles set forth in the
above articles the federal government will submit to the
legislative bodies a draft law concerning the legal status
of displaced persons in the federal territory.

The federal government declares at this time its readi-
ness in principle to become a party to an international
convention on the legal status of the displaced persons
prepared by the United Nations, and to fulfill the obli-
gations arising from such convention. +END

Big Hanau DP Camp Returned

The Hanau displaced persons camp, one of the largest
compounds in Hesse, has been turned back to the Ger-
man economy. The camp formerly accommodated ap-
proximately 5,400 displaced persons. The return of the
Hanau compound leaves only two camps for displaced
persons in Hesse, the Butzbach Resettlement Center and
the Babenhausen Repatriation Camp. These two camps
house, at present, less than 2,000 displaced persons.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 14 ---
Continuing Experiment in Exchange of Professors
between Chicago and Frankfurt Universities Creates

Midway on the Main

By DR. LEROY VOGEL
Chief, Education and Cultural Affairs Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC Hesse

and

HILLARD ANTHONY RHOADES
Chief, Public Relations Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC Hesse

FDACK IN 1889, John D. Rockefeller gave a group of
public spirited Chicagoans $600,000, on condition they
raise an additional $400,000. Marshall Field gave the same
group a tract of land known as the Midway Plaisance on
the South Side of Chicago. Thus, under the presidency
of William Rainey Harper, former professor of Hebrew
at Yale University, that great pioneer in American higher
education, was born the University of Chicago.

Today, under the active guidance of Robert Maynard
Hutchins, the ‘University on the Midway” is continuing
its pioneering in the field of higher education. One of its
really great, if unheralded, experiments is its professor
exchange program with Wolfgang Goethe University,
located in Frankfurt on the Main (pronounced ‘mine’’)
River.

During the war, many American educators spoke of
“adopting” European universities. Shortly after the war,
Chancellor Hutchins did just that. Acting upon the re-
commendations made by Robert J. Havinghurst, professor

of education at the University of Chicago, who personally
investigated European college and universities, the Uni-
versity at Chicago decided to adopt the University at
Frankfurt.

The decision was made because both institutions of
advanced learning are relatively young, noted for liberal ~
leadership, willing to try educational experiments, and
have excellent reputations for graduate study. Thus the
Midway came to the Main in April 1948.

N COLLABORATION with the Rockefeller Foundation,

the program was started. The Foundation pays all
expenses, including travel and upkeep in Frankfurt, for
five to eight professors. The University pays the salaries
of the exchange professors and those of their replace-
ments on the University faculties.

The first group to go from the Midway to the Main
consisted of Louis L.Thurstone, professor of psychology;
Thelma Thurstone, research associate in psychology;

Dean Louis Gottschalk and his wife, hosts of Chicago House at Frankfurt University, entertain (in center at left) Mrs.
Betty Vogel and Dr. Leroy Vogel, co-author of this article. Right, co-author “Tony” Rhoades interviews Dr. Gottschalk.

SEPTEMBER 1950

11

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Dr. Robert Maynard Hutchins (left), chancellor of the Uni-
versity of Chicago, is greeted by Prof. Walter Hallstein,
then rector of Frankfurt University, on his arrival in
Germany to inspect his university's project in Frankfurt.

Paul Weiss, professor of zoology, who recently won
national recognition for his work in cancer research;
Wilhelm Pauck, professor of historical theology; Everett
C. Hughes, associate professor of sociology; Elder J.
Olsen, associate professor of English, and Roger B. Oake,
assistant professor of Romance languages, who acted as
executive secretary. Professor Pauck was elected, as
group representative, to the Frankfurt University Senate.

All of the teachers except Oake, who, because of his
secretarial responsibilities, did not start teaching until
the second term, pitched in immediately on their teaching
assignments. Each lectured and conducted a seminar,
without ‘great language difficulty since most of them
spoke German fluently. In May 1948, on the occasion of
the Goethe Centennial, Hutchins came over to visit the
group and speak at the celebration.

Thornton Wilder, the noted American playwright,
headed the faculty for the second semester. In addition
to his courses at Frankfurt, Wilder also found time to
deliver lectures at the University of Marburg, several
other German colleges, and the then embryo US Informa-
tion Centers.

HE THIRD SEMESTER saw another group of distin-

guished faculty members come to Frankfurt to head
seminars and give lectures, and also welcomed an Ameri-
can graduate student, Edward A. Maser, to aid Prof. Otto
G. Simson in his work in the history of art.

The fourth group, headed by Prof. Walter Blair, who
conducted a seminar in Mark Twain and his contem-
poraries, also included George K. Lirik, the distinguished
American botanist; Ludwig Bachofer, professor of the
history of art; Helena M. Gamer, professor of Germanics;
R, E. Buchanan, professor of bacteriology at Iowa State
College, who at the time was a guest lecturer at Chicago,
and three American students.

The fifth term has just started. It is headed by one
of America’s leading European historians, Louis Gott-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

schalk, who is acting as dean of the group and as its re-
presentative to the Frankfurt University Senate. Professor
Gottschalk is giving a course entitled “The Power-Free-
dom Problem in Europe and America in the 17th and
1th Centuries,” and conducting a seminar in the methods
and theories of history.

His colleagues on the current Midway on the Main
faculty are Arnold Bergstraesser, professor of Germanics,
who is giving a course in cultural history and philosophy
and conducting a seminar on Goethe's concept of culture;
Chauncy D. Harris, professor of geography; Karl P.
Schmidt, lecturer of zoology and. curator of zoology of
the Chicago Museum of Natural History, and Dr. Helmut
P. G. Seckel, professor of pediatrics.

HE GROUP LIVES together in a private home near

HICOG headquarters which has become known as
“Chicago House.” Mrs. Gottschalk, who came over with the
professor and their 11-year-old son, Paul, is hostess for the
home, which is a typical American college faculty home,
replete with warmth, hospitality and grace. The group
breakfasts and lunches together every day, but evenings
are lett free for student and German faculty entertaining,
informal discussions, which often become involved
seminars, and for private dining and study.

Gottschalk, tall, tweedy, athletic and humorous, is a
man of tremendous intelligence, noted scholarship and
vibrant personal charm. His opinion of the German stu-
dent is that, “He, with a few minute changes of dress and
speech, could sit in any college classroom in the United
States and be a complete part of the group.” Gottschalk
found that the average German student is as unprepared
as the American student, is a little more respectful of pro-
fessorial authority, and a little less inquisitive about
political issues,

Professors Harris and Schmidt agreed with their dean,
with Harris pointing out that the postwar German student
was far weaker on languages than prewar university
students. Both instructors stated that the popular opinion
that German students were far more serious than Ameri-

The pioneer Chicagoans who brought the ‘Midway to the
Main“ — the first group of Chicago University professors
assigned to Frankfurt University —arrive at Rhine-Main
Air Base in April 1948 to take up duties for one semester.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 16 ---
can students was a fallacy. They pointed to the fact that
the average American postwar student was often a war
veteran, quite often married, and certainly had a more
serious world outlook than his prewar predecessor. The
American professors stated that the longer period of war
matured the German student a bit more, but also divorced
him considerably from his prewar academic background.

HE GREATEST DIFFERENCE between American and

German college students found to date by the Ameri-
can professors was the German student's preoccupation
with finances. As Gottschalk stated, “Since the purchase
of even one book becomes a major monetary expenditure
on the part of a German.student, he must pay extremely
close attention to lectures."

According to Harris, the American student listens to a
lecture, but generally gets considerable material from
text and other books, The German student must, of neces-
sity and by virtue of training and tradition, rely on lecture
material. This, according to the entire Chicago faculty,
has probably led to the authority wielded by German
faculty members.

Schmidt has found that while the German student is less
inquisitive than his American counterpart during lectures,
he is just as vocal during informal seminars, and with
American professors, at least, after class.

Bergstraesser, one of the most noted of Goethe scholars
and author of “Goethe's Image of Man and Society,”
termed the German student of today, ‘extremely pliable,
but definitely anti-totalitarian.” Bergstraesser reasoned
that the sudden collapse of the Nazi regime destroyed
completely many of the ideas held by the students and
that the obvious comparison and similarity between
Eastern totalitarianism and German totalitarianism is so
strong as to make any type of dictatorship, be it the Stalin
version or the Hitler version, absolutely repugnant. Berg-
straesser, while performing teaching duties, is also col-
lecting data for a new book on "Germany and the West.”

Dr. Seckel, who started his medical career in Germany,
was called to Chicago because of his reputation in the
study of diphtheria. When he first returned to Germany,
he was asked to lecture on his old specialty, but felt that
he could no longer qualify as an expert. His tenure in the
United States did not afford him a chance to practice his
specialty since diphtheria has, to a large extent, dis-
appeared in the United States. Other children's diseases
still prevalent in Germany but no longer commonly found
in youngsters in the United States, according to Dr.
Seckel, are rickets, tuberculosis, diarrhea and syphilis.

Dr. Seckel, who spends all his free time visiting German
children’s clinics and working in pediatric wards, has
found the German medical student to be the equal, in
seriousness of purpose and intensity of application, of his
American counterpart. He also found that the German
medical student has an inordinate pride in his studies and
that the German physician maintains this pride of pro-
fession,

Dr. Seckel also found that the Nazi-war era deprived the
German medical student of 20 full years of scientific
medical research and application, and that German age

SEPTEMBER 1950

13

Chicago professors confer at luncheon. L. to r., Dean
Louis Gottschalk, Prof. Chauncy D. Harris, Prof. Arnold
Bergstraesser, secretary-translator Dorothea von Stetten,
housekeeper Lisa Weimer, Mrs, Gottschalk, Prof, Karl

P. Schmidt and Prof. Helmut P.G.Seckel. (PRB OLCH photos)
and tradition are hindering use of the most advanced
sanitary and preventive methods in the home.

HICAGO HOUSE is a livable, warm residence under

a twofold management. One of the visiting professors
always has his wife accompany him. The wife acts as
hostess of the house, supervising the living accommoda-
tions, shopping and entertaining. As noted by one recent
visitor, a veteran of the occupation and a bachelor, “as
soon as I entered the house, I received a breath: of real
old-fashioned American hospitality.”

The business side of the faculty is run from an office in
the house. This office is presided over by one of the per-
manent employees of the University of Chicago in Frank-
furt, Mrs. Dorothea von Stetten. A 37-year-old refugee
from Berlin, she has the title of secretary, but is a com-
bination secretary, interpreter, administrative assistant
and fount of information.

The House, combined with field trips, informal after-
class bull-sessions, and the genial informality of the staff,
is what really brings the Midway to the Main. The House
is the faculty home; here they do something rare in Ger-
man educational life. Here the faculty entertains students,
in groups and individually; here American thinking is in-
jected, on a man-to-man basis, and here ideas, theories
and refutations are given on a basic, social level.

The House also plays a significant liaison role between
Germans and Americans. Not only do the members of the
Chicago faculty entertain Frankfurt U. faculty members
at the House, but also, at the same time, members of the
HICOG staff, important governmental officials and visi-
tors from Washington, D.C., and other countries. Thus are
brought together elements of common interest and mutual
goals which would not ordinarily have the opportunity of
meeting socially, informally.

Each faculty member, each semester, contributes
between 40 and 50 books, as an outright gift, to his
seminar library. It is in the House that these books re-
ceive their deepest discussions, not only from the point of
view that the Frankfurt University libraries are enriched
by more than 200 academic volumes each semester, but

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Prof. Karl P, Schmidt, zoology professor at Chicago
University, has a hard time breaking away from students
after a class at the Zoological Institute in Frankfurt.

from the viewpoint of the ideas behind the books, The
books, and other ideas, are evaluated in casual, friendly
conversations, not as assignments from faculty to student.

While the senior faculty member of each group is
designated as dean, and serves in that capacity in ad-
dition to his prime teaching assignment, administration
has the same informal efficiency as the faculty-student
attitude. The dean is spokesman for the faculty, makes
decisions for them, and serves as the Chicago faculty re-
presentative to the Frankfurt University Senate.

In speaking for the present faculty, Dean Gottschalk
emphasized that all members of the staff are continuing
their research and studies, even while they are teaching
abroad. In fact, Gottschalk is completing his latest work,
entitled “Understanding History,” in Frankfurt. He hopes
to have the volume datelined “Frankfurt.” Gottschalk also
pointed out that the faculty members give lectures at
other west German universities, US Information Centers,
German high schools, German-American clubs, other or-
ganizations and institutions. Many of their lectures have
been recorded and broadcast to the general public.

The exchange has not been a one-way trip. Five Frank-
furt University professors have already gone to the United
States for lecture assignments at the University of Chi-
cago, and many more will be going in the semesters ahead.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

OTH FRANKFURT FACULTY and.Frankfurt students
consider the exchange program more than just a great
and valuable cultural link,

Prof. Karl Reinhardt, noted lecturer in Latin and Greek
at Frankfurt, recently returned from a tour of duty at
Chicago. Impressed with American academic standards,
he was amazed at the solidarity of American educators in
upholding academic freedom. He returned with the distinct
view that academic freedom is more than a phrase, a re-
ligion, a belief; to the American educator, it is a way of life.

The students who have taken courses under the Ameri-
cans, however, have received the greatest impact. The re-
putation thus far enjoyed by the American faculty has
been outstanding. Unanimous opinion was expressed by
those who have taken courses under the Chicago group
that the American is a better lecturer than his German
colleague. The American, according to the German students,
is not as stiff as the German lecturer, is more entertaining,
and does more to attract and keep the student's attention,

The Frankfurt U. students found that the German pro-
fessors are more abstract; the American adds practical
examples to his lectures and is more concerned with the
realities, trying at almost all times to translate difficult
terminology into everyday language.

Some of the students found the Americans to be better
academicians than noted German instructors. One can-
didate for a degree in philosophy and poetry stated, ‘The
Americans under whom I have studied have had a deeper
understanding of philosophy and poetry than the German
professors.” This same student found a marked degree of
pragmatism in the philosophic thinking of the Americans.

OST CRITICAL of the Americans were the law

students. While expressing complete appreciation of
the American style of lecturing and the “intuitive manner”
of the Americans, they said that the lectures of the Ameri-
cans did not render any great benefit to German law
students. Their specific dislikes of the American system
were based on speed. By using too many practical ex-
amples to clarify problems, the American law lecturer
slows up the course. The American approach to the law,
and the almost universal use of the casebook system, is
contrary to German legal systemics. The law students
were unable to reconcile differences in American and Ger-
man legal thinking. Most of them did agree that the Ameri-
can approach would be ideal for a course in law designed
for an economist studying at a German university.

The Midway on the Main did not come over as a re-
former, driven by the urge to change the German educa-
tional system. The University of Chicago wanted to help
close the cultural gap created by Nazism and war. Work-
ing quietly, efficiently, without fanfare or drum-beating,
the Midway has succeeded in establishing the fundamental
liaison needed for closing that gap. The continuing efforts
and successes of these men and women from Chicago will
eventually establish a solid cultural-educational link bet-
ween two great educational centers, and ultimately their
respective countries; a link that can only grow into mu-
tual respect and understanding. +END.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 18 ---
Europa Union Plebiscites

By ALLEN C. SIEBENS
Governmental Affairs Officer, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG

O YOU FAVOR the aboli-
tion of the political and
economic frontiers in Europe
and the unification of all
European peoples in a Euro-
pean federal state?

Eure A-ABSTIMMUNG
CASTROP-RAUXEL

There are a variety of reasons,
but basically it is because Brei-
sach is a community that epito-
mizes the troubles which have
plagued the European peoples
for centuries. Occupying as it

This proposition was submitted
in July to the residents of two
specially selected German com-
munities and the answers were

Sind Sie fir die Beseitigung der politischen und wirtschaitlichen
Gronzen innerhalb Europas und fiir den, Zusammenschlu8 aller
europiischen Valker zu einem Europaischen Bundesstaat?

does a strategic position on the
left bank of the Rhine, it has been
a chronic victim of war.

This is the way Paul Neuland,

an emphatic "Yes."
On July 9, in the small Rhine C)

town of Breisach, in the south- | je

US observer in the French-Zone
.) state of South Baden, describes
nein Breisach after a recent visit

west corner of Germany near the |
French border, a 95.6 percent

there: “I have seen the ruins of
Frankfurt, Nuremberg, Munich,

“Yes” was rolled up by 87.5 per- Ballot form in the Europa-Union plebiscite at Castrop- Vienna, Stuttgart, Bremen, Hano-
cent of the town's eligible voters, Rauxel, small Rhine river town in South Baden, inthe ver and other cities throughout
On July 16, in the Ruhr mining Southwest corner of Germany. Asked if they favored Germany, but never have I seen

city of Castrop-Rauxel, the same

abolition of Europe's political and economic frontiers
; and unification of all European peoples in a single
verdict by a margin of 95.7 per- federal state, the answer was an emphatic Yes" from

the totality of destruction which
bore mute witness to the inten-

cent was rendered by 73 percent 95.7 percent of the eligibles who cast their votes. sity of the attacks through which

of the electorate.

This all happened because Europa Union, a private Ger-
man organization which believes that Europe must
federalize, decided that the time had come to show the
rest of the world and particularly German representatives
at Bonn and Strasbourg how the German people feel about
giving up national sovereignty in favor of intra-European
co-operation and organization.

HY.WAS BREISACH, a small community of some
2,400 persons located in a comparatively sleepy
agricultural section of Germany, chosen for this first grass
roots test of international consciousness among Germans?

this poor, long-suffering town
has been reduced to a rubbish heap of dust, ashes, rubble
and desolation, Looking around at this horrible picture of
the futility of war, I knew but only too well that I had no
further to search for the answer to my query as to what
lay behind Breisach's practically unanimous vote for a
federal state of Europe.”

And further, quoting Mayor Bueb of Breisach, “The
history of Breisach is filled with invasions and military
occupations... (It) has been part of France and part of
Austria at different times... (and) has been occupied,
conquered or passed through by invading battalions about
50 times. Ten times it has been destroyed... (In World

Communist propaganda efforts to induce Castrop-Rauxel and Breisach to vote against the European Union plan proved
unavailing, the results showed. At left, Breisach's Mayor Bueb looks at poster put up on balloting-place wall by Commu-
nist “shock troops.” Right, pro-European Union posters urged Rhinelanders, on eve of plebiscite, to remember “Europe is
watching Breisach” and “Europe wants peace.”

(Photos by Internationale Presse-Photo-Agentur)

--- Page 19 ---
Sunday, July 9, was a lively day in Breisach. By midday
more than 50 percent of the eligible voters had casi their
ballots at the polling booths. Breisach, according to its
mayor, was second most destroyed city in Germany in
World War II: 80 percent of its buildings were razed while
other 20 percent, without exception, were severely damaged.
Its history is full of wars: it has been destroyed 10 times.

War II it was) the second most destroyed city in Germany,
first place being held by the city of Emmerich on the
Rhine. Eighty percent of the buildings in Breisach were
completely destroyed and the other 20 were, without
exception, severely damaged. The children have to go to
school wherever a place (can) be found. They say that
Breisach's educational system has the longest school
corridor in the world: it runs from one end of the city to
the other.”

OR TWO MONTHS prior to the balloting at Breisach,

Albert Schinzinger, head of the Baden branch of
Europa Union and an old line German democrat, personally
led an active door-to-door campaign to explain the issue
of European federalization to the population of Breisach.
With the enthusiastic aid of Mayor Bueb, the interest and
assistance of local civic and religious organizations, in-
cluding the male glee club, the church choir, the volun-
tary fire department, sport clubs, trade organizations and
political parties were enlisted.

On the eve of the balloting, a mass meeting of some
thousand persons was addressed by South Baden Minister-
President Leonhard Wohleb, by Dr. Ernest B. Steffan,
secretary general of Switzerland's European Union, and
by Dr. Eugen Kogon, president of Europa UNron. In his
speech, Dr. Kogon explained the purpose of the Union
movement, mentioning that since each American worker
is contributing the equivalent of 18 working days a year
to European assistance, it is up to Europeans to justify
this sacrifice by effecting genuine European unification.

Opposition to the Breisach plebiscite was forthcoming,
as might be expected, from the Communists. In the ab-
sence of any Communists in Breisach who dared to
engage in active opposition, a delegation of Communists
from Freiburg demanded and obtained an audience with
the mayor in which they tried to force from him a state-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

ment that the balloting, if it came out affirmatively, really
would mean that the Germans are for the evacuation of
Occupation Forces in Germany.

According to the mayor, the interview ended sum-
marily when he told the Communists, among other
things, “You are the people who are protecting and sup-
porting the robbers on the other side of the Iron Curtain.”
Other Communist disruptive tactics at Breisach, such as
the usual display of crude signs on walls and buildings,
ended equally unsuccessfully.

OWEVER, IN THE MUCH larger community of

Castrop-Rauxel later, the Communists,
stronger and better prepared, swung into high gear. US
Deputy Observer Robert Beghtol in the British-Zone state
of North Rhine-Westphalia reported on the Communist
strategy as follows:

“The KPD put on an elaborate counter-campaign and
sent a special representative from Duesseldorf to
Castorp-Rauxel to supervise. In the beginning the Freie
Deutsche Jugend (Communist “Free German Youth") was
the only outward sign of Communist attitude, limiting
itself to the destruction of posters. Subsequently the so-
called ‘Committee against European Union’ put up posters.
In addition, four other kinds of posters were printed, each
in 3,000-4,000 copies. The Communist propaganda became
so intense that certain of the townspeople became
frightened and some shopkeepers who had displayed
European Union posters in their windows removed them.
The Communists threatened to take the names of those
who voted and ultimately planned a counter-meeling to
be held on July 14.

“To counteract this (meeting) the city manager called
for a practice run of the city’s fire-fighting equipment,
to end in the public square near the place chosen by the
Communists for their meeting. This was an administrative
decision for which the city manager said he would take
full responsibilty. The move was successful, large crowds
gathered to see the fire department in action, and the
Communist meeting was failure.”

one week

Flags of youths’ organizations supported the European
Union movement at mass meeting in the town square at
Breisach. On platform in foreground is Mayor Bueb, who
staunchly supported Europa Union in addressing townsfolk.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 20 ---
Communist roughneck attempts to disrupt meetings and
other attempts by them to hold their own meetings were
notably unsuccessful.

The people's answer to the Communists was that 31,806
out of 34,239 who voted placed their ““X" in the “Ja” (Yes)
circle. Many organizations which helped prepare for the
plebiscite are agreed that the Communists unwittingly
were their best propaganda agents. The story is told of
an elderly lady who, confined to her home some two
miles from the polling place, became so angry when she
heard of Communist tactics that she successfully pleaded
for a car to be sent for her in order that she might go
to contribute her “Ja.”

HE LITTLE KNOWN Evropa Union and the incon-

spicuous communities of Breisach and Castrop-Rauxel
temporarily were catapulted to the headlines in almost
all West German newspapers after the plebiscites.
Another, and final, plebiscite is scheduled for either
Frankfurt or Munich, and a number of other cities in
West Germany now have asked for Europa UNron plebis-
cites. What is the movement all about and who is behind
it in Germany?

Eurora Union is the German branch of the Union
Europeene des Federalistes (UEF). This is presently among
the strongest of several federalist movements in Europe,
all of which are affiliated with the European Movement,
headed by Winston Churchill of Great Britain, Paul Henri
Spaak of Belgium, Alcide de Gasperi of Italy and, until his
recent death, Leon Blum of France.

The groundwork for plebiscites had been done at Paris
in October 1949, when a congress of the Union Europeene
decided that progress toward the federalization of Europe
was moving too slowly, particularly in view of the fact
that the powerful stimulus given to European co-opera-
tion through the Marshall Plan will end in 1952. In the light
of this decision it was resolved that, in order forcibly to
bring to the attention of the governments of western
Europe the desire of their peoples to unite, plebiscites
would be held by the 17 national affiliates of the Union
Europeene. The first affiliate to implement this resolution
was the German Europa UNION,

Three months ago, before the plebiscites, Europa
UNION counted approximately 25,000 paying members in
Germany. It is financed partly by the dues of these mem-
bers, amounting to six Deutsche marks per year, but more
largely from private donations and in certain states from
established political parties. However, Europa) UNION
stresses its supra-political character, and accepts gifts
from political parties only with a “no strings attached”
understanding.

Europa Union counts among its members a substantial
number of prominent German political figures and
through them it can bring influence to bear on the Ger-
man parliment and the German delegation to the Coun-
cil of Europe. Both Heinrich von Brentano, CDU leader
in the Bundestag (federal parliament) and a delegate to the
Council of Europe, and Carlo Schmid, SPD leader in the
Bundestag and a delegate to the Council of Europe, are
members of Europa UNION.

SEPTEMBER 1950

17

Dr. Eugen Kogon, founder and president in Germany of the
Europa-Union, was among speakers who addressed the
eligible voters of Breisach and Castrop-Rauxel on the eve
of the test plebiscites. A noted author and editor, Dr. Kogon
is publisher of the “Frankfurter Hefte,’' political and cul-
tural monthly. He was an inmate of Buchenwald concen-
tration camp for all of seven years, from 1938 to 1945,

N JULY 26, the Bundestag passed a resolution re-

questing the conclusion of a European federative
pact calling for the formation of a supra-national Euro-
pean body with legislative, executive andy judiciary
powers. This resolution had been prepared by Europa
UNION, submitted to the Bundestag by deputies belonging
to Europa Union, and was adopted exactly as Europa
Union had framed it.

The president of Europa Union is 47-year-old Dr. Eugen
Kogon. Dr. Kogon is a distinguished German public figure
who spent the years 1938 to 1945 in the Buchenwald con-
centration camp. Since liberation in 1945 he has written
a well-known book, "The SS State," and was co-founder
of the publishing house Frankfurter Hefte, which publish-
ed books and brochures on political topics and the
magazine Frankfurter Hefte, a scholarly monthly on
questions of politics and culture.

The dynamo of Europa Union is Otto Blessing, 40, its
executive secretary. A patent attorney by training, he
gives the impression of being a hard-headed tactician.
According to him, Communist opposition at Breisach and
Castrop-Rauxel has given Europa UNION the catalyst it
needs for success. He sees the Europa UNION as the first
concrete German movement against Communism.

On July 31, the executive committee of Europa Union
approved a five-point program of action which includes
production and distribution ‘of education films on poli-
tical questions, the purchase of a newspaper, intensified
publication and dissemination of attractive brochures in

(Continued on page 23)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
SUTTON

MANIFESTO

of the Congress for Cultural Freedom

1. WE CONSIDER IT a self-evident truth that intellectual liberty is one of the inalienable
rights of man.

2. Intellectual liberty implies in the first place liberty of thought and word, especially when
they are in opposition to the controlling regime. Man becomes a slave when deprived of the right
to say no.

3. Liberty and peace are inseparable. In all countries, regardless of the political regime, the
overwhelming majority of the population fears and is opposed to war. The danger of war becomes
acute when governments, by the suppression of democratic, parliamentary institutions, withhold from
the majority the means of opposing war.

Peace can be safeguarded only if each government submits its acts to the control of the people
it governs and pledges itself to submit all measures which could endanger peace to a democratic,
international discussion and to abide by the decisions reached.

4. We consider that the primary cause of the present world insecurity arises from the policy of
governments who while paying lip-service to peace, refuse to accept its essential premises. History
shows that wars can be prepared and waged under any kind of slogan, including that of peace.
Peace campaigns which are not based on acts guaranteed to maintain the peace are comparable to
counterfeit money placed in circulation for fraudulent purposes. There can be no renaissance of
intellectual equilibrium and security in the world until “the black market" of peace is abolished.

5. Liberty is based on the tolerance of and the respect for divergent opinions. One cannot
logically invoke the ideal of tolerance to cloak intolerance.

6. No doctrine can claim exclusive interpretation of the principle of liberty. On the contrary,
we consider that the criterion of such doctrines ought to be the degree ‘of real liberty accorded
the individual.

Furthermore, we consider that no race, nation, class or religion can claim to: represent ex-
clusively the idea of liberty, or arrogate to itself the right to deny liberty to other human beings,
no matter how high the ultimate ideal may be.

7. In critical epochs, restrictions are imposed on individual liberty in the name of the real or
claimed interest of the community. We consider that such restrictions must be limited to ‘a minimum
of clearly defined areas as temporary expedients, and clearly imposed as a sacrifice. Furthermore,
q@easures restricting liberty must be submitted to criticism and to democratic control. Only under
such conditions can we hope that extraordinary measures restricting individual liberty will not
degenerate into a permanent tyranny.

8. IN THE TOTALITARIAN states the shackles placed on liberty are no longer considered
sacrifices imposed on the population, but are regarded as the triumph of progress and the attainment
of a superior civilization. We likewise consider that the concrete measures taken by these regimes
are contrary to the fundamental rights of the individual and to the essential aspirations of humanity.

9. We consider the danger incorporated in these regimes to be so much the greater in view of
the fact that the theory and practice of their tyrannies surpass all of the despotisms known to
history. The citizen of the totalitarian state is not only forced to abstain from crime but is required
to formulate all of his actions and thoughts on a prescribed model. The classic form of the “negative
tyranny” has been supplanted by the “positive tyranny. Citizens are persecuted and condemned
on the basis of indefinite and non-specific accusations such as being “enemies of the people’ or
“socially dangerous elements.”

10. We are convinced that there can be no stability in the world as long as humanity remains
divided into the haves and the have-nots. The defense of existing liberties and the re-conquest oi
liberties lost constitute one and the same, indivisible struggle.

11. We consider that the theory and the action of the totalitarian states are the greatest menace
which humanity has had to face in the history of civilisation. We consider that indifference and
neutrality with respect to this menace constitute a betrayal of the essential values of humanity and
the abdication of the free spirit. Our response to the menace will determine for decades—perhaps
even for generations—whether the human species is going to follow the path of the social insects
or that of free men.

12. The defense of liberty and culture imposes upon us the duty of contributing to a culture
which gives a positive answer to the revolutionary changes occurring in the world.

13. We address this manifesto to all men who are determined to defend the liberties they enjoy,
to regain those they have lost, and to create new ones. +END

TUTTE

Pe eee TT TLTTTTTTMITTTTRTLITTOTUILLTCOu nnnnOnUunUOOOULOOOOOU UMNO MTMNOON TINTON cc

INFORMATION BULLETIN 18 SEPTEMBER 1950.

--- Page 22 ---
The first international Congress for Cultural Freedom symbolically was held in Berlin and lasted five days; from

June 26 to 30. Attended by 150 delegates from countries all over the world, large audiences heard outdoor sessions. Dr.

Eugen Kogon, noted editor-author and president in Germany of ‘Europa Union,’ is speaker.

(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Review

By WOLF von ECKARDT

HE FIVE-DAY Congress for Cultural Freedom, which
brought a distinguished array of prominent artists,
writers and scientists from many lands to Berlin this past
summer, turned out to be a far more dynamic event than
the expected demonstration in behalf of cultural liberty.
Both timing and locale — the Congress which met 105
miles behind-the-Iron-Curtain coincided with the first
disturbing news from Korea — set the spirit and gave
this assembly of some 150 of the world's leading minds
a peculiar sense of urgency and determination.

The original broad general program of the Congress
rapidly swerved from its non-political theme of upholding
democratic cultural freedom to a resounding farewell to
the concept of neutrality toward the totalitarian menace.

The idea for the Congress first originated in the mind
of David Rousset, celebrated French socialist, who, while
attending the Cultural Congress of the European Union
held in Lausanne last year, said: “We should hold an
international cultural congress of writers, artists, and
thinkers, who are fully aware of their responsibilities to
the world, and this congress should be

zine editor Melvin J. Lasky as secretary-general. Invitations
were issued to prominent intellectuals of various shades
of political thought throughout the Western world for the
fundamental Congress-idea was that it was to be a
representative gathering, not of the right, left or center,
but of those who explored objective truth.

ONGRESS ORGANIZERS were faced with a variety

of difficulties. Invitations had to be sent to a truly
representative body of men, and many guests had to be
convinced as to the free and objective nature of the forum
which was to be established. On one hand, those of the
political right wanted proof that this was not to be a
Communist-inspired slogan-throwing contest. On the other
hand, those of the left wanted to be assured that this was
not to be a super-reactionary propaganda stunt. All
insisted on maintaining the right of their own political
convictions while engaging in free and unfettered dis-
cussions of the problems which were to be brought up at
the Congress. As delegates arrived at Tempelhof Airport
in Berlin on what has been called ‘the

held in Berlin."

Rousset's words provided the spark
which kindled the plans for the Berlin
Congress. The idea caught the imagina-
tion of such men as Germany's Carlo
Schmid and Eugen Kogon; America's
James Burnham; and leaders in world
thought from many countries. A Secre-

_. 4 : activities.
tariat was formed with American maga-

Mr. von Eckardt, writer of this
article, is deputy chief of the
Editorial Projection Branch, Infor-
mation Services Division, HICOG.
He covered the congress as cor-
respondent for the US Feature
Service, the operation of the Edi-
torial Projection Branch. He was
not a participant in the congress

cultural airlift,’ the necessity for a
clear and unequivocal stand was by
no means apparent to all. Not a few
of the Europeans could be heard around
pre-Congress dinner tables expressing
anxiety lest the meeting impel them to
adopt a forward position too far re-
moved from sophisticated, contempla-
tive detachment.

SEPTEMBER 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 23 ---
POUR LA |
LACuLIORE

FREEDOM

Bunt 1950

George Schuyler,

American writer.

The pitch was set by British author Arthur Koestler
during the ceremonious opening session held in the over-
crowded Titania Palast theater. In a quiet, deep voice,
devoid of demagoguery he lashed out against “the nimble-
witted navigators in no-man’s land... who preach neu-
trality toward the bubonic plague.”

In vital emergencies like our present, Koestler said,
“there are situations in which decisions are vital for
spiritual and physical survival.”

His Bible quotation, “Let your words be yea, yea, nay,
nay; for whatsoever is more than these, comes from
evil," became a theme of the Congress of which speaker
after speaker, in the course of long disputations, sounded
his own variations.

OMBINED WITH the impact of Communist aggression

in the Far East and the determined atmosphere of Free
Berlin this theme caused notable men to descend from
their traditional ivory tower and to join in a new com-
munity dedicated to a spirited fight for the preservation
and extension of cultural freedom as inseparable from
peace.

James Burnham, professor of philosophy at New York
University, and one of the outstanding delegates from the
United States, in conversation with Carmen de Guterbay.
Spanish political refugee who resides in Paris and who
was present at the congress as an unofficial participant.

Julian Amery,
Member, Britain's House of Commons.

Peter Strasser,
Austrian youth leader.

Thus the Austrian atomic physicist Hans Thirring, for
example, spontaneously cancelled his prepared speech in
which he had urged understanding and tolerance of Com-
munism. Those who managed to get hold of a copy
of Thirring's lecture, which already had been mimeo-
graphed, could read an appeal to intellectuals to stop the
cold war because “no country in the world needs peace
more urgently to realize its grandiose plans than the Soviet
Union.” This assumption, the professor told the Congress,
had become doubtful now.

During the same session, devoted to a discussion on
“Science and Totalitarianism," Alfred Weber, well-known
Heidelberg sociologist, announced that he was withdraw-
ing immediately from membership in the German Academy
of Science, located in Eastern Berlin, because he had
learned that the Academy had sent a telegram of friend-
ship and adulation to Stalin without prior consultation
with its membership. Amid heavy applause the vigorous
83-year-old professor sharply criticized those West Ger-
man intellectuals who still believed in co-operation with
the East.

FURTHER SYMBOL of the persuasive magnetism of

the assembly was the unexpected arrival of Theodor
Plivier, erstwhile Communist who defected not too long
ago and who wrote his best-selling “Stalingrad” in his
previous capacity of “honored writer of the Soviet Union.”
“This conference has such great impact on the defense
of cultural values and humanism that I just had to come,”
he explained.

The famous German writer must have become convinced,
as were most others in the course of the discussions, that
the meeting wanted nothing more or less than “to discuss
the problems connected with cultural freedom without the
usual blinders of fanaticism or propaganda," as the Italian
writer Ignazio Silone put it.

This was possible because the Congress was not an
official body but a free association of men and women
who represented no one but themselves and who were —
however divergent in their political, social, artistic and
religious beliefs — drawn together by mutual respect.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 24 ---
Ignazio Silone,
Italian novelist.

In contrast to the rigid unity which Soviet-controlled
cultural meetings in Breslau, New York and Paris dis-
played in their effort to hold a propagandistic monopoly
over peace and culture, the Berlin Congress resulted in a
creative association which drew its very strength from the
diversity and richness of different opinions.

The two days of panel discussions devoted to ‘Science
and Totalitarianism,” ‘Art, Artists and Freedom,” ‘The
Citizens in a Free Society” and “The Defense of Peace
and Freedom” provided, of course, ample opportunity for
a heated manifestation of these differences.

They flared up in particularly bitter arguments over
Arthur Koestler’s contention that ‘Left’ or ‘Right,’ socialism
or capitalism, had lost their meaning in today's world.
“As long as Europe remains caught in these false alter-
natives which obscure clear thought, it will be impossible
to find a constructive solution of the problems of our
time," he explained.

Although the author of “Darkness at Noon" made quite
clear that he intended neither to defend capitalism nor to
attack socialism, the socialists were up in arms. Haakon
Lie, the Norwegian labor leader, went far beyond a mere
election speech on the virtues of socialism in Scandinavia
and elsewhere when he touched on the dire necessity for
social reform as a first line of defense against totalitarian
extremism. He was seconded by David Rousset.

THER HEATED DISCUSSIONS were prompted by

statements of the American political thinker Prof.
James Burnham, Italian scholar Franco Lombardi, exiled
Polish writer Joseph Czapski, British conservative Julian
Amery, and several others of equal distinction.

The projected publication of the transcript of this
meeting will bring out the various arguments and points
made, Most speakers attempted to move on to new ideas
in the realm of politics as well as culture and searched
for mew words to replace those which had become
meaningless through cunning distortion and desperate
abuse. As the discussion developed, prepared texts were
cast aside in favor of a lively give and take miraculously

conducted practically all at once in French, English and
German.

SEPTEMBER 1950

Dr. Ernst Reuter,
Mayor of Berlin and host.

Hans Thirring,
Austrian physicist and author.

The sessions took place in an attractive hall known as
“Taberna Academica” and normally used as a dining and
lecture hall by the students of Berlin's Technical Univer-
sity. The students seemed to enjoy the international
intrusion and a great many of them volunteered, together
with their fellows from the Free University, to render the
Congress such technical services as running mimeograph
machines, translating, ushering or just cheering.

In this they were joined by a veritable invasion of their
less fortunate colleagues from Eastern universities, one
of whom, representing a small resistance group at Leipzig,
read the greetings of his group to the Congress. ‘This
meeting of the leading representatives of the free world
in the free and courageous city of Berlin has shown the
group,” the message said, “that we are not yet lost or
forgotten.”

HE MANY PEOPLE who could not attend the dis-
cussion in the overcrowded “Taberna Academica”
had occasions to see the stars of the Congress during a
variety of special meetings held at Berlin's US Information
Center and at the Free University. One of the most
interesting meetings was devoted to a discussion of the

Arthur Koestler (right), celebrated British novelist, dis-
cusses the day's news with Mme. Suzanne Labin, French
writer, and Carlo Schmid, vice president of the ‘‘Bundes-
tag," the federal parliament of the German Federal Republic.

--- Page 25 ---
ii CULTURE

Sa he
Boris Nicolaevsky,
Russian-born historian.

Negro question in the United States and was attended by
most of the American delegation: David Schuyler, editor
of the Negro paper Pittsburgh Courier; Max Yergan, noted
Negro writer on race relations; David C. Williams, of
“Americans for Democratic Action;"* and James T. Farrell,
author of ‘Studs Lonigan” and other books.

Other prominent Americans attending the Congress in-
cluded movie actor and radio commentator Robert Mont-
gomery, who gave a much applauded lecture on art; Prof.
Sidney Hook, who twice addressed the meetings in fluent
German and took vigorous part in all major discussions,
and Irving Brown, reprsentative of the American Federa-
tion of Labor.

But as is inevitable at such large meetings, a great deal
of the actual work was done behind the scenes, in the
cafes and restaurants around Steinplatz, the seat of Con-
gress headquarters, between acts of the spendid.gala per-
formance of Beethoven's ‘‘Fidelio, and at the festive
reception in the City Guest House at Wannsee.

There the two main factions which had developed dur-
ing the day's discussions, led by Arthur Koestler and
James Burnham on one and David Rousset and Ignazio
Silone on the other side, ironed out differences sufficiently
to work out various plans for positive action to grow out

Haakon Lie, chairman of the Norwegian socialistic move-
ment, on the speaker's rostrum at one of the plenary
sessions stressed world's the dire need of social reform.

FUER F
WULTURELLE CULTURAL
FREIHENT FREEDOM

David Rousset,
French resistance leader and author.

Dr. Melvin J. Lasky,

secretary-general of the congress.

of the Congress. These plans will assume concrete form
when the permanent Committee for Cultural Freedom
elected by the Congress meets in Paris this fall. This com-
mittee includes Silone, Rousset, Koestler, Irving Brown
and Carlo Schmid, the German social-democratic parlia-
mentarian.

Delegates sat until five o'clock one morning and spent
a total of 10 strenuous hours working out a Manifesto for
Cultural Freedom and other resolutions until they could
be unanimously accepted. Their devotion was particularly
taxed since these closed meetings took place in the Renais-
sance Theater where smoking is prohibited.

HEN IGNAZIO SILONE was asked how he thought
the Communists would react to the Congress he an-
swered: "Like dogs — they will bark." They did.

Gerhart Eisler's propaganda headquarters in Goebbels’
former ministry employed the usual list of kindly epithets
including “literary monkey,” “atom spy" and “Wall Street
chain dog” to greet the participants, many of whom they
had once counted among their comrades.

There was but one word the Communist press and radio
omitted, perhaps reluctantly: the word “Fascist.’* For most
of those who came to Berlin to unite in their efforts to
combat the Communist brand of totalitarianism had, like
Ignazio Silone, the French socialist David Rousset, or the
Greek statesman Panayotis Kanellopoulos, a record in the
resistance against the Fascist and Nazi variety.

From a leading German anti-Nazi the Congress heard
what was perhaps the first public admission of German
guilt, when Prof. Alfred Weber said: ‘Without belittling
ourselves but in manly honesty we must state foremost:
Nostra culpa, nostra maxima culpa. We must try to cor-
rect this guilt." Kanellopoulos, however, pointed out that
the fight he led in Greece against both Fascism and Nazism
had made him realize that totalitarianism was not native
to any one people allegedly predisposed to this disease.

This recognition, reiterated by many others, prompted
the Congress to tell itself and the world repeatedly that
the event was by no means a cultural lineup of “West”
against “East.” The presence of a variety of cultural
leaders from Iron-Curtain countries such as Nicolay An-

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 26 ---
dreyev, Russian literary critic now teaching at
Cambridge, England; Josef Czapski, Polish writer
who spent years in Soviet concentration camps;
Jerszy Giedroyc, also a Polish author who now
lives in Paris; Mintauts Cakste, the son of the
founding President of the Latvian Republic, and
Salomon Schwarz, Russian economist now living
in New York, emphasized that Slavic culture is
as much the property of all mankind as are the
accomplishments of the West.

HE HOST OF the Congress and frequent

chairman of discussion meetings, Berlin's
Mayor Ernst Reuter, received long applause from
the Titania Palace audience when he said in his
opening address: ‘Poland, Czechoslovakia and
Hungary belong to Europe as do our brothers in
Russia, the land of Tolstoy and Dostoievsky,
the land which has given such greatness to
mankind.”

This spirit of positive solidarity with the
people of good will beyond the Iron Curtain was
reiterated by many speakers of all nationalities
and inspired a ‘Message to the East," extending
greetings to the peoples of Russia and others op-
pressed by Stalinist dictatorship. It assured “‘all
those who fight for freedom against oppression
of unlimited solidarity." This message was read
at the final public meeting of the Congress where
Berliners also sat with respectful patience through
a long speech the Russian exile Boris Nicolaev-
sky delivered to his people in his own language.
To it Ernst Reuter added, also in Russian: “Long
live freedom; long live the peoples of Russia!"

But the culmination of the work of the Con-
gress for Cultural Freedom is its manifesto, a
document which James Burnham said privately
he hoped would be studied in all high schools and colleges
in the United States and elsewhere.

It is dramatic evidence of a new and growing inter-
national solidarity of free intellectuals throughout the
world sponsored by the leading philosophers of our day,
Benedetto Croce of Italy, John Dewey of the United
States, Karl Jaspers of Germany, Jaques Maritain of

The widespread interest aroused by the Congress for Cultural Free-
dom is attested by this view of the vast international audience at
one of the public meetings held in the large summer garden of the
Funkturm. The big audience was as cosmopolitan as the delegates.

France and Bertrand Russell of Britain. The artists, writers,
scientists, philosophers, journalists, churchmen, trade-
unionists and publishers who issued this manifesto* on
the tiny island of Free Berlin, have emphatically given the
lie to the counterfeit slogans of the deceptive Communist
“peace movement.” -+-END

% For text, see page 18.

(Continued from page 17)

Europa Union Plebiscites

which specific political and economic problems in Europe
are presented in simple language, a door to door grass
roots campaign of the same type as that used by the
Communists, and the organization of a traveling exhibi-
tion designed to educate people on all-European questions.

According to Dr. Blessing, it is the credo of Europa
Union that the greatest danger to Europe is not military,
great as that may be, but ideological, and that Europe des-
perately needs a positive faith. According to him it is also
evident that the arguments of competing political parties
confuse rather than clarify this issue of faith, and that there-
fore it is up to the movement for European federation to

SEPTEMBER 1950

23

fill the European ideological vacuum by promoting the
concept of a strong European federation of free men. It is
the position of Europa Union that Europe expects much
from Germany in this endeavor, and that Germany must
not be found wanting.

There is difference of opinion as to what the ultimate
fate of Europa UNion plans may be and as to the inter-
pretation to be put on the results from Breisach and
Castrop-Rauxel. However, few can take issue with the
German newspaperman who wrote “(at Breisach) it was
the voice of the people that was heard” and “after all the
disillusions of the past years, he (the common European)
can be captivated by only one idol: Europe.’ Europa UNION
intends that statesmen shall take heed. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Soviets Delay Repatriation of German PoW’s

Following is the text of a note delivered July 14 to the
Soviet Foreign Office by the American Embassy at Mos-
cow regarding prisoners of war still in Soviet custody.

HE AMBASSADOR of the United States of America
presents his compliments to the Minister of Foreign
Affairs of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and on
instructions from his government has the honor to refer to
the Soviet press announcement of May 5, 1950, stating
that the repatriation of German prisoners of war from the
Soviet Union to Germany has been completed with the
exception of 9,717 persons convicted of grave war crimes,
3,815 persons whose alleged war crimes are in the process
of investigation, and 14 persons detained owing to illness.
The Government of the United States shares the shock
and concern of the German people over this public an-
nouncement, and is unable to give credence to the Soviet
statement that there are only 13,546 German prisoners
of war in its custody. These figures are completely at
variance with the information in the possession of the
Government of the United States, showing that large num-
bers of German prisoners of war known to have been in the
Soviet custody have not yet been returned to their homes.
The Soviet Government is again informed that, in
accordance with the agreement reached by the Council
; of Foreign Ministers at Moscow in April 1947 for the
repatriation before Dec. 31, 1948, of all German prisoners
of war in the custody of the four occupying powers, the
United States, the United Kingdom and France did in fact
repatriate all German prisoners of war in their custody
prior to the agreed date. The United States, on its part,
actually completed its program of repatriation of German
prisoners of war as early as June 30, 1947.

The Government of the Soviet Union has repeatedly
failed to respond to requests for pertinent information of
its actions under the agreement of April 1947. On Jan. 24,
1949, the Soviet Minister of Foreign Affairs, in acknowledg-
ing receipt of one of these inquiries, admitted that an
unspecified number of German prisoners of war were still
held in Soviet custody, failing however to furnish any
information concerning them, but stating unequivocally
that the Soviet Government would complete the repatri-
ation of German prisoners of war remaining in its custody
during 1949.

It is clear from the announcement of May 5, 1950, that
the Soviet Government has failed to honor this commit-
ment just as it has failed to honor its earlier commitment
of April 1947. In this connection, the Government of the
United States desires to make it plain that the arbitrary
reclassification by the Soviet Government of prisoners of
war as civilians would not, of course, have the effect of
relieving the Soviet Government of its obligation to return
these persons to their homes and families,

By its delay in repatriating these German prisoners of
war, and by its repeated refusal to furnish information

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

concerning them, the Soviet Government has caused
suffering and anxiety for large numbers of prisoners of
war in the Soviet custody and their relatives and friends,
and has demonstrated a complete disregard for the
fundamental human rights of the unfortunate persons
concerned. The Soviet Government alone has the power
to mitigate this suffering, and it could do so by taking the
following steps:

(1) Furnish full information on the identification of the
9,717 persons alleged to have been convicted of grave
war crimes, the 3,815 persons whose alleged war crimes
are in the process of investigation, and the 14 persons
said to be under treatment for illness, who are still re-
tained by the Soviet Union as stated in the Soviet an-
nouncement of May 5. This information would include
the present location and treatment of these persons, data
on the sentences imposed on those said to have been
convicted of war crimes, and the status of the investiga-
tions pending, as well as information with respect to
measures taken by the Soviet Government to insure the
tight of these prisoners of war to correspond with their
families in Germany.

(2) In accordance with the Geneva Convention of
July 27, 1929, to which the Soviet Union is a party, to
provide information on the number, identity, date of
death and place of burial of prisoners of war and civilian
internees who have died in captivity in the Soviet Union
or in transit.

(3) Permit investigation in the Soviet Union by an
impartial international body in order that the actual fate
of the prisoners of war known to have been in Soviet
custody may be ascertained. For this purpose, the Govern-
ment of the United States suggests the appointment of
an ad hoc commission designated by the United Nations,
ora group composed of representatives of the four powers
now occupying Germany, or representatives of neutral
powers, or any other group mutually acceptable. It is
noted in this connection that the United States, the United
Kingdom and France, at the time when they still had
German prisoners of war in their custody, furnished
full information concerning them to the interested parties,
and permitted full and impartial access to the prisoners
of war by international agencies.

N CONCERNING itself at this time with the question of
German prisoners of war,a question on which the Soviet
Government has made and broken specific commitments,
the Government of the United States does not overlook
the equally disturbing parallel situation concerning the
Soviet failure to repatriate, or to account for, the numer-
ous nationals of the German-occupied countries who were
taken prisoners during the war, or who were brought

to the USSR as civilian internees.
Information concerning the action -which the Soviet
Government is prepared to take on this matter would be
(Continued on page 29)

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 28 ---
Ameriea Is Different

By FRIEDRICH G. K. GROHE

N THE VERY BEGINNING of my stay in the United
States I learned to appreciate a significant and sym-

pathetic quality of most Americans—the wish to be
nice and helpful to the newcomer. ,

When I entered an office, I was usually welcomed with
the encouraging question: “Can I help you?" This struck
me as not merely an empty phrase but rather a sincere
query. I enjoyed the complete absence of the authori-
tarian tone that is found so frequently in Germany.

I was also struck by the way of announcing decrees
and prohibitions which showed that American authorities
saw their citizens as individuals rather than as subjects.
The famous German word “verboten” (forbidden) was
mostly replaced by “please,” and a polite “thank you"
was seldom forgotten at the end of an order.

I had been informed that the Midwest was very con-
‘servative in its political ideas and the center of American
isolationism. Therefore, I was greatly surprised to meet
again and again so many people and groups all over
Michigan who had developed a great interest in inter-
national affairs and who were eager to get better ac-
quainted with the problems, customs and cultures of the
nations abroad.

Although many Americans view the German nation
as a whole with some skepticism or at least reserve, there
was scarcely any resentment against the individual Ger-
man provided he showed some tact and tolerance in
human relationships. It was therefore not difficult to
develop personal contact with many American students
as well as with people outside the college.

SOURCE OF GREAT surprise was the small amount

of “academic freedom" which the American student
enjoys. As a European, I was not accustomed to the
control of class attendance, the difficulties involved in
attending other classes as a casual visitor, the daily home-
work and the frequent examinations.

Gradually I learned to understand that all this was a
natural result of the difference of the American conception
of higher education from our traditional German one.

The American colleges want to give higher education
to as many people as possible, which necessarily means
a certain lowering of the scientific

top-ranking American universities and colleges satisfy the
highest expectations students from any country may have.

I should like to point out that these remarks should not
be considered as an evaluation. I think that the American
system of mass education with its tremendous varieties of
opportunities for studies meets the requirements of the
country very well. Whether or not it could successfully
be introduced in a country like Germany with such dif+
ferent conditions seems somewhat doubtful to me.

In discussions the idea was often advanced that a more
or less exact copy of the American system of education
should be established in Germany in order to guarantee
a democratic development.

However, I think it is false to believe one need only
copy the outward form of an institution to automatically
achieve the same spiritual results. It seems far better to
try to understand the spirit and then to find suitable
forms, adapted to the particular local conditions, which
might produce the same spiritual results. I mention this
because so many Americans told me that we Germans
should just copy American institutions and then every-
thing would be all right.

ROM THE BEGINNING, I had a strong desire to know

the United States as it really is and to get as com-
prehensive an impression as possible of the various parts
of the country and of the people. At the same time, as an
engineer, I was greatly interested in a number of giant
American engineering projects.

The Christmas vacation offered a welcomed opportunity
to realize some of my plans. After careful planning I
decided to go first to Knoxville, Tenn., to visit the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority and then to proceed further
south to Miami. As my funds were limited I planned to
hitchhike, feeling that it was not only the cheapest means
of transportation but the most educational way of travel-
ing and of meeting different types of people.

On all my trips I was never faced with any formal
difficulties in traveling, In every respect the foreigner
enjoys just as much freedom as the American citizen.

I left Michigan equipped with many road maps and an
AAA tour book and hitchhiked through Fort Wayne, Ind.;

Cincinnati, O.; and Lexington, Ky., to

level. This also explains the great
amount of guidance and supervision,
I may even say control, to which the
American student is subject.

In Germany, however, only a com-
paratively few and selected people
who are mature and talented enough to
work independently are supposed to
receive higher education.

Of course, the scientific standing of
the graduate schools of some of the

This article is the condensed
version of a report prepared by
Friedrich G. K. Grohe upon his re-
turn to Germany after attending
the Graduate School of Michigan
State College, East Lansing, Mich.,
as an exchange student. Grohe, who
studied engineering and passed his
examination for his Master of
Science degree with distinction,
was in the United States from
September 1948 to December 1949.

Knoxville. In southern Kentucky, a
section of the highway was closed and
T had to use a long detour that took me
high up into the mountains. Thus I
passed through a typical “hillbilly”
region with all its poverty, dirt and, as
it appeared to me, depravity.

Only two days later, when I went
up to Fontana Dam, I passed through
a similar region. But there, in between
the old, ruined huts, new, clean and

SEPTEMBER 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
nice-looking homes were being constructed. New life and
civilization were obviously entering this backward land
—a striking example of the success of TVA.

I stayed in Knoxville for four days and was received in
the headquarters of TVA with extraordinary courtesy
and kindness. A program was arranged and conducted
for me and guides were provided to take me around
Fontana Dam, Loudoun Dam and Norris Dam. I also had
ample opportunity to talk to engineers about particular
technical problems.

N MY WAY through North Carolina, I made a friend

who invited me to spend the Christmas holidays with
his parents in Asheville. I had an unexpectedly nice time
among kind people and then continued my trip through
Augusta, Ga., to Savannah, Ga.

In these two cities, I got my first realistic impression
of the Negro problem in the South. I was shocked at the
Negro sections which looked so unworthy of human
beings. I constantly had to keep in mind what the Nazis
had done with the Jews and their political enemies. Here,
at least, nobody was persecuted or killed.

When I stood on the highway in the Negro section of
Augusta trying to get my next ride I felt strange in being
the only white man on the street in a vicinity that could
just as well be a part of darkest Africa. It was a feeling
of being in a hopeless minority. At that moment I could
understand, although not approve, some of the attitudes
white people have developed in regions largely populated
by Negroes.

It was, of course, ignorance which produced this strange
feeling, and I saw the trend which leads from ignorance
to prejudice, from imaginary necessity for self-defense to

MR SARMIENTO |

BOLIVIA

“preventive” aggression. Later, after I became personally
acquainted with some fine Negroes and learned that they
are human beings, too, differing very little from me in
their mentality and reactions, I lost my feeling of
strangeness with them.

I was disappointed by Savannah, which was described
in my guide book as “one of the most beautiful and
historic cities in the South.’ I think it was the dirtiest
city I saw in the United States. When I walked down
Montgomery Street, in the middle of the Negro section,
I saw a dead dog in a state of decay lying on the curb.
Large cars sped by on their way to Florida, but nobody
troubled to remove the dog.

In both Savannah and Charleston, S.C., I could not lose
the impression that I was “buried alive” in a dead city.
The old part of those cities, which may be historic to
Americans, cannot give Europeans the true impression
of an old culture which in the old countries of Europe is
so inseparably connected with historic places. After these
cities it was refreshing to see new life and progress in
Jacksonville, Fla.

I also spent some very enjoyable hours in the old town
of St. Augustine, There I found some of the true culture
I had missed in Savannah. Miami with all its wealth im-
pressed me very much, as did the beauty of the Venetian
Islands, the cultivated homes embedded in blooming,
evergreen gardens, and the beach of the Atlantic Ocean,

ACK AT COLLEGE, I became a member of the Inter-
national Club at Michigan State. More than 250
foreign students from more than 50 different countries
were attending the college. f consider my close contacts
with numerous foreigners as one of the most valuable

WA GROKE Sg MISS BANKER

GERMANY P tWOLL

While in Michigan, Friedrich Grohe, with students from other nations, took part in a radio roundtable (above). Since
returning to Germany he has given nine lectures, at which he showed pictures and slides from among hundreds he brought
back. The 27-year-old student remarks on a freer spirit of inquiry among Germans than there was when he left in 1948.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 30 ---
experiences I had in the United States.
Never before in my life had I had the
opportunity to talk to people from China,
India, Iraq and South America, for instance,
and to learn firsthand about their culture,
economic and political background.

Of special importance, however, was the
meeting with Jews and citizens of those
European countries that were occupied by
the German army during the war. Although
I never approved of, or excused, the hor-
rible crimes committed by the Nazi regime,
I was'no friend to the conception of collec-
tive German guilt.

But here, facing those who had been
directly or indirectly discriminated against
and persecuted by the Germans, I recog-
nized the full extent of those crimes more
clearly than ever before and I could not
help having a personal feeling of guilt — or,
at least, a truly deep feeling of shame.

The atmosphere of good will and understanding which
prevailed in the college was particularly beneficial for
social intercourse with those people who had suffered
under the Nazis and who had every reasons to hate the
Germans. Hostilities were avoided and in most cases we
could find a common basis of understanding. In the
course of time some of the Norwegians, Frenchmen and
Netherlanders were among the best friends I made in the
United States. In Europe, under less fortunate external
conditions, this might not have been achieved.

OLLEGE LIFE with its variety of student activities was

full of fun as well as work. I particularly remember
the annual “Pushcar Race” as it was striking example to
me of the liberal atmosphere existing between the people
and government officials. .

At the invitation of the students, the governor of the
state of Michigan, G. Mennen Williams, acted as starter
in some of the races. It was wonderful to see how the
youthful governor made humorous speeches to the crowd
of students and participated in every kind of fun.

Although the funniest car built by the students was
actually a parody on “Soapy Williams” (the governor's
nickname), he did not resent it in the least. I could
scarcely imagine how a German minister-president would
have behaved in the same situation.

Along with other foreign students I had the opportunity
to visit some small country schools, farms and a dairy in
Clinton County, Mich. At night we were guests at Farm
Bureau meetings in St. Johns, where we lectured on our
respective countries.

Again and again I was surprised at the interest in
foreign countries showed by the “man in the street" and
by school children. It was of particular significance to me
that in each discussion in which I participated many
people asked questions and stated their opinions frankly.

This is in pronounced contrast to the behavior of
most Germans, who feel restrictions against speaking
their thoughts in public. This is particularly true among

SEPTEMBER 1950

Friedrich Grohe, author of
this article, hopes to finish
his engineering studies at
Darmstadt Institute of Tech-
nology in the coming year.

27

German young people. In Germany, the
youngsters are afraid they may appear
ridiculous in the eyes of the older people
present. This is, of course, chiefly due to
a defect in the German educational system.

In some respects the German educational
system seems to me to be superior to the
American system, particularly as far as
scientific standing is concerned, but Ger-
mans do not put enough emphasis on
“education for life." Among American
students I often found an astonishing
ignorance in the field of general education,
ignorance of history, geography, literature,
languages, etc. — subjects which are con-
sidered very important in German higher
education.

Many a freshman or sophomore in col-
lege was not even too well acquainted
with his mother tongue, and I, a foreigner,
was sometimes asked by my American room-
mates how to spell common English words. But the vast
majority of all these people had a well developed per-
sonality. They were going to be good citizens and were
not restricted by worn-out conventions.

My trip to Florida showed me large sections of the
country. However, I felt that my experience would not
be complete without having seen and studied the western
states. Hence I decided to interrupt my studies and take
the regular summer vacation. Having received a schdélar-
ship for an International Service Seminar sponsored by
the American Friends Service Committee to be held at
Lewis and Clark College, Portland, Ore., I planned to
combine extended trips through the northwestern, western
and southwestern states.

HITCHHIKED FROM East Lansing to Chicago, where I

stayed for two and a half days. I found this city very
interesting and very American. It was the only place in
which I found wealth and poverty, beauty and ugliness
in such close proximity. It was fascinating and depressing.

There was the splendid business section — and only a
few blocks further I found myself in the middle of a slum
area which looked worse to me than anything I had seen be-
fore with the exception of some Negro sections in the South.

There was one thing which disturbed me more than the
unpleasant view of the miserable houses as it seemed to
express a discriminatory attitude toward the poorer part
of the population. While the streets were kept in ex-
cellent condition in the business and wealthy residential
sections, the city administration apparently did not take
much care of public property in the slum area.

Dirty streets and broken road surfaces contributed
considerably to the depressing atmosphere. Certainly
Chicago is not the only city in the world where this can
be observed, but in no other place have I found the
contrasts and extremes so pronounced.

All this made Chicago appear to me in a kind of de-
moniacal light — very “American,” as Europeans are in-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
clined to say. But it seemed to me that this less fortunate
type of “Americanism” already belongs to the past and
that we merely find here the remainders of former epochs
which are no longer the dominating forces in this country.

Hitchhiking to Portland, via the Grand Coulee Dam,
Denver, Colo., Salt Lake City, Utah, and Spokane, Wash.,
I got a good impression of the enormous distances and
the vast “living space" in this country. It has always
seemed to me that these tremendous dimensions have
made a decisive contribution to the development of the
American character, the way of living and the form of
democracy that has been established in the United States.
No wonder Americans are used to thinking and working
on a large scale.

PON LEAVING SPOKANE, I experienced a striking
U example of the liberal and individual ways in which
laws are applied. I was not aware that hitchhiking was
prohibited by law in the state of Washington. Hence I
was stopped by the state police. After I had shown my
identification, however, and a letter from the president
of Michigan State College, the state police not only let
me continue on my way but even advised me where I
could best catch a ride.

This would scarcely have been possible in Germany,
where the letter of the law usually plays a more important
role than its reasonable interpretation. In the US, how-
ever, I found repeatedly that certain laws were not
enforced, if, in that particular case, no actual offense or
crime was intended.

Undoubtedly, the seminar belonged to the most valuable
experiences I had in the United States. For seven weeks
a group of 29 students from 14 countries lived, worked
and studied together under almost ideal conditions.

When we students arrived at Lewis and Clark College,
we were asked to get together and run the seminar our-
selves according to democratic principles.

We decided the entire program—at what time we
wanted to get up, meal hours, number of lectures and
recreation time. We decided our own topics of discussion,
set up daily working schedules for kitchen help, dish-
washing and cleaning the rooms and edited and published
our own newspaper twice a week.

Of course, under this system of almost complete free-
dom, everything did not go smoothly. We made a number
of mistakes which had to be corrected later. But these
very difficulties gave us a useful lesson in democracy
and we learned to understand some of the trouble the
United Nations has from time to time. It would have been
more convenient, in some respects, had we been told by
experienced people what to do. But democracy is never
convenient and we saw the great benefit of learning by
our own mistakes.

N OUR DISCUSSIONS the foreign policy of some
Western nations was subjected to critical review. We
saw the appearance of some imperialistic trends in the
American economic policy in the Middle East as well as
in South America. We all agreed that the world situation

INFORMATION BULLETIN

evening sun.

28

Four American college students are taking up post-
graduate studies at the University of Munich on scholar-
ships offered by the Bavarian Ministry of Education and
Culture under the Cultural Exchange Program of HICOG,
Photographed on exchangees’ arrival in Munich, above,
left to right, are James Walker of Brooklyn, N.Y., a
graduate of Princeton; Shelton Hicock of New Haven,
Conn., a graduate of Yale; Dr. Alois Hundhammer, Ba-
varian minister of education and culture; Dr. Charles D,
Winning, chief of Public Affairs Division, OLC Bavaria;
Althea Cilley of Boston, Mass., a graduate of Boston U.;
and De Ella Toms of Washington, D.C., a graduate of
Northwestern. Mr. Walker has already spent one year at
Munich U. Mr. Hicock has a bachelor's degree and the
other three masters’ degrees in German. (PRB OLCB photo)

could be improved if the Western democracies, including
the United States, at least would not only practice their
democratic principles in domestic affairs but extend the
adoption of those measures of freedom, justice and human
rights to their foreign policy in their spheres of influence.

At the end of the seminar I was invited to accompany
a friend of mine in his car on a vacation trip to the Grand
Canyon. En route we took a look at the University of
California at Berkeley and while the sun was setting we
drove across the Oakland Bay bridge into San Francisco.

It was one of the few moments in life one never forgets.
Behind us lay Berkeley, Oakland and Alameda, gilded by
the last rays of the setting sun. Before us, tens of
thousands of lights were appearing in San Francisco.
About us, thousands of cars rushed across the magnificent
bridge, the cables of which shone like pure gold in the
Indeed an impressive demonstration of
human ability embellished by nature.

AN FRANCISCO was the American city that impressed

me by far the most. The steep hills, the cable cars, the
big suspension bridges. Chinatown, the Golden Gate, the
Pacific coast, the California style dominating the archi-
tecture of the residential sections — all contributed to the
particular and unique atmosphere.

In Beverly Hills I found for the first and only time
in the United States something approaching class-
consciousness. We stopped to ask a gardener working on
the street where some of the movie stars lived and in-
quired who was living in the large home to our left. The
gardener replied: "Oh, that is nobody, he just has money!”

I deeply appreciated the almost complete lack of class
distinction in America among the white people. The way

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 32 ---
in which the boss usually treats his workers, the informal,
unauthoritative tone prevailing in the relations between
employer and employee the while mutual respect is
maintained, and the equality in social life are typical and
worthy of imitation.

Leaving my comrade at Flagstaff, Ariz., I began hitch-
hiking back to Michigan State College. Proceeding
through Texas to New Orleans, I was again struck by the
mentality of the people in the South and their outlook on
life, which is very different from that in all other parts
of the country.

The restless activity, the incessant striving after pro-
gress, so significant for the United States, seemed to be
much less pronounced in the South. Talking to people I
found the following philosophy: “I just work as much as
I must to maintain my present standard of living." It
would be an interesting study to try to determine the
relative influence of inheritance, environment and climate
as possible causes for such differences.

I liked the sprawling city of Washington, D.C., with its
many representative buildings and monuments. Of parti-
cular interest, of course, was the Capitol. I was fortunate
enough to listen to a Senate session for a while. In an
excellent speech, the Republican Senator Knowland of
California attacked the American foreign policy in China.
Although the opinions were very much divided, the dis-
cussion was fair and sportsmanlike. Occasional humorous
remarks — the strong side of most Americans — prevented
any kind of “bestial seriousness’ (German expression)
such as is frequently found in German political life.

My last term at Michigan State College was chiefly
devoted to my studies and when my departure time came
it certainly was not easy to say goodby to the many
friends I had made in East Lansing and to the friendly
campus that had become my second home.

Ree IS NO DOUBT that the exchange of persons is
one of the most effective means of establishing
friendly relations between Germany and the United
States. Germany has given a striking example in the past
how separation from the outside world can breed in-
tolerance, overestimation of one’s own abilities, and re-
ceptiveness to wicked propaganda.

The sphere of influence of a single exchange person
may be rather small when he returns to his country.
However, if we succeed in increasing the exchange of
persons of good will so that these single spheres add up
to a considerable power, the attitude of a whole nation
might be influenced in a positive way. This seems par-
ticularly important for a country like Germany, which is
in a state of transition and hence fairly susceptible.

In contrast toa trip to the United States, books, movies
and the presence of occupation troops are only incomplete
means for obtaining a true picture of America. The per-
sonal impression which I received in the United States
far surpassed anything I could have imagined from my
experience in Europe.

The “Hollywood version” of the United States produced
by American movies and dominating the minds of the

SEPTEMBER 1950

29

common people in Europe is, unfortunately, not the best
propaganda for the United States:

This is a real pity. America is so very much better than
one could imagine from her movies.

Nor does the presence of the Occupation Forces in Ger-
many give Germans a firsthand picture of America. Un-
avoidable psychological difficulties in the relationship
between victor and an occupied people render a closer
contact between Germans and Americans on an equal

“basis rather difficult.

Moreover, the large part of the population of America
— America's backbone, in the best sense of the word —
is scarcely represented in the occupation force. I am
thinking particularly of the low-income and middle clas-
ses, the workers, farmers, employees and the small
businessmen. There are a small number of highly-educat-
ed and, very often, high-minded officials in Germany, but,
it seems to me, that the mass of the common soldiers with
their families is somewhat below the American standard.

It must be acknowledged that with their exchange pro-
gram, Americans have started an undertaking that has
no precedent in history in the relations between a

_victorious and a defeated people. The positive results, I

am sure, will make up for all the trouble in surmounting
the many difficulties and obstacles connected with such
undertaking. +END

(Continued from page 24)
Soviets Delay Repatriation

welcomed by the Government of the United States, which
would be willing to co-operate in any appropriate way.

* kk

The British and French Embassies also have communi-
cated with the Soviet Government on this subject.

As is well-known, the continued detention of German
prisoners of war in the Soviet Union has been a matter
of concern to the United States Government and to the
Governments of the United Kingdom and France for a
considerable period. The foreign ministers of the United
States, the United Kingdom and France issued a statement
at London on May 12 with respect to this subject which
stated that the foreign ministers had agreed to take all
possible steps to obtain information bearing on the fate
of prisoners of war and civilians not yet repatriated from
the Soviet Union and to bring about repatriation in the
largest possible number of cases. +END

Korea-War Fears Swell Desertions

A marked increase in the number of deserters from
Soviet Sector “people's potice” units in the first week of
July was ascribed by Berlin Element Public Safety
Division to “fear of being sent to Korea." Thirty-five
“people's potice" — more than half the number reported
deserting in the entire month of June — sought asylum
in the Western Sectors in the week ended July 7.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Jt was an uphill battle but HICOG Food and Agriculture officials in Hesse report they are getting results in improving

state's milk supply and distribution system. Moreover, kiddies get glass of pure milk free each school day.

ESSE, SIMILAR TO NEW JERSEY in erea, size and

population, is, like New Jersey, pretty good dairy
country. Forty percent of the average farm income in the
German state is derived from milk and milk products,
and its rolling green countryside is always well-populated
by healthy looking cows.

Yet, Hesse has had the lowest per capita milk consump-
tion of any area in Europe, with each resident of the state
drinking a scant one-sixth of a quart of milk a day.

These two facts troubled Dr. James S. Hathcock, chief
of Food and Agriculture Branch, Economic Affairs Divi-
sion, OLC Hesse, and his deputy, Eugene Epstine. Both
men, trained agriculturists and agricultural economists,
also knew that milk is the most nutritive, best-balanced
food in the world, and, for the vitamins and minerals
provided, the cheapest food in the world. When trade
licensing, with its inequitable, cumbersome food-handlers'
permits, was abolished in Hesse in June 1948 Hathcock
and Epstine saw the opportunity of increasing milk con-
sumption and milk production.

Before they could interest the Germans in a campaign
to increase milk consumption, the OLCH agriculturists
had to draw up a list of specific grievances. They found
two major evils in the Hessian milk supply and distribu-
tion system. First of all, there were no tuberculin-free

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

(PRB OLCH photos)

cattle areas, and second, milk was sold loose, in bulk,
from cans, handled by many people. .

They also discovered that the butter-fat content of
Hessian milk was low, that milk was not being irradiated
with vitamin D, that pasteurization was either nil or
faulty, and where pasteurized, the sanitary effects were
lost by virtue of unsanitary handling.

ITH THEIR LIST of grievances and their hopes of

increasing milk consumption and production, both
of which also have an economic aim in that they con-
tribute to lowering German food imports, Hathcock and
Epstine began enlisting the aid of milk producers, dairy-
men and consumers.

Supporters of the program began campaigning through-
out the state, and commercial agencies, such as large
dairies and farmers’ co-operatives, pledged financial sup-
port.
acceptance of an increased milk production program by
the League of Housewives, and one of their members,

Most welcome aid came from the overwhelming

Mrs. Finni Fannes of Frankfurt, became the public rela-
tions director for the campaign.

First of all, those people interested in the Hathcock-
Epstine idea organized themselves into a promotional
group. A seven-man “Hessian Dairy Council,” representing

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 34 ---
= h x

Five years after World War II, organized drive to popular- Bottling, long a common practice elsewhere, was neither
ize the consumption of milk is under way in Hesse, second known nor favored, but now is gaining public favor despite
largest state in US Zone. Pasteurization now is a must slightly higher cost. Bottles are capped with dated seals.

ifrataval

Unsanitary handling of five and 10 gallon cans which were
poorly capped nullified pasteurization — where practiced.
Today's crateloads of bottles are a revolutionary change.

Hauled to wholesalers and retailers in gleaming white Milk-vendor finds sales bigger and easier, thanks to drive
trucks displaying “Drink more milk’’ slogans, low per being pushed by Hessian Dairy Council, which represents
capita consumption of five ounces per day is thing of past. producers, processors, retail consumers and trade unions.

SEPTEMBE
PTEMBER 1950 31

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
the farmer-producers, the dairy-processors, the retail con-
sumers and the trade unions, was elected to administer
the milk campaign on a statewide basis. This group has
direct liaison with state health, education and sanitation
agencies. Each county in Hesse has an exact replica of the
state council, with the same liaison on a county level.

The state committee co-ordinates the activities of the
41 county councils, passing along ideas, information and
suggestions, while the county groups send similar in-
formation to the state council. Individual county problems
are studied and compared, with a view to making solu-
tions applicable to other areas with like problems.

This state council, modeled on the National Dairy
Council of the United States, was in fact, aided in organi-
zation by its US counterpart, which sent literature and
suggestions to the Hessian Dairy Council. Both organiza-
tions exchange information, new ideas and comments
regularly, and many of the members of the Hessian
Council have termed the National Dairy Council,
“America's Finest Ambassador."

With the completion of the organization of the Hessian
Dairy Council and its local affiliates, Hesse witnessed
its first full-scale publicity and public relations campaign,
so good in tone and quality that it might have been
prepared by an American public relations expert, rather
than a group of sincerely interested Germans, unversed
in such procedures.

RIMARY TARGET for interest-getting were the school

children, and primary target of gibes was the old,
open, often filthy, milk can. The school kids were told
about growth and nutritive values of milk. Their parents
were told that raising of Hessian agriculture meant
saving of scarce foreign-trade dollars. Missionaries went
out among the people preaching the doctrine of milk.
Posters and placards started reminding the citizens of

“Never a day without milk,” “Milk — the road to strength
and long life," and “More milk — longer life.”

Educational material is disseminated wherever milk is
produced, processed or consumed. Sanitary milking is
constantly being encouraged, tubercular-free herds are
being formed and segregated, rapid cooling of milk is
now a must, and steps are being taken, through such
means as artificial insemination, to improve the cattle
breeds and to increase the butter-fat content of the milk.

Milk is now completely pasteurized and irradiated
with sunshine vitamin D, and thoroughly tested by the
dairies. The central aim, not yet attained but well on the
way to reality, is milk untouched by human hands.

Where once bright-eyed youngsters ran to the dairy
to get their milk out of an open can, a clean, friendly
milkman now delivers milk to the youngster right to his
home or his school, in sanitary bottles or cartons. Each
school child, through the Hessian state government, now
gets a glass of milk each school day.

HE HESSIAN DAIRY Council, pleased with the initial
results of the campaign which show that milk con-
sumption in Wiesbaden alone has gone up 10 percent,
has several proposals to accelerate the continuing drive.

Soon, a milk caravan, complete with kitchen, pasteuri-
zation demonstration, charts, literature and samples of
milk will go to every corner of Hesse. Not only will the

nutritive value of milk be expounded, but also trained —

dieticians will demonstrate the varied uses of milk in the
preparation of meals and snacks.

Members of the Council are almost convinced that
within the near future, Hessians will seat themselves
along the banks of their beloved Rhine, at one of those
vine-covered inns, call the waiter, and order, “Ein Glas
+END

Milch, bitte, Herr Ober.”

Food and Agriculture officials of the
Office of the State Commissioner for
Hesse are credited with having inspired
the drink-more-milk campaign which
not only is building healthier, happier
children in that area of the Federal
Republic but has spurred German offi-
cials in other states to improve milk
production and handling methods — in
short, to adopt the doctrine of milk.
Economic benefits include more need-
ed new jobs, decreased food imports.

32

--- Page 36 ---
Child Guidance :

By HAYNES MAHONEY

Chief, Bad Nauheim Branch, Public Relations Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

PANKING THE SCHOOL KIDS who were noisy or slow

was common practice to a certain teacher in Fulda.
And he admitted it, according to the Hessian Education
Ministry.

He often spanked his charges, the teacher said, and was
able to furnish proof that the parents agreed with his
methods.

Brought to trial, the teacher was acquitted. “But had he
been found guilty," protested a Hessian education official,
“the sentence would not have exceeded six months."

Sixty American and German educators, meeting at the
US Education Service Center in Jugenheim, Hesse, during
May, heard an account of this case. It illustrated one
aspect of a vital problem, which had brought together the
educators in an attempt to plan a long range program of
solution. The group was comprised of eminent American
and German education authorities, and the directors and
staff members of the Education Service Centers, HICOG-
sponsored institutions, featuring libraries and programs
designed to aid Germans, in developing a democratic
education system. They were concentrating on a chronic
German school problem:

How to develop a sound program of “child guidance”
which necessitates seeing children as individuals.

HE FULDA CASE pointed up the German tradition for

harsh discipline and mass treatment of school
children. In general, the teacher worked with a class as a
whole, considering the children as individuals only if they
got behind or created a disturbance in the class work
schedule. Generally, however, German educators gave
little consideration to the individual child — why this
one learned very slowly, or why that one was successful,
why another one was a constant trouble maker, and one
was disinterested.

Teachers were not concerned with developing socially-
constructive personality traits in the individual pupil —
such as respect for the individual, the ability to work
together, and tolerance for another's ideas — so vitally
important to developing a responsible citizenry. For all
problems there was generally the same answer: the stern
word and the birch rod.

An alternative to this old-fashioned approach is what
the pedagogues call ‘child guidance," by which each child
is accorded the individual attention needed to guide him
to normal adulthood, and problem children are diagnosed
and remedies prescribed.

In three days of lectures, films and discussions, under
chairmanship of Dr. Fritz Redl, eminent guidance. expert
from Wayne University, the educators sought to deter-

SEPTEMBER 1950

33

mine what the Education Service Centers and German
education offices were accomplishing in the guidance
field, how to co-ordinate and extend these programs, and
what support could be obtained from local civic organi-
zations.

O AID THE EDUCATORS in planning future guidance

services, Dr. Redl and Dr. Herta Kraus, of Bryn Mawr
College, an outstanding American authority on child
guidance and sociology, cited some of the most modern
concepts and techniques in this field. Dr. Red] pointed out
the importance of obtaining as complete information as
possible on each individual child, through various tests
and a file of teachers’ observations.

Teaching human relations through practical work in
classrooms is also essential to developing well-adjusted
children. Co-operation of parents and teachers, the
exchange of information and advice between them, is
important to providing good guidance for pupils, and
avoiding the development of problem children, he said.

Dr. Kraus described American child guidance clinics, in
which a team of four experts — a social worker, a psycho-
logist, a psychiatrist and a pediatrist — diagnoses the
social maladjustment of the so-called “problem child"
and proposes a program to help him find his way back
into the family and community. She pointed to the
necessity of a friendly and sympathetic attitude of such
counselors, in order that the child will sense the good
intentions of the guidance clinic rather than a feeling of
prejudice and dislike.

Another essential requirement for improving child
guidance is the collection and collation of all information
resulting from research, an activity conspicuously lacking
in Germany. Centralizing the findings of many scattered
agencies and making them available to all was one of the
major problems considered by the Education Service
Centers.

In discussing their current activities, the educators
found that most of the ESC’s and many German officials
had initiated some form of guidance program, indicating
that the concept of respect for the individual — even
children — had begun to take hold in German education.

They learned, for instance, that child guidance clinics
are being established in a number of cities in co-operation
with HICOG medical affairs and public health officials.
Mentally handicapped children, juvenile delinquents and
problem children of all kinds can be examined and cor-
rective measures devised by a psychologist, a psychiatrist,
a corrective education specialist and a social nurse in
these new institutions.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
German, American educators attended child guidance meet-

ing at Jugenheim Education Service Center, (Photo by Pretz)

PROGRAM IS now underway to improve guidance

for children in Hessian schools by requesting teachers,
parents and doctors to make out questionnaires giving
their observations and knowledge of the individual child's
problems and development. Experiments are being
conducted with a fourth questionnaire, a Schulerbogen
(student's questionnaire) in which the children themselves
indicate their own problems.

As an aid in providing vocational guidance for Hessian
students, the eight year compulsory education period has
been increased by a half year, and will soon be raised to
nine years. The last school year will include visits to
factories, workshops and other commercial enterprises to
orient children in choosing their vocations.

In Stuttgart,-Dr. Brenner, of the Wuerttemberg-Baden
Education Ministry lectures to teachers on his experience
with American guidance programs gained during his study
trip to the United States under the HICOG exchange
program.

A program to popularize guidance is being conducted
by three German psychologists at the Augsburg Education
Service Center. It has received considerable commen-
dation from local educators. The Kassel ESC works closely
with a child guidance clinic operated by the Public
Welfare Branch of the State Commissioner for Hesse. The
Jugendamt (youth office), schools and parents send many
problem children to this agency.

Martin Ackermann, director of the Nuremberg center,
had a unique problem in his area. He found many teachers
were inclined to put too much emphasis on “the problems
under which a typical child suffers, instead of concen-
trating on learning how to teach and lead a normal child.”
To remedy this, the center has initiated courses in basic
psychology and has begun translating excerpts from essen-
tial books to make the findings of non-German psycho-
logical research available to German teachers.

R. KURT W. BONDY, well-known psychologist in
Germany and America, and currently a visiting pro-
fessor of psychology at Hamburg University, emphasized

the necessity of a good testing program, which has long

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

been looked upon with suspicion in Germany. However,
he warned against “overestimation” of such tests, pointing
out they should be supplemented by other methods in meas-
uring the individual's intelligence, ability and interests.

Another problem — especially in Germany — is getting
qualified personnel to administer the tests, persons who
need considerably more training than a weekend course
or a four-week workshop. In addition, only an experienced
person should evaluate the tests. Mr. Bondy said that
a group of American and German psychologists in Ham-
burg is now developing a new intelligence test for Ger-
man schools, but that it would be a year before it could
be safely administered. The failure of a poorly stand-
ardized test would only increase the German suspicion
and antipathy against a testing program, he said.

The discussions and reports of the Education Service
Center personnel showed that they were well aware of
the vital need for individual guidance for Germany's
school children, and that much was already started in
encouraging this program in German schools. However,
this emphasis on individualism had hardly become a
tradition, nor even accepted, in many Germany class-
rooms, and much remained for the centers to do.

Miss Emogene Talcott, chief of the Education Service
Center program, summarized the proposals for future
action agreed upon at the conference. One possible
approach to the problem of spreading the information
concerning guidance is an increased emphasis in work
with the classroom teacher. It was decided that this
approach should receive more attention in the program
of the centers. Also, greater emphasis in encouraging
parent-teacher organizations to consider the aims and
values of guidance was agreed upon.

The centers were urged to do all possible to develop
more personnel who could work with them in guidance
programs. Tentative plans for a training course of three
months duration for teachers, school administrators and
Education Service Center personnel were initiated. The
co-ordination and exchange of translations of foreign
books on the subject, now being accomplished by many
of the Centers, was agreed upon.

Steps will also be taken to draw together into a co-
ordinated program the work of other agencies now work-
ing in the child guidance field.

DDING A FINAL EMPHASIS on the scope of the
problem, one of the conference groups attempted to
find a suitable German phrase for “child guidance.” After
much discussion, the panel reported a score of translations,
none of which quite seemed to fit. As Dr. Redl explained:
“We finally reached the conclusion that such a word
might best come to mind by accident, maybe in a bathtub,
and since we don't have a suitable bathtub here, we will
defer this issue until somebody is hit by a brain-wave."
Even if you could not explicitly express “child guidance”
in German, you could explain and demonstrate its meaning
to German educators, and the participants in the con-
ference agreed that this would be a major continuing —
program of Education Service Centers in the future. +END

SEPTEMBER 1950

4

--- Page 38 ---
“Spontaneous” East-Zone Protests Exposed

HE UNCENSORED STORY behind the dozens of tele-

grams purportedly written in spontaneous protest
against “American intervention and imperialism" in Korea
is being told in a flood of secret letters to RIAS and other
American offices in Berlin.

In the letters, many of them from members of East zone
organizations or workers’ groups which have sent group
messages of protest to US officials in Berlin, the authors
express full agreement with the course followed by the
United States in sending aid to invaded South Korea, and
often relate the carefully-controlled process by which
the party-line protests are drawn up.

The “protest” telegrams, drawn up and dispatched with
the sanction of Soviet-Zone and Sector officials, uniformly
advance arguments — many of them in vitriolic terms —
against continued American involvement in Korea. Texts
of the protest cables are parallel in terminology, and in
some cases use almost identical wording.

Protest meetings of the personnel of specific organi-
zations are carefully planned, and are carried out under
the guidance of Soviet-trained German officials, according
to one writer, an employee at a Berlin office which
sponsored one of the telegrams.

Noting that he and his colleagues had been “driven into
a corner” in which they had to “join the Society for
German-Soviet Friendship, etc., etc.,"" the writer related
that a meeting had been called to draw up a protest
resolution, and that at the meeting the manager had “as
always agitated against the Western Powers. No wonder,”
the writer continued, “he has just returned frdm a 12-day
political training course.

“All of us had to strain every nerve to keep from
laughing," the letter said. “Only some SED men asked
permission to speak." The writer added that “there is a
great lie in this cable... It is not true that the personnel
of the office protested unanimously; the only speakers
were some SED men. Furthermore, it is sad that our trade-

union chairman... had to sign the cable. He was not
even present at the meeting.

“Two SED men went to see him (the trade-union repre-
sentative) and asked him to sign the cable. I know him
very well. He was elected... because his associates had
the greatest confidence in him. He is no Communist.”

When the trade-union chairman had to sign the cable,
the writer added, ‘the was pretty angry. Later on he said,
‘Now my name will be heard over RIAS.'"

NOTHER LETTER, from an East sector firm, welcomed

“the step taken by the American President, Mr.
Truman, to check the Communistic plague and world-
danger in Korea by force of arms. ‘

“May our best wishes attend the President and his staff
in this step, which will lead to the peace longed for by the
world and the whole of mankind, and which will bring
about the prosperity of economics and industry in all
parts of the world." The note was signed by members of
the company's trade-union organization.

Among messages received from residents of the Eastern
zone and the Eastern sector of Berlin are numerous brief
notes of congratulation and good will, as well as detailed
explanations of the methods used in drawing up “volun-
tary” and-“unanimous” protests.

One writer addressed RIAS as “my dearest friend,"
continuing with the mock-ironic information that “we
know exactly, since yesterday, that no other than the
Americans plotted the war in Korea. Yes, indeed. It was
knocked into the working masses in workers’ meetings
last night, and thus was made clear as daylight.

“A resolution was read, and then we had to lift up our
paws to show that we agreed. The result: carried un-
animously. But in the hearts of 100 percent (of those
present) wholly rejected. Oh, the workers are boiling with
rage. We are glad that we have a RIAS, and we know
what the bell tolls when the RIAS sign calls. Faithfully
yours, So Long.” -++END

Gross-Ostheim Proud of Youth Community Center

HE PROUD CITIZENS of’ Gross-Ostheim in Aschaffen-

burg County, Bavaria, are building a DM 220,000 youth
community center, with little ready cash but plenty of
neighborly spirit and determination. They hope to have it
finished by fall.

A year ago the northwestern Bavarian town, with a
population of 6,000, had no center to which its youth could
go to work or play in their leisure time, explained Frank
D. Rossborough, US resident officer in Aschaffenburg. At a
town meeting, some of the citizens protested that the lack

of recreational facilities was making it difficult for them to _

keep tabs on their children, One of the older citizens sug-
gested the town stop complaining and start building.

Mr. Rossborough said the suggestion was favorably re-
ceived and the mayor promised he would study the matter.

SEPTEMBER 1950

35

At a subsequent town meeting last February, another
citizen asked what had been done toward relieving the
children’s recreational problem. The mayor explained that
there wasn't any money available. : .

The citizens of Gross-Ostheim (translated into English
as “Great Easthome”) then went into action. They agreed
to volunteer their labor while businessmen said they would
provide the neccessary materials without cost. To further
spur the project, HICOG offered to provide some of the
money for such expenses as the hiring of building experts
not readily obtainable among the citizenry.

Ground finally was broken May 30, and in less than two
weeks enough of ‘the building had been erected, said
Mr. Rossborough, to permit the holding of a three-day
songfest there over the June 10 weekend.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
urope

Builds

OR THE PAST several months,

three giant trailer-trucks have
been moving from one European
city to another loaded with posters,
gadgets and displays advertising
European co-operation, In July the
caravan halted at Bremen and the
trucks disgorged special walls and
ramps, and an ample-sized tent went
up on the parkgrounds, The exhibit
stayed one week, while 60,000
visitors went through it, and then
moved on to Hamburg.

Originating in Paris, the exhibit
offered numerous attractions: con-
tinous ECA documentary _ films,
shown on five different screens; a
question-and-answer display utiliz-
ing a telephone; balloons with self-
addressed postcards attached which
were sent up by visitors. The Eco-
nomic Co-operation Administration,
utilizing French designers, Italian
and Swiss architects and laborers
of many different countries, organ-
ized the caravan which left Ger-
many for Sweden, It is to return
later, to visit other cities of western
Germany. Pictures on this page
show a cluster of the balloons, the
big top and the large fair grounds at
Bremen, (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 40 ---
Youths (above) peer at panels il-
Justrating Europe's economic con-
dition in 1947. Poster (center) dis-
played in city is constant reminder
of role played by ERP since 1948.

Panel (below) is one of 60 con-
structed for ECA caravan which
shows drama of Europe's recon-
struction in years since Marshall
Plan assistance first began in 1948.

--- Page 41 ---
Hesse to Combat Intolerance

PLAN TO REHABILITATE Jewish cemeteries in

Hesse will be presented to the Hessian government
by Mimister-President Christian Stock, according to a let-
ter sent July 12 to Dr. James R. Newman, US state com-
missioner for Hesse. In it Mr. Stock replied to a letter in
which Dr. Newman asked the Hessian government to take
greater pains to prevent outbreaks of intolerance and race
prejudices.

At the same time, an educational campaign will be be-
gun in Hessian schools, the minister-president wrote
Dr. Newman, to acquaint school children with tolerance
and to teach them that all graves are sacred and should
be accorded reverence and respect.

“I trust,” Mr.Stock wrote, “that the government, in
close co-operation with schools, press and radio, political
parties, trade unions and churches will succeed in pre-
venting effectively the desecration of Jewish cemeteries
and inflicting just punishment on offenders.”

Mr. Stock's letter reported that cemetery desecrations
have dropped since last year and the year before, and that
children were the principal offenders. It assured that
children caught molesting resting places would be inves-
tigated to determine if they had been motivated by adults.
The Hessian Ministry of Justice has ordered the strictest
prosecution of violators, with the minister of justice
examining, personally, all cemetery desecrations.

HE LETTER FURTHER indicated that these acts of

desecration, performed by a distinct minority of the
population, were completely reprehensible to the vast
majority of the people of Hesse and to the Hessian govern-
ment.

In commenting on Mr. Stock's letter, Dr. Newman
stated that, "I feel confident that, with the Ministries of
Justice, Interior and Education co-operating closely, the
Hessian government can and will bring to a speedy end
these scandalous desecrations of final resting places. It is,
however, the individual responsibility of every Hessian
citizen to actively help the government in this campaign,
and to insure for Hesse the respect and
admiration of the entire world."

Text of Minister-President Stock’s letter
to Dr. Newman follows (for text of Dr. New-
man's letter of May 19, see Information
Bulletin, June issue, page 16):

The ministers of the interior and of
justice as well as the minister for culture
and education have, at my request, mean-
while reported to me on how the dese-
cration of Jewish cemeteries can be pre-
vented most effectively. I wish to inform
you of the measures taken and suggestions
submitted by the functional ministers for
the prevention of such outrages, as follows:

The minister of the interior informs me
that since January 1947 altogether 35 in-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Christian Stock.
(PRD HICOG photo)

38

stances of desecration of Jewish cemeteries have been
reported to him, of which there were

five instances in 1947,

17 instances in 1948,

11 instances in 1949 and

two instances in 1950.

Ascertained as offenders were
17 instances children up to 14 years old,
two instances juveniles up to 18 years old and
one instance adults.

In six instances children were supposed to be the per-
petrators on the basis of the investigations made; nine
cases have not yet been cleared up.

N INVESTIGATING such instances of desecration of

cemeteries in which children and juveniles come into
question as perpetrators, above all the background of the
desecration of graves is examined, in particular whether
they were motivated by the influence of adults and, iif so,
instigated by anti-Semitic circles. The police agencies of
the state have been given in decrees precise directives
thereon, providing for the co-operation of the political
parties, trade unions, schools, press and radio in the clear-
ing up of reported instances of desecration of cemeteries.

Particular attention is given in the Hessian administra-
tion of justice to the battle against anti-Semitic excesses,
above all the desecration of Jewish cemeteries, since the
first instances became known. The prosecution authorities
are bound to energetically clear up each instance of
desecration of a cemetery. The Oberstaatsanwaelte (higher

prosecutors) are instructed to supervise, themselves, the —

initiation of the investigations to be made without delay
—and if possible in conjunction with the Jewish com-
munities concerned — on the scene of the offense. If
juveniles are found to be the offenders, it will in particu-
lar be examined whether the parents or other persons
charged with their supervision have been guilty of @
criminal violation of their supervision obligation.

The minister of justice, who is having —

himself informed of each single instance
of desecration of Jewish cementeries, has
not been able to observe that the Ober-
staatsanwaelte had not prosecuted the of-
fenders, the ascertainment of whose iden-
tity is very difficult and can be achieved
only very rarely, with the severity re-
quired in the individual case. However,

him to attend to the reproaches made to
the Hessian prosecuting authorities and to
have each individual case hitherto taken
up by the Hessian administration of justice

(Continued on page 54)

SEPTEMBER 1950

your letter dated May 19, 1950, has caused ~

submitted to him for examination. In this —
way it is to be ascertained whether any —

|
?

--- Page 42 ---
“Reverence for Life”

EETING A GROUP of 10 German youth leaders in

his Frankfurt office July 18 to discuss youth prob-

lems in Germany, Mr. John J, McCloy, US High Com-

missioner for Germany, made the following statement:

“I am very happy to welcome this delegation of youth

leaders from western Germany, including Berlin. I want
to thank you very much for coming.

So often youth is told that the future belongs to them
that I don't wonder that they sometimes sicken when
they hear it repeated. I remember when I was a young
man in the United States that every commencement-day
orator from the first year I was in school until I graduated
from a university spoke this same refrain. We do not
advance ourselves by merely repeating this bromide.

Today Germany must find a new life and a new spirit.
This does not mean that all the old must be discarded
but the old approach was not good enough. Too much
destruction ensued from the old order, too many young
men's lives were taken or their future impaired. The
rebuilding of Germany is today too much for the old,
and by the old I include also the middle-aged. The ranks
of the old have been decimated by two great wars, and
they have been so shaken by the political excesses of
the recent past that they need new spirit and new energies.

E RECOGNIZE ‘that the problems which beset Ger-

man youth today are very difficult. They have seen
and felt the force of the devastating events of the last
15 years, But at least they have vigor, enthusiasm and
time on their side. They are still responsive, and if I
were asked what was the most important thing that the
youth of Germany could contribute to the rehabilitation
of the country I would say the same thing’to them that
! would say to American youth: namely, to instill within
themselves and all those with whom they come in contact
the importance of consideration for other human beings.
This is perhaps more important for Germany than other
countries because in Germany's recent past there was
such a brutal disregard for the rights and dignities of
individuals,

You can state it in different terms. Albert Schweitzer,
the famous philosopher, calls it “reverence for life," and
he says this principle is sufficient to explain our relation-
ship to the world and those around us. Kant had much
the same concept. The Hindu religion, through the prin-
ciple of the “right means of livelihood,” i. e., how to main-
tain oneself without causing harm to others, carried the
concept perhaps further than any of us in the Western
world have done,

In the Christian religion we have the principles of the
New Testament in the “love thy neighbor” theme. So
this concept comes from many different sources and they
can all be fused to provide a pattern to serve us in
dealing with today's problems. If we acknowledge a
reverence for life and refrain from those pursuits likely
to do damage to others and love our fellow men, we pass

SEPTEMBER 1950

over all differences in race or creed. Only by so doing
can we avoid destruction.

Particularly is this true in Germany where people live
in such close proximity to each other and where so many
interests converge. Jew, refugee, DP, expellee, East Ger-
man, West German, Bavarian and Prussian, English,
French, American — the principle must be applied or
there is no hope.

S OPPOSED TO THIS, the totalitarian state to the East
has re-erected on German soil the old Hitlerian
appeal of mass and march. The Communists have shown
that large sections of German youth will respond or canbe
forced to respond to such an appeal. Before them, the Nazis
showed the same thing, and both proved that minds be-
come dulled by the sound of their own marching feet.
Given what I feel is the most important spiritual appeal
that can be made to the German youth, what else can
be done is of a physical nature. Whatever is done must
be the result of German youth's own genius. If, however,
there is anything that we can do to help out, just as we
are helping the restoration of the German economy
through providing basic food and materials, we would
like to help also in restoring the spiritual life of Germany.
I am glad to know that over 1,500,000 young Germans,
out of some 5,000,000 in the US Zone, are today engaged
in free organized activities. We recognize, however, that
more must be done. We are therefore prepared, in co-
operation with local, state and federal governments, in
fellowship with private organizations and groups, to
expand the programs that are now being carried on. In
particular we are prepared to support:

New plans for reducing and eliminating unem-
ployment among youth. We think this can be done
by developing large and constructive projects out
of the ruins of German cities, Such projects will
make Germany a happier and healthier place to
live in.

Mr. McCloy hears Joseph Rommerskirchen speak on
behalf of 10 youth leaders, representing every major
youth organization in Western Germany, who called at
HICOG headquarters. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 43 ---
New plans for vocational training and self-im-
provement.

New opportunities for all young Germans ‘to
compete in sports.

NE THING WE CANNOT DO or at least will not do,

is to apply pressures or attempt to influence the
youth of West Germany to put on a different colored shirt
and march about carrying banners. We can and do help
by assisting purely German organizations, with no super-
_vision or influence on our part, to provide the means of
directing the preparation of German youth for their tasks
as citizens of a free society.

Free peoples are sometimes slow to start, but they
soon gather tremendous momentum. They are always
able to overwhelm, and if necessary destroy, those who
rule by dictatorship, by fear and who impress unsuspect-
ing youth into their service. Free peoples have amply
demonstrated their superior strength and determination
in the past and they will soon do so again.

I say again that it is not our business to organize, but
only to assist where we can when it is wanted and when
it is sought. The sum total of what we do in the way
of help is very large and I think it might be well if you
gentlemen acquainted yourselves with what is going on
in this direction. I wish it could be larger, and if any
of you have thoughts as to how we could be of greater
aid, I would be glad to have your suggestions."

N REPLY, JOSEPH ROMMERSKIRCHEN, spokesman for

the group, made the following statement:

“We thank the High Commissioner, Mr. McCloy, and
the Government of the United States for the opportunity
they cordially have given us to present the problems of
German youth in a free discussion.

We should like to avail ourselves of this opportunity
to express our thanks for the aid rendered by the citizens
and the Government of the United States to German
youth during the past years.

Our thanks go simultaneously to the people and govern-
ments of all countries who have supported German youth.

We are speaking in the interest of more than 13,000,000
German youths in all Germany, the unity of which is the
premise of all our thoughts and acts, despite various
political circumstances.

Our proposals and efforts are designed for those who
have associated themselves in youth organizations as
well as for the unorganized, the homeless and the un-
employed youth.

Accomplishing unity in variety is the absolute demand
of the hour, which requires joint efforts for a relief of
the great distress. Our preparedness is expressed in
voluntary pooling of all our individual forces, wherever
this is necessary and possible.

The German youth reject, after the bitter years of no
freedom, every totalitarian system. They declare them-
selves for freedom of belief and conscience, of the indi-
vidual as well as of society, and demand social justice for

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

all segments of the people. They know that their ideals
can be realized only in a free democracy. They are, there-
fore, ready to participate with all their strength in the
construction of a democratic Germany as a member of a
free and peaceful world. The German youth desire a close
co-operation with the youth of all nations and request that
all paths to this be opened.

The young Germans comprising the various youth
organizations are prepared jointly to tackle the task
facing youth in general. They deliberately reject a rigid,
uniform youth organization. In the vigorous versatility
of their organizations and programs, every young German
should be given the possibility, according to his capabili-
ties and inclinations in school, work and leisure, to be
able to experience the character of a free society in which
he learns to decide for himself as an individual and
voluntarily to bear responsibility for others.

The German youth are determined to approach their
task systematically and under their own direction, in
order to achieve the above goals; they hope that the
communities, the states and the Federal Republic help
them and quickly make available the necessary means;
and that the youth officers of the High Commissioner
on their part, too, will help spiritually and materially
as they have helped in the past, and will co-ordinate
their plans with the responsible committees of German
youth organizations.

Please communicate our opinion to the youth of the
entire world.”

OLLOWING THE MEETING with the US High Com-

missioner, the delegates conferred with other HICOG
officials. The members of the group at the meeting with
the US High Commissioner were:

Joseph Rommerskirchen, president of the Federation
of German Youth Organizations and leader of the Catholic
Youth Movement in Germany, with headquarters at Alten-
berg, near Cologne, North Rhine-Westphalia.

Willi Ginhold, federal youth secretary of the German
Trade Union Federation, with headquarters at Duesseldorf.

Dr. Fridolin Kreckl, director of the Youth Leadership
Training Center of the Fedefation of Bavarian Youth
Organizations, with theadquarters at Niederpoeching,
near Munich.

Werner Jentsch, secretary general of the German Sec-
tion of the YMCA, with headquarters at Kassel.

Johannes Galle, director of sports, Municipal Depart-
ment of Education, Berlin.

Hans Schwartlaender, president of the Federation of
German Students’ Associations, with headquarters at Bonn. :

Dr. Heinrich Lades, youth welfare officer, Federal
Ministry of the Interior, Bonn.

Dr. Rolf Lenhartz, business manager, Youth Reconstruc-:
tion Work, with headquarters at Munich.

Herbert Stettner, president of German Youth Organiza-
tions in Hesse and leader of the Falcon Youth Movement
in Southern Hesse, with headquarters at Frankfurt.

John Funke, general manager, German Section, Inter-"
national Self-Help Association, with headquarters at
Frankfurt. +END

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 44 ---
Farmers
from
America

By TRUDY KRIEGSMANN
Staff Writer, Public Relations Branch, OLC Hesse

Te AMERICAN PEOPLE are sending a novel type

of ambassador to Germany. This ambassador is young,
an undergraduate in an American college or university,
generally an agricultural institution, He has no diplomatic
passport, nor letters of state. He is unschooled in formal
diplomacy, unlettered in protocol. If, however, the mission
of an ambassador is to keep his country in favor abroad,
then these boys and girls are fast becoming America’s
most successful ambassadors to foreign shores.

They are members of 4-H Clubs, They were carefully
chosen from thousands of applicants, sent to Europe by
the National 4-H Federation of America in what has been
termed the International Farm Youth Exchange Program.
Their trips are made under the auspices of the US Depart-
ment of Agriculture.

These cow-college consuls ‘descended on Europe as
soon as school was out at the end of May. Forty-three
of them are currently living on European farms, working
for their board, and performing all the tasks and chores
of a European farm boy and girl. Three of them are now
in Germany, where they have lived on Hessian farms for
one month. From Hesse, they tried their green-thumbs in
Wuerttemberg-Baden and then were slated for Bavaria.
They are youngsters, aged 19, 20 and 21, full of American
enthusiasm, full. of American friendliness. So far, they
have more than won the respect, admiration and love of
their Hessian “families.”

Ivan Schmedemann, Kansas 4-H representative, checks out
a day-old calf on Hessian farm where he worked in July.

VER IN A SLEEPY country village called Klein Eichen

in the North Hessian Hills, Ivan W.Schmedemann was
found eating a home-spun lunch of soup, potatoes, spinach,
salad and black bread with Karl Mueller and his family
and refugee boarder. The younger Mueller son, 19-year-
old Ernst, had just left for the United States on a Brethren
Service Commission teen-age exchange project. Ivan was
living in Ernst's old room.

Ivan is a well-set-up 20-year-old of Junction City,
Kas. A junior at Kansas State College, majoring in
agricultural education, he is representing the 4-H clubs of
Kansas. Ivan, a real farm son, who hails from a 530-acre
diversified farm, has been well-trained in organizational

Dean C. Allen, of Grand Rapids, Mich. (left), worked for his-board on German farm in Laubach, Hesse, Ivan Schmedemann,
in photo at right, lunches with the Muellers, his “family” in Klein-Eichen.. Youths next went to Wuerttemberg-Baden.

--- Page 45 ---
Elaine Serfass, from Pennsylvania, chats with Anna
Stumpf as they split chores on the busy Stumpf farm.

activities. Former 4-H Club president, he has received
county, state and national recognition for his activities
in health work. He knows where he is going and what he
wants to do.

Before taking over his father’s farm, which is mainly
devoted to wheat, corn and alfalfa, he wants to teach,
since "the best way to learn is by teaching others.” After
he has had his teaching experience, he wants to devote
more acreage on the family farm to raising beef cattle.

This personable, bright young American farmer — and
he is an experienced farmer despite his youth — came
to Germany to learn: to learn other peoples, other methods,
other cultures. Yet, because he is an American, he is also
teaching. He was accepted completely by the Mueller
family, and old Karl, an experienced farmer himself, found
Ivan an excellent, willing worker. Impressed with Ivan's
education, knowledge and intelligence, Herr Mueller was
most impressed by the American's willingness to chip in
with all farm chores.

Ivan, on his part, was most impressed with the thriftiness
of the German farmer and his ability to make use of every
square inch of soil. He stated that the American farmer
works just as hard as the German, but is more-efficient
with his time, probably because his fields are not as
scattered as the German's,

LAINE C. SERFASS, 19-year-old junior at Gettysburg

College, Gettysburg, Pa., is most impressed by the
lack of mechanical farm equipment in Germany. A 4-H
member for the past eight years, Elaine has completed
projects in home economics and agriculture. The only
member of the trio who talks German well, she comes
from a small vegetable farm in Palmerton, Pa.
' Elaine completely charmed the Stumpf family of Har-
bach. Her best friend there was the Stumpf daughter,
21-year-old Anna, with whom she split chores. Both girls
expressed mutual admiration and respect for each other's
home-making ability, cooking and diligence, and taught
each other their own little tricks. One of the things Elaine
was learning from Anna was how to milk a cow, while
Anna learned sanitary home economics methods from
Elaine.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

An ebullient, attractive co-ed, Elaine became the center
of a new social life in Harbach. Not only did young
swains come calling, but also the elderly members of the
community, in order to hear tales of America and her
rural population. One difference noted by Elaine, from
these evening conferences, was that the German family is
a more compact unit than the American farm family,
where the family will expand, acquire more land, and
eventually build new homes.

Elaine has found that in Germany the land is rarely
increased, and the family remains together in one home,
Basic entertainment, on the German farm, Elaine said, is
within the home and in family outings. The American
farmers on the other hand, she stated, havé more personal
entertainment facilities.

EAN C. ALLEN, a senior at Michigan State College,

where he is majoring in horticulture, comes from a
160-acre fruit and dairy farm near Grand Rapids, Michigan.
A veteran 4-Her, he is a past president of the county 4-H
Leaders Club, past president of the State Service Club,
4-H representative to the Agricultural Council and winner
of seven cash awards for 4-H projects.

He spent his month in Hesse with the Desch family of
Laubach. Like his colleagues, he was accepted by tthe
Desches almost as a member of the family. He has noted
the same things recorded by Ivan and Elaine, and reached
about the same conclusions.

His “family has also reached the same conclusions
reached by the Mueller and Stumpf families, that Ameri-
can farm youngsters are sincere, friendly, intelligent
and diligent young people who also are excellent farmers
and homemakers. The 4-H motto, “to make the best
better," and the 1,000,000 membership in the 4-H clubs

have impressed the Germans. (Continued on page 44)

Elaine and Anna prepare supper for Stumpf family. Elaine,
a 4-Her, is only one of US trio who speaks fluent German.

--- Page 46 ---
US Press Cites Fraud

in Communist “Peace Petition”

EWSPAPERS IN ALL PARTS of the United States,
N commenting on the Communists’ so-called “Peace
Petition” now being circulated in many nations, term it a
fraud which really is not a peace petition at all, but a
propaganda trick to gloss over Communist aggression
such as that in Korea,

The editorials observe that the Communist petition
calls for “outlawing” of the atomic bomb as a crime
against humanity. They point out that the United Nations
and the United States have been trying for a long time
to set up effective international control of atomic weapons,
but the Soviet Union has steadfastly opposed the plans.

In this connection, some newspapers referred to US
Secretary of State Acheson's recent statement that the
matter of outlawing the atom bomb is “an utterly cynical
begging of the question” and that “the real crime against
humanity is aggression and in particular, the deliberate
resort to armed aggression to the defiance of the United
Nations.”

The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette said: ‘A true measure of
the intent and the sincerity of the petitions is to be found
in the fact that more than half of the population of North
Korea signed them shortly before their country criminally
invaded its southern neighbor.

“It does not require any clairvoyance to see through the
cynical intent of the ‘world peace appeal’...

“The real partisans of peace will be not those indi-
viduals who sign these spurious petitions but those who
support United Nations efforts to put down aggression.”

Atlanta (Ga.) Constitution: “It is not at all strange that
the Communist authors of the petition omit aggression,
such as that by Communist troops in Korea, from the
category of criminal acts. The Soviet Union's stockpile of
atomic bombs is low com-

Oakland (Calif.) Tribune: “This petition is pure fraud.
In schools, meetings, street corners, homes, shops and
churches throughout the world the Communists are offer-
ing this petition for signatures. It is part of Stalin's fake ~
peace propaganda...

“Such chicanery should be exposed. The Communists
know, of course, that there are millions of Americans who |
genuinely love peace but the signing of such a petition
has about as much relation to peace as black to white, It _
is another step in world-wide Red Imperialism and those _
who have put their names on the petition have the duty
of informing themselves of its real meaning...The point
here is that this petition does not mean peace. It means a
furtherance of tyranny, aggression, totalitarianism and the
most brutal slavery that our world has seen. If there are
any doubters outside the Communist Party let them read
the record.

“President Truman has just asked Congress for
$89,000,000 to step up our information program and launch
a ‘campaign of truth’ throughout the world. An effective _
and factual presentation of the record is in order. The _
peoples of the world have a right to know the truth, but, in —
the meantime, at home we ought to see that a false sham ~
like the Communist ‘peace’ petition is throughly dis-
credited and disavowed.”

Manchester (N.H.) Morning Union: “The American
people will do well to read and heed the statement issued
by 13 leaders in religious, veterans, labor and patriotic
organizations, warning them of the phony nature of the
so-called Stockholm peace appeal. .

“Professions of peace have always been an important
weapon in the appernicious psychological warfare carried
on by the Communists. It is in keeping with their historic
procedure of infiltrating

B=

pared to this country’s but
by the terms of this peti-
tion Soviet troops could
overrun every country in
Asia and Europe with tanks
and infantry and TNT
bombs, as Communists have
done in the Republic of Ko-
tea, without being labeled
‘war criminals.’ It would be
criminal only to resist ag-
gression with atomic bombs.

“As adroit as is Com-

One German Paper’s View

(AZ Wuerttembergische Abendzeitung, Stuttgart, July 2)

and later paralyzing a na-
tion which they wish to
invade...

“The 13 leaders are right
in their warning that the
next step after obtaining
signatures will be to use
the names signed on the
peace petition as a ‘sucker
list’ to be bombarded by
subversive propaganda...

“For followers of Stalin
to talk about promoting —

munist propaganda, it is
difficult for it to deceive
many in a country where

factual information is avail-
able...

SEPTEMBER 1950

eesteaeses we

GUUS,

The newest cakominaeg of the “Peace Fighters”
and signature-collectors.

43

peace is certainly an ab-
surdity... No one else
wants war today. All the
nations are working through

the United Nations to pre-

INFORMATION BULLETIN _

--- Page 47 ---
The democratic selection of applicants for the Inter-
national Farm Youth Exchange Program, and the fact
vent it, except Soviet Russia whose aggression, obstruc-
tion to and distortion of others’ motives is creating dis-
order.and conflict.

“The prime minister of Norway has answered the Com-
munist fake peace appeal directly when he said: Let the
Soviets do something for peace, by calling off the North
Koreans, by co-operating with the United Nations, by agree-
ing to atomic controls, or by joining peace treaties with
Germany and Austria, and then we might listen to them.

“He might have added: Let Moscow stop its campaign
of hate; let it cease its efforts to disrupt and destroy other
nations. Here are the main causes of conflict in the world
today. So long as Moscow continues these tactics, for the
Communists ito talk peace is an insult to the intelligence
of other peoples.” 5

Houston (Tex.) Post: “Simultaneously with the outbreak
of the Korean war a sudden interest in peace is being
manifested at Moscow and in certain quarters in this
country. The Stockholm pledge to ban the atomic bomb is
being assiduously circulated, and appeals are being made
to the American people to end the hostilities.

“It is noteworthy, however, that the petitions make no
mention of the quickest way of achieving peace — by North
Korean aids complying with the United Nation's cease-
fire order and getting back where they belong, which, as
Secretary of State Acheson insists, they must do before
there can be peace...”

Omaha (Neb.) World Herald: “The curious thing about
the ‘peace petition’ is that it is not a peace petition at
all, but a devious bit of Communist propaganda. The
‘outlawing’ of the atom bomb that the petition calls for
is not the sort proposed in the Baruch report and approved
by an overwhelming majority in the United Nations
— that is, outlawing with international inspection. It is
‘outlawing’ a Ja Russe — that is, the United States would
throw away its atom bombs on the mere promise of the
Russians to do likewise. Since the Russians have kept no
promises up to now unless it suited their convenience,
no sensible person would have confidence in their promise
to throw away atom bombs...”

Cleveland (O.) Plain Dealer: ‘For months Russian and
satellite propaganda has doted on this peace move...
All the techniques of the Russian propaganda mill, which
has nothing to learn from the late unlamented Herr Doktor
Joseph Goebbels, have been mustered for this drive.

“Its purpose is clear: to paint the United States and
the West in general as ‘imperialistic aggressors’ and the
Russians and their allies as peace-loving states.

“Overlooked is the fact, about which the millions under
Soviet control never were aware, that Russia itself put
up the barrier to ‘strict international control’ of atomic
resources.

“The plans made through the United States were automa-
tically, and out-of-hand, rejected by the representatives of
the dictatorship that now has the temerity to talk of peace.

“When it comes to covering aggression with false words
the Russians are past masters. Hitler always promised

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

(Fraenkische Presse, Bayreuth, July 20)

URANIUM-MINE

ENTRANCE PRONIGITED

WOLF

peace provided it was his kind of peace. The Russians
are slackers. They make the peace-seeking peoples of the
world believe they are protecting a ‘people's’ peace.”
St. Louis (Mo.) Post-Dispatch: “In reality... anybody
who signs it (the petition) is supporting war. For the
peace it talks about is the Kremlin's version of peace,
the kind of ‘peace’ the people of Korea are now experi-
encing. It is just one more case of Communists giving
words meanings either radically different from or diamet-
rically opposed to the meanings found in any dictionary.
“The Stockholm resolution, adopted at a meeting of
the Communist partisans of peace there last Marchy sets
up its own special definition of a war criminal. It is
‘any government which first uses atomic weapons against
any other country whatsoever.’ The petition says nothing
at all about aggression, and, as Secretary Acheson remark-
ed, it is aggression which is the real crime against humanity.
“The hollowness of the document is best shown by its
demand for ‘strict international control’ to enforce out-
lawing of atomic weapon. This is a strange demand from
Communist sources... Whoever signs the document is
helping Communist imperialism... and anybody who
signs the petition is also approving the Communist defi-
nition of war criminal, a definition which Korea has
proved to be as phony as the Communist definitions of
democracy.” +END

(Continued from page 42)

America Is Different

that the youngsters are sent abroad by popular subscrip-
tion have made a great impact on the German farm
families. Incidentally, the candidate's home state raises
$900, to be used for a two-way exchange, of which his
home county contributes $150. They are official represen-
tatives of their home states, and were selected by them.

They were sent over to learn, but at ithe same time
these cow-college consuls are spreading Americana wher-
ever they go, not as trained missionaries or propagandists,
but in the best and cleanest way yet discovered, by being
natural, friendly, intelligent American youngsters. They
believe in America, and they believe in the four H’s—
Head, Heart, Hand and Health. Wherever they go, they are
leaving an indelible impression and a little more respect
and love for the United States and its people. +END

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 48 ---
Settlement of Bizonal Fusion Agreement

HE DEPARTMENT OF STATE announced July 7 that

through an exchange-of notes with the British Em-
bassy an agreement has been reached on the settlement
of outstanding financial issues under the bizonal fusion
agreement.

The British note quotes the full text of the United States
note and the agreement to conclude these financial mat-
ters became effective upon receipt of the British note on
June 28, 1950.

The original bizonal fusion agreement was signed by
former Secretary Byrnes and Mr. Bevin on Dec. 2, 1946;
it became effective on Jan. 1, 1947, and was later ex-
tended on Dec. 31, 1948, March 31, 1949, and June 30,
1949, On Sept. 15, 1949, when the Federal Republic of
Germany was established, the arrangements between the

United States and the United Kingdom for bizonal fusion ~

were superseded by trizonal fusion.

The trizonal fusion arrangements are set forth in the
Washington agreements of April 8, 1949, and the charter
of the Allied High Commission of June 20, 1949. There
remained outstanding, however, certain financial issues
which required settlement by the United States and the
United Kingdom in order to wind up the bizonal fusion
arrangements. These issues are settled in the attached
document, which deals with the following topics:

(1) Unused portion of British contribution — the British
have undertaken, in the fusion agreement as amended
and extended, to make available certain goods and serv-
ices under certain conditions. The British contribution
had not been fully utilized when the bizonal fusion agree-
ment came to a close on Sept. 15, 1949. Paragraph 1 of
the attached agreement disposes of the problem of the
unused portion of the contribution through a lump sum
settlement of 2,450,000 pounds sterling which the United
Kingdom will make to Germany through the Joint Export-
Import Agency (JEIA).

(2) Paragraph 2 of the agreement deals with JEIA,
which was originally established under the fusion agree-
ment as an Allied agency for the handling of Germany's
foreign trade. The functions of this agency have now been
turned over to the German government. The present
agreement provides for the speedy final liquidation of
the agency and for the turning over of its assets to the
German government, subject to appropriate provision for
settlement of claims outstanding against it.

(3) Paragraph 3 of the agreement deals with the so-
called No, 2 Account maintained by the Bank of England
on behalf of JEIA. The No. 2 Account was derived from
funds originally made available to JEIA by the United
Kingdom as a capital contribution. The final liquidation
of the JEIA permits the closing of this account under
conditions provided for in this paragraph and under
Paragraph 6 of the agreement.

(4) The fourth and fifth paragraphs deal with the pos-
sibility that special measures might be needed to cover
a German sterling deficit. Under the terms of the Wash-
ington agreements of April 8, 1949, it was understood
that further contributions by the United Kingdom to Ger-
many would be in the framework of a multilateral pay-
ments plan. The present provision states that, in the
event that such a plan should not be in existence and
Germany should require sterling in order to cover its
current essential needs, the United Kingdom would con-
sult with the United States in regard to this problem if
the United States were at the same time making aid
available to Germany.

(5) The sixth paragraph provides for the winding up
of arrangements laid down in Paragraph 4 of the agree-
ment of Dec. 17, 1947, for converting into dollars in cer-
tain circumstances part of the sterling balance of the
JEIA No.2 Account.

(6) The final paragraph of the agreement reaffirms the
intention of the two governments to treat contributions
made to Germany prior to and under the fusion agree-
ment as a claim against Germany to be repaid under terms
consistent with the reconstruction of the German economy
along healthy non-aggressive lines.

T THE PRESENT TIME, the United States is making
economic aid available to Germany through the ECA
out of funds in part appropriated to ECA and in part
originally appropriated to the Department of the Army.
Funds for the support of Germany are included in the
appropriation request submitted by ECA for the fiscal
year of 1951. The Army is no longer requesting funds
for economic support of Germany. In addition to the aid
made available to Germany through contributions under
the bizonal fusion agreement, the United Kingdom has
extended drawing rights to Germany under the Intra-
European Payments Agreement.
Following is the text of the British note of June 28, 1950:

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt
of your note of today's date, the terms
of which are as follows:

“Ihave the honor to refer to the discus- .

sions which have taken place between the
government of the United Kingdom and
the government of the United States on
the subject of financial issues arising from
the Bizonal Fusion Agreement of Dec. 2,
1946, as amended by the agreement of
Dec. 17, 1947, and its extensions agreed on
Dec. 31, 1948, March 31, 1949 and June 30,
1949, and the. financial issues arising from
the trizonal fusion which has been ac-

SEPTEMBER 1950

complished under the charter of the Al-
lied High Commission for Germany.

“In the interest of settling these outstand-
ing issues, I have the honor to submit the
following proposals for the consideration
of the government of the United Kingdom.

“1, The government of the United King-
dom will make available sterling funds
to the government of the German Federal
Republic, by payment to the Joint Export-
Import Agency, in final discharge of its
obligations under Paragraph 1 of the Revis-
ed Fusion Agreement of Dec. 17, 1947, as
subsequently amended and extended. It is

45

the understanding of the government of
the United States that the government of
the United Kingdom proposes to make
available pounds sterling 1,305,000 under
Paragraph 1 (a) (ii) and pounds sterling
1,150,000 under Paragraph 1 (a) (iii) of
the agreement,

“2. In order to implement the provisions
of the charter of the Allied High Com-
mission and of the Bizonal Fusion Agree-
ment of June 30, 1949, the government of
the United States proposes that the two
governments instruct their respective high
commissioners to work out with the French

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
high commissioner suitable arrangements
to come into effect as promptly as pos-
sible for the liquidation of the Joint Ex-
port-Import Agency, the transfer to the
federal government of its assets, and the
assumption by the federal government of
the liability to meet any of the remaining
claims on the Joint Export-Import Agency
which are approved under procedures
established by the Allied High Commission.

“3, Sterling balances to the credit of the
No. 2 Account of the Bank Deutscher Laen-
der with the Bank of England will be
transferred to the No, 1 Account on June
30, 1950. While these funds will be re-
garded as existing resources for the pur-
pose of the European Payments Union,
they will be segregated in a special sub-
account or by other means and will not
be merged with other funds of the No. 1
Account pending the determination of the
rights of the parties to the European Pay-
ments Union with respect to sterling bal-
ances. It is agreed that the United King-
dom Government will not claim that the
funds from the No. 2 Account so transfer-
red should be taken into account in the
determination of drawing rights for the
purposes of the Intra-European Payments
Agreement of 1949-50.

4, The government of the United King-
dom will undertake to consult with the
government of the United States in re-
gard to the provision of sterling to meet
the current essential needs of the Federal
Republic, in the event that the Federal
Republic should be faced with a deficit
in its sterling availabilities of such a char-
acter as to endanger the achievement of
the objectives of the occupation, and there
is no Intra-European Payments Agreement
or other similar multilateral payments
agreement in force, provided that the United
States is concurrently making economic
aid available to the Federal Republic,

“5. The provisions of the preceding
paragraph do not relate to expenditures
which may be incurred for the mainte-
nance of forces of occupation and control
staff for Germany.

“6. As: part of the proposals outlined
herein the government of the United
States will agree to release the government
of the United Kingdom from its obligation

for conversion of sterling in the No, 2
Account into dollars under the terms of
Paragraph 4 of the Revised Fusion Agree-
ment of Dec, 17, 1947.

“7, The understandings between the two
governments contained in Paragraph 6 (e)
of the Bizonal Fusion Agreement of Dec. 2,
1946 with respect to the recovery of the
costs incurred by the two governments
prior and pursuant to the agreement
remain in force.

“Should these proposals commend them-
selves to the government of the United
Kingdom, I have the honor to suggest that
this note and your reply should constitute
an agreement between our two govern-
ments, which shall come into force upon
the date of your reply."

In reply, I have the honor to inform
you that His Majesty's Government in the
United Kingdom accept the proposals set
forth in your note and, in accordance with
the suggestion contained therein, your note
and this reply shall be regarded as consti-
tuting an agreement between our two
governments in this matter, to be in force
from the date of this reply.

I avail myself of this opportunity to
renew to you the assurance of my highest
consideration. +END

Bibliography of Bizone’s History

The history of the development of
the bizonal economic and _ political
fusion from the time of its origination
in mid-1946 to the inauguration of the
German Federal Republic can be traced
in articles and documents published
in the Information Bulletin. These
articles and documents with issue dates
include:

Aims of Bizonal Unity, No. 64, Oct. 21,
1946.

Basic Law, The, No. 163, June 14, 1949.

Bipartite Board Approves Basic Principles
of Economic Unity, No. 59, Sept. 16, 1946.

Birth of a Republic, No. 171, Oct. 4, 1949.

Bizonal Agency for Communication, No. 84,
March 17, 1947, .
Bizonal Communications — A Year of
Progress, No. 152, Jan. 11, 1949.

Bizonal Economic Administration, The, No.
143, Sept. 7, 1948.

Bizonal Economic Council, No. 96, June 9,
1947,

Bizonal Organization, No.
1947,

Bizonal Organizations, No. 85, March 24,
1947,

Bizonal Policy Explained, No. 83, March 10,
1947.

Bizonal Strengthening Explained, No. 129,
Feb, 24, 1948.

Bizonal Unity Strengthened, No. 127, Jan.
27, 1948.

Bizone Budget at DM 408,000,000, No. 151,
Dec. 28, 1948.
Bizone’s Economic Status
No, 153, Jan, 25, 1949,
Bizonia’s Trade Agreement Program, No.
142, Aug.. 24, 1948.

British Share in Bizonal Activities, No. 98,
June 23, 1947,

Civil Service Law Issued for Bizone, No.
156, March 8, 1949,

Coal-Iron-Steel Reorganization Plan, No.
149, Nov. 30, 1948.

Constitution-Making at Bonn, No.
Oct. 5, 1948.

Economic Council Told Problems, No. 103,
July 28, 1947.

Economic Situation Can Develop in a
Healthy Manner, No. 149, Nov. 30,- 1948.

Effect of Economic Merger, No. 75, Jan. 13,
1947,

Interzonal Economic Unity Proposal Pre-
sented by US, No. 52, July 29, 1946,

Laenderrat Functions Given Bizone, No. 138,
June 29, 1948.

Organization for European Economic Co-
operation, No. 163, June 14, 1949.

108, Sept. 1,

Encouraging,

145,

Plan Submitted for Federal Setup, No. 140,

July 27, 1948,
Potsdam to Bonn, No. 161, May 17, 1949.
Powers of Economic Council Set, No. 98,
June 23, 1948,
Revised Plan for Level of Industry in
US/UK Zones, No. 109, Sept. 8, 1947.
Ruhr Authority, No. 152, Jan. 25, 1949.
Ruhr Coal, No. 121, Dec. 1, 1947.
Show Windows of Bizonal Exports, No 112,
Sept. 29, 1947.

Medical Mission Makes Summer Tour

EN OUTSTANDING AMERICAN medical authorities
spent more than two months this summer with German
doctors, professors and medical students lecturing on and
demonstrating new developments in American medicine.

The doctors, who began their tour June 16, constitute
the medical mission to Germany of the Unitarian Service
Committee, a non-denominational public service organiza-
tion set up by the Unitarian Church. Headed by Dr. Erwin
W. Strauss, director of professional education and re-
search at Veterans Hospital, Lexington, Ky., the Uni-
tarian mission provided information on American tech-
niques and development in almost every field of medicine

from surgery to psychiatry.

The program of the mission, consisting of lectures, dis-
cussions, ward rounds and demonstrations in surgery,
anesthetics, etc., was presented at the medical colleges of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

several German universities. The program was open to
practicing members of the medical profession as well as
students. The American doctors also visited German
hospitals and clinics, medical associations and groups.
Part of their mission was to establish personal contact with
German doctors, medical professors and students, and to
learn new techniques which have been developed in Ger-
many recently. In this way, the Unitarian mission served
as a channel for exchange of medical information between
Germany and America.

A similar USC mission*, which visited Germany in
1948, was instrumental in arranging visits of German

doctors to the United States for study and work. Like the
earlier mission, the new medical group contributed a quan-

46

tity of the latest medical literature to German universities.

* See “Medical Mission in Germany“ in Information Bulletin, Issue
No. 141, Aug. 10, 1948.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 50 ---
Penicillin Plant Dedicated

NERMANY'S FIRST IMPORTANT penicillin plant,
G constructed and equipped by Farbwerke-Hoechst with
the aid of DM 1,500,000 ($357,000) in Marshall Plan
counterpart funds, was dedicated Aug. 4 at Hoechst, near
Frankfurt.

Speakers at the ceremony included US High Commis-
sioner John J. McCloy; Dr. Michael Erlenbach, trustee
for the plant; Heinrich Zinnkann, minister of the interior
of the Hessian government; Dr, Vollrath von Maltzan,
representing the Ministry of Economics; Mayor Walter
Kolb of Frankfurt; J, J. Kerrigan, president of Merck
& Company of Rahway, N.J., and Dr. Oelmann, president
of the German Medical Society.

Mr. McCloy said the construction of the new plant
represents “a successful welding of team effort by Ger-
mans and Americans to achieve an over-all objective of
the highest possible human scope.”

In the first years after the war, the Hoechst plant pro-
duced an average of 30,000,000 units of penicillin per
month, a quantity sufficient for the treatment of 150
patients. Dr, Erlenbach said the plant now produces an
average of 400,000,000,000 units per month, an amount
sufficient to meet the penicillin requirements of all
western Germany.

Dr. Erlenbach said the total cost of the plant amounted
to DM 6,980,000. The construction was financed by
DM 1,500,000 from ERP counterpart funds, a loan of
DM 1,000,000 from the US Farben Control Office and the
remainder of DM 4,480,000 was supplied by the company.

The new plant was built with the technical assistance
of Merck & Company, which had.pioneered in the develop-
ment of the drug in the United States. W. E. Burkhard,
chief engineer of Merck's Philadelphia plant, supervised
Merck's participation in the project. Besides technical
assistance Merck supplied special cultures of the penicil-
lin-producing microbe. (An article “Penicillin Produced
in Germany” by Walter E. Burkhard was published in the
Information Bulletin, January 1950 issue.)

Dr. Michael Erlenbach (left), trustee of Farbwerke-Hoechst,
shows US High Commissioner John J. McCloy test tubes
containing penicillin-producing mold. DM 7,000,000 plant,
Germany’s first big penicillin producer, was built with aid
of DM 1,500,000 in ERP counterpart funds and technical
assistance of Merck & Co., of Rahway, N.J. Monthly output
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

is 400,000,000,000 units.

EXT OF THE ADDRESS by Mr. McCloy, at the Open-
ing of the new penicillin plant follows.

“It was with distinct pleasure that I received an in-
vitation to be present with you today at this dedication.
To me this great plant represents several things. First,
it signifies the gradually returning strength of the Ger-
man economy, a revitalized artery in the country's
economic body. Secondly, it represents better health in
the future which in turn will mean an improved standard
of life. And it represents something else which in a way
is perhaps even more important than the first two I have
mentioned, and that is a successful welding of team effort
by Germans and Americans to achieve an over-all objec-
tive of the highest possible human scope.

This project was conceived originally by the Office
of Military Government of the United States under the
leadership of the director of the Economics Division, who
was then Brig. Gen. William M. Draper Jr., later Under-
Secretary of War. At that time Occupation Authorities
decided that a modern German penicillin plant could
play two important roles. It would help fight some of
the more serious diseases plaguing the country, and it
would also serve to boost the nearly prostrate German
economy. The United States is vitally interested both in
protecting the health of the German population and in
helping the country to regain its feet economically.

So various surveys were made, co-operation of American
manufacturers was invited, and it was eventually decided
that Merck & Co., Inc., would undertake the task of guiding
the Hoechst penicillin plant into being. A final agreement
between Merck, Farbwerke and the Joint Export-Import
Agency was reached on Nov. 16, 1948. Now, little more
than 18 months later, we are gathered here to dedicate
this wonderful plant, full of the most modern scientific
equipment, to purposes that are noble and worthwhile.

WANT TO take this opportunity to pay tribute to Gen.

Lucius Clay, former military governor of Germany, and
General Draper, who spearheaded this project. We must
thank such men as they, men of great guidance, courage
and foresight, for having blazed the trail for us. I also
want to pay tribute to the German people whose willing-
ness, co-operation and engineering ability are represented
in this great monument of concrete and steel. And I want
to pay tribute to the Merck company, which certainly
helped to make this occasion possible.

The development of penicillin will be remembered as
one of the outstanding humanitarian achievements in the
first half of the 20th century, and western Germany today
should be proud of its impending contributions to that
achievement. As a result of planning and co-operation
between the technical staff of Farbwerke Hoechst and
the co-operating. American consultants, we see this great
plant ready now to provide the people of western Ger-
many with adequate supplies of penicillin and, in so
doing, to fulfill one of the most cherished dreams of the
American administration in Germany.

The symbolism of this dedication is indeed noteworthy,
for we consecrate this plant to the manufacture of a
drug that will help to increase health and prolong life —a
human gesture of help from one people to another in the
interest of all mankind. May it serve humanity in a
peaceful and free world.” +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Berlin

Industry
Exhibition

HE RISING STANDARD of living, fostered in Western
Berlin by free enterprise with the assistance of ERP
aid, will be illustrated at a gigantic public display of the
city’s manufactured products next month at the Berlin
Industry Exhibition in the expanding exposition area of
the Funkturm (radio tower) in west-central Berlin.
Reconstruction of war-damaged buildings of Berlin's
huge exhibition grounds and erection of new buildings
are being rushed to completion for the opening of the
industrial exhibit on Oct. 1. The exhibition will last 15
days, while one building will continue as a permanent
display of the city’s industrial production for export.
Center of the October exhibition will be the George C.
Marshall House for the ERP and American exhibits. The
theme of its display will be to illustrate the rising stand-
ard of living made possible by the free entrance system.
Speaking at the laying of the cornerstone of the George
C. Marshall House, Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US com-
mander of Berlin, said, "It... looks like a historic contra-
diction that this American soldier, so successful in war,
should after the war become the first to forge a lasting
peace. Yet the Marshall Plan is far more important than
any war plan in which General Marshall had a share."
Models and mechanical devices will be utilized in the
ERP exhibit to depict the manner in which West Berlin fits
into the European Recovery Program. Stress will be laid

nny
_BOSWAU KNAUER
| HOCK. STANLBETONBAU

| Mee can cri NER,

Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US Commander of Berlin,
spoke at laying of cornerstone of the George C. Marshall
House at the Funkturm July 26. A copy of the charter of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1948, the document which
established the Marshall Plan, sealed in n.etal container
(left), was inserted in the cornerstone. At right, Mayor
Ernst Reuter of Berlin, who also spoke. (US Army photo)

on the co-operation achieved by the nations of western
Europe, including Berlin.

The building, having a floor space of nearly 19,375
square feet, will also have a motion picture screen for
showing American documentary films. After the exhibition,
the George C. Marshall House will become a permanent
center for conference meetings with a section provided
for a restaurant.

In addition to West Berlin, ERP and American exhibits,
the states of the German Federal Republic and several
foreign countries will be represented with displays ot
their industrial products. One building will be devoted to
British and Commonwealth exhibits.

Architect's drawing of Plaza of the Nations in spacious grounds of the Funkturm (Radio Tower), Berlin's tallest structure.

Ny

--- Page 52 ---
> BRITISH
EXHIBIT

“

Sketch of the Funkturm grounds showing the buildings which will house the international industrial exhibit opening Oct. 1.

The floor space of the exhibition halls around the radio
tower, the tallest structure in Berlin, will be more than
doubled with the reconstruction and the new buildings
for the October exhibition. To the 193,500 square feet used
since the war, 204,300 square feet will be added, making

total of 397,800 square feet available for display purposes.
The construction is being financed by DM 4,000,000
($952,000) in ECA-allocated (counterpart) funds. Seventy
percentof the funds are to go to pay wages. Except for the
window glass, all materials used in the construction are

View of the pavilion in the George C. Marshall House which will house the ERP exhibits. Walls are almost entirely of glass,

--- Page 53 ---
being manufactured by West Berlin firms. Begun in June,
construction is to be completed by Sept. 15.

Five structures, harmonizing in design with those al-
ready standing, are being built, forming an architectural
group to which extensions can be added without difficulty.
The new buildings have walls almost entirely of glass, and

hick
TeRNegis ce varity PROJECH

Architect's drawing pictures spacious interior of main hal] in the new Marshall House with huge mural of TVA project.

are designed tosfacilitate the movement of large crowds.
Building material is principally from reclaimed rubble
of the city. The frames of the buildings are of steel.

After the October exhibition, one group of buildings
in the southern section will become the permanent exhibit
halls for Berlin's export products, +END

Front of the George C. Marshall House as seen from the large terrace gardens in Berlin's far-famed exhibition grounds.

hoe “ee

--- Page 54 ---
Preservation of Democracy

Address*

By MAJ. GEN. CHARLES P. GROSS
US State Commissioner, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden

N THE BRITISH House of Commons a few years ago

Winston Churchill made a characteristic statement:
“It has been said that democracy is the worst form of
government except all those other forms that have been
tried from time to time.” This was Churchill's humorous
way of conveying his firm belief in the lasting values of
democracy. It is especially interesting because it admits
that immediate sense of self-criticism, the quiet confidence
and the sense of humor which contribute so much to the
total strength of democracy.

This form of government, which has drawn its in-
spiration from the minds of ancient and modern men,
from the miseries and grandeur of history, from men of
all races, religions and nationalities, this democracy which
has survived the competition and frightful suppression
of competing systems of government, must indeed satisfy
the heart and the soul of man. Because it is human, it
often fails in its parts, but the corrective and strengthen-
ing process of the whole democratic body inevitably
comes to the rescue. No totalitarian force can destroy
democracy, because the appeal of tyranny is limited to
tyrants and to men who can be bought and sold.

Even an ignorant man knows when personal liberty is
being taken from him, and will one day rise with primitive
and explosive force against his cynical and ruthless
deceivers. And how cynical and self-exposing is a
dictatorship which must even employ the nomenclature
of democracy, in order to clothe its naked force on the
ene hand, and conceal its chains on the other! Real
democracy needs no disguise. Its principles are clear; its
faults are exposed by a free press, discussed freely by
citizens within and outside political parties, and corrected
by the counter-balancing action of legislative, judicial
and executive powers, all responsible through the broad-
est representation to the people.

ODAY, WE ARE opposing Soviet totalitarianism just
as we opposed German totalitarianism a few years
ago. Our system of government, the American people, is
just as much against the usurpation of political liberties
today as it was when the Dukes of Brunswick and Hesse

were buying and selling subjects like cattle ... long after ~
the “Rights of Man" had been recognized by western.

nations. It was 174 years ago that the 13 colonies of
America broke away completely from the still dominant
feudal traditions of the old world, and became the United
States. But tyranny was to die a slow death, and indeed
its threats and agonies still confront us today.

It was soon after the Declaration of Independence that
Lafayette gave an enthusiastic account of George
Washington and government by the people to Frederick

SEPTEMBER 1950

51

the Great. The Prussian king's only retort was, "I once
knew a young men who talked as you do. Do you know
what became of him?" ‘‘No, your majesty, what?" inquired
the Frenchman. "He was hanged! growled Frederick the
Great. But im the world being born in those days, the
hanging of freedom was to become less and less popular.
I have been a little disappointed, although not surprised,
that few Germans know the significance of the date July 4.
Many ideas that have worked for the betterment of
mankind have been kept out of Germany by the iron
curtain of nationalism. This is unfortunate for it has
denied familiarity with those eternal principles of freedom
for which generations of Americans, and other peoples as
well, have fought and died...principles which mean
much to the people of Berlin today, even if not to all
Germans. Many Germans in the past... philosophers,
students, ordinary men and women ...also fought for those
principles, and many of them died at the hands of their
own countrymen, or fled to live in exile, or locked ~
themselves up in their studies to write and dream of a
metaphysical world or of idyllic life in the classic era.

WANT TO RECALL those great principles in the open-

ing paragraphs of the Declaration of Independence.
These are the words written by Thomas Jefferson and
undersigned by all our leading citizens of the time... at
the risk of execution for treason: ~

“We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men
are created equal and endowed by their Creator with
certain inalienable rights, and that among these are life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness; that it is to secure
these rights that governments are instituted among men,
and that they derive their just powers from the consent
of the governed; that when any form of government be-
comes destructive of these rights, it is the right of the
people to alter or abolish it, and to institute a new govern-
ment, laying its foundations on such principles and
organizing its powers in such form as to them shall seem
most likely to effect their safety and happiness.”

Seventy-five years later, continuing this tradition of
democratic principle, Abraham Lincoln addressed the
people as he became President. He said: “In preparing
for my grave duty, I have tried to inquire... what great
principle or ideal it is that has kept this Union so long
together? And I believe it was this sentiment in the
Declaration of Independence which gave liberty to the
people of this country and hope to all the world. This
sentiment was the fulfillment of an ancient dream, which
men have held through all times, that they might one day

* July 4th address delivered by General Gross at Stuttgart cere-
monies marking Independence Day.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
shake off their chains and find freedom in the brother-
hood of life.’

T IS A CURIOUS fact that democracy has become such

a formidable institution that even its enemies use its
terminology; the two types of dictatorship still existing
today claim democracy for themselves. But in Germany
too, I have heard as much lip service to democracy as
I have heard unfair criticism, I hear democratic avowals
from officials who would limit freedom of the press; who
would deny the right of asylum to political refugees; who
oppose the basic and fundamental practice of separation
of powers; who contest educational and election reform.

‘Men write eloquent pamphlets in praise of democracy,
and accept bribes to release men who did their best to
destroy democracy. Men even attempt to suppress music
they don't like. These men, big and little, some very in-
telligent and others very stupid, would all qualify de-
mocracy, adjust the body politic here and there, perhaps

shorten one leg, remove two fingers, close an eye, or

seal the mouth three days a week.

This is not democracy. If you cannot simplify its
mechanics, enlarge its application, or intensify its spirit
for all the people, then leave it alone!

A patriarchal and enduring figure in German politics
said recently that the people in his state has “graduated
from the school of democracy." No people is ever graduat-
ed from democracy, for it is a lifelong course of study.
Democracy is much more than a mere institution, just as
a home is much more than a house. Law, justice, civil,
political, human and economic rights, are all mere pre-
scriptions on paper until people begin to live these pre-
scribed functions each day. One writer has well defined
democracy as many men and many minds. But men and
minds change, and so both the process and faith of de-
mocracy must constantly renew themselves. There is no
permanent body of democratic graduates. If this were so,
Germany would have been guaranteed a democracy long
ago by her great liberals and freedom loving scholars.

As for the right of asylum, is it not curious that the
majority of German liberals or democrats have been
throughout German history either actual refugees from
their country, or refugees in spirit? The retirement of
both Goethe and Schiller into the world of art began with
the confession that they could do nothing in the world of
politics, to improve the lot of their fellowmen. And who
can forget the little anecdote in Jakob Grimm's “Ueber
meine Entlassung,” in which he describes the incident in
which a peasant's son was introduced to him by a grand-
mother who said, “Shake hands with the ‘gentleman, he
is a refugee.” “And where was I so described?” added
Grimm, "...in my native land.”

ECAUSE OF THE historic tragedy of German de-

mocracy, crushed throughout the years in unequal
battle because authoritarianism was united and democracy
was not... because of this factor, I call attention to the
significance of the Fourth of July. It is a milestone along
the road of the Rights of Man, and, therefore, something
that we all can share. Americans have had their own share
of tragedy in the fight to preserve and strengthen de-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

mocracy, and the climax of that struggle was our Civil
War. At great cost, the principles of the Declaration of
Independence were preserved.

And since that time we have met repeated challenges
to violate or abridge the Bill of Rights, that immortal
document which is the very heart of democracy. One of
our Supreme Court justices once said, in a dissenting
opinion, that “freedom of speech is freedom for the speech
you hate." And there is also in the arsenal of our de-
mocratic resolutions the civil liberties reference to the
man who was arrested for swinging his arms and hitting
another man on the nose. In court, the accused asked the
judge if he did not have the right to swing his arms in a
free country. And the judge replied, ‘Your right to swing
your arms ends where the other fellow'’s nose begins.”

That story illustrates in part what we mean by the
corollary responsibilities of every right or privilege, the
check-and-balance system of democracy. In the very be-
ginning, the first President of the United States selected
as his most important cabinet officials two men... Jeffer-
son and Hamilton... who were diametrically opposed in
their conception of government. He did this intentionally,
because he wanted integrity and minority, on all issues,
rather than yes-men and decisive majority. This then is
democracy in action...enthronement not of a king or
dictator, but of the Opposition as basic guarantee of basic
principle. And this was expanded to precipitate public
opinion and public will, and to guarantee official respect
for the opinion and that will.

Jefferson asked the significant democratic question, “If
the people can't govern themselves, who can?" And
Washington said, “When a people shall have become
incapable of governing themselves and fit for a master,
it is of little consequence from what quarter he comes.”

ND SO I COMMEND to you the memory of the Fourth

of July, for the “inalienable rights” of all men... for
your rights are in danger when they are taken from
others...I commend you to “liberty and the pursuit of
happiness,’ which must be constantly taught, studied, re-
examined and defended by all of us. I commend to you the
state papers, letters and writings of such men as
Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Franklin, Paine, Mason
and Lincoln. For here is a living tradition of democracy,
the idea of government without insolence, without in-
sistence on the superior virtues of any one people.

Here is the tradition which between 1820 and 1860
brought 1,500,000 German immigrants to America, and
which a century later brought back .tens of thousands
of their descendants to renew the fight for human freedom
in Europe. Through revolution, resistance to expanding
empires and civil war, through civil courage and belief
in the principle of the sovereign individual and his in-
separable liberties, we have won democracy and mean
to preserve it.

And no country will rejoice more than America when
Germany will be able one day to claim the same victory.
To encourage and hasten that victory we are still here.
All this is the meaning and tradition of the Fourth of
July. -+END

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 56 ---
Objective: Friendship
| By DR. GEORGE N. sirUSTER

US State Commissioner, OLC Bavaria

HEN, ON THE MORNING after my arrival in Munich,

I switched on my radio to hear the program of the
Bavarian station, the reception was bad, andI saw myself
confronted with my first serious problem. I hope that the
reception tonight is better than it was that morning. I do
want to take this opportunity to tell you that the question
of a new frequency — a rather difficult and complicated
problem, by the way — is the topic of much conversation
in the Office of the US High Commissioner. It is being
given the greatest attention by Mr. McCloy and his co-
workers in the interest of you all. I hope and I believe
that an all-round satisfactory solution will soon be found.

It was around Eastertime when Mr. McCloy one day
walked into Hunter College in New York, whose president
I have the honor to be, to ask me to become the American
State Commissioner for Bavaria. Since I have held the
position of president of this college, at which approx-
imately 13,000 young American women are studying, for
the past 11 years — and was not the president of a
hunting academy* — it is understandable that it was not
an easy decision to make. When I finally said “yes,” it was
for the reason that I wanted to assist Mr. McCloy —
whom I consider one of the most outstanding Americans
of today — in his difficult task. Bavaria is no terra
incognita to me. On the contrary, I am most familiar with
the land and her people — and not only since yesterday,
as the saying goes.

This trip of mine to Germany was — as the Sueddeutsche
Zeitung aptly wrote recently — in a sense a “home-
coming.’! I know Bavaria and most of her cities and towns,
not only from personal observation but also from my
heart. I came here for the first time during the years 1930
and 1931 and lived and studied for a time in Munich. Then,
in 1933, I came again and a third and fourth time in 1938
and 1945. Two years ago I visited Frankfurt and also
attended the Catholic convention at Mainz, which left
a great impression on me.

ET ME TELL YOU a little incident in connection with
my visit in the year 1938. In New York, the then
German consul general had blacklisted me because I
was a co-founder of the Association of Loyal German-
Americans and had refused me a visa. His colleague in

Basle, however, did not know of my so-called “past” and
issued me a travel permit. I arrived just in time to witness
the pompous reception of Mussolini in the Bavarian
capital. Many of you will undoubtedly recall that day
when the city, upon “higher order," blossomed out in
festive flag decorations. But only the officials generally
showed enthusiasm for the partner of the so-called “axis.”
Large parts of the populace at least inwardly ridiculed
the whole display.

Aside from these private visits, I have family and close
personal ties to Germany and Bavaria. As far as my
family relations are concerned, let me say that my pa-
ternal grandmother descends from Bavaria and that my
great-grandfather was one of those Germans who sought
and found a new home in America in 1848. I could write
a book about my many old friends in Germany and Ba-
varia, so numerous and productive were and are these
friendships.

Let others not think ill of me if I mention but a few
names of men who are not with us any more: the great
Cardinal of Breslau, so kind and farseeing, Professor Karl
Muth, the unforgettable Hochland-publisher, Professor
Karl Vossler, Professor Dr. Fritz Beck, Father Peter Lip-
pert, whose most beautiful book I translated into English,
Dr. Rudolf Hilferding and Adam Stegerwald. I was able at
that time to save books and documents for a number
of my friends in Germany by carrying them to Belgium.

RECOGNIZED FROM the very beginning that despite

National Socialism, there were a number of Germans,
prominent democratic personalities who, in the face of
Gestapo and terror methods, were courageous enough to
stand up against the Hitler regime and its false teachings.
There are three groups in particular who today — as they
were then — are a great part of Germany's true pillars of
liberty and human dignity: the workers’ associations and
trade unions, the churches — the Catholic as well as the
Protestant church —and, partly, at least, the German
universities.

I am hardly telling you anything new when I say in this *
connection that this opinion of mine was at first not shared
by all Americans. I am extremely glad to be able to say
today that this opinion has gained force and that pres-

ently not only America, but also many

* Citizens of Tirschenreuth, Bavaria, anxious
to gain permission to possess guns for hunting
purposes, welcomed Dr. Shuster to Bavaria with
a letter expressing hope that as former head
of the American “hunter's college’ he would
quickly lift restrictions against German hunters.
Dr. Shuster is on leave as president of Hunter
College for Women in New York City to be
US state commissioner for Bavaria.

This is a translation of the ad-
dress delivered in German by Dr.
Shuster over the Bavarian Radio
on July 25, shortly after his as-
sumption of the duties of US State
Commissioner for Bavaria.

other nations now take the view that
Germany must share in the formation
of a world which can economically, cul-
turally and morally defy all forms of
totalitarism and uphold liberty and
human dignity.

SEPTEMBER 1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
SAVERS
#inpe’*

Dr. George N. Shuster.
(PRB OLCB photo)

Here I wish to mention the Schuman Plan, which has
found wide recognition in the United States—a fact
which cannot be overestimated. That the Schuman Plan
is not merely economically and politically important, but
also culturally important, is evident. It is my firm con-
viction that Germany, in the question of European unifica-
tion, which is the basis of the Schuman Plan, will have
to play an important role—for her own good, the good
of all participating European nations, and in the interest
of world peace.

WANT TO SAY a few words on a final problem

which is particularly dear to my heart. I refer to the
problem of the refugees and expellees. The far greater
part of all these homeless people are here through no
fault of their own. Many have lost more than home,
house, property and relatives. It is of little use to ponder
if and when a return might be possible and it is of less
use to foster thoughts of revenge. We have to make the
best of the fact that the refugees are here to stay and
that they will have to build a new life.

It is not a strange country in which they are now living,
but a part of the common homeland— Germany. The
interests of all demand friendly community life and good
neighborly co-operation. I have heard that the process
of assimilation has already made encouraging progress
and that many of the newcomers have been able not only
to stand on their own feet, but to become valuable part-
ners in the cultural, religious, economic and _ political
recuperation of the land of their choice.

As I stated at a press conference last week, the next
six months will show developments of great importance
as far as the refugee policy in Germany is concerned.
A number of influential personalities in America, prompted
by humanitarian considerations, are interesting them-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

54

selves in the expellee program and their number is
increasing. When such people get busy and seriously
get behind a matter, you can be sure that something will
be done. I wish to emphasize that the refugee problem
is a matter dear to the hearts of my wife and myself.
My wife has been for many years an active member in
numerous organizations dealing with youth problems and
other matters of a social nature. I assure you that it will
be one of our foremost tasks here to study the entire
program and to do all in our power to help.

In conclusion, I want to say a few words in regard to
my duties as State Commissioner for Bavaria. I did not
bring with me a ready-made program, but I want to follow
to the best of my ability the road which Mr. McCloy has
indicated and to place my experience at his service, My
work here will be predicated on such thoughts and
principles as are found in the American tradition of
“respect for human rights.’ I want to visit Bavaria's cities
and communities, to look around and to contact people in
all walks of life in order to learn firsthand their thoughts
and: problems. One of my principal purposes is to attain
the objectives which induced me to come to Bavaria: to
bring and to win friendship and understanding between
the American and German people. +END

(Continued from page 38)
Hesse to Combat Intolerance

and, if so, what deficiencies have appeared in the pro-
secution. Upon completion of this examination the minister
of justice will submit suggestions as to what additional
measures can be taken by the administration of justice
and in conjunction with the police in order to effectively
combat the desecration of Jewish cemeteries. In this
connection I may particularly point out that the measures
of the minister of justice are closely co-ordinated with
those of the minister of the interior.

Finally, the minister for culture and education has again
referred the schools to his decree, the subject matter of
which is the education to tolerance. The teachers of all
schools have once more been urged to do everything to in-
fluece thé youth in this sense, in particular to teach them
that the place of rest of a human being is sacred and that
reverence and respect are due to such place.

In this connection a suggestion by the minister of the
interior deserves attention, which is to the effect that in
agreement with the Jewish communities steps be taken to
put the Jewish cemeteries into a worthy condition so that
even children may recognize them at once as sacred
places. I plan to submit this suggestion to the cabinet at
one of its next meetings on the occasion of dealing with
this problem as a whole. In these deliberations I am at the
same time interested in working out rules to serve as far-
reaching a co-ordination as possible of all measures to be
taken to combat the desecration of cemeteries.

I trust that the government, in close co-operation with
schools, press and radio, political parties, trade unions
and churches will succeed in preventing effectively the
desecration of Jewish cemeteries and inflicting just
punishment on any offenders. --END

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 58 ---
Practicing the Golden Rule

Address*
By CAPT. CHARLES R. JEFFS, USN

US State Commissioner, OLC Bremen

E MIGHT BE much further along toward the accom-

plishment of our mission in Germany had more
Americans living here among the German people given
closer heed to the statements of American policy as an-
nounced by Generals McNarney and Clay, Secretary
Bymes in Stuttgart, the Combined State, War and Navy
Policy Directive of July 1947 to the Military Governor,
and similar official statements of American origin, all of
them expressed in the vein of the idealistic concept of
the “Golden Rule” and of American moral principles.

As early as January 9, 1946, General Clay announced to
the press that Military Government was attempting to
bring Germans and Americans together and urged occupa-
tion personnel to seek to find or to create opportunities
to meet representative Germans and to engage with them
in open discussion of the things we believe in. “We can-
not democratize,” said General Clay, “unless we discuss
democracy with the people we want to adopt it.”

The things we believe in—the democratic way of life
and the word “democracy” itself —have their roots in the
“Golden Rule." To the American, democracy historically
and currently is ‘a personal concept, a philosophy or code
of personal relationship with one’s fellow men, leading to
a community way of life. It includes first of all a sense of
personal responsibility and of appreciation for the dignity
of the individual man, knowledge of his history and
development, tolerance of differences in individual phy-
sical characteristics, origins, reasoning powers and
opinions, humility in the presence of a vast universe
and charity toward and understanding for the lot
of the less fortunate. These are ideals, the ‘degree
of attainment to which will vary as between individuals.

Where a group of people are as-

UCH IS THE TYPE of political organization which the

American government in its directive to the American
Military Governor in Germany in July 1947 expressed its
intention of helping to bring into being in Germany in the
following language: 7

“Your government does not wish to impose its own
historically developed forms of democracy and social
organization on Germany and believes equally firmly
that no other external forms should be imposed. It seeks
the establishment in Germany of a political organization
which is derived from the people and subject to their
control, which operates in accordance with democratic
electoral procedures, and which is dedicated to uphold
both the basic civil and human rights of the individual.

“It is opposed to an excessively centralized government
which, through a concentration of. power, may threaten
both the existence of democracy in Germany and the
security of Germany's neighbors and the rest of the world.
Your government believes finally that, within the princi-
ples stated above, the ultimate constitutional form of Ger-
man political life should be left to the decision of the
German people, made freely in accordance with democratic
processes.”

That is an expression in the governmental sense of the
“Golden Rule” philosophy which motivates the individual
political morality of the majority of the individual citizens
of the United States who in the aggregate constitute the
American government which issued the statement. All
the things contained in the statement, we as Americans,
I am sure, would like to see done unto us in the un-
fortunate circumstance of a reversed situation. Those living
here in Germany have had, and those remaining here will

continue to have, valuable oppor-

sociated together under such per-
sonal rules of conduct and ideals
and elect to bind themselves to-
gether in a self-governing body, we
may truly speak of a democracy or
of a democratic community in the
political and governmental sense. It
is to be expected of such a com-
munity, constituted as it is of indi-
viduals subscribing to the “Golden
Rule," that it too in its relations
with other communities will pay
more than lip service to the same
Philosophy to which its individual
citizens subscribe.

* Delivered at graduation exercises, Bre-
merhaven Dependents’ High School, June 16.

SEPTEMBER 1950

As recorded from the famous “Sermon
on the Mount,” the “Golden Rule” is set
forth in the book of St.Matthew of the
Bible in the following words:

“Therefore all things that ye would that
men should do unto ye, do ye also unto
them.” The disciples of Jesus Christ were
told by Him that this rule constituted the
law and the prophets, that is to say, it sum-
marizes what they were to teach their
followers in His name.

But it is by no means a uniquely Chris-
tian doctrine. It was advocated by Socra-
tes some 400 years before Christ and
by Theng-Tsen, a Chinese philosopher and
friend of Confucius many centuries before
that. There probably exists then no other
such venerable and widely known con-
cise expression of a philosophy of life as
this one and few people indeed deny its
validity as an idealistic concept.

55

tunities to actively support these
commendable policies of the United
States government. In the past, there
have certainly been Americans and
others living here in Germany who
have felt that the real objectives of
the occupation in Germany were
none of their business and that the
military defeat of the German army
and nation entitled them to regard
Germany as a vacation land, a bar-
gain mart and a place for an inex-
pensive good time, indifferent to the
destruction, and to the economic,
political and social: problems and
the human uncertainty to be found
on all sides.

N

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
N THE GERMAN SIDE, during the earlier days of the
occupation, it seemed incredible to large numbers of
Germans that American policy statements concealed no
ulterior motive and that American actions and later
generosity and material and spiritual help were motivated
only by altruism and a desire to help the German people
along the road to democratic living and good neighborliness.
Despite ithe fact that German schools, universities and
educators have in the past played a large role in the
shaping of the American school system and that more than
100 years ago Germany was the source of inspiration for
many American universities, four or five years ago even
the idea of democracy was totally incomprehensible to
the German contemporaries of young people graduating
today. That need not be wondered at if we bother to
familiarize ourselves with something of the atmosphere
in which these young Germans grew up. Here, for instance,
is a quotation from a statement made by Hitler in 1941:

“Then there is the hope — most stupid of all — that a
rebellion, a revolution, is about to break out in Germany.
The people who could have created a revolution here
simply aren't here any more. As a matter of fact, they
have long since gone off to England, America, Canada
and so on. So they are not with us any more. But should
anyone seriously hope to be able to disturb our front, no
matter whence he comes or what camp he belongs to,
well — you know my method — I always look on quietly
for a certain time. That is the trial period.

“But then comes the moment when I strike like
lightning and remove the disturbance very speedily. And
then no disguise helps, not even the disguise of religion
But, as I have said, this will surely not be necessary with
us, because above all this the whole German people is
organized today in a movement, something our enemies
have not yet grasped, a movement which reaches into
every home, that watches over it jealously, so that never
again will there be a November 1918."

HAT WAS SAID on our Armistice Day, 1941, about

a month before Pearl Harbor. We may not have
believed, in 1945, that we came into Germany as liberators,
but obviously we were liberators nevertheless.

Today, the American government and private persons
and organizations in the United States are spending
millions of dollars annually to bring German public-
spirited citizens, educators and students to the United
States to see for themselves and to learn something of the
way of life of a free people and to bring back with them
and communicate to other less fortunate Germans some
of the ideas which they feel are appropriate for adoption
in Germany.

Recently it was announced that the United Nations
Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)
will inaugurate this year a new and positive program in
Germany to bring international assistance to the solution
of pressing problems in the fields of education, youth
activities and social studies.

It is deserving of re-emphasis that, as one of the results
of the decisions arrived at in the recent Conference of
Foreign Ministers in London, it has been officially an-
nounced — for the information and guidance of the Ger-
mans as well as for the individual officer, soldier and
dependent of these organizations — that the British,
French and American troops in Germany no longer con-
stitute an ‘Occupation Force," but are present here as a
force whose mission it is to defend Germany and Europe
against a revival of dictatorship and oppression from
whatever quarter.

HE OCCUPATION STATUTE provides for a review of
its provisions by the Occupying Powers with the
view to further elimination of controls, The communique
issued by the Foreign Ministers in London in May said:
“The Western Powers desire to see the pace of progress
toward elimination of ‘controls as rapid as possible,
Progress will depend upon the degree of confident and
frank co-operation displayed by the government and the
people of the Federal Republic.

“In the first place, progress will be determined by the
extent to which the Allies can be satisfied that their own
security is safeguarded by the development in Germany
of a desire for peace and friendly association with
themselves.

“In the second place, the pace will be set by the rate
at which Germany advances toward a condition in which

Youth of five nations guide Hesse State Commissioner Dr. James R. Newman on tour of international summer camp in
Taunus hills. Pictured at left with Dr. Newman are refugees from Eastern Germany and Czechoslovakia as well as youth
from France, Sweden and Switzerland. Right, Dr. Newman lends a hand to volunteers of Bretheren Service Commission
excavating land for a refugee housing project in the Kassel area. Spectators include Mrs. John J. McCloy. (PRB OLCH photos)

--- Page 60 ---
true democracy governs and the just liberties of the
individual are assured, Therefore, the Western Powers
wish to emphasize most strongly that the natural desire
of the German people to secure a relaxation of controls
and the restoration of the sovereignty of their country
depends for its satisfaction only upon the efforts of the
German people themselves and of their government."

It seems to me that by far the most difficult part of this
program set forth for German accomplishment will be to
induce and encourage the individual German citizen to
shake off his fear of authoritarian reprisal for any ex-
pression of his desires and will, to combine in free
association for the protection of the rights guaranteed
to him under his state constitutions and the federal
government's Basic Law, to compel his elected represen-
tatives to be responsive to his collective will instead of
to the mandates of party leaders and finally to take the
reins of government into his own hands to the extent of
compelling his governmental agencies to realize that they
are his public servants and not his ruling masters.

OMPREHENSION OF the necessity for peace in the

world and knowledge of the means adopted by his
own and associated governments for its preservation are
of importance to the individual — including the young
individual high-school graduate of today and citizen of
tomorrow, because in a real democracy of whatever
structure, in Europe or at home, it is the individual citizen
in his collective strength who constitutes the government
itself.

The United States Government has announced:

“The basic interest of the United States throughout the
world is just and lasting peace. Such a peace can be
achieved only if conditions of public order and prosperity
can be created in Europe as a whole, An orderly and
prosperous Europe requires the economic contributions
of a stable and productive Germany as well as the
necessary restraints to insure that Germany is not allowed
to revive its destructive militarism. In the attainment of
the principal objective (of the United States in Germany),
it is now the policy of the United States to place special
emphasis upon the more constructive program of demo-

cratization, because militarism and other totalitarian
threats will finally be eliminated only if the German
people learn to think, believe and act in terms of demo-
cracy, peace and the rights of others."

N THE CARRYING OUT of these policies all of us here

in Germany can help and can at the same time benefit
ourselves spiritually by putting the philosophy of the
“Golden Rule” into actual practice. It is something of an
indictment of the relations between Americans living in
Germany and their German neighbors to hear from Ger-
mans returning from visits to the United States expressions
of amazement over the manner in which they were ac-
cepted, entertained and shown around by Americans at
home in all walks of life, and by the degree of tolerance
shown for their own views and opinions and the patience
demonstrated in explaining to them American ideas and
concepts. We could do more of that here in Germany. "You
cannot democratize unless you discuss democracy with the
people you want to adopt it."

We must "sell our ideas" and the selling job is not
going to be very effective if we resort to sham and attempt
to represent our system as-the essence of perfection and
our people as a group of supermen. The Germans have
heard about supermen — plenty! It is enough to represent
ours as a markedly better system and to present it in good
faith and with strong conviction. And, since the growing
realization of the widespread need for education and
religion testify to the fact that perfection is not to be
attained in human affairs or conduct, we need have no
hesitancy in admitting that what we strive to do and what
we believe in are not always 100 percent in keeping with
what we do in practice,

It's better to strive to respect the rights of the individual,
to believe in the equality of all men before the law, to
have a Bill of Rights written into our constitution, to
subscribe to the principles of the Four Freedoms and to
attempt to live in peace and good neighborly relations
with other countries than to forswear our idealism in
discouragement and accept the so-called “realism” of the
dictator and authoritarian and the slave-security of such
regimes.

Student volunteers of the Brethren Service Commission hard at work excavating plot for refugee family in Kassel area.
Refugees are required to donate 1,000 hours to the construction of their homes. Where such is impossible, the Americans
contribute the 1,000 hours and pay $1 per day for the privilege. Right, Edith Arnold, student of Smith College, of North-
ampton, Mass., in Europe as an exchange student and a volunteer counsellor at summer camp, chats with Dr. Newman.

--- Page 61 ---
N THE LIGHT of what we have learned since the war

of former internal conditions in Hitler Germany and of
the developments in the ‘thinking and attitude of the
German people since our arrival here, it seems appropriate
to recall the words which Abraham Lincoln uttered at the
time of the conflict in our country which threatened
permanently to divide our people.

“With malice toward none, with charity for all, with
firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let
us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the
nation’s wounds, to care for him who shall have borne
the battle and for his widow and orphan, to do all which
may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among
ourselves and with all nations.”

Surely, all of us want to achieve and to cherish a just
and lasting peace among and with all nations. You young
graduates have been privileged to gain your education
under circumstances which do not fall to the lot of the
average American pupil in the average American com-
munity. You have been educated under a system which
emphasizes the dignity, self-respect and self-discipline of
the individual and have been educated in social studies
and in the rights, duties and privileges of democratic
citizenship, with opportunities for participating and train-
ing in its forms and exercises,

You have been living in German communities under
conditions of direct preferment and you have, no doubt,
enhanced your appreciation of the blessings of American
democratic citizenship through the opportunities afforded
to compare American educational methods and conditions
with those in the German school system, with its bombed-
out buildings, inadequate teaching facilities and dis-
credited teaching methods.

OU HAVE BEEN witnesses of German efforts toward

the attainment of a modern educational system, with
its co-operative study groups, civic studies, mock par-
liaments, student governments, community projects and
other practicable ways of training good citizens, now only
in their beginnings in Germany.

Children and grownups at Mittelhof Neighborhood Center
in the borough of Steglitz in the US Sector of Berlin try
on clothing in five-ton gift shipment, including household
equipment, presented by an American Friends Group com-
posed of 1,000 Syracuse, N.Y., factory workers. ECA paid
shipping costs.

(US Army photo)

You have learned, no doubt, that however high an
estimate of the educational importance, worth and desira-
bility of Latin, Greek, mathematics and the sciences may
be placed on them by different educators in different
lands, there can be no question at this late date in human
history but that citizenship training and education in the
rights and dignity of men must take high place with, if not
even pre-eminence over, scholastic attainment of whatever
desirability. For after all, in this age of modern scientific
and industrial development and of rapidly moving world
events, the formal scholastic education obtained in public
schools, high schools and universities can be but the
introduction to a lifelong and continuing process of educa-
tion if one is not to drift downstream with the current,

You realize that the educational opportunities which
you enjoyed without direct personal cost to your families
at home and which in large measure here in Germany
were paid for by your parents and your parents’ associates,
have placed an obligation on you to be good citizens of
the communities in which you live and that you will be
expected to help protect and support the educational
opportunities of those children who come after you.

It is to be hoped that the availability to you of all of
these blessings, privileges and opportunities — in such
sharp contrast to those of your German student contem-
poraries — have not created in you any sense of
superiority toward the people among whom you live, but
that they have rather strengthened in you your desire and
determination to help your German contemporaries to
help themselves by creating new and increased pressure
for the adoption in Germany of the better features of our
own American educational system. It is to be remembered
in this connection — and in all humility — that in so doing
you will be helping to return to Germany, in a newer and
more vital form, many of the educational features which
we as Americans obtained from Germany and German
emigrants in the first place.

T IS NOT AN uncommon thing in Germany today to

hear the hope expressed by Germans, that Germany
may one day have tthe opportunity to help the people of
other countries in the same manner as the people of
America have helped Germany in her postwar adversity.
Widespread German and European subscription to such
a sentiment should go far to reward us for all of our best
efforts.

In conclusion, I submit that the very existence of the
terrifying alternative to continued peace with which we
are faced today, of itself gives us reason to hope for @
closer approach to the attainment of that millenium which
mankind has for centuries struggled toward; at times
hopefully and at times despairingly; and I predict that the
degree of success you young people achieve in leading
a constructive life in a world full of uncertainties will be
in direct proportion to the extent that you yourselves
adhere to, and mankind everywhere — including our
unfortunate fellow human beings within the Communist
orbit — can be induced to observe that venerable but still
valid precept: “Do unto others that which you would that
they should do unto you.” : -++END

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 62 ---
Germans Jolted,

OLLOWING IS THE TEXT of an interview given in

Frankfurt by Mr. John J. McCloy, US High Commis-
sioner for Germany, to Ed Haaker of the National Broad-
casting Company. The interview was included in ‘Voices
and Events” broadcast July 22 by the NBC in the United
States on a coast-to-coast hookup. The interview is pub-
lished with the permission of NBC.

Mr. Haaker: How do you appraise the morale of the Ger-
man population.in the Federal Republic under the im-
pact of the news in Korea?

Mr. McCloy: The morale is all right even though they are
becoming aware of the magnitude of the issues in-
volved. The German people received a jolt as many
other people did, and the possible parallel between
Korea and Germany was not lost on them. Apart from
a flurry of hoarding by some elements of the popula-
tion, public opinion and conduct seems quite stable.

All but the Communists applauded President Tru-
man's definite and courageous action, and some who
pose as Communists were not displeased. The German
people were also heartened by the UN Security Coun-
cil action. The utter fraud of the recent heavy so-called
peace propaganda emanating from Moscow is more
deeply impressed than ever upon the people here. I
think it can also be said that under their breath all
West Germans, at least, gave thanks that there are Al-
lied forces in their country.

Mr. Haaker: Should there be an attack on Western Ger-
many, will American troops defend the country with-
out the help of German military contingents?

Mr. McCloy: There are no German military contingents in
Germany and we are not establishing them. On the
other hand, I suppose there would be very many Ger-
mans who would be prepared and anxious to defend
Germany in the event of an attack, if given the oppor-
tunity. Iam not talking now about the rearmament of
Germany or the creation of any sort of an offset to the
Communist-inspired Volkspolizei (so-called People’s
Police) of the Eastern zone. I am opposed to the re-
creation of a German army, but in the event of an
attack such as took place in Korea I believe it would
be very difficult indeed to deny the Germans the right
and the means to defend their own soil.

Mr. Haaker: Have you had any reports of troop move-
ments in Eastern Germany or on. the borders?

Mr. McCloy: Nothing which we can interpret as being un-
usually significant.

Mr. Haaker: What is the morale of the American depen-
dent families? Have you received any requests for
transportation back to the USA?

Mr. McCloy: Their morale is solid. American families
stood up under the pressure of the Berlin blockade and
those that are here will not scare easily. I have not
heard of a single request for transportation back to the

SEPTEMBER 1950

But Morale Stable

United States either on the part of officials or any
members of their families.

Mr. Haaker: In the 12 months since you became High Com-
missioner, do you feel that the democratic elements in
Germany have made progress? Have anti-democratic
forces become a danger?

Mr. McCloy: I think that democratic progress has been
made. One has to judge such progress by broad tests
and not by sporadic anti-democratic incidents. Federal
elections held last August, the recent state elections in
North Rhine-Westphalia and in Schleswig-Holstein all
show the maintenance of a democratic trend. The ex-
treme right and the extreme left have lost.

The new Germany has yet to prove itself as a stal-
wart, liberal European community, and much has to
be accomplished before it will. But, the processes of a
republican and representational government are going
on. There are disappointments and frustrations. Ger-
many lacks a fundamental democratic tradition and
this must be overcome. What we are trying to do is to
help the liberal elements of Germany —and there are
many —to build that tradition. But it takes time.

Anti-democratic forces are always a danger in any
country. I think it’s true that they have to be watched
more in Germany than elsewhere, but still I would say
they are less dangerous in Germany today than they
have been for a long time. All former Nazis are not
dead or converted, but Nazism as such is dead. And
the former Nazis must become a part of the community.

Mr. Haaker: What measures, if any, are contemplated to
counteract the increasing influence of the Communist
youth groups in Western Germany?

Mr. McCloy: We are doing much to help the youth of
Western Germany not only for the sake of combatting
the attempts being made by Communists to subvert
them, but to give them an interest in life and in their
own future possibilities. In the US Zone, there are ap-

The first West Berlin telephone exchange rebuilt entirely
through ERP financial aid was officially opened July 13
at. ceremonies attended by Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor,
US commander of Berlin (right), who is shown conversing
with John H. Gayer, Berlin Element communications
and electrical adviser (left), and Howard P. Jones, deputy
director, Berlin Element of HICOG.

(US Army photo}

--- Page 63 ---
proximately 5,400,000 young people between the ages
of 10 and 25, A million and a half are in sports groups
and religious, cultural, nature study, hiking and scout
organjzations.

The High Commissioner's Office has made available
substantial funds for a vigorous program designed to
provide these young people with youth centers, read-
ing rooms, sports equipment, instruction and guidance
in community activities, civic activities, vocational
training, forums and many other constructive works.
These are conducted by Germans for Germans — we
only help.

We cannot and will not resort to the use of uniforms,
parades, slogans and flag-waving, such as the well-
financed, regimented Communist FDJ employs to im-
press the eastern German youth. We probably could
and should do more. I am impressed by the good mate-
rial and good sense among the great bulk of the
Western German youth.

Mr. Haaker: If we take it for granted that the Volkspolizei
in Eastern Germany are a potential threat to the peace,
are the Western Powers ready to permit the establish-
ment of a federal police in Western Germany which is
comparable to this para-military Eastern force?

Mr. McCloy: The matter of the establishment of a federal
police force for Western Germany is being considered
by the Allied High Commission purely from the point
of view of the necessity for it as a police measure, and
not as a military or para-military force. There probably
is some need for an improvement of the police system
in the western zones, but whether this would warrant
any federal force has not been decided.

Mr. Haaker: When do you plan making another visit to.
the USA?

Mr. McCloy: I have no fixed date. I will go back when-
ever the Secretary of State feels it will be well to have
a visit. +END

FDJ Rally Harmed Communism, West Berliners Say ‘

OST WEST BERLINERS believe that the Communist

youth rally during Whitsuntide in Berlin did the
Communist cause more harm than good and that the
Western Powers and the West Berlin police acted correctly
in handling the potentially explosive situation. They also
consider the participants in the rally as innocent youth
duped or coerced into coming to Berlin, and firmly
opposed the formation of a mass uniformed youth or-
ganization, such as the Freie Deutsche Jugend (FDJ) in
western Germany.

These opinions were disclosed in a HICOG public
opinion survey conducted in West Berlin from June 8 to
12, following the. Whitsuntide rally of May 28. A rep-
resentative population sample of 300 persons was inter-

’ viewed by the trained personnel of the Reactions Analysis
Branch, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, in checking West
Berlin reactions to the eastern-sponsored rally.

Fwo-thirds of the respondents said that the meeting

had turned out just as they had expected and that the

* Communists had fully intended to send the blue-shirted
-youth marching into West Berlin, but that vigorous
Western counter-measures had forced them to drop the
idea. About 15 percent believed the Communists kept the
FDJ out of the Western sectors because of fear of deser-
tions and the contrast in, East and West sector standards
of living.

Few West Berliners believed that East zone youth took
part in the Whitsuntide meeting out of belief in Com-
munist ideology, Coercion and pressure are most often
cited as actual reasons, with curiosity and interest in
adventure following.

The meeting turned out to the disadvantage of the East
in the opinion of three-fourths of the West Berliners.
Only one in 10 respondents believed that many persons
in the East zone were impressed by the rally, and even

INFORMATION BULLETIN

60

less believed that many West Berliners were impressed.
Four out of 10 thought that the FDJ boys and girls are
now less favorably disposed toward Communism, pri-
marily because they saw life and democracy in West
Berlin, talked to West Berliners, discovered they had
received a false description of Western economic con- |
ditions. Only nine ‘percent of the respondents believed
that the rally had increased Communist prestige among
the FDJ.

Although most of the West Berliners reported they
spent Whitsuntide quietly at home or in normal holiday
activities, about two-thirds said they had had an op-
portunity either to see or speak to some members of the
FDJ. The respondents’ comments indicated that the
prevailing impression was a favorable one of innocent
youth who have but limited responsibility for the situa-°
tion in which they find themselves. Only a few spoke of
receiving a distinctly bad impression of the FDJ mem-
bers, whom they described as “undisciplined,” “ill-bred,”
“poor ragged youth," etc.

Asked if they favored a single, uniformed youth organi-
zation for West Berlin and Western Germany, 80 percent
of the respondents replied in the negative. Their reasons
were based primarily on the belief that such an organiza-
tion would be like the “Hitler Youth,” and that it might
lead to militarism and war. Another large group rejected
the idea of anyone in Germany wearing a uniform again,
while others said that such an organization would deprive
youth of freedom.

Approximately 15 percent, who approved a mass-type
youth organization, held that it would provide training
and discipline, serve as a counterbalance against the
East, and eliminate the quarrels and disunity between _
youth groups. +END

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 64 ---
Washington Report

Executive Order on US High
Commissioner for Germany Amended

Y VIRTUE of the authority vested in me by the Con-
B stitution and the statutes, and as. President of the
United States and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed
Forces of the United States, Executive Order No. 10062
of June 6, 1949, entitled “Establishing the Position of
United States High Commissioner for Germany*,” is
hereby amended as follows:

1, The following paragraphs are added to the said order
at the end thereof:

“5. The High Commissioner, as representative of the
United States, shall share the four-power responsibility
for the custody, care, and execution of sentences and
disposition (including pardon, clemency, parole, or release)
of war criminals confined in Germany as a result of con-
viction by the International Military Tribunal, Nuremberg,
and shall be responsible for the custody, care, and
execution of sentences and disposition (including pardon,
clemency, parole, or release) of war criminals confined in
Germany as a result of conviction by military tribunals
established by the United States Military Governor
pursuant to Control Council Law No. 10." ,

“6. The Commander-in-Chief, European Command, shall
be responsible for the custody, care, and execution of
sentences and disposition (including pardon, ciemency,
parole, or release) of war criminals confined in Germany
under sentences adjudged by military tribunals established
by United States Military Commanders in Germany and
elsewhere, other than those referred to in Paragraph 5
hereof. On the request of the High Commissioner, the
Commander-in-Chief, European Command, shall take
necessary measures for carrying into execution any
sentences adjudged against war criminals as to whom the
High Commissioner has responsibility and control, namely:
war criminals convicted and sentenced by military
tribunals established pursuant to Control Council Law
No, 10."

2. The term “Commander of the United States Armed
Forces in Germany,” occurring in Paragraph 3 of the said
order, is changed to read “Commander-in-Chief, European
Command.”

This order shall be effective as of June 6, 1949.

* * *

Advisory Commission on Information
Endorses Program

The President on July 17 received the following com-
munication, dated July 14, from the Advisory Commission
on Information. Members include Mark Ethridge, chairman,

* Text of Executive Order No. 10062 published in Information
Bulletin, Issue No. 163, June 14, 1949, page 2.

SEPTEMBER 1950

61

Mark A. May, Erwin D. Canham, Philip C. Reed and
Justin Miller.

Te ADVISORY COMMISSION on Information, set up
by Congress under Public Law 402 and appointed by
yourself, desires to communicate to you its feeling of the
ungency of an immediate step-up in our whole information
program directed to peoples of other countries.

As you are aware, the commission, since its organi-
zation, has called attention to the anomaly which exists
by reason of the expenditure of 15 billions of dollars a
year on defense, five to six and one-half billions a year
on economic and foreign aid, and, this year, a little over
$30,000,000 on our total information and education pro-
gram designed to make the rest of the world understand
our purposes,

You have been aware of the necessity for a much more
vigorous “campaign of truth," as you demonstrated in
your speech to the American Society of Newspaper
Editors. In that speech, you said, among other things,

We know how false these Communist promises are. But it is
not enough for us to know this. Unless we get the real story

across to people in other countries, we will lose the battle for
men's minds by default.

That statement is even truer now than when you gave
utterance to it, because of the aggression in Korea and
the light in which Soviet propagandists have tried to place
our resistance to it. The Korean aggression has made it
all the more imperative that we intensify our effort to give
the true picture of America, her intentions and her actions,
than it has ever been before.

The commission feels that the field for that sort of -
information is even more fruitful than it has ever been
because the Kremlin has revealed itself and its intentions
more clearly than at any time since the end of the war.
Now is the time to marshal the determination of the
peoples of the free world not to succumb to this vicious
ideology which promises Utopia but gives chains.

Although the commission heartily endorsed what you
said to the editors, it has refrained from expressing that
endorsement because it wanted to see more concrete
proposals from the State Department as to how additional
money would be spent and a more explicit statement of
the national objectives which we were trying to com-
municate to others.

Within the past few days, the commission has had an
opportunity to review field studies which have been made
by the Public Affairs division of the department. They
are quite explicit as to facilities which will be required to
reach the critical areas of the world and to counter, as best
it may be done, the tremendous jamming effort which the
Russians are making. They are quite explicit as'to the
manpower and money which will be required to reach the
peoples we want to reach. Moreover, there is a better
understanding in the department, and a better expression
of that understanding, of what our information objectives
are. The commission has previously reported to the
Secretary of State and to the Congress that there is a much
better integration between policy making and policy

(Continued on page 63)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
CALENDAR
of Coming Events

This calendar is initiated to present
a single list of the outstanding events
of general interest scheduled in Ger-
many during September and October.
Entries for this list have been furnished
by the German Tourist Association
(Deutsche Zentrale fuer Fremdenver-
kehr) and various HICOG offices.

CURRENT (Events in progress Sept. 1 with
only closing dates given)

Every Sunday and Wednesday to Sept. 24,
Oberammergau (Bav): Passion Play.

Sept. 1, Goslar (LS): German Sugar Indus-
try Association (convention).

Sept. 2, Ludwigsburg (WB): Open-air plays
in Palace Court.

Sept. 3, Kempten. (Bav): 2,000th anniversary;
festival plays on Burghalde open-air
stage.

Sept. 3, Darmstadt (Hes): ‘‘The Picture of
Man Today," exhibition of the New
Darmstadt Secession.

Sept. 3, Veitshoechheim (Bav): Franconian
Wine Mart, Vintners’ Pageant.

Sept. 3, Worms (RP): ‘’Backfisch,” a tradi-
tional teen-ager and fish-fry festival.
Sept. 3, Miltenberg (Bav): Lower Franconian

St. Michael's folk festival.
Sept. 3, Bonn (NRW): German Students’

Day 1950.
Sept. 3, Passau (Bav): German Catholics’
Day.

Sept. 3, Pirmasens (RP): First Industrial
Show “Shoe and Leather.

Sept. 3, Cologne (NRW): “From Top to
Toe," tailoring exposition.

Sept. 3, Windsheim (Bav): 1,200th anni-
versary.

Sept. 4, Remscheid (NRW): Riding and
Driving Tournament in conjunction with
agriculture exhibition.

Sept. 9, Bad Pyrmont (NRW):
Music Week.

Sept. 10, Mittenwald (Bav): International
violin building exhibition and music
instruments fair.

Early Sept., Koblenz (RP): Middle-Rhenish
Industries and Trade Exhibition.

Sept. 15, Kirchheim/Teck (WB); Open-air
performances of ‘Agnes Bernauer.”

Sept. 17, Heidenheim (WB): “Die Pfingst-
orgel’’ (The Whitsuntide Organ) on
woodland stage.

Sept. 30, Reutlingen (WB): ‘William Tell”
on woodland stage.

Sept. 30, Cologne (NRW): Wilhelm Leibl
and Gustave Courbet (art exhibition).
Sept. 30, Nuremberg (Bav): ‘Nuremberg,
Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow," art
exhibit in conjunction with the 900th

anniversary of the city’s name.

October, Munich (Bav): “Ars Sacra’’ (art
exhibition).

October, Berlin: Flower Show at Funkturm
(Radio Tower).

Oct. 1, Stuttgart (WB): Exhibition of post-
war American architecture, arranged by
American Institute of Architecture and
sponsored in Germany by HICOG.

Oct. 8, Munich (Bav): Art exhibition at
Haus der Kunst.

Oct. 20, Stuttgart (WB): German Garden
Show 1950.

Oct. 31, Kevelaer (NRW): Catholic Pilgrim-
age. .

Pyrmont

INFORMATION BULLETIN

SEPTEMBER

Ss M T WwW

T F Ss

3 4 5 6
10 11 12 13
7 18 19 20
24 25 26 27

2
7 8 9
14 15 16
21 22 23
28 29 30

September

Sept. 1-3, Passau (Bav): 74th Catholic Day
(convention).

Sept. 1-3, Noerdlingen (Bav): Scharlach
races, horse show, pageant. .
Sept. 1-3, Westerland (SH): German Light
Committee and German Society for Light

Research (meeting).

Sept. 1-3, Hanover (LS): State horse breed-
ing show.

Sept. 1-15, Mainz (RP): Society for Physio-
logical Chemistry and Society for Physio-
logy (congress).

Sept. 2, Bad Harzburg (LS): “Laune des
Verliebten,'’ open-air performance.

Sept. 2-3, Frankfurt (Hes): Seniors’ autumn
boat regatta.

Sept. 2-7, Offenbach/Main
leather goods fair.

Sept. 2-9, Hamburg: Hygienists’ and micro-
biologists’ congress.

Sept. 2-9, Karlsruhe (WB): German Thera-
py Congress with medicaments fair.

Sept. 2-16, Schorndorf-Remstal (WB):
700th anniversary, Daimler commemora-
tion and old automobile show.

Sept. 2-12, Lindau/Lake Constance (Bay):
ERP exhibit in connection with ‘‘Die Welt
der Frau“ (The Woman's World).

Sept. 3, Hamburg: City Park motor cham-
pionship race.

Sept. 3, Fehmarn (SH): Sailing Regatta,
Fehmarn Wander Trophy.

Sept. 3-8, Trier (RP): Special ERP exhibit
for French Zone. .

Sept. 3-17, Trier (RP): International handi-
craft exhibition.

Sept. 4, Duesseldorf (NRW):
begins tour of North Germany.

Sept. 4-8, Frankfurt (Hes): Society of
German Engineers meeting.

Sept. 5-7, Lueneburg (SH): German Agri-
cultural Society Congress.

Sept. 5-30, Mainz (RP): German Physicists
Society Congress.
Sept. 8, Neukirchen

festival.

Sept. 8-10, Frankfurt (Hes): German Civic
Rights Association meeting.

Sept. 8-11, Heidelberg (WB): Astronomical
Society meeting.

Sept. 8-12, Cologne (NRW): Fall Fair and
International Tobacco Fair.

(Hes): Third

ERP train

(Bav):- Pilgrimage

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

62

Sept. 8-Oct. 1, Duesseldorf (NRW): Cabinet-
makers’ exhibition ‘Man and Home.”
Sept. 9, St. Goar (RP): Hansen festival with
illuminations of Rheinfels, Katz und

Maus (Cat and Mouse) castles.

Sept. 9-10, Hamburg: State equestrian
tournament.

Sept. 9-10, Stuttgart,
driving tournament.

Sept. 9-10, Essen (NRW):
autumn regatta.

Sept. 9-11, Bingen (RP): Vintners’ festival.

Sept. 10, Nuremberg (Bav): Circular Course
motor races finals. -

Sept. 11-14, Luebeck (SH): Children’s
Physicians of West Germany meeting.

Sept. 11-14, Wegberg (NRW): Borderland
motor track records week.

Sept. 11-24, Wangen/Allgaeu (Bav): 800th
anniversary.

Sept. 12-16, Bonn (NRW): Neuro-Surgical
Society meeting.

Sept. 13-17, Rendsburg (SH): ERP Pavilion
at West German agriculture show.

Sept. 14, Freiburg (SB): Printing and Paper
Industry Unions, West German Associa-
tion (meeting).

Sept. 14-16, Stuttgart (WB): German Drug-
gists’ Day.

Sept. 14-16, Frankfurt (Hes): ist German
Jurists’ Day.

Sept. 14-16, Karlsruhe (WB):
Steel Association (meeting).

(WB): Riding and

Senior class

Structural

Sept. 14-Oct. 1, Essen (NRW): German
Coal Mining exhibition.

Sept. 15-17, Frankfurt (Hes): German
Publishers’ and Book Dealers’ Trade
Association (meeting). 5

Sept. 15-Oct. 1, Munich (Bav): German

Electro Fair.

Sept. 16-17, Bad Duerkheim (RP): Tradi-
tional ‘‘Sausage Mart," great wine festival.

Sept. 16-18, Cologne (NRW): International
Society for Renovation of Catholic Church
Music.

Sept. 16-24, Bad Kreuznach (RP): Wine
Cultural Congress. .

Sept. 16-25, Riedlingen/Black Forest (WB):
700th anniversary.

Sept. 16-Oct. 1, Munich (Bav): October
festival, with traveling ERP exhibit. _
Sept. 16-Oct. 1, Ansbach (Bav): ERP exhibit.
Sept. 16-25, Bonn and Dortmund (NRW):

ERP truck caravan.
Sept. 17, Wegberg (NRW): Motor races.
Sept. 17, Bonn (NRW): Exaltation Sanctae

Crucis (Erection of the Holy Cross)
festival. E
Sept. 17-22, Frankfurt (Hes): Frankfurt

Fall Fair.

Sept. 18-20, Wiesbaden (Hes): German
Society for Refrigeration Technique
(meeting).

Sept. 18-30, Friedenweiler (WB): Inter-

national conference of Catholic leaders
of public life.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 66 ---
Sept. 19-20, Frankfurt (Hes): Conference
of German and American representatives
concerned with rural community activities
in US Zone.

Sept. 20-23,"Karlsruhe (WB): Harbor Con-
struction Society (meeting).

Sept. 20-26, Munich (Bav): “The Magic
Circle."
Sept. 21-23, Bayreuth (Bav): German

Society for Ceramics (meeting).

Sept. 21-24, Berlin: Riding, jumping and
driving tournament.

Sept. 22-23, Niederpoecking, Starnberg
(Bav): Conference of leadership training
schools’ directors of US Zone and Berlin.

Sept. 22-24, Luebeck (SH): Physicians for
Women's Ailments (meeting).

Sept. 23-Oct. 2, Stuttgart (WB): Cannstatt
folk festival ‘‘on the Wasen.”

Sept. 23-Oct. 8, Brunswick (LS): Lower-
Saxony exhibition, ‘Between the Harz
and the Heath.”

Sept.

25-30, Chiemsee (Bav): Women's
international conference on “Individual
Responsibility of Women in Facing

Crucial Issues of the World Today,”
sponsored by the Women's Affairs staffs
of the US, British and French High Com-
missions.

Sept. 27-Oct. 1, Hamburg: Mineral Sciences
Association (meeting).

Sept. 29-Oct. 8, Cologne (NRW): West
German Hotel and Restaurant Show.

Sept. 30-Oct. 1, Karlsruhe (WB): Inter-
national Dog Show.
Sept. 30-Oct. 8, Neustadt/Haardt (RP):

German wine harvest festival. .
Sept. 30-Oct. 11, Augsburg (Bav): Swabian
Agricultural Exhibition.

October .
Oct. 1-15, Berlin: Berlin, Industry Exhibition.

Oct. 2-6, Bremen: Philosophers’ Congress.
Oct. 8-10, Frankfurt (Hes): German Watch

Oct. 8-11, Bad Pyrmont (NRW): Fourth
German Health Resorts Day.
Oct. 8-11, Bremen: International Congress
for the History of Science.
Oct. 7-9, Gelnhausen (Hes):
Schelmen (Rascals') Mart.
Oct. 14-15, Reinfeld (SH): Traditional carp
festival.

Oct. 14-Nov. 12, Duesseldorf (NRW): Asso-
ciation of German Architects exhibition.

Oct. 15-22, Frankfurt (Hes): German Agri-
culture Fair.

Oct. 23, Vierzehnhéiligen (Bav): Christ the
King Pilgrimage.

Oct. 26-28, Karlsruhe (WB): 125th anni-
versary of Karlsruhe Technical College.

Oct. 29-Nov. 5, Wunsiedel (Bav): Bach
Week (music festival).

October, Weinsberg (WB): ‘‘Weibertreu"’
(Women’s Faith) fall festival.

October, Bad Hersfeld (Hes): Eight days of
Lullus festival — a folk festival 1,000

Traditional

Sept. 24, Berlin: Avus motor races.

Makers (meeting).

years old. -+END

(Continued from page 61)

Washington Report

exposition through information channels than there has
been at any time in the two years of the commission’s life.

The proposals which resulted from the Public Affairs
division's field study and from its policy studies in the
department have been sent to the Budget Bureau in the
form of a request for a supplemental appropriation for
physical facilities and for operating funds. That proposal
is in line with your own statement to the editors, and we
understand that it has been given approval in principle
for the National Security Council. To that, the commission
desires to add its own unanimous endorsement and stress
the urgency of early action.

We think certain considerations are obvious in war-
ranting action before the adjournment of Congress:

The time element is such that the United States must
move as rapidly as possible. We do too little now, and
next year may be too late in many areas.

The propaganda effort of the USSR, now bordering on
open psychological warfare, is a major threat to this
government's foreign policy objectives.

A psychological offensive by the United States based
on truth is essential if the United States is to succeed in
its foreign policy objectives.

The present funding of the USIE program is insufficient
to provide the means effectively to take the psychological
offensive.

The commission is directing a similar communication
to the appropriate chairmen of the Senate and House
committees.

* * *

JEIA Audit for 1947-48

HE DEPARTMENT OF STATE released on June 22 the
report of an international firm of auditors on the audit
of the Joint Export-Import Agency accounts for the years
1947-48. JEIA was the official Military Government agency
which, during the period covered by these accounts,. was

SEPTEMBER 1950

63

responsible for the trade and commerce of the US-UK
Bizonal Area of Germany. The agency's responsibility
was, subsequently, extended to the French Zone as well.
With the formation of the German government late in
1949, JEIA’s responsibilities were gradually assigned to
German agencies, and the organization was terminated
on Dec, 19, 1949. The organization is now in liquidation,
and an audit for the period from Jan. 1 to Sept. 30, 1949,
is now under way, with final audit at date of complete
liquidation. .
Assets on Dec. 31, 1948, consisted of balances in foreign
banks of $296,328,274 and accounts -receivable at
$182,312,474, for a total of $478,640,748. The principal
liabilities were accounts payable at $82,174,711, and the
capital of the agency was $125,355,504, Consisting of equal
US-UK contributions in the manner specified in the bizonal
fusion agreement of Dec. 2, 1946. +END

Birthday for Haus Schwalbach

Haus Schwalbach, the OLC Hesse experiment in com-
munity education, celebrated its first birthday late in
June.

Simultaneously, announcement was made of the ex-
tension of the center's activities into a program for the
counties of Hesse. The first course, conducted by Haus
Schwalbach's trained community experts, was held for
150 citizens of Fritzlar and dealt with discussion tech-
niques in community meetings. Participants belonged to
youth groups, women’s clubs and the adult high schools

To commemorate the first birthday of what is believed
to be the only institute for community education in
western Germany, Haus Schwalbach presented a large
scale festival with film showings, musical presentations,
puppet shows for children, folk dances and an American
weenie-roast.

All 3,500 Hessians who were accommodated during the
first 12 months of the center's existence, as well as many
American, Allied and German dignitaries, were invited
to attend.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
STEEL INDUSTRY IN WESTERN GERMANY

DIAGRAMMATIC MAP OF THE STEEL INOUSTRY IN WESTERN GERMANY. THE
MAP DOES NOT INCLUDE A SMALL PERCENTAGE (LESS THAN ONE PERCENT)
OF THE INDUSTRY IN THE SOUTHERN PART OF THE FRENCH ZONE

B suase runnace rants

BASIC CONVERTER PLANTS Peat

a
tame oven weanrn stants acio sessenen seta rants
te cccinic srenwonns — fHHE cone mans
= nouns mis + wnt Daawine pLases

+> "COLD ROLLING MLS BRIGHT ORAWING PLANTS
“HAMMER AND FORGING MILLS

INTERNATIONAL .
Samm ot “BOUNDARIES sm om eum ZONAL BOUNDARIES CCjEs FED

MILES 0. 5 10 15, 20 25 30 \

BOCHOLT { é “DUELMEN

HALTERN

° WESEL
cee

|WATENSTEDT.,
‘ BSAZETTE.

XANTEN

Keveloer

* ? ‘DINSLAKEN uaphet ‘bie A

Concl. te
koe nc HENGE

Me cate &

GELDERN fit

>, sg Moehne See
NEHEIM
SS

. b ARNSBERG
vd KREFELD ‘ ~ ~
Breyell , i ~
g ‘Suechteln, _[Ratingen™ cok
at DUESSELDORF An
Amern m7 i
MUENCHEN ©
GLADBACH Neuss i Hilden oenscosoteTatto
\6 Sy ‘
RHEYOT 2 * Ohigant " (Finnentrop eee
if LN ND leidlingen of \ “ i BUENO: ‘
Erkelenz \immigrath =f Dhuenn WIPPERFUERTH Cae: col
Z Sy konex! - $y
INS ;
Leverk a7 GUMMERSBACH : : :
o\ Xe ATT bers. GLapBaACH OUPE F/  ichenbach : ~
Ne ‘ 4 * en .
~, (JUELICH j X iseiteleisi= Ruenderoth iF coke oy . “ ce
tuppidwwon SY Steen
-~ \\ DUEREN WAHNERHEIDE A!
Soh Bruehl F Bes
ESCHWEILER roisdod
Ss \ 7] Re Sieg wissen p IA
Stalberg 4 EN Foy sez 088 ©
jf BONN ae 2 , 2 {
2ueveicH/ (HN Atentrchon
eo FUSKIRCHEN. ~ \ eo x
\ fi eee 4 a ~~ Hachenburg”™ LL 2 won
pea | RHEINBACH of : mney )
muen' ; \ |
Gas ‘ane, OOP. camoger OG Westerburg
| SEMONSCHAU™ # é ‘ ge (fe . é y
’ eo Dierdort
| WN sp Miewenee Sinzig m0
Blumenthal ene, <
ANDERNACH UIER SB MONTABAUR’
d —— Adenou A
st 4 Mayen > | Bod Ems
_Nieder-t 5 ‘ ©

INFORMATION BULLETIN 64 SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 68 ---
West German Steel Industry

Survey and Review reprinted from Monthly Report for May
of the Control Commissioner for Germany (British Element)

There are many parallels to be found in the story of the German steel industry
in the periods immediately following the two major wars within 30 years. After
the first World War Germany had lost some 36 percent of her raw steel
capacity; in 1945 at the end of‘the last war some 50 percent of her existing
capacity was out of action. This was mainly due to the complete breakdown of
power and gas supplies and Allied experts were surprised that damage from
Allied bombing had not proved more extensive.

Germany's raw steel production, which in 1913, including the Alsace-Lor-
taine and Saar aréas, had amounted to 18,935,000 tons, had fallen to under
6,500,000 tons in 1923. The pig-iron production in the same areas, amounting
to 19,309,000 tons in 1913, had dropped to slightly less than 5,000,000 tons after
the first World War. In all comparisons between conditions in the 1930's and the
present occupation period, statistical difficulties arise from the fact that prewar
data refers generally to the area covered by the Greater Reich.

In addition it must be remembered that 1936 and 1938 statistics represent a
period in which Germany was actively building up armaments on a scale un-
paralleled in world history. Consequently her steel requirements were swollen
not only by the armaments themselves but by all the capital constructional work
associated with war potential. It has been estimated, however, that in 1938 the
steel industry of the area now covered by the western zones of occupation pro-

duced 17,902,000 tons of raw steel and-15,176,000 tons of pig iron.

N 1945, IN THE FIRST seven months of the occupation,
less than 300,000 tons raw steel was produced; while in
1946, the first year for which full statistics are available
raw steel production amounted to 2,551,000 tons and pig
iron production 2,083,00 tons. From that level, taking the
1946 production figure as 100 percent, production develop-
ment has since progressed at the following rate:
1947 — 120 percent.
1948 — 218 percent.
1949 — 359 percent.

In 1949, production reached 9,156,000 tons for raw steel
and 7,140,000 tons for pig iron; during the first months of
1950 an average production representing approximately
the annual total of 11,100,000 tons (the present permitted
steel quota under the Washington Agreement of April
1949) was achieved. In the face of the many difficulties
this represents a remarkable achievement and a basic
contribution to western Germany's economic recovery.

During the present postwar period, production prob-
lems were entirely due to fuel shortages and production
was always limited by this single overriding factor. It is
true on the other hand that, had sufficient fuel been
available, other difficulties and “bottlenecks” would
certainly have arisen. Contrary to the situation in other
industrial branches, in the western German steel industry,
for example, difficulties in the labor field, especially up
to the time of currency reform in June 1948, did not in
fact serve to influence production development because
of the limitation already imposed by the fuel situation.
The same considerations may be applied with regard to

SEPTEMBER 1950

65

other factors which might have hampered production —
the lack of investment credits for essential repair and
modernization of plant and the general postwar un-
certainty and instability of ithe internal and export
markets.

It must also be emphasized that at no time during the
occupation period has production been held up by lack
of plant capacity. Unlike the situation existing after the
first World War when Germany lost more than 70 per-
cent of the high grade ores at her disposal, in 1945, in
relation to the low production program, there were no
real ore shortages. Later a shortage in some expensive
alloys developed. In the early 1920's the losses of high
grade ores made German steelmakers partially dependent
upon the low grade German ores of the Siegerland and
Lahn areas.

In the late 1940's, by the time that the improved fuel
supplies permitted increased production, currency reform
and dollar funds from Economic Co-operation Administra-
tion sources made possible the import of foreign ores. In
1948, 2,500,000 tons were imported, largely from Sweden
and in the following years this figure was raised to ap-
proximately 4,000,000 tons. Moreover, the period 1945-1948
was bridged by plentiful supplies of scrap metal from
within Germany.

FTER THE FIRST World War in order to counter its
many difficulties and to balance the loss of Lorraine,
the German steel industry turned to a policy of concentra-
tion in the Ruhr. The ideal natural conditions prevailing

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
in the Ruhr area, with its collieries and dense network of
railroads and canals, were fully utilized by German
economic planners in the development of large’ vertical
combines. By 1939 six great concerns controlled 90 percent
of Ruhr steel and two-thirds of -coal production. The
largest, the Vereinigte Stahlwerke, alone accounted for
nearly 50 percent of the crude steel production and
owned some 20 percent of the Ruhr coal mines. The de-
concentration of these great concerns and the restoration
of a balanced German steel production in relation to

‘normal peacetime requirements have been major ob:
jectives of Allied occupation policy.

Germany has always been one of the important pro-
ducers of raw steel and between the two World Wars her
share in world production amounted to between 10 and
15 percent. In 1936, for example, with the Nazi govern-
ment’s rearmament policy already under way, western
Germany, excluding the Saar, produced more than
16,000,000 tons of raw steel against France's 6,708,000 tons
and the United Kingdom's 11,973,000 tons. It has been es-
timated that by 1939 the Greater Reich probably possessed
a raw steel capacity of more than 23,000,000 tons.

Following the capitulation in 1945 the industry incurred
certain definite losses. The Soviet Zone of Germany
possessed an original capacity of 1,800,000 tons which
has probably been cut by war damage and reparations
to a little more than 1,000,000 tons at the present day.
The Saar territory represents a capacity of a further
2,500,000 tons.

Up to the time of the Petersberg Agreement last
November, when a halt to further ‘dismantling was called,
some 6,700,000 tons capacity had been lost through repa-
rations. In accordance with the terms of the Washington
Agreement the West German industry had been limited
to a capacity of 13,700,000 tons with an annual production
of 11,100,000 tons.

As a result of the more recent Petersberg Agreement,
probably a further 900,000 tons capacity has been per-
mitted to remain. The potential capacity for the West
German industry at the present day therefore may
amount to approximately 14,500,000 tons. The permitted
annual production, however — again restated in Allied
High Commission Law 24, promulgated May 9, 1950 — re-
mains 11,100,000 tons of crude steel.

HE STEEL INDUSTRY remaining to the western zones

may be divided roughly as follows: British Zone: 83
percent of total West German capacity centered in the
Ruhr and 10 percent exists in other British Zone areas —
Siegerland and Osnabrueck; US Zone, five percent, French
Zone, two percent.

The tasks confronting the Western Occupation Powers
with regard to the steel industry remaining under their
control have been threefold: the implementation of the
dismantling and reparations program; the promotion of
the West German steel industry, so basically essential
for the economic recovery of western Germany as a
whole; and, finally, the deconcentration and reorganiza-
tion of the steel industry remaining to western Germany,
after reparations and dismantling are complete. These

INFORMATION BULLETIN

66

tasks have been and, where incomplete, are still being
carried out simultaneously.

It should be emphasized from the outset that in spite of
various German arguments to the contrary, the technical
progress and production development of industry have
been in no way impaired by the measures undertaken in
the fields of reparations and reorganization work.

The basic problem of fuel shortages made higher pro-
duction levels in fact out of question during the early
postwar period. Allied efforts were more conducive to
raising the level of production than to keeping it down.
High policy decisions taken in the early years of the
occupation ito increase German coal production, for
example, were largely designed to cover the fuel shortages
in the steel industry. The level of industry, originally fixed
under the Potsdam Agreement at 4,600,000 tons, has been
lifted by stages to 6,700,000 and finally 11,100,000 tons for
the western zones. The policy of encouraging production
and eliminating cartels and war potential has proceeded
hand in hand without interruption to the present time
when the daily production rate is equivalent to the per-
mitted annual figure of 11,100,000 tons.

ITH THE COMPLETION of the reparations and dis-

mantling program and the reaching of the present
production limit, a new phase of the occupation develop-
ed. The Allied Military Security Board, in accordance
with the terms of Allied High Commission Law 24, will in
the future be responsible for insuring that German steel
production conforms with the requirements laid down by
international agreement.

On Aug. 20, 1946, the British military governor (at that
time, Marshal of the Royal Air Force Sir Sholto Douglas)
made a statement to the Four-Power Allied Control
Council on British policy regarding the pattern of
ownership of the German steel industry. Subsequently,
in the British Zone, in accordance with General Order 7,
pursuant to Law 52 of the Allied Control Council, the
North German Iron and Steel Control was formed to imple-
ment the stated policy of decohcentration and reorganiza-
tion. The British control staff appointed to this body
enlisted expert German assistance and formed the Trustee
Administration of the North German Iron and Steel Control.

The first and most important step was to separate the
main steel producing plants, not scheduled for dis-
mantling, from their parent concerns. This complicated
and intricate task was named “Operation Severance.” As
a result of its implementation, 24 new independent
companies were formed to operate the main steel pro-
ducing works and the shares of these companies were
held in trusteeship by the Trustee Administration on be-
half of Military Government.

Important benefits to the industry were derived from
the operation. It provided for the first time a clear picture
of the finances of the steel producing industry and per-
mitted the British authorities to cure the very serious fi-
nancial ills which were afflicting the industry at that time.

Secondly, it enabled changes to be made in the manage-
ments of the steel works which were given increased

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 70 ---
independence and greater responsibilities than they had
previously enjoyed under the old combines. The employ-
ment of the best managerial talent in these steel producing
companies undoubtedly stimulated the increase in pro-
duction.

The third important benefit was the reform made in the
field of labor and social problems. Opportunity was taken
under “Operation Severance” to grant to the trades unions
some measure of their long cherished aim of co-determi-
nation — the trades unions and the workers in the plants
were given a large degree of representation on the super-
visory boards of the companies. The management boards
were strengthened by. the addition of a labor director to
the usual commercial and technical directors.

S A RESULT of these reforms the workers shared in
the responsibilities of management and the industry
has been remarkably free from labor troubles. No strikes
or stoppages of work occurred, even in the days before
currency reform when the steel workers’ wages were
practically worthless. In addition, as a result of this re-
cognition by British Military Government, the Trades
Union Federation has given valuable help in the work of
reorganizing the German iron and steel industry and
relations have been harmonious and _ co-operative
throughout. |
Following the economic fusion of the British and
American zones, Military Government Laws 75, pro-
mulgated on Nov. 10, 1948, provided the legal basis for

the principles under which the reorganization and de-
concentration of the German heavy industries was to be
carried out. Accordingly, at the beginning of 1949, the
North German Iron and Steel Control became a bipartite
body — the UK-US Steel Group.

In addition, in December 1948, the British and American
military governors extended an invitation to the French
military governor to participate in the important work of
reorganization before trizonal fusion took place. As the
result, in April 1949, when joined by a French element,
the UK-US Steel Group became the Combined Steel Group
with its headquarters in Duesseldorf.

The group consists of a board of three Allied chairmen
with deputy and alternate members. Under the board
there is tripartite secretariat and three functional sections
— finance and reorganization, production, and distribu-
tion, which are headed by the British, American and
French chairmen respectively. The staff of each of these
functional sections contains representatives of all three
national elements and is fully integrated.

Following upon the promulgation of Allied High Com-
mission Law 27 it is proposed to add a fourth section to
deal with property control and liquidation functions which
will result from the group's assuming financial control
over the assets of the concerns listed in Schedule "A" to
the law. In spite of the vast extent and ramifications of
its responsibilities and work, the Allied staff of the group

is quite small, consisting of only 36 Allied officials, in-

cluding 13 secretaries and clerks.

THOUSAND P THOUSAND
TONS Crude Steel Production in Western Germany, 1945-1950 TONS
1,100 1,100
1,000 A 1,000

900 - 900
1950 r
800 800
700 700
1949 a A A A : Fi A
The leveling off, and in some instances, drop in steel production during the winter
months is seasonal and due mainly to lower demands in the constructional branches
600 during these months. In 1949 the falling off of orders due to credit difficulties among 600
consumers was exceptional. It will be noted, however, that had it not been for these
abnormal conditions, in this year also production would have remained static during OR pss
the autumn months. The spring rise in production, which may be noted each year, en Vince
500 is similarly a seasonal condition coinciding with increased demands. In 1950 this was AO pre 500
espgcially marked in view of German Federal Government sponsored reconstruction rs Omdyen™
projects and the release of European Co-operation Administration counterpart funds, 4 mek wee
1 eaeseersGove™
400 Sune wha ew 400
eaAnorges
| “CURRENCY con
REFORM“
300
200 2
a °°
1946
100 100
° 1945 0
JANUARY — FEBRUARY = MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER © NOVEMBER DECEMBER

SEPTEMBER 1950

67

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
The policy, instituted by the North German Iron and
Steel Control, of delegating responsibilities and work as
far as possible to German organizations and to German
personnel, has been continued. The group reports to and
is responsible for implementing the directives of the
Economics Committee of the Allied High Commission.

N SEPTEMBER 1949, iin accordance with the terms of

MG Laws 75 a new German organization, the Steel
Trustee ‘Association was constituted. This body consists
of 11 trustees, nominated by various German public bodies
and appointed by the Allied authorities. Personalities
have been chosen with a knowledge of the various tech-
nical, financial, labor and social aspects of the industry.

The importance of German trades union participation
in the work of the reorganization was recognized in the
appointment of four trades-union nominees. It has been
emphasized by the Allied authorities from the outset,
however, that the trustees, following their appointment
to the association, are expected to work as a public body
of experts, and not as representatives of a particular view-
point or group of interests.

The Steel Trustee Association has been charged with
the task of preparing plans for the reorganization of the
German steel industry under the supervision of the Allied
Steel Group. A managing committee, consisting of three
of its members, has been formed «and various technical
committees have been constituted to.consider specific
problems of reorganization work.

The Steel Trustee Association has taken up the threads
of reorganization from the former Trustee Administration
created by Military Government in October 1946. The
chief of that organization, Heinrich Dinkelbach, together
with two of his assistants, Dr. Deist and Heinrich Meier,
have become members of the Steel Trustee Association.
Mr. Dinkelbach and Dr. Deist are also members of the
three-member managing committee, which carries the
main burden of co-ordinating the work of the association
and of maintaining regular contact between the German
kody and the Combined Steel Group. Reorganization plans
when completed by the German Steel Trustee Association
will be subject to Allied High Commission approval.

In addition to reorganization planning the association
has also taken over the task of administering the ‘‘segre-
gated companies," previously performed by the Trustee
Administration of the North German Iron and Steel
Control. Members of the association have been elected
to the supervisory boards of the ‘segregated companiies.”

ILITARY GOVERNMENT Laws 75 were designed to

decentralize the German economy for the purpose
of eliminating excessive concentrations of economic
power and preventing the development of a war potential.
According to the preamble of the laws the restoration
of a pattern of ownership which would constitute ex-
cessive concentration of economic power, and the return
to positions of ownership and control of those persons
who have been found or may be found to have furthered
the aggressive designs of the National Socialist Party
was also to be prevented. It was emphasized that the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

reorganization should be carried out with a view to the
promotion of the recovery of the German economy.
Furthermore it was stated that the question of the
eventual ownership of the German coal and iron and
steel industries should be left to the determination of a
representative, freely-elected German government.

With the setting up of the Allied High Commission it
became necessary to issue a tripartite law in this field
applicable to the whole area of the Federal Republic.
Accordingly on May 17, 1950, the Allied High Com-
mission- promulgated Law 27 on the Reorganization of
the German Coal and Iron and Steel Industries* in which
most of the main provisions coincide with those already
laid down in MG Laws 75. In the course of revision,
however, advantage has been taken of the opportunity
to make some changes and improvements in amplification
of the intentions of the old Laws 75.

One change is that, according to Article V of the new
law dealing with the treatment of liabilities and claims, °
some or all of the existing liabilities of the old combines
may be assumed by the new unit companies. Under
Law 75 it had been provided that the assets involved
would be transferred free of charges and encumbrances.
This new provision is mainly of interest to foreign
creditors whose claims are expressed in foreign cur-
rencies which may not be available for the discharge of
the liability for some years to come. The new article also
confirms the Allied intention to protect employees and
former employees of the enterprises from which assets
are to be transferred in respect of pensions and other
benefits incidental to or resulting from their employment.

A new provision, contained in Article XIII of Allied
High Commission Law 27, consists of the establishment of
a board of review, comprising nominees appointed by the
individual Allied high commissioners. This board will be
available to consider and pronounce judgment upon any
problem arising in the course of the implementation of
the law which may be referred to it by the Allied High
Commission. In addition the board will have jurisdiction
to review, on the petition of any interested person, any
order issued in connection with the distribution to |
claimants to the extent of determining whether the |
distribution so made has afforded fair and equitable
treatment.

HE PRINCIPAL CHANGE in form which hes been
made in the new law relates to the legal basis
governing the right of the Allied High Commission to
seize and transfer the assets which are involved and by
which they will exercise control over these assets pending
seizure. Under the old laws this control had been derived
from MG Law 52 and in the new law the necessary rights
have been embodied in the law itself without reference
to Law 52. The effect of this has been to simplify the law
and make it self-contained.
The promulgation of Allied High Commission Law 27
has confirmed the authorities and powers of the Combined
Steel Group and of the Steel Trustee Association. The

* For text, see Information Bulletin, July 1950 issue, page 64:

SEPTEMBER, 1950

--- Page 72 ---
association, working under the supervision of the group,
will continue to plan the reorganization of the industry
and final plans will be subject to Allied approval.

While these complicated legal and financial problems
concerning reorganization planning were being solved,
on the technical side the legacy of postwar difficulties
was gradually being overcome. In the early days, in the
British Zone, production control responsibility rested with
the Metallurgy Branch of the Economics Division of
British Military Government. Teams of Allied experts
made a rapid survey of the industry in order to establish
the degree of destruction and the possibilities of an early
resumption of production. It became at once apparent
that the equipment of the industry had suffered by dis-
ruption rather than direct damage.

As already stated the greatest difficulties were en-
countered in the field of fuel and power supplies — the
coal industry and public power grids were out of action
and existing supplies scarcely sufficed to cover the most
urgent emergency requirements. In spite of the difficulties
encountered it was decided that an immediate effort
should be made to insure that even with the limited
quantities of fuel, gas and energy available, production
should recommence and the best balance of output be-
tween one steel product and another obtained.

At an early date a body of German experts from the
German Iron Workers’ Union was- assembled for the
purpose of implementing the instructions of the Metal-
lurgy Branch. It was with the aid of this organization
that in the four months ended Dec. 31, 1945, the industry
succeeded in producing the modest total of 272,588 tons
of raw steel. In the middle of 1946 the German side of
the organization became the official German Ad-
ministrative Office of the steel-iron industry with its seat
in Duesseldorf.

This office functioned at first under the Economic Ad-
ministration at Minden, and later, following the economic
fusion of the UK-US Zone early in 1947, under the
Economic Administration in Frankfurt. The organization
has ultimately developed into the official iron-steel
agency of the federal government which, in April 1949,
in accordance with trizonal fusion, also became re-
sponsible for the steel industry of the French Zone.

T WAS NOT UNTIL 1946 that the commencement of

detailed planning became possible. A system of steel
allocation for disposal by the various functional branches
operating under the direction of a Ruhr Economic Planning
Subcommittee was then introduced. It was the function
of this planning subcommittee to inform the Metallurgy
Branch of the resources available in fuel, gas and energy
from one quarter to another. The Metallurgy Branch, in
turn, advised the Economic Committee of the steel ton-
nage they could make available for disposal.

Under this system, production was increased in 1946 to
a little more than 2,500,000 tons in those product forms
deemed most essential for the recovery program as a
whole.

There was, moreover, the additional guarantee that
those products would in turn find their way to those

SEPTEMBER 1950

69

consumers in most urgent need — the mining industry,
railroads and public utilities. Subsequently, in the pro-
duction field also, in line with general Allied occupation
policy, executive control has been handed over progres-
sively to the German authorities. At an early stage, for
example, the allocation of coal to the individual plants
became a German responsibility. The fixing of production
quotas between the various plants in accordance with
demand and fuel availability also became a task of the
German Administrative Office for the Steel-Iron Industry.

The early postwar manpower difficulties inherent in all

* industrial branches before currency reform also affected

the steel industry, although not to the same extent, in
view of the over-riding influence of the fuel factor. Cur-
rency reform in June 1948, which gave a tremendous
impetus to German economic recovery, including the
German mining industry, also in turn increased fuel
availability and demands upon the German steel industry.
Prior to that date the low production level in the industry
inevitably resulted in a low output per man per hour in
view of the large numbers involved in the so-called un-
productive processes.

OLLOWING CURRENCY reform the steel production

graph indicated a sharp upward trend. Before that
date undernourishment, lack of skilled labor and the low
purchasing power of wages were factors which tended to
hinder the recruitment and build-up of an efficient labor
force. It has been estimated that in 1946 more than 20 per-.
cent of the workers were underweight and 50 percent
of the trainees undernourished.

In an official report issued after currency reform, the
German Trade Union Federation pointed out that the
initial low output in the steel industry had been partly
due to bad living and feeding conditions. While the coal
miners were in receipt of special rations and other in-
centives in kind, the steel workers received no special
benefits. In spite of this fact, individual efficiency starting
at an extremely low level, showed a steady increase
especially in the period following currency reform.

Comparisons of prewar and postwar labor efficiency are
difficult since much depends upon the type of product,
degree of standardization of the product and the degree
mechanization processes involved. The prewar output per
man according to works capacity amounted to 90-105
tons per man per year. In some instances in the integrated
steel works in the Ruhr the peacetime level of efficiency
has now been reached although on an industry-wide basis
output per man per year is still considerably below the
prewar level.

It should be noted, however, that this situation does not
arise from the fact that at the present day there is a lower
standard of individual efficiency. More workers have to
be employed in auxiliary services; technical equipment is
in urgent need of modernization and repair; and the
effects of war damage are still apparent.

UE TO THE CONSIDERABLE rise in living costs, the
“real income” of the steel worker is still well below
the 1936 level. His wages, however, are well above the
average level of industrial workers in the federal area as

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
a whole. In December 1949, average weekly wages in
the steel and iron producing industries amounted to
DM 70.5 per week compared with the average industrial
wage of DM 58.5. The increased purchasing power of the
steel worker's wages following currency reform has un-
doubtedly played an important part in increased per-
formances.

The rights of co-decision. granted to the employees in
the segregated works led to a definite strengthening of
the will to work and gave the workers an additional

interest in their firms. Social benefits have also been .

introduced which have not only raised performance
capacity but have also improved morale. Perhaps the
most striking evidence of the success of these social and
labor reforms in the industry is provided in the fact that
even in the days before currency reform when wages
were practically worthless and no special benefits were
available to the steel workers, the rate of absenteeism
was not high in comparison with other industries and in
no case was production hindered by lack of labor.

Assessments of comparative figures of those employed
in the industry before and after the war are difficult but
the following approximate figures give an indication of
the build-up of the labor force during the occupation
period. In the area now comprising the Federal Republic
in 1936, 256,700 were employed in the iron and steel pro-
ducing industry, including foundries. In 1939 this figure
had risen to 427,600. On Dec. 31, 1947, only 208,265 were
employed but the figure has risen steadily since that date
— Dec. 31, 1948, to 286,751 and Dec. 31, 1949, to 328,056.

HE FINANCIAL POSITION of the West German steel

industry, consequent upon the general collapse of the
German economic system, is extremely complicated. The
industry undoubtedly suffers from a lack of the necessary
investment credits for repair work, modernization and new
construction projects. While any estimates of the invest-
ment requirements must be necessarily problematical,
German assessments varying between DM 1,000,000,000
and 1,500,000,000 may be regarded as exaggerated. By
Feb, 28, 1950, investments to the extent of approximately
DM _ 265,700,000 had been implemented in the case of
“segregated companies. Of this total approximately
DM 96,100,000 was expended on new plant; DM 114,400,000
for rebuilding and DM 55,200,000 for repair work.

By March 1950, the former concerns, inclusive of pro-
cessing plant, had invested approximately a further
DM _ 300,000,000. Of the total investments to date, more
than DM 220,000,000 has been provided by the industry
itself. Further sums amounting to approximately
DM 55,000,000 have been made available from Economic
Co-operation Administration counterpart funds. In cases
where these funds are to be invested for the purpose of
new projects involving an increase in capacity, in ac-
cordance with the terms of the Washington Agreement,
licenses from the Military Security Board are required.

The profits in the industry vary considerably within
the individual plants and are strongly influenced by steel
prices and primary costs. At the time of the capitulation

INFORMATION BULLETIN

70

in 1945 the selling price of steel, in spite of the enormous
increase in production costs, was still pegged by the
German authorities at 1938 levels. By a decision of the
Allied Control Council the price of steel could not be
increased without Four-Power agreement and it proved
impossible to persuade all four Occupation Powers that a
reasonable increase in steel prices was desirable. In
consequence steel was being produced at a loss of at least
RM 50 per ton and in order to recommence production
it was necessary to provide subsidies from the British
Zone budget to the extent of RM 50 per ton. This situation
continued until April 1948, when quadripartite approval
to the price increases was no longer necessary.

The heavy subsidizing of thé German steel industry
might be regarded as an additional reason for “Operation
Severance" since it was necessary to insure that the
subsidies were in fact used exclusively to promote pro-
duction and were not dissipated in the manifold activities
of the large combines.

TEEL PRICES WERE regulated on April 1, 1948, for

the first time under the occupation, in relation to the
increases in German internal coal prices and the fixing
of scrap metal prices. On Aug. 1, 1948, following currency
reform, coal prices were again increased and a further
rise in the prices of power and raw materials followed.
Subsequently increased freight rates resulted in a further
rise in the costs of the iron and steel industry, which is
largely dependent on rail transportation for the movement
of raw materials in bylk. Contracts for the import of
foreign ores had originally been made upon a dollar basis
and this also led to some increase in costs following
Deutsche-mark devaluation.

Since early this year, however, the German industry
has been in a position to make direct purchases of ore
from foreign importers. With the exception of slight
changes made in the prices of various products in Novem-
ber 1949, the tariff for the industry laid down by the
Bizonal Economic Administration in April 1948, remains
unchanged. The increased costs of raw materials and fuel
supplies during these years, on the other hand, has to
some extent been balanced by the substantial decrease in
running costs in line with the considerable rise in pro-
duction.

The fact that the industry is now making substantial
profits is evidenced in the large sums which it has been
able to make available for capital construction.

Since the war the position of Germany in relation to
other major steel producing countries has undergone a
radical change. While Great Britain, in relation to the
global increases in production, has maintained her original
share of between nine and 10 percent, Germany's contri-
bution has fallen from almost 15 percent in 1936 to six
percent in 1949.

Before the war Germany exported considerable quanti-
ties of steel products — 60-70 percent of her trade being
destined for other European countries and the remainder
largely for South and Central America. After the war, steel
export trade shifted largely from Germany to the remain-

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 74 ---
ing four great exporting steel] producers (Belgium-Luxem-
bourg, France, Great Britain and the United States). The
development is illustrated by the following table:

Export of finished steel of the main exporting countries in 1,000 t

Country 1936 1938 19481949
Western Germany *2,074 1,606 164 479
Belgium-! Luxembourg 2,740 2,077 3,020 3,500
France ; 1,222 > 1,028 574 1,600
Great Britain 1,400 1,385 1,407 1,650
United States « 1,070 1,547 3,619 4,500

* Rearmament years

OR THE FIRST TIME in the postwar period, in the

second half of 1947, the German iron and steel in-
dustry exported the small quantity of 4,000 tons. In 1948,
exports rose to approximately 164,000 tons and in 1949
the level of 479,000 tons was reached. During 1950, there
has been a steady increase in export trade. For the
Marshall Plan year 1949-50 approval had been given for
the export of 900,000 tons. This level had already been
reached by the end of March. When the level of steel
production was originally fixed, it was not expected that
Germany would export large quantities of steel but would
consider it more profitable to export products made from
steel with a high labor content.

Up to December 1948, the Joint Export-Import Agency
controlled exports. After that date the Allied organization
confined itself to the control of products on the so-called
“reserved list" and to export to countries on the restricted
list. Since May 10, 1950, while still retaining control over
“reserved products,” the Allied authorities no longer
supervise exports to restricted countries.

Under present marketing conditions German prices are
competitive with those of other exporting countries. While

prices for some items have been higher, prices in other
instances are lower. Moreover, the general level of export
prices is dropping and the order position is at the moment
satisfactory.

The future development of the West German steel
industry is obviously dependent upon many factors. Many
questions are at the moment left open. The announcement
by French Foreign Minister Schuman of proposals for the
unification of the French and German heavy industries
in April has to some extent created an entirely new
position, and it will be some time before the full effects
of the possible implementation of this plan upon the
industry can be discerned.

In the meantime the promulgation of Allied High Com-
mission Law 27 has reaffirmed the intention of the Allied
Occupation Authorities to reorganize the industry in ac-
cordance with principles already stated.

T THE MOMENT also Germany's production quota

for crude steel remains at 11,100,000 tons, nor has any
official request from the federal government for the re-
vision of this quota been received by the Allied High
Commission.

For the present, whether the industry can maintain its
present relatively high production rate will depend largely
upon the credits available in the main steel consumer
branches — the mining industry, federal railroads, ship-
building and the building trade. The falling off in pro-
duction in the autumn of 1949 due to cancellation of
orders through credit shortages among the major con-
sumers, is symptomatic of the dependence of the industry
upon the stability of the internal market. -+-END

More Help to Youth Urged

HE KOREAN SITUATION ‘should influence the

American people to extend more, not less, help to
German youth," said Mrs, Jouett Shouse of Washington,
D.C., chairman of the General Clay Committee for Ger-
man Youth Assistance, on stopping in Frankfurt recently.
She visited GYA installations in Germany for eight weeks
before departing for the United States Aug. 12.

“During my trips around Germany it has been made
most clear to me," Mrs. Shouse said, “that the Western
Germans realize a close similarity between North and
South Korea and East and West Germany. At this time,
it is of the highest importance that we Americans should
accept every opportunity to show the German people that
we stand four-square behind them against the threat of
Communism and that we are endeavoring to co-operate in
every proper way to build up a democratic form of govern-
ment founded upon real values and lasting principles.

“Certainly one of the most effective ways to demon-
strate that fact is to lend our efforts to help German
youth to help themselves. GYA, instituted by our Army,
is the natural medium for our efforts in that direction.

“Last year the improvement over 1948 was very
marked," Mrs. Shouse said, “and this year I observe many

SEPTEMBER 1950

71

forward steps since 1949, The whole GYA project seems
to me now on a firm foundation. I believe it will carry
on effectively throughout such period as American forces
remain in Germany and that when we leave the German
people themselves, realizing its value, will desire to
continue it. Indeed, one of the most heartening features
of the whole situation is the recognition by Germans
throughout the American zone of the value and impor-
tance of the work being done. As a result there have
been numerous contributions from that source, increasing
as time goes on." +END

Adult Education Studied

Student groups attending Frankfurt University are pre-
sently studying the problems and programs of adult edu-
cation in a HICOG-sponsored seminar. This new seminar
was introduced by Heinrich Weinstock, ‘professor of
philosophy and education at the university. An initial
class of from 50 to 75 students participated in a study
group dealing with the nature and aims of adult education.

Students are simultaneously preparing themselves for
teacher jobs at Hessian adult education schools.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Personnel Notes

Shepard Stone Succeeds Nicholson

Ralph Nicholson resigned in August as director of the
Office of Public Affairs and turned over his post to
Shepard Stone, deputy director since November 1949.

Mr. Nicholson's resignation was accepted to permit him
to return to newspaper publishing in the United States.

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy, pointing out the
contributions Mr. Nicholson has made, paid informal
tribute to the retiring director. The program of education
designed to assist, advise and persuade the German
government and people to accept the fundamentals of
democracy — the focal point of occupation objectives —
was shaped and given direction by Mr. Nicholson. During
a period of international tension, Mr. Nicholson, in a
pivotal position, succeeded in solving many complex
problems, the High Commissioner stated. He expressed
profound regret over Mr. Nicholson's departure.

Mr. Stone is on leave of absence from The New York
Times, where he was assistant Sunday editor. After
graduating from Dartmouth, he attended the universities
of Heidelberg and Berlin from 1929 to 1933 and received
from the latter the Ph. D. degree in history. A staffer for
The New York Times since 1934, he came to Frankfurt in
November 1949. He served with the US Army from 1942
to 1946, attaining the rank of lieutenant colonel,

Mr. Stone is the author of ‘Shadow Over Europe — the
Challenge of Nazi Germany” and co-editor of “We Saw
It Happen.”

It was immediately after the sale of the New Orleans
Item, a daily newspaper he had owned and published since

Ralph Nicholson, retiring director of the Office of Public
Affairs (right), greeted Gardner Cowles, publisher of
“Look,” at Rhine-Main -Air Base when the magazine
publisher arrived late in July for a conference with High
Commissioner McCloy. Mr. Nicholson has resigned his
important HICOG post to return to the newspaper publish-
ing field in the United States. (USAFE photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

72

Shepard Stone.
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

1941, that Mr. Nicholson came to Germany. He arrived
here at the invitation of Mr. McCloy in July 1949, Mr.
Nicholson has been co-owner and vice-president of the
Tampa Daily Times and of Radio Station WDAE in Tampa,
Fla., since 1933, He and Mrs. Nicholson plan to sail for the
United States in early September.

Dale Noble Returns to USA

Dale Noble, director of the Political Affairs Division for
OLC Hesse, resigned his position and returned to the
United States in mid-July.

A native of Fargo, S.D., Mr. Noble holds degrees from
Michigan State Normal College and the University of
Chicago. In February 1948 he joined OMG Hesse, after
service with the Civil Administration Division of OMGUS.

A former staff member of the Michigan Municipal
League, he has served as personnel director for the state
of West Virginia, with the US Civil Service Commission,
and as assistant director of personnel for NHA/FPHA,

His wife and two children returned with Mr. Noble to
their home in Ann Arbor, Mich.

Doyle New Supervising Consul-General

The post of supervising consul-general for Germany,
located in Frankfurt, was taken over by Albert M. Doyle
at the end of July. He replaces Marshall M. Vance, who
held the position from September 1946.

Mr. Doyle has been with the foreign service since 1922
and for the past three years served as inspector in Mexico,
Panama, Central America and the Carribean area. He
was consul-general in Amsterdam from 1945 to 1947.

Retirement came for Mr. Vance after service with the
State Department since 1921, He has held posts in con-
sulates at Colombo, Ceylon; Windsor and Fort William,
Canada; Port Arthur, Manchuria and Lyon, France. In May
1946 he was appointed counselor of the mission in Berlin
and four months later was assigned to the Frankfurt post.

Mr. Vance received a “length of service’ certificate
and medal for meritorious service from US High Com-
missioner John J. McCloy in December 1949,

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 76 ---
Francis Lane Named to Gibraltar
Another shift in US consular staffs took place in Berlin.
Francis A. Lane, US vice-consul and consul in Berlin for
more than four years, has been reassigned as consul at
Gibraltar. The consul gen-
eral in Madras, India,
Robert B. Streeper, has
been named his successor.
Mr. Lane was to partici-
pate in routine consulta-
tions in Washington before
taking up his new post.
Until Mr. Streeper’s ar-
rival in Berlin in October
or November, Bryant Buck-
ingham of the consulate
staff will serve as consul.
A member of the State
Department Foreign Ser-
vice for 21 years, Mr.Lane
has served in posts at Bre-
men and Stuttgart, Vienna,
and in the Irish Free State, During the war he was on the
staff of the Supreme Headquarters, AEF, and the staff of
the US Political Adviser for German Affairs, SHAEF.
Mr. Streeper has served almost exclusively in Far
Eastern posts since joining the Foreign Service in 1924.

Francis A. Lane.
(US Amy photo)

Judge Colbert Sworn In

At ceremonies in the US courthouse in Munich, Senior
Magistrate Marvin B. Colbert was sworn in as a US district
judge before a special session of the District Court for the
VIUth Judicial District.

He succeeds Judge James H. Guthrie of Dallas, Tex.,
who resigned recently to return to the United States.

Leo M. Goodman, chief presiding district judge for
Bavaria, welcomed Judge Colbert as an “impartial, learned
and humane judge.”

Judge Colbert is a member of the Texas state bar, and
since 1948 has held office as a Military Government
summary court judge and as senior magistrate in Munich.

Mrs. Colbert is president of the Munich German-Ameri-
can Women's Club.

Neumann ROA Vice-President

Not until he had received the list of officers elected at
the 24th annual convention of the Reserve Officers
Association from the United States did E. K. Neumann
know he had been elected vice-president for the European
Theater,

Mr. Neumann, chief of the Public Affairs Division, OLC
Hesse, holds a reserve commission of lieutenant colonel
in the US Air Force Reserve. He is also president of the
Wiesbaden Chapter of the ROA, and Air Force representa-
live for the European Department of the ROA, a position
to which he was re-elected at a convention in May.

The OLC Hesse official has served as a member of the
New Mexico legislature and as attorney-general for the
state, and has held counselor posts with the federal
government. During World War II he served with Air

SEPTEMBER 1950

73

Force Intelligence in Washington until his transfer to
Military Government in October 1943,

New Dollar Drive Officials

Two new members were added to the staff of the Export
Promotion (Dollar Drive) Branch of HICOG's Office of
Economic Affairs and the
ECA Special Mission to
Western Germany during
July. Volker Koch-Weser
was appointed deputy chief
of the branch and William
E. Rothfelder will concen-
trate on promotion of tour-
ism and invisible exports.

Mr. Koch-Weser is on
leave of absence as assis-
tant secretary from Mar-
shall Field & Co., Chicago.
He studied economics and
political science at Colum-
bia University, University
of Berlin and the London
School of Economics.

Mr. Rothfelder was for-
merly chief of the Trade,
Industry and Economics Branch of OLC Bavaria. In early
1948 he joined the staff of the Joint Export-Import Agency
in Bavaria where he was responsible for the promotion
of exports, particularly
tourism.

The new Dollar Drive
official was graduatedfrom
the University of Illinois
where he specialized in
business and foreign trade
economics and has receiv-
ed the doctorate in politi-
cal science at the Univer-
sity of Munich.

The Export Promotion
Branch, headed by Paul
S. Nevin, will concentrate
on helping German expor-
ters to cut down West
Germany's “Dollar Gap"
— the disparity between
exports to and imports
from the dollar area. At
the present time this gap is running at the rate of $1,000,000
per day.

oom

William E. Rothfelder.
(Photo by PRD HICOG)

Volker Koch-Weser.
(Photo by PRD HICOG)

Guy Swope at Paris Conference

Following instructions of the recent Foreign Ministers
Conference in London, experts representing the United
States, United Kingdom and France met in Paris during
July to discuss over-population in some European
countries.

Since the problem involves Germany to a large extent,
Guy Swope and George Weisz, chief and deputy chief of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 77 ---
the Displaced Populations Division, HICOG, were in
attendance. Goldwaithe Dorr was named US delegate to
the meeting.

Management Consultant Arrives

James E. Scott, former assistant director of estimates
with the US Bureau of the Budget, arrived in Germany to
work with HICOG officials as a management consultant.
He will remain three or four months.

Mr. Scott served 28 years in the Forestry Service before
transferring to the Bureau of the Budget in 1938.

Retiring in February 1949, after 40 years’ government
service, he has since acted as management and govern-
mental administration consultant for the city of Richmond,
Va., the National Security Resources Board and the Civil
Service Commission.

Matthews Heads Assistant Secretaries

H. Freeman Matthews, who has served since 1947 as
minister and then as the first US ambassador to Sweden,
has been designated third-ranking officer in the State
Department under Secretary Dean Acheson and Under
Secretary James Webb.

Mr. Matthews, as Under-Secretary of State for Sub-
stantive. Matters, will co-ordinate the work of the other
assistant secretaries.

Fifty-one years old, he entered the US Foreign Service
in 1923. In the immediate postwar period he accompanied
President Truman to the Potsdam Conference and went
with former Secretary of State Byrnes to the Moscow
meeting of foreign ministers in 1945. He was political
adviser to the US delegation at the Paris Peace Conference
in 1946, as well as adviser to the US delegates at the
Council of Foreign Ministers’ meetings in Paris and New
York. He performed the same function the next year in
Moscow.

General Huebner Retires

Names long familiar among the top-level Army person-
nel in the European Command were replaced during the
summer months.

Lt. Gen. Clarence R. Huebner retired as commander
of US Army Europe (USAREUR) and departed his Heidel-
berg headquarters August 10 following a review of troops
in his honor.

Also leaving the zone for new assignments were Col.
Otis McCormick, chief of the Armed Forces Information
and Education Division; Col. David M. Fowler, chief of
Public Information in the European Command; and Lt.
Col. William M. Summers, editor-in-chief of The Stars
and Stripes.

For General Huebner, retirement (slated for November)
came at the end of a career that began with his enlist-
ment as a private in 1910. He served in all grades as an
enlisted man, receiving his commission in 1916. His
career with the famed First Division began in 1917 when
he sailed for France as a company commander in a unit

INFORMATION BULLETIN

74

IKFURT PRESS CLUB
PaReueL

Lt. Gen. Clarence R. Huebner, retiring commander, US
Forces Europe, made a farewell speech to newsmen and

isiting dignitaries July 18 at widely-attended luncheon
in his honor at the Frankfurt Press Club. (US Army photo)

of the division. He served in the army of occupation in
Germany after the first world war.

In World War II, he went to Africa in March of 1943,
assuming command in August of the First Division, which
he led through the invasion. Later he was promoted to
lieutenant general and command of the V Corps.

It was in August 1946 that he became Chief of Staff,
US Forces, European Theater. Upon redesignation of the
European Theater to European Command, he also re-
ceived the title of deputy commander-in-chief of EUCOM
and added the duties of commanding general, Ground
and Service Forces, EUCOM.

General Huebner was succeeded in his command by Lt.
Gen. Manton Sprague Eddy. General Eddy, 58 assumed com-
mand on Aug. 18, after leaving his post as commandant of
the Command and General Staff College at Fort Leaven-
worth, Kan. Like his predecessor, he is a veteran of both
world wars: commissioned in 1916, he was with the Fourth
Division in 1918-1919; in 1941, he became commanding of-
ficer of the 114th Infantry of the Forty-Fourth Division.

As commanding general of the Ninth Infantry Divi-
sion; he led his troops through the Tunisian and Sicilian
campaigns and through Cherbourg and northern France.
By August 1944 he was commander of the XII Army
Corps, and later commander of operations for France,
Germany and Luxembourg.

Colonel McCormick Leaves

Col. Otis McCormick turned over his post on July 1
to Col. H. C. Fellows. .

Colonel McCormick, who had served as I&E chief since
May 1947, has been reassigned to the Office of the Chief
of Information, Department of the Army, for similar
duty. Colonel Fellows came to EUCOM from Washington,
where he was chief of the plans and policy branch, Ar-
med Forces Information and Education Division, Office
of the Secretary of Defense.

Under Colonel McCormick's supervision, EC off-duty
schools have expanded from eight to more than 100, and

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 78 ---
enrollment has jumped from 1,800 to more than 24,000.
On-duty training has been inaugurated from the first
through fifth grades, and with the University of Maryland
courses, also begun under Colonel McCormick, it is pos-
sible for the soldier or airman in the European Com-
mand to go all the way through school.

Colonel McCormick, a graduate of the US Military
Academy in 1924, came to EUCOM from an assignment
with Army Ground Forces.

Both Colonels McCormick and Fellows attended the
Command and General Staff School.

PIO Chief in Germany Departs

After more than 30 months as public information chief,
Colonel Fowler departed Germany for assignment with the
Public Information Division of the Army in Washing-
ton, D.C.

Lt. Col. William A. Schilletter, deputy chief of the
EUCOM Public Information Division, became acting
chief after his departure.

Colonel Fowler's combat record stretches over two
wars. In late 1918 he served as an enlisted infantryman
with the Seventh Division in France. During World War II
he was a member of the 10th Mountain Division, com-
manding the 87th Mountain Infantry Regiment in combat
in Italy in 1945,

Following his World War II service, Colonel Fowler
was named assistant commandant of the Mountain and
Winter Warfare School and Training Center at Camp
Carlon, Col. When it was disbanded, he became com-
manding officer of the 38th Infantry Regiment at the
camp. He served there until reporting to Germany for
duty with the Public Information Division.

“Stars & Stripes” Editor Sails
Command of The Stars and Stripes changed hands in
mid-July. Colonel Summers, editor-in-chief of the familiar
US Zone newspaper, left the post he held since Novem-
ber 10, 1947, for a new post at the University of Maine.
He was succeeded by Lt. Col. Henry J. Richter.

Col. H. C. Fellows.

Col. Otis McCormick.

Colonel Summers was commissioned in the Regular
Army in 1938. In 1940, he was assigned to duty in the
Canal Zone, and in 1942, joined the 104th (Timberwolf)
Division and remained with it until 1945.

In 1946, Colonel Summers was assigned to the 23rd In-
fantry Regiment, Second Division at Fort Lewis, Washing-
ton, remaining with that organization until he took com-
mand of The Stars and Stripes.

Colonel Richter entered the army in 1940 and was later
assigned overseas duty with XI Corps. He took part in
assault landings in support of the New Guinea campaign,
and served throughout the Philippines campaigns and the
final landings around Tokyo Bay. After a short period in
the US, he returned to Japan as assistant G3, Eighth Army.

He more recently took part in “Exercise Sweetbriar,”
combined Arctic maneuver of the US and Canadian forces.

Colonel Newton Paid Tribute

When Col. Henry C. Newton left his post as commanding
officer of the Kitzingen Training Center he was presented
a “Letter of Honor’ from the Kitzingen Town Council for
his work on behalf of their community.

The town's mayor, Richard Wildhagen, said in a speech
addressed to Colonel and Mrs. Newton: “You have been
given your help and support to me and thus to our town
whenever we had a request... Especially I want to thank
you for leading the Kitzingen GYA out of its deplorable
condition and for bringing it up to the stage it has reached
today: a safe place and a real home for the German youth.

“...Thank you for all the love and kindness you have
dedicated to the poor and poorest of our town.

“You have won a place in the hearts of the Kitzingen
population and your name will always be remembered
with the highest respect."

More than 15,500 enlisted men and 500 officers com-
pleted courses of training under the personal command
and supervision of Colonel Newton. He left Germany
for a staff command assignment at Fort Holabird Intel-
ligence School, Maryland. He served as commander at
Kitzingen from July 1948 until June 1950. + END

Lt. Col. Wm. M. Summers.

Lt. Col. Henry J. Richter.

(Photos by courtesy of The Stars and Stripes)

SEPTEMBER 1950

75

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 79 ---
Economic Review

This monthly review of the German Federal Republic’s
current economic picture, based on the latest figures
and trends available when this section of the Infor-
mation Bulletin went to press, was prepared by the
Analytical Reports Branch of the Program Review
Division of the Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG.

HE PROGRESS of economic recovery in Western Ger-
many, when viewed on a month to month basis,
showed little more in June than a continuation of recent
favorable trends. Foreign trade continued to expand and

payments with OEEC Europe again showed a favorable’

balance, although the deficit position in dollar trade was
not materially improved. The total industrial production
index was unchanged from May, but investment goods
output increased substantially. Crop prospects were as
favorable as previously estimated and early yields were
meeting their forecasts. Unemployment continued to
decline, and financial and price trends changed but little.
The Berlin financial position was not basically improved,
but arrangements for a more regularized aid program
were nearing completion.

An appraisal of progress during the first half of 1950,
however, does afford sufficient comparative values. Since
the end of 1949, the index of industrial production has
climbed from 96 percent to 107 percent of prewar produc-
tion, exports have rapidly mounted, and imports have
slowly declined; the number of employed increased four
percent during the last quarter to 13,844,800, while the
unemployed are now registered at 1,538,100, a decline of
19.1 percent since the high point of February 1950.

While these changes are fundamental to firm economic
progress, the extent of their influence is still not enough
to warrant unqualified confidence in the early establish-
ment of a sturdy business structure capable of incur-
ring the risks and difficulties of competition and rapid
expansion of output, and providing steady employment,
a high standard of living and essential imports. Much
still remains to be done. Productivity and employment
must increase concurrently, costs must drop, and dollar
exports must multiply. Practical steps in these directions
have been taken recently in the planning of future in-
vestment programs with money going to export-strong
industries and reconstruction projects, while the dollar
exports drive program has been launched, a productivity
center established and new employment measures initiated.

At the end of the first half of 1950, however, the Ger-
man Federal Republic stands at the crossroads of recovery.
What role she will play in the Schuman Plan and the
economic integration of the Western European countries
and their defense are problems of first order magnified
during the course of the last few months. The second
half of 1950 should see a decisive loosening of these
knotty questions.

During June, however, developments in the separate
fields of the economy were generally favorable.

Industry

The total index of industrial production in June remained
at 107 percent of 1936 (excluding food processing, stimu-
lants and building). However, several groups composing
the index showed noteworthy changes. Investment goods
production increased from 104 percent in May to 106
percent in June, production goods remained unchanged
at 121 percent and consumer goods output dropped from
97 percent in May to 93 percent in June. Vehicle produc-
tion, increasing from 156 percent in May to 166 percent
in June, and optical and precision instruments output,
rising from 118 percent to 130 percent, account largely
“for the increase in the investment goods group. Produc-
tion of machinery dropped one point to 116 percent.
Output of the steel industry reached 82 percent of 1936,
and steel ingots totaled 980,349 tons, well above the
present permitted rate if prorated to a monthly basis.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

76

The index of building materials production rose six
percent, to 108 percent in June. Building activity in-
creased to 107 percent in June. However, sawmill and
flat glass production dropped.

Consumer goods index fell about four percent from
May to June and is at its lowest point since January 1950.
Textile production, which decreased to 94 percent, was
chiefly responsible for the drop. Merchants may still be
trying to move relatively high-priced stocks, and because
of an extremely cautious inventory policy, are reluctant
to order new merchandise until prices and quality are
more attractive.

Index of Industrial Production

1949 1950
June April ~=May June p/
TOTAL ALL INDUSTRIES
(incl. electricity and gas) a/ 87 104 107r = 107
excl. electricity and gas) 85 101 105r 105
Investment goods (total) 83 99r  104r ~~ :106
Raw materials 76 83 8or 92
Finished products . 87 109 113r 115;
General production goods
(incl. electricity and gas) 105 120 12ir 121
(excl. electricity and gas) . . . . 98 113r 114 114
Consumer goods . 79 96r 97r 93
a/ = Excl. food processing, stimulants and buildings.
r = Revised.
p = Preliminary.
Production of Major Commodities
Unit of
Commodity Measure I/ Aprilr/ May 1/ June p/
Hard coal (gross mined) thous.t 8,363 8,667 8,978
Grude petroleum ©... . .  t 89,524 93,844 91,540
Cement... . 2. t 850,722 951,771 1,021,244
Bricks (total) ” 1000 252,646 373,336 «421,552
Pig iron : ot 682,629 719,770 749,631
Steel ingots . . ot 885,666 914,258 980,349
Rolled steel finished products | t 574,526 625,228 677,866
Farm tractors (total) f/ . pieces 3,892 3,964 3,787
Typewriters d/ . pieces 14,046 15,737 17,298
Passénger cars (incl. chassis) | pieces 14,739 16,378 18,711
Cameras (total). . . : pieces 132,046 153,300 190,343
Sulphuric acid (incl. ole) t-SOs 93,396 97,575 92,300
Calcium carbide hoe 58,456 64,220 59,703
Soap (total) . . 2... 1. ot 6.621 8,548 8,478
Newsprint. hooo 8 12,586 14,026 ‘14,984
Auto and truck tires” pieces 164,801 189,216 240,278
1000 prs. 5,522 «6,460 6,223

Shoes (total) dio.0

1/ = All tons are metric tons,
Revised.

Preliminary.

Excluding accessories, parts and spare parts.
Standard, long-carriage and portable typewriters.

Employment and Unemployment

Employment conditions in the Federal Republic con-
tinued to improve during the first half of July. The
number of registered unemployment fell by 29,700 to
another new low point this year of 1,508,400. For the
first time since last November the percentage of un-
employed in the wage and salary earning labor force was
below 10 percent, being estimated at 9.8 percent.

Employed wage and salary earners at mid-July were
estimated at an all-time record of 13,905,000, a rise of
60,000 in the fortnight. Employment rose particularly in
the manufacturing industries working for export, in build-
ing and construction, food processing, trade, banking and
insurance. About half of the rise in employment was
due to school leavers and juveniles under 18 obtaining
apprenticeships or temporary jobs.

By mid-July unemployment had declined in five con-
secutive months by a total of 510,000. The seasonal in-
crease from the end of October 1949 to mid-February 1950
had added 702,000 persons to the unemployment rolls.
Thus, in mid-July the number of unemployed was still
192,000 or 15 percent higher than at ‘the end of October.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 80 ---
Employment was also 245,000 higher, but only about
half of the 437,000 increase in the wage and salary
earning labor force was absorbed into employment.

There are signs that the granting of credits for the
Federal Republic's building program is being accelerated.
However, implementation of the special employment pro-
gram is still lagging.

Price and Marketing Developments

The consumer price index for June registered a two
percent decrease, largely because of a seven percent
decline in the food price index, brought on chiefly by
seasonal declines in fruit and vegetable prices.

The bizonal basic materials price index was virtually
unchanged in June, possibly reflecting the continuation
of conservative price policies of merchants in possession
of high-priced stocks of some commodities, i. e., textiles.

July price indexes are unavailable, but advance data
suggest some rise in the food prices index. There was
a 10-12 percent increase in the average price of some
qualities of bread in several states (leaving the quality
of one popular type unchanged), which generally reflected
agreements among bakers’ guilds in anticipation of final
enactment by the Bundestag (federal parliament) of a
20 percent increase in bread grain prices. Also, the Korean
situation apparently set off mild, sporadic buying waves
during July which had some small influence on the
average price indexes. For example, sugar in some areas
rose from DM 1.16 to DM 1.30-1.50 per kilogram in July.
Meat and canned edible oils also increased sporadically.

In view of the government's promise to the trade unions
that no rise in the price of bread would occur, protest
demonstrations were held in many cities and towns. In
several cities, including Cologne, and in the state of
South Baden the demonstrations took the form of general
work stoppages of from one to three hours.

The extent and economic seriousness of “scare” buying
which began at the end of June cannot yet be accurately
assessed. Purchases of some commodities by the public
increased sharply. Sugar purchases were estimated by
the Food and Agriculture Ministry to have doubled, and
most retail shops depleted their stocks soon after mid-
July. Retail stocks of canned edible oils were just being
sold out, although stocks of the main fats (butter, margarine,
lard) were adequate. Scattered reports suggested buying
flurries in other food and essential items. It is believed
that “scare” buying will dwindle because of limited cash
reserves in consumer hands, and the danger of a serious
hoarding wave is not believed imminent.

Consumer Price Index — Bizonal Area

(Wage/salary earner’s family of four, with one child under 14)

1938 = 100

March April May June

1950 1950 1950 1950 p
Total 153 153 156 151
Food : 159 160 168 157
Stimulants 285 285 285 284
Clothing 191 189 188 185
Rent... 102 102 102 103
Heat and Light. . . . 119 119 118 118
Cleaning and Hygiene. | . | 148 148 147 147
Education and Entertainment . 141 141. 140 141
Household Goods. . . . 166 164 163 162
Traveling 5 133 133 133 133
Notes:

1) The consumer price index is not yet available on a Trizonal basis.

*) Because of the seasonal increase in the prices of fruit and vege-
tables (substituting in May the vegetables of the new harvest for those
of the old harvest) a consumer price index has also been calculated
for the two months, May and June, excluding the prices of fruit and
vegetables.

P = Provisional.

Basic Materials Price Index

1938 ='100
March ~— April May June
Food . 1697 168r 169 168
Industry 215 214 215 218
Total 197r 196r 197 198p
Finance

Notes and coins in circulation in’ Western Germany
and West Berlin amounted to DM 8,160,000,000 in June,

SEPTEMBER 1950

77

the highest volume since currency reform and a sharp
increase over the DM 7,937,000,000 in circulation in May.
Much of this increase is probably due to semi-annual
business settlements, tax refunds and more than normal
buying at the end of the month. Commercial deposits and
business loans, particularly medium and long-term credits,
continue to increase, reflecting a slowly expanding credit
situation.

Loans allocated by the Reconstruction Loan Corporation
and funds actually paid out increased substantially in June.

A proposal regarding the future structure of the three
principal German GroSbanken (big banks) has been sub-
mitted informally to the tripartite Allied Bank Commission
by the Bank Deutscher Laender. By the terms of Military
Government law the banks had been decentralized ‘in 1947
and permitted to maintain branches within a single state
only. The current proposal advocates the_establishment
of three banking districts within Western Germany in
which each of the former Grossbanken would establish
a regional bank and be permitted to maintain branches
within the region. The proposal is currently under study
by the Finance Ministry and the Bank Deutscher Laender.

Foreign Trade

The volume of foreign trade increased substantially
in June with exports reaching $154,000,000, and imports
$188,000,000. Exports to the Western hemisphere in-
creased to $15,000,000 in June, but continue to be far
short of required targets.

For the second successive month, Western Germany
had a favorable payments balance with the OEEC coun-
tries, exports amounting to $110,000,000 and imports total-
ling $100,000,000. The payments position with the OEEC
countries improved by $60,000,000 during the second
quarter of 1950.

West German Foreign Commodity Trade
June 1950
(Thousand Dollars)

Categories Imports Exports
Food and Agriculture 71,980 1,995
Industry... ss 115,888 151,883
Raw Materials . 67,964 25,162

Semi-finished Goods 25,163 29,766

Finished Manufactures op 6 22,761 96,955

Total _187,868 153,878

Area Imports Exports
Total Non-Participating Countries . 87,843 43,139
USA 2 ee 34,931 5,360

Canada 5 723 720

Central America . 1,810 1,222

South America... 1 7 1 14,032 “7,204

Non-Participating Sterling Countries . 16,951 5,818

Eastern Europe... . + ++ 9,741 14,654

Other Countries . 9,655 8,161

Participating Countries . 99,764 110,294
Non-Sterling 83,630 100,055

Sterling . 16,134 10,239

Unspecified Do 261 445
Total "187,868 153,878

Import-Surplus: $33,990,000.

The end of June saw considerable development in the
trade agreement program for the encouragement of trade
with the South American countries. During the first six
months of 1950 agreements were concluded with seven
countries. An expansion of trade to this area is hoped
for that will enable Western Germany to finance with
her exports many import items for which she must now
pay dollars. An examination of the commodities scheduled
for import from South America during the next year in-
dicates that an estimated $150,000,000 worth of goods
formerly imported from the United States and Canada
will come instead from the South American continent.
Agreements have been recently concluded with the fol-
lowing countries for the following total trade amounts:
Argentina $123,900,000; Brazil $115,000,000; Columbia
$37,000,000; Ecuador $5,500,000; Paraguay $5,200,000 and
Uruguay $70,000,000. In addition the Chilean agreement
was automatically renewed, and negotiations are presently
in progress with Mexico.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 81 ---
The dollar export drive was given added impetus with
the establishment at the end of June of the German-
American Trade Promotion Company, an organization of
private German businessmen to promote dollar sales. It
is intended to finance this non-profit venture with
DM 120,000 from German industry, handicraft, export,
tourist, and Chamber of Commerce organization members;
DM 2,300,000 from ECA Counterpart funds; and DM 800,000
from the German federal government.

Agriculture

Prospects of root crops, especially beets, continue to
be favorable. Grain harvesting continued under generally
favorable conditions and results are bearing out previous
forecasts of good yields.

Although the Federal Republic had promised that fixed
prices would not be established, unless specifically author-
ized by the Allied High Commission, during the July-
September period while the food marketing laws were
under consideration, the Bundestag approved on July 21
a directive which would establish fixed prices during
July-September. At the same plenary session the Bundes-
tag approved a draft law which would authorize the
federal government without prior parliamentary approval
to fix prices for bread, flour and grain if such action is
considered imperative for safeguarding the bread supply
to the population or for establishing fair and equitable
bread prices from the standpoint of the general economy.

Economic Situation in Berlin

The Berlin city assembly on July 6 approved the budget
for 1950-51 and submitted it for final approval to the
Allied Kommandatura. The budegt, covering the 12-month
period beginning April 1, 1950, provides for estimated

expenditures of DM 1,575,000,000 and estimated revenues
of DM 920,000,000, leaving an uncovered deficit of some
DM 655,000,000. Estimated expenditures are at the approxi-
mate level of actual expenditures made last year. Dis-
cussions between the federal finance minister, Berlin
officials and Allied authorities have been in progress
during a considerable period, for the purpose of creating
a long range program which will provide sufficient direct
aid to Berlin to permit the city to meet its essential
expenditures.

During July the West Berlin city council received from
the federal government DM 30,000,000 in two installments,
to aid in the balancing of its: budget, together with an
additional DM 10,000,000 to be used to reduce its indebted-
ness to the Berliner Zentralbank. Counterpart funds
were also released to Berlin during the month for invest-
ment and work relief projects.

The federal government has been informed that
DM 160,000,000 out of counterpart funds will be made
available upon request so as to assure the continuance
of the Berlin work relief program during the last eight
months of the fiscal year 1950-51, beginning with August
1950. DM 80,000,000 previously had been allotted to cover
the first four months of the fiscal year.

In recognition of the need to expand commercial bank
loans to firms for use as working capital, the ECA Mission
has assured the Magistrat (city council) that losses from
such loans up to DM 10,000,000 may be covered by recourse
to counterpart funds. The Magistrat, in co-operation with
ECA officials, is working out the practical arrangements
required to put the plan into effect at the earliest possible
date. It is hoped that the financial base of the program
can be expanded by the issuance to the Magistrat of a
guarantee of similar description by the federal government.

-++-END

Clemency Board Reviews 100 Petitions

HE PETITIONS of nearly 100 former German leaders

who are serving sentences at Landsberg Prison for
convictions in the war-crimes trials at Nuremberg were
under review by a specially-appointed HICOG Advisory
Board on Clemency.

The board members are David W. Peck of New York
City, presiding justice of the Appellate Division, First
Department, of the New York Supreme Court, serving
as chairman; Frederick A. Moran of Albany, N.Y., chair-
man of the New York State Board of Parole, and Brig.
Gen. Conrad E. Snow of Washington, D.C., member of
the staff of the legal adviser to the US State Department.

At the start of the board's deliberations in Munich in
mid-July, Justice Peck said the board would hear
petitions for clemency filed in behalf of war crimes
prisoners sentenced by the Nuremberg tribunals. He
emphasized that the board would not review the de-
cisions of the Nuremberg courts, but would limit its
functions to the consideration of matters normally deem-
ed relevant in the exercise of executive clemency and
that its recommendations would be submitted to the US
High Commissioner.

Justice Peck said that the members estimated that
about 100 convicted war criminals confined at Lands-
berg would avail themselves of the right to file clemency
petitions. The deadline for filing of such petitions, as well
as any appearances by defense counsel, was July 31. The

INFORMATION BULLETIN

78

board hoped to complete its work by Sept. 1. The board
had been given full discretionary powers by the US High
Commissioner in carrying out its work in order to assure
a fair and just hearing for each petitioner. “Every case,”
Justice Peck declared, “will be judged on its individual
merits. We will proceed with dispatch and give adequate
opportunity to the defendants to present their case, to
the end that full, fair and prompt consideration will be
given to every case."

Members of HICOG Advisory Board on Clemency are,
1-r., Gen. Snow, Justice Peck and Mr. Moran, (PRB OLCB photo)

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 82 ---
Tale of the Potato Bug

HERE WAS AN UNWANTED, unwelcome visitor be-

hind the Iron Curtain. The hungry intruder, unfortu-
nately, could not be purged. To make matters worse, it
multiplied so rapidly it made ever-deepening inroads into
an already short supply of potatoes, And potatoes, be
it known, are important to the diet of the German — parti-
cularly the still rationed East-zone German— because pota-
toes are to him what rice is to the Chinese.

Something had to be done about all this. And what
the Soviet Zone's economic and agricultural authorities
could not cope with, its propaganda experts finally
tackled. They too could not exterminate the pest, but
they tried the next out. They attempted pass the buck
— and the bug — along to the United States Air Force.

Thus, late in May, the people of Eastern Germany
suddenly found themselves systematically bombarded
with press and radio charges that American planes had
dropped potato bugs over various areas of the Soviet
Zone. They were officially told the pests were eating the
potato crop. It was a handy stunt to take the spotlight off
the real catise of the failure. The voracious potato bug at
last had found a welcome—as a Communist scapegoat.

The outpourings of the Soviet Zone’s Office of In-
formation, then headed by Gerhart Eisler (who a year be-
fore had skipped out of the United States while await-
ing trial for passport falsification) launched its potato-
bug campaign against the United States May 25 with a
statement that potato bugs had been dropped the night
before in the vicinity of several towns in Saxony.

The East-Zone press immediately took up the cry,
quoting the Office of Information’s dispatches and Com-
munist statements that American planes had been scat-
tering potato bugs over not only Saxony, but also the
states of Saxony-Anhalt, Thuringia and Mecklenburg.

HE SOVIET-CONTROLLED Radio Berlin and other

East-zone radio stations added a fantastic twist to
the campaign which needed new impetus to allay the
doubts of the populace in general. They came up with
the assertion that the sudden infestation was an American
experiment in bacteriological warfare. They alleged that
1G. Farben (wartime German chemical combine now
dissolved) and American concerns were using the
scheme to test a new insecticide.

But the Communist propaganda from the East saw fit
to ignore several established facts:

1. Potato bugs had been prevalent in Germany long
before this year — nearly half of the area comprising
the Soviet Zone having been infested in 1949. Twelve
years ago the beetles had been found in 2,300 com-
munities in western Germany. In 1944 they covered one-
third of Thuringia and smaller parts of Saxony-Anhalt and
Mecklenburg. More than 47 percent of East-zone communi-
ties had reported potato bugs last year.

2. The increase in potato bugs had been anticipated
early this year; for example, the East zone’s Ministry

SEPTEMBER 1950

79

of Agriculture had issued a decree March 2 for the fight
against the beetles and an implementing directive
March 9, detailing instructions for chemical spraying
and bug collecting. Warm weather and humidity this year
also proved favorable for local propagation of the insects.

3. A shortage of potatoes was evident for some time
in the East zone. The 1949 crop of 9,400,000 tons was
approximately 2,000,000 tons short of the 1948 harvest.
Seed potatoes had been eaten by the farmers and
workers during the planting season to make up for this
loss. New seed potatoes had not been imported from
seed-producing lands, as is necessary in Germany.

4, Chemical treatment of soil and plants, the most
effective means of controlling potato bugs, was inade-
quate in the Soviet Zone. The Occupation Authorities
and their Communist aides had not provided any. -
Allocations for plant protection in the budgets of the
East zone administration and state governments were
cut nearly in half for this year. Effective chemicals
and adequate spraying apparatus had to be imported
from the German Federal Republic.

5. No American planes were in the reported places at

a 7 ne
)

we

any time alleged by the Communist propagandists.
"LL 5 5
Ya FA Landkreis Zwickau
em Fluginie eines unbekannten
Dae bits Fugzeuges am 23 5 1950
Stellen, andenen das Flug
Za x zevg gesichtet wurde’
Oo Psa srnesalel mit
e@ Anzahi Sif af
~\ Kartoffelk afer be: der
5
46

Kirchberg irtenstein:
*

0]

eee

“BOMBER'S ROUTE" — East Berlin's Soviet-licensed "Ber-
liner Zeitung” scooped the world with this “official map" of
the Potato Bug Bomber's route through the state of Saxony,
as plotted by the Criminal Investigation Department of the
Zwickau police. X's mark spots from which the US plane
was “seen” by “unimpeachable eyewitnesses.’ Dots show
areas found infested with the pests. Numbers within circles
show quantities of potato bugs picked up a few hours after
plane crossed area. ‘This, noted the Soviet organ, in caption
accompanying map, ‘proved the dropping of potato bugs.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 83 ---
(Berliner Anzeiger, US Sector, Berlin, May 28)

What the potato bug looks like, according to East
German Propaganda Minister Gerhart Eisler,

American planes fly over the Soviet Zone only in the
established air corridors to Berlin, and these are far from
the infested areas. Other than the few purported “eyewit-
nesses" produced by the Communists, the public showed
no inclination to talk of seeing any planes overhead.

6. This Communist propaganda of potato bugs being
dropped from foreign airplanes was a repetition of the
allegations spread by the Nazis during the war.

HE UNITED STATES government deemed not to
dignify the potato-bug complaint by an official
statement until] the Soviet Foreign Ministry in Moscow
sent a note to Washington June 30, repeating the allega-
tions. On July 6, the US Department of State replied,
saying, “It is interesting to note that the Soviet pro-
pagandists have borrowed this whole invention from the
Nazis who during the war used to level the same fantastic
charge against Allied airplanes.” The US note continued:
“The facts — of which the Soviet government was
undoubtedly aware when making its charge — are that
potato bugs, or Colorado beetles, have existed in Ger-
many since before the war; have been spreading rapidly
in wartime due to absence of effective counter measures;
and were recognized as a serious threat to the East-zone
economy by the eastern German puppet government
several months prior to the date of the alleged American
bug offensive.

“A decree by the so-called ‘German Democratic Re-
public,’ dated March 2, 1950, ordered the initiation of a
major anti-potato beetle campaign throughout the entire
area of the Soviet Zone. Special measures were to be
concentrated in the belt following the Czechoslovak and
Polish borders, apparently in an attempt to protect
eastern Europe and the USSR from further beetle in-
vasions. This problem had been one of major concern
to Polish authorities as early as May 1949, when a
nationwide conference was held in Warsaw, devoted
to combatting of plant pests, especially the potato beetle.

“Furthermore, the Soviet government itself issued a
pamphlet entitled ‘The Colorado Potato Beetle,’ signed
for printing May 16 — six days before United States
planes are supposed to have ‘dropped’ the beetles over
eastern Germany — in which the population of the
Soviet Union was instructed to take special precautions
against an invasion of potato bugs from Germany.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ANIFESTLY, THE eastern German authorities have

been unable to cope with the problem. On May 17, the
official paper of the Socialist Unity (Communist) Party for
Saxony-Anhalt published an appeal to the population,
betraying distinct alarm, at long last to institute search
parties and other counter measures. The appeal contains
this sentence; ‘The annual increase of swarms can be
traced to the fact that searches and chemical counter
measures have repeatedly and consistently been instituted
too late, in spite of all orders.’

“Meanwhile, the potato bug thas spread farther into
eastern Europe, and the Soviet-German authorities are
faced with one other problem: the threat of a serious
potato shortage this year, caused by a number of factors
besides the bug, such as inadequate agricultural methods
and last year's poor crop in eastern Germany which com-
pelled peasants to consume substantial portions of seed
potatoes during the planting season.

“What has happened is obvious enough: The Com-
munist authorities in eastern Germany have failed to
bring the bug problem under control and to protect the
agriculture of other satellite countries and the Soviet
Union. Moreover, they are in need of an excuse for the
anticipated shortage.

“Instead of holding them responsible for hardships
their failure will cause to the people of eastern Ger-
many and eastern Europe, the Soviet government has
resorted to a well-known device and invented ‘saboteur’
— this time in the guise of the United States Air Force.
Soviet and German Communist authorities are un-
doubtedly aware of the fact that American aircraft have
strictly and consistently observed the established cor-
ridor, and have at no time flown over the areas in which
the beetles are alleged to have been dropped.

“In the present world situation, fraught with ex-
plosive tensions, the Soviet government has chosen to
poison the atmosphere even further with one of the most
fantastic fabrications that has ever been invented by
one government against another. In this whole absurd
and ridiculous propaganda invention, this is the one
fact that deserves to be noted.” +END

(Berliner Anzeiger, US Sector, Berlin, July 5)

“Potato Beetle Bomber!”
Filming a new documentary.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 84 ---
Frankfurt Stopover

The main railway station at Frank-
furt offers, a maze of vendors’ stalls,
cafes, ticket windows and checking
stands. One of its most welcome assets
is a two-room Red Cross aid station,
which gives assistance to traveling
mothers and young children. Beds and
play-pens for children, numerous toys,
reading materials and pleasant sur-
roundings are offered for tedious
stopover hours. The station has for the
past three years been supported by the
voluntary contributions of women stu-
dents of Stephens College in Columbia,
Mo. The school has similar projects in
various sections of the United States.

The two small daughters of a political
refugee work patiently with blocks
(top). Nine-month-old child plays in
pen (right) against backdrop of Snow
White mural in busy, crowded waiting
room (left). (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

SEPTEMBER 1950 81 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 85 ---
Occupation Log

Army, HICOG Derequisition Buildings

US occupation agencies have derequisitioned a total of
6,228 houses, schools, hotels, office buildings and other
types of property in the US Zone of Germany and US
Sector of Berlin during the two and a half years between
Jan. 1, 1948 and June 26, 1950.

A joint announcement July 13 by the Office of the US
High Commissioner for Germany and Headquarters, Euro-
pean Command, pointed out that of this total, 3,958 were
houses. Derequisitioned buildings in other categories in-
cluded: apartment houses, 375; barracks, 201; office build-
ings, 171; hotels, 167; garages, 146; restaurants, 96; ware-
houses, 91; shops, 43; factories, 43; schools, 35; hospitals,
23; theaters, 18 miscellaneous commercial, 170; others, in-
cluding gymnasiums, yacht clubs and swimming pools, 691.

Among the military-post areas, Nuremberg had the
largest number of derequisitions, totaling 1,266, during the
two-and-one-half-year period, followed in order by Ber-
lin, 1,188; Munich, 1,045; Wetzlar, 770; Frankfurt, 599;
Bremerhaven POE, 384; Stuttgart, 333; Wuerzburg, 208;
Augsburg, 152; Heidelberg, 143, USAFE, 112; and Gar-
misch, 28.

Officials of the Office of Administration, HICOG, stated
that special efforts are continuing to derequisition living
quarters, office buildings, schools and other facilities. As
an example, HICOG's housing project in Frankfurt, con-
sisting of 420 apartments where occupancy is scheduled
to be completed by Oct. 31, will allow for derequisition-
ing of a large number of dwelling units in the area.

Also, USAFE's Rhine-Main housing project, containing
448 apartments near Frankfurt, was ready for occupancy
during August. Construction of two prefabricated build-
ings near the HICOG Headquarters Building will permit

More than 50 West Berlin teacher-trainees, university
and high school students were guests of the Berlin
Element Exchanges Division July 29 for a daylong
“briefing” on life in the United States over which Galen
Snow (right, second row) presided. The Berliners were
part of a group of some 350 German exchangees who
were addressed by High Commissioner McCloy in Frank-
furt August 10 prior to their departure for the United
States—the largest group yet sent by HICOG for a year's
study in American colleges. (BE-PRB photo)

return of the Allianz Building, Holzhausen School and
Command Building in Frankfurt.

ECA Has Helped Berlin

A few months of ECA aid and counsel have helped
convert Western Berlin into a “going concern," according
to William E. Weiss, Jr., head of the Berlin Element
Economic Affairs Division.

Writing in the US Chamber of Commerce publication,
“Foreign Commerce Weekly," Mr. Weiss also declared
that “Berlin businessmen and industrialists are today
displaying vision and dynamic energy” and the city
“knows that it need have no fear for its people as long
as they can work and earn a living.

“Berlin is out for business. It knows it is in the center
of the world’s eye, but it takes little comfort from mere
notoriety. It is not seeking sympathy or charity. It wants
orders..."

The two greatest problems facing Western Berlin's in-
dustry, Mr. Weiss wrote, are, first, to lower production
costs and, second, to sell her products.

“If complete modernization of Berlin plants were im-
mediately possible, about 60 to 80 percent of the present
machines would be thrown out,” he said. Admitting that
productive capacity is now double what it was in 1945,
he said present equipment is capable of producing only
“about half of what it could do before the war.

Referring to the sales problem, Mr. Weiss noted that
hardly any Berlin firm has a real sales organization. ECA
is now lending a helping hand in surveying Berlin pro-
ducts, making contact with customers not only abroad
but in Western Germany and “‘inculcating in plant directors
some notion of modern advertising and sales methods.”
As a direct result, Berlin manufacturers are now taking
an active part in stimulating export trade.

German Trade Display Tops

Germany's display of goods at the international trade
exhibition in San Francisco during May attracted larger
crowds than any other, according to Fred C. Mohner,
chief of the Trade Branch of the Economic Affairs Division,
OLC Bavaria.

Approximately 25 German firms, mostly from Bavaria,
exhibited a wide assortment of west German goods pro-
duced for export, including toys, fine mechanics, optics,
crystal and glassware. The majority of American buyers
at the exhibit termed the displayed products as ‘excel-
lent" when asked on a questionnaire circulated at the
show.

“This should be indeed encouraging to western Ger-
many’s industries, which have been hesitant about pro-
ducing their goods for export. It certainly shows that
German goods, which naturally hit a low on US shelves
during the war, can regain their popularity in foreign
markets,’ Mr. Mohner said.

German participation in the US exhibit, he said, was
due to effective co-operation between California trade
groups and the Europa Bildungs Werke, supported by
the Bavarian Ministry of Economics, which sees such
exhibitions as one means of increasing Bavaria's sales.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 86 ---
Child Guidance Center Opens

One of the first child guidance centers in Germany
was opened in Bremen at the end of June. Establishment
of the institution was accomplished with the help of
Public Health and Welfare Branch, HICOG, which trans-
ferred DM 30,000 as a grant-in-aid to the Bremen State
Health Office in March.

Senator for Public Health Dr. Hans Meineke praised
the assistance of the United States in the speech which
opened the center June 29. The center is located at 30
Metzerstrasse.

175,187 DP’s Remain in US Zone

A total of 175,187 United Nations nationals, Austrian
and Italian nationals and ex-enemy nationals still remain
in the US Zone of Germany, according to a report of the
HICOG Displaced Populations Division issued in mid-July

Since the end of the war, 3,610,228 displaced persons
in these categories have been processed, 84.8 percent
returning to their native lands and 10.4 being settled in
new countries,

At present there are in the US Zone 97,440 displaced
persons in IRO camps, 9,539 in civilian labor service
units, and 68,208 on the German economy. These figures
do not include German nationals of refugee status.

AF Band Wins Good Will

When the US Air Force Band left the US Zone after
a month's fever-pitch tour this summer, it had accumu-
lated a raft of clippings and good will.

The band opened its German-Austria concert tour by
playing for a German civilian audience in Wiesbaden.
Many of the opening night audience of 11,000 were forced
to stand; as a result Lt. Col. George Howard, band con-
ductor, committed the group to a second concert the fol-
lowing week. Attendance? 10,000.

The band had to buck rainy weather in the first days of
its tour. During the Berlin concert, a move into a shelter
from the rain left 12,000 persons in the Funkturm gardens
where the program had been slated. Informed of this,
Colonel Howard moved his band out into the rain again
and continued the concert before 25,000 soaked Berliners.

The largest audience appeared in Vienna, where 35,000
turned out for the first performance. The Viennese ap-
plauded the American swing numbers almost as enthusi-
astically as they did “home-town" numbers.

Sponsored by the State Department as well as the US
Air Force in Europe, the tour was the first attempt by
any of the armed services of the United States to present

a program of this nature before civilians of Austria and
Germany.

Korea News Broadcast

News from the Korean battlefront, the UN and Wash-
ington has been made part of the regular Voice of America
newscasts beamed to Germans daily over all American
zone stations and RIAS in Berlin.

SEPTEMBER 1950

83

Clarence M. Bolds (right) held his farewell press con-
ference as US state commissioner for Bavaria at OLCB
headquarters July 13. At left is W. J. Caldwell, chief of

the Public Relations Branch, OLCB. (PRB OLCB photo)

Heard at 7 p.m., the broadcasts also carry short com-
mentaries and roundups of American press and radio com-
ment on the political situation.

Complementing this program is “America Calling Berlin
and the East Zone,” a special daily broadcast aimed at
the Germans under Soviet administration. Thousands of
Germans living in the East zone listen regularly to this
program, often at considerable risk to their personal
safety. Their letters to the Voice of America testify to
the effectiveness with which this program carries the truth
about world events to persons behind the Iron Curtain,
It can be heard daily at 9:15 p.m. over the following fre-
quencies on short wave: 19.69 m, 19.65 m, 16.87 m, 13.95 m
and 13.86 m; and over RIAS on medium wave at midnight.

Catholic Group Aids Emigration

Emigration of 55,412 displaced persons from Germany
and Austria to the United States had been facilitated
by the National Catholic Welfare Conference by the end
of June, according to NCWC director James J. Norris.

The organization has selected and processed more than
one-third of the approximately 150,000 DP’s who emi-
grated to the United States from Germany and Austria
since 1946. Assistance is currently being given to 20,000
additional DP’s in obtaining visas to the United States.

One of more than a dozen voluntary agencies working
with the US Displaced Populations Commission, the
NCWC, with a staff of 30 Americans and about 170 persons
of other nationalities, co-ordinates plans for providing
homes and jobs for persons wishing to emigrate to the
United States, and completes final paper work for their
trips. According to Mr. Morris, most of the persons re-
settled by the NCWC came from behind the Iron Curtain.

Cure for Dollar Gap?

Formation of the German-American Trade Promotion
Company has been hailed by Robert M. Hanes, Chief,
ECA Special Mission to Western Germany, as “giving

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 87 ---
Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner,
and Dr, Peter Stockhausen, mayor of Bonn, study a
statuette at the Berlin Art Exhibition opened in Bonn at
the end of July. The 110 exhibits by 35 Berlin artists will
subsequently be sent to Belgium, France, England and the

United States. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)
West German citizens a genuine opportunity to lend their
strongest interest and active support in attacking one of
West Germany's most difficult problems — the dollar gap."

“Full support and co-operation is being given the com-
pany by the ECA Mission here and the ECA in the United
States," Mr. Hanes concluded.

A statement prepared by the company, entitled "An
Appeal to the German Economy and to the German Trade
Unions," pointed out that private German industry, handi-
craft, export and tourist organizations are partners in the
company. A non-profit organization, the German-Ameri-
can Trade Promotion Company is expected to commence
work in the immediate future.

Working councils within the company will include
market research and analysis, advertising, industry and
commerce, patents, pattern protection and licensing, tour-
ist and handicraft trades, and others pertinent to export.

German US-Market Fears Unfounded

German exporters have unfounded fears of the Ameri-
can market.

“A high percentage of German manufacturers,” says
Dr. Eric W. Stoetzner, director of foreign business promo-
tion for The New York Times, ‘‘worry about American
tariffs, unstable markets, competition from big business.

"In fact, the American tariffs, while high on some
products, are not so high that they put selling prices
out of line. As for unstable markets, if the exporter has
a good product backed up by reasonable prices and good
merchandising, he has the battle for the market won.
As for ‘big’ business, four-fifths of US manufacturers em-
ploy less than 250 persons, and more than 50 percent
have less than 10 employees."

Dr. Stoetzner told German exporters that close study
of US tariffs would reveal few that are “prohibitive.” He
pointed out that German goods found a ready market in
the United States before the war at the same, and some-
times higher, rates of duty.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The trade expert conferred with ECA export promotion
officials, German businessmen and government officials
cn ways and means of selling more German goods in
the US market.

“Starving” Artists Get Paint

It may be customary for an artist to ‘starve,’ but some
young German artists will not have to go without the
tools of their trade.

The people of Canada; in one of postwar’s most unusual
relief shipments, have sent five tons of special wood for
wood carvers, 1,000 sculptor’s tools, two revolving model-
ing ‘stands, 2,800 tubes of oil paints, turpentine, linseed
oil, varnish and rolls of canvas for painters, Approxi-
mately 1,200 sheets of charcoal paper and 200 blocks of
sketch paper were included in the gift.

For musicians, there are 327 pounds of music materials,
including 90 hanks of bowhair, 88 complete sets of strings,
cakes of resin, grosses of reeds for woodwind instruments
and special oil for brasses. The supplies will be distri-
buted to the major symphony orchestas in the US Zone
and Berlin.

The shipments result from a campaign conducted by
the creative arts committee of the Canadian Council
for Reconstruction, an affiliate of UNESCO. Canadians
donated about $12,000, Supplies were bought in England
on. the basis of HICOG recommendations as to the most
critical needs of German artists.

Edgar Breitenbach, HICOG consultant on museums, fine
arts and libraries, is now puzzling over how to divide up
several 15-foot logs of African walnut, Santo Domingo
boxwood, Brazilian rosewood and Macassar ebony for
distribution to the most deserving young artists.

Mrs. Eline McKnight, wife of US official stationed in
Berlin and one of the sponsors of the Berlin art exhibition
in Bonn, was snapped in front of a poster announcing the
show. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 88 ---
Dr. James K. Pollock, noted political scientist of the
University of Michigan (right), reviewed current state-
level problems with an old colleague of OMGUS days
when he visited Dr. James R. Newman, state commis-
sioner for Hesse, in July. Dr. Pollock served with the US
Occupation as a director of the German Council of States
and as an adviser to Gen. Lucius D. Clay, then military

governor. (PRB OLCH photo)

Boar Hunters Let Down

A total of 6,500 wild boar were killed in Hesse in the
last 12 months, but the figure isn't what it ought to be.

Dr. James S, Hathcock, chief of the Food, Agriculture
and Forestry Branch of OLC Hesse, says more boar
— 6,717 — were killed in the year previous. With the
amount of wild boar now roaming Hessian lands, the kill
should have been much greater during the last year. Dr.
Hathcock said the decrease was attributable to slackening
interest on the part of forest police. They were much
more eager to hunt wild boar two years ago when they
were first issued weapons.

Out of the total kill, Dr. Hathcock pointed out, hunting
parties of the Occupation Forces accounted for 859.

US Aid for Young Berlin

The young people of West Berlin continue to receive
aid from American sources,

More than two tons of chocolate and nearly 500 pounds
of cocoa were donated to West Berlin's Main Youth
Office for distribution to 5,200 children through recrea-
tion centers in the western sectors of the city. The dona-
tions, made out of surplus Berlin Element, HICOG, stocks,
will be used to make refreshments for children taking
part in the “Children in Air and Sun" program.

One hundred and thirty-four tons of baby food, second
major shipment sent under the International Rescue Com-
mittee’s ‘Project Berlin, were to be distributed to chil-
dren three years old or younger whose parents are un-
employed, to small children belonging to large families
and to sick children.

First food shipment from the United States under the
IRC's relief program reached Berlin in mid-May. Funds
to finance the project were contributed during a nation-
wide “Iron Curtain Refugee Program” held in the United
States.

SEPTEMBER 1950

During July, a check for DM 5,000 was presented by
Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US Commander, Berlin, for
improvements in the youth activities projects now under
way in five municipal youth centers in the Berlin-Steg-
litz area. The donation, made to Mayor Helmut Mattis
of Steglitz, is in line with a program of financial assistance
to youth centers in the American sector.

Let Those Chickens In!

A Bavarian ordinance prohibiting imports of poultry
has been annulled by the Allied High Commission be-
cause the ordinance contains measures considered to be
discriminatory in matters of foreign trade.

The Minister President of Bavaria has been informed
of the ruling.

The ordinance forbade the import into and transit
through Bavaria of live poultry. It was based on Bavarian
and German national legislation enacted before World
War I authorizing state action to prevent the spread of
animal diseases.

The High Commission annulment leaves the way open
to the Bavarian authorities to take other measures, such
as veterinary inspections, to protect local livestock with-
out discriminating against foreign trade.

Crops vs. Town Meetings

Hot summer weather and crop duties have been
responsible for a drop-off in civic activities in Hesse
During June, for instance, more than 92,000 Hessians
participated in 1,396 programs of civic activities in Hesse,
but in the previous month, almost 105,000 had attended
1,595 meetings.

The decrease was especially noted in adult forums and
town hall meetings, while youth forums showed a gain
in the number of participants. Also increasing their activi-
ties were the German-American clubs and the organized
women’s clubs.

Senator Harry P. Cain (R.-Mich.), member of the Senate
Armed Forces Committee (right), was welcomed to Wurz-
burg by Brig. Gen. Lewis C. Beebe, commanding general
of Wurzburg Military Post. At left, Lt. Col. William
Mikkelsen, commanding officer, Kitzingen Training Cen-
ter, and, in background, Lt. Col. Robert Cutsen, Wurzburg
executive officer. Senator Cain, a colonel in the reserve,
served with the 13th Airborne Division in Africa, Italy
and Germany during World War II. (US Army photo)

--- Page 89 ---
Maj. Gen. Anthony C. McAuliffe, hero of the Battle
of the Bulge, reads a speech in French at the dedication
of the gigantic Bastogne War Memorial to the 76,890
American casualties in the battle for the Belgian city,
following unveiling July 15 by Mayor Renquin of Bas-
togne of bust honoring General McAuliffe. (US Army photo)

David Rosendale, deputy chief, Field Operations Di-
vision, OLC Hesse, said the drop in adult forums is
merely based on seasonal conditions in rural areas where
farmers work on their fields until darkness during the
summer months.

Far-off Boost for Berlin

Aid in the form of diesel generators has been promised
western Berlin in the event that a power shortage results
from the shutdown of current originating in the Eastern
sector,

An offer to ship the generators to help alleviate a pos-
sible electrical power shortage was received from the
National Metal and Steel Corporation of California, ac-
cording to John H. Gayer, Berlin Element communications
and electrical adviser.

Describing the offer as evidence that the “American
people and industry stand behind Western Berlin in the
present situation,” Mr. Gayer pointed out that it will not
be necessary to call for aid as a result of German plan-
ning and ERP assistance.

But “such messages...are both encouraging and en-
lightening. They indicate that the American people are
interested... in helping the people of Berlin.”

Restitution Claims Continue

The state of Hesse has completed approximately 35 per-
cent of her restitution cases, according to Loren E. Yager,
chief of the Internal Restitution Supervision Branch.

Restitution of identifiable property to persons who were
wrongfully deprived of it during the Nazi regime for
reasons of race, religion, nationality, ideology or political
opposition to National Socialism, has been charged to
German authorities. At this point, approximately 23,000
cases have been received by the Hessian Finance Ministry,
of which 7,600 cases had been disposed of by the end
of June. Of these, 1,859 were settled amicably.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

86

Restitution matters in Hesse are handled by nine resti-
tution agencies and restitution chambers, which are
located in seven Hessian cities where there is a concen- |
tration of such property. These agencies attempt to ar-
range an amicable settlement between claimant and resti-
tutor. Should this fail, the case is forwarded to the Minis-
try of Justice, represented by the restitution chambers.

Mr. Yager concluded that it is desired by the US High
Commissioner that the restitution program be completed
at the agency level by the end of 1951.

Apprentice Workers Go to Camp

Six hundred young workers have been able to spend
two weeks at the Bremen trade union youth camp at
Cuxhaven-Sahlenburg — thanks to HICOG Cultural Ex-
change funds.

Making this anouncement was William E. Northey,
chief of the Labor Affairs Division, OLC Bremen, who
visited the camp to observe the informal education and
sports program developed for groups of 100 or more
apprentices from Bremen and Bremerhaven that attended
camp for two weeks apiece during July and August.

Mr. Northey regretted that there were no young guests
from other nations, nor foreign trade union officials or
educators. Saying the omission was not the fault of the
Bremen trade unions, who had invited foreign guests, he
pledged his office's efforts to remedy the shortcoming.

During the fiscal year 1950, DM 28,600 in HICOG Cul-
tural Exchange funds has been given to the Bremen trade
unions as grants-in-aid for youth leadership training.
Close to $10,000 has been made available to bring foreign
labor experts to Bremen.

Gifts for Journalism School

Students of the journalism department of the Uni-
versity of Munich can now study American newspaper

Mrs.

Nadine Thorson smilingly pins second star on
shoulder of her husband, Brig. Gen. Truman C. Thorson,
chief of the US Liaison Mission to the Commander-in-Chiet
of the Soviet Occupation Forces in Germany, July 19, upon
his promotion to the temporary rank of major general.
(US Army photo)

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 90 ---
techniques and will also have a typewriter on which to
pound out their scoops.

George Godfrey, senior resident officer for Munich,
presented the department with a number of textbooks
which were the gift of Robert C. Hall, professor of jour-
nalism at the University of Oregon. Prof. Hall, who until
his recent retirement was. superintendent of the uni-
versity’s printing plant, also sent the students some
copies of the university's daily newspaper and monthly
magazine.

The typewriter was donated by Mr. Godfrey himself,
and is the first to be acquired by the department. Before
entering the Army in 1942, Mr. Godfrey had served for
14 years as head of the news bureau and professor of
journalism at the University of Oregon.

The US Resident Office in Munich has also set up a
mimeograph service for high school and other student
groups who wish to publish newspapers, Mr. Godfrey said.
A number of schools are expected to take advantage of
this in the fall.

Anti-TB Drive Ends

More than 530,000 children and young people were
tested during an eight-month anti-tuberculosis drive in
Berlin by a team of Swedish Red Cross doctors and medi-
cal technicians. The 10 members of the team concluded
their work in July.

Conducting its campaign as a voluntary contribution
to the welfare of Berlin, the Red Cross group operated
20 centers, receiving assistance from 45 German doctors
and nurses. More than 150,000 children, infants and young
persons were vaccinated during the program, which was
begun last November.

Explosives in West Berlin

Nearly five tons of ammunition, rifle and rocket
weapon parts and assorted explosives were found in the
western sectors of Berlin in the first half of 1950, accord-
ing to a report from Berlin Element Public Safety Division.
The total does not include the 1,000-pound bomb recently
uncovered in the British Sector.

The hazardous work of removing the debris of war has
been in progress since the beginning of the occupation.

German police bomb disposal squads have been clear-
ing war-wrecked areas systematically, carrying out at
the same time a program by which dangerous ruins are
leveled by blasting. Twenty-one private firms are pres-
ently working on removal of ruins.

In the first half of 1950, more than 700 badly damaged
buildings or other installations were razed.

National Catholic Convention

More than 100,000 German Catholics are gathering at
Passau on September 1, 2 and 3 for German Catholicism’s
greatest annual assembly. The Catholic Day (Katholiken
Tag), of which this is the 74th in history, yearly produces
the strongest combined expression of Catholic opinion on
current affairs in Germany. The Catholics this year will
seek to define their role in solving current world and
German problems,

SEPTEMBER 1950

87

Pic Joseph d'Angelo was presented with the Commenda-
tion Ribbon and a watch for action beyond the call of
duty when he saved a German boy from drowning at
Bremen. Brig. Gen. Charles W. D. Canham, commanding
general, Bremerhaven Port of Embarkation, made the
presentation at parade July 28. Taking the salute, I.-r., are
Col. W. F. Magill, BPE executive officer, General Canham,
Lt. Col. E. C. Krause, S-2 and S-3 Sections, BPE, and
Pic. d' Angelo. (US Army photo)

The Catholic Day is not only a public forum but a
religious festival also. It will open in Passau’s medieval
cathedral with a Pontifical High Mass for children, which
will be followed by almost continuous masses, night and
day, in the cathedral, the city square and other churches.

A high point of religious’ ceremonies is a four-hour
procession in which the statue of the “Black Virgin," said
to have miraculous powers, will be transported to the
cathedral from its shrine at Altoetting. Special events on
the three-day program include orchestral concerts, choral
and organ recitals, and speeches by Catholic leaders and
civic authorities. The pope will address the convention
via radio in the city square on the final day. Receptions
for governmental representatives of the US, Britain and
France will also be included.

The first Catholic convention was held in Mainz on
Oct. 3-5, 1848, as a meeting of delegates from Catholic
organizations throughout German states and provinces.
During 28 years of its history, the annual event could
not be held because of political strife, wars or anti-church
political regimes. It was suppressed by the Nazis and not
revived until 1948.

“I'm a German, Suh!"

Dr. Leroy Vogel, OLC Hesse Education chief, has re-
ceived tacit proof that the HICOG Cultural Exchange
program is a success.

Recently, a young man came to Dr. Vogel's office to
ask some questions. Speaking perfect English, with a
marked Southern accent, the youth had an interesting
conversation with Dr. Vogel. Just as the interview ended,
Dr. Vogel asked the visitor if his parents were employed
by HICOG or the Department of the Army.

In his broad Southern drawl, the youngster explained
he was a German just returned from the United States
after study there on a Cultural Exchange project. -+-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 91 ---
German Editorials

This section is compiled from a summary prepared by the Press & Publications
Branch, Information Services Division, HICOG, of editorials in the German press.

The publishing of these German edi-
torials is intended to inform the Ameri-
can readers of what the Germans are
writing and thinking, without interpre-
tation. The inclusion of any statement
from the German press does not give
concurrence to the view or opinion,

Germans Weary of War

Badische Neueste Nachrichten (Ind., Karlsruhe, July 10),
commenting on the HICOG Reactions Analysis Branch's
public opinion poll on the question of whether West Ger-
many should enter into a closer relationship with the
Western Powers and discussing the reasons for the nega-
tive answers of 32 percent, said the German people are
tired of war and wish to keep out of a possible armed
conflict between East and West so long as Germany's
protection consists of only 120,000 occupation troops.

“The decision ‘for or against neutrality’ depends on the
confidence the Western Powers are able to win in
western Germany,” the paper said. “This confidence must
be based on clearly visible facts... We need a guarantee
— not a declaration of a guarantee.”

The paper in conclusion stated that the elections in
Germany have shown that the average German is on the
road toward democracy, adding, ‘However, the vote
toward the West necessarily leads via the security which
the Western Powers must give us.”

Germany's Security

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Ind., Munich, July 7) said that
the federal Press Office is correct in stating that Chancel-
lor Adenauer's request for a security guarantee was not
prompted, in the first instance, by the Korean crisis, but
sadded it cannot be contested that events in Korea had a
stimulating effect on his policy. Moreover, there is no
doubt that Dr. Adenauer’s demand is very popular in
western Germany.

The paper said that of the Western Powers, France
showed most understanding for the German security
demands and that it was essentially the US Government

which was least inclined to give a binding guarantee
based on international law. This US restraint is under-
standable, the paper said, inasmuch as the question of
whether and where the Federal Republic is to be defended
is first of all a military problem and can be decided only
by US military experts, not by diplomats.

As the US has not yet given up hope of eventually
reaching a fundamental settlement of all US-Soviet
differences she is seeking to avoid anything that might
cause new friction with the Soviets. Therefore, the German
population should show more understanding for the
American attitude, the paper concluded.

McCloy on German Defense

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Ind., Frankfurt, July 24) did
not find that Mr. McCloy’s statement that in the event of
an attack it would be difficult to deny to the Germans the
right and the means to defend themselves, represented a
change in US policy. Mr. McCloy had repeatedly stated
that there would be no German rearmament. But he now
had found words to give the subject a tone other than it
formerly had. The paper felt that this indicated how little
the Western Powers have thought through their German
policies. Were there a Russian attack, the German people
would not have time to organize an armed defense.

Nuernberger Nachrichten (Ind., Nuremberg, July 24) also
criticized Mr. McCloy's statement, repeating the question
which the Koelnische Rundschau (Cologne), the official
CDU paper, had asked Mr. McCloy: whether, in an
emergency, Mr. McCloy would put the Germans into
American uniforms, arm them with American weapons
and place them in American companies and regiments?
What did Mr. McClov mean by his statement, if not this

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, July 1)

_——

nibwcnen 1938...

INFORMATION BULLETIN

88

(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, July 1)

“Let's hope he doesn’t wake up!”

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 92 ---
{Essener Allgemeine Zeitung,
Essen, July 5)

interpretation? The Nachrichten does not
approve such a move, the paper added.

War to Be Decided on Ground

Deutsche Zeitung und Wirtschaftszeitung
(Ind., Stuttgart, July 5): “It has been justly
said that Korea cannot be compared to Ger-
many... but Arthur Koestler’s reference to
the clever fools who through sheer clever-
ness overlook the simple things comes to
mind.

“The Korean case established three facts:

“1) When the Red bloc attacks, it does
not rely on pitchforks and blunderbusses,
but on up-to-date modern weapons and a first-rate infantry,
supported by artillery and tanks,

“2) The attacked cannot depend on aircraft alone. The
war in Korea is being fought on the ground, and not in
the air.

“3) To maintain individual freedom and the Western
standard of living requires sacrifices, giving up of a
certain amount of material prosperity and the renunciation
of antiquated prejudices. The Atlantic Pact nations will
no longer be able to evade this issue.”

Frankfurter Neue Presse (Ind., Frankfurt, July 5) sought
editorially to draw Korea’s lesson. Mr. McCloy’s statement
that the US had learned how important a factor is time,
was stressed. But, the paper continued, the European
countries are not making the necessary effort for the
preservation of their democratic existence. Witness the
return of the King in Belgium, the continuing govern-
mental crisis in France and the wage strikes in England.
Only a very few of the 44 countries which have approved
the UN resolution on aid to Korea have given actual
assistance,

The paper criticized England particularly for large
deliveries of rubber to the Soviet Union, “which certainly
are not going to ‘be turned into rubber balls’ and accused
the West of profiteering by delivering important raw
materials to the East by various detours.

Muenchner Merkur (Ind., Munich, July 10) renewed
the question of German security. No one, the paper said,
doubted Mr, McCloy's statement that an attack upon
Germany would automatically bring counter-measures by
the Western Powers. The only question, however, was
whether the forces at hand are sufficient. The paper
demanded an immediate meeting of European nations to
take extraordinary defensive measures. It demanded
further that Western Germany take part in the military
security measures. .

Symbolic?

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Ind., Frankfurt, July 20)
editorially hailed the decision of the US not to cover
up its defeats. The fighting was not the same as it had
been for the US in the last two world wars. Then the
US fought on the side which had an overpowering major-
ity in men and materials. This was past. Now the
Americans are fighting against the vanguards of Com-
munism practically alone.

SEPTEMBER 1950

CHAIN REACTION

Dangerous experiment.

89

In a third world war the Americans would
for the first time be no stronger in number
than the enemy. Previously the US always
had allies on the mainland who did most of
the ground fighting and weakened the
enemy before American troops themselves
had to 'be brought in. The US no longer has
such allies. The US battalions throwing
themselves against a superior force in Korea

* are possibly a symbol of the future.

Peking Instead of Moscow

Stuttgarter Zeitung (Independent, Stutt-
gart, July 10) stressed the importance of
China for the outcome of the Korean war. The paper as-
sumed that the attack on South Korea had been decided
upon long before June 25 and was designed to divert the
attention of the West from the final expulsion of Chiang
Kai-shek from Formosa. President Truman's decision to
defend Formosa completely changed the situation in Com-
munist eyes. .

The blockade of Chinese ports by Nationalist troops has
ceased, a matter of considerable advantage to Red China.

The Communist attack on Formosa seems to have been
postponed and both Moscow and Peking have cautiously
adopted a policy of official non-intervention. This way
both will be able to “save face’ while pursuing other
tactics, Mao Tse-tung by exploiting the new trade
possibilities on the Chinese coast and Stalin by utilizing
the breathing space to complete his plans, Instead of
Moscow, Peking is now likely to ‘take the lead.

Hoarding in Germany

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Ind. Munich, July 10) com-
mented on the discrepancy between the present hoarding
psychosis and the people's indifference to the Korean
conflict. On both sides of the Iron Curtain, the author
said, people grab whatever comes their way, but when
journalists recently tried to find out how people in
Munich and Berlin felt about Korea, most of the persons
questioned replied gruffly that they want to be left in
peace. First, Korea is very far away and, second, one does
not have anything more to lose.

The paper criticized this attitude as the fear typical of
people who refuse to interest themselves in politics in
time and later hope that they will be by-passed by events.

(Bayreuther Tagblatt, Bayreuth, July 8)

‘Don's woRRY KONRAD
THE KIESTIERN WORLD
WS BEHIND YH!

Adenauer: “When I think of Korea, I'd prefer to have

the Western world in front of me!"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 93 ---
(Die Welt, Hamburg, July 24)

Palming it off on the sucker!

German Economy

Stuttgarter Zeitung (Ind., Stuttgart, July 20) comment-
ing on German-American trade relations, said that since
the beginning of the Korean war German exports to the
US have increased considerably. This was largely due to
the present armament boom in the US which had caused
prices to rise and so had enabled German industry to
compete successfully on the American market.

“...But greater than the unexpected improvement in
German-American trade will be the detrimental effects
which the armament boom will have on prices and
social peace in Germany, because rising food prices will
affect the German standard of living and might con-
sequently lead to wage troubles. The present favorable
export situation should therefore in no way be over-
estimated.”

Berlin Press Reaction

The eruption of armed conflict in Korea touched off
strong editorial comment in West-licensed Berlin news-
papers at the beginning of July. Referring to the ob-
vious resemblance between the division of Korea, on
the one hand, and the partition of Germany, on the
other, the West-licensed press pointed out that the signa-
tories of the Teheran, Yalta and Potsdam agreements
“should have known that the senseless division of na-
tions simultaneously means a division of indivisible
peace.”

West-licensed papers were unanimous in the opinion
that the North Korean Communist aggression was backed
and prepared by the Kremlin. The Korean example, it
warned, proved that it will not suffice at the moment

INFORMATION BULLETIN

90

to grant economic assistance to countries menaced by
Communism, and that military investments will be re-
quired to secure the stabilization of the internal political
situation of such countries.

In addition, it was pointed out that events in Korea
confirmed the correctness of the Western Powers’ decision
to reject Soviet proposals for the withdrawal of Allied
garrisons as the alleged ‘pre-requisite for really free
city-wide elections in Berlin.”

Editorial reaction to events in Korea three weeks
later was still rather weak, but noted with satisfaction
that Pandit Nehru's mediation attempts were rejected
by the United States. Rejection is the best thing for
mediation of this kind, which is identical with sur-
rendering to the aggressor, the papers said.

President Truman's message’ to Congress was wel-
comed as evidence of the President's firm attitude. It
was most essential to. realize Mr. Truman‘’s program
before the highest point of danger was reached, and
to make use of all advantages with a purpose that is
bound to strengthen the confidence of the free world
and hopes for the maintenance of peace, Der Tages-
spiegel said.

The Western-licensed papers generally considered
Mr. Truman's speech an effective warning to the Krem-
lin. Hitler believed he could ignore a similar speech
made by the late President Roosevelt; his exit might
be a good lesson to the men in the Kremlin, they said.
Mr. Truman's statement, it was added, proved US deter-
mination to do everything to strengthen the moral and
material power of the UN to the extent that people the
world over will forget their fear of aggression.

Grain Crisis

On one point, the grain crisis, the press was unanimous
in holding that the government had failed. Indecision and
irresponsibility were charged, and criticized. It was
emphasized that although the crisis was foreseeable, the
government simply had let matters take their course. It
was pointed out that the Bundestag (federal parliament),
after dropping the grain subsidies in the second week of
July, had resolved the following week that the subsidies .

(Fraenkische Presse, Bayreuth, July 6)

Two sorts of peace efforts.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 94 ---
be reintroduced but had not voted the necessary funds.
The government at that time had not yet taken a definite
stand.

In France, it was stressed, such a display. of non-
confidence would have overthrown the Cabinet. Several
papers, including the Braunschweiger Zeitung (Ind.,
Brunswick), considered the formation of a CDU-SPD
coalition would be the logical result of the common voting
of these two parties. The Communist publications howled
for the government's resignation. The only other paper to
demand that the government stand down was the Ham-
burger Echo (SPD).

Sonntagsblatt (Hamburg), which is published by Prote-
stant Bishop Hans Lilje, warned the government that
“nothing is worse in critical times than the failure of the
government ministers to come to an agreement on decisive
questions and not to know what must be done.”

Frankfurter Rundschau (Ind. Frankfurt) and Frank-
furter Neue Presse (Ind., Frankfurt) attacked the govern-
ment for its failure to establish itself in Frankfurt rather
than in Bonn and declared that the government could have
used for subsidies the DM 6,400,000 from an emergency
fund which the government “scandalously had used
instead for government buildings in Bonn.

Several papers believed the bread price crisis would
cause popular unrest. They feared farm workers would
strike. Labor unions, they reported, had threatened to
cancel their wage agreements. The Sueddeutsche Zeitung
(Ind., Munich) expected sharp activity on the part of these
and interest groups previously dormant.

Price of Bread

The daily press had different answers to the question
of what economic measures should be taken. Most papers
felt that the only solution was the introduction of sub-
sidies, because of the possible political consequences. The

(Bochumer Zeitung, Bochum, July 29)

ae

SS

Malik (slangily): ‘Hello, boys, I've come back to put new
life into this joint!"

Hamburger Echo (SPD) demanded an increase in taxes
to finance the subsidies.

A number of weeklies favored free enterprise. Die
Zeit (Ind., Hamburg) and Die Deutsche Kommentare
(Ind., Heidelberg) were against subsidies. Die Zeit was
the only paper which felt that the bakers’ margin of
profit was large enough to absorb the higher price of
wheat. Deutsche Kommentare was convinced that the
price rise would have been bearable were it not for
the hysterical outcries of various interest groups.

The Sonntagsblatt (Hamburg) criticized the government
and the bakers for interfering with the operation of free
economy. The government had disturbed the free economy
by its introduction of ceiling prices and the bakers, on
the advice of their guild, by simply raising prices uni-
formly, rather than allowing. prices to vary in free com-
petition.

The weekly Europa Kurier (Ind., now published in
Hamburg) had an unusual proposal. The price rise should

Cartoons in Soviet Sector German-Language Press

(Neues Deutschland, Berlin, July 9)

MacArthur: “Stop, stop! You're supposed to run
in the other direction!"

SEPTEMBER 1950

91

(Berliner Zeitung, Berlin, July 7)

SE STERN-
GERMANY

Security Guarantee.
McCloy: “You want a guarantee? Our presence is
security enough.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 95 ---
(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, July 5)

AS, =I

=
4

Tough race.

be borne by all, it suggested. One-sixth should be absorbed
by each of the following: the farmer, the miller, the whole-
saler, the retailer, the baker and the consumer.

A number of papers recommended as solution a
“standard” or ‘“‘everyman’s bread” to be sold at the old
price while controlled prices
on other bakery products be
dropped.

Ideals and
Living Standards

Die Zeit (Ind, Hamburg,
June 29) criticized the foreign
policy of the United States
for being behind events:

“.,.Even Washington will
have recognized by now that
the Soviet attack on Korea
could only have happened
because the Americans were
asleep. On June 10, Pravda,
which we assume is also read in the State Department,
published an article which should have made the Ameri-
can politicians suspicious.

“But this wasn't the first time that American politicians
have been caught napping. In the last world war they
never thought about the future peace. Instead of keeping
the Soviet Union out of the Far Eastern war Roosevelt at
the Yalta conference drew the Kremlin into it. That way
the Soviets captured all the Japanese arms depots of the
Kwantung army, which helped them to win the Chinese
civil war and now to open the Korean war.

“After their reign over South Korea the Americans
became sleepy again. Instead of looking out for the
security of the free Koreans, the Americans attempted the
laudable task of teaching them democratic ideals and
raising their standard of living."

SED Convention

Stuttgarter Nachrichten (Ind. Stuttgart, July 20)
characterized the SED meeting in Berlin as a “party
day of concealed weaknesses and of open declarations
of attack." The battle plans that the SED has set up for
West Germany should remove any illusions about the
goals of the Communists.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Weser Kurier, Bremen, July 14)

“We don't want to swim. We only want to see whether
the water is warm — just in case we have to rescue you
suddenly.”

The expulsion of Hermann Nuding was interesting
and important. lt showed weakness, for it indicated that
even in the leadership of the Communist party there
was dissension over the “peace campaign” and that not
all Communist leaders were ready to follow the pre-
scribed line without qualification. The West should use
this chance and keep alive the dissension in the ranks
of the enemy.

East-West Trade

Wiesbadener Kurier (Ind., Wiesbaden, July 24) regret-
ted that the exchange of goods between West Germany
and the Eastern countries, including the Soviet Zone, had
decreased to a minimum. “Political developments have
not been able to prevent economic relations entirely. Trade
is no longer via customs and finance offices, but by
smuggling. This is an affair not only of the economic
authorities; it should concern the politicians as well. He
who rejects planned economy has to expect buyers and
sellers to act, not according
to the wishes of the politi-
cians, but according to the
most favorable prices.”

Referendum
Without People
Giessener Freie Presse (Ind.,
Giessen, July 6) complained
of the small percentage of
voters who participated in the
Hessian referendum to amend
the state constitution. ‘‘Ob-
viously, the opinion that poli-
tics are a matter for experts
still prevails... The time
which should be devoted to such matters is the price of
freedom... Those who do not care about politics are not
entitled to complain if developments do not correspond
to their will.” a

Countermoves around Counteriunds

Darmstaedter Echo (Ind., Darmstadt, July 24) termed
ECA's refusal to grant credits to mines, ferrous and iron

(Nordsee Zeitung, Bremerhaven, July 14)

Minister of Agriculture Niklas demands punishment of
millers and bakers who raise bread prices.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 96 ---
(Weilheimer Tagblatt, Weilheim, July 4)

OCCUPATION}
¥ STATUTE |.

“Goodby, Emily, I hope you become as thin as a line.”

plants and chemical industries “the rejection of the main
ideas prevailing among German experts. We are falling
back," added the paper, “into the period of receiving
orders, which the Germans thought had passed."

Small Transmitter for Munich

Muenchener Merkur (Ind., Munich, July 7) criticized
the decision of the Office of the US High Commissioner
for curbing the activities of the Munich transmitting
station because its wave length interfered with that of
Radio Athens. The paper claimed that not only 60 percent
of West German listeners, but also a percentage of those
on the other side of the Iron Curtain whose radios were
able to pick up the Munich station, will no longer be able
to listen to Western political comments and will-now hear
only the Eastern propaganda broadcast from Leipzig and
other Eastern cities.

The paper warned that the Communists will not fail
to take every possible advantage of this move and, in
line with the perpetual Red propaganda slogan of "“Some-
day the West will desert you, anyhow," it is to be feared
that they will have a deplorable effect on the morale
of many listeners.

Spanish Pepper

Darmstaedter Echo (Ind., Darmstadt, July 10), reviewing
German-Spanish relations on the occasion of the recently-
concluded trade pact between the two countries, believed
“great disappointment has been occasioned by the Franco
regime's attitude toward Germany." The reason is Franco's
policy in regard to German property.

Pressed by the Allies, Spain had to confiscate German
property following the war, but Franco went a step further
and linked the question of German-Spanish debts with the
reparation problem although the debts never had been
acknowledged by Germany. "To avoid a more poignant
expression,” said the paper, “this was nothing but pure
looting. The claims against the former German Reich are
in no way justified, nor were they even discussed with
German experts. The new agreement will therefore hardly
be a real contribution to the revival of German-Spanish
friendship.”

SEPTEMBER 1950

93

Leopold's Return

Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Ind., Heidelberg, July 24) stated
that it is “the fault of the King alone that there is a royal*
question at all which has divided the people into two
groups." The paper criticizes the government as irrespon-
sible in having invited the King to return. The problem
can be solved only by abdication, it said.

German PW's

In a front page editorial, the Frankfurter Allgemeine
(Ind., Frankfurt, July 24) expressed fear that the Western
Powers’ note to the Soviet Union on behalf of the German
prisoners of war will only add fuel to the fire under
present circumstances. If the Soviets reply at all, they will
probably point to the PW's still in custody of the French
or other Western countries. The failure of the West Zone
Communists, who were severely censured at the SED
party congress for their weakness, is largely due to their
doggish submissiveness to Moscow in the PW question.

Congress for Cultural Freedom

The international Congress for Cultural Freedom was
closely followed by the West Berlin press. This “bril-
liant assembly, attended by the most prominent repre-
sentatives of international cultural life," was referred to
by ,West Berlin observers as “the renascence (in Ger-
many) of the spiritual dialogue within a free human
society.”

Some observers called it “a chorus of very hetero-
geneous voices.vastly differing from the sinister unison
of Communist peace conferences which devote them-
selves mainly to the task of hammering mendacious
slogans in a single version into the brains of human
beings.” +END

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, June 23)

“Let's try to get together under one hat
(workers’ right of co-determination)."

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 97 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of July 13

The 33rd meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held July 13
at the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were
Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, UK High Commis-
sioner (chairman); Mr. John J. McCloy, US
High Commissioner, and Mr. Andre Fran-
cois-Poncet, French High Commissioner.

The Council:

1. Decided that economic, political, finan-
cial, legal and other experts within the
High Commission should prepare replies
to the series of questions sent to the High
Commission by the study group for the
revision of the Occupation Statute set up
in London by the Foreign Ministers of the
United Kingdom, United States and France.

2. Agreed to take legislative action to
bring about the liquidation and transfer to
private ownership of ‘the former Reich-
owned motion picture industry and its
properties and to inform the federal govern-
ment that in accordance with the provisions
of the Occupation Statute this Allied legis-
lation may be replaced where appropriate
by federal legislation. .

3. Directed the political committee of the
High Commission to study and decide
upon statutes for a German gymnastics
federation proposed by the Deutscher Ar-
beitsausschuss Turnen.

4, Signed an Allied High Commission
law on “Reciprocal Assistance in Criminal
Matters between Occupation Courts and
Authorities." The law establishes pro-
cedures to aid law enforcement officers
in the apprehension and prosecution of
persons who otherwise might escape
punishment because of lack of reciprocity
agreements in criminal matters between the
three occupation zones. (For text, see
“Laws and Regulations.’’)

5, Examined a report on the activities of
the Communist press in Germany, particu-
larly with respect to the publication of
material in violation of Allied High Com-
mission Law No. 5. The High Commis-
sioners agreed upon the application in
appropriate cases of administrative meas-
ures under Law No. 5 to deal with such
violations including, if necessary, the sus-
pension of the operations of printing plants
involved.

6. Decided to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg on July 20.

HICOM Meeting of July 20

The 34th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held July 20
at the Petersberg, near Bonn. Present were
Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, UK High Commis-
sioner (chairman); Mr. John J. McCloy, US
High Commissioner, and Mr. Aridre Fran-
cois-Poncet, French High Commissioner.

The Council:

1. Agreed to promulgate, as soon as texts
had been verified and translations had
been completed, an Allied High Commis-
sion law to provide for the disposition of
motion picture property formerly owned or
controlled by the former German Reich. The
law is designed to dispose of the former
Reich-owned motion picture property in a
manner best calculated to foster a sound,
privately-owned motion picture industry in
Germany, so organized as to preclude ex-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

cessive concentration of economic power.
The High Commissioners agreed to go for-
ward vigorously with the liquidation of
these properties in implementation of the
law.

2. Decided to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg on July 27.

HICOM Meeting of July 27

The 35th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held July 27
at the Petersberg, near Bonn. :

Present were. Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, UK
High Commissioner (chairman); Mr. John
J. McCloy, US High Commissioner, and
Mr. Armand Berard, French Deputy High
Commissioner, acting for Mr. Andre Fran-
cois-Poncet.

The Council:

1. Discussed at Jength the questions
relating to the Occupation Statute sent to
the High Commission by the intergovern-
mental study group which was set up in
London by decision of the three foreign
ministers in May. After examining replies
to the various questions, prepared during
the past fortnight by economic, political,
financial and legal experts of the High
Commission, the Council agreed upon the
text of the replies to the study group's
questions. These are of a factual nature,
bearing principally on the manner in
which the Occupation Statute has operated
up to the present time.

2. Decided to hold its next meeting in
Berlin on Aug. 10.

Laws and Regulations

Bonn Enclave Statute

Article 1
The special area directly under the Allied
High Commission which is designated
“Bonn Enclave’ is composed of the ter-
ritories of the following localities:
(1) Stadtkreis (city of) Bonn
(2) Within the Landkreis (county) of Bonn:
Stadt (city of) Bad Godesberg
Amt (Administrative area of) Villip
Gemeinden (communities) or Ort-
schaften (localities of) Friesdorf, Arz-
dorf, Adendorf, Merl, Roettgen, Langs-
dorf, Witterschlick, Nettekoven, Duis-
dorf, Heidgen, Volmersshoven, Impe-
koven, Oedekoven, Gielsdorf, Mess-
dorf, Lessenich, Gemeinde Beuel;
(3) Within the Siegkreis (county of that
name):
Stadt Honnef
Koenigswinter
Gemeinden or Ortschaften Mildorf,
Hangelar, Niederpleis, Holzlar, Ober-
kassel, Ober-Dollendorf, Nieder-Dol-
lendorf, Heisterbacherott;
and the waters of the Rhine bordering these
localities.
Article 2
Legislation in force in the British Zone
of occupation shall be applicable in the
Bonn Enclave, subject to any modifications
by the Allied High Commission,

94

Article 3

1. ‘Any member of the US or French
Allied Forces present in the Bonn Enclave
and charged with having committed an
offense shall be reported to the Occupation
Authorities to whom he is responsible in
order that the latter may take such action
as they may deem to be necessary. In cases
of arrest by police other than that of his
own national element, the person concerned
shall be handed over to the authority to
whom he is responsible. This patagraph
shall also apply to German personnel when
the issues to be decided arise out of or in
the course of performance of duties or
services with the Allied Forces.

2. British occupation courts remain
competent in respect of offenses committed
within the Bonn Enclave which affect the
interest of the occupation. However, when
such offense affects the prestige or security
of the US or French forces or authorities,
the High Commissioner concerned may
designate a judge or official of his own
nationality to take part in and to sit as an
assessor in a consultative capacity at the
trial of the case.

3. Subject to any contrary decision of
the Allied High Commission, either generally
or in specific cases, the British Occupation
Authorities are hereby designated with
respect to the Bonn Enclave, as the authori-
ty mentioned in Article 12 of the Allied
High Commission Law No. 13 on judicial
powers in the reserved fields.

4. This statute takes effect on the day
of its publication.

HICOM Law on Repeal of Legislation
Restricting Freedom of Movement within
the Territory of the Federal Republic

Article 1
The provisions of Article XI of Control
Council Law No, 18 (Housing Law) are
hereby deprived of effect in the territory
of the Federal Republic and all declarations
of critical areas made under the said
article are hereby rescinded,
Article 2
All restrictions imposed by Military
Government on the movement of persons
and the choice of residence within the
territory of the Federal Republic are

hereby cancelled. (Announcement issued
June 20.)
Reciprocal Assistance in Criminal

Matters between Occupation Courts
and Authorities .

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion enacts as follows:

Article 1
The provisions of this law apply to oc-
cupation courts and Occupation Authori-
ties within the territory of the Federal Re-
public and apply only to criminal proceed-
ings.
Article 2
Where the occupation courts or Occupa-
tion Authorities of one zone so request,
the appropiate occupation courts or Occu-
pation Authorities in another zone may:
(a) Execute rogatory commissions.
(b) Effect the service of documents.
(c) Make investigations.
(d) Permit the authorities of the first
zone to do any of the foregoing:
\ (e) Render any other assistance not con-
trary to the law in force in their zone.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 98 ---
Article 3

1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 4
and 5, where any person charged with an
offense in one zone is located in a second
zone, the Occupation Authorities of the
second zone will arrest him and deliver
him to the Occupation Authorities of the
first zone, upon their Tequest, if:

(a) The offense is alleged to have been
committed after May 8, 1945: ,

(b) The request is supported by a warrant
or judgment issued by a competent authori-
ty of the requesting zone, and a brief
statement of the facts constituting the of-
fense.

(c) The person is charged with conduct
which would constitute an offense justify-
ing his arrest under the law of the second
(arresting) zone.

2. If such person is also subject to
charges or is in custody or under sentence
in the zone where he is located, the authori-
ties of that zone may either postpone
delivery until completion of trial or service
of sentence, if any, or deliver him on con-
ditions for his return to them after trial or
service of sentence, if any, in the request-
ing zone.

Article 4

1. The provisions of this article apply to
any person in the following categories:

(a) The Occupation Authorities,

(b) Civilian members of the occupation
forces.

(c) Civilian nationals of the Occupying
Powers who are serving with the Occupa-
tion Authorities or ‘forces.

_(d) Members of the families of, and
civilian nationals of the Occupying Powers
in the service of, the Persons referred to
in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above.

2. Where any such person is charged
with an offense committed in a zone other
than that of his high commissioner, the ap-
propriate authorities of the zone where the
offense was committed may prosecute him
for the offense, arrest him if he is found in
their zone, or request his’ arrest and
delivery if he is located in another zone:
provided, however, that the high commis-
sioner having authority over the person
charged shall forthwith be notified of any
action taken in any zone other than his
own in respect of the offense. He may re-
quest that further Proceedings be trans-
ferred to him and that the person charged,
if in custody, be delivered to him. Such re-
quests will be complied with, whereupon
all proceedings in another zone relating to
the offense shall be discontinued.

Article 5

This law shall not apply to any military
Personnel of the occupation forces who
are subject to military, naval or air force
law, and shall not affect any agreements
now existing or hereafter to be made
among the commanders-in-chief of the oc-
cupation forces with respect to the exer-
cise of jurisdiction over or the apprehen-
sion or delivery of such personnel.

Article 6
Each high commissioner may issue regu
lations implementing this law in his zone.

Article 7

The provisions of Decision No. 48, dated
Jan. 29, 1948, of the French commander-in-
chief in Germany, amended by decision
No. 122, dated March 26, 1949, shall, on the
date of the coming into force of this law,
be deprived of effect insofar as the legal
relations between the French Zone and the
United States and British Zones of occupa-
tion are concerned.

SEPTEMBER 1950

Official Announcements

Credit Union Opened

A sub-office of the State Department
Federal Credit Union, membership in which
is limited to US State Department ad
ECA employees in Germany, opened Aug.
10 in Room 156 of the Headquarters Build-
ing in Frankfurt. The Credit Union will be
authorized to accept from and make loans
to members only. Shares of stock are
valued at $5 each and membership may
be obtained by the purchase of a minimum
of one share of stock and the payment
of a 25 cent entrance fee. For the present,
members are limited to a deposit of not
more than $50 per month.

Employees belonging to the Credit Union
in Washington are not entitled to mem-
bership in Frankfurt, but may effect a
transfer of membership to Frankfurt.

The Credit Union is a co-operative or-
ganization designed to encourage thrift and
at the same time make loans at reason-
able rates of interest. Dividends from the
operation of the Credit Union are declared
annually. In 1948 and 1949 despositors
received a dividend of 3.6 percent.

A member may borrow up to $300 on
his own signature but loans over this
amount require collateral, usually in the
form of a co-signer. Interest on loans must
be paid at the rate of one percent per
month on the unpaid balance with slightly
less interest (*/4%/0) on loans of $600 or
more. It is anticipated that loan applications
can be processed and the money made
available to the applicant within a period
of seven days.—from HICOG Daily Bul-
Jetin Aug. 10. B

HICOG Hospitalization Plan

All American HICOG employees now
have the opportunity to sign up for pre-
paid hospital protection through Hospitali-
zation, Inc., it was announced by the
Personnel Division, Office of Administra-
tion. It was emphasized, however, that the
group plan will not go into effect unless a
minimum of 50 percent of the total number
of HICOG personnel in Germany enroll in
the plan. A representative of Group Hospi-
talization, Inc., known as Washington's
Blue Cross Plan, arrived in Frankfurt re-
cently to assist in establishing the plan
among HICOG employees and their depen-
dents,

“As dependents are no longer eligible
for hospital care at government expense,”
Chester E. Beaman of the Personnel
Division said, “it is strongly recommended
that advantage be taken of the hospitaliza-
tion insurance offered by this non-profit
organization.” Since July 1, US Army
hospitals have required HICOG personnel
and their dependents to pay $11.25 per day
for hospitalization and treatment. While
hospital expenses incurred by HICOG per-
sonnel are paid from State Department
funds, expenses incurred by dependents
must be paid in full by their sponsors.

The monthly cost under the hospitaliza-
tion plan is $3 for HICOG families, includ-
ing husbands, wives and all children less
than 18 years of age. Single HICOG per-
sonnel may enroll for $1.30 monthly. They
will thus receive benefits for nonduty acci-
dents or illness not covered by Foreign
Service regulations and also will be assured
of protection upon their return to the
United States.

95

Application blanks for enrollment are
being distributed to all HICOG admini-
strative officers. Full details of the plan
are being explained to administrative
officers.

While US Army hospitals charge $11.25
daily for hospitalization, charges in Ger-
man and other European hospitals vary.
However, the Blue Cross Plan's allowances
apply whether hospitalization is in an
Army hospital or a German hospital else-
where in Europe. Allowances provided
range from a maximum of $17.50 for the
first day of care to a maximum of $277
for 30 days.

For a five-day hospital stay, group
hospitalization provides a maximum allow-
ance of $62.50, more than enough to cover
the Army’s charge of $56.25; for a 10-day
stay, it allows $107 while the average
charge is $112.50; for a 15-day stay, it
allows $149.50 and the average charge
is $168.25; for a 20-day stay, it allows
$192 and the average charge is $225, and
for a 30-day stay, it allows $277 and the
average charge is $337.50.

HICOG personnel interested in this pro-
tection are requested to communicate with
their administrative officers for application
blanks and the answers to any questions
they may have in regard to the Blue Cross
Plan.

When HICOG personnel and their depend-
ents return to the United States, full
service benefits will be available if
facilities of a participating hospital in the
Washington area are used. If residence is
elsewhere in the United States, a transfer
of the contract to the local Blue Cross Plan
may, in most cases, be arranged.

HICOG Travel to US

Effective July 6, HICOG employees on
duty travel to the United States or on
statutory leave will use commercial car-
riers, provided space can be secured, it
was announced by the Transportation
Division, Office of Administration.

Army transportation, either surface or
air, will not be utilized in the future except
in emergencies. Travel status of dependents
will be the same as that for sponsors.

The transportation office also announced
that because of lack of space on ocean
liners during the rush season, it is preferred
that travel be by air.

MATS Transatlantic Flights

Transatlantic flights of Military Air
Transport Service have been considerably
curtailed due to other temporary commit-
ments. According to a cable received at
Headquarters, 1602nd Air Transport Wing,
the aircraft will resume normal trans-
atlantic schedules when their present mis-
sion is accomplished.

The European Command Air Priority
Board in Heidelberg has directed that only
Passengers with the following categories
will be routed through the 7705 Air
Returnee Center, Frankfurt, for subsequent
movement by air: (1) Emergency leave
involving death or possible loss of life;
(2) Urgent temporary duty travel.

It is contemplated that the priorities
noted above will fill all available space.
There will be no airlift for normal rotation
or other travel. MATS flights originating
at Rhine-Main and Tripoli to points
throughout the Mediterranean area remain
unchanged. There will be no change in
the medical air evacuation flights to the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 99 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Radio's Contribution in the Field of
Public Service, July 1949-March 1950, ISD
HICOG (Bad Nauheim), June 1950.

Der Aufenhandel der Bundesrepublik
Deutschland, Teil 1, Zusammenfassende
Ubersichten (The Foreign Trade of the
German Federal Republic, Part I, Com-
prehensive Surveys), Bizonal Statistical
Office, Wiesbaden, June 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series
II, No. 24, OEA, CCG(BE), July 1, 1950.

Post-Mortem on the Whitsuntide March,
A Survey of West Berliners’ Evaluations,
Report No. 25, Series No. 2, ISD HICOG
(Bad Nauheim), July 6, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 230,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), July 6, 1950.

German Economic Press Review, Series
II, No. 25, OEA, CCG(BE), July 8, 1950.

Our Department of Defense, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 5, No, 28, TI&E
Office, EUCOM, July 9, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 37, PRD
HICOG, July 11, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No, 231,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), July 15, 1950.

MATS, EUCOM Information Bulletin,
Vol. 5, No. 29, TI&E Office, EUCOM, July
16, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 38, PRD
HICOG, July 19, 1950.

HEUTE (in German), No. 115, ISD HICOG
(Munich), July 19, 1950. o

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 232,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), July 21, 1950.

The United States Navy, EUCOM In-
formation Bulletin, Vol, 5, No. 30, TI&E
Office, EUCOM, July 23, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 39, PRD
HICOG, July 26, 1950,

Trends and Current Attitudes regarding
the Voice of America Broadcasts, Report

Copies of publications, etc. listed

in the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters.

No, 26, Series No. 2, ISD HICOG (Bad
Nauheim), July 26, 1950.

Trend in German Opinions on Sociali-
zation of Industry, Report No. 27, Series
No. 2, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), July
27, 1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 233,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), July 28, 1950.

Armed Forces in a Democracy, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 5, No, 31, TI&E
Office, EUCOM, July 30, 1950.

Neue Auslese (in German), July 1950,
ISD HICOG (Munich), July 1950,

Rumors in West Germany following the
Korean Outbreak, Reactions Analysis
Special Report, ISD HICOG (Bad Nau-
heim), July 31, 1950.

Neue Auslese (in German), August 1950,
ISD HICOG (Munich), August 1950.

Information Bulletin, August 1950, PRD
HICOG, Aug. 4, 1950.

Daily Press Review and Radio Survey,
Nos. 133 to 153, ISD HICOG (Bad Nau-
heim), July 5 to Aug. 2, 1950.

United States—from MATS announcement
July 7.

Military Rail Tickets

Effective July 1, rail tickets purchased
by occupation personnel from US military
ticket offices in EUCOM will be valid for
travel on German civilian trains and on
international trains while they move
within Germany.

The tickets will be sold at the conces-
sional rates now in effect for passage on
US military coaches or trains operated in
EUCOM. Previously, the military rail
tickets were good only on US military
coaches and German civil trains.

Rail travel authorizations issued to per-
sonnel traveling on duty also will be valid
transportation on German and international
trains. Previously, the RTA could not be
used on international trains unless the
destination was outside of Germany.

According to the EUCOM Transportation
Division, the tickets may be bought with
Military Payment Certificates by presen-
tation of the individual's Post Exchange
Ration Card for July-August-September,
which contains the statement: ‘Bearer
authorized to purchase rail tickets at
concessional rates.’

No tickets will be sold on trains, or at
other than US military ticket offices. These
offices are located in more than 70 German
railroad stations throughout EUCOM.

Transportation officials emphasized that
the military tickets are not valid for passage
outside of the borders of Germany, or for
sleeping car accommodations, Eligible per-
sonnel may buy US military tickets as far
as the border, and purchase transportation
in the foreign country at regular rates in
the prescribed currencies.—from EUCOM
announcement June 27.

Reichsmark Conversion Deadline

The deadline for filing claims for con-
version — at the rate of 20 to 1 — of pre-
occupation Reichsmark balances in Western
Berlin banks for Deutsche marks has been

INFORMATION BULLETIN

extended from June 30, 1950, to Dec. 31,
1950, the Finance Branch of Berlin Element,
HICOG, announced June 29.

Extension of the June 30 deadline for
filing claims for conversion at the 20:1
rate applies only to United Nations na-
tionals, the announcement added.

Citizens of any of the United Nations
have been able to exchange 20 pre-
occupation Reichsmarks, on deposit in
Berlin bank accounts, for one Deutsche
mark since December 1949.

Licensing of Trade Fair Goods

A liberalized US license covering foreign
goods brought to the United States for
exhibition at trade fairs has been placed
in effect by the US Department of Com-
merce, the ECA Special Mission to Western
Germany announced.

The ECA Mission in Frankfurt received
the following information from the Com-
merce Department's Office of Internationa’
Trade:

“Under the new provisions, goods im-
ported into the United States for exhibition
at trade fairs may be returned to the country
from which imported without securing
validated export licenses. In addition, if
the imported articles are not listed as ex-
ceptions to present (in transit) general
license provisions applying to certain
strategic items, they may be exported to
any destination without validated licenses.

“In clearing exports under the new trade
fair general licenses, shippers must enter
general license symbol (GTF) on shipper's
export declarations filed with US Customs
officials.

“The new trade fair export provisions
are part of a program designed to simplify
and encourage participation from abroad
in trade fairs and exhibitions held in this
country, officials said.

“The OIT action is in the line with recent
legislation which materially liberalizes
present tariff and customs requirements in
the case of articles imported for exhibition
at the First US International Trade Fair, to
be held in Chicago Aug. 7-20..."

96

Customs and Frontiers Inspectorate

A tripartite customs and frontiers in-
spectorate has been established by the Al-
lied High Commission. The tasks of the
inspectorate will be to report to the High
Commission on the functioning of German
customs control over foreign and inter-
zonal trade,

The inspectorate consists of the chiefs
of the three zonal Allied customs inspection
agencies in western Germany, In carrying
out his functions each chief will utilize
Allied personnel already performing customs
inspection duties in his zone-—from HICOM
announcement Aug. 3.

Ex-POW's Service Claims

Eastern Germans and residents of Berlin
who have valid claims against the US
government for service performed as
prisoners of war have been requested to
file their claims as soon as possible at the
Kriegsgefangenen Zahlstelle, 26a Jungfern-
stieg, Berlin-Lichterfelde-Ost. Payment to
ex-prisoners of war will continue to be
made for a limited period. Ex-POW’s who
have lost their papers should request
issuance of duplicates by applying at the
Finance Division, HICOG.

USSR Mission's Travel Resumed

Permanent travel certificates were return-
ed to members of the Soviet Military
Liaison Mission in Frankfurt Jaly 14,
following restoration of similar travel
certificates to members of the US Military
Liaison Mission in Potsdam earlier in
the day.

The certificates were withdrawn from the
Soviet Mission May 19, and since then, the
members have been restricted to travel
between their quarters and the mission
office in Frankfurt. The action was taken
by US officials after permanent travel
documents were withdrawn May 12 from
the US Military Liaison Mission in Potsdam.

SEPTEMBER 1950

--- Page 100 ---
Cpl. Charles Blackwell oversees king-
size tire-changing job. Soldiers belong
to Hq. Co. of 7871st Training Group.

Dutch Army team hard at work as Cpl.
Alte eph looks on. School is
at Kitzingen, Wurzburg Military Post.

Officers and non-coms of the Royal Netherlands Army learn vehicle main-
tenance from US Army instructors under Mutual Defense A ance Program.

Mutual Defense Assistance Program

P — i
Dutch officer and enlisted man watch as Pfc. Leroy Smith explains operation
of air cleaner on cutaway model of a quarter-ton truck, (US Army photos)

Pic. Roger Winn instructs Dutch captain (cleaning brake drum) and sergeant-
major (greasing spindle) in maintenance of 2'/2-ton truck at MDAP school.

--- Page 101 ---
Juliette Moore is the name; Hunts-
ville, Tex., the home town. Chosen
as typical USAFE Special Services
hostess, the young lady pictured at
right filled the bill on all the statistics
rounded up about the 46 Air Force
hostesses working in the US Zone.
The average hostess, it was deter-
mined, is in her late twenties, stands
five. feet four inches tall, weighs 125
pounds, has brown hair, blue eyes, and
is a college graduate, “Judy” answer-
ed the description on all counts, Like
more than half of her sister hostesses,
she is no stranger to government serv-
ice, having served as a SPAR ensign
during the war. She joined Special
Services in October 1948, and after five
months at the Rhine-Main Air Base
club, was transferred to Wiesbaden Air
Base. She now holds the title of assistant
director of the Skyhook Club there.
Judy is a graduate of Sam Houston
College and has done professional
Girl Scout work. After a leave this
tall in Texas, she plans to sign another
two-year contract with Special Services.
(USAFE photo)

FE oe eR es nee eee