--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

--- Page 3 ---
Lobby above shows German art. At right, Dr. Hugo Swart,
Heidelberg mayor, speaks to first-day audience while
Center Director Charles Campbell watches,(PRD HICOG photos)

Patricia Van Delden, chief of HICOG Information Centers,
and US State Commissioner Charles P. Gross inspect books
(circle). Below and right, main and children’s libraries,
which contain books in most fields of interest to Germans,

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

GOL scsissielere. sc alate H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor . Alfred L. Meyer
Editorial Writer........ Beth Burchard
Editorial Writer ...... Maurice E. Lee

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994
e

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, U.S. Army

German mailing address is:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division

HICOG Hochhaus

Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

December 1950

RIAS, The Truth Crusader). .33)o0c.cnc. ties occa anes 3
Article by Aileen S, Miles

Berlin, Christmas 1950 ici). :oe002 cc 2 agus sa eae ee ee vt
Article by Wilmer Froistad

Santa in Blue. csicenecedens ie sep evince <n ane aca en mee 9
Arlicle by Sgt. Josephine J. Stong

Leadership Training for Youth ..................... ee ee 11
Article by Haynes R. Mahoney

An Old Farming: Custom \. 26%. .5c..0% <s-seiasc0ie oe etn ee.
Article by J. E, McKee

The Sonthoten: Cases cs fas 0 tN os ahh ale ee 17
Article by Alfred Schadde

Man's Passions and Prejudices ..................0 20h eee pal
Speech by Yehudi Menuhin

A Boost for; Trade 6 vets nse cc ensies wheas ocr ee come 23
Article by Fred W. Welty

The Christmas; Shooters (ajc «.0/2)5,:099 «cle caaiie nti cement 25
Article by Everett W. Schoening

Free Artists in Free: Berka.) 070 2: pci iaiepinisicie store alphas cent 27
Article by Eline McKnight

From Huts to Houses 31
Article by Alfred Gourge

Co-Determination, Keystone oi Labor Union Policy........ 33
Article by Lloyd White

Seeds Of Understanding. <oioi55. nc ooie vic svi o.'gie one eae De,
Article by William J, Caldwell

An Att: Lover's TOUr 3. iscsi 6. seis oinise wnisinies oe os aa aS 39
Article by Dr. Heinz Leitermann

World's Oldest Stained-Glass Windows .................. 42
Article by Elisabeth von Witzleben

A Lesson to Learn 49
Speech by Wilhelm Kaisen

Resident ‘Officers: Bible: of. 0 a eves Sou deicins cee Si
Review by George Vadney

An. International “Aspect (2/22 o2).). «:2Jaivsiegos score clase 53
Speeches by John J. McCloy

Personnel Notes 58

Royalty Lends A Hand . . 60

Faith — Barrier: to Tyranny «23:53 9106 s\6.o0.5.080.00 542-05 oe 61
Speech by Dr. George N. Shuster

Economy Of Berkline. 3.25 jac 2 cco ae ties 45.0 shacohs ss eeu, oa 63
Speech by Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor

Economic Review .......... 66

Calendar of Coming Events 69

Occupation Log 70

German Cartoons 79

Washington Report. 80

Official Notices 83

Regulations, Directives, Publications and Documents 84

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Floods of letters from East zone send information and
thanks for RIAS broadcasts. (RIAS/Rudolph photo)

RIAS' symphony orchestra, (RIAS/Rudolph photo)

Crowdsrally from both sides of French-Soviet sector border
when RIAS sound truck appears. (R Rudolph photo)

RIAS actors display outstanding talent in a satirical play
which spoofs Soviet Zone politicians, (PRD HICOG photo)

Youngsters t to the airwaves in their own show, RIAS'
“Kinderfunk” (children's broadcast), (RIAS/Rudolph photo)

--- Page 6 ---
By AILEEN S. MILES

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

HE SUCCESS OF AMERICAN RADIO stars may be

measured by their Hooper ratings and their fan mail
but staff members of RIAS,* the American radio station
in Berlin, only need read the Communist press to see
how they're doing.

“For years they ignored us," a RIAS official said, “and
we didn’t know they cared until they called us ‘A paid,
stinking news-ulcer owned by foreign monopoly capi-
talists and criminal warmongers in the heart of Europe.”

It was the sweetest thing they could have said.

Born of conflict and nurtured on setbacks, hard work
and danger, the RIAS staff had been building for the time
when the station would be so effective in getting its
story across that it would be considered a force for evil
by the higher echelons in Eastern Germany.

They achieved this point early last spring when Soviet
Zone officials, backed by the Communist-dominated press
and radio, launched a campaign of bitter invective, roll-
ing up their heavy propaganda guns to train them against
RIAS, the Radio in the American Sector, the station
which because of its unique position— 105 miles within
the Soviet Zone border —has become the only powerful
voice of truth behind the Iron Curtain.

“RIAS lie-factory," shrieked the Communist radio.

“Enemies of our people are spreading base calumnies
through RIAS and other colonial transmitters, said the
press,

“Do not listen to RIAS. Learn from Marx, Engels, Lenin.

and Stalin, and study the decisions of our party,’ warned
the irate, baffled Communist officials.

N THE EASTERN PROVINCE of Thuringia an official
of a Communist-puppet party was greeted with hoots
when he extolled the Czech’s “People’s Democracy.”
“Don't laugh,” he cried, “those who laugh are, in my
opinion, those elements in our party who listen to RIAS.”

* “RIAS" (‘Rundfunk im Amerikanischen Sektor‘’ — Radio in the
American Sector) is operated by the Office of the US High Com-
missioner for Germany through the Radio Branch, Information Services
Division, Office of Public Affairs.

DECEMBER 1950

et ea, YS

Headquarters of RIAS in the borough of Schoeneberg,

in the US Sector of Berlin. (RIAS-Schulz photo)

On through the summer and into the fall the Com-
munist anti-RIAS campaign has shown no sign of abate-
ment. Accentuated by the last May 28 Whitsuntide-
March-on-Berlin fiasco, the attacks grow sharper and
the abuse more venomous.

How vitriolic can you get, the RIAS staff asked them-
selves, as the East zone press accused station personnel
of stealing sacred ornaments from a Soviet Zone church.

The SED (East zone Communist Party) has resorted to
new tricks in an attempt to discover those Soviet Zone
residents who are listening to the station. When house-
wives appear to pay the regular radio license fees re-
quired in both East and West Germany, they are told
that those who wish to listen to RIAS must pay an extra
50 pfennigs in East zone currency (about two cents). Many
unsuspecting women have fallen for the stunt and are
today bewailing their lack of sophistication.

Another unsophisticate—an employee of the Leipzig
“Free Trade Stores'*\— was summarily dismissed for re-
commending a radio receiver to a customer as a set
capable of receiving RIAS.

In other areas the SED has set up “agitation groups”
against RIAS listeners. One SED state board admitted
that “things have already gone so far that even party

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
RIAS makes political capital out of Communist-led “Free
German Youth" rally in interviews during Whitsuntide
gathering in former German capital. (RIAS/Rudolph photo)

functionaries regularly listen to RIAS and then take up
themes used by RIAS for discussions in party meetings.”

The state board has ordered its ‘agitation groups” to
listen religiously to RIAS broadcasts so that they can spot
by the trend of their discussions in local party meetings
those unauthorized persons who also have been listeners.

EANWHILE, THE SOVIET ZONE PRESS continues to

do a top publicity job for the station. It is a rare
day when the Taegliche Rundschau, the official Soviet
Army German-language newspaper published in Berlin,
does not mention RIAS in three or four stories while the
Communist-dominated German press screams at its read-
ers to avoid the pitfalls of objectivism which lie in wait
for RIAS listeners.

But this spate of outrage had to be earned. Com-
munists usually don't squander abuse on the ineffectual
weapons of their enemies.

The violence heaped ‘upon the station shows the East
zone authorities’ awareness of its force and of the fact
that a large percentage of East Germany's population is
listening in secret to the forbidden voice.

Communists have not forgotten that their loudly
touted Free German Youth's Whitsuntide march on Berlin
boomeranged because of RIAS' activities, which exposed
the demonstration as a familiar regimentation of youth
for totalitarian purposes. In angry retaliation, the Com-
munists warned their people “RIAS is worse than poison
gas" and East zone officials trained the young Blueshirts,
as they swung past the Berlin reviewing stand of Com-
munist bigwigs, to chant:

Mag der RIAS noch so kleffen,
Wir gehen doch zum Deutschlandtreffen!

Which RIAS staffers loosely translated as:

In spite of RIAS' angry bark,
We still enjoy the Whitsun lark!

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HE UNDER-THE-BLANKET LISTENING, which is

reaching the proportions of an all encompassing East
zone hobby, is maintained only by the fact that today
RIAS has established itself as a symbol of truth carrying
the factual world-today story to the thousands who are
fed up with distortions and lies.

But RIAS listening is a dangerous pastime in the East
German police state. For this reason the nightly RIAS
show produced especially for the Soviet Zone, ‘Berlin
Speaks to the Zone," has been toned down in production
and moderated to a placid pitch.

The piece de resistance of RIAS' twenty and one-half
hours daily program fare, this broadcast was formerly
aired with all the approved hoopla and fanfare that good
sound effects can contrive.

Today, at the request of Eastern listeners themselves,
the show has been toned down so that no loud or sym-
bolic acoustic effects identify it to nosy neighbors.

Three times daily, six days a week, this 15-minute spot
acquaints clandestine listeners with daily events in East
Germany which Communist censorship has withheld and
brings them vital information necessary in their struggle
against totalitarianism. An anathema to Communist lead-
ers, the program's famous “‘spy lists’ bring froth to the
lips of the party's faithful.

Soviet agents—butcher, baker or well-known uni-
versity professor — known as Communist spies are named
by the American station* and listeners are warned to
avoid the spy in their midst lest he denounce them to
the authorities for disciplinary action or a one-way ticket
to the dreaded uranium mines in Eastern Germany.

EATLY DRAWN WORD-PORTRAITS of public figures

in Soviet Zone activities show East listeners the
quality of the men being placed in high positions over
the “People’s Democracy.”

* Also see ‘Fighters against Inhumanity” in Information Bulletin,
October 1950 issue.

Listeners from Soviet Zone visit RIAS' Political Branch in
search of assistance and advice,

(RIAS photo)

--- Page 8 ---
a
“Berlin Speaks to the Zone" broadcasts warn East German
listeners of spies in their midst. (RIAS/Burkhardt photo)

When Vincenz Mueller, former German general, was
named as leader of the NDP (East zone political party
serving as a catch-all for former Nazis), RIAS dug into
the records and found a particularly unpleasant one
attached to the general substantiating his reputation for
ruthless and unscrupulous acts.

And, again, when Karl-Fritz Bernhardt, leader of the
“Society for Soviet-German Friendship,” was nominated
to lead a discussion on the evils of RIAS, it was found
that Bernhardt was a singularly unfortunate choice.

On the following evening's show to the Soviet Zone,
RIAS featured a certified copy of Bernhardt's court rec-
ord, the first chapter of which was written in 1922, con-
taining his spaced-out convictions through the years for
theft, libel, fraud, perjury and other offenses.

Reaction to the program has gratified the RIAS staff.
Letters and telephone calls pour into the station begging
for repeats on special shows and showering praise on the
fillip RIAS is providing to resistance workers in the East.

HE MAJORITY OF THE APPROXIMATELY 130 let-

ters a day received from East-Zone listeners are of
necessity anonymous but often signed letters are given
to friends traveling to Berlin for mailing in the safety of
the Western sectors.

The following excerpts from representative letters re-

ceived from Soviet Zone listeners indicate the tone of
audience mail:

A Businessman — Your reports on the oppressed
East zone are only too true. It is precisely because
RIAS tells the truth about actual conditions that our
miserable oppressors are brought to light.

From Saxony — You have become a first-class
political power in our country. In the Cold War you
are, if not an atom bomb, at least a guided missile

DECEMBER 1950

which takes effect somewhere beyond the range of
vision.

From a Former Soviet Cencentration Camp In-
mate — You were among those who worked for us,
who took up the cause of humanity and it is through
your intensive co-operation that the light of a new
day finds us free men again.

From “Listener YZX"'— For us in the East zone,
tadio is the essential source of news. For us radio
from the West is more than entertainment. It is a tie
with the free world; it gives us the strength to hang
on and the courage and material we need to work
against the ever greater volume of propanganda for
the Communist system. Unfortunately, it is not the
German stations that help us. RIAS and London Radio
are our main helpers. They are indispensable to us.

IAS WARNED SOVIET ZONE listeners on June 29,
1950 that mills and grain storerooms would be sub-
ject to strict inspection the following morning. One
listener wrote: “The announcement saved not only my
father, but a number of others in the same business from
having their mills closed or perhaps expropriated. What
RIAS means to us business people in the Soviet Zone is
something we only can judge.”

Providing the satirical twist to humor so beloved by
German audiences, the show for the Soviet Zone takes
a lighter twist each Saturday when Comrade Otto Piecke-
witz — the 200 percent Communist" clown — goes on the
air to argue Communist ideology to its illogical con-
clusions.

RIAS dreamed up this now famous character to help
East Germans laugh and he has proved so successful that
when he was taken off the air last September, a stream
of letters from the Soviet Zone insisted on the return of
Pieckewitz, who is now a regular weekly feature.

Soviet Zone escapees—an attorney general and an assist-
ant—are heard in RIAS interview. (RIAS/Rudolph photo)

=

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
When the Communists accused the United States of
dropping potato bugs from airplanes to destroy the East
German potato crop, Pieckewitz was appointed “Special
People's Controller for the Liquidation of the Imperialistic
Potato Bug.” To the delight of East listeners, the stodgy
Pieckewitz spumed over the seditious joke being circu-
lated in the Russian zone that the American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals was petitioning to
have potatoes dropped on the East zone so that the bugs
would have something to eat.

No Communist slogan is too obtuse for Pieckewitz to
explain as he burlesques the Communist credo. His ex-
planation of the Soviet Zone import-export program is
worthy of a Russian economist: “We sell bricks to Italy
in exchange for lemons. The lemons go to Denmark for
butter. We trade the butter to Sweden for steel. We send
the steel to Russia in exchange for clay which we use to
manufacture more bricks for Italy..."

The pompous Pieckewitz, gulping “socialized aspirin
tablets" at every setback to the Communist cause, has
won the hearts of his listeners. As the typical Communist
petty official, the self-important, sluggish-witted Piecke-
witz is a natural for ridicule—and no matter how
heavily it is spread the German audience loves it.

UT IT IS THE STRAIGHT news broadcasts that Ameri-

can authorities credit as the most powerful programs
for building up the vast listening audience which RIAS
boasts today.

Under years of the Hitler imposed news blackout and
the ensuing Soviet clamp-down, the people of Eastern
Germany for the first time in 17 years are today learn-
ing the facts behind what their neighbors are doing and
thinking.

Tying in closely with President Truman's truth cam-
paign to the uninformed peoples of the Iron Curtain
countries, RIAS is taking the place of a local free press
and is carrying objective world and domestic news into
the homes of the news-hungry people of Eastern Germany.

Especially designed Soviet Zone programs feature
stories deliberately omitted from the Eastern press —
news on Western developments in the world picture,
glimpses into the free world press and editorial comment
from Atlantic Pact nations.

Putting over its important product, RIAS is following ac-
cepted radio techniques in casting out the bait of ex-
cellent entertainment, good dance bands, dramatic shows
and sports to snare its prospective customers into the
RIAS listening habit.

Berlin bobbysoxers — once grist for the Hitler Youth
mill— are now getting joy through bebop as they tune
into RIAS jam sessions while West Berlin schools are
hooked into a RIAS radio school of the air which departs
from many formalized educational methods.

Americanizations have gone over with Berlin listeners
to such a degree that among the most popular daytime
programs is a strictly US-style soap opera depicting the
fortunes and adversities of a typical Berlin family and
their daily coping with existence in the four-sector city.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

fo)

“Mach Mit" (Join with Me) broadcast aids returnees from

Soviet Zone concentration camps. (DPA photo)

S AN INSTRUMENT FOR INTERNATIONALISM, the

station is acquainting German audiences with cultural
life in the United States as well as political thought
through two Voice of America broadcasts relayed daily,
while a bi-weekly ECA show points up the varied cul-
tures of Germany's neighbors who are participating in
the European Recovery Program.

In its zeal for entertainment, RIAS maintains strong
emphasis on broadcasting public service features. Youth ,
programs stress understanding of civic institutions; Ber-
lin's city council is given regular air time in an effort
to promote Berliners’ interest in their government, while
the city’s welfare funds are swelled by the proceeds from
special shows staged by RIAS for this purpose.

For RIAS not only serves as a symbol of hope for the
Eastern zone but also as the community station for
western Berliners and in this role must prepare its pro-
grams for public service.

Among the innovations used by the station to increase
its effectiveness during the past year was the develop-
ment of a telephone news service providing a three-
minute newscast to anyone in Greater Berlin dialing
No. 23. During July, telephone officials reported that
since the outbreak of the Korean conflict the number of
calls placed daily for the RIAS telephone newscast had
jumped from 12,000 to 18,000— more than half of them
originating from the Soviet Sector of Berlin.

RADUALLY AND ALMOST IMPERCEPTIBLY over

the years, RIAS has weaned its listeners from the
Communist-controlled Radio Berlin until today's latest
surveys show that 98 percent of the West Berlin radio
audience is listening to the American station.

And the Communist station, itself, has done its part in
helping RIAS' steadily gaining popularity. At one time
possessors of the best dance orchestra in all Germany,
Radio Berlin handed their listeners over to RIAS on a

(Continued on page 76)

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 10 ---
Berlin,
Christmas
1950

By WILMER FROISTAD

Chief, Public Health and Welfare Branch
Berlin Element, HICOG

O FAR, THE WORDS “a gift from your American
friends" are just a motto on some 10,000 red-white-
and-blue rubber balls, awaiting distribution to Berlin
children at Christmas. But they might well be attached
to a myriad of other gifts and activities the American
community has planned to bring Yuletide cheer to Berlin.
With Berlin's economic situation substantially improved,
the charity motive is secondary to that of good neigh-
borliness. While once a hot meal was the most needed
Christmas gift a child could receive, this year the old-
fashioned Christmas accouterments — trees, songs, puppet
shows, tinsel, skits and Santa Claus — will be added.
More than the young people, the aged, blind and needy
of all ages will be introduced to an American-style Christ-
mas through parties and packages.
Celebrations for the children will be staged co-opera-
tively by the Berlin Military Post and other American

A typical children's GYA Yule party staged in Berlin
last year. (US Army photos)

community groups, along with the German welfare offices
in the six Bezirke (boroughs or administrative districts)
of the US Sector. The German Youth Activities (GYA)
clubs will play host to 5,500 children, of whom 1,500 are in
institutions the organization has adopted. The other 4,000
will be selected from needy families by welfare officers.

Americans will be informed of the parties through the
American Women's Club, so that as many as possible
can attend and demonstrate interest in Berlin's children.

As Christmas is not exclusively a children’s affair,
many of the agencies are centering their activities around
needy families, aged and handicapped people.

One of the leaders in such activity is the American
Women's Club which, through the sale of calendars, has
raised funds to buy food boxes for the needy. This group
will continue distribution of warm clothing to the aged,
a project begun in the winter of 1947 with the help of
Mrs. Lucius D. Clay, wife of the former military governor.

Other groups quietly carrying on their own Christmas-
time community projects include the American Com-
munity Church, the Enlisted Men's Wives Club, the
Masonic Club, the neighborhood centers, especially the
centers supported by the American Friends Service Com-
mittee, the Mennonite Central Committee and the YWCA.

A unique contribution this year is 30 tons of coffee
seized from black-market operations, which, thanks to
Judge J. A. Sabo of the US Second Judicial District, was
turned over to HICOG for distribution. This year, for
the first time, the coffee supplied by the US authorities
will be distributed in all the Bezirke in Western Berlin.
Almost 100,000 aged and handicapped persons will share
in this Christmas program of Kaffeeklatsches (coffee hours)
and Weihnachtsfeiern (Christmas celebrations).

Also in the category of unusual gifts is that coming
from funds raised by RIAS, the American radio station

That old familiar face, Santa Claus, returned once again
to Berlin at Christmas time, 1946, after a wartime absence,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
in Berlin, and the Hamburg Lottery. Approximately 200
persons, either sick, aged or handicapped, will receive
radios from this worthy effort.

HE INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE of the Red Cross
is also making a large contribution which includes
eight tons of food to be used in providing warm meals in
the youth centers throughout Berlin where youths not
affiliated with any particular youth organization and
especially those unemployed will congregate for their
Christmas dinners. ICRC also has provided food for gift
packages to be distributed to 50,000 aged persons before
Christmas and also is planning a three-month milk distri-
bution for children in institutions. Under the latter program
some 25,000 children will receive a cup of milk each day.
The United Nations International Children’s Emergency
Fund (UNICEF), which receives about 80 percent of its
support from the US government, has supplied enough
yarn for volunteers to knit 80,000 pairs of stockings for
Christmas distribution to the children of Berlin.

CARE (Co-operative for American Remittances to Europe)
expects to deliver more than 10,000 packages purchased
by American friends and relatives of Germans in Berlin:
CARE will distribute approximately 1,000 “‘undesignated
packages,” purchased for delivery to any family in need.

One of the principal results of interest on the home
front will be parties for about 100,000 old people, disabled
and blind. This will be effected by use of supplies shipped
through CRALOG by American welfare agencies and
distributed by a Berlin committee (The Central Committee
for the Distribution of Foreign Relief Supplies) represent-
ing all public and private welfare agencies. This com-
mittee will also distribute 40,000 packages of food to
sufferers of tuberculosis while another 8,000 such pack-
ages will go to families whose food supply is inadequate
to care for the foster children placed with them.

And so the list grows. Along with the many private
projects of individuals are such acts as the forwarding
privileges at reduced rates of Berlin-bound gift packages

Two Berlin orphans, decked out in the latest haberdashery,
study closely the operations of a jackknife one of them
received at a party for orphans during Christmas, 1947.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Christmas in a blockaded city and the part CARE packages
played in it were discussed in a broadcast to the American
people in 1948. Thanking Americans for their help is Gen.
Lucius D. Clay, then US military governor of Germany,
assisted by Jinx Falkenberg, radio and screen star, Looking
on are Donald Ostrander, Berlin CARE representative,
and a needy girl who has just received a CARE parcel.

to New York and the payment of their transportation
from there to Berlin by ECA.

UT ALL OF IT, as in Christmases past, is the result of

individual effort on the part of all. Two years ago it
was “Operation Santa, Claus," a project initiated by two
young Airlift fliers stationed near Celle, in the British
Zone, who wrote to their home town papers, describing
the needs of Berlin children.

The first notice of this project in Berlin was the receipt
of checks ranging up to $50 made out to General Clay's
Christmas Fund and beautifully wrapped packages of
children’s clothing, addressed to the Women’s Club.

This year the outstanding effort of the moment is that
of Karen Woehl, a 4-H Club girl of New Richmond, Wis.,
who has interested the citizens of her town in raising
money for a Christmas dinner for Berlin's needy children.
It is reported that $3,000 has already been raised.

While the thousands of contributors in America
will not see the smiles of happiness and gratifi-
cation that Berlin recipients will carry on their faces
when Christmas comes to Berlin, perhaps they can imag-
ine, as representative, the portrait of a little Berlin girl
while she wrote the following letter:

“Dear Americans: Thank you very much for the Christ-
mas Party. All of us enjoyed very much the bags, but
most of all we liked the candies. When I got home I
immediately ate up the orange and the bar of chocolate.
The lot of candies I'm going to eat on Christmas Eve,
and I'm sure they will be fine. Certainly you had much
trouble with the parties, but everything was really very
fine. Thank you again for all this, and many regards from,

“Yours,
“SUNNIVA.” +END

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 12 ---
Santa
in
Slue

By SGT. JOSEPHINE J. STONG

Staff Writer, Public Information Office
Headquarters, USAFE

OR SOME GERMAN CHILDREN, Santa Claus comes

in a blue suit. From the earliest occupation days,
blue-clad Air Force personnel in Germany have shared
their hearts and pocketbooks at Christmas with thousands
of young Germans, :

Some of them make Christmas a year-round affair.

German children in Wiesbaden have found a perennial
Santa Claus in one Air Force sergeant. Concetned about
children in a nearby village using the streets for a play-
ground, he tried to interest village residents in building
them a park. He always received the same answer: "But
we have a beautiful park at such and such a place." “Yes,
you do," the sergeant would reply, “but it's for grown
people; there's nothing there for children.”

One day, he stopped trying to influence them, and
decided to take steps himself. In an empty lot near where
he worked. he built a seesaw and a swing. The evening
after they were completed, about a half-dozen children
were there. The next evening, after the news had spread,
the swing and seesaw were swamped.

Encouraged, the sergeant almost singlehandedly con-
structed a park and picnic area, which has not only bene-
fited the German children, but also has become a center of
recreation for service personnel. Family, squadron and of-
fice picnics are held there almost daily during the summer.

From the original half-dozen, the number of children
coming to the park has grown to 350, with an average
of 50 to 75 appearing each evening. They stay as long as
they like; lights are turned out when they go home.

Occasionally, donations are received from individuals
and clubs for new equipment or to special parties. Nearly
every evening the children receive a treat, for the ser-
geant keeps close at hand a tall box filled almost to the
brim with a toothsome assortment of gift candy.

HIS CHRISTMAS, the children at the park have been
adopted by 88 blue-suited Santa Clauses, the men of
the 7120th Air Base Group, Wiesbaden Military Post. With

DECEMBER 1950

German children, airmen relax at Tempelhof Xmas party.

the help of wives who are collecting clothes and toys, they
plan a memorable Christmas for the boys and girls.

Erding Air Base will this year play Santa to children
of four Bavarian orphanages.

The children, most of whom are war orphans and
refugees, will be brought to the base for an all-day Christ-
mas party. One of the orphanages, St. Joseph's Orphanage
at Wartenberg, has since 1947 been sponsored at Christ-
mas time by Club Arrowhead. Monte Carlo night is
featured at the club to raise funds for a turkey dinner,
after which Santa arrives with an overflowing pack.

This year, 110 boys from five to 14 years in age will be
transported to the base, where each will have a foster
parent among the airmen of Erding. Each “parent' will
buy a complete outfit of clothes for his “offspring.'’ Some
of the “parents in past years have also bought elaborate
toys for their adopted children and visited them through-
out the year.

Last year there was enough money left over in the
Club Arrowhead Christmas fund to have an Easter dinner
and egg hunt, and to buy each child a second outfit of
clothes. Entertainment was arranged at Hallowe'en and
at Thanksgiving to acquaint many young Germans for
the first time with two American traditions.

Fourteen hundred needy German children and children
of German depot employees are also given gifts and a
party at Christmas time, and the WAF Squadron adopts
a home for the aged for the holiday.

Women's clubs contribute immeasurably to the success
of Christmas celebrations at all Air Force installations in
Europe, and it is through their efforts that much welfare
work is continued on a year-round basis,

At Fuerstenfeldbruck, Neubiberg, Rhine-Main, Tempel-
hof and Tulln they engage in a variety of Christmas
activities. Some sponsor a children's home, others give

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Orphans of St. Joseph's Home for Boys model clothes
given them last Christmas by airmen of Erding Air Base.
Marge Wellington, Arrowhead Service Club director, a
sister from the orphanage and Col. Park Holland, Erding
commanding officer, are interested spectators. (USAFE photos)

a party for American dependent children, and yet others
give their attention to needy families.

N MANY INSTANCES this year marks the first time
Americans and Germans have worked together on
welfare projects. Many Germans have volunteered time
and labor to any organization or individual desiring help.
A reflection of improved conditions in Germany was
received by one Christmas committee when German wel-
fare authorities reported that institutions were better pro-
vided for this year than at any time since the end of
the war. They suggested more attention could be given
to individual families, particularly where there are chil-
dren who do not have sufficient clothing to attend school.
Units in the Wiesbaden community, which includes Air
Force units, Headquarters, First Constabulary Brigade,

Wiesbaden airmen devote no little time, effort and ex-
pense to producing Christmas toys for German children.
Right, Boys’ Town, sponsored by GYA at Neubiberg Air
Base, is modeled after Father Flanagan's Nebraska project.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

women's clubs and civilian workers, will therefore con-
tribute to a general fund out of which basic food items,
clothes, toys and candy will be purchased.

GYA, a group that knows no season of inactivity, has
planned parties at all of the bases. In some instances,
each child is sponsored by an airman on a year-round
basis. The children are invited to the homes of the air-
men, or in the case of a single airman, to the base, and
become almost a member of the family.

NE PROJECT IN WHICH Neubiberg Air Base takes
great pride is its sponsorship of Buchhof Boys’ Town.
The story is especially appropriate at Christmas.

Early in 1946 three men at Oberpfaffenhofen Air Depot,
realizing that what many of the young boys needed, aside
from clothing and food, was a place where they could
regain faith in themselves as well as others, organized a
Boys’ Town patterned after Father Flanagan's Boys’ Town
in Nebraska. They gave the boys a sense of belonging, of
being needed, and they encouraged them to take an active
part in becoming good citizens. The change from an
attitude of “show me" to one of co-operation has been a
rewarding sight.

This year the personnel at Neubiberg, who assumed
sponsorship of the Boys’ Town in 1948, are again taking
over the Christmas celebration. On Christmas Eve each
boy will receive a gift from the airmen of Headquarters
and Headquarters Squadron, Air Base Group, and also
from the 86th Fighter-Bomber Wing.

And on Christmas day, the First Three Graders’ Mess
is going to give them the traditional turkey dinner.

An important factor in the success of Air Force Christ-
mas activities in Germany is the response from relatives
at home to requests of personnel that they send outgrown
clothes and repairable toys for distribution.

Since the occupation began, Christmas has been a
project that Air Force personnel as well as other Ameri-
cans throughout Germany have turned into a “family
affair both for givers and recipients. -+END

A
é:|
4

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 14 ---
Leadership Training for Youth

By HAYNES R. MAHONEY
Chief, Bad Nauheim Branch, Public Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

HAT IS THE GREATEST PROBLEM we have with

German youth,” said the slight, graying instructor,
nodding his head after the boy who had just asked for
new instructions. ‘They are always looking for orders.
They will do anything you ask them, but they want to
be told first.”

The German was watching a group of 25 youngsters
engaged in a class of amateur dramatics on the lawn of
a large house overlooking the Starhberg Lake in Bavaria.
The youths were not training for Thespian carcers, but
were learning to organize impromptu theatricals as an
activity of a youth organization. There would be other
classes in group singing, sports and games, and, above
all, in a diversified subject called “group work.” Hailing
from all parts of Bavaria, the youths were participating
in a course at the Bayerische Jugendleiter Schule (Bavarian
Youth Leadership Training School). ,

In referring to the German predilection for following
orders, the instructor had touched on a basic reason for
the training school, one of four in the US Zone and Berlin
sponsored by the Office of the US High Commissioner.

N GERMANY'S ATTEMPTED CONVERSION from

dictatorship to democracy, the youth were left in a
chaos of smashed ideals and disintegrated organization.
They were confused by their freedom and ignorant of its
responsibilities. The Allies quickly encouraged the re-
organization of youth programs in tune with the new
spirit they were fostering in Germany. In the Soviet
Zone, starting a ‘youth movement" proved to be a simple
matter. The Hitler Youth merely changed its colors and
its allegiances and went marching on under a new name —
Freie Deutsche Jugend (‘Free German Youth").

In the West where individual freedom is the basic goal,
the programs and plans are much more complicated, in-
volving hundreds of individual clubs and organizations,
thousands of community programs for youths still wary
of any kind of organization, “boys’ towns” and “youth
villages," apprenticeship training and self-help programs
—a myriad of voluntary activities, designed to make
Germany's young generation good citizens in a democracy.

But democracy does not spring full-bloomed from such
freshly planted seed. The organization of a Boy Scout
troop or Pathfinder’s club does not automatically provide
paragons of youthful self-government. Too often at first,
the leader pounded his gavel, called for attention and
began issuing orders. And just as often, the assembled
members meekly obeyed him, And there was appalling
ignorance of co-operative planning, parliamentary proce-
dure, democratic discussion techniques and methods of
self-government.

DECEMBER 1950

The growing adult corps leaders of youth groups also
had little background in principles of democratic pro-
grams. Well-intentioned guides, councilors, recreation
directors and professional youth workers tended to do
too much thinking for the young people and often failed
to encourage them in planning their own programs and
in solving their own problems. They were schooled in
a concept which held that the purpose of organized
groups was to strengthen a program or promote an
ideology — religious, political, sports or other. The idea
that young people join groups to gain self-assurance,
democratic experience and recreation was almost unknown.

T WAS QUICKLY REALIZED that some kind of inten-
sive training was needed to develop leaders capable of
providing youth with the latter kind of experience. In
1948 and 1949, youth officials of HICOG and their German
counterparts co-operated in setting up leadership training
schools in the US Zone and in the US Sector of Berlin.
Haus Schwalbach,* erstwhile sumptuous hunting lodge
of the Anheuser-Busch beer barons, in the wooded hills
near Wiesbaden, took on the Hessian Leadership School
along with its community activities. A former German
aircorps research station in the little village of Ruit near
Stuttgart was converted into the Wuerttemberg-Baden
Sport und Jugendleiter Schule (Sport and Youth Leader
School). Wannseeheim was established for Berlin's leader-
ship training in a former yacht club overlooking beautiful
lake Wannsee, and a lakeside house at Niederpoecking,
near Munich, became the home of the Bayerische Jugend-
leiter Schule (Bavarian Youth Leaders’ School),
With the exception of the smaller buildings at Nieder-
poecking and Wannsee, each of the schools accommodates
80 to 100 students and often conducts several courses

* See “Haus Schwalbach" in Information Bulletin, Issue No. 169,
Sept. 6, 1949.

Ruit teacher conducts group singing class for trainees.
ore:

--- Page 15 ---
simultaneously, lasting anywhere from a few days to a
few weeks. A broad range of subjects taught includes a
variety of leisure-time activities, such as folk-dancing,
amateur dramatics, handicrafts and others, as well as
basic instruction in democratic group work and psychol-
ogy. But whatever the courses, they all include training
in how to lead a group so that young people will learn to
think for themselves and to organize activities that will
involve participation by all members.

ERHAPS THE MOST IMPORTANT instruction is that

known as “group work." Leaders are taught how a
collection of young people with different points of view
can be developed into a group; how the group can work
out a program; how to elect its officers, conduct its meet-
ings and discuss its problems so that all opinions can be
heard. In addition, a liberal dose of practical psychology
equips the leaders to handle such problems as inspiring a
group to action, holding back the aggressive type that
tries to dominate the group, and drawing all members into
active participation,

Practical work is emphasized in all courses. Sometimes
a nearby village school sends its classes to the leadership-
training institution for recreation periods, thus giving stu-
dents an opportunity to practice newly-learned theories.

In working out their theories, instructors sometimes
organize what they call “social plays” involving typical
situations in any organization. Thus one member of the
class may be appointed “an aggressive type’ who tries
all the demagogic tricks in usurping leadership and
dominating the group. Other members pool their parlia-
mentary wits in stopping him. At the end of these some-
times vociferous dramas, the teachers and students join
in critique.

In all activities of the schools, the teachers strive to
practice the theories they preach. They call it “combining
method with content, meaning that the democratic
methods are applied to teaching the contents of every
course, Within the broad outlines of the curriculum, the
students are encouraged to discuss the subject matter to
be learned and propose the methods of learning it.

N A CLASS on social programs for teen-age youth, a
group of girls was encouraged to develop their own
proposals for organizing activities in their respective

Leadership training at Ruit includes teaching of sports.

James F. Keim, Community Activities adviser in rural
education, addresses rural youth leadership training school
at Hohenheim College on objectives of 4-H club programs.

communities. With counsel and advice from the teacher, —
the youngsters learned to divide up their problems,
organize panel discussions, and later combine the reports
from each panel into a workable program,

In one school a group of boys was called into an
executive session to determine why there were so many
squabbles between them and the Hausleiler — a sort of
janitor supervisor — and what to do about it. Instead of
argument and bitter recrimination, which sometimes mark
the parliamentary practices of their elders, they agreed
upon an equitable division of the housekeeping duties
between themselves: and the Hausleiter's staff. Youthful
and adult students are made aware they too constitute a
group and learn to work co-operatively with the school
staff and members of the school household.

Although varying in details, the schools are organized
along the same general lines — with a Kuratorium or board
of directors, comprised of public-spirited citizens, deter-
mining the broad policies and activities for eachinstitution.
A full-time German director and a small teaching staff,
aided by many volunteer and part-time teachers, operate
the schools and teach the classes. A member of the Com-
munity Activities Branch of the Office of the US Commis-
sioner of each state acts as adviser. Frequently American
and/or European experts in a particular field supplement
the permanent school staff.

As the facilities of the institutions are limited, every
possible effort is made to spread their influence by con-
ducting extension courses. Thus faculty members are
constantly called to conduct discussions or teach courses
in democratic group work at meetings and conventions of
adult and youth groups throughout their respective states.
The Niederpoecking school maintains a list of qualified
teachers in all parts of Bavaria who can be called upon
for instruction from any nearby group, Their fees are paid
by the school. Others send out small teams of teachers
to hold two- or three-day courses for appropriate groups
and communities.

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 16 ---
"PHE PERMANENT FACULTY members of the schools

come from all walks of life and all levels of education.
A PhD is not as important as the right kind of personality
and enthusiasm in teaching leadership activities. Many of
the instructors whose average age is not much higher than
their students, have been sent by HICOG to the United
States for periods of work and study with American youth
organizations and programs,

Mrs. Judith Russell, leadership training adviser, and
other members of the HICOG Community Activities staff,
spend considerable time in advising and aiding the schools
in their many problems,

Likely youngsters and youth ieaders, teachers and social
case workers, parents’ sports leaders and others, are all
invited to classes at the schools throughout their organi-
zations or communities. Courses are also arranged for
special types of leaders or groups, such as Jugendpfleger
(professional youth workers), GYA center directors,
student government leaders and camp directors. One
school has held rehabilitation courses for recently return-
ed PW's from Soviet Russia; another gave sports training
to war invalids; some courses are attended by school
teachers interested in more democratic and informal
methods, Occasional courses are also provided for leaders
of adult groups.

Many prospective leaders are "discovered" by the
schools’ extension teachers and invited to attend, The
students are charged a small fee of 50 or 75 cents daily,
to cover expenses and a liberal number of scholarships
is offered to help worthy but underprivileged students.

INANCIAL RESOURCES vary among the different

schools, but all of them depend partially or totally
on HICOG support. Wannsee and Schwalbach receive all
their funds from HICOG grants; Niederpoecking receives
three-fourths of its: financing from HICOG and the re-
mainder from the Bavarian State Youth Committee, Ruit is,
perhaps, better off than the others, as half of its funds
are allocated by the state from the Fussball Toto, a
legalized betting pool on football which provides sub-
stantial revenues to the Wuerttemberg-Baden government,

German sports editor discusses sport and recreation pro-
grams with international group of boys at Haus Schwal-
bach summer camp.

(Kurt Hopp photos)

Hessian youth leaders learn folk dances, (PRD HICOG photo)

However, the school staffs have begun to plan for the
day when the occupation ends and American support is
withdrawn, At recent meetings of the faculties, sug-
gestions were made to enlarge Kuratoriums, bringing in
industrial, labor and other influential leaders who could
also provide additional support. Various types of public
subscription have also been proposed. However, the
scarcity of capital in present-day Germany andthe novelty
of schools for democratic leadership create difficulties in
fund-raising,

Although operating fairly smoothly, the schools also
face other problems, Competent personnel is difficult to
find, Organized youth groups of political parties, labor
unions, churches and others sometimes question the pur-
poses of the schools since they are more concerned with
training youthful leaders in their respective ideologies
than in education in basic democratic techniques,

EVERTHELESS, THE SCHOOLS are steadily growing

in influence and prestige. According to Mrs, Russell,
more than 10,000 persons, the majority of whom are in-
fluential members of groups and communities, have at-
tended courses in the schools, and many times that number
have been reached through extension courses. Students
are generally enthusiastic, many of them returning for
additional training, and there is never a shortage of
waiting applicants, HICOG officials have noted with grati-
fication a growing acceptance of the institutions among
German circles which at first were inclined to be
suspicious of such American-inspired activities,

The results of leadership training can only be measured
in intangibles — the attitude of a group leader; brisk
discussion instead of ponderous speeches in group meet-
ings; new interests and enthusiasm among county youth
committees. HICOG officials are continually uncovering
these hopeful signs in visiting centers, youth groups,
forums, meetings and other civic programs. It will take
many years to bring Western Germany's new youth
movement to a full and democratic fruition, but the Com-
munity Activities Branch convinced that the leadership
training schools are hastening the process. -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
1, — Municipal sewage is
pumped into wagon which
will later spray it over grow-
ing vegetables. Scene is
the pumphouse in Pfungstadt.

2. — Sewage, mixed with
well water, is sprayed over
growing vegetables with bat-
tery of revolving nozzles.
(EUCOM Medical Bulletin photos)

3. — Women harvest rad-
ishes from a field previ-
ously irrigated by raw sew-
age. Canal in background
Jeads to a small reservoir.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 18 ---
US Public Health Service."

The note to the Information Bulletin accompanying the article reprinted herewith, ran like this:

“Enclosed is an illustrated article which should give shivers to all occupation personnel.

“Jack E, McKee, the author, surveyed German sanitary engineering problems as a visiting
consultant for the Medical Affairs and Public Welfare Branch for six weeks this year. He is
currently a professor of sanitary engineering and engineering consultant at the California Institute
of Technology, Pasadena, Calif... (and) was formerly an associate public health engineer with the

An Old Farming Custom

By J. E. McKEE
Sanitary Engineering Specialist, Medical Affairs and Public Welfare Branch, HICOG

HE CITY OF DARMSTADT is: said to have been

named after a small brook, the Darmbach, which
originally flowed through the town. When translated into
English, Darmbach means “intestine brook,’ and it was
so called because of the manner in which it turned and
folded back on itself as it meandered through the mead-
ows. Ironic it is, therefore, that the city which had been
given an unsavory name is now ill-famed as a center
of “intestinal” parasites, particularly ascaris worms.

Prior to 1947, worms had been accepted by the popu-
lation of the county of Darmstadt as “a part of life.”
Almost everyone seemed to have them at one time or
another, and before the last war the physicians and phar-
macists did a thriving business prescribing and dispensing
anthelmintics, or worm medicines.

Relatively few deaths, to be sure, were directly attrib-
uted to intestinal worms, but it is not known to what
extent other diseases were brought on, or complicated,
by ascariasis, Because the intestinal colics caused by
worms were of relatively short duration, the infested
population had learned to suffer and bear them.

At the end of World War II, however, anthelmintics
became very scarce and appeals were made to US Mili-
tary Government for the necessary drugs. These appeals
led to an investigation by Dr. Paul L. Burlingame and
others of the 4th Medical Laboratory of the US Army,
which revealed that, in all of the county of Darmstadt,
84 percent of the children and 70 percent of the adults
had ascaris worms. In the village of Griesheim, 99 percent
of the children and 100 percent of the adults were in-
fected. American troops, dependents and occupation per-
sonnel were also known to have become infected.

That the county of Darmstadt should be so badly plagued
by intestinal parasites can be attributed only to the
fact that, through ignorance and a misguided sense of eco-
nomy, a basic principle of sanitation had been violated.

Darmstadt's sewage is drained through a system of open
canals and spread over the cultivated fields of nearby Gries-
heim. Right, main canal and gate for diverting sewage.

DECEMBER 1950.

XPOUNDED BY MOSES in Biblical times and adhered

to in the most progressive civilizations of the world,
this principle required that human excrement be disposed
of in such a manner that it cannot injure the health of
other persons. Such is not done at Darmstadt. Instead,
for more than 50 years the sewage from this city has been
drained westerly through a system of open canals and
spread over cultivated fields near Griesheim. In some
instances, sewage has been mixed with well water and
sprayed from revolving nozzles over growing vegetables.
In other instances it is pumped into a Jauchewagen (wagon
containing liquid manure) from which it is sprayed
directly over the vegetables.

The soils so fertilized and irrigated appear to be ideally
suited for truck gardening, and especially for lettuce,
endives, radishes, and other ingredients of salads which
are eaten raw. Thus, the eggs of ascaris worms, or the
cysts of the amoeba which causes dysentery, can be
readily transferred from the intestine of one infected per-
son to the food of thousands of unsuspecting persons,

In addition to contamination by the municipal sewage
from Darmstadt, vegetables in this area (and in many

--- Page 19 ---
Contents of family septic tank are pumped into wagon.

other regions of Germany) are subject to possible infec-
tion by improper disposal of human wastes in farming
communities. The contents of septic tanks in rural areas
are frequently added to the liquid Jauche, which drains
from the stables and manure piles and the mixture is then
sprayed over the growing crops. As a result, continual
reinfection may result even in the event the insanitary
disposal of municipal sewage should be corrected.

R. BURLINGAME’S INVESTIGATIONS opened the

eyes of responsible German officials to the plague
of intestinal worms and his recommendations pointed the
way toward rectification of the situation. Unfortunately,
however, the program of recovery adopted by German
authorities is long and costly and not a complete pal-
liative. It comprises three principal approaches:

(1) Treatment of the sewage of Darmstadt to remove the
eggs of ascaris worms and other parasites before the
water is used for irrigation;

(2) Education of the general population and especially
farmers. who spray human ecrement on vegetables, and

(3) Medication for persons already infected.

The second and third approaches are already under
way, and are probably responsible for the fact that recent
surveys indicate a slight decrease in the incidence of
worm infection. The first approach, however, as proposed
by German engineers involves the costly construction
(about .DM 1,500,000 or about $357,000) of a primary
sewage. treatment plant, for which German funds are
difficult to raise.

Consequently, this most important phase of corrective
action is being postponed, so that raw sewage is still
being applied to salad vegetables and intestinal parasites
are still being transferred to the local population and
to occupation personnel,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

HAT, IF ANYTHING, can the Office of the US High

Commissioner do to alleviate the “diet of worms”
at Darmstadt, and what should be the American policy?
The simplest procedure is one that was suggested by a
local citizen who said, “Why don't you just order the
people to stop putting sewage and human wastes on
vegetables or crops?” Actually, this can be done by the
high commissioner as a measure necessary to protect the
health and safety of US occupation personnel, in as much
as they are now permitted to purchase from the indige-
nous economy.

This policy might be the wisest in the long run, but it
would require the immediate construction of a complete
(biological) sewage treatment plant at Darmstadt since
no other means of waste disposal is available. The cost
of construction of such a plant would be a tremendous
financial burden on the city.

A less abrupt procedure calls for American assistance
in the program already being undertaken by German
public health and engineering officials. This assistance
can be monetary, in the form of ERP funds, and it can be
technical, in the form of sanitary-engineering and public
health advice to the local officials. The use of ERP money
for sewage treatment works has not been contemplated
in Germany, but in this area such funds are essential for
recovery of the human machines upon which industrial
progress must depend.

That technical advice must also come from Americans
is demonstrated by the fact that Dr. Burlingame’s survey
was required to bring the problem to light and to start
improvements. In the field of sanitation, German en-
gineers and scientists are 20 to 30 years behind their
American counterparts, and hence American technical
advice is urgently needed if ERP funds are to be expended
wisely. The plans which have already been prepared for
the proposed treatment works should be carefully checked
by American sanitary engineers to assure that all patho-
genic organism will be destroyed. As an added safeguard,
the treated sewage must never be used on vegetables that
are eaten raw.

The amelioration of the insanitary disposal of sewage
at and near Darmstadt is a task that will require reorien-
tation and education, coupled with the guiding hands of
American public-health and sanitary-engineering person-
nel. If and when it can be accomplished, it will be a
tribute to mutual German-American understanding in
achieving a goal of mutual benefit. +END

Hunting in Vineyards Banned

Hunting in Hessian vineyards or areas adjacent to
vineyards has been prohibited. The new prohibition is
the result of reports of several hunting accidents. Grape
harvesters, David Rosendale, acting Field Operations
Division chief, OLC Hesse, pointed out, usually bend
low and are not readily visible to small game hunters.
Mr. Rosendale stated that violations of the new pro-
hibition would lead to corrective and punitive measures.

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 20 ---
The Sonthofen Case

By ALFRED T. SCHADDE
Public Relations Branch, OLC Bavaria

HEN CITIZENS VOLUNTARILY pay a tax not
required of them, something unusual has happened.

That is just what- took place not long ago in the
Bavarian county of Sonthofen, a tourist's mecca lying
amid rugged mountains, serene valleys, spring-fed lakes
and streams in the southwestern corner of the state
where: the Bavarian border dips peninsula-like between
the Austrian Vorarlberg and Tyrol.

Sonthofen's remote natural beauty, far from the smudge
and smoke of factories and the hustle and confusion of
metropolitan areas, attracted large numbers of prewar
tourists from all parts of Germany. They came in quest
of tranquil atmosphere and unspoiled nature, and the
thrills of summer and winter outdoor sports. They found
them all in Sonthofen.

In this respect it differs but little from other com-
munities in the Bavarian Alpenland, except perhaps in
its size. The second largest county in Bavaria, it has
an area of 2,533 square miles. About 43 percent of its
land is too mountainous or swampy to be used even for

pasture lands. And of the area fit for use, 99 percent is
utilized for grassland only.

Most of the population centers are located in the
valley of the Iller, a stream flowing northward from the
Allgaeuer Alps into the Danube near Ulm. Chief cities
are Immenstadt, with a population of 9,180; Sonthofen,
9,096; Oberstdorf, 8,525; and Blaichach, 2,651. Altogether
the county had a prewar population of approximately
50,000. The influx of refugees and evacuees has boosted
the postwar population to more than 68,000.

HE MOST IMPORTANT source of livelihood in this
vacation land before the war was the tourist in-
dustry, with 60 percent of the population dependent
upon tourism for its livelihood. Dairying was the second
most important source of income, followed by textiles
and miscellaneous industries.
War left Sonthofen with a legacy of little cash and an
abundance of refugees. As elsewhere in Bavaria, the
county received its share of expellees and refugees

It's a long climb up for tiny Astrit Colross (above, left) who shares a bunk with two-year-old Hans Jahn in a crowded one-
room billet typical of Bavaria's Sonthofen county refugee settlements. A new tax and loan scheme is gradually taking
these children and others like them from the dangerous and unsanitary conditions (above, right) under which they live. »
Modern, pleasant new homes will end life in the stable-like shacks (below) for some Sudeten and East German refugees.

--- Page 21 ---
The von Goldammers, formerly of the Sudetenland, enjoys games and reading at a typical family gathering in the new

housing units at Sonthofen. Right, nine-year-old Eberhard von Goldammer relaxes in his new bed while father reacs him
to sleep. The Goldammers are one of 150 families who last year found new hope through private, county and ECA financing.

from the Communist-dominated regions of East Ger-
many as well as the Sudetenland and territories put
under Polish administration after the war. Hotels, with
which Sonthofen had accommodated its tourists, were
used to shelter these uprooted men, women and children.

Housing in the small industrial centers was especially
cramped. In Immenstadt, for example, two new industrial
plants, an undergarment factory and a motorcycle works,
employed about 600 residents. The garment mill, pre-
viously located in the Sudetenland, employed refugees,
for whom housing in the city was impossible. Some of
these employees lived at the other end of the county,
spending two hours each way traveling to and from their
work each day.

In Blaichach, another small industrial center, a cotton
mill gave employment to 800 workers. In the city of
Sonthofen, there was a factory which produced road-
building and other heavy machinery. And in other
villages it was the same on a smaller scale.

And so it was in this picturesque and remote area
early in 1949 that the mountain folk hit upon a novel
tax scheme designed to solve both the housing and
refugee problems, as well as to revive the all-important
tourist trade. In doing so they also discovered that com-
munity action pays off.

If Sonthofen was to see prosperous days again, county
officials decided, it had to have hotels available to house
its tourists. Tourism, they pointed out, would in turn
provide additional job opportunities. Thus, it became
apparent that for the prosperity of the region, it was
necessary to do something about the refugees.

N EMBARKING ON its uniquely-financed housing proj-

ect, the citizens organized a housing corporation
which planned not only to open up facilities for the
tourists in the resort centers, but also to improve the
overcrowded housing in the factory towns. And what
was important for the individual, workers living farthest
away from their factories would be given dwelling
priority in the new housing projects so they could live
in the town in which they worked.

Sparkplugging the project was County Supervisor
Martin Ditterich, a banker. He chose accountant Mathias
Lintermann to manage the county's housing program.

To finance the project, Ditterich hit upon a scheme
whereby most of the needed funds would be raised by
a voluntary head tax of one Deutsche mark (23.8 cents)
for each resident of the county. As an incentive, each
community subscribing 100 percent to the project was
promised one apartment for one of its refugee families.

The tax plan worked. As a matter of fact, it was
oversubscribed by the county's 68,000 residents, who
contributed a total of DM 90,000.

Since most of the apartments were to be built near
industrial plants, the housing committee was confident
of getting ECA counterpart fund aid for partial financing.
This they did, and though ECA usually underwrites not
more than 33!/3 percent assistance for projects of this
sort, Sonthofen was granted 40 percent aid. The balance
of the money needed was raised through private loans.

Shown are three recently completed buildings for refugees
in Sonthofen county. Last year 148 apartments were com-
pleted; 181 more are due for completion by year's end.
Each apartment, along with other rooms and toilet, has
a fuel-saving living room-kitchen including cook stove.

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 22 ---
ROUND WAS BROKEN early in April 1949, with a

goal of 150 apartments by the end of the year. By
the following December the number of finished apart-
ments was only two short of the year’s objective.

Of the 148 completed dwelling units, 14 buildings,
containing 145 apartments, were built in three com-
munities. Immenstadt had five buildings with 70 family
units, of which three buildings, totaling 42 dwelling
units, were constructed with ECA counterpart fund aid.
Blaichach received four houses with 59 units, of which
three buildings containing 45 units were financed with
ECA counterpart funds. In Oberstaufen, a resort village,
five structures, containing 16 units, were built with
community-raised funds.

Also impressive is the number of additional projects
planned for 1950 nearing completion. Thirteen buildings
with a total of 181 apartments are scheduled to be
completed by the end of this year. Marshall Plan
counterpart aid figures even less in the financing of
these than in the projects completed last year; only
four of the 13 buildings under construction required ECA
financing,

Two of Blaichach’s three buildings, housing 36 families,
are being built with the aid of ERP counterpart funds, as
are two of the three houses providing 46 apartments in
Immenstadt. In Sonthoten seven structures providing
99 apartments, sponsored by local funds only, are under
construction.

In appearance, the buildings are pleasant two-, three-
and four-story structures with apartments consisting of
large combination living room-kitchen and one, two or
three other rooms in addition to toilet facilities. Each
apartment is equipped with a cook stove.

HE OCCUPANT'S RENT amounts to approximately

2*/s cents per square foot per month. This varies
from $7.15 a month for a one-bedroom apartment to
$16.70 for the three bedroom-kitchen unit. This is con-
sidered fairly high for the area, but occupants feel that
the facilities, plus the easy access to their jobs, com-
pensate for the higher rentals.

Take the Kleinach family, for example. Husband, wife
and three children, aged 11, eight and three years, now
occupy an appartment at Immenstadt, where Herr
Kleinach is employed in the motorcycle factory. They
have two rooms plus the dual kitchen-living room.
Formerly they lived with a farm family several miles
outside of town under cramped and very primitive
conditions — two tiny rooms and no running water
at a monthly rental of $8.33. They now pay $13.10 rent
per month, but consider it well worth it for an apartment
which includes cookstove, electric light and water.

View of a partially completed housing unit in Sonthofen.
Rents in these buildings vary from DM 30 ($7.15) a month
for a one-bedroom apartment to DM 70 ($16.70) for a unit
containing three bedrooms. Now high by German stand-
ards, rents will decrease as loans are repaid. (PRB OLCB photos)

DECEMBER 1950

The Seiferts, refugees from southern Moravia, also
moved into one of the new Immenstadt apartments. There
father, mother and grown daughter occupy two rooms,
twice as many as when they lived at Vorderberg, nearly
an hour's travel time from the Kuhnert textile mill
where the daughter works. Now she is only 10 minutes
from work and can spend considerably more time caring
for her ailing mother.

Herr Zentgraf, whose family of six also lives at the
Immenstadt development, can now spend five hours
more at home each day, than he did when he lived in
Freundpolz, a remote mountain village. There he had to
leave home at five o’clock in the morning for his hour
and 45 minute trip by foot and bus to his job. Then, in
the evening it was an hour's wait for the first bus and
he did not get home until about eight o'clock, three
hours after quitting time. Now he lives a scant five
minutes from the factory in which he is employed and
is able to go home each noon for lunch.

OST OF THE APARTMENTS depends on the size of

the building. The 14-unit apartment houses in
Blaichach, for example, cost approximately DM 100,000
($23,800), of which nearly 40 percent was financed with
ERP counterpart funds, 30 percent by voluntary “head
tax" contributions of the citizens, and the remaining
30 percent from private loans.

The Housing Corporation is set up as a non-profit
organization. Income from rents will be utilized to pay
off the loans and maintenance expenses. And as the loans
are repaid, housing officials say, the rents will be gradu-
ally decreased.

While officials say it will be a number of years before
housing conditions in Sonthofen reach the prewar normal,
they are encouraged by the progress being made to lick
the problems, And though skeptics say it is impossible
to establish once again the “norm" of the years 1936 to
1939, members of the housing committee are determined
to make the maximum effort.

Outwardly Sonthofen still looks much the same as ever.
The Iller still tumbles down the valley past the sleepy
mountain towns. Overhead the majestic peaks of the

--- Page 23 ---
Allgaeuer Alps still keep guard as
_ tourists throng up the valley by car,
on foot and bicycle throughout the \ :
year. |
But there have been underlying
changes. The tourists returning last
summer brought some of the postwar
prosperity back to Sonthofen County
and everyone has benefited to some
extent; Sonthofen County's future as
a resort is more promising than at
any time since the war.

HE NEW INDUSTRIES in the
towns are flourishing and there

are more employment opportunities.
And the housing situation has
probably shown as much improve-
ment in the last five years as any
other community in Bavaria. The
Bavarian minister-president, Dr. Hans

This scene in the Goldammer home, horse-
shoe and all, symbolizes their new found
happiness thanks to Sonthofen's efforts,
Now, there's even time for a goodby kiss.

Ehard, commended the community
and the Housing Corporation recently
for their initiative and progress in
tackling the problem.

And as the Sonthofen merchant or
housewife reflects on the tourist rush
to the mountains or the new rows of
neat apartment buildings in the valley
towns, there is a certain exhilarating
feeling of responsibility — a feeling
that each is doing his part and is in
some measure responsible, Each
family in some way is contributing
to a progressive community project,
is doing something benefiting his own
family and his community as a whole.

Perhaps he feels that is even more
significant than the bricks and stones
of Sonthofen’s many neat new apart-
ment buildings. + END

Germany Needs Its Women

HILE A GROWING NUMBER of German women
have become active in politics and public affairs
since 1945, the great majority are still inhibited and
hesitant about taking part in the life of the community.
These were the basic conclusions drawn by Mrs. Bart-
lett B. Heard, one of the vice presidents of the US Young
Women's Christian Association, in a report to the Wom-
en's Affairs Branch, Office of Public Affairs. A visiting
US consultant, Mrs, Heard based her findings on three
months of visits and conferences with hundreds of women
leaders and organizations in the US Zone.

The significance of her findings are underscored by the
fact that there is an excess of 7,500,000 women in Ger-
many today, and nearly two-thirds of the voters between
the ages of 20 and 40, the most active period of human
life, are women.

“In this critical period in history, every government
needs all of its citizens, it needs the women and women
themselves must keep the fact ever before them and the
men," she said. “In Germany where for centuries women
have been relegated to a status below that of men, and
psychologically conditioned to interpret the role ot
homemaker in its narrowest terms, very special efforts
will have to be made over a period of years before women
and men understand that, while the home is a center of
a woman's life, it cannot be the boundary.”

Mrs. Heard found considerable evidence that German
women can be developed into active amd responsible
citizens. “There is reason to believe that a significant num-
ber of able women have overcome their fear to such a
degree that they are beginning to work in social organi-
zations again, to organize new groups and to take part in
political life," she reported, She pointed out that the con-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

certed effort of many HICOG offices to have women in-
cluded in local civic groups “have given many their first
chance at community service.”

OUNGER WOMEN ARE beginning to take an active

part, often forming groups of their own age where it is
difficult to work with older leaders, There is more attend-
ance at open community meetings, and more expression
of opinion in the joint meetings with men.

She emphasized, however, that these activities of women
are exceptions to the general rule, and that “psycholog-
ically the great majority of women are still inhibited and
hesitant about taking part in the life of the community.”

Many are fearful of being identified with anything
political and mistrust new women's organizations.

She pointed out that the Communists have trained
women speakers spreading their propaganda throughout
Germany, and democratic women must be trained to
combat this menace.

In solving these problems Mrs. Heard cited many sug-
gestions from German women themselves, such as estab-
lishment of speakers’ bureaus to lecture to women’s
groups on topics related to civic education. She also
urged that the exchange program be expanded to send
more women leaders to America and European countries.

She praised the work of HICOG’s Women's Affairs
Branch, in pointing out that “even in the short period of
time in which this program has been in operation, dozens
of women have made the discovery that the democratic
way of work is exciting and rewarding, and given a long-
er period of time, it is fairly safe to assume that enough
women can be trained in democratic techniques to pre-
vent a return to former authoritarian methods."

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 24 ---
Man’s Passions and Prejudices.

Address
By YEHUDI MENUHIN

TUDENTS OF the university and

colleagues: I wish to speak a few
words to you on this, my tenth concert
in Berlin since the end of war.

I came first to Germany to play to
those who had survived the horrors
of the camps, and later, as you must
all know, I continued to come and
play to all of you irrespective of creed
or dogma, for I came as one who had
much in common with you, one who
shared with you the music of Bach,
Beethoven and Brahms, the thoughts

World-famed violinist
Menuhin flew to Berlin late in
September for one concert, a de-
tour from his scheduled concert
route through Scandinavian coun-
tries. His playing introduced the
fall and winter series of concerts
for Berlin students sponsored by
HICOG. Under the plan, students "T
receive tickets without charge. Mr.
Menuhin, who played as soloist
with the Berlin Philharmonic Or-
chestra last year, gave the accom-
panying speech to the student
audience at his

first time. You played a composition
by Paganini, I have forgotten its
name, and we could not find out from
the program. It fascinated us and the
other listeners. I do not hesitate to
tell you that I shed tears, tears over
your playing.

am not an easily-impressed
youngster any more, but a man of
30 years, who has become bitter and
hard through the war and its con-
sequences. I was wounded during the
war, am out of a job, poor and the

Yehudi

latest recital.

of such renowned men as Goethe and
Heine and the great wisdom of Brunner and Einstein.

This to me represented the greatness of your race and
not the distorted miscreations of the Nazi decades. And
it was because of this attitude of mine that I was able
to come as a Jew who, fully cognizant of the indisputable
crimes committed against his people in this very land,
felt none the less that in these troubled and dangerous
times it is essential to control the passions and preju-
dices of man and to judge him as an individual capable
of good will and tolerance to his fellow man and not
as a conglomerate mass, deaf and dumb to all the
decencies which elevate him above the primitive tribes.

I have come as any trustworthy doctor would come
to a patient because he was called. My concerts, as you
know, were at the request of the American administration
and were given without fee, the proceeds being given
to such causes as I stipulated: the Jewish community,
the Hochschule (Academy) for Music, in memory of
Carl Flesch, the Berlin Philharmonic, the Freie Universitaet
(Free University), and so forth.

I could do this, despite acrid criticism from certain
quarters, not only because my country asked me to come
but because it conformed with my own convictions as
a human being and a musician. I felt I was representing
in my triple capacity as an American, a musician and a
Jew, something beyond the narrow, cruel conceptions
that bade fair to warp the German race, and to convey
to you all something of the essential brotherhood of man.

MONG SEVERAL EXAMPLES showing that my at-
titude was understood and appreciated stands out

this one from one Kurt Selter, a sensitive and touching
letter from which I quote.

“To the greatest master of the present time:

“Allow me, revered master, to write you a few lines.
I must do it because I owe you this.

“We, my wife and I, had the opportunity at the home
of friends to hear you play over the radio. It was the

DECEMBER 1950

21

worry and strain of maintaining my
family and my parents does not make things gayer for me.

“On my birthday today I was richly blessed, not with
material things, but through your playing. It was worth
more to me than the most wonderful material presents
could have been. Through your playing I realized that
there are incomparably beautiful things in the world,
in this world of misery, and it is your playing that will
give me strength to continue ‘the struggle and to hope
for eventual material security. This is the case with me
as with many, many others who will hear you play.
And, therefore, I and my family must thank you, the
artist, who has been blessed by God.

ND FOR SOMETHING ELSE also I must thank you.
I was a Hitler Youth leader, a little one only, but for
many years. I was one out of idealism, out of conviction.
I was raised in the spirit of a regime whose first tenet
was the persecution of Jews. I should have condemned
this tenet, but I supported it, and with me the greatest
part of the young people who were in their teens in
the early thirties.

“Surely we didn’t want any transgressions, at least
I can say that for myself because I see in every human
being the human side. That means an equal being created
by God. But yet I must bear my part of the guilt for the
misery which Germany brought upon your race — not in
a material way, because as a 14-year-old I could prevent
nothing — but spiritually because I approved the race
laws and consequently the persecution of Jews.

“We young soldiers saw pretty soon that many things
were not right in what we were taught. However, this
prejudice against Jews, created generations ago and
kept alive through generations, was hammered into us
from childhood on. And then I heard you play, and it
led me to meditate.

“IT knew all of a sudden that the race laws, the pre-
judice against Jews, were lying nonsense — because a
man who, with his playing, brought me and others a

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
heavenly present, happened to be a Jew and yet a
great artist blessed by God. And he was more, he was
a human being, a human being filled with the goodness
of his heart. This I read in your playing and for this
I thank you.

“One thing you should know. In one family here in
Germany two little girls will include you in their
prayers every evening. The wishes of children peer
through the clouds. I am not a pious man— just the
contrary. Perhaps I will become one some time in the
future, when the horrors of the last 10 years are far
behind me, the years which made us despair in God
and the human race. But I still believe in the power of
children’s prayers, and I don’t know anybody who
merits them more than you, for your playing and for the
human love which you spread among us through it.
This must be my thanks because I cannot give any-
thing else.

“May God give you the happiness which you merit,
Yehudi Menuhin, artist through God's gift and hard
work, and a human being with a heart full of love for
mankind.

(signed) “Kurt Setter.”

FEEL THAT THIS letter speaks eloquently for itself
i ae it speaks for me because it reminds me that I
have come to you these last five years in the belief
that the only hope for mankind in this world is, “Do
unto others as you would they should do unto you."

Yehudi Menuhin,

(US Army photo)

I appeal to you, who have firsthand knowledge of the
sufferings engendered by hatred, to stand with me
against prejudice and bigotry wherever they might arise.
There is not one of us, no matter from what walk of
life, who does not have it in his power to combat these
forces of evil.

Now let us return to music. +END

US Study Open to 600 Germans

ORE THAN 600 GERMAN university students and

student teachers will be sent to the United States
during 1951 to study for one year at American universities
and colleges, the Exchanges Division, Office of Public
Affairs, has announced.

At the same time, 31 German educators, social workers
and youth leaders will be sent to study and work in their
respective fields in the United States for three to six
months. Exchange officials said that scores of projects in
many additional fields will be activated during 1951.

Following is breakdown of student projects:

A total of 400 undergraduate university students will
be selected for one year of study at US universities and
colleges. Two hundred young student teachers will study
for one semester at American teacher training institutions
and gain experience in teaching at practice schools during
the second term. Both groups will leave in the early fal!
of 1951.

Another group of 48 young students will be selected to
leave during February for a year’s study of social sciences
and governmental affairs at several outstanding universi-
ties in these fields. Their studies will include several

INFORMATION BULLETIN

observation trips to see American governmental agencies
in action.

In addition to the student projects, qualified German
experts will be selected to study American techniques
and procedures for periods of three to six months in the
following fields:

Ten persons to work with American social service’ and
maternal and child welfare agencies; six youth leaders to
study American youth self-help programs; 13 professors
and instructors to study American techniques of higher
education or teach in US universities; and two educators
to study methods of education research.

Except for the last one, all projects listed today are
open to residents of the French and British Zones as well
as the US Zone and West Berlin.

New Camp for Czech DP's
A new DP camp for Czech refugees was opened last
summer at Iba, near Bebra, Hesse. The camp, formerly
used by German refugees, accommodates 250 Czech
refugees transferred from Bavaria to Hesse.

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 26 ---
A Boost for Trade

By FRED WELTY
Staff Writer, Public Relations Division, HICOG

NDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION is no longer a great prob-

lem in Western Germany.

Although one year ago some observers were skeptical
about ECA's goal for 1952— to reach 128 percent of
Germany's 1936 production—the goal has, in 1950, al-
ready been attained.

The really big economic problem lies in West Ger-
many’'s foreign trade —in its inability so far to export
as much to the dollar market (the United States and
Canada) as it has been importing.

This discrepancy between imports and exports, cur-
rently closed by Marshall Plan funds which have a fixed
termination date, is well-known as “the dollar gap." To
fill the gap, West Germany must step up her exports.

Despite the support which government can lend to
export campaigns, the main weight must come from pri-
vate enterprise; only on this basis can Europe and
America establish sound, strong economic ties.

One of the first necessities for expanding exports was
an agency from West German private enterprise which
could stimulate export effort and act as clearing-house
for information between importers in the United States
and manufacturers and exporters in Germany. .

N THE PAST, ONLY the largest firms had been in a

position to keep informed on foreign markets; very
few small and medium manufacturers who wanted to sell
for dollars had been able to bridge the difficulties of
foreign sale alone. To set up this helping agency, repre-
senting all West Germany's export industries, was one
of the hurdles that had to be taken if the dollar gap was
to be crossed.

West German enterprise responded to the challenge.
After months of planning, the German-American Trade
Promotion Company, a non-profit organization repre-
senting practically the entire business community, is now
in operation, Over-all mission of the company is to advise
and assist German industries and exporters to market
their goods in the United States and Canada, and to keep
interested US importers and distributors informed of
goods available in Germany.

Five trade associations, which represent every impor-
tant export industry in western Germany, established
the company in Frankfurt. The associations are the
Federal Association of German Industry (whose nearest
American counterpart is the National Association of
Manufacturers); the Council of the German Chambers of
Industry and Commerce; Association of German Hotels
and Restaurants (tourism); the Association of Hamburg
Exporters (trustee for all exporters and importers); and
the German Central Handicrafts Association,

With these groups contributing to the GATPCo, export-
ers and industrialists are assured of practical and learned

DECEMBER 1950

23

advice, GATPCo's board of directors is drawn’ from these
associations as are the working personnel and advisory
committees which offer specific counsel to various cate-
gories of industry.

Dr, Onno Oncken and Dr. Gerhard Dehne are managers
of the company’s Frankfurt office. Their staff numbers
23. Located in the Stock Exchange Building, 8 Boerse,
the company has already processed 2,000 letters asking for
marketing advice. While this work is important, the staff
also is occupied with many other promotional activities.

XTENDING AN ARM across the ocean, the company
recently opened a New York branch office in Suite
6921, Empire State Building.

While the Frankfurt office directs its attention to
German industry, the New York office deals directly
with US importers, distributors and market research
bureaus. Headed by Henry A. Abt, with a staff of eight
employees, the latter office supplies data to US importers
on specific industries and goods, and import possibilities
from Germany. Special pains will be taken to inform
German producers of suitable packaging, styling and
designing of their wares for American consumers.

Chicago, New Orleans and San Francisco have been
given study as new localities for additional branch of-
fices. The company would then be able to furnish Ger-
man exporters with valuable data on market conditions
and tastes in other key American areas.

GATPCo is beginning to run the gamut of many serv-
ices. The company has already accomplished such things
as assisting in the preparational work for the German
representatives. at the Torquay conference, which dealt
with international tariff and trade, and conducting studies
of German patents and trade marks in the United States.
Export incentives and the extension of long-term credits
to export industries are occupying the company’s atten-
tion at present.

Putting heavy emphasis on its information program,
the company has begun publication of circulars, cata-
logues and booklets. One of these is an eight-page
weekly bulletin informing German exporters of American
market and sales conditions. A recent issue dealt with
the effect of the Korean war and the armament boom |
on exports from Germany to the United States, thus help-
ing exporters judge present and future developments.

STATISTICAL HANDBOOK containing the most rele-

vant data on the US economy is being prepared,
to include such information as a table for converting
cost insurance freight (c.i.f.) prices into landed cost,
and information on US patent laws and antitrust legis-
lation. Other directories presenting data on sales poten- —

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
tialities, sources of supply and similar fields are being
published.

An extensive lecture program under GATPCo’'s
auspices is now under way. Among the list of 15 or 20
speakers who have been engaged for this program are
Dr. Eric Stoetzner, of The New York Times, on “The
Business Climate in the United States," and Thomas Lyons,
executive of the Foreign Trade Zones Board, US Depart-
ment of Commerce, on “Foreign Trade Zones in the
United States.”

The bulk of the company's work is counseling of in-
dividual German and American firms, Personal attention
is given each caller, and letters are promptly answered.

American businessmen are often personally accom-
panied to factories in Germany, given counsel on business
contacts, and supplied with data which minimize red tape.
If the company hires special traveling representatives,
as planned, personal contact between GATPCo and
visiting businessmen will be on a larger scale.

While the main weight of the German “dollar drive”
is beginning to be borne by the Germans themselves,
there are a number of Americans in Germany lending
assistance to this drive.

The Export Promotion Bureau of the ECA Special Mis-
sion to Western Germany is giving invaluable assistance
to the company,

This bureau helps with counsel on American marketing
practices, guidance and advice in handling trade problems.
In addition, it has advised the company of many foreign
trade services offered by American business and govern-
ment agencies, A number of technical publications have
been placed at the disposal of GATPCo. An example is
the translation and distribution of a free booklet issued
by the US Bureau of Customs entitled “Customs Infor-
mation for Exporters to the United States." This booklet
alone is expected to do much to dispel the bogey, common
to the majority of German exporters, that US customs
procedures present insurmountable obstacles.

ESIDES SUPPLYING SALES AIDS to German ex-
porters, ECA's Export Promotion Bureau has a con-
tinuing program of meetings with German industrialists
to encourage more of them to become exporters, and to
increase group export representation in the United States.
These meetings have already achieved much — for

example, the planned establishment of an export sales
organization for the German handicraft industry, which
means that scores of small-scale manufacturers, produc-
ing in too little quantities to attempt foreign selling by
themselves, may have the benefits of a central export
agency to promote sales in the American market. The
Export Promotion Bureau is also in a position to arrange
visits for touring US economic officials with the proper
German agencies.

In a recent visit to Germany, a top ECA official from
Washington said that excellent opportunities now exist
for strong trade ties between the United States and Ger-
many and commended West German private enterprise
for its initiative in forming the trade promotion com-
pany. He also stated that he expects “to see the day
soon when German goods are being distributed and sold
throughout the United States.” This official was Wayne
C. Taylor, author of the “Wayne Taylor Report," which
recommended precise steps for closing European dollar
gaps, a document which, by its thorough analysis of the
problem and its recommendations, may become an im-
portant historical paper, representing a turning point in
American-European trade relations.

ECA technical assistance leaders encourage German
economic experts, returning from the United States, to
speak before audiences with potential exporters, thus
bringing valuable information on the American market.

HE WORK BEING ACCOMPLISHED by the commer-

cial sections of numerous US consulates in Germany
cannot be overlooked. The consulates are now in a posi-
tion, for the first time since the end of the war, to offer
German manufacturers the services available under the
US Department of Commerce's World Trade Directory
Reports,

Even the US Resident Officers have been enlisted in
the dollar campaign, ECA Export Promotion officials
briefed the October gathering of more than 150 resident
officers in Frankfurt on the part they can play in boosting
export trade, they can encourage small and large manu-
facturers in their districts to aim for the dollar market.

Through such efforts — especially through the work of
West Germany's private entrepreneurs — the outlook is to-
day brighter than ever for closing the dollar gap. -+-END

Happy grins of Berliners (below) indicate they were among
250 unemployed who received four tons of clothing distri-
buted by American Friends Service Committee. Left, Toy-
Jand opening at Berlins’ Military Post's Shopping Center
got enthusiastic welcome.

(PRB HICOG-BE & US Amy photos)

--- Page 28 ---
Christmas Shooters waive tradition to mount hill overlooking Berchtesgaden and fire in honor of Berlin Freedom Bell.

The Christmas Shooter

By EVERETT W. SCHOENING
US Resident Officer, Berchtesgaden

HERE ARE MANY DIFFERENT and time-honored

ways to welcome Christmas. Some people _attend
midnight service at their church; others raise a senti-
mental glass of grog beside the Christmas tree.

A bunch of fellows down in Berchtesgaden, though,
just raise their pistols and shoot.

Not so savage as it sounds, the custom of ‘shooting
in“ Christmas originated there at least 285 years ago,
and has today enly the most devoutly religious con-
notations. When one of the band known as the United
Christmas Shooters’ Association raises his blunderbuss
to fire, he is “shooting away” all evil spirits and honor-
ing the festivals of the Catholic Church.

The Christmas Shooters ritual originated in and was
primarily a continuation of pagan rites inspired by the
fear of demons, malicious spirits and witches. The evil
spirits were most active during dark winter nights, and
could be best combated by incantations, magic cere-
monies and above all, by the creation of noise. Hence,
the custom of some 500 guns, in unison, on Christmas Eve.

GMIRST DEFINITIVE PROOF for the practice of Christ-

mas shooting is found in a decision passed by the
court of justice of the Prince Bishops on Oct. 25, 1666,
which specifically prohibited shooting activities at
Christmas and on other occasions and threatened all
noise and disturbances with severe punishment. That the
‘custom was at that time already a very old one can be
seen from the wording of the document.

DECEMBER 1950

25

Berchtesgadeners apparently had an irrepressible pas-
sion for shooting, or so it would seem from the decrees
issued (in 1708, 1737 and 1798) reiterating the ban on
firearms. However, after each decree had been in effect
a short while, the ban would be lifted and the horde of
shooters would turn up on some hillside, blasting away
to its heart's content.

The dignity of official acceptance apparently was
bestowed on the society during the 17th century; there
are documents extant which authorize a “burgher guard’
to fire salutes at receptions and such’ other ceremonies
as the founding of a Franciscan monastery in Berchtes-
gaden in 1669.

It was this monastery which wrought the transforma-
tion of the shooters’ ritual from a pagan fetish to a
religious ceremonial. The Franciscans exercised a pro-
found influence over the solemn villagers. In the be-
ginning, the shooting custom was wisely tolerated; later
it was completely adopted by the Catholic Church which
instead of combating it, used it to draw the shooters more
closely to religion. Since that time, the custom has
become so firmly entrenched in church ritual that it
carries tremendous religious significance for the simple
native farmers who comprise the association.

HOOTING IN BERCHTESGADEN commences a week
before Christmas. At 3 p.m. each afternoon, the bells
of the Stiftskirche ring and some single shots are fired
to hail the birth of Christ. The first large-scale shooting,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
by all the scattered clubs of the shooters’ society, takes
place on the fourth Sunday in Advent (last Sunday before
Christmas).

Thereafter, wholesale firing occurs on the three rauch
nights: Christmas Eve, New Year's Eve and, until lately,
on the fifth of January. The word rauch has two inter-
pretations. It can mean “rough,” referring to the over-
activity of demons on these nights, or it can mean
“smoke,” referring to the religion-inspired farmer custom
of burning homemade incense and fumigating house,
stables and fields to drive away evil spirits. Further
definite dates for shooting are Whitsun and Corpus Christi.

In addition, however, various religious or semi-religious
festivals draw the shooters to their stations. Especially
significant to the outside world was the society's partici-
pation in October in the Freedom Bell dedication. Some
500 members mounted the hilltops of Berchtesgaden and
surrounding communities to give a salute at noon of
Oct. 24, showing their sympathy with the Freedom Bell,
just then tolling its first message in far-off-Berlin.

HE OCCASIONS FOR SHOOTING vary with the

communities in which society members live —at
harvest-time, or when churches are consecrated, or when
young priests celebrate their first masses. But when the
occasion is so universal a one as Christmas, the shooters
of each community in the Berchtesgaden area take part.

Shooting as a rule takes place on a traditional spot,
usually on a hill and overlooking the community. Some-
times, particularly on Christmas Eve, single shots may
be fired by farmers coming out of the mountains to
attend midnight mass. Each farmer fires one shot to
signal departure from his home, and further shots as he
joins up with streams of others proceeding into the valley.

On New Year's Eve it is customary for small groups
to shoot honorary salutes before the houses of priest,
mayor and other notables.

Opposing itself to the somewhat ecclesiastical side of
the rites is the purely secular function of Brautwecken
(bride awakening). Here, the society lets go a volley at
4 am. outside the home of a prospective bride (daughter
of one of the members) on her marriage day. Tradition

300 vears.

Johann Ilsanker, 64, the oldest of the Christ-
mas Shooters, demonstrates (left), the required
position for the firing of the blunderbuss-type
pistols used by the Christmas Shooters in their
unusual festivities. The elderly shooter loads
his pistol (right) then uses mallet to pound in
the noise-producing plug. Blunderbuss- type
pistols (center) weigh 12 pounds or more, are
well constructed und date back all of 150 to

demands that the aroused family invite the shooters to,
a substantial breakfast which is washed down with
copious quantities of alcoholic drink. Many shooters are
said to prefer this work to shooting at church celebra-
tions, as the reward received is corporeal, immediate and
of this world.

EFORE THE LAST QUARTER of the 19th century, no

actual organization of Christmas shooters existed;
individuals or groups of farmers acted on their own. The
first of the local Christmas shooter clubs was established
in the community of Salzburg in 1887. In the years im-
mediately following 15 local organizations were formed
in nearby villages. In 1925 these were consolidated into
the Vereinigte Weihnachtsschuetzen (United Christmas
Shooters) with a total membership of some 2,000 persons;
at the same time each club retained its independence and
bears its own richly-embroidered banner at the shooters’
rally each July.

The association is exclusively for males and only per-
sons born in the county of Berchtesgaden are accepted
as members. The regular annual subscription is DM 4
(less than $1), and non-active members pay less; the
association spends something over DM 5,000 (about
$1,190), which scarcely covers the cost of necessary pow-
der and percussion caps.

The shooting is performed with large-size, large-bore,
muzzle-loaded iron pistols of the blunderbuss type. They
have heavy wooden shafts and are fired by percussion
caps. Many of the pistols are antique, others were made
by local smiths before World War II and a few new ones
were apparently made in the area within the last few
years. Weight of the pistols is considerable, varying be-
tween 13 to 17 pounds.

The powder used is generally wrapped in paper and
jammed into the barrel; to heighten the noise of the
explosion a wooden plug is driven into the muzzle with
a mallet, an essential part of each shooter's equipment.
When fired, the plug is ejected three to five yards into
the air. The pistols are fired either in volleys or individ-
ually at short intervals down a line of shooters.

(Continued on page 30)

(PRB OLCB photos)

--- Page 30 ---
Free Artists in Free Berlin

By EL

NE MecKNIGHT

OT LONG AFTER THE WAR end-
ed, an American art critic said:
“It will be 25 years or so before Ger-
many's artists will produce anything
new and genuinely worthwhile..."
Last month, a 25-man show of West
Berlin artists opened in Washington,
D. C., and makes a mockery of this
forecast. The 60 drawings and paint-
ings, the first US exhibit of postwar

Eline McKnight studied paint-
ing at the Art Students’ League
and the Yale School of Fine Arts,
taught art and art history for five
years. Now a resident of Berlin;
Mrs. McKnight organized an ex-
hibit of Berlin art for West Ger-
man and European audiences this
summer and aided selection of
the exhibit which is now in the
United States.

their work might become known to
prospective buyers.

Meanwhile, in the United States,
curiosity about Germany's artists had
been aroused. Harbinger of the present
show was a folio of reproductions of
German art work distributed to Ameri-
ca by the German-American art group
Prolog, formed in Berlin shortly after
the war. In summer 1950, Mrs. John

German art, re-emphasize Berlin's

notable art history and exhibit the pioneering touch of old.
There are canvases by the now-classic Carl Hofer and
Karl Schmidt-Rotluff, already known in US museums, and
dynamic works by artists just getting their start. There
are painters of many traditions — surrealists, abstrac-
tionists, expressionists and more. They present a sur-
vey of all that is going on in modern art, not only in
Germany, but throughout the world.

To Americans who will see the show in smaller art
centers and universities, it may reflect little of the city
from which it came. Known today as an outpost of free-
dom, 105 miles behind the Iron Curtain, and associated
with such dramatic postwar events as the Airlift, it may
not be pictured as the still devastated site of World War
II's incessant bombing and the anarchic poverty which
followed. Americans may not remember that for the years
of Nazi rule, freedom of expression was a myth. But
from this background of hardship, these men painted and
produced a show.

ERLIN IS JUDGED generally to be one of West Ger-

many’s leading art centers, ranking with Duesseldorf,
Munich and Stuttgart. But, absorbed in its fight against
Communism’‘s economic squeeze, it is not notably kind to
its artists; there is too little money to support them. Out
of this circumstance came the desire of Berlin's artists
to exhibit outside their city, preferably in a place where

ay

Alexander Pope of the American

Federation of Arts contacted Dr. Beryl] McClaskey, Ameri-

can founder of Prolog, and machinery was set in motion
for a show.

Prolog and other small art societies of Berlin, consulted

on show plans, dredged their resources for the financial

means necessary to transport a show to America. They

- couldn't afford it. Then the Office of the US High Com-

missioner was consulted and agreed to lend its logistical
support. HICOG — and its Education and Cultural Rela-
tions Division— undertook selection of a show and
transportation of it to and from New York,

To do the organizational job, HICOG had personnel
and facilities. But an outsider — because she was un-
questionably an expert on German art — was called in
for the job of selection. She is ebullient, hard-working
Dr. Charlotte Weidler, representative to Germany of
America’s Carnegie Institute, Department of Fine Arts.
In Germany for the first time since the war to cull
West German works for Carnegie’s International Show,
Dr. Weidler has been associated with the Institute for
27 years. She knew Germany, she knew its artists of old
and she was anxious to boost its renascent art movement.

S BERLIN ART was to be theme of the exhibit,
Dr. Weidler reasoned, she had better see as much
of its art as possible. She asked me, because of my
acquaintance with Berlin art and artists, to help in the

Forty-three- -year- old Hans Jaenisch is one of few Berlin artists who deals directly with politics and postwar events, as

in painting Die Luftbruecke," depicting the Berlin Airlift.

DECEMBER 1950

(Ewald Gnilka photos)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Carl Hofer, shown at easel, devoted much time to repaint-
ing canvases destroyed during the war, (Gerda Schimpf photo)

selection. Together, we spent weeks exploring Berlin's
most obscure ateliers. “Dr. Weidler had a merciless
and welcome — facility for saying ‘No,’ one HICOG
Cultural Affairs adviser reports.

We decided on 20 painters. We also resolved upon
five sculptors, whose work was important enough to be
represented, but most of which was not suitable for ship-
ment. Plaster is not transportable, and bronze, which is,
has been too expensive for the artists. As a result,
Dr. Weidler suggested that representational drawings be
sent in place of plaster originals. This plan was carried out.

When paintings and drawings were assembled, Dr. Weid-
ler and I applied a sharp eye to the exhibit as a whole,
and decided it is dynamic, well-balanced and tells the
story of how — and what —art is doing in West Berlin

Germany was home to a number of vigorous move-
ments in the early decades of this century; the exhibit
is redolent of them all.

Probably most important was Die Bruecke (The Bridge).
At the turn of the century Paris was the center of ex-
periment for the Western world, when such giants as
Cezanne, Van Gogh, Seurat and Gauguin were pioneering
the modernist advance. But Germany, with Die Bruecke,
came closest to an independent, truly expressionist school.

HE GROUP WAS FOUNDED in Dresden in 1906 by

Kirchner, Heckel, Schmidt-Rotluff, Mueller, Nolde
and Pechstein. Their primary aim was no longer to
imitate a world of reality, but to express inner, subjec-
tive emotions. They exaggerated and distorted the famil-
iar forms and colors of nature, they painted freely and
spontaneously. Though indebted somewhat to the Fauves

INFORMATION BULLETIN

in France, the works of these artists were inherently,
creatively German. Schmidt-Rotluff, when I asked about
the group’s name, expressed its characteristics: ‘‘For some
time after we had formed our group, we were at a loss
for a name. But one day, Heckel and I were taking a
walk together. We reached a bridge, and it dawned on
me we were precisely that — a bridge to something new.”

Schmidt-Rotluff and Max Pechstein, of the originators,
now live and work in Berlin. Their work is represented
in the show.

The next important revolutionary group was Der Blaue
Reiter (The Blue Rider), so called because one of its
members (Franz Marc) veered away from the traditional
by painting a blue horse to symbolize life and movement.
Organized in 1907 in Munich, this group comprised Ger-
man-Swiss Paul Klee, Russian Vassily Kandinsky, Ger-

Rated as one of Germany's
top abstractionists is Theo-
dor Werner, Berlin artist,
whose painting in tem-
pera, “‘Convolutions,"" is
shown beiow.

(Ewald Gnilka photos)

--- Page 32 ---
mans Franz Marc and August Macke. Their art moved
on from Die Bruecke, being discontent with mere sub-
jective expression, and delved into painting without any
subject or recognizable object at all.

In 1919, the internationally influential Bauhaus school
was formed, first at Weimar, then at Dessau and for a
brief period (until Nazism broke it up) in Berlin. Its
adherents. made daring experiments which combined
architecture, painting, sculpture, interior decoration,
furniture, weaving, pottery and textiles with functional
design. The Bauhaus attracted Blue Riders Klee and
Kandinsky, and a roster of students and faculty still
influencing the painting world.

A pupil of Klee and Kandinsky, Hans Thiemann, rated
an outstanding artist in Berlin, adds his surrealistic
paintings to the US show.

Others carrying on the tradition of the Bauhaus are
Fritz Kuhr, and Lou Scheper-Berkenkamp, who is noted
for illustrative sketches in children's books.

Carl Hofer, now in his seventies, and perhaps Berlin's
most prolific painter, is classified within none of these
schools but as a powerful exponent of expressionism.

Max Kaus is one of Die Bruecke's offspring but he
tones down the expressionist radicalism of his fellows.

Two sculptors whose work is denoted in sketches have
ties with Die Bruecke. They are Renee Sintenis and
Richard Scheibe. The small-scale bronzes of animals and
youths of the former are well-known in America.

UST AS MUCH A TRADITION to Berlin art, however,

is the flair for newness which is not lost in the US ex-
hibit. The artist whom Dr. Weidler considers Germany's
leading abstractionist, Theodor Werner, paces his own
field. Former US prisoner-of-war Hans Jaenisch is in-
ventive in his choice of medium — a mixture of oil,
tempera and casein. The wife of abstractionist Werner,
Woty Werner, pioneers a completely new field of “paint-
ing" with materials — wool, silks and the like.

Despite the universalism of Berlin art—the quality
which reputedly makes art great — and the continuity of
its prewar tradition noted above, there now and then
sneaks in some hallmark of the present and particular.

A few of the artists (but noticeably few) actually deal
with the subject matter of war and postwar politics.
Werner Heldt limits his painting and lithography to city
scenes, sees the city directly and without sentimentality.
Sculptor Bernard Heiliger, frequently compared with Eng-
land's Henry Moore, will be represented in the US show
with the sketch for an Airlift monument which won him
a cash prize from the Berlin City Council. Painter
Jaenisch presents one of his best-known paintings, Die
Luitbruecke (The Airlift).

Whatever trends they represent, it is essential to note
the one thing they have in common: a fierce loyalty to
their freedom as artists. Dr. Weidler describes the Nazi-
blighted days before 1939 — her last visit to Berlin —
when the artists defied prohibitions and continued to
paint their “degenerate, unhealthy” modern works. Base-

DECEMBER 1950

29

Hans Thiemann, surrealist,
is a pupil of art pioneers
Klee and Kandinsky. His
drawing, shown above, is
entitled “Fancy Free."

(Portrait by Elsa Thiemann)

ment showrooms and private homes exhibited the artists’
work in the darkest hours; canvases were transported
from place to place at great risk to the painters. After
1940, it was impossible for the artists to procure brushes
and other indispensible materials in Berlin stores.

wes THE WAR ENDED, and the freedom to paint
was restored, the anarchy and crushing poverty of
the immediate days afterward made their work in-
creasingly difficult. Carl Hofer, Berlin's most venerable
master, busied himself in the beginning with repainting
works destroyed in the air raids. Renee Sintenis took a
step which made less courageous artists shudder — she
sacrificed earlier sculptures to obtain the bronze neces-
sary to continue working.

Jiro Kubicek, who fashions large, decoratively ethereal
compositions, makes. his living with a highly successful
workshop of industrial design at the US Information
Center. He spent one year in the United States as an
exchange art professor in Louisville, Ky. Hans Jaenisch

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
currently exhibits pictures of the American Southwest
where he was a prisoner of war, and does so in the US
Information Centers.

A number of the artists represented in the US show
are simultaneously professors at the Berlin Academy of
Art: Hofer, Schmidt-Rotluff, Kaus, Heiliger, Hartung,
Hans Uhlmann, Scheibe and Sintenis. Kuhn is professor
at an art teachers’ school.

‘Today, the artists face new oppressions — particularly
that of poverty. In Berlin’s isolated economy there are
few able to boost the artists through purchases. For most
of them there has been the temptation of painting for
East zone consumption (which would mean abandon-
ment of their “bourgeois” techniques) or of selling their
paintings to persons behind the Iron Curtain. But they
have rejected the lure. To a man, according. to Dr. Weid-
ler, “these artists cannot be bought.”

HEN AMERICANS VIEW the art of Berlin’s 25

representatives, they will be reminded of Ger-
many's once-strong culture, struggling now to re-assert
itself. They will realize what sacrifices men will make
for self-expression. And they will understand why the
prediction of a few years ago, that German artists
would produce nothing worthwhile for 25 years, could
not hold true.

Says Dr. Weidler, “The painting you see in the exhibit
isn't something that just ‘grew’ after the war. It is Ger-
man art and it has kept going through all the years, in
spite of war and persecution and poverty. The dates on
the painters’ canvases will show that they determined
to go on, even when the Nazis and the war were against
them, This exhibit will show: you can’t kill the creative
spirit of an artist.” +END

(Continued from page 26)

The Christmas Shooters

In addition to the pistols, the shooters employ some 25
small, snub-nosed, cast-iron mortars on wheels, with bar-
rels about 50 centimeters long. While pistols are owned
individually, these mortars are the property of the clubs.
The majority of these are about 300 years old; a few
lighter ones were made in 1870. The former.are touched
off by means of a red-hot iron, the latter are fired by
percussion caps struck by a hammer. The mortars were
apparently used as far back as the founding ceremonies
in 1669 of the Franciscan monastery.

HOOTING ACTIVITIES were permitted to continue
during the Nazi regime, for which the association
thanked Hitler by shooting New Year and birthday
salutes before his Berchtesgaden house and by nominat-
ing him an honorary member. After 1945 all Nazi sym-
pathies were denied and the above explained as having
been a mere matter of policy.
The Office of Military Government raised no objection
to the shooting custom during the immediate postwar

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

years. However, these years were not without incident
for uninitiated US forces. On one occasion — reportedly
on Corpus Christi Day in the community of Schoenau,
May 1945 — some shooters, supremely confident of their
tight to participate in the church festival, and naively
unaware that so shortly after the war's end firearms
were strictly prohibited, gathered on a neighboring height,
waited for the prescribed moment and let off a vollay.
Numerous members of the Allied Forces, then stationed
there, were watching the ceremonies.

When the sudden detonation burst just over their heads,
the soldiers, in panic, threw themselves flat on the ground.
German onlookers, who lad, of course, expected the
shooting, were imperturbed but mildly surprised. After
a moment the soldiers sheepishly rose, without casualties,
just in time for a second volley. Again they dove for the
ground. When a German at length explained to them
about the Christmas shooters, the soldiers swarmed
determinedly up the hillside and confiscated the whole
band — pistols, powder and all.

Relations between the American forces and the shooters
association have for the most part been cordial, despite
such confusions. Today, as witnessed by the Freedom
Bell observance, the shooters can be counted as a strong
element among the population which is ready to sym-
pathize with and support the objectives of freedom. +END

140 Priceless Berlin Art
Works Return Home for Visit

A collection of 140 priceless art treasures have re-
turned to Berlin for a six-month visit. The one-time fa-
vorites in Berlin's state museums, including German,
Italian and Dutch masterworks dating back as far as the
13th century, have gone on public exhibit at the Museum
Dahlem, in the borough of Dahlem, in the American sector
of the former German capital. Formal inaugural ceremonies
were highlighted by addresses delivered by Berlin Mayor
Ernst Reuter and Federal President Theodor Heuss.

Thirty-four plastic and sculptural works are also ex-
hibited with the paintings. All the treasures, brought
back to Berlin from Wiesbaden by air, were removed
to secret storage sites in western Germany before the
fall of Berlin in 1945.

In 1948 and 1949 the collection toured the United
States. It was returned to Germany early last year;
segments of the collections have since been displayed

‘in Munich and Wiesbaden.*

Artists represented in the group include the Italian
masters Rafael, Botticelli and Tintoretto, the Dutch
painters van Eyck and van der Weiden, and the Ger-
mans Duerer, Holbein, Cranach and Kulmbach.

Residents of the Soviet Zone and Berlin's Eastern
sector are being admitted to the exhibition on payment
of East German currency.

% See ‘US Returns German Art" in Information Bulletin, issue No. 147,
Nov. 2, 1948 and ‘‘Returned Masterworks," in January 1950 issue.

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 34 ---
: - BL
Huts of

old village contrast with almost-completed homes in the new. Two families share each house.

(PRB OLCH photos)

From Huts to Houses

By ALFRED GOURGE
Staff Writer, Public Relations Branch, OLC Hesse

ERSONS WALKING past the wooded area on the edge

of Darmstadt noticed last year that something was
afoot. Trees began to disappear, and the tangled accumu-
lation of leaves and roots and shrubs. Piles of material,
much of it renovated rubble, appeared in the cleared
spaces,

Then, passers-by noticed, foundations were laid and
concrete mixers began turning out blocks which became;
in time, the walls of compact, two-story buildings, The
wooded place had turned into a new community, and its
silence was broken by the sounds of family life and the
continuing noise of construction hammers.

To build the first 19 houses in the community had taken
more than a year, but the ambition for it had begun much
earlier.

Hungarian-German expellees — 35,000 of them in
Hesse — spent the first few postwar years shifting from
camp to camp, and eventually settled down in bare refugee
settlements, old barracks and hut-camps. They longed for
clean, permanent homes to replace those they had lost
in Hungary.

One group of Protestant Hungarian expellees was
banded together on the outskirts of Darmstadt. They lived
in old Nissen huts, which, covered with boards, looked
like giant, half-submerged barrels, giving little comfort
or protection. The expellee band, weary of squalor,
decided to do something.

Fxeowe WITH SKILLED craftsmen — carpenters and
masons — and a willingness to work hard, they took it

on themselves to fell the trees, make the cement, construct

DECEMBER 1950

31

the houses. Not just the menfolk — the ones who worked
eight hours at jobs in industrial Darmstadt and came home
to start house-building — but the wives, grandmothers
and able-bodied children of every family went to work.
The old people, including an octogenarian who left a
hospital, bed, and the youngsters did preparatory work
during the day. The wage-earners devoted their evenings
and weekends.

The first clearing began in April 1949, under the direc-
tion of engineer Gerold Steinsch, and on October 8, 1950,
the first 19 homes were ready for occupancy.

Dedicatory ceremonies, held in early morning, were
typical of the workers. Church services were held and
then the entire community pitched in to move the first
families to the homes. Women prepared a lunch for the
settlers, their friends and well-wishers.

The houses are sturdy, five-room concrete buildings,
designed for two families each. Each home contains two
kitchens, one bath, two cellars, storeroom, a washroom
and bedrooms, and includes a garden plot and area to
keep small livestock. Rent on the houses will go to pay
back the loans received in the name of the Hungarians’
construction co-operative. Their months of negotiations
had garnered them temporary credit from the city of
Darmstadt, a building loan from the German “immediate
aid" (Soforthilfe) and a financial boost from the Lutheran
World Union. They have at least 25 years to pay off
the debt.

This is not the only aid they had. The city of Darmstadt
allowed the group to buy, at a purely nominal charge,
the 30 wooded acres on which their community is under

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 35 ---
Hungarian expellees wore Sunday best on day of dedication.

construction. Moreover, a group of 32 Mennonites, Ameri-
cans, Dutch, Norwegians, Germans and Italians, busy on
work projects in Germany, took a turn at construction

on the expellee settlement.

ERHAPS THE MOST NOTEWORTHY development of
all has been the linking of- this settlement with others
in the immediate vicinity. To acquire together what might
be impossible alone, the Hungarians have joined with a
refugee group from Bukovina, which is now trying to
build its own homes, and with a native Hessian group
living in already established houses. The three have map-
ped plans for a community church and school (already
finished, and one of the most modern in the state), and
eventually a common sports field and stadium, a swim-
ming pool and community center.
This type of inter-community co-operation has won the
praise of Dr. James R. Newman, US state commissioner

for Hesse, and Peter Stanne, HICOG Displaced Populations
adviser in Hesse.

According to Dr. Newman, the voluntary absorption
by all parties points the way to future integration of
expellee and refugee elements among themselves and the
German community of peoples.

Perhaps the answer to the future life of all expellees
can be taken from a motto hanging on the wall of one
of the new Darmstadt homes:

“God does not leave a man who does not leave himself.”

+ END

Old Treaties May Be Revised

The Allied High Commission has invited the Federal
Republic — and other interested countries are being
invited through diplomatic channels — to inform the
High Commission of those treaties of the former German
Reich which they would like to see revived and made
effective as between the Federal Republic and the country
concerned.

This action is an important first step in implementation
of the Foreign Ministers’ decisions in this sphere. At New
York in September the ministers reaffirmed their desire
to integrate the Federai Republic into the community of
free nations and they recognized that the Federal Govern-
ment is the only German government freely and legiti-
mately constituted and therefore entitled to speak for
Germany as representative of the German people in
foreign affairs.

The Federal Government has already given an interim
reply to the High Commissioners’ request. It has stated
that work is going ahead on a memorandum concerning
the prewar treaties and agreements the Federal Govern-
ment would wish to have made applicable in the terri-
tory of the Federal Republic.

In principle, where the Federal Republic and the other
power or powers concerned jointly desire that effect shall
be given to a particular treaty, the High Commission will
agree to this action. In acting upon these requests, the
High Commission will of course have regard to such
considerations as the avoidance of prejudice to the even-
tual peace settlement with Germany and the avoidance
of conflict with the Occupation Statute or with the terms
of any agreement relating to or affecting Germany to
which the Occupying Powers are parties.

Women prepared community meal jor opening-day well-wishers. Right, this housewife and her husband built their new home.

--- Page 36 ---
Co-Determination _
Keystone of Trade Union Policy

By LLOYD WHITE
Special Adviser, Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG

HAT IS THIS “CO-DETERMINATION?” Every

American asks such a question very shortly after
he arrives in Germany, because he seems to run into the
word wherever he goes.

Co-determination (Mitbestimmung) is the word used to
encompass the major present-day policy and program of
the German trade-union movement.

Despite all the conversations, conferences, debates and
millions of words written about this program, there has
been little explanation of what it is. The reason probably
is that trade-union thinking on details of the program is
still in a state of fluid development.

The German trade-union leaders have felt the need of
a clear explanation, for they have found it difficult to con-
vey the idea they have in mind to trade unionists of other
countries, particularly the United States and the United
Kingdom. This difficulty comes both from the complex
nature of the program and the terminology applied to it.

HE GERMAN UNIONISTS have presented the pro-

gram behind a cloak of a broad and abstract concept,
a complete body of theory — a method of approach belov-
ed by the Germans, but alien to American method and
thought and difficult for Americans to understand.

German trade unions since the 1860's have been pre-
‘ occupied with doctrine, political ideologies and programs,
and elaborate systems of social and economic thought.
They have been interested in organization and planning
of the economy and controls over economic life since their
beginning, and especially concentrated their efforts on
such things in the days of the Weimar Republic.

This contrasts with the long period in American trade
unions from the 1880's on where the main occupation
along with idealistic support of freedom-and justice of
the Gompers era was business unionism, and the main
objectives and efforts of the unions were exerted toward
obtaining better wages, hours and working conditions.

American labor, since its early days, has pretty much
eschewed the abstract concepts and theories and tended
to approach its problems from a pragmatic point of view
— a method of approach beloved by American unionists,
who, impatient with theories, follow a practical sort of
catch-as-catch-can opportunism, seeking what they can
get when they can get it. .

German unionists want a program to come into full
bloom at one time, and since full programs rarely are
evolved out of the give-and-take of the American method
of collective bargaining, German unionists prefer to use

DECEMBER 1950

legislation to try to bring about their aspirations in the
complete form they want them.

IHE PRESENT-DAY ASPIRATIONS of the trade-union
movement of western Germany center around the
concept expressed in the term Mitbestimmungsrecht, which
has been somewhat literally and rather unhappily trans-
lated as the “right of co-determination or co-decision.”
Union leaders have felt the need of a better translation,
which would convey to trade unionists'in other countries
just what they have in mind when they use the word Mit-
bestimmungsrecht. They have felt that the phrase “right
of co-determination” or “right of co-decision," used in
English translation, fails to convey their understanding of
the word to their fellow trade unionists elsewhere.

Now, this word, “co-determination,” in itself conveys
practically no meaning to the American trade unionist.
As an illustration cited in Germany before parliament,
when William Green, president of the American Federa-
tion of Labor, was asked about the statement of a German
trade unionist that co-determination was widely practiced
in America, he is quoted as saying it was “unknown in
America."

A more literal translation as “right to an equal voice”
or “right to have a say” would meet with much readier
and more sympathetic understanding of what the German
trade unionist has in mind because it would be full of
connotations to the American who could find many in-
stances in his own experience where the principle was in
effect and labor “had a say" in the American economy.

ITBESTIMMUNGSRECHT, HOWEVER, is a much

more extensive concept than such a translation con-
veys. The word has had a long time to take on meanings
and to build itself into a broad concept, heavy with con-
notations. The broad structure which has been built up
around the word is somewhat comparable to what the
American trade unionist has built up around the word
“democracy” itself, into which he reads many of his in-
dividual hopes and aspirations.

Mitbestimmungsrecht does not express to the German
trade unionist merely the right of representatives of the
workers to have a voice in a plant through a works
council, or any syich simple restricted idea. (In fact, the
works council angle is getting less and less attention of
unien leaders.) It means a whole way of life, more
particularly a whole system of economic life, which was
expressed in a slogan of the days of the Weimar Republic
as “economic democracy.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
Thus, the idea of Mitbestimmungsrechi epitomizes to
the German trade unionist the objective of democracy,
industrial and economic self-government, a method or
process of collaboration between public authorities,
worker organizations and employer organizations, a full
partnership in the general economy. This is a much
broader concept than the labor-management co-operation
movement in the United States.

The trade union doctrine is that it is necessary to
supplement and to revitalize the political institutions of
democratic government in Germany by certain centralized
planning and controls of a system of industrial and
economic self-government in which labor and manage-
ment on an equal basis collaborate with the public authori-
ties. The doctrine also holds that economic democrati-
zation depends more on such a federal-wide structure than
on the system under which employees through a works
council would participate in operations of a given industry.

The method differs from that in the United States where
in collective bargaining both labor and management have
had a tendency to try to keep the state out of labor re-
lations (except in a few fields such as railroad disputes).

In Germany, on the other hand, the state has always
been a more active participant in labor-management re-
lations, and German labor ‘has had the tendency of trying
to induce the state to carry out trade union’ programs
through political pressure instead of trying to obtain them
directly from individual managements by negotiation.

O-DETERMINATION (MITBESTIMMUNG) has become

such a complex idea that it requires many supplemen-
tal explanations to any definition as a system of economic
democracy. Thinking is so fluid on the subject that it is
difficult to get experts to agree on its meaning. Keeping
this in mind, we offer this analysis: .

The self-government of co-determination operates in
the following two spheres:

1. In economic self-government on the plant level, i.e.,
on the individual enterprise level, where il means partici-
pation by representatives of labor with management in
social, personnel and operational economic matters.

2. In economic self-government on a federal or govetn-
mental level, i.e., on the general economy level, where it
means joint participation by labor and management in
quasi-governmental economic agencies in deciding on

“economic policy in collaboration with governmental
economic agencies.

In addition to these two spheres of operation, co-deter-
mination has been gradcd as to the degree of participation
of labor in matters of joint concern to labor and manage-
ment, with a technical term applied to each degree. Thus,
analyzed according to the degree of participation, pro-
gressing from the least to the highest degree, co-deter-
mination is broken up somewhat like this:

1, Right to co-operate or participate in varying degree,
with decisions remaining the prerogative of manage-
ment — (Milwirkungsrecht).

A. Right to be informed about an enterprise or about
a contemplated decision, or one already made —
(Informationsrecht).

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

B. Right to be heard before a decision is made —
(Anhoerungsrecht).

C. Right to participate in negotiations before decision
is made, but without voice in the final decision —
(Mitberatungsrecht).

2. Right to a voice and participation with management
in making decisions — (Mitbestimmungsrecht). When
the participation is on a basis of parity with manage-
ment it is referred to as “full co-determination.”

HUS, WE SEE, the two major phases of co-deter-
mination, based on the degree of participation by
labor, are Mitbestimmungsrecht and Mitwirkungsrecht.

The employers try to emphasize the difference between
them, preferring the latter, which means not the “right
to help decide matters" but rather the “right to co-operate”
with management in matters of concern to both the “social
partners,” as labor and management are referred to in
western Germany, but with all decisions remaining the
function and prerogative of management. The right of in-
formation, right to be heard, and right to be consulted are
all recognized as degrees of the right to participate or
co-operate — Mitwirkungsrecht.

Union leaders believe that the best way to handle the
self-government functions in the plant level sphere is
through equal representation on the plant boards of super-
vision, and on labor-management economic committees
to deal with social and economic matters arising in the
individual enterprise.

They believe that the best way to handle the self-
government functions in the federal economy level sphere
is through equal representation with management ‘on
central and regional economic chambers, i.e., on labor-
management boards, which have quasi-governmiental
functions, and co-operate closely with government
agencies in dealing with matters on broad social and
economic policy.

In the plant, they would have through their representa-
tives a full voice in the industrial relations policy in
such social and personnel affairs as hiring, firing, rehiring,
layoffs, mass dismissals, appointments, promotions, re-
grouping of work gangs, transfers, recreation, company-
owned housing, safety and health.

They would have through their representatives a full
voice in such economic affairs as: reorganization, re-
financing, mergers, sale of plants or units; change or
essential alteration of the purpose of the enterprise likely
to have major influence on employment or conditions of
work; decisions likely to change the structure of the enter-
prise through change in buying, sales or production
methods, introduction of new working methods; essential
changes in the size of the enterprise through closing down,
restrictions of operation, mergers and fusions; substantial
changes of business capital, credits, capital investment;
and use of profits.

In the general economy, they would have through their

representatives the means of advising, guiding or im- .°

plementing government policy in such things as al-
locations of materials, labor programs, production plan-
ning, ‘distribution schedules; they would participate in.

DECEMBER 1950 -

--- Page 38 ---
decisions on mergers, shutdowns and supervision of
plants; participate in proposals and directives for
economic planning and controls; participate in consul-
tative or advisory bodies attached to government agencies
in the economic field; participate in bodies regulating
trade, admission of exports, price controls, competition,
supervision of the stock exchanges, and credit policies.

HUS, ECONOMIC self-government means labor's hav-

ing a say not only in industrial relations, which is the
field to which common understanding confines it, but also
in social, economic and political affairs within the West
German economy and at all levels from the local to the
district, to the state, and to the federal level; it means
giving the worker and his organizations a say in things
which affect him, his way of living, his conditions of work,
the welfare and well-being of his family and all workers
like himself, in all phases and at all levels of the German
economy.

Trade unionists see co-determination and socialization

- as two separate and distinct things. (Hans vom Hoff, head
of the Economics Department, German Trade Union Fed-
eration [Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund, (DGB)], speech at
Brunswick before the Lower Saxony DGB convention,
July 12, 1950.) Complete state control is not the objective,
but rather the checking of ownership in such a way that
public control can be exerted. The objective is to raise all
those who work to an equal status with those who claim
ownership of industry.

Co-determination is a method or process of affecting
economic policy, rather than having anything to do with
actual ownership. Trade unionists would insist on the co-
determination right as much under socialism, as under
private ownership. Co-determination and socialization are
mutually independent concepts.

As in the Weimar days, the labor movement takes its
position seriously, considers itself the guardian of the
country’s welfare and protector of the country’s welfare
economy.

It looks upon trade union representatives on the board
of an enterprise, or on one of the economic agencies, which
it would establish, as a representative of the whole people.
(Hans vom Hoff, statement in Duesseldorf, May 18, 1950.)

HE TRADE UNION LEADERS are idealistic, and have

the highest aspirations for the Germany of the future.
Unless one understands this, one cannot understand Ger-
man trade union policy; why the German Trade Union
Federation adopts as its main objective at.this time co-
determination rather than higher wages.

The fervor with which the idea is backed by trade
unionists comes out of beliefs based on the experience
of the past.

Your trade unionist looks at the past and sees, accord-
ing to his analysis, many mistakes made by Germany. He
tells himself that those mistakes were made without the

sanction of the ordinary German worker and citizen, and_

without any regard to how the working man felt about

them. He feels that the only way to prevent such mistakes

in the future, and to forestall their disastrous effects upon
‘

DECEMBER 1950

35

the worker and his family is to establish such a system
that places his organizations and representatives in po-
sitions where they can avert them through having a voice
in policies and programs before they are put into effect. .

Unionists feel that if they had had a full partnership in
the economy they could have averted political develop-
ments leading to the collapse of Germany in 1945.

“Employers did their best to create monopolies which
guaranteed the totalitarian power of capital throughout
the economy. Moreover, they developed considerable
political ambitions," one leader said. “This political activ-
ity of employers was the very means used for sabotage of
any trade union demands before 1933, and for the im-
portant financial and ideological support of Hitler and his
regime. The last war and the German collapse can be con-
sidered the result of this development.

“The German labor movement does not want to hold the
bag for this bunch of employers again; it should therefore
be easily understood if the trade unions demand that
genuine economic democracy is created to be the basis
for a sound political democracy." (Hans vom Hoff, DGB
News Letter, June 20, 1950.)

The union leaders hold it must never again come to such
a pass in Germany where the workers are the pawns of
the people who make the agreements, where a czar of an
industry can be free to contribute funds from that industry
to the party of his choice, or where an exclusive state
control of industry can place complete power in the hands
of anyone who might get control of the apparatus.

Y.HE TREMENDOUS HOPES the trade unionist has for
accomplishments through the institution of a form of
“unlimited” Mitbestimmungsrecht is illustrated by the
May Day 1950 poster of the German Trade Union
Federation, "Call of the Unions," which listed such diverse
things as these which would derive from it:

Peace between Nations (Voelkerfrieden);

Full Employment (Vollbeschaeftigung);

Protection of Workers’ Rights (Schutz der Arbeitskratt);

Social Housing (Sozialer Wohnungsbau) und

Creation of a New Economic Order (Neuordnung der
Wirtschaft).

One of the top leaders of the DGB a month later gave
the following as additional things the unions expect from
co-determination: On the economic front, increased pro-
duction, increased consumption power of the working
population and increased standard of living for the com-
mon people; and, on the political front, means of over-
coming the dangers of war and the recurrence of crisis.
(Georg Reuter, DGB vice chairman, speech at Nuremberg,
June 8, 1950.)

From these indications we can see that co-determination
is conceived as a broad principle, really a whole system -
of social, political and economic thought.

The unions are more concerned at the moment with
establishing the principle of economic democracy than the
degree to which the principle is applied in any field.

For this reason they are interested in any manifestation
of the principle in any field, and the trade union leaders
are quick to point out, as a recognition of the principle,

INFORMATION RULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
any system, program or plan which gives labor represen-
tation in deliberations, in bodies or on agencies concern-
ed with economic or social policy.

HEN LABOR WINS equal representation. with

management on the boards of reorganized steel
companies, or on the managing directorates of steel enter-
prises, the unionist points to this as a recognition of full
co-determination. When labor is given a place on the
advisory board of an industry, such as coal, while he
may not be satisfied with the share in control of the
industry given to labor, he points out the principle of
co-determination has been recognized.

When a trade union representative is named as one
of the delegation to discuss the Schuman Plan in Paris;
or a number of trade union experts are named to the
technical committee on the Schuman Plan, the trade
unionist is likely to call it a recognition of co-deter-
mination in international economic planning.

When the government adopts a program which pro-
vides for trade union co-operation in naming German
representations in the economic or social field’ abroad,
the trade unionist is likely to refer to it as a recognition
of co-determination on a new international level.

When the federal administration consults labor leaders
on a major economic policy, this, too, is likely to be
pointed to. as a recognition of the principle.

When trade union or works council representatives
win the right to attend meetings of a board of super-
visors or board of directors of an industrial enterprise,
even if only for informational purposes, or when trade
union or works council representatives get the right to
observe the books of a company, the German trade
unionist, even in these cases, is apt to refer to the action
as a recognition of the principle of co-determination
though technically it would be only a form of “Mitwir-
kung" unless the representatives participated in decisions.

HEN ASKED WHY German trade unions don't go

out in a militant way like American trade unions
to seek higher wages in order to achieve a higher
living standard as a major policy instead of choosing
to fight for such an elaborate social and economic
. system, trade union leaders point out the differences in
the German and American situation and experience.

The major block to starting a general wage movement
at the present time is that the German union leaders
feel that they have no control of the consequences which
might come in the wake of a.markedly higher wage
level, and they have little confidence in those who do
have within their power some possibility of controlling
the consequences.

They feel that if they did go out and get a fair and
equitable share of the fruits of his labor (industrial pro-
duction) for the worker, increased wages and a better
standard of living, that the raises would become merely
nominal raises and not real wage increases, that the
employers have it in their power to raise prices and
wipe out any gains the workers might thus make.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

36

Trade unionists in Germany have had little indication,
they say, that the federal government, under the present
setup would do much to protect any gains in living
standards that the workers might win, and even less
that employers ‘might adjust their policy from one of
low wages, controlled prices and production, and pro-
tected profits, for one of high wages, low competitive
prices, efficient operation, narrow profit margins and
mass markets.

Thus, they fear that any wage drive, without definite
controls in which they would participate, would only
start an inflationary spiral—a thing of dread to any
worker, particularly in Germany, where many of the
unionists have firsthand experience with runaway in-
flation.

Thus, labor wants the check reins of co-determination in
their hands, particularly price and credit controls, before
they set out on a concerted wage drive, and, in the mean-
time, seek modest wage increases on a local or district
basis and wage an all-out struggle for co-determination.

INCE THE SPECIFIC content of a federal law on

co-determination has not yet been worked out, it
is of course impossible at this time to discuss more
concretely just what such a law will provide.

This article has been confined to a trade union ex-
planation of co-determination. Views of employers,
government, church and political party leaders have
been excluded, as have examples of various degrees of
co-determination in present laws of the various states
and the historical instances of similar programs or of
such legislation in the Weimar days.

It has not drawn any issues which have developed
out of pressures to establish the program, nor pointed
out any views except those of the trade unions whose
policy it is, and whose force behind it has caused Mit-
bestimmungsrecht to become one of the major political,
economic and social issues of the day in western Ger-
many, and to attract international attention and inter-
vention. +END

Europe Receives Bulk of Aid
Provided by Save-the-Children Group

European children received the bulk of $2,500,000 in
commodities and cash which the Save the Children
Federation provided during the past year.

The private US humanitarian organization aided needy
children in Austria, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Italy and the United States by providing clothing, baby
layettes, school supplies and funds for other necessities.
During the first half of 1950, the organization sponsored
five schools in Germany, Thirty-one German children
were aided by clothing and cash distributed through
local welfare agencies.

The federation reported there has been an increase in
cultural exchange between nations through the Save the
Children Crusade, Schools and individual children have
exchanged albums, letters, pictures and educational ma-_
terials. :

DECEMBER 1950

f

--- Page 40 ---
Seeds
of

Understanding

By WILLIAM J. CALDWELL
Chief, Public Relations Branch, OLC Bavaria

HE TALL, SLENDER YOUTH half slid, half rolled
down the bulging mound of fresh-cut hay.

“One thing you've got to admit,” he said with a grin,
“work is work wherever you are, Yeh, and there isn't
much difference in people, either.”

He drew a strand of hay and clenched his teeth on it.
A little boy, clad only in loosely-fitting leather pants
that hung precariously above his knees from stained
leather straps draped over his shoulders, trudged toward
a nearby field of ripening cabbage. They exchanged a
friendly wave of the hand.

“That's Hans," he said, pointing toward the youngster,
“a great kid — reminds me of the kids back home. He'll
work if you keep an eye on him — but the minute your
back is turned... A great kid! We had trouble at first
getting acquainted, Just couldn't understand each other.
But it's amazing how you can get to know and like an-
other person even though you can't sit down and have
a real bull session.”

C. Dean Allen, a horticulture student at Michigan State
College and son of Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Allen, who have
a farm near Grand Rapids, Mich., was having a unique
experience — and enjoying it. He had come to western
Germany along with two other American rural youth last
summer on an international farm youth exchange program
sponsored by his 4-H Club and the US Department of
Agriculture, to live and work with German farm families.*
Before returning to complete his senior year at Michigan
State in the fall, he spent a month each with a rural family
in each of the three southern states of the American zone,
and with one family in the British Zone.

P UNTIL A COUPLE of months ago,” the handsome

21-year-old youth declared, “I had never been out
of the States except for an occasional visit to Canada.
Germany ‘was just a page in my history and geography
books. Oh sure, I've spoken to GI's who were over here
for the last war and some who served in the occu-
pation, I also got to know 10 German PW's who worked
for a while on Dad's farm, and now and then I spoke to
an immigrant and refugee from Germany. I thought I
knew Germany, but now I realize I didn't know the Ger-
man people.”

* See ‘Farmers from America’’ in Information Bulletin, September
1950 issue,

DECEMBER 1950

37

“I didn't realize,” said C.Dean Allen, 21-year-old horti-
culture student at Michigan State College, after a couple
of weeks ona farm in Bavaria as an exchangee, ‘that the
people here live much as we do back in Michigan." Dean
spent four months in Germany, one each on farms in
Hesse, Wuerttemberg-Baden and Bavaria, enjoyed the ex-
perience thoroughly, learned new methods of farming and
was able to pass along, in exchange, some useful hints.

Young Dean was speaking on the farm of Mrs. Theresa
Wieser, which lies alongside Bavaria’s Munich-Riem Air-
field. A C-47 swooped low over the nearby clump of trees
as it glided in for a landing less than a half-mile away.
The youth raised his hand to shield his eyes from the
hot Bavarian sun as he followed the course of the de-
scending plane.

Then he glanced at an air raid shelter built in the
ground, where members of the Wieser family had crouch-
ed during air raids when the nearby field had been a key
German air-force base. The shelter's opening now was
glutted with sprawling weeds. The rusting twisted fuse-
lage of a former German fighter was partly imbedded in
the ground a few feet from the air raid shelter. Weeds
and grass were growing over it.

“The natives around here had their fill of war," he
declared. “Mrs. Wieser lost her husband and a son, the
oldest of her 11 children, during the war. Her son, an
air-force fighter pilot, was shot down over Holland, and
her husband was killed during a bombing raid on the
airfield over there.

“But instead of just feeling sorry for herself and closing
her eyes to the outside world, she’s now doing her share
toward making this world a better and more understand-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
ing place to live. Just now she’s in the States on a HICOG
farm women's exchange project. As a matter of fact, it
was at her request that I was sent to her farm here.”

OUNG DEAN SAID that Bavarians in the district were
friendly, but at first a few were suspicious of him.
“But when they learned I wasn't here to force ideas
on them," he pointed out, “they began accepting me.
I've made many friends during the couple of weeks I've
been here already, but most of all I'm learning that the
people here are much like our own people back home
— they're generally hard working and sincere and want
to be friendly.”

He said members of the Wieser family at first hesitated
to give him farm chores to do.

“But when I assured them I wanted to work with them,”
he said, ‘they let me help with the haying, operate their
tractor and do other jobs. I also offered to help with the
chickens, but the fellows here pointed out to me that
in Bavaria at least, feeding chickens and milking cows
are jobs reserved for women and children. The heavier
work is left to the men.”

Dean said that he was learning new farm methods from
the Wiesers and modestly admitted that he was passing
cn some helpful tips to them.

“I've also learned to have a greater appreciation for
classical music," he added, “We've attended several

A day on a farm in Bavaria is a long one, just as it is on
farms in the United States and elsewhere, young Dean
Allen found. Up early, he worked until six o'clock in the
evening with only a break for lunch. Dean reported he
learned much about people and music as well as farming.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

38

concerts in Munich and I've enjoyed them. Even the kids
here know more about classical music than I ever hope
to know."

He has also spent evenings with the youth in the dis-
trict, bowling, taking long walks, or going to their local
club in the village for an old-fashioned gabfest on the
day's events.

“Somehow,” he said, “I didn’t realize that the people
here live much as we do back in Michigan. They‘ve had
their fill of war and now are doing their little part in
helping to maintain a peaceful world. Their direct part
is small but still important. They go to their town hall
meetings, for example, and discuss their common com-
munity problems. They'll argue back and forth for hours
before reaching decisions. It makes the people feel they
are more a part of the community, and they do take pride
in being able to express their own views publicly.

“The folks around here tell me it’s a new experience
for them — that in the past they didn’t dare. Since coming
to Germany I've seen several town meetings and am
quite impressed with the way the people jump to their
feet to present their views, defend another's point of view
or argue vehemently against a proposal. Then, ‘after the
meeting, off they go together for their mug of beer."

EAN SAID SINCE coming to Germany, he’s been fol-
lowing a daily routine — rising in the morning about
seven, having breakfast of coffee, rolls and eggs, and
then going into the field to work alongside his German
colleagues until noon, After a lunch that may consist of
roast pork or chicken, potatoes and an assortment of
vegetables, he resumes work until around six. After din-
ner, he spends his evenings attending town meetings,
going to the theater or a concert, walking to the nearby
village, or just staying home to catch up on his letters.
“I had to get used to the cooking,” he remarked. “Ger-
mans don't use much salt for flavoring food, but I soon
got used to that. And German farmers also get along with
a breakfast of only coffee and rolls. But the Wiesers had
heard that farm families back home went in for a larger
breakfast, so they have eggs for me each morning.”

He said his limited knowledge of German was probably
the biggest handicap.

“I'd give anything if I could speak their language,”
the youth mused. “But it is surprising how one can
manage just the same. This experience is certainly teach-
ing me that if people would only open their eyes they
would see that there are really far less differences be-
tween people than they imagine.”

The youth's eyes caught young Hans emerging from
the cabbage patch. Dean called out in words that re-
sembled neither Bavarian nor English. Hans grinned and
waved his hand in a symbol of understanding.

“See what I mean,” Dean declared, swatting a fly which
was nibbling on his arm. “Hans and I speak different
languages, but we understand each other perfectly. I can't
really explain it—and I guess he couldn't either. But
when people -want to be friends, they usually can find
some way of communicating with each other.” +END

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 42 ---
An Art Lover’s Tour

By DR. HEINZ LEITERMANN

HE BEAUTY OF GERMANY — its historic towns, its

buildings and its art treasures — still has great at-
tractive power, even though many an old town and
architectural delicacy now remains only a heap of rubble.
But just as the pretty German countryside has come
through war intact, so have many German art treasures
remained untouched and today give vivid testimony to
the creative forces of a western genius that knew no
political frontiers — and does not know them yet.

A tour of Western Germany today reveals the great
extent to which it is still possible to revel in the beauty
of art treasures in the west and south of Germany. We
can mention only the most important and best-known
masterworks. Art lovers will find for themselves those
other works which have their special esteem and fancy.
Germany's art treasures are still numerous and of great
variety.

Starting out on our art excursion in the north of Ger-
many we'll visit the Hanseatic maritime city of Hamburg
to inspect the Hamburg House of Art (Kunsthalle), an
art gallery which, with its 50 showrooms, is one of the

best in Germany. The Hamburg House of Art is one of ,

Germany's youngest outstanding galleries — being just
100 years old. It has nevertheless become since 1900 a
museum of international repute. Even before Berlin and
Munich, Hamburg collected the works of German ro-
manticist-painters, initially those by Caspar David
Friedrich and Philipp Otto Runge, such as the latter's
famous portrait of his parents.

French and German modern paintings, too, were added
to Hamburg's gallery earlier than to any other gallery.
Also Wilhelm Leibl's masterpiece ‘Three Women at
Church," which reminds one of Holbein's art, was bought
by Hamburg, as well as early pictures by Max Lieber-
mann and Lovis Corinth, and French impressionists like
Renoir, Bonnard and Vuillard, who by order of the Ham-
burg House of Art painted pictures of senators and
scenery with Elbe and Alster river motifs.

There are world-renowned paintings of the late Middle
Ages like, for example, the great wing altar of 1372 from
the Petri Church, which Bertram von Minden has cover-
ed with illustrations from the story of the creation of the
universe. There is also the monumental Thomas Altar
which the “England Travelers’ in 1424 had the master
Franke paint for their chapel in Hamburg’s Johannis
Church. Quite remarkable is the collection of landscape
paintings and scenes from everyday life by Dutch
masters of the 17th century, among which two Rem-
brandts are without question the most valuable.

EAVING HAMBURG, the admirer of romanticism and
charmingly intimate art discovers many a less known,

but nevertheless very impressive, work of art between

DECEMBER 1950

Hamburg and the lower Rhine. It is well worth-while to
visit the little medieval town of ‘Lueneburg and _ its
picturesque well-preserved streets, and to stroll through
the pleasant rooms of its ciry hall. This structure, built
in Gothic and Renaissance style, reflects the eagerness
and the pride its citizens took in its artistic decoration.
This is particularly clearly demonstrated in the famous
“Council Silver Treasure," the largest collection of the
goldsmith’s art in Germany. The articles sparkling on
the Gothic walls of the Lueneburg city hall are copies,
as the originals, owned by the Palace Museum in Berlin,
are at present at the Wiesbaden Central Collecting Point.

In the Westphalian art centers of Soest, Muenster,
Paderborn and Essen, known for their medieval churches
and cathedrals, and in Duesseldorf, minor exhibitions
are held regularly, and one may find there old master-
works, most of which are made available by local
churches and museums, which now generally keep them
stored in vaults.

As elsewhere in Germany a visit to these exhibitions
is something to enjoy because nothing of merely local

Interior of old pilgrimage church at tiny In der Wies
reveals a miniature rococo wonder and museum in itself,

--- Page 43 ---
importance or of only average quality is displayed, and
so, real gems and only art-historically significant pieces
of a-.collection can be shown more effectively than
ordinarily, as the eye is not diverted and tired by too
great a variety.

HE CONCENTRATION of a few valuable pieces

which highlight ever-changing exhibitions is typical
of the old Rhenish center of culture, the “holy” city of
Cologne. Now celebrating its 1,900th anniversary,
Cologne has lost its museum buildings, but still has its
world-renowned art treasures. These are on display at
the medieval Eigelstein Castle and in the one remaining
wing of the “Old University.”

There one finds the best of the Wallraff-Richartz-
Museum, the Schnuetgen and the Cathedral Museum
— works which every art lover knows from books and
reproductions: altar pieces of German masters of the
15th century, primarily old Colognian paintings, the
finest of which are those gorgeous Virgin pictures by
Stefan Lochner and the mystically colored creations of
the ‘Master of St. Severin.” Another famous old
Colognian painting is the lovely “Our Lady with Sweet
Peas” (1420).

The brightest period of Dutch and Flemish baroque
painting is represented by such great names as Rubens,

Old Bavarian city of Nuremberg boasts the “Beautiful
Fountain” and the “Frauenkirche” (Church of Our Lady).

Me

Beautiful altar painting of the Virgin by Stefan Lochner
in the Cologne Cathedral dates back to 15th century.

van Dyck, Rembrandt, and such great landscape painters
as van Goyen and Ruysdael, to mention only a few.
The gorgeously-powerful composition “June and Argus”
by Rubens and Rembrandt's self-portrait, which the aging
master painted with that significant smile on his face,
are the manifestation of western painting.

The Wallraff-Richartz-Museum shows Wilhelm Leibl’s
best pictures; also those of French and German impres-
sionists as well as creations of expressionists and the
moderns. The Schnuetgen and Cathedral Museums dis-
play samples of their grand collections of the sculpture and
the goldsmith's art of the Rhineland of the Middle Ages,
ivory carvings, Biblical scenes in precious miniature
paintings and textile art, which offer an opportunity to
study in great variety. (Text continued on page 45)

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 44 ---
hrine of the Three Kings, priceless reliquary of Cologne Cathedral.

Treasured altar grill of Weingarten's Convent Church

--- Page 45 ---
eea \

<< Ss

«
<

te tae

Ns |
’

‘
§

’

‘

DANIEL

Despite painful loss of German art treasures
during the war, an_impressive number of
precious masterwotepere preserved, Today
they are reappearing in museums and gal-
leries throughout the jnation. Huge numbers
of paintings and sculptures which the Oc-
cupation Powers — , rticularly the United
States — showed at \tinerant exhibitions in
their countries are i§yw back in Germany;
many of them are*@i view at a permanent
special exhibition in Wiesbaden. Other Ger-
man art possessions, unequaled anywhere in
the world, are foun! in their accustomed
places: the world’s oldest stained glass cycle
in the Augsburg Cathedral; the Riemen-
schneider altar at PMiingen; the Stuppach
Madonna, Stefan Locjjner s altar painting, in
Cologne and the Meniling altar at Luebeck.
Reproduced here are|the magnificent glass
paintings of the projhets in the Augsburg
Cathedral, created aimost 10 centuries ago
by a master whose iflentity has been lost.

|

By ELISABETH v. WITZLEBEN

INDOWS *9#GLASS were al-

ready acomnionplace among the
ancients. The ruins of Pompeii re-
vealed greenish, /opaque windows,
held in wooden frames. Unpainted
glazing of this type was known
throughout the |floman Empire and
remained the cus|om until the ninth
century. But fromn|that time, with the
artistic rise of thy countries north of
the Alps, painted windows became a
medium of art exp ssion. The world's
oldest glass painting — a head of
Christ, discovered near the Monas-
tery of Lorsch near Worms and pre-
served in the Damstadt Museum —
dates from that tine,

From the endo: ‘the tenth century,
chronicles tell of colored, painted
windows in Reims, Tegernsee Mon-
astery, Monte Cissino, Hildesheim

WM

i

1
}
4
j
li

-«_

r

oi

dll

we
]

--- Page 46 ---
— wherever the Benedictine culture flourish-
ed. Glass painting is a purely Occidental in-
vention, born of a Christianity which yearned
for the transcendental. Most of the products of
this stained glass art have unfortunately been
lost; the few remaining fragments give only a
hint of its magnificence and the marvelous,
glowing colors that were produced.

In the cathedral of Augsburg, however, there
remains the oldest stained glass ensemble
known to moderns — the famous five figures
of the prophets (four of which are reproduced
here). They evidently belonged to a more exten-
sive project, probably comprising 12 prophets
and 12 apostles. Although now encased in frames
because of a later widening of the windows,
they presumably still adorn their original place,
in the center nave of the cathedral.

ATE OF THEIR ORIGIN is controversial.

Some experts connect them with a cathe-
dral consecration in AD 1065; other opinions,
not less expert, date them from the first half
of the twelfth century. One expert, Bockler,
quite convincingly points to the close similarity
of their style to that of an illuminated manu-
script from the Benedictine monastery Hirsau,
an institution which originated between 1120
and 1140. He even suspects that its illustrator
is the master of the prophet windows. He sees
in them the expression of the earthly, lifelike and
static conception genuine to Romanesque art.

The inconclusiveness of scientific research
proves the timelessness and originality of these
old glass paintings. In solemn, entirely frontal
position, more floating than standing on leafy
tendrils, these prophet windows have outlasted
many generations. The more-than-lifesized fig-
ures (nearly seven feet high) fill the entire
window. Their strict verticality is emphasized
by the straight fall of the garments, almost
metallic in appearance and bordered in austere
designs. The arms are held in front of the body.
The heads, exactly in the center axis of each
window give the figures some-

suits the ornamented and colorful garments.
The color scheme, a mosaic of lively paints,
pieced together like colored gems or precious
enamels, makes stained glass seem like an off-
spring of the goldsmith’s art. The supernatural
harmony of colors known to later glass paint-
ings had not yet been attained; here light red,
green and violet dominate, accompanied by
yellow and red.

BENIGN FATE has saved the Augsburg

prophet windows from the senseless craze
for renovation which developed in the nine-
teenth century, a craze which has cost Ger-
many more irreplaceable glass painting than
all the destruction of wars.

Some renovation was done in the eighteenth
century, but, as customary then, with the rem-
nants of other panes that had been destroyed.

Despite their magnificent uniformity, the
figures are among themselves slightly different:
the scrolls, strangely enough, do not contain
the usual predictions on the appearance of
Christ, but refer to the Augsburg Cathedral.
The prophet Jonah is characterized as an old
man with furrowed forehead, white hair and
beard. The inscription ““Rursum videbo templum
sanctum domini mei” (‘I shall see Thy holy
temple, oh my God."’) reverts to a passage in
the Book of Jonah (Chapter 2, 5). The lower
part is somewhat disarranged; one sees merely
a part of the whale that is threatening to
swallow the prophet.

Very similar to Jonah is the prophet Hosea.
The inscription on his scroll reads: “Ecce
eruditor omnium dominus” (‘Behold the Lord,
Teacher of all’).

The strongest contrast to these two old men
is David Rex” (King David). He is presented
as blond and youthful, with scepter and crown.
His scroll carries the inscription ‘Beati qui
habitant in domo tua domine” (‘Blessed are
they that dwell in Thy house, oh Lord’). Part
of his chin and cheeks is unfortunately so much

patched that it blurs the shape

thing of unearthly look, and the
large, staring eyes seem to be-
hold some vision of another
world.

The restraint of their gestures,
the magnificence of their heads
— evidencing intense spiritual
strength — lift them into a
monumentality which perfectly

This article is reprinted
from the “German Review,”
monthly publication of the
German Tourist Association.
Four-color plates were sup-
plied to the Information Bul-
letin through the kindness of
the Association.

of the face. The prophet Daniel,
his forefinger lifted in a conjur-
ing gesture, is midway between
Jonah and Hosea on the one
hand and David on the other.
He is represented as in full
manhood and his beardless face
radiates profound and super-
natural dignity. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 47 ---
ieee ns

Wuerzburg's baroque palace stands in beautiful gardens.

(Continued from page 40)
An Art Lover’s Tour

The Cologne Cathedral shelters two world-famous art
creations. It was Albrecht Duerer who in 1445 admired
Stefan Lochner's triple-wing “cathedral picture. The
shrine of the Three Holy Kings (1220), which crowns
the High Altar, is among the most magnificent pieces
of goldsmith’s work in Europe. With its fabulous gold,
silver, precious stones, rock crystals, gems, cameos and
enamel plates it looks like a two-story basilica.

Recently the treasure vault of the cathedral was re-
opened and visitors may once again admire the valuable
work of the goldsmiths of many eras, the Romanic shrine
of St. Heribert (end of the 12th century) and the baroque
shrine of St. Engelbert (1633), which are the top items of
a long list of outstanding works of art.

VISIT TO THE CATHEDRAL at Aachen is also well
worth-while. During the Middle Ages this church
was a popular destination of the pilgrims. Its treasure
vault is one of the biggest and richest in Germany. The
magic-mystical power of expression of the late-Romanic
shrine of St. Mary and Charlemagne offers a never-to-
be-forgotten experience, and so does the Gothic sculpture
of the emperor's head, the imperial arms-reliquary, the
splendor of the ‘golden filigree of the Gothic “Relic
Chapel” and the “Three Tower Reliquary.”
Of great significance to the history of art are the book
bindings of the early Middle Ages, which are not only

DECEMBER 1950

decorated with ivory carvings, stones, enamel foil, an-
tique gems and cameos, but also contain rare hand-
writings with Romanic miniature paintings.

From Aachen it is not far to the old Roman town of
Trier, which is an episcopal see. Opened in 1947 in ap-
propriate surroundings close to the powerful Porta
Nigra, the Trier museum offers an imposing survey of
art in the Moselle region from the Roman era to
baroque and rococo. Traveling down the quiet romantic
Moselle valley past vine-covered villages and castles you
come to a beautiful Gothic castle. If you turn only a little
off the beaten path into one of the prettiest side valleys
you find the knight's castle of the Counts of Elz lying
amid silent woods like in a fairy tale. The original
character of its interior and exterior has been well
preserved.

Returning to the Moselle river and following it down-
stream you soon reach Coblenz. A boat trip from there
up the Rhine river is always a thrilling experience, past
vine-clad hills, moated castles, charming old towns. Your
boat carries you past the Lorelei Rock and many other
points of historic or legendary fame. Commendable are
excursions into picturesque wine villages and towns of
the Rhinegau, where quaint old framework houses,
historic inns, aristocratic residences and centuries-old
churches catch and delight the visitor's eye.

HEN THE SPIRES of the Mainz Cathedral appear
on the horizon you remember that this imperial
Romanic cathedral houses the stone monuments of
outstanding dignitaries of the church from the early
Gothic to the 19th century. Looking at these stony
monuments is like respectfully reading a book of history.

The two other Romanic imperial cathedrals — the
one at Worms and that at Speyer — whose interior has
been left undamaged, put you in much the same mood.
St. Catherine’s Church at Oppenheim with its grand rose
windows and glass paintings, is among the most beautiful
along the Rhine between Cologne and Strasbourg.

From Mainz it is only a short distance to the inter-
national city of Wiesbaden on the northeast bank of the
Rhine. In its museum the HICOG Central Collecting Point

Munich's Deutsche Museum, built in 1925 on island in the
Isar River, has been largely restored following wartime
damage. Its great collections of the machine age include
models of early airplanes, automobiles and locomotives.

--- Page 48 ---
Bl. ey:

Stefan Lochner's celebrated altar painting in Cologne Cathedral, done in 1450.

Ceiling painting in ‘'Kaisersaal” of former royal palace at Wuerzburg.

--- Page 49 ---
has preserved since 1945 many of the art treasures of
Berlin's large museums. It is primarily the famous paint-
ings of the Kaiser Friedrich Museum which drew many
tens of thousands of visitors to Wiesbaden after the
pictures returned from a triumphal exhibition tour through
the United States.* Recently the Wiesbaden Central Col-
lecting Point has placed on display the works of Italian
masters, which are arranged so as to give a clear view of
the development of Italian art from the early Renaissance
to the end of the 18th century.

The fact that in this exhibition every known Italian
master is represented, be it Giotto, Masaccio, Boticelli,
Mantegna, Bellini, Rafael, Titian, Corregio or Tiepolo,
makes the exhibition one of the most important of its
kind in western Germany.

You have furthermore an ‘opportunity to see other
valuable paintings, such as some by Duerer, Holbein,
Cranach, Altdorfer, the old Flemish and Dutch masters,
Rembrandt, van Dyck, Rubens, van Eyck, Roger van der
Weyden, Franz Hals and numerous other outstanding
representatives of the western art of painting.

N NEARBY FRANKFURT the various exhibitions at

the Staedel Art Gallery are supplemental to the
show at Wiesbaden inasmuch as Staedel also displays
pictures of famous European painters from the 15th
century to the present. In Frankfurt are, among others,
such well-known works as van Eck’s “Enthroned Virgin”
and Rembrandt's “Blinding of Samson.”

Frankfurt is a ‘good place to start your journey to the
centers of art and culture in southern and southwestern
Germany. Riding southward you come to Heidelberg and
its famous Renaissance castle.

To the east, Wuerzburg, the old art-minded city in the
Main-Franconian country, suffered terribly during the
war, and with it the beauty of its architectural layout,
which was once considered a work of art in itself. But
some sections of the baroque residential palace with the
ceiling painting in the dome of the staircase by Tiepolo
(1753), for instance — the largest of its kind in Europe —
and the museum where works by Tilman Riemenschneider
are being exhibited, are well worth a visit.

Of course, you must not forget Bamberg, famous for
its Residenz-Museum and its Romanic cathedral, in which
stands the "Bamberger Rider," one of the finest sculptures
of the German Middle Ages. If you have time to spare,
run over to Vierzehnheiligen and see one of the most
exquisite and monumental German rococo pilgrimage
churches, built around 1743 by Balthasar Neumann.

It is difficult to mention all the treasures of art and
objects of interest between this point and Munich. There
are Rothenburg ob der Tauber, Dinkelsbuehl, Noerd-
lingen, paradise of the Romanticist, the painter and the
photographer; the “‘silver town” of Schwaebisch-Gmuend,

* See ‘Returned Masterworks’ by Theodore Allen Heinrich in
Information Bulletin, January 1950 issue.

DECEMBER 1950

Ulm, Freiburg and Regensburg and their Gothic cathe-
drals; what is left of the old Bavarian city of Nuremberg
and its castle; Augsburg,* town of the Fuggers — all these
places exhibit on a small scale choice works of art which
had their origin in these particular areas.

HE CENTER OF ART in southern Germany, however,
is, as it always has been, Munich. The collections of
the Bavarian National Museum represent in a most im-
pressive manner all the creative forces that were at work
in southern Germany since the Middle Ages and up to
the baroque era. The collections include the outstanding
masters of old South-German plastic arts, like Riemen-
schneider, Erasmus Grasser, Hans Leinberger, Konrad
Meit, Peter Vischer and his sons.
Besides being able to see excellent examples in all
fields of industrial art, visitors will enjoy particularly

- the true-to-nature model of old Bavarian residential cities

which Sandtner created between 1568 and 1574, and a
unique show of cradles, the biggest collection of old
Nativity scenes in Germany. Last summer the museum
put on display in a special exhibition called “South Ger-
man Popular Art" the best works from this field.

In Munich's Haus der Kunst (House of Art) you find the
famous works which used to be at the destroyed Old
and New Pinakothek (picture gallery) and the New
State Gallery: old German and Dutch artists, Italian and
Spanish masters, Rembrandt, Rubens, van Dyck and
masters of like renown. Of the modern painters let us
mention Manet, Cezanne, van Gogh and Gauguin.

Friends of the antique, Greek modeling and miniature
arts are given a fine opportunity to admire the National
Collection of Antiques at the Prince Charles Palace — the
“Young Man from Tenea,” gable figures from the temple
of Aegina, beautiful vases and ceramics. The National
Graphical Collection and the National Coin Collection
probably attract only the expert, whereas the beautiful
show of the “Art of the Early Middle Ages,’ exhibited
at the Prince Charles Palace, is enjoyed by all art lovers.

UTSIDE MUNICH is Nymphenburg Palace in its
original beauty and the baroque park with its little
summer palaces. Nymphenburg has become the new
home of King Ludwig I's “Gallery of Beauties," which

+ See four-color reproductions of Germany's oldest and finest stained-
glass, pages 42-43.

Pegasus group in grounds of “Herrenchiemsee’ Castle.

--- Page 50 ---
once attracted large crowds to the now destroyed
Residenz Museum, While at Nymphenburg do not miss
the Nymphenburg porcelain factory, where a fine col-
lection of figurines and statuettes is on display.

Munich is the gateway to the foreland of the Bavarian
Alps, which is paradise to friends of baroque and rococo.
Almost every one of its countless old pilgrimage churches,
monasteries and large parish churches is a little museum
in itself. Altar paintings, plastic art, ceiling pictures,
stucco decorations, furniture and all other details are
harmoniously combined.

The baroque monasteries at Benedictbeuren, Otto-
beuren, Rott on Inn, and Ettal, the tiny little rococo
wonder of that pilgrimage church “in der Wies," the
parish churches at Oberammergau, Garmisch-Parten-
kirchen or Mittenwald are noteworthy, but they are
only a few examples of this kind of art. The world-
famous “King's Castles" of Ludwig II were built in a
fantastic romantic spirit; Herrenchiemsee and Linderhof
Castles are fine examples of baroque architecture, Hohen-
schwangau is a medieval dream-castle.

From its turrets you turn your eyes toward distant,
sunny Lake Constance. Along its shores the old towns

Photographs for “An Art Lover's Tour” sup-
plied by Public Relations Branch, Office of the
State Commissioner for Bavaria (2) and the Ger-
man Tourist Association (10), including Hans Hartz,
Hamburg (1); A. Ohmayer, Rothenburg ‘ob der
Tauber (2); Rhein Museum, Cologne (1); Dr. Wolf.
Strache, Nuremberg (1); Vonderthann, Berchtes-
gaden (1), and Zierer-Simon, Prien am Chiemsee (1).

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Munich's “Haus der Kunst” (House of Art) displays prized famous works of destroyed “Pinakothek

wes

(Picture Gallery).

of Lindau, Meersburg, Ueberlingen, the monastery church
of Birnau in rich rococo, the isles of Mainau and
Reichenau — they all evoke once more the variety and
enchantingly harmonious accord of German countryside
and art with clarity and power. +END

The old Hanseatic town of Luebeck contains the Hol-
sten Gate, an excellent example of medieval architecture.

--- Page 51 ---
A Lesson to Learn

Address
By WILHELM KAISEN

President, Bremen Senate

THANK CAPTAIN JEFFS for his remarks. In many

respects, I think, he spoke our miinds. It was also
pleasing to note he has learned to speak the “Low Ger-
man” dialect.

It is obvious his years in Bremen have not been in
vain. He has become thoroughly familiar with our
thoughts and ideas. And from numerous discussions and
conferences which I have had with him in the course of
these years I can confirm that in Captain Jeffs we have
a devoted friend. This is also proven by his initiative in
helping to reopen the US Information Center.

This center opened its doors on Oct. 2, Thus our open-
ing ceremony is somewhat late. However, it will help to
focus the attention of the public on this institution. This
is not the old house but another location with certain
innovations; if they prove their worth, they will be in-

The magazines, books, films, sheet music and corporated in US Information Centers all over Germany.
record libraries of the new US Information Center
in Bremen were viewed on the formal opening

Bremen Senate President Wilhelm Kaisen.

A few days ago, I talked to some of the young people

day, Oct. 18, by an appreciative crowd of Americans visiting here and asked for their opinions. I wanted to
and Germans. know what they think of these institutions, what can be
The audience at the inaugural ceremonies also improved, and how the work can be facilitated. In general,
heard Dr. Frederick Burkhardt, special consultant their opinion was that the facilities available are sufficient
to the US High Commissioner, urge Germans tak- and suitable for their purposes. But they thought that the
ing part in Information Center discussion groups time had come to build a “House of Europe," too. Because,
to say what they really think, because “if persons f 1
say what they think they must be prepared to after all, European relations are so dear to everyone's
concede the same right to others, even if their heart. They said we should have contact with the French,
opinions are diametrically opposed. It is our wish the Belgians, Dutch, Swiss, Spanish, the British and others,

this house should develop into a true community
center, into a house where everybody may feel him- . . . i a 3
self at home and freely and frankly state his views.” While I agree with this suggestion I believe you will
Participating in the ceremonies were Rear-Adm. find here in this house all the material you need for
Charles - Teits eM ihre Discos cata soot thinking along European lines. America is similar to
missioner for Bremen; Wilhelm Kaisen, president o! ; &
the Bremen Senate, as well as prominent out-of- Europe in many respects.
town visitors, members of Bremen legislative bodies,

and learn their customs, habits and institutions.

officials of the local consulates, schools, libraries HEN YOU REALIZE that it is the peoples of Europe
ant Zenresentallves of Seqnomic. 1g! medical ae who make up the American population — there are
circles, uncan “ cBryde, chief 0) ie
Public Affairs Division, OLC Bremen, welcomed 38,000,000 descendants of Germans among the 135,000,000
the audience and introduced the speakers.
In his speech, Admiral Jeffs said, “Today we Audience at opening of Bremen's new US Information Center,

have an American Information Center established
within a center of Bremen social, cultural and
entertainment life, the boundary lines between
them being intentionally only indistinctly defined.
The arrangements for joint occupancy and use of
all facilities of the building have been worked out
in a wonderful spirit of German-American co-
operation and teamwork. The state commis-
sioner further noted that no part of the expenses
for the Information Center had been charged to
occupation costs, but were being borne by “our
long-suffering friend, the American taxpayer.”

The translated text of President Kaisen's ex-
temporaneous remarks is printed here.

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 52 ---
Americans — when you realize that just as many British,
French, Belgians, Dutch, Spanish as Germans settled over
there, why in the world can not a lesson be learned by
us in Europe from what has happened in America in the
last four centuries,

It is so remarkable that all the people who went over
there as Europeans, as nationals of certain countries,
became Americans in the first place, and thought only
secondarily of their former homes and customs. Of course,
these continue to live in their minds and they observe
some of the old holidays within families and groups. But
they are Americans and they have built up their states,
their social, economic and other institutions in such a
way that from them we can learn very, very much.

Moreover, had the Americans taken up the racial prin-
ciples of Hitlerism they could never have made the pro-
gress you find there.

How did this happen? What was the striking new idea
that accomplished this? It is what cou can see here in
this house, in the library, in lectures, and so on. It is
what we have to learn. We must learn to emerge from
our time, to find new motivations — in doing so, American
history cari serve as an example in many respects.

T IS BASED ON ONE fundamental principle; those
who came to America from all parts of the world;

those who spoke the different languages of the world;
those who came to an unexplored country where, for
some time, might made right; those who found confused
conditions and civil war; those who came to a country
which was a former colonial possession of England and
France, found one thing that united them. It was the con-
stitution, the law to which all Americans submit.

Respect for the law is’ the bond which has enabled
them to become such a fruitful nation in this confused
world and to outstrip Europe in the last few decades. This
is the basic secret of American development.

Here in Europe we hear gangster stories about America,
scandal stories, sensational stories and Lord knows what
else. But what does an individual in Germany know about
the American way of life, the American character, the
American mind, American literature and culture? Very,
very little. The truth is what we have to find.

The principles which apply in America today in politics
and economics also apply in the relations between nations
over here. They are principles which at the turn of the
century were still valid with us too. At that time there was
no question that an international treaty was binding.

ET ME REMIND YOU of the outbreak of the war in 1914,
when the Germans marched through Belgium to get
behind the French line. We were not at war with Belgium,
it was a breach of peace. But the German government,
which committed this breach of peace, stated it was will-
ing to indemnify Belgium at the earliest possible mo-
ment. It admitted that its action was illegal. Later, under
Hitler, this principle was not even considered. He who
had the power was right. This is barbarism, barbarism

INFORMATION BULLETIN

of the kind which has now broken out again in the East, in
Russia, in Korea.

In Korea there was an agreement that the new con-
stitution should be outlined in a peace treaty. This agree-
ment was deliberately violated by an act of aggression.
That is the crime. It is one of America’s beliefs that in-
ternational law must be observed. It is observed by
America, where the United Nations meet and act to repel
aggression and to reinstitute a rule of law.

Believe me, what I say here is not a philosophical essay.
It is a bitter, a very bitter necessity that these funda-
mentals be learned by all nations from the two great
catastrophes which we have witnessed.

2

HESE INFORMATION CENTERS will help us. They

can assist us so that this lesson is learned, discussed
and understood. Their information is not propaganda.
Propaganda means inventing slogans, and piling slogans
on slogans and using them to drive all mankind in a cer-
tain direction. These centers serve an entirely different
purpose. They are here to promote thinking, free thinking,
that people may learn that there still is something that
lifts us above the humdrum of daily life, that there still
is a goal which we should strive for.

I think this institution will be successful in Bremen
because our relations with America are rooted in the
spirit of commerce and economic exchange. For this
reason this house is welcome to us from another point of
view, too. A young man or woman can add to his or her
professional knowledge, and enlarge his or her horizon.

In conclusion, let me state that I welcome this house
on behalf of the Senate. I had a prepared speech — ac-
tually I had planned to say something entirely different...
Yet, what I have told you is, in my opinion, of such
tremendous importance at this moment that it must be
emphasized again and again. I hope that this center will
serve the great project of at last restoring peace and
rebuilding a world in which all nations can live, including
a reunited Germany as a partner with equal rights. May
this Information Center be a help in disseminating these
thoughts and ideas. That is my wish on the occasion of
the opening of this house. -+-END

Examining one of the many volumes in the newly-reopened
Bremen Information Center's library are, 1.-r., Wilhelm
Kaisen; Dr. Frederick Burkhardt, special consultant to
HICOG; Mrs. Patricia Van Delden, Information Centers
chief, and Rear-Adm. Charles R. Jeffs (USN, Relired), US
(PRB OLC Bremen photos)

state commissioner for Bremen.

--- Page 53 ---
Resident Officers’ Bible

By GEORGE VADNEY

Senior Resident Officer, Kassel District

S OCCUPATION PERSONNEL who punch figurative .

time clocks at HICOG offices in the US Zone often
wonder about the work done by their “distant” relatives,
the resident officers. Farmed out to the counties, on call
24 hours a day, and doing work that is often 90 percent
improvisation, the US Resident Officers are serving exactly
the same objectives as the parent High Commissioner's
Office. But the RO’s themselves might be. hard put to
explain their duties.

Recently the senior resident officer of the Kassel district
gave a talk to his colleagues. Here, in excerpt form,
is his definition of the job of a US Resident Officer.

During the month of June, I had as my guest for two
weeks the county resident officer of Soest, in the British
Zone. We spent a lot of time discussing the differences
in the jobs we do—and came to the conclusion that
we are fundamentally serving the same objectives. I did
discover, however, that there were major differences in
administration and the techniques we use in gaining our
objectives. I want to talk about the way all of us work.

For ease in understanding our activities in the American
zone, we can pretty well divide our work into five parts:

1. Administration.

2, Intelligence. The intelligence we collect is not the
cloak-and-dagger type; we are interested only in overt
information. Therefore our reports cover the fields of
politics, economics, sociology and related activities.

3. What I like to call “civic activities,” but more com-
monly known in our zone as the “reorientation program.”

4, Representation. This covers those activities attended
by the RO as the representative of the state commissioner
or the high commissioner.

5. Miscellaneous, which includes a multitude of items
running from the petty to the important, from problems
with the housing office to quasi-consular activities.

ENERALLY, THE MOST interest is aroused by ofr

civic activities program — and in turn we generally
place the most emphasis on our town meetings and
forums, youth activities and exchange programs.

One of our resident officers, with much more energy
than I, has put on paper 12 objectives and the methods
by which he plans to achieve them. The statements made
in this list of objectives are not binding on any particular
resident officer, but may be used by him as a guide in
developing and carrying out his own program.

1, Every community should have an active forum or
public meeting with a committee of at least five mem-
bers, but no more than seven. In communities with a
population below 1,500, public meetings should be held
at least six times a year, and in communities larger
that, eight to 12 times a year.

DECEMBER 1950

Si

Members of these committees should be elected; they .
should maintain good relationship with the community's
administrative bodies. A forum should be independent of
all officials, and its chairman should preferably not be a
member of a city or community body, nor an outstanding
political figure. The mayor, however, may be and usually
is the chairman of a town hall meeting.

2. Every community should have an active parents’
advisory committee, which would be assisted by as large
as possible a number of parents in a meeting at least
once every-two months.

3. Where possible, every community should have a dis-
cussion group or forum for youth between the ages of 14
and 25, to meet once a month in winter and every six weeks
in summer, sponsored by the town’s parents’ council and
a youth committee. The groups should be self-governed.

T IS A GOOD IDEA to have the senior class of the

public school visit the council meeting and a town
hall meeting three times a year. A student-government
day should be held with the best student acting as mayor.

5. The senior classes of the higher schools should
attend various governmental offices and public meetings
such as the county administrator's office, mayor's office,
local court, labor office, labor court, a large factory. and
a public meeting.

6. Establishment of a self-government student council
in each of the higher schools should be encouraged.

7. Every community should have an organized women's
group of any name or purpose, to be independent and to
include all groups and classes. Wherever conditions
warrant, a German-American women's club, a German-
American men's club or a combination of the two should
be established.

8. As many youth centers as possible should be pro-
vided, by furnishing barracks or other rooms. A youth
instructor is a desirable addition, if funds allow. Es-
tablishment of a youth center can be made a community
project in which as many elements as possible participate.

9. A civic activities committee will do much to
strengthen the civic activities program through criticism
of old, and advocation of new activities. The committee
should include a refugee, a high school teacher, priest,
minister, women's group leader, lawyer, youth leader,
trade union representative, businessman, farmer, parent,
vocational school teacher. people’s college teacher and
public school teacher.

10. Here's how to keep your exchange program in
shape: establish an exchange file of all persons qualified
for and interested in exchange. Concurrently, establish a
project file by topic and proposed departure date. Main-
tain contact wilh all exchange returnees for use in ac-
complishing any objective in the civic activities program.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 54 ---
11. Educational and cultural films should be shown in
every community once every six weeks. Discussion meet-
ings can be held in connection with the film showings.

12. It is the RO’s job also to encourage and assist in
the establishment of independent civic, social and cul-
tural organizations of a democratic character, that is,
a junior chamber of commerce, civil rights organizations,
professional women’s organizations and the like.

HEN DO WE FIND TIME to do all these things?

Actually, we don’t at any one time. However, if we
can get one such program on its feet, we'll find more time
can be spent on another — particularly as it is a policy
in the American zone to establish all activities -with
the exception of the exchange program as a German-
directed and sponsored activity. We believe this is
essential if any good we achieve while here is to remain
after we leave.

It is a comparatively simple matter to establish a
series of meetings under our own sponsorship and at-
tract a large number of people to them. However, it is
an entirely different matter to convince the mayor, for
instance, to hold a town meeting and to persuade the
people that they should come and discuss local, national
and international problems. I am convinced, however, that
the latter method is the only one which will bring lasting
democratic ideas into the minds of the participants.

We recognize that essentially a forum is nothing new
in Germany. There have in the past been many types
of meetings, under many different names, where the
citizenry got together to discuss their problems. Un-
fortunately, however, these meetings were sponsored by
groups interested in attaining their own ends, and not
for the welfare of the population as a whole.

It should be pointed out here that in talking to the
Germans about democratization we stress the fact that
we are not talking about Americanization. We suggest
to them that they should investigate all forms of demo-
cratic government in the world today, be it Swiss, French,
British, Scandinavian or American. Then, we tell them,
they can extract those ideas which can best be applied
to their own circumstances.

We believe in stimulating German thinking by point-
ing out democratic ways and urging that they be adapted
and given a trial. We do not believe in shoving demo-
cratic ideas down their throats. This would be more than
dictatorship, with which they are already familiar.

We are attempting to inculcate them with the idea that
democratic government stems from the ground up — that
no country can be a democracy if a small group is al-
lowed to govern it and if the voice of the people is so
weak it cannot be heard.

FURTHER WORD about our exchanges program. This

is probably the most important part, with the ex-

ception of the youth program, of the activities being
carried on in the American zone.

Fortunately we are able to subsidize trips to the

United States, lasting from 90 days to one year. These

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

Check for DM 5,000, a HICOG contribution for develop-
ment of youth activities in the borough of Zehlendorf, in
the US Sector of Berlin, is accepted by Mayor Carl Schott
of Zehlendori from Maj. Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, US com-

mander, Berlin, at ceremony in town hall, (US Army photo)
trips cover a huge range of activity. For example, from
the city of Kassel we now have a city councilor in the
United States studying local government. We made sure
we picked a man under 45, intelligent and receptive to-
ward democratic ideas. We have a number of young legal
trainees studying legal procedures at various US univer-
sities. We plan to send one of Kassel's leading women to
study housing conditions with emphasis on social housing.

Last May and this, some 40 children between the ages
of 14 to 19 left for a year's stay in the States. These young
people will live with families of the same general back-
ground as their own families—farm children will live

_ on farms; city children will live with laborers, business-

men or professional men. While there they will attend
American high schools. These young people have agreed
to come back to Germany to live and work.

Regarding our youth activities program: we are doing
all we can through persuasion, example, teaching or any
other method to impress upon German youth that
they are citizens and prospective voters. We are establish-
ing youth forums, discussion groups and related types
of intellectual activities. Realizing that one way to attract
and hold the attention of young people is to offer them
a sweet, we encourage camps, sports, the teaching of
games, folk-dancing, music, etc. We are also attempting
to break down prejudices against unorganized youth.

Wherever we give financial or material aid to youth
groups we insist that it be used for all youth and not
for a privileged —or organized —few. We subsidize to
a limited extent the youth activities supervisors through-
out Hesse. This of course gives us a talking point when
we want county, state or other youth officials’ help to
gain our objectives.

We have designed our youth program with this thought
in mind—that no one is too young to become aware
of his place as an individual in the community, with
all the rights and responsibilities that go with it. +END

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 55 ---
An International Aspect

Texts of the three speeches delivered by US High Commissioner John J. McCloy
before a student audience at Kiel University Nov. 24, before a group of labor leaders
and trade-union members in the Town Hall in Hamburg Nov. 25 and at the dedica-
tion of a new studio at Radio Bremen Nov. 26 follow.

Kiel Speech

AM VERY HAPPY to be here tonight to meet with the

students and faculty of Kiel University. *

During the past year nothing has given me s0 much
satisfaction, and so much hope, as the meetings I have
had with the young people of Germany. Tonight I take
particular pleasure in acknowledging the fine record of
the students and faculty of Kiel in raising this institution
from the ruins and establishing it in such vigor in its
new site.

Study in a great university, whether in Germany or in
any other country, is a real privilege. You have been
told this frequently, but it bears repeating. Our uni-
versities today, and particularly the German universities,
must understand the significance of life and help us find
satisfaction in it. While they must train us for our pro-
fessions, they must more than ever meet and solve the
political and social challenges of our era.

There are many principles and many problems I should
like to discuss with you tonight. Unfortunately, there is
not time to touch on all of them. I shall, therefore,
concentrate on a few of immediate concern.

The overriding issue of our time is the issue of free-
dom versus oppression. Whether we live in Kiel or Frank-
furt, Berlin or New York, London or Bonn, each of us
must squarely face this problem. We must meet the issue
as individuals; we must meet it as nations. The threat of

‘totalitarianism is again so great that equivocation and
temporizing will not do. The peoples in the free world
must make their choice.

N MAKING OUR CHOICE we must keep in mind

certain lessons that have emerged from the history of
the last 35 years and particularly since 1945. These les-
sons are:

1. We are responsible for our fellow men. We must
not stand by in fear when other men and women, be-
cause of nationality, race or creed, are made to suffer.
We must act together in defense of freedom.

2. Just as no man is an island to himself so is no
nation. All peaceful nations are interdependent. All
nations must act together in the preservation of freedom,
in the effort for social justice.

In the Hitler period many of us did not recognize these
basic facts in time. The result was an outbreak of bar-
barism; horrible death for millions; cities laid in ruin.
This time, with new dictators threatening us, we must
not fail to recognize the problem and to act to meet it.

DECEMBER 1950

53

I am certain that you young men and women recognize
that mankind is interdependent. And I am sure you read
the signs that tell us no nation alone can preserve itself
economically, indeed no European nation alone can
defend itself militarily. No people or nation can be pre-
served by a thought or a wish alone. Action is neces-
sary. Ideas must be implemented.

ET US OPEN-MINDEDLY see the facts as they are. In
all likelihood, were it not for the Marshall Plan, the.
individual economies of the European nations would not
have survived. When we consider the pressing problem
of defense against Communist aggression the necessity
for a combined effort is clear. We all know that only
common defense and common participation will permit
us to defend our freedom and to preserve peace. Never,
therefore, has an international or world outlook been
more essential.

These are the broad principles I want to advance
tonight. They provide the background for a few specific
problems to which I should like to refer. Though seem-
ingly unrelated these problems tie together because there
is no solution to them other than the international. These
problems concern the refugees, defense and the political
direction Germany will take in the years ahead to solve
these and other issues.

First, I shall discuss briefly the refugee problem which
is here on your doorstep in Schleswig-Holstein. Certainly
‘there is no immediate and complete solution of the prob-
lem. But it is obvious that German economic revival is
helping many refugees find an important place in the
community, and it is also apparent that the refugees can
and do contribute talents and new methods which can
greatly advance the economic health of Germany.

As you know, there have been set aside millions from
Marshall Plan funds for projects designed to open new
opportunities for refugees. And at the present time, an
important group of American experts is in Germany
studying further economic solutions to the problem. We
shall naturally give careful consideration to their re-
commendations.

HAT I HAVE SAID indicates, I think, that we re-
cognize fully the international ramifications of the
refugee problem. Here, again, it iis apparent that local
solutions are not sufficient. Here, again, it is obvious
that the narrow outlook is not enough.
I should like to add one more thought. on the refugees.
We know that the refugee problem is the heritage of the
Nazi attack on Europe in 1939. We know that many refu-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 56 ---
gees, driven from their homes, are bitter and without
hope. It is important, therefore, for the sake of the refu-
gees themselves and for the sake of Germany that their
disappointments and frustrations should not lead them to
dangerous political undertakings. Neither the refugees
nor the rest of Germany can ever afford another period
of demagoguery. Ruin as before would be the inevitable
result.

I now come to the question which, in -the Jong run, is
most important of all for the German people. It is the
question of the political direction Germany will take in
the years ahead. You young men and women will have a
decisive influence on the answer.

It is appropriate to take up the problem at this time
for in the coming weeks and months the German govern-
ment and people will be assuming new responsibilities
and increased sovereignty.

Today Germany is entering a new period of develop-
ment as a democratic state. For all practical purposes the
Federal Republic, in internal matters covering great
political, economic and social areas, will be proceeding
on its own. In foreign affairs, Germany will be quickly
assuming a role of equality with other nations.

HE GERMAN PEOPLE must decide in the days ahead

whether the spirit and guiding principles of their
new state shall be patterned after old models or if a new
spirit, a European, international spirit, shall be the moti-
vating force. The German people now face the choice
between the old ways, the old politics, the idea of the
old national state in Europe and-the European, inter-
national way.

This is the crucial decision before the German people.
Other nations and peoples must soon make similar de-
cisions. The fact that so much of the old was destroyed
in Germany, the fact that Germany's basic problems can
only be solved with the help of others, should make it
easier for the German people to find the adequate an-
swer. A true European community is the only goal that
holds promise. On the road to its achievement there are
high barriers, there will be many rebuffs, but they can
and must be overcome.

There are some Germans who will say that Germany
can only take this road if it receives absolute equality,
if there is no discrimination, if it has the same righis
as France and other countries. The Allied Powers in Ger-
many are working toward a situation in which Germany
will have an equal and honorable part. But even if the
Allies were lax or too restrictive, young and vigorous
spirits in Germany, recognizing the needs of the times,
might well say: “We do not wish to wait for others, we
shall go the European way because it is the only way
for peace, for freedom, for social justice.’

Germany today has an opportunity to provide a great
stimulus to European unity. This will require the abandon-
ment of old ideas of national pride and honor, of narrow
conceptions of sovereignty. It will require the wide
horizon, the big view and, above all, the willingness to
recognize and tolerate the interests and rights of others.
It will require action and not only words or articles in a

INFORMATION BULLETIN

54

constitution. It will require sometimes that Germany and
the. German people show a wider conception and a
greater willingness to try the new than their European
neighbors. It will mean that Germans do not hold with
the restrictive, nationalist spirit of Treitschke, that they
prefer the bold, wide-ranging ideals of Kant.

HE FEDERAL REPUBLIC today faces the great chal-

lenge of playing a leading role in the creation of a
free and peaceful Europe. The geographical location of
Germany, the ability and skill of the German people, the
vigor of the men and women of this country combine to
create this opportunity. The world hopes you will take
advantage of it.

An Anferican, I think, has some right to take the point
of view I have just advanced. For in recommending to
you that ydu break with tradition it is not amiss that I
remind you of the choice which has been facing my
country and its youth. :

A traditionally isolationist area, nationalist throughout
its history, with vast resources, with almost impenetrable
natural boundaries, with a standard of living which is
generally recognized as being the highest of any in the
world — the United States suddenly finds itself the center
of appeals for aid from practically all the nations of the
world. To meet these appeals and at the same time to
maintain its own social structure, the United States is
contracting an astronomical national debt. It is enforcing
a tax burden as heavy if not heavier than any in the
world.

Whether it is the result of altruism or self-interest,
America's response to those appeals has been inter-
national in outlook. As a result of that response Europe
has achieved a large measure of economic, social and °
political recovery.

May I give another example of America's international
outlook? American troops are today fighting in Korea.
No one will seriously contend that in fighting aggression
in Korea the United States covets one inch of Korean,
Asiatic or any other territory in the world. American
troops are fighting in Korea because the United States is
convinced that Communist aggression had to be stopped
before a chain of events set in which would threaten free
people everywhere, particularly in Europe. It és pertinent
to recall the powder train which was lighted when
Japanese aggression took place in Manchuria before the
last World War. The first results of that explosion were
not felt in the United States — they were felt in Europe.

HE ISSUE TODAY is one of principle involving good

international behavior. The people of the United
States have already suffered 30,000 casualties in the
preservation of the principle and no conditions have been
imposed upon this action. All free peoples are in a po-
sition to benefit from that action.

American university students are now the first to ex-
perience the interruption of their studies; the first to-
have their careers checked. You can be quite sure that
not a single one of them is any less loath than any one
of you to see this occur. I believe it can be said that the

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 57 ---
young America has adopted this revolutionary attitude
because it has come to the conclusion that it must have
an international outlook if there is to be peace and
progress in this world. I refer to these things because it
is important that you and those like you, privileged
above your fellows, should look the facts straight in the
face and think in terms of those facts.

No one can preserve your freedoms for you. The most
others can do is help you to preserve them. In Germany
you have all seen what the oppression of individual
freedom has meant. You understand it because it has
been brought home to you.

The people of Germany, particularly the young people,
face a big test. Peace, freedom and progress are de-
pendent upon recognition by the people of Germany,
particularly the young people, that a challenge to one of
us is a challenge to us all.

I want to state my belief that young Germany will
meet the test.

Hamburg Speech

AM DEEPLY GRATEFUL to you for the reception you

have given me in this magnificent Rathaus (town hall).
I am honored to be permitted to speak in this great
chamber.

The city of Hamburg with its rich Hanseatic tradition,
is one of the world's great centers. Like all big ports this
is a cosmopolitan city, a city with a European and inter-
national outlook. May I say, as an adopted New Yorker,
Berliner and Frankfurter, that I likewise feel at home
here along the Alster.

Much of Hamburg is intact and retains its beauty. And
in the areas so heavily damaged by the war it is im-
pressive to see how much has been done to clean up, to
rebuild. This could not have been done without the vision
and determination of the city's officials and citizens.

It has been inspiring today to see the port and breathe
its air. Ports were made for shipping. Ports were made to
send ships down the ways, to load and unload their
cargoes. I hope the day will be speeded when all restric-
tions on the building of ships for peaceful purposes will
be removed so that Hamburg and the other Hanseatic
cities can again make their rich contribution to the
world’s commerce.

I am particularly happy tonight to talk with so many
people associated with the German labor movement. I
know that it is the working man in Hamburg, as else-
where in Germany, who is doing so much to build a free
and more peaceful future. I am sure that the working
man, who has found strength in the trade union, knows
the future cannot be secure unless we unite to protect it.

HE BASIC FACT OF OUR TIMES is the Communist

threat against freedom. I think we should ask our-
selves:-What does freedom mean and is it worthwhile?
If the answer is positive we face a second question: How
can we defend it?

DECEMBER 1950

55

First, then, what does freedom mean? It means the
right to live one’s own life; it means an opportunity to
work and to have a decent living; it means tolerance,
respect and good will toward our fellow men. It means
the right to vote in accordance with one’s interests
and convictions.

Freedom does not mean the police state. Freedom does
not mean forced labor. Freedom does not mean sup-
pression. Freedom does not mean regimentation. Freedom
does not mean dictatorship.

It is not sufficient, however, to define freedom or to
talk about it. Freedom must have real content. In every
country it requires constant vigilance to protect it and
make it prosper. It must include economic opportunity
and reasonable security. It must provide a fair chance
to every man, woman and child. In Germany it must help
speed up economic and political democracy.

I think the Marshall Plan has given us an excellent
example of how freedom can be implemented. For .that
reason I should like to talk for a few minutes about the
ERP, the part labor plays in it, and to make a few re-
marks on general economic and social conditions.

It is unnecessary to describe here the achievements of
the Marshall Plan in Germany. I wish to emphasize, how-
ever, that we recognize American funds alone would not
be sufficient to make ERP successful. The contribution of
German labor tis of equal importance. From the North Sea
to the Bavarian Alps and from Berlin to Aachen the two
have been combined in a mighty effort of construction and
employment. There are few people in Germany who have
not been benefited by this creative undertaking.

HE END GOAL of the Marshall Plan is an econom-

ically independent Europe which can maintain a
higher level of employment with a rising income and a
rising standard of living for the people. It is our deep
hope with improved economic conditions the standard of
living of the German worker will rise. It was not and is
not the intention of the Marshall Plan to favor special
interests. I repeat the goal is to help all groups, to help
the peoples of Europe as a whole.

One achievement, above all, of the Marshall Plan gives”
us deep satisfaction. It is the growing number of housing
projects that are rising in Germany. Each unit of each
housing project means that one more family will live
decently, that more men, women and children will be
able to enjoy life instead of merely existing. We could
readily absorb in housing projects all counterpart funds
made available through Marshall aid and still be con-
fronted with a large housing problem. But, as I have said,
much is being done.

Here in the Nordmark area, the Schleswig-Holstein
project is a wonderful example of how Marshall Plan ~
funds can help create modern and decent housing for
thousands. of underprivileged people. Throughout Ger-
many I would like to see the development, if it is pos-
sible, of. many similar projects. I would like to see the
low income groups, the refugees and others who have
lost their homes ‘during the war provided with low-rent
housing. I would like to see low-cost housing provided

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 58 ---
Young Berliners queue up for noon-lime hot meals served
to 325,000 students daily under the school feeding prograin.
American funds exceeding $2,000,000 were contributed,
as was DM 5,000,000 ($1,190,000) by the Berlin City Council,
to continue program in West Berlin's educational institu-

tions for third successive year. (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

in areas where jobs are waiting for workers and where
housing construction on a large scale would help con-
siderably toward reduction of unemployment in Germany.

These and other things must be done before we find
the full answer to Germany's social and economic prob-
lems. Iam convinced, for instance, that if Germany is to
continue to improve the standard of living and solve its
pressing export-import problem, German production ma-
chinery will have to be modernized and improved. More-
over, increased productivity can be achieved only if
labor and management co-operate to reach the necessary
goal — and it is essential that this co-operation be one
of equals.

Nor is increased productivity itself enough. In the
United States we have learned that continuous improve-
ment of production methods makes it possible to achieve
desired production goals. We have also learned that this
increased productivity must lead to a higher output of
goods at lower prices, and that labor must get its proper
share of the fruits of increased productivity. It would be
dangerous indeed if better methods led only to reducing
production costs, if cartel-like agreements prevented an
increase in the flow of goods. We have learned that
measures which benefit only one partner in the social
process are shortsighted and in the long run disastrous.

HOPE THAT WHAT I have said makes clear to you

what I think freedom is and what it must provide.
Although we may still have a long way to go, the demo-
cratic nations and peoples have made large strides to-
ward freedom. And when we took at the oppressed areas
of the world, when we see what is happening not many
miles east of this free city of Hamburg, we know that
our way of life is worth defending.

If it is worth defending, how shall we defend it? We
cannot defend it with slogans, with political maneuvers.
We cannot defend it without making sacrifices, though
I firmly believe Germany can make its contribution

INFORMATION BULLETIN

56

without decreasing the standard of living of the German
worker.

A Communist threat hangs over Germany and Europe
and that threat is real. Germany alone is no match for
the threat; neither is any other European nation. United,
the free nations of the world can meet it. It is our job
therefore to set up an area of freedom, secure from
aggression. It is our purpose to preserve the peace
through strength.

We know that the free nations can deter any aggres-
sion if they act together, if they all participate in a com-
mon effort. Common action would drive away the pall
of fear. Concern and hesitation would give way to con-
fidence and security.

For its part the United States, in the knowledge that
all free countries must stand together and recognizing
the limitations upon the capacity of the countries of
Western Europe to defend themselves, has offered to
make a sizable contribution in men and money to the
common cause. All resources that can be made available,
while at the same time maintaining the economic and
political stability of the Western community will have to
be used in this effort. Obviously this will mean all of us
will have to make sacrifices.

HIS BRINGS US to the question which is uppermost

in your minds — the question of the German part
in the great democratic defense effort. It is clear that
Germany's geographical location in the middle of Eurepe,
Germany's large potential manpower and industrial re-
sources, Germany's overwhelming stake in the preserva-
tion of peace and freedom pose the question of Ger-
many’s participation in the combined enterprise.

The proposals that Germany should contribute to an
integrated defense force have not been made without
qualms. It would be much simpler if the state of Europe
were such that we did not have to look to our defenses.
The Soviet armies, the Bereitschaften (alert units), the
Volkspolizei (East zone German ‘People's Police’) leave
us no alternative.

In making proposals for German participation in
European defense there is no thought of reversing our
fundamental policy of helping to establish a free, demo-
cratic, united and peaceful Germany. On the contrary
it is the urgent necessity of defending freedom and of
preventing the frustration of our combined efforts since
1945 which has led to these, proposals. It is precisely
because we firmly believe that we can preserve peace
and freedom by a strong defense that these proposals
have been made.

I wish to emphasize that a strong European defense
force, with German participation, would be a threat to
no one. Such a force by its nature could not be an
aggressive force. It would be possible to give a guar-
antee that this force, collectively and individually, would
never act except in defense. This force would have only
one mission — peace.

The decision as to whether or what sort of a defense
contribution Germany will make can only be made by
the German people. If the decision is in favor of partici-

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 59 ---
pation, then it is vitally important that there should be
no revival of the old military spirit, that civilians should
be firmly in control, and that an international, not a
national, spirit should prevail. It is up to the liberal
elements in Germany to make certain that this objective
is achieved.

N CONCLUSION I WANT to make it clear that we all

recognize that the German people and their demo-
cratic leaders, like those of other countries, carry heavy
responsibilities. They will have to look facts squarely in
the face. There is no longer time for equivocation or
indecision.

Nobody can change the fact that Germany iis the cru-
cial area. No one contends that Germany should be
called upon to defend the interests of others except as
it finds that such interests are inextricably woven into
its own. No nation can for long avoid standing up to
defend its own freedom.

I repeat, therefore, what I have said before: we are
not and shall not try to buy or much less to coerce Ger-
man participation. The German people must, and in due
time will, decide for themselves if they will participate.
That is the democratic way.

German labor, I think, sees the full picture. German
labor, I believe, is prepared to share heavy respon-
sibilities in guiding Germany's destiny. For that reason
I hope that the progressive voice of German labor will
be stronger in Germany's political life.

In the United States we know that labor is one of the
pillars of our democratic strength. The trade unions play
a decisive part in our society. During recent years, the
American trade unions have firmly supported the foreign
policy of the United States. They have made a large
contribution to the development of the Marshall Plan.

The trade union contribution, the workers’ contribution
in Germany will be equally great. The German worker
and farmer, the German citizen of all groups will join,
I am sure, in the great enterprise of freedom. If they do
there is no doubt — and those who would attack us will
not be in doubt — that freedom and peace will prevail.

Bremen Speech

AM VERY HAPPY to participate in today’s ceremony.

Radio Bremen is an outstanding example of community
radio. For that reason it is gratifying for the American
people to lend a helping hand so that Radio Bremen may
strengthen and extend its public service.

Public service means contributing to the welfare of the
local community. In press and radio it means informing
the public, establishing a feeling of identity between the
public and its government. It means full reporting of the
facts, complete and unbiased news, not only about the
community but about the world at large. It means keep-
ing itself free from those persons and groups that would
make of it a tool for evil.

DECEMBER 1950

In the days ahead Radio Bremen will have to carry a
heavy load. We know that radio stations in Western
Germany, such as this one, are not the kind of radio
stations permitted in the East zone, in the areas dominat-
ed by totalitarian concepts. In fact, there have already
been noticeable attempts on the part of the Soviets to
disturb the effectiveness of the broadcasts from Western
German stations. The Communists fear the truth and try
to prevent its dissemination.

N SPEAKING OF DUTIES and obligations of Western

German radio, I cannot pass over the problem which
so seriously hampers broadcasting in general. I refer to
the difficulties some stations now have in being heard
as well and as widely as they should be. This problem is
not one which can be solved overnight. It is a complex
technical problem which requires considerable study and
a large amount of good will on the part of all concerned.

I realize the worry of broadcasters and the radio
listeners over this poor reception,. which is felt particu-
larly in Bavaria, Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden. I want
to assure both broadcasters and listeners of my personal
concern, and to reassert that every assistance feasible is
being given, and will continue to be given, to obtain relief.

Radio Bremen, despite physical and technical difficul-
ties, has made and is making notable progress. It has
established precedence in bringing high quality programs
to the people of this part of Germany. Its relays from
Bonn and from the Bremen parliament, its broadcasts
that have dealt with the day to day problems of the com-
munity, have made Radio Bremen a model station politi-
cally and culturally. :

It gives me great pleasure, therefore, to dedicate this
broadcasting building to the service of the people of
Bremen and of Germany. -++END

A display of 180 examples of old primitive art at Frank-
turt’s US Information Center brings together Dr. Hermann
Niggemeyer (leit), of the Frobenius Institute, from which
the exhibit was borrowed, and Paul G. Lutzeier, co-
ordinator of US Information Centers, OLC Hesse. The
primitives embracing Indian, native art of North and
South America, African works, and Oceanic art were found
stored in bunkers in the Frankfurt area. Shiéld is from
Australia, backdrop from Bali. (PRD HICOG photo}

--- Page 60 ---
Personnel Notes

Cattier New ECA Mission Head
EAN CATTIER BECAME chief of the ECA Special
Mission to Western Germany and of the Office of
Economic Affairs, HICOG, in brief swearing-in ceremonies
Oct. 31. Mr. Cattier succeeded Robert M. Hanes.

The new chief became head of the ECA Mission's
Finance Division in February 1950 and also served con-
currently as financial adviser to US High Commissioner
John J. McCloy.

Mr. Hanes’ retirement from ECA comes after more
than a year and a half of service with that agency. In
April 1949, he was named to the post of chief, ECA Mis-
sion to Belgium-Luxembourg, and in September last year
was transferred to the ECA Mission to Western Ger-
many. A North Carolina banker and business executive,
Mr. Hanes made known his wish to retire from his post
in Germany.

“Mr. Hanes’ performance as director of the Office of
Economic Affairs and ECA Mission in Germany has been
outstanding,” said Mr. McCloy. “His work is evidenced
by the spectacular rise in West Germany's production,
exports, and the general improvement in its economy.
His departure will be sincerely regretted by his many
friends and fellow workers.

“Mr. Cattier, his successor, brings to his new respon-
sibilities a broad experience in international economics
together with a firsthand knowledge of Germany and of
the High Commission.”

Jones Conferring in Washington

Howard P. Jones, deputy director of HICOG Berlin
Element and ECA representative there, conferred with
Marshall Plan officials in Paris on economic aid for
Berlin, before traveling to the United States for a round
of similar conferences in Washington. He plans to return
to Berlin early in January.

During his absence, Herbert P. Fales, of Washington,
D.C., has been designated US economic adviser and Ber-
lin ECA representative.

German Legal Adviser Honored

HICOG court officials in Berlin honored Dr. Victor
Huecking, legal adviser in the Office of the District
Attorney, 2nd Judicial District, at a celebration marking
completion by Dr. Huecking of 50 years as a member of
the German legal profession.

Second District officials in attendance included Judge
John A. Sabo, Prosecutor Irvin Robbins Clerk-
Marshal Lester Kolste.

A lawyer and judge since Oct. 16, 1900, Dr. Huecking
served as the German member of the commission ap-
pointed after World War I to investigate sabotage charges
in the famous Black Tom case. During the course of the
investigation, he became acquainted with John J. McCloy,

and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Jean Cattier receives congratulations of US High Com-
missioner John J. McCloy after being sworn in as chief
of the ECA Special Mission to Western Germany and of

HICOG's Office of Economic Affairs. (PRD HICOG photo)

now US High Commissioner, who at the time represented
one of the firms which had lost property in the Black
Tom arsenal explosion.

Dr. Huecking has served with Military Government
and the Office of the US High Commissioner since July
1945. In addition to his duties as legal adviser, he also
serves as judge in the West Berlin Kammergericht, the
city's highest court.

Broom Takes Up Berlin Post

The new deputy chief of Berlin Element Public Safety
Division has served in five countries as an officer of
public safety. His last foreign post was in Korea.

Claude F. Broom, who will serve as deputy to U.
Charles Urton, chief of the division, took up his duties
in November.

A law graduate of the University of Detroit, Mr. Broom
studied police administration at Wayne University in
Detroit and attended the FBI police academy. He spent
25 years with the Detroit police department as a profes-
sional policeman.

During the last war, Mr. Broom served as public safety
officer for the Luxembourg and Belgium Civil Affairs
Detachment. From 1945 to 1947, he served with SCAP,
reorganizing the Korean police and acting as police ad-
viser to the military commander of Korea. In 1947, he
returned to the Detroit department, from which he re-
tired to accept the Berlin post.

Eight Congressmen Visit Germany

Eight United States Congressmen visited the US Zone
of Germany during September and October

MDAP and Marshall Plan countries on the
itinerary of Representatives G.C. Fisher, Porter Hardy,

were

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 61 ---
Jr., and L. Cary Clements of the Armed Services Com-
mittee, and Thurmond Chatham and Omar Burleson of the
Foreign Affairs Committee. They visited Frankfurt and
Berlin. Congressmen H.D. Cooley, H.D. Gore and W.R.
Poage spent one day in Berlin before leaving for the Inter-
Parliamentary Union meeting in Ireland, to which they
were official delegates.

James A. Clark Passes Away

Memorial services were held Nov. 1 to honor James
A. Clark, 53, chief of the Political Affairs Division, OLC
Bavaria, who died in a Munich hospital Oct. 28.

American, British, French and German representatives
attended the services for Mr. Clark, who had been a
resident of Munich since 1946. ;

An address by Dr. George N. Shuster, state commis-
sioner for Bavaria, characterized him as a man who
“loved the great ideals of his country and was anxious
to pass them on to others.”

Mr. Clark had participated in the occupation of Ger-
many since its beginning. Arriving in Germany in 1945,
he served as deputy and later chief of the Information
Control Division, OMG Bavaria. He was appointed to his
post in the Political Affairs Division in October 1949.

In 1942, Mr. Clark joined the staff of OWI as a mem-
ber of Psychological Warfare Branch, serving in Italy,
North Africa, France and Germany.

Born in Prague of American parents, he received his
secondary education in Austria, Germany and the United
States. He was a graduate of Oberlin College in Ohio
and served with the AEF in France in World War I.

University Adviser Named to OLCB

Dr. Herbert R. Sensenig has been appointed as univer-
sity adviser with the Education Section of the Office of
the State Commissioner for Bavaria.

Dr. Sensenig is on leave from his position as professor
of German at Dartmouth College, where he has been

William M. Dunn (left), newly arrived deputy chief, Legal
Division, OLC Hesse, confers with Stanley H. Gaines,
Legal Division chief. Mr. Dunn, a graduate of Harvard
Law School, served with the Army of Occupation in Ger-

many as a Signal Corps officer. (PRB OLCH photo)

va
DECEMBER 1950

59

Francis E. Sheehan (left), deputy state commissioner for
Hesse, welcomes Hazel M. Hatcher, professor of home
economics, Pennsylvania State College, while Dr. Lowell
W. Henning, education adviser, QLC Hesse, looks on.
Miss Hatcher will serve as visiting consultant to Edu-

cation Branch, OLCH. (PRB OLCH photo)

head of the Department of German and a member of the
faculty for the past 15 years, with the exception of a
period of wartime service with the General Staff Corps,
US Army, in Washington.

Expert to Co-ordinate Film Production

Pennell C. Kirkbride of the International Motion Pic-
tures Division, US Department of State, is presently on
a 60-day detail to HICOG's Office of Public Affairs to
assist in developing co-ordinated film production for
fiscal 1951. The work will include both Information
Services Division and Education and Cultural Relations
Division projects in Germany and the United States.

In meetings with ISD, E&CR and officers of the various
policy and activity divisions, Mr. Kirkbride will assist in
developing, co-ordinating and guiding these productions
by ascertaining HICOG's priority requests for the topics
to be dealt with. He is initially assigned to ISD for this
purpose.

US Court of Appeals Justice Resigns

Associate Justice Thomas H. Goodman, Court of Ap-
peals, US Courts of the Allied High Commission for Ger-
many, has resigned to resume private practice in Knox-
ville, Tenn. ~A

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy accepted the
resignation and in a letter to Justice Goodman expressed
“a very heartfelt appreciation for your services on the
court, which have been of great assistance in carrying
out our task in Germany.”

Justice Goodman has been a member of the Court of
Appeals for the past two years. He was a member of the
Tennessee Court of Appeals before coming to Germany
During the war he served as a colonel in the Judge Ad-
vocate General's Department attached to the 12th and
15th Air Forces. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 62 ---
Royalty Lends A Hand

N QUEST FOR LIVELIHOOD, many members of Ger-
many's former landed gentry, the nobility and even
royalty are among those creating factories and workshops
in villages and on country estates in Western Germany.

This healthy sign, bringing industry to small towns
rather than bombed and overcrowded cities, is also
providing employment for many refugees from Eastern
Germany as well as an increasing number of west German
townspeople.

An outstanding example of this type of enterprise is
the Birstein woodworking firm 50 miles north of Rhine-
Main Air Base. There, on ‘the spacious grounds of 700-
year-old Birstein Castle, Prince Franz Ferdinand of Isen-
burg has established a successful lumber yard and work-
shop. Wood of all types is readily available on the prince's
property and newly cured timber is being turned into
cabinets, tables, doors and window frames.

Only two years ago, the buildings presently used as
workshops at Birstein were houses and barns. Remodeling
for the present purposes was started at that time under
close supervision of the prince. As far as possible, the
old style of building was followed externally, but the
interior was fitted out with modern lathes, machines and
all the tools of carpentry. An up-to-date paint sprayer
adds the final touch to the utility furniture now being
produced in quantities.

N APPRENTICE SYSTEM has been set up and useful
trades are being taught to youngsters who in turn
are making a contribution to the company’s efforts.

The recent discovery of an old shed filled with 300-
year-old oak, as well as the excellent reputation of the
firm after two years of operations, brought Birstein a
commission to provide pews and beams for the new
Rhine-Main Air Base chapel.

EE

Plans and sketches for a new wood-making project are
discussed by the Countess of Oppersdorff, business
manager at the 700-year-old Birstein, Hesse, estate of
her brother, Prince Heinz Ferdinand of Isenburg, and
Fritz Weber, the firm's architect and former inmate of
a Soviet Russian concentration camp for three years.

Business arrangements were made with the prince's
sister, Countess von Oppersdorff, who acts as his repre-
sentative. She in turn had plans and sketches drawn up
by Fritz Weber, Birstein architect, who before the war
took a part in designing Berlin’s Tempelhof Air Base and
the Petersberg Hotel near Bonn, now headquarters of the
Allied High Commission. The carpenters and workmen
took care of the rest.

The completion of Rhine-Main chapel symbolized much.
But significant of the changes taking place in Germany
were those old oak planks, now polished and shining
pews and woodwork. They tell a story of initiative and
endeavor on the part of something old to make itself new,
useful and self-sufficient. +END ,

A Birstein employee enjoys his lunch (leit) underneath woodcarving (over doorway) with the motii of the woodcarving
trade. Center, a Birstein foreman and an artisan check a portion of. the 300-year-old oak timber which was recently found
on the estate. Right, a skilled carpenter and an apprentice prepare an oak board for installation in the United States Air

Force's Rhine-Main Air Base Chapel, the interior of which was furnished by the firm.

(USAFE photos)

--- Page 63 ---
Faith — Barrier to Tyranny

PEAKING FOR US High Commissioner John J. McCloy,
who was unable to attend, Dr. George N. Shuster, US
state commissioner for Bavaria, delivered the following
address at the Catholic Day ceremonies Sept. 1 in Passau.
During nearly three quarters of a turbulent and dramatic
century, the Catholics of Germany have met each year
to discuss the spiritual and material welfare of the in-
dividual citizen as well as of the community in which he
lives. You and your fathers have come together these
many years in a spirit of profound dedication to the
abiding values of Western civilization. That these values
have been imperiled in our time it is hardly necessary
to remark. For the only period during which the Catholic
Days were forbidden was the era during which Hitler
ruled Germany in the name of totalitarianism. When you
came together again in 1948 for the first time since 1933,
your assembly symbolized most movingly the emergence
of your people from bondage.

In like manner the fact that you are here today, in this
beautiful old city which is one of the princesses if it be
not the queen of the Danube, is of the greatest signifi-
cance. For from beyond this border town of cathedrals
and old houses the forces of oppression have not yet come.
We are wont to say in my country that all men have
been created equal under the law. Of course, it is quite
clear that they do not yet possess the spirit of com-
radeship one with another which such a profession of the
rights and the dignity of man implies. Nor are they im-
bued with that reverence for and kindness to one another
of which the New Testament speaks so movingly and
eloquently,

Nevertheless, a free society is one which is always
resolutely committed to the belief that reverence, kind-
ness and comradeship can eventually be established
among men. Its members believe that through common
dedication and common sacrifice they can build a social
order in which the deepest aspirations of humanity for
life having goodness and meaning will in large measure be
realized, both for the relatively rich and the relatively poor.
A totalitarian order of living on the other hand is one which
takes it for granted that no such society can be created.

NE WOULD, UNDER ordinary circumstances, refuse
to believe that there could be many people who
would claim that they were entitled to rule as masters
over a folk of slaves. But in our age it is unfortunately
necessary to admit that there are many such persons —
very many.
And so I am hardly surprised to find that there are not
a few in Germany and elsewhere who question the proba-
ble survival of a freedom-loving society. They have
already lived under a regime of dire compulsion so long
and in such distress that the thought of being emancipated
from tyranny for a long time seems almost like a fairy
tale. But it is this faintness of heart, this resignation to
fatalism, which is the profound weakness of our time.

DECEMBER 1950

61

We need to remind ourselves constantly of what the
early Christian so superbly knew — that the real warfare
is that of the spirit, fought with the weapons of the spirit.
The power and the glory of nations vary with the ages.

What does history reveal more closely than it does the
fluctuations to which economic ability and military
prowess are exposed? But the greatest and most enduring
revolution of which the Western world knows is that
which gained its momentum from these incorruptible men
and women who, like Barbara and Barnabas, braved the
arena and the catacombs for their faith. Unless we are
deeply convinced that following the light of conscience to
the end can alone save us, no external means will suffice.

HIS FAITH IS NOT NAIVE. At the moment, for

example, petitions are being circulated in various
places in behalf of peace. We who do not forget that the
first message of universal brotherhood and understanding
was brought to the shepherds outside Bethlehem, know
an appeal for the pacific settlement of world problems
as well as the desire for amity among nations is self-
evident and constant. But a question immediately pre-
sents itself — Are the free people of the world those
who have repudiated peace? We can only answer, these
peoples have endangered their own security in an effort
to achieve a lasting understanding.

Anyone who looks at the map of Europe today will
see at a glance that large sections of the West have been
sacrificed in the hope that in this manner the danger of
controversy and possible war could be removed. Yet

Berlin members of the Falcons, German youth organiza-
tion, test records presented to them by Josef Jellinek
(right), manager of the Viennese Youth Labor Choir, along
with a sum of money, both donated by the choir for the
support of the youth group's activities. Twelve members
of the choir went to Berlin to participate in the ECA-spon-
sored “Stars of Europe’ show. (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 64 ---
none of these tremendous concessions, involving in some
instances the heart-rending enslavement of millions, has
sufficed. Instead, if a certain kind of propaganda is to
be believed, it is just this free world which has made
these sacrifices, which is today called imperialistic. You
and I are gathered today in support of a peace which
could easily be obtained if freedom of conscience and
freedom from fear were lifted from the regions to the
East, and if a reasonable regard for international agree-
ment were established.

These distortions of fact which attempt to make black
appear white, the attacker the victim, and the peaceful
the warlike, are of an old totalitarian pattern, But there
are certain principles still alive in the world which can-
not be distorted by any form of rationalization or propa-
ganda, no matter how intensively the effort is made.
The plain principle is that slavery is wrong and in the
last analysis, it is idle to seek for common ground with
those who say it is right.

OU OF ALL PEOPLE desire peace. Countless thou-
sands of your sons have died on fields of battle.
Thousands of them are still in prison camps. And many

other thousands of your daughters are homeless and
despoiled. In this sense particularly you are brethren
of my countrymen who have girded themselves for battle
more reluctantly, perhaps, than has hitherto any of the
great nations of the world. But we stand together in the
belief that although fighting to acquire one foot of ter-
ritory is futile and immoral, there is nothing more sacred
than is freedom. And I repeat that although the preser-
vation of peace through orderly use of police power is
necessary, the weapons and the warfare of the spirit are
more important than all else.

This old town has rung with the alarums of many
struggles. I sincerely believe that it can shine with the
glory of peace for numberless years if you will take
away from this place of assembly the conviction that your
allegiance to the cause for which the Savior of mankind
lived and suffered and died can truly be a source of illu-
mination in a dark time. Peace and freedom are attainable
if we maintain our faith and the faith of Christians is a
mighty barrier to tyranny. But it will be so only if it is the
possession of men of justice and valor, of kindness and
social dedication, which things the Lord God asked of His
servant Moses in the burning bush. +END

Judicial Council. Discusses Mixed Panels

HE RIGHTS OF THE ACCUSED, no matter what his

nationality, are thoroughly safeguarded tin the courts
of the US High Commission. This assurance came from
Chief Justice William Clark of the US High Commission
Court of Appeals who at the same time suggested that
German judges be permitted to sit in on certain cases.
Such action would, in the opinion of the Chief Justice,
increase the prestige of the court in the eyes of the Ger-
man people,

This suggestion was one of many discussed at the
quarterly meeting of the judicial council held recently
in Berchtesgaden. Presided over by Judge Clark, the
council — members of the US Court of Appeals — and a
number of guests, meeting in informal session, also dis-
cussed their particular legal problems, including the
recent legislative revision of the organization and juris-
diction of US High Commission Courts (Law 10).

The US High Commission Courts in Germany are
embodied in 11 judicial district courts presided over by
judges appointed by the US high commissioner, Above
these courts is a court of appeals with Judge Clark as
chief justice assisted by eight associate members.

The district courts, located in the US Zone and US
Sector of Berlin,.render, with few exceptions, decisions
on all criminal and civil cases involving US citizens

-residing in Germany charged with offenses under Allied
High Commission, US Military or German law.

The matter of the courts’ extended jurisdiction in civil
cases under the new law was discussed by the council.
Among limitations are domestic relations cases, libel,
slander and false arrest.

INFORMATION. BULLETIN

62

It was also emphasized that the new law requires three-
judge panels only in cases of life or death instead of -
cases involving sentences of 10 or more years, as pre-
viously. Periods of limitation for the institution of civil
action Was changed from one year to three years.

GUEST AT THE MEETING, Roger N. Baldwin, who

recently toured Germany for the American Civil Liber-
ties Union, voiced his approval of Judge Clark's hopes
for future mixed panels (German and American judges)
and expressed a desire that a bill of rights, patterned
after those of the American Constitution be instituted
for all defendants appearing before HICOG courts. Mr.
Baldwin empasized that in statutory form these rights
would make the Germans more sure of their protection
before the courts.

The council included for the first time judicial officials,
of other zones, among them Chief Judge D.N. O'Sullivan
and Judge Graham Rogers of the British Control Com:
mission courts. Lord Russell, Judge Advocate of the
British Armed Forces, and Col. Damon Gunn, EUCOM,
represented the military interests of their respective zones.

The council meeting was particularly significant. not
only for the exchange of ideas between American jurists
and the resultant increased efficiency of the US Zone
judicial system but also because it brought together the
legal experts of the combined zones into closer harmony
in their important role of democratizing Germany through
just and comprehensive interpretation of law.

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 65 ---
Keonomy of Berlin

By MAJ. GEN. MAXWELL D. TAYLOR

US Commander, Berlin

N THE HALLS of the Kommandatura
the joke is often heard that one
never meets an ordinary economist. He
is always a ‘‘distinguished" economist.
I wish to make it quite clear, gentle-

men, that although I have the privilege in ithe:elty;

This analysis of the economy of
the City of Berlin is the text of an
address delivered by General Tay-
lor Oct. 20 before the German
World Economic Society, meeting

a series of measures, many of which
are in the course of implementation in
Western Europe. Let me mention a
few of them.

First of all there is the liberalization
of trade and trade practices as a means

today to address a group of the distin-
guished economists, I make no pretense of being a legiti-
mate member of this elite.

I come merely as a soldier who through no fault of
his own has become deeply engrossed in the economic
problems of the City of Berlin with no special qualifi-
cations beyond a general college course and some ex-
perience as a parachutist.* The latter experience is not
irrelevant, I might point out, because an economist fre-
quently needs to jump quickly and display nimbleness
of foot. Certainly in the economies of Berlin there is
ample field for talents of this sort.

The few words which I would say today deal with the
new outlook on world economy which is apparent in the
postwar period. Although I speak primarily as an

* American, I believe my observations apply generally to
the other free countries of the world.

World War II and its aftermath brought a general
realization of the indivisible quality of world economic
relationships. The war had brought about a great
destruction of productive power in many nations which
was soon felt among victors and vanquished alike. We
were reminded that the reduction of production in any
one country is a net loss to the world economy and that
many nations must pay for this loss. World economic
forces show little respect for national frontiers.

T IS THIS REALIZATION of the inherent economic
unity of our world today which has caused a drastic
revision of the attitude shown by my government in its
relationships to the other free nations of the world. This
changed attitude has led us to abandon the traditional
isolationism which marked our foreign policy. It has
led us to establish relationships based upon co-operative
effort and mutual assistance.

This attitude does not seek an integration of the
economies of all countries, even though in certain areas,
such as Western Europe, a certain integration may be
desirable. Certainly there is no tendency to favor that
type of integration which exists behind the Iron Curtain
where weak and small countries are dominated and ex-
ploited economically for the exclusive benefit of the
senior partner.

The establishment of truly sound economic relations
among free nations is predicated upon the realization of

* General Taylor was wartime commander of the ‘‘Screaming
Eagles," the 101st Airborne Division. ~

DECEMBER 1950

of increasing production and world
trade. Then there is the elimination of trade barriers
between countries — barriers which were erected in the
years following the first world war and which had the
effect of reducing the volume of trade between all nations.
Also we need an expansion of foreign investments as
a means for increasing production and for permitting: the
more advanced nations economically to assist those
which are less favorably situated.

NOTHER ELEMENT in sound economic relationships

is the establishment of appropriate values of cur-
rency. We all know the difficulties which have existed
in this field in many nations since the war. The cor-
rection of the over-valued currencies has required mutual
understanding and good faith. It has required that
countries not troubled with currency difficulties display
economic enlightenment, and refrain from taking adyvan-
tage of the situation of neighboring countries which have
had to revalue their currency.

Another action required for sound postwar relationships
has been the establishment of a new mechanism for the
settling of international balances. In the old days, of
course, this was done through the operation of the gold
standard. Now this is no longer the case and it has been

General Taylor and plant officials watch a welder at the
Borsig factory in the course of a series of tours of Berlin
industrial nerve-centers. Borsig employs 1,700 workers,
produces boilers, turbines, furnaces, generators and other
heavy machinery. Under ERP it has been allocated more
than DM 11,500,000 in counterpart funds. With Gen. Taylor
are, l.-r., Borsig Plani Directors Schoepke and Froehlich
and City Councilor Klingelhoefer. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

--- Page 66 ---
necessary to work out new methods which are applicable
to the conditions of international trade as they now exist.

Thus we see that the conditions which followed World
War II have called for a readjustment of economic re-
lationships on the basis of friendship in recognition of
the fact that we live in a world which is an economic
entity. The United States in this period has contributed
its best to promote this new outlook, the development
of which arises from the changing conditions of the
world as a whole and from the changed position of the
United States in relation to the Western nations.

ERHAPS THE MOST important measure taken by the

United States in this period is the Marshall Plan.
The significance of this plan to the countries participat-
ing in it and its importance to the United States are too
well known to warrant elaboration.

Here in Berlin we have evidences of the effects of the
plan on all sides. In spite of the losses arising from the
dismantling by the Soviets as well as the direct effects
of war, the city has been able to start a far-reaching
program of reconstruction by grants of Marshall Plan
counterpart aid.

The retooling of Berlin industry which is resulting will
in the long run reduce production costs and improve the
competitive position of Berlin vis-a-vis West German
and world markets. The progress made in Berlin is sug-
gestive in miniature of the return to prosperity in the
many lands participating in the ECA program.

Apart from the Marshall Plan, the United States: has
used its efforts to secure a liberalization of trade among
free nations. At the same time it has liberalized its own
economic regulations and has reduced customs duties
through the reciprocal trade program. This program
started as long ago as 1934. Our government has taken
many steps to encourage import of goods to the United
States. We have recognized at last that inescapable
economic fact that trade cannot flow in a single direc-
tion. He who would sell must also buy.

In this connection we have encouraged European
countries to send trade delegations to the United States
in order to investigate and develop markets there for
their own ‘goods. As you know, Berlin recently participat-
ed in the Chicago Fair and with the most happy results.

HE UNITED STATES has looked with great sympathy

upon Great Britain and other European countries
in their difficulties to maintain an adequate supply of
dollar currency. Our government is constantly studying
and considering measures to achieve a balance between
imports and exports of the Marshall Plan countries and
thus eliminate the dollar gap. Although the problem is
not simple, definite progress is being made.

Another American measure is the so-called Point Four
Program of President Truman. This was first proposed
by the President in January 1949 as a means of assisting
underdeveloped areas of the world in raising their
standards of living. Implementation of this program is
now in progress. The program is not only of importance
to the countries which would be the direct beneficiaries

INFORMATION BULLETIN

64

General Taylor samples candy produced at the Sarotti
chocolate works in Berlin during a visit at invitation of
officials of the company, one of the largest in its field in
Europe. Howard P. Jones (center), deputy director of
HICOG-Berlin Element, also was a guest.(PRB HICOG-BE photo)

of the aid, but also to the industrialized countries of
Western Europe.

In receiving dollar aid, the underdeveloped countries
thus obtain the means with which to purchase capital
goods and other products in Western Europe. In addition
to direct financial assistance, the backward areas will
also receive technical advice and guidance in develop-
ing their economic potentialities.

Thus, we see that in the countries of the Western
world there is more and more a pooling of economic
resources. The development of this economic family of
nations is becoming more and more a co-operative effort.

OWHERE IS INTERNATIONAL co-operation better

typified than in the efforts here for the economy of
Berlin. I do not need to emphasize the serious disabilities
under which this city is laboring. The inescapable facts
of geography make it extremely difficult to develop a
normal economy in Berlin. Nevertheless, in spite of
these difficulties, Berlin is advancing in nearly every
aspect of its economic life. That success is attending this
restoration is due to the efforts of many nations in
support of the city.

First there is the work of West Berlin itself, particular-
ly of the patient, industrious and skillful Berlin worker
combined with the managerial ability of the Berlin’ pro-
ducer. This combination, however, would not be enough
without help from other sources. Fortunately this help
is forthcoming first from the West German Government
and next from the United States and the Western Allies.

All of these people are working together for the com-
mon purpose — to guarantee the economic existence of
Berlin. In so doing, they typify the new outlook upon
world economy which marks the present era.

The example of Berlin suggests one final point upon
which I should like to close. While it is true that neither
prosperity nor want can be restrained at national
boundaries; while it is true that plenty and famine are

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 67 ---
not compatible or even possible neighbors in our present
integrated world, it is equally true that in the long run
a sound economy cannot contain members who per-
manently give and members who permanently receive.

It is unhealthy for both the giver and for the receiver
to perpetuate any such relationship. I know that here in
Berlin the proud citizens look forward to the day when
their city can no longer be known as a "deficit area.”
All recipients of Marshall Plan aid must redouble their
efforts to regain complete independence and free them-
selves from the need of outside assistance.

ERLIN, WHICH HAS SET an example of. deter-

mination in its resistance to Communism and in its
will to be free, can now give a new lesson to the Western
world in reducing and finally in eliminating the need for
foreign economic assistance.

As I visit the factories of Berlin, I hear on all sides
the cry for orders and for more orders. In my country
there is only one way to sell a product and that is to
get out and market one’s goods in an aggressive sales
program. There is no such thing in the highly competitive
American market as sitting back and waiting for the buyer

to come. The buyer must be sought; he must be con- .

vinced; he must be sold.

Here in Berlin where we must live by outside orders,
a similarly aggressive attitude must be developed to
distribute our exports throughout the Western world. A
step in this direction has been taken in the creation of
the Berlin Absatz-Organisation (Berlin Sales Organization)
to which many of you gentlemen have contributed. Of-
fices have already been established in Western Germany
and plans are under way to set up branches in New
York, Paris, London and the other principal commercial
capitals.

This development comes at a particularly appropriate
time when the increase of defense orders permits Berlin
to hope for important orders. Only by an aggressive
sales campaign can Berlin hope to regain its former
position in the markets of the world.

Fortunately, the reconstruction of Berlin is aided by
the new economic outlook which is the theme of this
talk. Aided by this concept and by the skill of its own
workers and producers, Berlin can set an example to the
Western world.

That example will be one of stern insistence upon a
rapid restoration of economic independence to this brave
city which is determined to become once more a respect-
ed and contributing member to the economic brotherhood
of the Western world. +END

Berliners Elect to Remain in Berlin

ORE THAN HALF of West Berlin families (as

compared with 29 percent of those in major cities
of the US Zone) reported an income of less than DM 200
per month, and more than three in 10 stated at least one
member was looking for a job. Of those interviewed in
a recent poll, 37 percent — as against 27 percent in August
1949 — declared that general lack of money, resulting from
currency reform, lack of credits and invested money, was
chiefly responsible for Berlin's unemployment problem.

Other main reasons given were the lack of materials
(Berliners said that too many manufactured goods are sent
to the city and their factories aren't receiving contracts),
and the disparity between the two currencies, the Deutsche
mark of western Germany and the East mark, with every-
one trying to buy in the East sector because of the favor-
able exchange rate (more than six to one in recent weeks).

Most West Berliners felt that the most effective method
of coping with the unemployment crisis would be through
credits and financial help, such as long term credits and
foreign investments; through intensification of a con-
struction program which would guarantee work for
years; and the importation of greater quantities of raw
materials rather than finished products.

Most West Berliners were skeptical that increased
unemployment would lead’ to an expansion of Com-
munism. And of -those who thought that Communism
might gain ground (23 percent of those polled), only a
small minority, seven percent, thought the end result
could be Communist control of the city.

DECEMBER 1950

65

Although the economic situation was held to be critical,
West Berliners compared it favorably with the past. In
expressing hope for the future, eight out of 10 inter-
viewed said that their personal situation is better today,
than it was before the blockade was lifted. About an
equal number expressed no disappointment or letdown
at the rate of progress made in Berlin since the lifting
of the blockade.

Of the minority who were pessimistic akout the future,
the largest number saw no possibility of reaching an
agreement with the Russians, and others pointed to the
unemployment situation, lack of money, lack of trade
and difficulties resulting from the two currencies.

F THOSE INTERVIEWED, only 20 percent said they
would leave the city if they had the opportunity as
compared with 39 percent at the beginning of 1949 and
43 percent in July 1948, early in the blockade.
Berliners were almost unanimous in saying that the
Americans will remain in Berlin as long as they stay
in Germany. Although 99 percent declared that American
rather than Russian prestige has gone up in Berlin, not
everyone is totally in agreement with Western policies.
Hope that Berlin will get a united city government in
the near future declined considerably. However, almost
all of those who expect a united government thought it
will be under the influence of the West Berlin Magistrat
(City Council), rather than the East. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 68 ---
Economic Review

This monthly review of the German Federal Republic's
current economic picture, based on the latest figures
and trends available when this section of the Infor-
mation Bulletin went to press, was prepared by the
Analytical Reports Branch of the Program Review
Division of the Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG.

URING SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER, the West Ger-

man economy displayed many of the characteristics
of a boom. In September, industrial production, imports,
short-term credits and many basic material prices rose
sharply. September exports, although below the August
mark, remained at a high level. Unemployment continued
to decline, and demand for skilled labor exceeded supply
in some industries and areas. Raw material shortages —
particularly in coal, electric power and non-ferrous metals
— began to develop.

Preliminary information indicates that production and
credit continued to rise in October. The federal Ministry
of Economics and the Bank Deutscher Laender decided to
check credit expansion so as to conserve foreign exchange
reserves and prevent further price rises. These measures
may temporarily retard the rate of economic expansion,
but it is believed they will contribute to financial stability,
the prerequisite for continued expansion over a long period.

Industry
The federal index of industrial production (excluding
building, stimulants and food processing) rose by 7.8 per-
cent to a postwar record of 124 percent of 1936, the largest
percentage increase since November 1948. Only coal
mining, iron and steel production, shoes, leather and
shipbuilding are below 1936 levels. Total production has
now reached the 1938 level, at which time substantial war
production was already underway in Nazi Germany. Per
capita production, however, is at 82 percent of 1938.
Postwar records were set in September for every
industry group except crude oil, flat glass, sawmills and
woodworking. (Figures are not yet available for ship-
building, non-ferrous castings, building and beer.) Some
of the increase in production over July and August was
expected, because during the summer many industries are
shut down for vacations and overhauling. But after allow-
ance for this, the rate of increase remains exceptional.
Further increases in the production rate are to a large
extent dependent upon coal deliveries. Priorities on ship-
* ments have been established by the German Coal Mining
Directorate in the following order: Export; iron and steel;
public utilities; other industry; trade and domestic uses.
The International Authority for the Ruhr has fixed the
amount of German coal to be exported during the fourth
quarter of 1950 at 6,830,000 tons. This allocation is based
on an expected daily average production of 370,000 tons, and
any excess or deficit will accrue to the German economy.
Daily coal production averaged 365,000 tons in October.
Crude steel production was 1,134,954 tons in October,
compared with 1,097,038 tons in September. Orders
received during October for hot rolled steel finished
products amounted to 1,644,000 tons, compared with a
revised figure for September orders of 1,801,000 tons. Of
these amounts, export orders received in October totaled
164,000 tons, compared with 188,000 tons in September.
Exports of steel scrap amounted to 132,912 tons in Sep-
tember, compared with 177,690 tons in August.
Consumption of electric power during October was
18.5 percent above the corresponding month in 1949,
whereas generation capacity has been increased by only
8.5 percent. It is feared that the greater demand for

INFORMATION BULLETIN

66

power and expected shortage of coal will result in
shortages of power this winter. Shortages have already
curtailed production of chemicals in Bavaria.

Index of Industrial Production

(1936 = 100) July Aug. Sept.

Total all Industries 1950 1950-1950

(incl. electricity and gas) 1/ . 107 rl 124

(excl. electricity and gas) . 105 ril3 121
Investment goods (total) +. . 106 rf13 122

Raw materials... ....... . 693 198 102

Finished products . . . 114.1123 135
General production goods

(incl. electricity and gas) 123 130 137

(excl. electricity and gas) to » AIT 124 131
Consumer goods. . re es 109
1 = Excl. food processing, stimulants and buildings.
1 = Revised.

Production of Major Commodities
Unit of

Commodity Measure 1/ July Aug. r/_ Sept. p/
Hard coal (gross mined) thous. t 9,169 9,445 9,216
Crude petroleum t 95,874 98800 95,211
Cement .. . t 1,087,476 1,134,202 1,145,182
Bricks (total) oe 1000 458,937 483,761 458,497
Pigiron 2. 7 1 wel t 818,715 858,021 875,912
Steel ingots . 5 t 1,024,108 1,060,173 1,050,176
Roiled steel finished products 5 t 690,442 751,290 759.090
Farm tractors (total) 2/ . pieces 7,555 8,985 9,496
Typewriters 3/ . pieces 15,037 18,559 20,360
Passenger cars (incl. chassis) pieces 15,976 20,395 20,997
Cameras (total) 5 pieces 203,243 179,148 176,979
Sulphuric acid (incl. oteum) 5 tSOs 96,034 102,318 100,790
Calcium carbide . . to t 58,140 59,333 60,611
Soap (total)... 1... t 11,067 16,122 16,987
Newsprint . Banoo t 14,737 15,025 13,987
Auto and truck tires . pieces 267,880 285,559 320,611
Shoes (total) . 1000 pairs 4,850 6,801 8,111

1 = All tons are metric tons.
xcluding accessories, parts and spare parts.
tandard, long-carriage and portable typewriters.
evised.

p = Preliminary.

Transportation

Traffic demands on the railways during October were
10 percent higher than in 1949, and by far the highest of
any postwar month. The Bundesbahn met these demands
by employing certain emergency measures, the most
important of which were suspension of all periodic
repairs and inspections, retention of all cars in running
condition in traffic until they actually broke down, and
then making only the most necessary light repairs.

During September the number of serviceable freight
cars increased from 213,000 to 240,000, almost the entire
increase being the result of a special campaign to repair
non-serviceable cars. Non-serviceable cars declined further
by 2,000 during October. In addition, 5,000 cars were
tented from France and Belgium. An average of 62,000
cars was loaded per working day in October.

Communications

On Nov. 1, 1950, direct subscriber-to-subscriber teletype
service between the Federal Republic and the United
States was opened. Initially, service will be limited in
the United States to telex subscribers in the New York
and Washington areas. There are 3,015 German subscribers
and a backlog of more than 400 applicants is awaiting
expansion of facilities to permit connection.

Employment and Unemployment

Employment in the Federal Republic rose to new postwar
heights in October despite unusually cold weather in the
last 10 days of the month, and growing raw material

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 69 ---
and housing shortages. The number of employed wage
and salary earners increased by 100,000 to 14,400,000,
which is almost 750,000 above the figure at the end of
October 1949, the peak for that year. Unemployment fell
by 41,500 to 1,230,171 at the end of October.

The October decline was the lowest monthly decline
this year, reflecting adverse seasonal influences. At the
end of October unemployment was 7.9 percent of the
wage and salary earning labor force, and 5.5 percent of
the estimated total labor force. Never since March 1949
has the unemployment co-efficient been so low. Almost
all branches of industry, including building, participated
in the upward employment trend, the exceptions being
agriculture, forestry and domestic service.

Wage rates, earnings and working hours continued to
rise during October. Some 2,500,000 more manual and
office workers obtained wage and salary increases of
about 10 percent in collective agreements negotiated be-
tween trade unions and employers’ associations. The most
important agreement of the month — that providing for
a 10 percent wage boost for hard coal miners of the Ruhr
and Aachen fields, and a five percent increase for miners
in Lower Saxony —has so far been ratified only by the
Mine Workers’ Union. The German Coal Mining Direc-
torate is withholding ratification until the Federal Gov-
ernment gives permission for a corresponding increase
in the producer price of coal.

Negotiators of both sides believe that a wage increase
would help raise coal production by restoring sub-surface
miners to top place in the wage structure of Western
Germany and thereby stimulate the recruitment of new
labor and halt migration of miners to the steel mills and
other branches of the metal working industry which for
three months have held first place in the wages structure.

With few exceptions wage increases were obtained
without recourse to strikes.

Prices

The index of basic materials prices based on data
available on Oct. 7 declined one point from the Sept. 21
figure of 220 percent of 1938. All of the decline was in the
food component, which declined from 178 percent of 1938
to 177 in the 15-day period. Most of the declines were in
meat prices but the index of potato prices rose from 133
to 141. The industrial component remained at 247, small
declines in prices for potassium fertilizer, wool, hides
and raw rubber being offset by rises in prices for alu-
minum, calfskin, bricks and roofing tiles.

The total index of consumer prices for October, which
is based on data available on the fifteenth of the month,
rose one point to 149 percent of 1938. The food component
of the index rose by one point, largely as a result of
increased prices for fruits and vegetables. Prices for
clothing, household goods, cleaning and hygiene also in-
creased. The September and October increases in clothing
and household goods prices were the first in two years.

Consumer Price Index (Bizonal Area 1)

(1938 = 100)
(Wage/salary earner's family of four, with one child under 14)

Aug. Sept. Oct.
Total . 148 148 149
Food 150 149 150
Stimulants 285 275 275
Clothing . 182 184 187
Rent . . 103 103 103
Heat and light™ 118 118 118
Cleaning and hygiene : 147 147 148
Education and entertainment 140 140 141
Household goods _ 159 160 161
Traveling 133 133 133

1= The ‘Consumer Price Index is Snot yet available on a trizonal basis

DECEMBER 1950

67

Basic Materials Price Index

(1938 = 100)
Aug. Sept. Oct.
7 24 7 a 7
Food . p178 pi77~—s p80 p178_~—sip 177
Industry 224 230 241 247 p247
Total 206 p209 = p217._ p220.— p29

p = Preliminary.

Foreign Trade

Total West German exports in September of $165,700,000
were $11,900,000 under than the $177,600,000 recorded in
August. The September decline in total exports reverses
the steady climb this year for every month since April;
but the September total of $165,700,000 was still the third
highest monthly figure in the postwar period.

Imports rose to $239,100,000 in September, $33,800,000
above the $205,300,000 August total. The September figure
was the highest in 1950 and the second highest monthly
import total in the postwar period. The September trade
deficit of $73,400,000 was the second largest in 1950, being
exceeded only by that of $125,800,000 in January, when
exports were $104,400,000 and imports $230,200,000.

The commodity group breakdown reveals that there
was a Slight rise in September in exports of industrial raw
materials and a drop in exports of semi-finished and
finished goods. Imports of semi-finished goods were some-
what less than in August, while imports of food and agri-
cultural products and industrial raw materials rose sharply.

West German Foreign Commodity Trade
September 1950
(Thousand Dollars)

Categories Imports _Exports
Food and agriculture . 112,242 2,363
Industry 126 899 163,386
Raw materials 5 65,504 27,196
Semi-finished goods 30,685 31,223
Finished goods te 30.710 104'967
Total 239,141 165,749

Area
Total Non-Participating Countries . 81,456 46,624
USA... ee 22,270 10,681
Canadas 1... 475 1,177
Latin America . 18,024 12/691
Non-Participating Sterling Countries 10,304 5,627
Eastern Europe : 13,623 9,122
Other Countries . 16,760 7,326
Participating Countries . 157,534 118,524
Non-Sterling 131,232 110,801
Sterling . 26,302 7,123
Unspecified an 151 601
Total — 239,141 165,749

Import Surplus: September $73,392,000.

The United Kingdom-German Federal Republic Pay-
ments Agreement initialed in London on Oct. 6, 1950 dif-
fers from previous agreements with the UK in that it
provides for the possibility of bringing the Federal Re-
public into the Transferable Account Area. The agreement
provides that payments for trade between the Deutsche
mark area and the Scheduled Territories of the Sterling
Area shall be in sterling. It is further agreed that the use
of sterling for direct current transactions between the
Deutsche mark area and such countries outside of the
Scheduled Territories as may be agreed between the Bank
of England and the Bank Deutscher Laender shall not be
restricted. Such other countries in the Transferable Ac-
count Area under present UK regulations are: Chile,
Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, Iran, Spanish
Monetary Area, Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, Thailand, USSR,
Italy, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, and Sweden.

Arrangements have been made in the German-Greek
trade agreement for the procurement of 35,000 tons of
Greek tobacco during the period from Nov. 1, 1950 through
June 1953, provided tobacco taxes are reduced by the’

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 70 ---
Federal Republic. The German cigarette manufacturers
contend that, in the absence of a tax reduction to stimu-
late consumption, they will not have the capital to increase
their inventories of Greek and Oriental tobaccos. Taxes
are approximately 70 percent of the price of cigarettes.

Finance

In the first five months of the fiscal year which began
on April 1, 1950, combined federal and state revenues
amounted to DM 7,825,600,000 (about $1,862,492,000), and
expenditures exceeded revenues by DM _1,294,000,000
(about $307,972,000). During the same period the combined
federal and state internal indebtedness increased from
DM 818,600,000 (about $194,826,800) to DM 2,241,900,000
(about $533,572,200). (These figures represent internal in-
debtedness incurred since the currency reform, excluding
equalization claims arising from the currency reform, as
well as federal indebtedness arising from foreign aid and
including proceeds from the sale of coins to the Bank
Deutscher Laender.)

The present rate of increase in public debts is con-
tributing substantially to the growth of commercial bank
reserves and tending to thwart efforts of the Bank Deut-
scher Laender to take a commanding position over internal
credit developments. In view of the fact that public ex-
penditures can be expected to rise sharply in the near
future, especially for increased occupation costs, the
federal government has been informally advised that taxes
should be raised. It has been suggested that the increase
should take place in individual and corporation income
taxes, and inheritance taxes, and that a tax should be
placed on the sale of luxury consumer goods.

As a result of the import surplus during the past few
months, and larger payments deficit, the volume of short
term loans to business had been slowly increasing. During
the first weeks of September, however, the volume of
both short-term loans and rediscounting rose substantially.
On Sept. 20 the Bank Deutscher Laender increased the
legal reserve requirements generally about 50 percent,
effective Oct. 1, instead of Sept. 1, as stated in this report
for September.

Final statistics for September disclosed that short term
loans had increased by DM 739,000,000 (about $175,882,000)
to a total of DM 11,835,000,000 (about $2,811,930,000) in
contrast to a June through August increase of DM
780,000,000 (about $185,240,000), while paper rediscounted
had increased DM 638,200,000 (about $151,891,600) during
the month to reach a total of DM 3,243,500,000 (about
$771,653,000). Figures for the first weeks of October based
on a sample of reporting banks indicated that the rate

of credit increase had not abated. On Oct. 13 the Bank
Deutscher Laender directed Land (state) central banks to
reduce by Jan. 31, 1951 the volume of bank acceptances
rediscounted to 90 percent of the volume outstanding on
Oct. 31. The Bank Deutscher Laender also instructed com-
mercial banks to reduce their acceptance credits out-
standing to the Oct. 12 level before Dec. 31, 1950. On
Oct. 26 the rediscount rate was raised from four to six
percent and the Lombard rate (applied to loans based upon
securities) from five to seven percent.

Agriculture

During October, Western Germany continued to receive
substantial quantities of food and agricultural commodi-
ties under its trade agreement import program. Estimated
receipts of basic items from trade agreement sources in
October were as follows:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

Quantity Approx. Value
(metric tons) (Million $)
Bread grains . 100,000 8.0
Coarse grains . 40,000 2.6
Fats and oils . 52,000 24.0
Sugar 20,000 3.5

Further purchase of basic food items was hindered by
a shortage of available exchange that arose when trade
liberalization resulted in unexpectedly large purchases of
foreign goods in recent months. The situation is currently
so critical that full advantage could not be taken of offers
of wheat and flour from Australia.

Prospective imports of coarse grains faced growing
difficulties in October when it became clear that the quan-
tities of feed grains available had been sharply reduced
because of poor crops in the Balkan countries, Argentina,
France and French North Africa. Furthermore, Iron-Cur-
tain countries are apparently holding back on their wheat
offerings pending the outcome of the Economic Commis-
sion for Europe's decisions at the grain trade conference
in Geneva on Nov. 14, :

Agricultural Production

The latest forecast of the total potato harvest for 1950
is 26,000,000 metric tons as compared with 20,900,000 last
year, The latest estimates of sugar beet production indi-
cate a total beet production of 6,100,000 metric tons. This
result was brought about by a 15 percent increase in
planted area and considerably better yields per acre.

A total white sugar production of approximately 780,000
metric tons is anticipated as compared with 562,000 metric
tons last year. Final production estimates for 1950 on
grain indicate a harvest almost as good as last year. Total
bread grain production is estimated at 5,791,100 metric
tons as compared with 5,954,000 metric tons last year;
total fodder grain production (excluding corn) is estimated
at 4,395,700 metric tons as compared with 4,246,000 last year.

Preliminary results of the total hay harvest (clover,
alfalfa, permanent and rotation meadows) indicate a slightly
reduced production with 21,500,000 metric tons as com-
pared with 21,700,000 tons in 1949-50. The slight reduction
in hay production is, however, fully compensated for by
a big harvest of fodder beets and of intermediate fodder
crops such as rape, fodder corn, vetch and crimson clover.

Hog numbers reached a postwar peak, according to the
recently completed September hog census. Numbers, at
11,100,000 head, were still 15 percent below prewar.

Legislation

Two new federal ordinances on agricultural subjects
were issued during the month. The first, issued Oct. 4,
removed the following items from price control:

(1) Raw and refined vegetable and animal oils;

(2) Hardened refined vegetable and animal oils, when
used for the production of margarine and synthetic
edible fats;

(3) Malted and extracted margarine; and

(4) Trade margins for rye and wheat. .

The second, issued Oct. 7, established bread grain prices

for the months October 1950 to June 1951. The prices
differ by month and for various price areas. The price
ranges for rye and wheat for October 1950 and June 1951
are as follows:

October 1950 June 1951
DM per ton DM per ton
Domestic rye 273 50 281.50 -283.50-291.50
Domestic wheat 313.50-321.50 323.50 331.50
Imported rye 274,50-280.50 -284.50-290.50
Imported wheat 315.50-321.50  325.50-331.50
+END

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 71 ---
CALENDAR
of Coming Events

This calendar is initiated to present
a single list of the outstanding events
of general interest scheduled in Ger-
many during December 1950 and Janu-
ary 1951. Entries for this list have been
furnished by the German Tourist Associ-
ation (Deutsche Zentrale fuer Fremden-
verkehr) and various HICOG offices.

CURRENT (Events in progress Dec. 15 with
only closing dates given)

Dec. 21, Freiburg (SB); Exhibition of South
Baden artists,

Dec. 22, Solingen (NRW): Exhibition of the
hill district's technical art.

Dec. 24, Munich (Bav): International sculp-
tors’ exhibition with special exhibitions
of the Rhenish Secession and New Rhen-
ish Secession.

Dec. 31, Aachen
Aachen artists.

Dec, 31, Hanover {LS): Drawings by chil-
dren from all parts of the world, the art
of the past century.

Jan. 7, Heidelberg (WB):
Heidelberg artists.

(NRW): Exhibition by

Exhibition of

DECEMBER

Dec. 15, Bochum (NRW): Loewenguth Quar-
tet of Paris.

Dec. 16, Krefeld (NRW): Ice hockey match:
EV of Krefeld vs. KTSV of Krefeld.

Dec. 16, Oberwarmensteinach/Fichtel Moun-
tains (Bav): Ski-jumping opening. ‘*

Dec. 17, Bad Wiessee (Bav): Winter season
opening.

Dec. 17, Gmund/Tegernsee (Bav): Ski com-
petitions.

Dec. 17, Frankfurt (Hes): Bach's Christmas
Oratorio.

Dec. 17, Lueneburg (LS): Bach's Christmas
Oratorio.

Dec. 20-21, Brunswick (LS): Violin recital,
Heinz Stanske.

Dec. 21, Hamburg: Christmas Oratorio.

Dec. 21-Jan. 1, Usseln/Sauerland (NRW):
Ski competitions.

Dec. 23-26, Stuttgart (WB): Christmas con-
gress of the society Menschenfreund-
liches Werk (Philanthropic/Humane Aidi,

Dec. 23-31, Hahnenklee/Bockswiese (LS):
Christmas sport week.

Dec. 25, Bischofsgruen/Fichtel Mountains
(Bav): Ski-jumping opening.

Dec. 25, Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
Ice-skating with Maxi and Ernst Baier.

Dec, 25-26, Berchtesgaden (Bav): Tri-city
ice hockey tournament (Linz, Salzburg
and Berchtesgaden).

Dec. 26, Second Christmas Day (German).

Dec. 26, Hanover (LS): Indoor bicycle race.

Dec. 26, Habichtswald/Kassel (Hes): Ski-
jumping.

Dec. 26, Wildemann/Harz Mountains (LS):
Trophy ski-jumping.

Dec. 26, Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav): Ice
hockey match: AIK of Sweden vs. SC of
Riessersee (Bav).

Dec. 28, Stuttgart (WB): Bach's Christmas
Oratorio.

Dec. 28, Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav): Ice
hockey match; AIK of Sweden vs, SC
of Riessersee.

Dec. 29, Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav): In-
vitation down-hill skirunning,

Dec. 30, Wildemann/Harz Mountains (LS):
Youth ski matches.

DECEMBER 1950

DECEMBER

S M T WwW

T F $

3 4 5 6
10 11 12 13
17 18 19 20
24 25 26 27
31

7 8 9
14
21
28

22
29

Dec. 30-Jan. 7, Fuessen (Bav): Winter sport
week.

Dec. 31, Rottach (Bav): Trophy ski-jumping
for the “Golden Seal Leaves.”

Dec. 31, Arzberg/Fichtel Mountains (Bav):
ski-jumping. -

Dec. 31, Cologne (NRW): Musical finale of
the Cologne city jubilee with Handel's
Messiah.

Dec. 31, Willingen/Sauerland (NRW): New
Year's Eve night ski-jumping.

Dec. 31, Habichtswald/Kassel (Hes):
championships.

Dec. 31, Berchtesgaden (Bav): Ski races,
ice hockey, ice-skating.

December, Stuttgart (WB): Exhibition of
old and modern artists by Wuerttemberg
State Gallery.

December, Bad Cannstatt (WB): Exhibition
of Bad Cannstatt artists.

December, Kassel (Hes): Exhibition by As-
sociation of Plastic Artists.

December, Neheim-Huesten (NRW): Exhi-
bition by Westphalian artists.

JANUARY

Jan. 1, Baden-Baden (WB): Symphony con-
cert, M. Bergmann, piano soloist; H. Ros-
baud, conductor.

Jan. 1-31, Muenster (NRW): 4th German
postwar Esperanto Congress.

Jan. 1-31, Nuremberg (Bav): Exchange Fair
of the Nuremberg Federation.

Jan. 3-4, Duisburg (NRW): Concert with A.
Kupper, soloist; H. Schnackenburg, con-
ductor. .

Jan. 3-4, Bremen: Concert with L. Hoelscher,
soloist; H. Schnackenburg, conductor.

Jan.4, Bochum (NRW): Hans Pfitzner’s
‘'Von deutscher Seele“ (The German Soul).

Jan. 5, Neheim/Huesten (NRW): Strub or
Koeckert Quartet.

Jan. 5, Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony con-
cert with W. Kempf, soloist; H. Meissner,
conductor.

Jan.6, Bonn (NRW): Symphony concert,
with E. Roehn and A. Troester, soloists.

Jan. 6, Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Hans Pfitz-
ner's ‘‘Von deutscher Seele."’

Jan. 6, Munich (Bav): Coronation of ‘Prince
and Princess of Fasching’’ (Carnival).

Ski

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
‘WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

69

Jan. 7, Duesseldorf (NRW): Beginning of
carnival season.

Jan. 7-8, Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic Or-
chestra, H. Knappertsbusch, conductor.
Jan. 8, Frankfurt (Hes): Museum concert,
with H. Schroeter, piano soloist; P.

Sacher, guest conductor.

Jan. 8, Fre:burg (SB): Symphony concert;
Jean Meylen, Geneva, guest conductor.

Jan. 8, Coblenz (RP): Rhenish Philharmonic
Orchestra; Hermann Abendroth, guest
conductor.

Jan. 8, Heidelberg (WB): Symphony con-
cert with Tibor Varga, soloist.

Jan. 10-11, Munich (Bav): Philharmonic con-
cert, Fritz Rieger, conductor.

Jan. 11-12, Duesseldorf (NRW): Symphony
concert, Handel's Messiah; Hollreiser,
conductor. .

Jan. 12, Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert with W.
Gieseking, piano soloist, and A. Hoidt,
cello soloist; O. Schmidtgen, conductor.

Jan. 14, Bonn (NRW): Special concert with
O. Kaiser-Breme, soloist; O. Volkmann,
conductor.

Jan. 14, Muenster (NRW): West German
indoor handball championship.

Jan. 14, Hollerath/Eifel (NRW): Ski relay
match, special slalom.

Jan. 14-15, Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra, with Gioconda de Vito, violin
soloist; Ferenc Fricsay, conductor.

Jan. 15, Muenster (NRW): Concert, London
Philharmonic Orchestra; Sir Adrian Boult,
conductor.

Jan. 20 (or Jan. 25), Viersen (NRW): Con-
cert, London Philharmonic Orchestra; Sir
Adrian Boult, conductor.

Jan. 20-21, Tegernsee (Bav): County ski-
jumping contests.

Jan. 20-28, Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
7th international winter sport week.

Jan. 20-28, Hanover (LS): Agricultural week,
meetings and exhibitions.

Jan. 21, Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic Or-
chestra, with Monique Haas, soloist; G.
Solti, conductor,

Jan. 24-25, Munich (Bav): Philharmonic con-
cert, with Shura Cherkassky, piano soloist.

Jan. 25, Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic Or-
chestra; Giovanni di Bella, conductor.

Jan. 27-28, Bad Wiessee (Bav): Alpine county *
youth matches.

Jan. 28, Hollerath/Eifel (NRW): North Ger-
man youth skiing championships.

Jan. 28-29, Berlin: RIAS Symphony Orches-
tra, chamber choir, St. Hedwig Cathedral
choir, with H. Roloff, piano soloist;
Ferenc Fricsay, conductor.

January, Frankfurt (Hes): Women's apparel
industry show.

January, Stuttgart (WB): Women's apparel
industry show.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 72 ---
Occupation Log

First Decartelization Case Ends

A fine of DM 50,000 (about $12,000) imposed on the
Fachverband Schleifmittel-Industrie, trade association of
abrasives manufacturers, for violation of US Military
Government Law No. 56 (Decartelization Law) has been
paid, thus bringing to a close the first criminal proceed-
ings filed in the US Zone under this law.

Another fine of DM 50,000 was also paid by a second
trade association, the Verein Deutscher Schleifmittelwerke.

The two trade associations and five individuals were
named as defendants in criminal proceedings initiated
by US decartelization authorities in May. The defendants
were charged with fixing prices for all types of abrasives
on the domestic and export markets, and joining a cartel
agreement with French abrasive manufacturers.

The two trade associations include practically all
manufacturers of abrasives in Western Germany.

New German Youth Centers

Germany will have two new youth institutions soon
through the efforts of a thoughtful community and HICOG
Special Projects Fund.

The residents of Crailsheim County in Wuerttemberg
Baden have pledged financial as well as moral support
of a project to establish a youth home and center in
Weckelweiler.

Started with German funds, the youth home proper
when completed will take care of 33 boys, with a
building for 10 girls included in the project. In addition
to pledging their financial support, farmers of the com-
munity promised opportunities of employment on their
farms to the occupants of the new home.

Meanwhile in Berlin's borough of Kreuzberg work has
begun on a youth center completely equipped with
facilities for a variety of recreational activities. It will

From UNICEF, through the German Red Cross, to the
tots, for good health. A German Red Cross worker smiles
as she gives a young recipient some of the medicine sent
to Germany through UNICEF, the United Nations Interna-

tional Children's Emergency Fund. (PRB OLCH photo)
be open to all youth living in the neighborhood and will
be financed through a HICOG Special Projects Fund grant.

Germans Ask UNICEF To Extend Work

The United Nations International Children’s Emergency
Fund (UNICEF) Mission in Germany has been asked by
the Federal Government to continue and extend its relief
work both in the republic and Berlin.

A memorandum sent by the federal authorities to E. W.
Meyer, head of the mission, stated: UNICEF has fulfilled
a social mission for which all persons working for official
relief agencies and for private charitable organizations
feel particularly indebted in view of the great need among
the children of expellees and needy persons.”

The organization's present work in Germany arises from
agreements made with the Allied Military Governments
in 1949. Since then UNICEF has completed two relief
programs and a third is in progress. The agreement ex-
pires when these programs have been carried out.

Under the first program* UNICEF supplied more than
$400,000 worth of raw materials which were manufactured

* See ‘UNICEF — United Nations’ Aid to Needy Children" in In-
formation Bulletin, January 1950 issue,

The Judicial Council of HICOG Courts for Germany and its guests pose at Berchiesgaden meeting. From left to right are
Justice Marc J. Robinson, HICOG; Justice Thomas H. Goodman, HICOG; Justice Juan A. Sedillo, HICOG; Roger N.
Baldwin, American Civil Liberties Union; Chief Judge D. N. O'Sullivan, British Control Commission Courts; Chief
Justice William Clark, HICOG; Lord Russell of Liverpool, Judge Advocate, British Armed Forces; Col. Damon M. Gunn,
Judge Advocate, EUCOM; Justice Fred J.Cohn, HICOG; Judge Graham Rogers, British Control Commission Courts; and

Justice Justin Harding, HICOG. (See story on page 62.) (PRB OLCB photo}

INFORMATION BULLETIN 70 DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 73 ---
at German expense into 191,500 pairs of shoes and more
than 1,000,000 articles of clothing, and distributed free of
charge. Medicines worth $600,000 also were distributed.

Value of the raw materials provided by UNICEF under
the second and third programs was nearly $800 000. The
federal and state governments furnished DM 9,000,000
($2,142,000) for the project, which not only resulted in
finished products valued at DM 26,000,000 ($6,394,000) but
provided four to five months’ work for 10,000 refugees.

One-Third Restitution Claims Settled

More than DM 550,000,000 (about $130,000,000) in pro-
perty and compensation have been paid to victims of
Nazi oppression in the US Zone under terms of restitution
and general claims legislation.

Approximately one-fifth of this sum has been paid out
as compensation to persecutees under general claims
legislation enacted by the states of the US Zone. Pro-
perty with an estimated value of more than DM 450,000,000
(about $105,000,000) has been returned to its formes
owners under US Military Government Law No. 59
(Restitution of Identifiable Property).

More than 20,000, or approximately one-third, of all
claims filed by individual claimants under the law have
been disposed of, most of them as a result of amicable
settlements between the parties concerned. The German
restitution agencies which initially process the claims,
have settled 90 percent of the cases thus far disposed of,
and are scheduled to complete their phase by 1951.

Real estate was the largest single item restored to
applicants. The total value of such real estate is esti-
mated at DM 216,000,000 ($51,000,000). Money payments
constituted the second largest category, largely in lieu
of property claims and totaled DM _ 103,000,000 (about
$24,000,000).

The largest share of payments, valued at DM 212,000,000
(about $50,000,000), went to nationals or residents
in the United States. The next largest share, totaling
DM_ 87,000,000 (about $20,000,000) went to nationals or
residents of Germany, including religious groups, political
parties, trade unions and other democratic organizations.
Israeli claimants received property in restitution with an
estimated value of DM 18,000,000 (about $4,250,000).

Bonn Implements New York Decisions

Decisions of the Foreign Ministers in New York have
been the basis for extensive activity between the Federal
Republic and the Allied High Commission.

In granting the German government greater freedom in
the field of foreign affairs, the Allied High Commission
has invited it and interested countries to submit to
HICOM those treaties of the former German Reich which
they would like to see revived. The Federal Government
is preparing such a list.

The Allied High Commission will approve such agree-
ments so long as there is no conflict with the eventual
peace settlement, the Occupation Statute or any act in-
volving the Occupation Powers as a party.

DECEMBER 1950

vA

An outstanding example of German-American co-operation
is “Hessian Handicrafts,’ a Wiesbaden community project.
Women of the organization (top) cleaned up an old snack
bar and converted it into a “Handicraft Shop’’ where they
sell merchandise at cost. Shop is visited by Hesse State
Commissioner Dr. James R. Newman (center), who in-
spects a woodpainting held by Mrs. Francis E. Sheehan,
wife of deputy commissioner of Hesse, while Mrs. William
Bentley, wife of USAFE personnel director, looks on. Bot-
tom, Mrs. Helen Hathcock, group chairman, receives store
key from Wiesbaden Military Post's commanding general,
Brig. Gen. Fay R. Upthegrove. (PRB OLCH and USAFE photos)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 74 ---
In making it possible for federal representatives abroad
to have full diplomatic power to carry out German foreign
affairs and attend international conferences, the Bonn
Foreign Ministry has been directed to issue diplomatic,
ministerial and official passports for such personnel.

Allied and German finance and economic representa-
tives also have been meeting to expedite the terms of
the decisions in relation to their respective ministries.

The shipbuilding industry, one directly affected by the
ministers’ decision has been given orders to carry out the
conference directives even though legal technicalities
have not been completed. The Economic Ministry of the
Federal Republic has notified all interested persons that
applications for cargo ship construction for export can
now be acted upon.

The foreign ministers removed all restrictions on the
size, speed and number of cargo ships constructed in Ger-
many for export. These “permitted ships” will be subject
to control only as to armament characteristics.

HICOG Sponsors Labor Projects

Three new projects in the labor field have been initi-
ated by HICOG's Office of Labor Affairs.

Two of the projects, the establishment of a labor news
press service and the organization of a Labor Education
Institute, will be carried out in Berlin, and the third, the
establishment of a trade union youth program, is de-
signed for the district of Nordmark, in the British Zone
near Denmark.

The news service project will establish an experimental
labor news service providing current trade union and
‘general news to the trade union and daily press in Berlin
and western Germany. This project is based on the re-
sults of a study of the trade union press in Germany
which disclosed weaknesses in labor reporting and lack
of co-ordination between labor and the daily press.

The second Berlin project—the establishment of a
Labor Education Institute — will promote a co-ordinated
program among the various groups and organizations
now engaged in worker education. The Institute will be
set uv to co-ordinate all work in the field of labor edu-
cation such as that now being carried on by trade unions,
Volksschulen (elementary schools), church groups, col-
leges and universities, youth and women’s organizations,
and welfare and refugee groups. The Institute will help
channel the work of these various groups and afford a
means of developing modern improved methods of labor
education.

The trade union youth program for Nordmark is plan-
ned as a series of conferences and discussion groups
in this area, where the lack of qualified youth leaders
and poor economic conditions among the refugees have
slowed the formation of organizations for young trade
unionists. With the co-operation of trade union youth
leaders from nearby Denmark, more than 1,000 Danish
trade union youth are expected to participate.

Training courses for trade union youth leaders on
practical group work and leadership problems, social
politics and public education will be held in connection

INFORMATION BULLETIN

72

Thomas D. Johnson, Civil Aviation Division, HICOG,
(left) helps Mayor Walter Kolb of Frankfurt cut ribbon
at opening of new runway at Rhine-Main Airport. New
runway shortens starting time by 10 to 15 minutes, saves
1,200 gallons of gas in average day. Horses in background

symbolize time. (PRD OLCH photo)
with the project in towns in Nordmark as will evening
courses in seven larger towns and five industrial centers.

Communists Intensify Activities

Intensified Communist propaganda activity and nuisance
raids into the US Sector of Berlin are being met with
unanimous disapproval by West Berlin residents and
prompt repulsion by police.

In one weekend, police broke up three demonstrations
involving between 300 and 3,000 persons. A torchlight
parade attempt was foiled, as was the kidnaping of an
East zone political refugee.

Police impounded 5,400. propaganda leaflets and 50
books as well as hundreds of copies of the Soviet-licensed
newspaper Vorwaerts, abandoned by their vendors. Other
propaganda material was gathered up by Berliners and
tossed into a large bonfire.
Reorientation Program For Airmen

In an effort to reorient personnel and give them an
up-to-date understanding of their mission in Germany,
Wiesbaden Military Post officials have begun a series
of Information Hour Panel Discussions. The meetings will
bring together HICOG and Air Force officials to express
views on fostering improved German-American relations.

These scheduled get-togethers will also be in line with
recent suggestions by US High Commissioner John J. Mc-
Cloy and Lt. Gen. John K. Cannon, commanding general,
USAFE, to make the Occupation Forces “ambassadors of
democracy.”

German Tourism Increasing

Tourism, the “invisible export," continues to increase
its importance to the German economy. Thisis particularly
so in Bavaria, where visitors to the scenic state numbered
2,272,000 in August, a postwar high and a 66 percent in-
crease over the same period in 1949.

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 75 ---
In view of this increase and the desire to further it, the
Federal Republic is opening travel information bureaus in
the principal cities of six western European countries:
London, Paris, Zurich, Rome, Copenhagen and Stockholm.
A similar office has already been established in New York.

Hesse Labor Problems Continue

Recent reports from Hesse show that while the labor
situation is better, unemployment remains a problem.

Although 1,279,287 persons, or 4.5 percent more than
one year ago, are employed today, some 90,000 are jobless.
However, this is a decrease of 90,000 since last February.

The situation is particularly affecting the youth of
Hesse. Consequently, juvenile unemployment remains
one of the most serious threats to the state’s social order.
Of the young boys, and girls, who will leave Hessian
schools next spring, 16,414 will be seeking jobs and
apprenticeships. With 4,565 open positions available,
only between one-third and one-fourth of the total num-
ber of juvenile job-seekers can be placed.

The situation is especially critical with young girls,
where 8,244 applicants, more than half of the total number
of school-leaving job-seekers, will have but 909 vacancies
available.

Unemployment is as much a question of available
housing space as it is open jobs. An excellent example
of this situation is Frankfurt, where almost 60,000 work-
ers, approximately one-fourth of its entire labor force,
reside outside the city.

Before the war non-native workers in Frankfurt in-
dustries amounted to only 39,500, or about one-seventh
of the total labor strength. This is particularly interesting
when Frankfurt's present labor force of 240,000 is still
24,000 persons short of the prewar employment figure.

Despite this situation and the fact that extensive pos-
sibilities exist, few Hessians show any inclination to earn
their living as hired laborers in foreign countries. Out of
the 1,000 citizens who have volunteered for such service,
the largest group went to France. Others are in England,
Luxembourg, Sweden, Brazil and Persia as well as South
Africa, which was the recipient of 14 Hessian nurses.
Long Arm of Coincidence

The war in Korea landed a girl from Stuttgart, Germany,
in the University of Miami in Oxford, Ohio — improbable
as it sounds.

Sigrid Schall, on a three-month speaking tour of the
United Staates as a 4-H Club exchangee, expected to
return to her home in late October. She had toured a
huge part of the United States, speaking before 4-H Clubs,
granges and other farm groups, carrying out her assign-
ment as representative of the army-sponsored GYA (Ger-
man Youth Activities) in Germany.

One engagement took her to Oxford, Ohio. There she
met Dr.W.E.Smith, dean of the graduate school at
Miami University. Impressed with her abilities and
enthusiasm, Dr. Smith offered her a scholarship. The
scholarship, formerly awarded to a Korean girl, was open
because the Korean student had been unable to accept

DECEMBER 1950

it. The scholarship is one of niné underwritten by Miami
students for foreigners.

Miss Schall's trip to the United States itself depended
on a whim of fate. Interviewed once for a chance as a
HICOG rural youth program exchangee, she had been
turned down solely because she was over age. When
GYA sought candidates for 4-H Club exchange,'the young
woman was recommended by the HICOG office which
previously had been forced to reject her.

Since being in America, Miss Schall has sent home to
Wuerttemberg-Baden the names of 200 American farm girls
for whom her father is arranging German correspondents.

Printing Union Decision Upheld
German printers cannot be required to print material
violating Allied High Commission legislation on the
ground that they are under a contractual obligation,
This was the Allied High Commission's answer to a
request from the German Industrial Union of Printing
and Paper Trades for a clarification of Law No. 5. (Under

Sigrid Schall keeps firm hold on an American turkey. High-
schoolers get lessons in geography from German visitor.

--- Page 76 ---
Maj. Gen. Carl R. Gray (left), US Veterans administrator,
on a tour of Germany is greeted by Munich's Mayor
Thomas Wimmer. Col. Stanley Grogan, deputy commander

of Munich Military Post, looks on. (PRB OLCB photo)
this law the High Commission may prohibit those activi-
ties of ‘information media which are prejudicial to the
prestige or security of the Allied Forces.)

The union cited the incident of a printing firm, which
recently tried to stop printing a newspaper it believed
might violate the High Commission law. The firm was
required to continue printing when the publisher obtain-
ed a court injunction.

The High Commission ruled that if a publisher were
to bring such a suit in a German court, Occupation
Authorities could take action under law and withdraw
proceedings or suspend any resultant decisions.

500 Family Units for Bremen

Homes for more than 500 families will be completed in
the state of Bremen with the help of ECA counterpart
funds before April 1951.

To accomplish this the Reconstruction Loan Corporation,
after consultation with the ECA Mission, allocated
DM 1,900,000 (about $450,000) to four credit institutions.
These institutions are thus in a position to grant first
mortgage loans at an interest rate of five percent for low
cost housing construction, until such time as the credit
can be redeemed by their own issues of mortage bonds or
by other means of self-financing.

Construction firms, building companies and private
building co-operatives are equally eligible for loans. In
all cases the ECA funds have been matched with like
amounts from loans made by the state of Bremen and
from private capital.

Magazine Suspended for 90 Days

Glorification of Nazi philosophy by word and picture
has led to a 90-day suspension of publishing rights for
the Bavarian semi-monthly magazine, Sudetendeutscher
Heimatdienst.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

In stating that the magazine violated Allied High Com-
mission Law No. 5, the tripartite decision pointed out as
an example an article in the Oct. 15 issue which assailed
the Occupation Powers for the Potsdam agreement and
the expulsion of ethnic Germans. The Potsdam agreement
was described as “criminal” and contrary to international
law. “A German who signed a document as infamous as
the Potsdam agreement" the article went on, “doubtless
would have hanged long ago.”

Ship's Odyssey Ends

After an absence of 12 years the North German Lloyd's
motorship Bogota has returned to Bremen.

The freighter left Bremen in March 1938 to serve on a
feeder route between Ecuador and Panama. At the out-
break of war the ship sailed to Japan, where she was
used by the Japanese government between Yokohama
and Kobe. Later she served as a supply ship for German
submarines in the Indian Ocean.

After the Japanese surrender the ship was kept in
Japan. Assisted by Thomas F. Dunn, director, Bremen
military government, and later by Capt. Charles R. Jeffs
(USN), state commissioner for Bremen, North German
Lloyd made every effort to get her back.

Finally, in March 1950, the owners were notified by
HICOG that they had been authorized to take delivery
of the Bogota. After completing the necessary prepa-
rations and formalities, a crew of 17 German seamen was
flown to Japan by special plane and under the command
of her oldtime skipper, Capt. A. Moeller, the Bogota
returned to Bremen, trading cargoes of cement, rice and
general goods, among the ports on her way.

Hesse Receives Gift Cattle

The latest in a series of US relief cattle shipments for
Western Germany have arrived. The 35 heifers are gifts
from American farmers and church groups to help in the

Four members of the Commission on Occupied Areas
sought ways to improve their aid to Germany in a recent
conference with US Zone cultural and education leaders.
The Commission is a non-governmental body, organized
by the American Council on Education to help the US
cultural exchange program. Shown here in Hesse are (left
to right), Dr. Eugene Fair, chief of Community Education,
OLC Hesse; Commission member Dr. Karl W. Bigelow of
Columbia University; Else Otte, interpreter; Rev. Father
William E. McManus, National Catholic Welfare Con-
ference; Dr. Willi Viehweg, Hesse's deputy minister of
education and culture; Karl Schaefer, Hessian education
writer; Hans Bolz, Hessian Parents’ Organization; Inge
Raffe, secretary of Commission, and Bernice Bridges, chief
of Youth Division, National Social Welfare Assembly.
Not pictured is Commission member Dr. Herman B. Welles,
president of University of Indiana. (PRB OLCH photo)

--- Page 77 ---
resettlement of refugee farmers in Hesse and are spon-
sored by the Heifer Project Committee.

The current shipment brings the total donated to
Western Germany to nearly 600. In addition the commit-
tee has re-distributed approximately 200 female calves
from previously donated heifers in Western Germany.

The US donors receive agreements signed by German
recipients that the animals will receive the best possible
care, and that the first healthy female calf after weaning
will be returned to the West German Heifer Project Com-
mittee for assignment to another refugee family. Since
the start of the committee's activities in 1945, more than
11,000 dairy animals have been donated to 20 countries.

Artificial Insemination of Cattle

Artificial insemination of cattle will begin shortly on a
statewide basis in Hesse.

The sum of DM 260,000 (more than $60,000) out of ERP
counterpart funds has been made available to the Hessian
agricultural authorities for the establishment of a central
co-operative insemination station, at Giessen, which will
supply cattlebreeders all over Hesse with semen.

OLC Hesse Food and Agriculture chief Dr. James S.
Hathcock points out that, of all states in Western Ger-
many, Hesse has made the greatest progress so far in the
establishment of a centralized statewide insemination
service. Preparations for the establishment of co-operative
insemination associations in every Hessian county are
underway. These county branches will be linked by re-
presentatives to the already established central associa-
tion for Hesse in Giessen.

The counterpart funds for the station will be spent for
the station building, interior installations and equipment
and the purchase of 20 first rate bulls. The money has
been granted on the condition that a minimum of 12,000
cows will be available for the purpose in Hesse. By the
end of the year, Hesse will inseminate at least 15,000 cows
and more will follow as soon as the program is underway
and farmers can see the practical results and advantages.

Besides financial gains, due to the reduction of costs
for feeding bulls, it was pointed out by Dr. Hathcock that
artificial insemination will prevent transmission of animal
diseases, provide a most careful selection of bulls, in
respect to quality, and will increase the quality and
quantity of milk production.

Artificial insemination was first started in Hesse about
one and a half years ago on an experimental level.

East Zone Police Desert

Four hundred and thirty ‘People’s Police,” the equiva-
lent of two full infantry companies of the Soviet Zone
police army, have deserted and sought political sanctuary
in West Berlin during the last five months. The figure
includes 195 who came to the US Sector, 162 to the
British Sector and 73 to the French Sector.

In the same five-month period, 69 People’s policemen”
were arrested in the Western sectors on charges of
disturbing the peace.

DECEMBER 1950

75

In October, 141 Communist propagandists and agitators
were picked up by German police in the Western sectors
on similar charges of disturbing the peace. They included
55 members of the so-called Free German Youth (Freie
Deutsche Jugend — FDJ).

Redwood Gift for Bremen

A touch of old California is taking root in Germany.
A giant sequoia redwood tree has been presented to the
city of Bremen by the Rare Plant Club of Kentfield, Calif.

It all began back in-1851 when a Bremen ship captain
brought a redwood tree back to his home from California.
The tree became famous as it gradually assumed its
large proportions and‘soon scientists and school classes
from all over Germany were visiting it. Then in the cold
winter of 1941, just 90 years later, the tree died.

The war and troubled times that followed prevented
a replacement until February of this year when Captain
Jeffs, state commissioner for Bremen, finally completed
arrangements for another.

RIAS Honors East Victims

Cities of the East Zone, enslaved by political despot-
ism, will be honored in a series of musical programs
over RIAS, the American radio station in Berlin.

The series, entitled “When They Were Still Free,”
recalls the past history and cultural life of these once
great centers of industry, commerce and art. The first city
honored was Leipzig, famous for its great fairs and
publishing houses of the past and also as the home of the
composers Bach and Wagner.

RIAS is also performing another public service through
its symphony orchestra by recording an album of con-
temporary German music under the direction of its con-
ductor, Ferenc Fricsay. These excerpts from major works
of Germany's new composers were assembled under the
auspices of the Dahlem Music Society, a German-Ameri-
can cultural activities group, and sent to the United
States through the aid of the US State Department so
that contemporary German music might be better known
in America. Recipients of the 60 albums will be US
libraries, universities, music critics and institutions.

Rabies Vaccine Aids Berlin

A rabies epidemic was averted in Berlin when 185
doses of rabies vaccine were delivered to West Berlin's
sole treatment center, the Robert Koch Institute.

The doses, in 2,590 vials, arrived in Berlin by air in
the windup of a rush shipping operation after US officials
were notified that the Institute’s supply was running
low. Renewed supply was needed when a rabies out-
break reached near-epidemic proportions.

This depletion came about largely because so many
patients from East Berlin and the Soviet Zone applied
for treatment. During one five-week period more than
half of the more than 250 patients treated for rabies at
the Koch Institute were residents of the East zone, where
no treatment facilities are available. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 78 ---
(Continued irom page 6)
RIAS, The Truth Crusader

silver platter when they decreed that “Anglo-Saxon jazz"
was decadent and banned 40 popular tunes, such as the
American favorites “Over the Rainbow” and “Ghost
Riders in the Sky," as reeking with monopolistic capital-
ism. Fed up, the whole Radio Berlin orchestra walked out
on the Communists.

Seizing the opportunity, the RIAS staff built an entire
program around the 40 songs. The broadcast, called “For-
bidden Fruit,” gained wide popularity and many listeners,
among whom the youthful Communists who marched on
Berlin were the most ardent.

In fact, RIAS, which has far outstripped Radio Berlin
in popularity and whose far-reaching voice is tow grat-
ing so harshly on the sensitive ear of the Communist
hierarchy, is really the Soviet's baby.

ORN OUT OF RUSSIAN intransigence, RIAS came

into being in the early part of the experiment in
four-power occupation of Germany. By the time the
Western Allies reached Berlin in mid-1945, the Russians
had the city’s powerful broadcasting station, Radio Berlin,
in full operation under their own political direction and
were sitting tight.

Repeated Allied attempts to bring the station under
multipartite control led absolutely nowhere and while the
Soviets sat long and late, politely listening to American,
British and French objections, they continued their uni-
lateral control of Radio Berlin.

When it became apparent that the Soviets had no
intention of relinquishing any part of their complete
control over the city station, ex-New York newspaper
man Charles S. Lewis, chief of Information Services
Division's Radio Branch and the one man who has guided
RIAS' progress from its fitful infancy to its coming of
age, went to US zonal headquarters and advised the
setting up of an independent US radio station in Berlin.

Living in those dream days of early Allied Control

Station carries address delivered by Gen. Lucius D. Clay,
former military governor of Germany and principal
speaker, at Freedom Bell dedication in Berlin Oct 24. At
left is US High Commissioner McCloy. (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

Authority sweetness and light, officials at headquarters
thought Mr. Lewis was out of step but none the less on his
recommendation they agreed to open a US station on a
small, but not directly competitive, scale.

But the operation of a new station meant that the
handful of Information Services Division radio personnel
had to begin operations in Berlin from'the ground up.

Quarters were wangled in a bomb-damaged wing of
the Berlin Telephone Exchange, additional personnel
were snatched from other American offices, and two
studios were constructed out of odds and ends of Ameri-
can equipment and any German equipment on which the
ISD radio boys could lay their hands.

HE DRAHTFUNK (WIRED RADIO) system of trans-
mission had been used extensively by the Germans
during the war as a means of broadcasting during air
raids when the German radio stations went off the air
to avoid providing beams into Berlin for Allied bombers.
Using this Drahtfunk method of long-wave transmission
over telephone lines the station began operation Feb. 7,
1946, as the Drahtiunk im Amerikanischen Sektor, with
programs daily from 5 p.m. to midnight.

Technically the results were not good. Reception was
bad and the station was reaching only those in the
British and US Sectors while the rest of the sprawling
city was getting only Soviet-slanted news and Communist
indoctrination.

Still pressing for quadripartite control of Radio Berlin
on various levels in the Allied Control Authority, US
authorities warned that the Soviet attitude was forcing
the Americans to bring in a transmitter and broadcast
to the entire population of the city.

But even in the face of this advance warning, the
short-sighted Russian Bear only hugged Radio Berlin in
a closer embrace, and, finally, the Americans moved
into Berlin from Frankfurt a mobile 1,000-watt trans-
mitter which went on the air in September 1946. With
the new transmitter the program schedule was expanded
and the station went on the air as a full-fledged radio
station rechristened RIAS, call letters for Rundfunk im
Amerikanischen Sektor (Radio in American Sector).

IAS, HOWEVER, HAD an unhealthy infancy. The

technical service of the station remained inadequate,
the weak transmitter was still not reaching the listeners
ISD had hoped to gain and increased power was pre-
scribed for the faltering patient.

A 2,500-watt German transmitter installed late in 1946
gave way in turn to a captured German army transmitter
of 20,000 watts by the spring of 1947 and Berliners felt
that RIAS was there to stay.

Two months after the installation of the 20,000 watt
transmitter, a public opinion survey conducted in the
Western sectors of Berlin showed that RIAS' popularity
had jumped 100 percent to an equal footing with the
recalcitrant Soviet station, each having 34 percent of the
city’s radio audience.

Meanwhile RIAS was fast outgrowing its original quar-
ters in the wing of the Telephone Exchange Building.

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 79 ---
Monitors take notes on newcasts from capitals throughout

Europe, cover both East and West. (PRD HICOG photo)
Months of house-hunting produced a bomb-shattered
building large enough to shelter the expanding operation
and reconstruction was started at once. Scarcities of
tools and materials, however, continually sabotaged the
pace of the rebuilding to the point where it almost
seemed that for want of a nail a vital link in US infor-
mation media in Germany would be lost.

The Soviet blockade of the city and the resulting
shortages slowed reconstruction to tortoise speed and the
new building was not officially opened until July 1, 1948.

By this time RIAS was in big-time operation but its
staff was still having its headaches. The extremely heavy
use of the 20,000-watt transmitter was causing frequent
breakdowns in the old and oft-repaired equipment.

S THE BLOCKADE DREW to a close, RIAS had prov-

ed its potential value as the spearhead of the Ameri-
can information campaign to pierce the rigid walls of
the Iron Curtain countries.

Throughout that period, RIAS, on the air 24 hours a
day -to provide a homing beacon for the pilots carrying
supplies to the besieged city, had supplied the demo-
cratic elements in Berlin with a voice powerful enough
to keep up the spirits and hopes of the vast majority of
German citizens who were opposed to a new dictatorship.

When West Berliners planned a protest meeting on
Sept. 9, 1948, and wanted sympathizers to gather before
the ruins of the old Reichstag building to voice their
condemnation of the Soviet blockade and the attempt to
implant a totalitarian regime, RIAS spread news of the
meeting throughout the city. Within a few hours of the
idea, the city was rallying to the call broadcast by the
station and 250,000 persons, workers, men and women
— outraged and angry — dropped their work and rushed
to the meeting determined to make their voices heard.

With the end of the blockade American authorities felt
it was now time to give a stellar role to RIAS in the
all-important East-West drama being staged in the
politically sliced-up city.

A powerful, modern 100,000-watt German transmitter
was purchased for RIAS, placing the station on a par

DECEMBER 1950

with all the powerful European medium-wave trans-
mitters and vastly improved the reception of Eastern
Germany with its 18,000,000 population. Because of
frequency difficulties, RIAS' range was restricted until
March 15, 1950, when, operating on a new and favorable
frequency, it became audible throughout Europe at night.

WINGING INTO ITS STRONGER political stride, the

station stepped up its programming to a sustained
intensive pitch. East Communists began warning Ger-
mans to cease listening to “the warmongers’ radio.”

The barbed comments from the East grew more
venomous as veteran radio man Fred G. Taylor was
called up to Berlin from his job as chief of Radio Stutt-
gart to head the propaganda-packing station and to
supervise the efforts of the two other American radio
specialists and the 700 German employees.

In a job loaded with political dynamite, a cool head
and temperate judgment were needed as well as punch
and drive. Mr. Taylor's level thinking coupled with
unusual executive ability has lent considerable ballast
to the highly-charged emergencies the staff has been
called upon to meet. A Mormon missionary in Germany
after the first World War, the new chief has a knowl-
edge of the language and people which is essential in
his sensitive job.

Another veteran, ex-commercial radio man -Gordon
Ewing, was brought in as deputy director and political
chief to tighten up the political line and map out hard-
hitting information campaigns for Soviet Zone listeners.

i - S _ os

In early days, RIAS mikes record Russian celebration at
Soviet war memorial near Brandenburg Gate. _(RIAS photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 80 ---
On-the-spot RIAS newscasters describe outstanding events

of the day as they happen. (RIAS/Rudolph photo)

“Kip” Chevalier, programming and production specialist,
joined the staff to spark the American direction.

DAILY EDITORIAL MEETING attended by both

American and German staffers establishes the
political work-load for the day. Domestic politics and
economic trends are carefully sifted, special events
broadcasts outlined, and commentaries and other political
features shaped up. Representatives from the program
department co-ordinate their output with those from the
political department. Weekly, the same staff members
get together to discuss the broader political and long-
range program planning.

And once a day the political chief goes to HICOG's
Berlin headquarters for a “Cold War’ meeting where the
latest information from Washington and from both
Western and Eastern Germany is discussed.

In continuous touch with East Zone developments,
RIAS leans heavily on its friends from the East for up-
to-the-minute information.

Hundreds of visitors daily swarm the anterooms of
RIAS' offices. Soviet Zone fans, listeners, well-wishers,
the plain curious, as well as obviously East police-state
spies, line the hallways.

Interviewees are vetted by experienced personnel
who have learned to separate the friend from those sent
purposely by Communist authorities to spy upon RIAS
activities or upon fellow-East zoners who are in touch
with the station.

In the Communist youth Whitsunday march on the city,
more than 2,500 young members of the so-called Free

INFORMATION BULLETIN

German Youth deserted their units to visit RIAS' studios.

Rising to the occasion, RIAS presented 31 special
broadcasts covering the Whitsun march and interviewed
approximately 2,430 German youth and East zone police
who came of their own accord to see the station and to
talk politics with staff members.

For the young East zoners, RIAS arranged six public
concerts and variety shows and invited them to a huge
gala performance in the city’s large Titania Palast theater.
More than 1,800 young zealots sneaked into West Berlin
for the show. Boys and girls of all ages poured into the
theater early in the evening, and remained to cheer
jazz tunes and Western jokes enthusiastically. The station
offered them prizes — shoes, shirts, candy — which were
promptly taken away from them by East German police
when they returned to the Russian zone.

HIS, THEN, IS RIAS: The radio station which is
known as a symbol of truth to those who live
behind the veil of censorship.

And it is this truth at which the Communists jib when
they wrathfully cry out that the Soviets should take
action against RIAS as a dangerous enemy of the
“People's Democracy.”

They are bearing out the words of President Truman,
who said: “The free nations of the world have a great
advantage in that truth is on their side, Communist
leaders have repeatedly demonstrated that they fear the
truth more than any weapon at our command.” +END

Cartooned Stalin frowns on Political Branch editor culling

news from Soviet newspaper. (RIAS photo)

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 81 ---
(Neue Ruhr Zeitung, Essen, Oct. 25)

German Opinion
in Cartoons

(Europa Kurier, Hamburg, Oct. 13) (Nordseezeitung, Bremerhaven, Oct. 25)

Freedom Bell Celebration.

How it would have looked if the West
had used Soviet Zone methods.

(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, Oct. 23)

When will Prince Charming awaken

sleeping Princess United Europe? Sovzonia's Freedom Bell.

(Nuernberger Nachrichten, Nuremberg, Oct. 13)

= BEuTi——|

Evading the Autobahn toll.

(Bochumer Zeitung, Bochum, Oct. 25)

(Braunschweiger Zeitung, Brunswick, Oct. 13)

Germany Carries the Load.
France's idea of a European army.

Lesson in European.
“Henceforth it's to be ‘We!’ not ‘Me!’”

Columbus discovers America.
Indian Chief: ‘You in Hitler Youth?"

(Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Munich, Oct. 21)

(Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Munich, Oct. 24)

Remilitarization.
France on German Rearmament.

Today: The chancellor and his general.

Tomorrow: The general and his chancellor.

DECEMBER 1950

“No, no, Sam! He's ruined my carpets twice already!”

79 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 82 ---
Washington Report

Germany’s Role in Spanish Civil War

HE DEPARTMENT of State Oct.7 released Volume III,

Series D, of Documents on German Foreign Policy,
1918-1945, revealing the role played by Germany in the
Spanish Civil War.

In providing a picture of how the events of the Spanish
Civil War were viewed in Berlin, the new volume pre-
sents a dramatic chapter in the history of the events
which led to the Second World War, The more than 800
documents now published reveal a Nazi investment of
$200,000,000 in Franco's victory, which was intended to
insure control of the western Mediterranean for the Axis
in a showdown with the Western Powers as well’ as to
give Germany economic predominance in Spain.

The documents contained in this volume were selected
from among hundreds of tons of official German papers
captured by US and British forces in March-April 1945.

The publication of these volumes, illustrative of Ger-
man foreign policy prior to and during World War II, is
being jointly undertaken by the British, French and
United States governments.

Directing the research of the several national staffs at
the present time are the following editors-in-chief: for
the United Kingdom,.Gen. Sir James Marshall-Cornwall,
onetime British military attache in Berlin and author of
“Geographic Disarmament;" for France, Maurice Beau-
mont, professor of modern history at the Conservatoire
Nationale des Arts et Metiers in Paris, and author of
“La Faillite de la Paix (1918-1939);" and for the United
States, Dr. Bernadotte E, Schmitt, formerly professor of
modern history at the University of Chicago and win-
ner of the Pulitzer prize in history in 1931 for his
book “The Coming of the War 1914." The United States
deputy editor, and chief representative in Europe where
the German archives are located, is Dr. Paul Sweet, for-
merly professor of history at Colby College and author
of a biography of Friedrich von Gentz.

Copies of this volume, Germany and the Spanish Civil
War, may be purchased from the Superintendent of Docu-
ments, Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D, C.,
at $3.25 each.

Documents Released
Summary reprinted from Department of State Bulletin
of Oct. 16, 1950.

This volume of documents from the archives of the
German Foreign Ministry tells the story of how that civil
conflict of the years 1936-1939, like similar struggles since
1945, drew battle lines among the great Powers and set
the scene for World War II.

Unlike more recent civil conflicts, Franco's revolt in
1936 does not appear from these documents to have been
stage-managed in advance although German Nazis in un-
official capacities were close to Franco from the beginning

(NFORMATION BULLETIN

80

of his action. Franco's appeal to Hitler for aid was
promptly met, however, and German support for him
continued throughout the conflict despite denials and the
pretense of non-intervention, The documents make it clear
that, without this aid, Franco's cause might on several -
occasions have been lost.

As reported by German observers in these documents,
the military support given by the Soviet Union to the
Spanish Republic was, likewise, on a large scale, though
heavily camouflaged. It was also hidden from the Russian
people, who were told that they were sending food ships
to Spain, not planes, tanks and combat personnel. German
diplomats reported that the Kremlin was reluctant to
intervene in Spain because no immediate Russian power
interests were at stake but did so mainly in response
to the appeals of Communist parties in western Europe
whose loyalty it feared would be lost, According to a
report of the German ambassador iin the Soviet Union, the
Kremlin decided almost a year before Franco's victory
was finally won to withdraw its aid.

In some respects, the Germans showed themselves
grateful for Russian intervention, The Soviet attempt to
capture the Republican government for Communism made
the struggle in Spain one between extremist factions, and
undermined efforts, particularly by Britain, to restore
peace under a moderate regime. At the same time, the
Germans were always able to count on the intransigence
of the Soviet Union in the London Non-Intervention Com-
mittee to prevent agreement on measures to end the Civil
War by joint action of the powers, On more than one
occasion, German representatives consented, “in principle,"
to compromise solutions in the certain expectation that
Russian suspicion and unwillingness to compromise would
insure the failure which the Germans themselves desired.
“The Soviet Union involuntarily did us a good turn by its
conduct,” the German representative reported on one
such occasion.

The documents show that the desire of the Western
Powers to preserve peace was fully exploited by the
Germans. While the German diplomats prolonged discus-
sions in the London Committee their “volunteers” in Spain
pressed for a Franco victory, The evidence presented in
these documents suggests that the Germans learned much
during the Spanish Civil War about the opportunities
which appeasement offered to aggression. The disunity
of the Powers desiring peace and their unwillingness to
take risks against aggression, as shown by the events in
Spain, are seen to have encouraged the Germans to their
later adventures. On-the only occasion when vigorous
Anglo-French countermeasures were taken, Berlin and
Rome showed real alarm. That was when British Foreign
Secretary Anthony Eden announced that Britain would
sink submerged submarines in the patrol zones around
Spain, Mussolini, who had been reporting the successes
of his submarines gleefully and regularly to the Germans,
made haste to join the search for “pirates.”

The documents reveal how much the joint action of
Germany and Italy in Spain helped to forge the Axis
partnership, which, at the outbreak of the Civil War, was
only in its early stages. The Germans shrewdly allowed

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 83 ---
Italy to take the lead in Spain and in the Non-Intervention
Committee, knowing that a conflict of Italian interests in
the western Mediterranean with those of Britain and
France would bind Mussolini more firmly to Germany.
The German ambassador in Italy wrote, in December 1936,
that Germany had “every reason for being gratified’’ by
the Italian interest in Spain, for, like the Abyssinian
affair, the struggle in Spain was “preventing Italy from
being drawn into the net of the Western Powers.”

For the first time full evidence is provided that German
aid to Franco was given not only out of a feeling of
ideological affinity but also with a view to concrete
economic and strategic advantages which would assist
Germany's larger political and military aims. The principal
economic concession desired by the Germans was majority
control of certain Spanish copper and iron mines to insure
delivery of ‘their products to Germany to meet her pres-
sing raw material needs. In June 1938, however, Franco's
government, without consulting the enraged German
ambassador, issued a decree limiting foreign participation
in the mines to a maximum of 40 percent, But, a few
months later, the Germans were able, in Goering's phrase,
“to put a pistol to Franco's breast’ when large govern-
ment counterattacks threatened to end in the deterioration
of Franco's military position. The Germans refused to rein-
force their Condor Legion or to send the hard-pressea
Franco additional arms until exceptions in the mining
decree were ordered to permit German majority control
of certain firms,

Both Germans and Italians often expressed impatience
because of Franco's military ineptitude and because of the
difficulty with which economic concessions were wrung
from him, but, at the end of the Civil War, in 1939, after
a German expenditure of $200,000,000, they felt that a
good foundation for German economic exploitation of
Spain had been laid and that the Axis had acquired a
valuable if junior partner. Scarcely more than a year
later, however, in 1940, Franco set a price on his entry
into the European war which Hitler found himself
unable to pay. Hitler and Ciano, meeting in Berlin, com-
miserated bitterly together on Franco's ingratitude, Hitler
remarking that had it not been for Axis help, “there would
be no Franco today.”

Goering’s attempt to muscle in on Franco's victory
parade at the close of the Civil War, a social encounter
for which the Spanish dictator had no appetite, provides
comic relief in a heavy volume of diplomatic documents.
The Nazi leader was obliged to cruise futilely off the
Spanish coast for several days while Franco successfully
contrived excuses for avoiding the visit. +END

1,000,000 US Tourists A Year Seen

The time is not far off when as many as 1,000,000 tourists
from the United States will visit Europe every year, Birger
Nordholm, chairman of the European Travel Commission,
told the convention of the American Society of Travel
Agents.

Quoting leading authorities in the travel industry,
Mr. Nordholm estimated that 400,000 US citizens will have

DECEMBER 1950

81

visited Europe by the end of this year. Travel to Europe
during the first six months of 1950 increased more than
20 percent over a comparable period last year, he said.

The European Travel Commission, an organization of
18 countries representing member nations of the Organi-
zation for European Economic Co-operation (OEEC) and
united to promote year-round travel by US citizens to
Europe, is sponsoring a nationwide advertising and pub-
licity campaign to acquaint prospective travelers with
Europe's attractions during the September-through-April
“thrift season, Mr. Nordholm explained.

Mr. Nordholm stressed “the human interest" side of
travel, which he described as “meeting and getting to
know the people of Europe on their own terms... as
friends and individuals all bound by the same aspirations
for the welfare of the human race.”

He said the slogan of ETC — “Understanding through
travel is the passport to peace" — symbolizes, firstly, “the
strenuous effort of all. the 18 nations which constitute the
commission's membership in working together toward a
common goal with all the implications and advantages this
represents; and isa concise expression of western Europe's
will to help itself by vigorous participation in an industry
which is one of Europe's leading dollar earners.”

He pointed out that tourism produces revenue equiva-
lent to approximately one-third of the total merchandise
exports of western European countries to the United States.

More than 100 travel agency delegates from European
countries attended the convention. Member nations of the
ETC are Austria, Belgium, Great Britain, Denmark, France,
Germany, Greece, Iceland, Monaco, Sweden, Switzerland,
Turkey, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands,
Norway and Portugal.

Defense Delays Disappoint Editors

Representative US newspapers express disappointment
over the delay in planning for western European defense
under the North Atlantic Treaty, attributed to French
opposition to the inclusion of German divisions in the
integrated defense force.

Many editorials commenting on the recent meeting of
NATO defense ministers, expressed the hope that France
would not continue to maintain its present views against
the stand of the rest of the Atlantic community and that
the delay would be only temporary. Several pointed out
that the French fear of a resurgence of German military
power is understandable, but the present danger is from
eastern Europe rather than Germany.

The wide agreement among the NATO powers that has
already been achieved was stressed in editorials.

The New York Herald Tribune said in part: “The tempo-
rary impasse...on the issue of German rearmament
should not be allowed to conceal the wide agreement
which has already been achieved...

“The area of unsettled issues is nevertheless sufficiently
large to warrant the best thought of both sides, and even
to justify some uneasiness. The Americans are projecting
the idea of German divisions incorporated in the European
army; the Pleven plan, supported by a large vote of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 84 ---
French Parliament, envisages the incorporation of Ger-
mans in ‘the smallest possible units,’ and makes even this
conditional upon the creation of a command responsible
to a European assembly and ministry of defense...

“The fact remains that a role for Germany in the
defense of the West must be worked out. Within the prin-
ciples already accepted — among which is the paramount
one that France is entitled to adequate guarantees vis-a-
vis Germany — there can surely be evolved the practical
arrangements necessary to a practical and very urgent end.”

The Louisville Courier-Journal: “Creation of a western
European defense force among the Atlantic Pact nations
need not wait upon settlement of the problem of German
participation ... The French position should and must be
taken seriously by all the Atlantic defense planners.”

The New York Times: ‘Fortunately, there are signs
that these differences (over German rearmament) which
are inherent in the democratic process and in any inter-
national alliance, are being ironed out. Fortunately also,
the national rearmament and mutual assistance programs
continue without change. But any further delay in the
final agreement can only play into the hands of the Soviets
and discourage those in the West who must bear the prin-
cipal burdens in defense.”

The Des Moines Register: ‘The French idea has merit
in principle. It would do much to unify the countries of
Europe for their armed protection, and unquestionably the
unification would spread into other lines of activity. It
would have the real advantage of keeping nationalistic
military influences suppressed — not merely in Germany
but also in the other countries..."

The Washington Post: "The French... feel that the way
to enlist the Germans in the Atlantic community is first
of all to get them pooled in the coal-steel combination
which bears the sign of the Schuman plan...There must
be no pique over French intransigence, for the Schuman
plan is good in itself, apart altogether from the connection
that the French see in it with a decision to unite the Allies
in their military establishments. At the same time there
ought to be no relaxation in a simultaneous effort to bring
the French around to what has become the conviction of
the rest of the Atlantic community.”

The Washington Star: ‘The reason for the French attitude
is understandable. The soil of France has been invaded

by German armies three times since 1870. Naturally, ©

anything which smacks of resurgent militarism in Ger-
many produces an acute case of jitters in France...

“But these are considerations which must be put aside.
The threat to France, to western Europe and to the world
does not come today from any prospective military revival

* in Germany. It comes directly from the massive military
power and aggressive designs of the Soviet Union and
its satellites.” .

The Philadelphia Inquirer: “Americans can understand
the French attitude toward Germany, since Germans
attacked France three times in little more than two
generations. We too want to make sure that there is no
revival of German militarism... But it is Communist

INFORMATION BULLETIN

82

Russia, not Germany, that threatens today. It is the Elbe,
not the Rhine, that is the first line of defense against
Communist aggression in Europe.”

The Baltimore Sun: ‘The French have failed to con-
vince the other members of the NATO conmmittee that
their scheme for an international European army is fully
practicel. Unless they can do so now, in the less formel
meetings still in progress and to be held in the near future,
they simply haven't made concessions enough. For though
they have conceded the main point already, which is that
German resources must be used, this concession is
meaningless until it can be translated into practical
terms.”

The Chicago Tribune: ‘There is an obvious solution to
the problem. That is to accept Germany as a full ally
under the Atlantic Pact... This solution would nullify a
rearmed Germany as a threat to France or to the West.
The Germany military would be under an Atlantic com-
mander-in-chief, presumably an American. Its strategic
plans would be set by a defense council in which it would
be only one voice among 13. It would be such an inter-
locking part of an international force that, even if German
militarists wanted to turn against their former Western
adversaries, they would have no chance to do so."

Codification of Nuremberg Principles

The legal committee of the United Nations General
Assembly has established a 14 member subcommittee to
reconcile various proposals before the committee and to
prepare a common resolution on the work of the Inter-
national Law Commission with respect to codification of
the principles of the Nuremberg tribunals.

Committee discussions have been concerned not with
the Nuremberg judgments, which have already been
affirmed by the General Assembly, but with the tech-
nical formulation by the law. commission of principles as
expressed in these judgments and their incorporation
into a permanent code of international law, in accordance
with an assembly resolution of Nov. 21, 1947.

Eleven nations had submitted a proposal asking that
the law commission reconsider its formulation in the light
of committee discussions. This proposal was sponsored
by Argentina, Dominican Republic, Egypt, France, Nether-
lands, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Sweden and Syria.

A Byelorussian proposal would instruct the commission
to obtain and consider the views of member governments,
and a United Kingdom proposal would ask the commis-
sion to take account of committee discussions.

The United States has expressed the view that discus-
sion of the principles should await completion of the law
commission's work. John Maktos, US representative on
the committee, pointed out that the commission could
not incorporate conflicting views of delegations as ex-
pressed in the committee. He suggested that the legal
committee should await completion of the commission's
draft code of international law and then debate and de-
termine what principles should be incorporated. -+END

'
DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 85 ---
| Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Oct. 19

The 43rd meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Oct. 19. Present were Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner (chairman); Maj. Gen. George
P, Hays, United States Deputy High Com-
missioner, acting for Mr. John J. McCloy,
and Mr. Armand Berard, French Deputy
High Commissioner, acting for Mr. Andre
Francois-Poncet.

The Council:

(1) Noted that its proposals for the
amendments to be made to the Occupation
Statute as a result of the Foreign Mi-
nisters’ New York decisions had now
been transmitted to governments.

(2) Approved, for publication in the
near future, the text of an Allied High
Commission law defining the restrictions
on the non-official transactions and com-
mercial activities of members of the Allied
Forces in Germany. This tripartite law
harmonizes existing unilateral legislation
in this sphere.

(3) Agreed to hold their next meeting at
the Petersberg on Oct. 26, 1950.

HICOM Meeting for Oct. 26

The 44th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Oct. 26. Present were Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner (chairman); Mr. John J. Mc-
Cloy, United States High Commissioner,
and Mr, Andre Francois-Poncet, French
High Commissioner.

In a meeting lasting about an hour the
Council surveyed the progress being
made on matters under current considera-
tion within the High Commission.

The Council is scheduled to meet again
at the Petersberg on Nov. 9, 1950.

HICOM Meeting of Nov. 9

The 45th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Nov. 9. Present were Mr. John
J. McCloy, United States High Com-
missioner (chairman); Mr. Andre Fran-
cois-Poncet, French High Commissioner,
and Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom
High Commissioner.

Also present at the Council meeting
were the Berlin commandants, Maj. Gen.
Maxwell D. Taylor (US), General de Bri-
gade Carolet (French) and Maj. Gen.
G, K. Bourne (UK).

The Council:

(1) Discussed with the Berlin comman-
dants action to be taken to implement
the decision of the Foreign Ministers in
New York to liberalize Allied controls in
Berlin to the maximum extent practicable,
To this end, the commandants submitted
specific proposals for modifications to the
statement of principles governing the
relationship between the Allied Komman-
datura and the Berlin authorities. These
proposals will be studied by the High
Commission.

(2) Approved the text of an Allied High
Commission law canceling all restrictions
(largely obsolete) imposed by Military

DECEMBER 1950

Government in the three zones on the
production, publication and trade in maps.
The text of this law will be published in
the Official Gazette.

(3) Approved an amendment to Allied
High Commission Law No.8 (industrial,
literary and artistic property rights of
foreign nations and nationals) which de-
fines the term ‘‘foreign national" to in-
clude all natural or juristic persons who
were treated as enemies or otherwise
discriminated against under German war
legislation and whose property rights in
Germany were impaired as a result of
such discriminatory measures, The text of
this law will be published in the Official
Gazette.

The Council noted with regret the
resignation of Robert M. Hanes, director
of the Office of Economic Affairs of the
Office of the United States High Commis-
sioner and chief of the Economic Co-oper-
ation Mission, who is leaving Germany to re-
enter private business in the United States.

Mr. McCloy thanked Mr. Hanes for the
valuable contribution he had made both
in his work with -the Office of the US
High Commissioner and with the Allied
High Commission. Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick
added that he deeply appreciated the co-
operation and service which Mr, Hanes
had shown the Council, Mr. Francois-
Poncet expressed the regret of the high
commissioners at Mr. Hanes’ departure
and extended best wishes for his future.

The next meeting of the council will
be held at the Petersberg on Nov 16.

HICOM Meeting of Nov. 16

The 46th meeting of the Council of the
Allied H.gh Commission was held at the
Petersberg Nov. 16. Present were Mr. John
J. McCloy, United States High Commis-
sioner (chairman); Mr. Andre Francois-
Poncet, French High Commissioner, and
Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom
High Commissioner.

The Council:

(1) Noted that arrangements are being
made for a meeting to take place shortly
between Allied High Commission and
Federal Government representatives to
agree on a timetable for the completion of
the transfer to federal authorities of re-
sponsibilities for control of travel to and
from the Federal Republic. These activities
include issue of passports in Germany for
travel abroad, issue of passports and visas
abroad by German consulates and control
of travel at the federal borders. It is
intended that federal agencies shall have
taken over travel functions by early in
the year.

(2) Considered aspects of the implemen-
tation of the Foreign Ministers’ New York
decisions, in particular that relating to
relaxation of controls over foreign affairs.
The Council noted the work so far done
to prepare new procedures for the Federal
Government's conduct of foreign affairs,
for its participation in international organi-
zations and for the negotiation of inter-
national agreements,

(3) Set the date of the next meeting
tentatively for Nov. 30, 1950.

83

Meeting of Ruhr Authority

At its 21st meeting on Nov. 16 and 18,
the International Authority for the Ruhr
declared the export availability of solid
fuels from the Ruhr in the first quarter
Of 1951 to be 6,000,000 tons which, assum-
ing 830,000 tons are exported from other
districts, makes a total export’ availability
of 6,830,000 tons from Western Germany.

The Ruhr Authority met in the knowl-
edge that there was an external demand
of about 9,000,000 tons for German coal
in the first quarter of 1951. In the face of
this demand, the Council had a difficult de-
cision to take on the basis of Article 14(a)
of the Ruhr Agreement, which requires
the Authority to “make a division of coal,
coke and steel from the Ruhr as between
German consumption and export. Such
division shall insure adequate access to
supplies of these products by countries
co-operating in the common economic
good, taking into account the essential
needs of Germany."

The text of the resolution, as adopted,
is as follows:

“The Council of the International Authori-
ty for the Ruhr, taking into account, on
the one hand, the German internal needs
for solid fuels as given in the letter of
Nov. 6, 1950, from Chancellor Adenauer
to the Allied High Commission, and, on
the other hand, the requirements of the
importing countries as declared to the
Economic Commission for Europe Nov. 7;

“Desiring to make an equitable division
of the availabilities from the Ruhr in the
sense prescribed in Article 14 of the agree-
ment of Apri] 28, 1949;

“Considering that the allocation figure
for the fourth quarter of 1950 was fixed,
by common agreement, at 6,830,000 tons
on the basis of a daily output of 370,000
tons yielding a total availability of
27,030,000 tons for that quarter; considering
that, in taking this same allocation figure
of 6,830,000 tons for the first quarter of
1951, for which the total availability may
be estimated at 28,793,000 tons, Germany
will be left with virtually the whole benefit
of the new effort to increase the output of
the Ruhr mines;

“The Council decides:

“4, Assuming that 830,000 tons of solid
fuels will be exported from districts other
than the Ruhr, the total quantity of coal
and coke which shall be made available
from the Ruhr in respect of the first quar-
ter of 1951 shall be a minimum of 6,000,000
tons for ECA countries, including bunkers,
giving a total export availability of
6,830,000 tons from Western Germany.

“2. This allocation of 6,000,000 tons
from the Ruhr is based on an anticipated
total availability in Western Germany
of. 28,793,000 tons. This total availability
is calculated on an anticipated average
daily outpout of 380,000 tons on normal
working days and six extra days output
at 300,000 tons per day, and comprises
all availabilities including imports.

“3. The Council requests the appropriate
German authorities to submit, not later
than Dec. 1, 1950, a breakdown of the
export quantity in the usual quality
groups, and decides to examine the figures
at its next meeting on Dec. 7, 1950,

“4, Any deviation between the above
estimates and actual availabilities shall be
reflected in proportionately reduced or
increased deliveries to the internal market
and exports."

The German delegation, which had
proposed 5,900,000 tons, dissented.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 86 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

School Fiscal Policy Study (US Zone of
Germany), E&CR Div., HICOG, July 1950.

Overseas Information Program, Vol. 2,
ECA (Washington), July 1950.

Prison Journal, Vol. 1, No. 7, Prisons
Division, Office of General Counsel, HICOG,
July 1950.

Twenty-sixth Report for the Public Ad-
visory Board, ECA (Washington), Aug, 30,
1950.

Twenty-seventh Report for the Public
Advisory Board, ECA (Washington), Sept. 27,
1950.

Der Aufenhandel der Bundesrepublik
Deutschland, Teil 1, Zusammenfassende
Ubersichten (The Foreign Trade of the Ger-
man Federal Republic, Part. 1, Comprehen-
sive Surveys), Bizonal Statistical Office,
Wiesbaden, September 1950.

Official Gazette, No. 36, Allied Secretariat,
HICOM, Oct. 4, 1950.

HEUTE (in German), No. 121, ISD HICOG
(Munich), Oct. 11, 1950.

Trade Union Membership in the Federal
Republic of Germany and Western Berlin,
Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG Oct. 13,
1950.

Yugoslavia — Satellite or Independent
Nation? EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol.

5, No, 42, I&E Office, EUCOM, Oct. 15,
1950,

Official Gazette, No.37, Allied Secretariat,
HICOM, Oct. 19, 1950.

Why We Fight, EUCOM Information
Bulletin, Vol. 5 No. 43, I&E Office,
EUCOM, Oct, 22, 1950.

German Youth View the American Pro-
gram — IV. Awareness and Patronage of
“Amerika Haeuser" (Information Centers)
among Youth, Report No, 42, Series No. 2,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, Oct. 25,
1950,

German Youth View the American Pro-
gram — V. Audience of US Overt .Maga-
zines and US Documentary Film Program,
Report No, 43, Series No. 2, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, Oct, 25, 1950.

Information Bulletin, October 1950, PRD
HICOG, Oct, 25, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 51, PRD
HICOG, Oct. 25, 1950.

HEUTE (in German), No. 122, ISD HICOG
(Munich), Oct. 25, 1950.

Copies of publications, etc, listed

in the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters.

Official Gazette, No, 38, Allied Secretariat,
HICOM, Oct. 27, 1950.

The Situation in Iran, EUCOM Informa-
tion Bulletin, Vol. 5, No. 44, I&E Office
EUCOM, Oct. 29, 1950. .

Trend in Opinion on West German Re-
militarization, Report No. 45, Series No, 2,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, Oct, 31,
1950.

Buecher-Vorschau (Preview of New
Books), Nos. 36, 37, 38, 39, Information
Centers Branch, E&CR Div., HICOG,
October 1950.

Der Monat (in German), Vol. 2, No. 25,
ISD HICOG (Munich), October 1950,

Industry Highlights Report, No. 52, PRD
HICOG, Nov, 2, 1950.

The Mutual Defense Assistance Program
— Armed Forces Talk No. 315, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol, 5, No. 45, I&E
Office, EUCOM, Nov. 5, 1950.

HEUTE (in German), No, 123, ISD HICOG
(Munich), Nov. 8, 1950.

Industry Highlights Report, No. 53, PRD
HICOG, Nov, 9, 1950.

Daily Press Review, Nos. 192 to 212, ISD
HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Oct. 11 to Nov. 15,
1950.

Weekly Publication Analysis, Nos. 245-
249, ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Oct. 20-
Nov. 17, 1950.

The Council of the Ruhr Authority noted
with satisfaction the action taken by the
German authorities to increase coal pro-
duction in the Ruhr, which is an essential
contribution to the defense and well-
being of Western Europe.

Official Statements

Stuttgart Court Action Criticized

Following is the text of a letter sent
Oct. 28 by US High Commissioner John
J. McCloy to Josef Beyerle, minister of
justice for Wuerttemberg-Baden:

I am writing you about the decision of
the Oberlandesgericht (High State Court)
Stuttgart of June 23, 1950 in the case
against Karl Kaess.

As you know, this was a criminal pro-
ceeding against Kaess, charging him with
bribery in certain denazification proceed-
ings. The Oberlandesgericht refused to
set a date for trial, thus preventing a
trial of the case on its merits,

My review of these proceedings has
raised serious doubts about them in my
mind. The German Code of Criminal
Procedure provides that the court must
order a trial of a person accused of a
crime unless it is to be expected “with
great probability’ that there will not be
a conviction.

The documentary evidence against
Kaess was definitely incriminating. In the
face of the evidence it is difficult to see
how the court could conclude that his
acquittal was to be expected ‘with great
probability." The court based its refusal
to set a trial date largely on oral state-
ments which Kaess made at a hearing be-
fore a member of the Oberlandesgericht
at which no representative of the prose-
cution was present. I am informed that
while the letter of the German law may

INFORMATION BULLETIN

permit a court to authorize such a hearing,
it is a procedure which is extremely
unusual. :

The effect of the decision was to de-
prive the prosecution of a proper oppor-
tunity to present evidence to support the
charges of bribery by the defendant. I
do not know, of course, whether Kaess is
guilty or innocent. But that is not the
main issue. The point is that Kaess should
have been required to stand trial unless
he was clearly innocent. Otherwise he is
being treated more favorably than other
persons accused of crime.

I regard any tendency to depart from
the principle of equality before the law
as an especially. serious threat to a
democracy. The very foundation of a
democratic order is the rule of law over
all citizens and officials. Anything which
casts doubt on the application of the law
to all alike calls in question very basic
issues. Only if the courts apply the law
impartially to all classes can a democracy
avoid arbitrary action or an erosion of
public confidence in the.government. This
is especially true where the alleged crime

involves corruption of the democratic
judicial processes.
As the conduct of the proceedings

seems to me to raise questions relating
to the principle of equality before the
law, I have seriously considered inter-
vening. Nevertheless I have finally
decided not to remove this case for review
by an Allied court. My main reason is
that I feel that the German citizens must
realize the vital importance of this prin-
ciple and must themselves be its guardi-
ans, An intervention by the Occupying
Powers is no adequate substitute for
native protection of this principle.

I have also considered the criminal
cases against Robert Otto, Helmut Engles
and Andreas Rapp. In these cases the

84

court, although accepting the view that
the defendants were clearly guilty, held
that they were protected by the Federal
Amnesty Law of Dec. 31, 1949.

The decision of the court that they
should not have received severe sentences
seems open to serious question. The
decision may well exceed the limits of
judicial discretion. Nevertheless, for the
reasons which I have stated above, in
connection with my discussion of ‘the
proceedings against Kaess, I have decided
not to intervene in these cases.

Defense Position Explained

Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, US deputy
high commissioner for Germany, made this
statement Oct. 18:

In view of the misstatements and rumors
extant in regard to a German contribution
to European defense, I wish to make the
following facts known:

With the exception of sporting weapons
under license by the Military’ Security
Board, no arms or weapons of any kind
are being manufactured in Western Ger-
many or the Western sectors of Berlin,
and no decisions have been arrived at to
permit such manufacture. Conversations
have not been held between US and Ger-
man generals regarding a German contri-
bution to European defense.

The US High Commissioner has no
understanding or agreements either uni-
laterally or through the Allied High Com-
mission with the Federal Government in
regard to a German contribution to Euro-
pean defense,

The entire subject of a German contri-
bution to European defense is a matter
for decision by the governments con-
cerned and action by the US High Com-
missioner must await decisions and in-
structions in regard thereto.

DECEMBER 1950

--- Page 87 ---


--- Page 88 ---
