--- Page 2 ---
THIS |SSUE: _
|
Government
And Polities BoNnN

V Pthe National Village

(See page 2)

Of Berlin

Germany’s Future

American Friends
in Germany

“We Live
In a Glass House”

Progress
'n Germany

4 Test of Demoeraey

Dueling
in Universities

- JANUARY
; 1952

--- Page 3 ---
The International Chamber Orchestra of Weikersheim
and the Wuerttemberg-Baden Youth Symphony Orchestra
play together under the baton of Richard Engelbrecht.

Munich's “‘Hofbraeuhaus" was scene of festival's party.
Dressed in native costumes, Yugoslavian university stu-
dents (left) do folk steps. Lower left, Norwegian girl
visitors perform. Dr. Marcel Cuvelier (below), secretary-
general, UNESCO's music counsel, and guest of honor,
chats with young music-lover. (PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:
Editor sessment H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer
Jean Kinnaird Helen McLaughlin
Cherry Lou Fellner Liselotte Goldbeck
Wilfried Saliger
e

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 040-042
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: 8428, 8691, 8738, 8896, 8958

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondehce dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

German mailing address is:
Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
HICOG Hochhaus
Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C,

e

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
Source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

January 1952

Bonn — The National Village ©. .....0..0.0. 0. tsciyn venue as 2
Article by Robert P. Ball

Germany's: Future: 2006.3 ec. Te
Address by John J. McCloy

Government and Politics of Berlin ........................ dt
Article by Dr. Elmer Plischke

Youth for International Union: 250035. 25.) sn eee 16
Article by Robert L. Ouverson

New: Year's Message 975:<5:.\0/s.scuiacohs waren sete ean 17
Address by John J. McCloy

Progress in Germany’ 2% <i57.°e.0 0335 icons Ca oes ee 19)
Address by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser

American Friends in Germany 2/2... (052.0... v.90 «> ott ene 23
Article by F, J, Dallett, Jr.

EUCOM Dollars Help Economy ....................-+000 26

We'Live ina’ Glass House: .:,...).y'cmies.« caveat eae nee 27
Article by Nancie Lee Healy

Cooperation Solving Bremen's Traffic Problems ............ 30

Labor Union Advisers Kept Busy... 505.0 .(0. casinten st oette® 31

Industrial Exposition Highly Successful .................. aa)

Test of Democracy: s..3)s2: saeeiscics cssamien Se ee ame 35)
Excerpt of address by John J. McCloy

Dueling ‘in Universities 20/4 is .555.< spies eee var Denne 37
Article based on series in ‘‘Die Neue Zeitung”

Personnel Notes: 2055.5 si... say ana to weramet ening roectes eared 42

Economy Shows Greater Vitality............... 0c. ..c eee 43
Economic review by A. J. Cefaratti

Invand: Around: German yiis53:.5.60 Sis gs seta cee es noe 46

Calendar of Coming: Events 33:5 < :.405.¢s95a3-.3) eoonen 31

AmericansEditorials):°o24:icseiawsa pasta ca hee aie 53

German Editorials and Cartoons .....................-000 55

Plans for Terminating International Authority for the Ruhr

(Text of Six-Power Protocol) ©. 6.3. s.ndovosuesansaes ye 61
‘Official Notices cc: oa ccc ta eet Noceehe ot eee 63
Communiques 63
Laws and Regulations 5 63
plateMment sion. sida hams a cain. eames Mee!
RecentsPublications = 25-25. tstancl coe oe eee 64

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
od

Monument in downtown square honors Ludwig van Beet-
hoven the composer, who is Bonn's most famous son.

BONNJ- The National Village

By ROBERT P. BALL

Press Officer, Bonn-Petersberg Branch
Public Relations Division, HICOG

O A PERSON ARRIVING in Bonn for the first time,
the city seems to be preparing for a World's Fair.
Wherever he looks, he sees buildings shooting up, streets
being repaired and sewer pipes being relaid; even old men
sitting in the park have an uneasy look, as if they half-
expected the park to be subdivided right under their feet.

But with all the bustle that accompanies the transition
of Bonn from Beethoven's birthplace to Federal Capital
is mixed a reminder that the adjective “provisional” pre-
cedes the new title. With. the hectic construction work
is combined a sense of impermanency, as when roust-
abouts put up a Circus tent. Thus, the headquarters of
the Social Democratic Party (SPD) is fixed together with
bolts, so that it can be dismantled and shipped to Berlin
at the drop of an all-German ballot; the headquarters
of the Office of the US High Commissioner has been
specially constructed to be turned into a hospital later
on; and the Parliament building itself, once a teachers’
college, can become that again— bigger and finer, of
course —if the legislators should move out.

This sense of makeshift does not mean that the old
Frankfurt-Bonn rivalry is still rife. On the contrary, though
SPD members still chortle “I told you so’ when Bonn
plumbing rebels or the streetcars are jammed, most Ger-
mans have come to accept Bonn, at least for the duration.

Left, students browse through secondhand books at mobile stand near university. Center, partly-reconditioned old city
gate is one of few remaining Jandmarks, as is busy market square (shown on front cover), which reveals Bonn has not

lost small-town character although now an important world capital, Rebuilt city hall fronts on the bustling market square.

ae cy m8

When they refer to it as Bundesdori (National Village),
it is more in affection than in anger.

For their part, the natives of Bonn have made their
peace with the new arrivals without actually taking them
in. Accustomed to garrisons over the centuries, the Bonn-
ers seem to look on the federal officials and their fami-
lies, the lobbyists and hangers-on, as something akin to
a new garrison. It would be wrong to suggest that they
the new arrivals; rather, like Wilhelm Busch’s
St. Antonius, they seem to say, ‘Du stoerst mich nicht in
meiner himmlischen Ruh" (You don't disturb me in my
heavenly calm).

disli

The relationship is purely one of proximity — like soap-
suds floating on oil. A local reporter told me that the
Bonners accepted the news that their city had become the
federal capital with indifference. ‘The out-of-town report-
ers who had come to describe the scenes of wild rejoicing
had to invent the scenes themselves,” he said. In order
to understand this remarkable indifference it is necessary
to understand the Bonner, and to do that, it is first neces-
sary to understand the city and its history.

Baedeker Bonn
Bonn lies at a sort of hinge in the landscape of the
ne, just at the point where the vineyards, the hills
and the castles cease, and the flat plain, stretching north
to Holland, begins. The city itself is set between the broad
don of the Rhine and a high ridge bearing the romantic
ne of the Venusberg (Venus' Mount). In present-day
, the Venusberg is a nice residential district, and it

is possible to enjoy a fanciful moment of Tannhaeuserish
unreality by closing one’s eyes and hearing an elderly
gentleman with derby and cane ask the streetcar con-
ductor for ““Venusberg round trip.”

The Venusberg is climatically important to Bonn as well
as to Wagner admirers, because it fends off the cold
northerly and westerly winds. The resulting climate is
mild, moist and somewhat stuffy, with a good deal of fog.

Visitors to pre-parliamentary Bonn were most often
interested in catching a glimpse of the romanesque
Muenster (minster) and the house where Beethoven was
born, before catching a steamer for Cologne or Mainz.
A 1951 guidebook still ranks those sights above the gov-
ernment buildings. It reports as follows:

Bonn (120,000 inhabitants), also capital of the Federal
Republic, enjoys world fame as the home of Beethoven
and a famous university. The birthplace of the great com-
poser is visited by thousands every year. The romanesque
minster, the ducal palace (now university), the Poppelsdorf
palace, the Bundeshaus (government house) on the Rhine,
the government quarter and the famous museums (Zoological
Museum Koenig) — until recently Federal Chancellery —
etc.... all contribute to the character of the city.

The cemetery is also interesting, though not, as one
disgruntled outsider assured me, “the most interesting
thing in Bonn. Composer Robert Schumann is buried
there and also Mathilde Wesendonk, who was one of
Wagner's girl friends. Beethoven, of course, is buried
in Vienna. .

Bonn's History

Over the years, Bonn has been a garrison for Roman

legions, Prussian regiments and the Grenzschutzpolizei

Leit, large sections of Bonn were destroyed during war, creating a serious housing problem which has been tremendously
aggravated since Federal Republic's capital was established there three years ago. Center, baroque Catholic Church atop

Kreuzberg contains 28 holy steps up which processions are made every Friday. Right, towering cathedral in heart of city.

--- Page 6 ---
Old gun, one of many historic monuments inBonn, is located
in beautiful park overlooking the Rhine River. On opposite
side is small town of Beuel, stretched along the river bank.

Row of typical turn-of-the-century houses built when Bonn
was quiet university town and home of retired professors
and civil servants drawn there by property-tax exemptions.

Group of Bonners out to enjoy sunny day sitbeneath statue
of famed German poet, Ernst Moritz Arndt, who is among
German greats buried in Bonn’'s carefully-kept cemetery.

(Border Police). The Romans built forts; the Prussians,
the University of Bonn; and the Grenzschutzpolizei has
built a bridge over the Sieg River on the other side of
the Rhine.

Probably the most important influence on the city was
that exercised by Prussia in the century between Napo-
leon’s fall and the last Kaiser's. As subjects of the Prus-
sian Rhine Province, Bonn's comfortable, Catholic, wine-
drinking citizens were ruled by the stern and Protestant

Prussians. One of the palaces of the dukes, the Palais ©

Schaumburg, has been done over as the Federal Chancel-
lery; another, the Poppelsdorf palace, is still empty.

The most important contribution of the Prussians to
Bonn was the university. Another heritage of Prussian
rule is the proverb: "The Prussian cow grazed on the
Rhine, was milked in Berlin and fertilized East Prussia."

From the collapse of the Prussian empire in 1918 until
the coming of the Federal Government, Bonn sank back
in a 30-year Rip van Winkle sleep.

The University
Even today, the university overshadows — in the minds
of true Bonners — the importance of the government, and
is, as a matter of fact, the principal industry of Bonn.

Founded in 1818 by King Friedrich Wilhelm III of Prussia, —

the ‘Uni, as Bonners abbreviate it, hag thrived in the
moist, Catholic air of the Rhine valley, to become the
largest university in Germany, with approximately 6,500
students and nearly 300 professors and instructors.

Although it has the reputation of being a strongly

Catholic school, Bonn University can count among its |

distinguished sons such eminent and dissimilar free think-
ers as Carl Schurz and Friedrich Nietzsche. Neither of

these stayed in Bonn, however. Schurz went on to America ~

and Nietzsche to Switzerland. Perhaps for this reason
there is no monument to either of them in the halls of
the university.

Indeed, the only monument at all, if one excepts por-
traits of King Friedrich Wilhelm and his chancellor, is a
handsome bronze of Karl Duisberg, who founded IG Far-
benindustrie. The people of Bonn never really took to
either Schurz or Nietzsche: Schurz could get no support
for his revolution in 1848, and a man who studied at
Bonn told me that a friend advised him to remove a
reference to Nietzsche from his thesis on the ground that
“they don't go for him around here.”

Before the first World War, Bonn was a stronghold of
the student societies, known to the world through Lehar's
“Student Prince’ as young men who spent the greater
part of their time dressing up in funny uniforms, drinking

protean quantities of beer and scarring each other's faces ,

stylishly with sabers, This sort of rare bird has largely
disappeared from the present-day Bonn campus, mourned
by no one except the old society members and the brew-
eries. In his place, is the postwar German student: earnest,
threadbare and old beyond his years.

One professor praised the work habits of Bonn's present
student body but criticized the tendency ‘‘to work for
the diploma alone” and a certain academic snobbishness

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 7 ---
still directed at those who cannot enjoy the benefits of
higher education,

A group of pleasantly non-snobbish students can be
found a stone’s throw from the university, living in an
abandoned underground air raid shelter. Medical student
Wilhelm Koehler, elected administrator of the shelter by
the other tenants, explained to me the life underground.

“This is the third bunker I've lived in while going to
school," said Koehler cheerfully, as he led us down into
the cement depths and pointed out the workings of the
ventilating system. Koehler and three other students dis-
covered the bunker and moved in during the summer
vacation of 1950. They organized the shelter as a dormi-
tory and were joined by 125 other students, who found
the Bonn room rents (DM 40 or $9.52 a month is average)
too high.

In the bunker each student pays DM 5 ($1.19) a month
for his room, which leaves, after rent to the city of
DM 4v0 ($95.20) has been paid, about DM 250 ($59.50)
a month for heat, light and improvements. The adminis-
tration is democratic. Koehler gets only his room free
for handling the administrative work,

Pity at this mole-like existence evaporates at the sight
of the rooms, small, but tasteful and homey as wicker
furniture, colored prints and ingenuity can make them.

“Just like your dormitories in the United States," said
Wilhelm, as we ascended again past a row of potted
plants growing bravely under the cold, subterranean glow
of a naked electric light. “We take only students who
are working their way," he added. “About half are refu-
gees from the Soviet Zone."

Bonn Today
From a population of 110,000 in 1949, Bonn has boomed
as capital to a present population of 124,000 or an in-
crease of about 12 percent over two years. These new-
comers have overcrowded the slow-moving streetcars,
consumed 12-15 percent more water, electricity and public
services, caused a rise of 20 percent in retail sales, pushed
and elbowed at the Rathaus, Stadthaus, Landratsaml,
Arbeitsamt, Wohnungsamt, Verkehrsamt and Oberberg-
amt,* crowded the 49 hotels and boardinghouses, and, to
a certain extent, the 17 hospitals, and caused traffic jams.

Their children cram the 20 schools.
On Sunday morning, the 90,000 Bonner Catholics have
a choice of 16 churches to attend, while the 30,000 Prot-
estants have only one. In the afternoon, however, all
can walk together in the five parks and may even be
Joined there by the 4,000 inhabitants who profess no
confession, although these, if they are of a scientific turn,
might while away a Sunday afternoon in one of the three

museums,
The Bonner at Work

A large number of Bonners do not work at all. Like
Parts of southern California, Bonn is a place full of elderly
tetired persons, living out their last years among petunias,
teacups and others of their kind. In the year before the
first World War, the German government granted to all
former government employees special property-tax exemp-

* Respectively, city hall, municipal hall, county supervisor's office,
labor office, housing office, travel office and mining industry office.

JANUARY 1952

Hofgarten park, in front of the university, is favorite
playground for Bonn children. Mothers accompany the
littler ones, chat while keeping watchful eyes on tots.

New modern clinic atop the wooded Venusberg, overlook-
ing the city, is connected with Bonn University's School of
Medicine. It has been in operation more than two years.

A new cafe, one of a chain of cafe-restaurants found
in many large German cities, was contructed recent-
ly near capital's “Hauptbahnhof” (main railroad station).

--- Page 8 ---
tions if they settled in the Bonn area. The result was a
great influx of retired tax collectors, railroad officials,
college professors and infantry officers, who built and
lived in respectable Victorian apartment houses with
hedges in front and tiny gardens behind and who enter-
tained at tea and went walking on Sundays.

This retired group fitted easily into the quiet, striped-
gray pattern established by the university and its satel-
lite social groups. Beside the retired group and the uni-
versity group were only the merchants and the white-
collar workers. Even today, Bonn is a city without in-
dustrial workers.

-.. and Play

One might look toward Cologne for entertainment but
the true Bonner never goes to Cologne. The spiritual
distance is much greater than the 25 miles that the train
whisks off in half an hour. The atmosphere of Cologne
is foreign to the Bonner. Cologne was, after all, a member
of the Hanseatic League: it breathes the air of the North
Sea, of oceans and continents. The Bonner prefers his
friendly fog.

Actually, Bonn is not so devoid of entertainment as
strangers would have one believe, nor as lacking in
charm as one new arrival contended, when he asserted:
“The only good things about this town are that it has
nice trees and that you can get out of it by walking for
five minutes in any direction."

Statistically, the visitor has his choice of an opera-
operetta, a small civic theater which presents Shaw and
Schiller, a smaller avant-garde theater in a cellar, 12
movie theaters (some showing cowboy pictures) and 10
more- expensive and fashionable restaurants and _ bars.

According to a Bonn rule of thumb, you can find the
intelligentsia at the opera, the merchants at the operetta
and the white-collar workers at the movies. The real
center of Bonn entertainment, however, is the university
with its lecture programs. It is no trick at all to bring
200 persons out for a lecture on the “Geological History
of the Provence." “If a Bonner goes out for the evening,
he expects to come away bored and edified," a local
reporter explained.

While the Bonner never complains that his town is
dull, the federal officials and members of the Federai
Parliament will drive incredible distances to avoid hav-

ing to spend the weekend there. When forced to spend
leisure in Bonn, the government people gather in places
like the Cafe Kranzler or the Tabu, which have big-city
atmosphere.

The Kranzler is a somewhat self-conscious version of
a famous Berlin cafe — something like El Morocco trans-
planted to Sioux City ——and makes one almost think the
Berlin owners closed their eyes, swallowed hard and said
to themselves, “Well, after all, it JS the capital."

The Tabu, on the other hand, is an inky cellar, purport-
ing to be a bit of Montmartre on the banks of the Rhine.
It is supposed to be an existentialist den, though prices
are such that the average working Paris existentialist
would be hard put to muster the price of a vin ordinaire
{ordinary wine).

True Bonners ignore these haunts of the mighty to
frequent pleasant cellars like the “Kerze,"' where etchings ~
and watercolors instead of celebrities line the walls, or
taverns like the “Stiefel, where the popping noise is
not champagne but a fresh beer keg being tapped.

In general, however, the Bonner has little money to
spend and stays home most evenings. Since so many
Bonners belong to more or less fixed income groups which
are hardest hit by postwar price rises, they have had
to cut corners — while still doing their best to keep up
the old appearance of bourgeois well-being. Typical for
all is the elderly matron overheard in a bakery asking |
for five tea rolls, two white and three half-white (baked
from cheaper flour). The budget would not reach for all
white rolls, nor could the matron reconcile herself to
giving them up altogether.

Bonn in Germany

That, then, is the city which has become the provisional
federal capital and came to that dignity. The Bonners
have accepted the dignity with equanimity. Perhaps this
attitude could be salutary for these who transact the busi-
ness of state. A Bonn editor phrased it thus: “I think,"
he said, ‘that in spite of all the inconveniences, the atmos-
phere of Bonn could be good for the government. Bonn
is still a city where government cars have to drive out
around the hay wagons. And the Bonner, the Rhinelaender,
while he may not be a world-beater when it comes to
work, is at least good-natured — and clean." +END.

Typical university student, like Rudolf Ullner, 23, lives on meager funds, shares, with 130 others bunker-dormitory (center)
atop which young man is “‘sun-bathing." Right, Werner Wormsberg, medical student, makes lab test at Venusberg clinic. |

--- Page 9 ---
Germany's Future

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

AM DEEPLY MOVED by the honor you show me in in-

viting me to speak before the state legislature of
Wuerttemberg-Baden. Naturally, I realize that I receive
this honor by reason of my being the chief representa-
tive of the government of the United States in Germany.
Nevertheless, I am most happy that I should be the
personal recipient of it. Your invitation is an act of
courtesy and of friendship which I warmly appreciate.

The city of Stuttgart has always been particularly
close to Americans in the postwar period because it was
from this community that some of the most significant
German-American efforts to help rebuild this country
politically and economically were initiated. I associate
your Minister-President Maier* with the names of Colonel
Dawson, General Clay, Professor Pollock, Mr. Sewall,
Mr. LaFolette, General Gross** and many other Germans
and Americans here who together created one of the
main piers of the new German state.

I have visited this beautiful state of Wuerttemberg-
Baden several times, and each time I am impressed by
the signs of reconstruction that are evident everywhere,
I do not mean only the new buildings going up but also
the way people look and the way they are dressed. There
is a forward-looking spirit here. And I think if you could
see yourselves as outsiders see you, you would realize
that this community is a stimulating example of one of
the greatest achievements in reconstruction that has
taken place anywhere in the postwar world.

T IS ALSO WORTHY of note that the energy and co-

operativeness of the people of Wuerttemberg-Baden
have not been limited to the solution of their own in-
ternal problems. I need only mention the fine response
to the appeal for voluntary aid for the victims of the
Italian flood disaster, the help extended by women's
groups in this state to less fortunate Germans in the

* Dr. Reinhold Maier, appointed minister-president by the US Mili-
tary Government in 1945 and continued in office following the German
state-wide elections in 1946.

** Col, William W. Dawson, first director of the Office of Military
Government of Wuerttemberg-Baden and later director of the Regional
Governmental Coordinating Office, US counterpart to the ‘‘Laenderrat,"
council of the ministers-president of the four states of the US Zone.
He died in Stuttgart December 1946.

General Lucius D. Clay, assistant US military governor 1945-47 and
Us military governor for Germany 1947-49.

James Pollock, a professor at the University of Michigan, was
director of the Regional Governmental Coordinating Office 1946-47.

Sumner Sewall, former governor of Maine, was director of OMG
Wuerttemberg-Baden 1946-47.

Charles A. LaFolette, former US congressman from Indiana, was
director of the OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden 1947-48.

Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross was director of OMG Wuerttemberg-
Baden in 1949 and since October 1949 has been state commissioner for
Wuerttemberg-Baden.

JANUARY 1952

Soviet Zone — and an act which strikes a particularly
warm response with my countrymen — the Christmas
invitations extended by so many German families to
the American: soldiers who find themselves stationed
among you.

May I also express my pleasure at the recent settle-
ment of the restitution problem with the JRSO*. This
was a matter close to our hearts, and it is hoped that
the fine spirit which motivated your action will carry
this program to a successful conclusion.

In casting about for ideas to discuss with you today,
I came to the conclusion that it was easier to decide
what I should not say to you than what I should say.
I promptly concluded I would not talk about the South-
west State** or the liquidation of the Occupation Statute,
Potsdam, Yalta, the Oder-Neisse line, or even Frederick
the Great and Barbarossa. I hope I have enlightened
opinions on all these subjects, but, with your permission,
I will not deliver them today.

What I do want to talk with you about is the deep
significance of the development of a European communi-
ty and the future of Germany within that community.
To my mind nothing is so vital as this. I have the
conviction that once this development takes place, most
of the issues that agitate us today will solve themselves,
for they will then certainly fall into perspectives which.
will permit their more rational solution.

The decisions that the parliamentarians and govern-
ments of the Federal Republic and the other free Euro-
pean states are now being called upon to make are pro-
foundly important. I dislike cliches, but I earnestly be-
lieve that the decisions to be made in the next six
months will be crucial for the future of Europe and for
the future relations of my country to Europe.

* “Jewish Restitution Successor Organization,” see Information
Bulletin, No. 144, Sept. 21, 1948.

** New German state being formed by merger of current states of
Wuerttemberg-Baden, Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern and South Baden.

At the invitation of the state government of
Wuerttemberg-Baden, High Commissioner John J.
McCloy and Mrs. McCloy paid an official visit to
Stuttgart, the state capital, on Dec. 17, After a formal
introduction to State officials and other German
leaders, Mr. McCloy delivered the accompanying
address at a plenary meeting of the state legislature,
marking the first time the US High Commissioner
officially addressed a German parliament. Mr. McCloy
spoke in German.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 10 ---
(OUR BASIC REASONS why the European communi-
ty must be established present themselves:

1, It is the only reasonable prospect for European
peace.

2. It is the only reasonable prospect for lasting Euro-
pean freedom.

3. It is the only way by which the people of Europe
can achieve and maintain a substantially higher standard
of living.

4. It is the way to assure the continuing interest of
the United States.

Within Europe the old nationalisms have produced war
every other generation and sometimes every generation
for hundreds of years. Common interests have been
subordinated to narrow national interests. Alliances have
been formed and broken with such regularity that Euro-
pean statesmen have, until the present, taken it tor
granted that their policy must accept the concept of
recurrent wars.

With the elimination of such nationalism, these intra-
European issues would fall into their proper perspective,
and outside Europe countries which have heretofore
been drawn into European struggles would gain some
hope of avoiding further need for intervention. More-
over, with the organization of Europe there would be
an offset of the monolithic-totalitarian pressure from the
East and the temptation of easy conquest would be
eliminated.

It is nonsense to say that the United States seeks war
or seeks to integrate Europe in order to make this
continent a cat's-paw of American policy. We are
pressing for European unification solely so that Europe,
and thus the United States, can avoid war; so that Europe
can live in freedom and dignity. Our whole policy is
the policy of defense to maintain the peace. It is the
antithesis of a design for war.

ET US FACE THE FACTS of the present situation —

facts that have been presented in stark outline to
American officials periodically by European statesmen,
political and party leaders during the past six years.

No single European nation is strong enough to stand
alone against the threat of totalitarianism posed by the
Kremlin. No single European nation is strong enough to
withstand the social and economic pressures within its
own boundaries. Not one is in a position to maintain of
its own strength a developing standard of living for
its people. Not one is able to meet its own financial
needs for defense purposes; not one is able to defend
itself alone.

Something, you will agree, is basically wrong. Yet in
Europe there exist immense economic and spiritual re-
sources, noble talents and fine skills. They are fully
adequate to any purpose. Within a large, unified com-
munity these resources, talents and skills — these spirit-
ual qualities — would have room to prosper. Within this
community there would be room for local differences,
various cultures, many interests. Within this community
there would be the wide horizon, the large markets, the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

great opportunities for youth. In other words —-in this
European community there would be hope.

The great Europeans have stressed this concept and
need for centuries. In this country Goethe, who knew
neither boundaries nor local patriotisms, recognized it;
Schiller embraced the millions; Beethoven was a spirit
who soared above the nations. Your own greatest states-
men accept and support it, as do millions of Germans.
Today the opportunity presents itself as never before in
European history. And at no time in German history
was the time more propitious for constructive political
action in this field.

HE GERMAN PEOPLE can play a leading role. Their
geographic position, their need for support and
friends from among other nations, their need for outlets
for their young people, for their products, all point to the
urgency of the problem from the German point of view.
The division of this country provides an additional
impetus, for the only way in which German unification
can be achieved on the basis of freedom and democracy
is German partnership with the free Western nations.
No division through the middle of Germany can persist
in the face of the strength and moral pressure such an
integration would present.

The time for decision approaches. The Federal Parlia-
ment, the leaders of all parties, the people of this coun-
try will soon have to throw their weight for or against
the first definite steps to be taken toward European
integration, of which the Schuman Plan and the Euro-
pean army are only the first.

The German people would, I feel, fail to live up to
their own best tradition if they did not take affirmative
action on these great undertakings. The great contribu-
tions made by Germans to our common civilization have
been positive acts of faith. German science and industry,
German music, philosophy and poetry were not the
creations of men who were narrow, provincial, always
negative, always saying ‘No. They were the achieve-
ments of men who had a world outlook, men who knew
the ways of life. And this generation of Germans now
emerging from the most destructive, and in many re-
spects the most provincial chapter in German history,
should be the first to become good Europeans.

STRONGLY SUGGEST that the significant steps must

be taken in the next six months. If they are not, the
totalitarian pressures to which each individual nation
is exposed will increase. Moreover, the continued inter-
est and support of the people of the United States can-
not be taken for granted if a reorganization of this
economic and political system, which has required so
much sacrifice and treasures on the part of the outside
world, does not take place.

It should also be remembered that a political year of
great decisions, such as the presidential election, is com-
ing up in the United States and that these decisions
will not remain unaffected by the positive or negative
attitude which the European peoples and leaders are
showing.

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 11 ---
The deep conviction we have. that Germany should
become integrated in the European community is based
on our confidence that Germany can develop into a firmly
democratic state and that its cultural and economic
institutions will have a better chance to flourish inside
the wide European community than within the confines
of a single country.

I am frequently asked by Germans and Americans
alike to evaluate the prospects of the German Federal
Republic as a strong democratic state. My reply is that
only 10 years from now will we have an adequate an-
swer to such questions. Nevertheless, I believe that
strong roots are being planted, that democratic institu-
tions are growing and that there are valid reasons for
belief and hope that should attacks be made on the
democratic order in Germany, they will be withstood.
But I would be quite certain of my views if Germany
were a partner in a Western community of nations where
German political development as well as that of the others
would be assured of continued contact and nourishment
from the democratic instincts of the entire community.

NCIDENTALLY, MAY I SAY a word about the ap-

pearance of what is sometimes referred to as neo-
Nazism. I suppose, as the chancellor (Dr. Konrad Aden-
auer) has indicated, we are bound to be plagued from
time to time with such expressions, but every German
should realize that they are, if not promptly repudiated,
most damaging to the cause of friendship for Germany
in the world. Every time a German minister or political
leader tries to get votes by bowing before the swastika
or any such symbol, every man, woman and child in
Germany suffers — for such talk and activities dry up
the hearts, the minds and the amazing instincts to help
which have characterized so much of the outer world's
relationship to Germany in the last five years.

There is another aspect of German life which I sense
as a hindrance to the rapid growth of a healthy, prosper-

ous state — not only to Germany's internal development
but also with respect to the constructive role Germany
should and can play in the world. That threat lies in
the rather deep skepticism and cynicism that prevail
among many sections of the German people. I say to
those who believe that everything which one has tried
to do has been dictated by reasons of expediency that
they are wrong.

There are many complaints in Germany about taxes,
lack of coal, inadequate housing, requisitioned houses,
lack of sovereignty and so on, but with all the many
pressing problems still upon us we have witnessed a
modern fairy tale in terms of the reconstruction of Ger-
many and the good will of Germany's former enemies.
In the light of this miracle and above all in the light
of the needs of Europe, I would urge a positive philo-
sophy on the people of the new Germany.

My old chief, a man who was a great American public
servant for many years, the former secretary of war and
secretary of state, Henry L. Stimson, closed his biography
“On Active Service in Peace and War" with these words:
“For there is good as well as evil, and the man who tries
to work for the good, believing in the eventual victory,
while he may suffer setbacks and even disaster will never
know defeat. The only deadly sin I know is cynicism.”

T IS UP TO YOU, ladies and gentlemen, leaders in the

political life of this country; it is up to the editors,
the churchmen, the business and trade union leaders,
and particularly to the people of Wuerttemberg-Baden,
with the inspiration of their own rise from the ruins, to
counteract skepticism of a better European order.

This is no time for cynicism or skepticism. This is a
time for positive decisions and deeds. You need only
adhere to the noble ideas and ideals of your own great-
est thinkers, and the future of the Federal Republic, of a
united Germany within a great, prosperous and peaceful
European community is assured. +END

Court Upholds Israeli Mortgage Claims

Citizens of Israel who have mortgage restitution claims
in Germany are entitled to have the mortgages or parts
thereof reinstated at a rate of one Reichsmark to one
Deutsche mark, according to a ruling handed down by
the US Court of Restitution Appeals in Nurnberg.

Citing Allied High Commission Law No. 54, which be-
came effective June 7, 1951, the court held that the state
of Israel is in the United Nations category for the purpose
of Allied laws relating to currency conversion, restitution
and reservation of claims. Law No. 54 is not retroactive,
however, and it is not expected to enable Israeli citizens
and others in their category who have already settled
Mortgage claims to reopen their cases for settlement on
a conversion rate of one to one.

The ruling was handed down in November in a case
involving a claim made by Ludwig Loewenhaupt, a former

JANUARY 1952

Czech national who emigrated to Palestine in 1938, for
the restitution of a mortgage which he was forced to sell
at a discount in 1938 because of Nazi pressure.

The court ruled that the claim would have to be con-
verted at the rate of 10 Reichsmarks for one Deutsche
mark because Mr. Loewenhaupt was nota national of any
of the United Nations on the decisive date of May 8, 1945.
UN nationals are authorized by Regulation 40 of the Cur-
rency Conversion Law to convert Reichsmark mortgage
claims into Deutsche marks at the rate of one to one,
and to reserve other claims.

The courtheld that on May 8, 1945, Mr. Loewenhaupt was'
a citizen of that part of Palestine which has since become
Israel and that this territory was administered by Great
Britain, a member of the United Nations. Allied High Com-
mission Law 54, Article 1, the court said, places such
individuals in the same category as UN nationals.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 12 ---
Berlin Government

Governing Mayor
Ernst Reuter
(SPD)

Mayor Federal Government Affairs Traffic and Utilities
Dr. Walther Schreiber Dr. Guenther Klein Dr. Herbert Hausmann
(CDU) (SPD) (SPD)
Labor Affairs Welfare Marshall Plan and Credits
Paul Fleischmann Otto Bach Dr. Paul Hertz
(SPD) (SPD) (SPD)
Legal Affairs Finance Education Public Health
Dr. Valentin Kielinger Dr. Friedrich Haas Prof. Joachim Tiburtius Or. Walther Conrad
(CDU) (CDU) (CBU) (FDP)
Post and Communications Economics and Food Building and Housing Internal Affairs
Dr. Hugo Holthoefer Prof. Wilhelm Eich Or. Karl Mahler Dr. Werner Mueller
(FDP) (FDP) (FDP) (Non-Party)
West-Sector | Boroughs
Charlottenburg Wilmersdorf Tiergarten Spandau
British Sector British Sector British Sector British Sector
Borough President Borough President Borough President Borough President
Dr. Ottomar Batzel Wolfgang Rect Dr. Fritz Schloss
(CDU) (FDP) (SPD)
Kreuzberg Zehlendorf Schoeneberg
US Sector US Sector US Sector

Borough President
Willi Kressmann

Borough President
Wilhelm Benecke

Borough President
Dr. Ella Barowski

(SPD) (FOP) (FDP)
Steglitz Tempelhof Neukoelin
US Sector US Sector ___ US Sector
Borough President Borough President Borough President
Werner Zehden Hermann Fischer Kurt Exner
(FDP) (FOP) (SPD)

Reinickendorf
French Sector
Borough President
Adolf Duennebacke
(SPD)

>

Wedding
French Sector
Borough President
Walter Roeber
(SPD)

--- Page 13 ---
Government and Politics

Of Berlin

By DR. ELMER PLISCHKE

Special Historian, Historical Division, Office of the Executive Secretary, HICOG

ERLIN, ONE-TIME CAPITAL of a great world power,

is today a city of contrasts and complexities border-
ing upon the fantastic. It is a beleaguered island, digni-
fied by the term “enclave,” isolated within the Soviet
occupation zone. It is many times divided — geographi-
cally, economically, politically and governmentally.

The postwar governmental structure of Berlin has been
comprised of variegated layers of authority and juris-
diction, both Allied and German, varying from the district
administrations of the boroughs to the central city gov-
ernments, from the unilateral Allied sector administrations
to the multilateral Allied Kommandatura and the Allied
Control Authority for Germany. In addition, the adminis-
tration of Berlin has been vitally, if not always directly,
affected by the jurisdiction and activities of the Allied
High Commission, the German Federal Republic and the
Soviet-controlled regime of East Germany.

Berlin therefore is one of the strangest governmental
phenomena of our times, It.is “capital” or “headquarters”
of seven major governmental units, including: (1) four
occupational regimes — the defunct but technically ex-
tant Allied Control Authority, the Allied Kommandatura,
the Soviet Control Commission for Berlin or the former

(Right) Kommandatura Building, headquarters of Free Ber-
lin's three Allied commandants, (Below) Schoeneberg City
Hail, originally executive offices of the borough of
Schoeneberg and since 1948 seat of the Berlin city govern-
ment. In its tower is Freedom Bell, presented by Crusade
for Freedom and dedicated by General Lucius D. Clay.

:

Soviet Kommandatura, and the unilateral Soviet Control
Commission for Germany; (2) one so-called German “‘na-
tional government" — the Soviet Zone of Germany; and
(3) two metropolitan governments, each of which claims
to possess valid jurisdiction over the entire city — the
Berlin government based on the 1950 Constitution operat-
ing in the western sectors, and the East Berlin government.
In addition, there are four unilateral Allied occupation
sector administrations, and 20 city administrative sub-
units (boroughs), with their own respective local govern-
ments.

This provides a total of some 30 units of government,
each with its own jurisdiction, powers and governmental
machinery. Few cities have been simultaneously subject
to as much government as thus has characterized Berlin
during the past few years.

Allied Kommandatura
The Kommandatura, comprised of the four Allied Berlin
commandants and their staffs, was established in 1945 as
the ranking quadripartite Military Government agency
for the city of Berlin. Each of the four commandants was
in charge of his own sector of the city, and together they

--- Page 14 ---
met to deal with city-wide problems and to manage affairs
with the central city government.

The Kommandatura is among the oldest World War II
Allied occupational agencies still in operation, having
now been in existence for more than six years. There
were 207 formally recorded sessions of the commandants
(the ranking organ of the Kommandatura) during the
period from July 1945 to July 1951. Other organs of the
Kommandatura, particularly its committees, have met
even more frequently.

The Kommandatura has its unusual aspects. For more
than six years it has existed as a quadripartite agency
de jure, but for the last three years it has only been tri-
partite de facto. It issues orders to a government possess-
ing theoretical jurisdiction over the entire city of Berlin,
but actually it has been able to enforce its legislation
only in a portion of it.

The Kommandatura originated simply as an informal
meeting of the Allied commandants for Berlin, and it
rapidly developed into a hierarchical group of organs
comprised of the Berlin commandants, the deputy com-
mandants, a series of committees and sub-committees and
a servicing secretariat. The major changes in its organi-
zational structure have pertained to the committees and
sub-committees.

Changes also have taken place in the fundamental
authority and functions of the Kommandatura since the
Soviet walkout on June 16, 1948. The three Western
Powers have devised their own arrangements, while
leaving the door open to eventual Soviet return.

The Western Allies embodied their modifications in
three documents, including the “Statement of Principles
Governing the Relationship between the Allied Kom-
mandatura and Greater Berlin,” issued on May 14, 1949,
the “Agreement on a Revised Internal Procedure for the
Allied Kommandatura,” approved on June 7, 1949, and
the Kommandatura rules of procedure.

The Statement of Principles was drafted at the same
time that the Allies were devising the Occupation Statute
for Western Germany and was issued to define their

Allied Kommandatura in formal session. Left to right,
facing camera, are Cecil B. Lyon, deputy US commander;
Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson, US commander; Maj. Gen.
C. F. C. Coleman, British commandant; Peter Tennant,
deputy British commandant, and (opposite General
Coleman) Brig. Gen. Pierre Carolet, French commandant.

(PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

Berlin's House of Representatives in session. Dr. Theodor
Heuss, President of the German Federal Republic, is on
rostrum, speaking on occasion of enactment of Berlin ©
Constitution, Oct. 1, 1950. (Photos by courtesy Berlin Government)

authority and functions in Berlin. It specified only certain —
limited powers that were retained by the Allies; includ- ©
ing such matters as disarmament and demilitarization,
reparations, deconcentrations and decartelization of in-
dustry, displaced persons and refugees, and foreign affairs.

It returned all other legislative, executive and judicial 7
powers to Berlin, Additional authority was relinquished
by the Western Allies on March 8, 1951, in the ‘‘First
Instrument of Revision of the Statement of Principles,”
issued when the Occupation Statute also was formally
revised for Western Germany. While the relinquishment
of authority by the Western Powers was not so great for
Berlin as it was for Western Germany, nevertheless there
were significant changes, especially in the field of legis-
lative review.

Other important modifications concerned the proce-
dures and practical functioning of the Kommandatura.
In the first place, the rule of unanimity, together with
the absolute unilateral veto, was supplanted by the
majority rule in the Agreement on a Revised Internal
Procedure. This tended to democratize the voting system
and diminish unilateral obstructionism, which had so
seriously impeded the previous activities of the Kom-
mandatura. {

Jn this agreement, however, the Western Powers pro-
vided that under certain circumstances, each element of
the Kommandatura could appeal serious disagreement to
the Allied High Commission. But an ad hoc procedure
has been evolved under which such formal appeal has
never been necessary.

Secondly, whereas originally the Allied Kommandatura
was required overtly to approve all city legislation before
it could become legally effective, the Statement of Prin-

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 15 ---
ciples provided that such affirmative approval was neces-
sary only for constitutional provisions and for legislation
in the fields specifically reserved to the Allies. All other
legislation was merely subject to Allied disapproval. In
effect, therefore, the latter type of legislation went into
effect automatically within 21 days unless it was dis-
approved.

By the First Instrument of Revision of March 1951, this
procedure was further liberalized so that such legislation
henceforth has gone into effect immediately, while remain-
ing subject to subsequent Allied repeal or annulment for
certain limited reasons.

Thirdly, since the Soviet withdrawal from the Kom-
mandatura, its meetings have become briefer and more
businesslike, Protracted political pronouncements, ob-
structionism and parliamentary harassment have dis-
appeared. Discussions are to the point and formal meet-
ings are supplemented by a series of informal sessions. In
addition, more Allied-German meetings are held, allowing
closer relations of the Kommandatura and the unilateral
elements of the Western Allies with the government and
officials of West Berlin.

Soviet Control Commission for Berlin

Since the Soviet commandant withdrew from the Allied
Kommandatura, the Soviet Kommandatura, or more recent-
ly its successor, the Soviet Control Commission for Berlin,
has dealt directly with the affairs of East Berlin. The Soviet
Government has no published prescription of its authority
comparable to the Statement of Principles, a fact which
often has been utilized for propaganda purposes. On the
surface, its status, therefore, appears to be more liberal
than that of the Western Powers.

3ut the distinction is more apparent than real. Soviet
authority is all-inclusive. It would be difficult to imagine
that the East Berlin government is able to exercise free,
impartial judgment in the administration of such matters

The author of this article is professor of govern-
ment and politics at the University of Maryland,
temporarily on leave of absence to serve with the
Historical Division, Office of the Executive Secre-
tary, HICOG. This article is a condensed summary
of a historical monograph Dr. Plischke recently com-
pleted, entitled “Berlin: Development of its Govern-
ment and Administration.” During the past year he
also has completed the following studies for the
Historical Division: “History of the Allied High
Commission for Germany: Its Establishments, Struc-
ture and Procedures” (published early in 1951);
“Revision of the Occupation Statute for Germany;"
“Development of Allied High Commission Relations
with the German Government" and “Evolution of
the German Federal Government, 1949-1951."

as the police, press, education and civil service, not to
mention the more important political tools of food, fuel
and housing.

The real difference is that Soviet authority is not openly
defined. It functions behind the scenes through agents
who head the Socialist Unity Party (SED) and the East
Berlin government and who are indoctrinated in Com-
munist principles and practices.

Berlin Government

Since 1945 Berlin has had several changes of city gov-
ernment. The first was that originally established by the
Soviet authorities in 1945; the second was based upon the
temporary constitution of 1946 and the third was founded
on the more permanent constitution of 1950.

In the meantime, however, because of the success of
the liberty-loving democratic elements of the city in free-
ing themselves from the entanglements of Communist
minority control, the Communists, with Soviet assistance,
created a fourth Berlin government. This was based upon

Berlin Senate occupies executive bench during session of the House of Representatives. Free Berlin's fighting governing
mayor, Dr. Ernst Reuter (left, front row), and its mayor, Walther Schreiber (beside Dr. Reuter) are shown with Berlin's senators.

JANUARY 1952

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 16 ---
Dr. Reuter is shown delivering a typical fighting speech

at mass rally in Tiergarten. (PRD HICOG photo by Jacoby)
—but only tangentially in conformity with — the tempo-
rary constitution of 1946.

The constitution of 1950 provides that Berlin is both a
German state and a city. The government it created is
of the “cabinet” type, as distinct from the “presidential”
type based upon a clear-cut separation of legislative,
executive and judicial powers among three equal and co-
ordinate branches of government.

The new legislature — the House of Representatives —
is unicameral. It supplants the hybrid bicameral system
existing under the 1946 temporary constitution, in which
there was a city assembly and a Magisirat, the latter
serving as executive but also being possessed of legis-
lative authority, which ‘it shared with the assembly. Under
the present constitution of 1950 only the House of Rep-
resentatives exercises legislative responsibility.

The executive is collective, comprised of a Senate
headed by the governing mayor, famed Prof. Ernst Reuter,
and the mayor, Dr. Walther Schreiber.

The members of the Senate are “responsible” to the
legislature, being elected and removable by it. Its ses-
sions are in the nature of cabinet meetings, where deci-
sions are made on governmental policy and programming.
Senate members head the various administrative depart-
ments.

Prior to the split of the city in November 1948, the
judicial system of Berlin comprised 14 local courts, one
state (or district) court and the supreme court of Berlin.

‘West Berlin currently has nine local courts, one state
(or district) court and its supreme court. The highest court
of appeals is the Supreme Federal Court of Germany.
Besides these ordinary courts for civil and criminal mat-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

ters, administrative courts serve as a means of protection
against questionable administrative measures. By a law
promulgated in early 1951, there is one administrative
court and a court of appeals, to which individuals may
appeal against orders and decrees of an administrative
agency.

The government of Berlin under the 1950 constitution
is a workable government. It is based upon democratic
principles. Many of the weaknesses of the traditional
German governmental pattern under the Weimar Con-
stitution and under the National Socialists have been
rectified. Its success thus far has been due, in part, to the
ability, vision and statesmanship of its leaders, such as
Governing Mayor Reuter, Mayor Walther Schreiber and 7
Dr. Otto Suhr, president of the House of Representatives.

Of noteworthy interest from the long-range point of
view, is the fact that the government of Berlin was de-
vised in such a fashion as to accommodate East Berlin.
It was planned to apply to the entire city, which it pre-
sumes to do de jure. For East Berlin to come under the
constitution of 1950 and the Berlin government, it would
be necessary to hold an election to select its share of
the members of the House of Representatives and to form
anew government.

West Berlin is eager for this to happen. But the leaders
of the East Berlin government realize that, should this
occur, they very possibly would be relegated to the posi-
tion of an extremist minority in the opposition.

Berlin and the West German Republic

Among the more acute governmental problems of Ber-
lin is its relationship to the German Federal Republic.
Berlin is not a constituent part of Western Germany.
Although denied original membership by the Allies, the
government and people of Berlin have never given up |
their desire or their campaign for inclusion in the West
German government.

Berlin hopes for the eventual rescinding of the Allied
reservations with respect to both the German Basic Law
and the Berlin Constitution of 1950, which denied it the
privilege of becoming the 12th integral state of the Fed-
eral Republic. In the meantime, the Berlin authorities
have been seeking by various means to circumvent the
limitations of those reservations. The “12th state ques-
tion” therefore is far from settled.

There appears to be an increasing fear in Berlin that
the Federal Government and the people of West Germany
are growing cool toward its aspirations and that the
West Germans are reconciled to the status quo. One of the
results of this trend has been the genesis of a new policy,
namely, the establishment of an independent City of Ber-
lin, perhaps under United Nations auspices and control.
While this policy is only in its infancy—and viewed
merely as a secondary choice —nevertheless, its very
emergence reflects the seriousness with which Free Berlin
has been groping for a solution to its problems.

East Berlin
East Berlin continues under the control of its own pup-
pet government, engineered in a rump session of the city

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 17 ---
legislature in November 1948. It pretends to function
under the temporary constitution of 1946, under which
Soviet authorities excercise a unilateral veto over all
legislation, appointments and dismissals.

The government of East Berlin is headed by Mayor
Fritz Ebert, eldest son of the first President of the Weimar
Republic. It is far from democratic. Aside from not con-
forming to its own constitutive act of 1946, there are such
fundamental deficiencies as: (1) lack of a guaranteed bill
of rights to protect the individual against the arbitrary
encroachments of the government; (2) defunctness of the
legislature —rule is rather by executive decree; (3) lack
of impartial, independent judicial authority, as exempli-
fied by the political control of judges and the existence
of people's courts; (4) prohibition of the freedom of poli-
tical parties to organize and participate freely in public
activities; and (5) the absence of any elections since 1946.

The East Berlin government is closely associated with
that of the Soviet Zone of Germany. Yet it is excluded
from the governmental regime established in the Soviet
zone of occupation. This permits a possible reunification
of the two portions of Berlin without simultaneously
requiring the reunification of all Germany. It also results
in this peculiar situation: a portion of a city serves as
the capital of a “country” (East Germany) without con-
stituting an integral segment of it.

Politics and Elections

Since the surrender, three elections have been held in
Berlin — in 1946, 1948 and 1950. In the election of 1946
the Communists suffered serious defeat. No subsequent
elections, therefore, have been permitted in East Berlin.

The chief political parties in. West Berlin today are the
Social Democratic Party (SPD), the Christian Democratic
Union (CDU) and the Free Democratic Party (FDP). A
number of minor parties also participated in the 1950
elections, including the German Party (DP); the Bloc of
Expellees and Victims of Injustice (BHE); the Conservative
party, the Free Social Union (FSU), and the Independent
Social Democrats (USPD). None of these lesser groups
received sufficient support to achieve representation in
the House of Representatives.

In East Berlin, the chief party is the Socialist Unity
Party (SED), produced by a forced merger of the Com-
munists (KP) and Social Democrats (SPD) in April 1946.
It is Communist in all but name. There also are the East-
Christian Democrats and East-Liberal Democrats, splinter
groups affiliated with the Socialist Unity Party under the
bloc program of the National Front. Real competition
among these parties does not exist, and the Communists
remain in control.

The election of 1948 was held during the Berlin block-
ade, which had important effects upon its outcome. In
the West Berlin election campaign of 1950— while the
Communist threat continued to be ever present — local
issues were given greater attention. Perhaps the most
important of these was the question of socialization versus
free enterprise.

Toward the end of the campaign, however, the issue
of associating West Germany with the Western security

JANUARY 1952

15

program was introduced and became the principal topic
of West German leaders who campaigned in Berlin. Be-
cause of the negative stand taken by leaders of the West
German Social Democrats with respect to the question
of future rearmament, the Berlin Social Democrats lost
some of the support they enjoyed in the election of 1948.

When the election returns were in, the Social Demo-
crats ‘still ranked first, but their vote dropped from 64.5
percent in 1948 to 44.6 percent in 1950. The Christian
Democrats again ranked second, polling 24.6 percent, as
compared with 19.4 percent in 1948. But they were closely
followed by the Free Democrats, who made an even
better showing by increasing their share from 16.1 to 23.1
percent. Thus, for the first time since before World War I,
Berlin's parliament does not have a left wing majority.
The government of Berlin is comprised of a “grand coali-
tion,” including the Social Democrats, Christian Demo-
crats and Free Democrats.

One of the important conclusions to be drawn from
the experience of postwar Berlin is the growing political
maturity of the electorate — provided that it is able freely
to participate in uncontrolled elections. This has been
evidenced in a number of ways.

It was manifested, for example, in the refusal to suc-
cumb to Communism despite its devious political machi-
nations, such as bribery with promises of better food
rations, exhortation to boycott the ballot box, threats of
reprisals of various kinds, and actual physical violence.
Political maturity has been evident in the high percentage
of voter participation in Berlin elections. (This partici-
pation amounted to 92.3 percent in 1946, 86.3 percent in
1948, and 90.4 percent in 1950.) When, in 1950, the voters
rejected the splinter parties, including those of the radical
tight, it was shown again.

Political maturity was similarly manifested by the poli-
tical parties. The Social Democrats gave evidence of poli-
tical sagacity and courage in refusing to amalgamate with
the Communists (SED), at a time when such action may
have appeared to be to their political advantage. The
parties — both liberal and conservative — have indicated
their willingness to compromise their immediate interests
in forming the “grand coalition” in order to present a
united front against the pressure and design of the Com-
munists.

The fundamental imponderable of Berlin politics is the
strength and position of the Communist Party, under what-
ever name it may choose to masquerade. The people of
Berlin hope for the eventual reunification of the city,
but the people of the western sectors do not appear to
be anxious to achieve it if the price is a government
dominated by Communists. The parties of West Berlin
also hope for reunification, but not at the expense of their
dissolution by such a Communist-controlled minority
government.

Eventual reunification of the city is coupled with the
reunification of all Germany. Without it, Berlin's critical
economic and financial problems remain virtually un-
solvable without outside assistance, and its governmental
life remains a paradox. Without it, the city of Berlin
continues to be a house divided against itself. -++END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 18 ---
The youth hostel in Beerfelden was official headquarters

for the weeklong conference. (Photos by Klinger, Sandbach)

Youth for International Union

By ROBERT L. OUVERSON
US Resident Officer, Erbach, Hesse

HEN KARL MAYER, youth leader in Erbach county,

Hesse, and members of the county's youth committee
attended the opening session of the international Lorelei
Youth Camp* near the Rhine town of St. Goarshausen,
they were so impressed that they decided to “bring the
mountain to Mahomet” and stage a similar program in
their own bailiwick.

Word was spread around the Lorelei that any campers
there would be welcome in Erbach county aiter the big
international session was over. A total of 23 youth from
18 to 25 years of age — Belgian, Dutch, French and
Italian — accepted. The foreign young people and their
German hosts lived together for a week at the Beer-
felden youth hostel, where they plunged into all kinds
of discussions covering such controversial matters as
German forces in a European army, the fight against

* See ‘Famed Lorelei Beckons Youth’ in Information Bulletin,
September 1951.

Young people at international youth meeting in Erbach
county, Hesse, visit tire factory in neighboring Sandbach.

Conferees go to Castle Kraehberg for informal reception
given in their honor by the Count of Erbach-Fuerstenau.

Communism, common youth problems, how to go about
the work of promoting European unity and numerous
other questions of today.

Excursions to nearby castles, a day's trip to Heidel-
berg, an informal meeting with the US resident officer
and his wife, and a reception by state and county of-
ficials provided a lighter side to the program.

The entire project was planned, financed and carried
out by the German youth themselves, without financial
assistance from HICOG, and although the resident officer ~
was an observer, there was no US participation either
from a promotional or financial angle.

Participants and the local adult population as well
were enthusiastic in their praise of this type of gather-
ing as a convincing demonstration to small communities
that Europeans can work and play together successfully.
Plans are now being made for an international meeting
in Erbach again next summer, and for a two-week session
in France which youth from Erbach will attend. -+-END

Among highlights was visit to farming community of
Airlenbach. At left, Karl-Heinz Mayer, who planned meet. -

--- Page 19 ---
New Year’s Message

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

HIS IS THE THIRD YEAR in suc-
cession that my family and I have
had the privilege of being in Berlin
to celebrate the coming of the New
Year. I am grateful for the opportunity

to speak again over RIAS, this great German,

This address was broadcast over
RIAS, the American-sponsored radio
station in West Berlin,
Year's Eve. Mr. McCloy spoke in

Paralleling our relationship with
the Federal Republic we intend to
grant to the authorities of this city,
control over their own affairs, subject
only to the special limitations neces-
sary to preserve our rights to remain

on New

voice of freedom, with the people of
Berlin and with the people of Germany — all Germany.

Each of these years has marked great improvement and
progress in the Federal Republic. Economic rehabilitation
in the West has been spectacular.

The latest index of production in the Federal Republic
has reached the astounding mark of 148 percent of 1936.
Keep in mind that this is entirely non-military, for up to the
present there has been no production of armaments what-
soever in the Federal Republic. It is regrettable that po-
litical conditions have continued to retard heavily prog-
ress in the Soviet Zone and that the people in that zone
and in the satellite countries have not been able to enjoy
the benefits of such increased production.

In contrast to the figure for the Federal Republic just
given, the production index in West Berlin is only 51 per-
cent of 1936. That, however, is an increase of 34 percent
since 1949, when, owing to Soviet strangulation, it was
down to a low of 17.

N THE POLITICAL FIELD likewise the progress of the

Federal Republic has been spectacular. The Federal
Government has gone through the period of organizational
pains, It now has achieved a place of dignity in world
, and its opinions are weighed and respected by
an ever-growing circle of nations,

The Federal Republic is rapidly approaching the status
of full partnership with the free nations. In the conven-
tions now being negotiated with the Federal Government,
the Western Allies are reserving only those rights which
the Soviet threat makes necessary. The reserved rights
are those:

1. Incidental to the security of the Allied troops in
Germany.

2. Necessary to maintain the freedom of this city of West
Berlin and its people.

3. Necessary to preserve Allied and German rights at
the final peace negotiations.

counci

The reservations are clearly in the interest of the Ger-
man people themselves. They are also necessary for the
preservation of the security of the free world. They
emphasize the determination of the Western Powers to
stand beside the German people against totalitarian
aggression,

JANUARY 1952

17

in and protect the city.

HAVE JUST REFERRED to the remarkable economic and

political progress which the Federal Republic has made
in the last year. I will refrain from any comparison with
the Soviet Zone of Germany or with life in the satellite
countries or in Russia itself. The differences are apparent
to us all.

Five months ago, during the so-called World Youth Fes-
tival here in Berlin, I met and talked with hundreds of
young men and women from the Soviet Zone. We met here
at RIAS and at my house in Dahlem. Together, we had an
unusual chance to discuss openly the questions which
were on their minds. Meeting with these young people was
one of the most vivid, if indeed it was not the most moving,
experience I have had in my years in Germany.

These young men and women showed courage in coming
to the Western sectors. The seriousness of their questions

The Allied High Commissioners discuss matters in-
formally prior to their meeting Dec. 20 in the Quartier
Napoleon, French headquarters in Berlin. Left to right
are Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner, Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-

missioner, and John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 20 ---
and the eagerness with which they sought information and
light showed how deep the urge for freedom and human
dignity was rooted in them. The visit of hundreds of thou-
sands of these young people to West Berlin, and not the
staged demonstrations in East Berlin, became the signif-
icant news of the world last August.

In my opinion there is a direct connection between this
dramatic expression of democratic faith and the action
taken recently in Paris by a great majority of the United
Nations, approving a commission to investigate conditions
for holding free elections in all parts of Germany, The
action taken in Paris was the response of free nations to
the desire of the entire German people for unity in freedom.

HE PEOPLE OF THIS CITY, which has given so many

demonstrations of its will to be free, should be partic-
ularly encouraged by this evidence of support. For-our
part we reaffirm our determination to protect this city
which has become a new symbol of freedom to the world.
We do not know what new efforts the Soviets may make
in the coming year to break the spirit of Berlin or to
restrict the well-being of its people. We do know that the
forces — moral and physical — which now stand with this
city in the defense of its freedom are becoming more and
more powerful. The Western Allies are staying in Berlin
and the ties between the Federal Republic and this city will
not only be maintained but grow ever stronger. Sustained
economic aid to Berlin from the Federal Republic during
the coming year now seems assured.

The year just passed has continued to accentuate the
world-wide pattern of Communist tactics. Today, the Ger-
mans are not the only people to know the agonies of
abbreviated prisoner-of-war lists. Today, the United States
is also a victim of Communist brigandage and ransom.
Every day for the past 18 months American families have
received the news of a father, son or brother killed,
wounded or missing in action.

The American people are learning again the hard way.
For 30-odd years we refused to accept the hard facts of
our own experience. We demobilized our forces imme-
diately after World War I, a conflict in which we finally
played a decisive role. We watched Hitler and the Jap-
anese warlords prepare their bid for world power and
we remained unarmed. Only at the last hour did we mar-
shal our enormous potential of manpower and material.
And again, after Hitler's defeat, we demobilized. Our
armies, in response to the demands of the people, disap-
peared like water on a hot stone.

The United States does not intend to let this happen
again. We are determined now to make a more timely
effort to stop aggression before it grows into war. For the
past year we have been engaged in a vast process of mili-
tary and industria] rearmament. Together with the nations
of the European and Atlantic Community, we are building
a solid, united defense so that neither the Soviet nor any
other would-be totalitarian aggressor will dare take a
chance of destroying the peace.

Our policy contains no elements of aggression and
under it none would be condoned. But let it be clear
that this time we refuse to be deterred by sham peace

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

propaganda. This sham propaganda has been spread
by the same men who, during the period of our de-
mobilization, not only maintained and expanded their
own armed forces, but also did not hesitate to use them
when they felt they could do so without serious challenge.

HE GRAND PROCESS of integration that is now going :

on in the free world is the surest way to defend ihe
peace. The European Army under the European Community,
the Schuman Plan, the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation are by their community character non-aggresive
and at the same time are powerful guarantors of peace.

This great and strong Community of Free Nations, of
which the Federal Republic will be an equal partner, is
bound to forward the cause of German unification. The
European Army or the Atlantic Community will not bring
about unification by force, But events occur as much by
moral as by physical force. A Europe united in its own
defense against aggression, against any system that is
based on slave camps, secret police and thought control,
will extend its moral and political influence deep into
oppressed areas. This moral force will have a powerful
impact upon millions of people now living under Com-
munist oppression. It will set in motion an irresistible
demand for participation in a life of freedom which, partic-
ularly in the case of Germany, will not be stopped by an
artificial line drawn through the middle of the country.
No tyranny, however militarily powerful, can long with-
stand it. Unification of Germany in freedom, freedom for
the people of Western Europe are bound to be accelerated
as a result of this influence,

Already the progress in building the European-Atlantic
Community has had its effect on the problem of German
unification. A year ago, the Communists rejected out of
hand many Western proposals to bring about the reuni-
fication of Germany. Now they are making extensive
efforts to pose as champions of a united Germany — and
the only factor that has caused this retreat is the growing
determination and strength in the West.

We cannot guarantee freedom in 1952 to the East sector
of Berlin, to the Soviet Zone of Germany or to the people
of Eastern Europe. But of this we can be certain: if in the
coming year the people of the West continue to move in
the direction they are going, the cause of freedom for all

. the peoples of Europe will be greatly advanced.

I wish you all a Happy New Year.
* * *
Mr. McCloy's Christmas Message

The following is the text of a Christmas message from
US High Commissioner John J. McCloy:

For the past six years, we Americans and our Allies in
Germany have been working together with the German
people to establish and safeguard here a way of life based
on the ideal of peace on earth, good will toward men.

A new relationship is now developing in which it is our
hope that this ideal will become a lasting reality. To those
Americans, civilian and military, who have taken part in
this effort, to our French and British colleagues and to the
German people, I want to extend my sincerest wishes for
a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. +END

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 21 ---
Progress in Germany

Address

By BENJAMIN J. BUTTENWIESER
Retired Assistant US High Commissioner for Policy

AY I AT THE VERY OUTSET indicate to you the
deep gratification I feel at the privilege of address-
ing this distinguished and influential group on a subject
of such world significance as “Germany Today.” Permit
me also to indulge in a personal observation. In being
invited to speak before this body with which I have had
so many pleasant and valued associations and in which
my father played so long and active a role, I can but
muse with the poet:
“The aisles of memory are crowded,
One chokes at the gates of utterance."

Similarly must I be cautious to cull from my countless
recent and vivid impressions of Germany only the most
significant and endeavor to recount them to you today.

Obviously, no discussion of Germany's present situation
would be properly oriented without some consideration
of her development since the end of the war—a war
which, in loss of life, physical destruction, deep rooted
political disruption, psychological disturbance and eco-
nomic and financial ‘cost, is unmatched in the annals of
history.

Quite apart from the cause of, or guilt for, all the
diabolic happenings during this world

ent status in all its facets could have been attained
without the vast, sympathetic help of varied type and
farthest reaching import, extended to Germany by her
former foes, in measure and with understanding never
before witnessed or even contemplated since the begin-
ning of time.

Just a few statistics can very cogently present an over-
all picture of this almost unbelievable aid and the con-
tribution it made toward Germany's material recovery.
Subsequently, we can focus our attention on the even
more important question of her moral recovery. From
May 8, 1945, to Sept. 30, 1951, the American people,
through our government, our charitable organizations or
by direct philantrophy, have made available to the Ger-
man people upward of $4,200,000,000 in cash or in kind.

It will never be possible adequately to appraise the
beneficial effect of this magnanimous aid. No one can
deny and most Germans readily concede that save for
this huge scale largesse, beginning immediately after the
cessation of hostilities, Germans would have literally
starved..Nor could Germany have recovered industrially,
agriculturally, economically, financially or sociologically

holocaust— matters which are not
directly within the purview of this
afternoon's discussion — suffice it to
say that in all these aspecis Germany
suffered as much as any other
country. Consequently, on May 8,
1945, her road back along the high-
ways of physical reconstruction, eco-
nomic and financial recovery, human

Bibliography of Addresses

All major addresses, delivered by
Mr. Buttenwieser during his tenure as
assistant US high commissioner

This article is the text of an address delivered by Mr. Buttenwieser
before the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York Dec. 6, upon
his return to the United States after resigning his HICOG post. Mr. But-
tenwieser was appointed assistant US high commissioner on Oct. 5, 1949.

Finding Dollar Markets, address at
opening ceremonies of Export Week
for in Munich, Issue of November 1950.

rehabilitation, moral and morale re-
building and political reaccept:nce
seemed the longest, the most hazardous
and the most difficult to traverse.

HOUGH THE CHANCES of much

progress along those lines seemed
gloomy then—as well they might
have —it must be said to the credit
of Germany that she has achieved
much in meeting the welter of dif-
ficulties that beset her at the war's
end. However resolute, industrious
and devoted were the German people
to the accomplishment of the heavy
tasks that lay befo-e them, it is utterly
unrealistic for anyone —German or
non-German — to think that her pres-

JANUARY 1952

policy, have been published in the
Information Bulletin. A bibliography of
these addresses with the issue of publi-
cation follows:

American Policy in Germany, address
before the annual spring conference
of the American Schools teachers in
Berchtesgaden, Issue of May 1950.

The Reorientation of Germany, text of
address prepared for delivery before
the Anti-Defamation League of the
B'nai B'rith in Chicago, Issue of June
1950.

Germany Today—Economically and Fi-
nancially, address before the Invest-
ment Bankers’ Association of America
at White Sulphur Springs, W.Va.,
Issue of July 1950,

A Five Year Inventory, address at US
Information Center in Heilbronn,
Wuerttemberg-Baden, Issue of August
1950.

Singers with a Message, speech at
second annual singing contest spon-
sored by EUCOM's German Youth
Activities, Issue of May 1951.

Women's Role Today, address at an-
nual convention of German-American
Clubs in Heidelberg, Issue of July
1951.

Today's Coal Situation, statement re-
viewing current conditions, Issue of
September 1951. -

Partnership in Sacrifice, address at
opening of Frankfurt fall fair, Issue
of October 1951.

Guarding Human Rights Today, address
at conference of Human Rights in
Limburg, Hesse, Issue of November
1951,

Mr. Buttenwieser also assisted the
Information Bulletin by contributing
important information and reviewing
manuscripts dealing with HICOG policy
and progress in Germany.

19

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 22 ---
had it not been for this help, purveyed in such large
amounts and along such constructive lines.

The results of the United States’ having, so to speak,
supplied the tools and the Germans’ having made good
use of them have been dramatic. Taking 1936, the year
generally conceded to be the last prewar, normal indus-
trial year for Germany and most European countr‘es, as
a base of 100, Germany's indus‘rial production index in
January of 1948 stood at 45. This is the earliest reliable
postwar figure available on this point. The most recent
figure, that for October 1951, finds this index soared to 139.

In terms of foreign trade, the recovery is even more
pronounced. In 1947, Germany's exports totaled the equiv-
alent of $225,000,000 and her imports $734,000,000. As
of September 1951, her exports had risen to the rate of
$3,900,000,000 per annum, whereas her imports were at
the rate of $4,500,000,000.

VAST ARRAY of additional data could be cited to

attest Germany's material recovery, if further demon-
stration were requisite. What is of more far reaching
significance is the question of Germany's moral recovery.
Here, too, the hand of friendship was extended in measure
and in spirit unequaled in the annals of altruistic for-
bearance. Being in the non-material realm, the amount
of help and the indices of recovery are far more difficult
to gauge than in the material sphere. Moreover, it is still
premature to determine the actual degree and extent to
which such Germans as erred have mended their ways
since their diabolic activities under the Nazi regime, or
the definitiveness with which Germans have become
genuinely imbued with the spirit of true democracy.

Obviously, not all Germans were guilty of participating
in or even condoning the evil program of Nazism. Con-
sequently, it would be manifestly unfair to seek to indict
all Germans under a concept of collective guilt. It is
equally patent that it was some Germans who were these
shocking transgressors, Therefore, all Germans — even
today — should have a feeling of collective share at the
contemplation that some of their fellow countrymen could
have sunk to such barbaric depths. And last, even as it
is unjust to assess against all Germans the concept of
collective guilt, so too is it untenable for Germany to
seek to create a facade of collective innocence.

The peace and freedom-loving nations of the world are
demonstrating daily not merely their readiness, but their
wholehearted desire, to welcome a democratic Germany
back into their fold. The Council of Europe, the Schuman
Plan, the European Defense Community, within the
broader concept of the North Atlantic Community, and
the new contractual relationship now being negotiated
to supplant the Occupation Statute are all strong sinews
which Germany has grasped and can continue to utilize
to bind her to the West, which seeks but to preserve
peace and freedom and equal opportunities for all.

LL THESE NEW CONCEPTS and organizations have

this same common goal. Equally applicable to all of
them is Senator Austin’s eloquent description of the North
Atlantic Pact:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

“The object of the pact is peace. Its intention is to
provide greater security for millions of persons who live
today in anxious fear of another war. It is armor, but not
a lance; it is a shield, but not a sword.”

All carry with them an invitation to Germany to join
in these international cooperative efforts which are so
promisingly developing in Europe and in which our
country, consonant with its new role of world leadership,
is playing so dynamic and constructive a role. The de-
cision which Germany must make on each of them is the
same. Does she want to participate in this noble effort
or not? How she decides will depend on the degree and
extent to which the new spirit, which, with Allied help,
has been developing, prevails among her leaders and
her people.

There are some disquieting evidences that the old
concepts which led to Germany's downfall have not been
completely repudiated by all Germans. Although Com-
munism has been thoroughly rejected at the polls, nation-
alistic extremism and neo-Nazism all too evidently still
have an appeal in certain quarters. There are distressing
signs of both self pity and arrogant pride. Certain quarters
act as though world politics revolve around Germany.

Playing “hard to get’ is being practiced by all too
many Germans who would trifle with their country's
destiny for their own selfish gain or political advantage.
One leading political figure even went so far recently as
to say that it is not a question of whether Germany wants
to join Europe, but whether Europe wants to join Ger-
many. These are signs and developments whose strengih
and prevalence Germans and the Western Powers, alike,
would underestimate or ignore at their peril.

They must be rooted out by the effective process of
exposing their vicious doctrines to the uncompromising
judgment of decent public opinion. If such movements
and views should gain general support, the friendly
relations between Germany and the free peoples of the
West will be sacrificed. Even now they are jeopardizing
this gradually improving relationship by undermining the
confidence in Germany which is being so laboriously
built up by the better elements and more enlightened
leadership in Germany, with the patient and often for-
bearing help of the outside world. However, I think there
is valid ground for feeling that these forces of right will
prevail, as prevail they should; and prevail they must if
Germany is to occupy an honorable place in the newly
developing world order.

T IS NOT MERELY adherence to the political tenets of

democracy, however, that constitutes the sole or even
primary gauge or criterion of a people's devotion to that
concept. Of more far-reaching importance is the prag-
matic test of how much implementation the theses of
democracy are accorded in the daily lives of a people.
In the ultimate analysis, democracy to be learned must
be practiced. That applies with particular cogency to
Germany in the light of her history — recent or even well
in the past.

A more equitable distribution of profits as between
owner and worker, greater freedom to engage in trade,

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 23 ---
liberalization of industrial and economic processes, better
working conditions, enlightened renovation of the so-
called apprentice system, revamping of the tax structure
to change it from a regressive to a progressive system,
genuine civil service reform, emancipation from archaic
and restrictive educational procedures at the lower levels
and dangerous reactionary systems at the higher, uni-
versity levels —the exercise of these and various other
true attributes of democracy in its broader scope, together
with greater willingness to redress wrongs of many types,
would go far toward assuring the outside world and all
too many “‘die-hards" or cynics in Germany itself that she
is conscientiously dedicated to true democracy.

There are blandishments from the East which seek to
lead the Federal Republic away from integration with
the West, with all the advantages such integration con-
notes for the new Republic's future. This lure of reuni-
fication with the East zone is understandably great. No
country ‘or people will rest contentedly in a status of
artificial separation, imposed by fiat and maintained by
intransigence. The peaceful reunification of Germany
along democratic lines is and continues to represent a
fundamental concept of Allied policy; but not at the
sacrifice of Germany's integration into the West. This
integration is a basic necessity for Germany, if her peace
and freedom and the peace and freedom of the world are
to be assured.

Constituting a unified, neutralized, demilitarized Ger-
many, in the present state of tension and cleavage be-
tween the aggressive forces of the Soviet orbit and the
peaceful, defensively designed alignment of the West,
would indeed be exposing all Germans—those of the
Federal Republic and of the East zone —to a cruel il-
lusion, Just as nature abhors a vacuum in the physical
world, so too would this political vacuum in the center of
Europe enlarge, rather than reduce, the area of potential,
international turbulence,

SOVIET GUARANTY of the territorial integrity of

such a unified Germany would be a tragic mirage, as
all too many of the satellite states learned to their regret.
Let us venturé the hope that the time may not be long
distant when world-wide demilitarization may be ac-
complished; but until then, the Federal Republic's safety
and constructive development are inexorably bound up
in her integration into the West.

This policy was re-enunciated by the Allies and con-
curred in by the Federal Republic in crystal clear
language at the recent historic meeting of the three
foreign ministers with the German chancellor-foreign
minister when they declared: ‘‘The four foreign ministers
consider the contractual arrangements to be concluded
between their governments, as well as the treaties for
the creation of an integrated European Community, as
essential steps to-the achievement of their common aim:
a unified Germany integrated within the Western Euro-
pean Community.”

May I avail of the timely opportunity this renowned
forum affords to reaffirm equally lucidly our exact and
unwavering policy with regard to the Federal Republic's

JANUARY 1952

21

Benjamin J. Buttenwieser.

participation in Western defense. Lest there be any im-
pression that this policy encourages or would counte-
nance the re-creation of an independent German army
and an uncontrolled armaments industry, capable of sup-
porting such a self-sufficient army, or the resurgence of
the type of militarism which wrought such havoc on both
Germany and those she fought in two world wars, let me
hasten to dispel any such unfounded fears.

The decent elements in Germany—and these are
fortunately substantial and, I believe, in the ascendancy: —
do not want any such baleful developments to ensue
again, any more than do we or any of Germany's Western
neighbors, who still so poignantly remember the results
of their blindness or negligence in permitting the rebuild-
ing of Germany's military machine under the Nazis.

We welcome German participation in Western defense
and we are seeking to establish a new relationship with
Germany, but not at the sacrifice of the pr‘nciples for
which we fought or at the compromise of the progress
we have made toward immunizing Germany against the
virus of Nazism or any similar evil. The best safeguard
against such a recurrence lies not in elaborate and often
impractical controls which history has demonstrated are
seldom availed of until the evil is too far developed to
arrest it.

ILITARILY MORE EFFECTIVE, and politically and
economically more advantageous, is it to amalgam-
ate Germany's productive capacity, manpower and
strategic location into a real European Defense Com-
munity—-a community whose supranational aspects
render it at least as important from a political, as from

‘a military, standpoint. The fundamental concept of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 24 ---
European defense force is that it transforms the age old
national armies, each self-integrated and capable of wag-
ing independent warfare, fraught with all the inherent
dangers of such a situation, into an international force
with national contingents, truly integrated and not
separable into independent, national forces,

Because of Germany's record of aggression, it is not
unreasonable that, as a token of her peaceful intentions
and as a gesture of reconciliation, she should agree to
submit her production of obviously lethal and offensive
weapons to the control of an organization of nations,
including her former enemies and victims. It may he
expected that Germany will soon, if not immediately,
attain full membership in this community so that she will
share in the determination of these very controls.

Nor is it too much to expect that in the foreseeable
future, this concept of controls, in the negative sense,
will give way to a rationalized assignment of production
by the community. Even during this near term, pro-
bationary period, the existence of these production con-
trols would not affect Germany's equality and status in
the contemplated defense force where it has already
been determined that her contingents will be armed and
directed on the same basis as all other contingents. In
the ultimate analysis, it is arms, not their production,
which constitute the true test of equality.

The strength which such a European defense force
could muster, in the political as well as in the military
realms, when added to the enormous productive and
military might, both actual and potential, entailed in its
companion organization, the North Atlantic Community,
should be capable of playing the role for which both are
designed — the defense of the peace and freedom of the
Western world. This structure provides for a common
defense by all against an attack on any one; but it also
contains safeguards against independent, aggressive action
by any one of its members. In this “house there are many
mansions" — ample for all nations with like ideals.

HE GERMANY OF TODAY, which I fervently hope
and believe is well on her way to becoming a re-

formed Germany, is opting to cast her lot with her former —

enemies in this new spirit of trying, on the one hand, to

- expiate and, on the other, to forgive the past and look
to the future. Only in that spirit can there be created a
world fervently dedicated to and actually practicing
peace and freedom and democracy. These new, dynamic
apparatuses, like the European Defense Community, the
Schuman Plan, the Council of Europe or the still some-
what nebulous, though no less significant, European
Union*are all ventures in international, supranational
understanding, cooperation and idealism. They are born
of faith and can but be nurtured through trust. Their
development involves the solving of many, complex prob-
lems. This takes time. It requires patience and a con-
siderable degree of submerging shortsighted, near term,
national benefits, which, in their narrower scope, benefit
the few, as against elevating the longer range, inter-
national advantages which, with far broader horizons,
will improve the many.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

There will, I fear, be occasional setbacks in this gradu-
ally progressing complex of international agencies. It is
almost too much to expect otherwise. But I think the trend
is definitely forward; and, in the light of the past, it is
gratifyingly encouraging. As to Germany, the true test of
what we and our two allies have sought to effect through
our occupation will come when these tempests of a set-
back blow against the tender roots of the new Republic.
These storms may develop from without or within.

All we strove to do, all we could have hoped to ac-,
complish, is to help the right-minded and well-intended
Germans in planting the seeds of democracy and freedom
and peace firmly and in tilling and enriching the soil in
which they sowed. When in the near future the occu-
pation yields its place to the new contractual relationship
and then ultimately to complete German sovereignty
under a peace treaty, the German people will have to
nurture their crops alone. Their ultimate harvest will be
truly predicated on the:hallowed doctrine: “As ye sow,
so shall ye reap."

Our efforts will not cease on the signing of either the
contractual conventions or the peace treaty. All nations
of good will and honorable intentions are sincerely and
earnestly dedicated to the task of helping. Germany
emancipate herself from her past and join the family of
decent, democratic, peaceful, freedom loving nations. As
it was said of an individual so is it equally applicable to
the larger groups of individuals who constitute nations:
“We rise by raising others, and he, who stoops above the
fallen, stands erect.’ Thus can the nations rise and en-
hance their stature in their own consciences and in the
eyes of history by helping the Germany of today to rise
above her past and embark on an enlightened future.

+END

Utting Families Thank US

The community council and mayor of the little village
of Utting on the Ammersee and 12 families there have
personally thanked the US Government for Marshall Plan
help.

Early last year the community was promised DM 30,000
($7,140) out of ECA funds for construction of three houses,
each with living quarters for four families. A Bavarian
state credit of DM 4,000 ($952) for each unit was added
along with contributions or credits from the county and
the labor office. Construction started in May and the apart-
ments were completed in November.

The 12 families wrote to Resident Officer David K. .
Peet at Landsberg: “We are feeling very happy in these
new apartments, which are very fine. Now we can live
as human beings again, as we had extremely bad and
narrow quarters after the escape from our home countries
(Sudetenland and Silesia)."

The community council and the mayor wrote: “The
community of Utting, after building these fine houses
for expellees with your help, now consider it their duty
hereby to send you their best thanks.”

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 25 ---
Ameriean Friends in Germany

By F. J. DALLETT, JR.
HICOG Duty Officer

‘iMULTANEOUSLY WITH THE SOUND of five lan-
S guages echoing through the little town of Donau-
eschingen in the Black Forest were heard the hum of a
dozen sewing machines in a refugee camp in Oldenburg,
the shouts of small boys in leather shorts raking gravel
in Frankfurt, the singing of. students in a conference
yoom in Freiburg and voices of earnest discussion out-
side a Berlin neighborhood center.

These cheerful sounds of renewed hope for the future
marked the beginning of the American Friends Service
Committee's (AFSC) sixth year of work in aiding the
rehabilitation of Germany. AFSC has made its unique
contribution through a seven-point program which caters
to social and psychological needs in the postwar world,
placing it high among social welfare programs of foreign
agencies in western Europe.

Volunteer workers sent out from Philadelphia, where
the Quaker organization has its headquarters, were on
the job in the British Zone in the spring of 1946 and a
year later were active in the French and US Zones,
forming relief teams for the distribution of food and
clothing to the most needy in Germany. The old hunting
lodge of the princes of Hesse at Kranichstein, near Darm-
stadt, administrative center for AFSC activities in Ger-
many, has rapidly become an international crossroad and
its dim, antler-hung halls a focal point for program con-
ferences in which German co-workers join.

Relief work and community activity in urban areas,
where the aftermath of war had created special prob-
lems, were focused in the neighborhood centers establish-
ed early in 1947. The old maxim of ‘Help those who help
themselves" prevailed, the brunt of the building and
organization of the centers being borne by the local
inhabitants under the guidance of AFSC representatives.
Centers at Cologne, Wuppertal, Brunswick, Ludwigshafen,
Frankfurt, Darmstadt and Berlin were set up to provide
kindergartens for children of working mothers, sewing
services, shoe shops, lending libraries and to create
social and recreational interests to bring all age groups
into the center.

Y/ ILE SUCH EARLY relief measures as food distri-
bution and child-feeding on the premises have now
given way to activities for social reconstruction, the

centers still distribute gifts from America to the needy
recommended by their social welfare committees. Typical
is the committee in the Frankfurt center, a nucleus formed

by women from the Catholic, Evangelical and civic wel-
fare groups in the city, which is unique in German social
history since welfare groups have traditionally not been
Cooperative. .

However, it is in the amazingly versatile activities
Program, which combines education and recreation, that

JANUARY 1952

the centers achieve their corporate success, Groups meet
weekly for English discussion and English courses, in-
struction in handicrafts, folk dancing, chess, gardening
and for table tennis and other sports for teen-agers, and
story hours and films for younger children.

The Saturday ‘‘work camps" at the centers or in
nearby refugee homes, are participated in by all age
groups. The great amount of activity which stems from
the neighborhood centers has awakened a strong sense of
community responsibility in areas where they are located.

AFSC has consistently been able to withdraw financial
support as centers gradually grow toward independence
and to decrease international personnel as German co-
workers assume greater responsibility. Nearly all the
activities are now led and directed by volunteers, and
the strong association of interest promises a long future
of civic usefulness after AFSC direction is ended.

ERMAN SOCIAL PROBLEMS are considered in the
Service Committee program through practical parti-
cipation as well as in international seminars which bring
together people of different backgrounds in an atmos-
phere free from academic pedantry. By pooling ideas,
seminar participants try to arrive at a basis for under-

Twenty-nine young persons from seven countries labor
alongside ethnic German refugees from Yugoslavia and
Romania at American Friends Service Committee work
camp in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, to build new homes in that
area for its many refugees.

(AFSC photos)

--- Page 26 ---
standing the common problems of
peoples and of each other. For this
reason so-called “countries of ten-
sion’ are concentrated upon: thus,
for the third consecutive year, one
of the three international seminars
organized by AFSC in 1951 was in
Germany. It was held in beleaguered
West Berlin, a unique site for presen-
tation of the over-all East-West pic-
ture to participants.

AFSC maintains and staffs student
centers in Munich and Freiburg.*
These centers aim to bring students
together in an atmosphere where
established social barriers are broken
down and where they can meet with
each other and with their faculties
informally and outside the influence
of fraternities.

Libraries, discussion facilities and
typing ‘rooms are available, and in
Freiburg 300 to 500 students a day drop in between
classes; groups are organized in the center for week-end
camping trips and ski outings. The presence of AFSC
foreign workers has given these centers vitality, and
universities recognize the value of them by aiding in
their support.

On the lower school level, AFSC concentrates on a
highly developed ‘school affiliation’ program which
brings American and European secondary and some ele-
mentary schools into partnership.

In Germany, two jield directors, one working out of
Duesseldorf and the other out of Kranichstein, visit these
schools and make regular reports to the partner schools in
the United States, giving a first-hand analysis of the school
and its place in community life, while workers in the
United States are cultivating the other side of the relation-
ship. Classes develop “pen pals" and also exchange actual
classroom work. Last summer students and teachers from
five affiliated schools, two German, one French and two

English discussion groups developed have been small
enough in size to provide for real participation by all.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Tw A As

Quaker worker and kindergarten teacher play with tots at Nissen-hut community
center in Camp Burlagsberg. Center serves as kindergarten, common room and ~
sewing room for AFSC-sponsored project.

(Photo by Ulla von Haxthausen)

American, spent six weeks together ina work camp doing
construction work in a refugee community. Teachers from
schools in the affiliation program also come together in a~
summer workshop run by the School Affiliation Service,

FSC IS ONE OF approximately 30 organizations which

sponsor international voluntary work camps cooperat-
ing through the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). The Philadelphia
office operates Friends work camps in various European
countries, chiefly in Germany, and these latter are a
significant part of the reconstruction program there, There
were three during the past summer — at Berlin, at Donau-
eschingen in the Black Forest, and in the county of Ingol- |
stadt in Bavaria; two more are scheduled this winter.**

Work on refugee housing projects is the usual bill-of-
fare for the work camps, the unskilled young campers
working with the refugees themselves, and with the cons
struction companies, who pay for their food and lodging.
Both students and non-students take part in these month-
long projects. Knowledge of either German, French or
English is an advantage during discussions. One-third of
the campers are German.

Work among displaced persons has been one of AFSC’s
primary concerns since the beginning, and despite a
numerical decrease in the problem, the Friends continue
work in this field, believing that those DPs still left behind
need understanding and friendship now as much as ever
in their transition to a new status as refugees on a for-
eign economy.

The Munich AFSC office, working as one of many agen-
cies supplementing the International Refugee Organization
(IRO) in DP programs, sets up kindergartens and reading
rooms and organizes discussion group and film showings

* At Goettingen it provides financial support, but the students
themselves now solely run their ‘‘Studentenstube.’*

** See ‘Friendship Camps” in Information Bulletin, November 1951
issue.

24 JANUARY 19529

--- Page 27 ---
in DP camps in the Munich area, one of which, the Schleiss-
heim Camp, has some 5,000 dwellers.

At Feldafing, the unaccompanied children’s village in
Bavaria, the Quakers are concerned with the boys and
girls as individuals —in their home life, their relations
to each other and to their house parents. They are trying
to establish a bridge of relations for the children with the
camp administration; by concentrating on the personality
of the child as much as on his physical necessities, the
molding of social consciousness in the citizen of tomorrow
is not being neglected.

HE REFUGEE PROBLEM, with millions homeless and

millions more living on welfare or partially socially
dependent, is still a grave challenge in all its aspects,
despite the large slice of the German Federal Republic's
budget which is allotted to social welfare work. Giving
immediate material aid, AFSC distributed relief supplies
contributed in America and shipped to Germany through
the auspices of CRALOG (Council of Relief Agencies
Licensed to Operate in Germany), through the facilities
of the German welfare agencies and also through its own
projects. This aid goes largely to refugees but AFSC does
not stop there.

The Service Committee has always realized that long-
term contact is the most effective method in working with
refugees. Defeatism and inertia in refugee camps break
down only with the conviction that someone is personally
interested in the refugees and their problems. For instance,
three years ago the refugee camps in the vicinity of the
town of Oldenburg were faced with physical and moral
starvation. An AFSC team went to live in the area and to
set up programs in six of the most desolate camps, where
they have been working ever since. The work varies in
each camp, depending on needs and opportunities.

Last year the AFSC team, equipped with good will,
great energy and real sympathy, was given a $1000 grant
in addition to its regular budget, to see if it could
develop aself-help project with the inhabitants of Burlags-
berg Camp, completely isolated in sandy wasteland in a
rural area, With that money the men in the camp built

International youth of high school and college age come
each year to lend willing hand with construction projects.

JANUARY 1952

25

Refugee women from Silesia, Pomerania and East Prussia
find new incentive and sense of usefulness through jobs
in bed-linen workshop established at big Oldenburg Camp.

and equipped a sewing room. Today 22 women, represent-
ing that number of the 70 resident families, are turning
out bed linen from material supplied by a local manu-
facturer. This is record employment for refugee. camps in
Germany, perhaps in all of Europe!

A kindergarten run by AFSC is maintained in the camp
by the local town officials. Materials and shoe leather
are converted into clothes and shoes for camp consump-
tion. Burlagsberg and Schweinebrueck have ‘common
rooms’ where discussion programs are planned and
concerts arranged with records borrowed from local US
Information Centers.

OR THE PAST FOUR YEARS, the AFSC workers in

these camps have helped to create a fund of good
will and real love which is a heartening sign for the
future. Self-respect has been reestablished in the camps,
and tension has been broken down between the refugee
groups and the native residents who were reluctant to
accept them. Local authorities have been stimulated into
action. Isolation, the chief confederate of distrust, has
been diminished.

Such an accomplishment would have been impossible
if AFSC workers, convinced of the value of personal
contacts stemming from sympathy with human beings
rather than from intellectual interest, had not stayed on
the job, tirelessly, year after year.

In such ways the American Friends Service Committee
fulfills “the widespread need and desire of individuals for
dependable human relationships, with opportunities for
developing them” and, regardless of political or social con-
flict, works everywhere — with people as people. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 28 ---
EUCOM Dollars Help Keonomy

PPROXIMATELY 25 CENTS out of every US dollar

earned by American military and civilian personnel
with the US Forces in Germany between July 1, 1950,
and June 30, 1951, went into the foreign exchange hold-
ings of the German Federal Republic through the pur-
chase of Deutsche marks in EUCOM finance exchange
offices during the fiscal year.

Details of that valuable assistance to the West German
economy were contained in a report issued by Head-
quarters, European Command, based on statistics at the
EUCOM Comptroller's Office in Heidelberg.

The report stated that Americans with the US Forces
in Germany (exclusive of HICOG) earned an estimated
237,594,000, after tax deductions, during the year ending
Jine 30, 1951. Records indicate that during the same
year, US personnel exchanged $59,818,717 for Deutsche
marks at the official rate of exchange.

Figures at the comptroller's office also reveal that
Americans on duty with EUCOM in Germany spent al-
most 19 cents out of every dollar earned in EUCOM
for the purchase of Deutsche marks through finance
exchange offices during the three years ended June 30,
1951. During that period EUCOM personnel were paid
$669,000,000 in dollar-backed Military Payment Certifi-
cates (MPCs), after tax deductions.

They exchanged almost $127,000,000 of that amount
for Deutsche marks—an exchange which represented a
direct benefit to the German economy since the exchange
placed the same amount of American dollars at the
disposal of the Federal Government for the procurement
of needed imports which can be bought only with dollars.

EUTSCHE-MARK PURCHASES by Americans in the
period between the German currency reform in
June 1948 and June 30, 1951, were made at the official

The Second Armored Division, Combat Command A's
“Choraliers give church music concert before German
Protestants from various churches in Mannheim gathered
in chapel at Wartburg Castle. “Choraliers’ will make
other appearances throughout Germany.

(US Army photo)

rate of DM 3.33 per dollar between June 21, 1948, and
Sept. 30, 1949, and subsequently at the rate of DM 4.20
per dollar.

The EUCOM comptroller’s report also pointed out that
from May 1947, through October 1950, US Personnel paid
out $3,893,919 in MPCs for the purchase of non-duty
travel rail tickets. Since Nov. 1, 1950, such purchases
have been made in Deutsche marks.

US personnel spent almost $29,000,000 during the
period concerned for such items as EUCOM Export Taxi
fares and communications services such as telephone and
cable facilities through the Deutsche Post. These pay-
ments were also made with MPCs, which meant dollar
credits to Germany, since the MPCs were convertible
into US. currency at the official rate of exchange.

The over-all benefits to the German economy through
private Deutsche-mark purchases by US personnel, and
scrip payments for services, amounted to approximately
$160,000,000 during the period covered by the comptrol-
ler's report.

The sale of Deutsche marks to US personnel through
official finance offices is listed as follows:

Army Finance Offices and Chase Bank sales $95,832,511

American Express Company sales ........ 31,024,633

Total:— $126,857,144

The approximately $33,000,000 paid out of American
pockets for services with dollar-backed MPCs, is shown
by the following breakdown:

Export Taxi service................ $19,406,009
Non-duty rail ticket sales .......... 3,893,919

Telecommunications charges 9,277,585
WHSCELIANBOUS... <6 ce:ecormeeesuxoraneerd ‘ 93,433

Total:— $32,670,946

HE COMPTROLLER'S OFFICE emphasized that no

Deutsche-mark purchases by EUCOM personnel from
authorized European Command exchange offices are
charged to occupation costs. Apart from the almost
$160,000,000 which benefited the German financial struc-
ture, other millions of dollar were contributory factors
in the over-all support provided by the presence of
Americans in Germany.

As an example of the benefits contributed by non-
appropriated fund agencies of the US Army in Germany,
the European Exchange System has expended more than
$33,000,000 in wages to German employees, $17,000,000
through procurement on the German economy and
$1,000,000 for construction and renovation. The more
than $51,000,000 in payments was made in Deutsche
marks, purchased by EES at the official exchange rate.
The agency makes payment for such items directly to
German employees, vendors and contractors. -+END

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 29 ---
We Live in a Glass House

ol participated.
of Dillkre*~

By NANCIE LEE HEALY
Wife of John D. Healy, US Resident Officer, Dillenburg

E LIVE IN A GLASS HOUSE. Not literally — our

house in small-town Dillenburg is nothing like the
dream home of modern architectural design. Ours is a
figurative glass house, and we call it that because we are
as much on display there as we would be in one of those
sprawling 1952 ranch models exposed on four sides to
the public and the California sun.

Why? This small incident, I think, puts it pretty much
in the proverbial nutshell: One day, as my resident-officer
husband was going out the front door with an armful of
baseball bats, he playfully shook one at me. A German
boy standing nearby called, “Watch out, or it will be in
tomorrow's paper that Mr. Healy beats his wife.”

Not that we mind. In the first place, we are virtually
Dillenburg citizens now and the townspeople‘s interest
in our affairs is the usual curiosity small-towners have
about their neighbors. Besides, we are in the unique posi-
tion of being the only Americans residing there, and since
it is in an official position, what is more natural than
that our comings and goings are public property?

When we first came to Dillenburg a little more than
a year ago, I was alternately tagged as ‘Mr. Healy's
daughter" and “Mr. Healy's mother." My grocery-shop-
ping was the object of closest, but silent scrutiny. People
stared openly at our house as they walked by and stared
at us on the street. They guessed at what we ate, how
much money we had, how old we were.

LL THAT SEEMS a long time ago. Everyone knows
our relationship now; my shopping expeditions are
invariably the occasion for an exchange of recipes, the
promise of a sample of culinary art or a dinner invitation;
the extent of our funds has been estimated pretty accu-
rately, I think, and our ages are generally a matter of
record. What's more, it's a wonderful feeling to walk
down the street of a small town and be able to shake
hands — after the European fashion — with almost every-
body one meets. I never could do that in Philadelphia, Pa.
Apart from what we call our “social success” in Dil-
lenburg, and by that I mean our acceptance as part of
the community, our life there has had a broader— and
much more important — aspect: my husband's job and,
incidentally, mine. To tell about it I must go back to
the beginning.
We came to Germany in the late fall of 1950. My hus-

band, formerly a political science instructor, was given
a short period of training in Washington for his first
Foreign Service assignment and, following our arrival,

there were subsequent training sessions at Frankfurt-on-
the-Main and Wiesbaden. We then learned that we were
to go to Dillkreis (Dill county) in the north German state

JANUARY 1952

of Hesse. My husband was to be the US resident officer
or, in common alphabetical parlance, the KRO, there.
The US resident officer—and there have been approxi-
mately 140 of them in the US Zone — became known as
the grass-roots representative of his government in Ger-
many. a

Dillkreis is north of Frankfurt and west of the university
city of Marburg, with borders touching both the British
and French Zones, Dillenburg, the county seat, nestles in
a scenic valley on both sides of the river Dill, part of it
perched on the lower slopes of the forested Westerwald
mountain range. Most of the county lies within this rocky
and infertile forest which extends to a majestic high point
above Dillenburg and then falls abruptly into the Rhine
Valley at Coblenz.

N THE MAIN, the resident officer's job is to effect the

broad Department of State policies filtered to him
through the Office of the US High Commissioner for
Germany by programs adapted for the so-called grass-
roots level, As his country's personal representative, he
is also charged with winning respect and friendship for
America. His every move is geared toward democratiz-
ing German life, but not Americanizing it. When he pushes
plans aimed at increasing civic consciousness through
better-trained citizens, he presents the democratic ideal
but not necessarily the American one, even though it
bears the American stamp. Furthermore, he must be a
keen political reporter and keep the schedule of a country
doctor,

In “our” Dillkreis, the economy is based on a combi-
nation of small gardens, similar to our truck gardens in
the States, and small industries. There are sharp contrasts

Mrs. Healy (third from left), author of this article, is
pictured with group of essay contest winners before start
of two-day visit to Bonn. Her husband, US resident officer
for Dillkreis, is second from right.

(Jungst photo)

--- Page 30 ---
The Healys' participation in Dillkreis community activities
have included celebration of the 700th anniversary of
founding of Herborn. Mr. Healy (center) filled role of King
William of Holland, who once reigned over area, in play.

in living standards. One sees women doing backbreaking
farm and garden work while their husbands are putting
in long hours in the local factories and coal and iron
mines, On the other hand, Dillenburg has a top-drawer
Kurhaus and Tennis Klub set, with comfortable homes
and shiny new cars.

Dillkreis has a total population of approximately 90,000
(recently increased 10 percent by the influx of refugees)
living in three towns and 67 villages. As in most of Ger-
many, no one resides on the worked land. The majority
of Dillkreis inhabitants are Protestant in religious belief.
Politically they are predominantly Socialist. The area,
rich in historical interest, belonged at one time to Wil-
liam of Orange, the duke of Nassau. It is in the shadow
of his former castle, now a towering tomb, that we have
lived for the past year.

Y HUSBAND WAS EAGER from the start to begin

a series of “open house” discussion meetings in our
home, and we decided that although it would take a lot
of “elbow grease” to get ready, we would plan to have
the first one early in January. Our house was empty
when we moved in except for a bed and a gigantic desk
with equally gigantic lion's paw legs, so making it livable
was a big undertaking. We finally got the last bit of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

28

painting and settling done’ on Christmas Eve and when
the New Year came were all set for our initial informal
meeting with the German townsfolk.

Aside from the open house which we announced in the
newspaper as a regular Friday night event, many other
meetings were scheduled to be held at the Healy menage.
Two reasons were behind this planning. First, the rented
office space was not large enough to accommodate large
gatherings and, second, we were trying to win friends

and promote an ease of acceptance of programs through ~
informality. Looking back, I am glad it had to be that d

way, for the 100 or more meetings, film programs and
other sessions which have already taken place in our

living room have kept me in constant touch with the

program.

About 30 guests appeared for the first open house.
Although my main task was (and still is) to act as hostess,
I was busy answering questions in my pidgin German
and remembering the hard-to-pronounce names for future
meetings. Somehow, there was very little stiffness and
in no time at all we were all engaged in a lively dis-

cussion. Our German guests said they liked the idea and —

would be glad to come again. A definite theme — Europa

Union — was decided on for the following Friday and a ©
discussion leader chosen. The ball was definitely rolling. ©

The popularity of the open house grew. Since my hus-
band was working toward the development of media for
free and open expression throughout the county through
the Gemeinde (community) forum, it was decided to pick
a discussion leader from that organization for each of
the weekly meetings in our home. It worked beautifully.
Well developed discussions on a variety of subjects have

been held, among them: United Europe; World Citizenry; ;

Denazification; What Can We Do for Our Youth?; What

Can We Do for Freedom?; Could a Dictator Rise Again —

in Germany? and Better French-German Relations.

HE DISCUSSION TECHNIQUES displayed have im- ©

pressed everyone. A former Nazi propaganda leader
appeared at a recent meeting and he made a typically
emotional neo-Nazi speech. After he stormed out of the
room, one of the Germans said quietly, ‘Well, there is a
great difference between argument and discussion. Some
can only argue, but others can discuss—and a govern-
ment can be run only by the latter."

When the weekly attendance figure passed the 100 mark,
we decided to move the Friday night gathering to more
spacious quarters in the Kurhaus. This was accomplished
without any loss in popularity or informality — principally
through the aid of the local press, and by having some
excellent guest speakers and a wise choice of discussion
themes. My husband and I continued to greet the guests
at the Kurhaus door. This winter, the open house is being
held twice a month, once in our house and once in the
Kurhaus.

One evening there was a guest panel leading the dis-
cussion which included French, British, German, Dutch,

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 31 ---
The US Information Center's reading room in Dillenburg

is visited regularly by young and old. (Jungst photo)
Belgian, American and Italian nationals. The attendance
approximated 500. The meeting provided an excellent
opportunity for the discussion of better understanding
between Germany and her neighbors. Before the meeting,
we had an informal dinner at our home for the guest
speakers and their wives, and we also arranged an after-
dinner press conference for the panel members.

| soon learned that Friday was not the only day in the
week for which I had to plan special activities connected
with my husband's busy schedule. Keeping pace with him
meant attending youth meetings and other public gather-
ings and filling invitations to speak on such subjects as:
Women in a Democracy; The Division of Powers; Political
Representation; Freedom of the Press and Music in
America. The limitations imposed by my lack of fluency
in German turned these speaking’ engagements into a
question-and-answer period in which I was able to manage
pretty well and which worked out better in the long run.

Bom MY HUSBAND AND I have spent a lot of time
with young people of the community. We have visited
classrooms and participated in school parties, and students
often come to our house for one kind of get-together or
another, Since last summer, girls of the 1951 high school
graduating class have been meeting with me on Wednes-
day evenings for an English class, and after all these
months everyone in the group still attends faithfully.

My husband and I planned several essay contests for
county youth under 20 years of age. One of them was
assigned the subject ‘What the German Federal Govern-
ment Means to Me." We took those who submitted the
five best essays to Bonn for a two-day trip to the German
capital city, during which government buildings were
visited. The two whose essays on “My Suggestions for
Better Understanding among the Western European Coun-
tries" were adjudged the best we took on a five-day trip,
during which we visited five countries.

Recently we have introduced into Dillkreis the idea of
debating teams. With our living room as an auditorium,
a trial debate was run off one night not long ago; affirma-

JANUARY 1952

29

tive and negative teams from the high school participated.
The audience included 80 representatives of Dillkreis
youth organizations. Many teams are now being formed,
and a tournament for the county championship is to be
held this winter.

I have joined my husband many times on his visits to
the various town mayors throughout the county. These
informal chats with town officials and their wives have
created an atmosphere of easy friendliness which lends
itself readily to the free exchange of ideas.

Last winter, I began to feel that I had progressed well
enough in the German language to invite 14 women active
in county affairs to a meeting at our house, with the
ultimate goal of helping them to form a women's organi-
zation. The group started out as a bimonthly coffee hour
but gradually talk of projects was introduced. Welfare
ultimate goal of helping them to form a women's organi-
ages, schools and hospitals. Our group worked together
baking cakes to take to such institutions and arranged
for several entertainment programs for them with local
youth groups providing the cast.

N THE MEANTIME, I had written to friends and organi-

zations at home asking for contributions of used cloth-
ing for our county's needy. Recently, I received from the
Friends Society 1,500 brand new caps for babies which
were distributed for Christmas throughout the county.

Packages from the States have also included books,
religious and recreation materials, song books, and lists
of names and addresses of youths wishing to correspond
with Dillkreis boys and girls. The names I turn over
to groups in the local youth forums; books are presented
to churches and schools.

Eight months after our first meeting I suggested to my
German friends that they form a women's club, They
eagerly accepted the proposal — the long period of meet-
ing and working together had at last paid off! Organi-
zational details are now virtually completed and an active
women's group seems assured. I did not attend the initial
meeting — we were determined that the club should not
have even the slightest foreign stamp, which my presence
might have meant.

My husband and I feel that our participation in activi-
ties of various communities of Dillkreis have won us
many friends and have made “our” job easier, Among
these was the 700-year celebration of the city of Herborn,
in which my husband took the part of King William of
Holland. We are members of the tennis club, go often
to local entertainments and accept as many social invita-
tions as possible.

HIS PAST YEAR in our “glass house’ has been a
happy one, producing countless richly rewarding
hours. Although we are sometimes tempted to change its
nickname to “Frankfurt Station," with all the interruptions
and all the rushing around that name implies, we like it,
and we'll be a sorry pair when we leave Dillenburg. + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 32 ---
Cooperation
Solving

Bremen’s
Traffie
Problems

The vexing problems arising from overlapping of
duties of American, British and German law enforcement
officers in the vicinity of the port city of Bremen, are
being solved in a cooperative manner.

When the jurisdictional headache became serious last
summer, John W. Jergensen, chief of the Public Safety
Division, OLC Bremen, stepped in to get all factions to
agree to a Bremen state public safety conference. While
there have been similar meetings in other parts of the
US Zone, this was the first meeting of its kind in Bremen
and proved so successful that get-togethers were sched-
uled once a month.

Participating in the conferences have been representa-
tives of the Bremen minister of interior, chiefs of the
various German police and security offices of Bremen,
Bremerhaven and some neighboring cities in the British
Zone, British public safety officers of Oldenburg and
Lueneburg, officers of the US Army and OLC Bremen
police and security units.

With the motto “Cooperation is the key to good law
enforcement,” last summer's initial meeting in the
HICOG building got off to a flying start and the round-
table discussions are now an established function. At-
tendance so far has ranged between 30 and 35 each time
and the concentrated method of hitting at problems has
worked splendidly,

James L. McCraw, who at the time was chief of
HICOG's Public Safety Division, Office of Political Af-
fairs, was a guest at the September meeting, Expressing
keen gratification at the large press representation at
that session, Mr. McCraw said: “Police work cannot be
successful without public support and public support can
only be gained through the press. The press has the same
obligation to the public as the police.”

At one conference a German police officer asked about
the American way of writing traffic tickets in Germany.
Between 85 and 90 percent of the Germans given tickets
by the Americans were acquitted in court, he said,
because the violation slips were not made out according

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

John W. Jergensen (leit), chief of OLC Bremen's Public”
Safety Division, discusses a traffic problem with a British
Zone police officer at one of the monthly conferences
Mr. Jergensen organized, Representatives of the US Army
and German police officials of both the state and city of
Bremen as well as a growing number of other cities also
attend regularly. )

(Photo by Georg Schmid, Bremen).
to German methods, Discussion resulted in a revision in
the American method and, incidentally, better traffic
law enforcement.

Mr. Jergensen, serving as chairman of the group, ex:
plained that in the safety conference traffic problems
are being given priority consideration. The two port
cities. bear the brunt of heavy vehicular traffic moving
from the port of embarkation into the zones. The prob-
lem is further complicated by 200,000 bicycles.

Through the conferences, the officers are learning of
each other's work, their sources for informational help”
and how enforcement ‘can be brought about more ef-
fectively.

Radio Bremen Stages ‘France Week"

During January Radio Bremen is broadcasting ‘France
Week” as the fifth in a series of international weeks de-
voted to a single European country.

The series was inaugurated by the station more than”
a year ago in an effort to make a practical and concrete
contribution toward a united Europe through promotion
of better understanding among European peoples, Dutch,
Swiss, British and Belgian “weeks" have already been
presented.

Each of these “weeks” opened with a talk by a promi-
nent political figure and included from 32 to 45 special
programs covering all aspects of cultural and social life
—musical, historical and political, as well as economic
features, entertainment and specialities of interest to j
children, young people and women. In most cases, Radio
Bremen staff members were invited by the foreign broad-"
casting institutions to assemble recorded programs, to ~
conduct interviews and to prepare reports. Plans are under-
way for additional programs on other European countries.

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 33 ---
Labor Union
Advisers

Kept Busy

MERICAN LABOR ADVISERS at the German Indus-

trial Exposition in Berlin had their hands full answer-
ing questions put by Soviet Sector and Soviet Zone resi-
dents curious about labor conditions in America.

The team of experts consisted of August P. Karrer,
United Automobile Workers of America, Committee of
Industrial Organization (CIO), and Fred Treitz, Inter-
national Association of Machinists, American Federation
of Labor (AFL). Rudolph F. Raube, International Associa-
tion of Machinists, AFL, who was on duty for the first
week of’ the fair, went to Frankfurt to serve as a labor
affairs consultant to HICOG for a year.

“About 300 persons from the East zone and East sector
have asked us thousands of questions,’ Mr. Karrer said.
“But we always noticed that those who do speak come
flanked by large groups who just listen. The crowd at
our booth was swelled by other individuals who have
just been hanging around hoping that someone would
come along with courage enough to ask questions so they
could listen,

“We were told that many were, afraid to speak up for
fear that the ‘wrong person’ would see or hear them
showing too much interest in the American worker's way
of life," he added. “We noticed also that East sector
residents speak up more freely than those from the zone.”

R. KARRER ATTRIBUTED the reticence of some

Soviet Zone residents to the fact that many have
little or no opportunity to visit West Berlin or other
Western democratic areas and have no firsthand knowl-
edge of the free speech enjoyed there. “As a result, they
are less open than East sector people, who have a better
chance to look into West Berlin's ‘show “window of the
West,’ he pointed out.

“Why,” Mr. Karrer said, “they pored over our in-
formation pamphlets here, but most of them wouldn't take
even one little sheet away with them because they were
afraid to. One man told me he had lost transportation
privileges for three months not long ago simply because
he had accidentally wrapped a sausage in a half sheet
of west sector newspaper so he could carry the sausage
home in his pocket, and the border police accused him
of carrying West propaganda.”

The East residents were interested in all phases of
American labor union activity, according to the labor
advisers who held their discussions with the Germans
in the George C. Marshall House throughout the exposi-
tion Oct. 6-21.

The major need was for specific information as to how
labor union structure in America differed from that in

JANUARY 1952

Rudolph F. Raube (left) of the International Association
of Machinists (American Federation of Labor) and August
P. Karrer (center) of the United Automobile Workers of
America (Congress of Industrial Organization) discuss
labor problems with a visitor to the German Industrial
Exposition at West Berlin's “Radio Tower" fair grounds.

both West and East zones of Germany. Visitors to the
labor booth also wanted to know about the degree of
autonomy of the individual, of the plant committees and
of the town and state labor councils; whether local unions
were free to go out and make demands for higher wages
and better working conditions on their own; what amount
the individual had to pay in dues and where the money
went; if the labor unions supported a particular political
party; if there was a strong socialist trend in America;
if any particular church affiliation was a prerequisite to
holding labor union office; how much Communism there
was in local unions and what methods were used to break
it down; what was the standard of living of the worker
and the buying power of his wages; how, in specific
detail, the federal old age pension, sick benefit and un-
employment insurance plans worked; whether it was
compulsory to belong to a union in order to be able to
work; how union elections were held; and whether punish-
ments were inflicted on a worker who leaves one job
and goes to another.

East and West Germans meet at the America trade union
information booth in the George C. Marshall House to
ply the two labor representatives with an endless stream
of questions. (PRB BE-HICOG photos by Schubert)

f

--- Page 34 ---
N BROADER LINES, the questions concerned such

subjects. as US Government efforts to relieve the
“miserable” situation of the workers in the East zone of
Germany; whether America “really’’ wanted another war;
and whether the Negro worker had the same union rights
and earning power that the white man had.

Hundreds of questions of this type from German labor-
ers received frank answers daily from the American labor
officials, who were chosen by fellow union members to
speak on behalf of their organizations.

East residents expressed considerable surprise, the
labor advisers said, when they learned that the American
workman pays a flat rate of only $2.50 monthly to his
labor union while the average East German laborer must
pay the equivalent of one hour’s wages each week. They
were impressed with the fact that most local unions in
America set aside half of all money paid as dues to cover
operating expenses, and for use as strike, education, polit-
ical action, war veteran, welfare and entertainment funds.

East workers said they not only were not allowed to
keep any of the dues money but did not dare even to
ask where the money went or for what it was used. One
man said he was thrown out of his position as a minor
union functionary because he asked for an accounting
of these funds,

IHE QUESTIONERS WERE also “pleasantly surprised”
when they heard that religion was a union man's own
concern and that particular church affiliations were no
requisite for holding union office.
Many visitors asked how much Communism was to
be found in local labor unions and what was being done

to break it down. They were told that the labor unions

have some Communist members and fellow travelers; 7

that these members had the same right to be heard as
other union personnel and that no force was éver used
against such persons. “Why would one resort to force
when he has the right of franchise?’ the labor advisers
point out to their questioners.

Long discussions were held at the labor information
booth on US and German living standards and on the
buying power of the average worker's wages. Extensive
information was made available on the federal old age
pension plan in the United States, which was paid at the
rate of 11/2 percent by the employee and 1% percent by
the employer, and on sick and unemployment benefits,
which were financed partially by the employer and par-
tially by state funds or private insurance companies
through employee payments.

“A number of our visitors have shown surprise at hear-
ing that no penalties are imposed when a worker leaves
one job and goes to another, losing only the seniority
rights accrued on his old job," Mr. Karrer said.

UMMING UP THE IMPRESSIONS gained from his
discussions with East zone and East sector residents,
Mr. Karrer added: “The conditions in the East zone as
portrayed by the questions these people asked — and the

questions they didn't ask —as well as what they told us, —

are unbelievably miserable.

“Unless one hears all this for himself, direct from the ;

persons who live under such conditions day after day,
he cannot get a true picture of the system of present-day
slavery now being practiced in the Soviet Zone." +-END

Postwar Edueational

IGNIFICANT CHANGES LEADING to a more demo-
cratic education in the German school system were
disclosed in a recent analysis of postwar German educa-
tion issued by the Education Branch, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG.

Entitled ‘Postwar Changes in German Education,” the
book outlined the situation in 1946, and subsequent legis-
lation and changes in more than 100 phases of education
in the US Zone and West Berlin up to July 1951.

The book disclosed that substantial progress has been
made in equalizing educational opportunities for all
children. Tuition fees, a limiting educational factor for
many German young people, have generally been elimi-
nated during the period of compulsory school attendance,
except in Wuerttemberg-Baden, where a recent law pro-
vides for the gradual elimination of tuition in second-
ary schools over a five-year period. In Hesse, free
tuition is also provided in university level institutions.

Textbooks are provided free of cost to students in
all types of schools during the compulsory school period
in Hesse, Bavaria and Bremen, while they are partially
provided in Wuerttemberg-Baden and western Berlin.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

Reforms Reviewed

There have been some modifications in the
“two-track” school system, in which formerly about
a fourth of the more favored children received a thorough

academic schooling while the other three-fourths were

limited to elementary and vocational education. In Bre-
men and Berlin, the common elementary school period
for all children has been extended from four to six years.

In Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden, curricula in the fifth —
and sixth years have been coordinated to make it easier —

for children to transfer from one type of school to another.
The survey also indicated that all US Zone states and

West Berlin have introduced new school curricula, em- —

phasizing social studies, political instruction and citizen-

ship training. All education ministries have fostered the —

formation of various forms of student government.
While the study showed that little has been done
officially to relax the centralized control over state school
systems, it disclosed that parent and teacher councils,
with at least advisory functions, were flourishing in all
states, except Bavaria. The survey showed that boards,
institutes or government agencies have been set up in
all states to work continuously on school reform plans.

JANUARY 1952

rigid

--- Page 35 ---
Industrial Exposition

Highly Successful

[DEPRESENTATIVES OF THE nine US firms which had exhibits at the

recent German Industrial Exposition in Berlin, termed their partici-
pation in the fair “highly successful.” In many cases, the representatives
reported, the gains in good will alone made participation in the Industrial
Exposition worthwhile.

The American firms which took part in the fair included International
Business Machines; General Motors Corporation; Flohr-Otis, Berlin sub-
sidiary of the Otis Elevator Co. of New York; General Electric; Standard
Oil Co.; Webster-Chicago; the National Cash Register Co.; Burroughs
Business Machines, and Addressograph.

The consensus was expressed by F. R. Pujanek of the German Bur-
roughs Adding Machine Co., who pointed out that “our success here
can't be reckoned in terms of on-the-spot business. The real values of
our participation will only become apparent over a long period of time.

“From a business standpoint,’ he added, “we found interest high among
buyers from both East and West. A major purpose of our exhibiting
here was to open a window for trade possibilities with the East, and on
that score we consider ourselves 100 percent successful.

“Our old friends from East Germany came in by the hundreds, want-
ing to know when we would be able to deliver our machines to them
again and marveling at the technical progress that has been made in
our production, The models they know are in many cases 20 years old.

Nine showings of 25 different films drew
large crowds daily to theater in George C.
Marshall House. Half of daily average at-
tendance of 50,000 came from Soviet Zone.

HEY ALL ASKED ME, ‘When will we be free?'" he

added. Mr. Pujanek said he was particularly im-
pressed with the interest shown by East German youth.

They stayed long hours, asking a million questions,”
he said, “and I tried to explain the workings of the
machines to their satisfaction. I even let them operate
them. One boy told me if his teacher could see him
there, operating such a machine, he would give him a
beating. One can certainly see from that remark the
‘progress’ there is in the East.”

General Motors sponsored two separate exhibits at the
fair, one displaying models purchasable for dollars and
another showing the products of the German divisions of
the firm, Representatives of the firm said there was great
disappointment on the part of would-be buyers when they
learned the international models could not be ordered.
They were referred, however, to the German divisions,

button" electronic elevator which was used for the first
time in the United Nations building in New York.

“Contacts made here will certainly result in business
for the firm someday,” the sales engineer said. “Our ex-
hibit here resulted in much good will and brought our
name before a large cross-section of both East and West
residents.

General Electric representatives also reported major
success, emphasizing “enormous” gains in good will.
Addressograph representatives noted that “if it had been
possible to take East-Mark orders we would have taken
in more than 500,000 marks in the first 10 days of the
fair." They said one East zone businessman tried to place
an order for 100,000 marks worth of machines.

IBM also reported ‘substantial business prospects
gained from West fair visitors and great interest on the

from which similar goods available on the German market
could be ordered.

They also reported that Eastern visitors complained
about the lack of parts for their old installations and
“always took advantage of the opportunity to tell us about
the difficulties of daily life in the East." The German
divisions of General Motors reported several dozen “good
prospects" for sales as a result of the exposition.

4‘LOHR-OTIS REPORTED ‘good contacts” and said
both East and West visitors were highly interested
in seeing the demonstration model of the new “touch

JANUARY 1952

33

part of the East German businessmen. ‘Machines cannot
be shipped into East Germany,” booth representatives
said, “but our customers there are patient. They are
merely waiting.”

Webster-Chicago officials expressed satisfaction with
the fair's results, reporting substantial orders from West
Berlin and West German firms for its business machines.

ORE THAN 603,000 persons viewed the “Better Liv-
ing” exhibits in the George C. Marshall House on
the fair grounds during the exposition Oct. 6-21. Visitors
to all fair exhibits totaled 778.000, approximately 45 per-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 36 ---
cent of them being residents of East Berlin or the Soviet
Zone, fair officials announced.

The Marshall House displays illustrated modern meth-
ods of increasing industrial productivity. During the two-
week fair, 1,064,000 explanatory pamphlets were distrib-
uted to Marshall House visitors. Film performances in the
Marshall House theater drew capacity audiences at all
showings, with a total of 28,000 persons viewing a variety
of documentaries on industrial and economic subjects.

Later, officials at the Marshall House announced the
displays would be supplemented by new-type machines
and household devices and held over through Nov. 25 in
order to give such groups as trade unions, schools and
vocational evening classes a chance to discuss the
modern machines and techniques in detail with experts.

Paul H. Brent of the San Francisco branch of the US
Department of Commerce and E. Paul Hawk, commercial
adviser, Office of the Special Representative, ECA, Paris,
provided free professional advice to fair visitors at a
special booth in the Marshall House on the fair grounds.

The Commerce Department experts answered dozens
of questions daily on a wide range of problems connected
with German-American trade promotion. Queries con-
cerned everything from patent problems to the prices
normally placed on crib-baby-blanket holders. Mr. Brent
and Mr. Hawk have also steered firms with products
marketable in the United States to agencies which can
aid in exporting such products.

Their services are provided under the US Government's
program of assisting private buyers and sellers to make
contacts and were made available to fair visitors through
cooperation of the Industry Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG.

URING THE FIRST SIX days of the Industrial Ex-
position, more than 72 businessmen, representing
firms in a position to consider possibilities, asked for
assistance in putting their products on the US market.
Most of these were from West Berlin, although some

American and Berlin trade officials confer at information
booth at fair grounds. Left to right are Joachim Gafike,
head of export bureau of Berlin Trade organization; H.N.
Higgins, chief, Industry Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG;
Paul H. Brent of the San Francisco branch, US Department
of Commerce; E, Paul Hawk, commercial representative of
ECA-OSR, Paris, who was associated with Mr. Brent at
the fair; and Dr. Hermann Goetz, manager, Berlin Trade
Organization. (PRB BE-HICOG photos by Schubert)

were representatives of West German firms. Many of
the applicants represented surgical instrument and supply
wholesalers, selling products which, according to Mr. Brent,
usually find an excellent market in the United States.

Others represented firms handling steel presses, re-
conditioned metal-working machines, stamping and boring
machinery, gas compression engines, photo and X-ray

film and paper, and linotype and typesetting machines.

Many businessmen came for advice on their own pro-
duction or operating problems, rather than on US market
possibilities. One applicant had developed a process for
making fine paper by a less expensive and time-consum-
ing method than was currently used, but the process left
minor flaws in the finished product. He sought technical
assistance on how to overcome the defect. The man was
referred to the US Consulate General, where he could
get a list of American analytical chemical firms which
may be contacted for technical advice,

Many inquiries were made about US patent possibili-
ties and procedures. One applicant sought information on
how to go about working out a license arrangement for
a patent device to improve gas compression engines.

OME PROSPECTIVE EXPORTERS were discouraged

in cases where the advisers felt the product could
not profitably meet the competition of similar products
already on the US market. To some questioners, as a
result of this difficulty, it was suggested that prices be
recalculated. ‘

Each applicant who had something to sell was given |
a comprehensive outline by the Department of Commerce
team on the marketability of the product; the particular
problems inherent in selling the US market and how best
to meet these problems; the distribution possibilities
(either through direct sales or through agents in various

parts of the country); areas of best sales opportunities,
consumer tastes and preferences, restyling, repricing and
other subjects.

After the initial briefing, a referal tag was filled out
and given to the prospective exporter, who was then —
directed to the US Consulate in his area for initiation of
a “trade opportunity” item in the Foreign Commerce
Weekly, official publication of “the US Department of —
Commerce, circulated to businessmen throughout the —
United States, . i

Occasionally, applicants for information on internal
German trade opportunities came to the Marshall House
booth. These applicants were warmly welcomed, since
the American team worked closely with the Berlin ~
Marketing Council acting as mediator between West
Berlin businessmen and foreign customers.

Besides these personal interviews, more than 2,500 per-
sons showed interest in the consultation service display
of 250 different technical and professional magazines and
journals. Many spent several hours taking notes on the
contents of publications of particular interest. Such visitors,

E

Mr. Brent said, represented small businessmen whose
export possibilities were limited, but who wished to get
new ideas of styles and designs, as well as latest US
production and sales methods. -+-END

JANUARY 1952

a

--- Page 37 ---
Test of Democracy

Excerpt of Address
By JOHN J. McCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

E ARE CLOSING OUT a great adventure that began

in the days when we literally set about helping the
Germans to bury their dead down to the present when we
see a rehabilitated economy and a rehabilitated political
system not only capable but eager to solve its own
problems.

To be sure, many Germans ascribe most of this recovery
to their own regenerative power and in this they are
quite right. But objective persons among them, and there
are many, realize —it only takes a glance at conditions
in the Eastern zone of Germany to see what might have
been the situation here — that without generous foreign
aid, without a spirit of helpfulness, without full op-
portunity given them to develop their own capacity's
rehabilitation, Germany would not be where it is today.

We shall soon abolish the High Commission and the
state commissions. The only functions we shall retain in
our new setup are those which enable us to maintain
some control of our own affairs, such as the security of
our troops. Philosophically and actually this is a great
change; but it is not one to be regretted — it is one rather
to be welcomed. It is a sign of our advance. One of our
objectives has been to create a free democratic com-
munity in Germany, able to progress under its own steam.
We are not going to make that objective more likely of
attainment by continued control. We must be prepared
to put our theories of democracy to the test.

HERE ARE HEAVY RISKS in our policy, Democracy

itself is a great risk. It presumes a great deal of faith
and a confidence in our fellow men. Considering the dis-
sension and the political immaturity that was evidenced
in Germany after the close of the first world war, con-
sidering the spectacle of what followed after the break-
down of the Weimar Republic and considering the aber-
tations of the Nazi period, it makes one hesitate to give
guarantees for the future, particularly when some are
ostentatiously trying to revive the old Nazi propaganda.
Sometimes I don't wonder that Germany's friends get a
sudden sinking feeling. I must confess, I do.

We have come to the period, however, when we must
permit the Germans to take action themselves in the pro-
tection of their own freedom. Otherwise we run the risk
that the Germans will never develop the instincts of
freedom. Against these risks there are many promising
signs. The many good elements among

future role of Europe quite clearly and they seek for Ger-
many a participating and a contributing partnership in it.
In spite of the most difficult problems and the necessity
for taking steps of enormous significance to the future of
Germany, they face their decisions with courage and
with dignity. When I consider that when I first came to
Germany that government still had to be erected, I gain
faith in the future of this country. I think we must realize
that some of the disturbing incidents that occur from
time to time are conspicuous because they do not re-
present the basic feeling of the people of Germany. We
must provide the opportunity for the average man and
woman of Germany to express themselves in regard to
these excesses and to show their own sober and de-
termined resistance to them. .

HE ECONOMY OF the country certainly justifies hope

in the future. We still have unemployment but the
general standard of living in this country is in some
respects higher than that in some of the victorious
countries. I also take great faith from the fact that so
many Germans recognize the interdependence of the
nations of Europe.

Ifa European community, which is a chief objective
of our policy, is to be successfully erected, Germany must
be a part of it. Germany cannot successfully be a party
to it nor could it be a successful democratic community
if it were only a second-class member.

And it is by association in such a community, in my
judgment, that we have the greatest guarantee, certainly
a greater guarantee than we could possibly have by
means of continued control.

So I feel that we should look upon our work as having
been constructive -and capable of being tested We are
closing out this great adventure which has involved so
much American wealth and so much American engery.
In doing so, however, we do not abandon our principles.
We will continue to propagate them in every manner and
through every agency which is compatible with a free
German society. The embassy, when it comes, will con-
tinue through its influence to work toward the mainte-
nance of a democratic community. Our goals remain the
same; our methods have to be altered with the times.

You (the resident officers) heard something this morn-

ing of the plans we have by which these aims and princi-

ples can be continued. We all hope

the Germans do react against these
excesses. The Federal Parliament and
the Federal Government have shown
great evidence, in my judgment, of
political development. Forward-look-

; furt Dec. 10.
ing people in the government see the

The following are excerpts from
extemporaneous remarks Mr. Mc-
Cloy made before the US Resident
Officers’ conference held in Frank-

that they will be effective. If the
energy and devotion which you have
applied to the propagation of these
principles is conveyed to the indivi-
duals who will carry on American
policy in Germany, there is no doubt

JANUARY 1952

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 38 ---
that our influence will continue to be felt. And there are
many who will continue with these efforts. Many of you,
however, will be going home as most of us will be
before many months are gone by.

Whether you go or whether you stay, you have a duty
to perform. You have been a part of one of the great
phases of American and European history and you can
be thankful you have had a part in this. You have fre-
quently heard some Germans say: ‘Sie haben so viele

' Fehler gemacht" (You have made so many mistakes).
T hear it too frequently, But you can be quite certain that
you and your predecessors have made an impression and
a contribution. Both have been good.

T IS PARTICULARLY to those who are going home that

I say that you must face your new task with the same
inspiration and the same devotion and loyalty which you
have displayed here. For your own country also needs
such examples. Whether you find yourselves in govern-
ment or whether you find yourselves simply as members
of the community, you must realize that your country
faces great problems and difficulties such as the American

Republic has never faced before, problems realized by
too few of those nations and peoples that the United
States has aided. But you must appreciate them. And just
as you have set an example in the county where you have
worked, so it is necessary when you go back to the United
States or wherever you go to exert the same example.

Our country is now in an era of history in which it is
one of the great moral factors in this world. If our country
is to continue great, it must continue to exert this moral
leadership. No country, however great in physical power,
has ever long continued great unless it could exert such
moral force. ,

You and your wives have been a part of an era. You
are better prepared than most of your fellow citizens to
exert leadership. You have seen the impact and the im-
portance of American helpfulness in periods of great
stress—and great distress—in an area far from home.
I ask you to look back on your service with satisfaction
and look forward to your new tasks with faith — faith in
the work you have done for the future of a democratic
Germany, and faith in the moral strength of the United
States which you have served so well. +END

Youth Games in Berlin Backfire on Reds

AST GERMAN YOUNG PEOPLE, herded to Berlin last
summer for a ballyhooed Communist youth festival*,
returned home stronger allies of the West and more dis-
satisfied with their life behind the Iron Curtain. The
influence of their favorable impressions of Western de-
mocracy has spread widely throughout the Soviet Zone.
This was the consensus of a series of confidential sur-
veys carried out by the Reactions Analysis Staff of HICOG
during and after the youth festival and made public Dec.
12. A random sampling of opinion was made among the
hundreds of thousands of youths who visited West Berlin
despite strict Communist precautions to keep them in the
East. Two hundred were interviewed for each of five
surveys. Most of the surveys were made among recent
Soviet Zone visitors to West Berlin to determine how
widely the impressions of festival participants had spread.
The latest survey declared: “The youth rally (Aug. 5-19)
had considerable impact on the East zone population, but
its repercussions were almost entirely favorable to the
West. The youthful visitors apparently had not hesitated
to talk about their experiences to friends and acquaint-
ances on their return home. Especially they had stressed
...Wwhat they had heard, seen and done in West Berlin.
Freedom, prosperity and hospitality sum up the over-all
impressions of the West which they had passed on to
their East zone neighbors.”

ARLIER SURVEYS, MADE among the visiting youths
themselves, showed that 50 percent of those who
attended the festival were compelled to attend. Only

* See articles on the Communist youth festival in the Information
Bulletin, September 1951.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

36

three percent came enthusiastically. The other 47 percent
came for personal reasons, generally unflattering to the
East. Of those who visited West Berlin, nearly two out of
three were better impressed by the city than they had
expected. Only one percent were disappointed.

Among the reasons given for visiting West Berlin dur-
ing thé festival were the following: To see what it's really
like in the West; to get away from the pressure in the
East for awhile; to buy some leather for shoes; to see
if it was really as bad as the Communists said; to see the
shopwindows and movies; to get a breath of fresh air.

The young people displayed an almost unanimous opin-
ion that Western information is factual and honest, while
the Communist output is distorted, dishonest and ficti-
tious. One survey declared: “The youths appear to be
fully aware that they are not only being deceived and
deliberately misinformed by the Communists, but that
they are being forced to accept misinformation. In con-
trast, they feel that the West makes no effort to coerce
them into accepting Western views.”

On the other hand, the report added, “it is equally clear
that a far from negligible fraction of the East zone youth
advance views which reveal some degrees of absorption
of Eastern propaganda themes.”

A survey of radio-listening behavior of East German
youth (aged 15-30) showed that the American sponsored
RIAS station in Berlin is the favorite of nearly three-
fourths of all radio-listening young people in the Soviet
Zone. RIAS, the survey said, is regularly heard by more
than three times as many youths as any Communist
station. Three-fifths of those interviewed urged that more
information and commentary should be made available.

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 39 ---
Dueling in Universities

Condensed Translation of Series ‘of Articles
Published Exclusively in “Die Neue Zeitung”

DELEGATION OF DUTCH students visited the Federal
A Republic recently to study German forms of student
community life. Their observations have been sum-
marized in a report now circulating among Netherlands
universities, entitled “The Fraternities.”

“It is somewhat difficult. to form a general judgment
about German university fraternities," the report says.
“They are unwilling to let outsiders study their consti-
tutions and minutes of meetings. They are camouflaging
many of their activities, for instance, fencing.

‘It is interesting to listen to conversations between
fraternity and other students. ‘Why don’t you become a
member of our fraternity? It is a group where a former
officer can feel at home,’ one fraternity member was over-
heard telling a fellow student.

“In Marburg and Goettingen, fraternities sang Nazi
songs toward the end of meetings, after drinking much
wine. A student who did not quite meet Third Reich
racial requirements was admitted to a fraternity after
long deliberation and with the remark that this was
actually ‘against the tradition.’ One fraternity member

Photograph (below) shows alumni of “the good old days”
demonstrating dueling methods to young university stu-
dents. Both were adorned with colors. (Right) Encouraged
by veteran alumni fraternity members, dueling has been
secretly revived ahd scenes such as that pictured again
are common, _ (Reinhold Lessmann photos by courtesy of HEUTE")

was officially told that he could not invite a British fel-
low student to a fraternity meeting.”

The German “armed fraternities’ are organized in
several associations, some of which, such as the Koesener
Senioren Convent Verband (CV), have become very
famous. These associations, in turn, comprise the ‘“An-
dernach Working Committee of Dueling Associations,”

which is the principal fighter for the fraternities’ aims.

The fraternities, the committee claims, became victims
of rightist radicalism in 1933, when Hitler outlawed them.

Actually, however, all fraternities — except Catholic
ones, which followed the political middle-of-the-road line
of the Center Party — pursued nationalist and anti-Semit-
ic aims. Some of them had anti-Semitic clauses in their
bylaws as early as 1920. Also, their authoritarian and
intolerant regulations made them pathmakers for Nazism.

Hitler's action was based on the fraternities’ refusal to
join his Nazi student organization in corpore, and it is
no secret that most of them existed underground through-
out the 12 years of the National Socialist regime.

--- Page 40 ---
Goettingen police were unaware of dueling activities until
state police armed with warrants came to carry out raids.

ITH THE PROGRESSING normalization of condi-
tions and after original Military Government regu-
lations subjecting student meetings to official approval
had been rescinded, there was want of a new form of
student community life. Several cultural, political, scien-
tific, sports and other interest groups were founded and
their membership increased as the number of war veterans,
who opposed any form of organization, declined. The Ba-
varian Student Journal described the development candidly:
“From the beginning there were two different tenden-
cies. One aimed at a very loose form of community life,
such as clubs, associations, etc, But the majority aimed
at fraternity-like bodies wherever possible, along the
traditional lines of German fraternities and their organi-
zation of alumni. From the outside, the difference was
hardly conceivable, because the fraternity-type groups
selected inconspicuous names.”

Under church protection, the denominational fraternities
were the first to come out into the public, later followed
by the non-denominational groups. They immediately re-
established the old fraternity associations under the old
names and the influence of their old alumni organizations.

The number of fraternities has grown rapidly, although
their membership still comprises only a fraction of the
student body. For instance, Munich, West Germany's
largest university, has nearly 100 fraternities. Figuring
that the average fraternity has from 20 to 25 active mem-
bers, the organized students would represent roughly
25 percent of the over-all student body.

Other universities report similar figures, In Mainz 1,500
of 5,000 students are members of a total of 23 fraternities,
in Marburg and Hanover about 30 pefcent belong to
fraternities. Wuerzburg, western Germany's smallest uni-
versity, leads with a fraternity membership of 31 percent.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HE INFLUENCE OF THE FRATERNITIES, however,

exceeds their numerical proportion by far. Non-
organized students hardly participate in student com-
munity life, and other organized student groups often
show a lack of activity, leaving the field to the highly-
organized and active fraternities.

A private circular of the Kiel Alemania fraternity may
well serve as an example of fraternity spirit:

“The dinner meeting at the Park Hotel was entirely
satisfactory. For the first time again, the table was
decorated with parade sabers and candles. Highlights
of the meeting were the singing of Deutschland ueber
alles and an address by the fraternity's first officer.”

After a blunt statement that a collection yielded DM
578.96 ($137.79) for the purchase of dueling swords and
equipment, the circular continues: “In line with the
tradition of armed fraternities, Alemania considers fenc-
ing and sword dueling an important part of education.
It also stands for unconditional satisfaction by duel, for
the protection of a member's honor or that of somebody
else. The active members and the alumni will do every-
thing in their power to resume fencing as soon as possible,”

As far as the students are concerned, there was no
want of efforts to find new forms of student community
life. The old forms, the wearing of colors and the
“admission duel" were reintroduced only after the alumni
had interfered. From then on a spirit of authoritarianism,
intolerance and a special academic code of honor have
spread on German campuses, endangering social and
political peace at the universities.

EARLY ALL UNIVERSITIES recognized this danger

and prohibited the wearing of colors in public. Duel-
ing is prohibited under German penal law. Yet the frater-
nities claim recognition with reference to constitutionally
guaranteed civil liberties and mutual tolerance.

The struggle for and against fraternities has about
reached its climax. At the meeting of a student associ-
ation in Bonn Aug. 4, Dr. Adolf Suesterhenn, state minister
of education and culture for the Rhineland-Palatinate,
publicly maintained that the question of the wearing of

In their swoops on underground dueling clubs, police of-
ficers carried away only dangerous rapiers, left dull blades.

--- Page 41 ---
In protest against police raid, fraternity members flaunt
their “colors,” consisting of little round caps and ribbons.

colors was not subject to the disciplinary jurisdiction
of university presidents, “whose interference would harm
the students’ sense of justice.”

Some examples may serve as an explanation of frater-
nity practices and throw an interesting light on the
methods employed by the “armed fraternities.”

Theory: All fraternities, both denominational and
armed, stated in letters to the Conference of West Ger-
man University Presidents that they stand for parlia-
mentary democracy and promote a feeling of political
responsibility among their members. They maintained
that politically they are completely neutral and absolutely
tolerant.

Facts: In Marburg, the first officer of the Wingolf
fraternity said in November 1950: “It is a shame and a
pity how democratic German youth is again. We believe
in the principle of subordination!”

N COBURG, A FORMER Prussian state representative

delegate said at a meeting of a fraternity association:
“The armed fraternities are more important than the trade
unions! They have gone from glorification to defamation
and back up several times, but they will exist as long
as Germany does, which means forever. In that sense,
it is up to the German armed fraternities to solve the
problem of ‘Cross’ or ‘Hammer and Sickle!"

Theory: In February 1951, delegates from all fraterni-
ties in West Germany signed a declaration, stating that
they would admit members without any social or racial
discrimination. Two associations delayed their signatures
for as long as five months, because they had certain ob-
jections to admission without racial discrimination. They
finally signed, however.

Facts: In Cologne, a fraternity asked a candidate for
membership about his race, explaining, ‘You know, Jews
are not Germans."

In Marburg, the criminal police are investigating the
case of a fraternity which told its prospective members:
“If you have no Jewish grandparents, you can join."

JANUARY 1952

Also at the Free University of Berlin, small but exclu-
sive and active circles plan to take up fencing.

In Munich, students sang the Horst Wessel song. When
another student asked them to stop it, they replied with
insults against the Occupation Powers, the Jews and the
clergy. (The incident had been reported previously in
Die Neue Zeitung.)

Theory: All fraternities say that they do not recognize
any special student or academic code of honor. “The fra-
ternities believe that any concept of honor can be based
only on the general dignity of man," according to the
March copy of a fraternity journal. “They consequently
reject the belief in the superiority of any race, faith or
social standing.”

Facts: Konrad Grueninger, a government official and
fraternity alumnus, in the Deutsche Universitaetszeitung:
“It is a justified social phenomenon that such leader
groups (i.e., university graduates) should seek to draw a
line between themselves and the popular masses by
establishing special codes of morals and honor, and by
selecting certain social formalities and insignia.”

N MARBURG, A FRATERNITY OFFICER had to resign

because fraternity and non-fraternity students went

to the same folk festival. The same happened to the chair-

man of the (non-fraternity) socialist student organization,
because he was accused of dealing with fraternities.

A Rhein-Franken fraternity officer in charge of train-
ing young candidates explained the student code of
honor this way: “If one of you fellows tells a street-
sweeper he is a swine, he can't do anything to you, be-
cause that guy hasn't got an honor.”

One candidate was not admitted to a fraternity, be-
cause it was found that his father, a vocational school
teacher, made “only” DM 500 a month.* In order to ef-
fect a “certain selection,” some fraternities are charging
monthly dues of DM 25.

A Goettingen fraternity did not admit a student of
theology because he could not stand the required amount
of drinking.

* A good salary for the middle class in Germany today.

Interruption of dueling activities as result of police raid
is discussed by bicycle-riding students on way to classes.

--- Page 42 ---
Goettingen University students, in high spirits, sing old
fraternity song on night after police raid on dueling club.

In Bonn the Rhenania expressed great delight that it
had finally secured the membership of a former regular
army officer and son of an army colonel, after they had
considered several other prospects “who, however, did not
appear suitable or were out of question for other reasons.”

The ‘armed frateinities state unanimously that they
do not think weapons (pistols) are suitable means of re-
storing an insulted honor, They justify their demand for
sword dueling with “the educational value of this exer-
cise." An anonymous alumnus wrote ‘in Convent, journal
of the above mentioned fraternity: “No fraternity adopted
dueling as a principle after 1945 ... It is up to the armed
fraternities — and their alumni — to determine when and
in what form dueling will be resumed.”

In another issue of this magazine the language is
stronger: “He who does not believe in the principle
of dueling and restoring honor by dueling has no place
in our ranks, notwithstanding his point of honor and our
respect for his different view.”

T IS NO SECRET that dueling has been resumed in

German universities. The report of the International
Student Seminar in Koenigstein (August 1950) mentioned
several of these incidents. Few of them, however, became
public, due to the secrecy maintained by those concerned.

University presidents say that things were getting along
smoothly as long as they dealt with students only. But the
situation changed rapidly when the alumni intervened.
One of them accused the university presidents in a news-
paper article of not being independent enough and of
lacking the courage to take a stand against the govern-
ment, if necessary.

Objectively, it can be said that the influence of the
alumni is constantly increasing. They are numerically the
majority (average in West Germany is four alumni to one
active fraternity member) and they hold leading positions
in the government and industry, which makes it possible
for them to offer the good positions to active fraternity

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

members after their graduation. They also substantiate
their influence by generous monetary grants.

The efforts of the alumni to impose their own patterns
upon the new fraternities cannot be justified by the well-
known adage that they are merely resorting to ‘certain
valuable experiences and well-proven institutions.” There
is ample evidence of the students’ eagerness and ability
to do without these “experiences,” which the alumni
force on them. However, relatively few fraternities have
made marked efforts to resist this influence.

T MUENSTER UNIVERSITY, 25 students resigned

their membership in the Franconia, because the board

of the alumni association demanded that every active
member should wear colors and recognize dueling.

Universitas in Hanover broke its ties with the asso-
ciation of alumni and consequently had to move out of
its quarters, because it refused to recognize dueling. “In
their time the alumni lived for their ideals," the fraternity
wrote in a German student magazine. ‘They should let us
live for our ideals and cease to exercise material in-
fluence. It is understandable that they want to see their
old colors restored, but they should realize that we have
become very critical toward the spirit they represented,”

The alumni of the academic glee club Bardia in Bonn
broke relations with the active members because the club
had admitted girl students. In Marburg several fraternities,
which got rid of their alumni associations, organized in
a working committee against the tradition-bound groups. *

A Bonn attorney and former government official, now
chairman of the “Andernach Working Committee of Du-
eling Fraternities," wrote in a circular:

“The fraternities are requested to organize associations
of all armed fraternities at university level. The develop-
ment (i. e., the establishment of the Andernach committee)
is due to the fact that dueling as a principle and as a
mutual task has replaced dueling as a mere means of
settling disputes of honor. The committee will appoint a
trustee-attorney in every university town, who should
be contacted immediately if difficulties arise and should
be made the defense counsel of any students involved.

“It is pointed out in this connection that it is impossible
at this time to list the various countermeasures to be taken |
when and if the universities or the police interfere, But
it should be emphasized that neither university presidents
nor conferences of such presidents can establish laws for
the students. Neither can they decree what — in contrast
to the old established student traditions — is moral and
immoral in academic life. Particularly, they cannot force
students to sign statements to the effect that they will
commit or omit certain acts. The maintenance of our
academic freedom requires courage and courage again!
We should consider how important such a contribution
is in developing our active members’ personalities.”

HE CONFERENCE OF WEST GERMAN University
Presidents has resolved unanimously to ban both
dueling and the wearing of colors. The resolution is not
binding, but it is adhered to by all German universities
which, as a result, recognize only student groups renounc-
ing these two practices, A conference of the Federal

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 43 ---
‘Drink more and become real German men” is admonition
on one of banners displayed to deride a defeated duelist.

Republic's 11 state ministers for educational affairs is
scheduled to convene later this year to discuss this
subject and adopt uniform principles,

While dueling is a criminal offense under the German
code, there is no provision enabling the universities to
take disciplinary action against the wearing of colors
or the outbursts of authoritarian spirit in fraternities.

Meanwhile, the fraternities steadily gain influence in
the official student representations. In Munich the liaison
which is to maintain contact between student
organizations and the representative body, is staffed by
two fraternity members, The results became evident
when HICOG aid grants to the university for the pro-
motion of student community life were distributed: the
Catholic fraternity Olttonia, which has a body of very
wealthy alumni, received DM 350, the non-licensed
Aenania got DM 100 for its foundation festival, as did
the dueling fraternity Rhenania.

The struggle of the Catholic fraternities to obtain
official sanction for the wearing of colors has resulted
in the strange phenomenon that the merely color-wearing
organizations have joined the “armed” fraternities in a
common opposition to the university presidents. Origi-
nally the Catholic groups, particularly the CV, were
founded to oppose dueling and the spirit of the “armed”
fraternities. Even in the Catholic camp this is a subject of
argument, with the defenders of ‘full color” pointing to
their constitutional rights, while others maintain that the
only purpose of this obsolete habit can be to facilitate
social discrimination.

office,

* * *
PPROXIMATELY ONE MONTH later, Die Neue Zeitung
published a reply by Dr. Suesterhenn, retired

minister of education and culture for the state of Rhine-

JANUARY 1952

Al

land-Palatinate, as an ‘‘objective contribution to discus-
sion.” A summary of this article foHows:

The fact that the Catholic student organizations and
the “armed” fraternities both advocate the right to wear
colors does not justify the conclusion that they “associate”
with such groups. The non-dueling fraternities have al-
ways fought the ‘‘armed” organizations and have incurred
social discrimination, professional disadvantages and
even bodily injury in doing so. Further proof is offered
by foreign student groups, which wear full colors, but
have never thought of dueling.

It is a grave mistake to mix the political problem of the
expediency of color wearing at this time with the
juridical question Of whether it is legal or not. The
wearing of colors is being discussed within the non-
dueling fraternities too, and no agreement could be
reached on the expediency side of the question.

But it is beyond doubt that the wearing of colors is
legal. The Federal Republic's Basic Law and the 11 state
constitutions guarantee everybody the right to associate
and the right to express his opinion. Part of the exercise
of these rights is undisputedly the wearing in public of
symbols, insignia and colors. Being constitutional, these
basic rights cannot be restricted by the university presi-
dents by virtue of their ‘institutional power." Every law
commentary says that the institutional power is limited
by the purpose of the institution, i. e., the holder of in-
stitutional power may decree only what is necessary
for the purpose of the institution and secures the proper
use and undisturbed operation of the institution.

One German law commentary interprets this power
to the effect that the universities may enact provisions
to ascertain the “dignity of students’ and the “honor
of the university.’ Of course, it is their responsibility,
too, to see to it that student organizations remain on
constitutional grounds.

HE CONSTITUTIONAL CHARACTER of the non-
dueling fraternities being unchallenged, it is only
a question whether the wearing of colors offends against
the concepts of “dignity” and “honor. This seems to
be impossible, since the wearing of colors was tolerated
by German universities for as many as 300 years, and
is still being tolerated by universities in traditionally
democratic countries such as Sweden, England, Holland,
Switzerland and the United States. Likewise, German and
foreign professors wear rather colorful clothing on cer-
tain occasions, as symbols of their academic dignity.
Another argument that has been advanced against the
wearing of colors is that it “splits the civitas academica.”
This does not hold either. Unquestionably the German
nation is deeply split in its religious, political, social and
cultural convictions. This difference of opinion has been
constitutionally recognized and, evidently, what goes for
the nation as a whole goes for the student body, too.
Therefore, if Catholic students demonstrate their mem-
bership in a Catholic student community organization by
wearing certain insignia and colors, this does not split
the civitas academica, but merely proves that certain
differences of opinion do exist. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 44 ---
Personnel Notes

Deputy Director for Berlin Element Named

Appointment of David M. Maynard, of Claremont,
Calif., as deputy director of HICOG's Berlin Element
was announced recently.

A member of the US Foreign Service since 1941,
Dr. Maynard was last assigned as counselor for economic
affairs to the US Embassy
in Athens, Prior to that as-

* signment, he held Foreign
Service posts in Tokyo,
Japan; Bern, Switzerland
and Lima, Peru.

Dr. Maynard, 51, served
as an instructor at Yench-
ing University in Peking,

China, from 1922-24, and
also. was professor of
political science at Lake

Forest College in Illinois
from 1927-30. He was a
member of the League of

Nations secretariat in

Geneva in 1926, and di-

rector of the American David M. Maynard.
Committee in Geneva in (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

the summers of 1927, 1928 and 1929.

Following a three-year tour of service, from 1930 to
1933, as assistant trade commissioner for the Department
of Commerce in Hongkong, Dr. Maynard was named
regional director of research with the Federal Relief
Administration, remaining in that post until 1940. Sub-
sequently he served as administrative consultant with
the US Bureau of the Budget.

Official Studies German Civil Service

Christopher O. Henderson, chief of training in the
Personnel Department of the Department of Agriculture
in Washington, recently visited Berlin for a week of
consultation and discussions with German civil service
officials and educators in the field of civil service training.

Mr. Henderson is spending three and a half months in
Germany as a HICOG consultant on civil service problems.

Of special interest to Mr. Henderson are preparatory
and in-service methods of training, ‘While it is impor-
tant to have in-training opportunities and civil service
training at the university level,” he said, “it is also
very important that the younger student receive related
courses which might prepare him for more intensive
later training for taking his place as a competent public
servant.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

42

Mr. Henderson declared that he had found “deep
interest in Germany concerning the training of future
public servants.”

New Regional Public Affairs Office

A regional public affairs office has been organized
within the framework of the Frankfurt US Consulate-
General and in line with regroupment of personnel and
functions between US state commissions and US con-_
sular offices in Germany. 3

Max R. Grossman, former professor of journalism and ;
director of the division of journalism at Boston Uni- _
versity, heads the regional office, and Paul G, Lutzeier, —
former Public Affairs Division deputy chief for the Office ”
of the US State Commissioner for Hesse, is deputy head,

Two broad areas of activities will be carried on by the ~
regional public affairs offices: cultural affairs and in-
formation services. Acting head of the cultural affairs —
staff in Frankfurt is Dr. Eugene R. Fair, former Education ©
Branch chief for OLC Hesse. Acting senior information
official is Glenn R. Parson, former News Branch chief of ©
HICOG's Public Relations Division. a

American regional public affairs offices in Germany will ;
function along lines of the US Information and Education ~
Exchange Program (USIE) operated by Foreign Service ~
posts in other countries. Activities will include admini- —
stration of the cultural exchanges program, operation of
US Information Centers, conducting a cultural film pro-—
gram, providing informational materials to the German
press and radio, and maintaining liaison with German ~
civic and educational groups. ‘

Religious Adviser EUCOM Speaker .

Miss Mabe] Parsons, religious education adviser ofthe |
EUCOM Chaplain Division, recently conducted a series ~
of talks throughout the European Command as a phase ~
of the religious education program instituted by the
division. .

In January, Miss Parsons began conducting workshops ~
in leadership training for Sunday school teachers at 7
various military posts throughout the US Zone, 3

Health Head Returns to US

Dr. Charles H. Benning, since 1946 chief of the Public
Health and Welfare Branch, OLC Hesse, has returned to
the United States to assume a consultant's position with
the Department of the Air Force.

A preventive-medicine specialist and veteran public
servant, Dr. Benning has held positions with the US ~
Public Health Service, as well as with parallel state 4
organizations in Michigan, Illinois and Oklahoma. Dur-
ing World War I, he served as a captain with the
Canadian Army Medical Corps. : +END

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 45 ---
Economic Review
gconome ore

Economy Shows Greater Vitality

By A. J. CEFARATTI
Chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Program Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

The economy of Western Germany during the months of October and November reflected a vitality which
surpassed the strength of the autumn level in 1950. The most pronounced amelioration was found in Ger-
many's foreign trade and payments position. At the end of 1950, Western Germany had a foreign trade
deficit of $723,000,000* and a cumulative debit with the European Payments Union (EPU) which exceeded
Germany's EPU credit quota and forced her to restrict imports drastically in order to check the mounting
deficit. In contrast to that sizable trade deficit and the EPU payments crisis, Germany by November 1951
had not only registered several monthly trade surpluses but had also tallied her first, though small, EPU
cumulative credit, and was contemplating reliberalization for the beginning of the new year.

Reports of difficulties in coal and raw material supplies persist but have lost much of the force of the
long publicized critical shortages. Industrial production has expanded about seven percent above the Sep-
tember-November 1950 level, and employment has risen in manufacturing as a whole. The number of
registered unemployed, which has decreased steadily since January 1951, showed the first autumn increase at
mid-November. This increase in unemployment, as well as its distribution among the states and occupations,
however, repeats the seasonal pattern of 1950. °

Prices in general rose again slightly in November, with the most important increases in the agricultural
sectors, Record grain and sugar beet harvests are estimated for 1951, with another bumper potato crop. The
food supply is adequate for current requirements.

* * * * *
Western Germany's foreign trade payments will probably be in the
during October was characterized by This review is based on con- range of $30,000,000 to $40,000,000
(1) a distinct reaction in the import tributions submitted by reports due to the indicated rise of other
trend to September's unusually high officers in the Office of Economic accounts, This undoubtedly represents
level and (2) an export figure ‘con- Affairs and the Office of Labor a real trade surplus, especially con-
siderably lower than expected in view Affairs, HICOG. sidering adjustments which may be
of recent developments in production. necessary because of the revised ex-
The Federal Statistical Office an- port recording procedure. This trade
nounced belatedly that because of a new system for re- surplus may mean that imports have continued, on he
porting exports by. customs houses effective Oct. 1, the average, to-lag behind the goals accepted by the OEEC.
figure reported for that month is not accurate. It is certain Indust: -
only that minimum exports for October were $302,000,000. ry
The import figure is not affected by this new system. Industrial activity reached a new postwar record, al-
The October import figure was, to a large extent, a though barely above the previous high point in April-
reaction from the abnormally high September imports, May 1951. Western Germany's October industrial pro-
and for purposes of analysis, the two months may be duction index is at 139.5 percent of the 1936 level—a
treated as a single unit. Average monthly imports of monthly rise of four points, and 10 points above October
$328,000,000 for this period were substantially above the 1950— with another substantial increase indicated for
monthly level for the June-July-August period. Increases the November index. Consumer goods produc.ion ac-
in the number of import licenses issued indicate an counted for a large part of the October increase, with
effort by the Federal Government to raise gradually the major rises in shoe and leather production. There were
level of imports for the two months remaining before also substantial increases in heavy industry. Postwar
contemplated reliberalization on Jan. 1, and thus prevent peak production was registered for the iron and steel
a sharp rise at the first of the year. industry, electrical equipment, optical and precision
October imports found the largest percentage reduc- instruments, crude oil, coal and coal by-producis,
tion in the finished goods sector —a reaction to the high electricity and gas. Vehicle production was up 14 per-
percentage increase in September when importers at- cent, but raw materials, especially light sheets, are in
tempted to avoid special tariff increases effeciive Oct. 1. short supply. 4
Food imports were down considerably. Raw materials The coal shortage question in Western Germany has
imports fell only slightly. . drawn the efforts of government, labor and business
The West German EPU monthly accounting surplus in alike for more than a year. Although coal remains
November was $9,600,000, which for the first time generally in tight supply, the principal problem seerhs
effected a cumulative surplus position, although only by to He not in adjusting allocations but in increasing pro-
the negligible sum of $350,000. November balance of duction and enforcing equitable retail distribution. Favor- .
= able developments in November were the increased coal
* DM 3,058,290,000 at official rate of 23.8 cents to the Deutsche mark. output and the decisions of the Council of the Inter-

JANUARY 1952 43 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 46 ---
national Authority for the Ruhr (IAR) to adopt the new
export price schedules and to revise the minimum export
quotas.

Coal production has begun its expected seasonal rise,
with a total production.of 10,322,000 metric tons for the
24 working days in November to average 403,950 tons
daily production (excluding Sunday and holiday output).
For the first month since 1945 the daily average pro-
duction has exceeded 400,000 tons, as compared with the
daily average of 384,400 tons in 1936 and 448,200 tons
in 1938. This increase is attributed to an increased daily
average number of manshifts worked, with more workers
on the mine books and a reduced rate of absenteeism.
During the third quarter 1951. coal stocks for industry,
public utilities and the Bundesbahn (Federal Railway)
increased slightly to total 3,347,000 tons for these groups,
compared with 2,515,000 tons at the end of the second
quarter and 3,933,000 tons at the end of the third quarter
1950.

In November, the IAR examined the new export prices
for German solid fuels and the question of German solid
fuels export quotas. The IAR, acting by unanimous agree-
ment and recognizing that the new export price schedule
adopted by the Federal Republic in September involves
a system of dual pricing as between exported coal and
coal retained for internal consumption, agreed to accept
the export price schedule retroactive to July 1, 1951.
This price schedule is to be reexamined by the IAR on
Oct. 1, 1952, unless the Schuman Plan high authority
comes into existence and decides to exercise jurisdiction
before that time,

With regard to export allocations of solid fuels, which
were previously at 6,200,000 tons per quarter (including
Saar exchange of 900,000 tons), the IAR decided to adjust
the export quota (excluding Saar exchange) to a minimum
of 5 100,000 tons in the fourth quarter 1951 and to
5,000,000 tons in the first quarter 1952. Further, the basic
allocation for the second quarter 1952, pending a final
decision, has been set at a minimum of 5,000,000 tons,
plus 15 percent of production in excess of 395,000 tons
daily average production including overtime production,
and 10 percent of the total production on all Sundays
and holidays. Coal supply difficulties, meanwhile, are
still reported for the chemical and some non-ferrous
metals industries.

This adjustment in the export allocation for solid fuels
will result in an actual decrease of only 200,000 tons in
the fourth quarter 1951, which equals production for
half a day. .

Tron and Steel

The steel scrap shortage continues to be an important
problem for the steel industry, but the fuel situation is
primarily one of cost rather than availability. The iron
and steel industry and the Ministry of Economics agreed
to a DM 37 per ton increase in the basic price of steel,
in addition to the DM 50 increase which was effeciive
until Nov. 1, 1951.

This increase has been justified on the basis of some
DM 20 increase in production costs and DM 17 as com-
pensation to the iron and steel industry for the renuncia-
tion to finance the US coal imports by exporting rolled
steel.

The Federal Government is attempting to decrease
exports of semi-finished steel and increase the export of
end-products, so that more rolled steel will be available
for the German market. The Bank deutscher Laender has
agreed to make available a dollar credit to prefinance
the import of US coal for the iron and steel industry.
The amount of pig iron and steel produced from US coal
imports continued to show monthly increases with
325,000 tons of pig iron and 255,000 tons of steel thus
produced in October. During the steel year ending
Sept. 30, 1,362,400 metric tons of pig iron and 1,203,100

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

tons of steel are attributed to the use of US coal, which
has been used in quantity only during the last six months
of this period.

The power supply situation improved during November
with increased deliveries in coal, a slight increase in
tun-of-river hydro power available together with the
reduction in power consumption by the continued ap-
plication of restrictions. The situation was further im-
proved by imports from Northern Italy, where increased
rains provided surplus hydro power.

During the first half of November 1951, rail traffic
demands remained at the high October level of 72,000
cars per working day. While freight car shortages could
not be completely overcome, the Bundesbahn, aided by
relatively favorable weather and satisfactory locomotive
coal stocks, managed to meet 90 percent of demands. In
the second half of November, car demands dropped and
the railway returned to a more normal rate of operations.

A joint committee, compromise version of the law on
the organization of the Bundesbahn was approved by
the Bundestag and Bundesrat (Federal Lower and Upper
Houses), to be promulgated in December 1951. As finally
adopted, the law promises a self-supporting Bundesbahn,
managed along sound commercial lines, since the Bundes-
bahn board of directors and management have been
granted considerable latitude in the day-to-day opera-
tions of the railway. The direct influence of the Minister
for Transport is, nevertheless, stronger than had been
recommended in the 1950 ECA survey.

The railway unions will have 25 percent representation
on the board of directors but without the “co-determina-
tion’ status in the coal and steel industries. Success of
the law will depend largely on the caliber of men ap-
pointed to the board of directors and the four key
managerial positions of the Bundesbahn.

Labor

Developments in the labor field for November showed
a seasonal slackening in outdoor occupations but employ-
ment increases in manufacturing, cer.ain wage gains
anda step forward toward general co-determination legis-
lation. Union-government relations remained strained.

As in 1950, the unemployment trend was reversed up-
ward in November, due mainly to the usual seasonal cut-
backs in outdoor employment, notably in building and
construction and partly in agriculture, and in the build-
ing materials industry. Employment rose, however, in
manufacturing as a whole, with seasonal influence and
price stabilization or reductions boosting the consumer
goods industries. Still heavy backlogs plus increasing
orders stimulated employment in the capital goods
branches, except stones and earths.

Registered unemployment in the Federal Republic in-
creased by 93,000 to raise the total number of jobless to
1,307,000 persons —8.1 percent (7.5 percent in October)
of the estimated wage and salary earning labor force.
Inasmuch as the expansion in the labor force at this
time of the year is comparatively substan ial, total
employment probably remained relatively stable during
November. Weather conditions will be the most decisive
influence on the extent to which unemployment climbs in
December. (In December 1950, unemployment increased
by approximately 375,000 as inclement wea.her seriously
affected construction work.)

Negotiations between the Federal Government and the
German Trade Union Federation (DGB) continued for the
fourth consecutive month in an effort to settle outstand-
ing differences. Substantial agreement was reported by
the participants on the establishment of a federal eco-
nomic council which would advise government on mat-
ters of economic policy. According to union repor's,
agreement has not been reached on the reorganization
of local chambers of commerce and industry in which

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 47 ---
the unions desire equal representation and on the ex-
tension of co-determination to the chemicals industry,
including the I.G, Farben complex.

The drive for higher wages continued as arbitration
awards in the Rhineland-Palatinate and Bremen metal
industry granted pay boosts of 4.7 percent and 3.3 per-
cent, respectively. Building workers throughout the
Federal Republic obtained agreement on a 5.6 percent
increase in the basic wage. Part of the increase became
effective on Dec. 1 and the remainder will take effect
April 1, while the entire raise will be given in the Ba-
varian building industry Feb. 1. The Public Services
Union has served notice of termination of all existing
tariff agreements as of the end of 1951. A 10 percent in-
crease in wages and salaries was requested by the union.

Food and Agriculture 5

Estimates of the 1951 harvests indicate record levels
for western Germany. In addition to a bumper grain
crop, sugar beets will be at a new high, while the potato
crop will be the second largest on record.

Harvesting and fall planting has been affected by the
wet, foggy weather which began late in October and
prevailed during most of November. Temperatures con-
tinued to be generally mild, but frequent rains delayed
the harvesting of root crops and planting of win‘er grains.

Sowing of winter barley and winter rye was completed
in time, but difficulties with the beet harvest and the
inclement weather have delayed winter wheat seeding. It
is likely, however, that most of the farmers’ wheat p‘ant-
ing intentions (which indicate a nine percent increase
over last fall) will be carried out.

As was expected, the supply of all types of food dur-
ing November was sufficient for current requirements,
Likewise, large grain deliveries and continuing heavy
imports from trade agreement sources combined to in-
crease reserve stocks of basic commodities substantially.
The year's increased grain prices, coupled with the early
threshing and deliveries bonus, resulted in large de-

“ liveries from the bumper harvest.

Food tax legislation was published Nov. 15 in a “Law
to Amend the Sales Tax Law.” Pursuant to the law, the
Federal Government on the following day issued the
“Sixth Ordinance to Amend the Import Equalization Tax
Regulation,’ which fixed the standard tax rate (like the
sales tax) at four percent. There are provisions to reduce
some tax rates and increase others, as well as to set up
a “free list’ for certain main food and agriculture items.

Berlin

The industrial production index for Berlin dropped
from the postwar peak in September of 50 percent of
1936 levels to 46 percent in October. The index, however,
is based on the value of manufacturers’ current deliveries
rather than factory output, and the gross value of in-
dustrial deliveries (excluding building, and electric
power and gas production) actually increased from
DM 226,500,000 in ‘September to DM 239,800,000 in October..

Industrial employment in Berlin rose very sligh‘ly
during October and stood at 170000 at the end of the
month. As of Nov. 15, the number of gainfully occupied
in the city was approximately 910,000. The reported

“number of unemployed seeking work was just under

264,000 or 22.5 percent of the total labor force. +END

ECA Program Improves Low Cost Housing

20 PERCENT REDUCTION in building costs together

with key improvements in designing were among
the major results of the recent competition within the
ECA's Housing Development Projects Program, the ECA
Special Mission to Western Germany announced.*

A total of 3,408 dwelling units, financed entirely from
ECA counterpart funds, will be constructed in this pro-
gram. The average unit cost for dwelling units is
DM 10,299 ($2,450) compared with DM 12,000 to DM 13,000
($2,856 to $3,094) average cost per unit of regular hous-
ing. According to a report prepared by Walter F. Bogner,
US chairman of the selecting committee, the savings
from the competition are about 10 times its cost.

The competition program required that every apart-
ment have its own toilet and bath. This automatically
lifted the quality of the dwelling above the standard
low-priced units, known as the Schlichtwohnung. But
aside from this, the following improvements were
achieved through high standards set for selection, ac-
cording to Mr. Bogner’s report, which is a preliminary
estimate of results to be achieved:

(1) One-third of the 3,408 dwelling units will be indi-
vidual family houses, while the other two-thirds are
apartment buildings with a three-story limit (in contrast
to the four and five-story walkup apartment buildings
of most contemporary housing).

* See ‘More Homes for Germans,’ in Information Bulletin, Dec. 1951.

JANUARY 1952

45

(2) Attic dwellings were not included in the winning
designs, this eliminating the common practice in Ger-
many to house families under sloping roofs.

(3) Designs submitted with ‘captive’ rooms were not
accepted. The extreme economy with which the floor
area of a German dwelling is exploited often results in
bedrooms being approached through each other.

(4) Plans of unusual merit were found in Krefeld and
Freiburg, while in many other cities improved standards
were accepted.

(5) Improvements of the surroundings of the building
sites as well as improvements in the physical appear-
ance of the building were achieved. Instead of the
monotonous rows of parallel buildings so typical of
regular hous'ng, the designs under the program call for a
free arrangement, with adequate yards and living space.

(6) Structual improvements were achieved. These im-
provements took the form of better application of exist-
ing techniques and use of building materials, rather than
in revolutionary designs. The competition's rules of
fixed prices from contractors, plus an extremely limited
range of building materials (minimum use of wood, steel,
tile and other materials requiring coal for the‘r pro-
duction) reduced opportunities for radical departures
from the customary methods. More use will be made of
reinforced concrete, light concrete, asbestos and asphalt.

Ground-breaking has already taken place in several of
the 15 cities in which housing projects are to be built.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 48 ---
In and Around Germany

College Auditorium Opened in Berlin

A new auditorium built at the Teachers’ College in
Berlin with the aid of DM 320,000 ($76,160) from the
HICOG Special Projects Fund has been formally opened.
Formerly in the Soviet Sector, the college moved to the
US Sector in November 1948 as a result of continuing
Communist efforts to suppress democratic influences at
the school. Teachers for primary and secondary schools
in West Berlin are trained there, and the present en-
rollment is more than 1,000, with a faculty of 121 pro-
fessors,

Talks during the opening ceremonies were given by
Mayor Ernst Reuter; Dr. Christopher B, Garnett, Jr., chief
of the HICOG Berlin Element Education and Cultural
Relations Branch; Joachim Tiburtius, head of the Berlin
Education Department, and Helmut Frothe, chairman of
the general students’ committee at the teachers’ college.

400 Teen-agers to Visit America

Some 400 German teen-agers will leave for the United
States next summer to live a full year with American
families and attend high schools in urban and rural com-
munities.

The project is in connection with the HICOG Ex-
changes Program. Travel, school and living expenses will

Five sets of twins are among the 266 pupils registered
at the Bremerhaven American School. They are, 1.-r., top
to bottom, Joanne and Janice Lowe, 15; David and Tommy
Supensky, 13; Bobby and Billy Ryan, 13; Judy and Joyce
McLane, seven; Judy and Jimmy Burns, six. (US Army photo)

Roland C. Shaw (left), of the US resident office in Frank-
furt, presents DM 2,000 check to Hermann Pehn (right), ~
leader of a youth group in Roedelheim, near Frankfurt, —
to assist in the construction of youth center sponsored by
the Evangelical Youth Organization. HICOG Special Pro-
jects Fund gift will supplement DM 18,000 raised by —
youth. Looking on is Otto Slicke, Frankfurt's Evangelical

youth organizations chief. (PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)
be paid by the US Government, cooperating private
American agencies and sponsoring American families,

Each youngster will be urged to participate in his
school's extracurricular activities, particularly student
government. Special emphasis will be placed on cooper-
ative citizenship and a young person's role in community
life. ‘

The opportunity is open to boys and girls between
15% and 17 years of age who have attended a secondary
school. Although there are no definite scholastic stand-
ards, superior ability and achievement will be considered. ©
Applicants must be in good health, have a basic knowl-
edge of English and must guarantee to return to Germany
at the end of their year. Candidates will be chosen
equally from farm and urban youths.

Interested teen-agers are urged to write to the Regional
Exchange Office nearest their home. German-American
committees will interview applicants and make final
selections from Feb. 1 to 25.

Cultural Ties Improved

The recent appearances of the Juilliard String Quartet
and the Hall-Johnson Choir in US Information Centers —
throughout Germany made a tremendous public impact

i

and did much to improve cultural ties between Germany ~

and the United States.

In addition to a significant contribution toward the

accomplishment of the HICOG effort to strengthen these
cultural connections, the appearances helped to make the
Germans aware of the musical achievements of other
nations. Even before the cultural isolation imposed by
the Nazi regime, many Germans had come to regard their
country as the principal exponent of art — particularly
in the field of music.

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 49 ---
The Juilliard Quartet gave recitals in Berlin, Bremen,
Frankfurt, Hamburg, Hanover, Heidelberg, Mannheim,
Munich, Nuremberg and. Stuttgart. Their programs of
both classical and modern music met with praise from
audiences and critics alike. Newspapers called the quartet
“one of the world’s best,” “an artistic event of first-class
importance,” “a new factor in our musical life.”

Critics lauded the “high musical culture" of the Hall-
Johnson choir, its “extraordinary discipline,” its “choice
vocal material” and the “fascinating realism of its inter-
pretation.” The Hall-Johnson Choir performed in Berlin
(see back cover), Bremen, Bremerhaven, Frankfurt, Ham-
burg, Hanover, Kassel, Mannheim, Munich and Nurem-
berg. Press and public reactions to their appearances

were equally impressive.
Large crowds flocked to US Information Centers in cities
where the programs were given.

Foreign Interests Protected

The Allied High Commission has approved a law to
protect foreign nationals who were previously prevented
from exercising their legal rights in Germany due to war
and postwar conditions.

The principal effect of the law is in cases where a
foreign national needs a special license under foreign
exchange legislation in Germany in order to take legal
action. The period of limitation or prescription related
to the action will not expire before the end of the calendar
year following the year in which such licensing ceases

and in no case before July 1, 1952.

Present control legislation also prevents residents of
foreign countries from freely collecting debts owed by
Germans, This bar to collection cannot be removed before
the whole question of German debts has been clarified
on a governmental level.

Boy Scouts Get Help

Boy Scouts in Bremerhaven are looking “‘official” these
days as the result of a drive started by US Resident
Officer Edward Merone.

Mr. Merone noticed that many of the local Pathfinders
had no uniform, Firms in the area were contacted to
help in the matter. Material for the shirts was made
available by the Bremerhaven firm of Ketelsen, while

Dr. Erwin P, Brauner, HICOG Public Health adviser, ad-
dresses guests at opening of Mother and Child Health
Demonstration Clinic at Neukoelln Hospital in Berlin.
The clinic provides‘prenatal care and medical attention
for children up to six. (PRB BE-HIGOG photo by Schubert)

Bremerhaven boy scouts get 55 new uniforms through
American and German help. Pathfinder Deblitz accepts
official shirt from merchant Armin Ketelsen while US Resi-
dent Officer Edward Merone looks on, (Photo by Georg Rogye)

the firm of Ramelow donated the material for the scouts’
trousers. Mr. Merone paid the cost of having the gar-
ments sewn and also provided for Boy Scout necker-
chiefs,

A delegation of 20 Pathfinders received the 55 Boy
Scout uniforms during a ceremony in ihe US resident
office. The youths brought along their own music
makers,

Armin Ketelsen said during the ceremony, “We pre-
sent you these uniforms in the hope that you will wear
them in the true Boy Scout spirit."

Pathfinder Deblitz in thanking the donors promised to
keep the gifts well in accord with the Boy Scout principle,
“Always Prepared!"

Citizenship Training for Women

The first regional course is citizenship training for Ger-
man women, patterned after a program presented in
Speyer last fall by HICOG Women's Affairs Branch, was
held in Inzighofen, Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern, recently.

Mrs. Else Beckmann of the Tuebingen Women's Com-
mittee, who attended one of the Speyer sessions, served
as chairman. The course was organized by Miss Bertha
L. Bracey of Great Britain, a specialist, in Germany under
the HICOG Exchanges Program.

The 51 women participating were selected by the Tue-
bingen Women’s Committee, P. A. Neuland, US observer
in South Baden, and Miss Margaret Blewett, Women’s
Affairs adviser in OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden. Invitations
were extended to Dr. Gertrud Metzger, member of the
state council of Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern, and to the
Offices of the US and French High Commissioners.

Principal speakers were Mrs. Anna Haag, director of
the Anna Haag Home for Girls in Stuttgart, Dr. Elfriede
Mueller, vice chairman of the Europa-Union, Stuttgart,
and Miss Bracey.

After a general discussion of each address, the con-
ference divided into four.discussion groups with the topics
including: women as a vital force of society; women as
educators; women as economic factors in the community,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 50 ---
and women and international understanding. The course
was successful in uniting into one working group women
from 19 organizations.

All participating indicated that they had acquired a
deeper sense of the individual's share in the responsi-
bilities confronting Germany and a clearer understanding
of how to face them through civic action. .

As Helene Laslowski of Freiburg’s Association of Dis-
placed Germans noted: “Our distress has brought us to
the realization that only those things that are simple and
fundamental have lasting value, and it was those ultimate
values to which we were repeatedly directed.”

Modern Dairy Opened in Hesse

A three-year drive launched by HICOG Food and Agri-
culture officials in conjunction with German milk produc-
ers, dairymen and consumers for the improvement of
Hesse’s milk supply, culminated in the opening of the
ECA-financed Frankfurt-Sossenheim community dairy
Dec. 1.

This dairy, considered one of the finest and most modern
in western Europe, is part of a series of pilot demonstra-
tion projects for increasing milk consumption throughout
West Germany by making quality improvements through
vitaminization, proper pasteurization and more careful
handling. The new plant will produce approximately
150,000 quarts of bottled milk a day and can be expanded
to a capacity of 400,000 quarts. An American-style ice
cream plant will complete the project early in 1952.

The bottling process of the new dairy realizes the
central idea of the American-German milk improvement
campaign, which is aimed at the production of sanitary,
tuberculosis-free milk. The plant is expected to boost
considerably Hesse’s milk consumption and thereby the
income of farmers.

The opening ceremony at Hesse’s model milk-bottling
plant was witnessed by representatives of the HICOG
Food and Agriculture Division and ECA as well as officials
of the Hesse state government and of Frankfurt city. The
new dairy is part of the Frankfurt milk supply system
known as Moha (Molkerei Osthafen or Dairy East Harbor.)

Soviet Zone Police Quit

The glamor of being a “people's policeman” in the
Soviet Zone of Germany is apparently losing its appeal.
During the past year and a half nearly 2,000 men have
deserted from the Communist paramilitary force.

Reports of the HICOG Public Safety Division show that
during recent months the number of such refugees apply-
ing for political asylum in West Berlin has jumped 15 per-
cent over the previous quarter year.

The report also noted that police apprehended 1,512
Communist propagandists and agitators in West Berlin
during the first 11 months of 1951.

Coburg Returnees Active

Persons who have returned to Coburg after visiting
America under the HICOG Exchanges Program have
formed an informal group to present a series of lectures.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

48

Heino Heinla (right), Estonian refugee, 27, the last Euro-
pean DP to receive a US visa, is congratulated by Harry
N. Rosenfield, commissioner of the US Displaced Persons
Commission, while Robert J. Corkery, European coordi-
nator, and two-year-old Kaja Heinla look on. Mrs. Heinla

holds their baby son, Uku. (USDPC photo by K. Bethke)

To date the chief of police, Fritz Todtenhaupt, has
spoken to German and American police officials, youth
group leaders have addressed local groups, and Dr. Ul-
rich Kriesche, head of the local high school, has held
two public discussions.

Welfare Actions Extended

The Munich “Good Neighbor Committee,” which has
already spent DM 8,084 ($1,923) in carrying out welfare
activities, recently decided to extend another DM 8,000
for projects to help homes, students, refugees and artists.

The committee is composed of both Americans and
Germans. Most of the money for the welfare work has
been raised by various benefit projects.

Half of the fund will be spent on individual emergency
cases while the remainder will be used to establish
kindergartens in refugee camps, to give needy mothers
vacations at a rest home and other special causes.

Princess Pilar of Bavaria was recently elected chair-
man of the committee, succeeding Mrs. George N. Shuster,
wife of the former US state commissioner for Bavaria,
who has returned to the United States. Mrs. Shuster was
nominated an honorary member of the organization.

Hungarian-Owned Property Returned

The Office of the US High Commissioner recently
repeated a previous statement declaring that all Hungar-
ian goods in the US Zone of Germany available for resti-
tution have been returned. The statement came in the

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 51 ---
face of continued alleged Hungarian assertions that only
a small part of the property to which Hungary was entitled
had been returned.

Similar charges were considered by the US Govern-
ment and rejected as unfounded several months ago. When
a Hungarian delegation arrived in Frankfurt last May,
a list of returnable goods was given it which included
a variety of Hungarian-owned machines, electric motors,
tools, furniture, veneer and other woods, certain types
of railroad equipment, metals, motor vehicles and a large
number of cultural objects. The delegation left in July
after the collection and shipment of those goods was
completed.

The properties in question were brought to Germany
at various times before the end of the war. Many other
properties ineligible for restitution under terms of the
Hungarian peace treaty were moved from Hungary to
Germany during the period of Hungarian participation in
the war against the Allies.

Livestock Demonstrations Popular

Competitions among farm youngsters similar to Ameri-
can 4-H club contests are gaining ground in Germany.

A dozen 16-year-old farm boys and girls recently parti-
cipated in a hog-raising contest in Friedberg county. The
hogs were provided through the assistance of ECA, the
participants contributing DM 2 (about 47 cents) and ECA
giving DM 48 (about $11.40).

Contest prizes were augmented by gifts from Dr. Frido-
lin Rothaermel, president of the Bavarian Farmers As-
sociation, and Andreas Haisch, state parliament delegate.

The children’s parents expressed appreciation for the
sense of responsibility which the contest awakened in
addition to the instruction and education received.

The first livestock demonstration and judging to be
held in Sonthofen county, Bavaria, was another recent

Oron J. Hale (center), US state commissioner for Bavaria,
examines gavel which Karl Bos] (right), first chairman of
Bavarian Teachers and Educators Association, will present
to the Pennsylvania State Education Association's annual
meeting on his visit to he United States. Wilhelm Ebert
(left), chairman of association's legislative committee, will
accompany Dr. Bosl,

(PRB OLCB photo by Maske)

JANUARY 1952

49

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy helped open 1952
March of Dimes drive in Bonn Enclave with contribution
to Lt. Col. John M. Huckins, commanding officer of the
Bonn Detachment, US Army. With Mr, McCloy are, I.-r.,
Warrant Officer Andrew Sivak, March of Dimes officer
for Bonn Enclave; Colonel Huckins, Mr. McCloy and Lt.
William Sprayberry, his aide, (PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)

farm activity. The work was organized last spring by
Richard Seiler, a teacher at the state farm school who.
visited the United States under the HICOG Exchanges
Program. ECA granted DM 500 ($119) for the purchase
of animals and poultry.

It is believed that enough interest has been stimulated
through the demonstration to encourage groups from dif-
ferent parts of the county to compete next summer.

History of Normandy Invasion

“Cross Channel Attack," an account of the 1944 in-
vasion of Normandy, has been published by the Depart-
ment of the Army and is the eighth volume of the official
history of World War II.

The book, compiled by Dr, Gordon A. Harrison, former
newspaperman and Army historian in Europe, combines
all phases of the Allied planning and action with a
complete account of German defensive plans and opera-
tions. The material is based on official Allied and Ger-
man documents as well as on interviews with officers and
soldiers.

The publication is available in Europe at EUCOM news-
stands; it may also be purchased from the Superintendent
of Documents, US Government Printing Office, Washing-
ton 25, D.C., for $5.25.

Heidelberg City Hall Derequisitioned

The city hall in Heidelberg was derequisitioned recently
during ceremonies in which both high-ranking Americans
and Germans participated.

The building is one of the largest and most valuable
parcels of real estate in the university city to be turned
back. In the formal ceremony Col. P. J. Lloyd, Heidelberg
Military Post commander, presented the keys of the

‘ building to Dr. Hugo Swart, mayor of the city. Maj. Gen.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 52 ---
Off to recuperate in Switzerland, the first 51 of 300 tuber-
culous and undernourished children from Berlin (above)
board plane for Frankfurt enroute to three months of care
and rest with Swiss families, The project is sponsored by
the Swiss Red Cross, the International Red Cross, the
Berlin Magistrat Youth Department and the US Air Force.
Margitta Schmid (below) has seat belt carefully fastened
for her first air journey. (PRB BE-HICOG photos by Schubert)

A. Bradshaw, Jr., director of logistics for EUCOM, and
H. M. Coverley, acting US state commissioner for Wuert-
temberg-Baden, also participated.

The city hall, originally requisitioned by the Army in
April 1945 and renamed the Starlight Club, has been a
recreation center. A fire caused $70,000 damage to the
interior of the building in March 1948. When reconstruc-
tion was completed, the city hall was taken over by the
Heidelberg Special Services offices and the American Red
Cross. Completion of new buildings made space available
for those two offices.

Return of the city hall is in line with the Army's policy
of relinquishing control of real estate as soon as the
accelerated construction program permits. Since 1945
almost 8,000 properties on Heidelberg Military Post have
been derequisitioned.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

50

Army Band Entertains

The First Infantry Division Band, conducted by War-
rant Officer William B, Baldwin, has recently presented
a series of free concerts in the Erlangen Redoutensaal
Auditorium.

The HICOG office at Erlangen handled advertising
and organizational work for the series.

Safety Campaign Aided

The US resident office at Kronach has been aiding a
local rural police safety campaign by providing trans-
portation.

Main feature of the campaign was a Punch-and-Judy
show, written by a teacher in the county, which em-
phasizes to children the dangers of traffic and pedestrian
violations, Policemen also sought to convey to the
youngsters the friendliness and helpfulness of these
public servants.

Rural Education in Bavaria Popular

The winter session of the Dinkelsbuehl and Gunzen-
hausen counties’ Volkshochschule (high school), one of
the largest adult education systems in Bavaria, is now
well underway with lectures, film showings and discussion
evenings slated for 75 communities in the two counties,

The lectures and discussions are on political subjects
such as the Schuman Plan, European Union and general
political education; on agricultural subjects, such as land
consolidation and modern farming methods, and on civil
tights subjects. Each of the communities holds its meet-
ings every three weeks.

Participating in the program are 47 lecturers, including
teachers, lawyers, farmers, school officials and promi-
nent citizens of Dinkelsbuehl and Gunzenhausen.

US Resident Officer Peter Brescia, who has been aiding
the program, has termed it one of the brighter aspects of
the whole political picture in this former Nazi stronghold,

Restoring Justice German Task

Restoring justice in Germany is “above all a German
task and the only way which will bring Germany back
into the community of civilized nations,” in the opinion
of Dr. Karl Dietrich Raiser, councilor of the highest
Wuerttemberg-Baden court for restitution cases.

Dr. Raiser and two other German judges recently vis-
ited the US Court of Restitution Appeals in Nuremberg
and shared the bench with the US judges. In a letter of
thanks to US Justice Fred J. Cohn, Dr. Raiser stated, “It
was more than a gesture that you invited us to sit on
the bench. We consider this to be a recognition of our
honest and constant efforts to restore justice, which has
been so abused."

He added: ‘We as judges must give our attention to
combining with the redress of wrong done a just settle-
ment between the parties, The encounter with you and
your colleagues on the human level strengthened our
confident conviction that you, too, are pervaded with a
sense of this eternal task of the judge." +END

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 53 ---
Calendar of Coming Events

CURRENT (with closing dates)

Feb. — Essen (NRW): Exhibition of plastic
art of the Middle Ages.

March 31 — Munich (Bav): Exhibition, Art
of the South Seas’ at US Information
Center (America House).

FEBRUARY

Feb. 1 — Berlin: Concert; Berlin Philhar-
monic Orchestra; Tibor Varga, violin;
Jos. Keilberth, conductor.

Feb. 1 — Krefeld (NRW): Concert; Ludwig
Hoelscher, cello; R. Hubertus, conductor.

Feb. 1— Bremen: Concert; Shura Cherkassy,
piano.

Feb. 1 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Cycle concert;
Elly Ney, piano; O. Schmidtgen, con-
ductor.

Feb. 1 —- Weinheim/BergstraBe (WB): Con-
cert; Koeckert Quartet.

Feb.1—Rheydt (NRW): Concert; Karl
Roehrig, violin; G. L. Jochum, conductoi

Feb. 1-3 — Kreuth (Bav): Bavarian ski
championships. Olympic elimination con-
tests for long distance race, jump run.

Feb. 1-3 Hundsbach (WB): Black Forest
ski championships. .

Feb. 1-7 — Dortmund (NRW): Six-day bi-
cycle races,

Fc — Cologne (NRW): Carnival;

versary of Honor Guard.

Feb. 2 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Election of
Carnival Prince.

Feb, 2— Aachen (NRW): Carnival pageant.

Feb, 2-3 — St. Andreasberg (LS): 56th win-
ter festival.

Feb, 2-3 — Warmensteinach (Bav): German
junior ski championships,

Feb. 2-3 — Gersfeld/Rhoen (Hes): Hesse state
championships.

Feb. 2-3 — Brannenburg (Bav): Bavarian ski
championships.

Feb. 3 — Hundseck (WB): Black Forest ski
championships.

Feb, 3— Muggenbrunn (WB): Black Forest
junior ski championships.

Feb, 3— Berchtesgaden (Bav):
curling championships.

Feb. 3— Willingen (NRW): West German
22-mile ski championship.

Feb, 3— Aachen (NRW): Bach's Cantatas.

Feb. 3— Essen (NRW): Concert; Pierre Four-
nier, cello; G. Koenig, conductor.

Feb. 3-4 — Berlin: Concert; Berlin Philhar-
monic Orchestra; Jos, Keilberth, con-
ductor.

Feb, 3-4— Hamburg: Northwest German
Broadcasting Orchestra; H. Schmidt-Isser-
stedt, conductor.

Feb. 3-March 2— Wuppertal (NRW): Tex-
tile exhibition by Textile Engineers School
of Krefeld.

Feb. 4 Wuppertal (NRW): Guest perform-
ance by Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra;
Wilhelm Furtwaengler, conductor.

Feb. 4 — Hanover (LS): Symphony concert;
Shura Cherkassy, piano; Joh. Schueler,
conductor,

Feb.4— Bremen: Concert; Philharmonic
Orchestra; Christine Purrmann, piano.
Feb. 4 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony con-

cert; Thomas Magyar, violin.

Feb. 4 — Bonn (NRW): Concert; Pierre Four-
nier, cello; O. Volkmann, conductor.

Feb. 4 Darmstadt (Hes): Symphony con-
cert; Cecilia Hansen, violin.

50th

Bavarian

JANUARY 1952

Feb. 1 to March 15, 1952

Feb, 4 — Freiburg (SB): Symphony concert;
Eugen Jochum, conductor.

Feb. 4— Cologne (NRW): Northwest Ger-
man Broadcasting Orchestra; Michele Au-
claire, violin; Hans Rosbaud, conductor.

Feb, 4-5 — Mannheim (WB): Academy con-
cert; Magda Tagliaferro, piano; Eugen
Szenkar, conductor.

Feb, 4-5 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; Eugen Jochum, conductor,

Feb. 5 — Solingen (NRW): Beethoven con-
cert; R, Suter, piano.

Feb. 6 — Berlin: — RIAS Symphony Orches-
tra; contemporary German composers;
Ferenc Fricsay, conductor.

Feb. 6 — Aachen (NRW): Concert; Haydn's
“The Seasons.”

Feb. 6 — Paderborn (NRW):
Richter-Haase, piano.

Feb. 6-7 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic con-
cert; Fritz Rieger, conductor.

Feb. 7 — Leverkusen (NRW): C. Orff's “‘Car-
mina Burana.”

Feb. 7-10 — Oberammergau (Bav): Inter-
national college ski championships.

Feb. 8 — Kassel (Hes): Symphony concert;
Adolf Claude, violin; Willy Krauss, con-
ductor.

Feb. 8 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert; Edu-
ard Erdmann, piano.

Feb. 8 — Kaiserslautern (RP): Concert; S.
Rapp, piano; K. Rucht, conductor.

Feb. 8-11—-Braunlage (LS): German ski
championships. ‘

Feb. 9 — Cologne (NRW): Ball of the Car-
nival Prince's guard and the ‘Rote Fun-
ken" (Red Sparks).

Feb. 9— Hannover (LS): Marksmens' car-
nival.

Feb. 9 — Hanover (LS): Bicycle races.

Feb. 9-14 — Offenbach/Main (Hes): Leather
goods trade fair.

Feb. 10 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): Night ski
jumping.

Feb. 10 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Ski jump-
ing at the Ramsau.

Feb. 10 — Breitenberg/Black Forest (WB):
Trophy ski jumping.

Feb. 10 — Schliersee (Bav):
Memorial jumping.

Feb. 10 — Weiden (RP): Junior ski day.

Concert; H.

Jens Jaeger

Feb. 10 — Schleching (Bav): Junior ski
championships.

Feb. 10 — Dortmund (NRW): Concert;
Brahms and Reutter.

Feb. 10-11 — Reutlingen (WB): Concert;

Swabian Symphony Orchestra.

Feb. 10-11 Hamburg: Concert; Beethoven's
“Missa Solemnis;" Jos. Keilberth, con-
ductor.

Feb, 10-11 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern,

51

chestra; Shura Cherkassy, piano; Arthur
Rodzonsky, conductor.

Feb, 11 — Oberammergau (Bav): Ammergau
junior ski championships.
Feb. 11— St. Andreasberg (LS):
32.25 mile ski championship.
Feb. 11 — Nuremberg (Bav): Concert; Lud-
wig Hoelscher, cello; Hans Leopold, piano.

Feb. 11 Cologne (NRW): Concert; Beet-
hoven cycle; Eduard Erdmann, piano;
Guenther Wand, conductor.

Feb. 11 — Bremen: Concert; H. Zernick
Quartet.

Feb. 13 — Tuebingen (WH): Handel's ““Sam-
son.”

Feb. 14 — Muenster (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; Tibor Varga, violin.

Feb. 14 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Ice hockey
games.

Feb. 14-15 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Symphony
concert; Richard Kotz, guest conductor.

Feb. 15 — Hanover (LS): Symphony concert;

German

Julian von Karoliy, piano; Dr. H. Thier-
felder, conductor.
Feb. 15— Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony

concert; Michele Auclaire, violin.

Feb. 15-16 — Usseln (NRW): Ski champion-
ships.

Feb. 16— Tuebingen (WH): Concert; Cas-
par Cassado, cello.

Feb. 16-17 — Altenau (LS): Harz ski cham-
pionships.

Feb. 16-17 — St. Andreasberg (LS): Visitors’ _
competitions for medal.

Feb. 16-17 — Hamburg: 47th textiles sample
fair.

Feb. 17 — Neubau (Bav): Bavarian club re-
lay championship.

Feb. 17 — Hahnenklee/Bockswiese (LS) : Ger-
man bobsled championships.

Feb. 17 — Peissenberg (Bav): Challenge tro-
phy ski jumping.

Feb. 17 — Bayrisch Zell (Bav): Ski jumping
for Count Schoenborn Cup.

Feb. 17 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Motorcycle
races on Hintersee Lake,

Feb. 17 — Mittenwald (Bav): Borderland ski
jumping.

Feb. 17 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): Toboggan
races,

Feb. 17 —Heidelberg (WB): Concert; ‘Psalms
Symphony” by Stravinsky; “Te Deum"
by Bruckner.

Feb. 17-18 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra; G. Wand, conductor.

Feb. 18 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum concert;
Christine Purrmann, piano;- Jos. Krips,
conductor.

Feb.18 — Luebeck (SH): Concert; Eva Barth,
violin; G. E. Lessong, conductor.

Feb. 19 — Bonn (NRW): Reception for mem-
bers of ministries and government offices;
carnival pageant.

Feb. 20 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert; Caspar
Cassado, cello.

Feb. 20 — Reutlingen (WB): Concert; Musica
Nova; Hindemith, David, Stephan.

Feb, 20 — Braunlage (LS): Slalom, downhill
and long distance run for guests.

Feb, 21 — Munich (Bav): Academy concert;
Georg Solti, conductor.

Feb. 21— Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert; Branca Musulin, piano.

Feb. 21 — Aachen (NRW): Carnival; histor-
ical jester’s jump.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 54 ---
2

Feb. 21 — Hasslach (Bav): Carnival; tradi-
tional “Dirty Thursday" ball.

Feb. 22—-Nuremberg (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; E. Mainairdi, cello.

Feb, 23 — Stockach/Black Forest (WB): Tra-
ditional ‘‘Jester's Tree Planting."

Feb. 23 — Bonndorf/Black Forest (WB):
“Hemdglonker” procession; carnival play,
pageant.

Feb. 23 — Cologne (NRW): Carnival Prince's
guard ball and Ball of the Nations.

Feb. 23 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Carnival
pageant.
Feb. 23-24 — Bodenmais (Bav): Bavarian

Forest ski championships.

Feb. 24 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): 30th anni-
versary winter sports.

Feb. 24 — Kreuth (Bav): Downhill race for
Golden Alpine Goat.

Feb. 24 — Haselbach (Hes):
ski contests.

Feb. 24 — St. Andreasberg (LS): Ski jump
run on big natural jump.

Feb. 24 — Schliersee (Bav): Ski carnival.

Grand slalom

Feb. 24 — Hinterzarten (WB): Rudi Cranz
Memorial downhill race.
Feb. 24 — Cologne (NRW): ‘“Koelsche

Stroepp” day and ‘‘Veedesizog” carnival
procession,

Feb, 24— Wiesbaden (Hes): Carnival pro-
cession.

Feb, 24— Augsburg (Bav): Carnival pro-
cession.

Feb. 24 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): Night ski
jumping.

Feb. 24-25 — Hamburg: Northwest German
Broadcasting Symphony Orchestra; Ida
Hendel, violin; Issay Dobrowen (Stock-
holm), conductor,

Feb. 24-25 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra; Branca Musulin, piano; Rudolf
Schwarz, conductor.

Feb. 24-27 — Throughout Western Germany:
Peak of carnival (Fasching) ceremonies
with Rose Monday procession.

Feb, 24-March 6 — Hanover (LS): Ice ballet.

Feb. 25 — Oberammergau (Bav): Puerschling
ski relay race, -

Feb, 25 — Eichstaett (NRW): Walpurgis fes-
tival.

Feb. 25— Goslar (LS): Miners’ carnival.

Feb. 25-26 — Rottweil (Bav): Historical jest-
er’s jump; carnival play.

Feb. 25-26 — Bremen: Philharmonic concert;

__ Caspar Cassado, cello.

Feb. 25-26 — Throughout Bavaria: “Aleman
fasnet’ (carnival) with famous “Narren-
sprung” (jester's jump).

Feb. 26 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW): Tra-
ditional Violet Tuesday procession.

Feb. 26 — Cologne (NRW): Traditional ball
of the United Tuesday Ball Societies.
Feb. 26 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): Carnival;

ski jumping.

Feb. 26 — Bernau (WB): Torch light carni-
val; downhill ski run.
Feb. 26 — Karlsruhe (WB):

cession.

Feb. 26 — Hasslach’ (Bav): Grand carnival
pageant.

Feb. 26-27 — Clausthal-Zellerfeld (LS): Harz
ski championships.

Carnival pro-

Feb. 26-27 — Hinterzarten (WB): Black
Forest ski championships.
Feb, 27 — Duelken (NRW): Traditional

“Schoeppen Markt" on Ash Wednesday.

Feb. 27-March 2—- Hamburg: German 1952
Industries Fair.

Feb, 28-March 2 — Oberstdorf (Bav): Third
international ski flying week.

Feb, 28-March 6 — Berlin: Six-day bicycle
races.

February — Throughout Western Germany
and West Berlin: International ice hockey
games and ice rink events.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

MARCH

March 1 — Kreuth (Bav): International
grand slalom.

March 1 — Muggenbrunn (WB): Black

Forest junior ski championships.
March 1 — Gladbeck (NRW): Concert; Elly
Ney, piano; Ludwig Hoelscher, cello.
March 1-2 — Hundsbach (WB): Black For-

est ski championships.

March 1-2 — Rottach-Egern (Bav): Inter-
national downhill race for Golden Wall-
berg Shield.

March 2 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Watzmann
downhill ski run,

March 2 — Braunlage
championships,

March 2 — Essen (NRW): Concert; Vasa
Prihoda, violin; G. Koenig, conductor.

March 2 — Stuttgart (WB): Philharmonic
concert; works by Bruckner,

March 2-3 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra; Leo Blech, conductor.

March 2-3 — Hamburg: Philharmonic Or-
chestra; R. Prick, violin; R. Sommer,
cello; Jos. Keilberth, conductor.

March 2-4 — Cologne (NRW): Spring fair;
textiles and clothing.

March 2-7 — Nuremberg (Bav): Third Ger-
man toy trade fair.

March 2-7 — Berlin: Six-day bicycle races.

March 3 — Bonn (NRW): Concert; Tibor
Varga, violin.

March 3 — Darmstadt (Hes): Symphony
concert; Ida Hendel, violin.

March 3 -— Coblenz (RP); Symphony con-
cert; D, Fischer-Dieskau, baritone; O.
Winkler, conductor.

March 3 — Cologne (NRW): Concert; con-
temporary works; Pietro Scarpini, piano;
Hans Rosbaud, conductor.

March 3 — Luebeck (SH): Concert; P. Esser,
violin; A. Steiner, cello; Hilma Holstein,
piano,

March 3-4 — Mannheim (WB): Academy
concert; “‘Requiem" by Verdi.

March 4 — Muehlheim/Ruhr (NRW): Con-
cert; E, Erdmann, piano; G. L. Jochum,
conductor,

March 4-5 — Paderborn (NRW): Concert;
Handel's ‘‘Messiah."

March 5 — Bad Wiessee (Bav): Night sla-
lom on Sonnebiehl.

March 5 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert;
Bach's ‘St. Matthew's Passion."

March 5 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert by
Bach Society.

March 5-6 — Duisburg (NRW): Symphony
concert; Tibor Varga, violin; G. L.
Jochum, conductor.

March 5-6 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; works by Mozart, Boccherini,
Malipiero, Stravinsky. .

March 6 — Sinsheim (SB): Filly mart.

March 6 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra; contemporary works; Mascia
Predit, soprano; Igor Markevitsch, con-
ductor.

March 6 — Munich (Bav): Academy con-
cert; Georg Solti, conductor.

March 6 — Muenster (NRW): Symphony
concert; Wilhelm Kempff, piano; Dr. R.
Wagner, conductor,

March 6 — Munich (Bav): Concert; Stutt-
gart Chamber Orchestra.

March 6 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Con-
cert; werks by Hindemith, Mozart, De-
bussy, Strauss,

March 7 —- Wiesbaden (Hes): Cycle con-
cert; Reine Gianoli, piano; Karl Schuricht,
guest conductor.

March 7 — Bamberg (Bav): Bamberg Sym-
phony Orchestra; G, Cassado, cello; Jos.
Keilberth, conductor,

March 7 — Essen (NRW): Concert; Elly
Ney, piano; Ludwig Hoelscher, cello,

(LS): Jubilee ski

52

March 7-9 — Lenggries (Bav): German ski
championships. :

March 8 — Bischofsgruen (Bav):
“Fox Hunt."' Night ski jumping.

March 9 — Bayrisch Zell (Bav): Hans Krapp
Memorial jumping.

March 9 — Bernau/Black Forest
Grand slalom and downhill race.

March 9 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): Night
ski jumping.

March 9 — Warmensteinach (Bav): Grand
ski relay race ‘Round about the Ochsen-
kopf."'

March 9 — Munich (Bav): Guest concert by
Bamberg Symphony Orchestra; Jos. Keil-
berth, conductor.

March 9 — Stuttgart (WB): Symphony con-
cert; F, Leitner, conductor. .

March 9-10 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra; Sir John Barbirolli, conductor.

March 9-10 — Reutlingen (WB): Concert;
works by Cherubini, Beethoven, Mozart.

March 9-11 — Cologne (NRW): Spring fair,
household goods and hardware,

March 9-14 — Frankfurt (Hes): Internation-
al spring fair.

March 9-30 — Wuppertal (NRW): Art exhi-
bition by Heinz Battke of Florence.

March 10 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-
cert; Verdi's “Requiem.”

March 10 — Bonn (NRW): ‘‘Von deutscher
Seele,’’ cantata by Hans Pfitzner.

March 10 -— Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; Ida Hendel, violin; Johannes Schuel-
er, conductor.

March 10 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony
concert; Gaspar Cassado, cello.

March 10 — Cologne (NRW): Northwest
German Broadcasting Symphony Orches-
tra; Antonio Janigro, cello; Igor Marke-
vitsch, conductor, 2

March 10-11 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert; Wilhelm Kempff, piano; G.
Wand, conductor,

March 11 — Offenburg (WB): Wine mart.

Grand

(WB):

March 12 — Wesel (NRW): Concert;
Adrian Aeschbacher, piano.
March 12 — Bottrop (NRW): Concert;

works by Berlioz, Schumann, Franck. E.
Trenkner, piano.

March 12 — Flensburg (SH): Concert; E.
Mainardi, cello; H. Steiner, cello.

March 13 — Hildesheim (LS): Concert;
works by Beethoven, Sutermeister; Wolf-
gang Schneiderhan, violin.

March 13 — Kiel (SH): Concert; Mozart,

Boccherini, Martin, Hindemith; E, Main-
ardi, cello,
March 13 — Cologne (NRW): Concert;

Kathleen Ferrier,
accompanist.

March 13 — Oberhausen (NRW): Concert;
works by Beethoven, Hoeller, Hindemith;
Ludwig Hoelscher, cello. :

March 13 — Rheine (NRW): Concert; ‘Ein
deutsches Requiem’ by Brahms.

March 14 — Kassel (Hes): Concert to com-
memorate 125th anniversary of Beet-
hoven's death.

March 14 — Krefeld (NRW): Concert; Wil-
helm Kempff, piano; R. Hubertus, con-
ductor.

March 14 — Kaiserslautern (RP): Concert;
works by Bach, Brahms, Mohaupt; Hel-
mut Roloff, piano.

March 14 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Chamber
music; “Pro Musica Antiqua’ (Brussels).

March 14 — Munich (Bav): International
ice hockey match; Germany vs. Switzer-
land.

March 15-16 — Feldberg (WB): Internation-
al ski jumping for Curiccala cup.

March 15-31 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Ladies’
apparel sales week. -+ END

alto; Gerald Moore,

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 55 ---
American Editorials

All is Forgiven

The invitation which has been extended to West
Germany to join the family of free nations is not a
flattering commentary on the past wisdom and vision
of some statesmen.

Six years ago we and our victorious associates in
World War II were bent upon the destruction of the
sources of German power. Some men holding high posi-
tions in our government were urging that Germany be
reduced to the level of an agrarian land. But now the
wheel has swung around. The Germans whose military
power was to be forever destroyed are being assiduously
courted as allies in the common cause against the threat
of an armed, militant and aggressive Communism. We are
asking them to rearm with the rest of us, subject to such
“safeguards” as may be found in the creation of a feder-
ated European community controlling a common army.

The agreement which has been approved in Paris by
the foreign ministers of the United States, Britain, France
and the Bonn regime of Chancellor Adenauer is merely
a first step in what may prove to bea hard, slow journey.
Before the “peace contract'’ agreed on by the foreign
ministers can become operative, five supplementary con-
ventions must be ratified, When these hurdles, and some
of them will be difficult, have been surmounted, the
whole project must win the approval of the participating
governments.

At the end of this road, if it is successfully traveled,
there will be found certain results. For Germany, bat-
tered into unconditional surrender six years ago, there
awaits the reward of a restoration of sovereignty, almost,
but not quite, total in form. For the continental victors
of 1945 there will be the promise of some kind of feder-
ation, economic and political, with a common army
reinforced by. perhaps 12 German divisions. And for the
skeptics, of whom there are many, there will be a new
era of doubts and misgivings.

If it be assumed that all of the difficulties, political
and otherwise, can be overcome, and that the concept
of a federated Europe is transformed into reality, the
question remains whether, once again, wisdom is being
subordinated to expediency. Will the Germans them-
selves subscribe wholeheartedly to this project? As the
restraints are lifted, will they keep within the contem-
plated framework? Or will they, as they gain in political,
economic and military stature, bid for dominance in Eu-
Tope or seek to drive a better bargain with the Russians?

That these are among the substantial risks being taken
can hardly be denied. Still, it is difficult to see how
they can be avoided. For without Germany as a working
partner there is little hope of achieving either a sound
economy or an effective defense in western Europe. The
single fact which justifies assumption of the risk, and
which brightens the outlook for eventual success, is
that in some such federation lies the only hope, not

JANUARY 1952

53

only for France and the others, but for the Germans as
well, and intelligent men in all countries know it now,
if they did not know it six years ago. — from ‘Washington
Evening Star," Nov. 26.

All-German Elections?

The Western Big Three powers are calling the bluff of
the Communist regime regarding elections as a step to-
ward unification of Germany. In September President
Grotewohl of East Germany proposed election of delegates
from East and West Germany to a convention to draft a
constitution for a united nation.

But what kind of elections? Chancellor Adenauer of
West Germany specified in 14 points what free balloting
meant to people acquainted with self-government. Pres-
ident Grotewohl, eager to head off West German “peace
contract” talks at Bonn, offered to take up the points in
discussions — which could be endless.

Britain, France and America, in effect, are renewing
the proposition in the United Nations General Assembly.
Why not, they ask, have a UN commission investigate
the possibility of holding genuinely free elections under
conditions of free speech and freedom of political activity
in both East and. West Germany?

Soviet Foreign Minister Vishinsky has protested vehe-
mently against any such proposal, holding that Germany
is a matter for the major powers alone and not for the
UN. But since the four powérs for several years have
been unable to agree on a unified administration for Ger-
many, the only way to determine such a question as the
conduct of all-German elections is to bring in outside
observers and arbiters.

Otherwise, elections in the Soviet-controlled Eastern
zone could easily be a repetition of those in Bulgaria in
late 1945, where only one party ticket was allowed on
the ballot, or in Romania in 1946, after which opposition
party members were afraid to take promised Cabinet seats.

German Protestants are particularly responsive to talk
of unification, since large numbers of their fellow religion-
ists live in the Soviet-occupied zone. Yet in late October
Soviet authorities refused permission to the Lutheran
World Federation for a tour by Western correspondents
to see church conditions in that area.

If such is the Communist attitude, what kind of elec-
tions would take place in East Germany, and what would
happen to political and individual freedoms in West Ger-
many under any Communist-sponsored plan of unifica-
tion? — from “The Christian Science Monitor," Dec. 5.

World Land Reform

The international importance of land reform may be
seen in the introduction in the United Nations Assembly
at Paris of a resolution calling for world-wide action to
improve the lot of farmers throughout the world.

Land difficulties lie behind much of the trouble now
perplexing the globe. In China, in India, in Iran and in
many other countries, Communism has gained converts
through exploiting the land-hunger of people who have
wanted a chance to own the acres they till. In still
other countries, such as Germany and Japan, the need

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 56 ---
for more land has in the past created tensions which
led to aggressive war.

The question is of international concern. A country
does not live to itself alone any more.

The steps envisaged in the United Nations resolution
run deeper, however, than merely splitting up large
estates, It is also proposed to consolidate small holdings
for more economical operation, to improve livestock
breeding practices, and to encourage use of better seed.
Under the democratic system, these steps would be co-
operative rather than compulsory.

The co-sponsors of this resolution indicate the general
acceptance of the idea that relief is needed. The sponsors
are the United States and Brazil, where there is little
or no agitation for land reform, and Pakistan and Thai-
land, where there is much demand. Whatever a nation's
internal situation in regard to land usage, there is reason
for international concern about the problem as a whole.
— from Birmingham (Ala.) News," Nov, 25.

Streamlining NATO

Imparting a new sense of urgency to the Western
defense effort, General Eisenhower has again warned
the North Atlantic Council to stop haggling over minor
points of national interest or prestige and to achieve a
closer unity in every field — political, military and
economic.

In this warning, which he first voiced in London last
July and which is primarily addressed to Europe, General
Eisenhower is in agreement not only with predominant
American sentiment but also with the best European
opinion, He more than anyone else is aware of the
difficulties involved, since his own work has suffered
from them. But he declares: “We must attempt the im-
possible, we must pool sovereignty.”

The difficulties are only too evident. Thus far the
Western defense effort has been based in the main on
individual national efforts, which in turn have been de-
pendent on individual national policies and economic
developments. This has caused disagreement on such
fundamental issues as the size, support and membership
of the coalition’s military forces, assignments for arms
production, the direction of foreign policy and the nature
of trade relations.

It has likewise caused, as General Eisenhower points
out, reduced troop efficiency owing to national differen-
ces in training, mobilization and drafting, disagreements
over command posts, and lack of standardization of
weapons. Moreover, it has pyramided costs and thereby
raised debate as to whether the expense of the projected
armament program can be met at all, and, in any case,
who is to pay for it.

All efforts to solve these problems on a 12-nation basis
have merely led to the piling up of one committee atop
‘another, until NATO has become lost in the alphabetical
jungle of bureaucracy. ,

That so much has been achieved despite these difficul-
ties is a tribute to General Eisenhower himself, and to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the will of the West to defend itself. But the general's q
latest warning should give new impetus to the American
effort to streamline the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza- ~
tion as a whole, and within that framework to achieve —
greater unity in Europe itself. Since there is no desire
to abrogate national sovereignty but only to “pool” it 9
under an agreement, the basic plan behind this effort —
is to create an Atlantic “supranational authority” for
supreme control of policy, and to establish under it exe- —
cutive agencies to carry out its orders.

The “supranational authority” would still have to com-
prise all Atlantic Treaty nations and could therefore
consist only of a ministerial council, as at present. But
this council will have to be put on a more authoritative —
basis than at present, in order to provide a single poli-
tical agency for the formulation of policy, if it is to —
mark an improvement over the existing situation,

What is needed is some sort of SHAPE in the eco-
nomic field to organize production and procurement on
the most efficient and least costly basis. The same con-
siderations apply to the creation of the European army,
which involves the utilization of the greatest unused
military and industrial potential available to the West —
in Germany.

Even under the greatest degree of unification, national
interests and sensibilities will have to be taken into
account in matters of economic burdens, command posts —
and defense strategy. On a proper balance of all these
factors will depend the morale of troops which are pre- F
pared to fight as free men and not as robots. But behind ~
the American efforts at unification is the realization
gained from our own experience with union, that in
international politics two plus two do not necessarily
make merely four, and that in military and economic
matters especially the strength ofa well-organized larger
unit is far greater than the sum of its parts.

The United States feels especially free to urge such E
unification on Europe because we have no ambition to
dominate it, but have only one desire; and that is to see
Europe stand on its own feet again, able to defend itself
even without American assistance. — from “The New —
York Times," Nov. 27. +END

Plaque in memory of Konrad Cardinal von Preysing, late
Bishop of Berlin, was unveiled and consecrated in the
Catholic Chapel at the US Army's 279th Station Hospital.
Memoral services for the Cardinal were conducted by ~
Bishop Wilhelm Weskamm, his successor. (US Army photo) —

--- Page 57 ---
AVUVUUUAUAUUNTOOODOSDEDUAGUECUUTOUAUUUAEACOUUUAEOUSUOUEVESUEEATATESUCAVOUOCEVOOAUTEOOAADOENUEO EEE TOE A OUTPUT

(‘‘Sie,"’ West Berlin, Nov. 25)

German Editorials
And Cartoons

Material for this section is compiled from press digests and analyses prepar-
ed by various divisions of HICOG and OLC offices, and from official releases
of German agencies. These compilations are intended to inform the American
readers of what the Germans are thinking, without interpretation, The
inclusion of any viewpoint does not give concurrence to that view or opinion.

PATO U OME CLU LUE EEOL LLU LOCOULCoUL CR OL ULLLLc OL

Foreign Ministers’ Paris Meeting

German press comments on the Paris meeting between
the foreign ministers of the three Western Allies and
the German chancellor reflected the political division
of the country, praise alternating with criticism.

"The principal success of Dr. Adenauer’s mission in
Paris,” said the Passauer Neue Presse (Passau, Nov. 21),
“is, in his opinion, that personal confidence has been
established between the four foreign ministers. Dr. Aden-
auer has greatly gained prestige, both for himself and his
country. Between him and the other three the wide gap
between victors and vanquished has been eliminated...
Mr. Schumacher's criticism is not understandable. Dr.
Adenauer has raised Germany from an object of politics
to a subject of politics.”

Suedkurier (Constance, Nov. 21) commented that ‘the
Paris conference is, in the opinion of all Western countries,
a milestone on the road toward Germany’s integration into
the Western community as a partner with absolutely equal
rights, except for a few reservations which are necessary
in the interest of all Germany. The French press reports
that, without raising any objection. A year ago that would
have been inconceivable...”

Vishinsky can't sign
because his hands are full!

Muenchner Merkur (Munich, Nov. 27) thought it “incon-
ceivable that anyone could interpret that German-Allied
general agreement as something other than... the honest
desire of the Western Powers to establish a European
federal relationship with the Federal Republic of Germany,
with such necessary military reservations as the world
political situation demands and which are of vital im- .
portance to Germany, too... Because the Western Powers
have realized the necessity to achieve this agreement not
by fiat but by discussion, we can share Dr. Adenauer's
confidence in the further negotiations.”

More skeptically, Schwaebische Landeszeitung (Augs-
burg, Nov. 28) pointed to the press reaction as a gauge of
Dr. Adenauer's success. ‘The press is by no means an
absolute and negative opposition, but its comments are
equivocal, uncertain and reserved. The neutral Swiss pa-
pers express a pretty strong skepticism, and even in those
German papers which normally seek to support the chan-
cellor, there is little optimism and no enthusiasm at all.”

Schwaebische Post (Aalen, Nov. 27) considered it signifi-
cant that Dr, Adenauer, upon his return from Paris, was
received only by a delegation of his own CDU while the
other two parties in the government coalition stayed at

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Schwaebische Zeitung, Augsburg, Dec. 19)

The PWs: “If they don’t release us
soon, we'll be late for mustering in!"

JANUARY 1952

(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, Dec. 22)

“For the love of Pieck, don't
Jet them in!"

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Dec, 22)

John Bull: “But, of course, you have
my moral support.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 58 ---
home. “True, Dr. Adenauer's optimism about his negotia-
tions with the Western foreign ministers has become the
more impressive, the more so as he had warned before-
hand against exaggerated hopes. But the Free Democrats
particularly feel they would rather wait until the sealed
Paris agreement can be opened and all details and
clauses made known."

Rhein-Echo (Duesseldorf, Nov. 27) said that the critics
of the chancellor's Paris ‘‘success’’ were not confined to
members of the opposition and quoted a foreign corre-
spondent in Bonn as saying that even Bonn government
circles admit that Adenauer gave in. “It almost looks as if
this agreement only served the purpose of not letting him
go home with empty hands.” The paper continued to quote
the foreign journalist, asking “Now, is our criticism as
unrealistic as the government parties pretend?"

Only a few papers directly attacked the chancellor. The
WeStiaelische Rundschau (Dortmund, Nov. 27) wrote: “Dr.
Adenauer went somewhat out of his way after his Paris
negotiations to explain that he believed he had discovered
a means of starting the preparations for a German defense
contribution before the discussions on the new relationship
with the Western Powers were concluded. In plain Ger-
man, that means he is trying to find a political trick by
which he can commit the Federal Republic before Parlia-
ment has acted. It must be made clear that a German army
cannot be established in the backyard. There has to be a
genuine popular decision.”

Germany's Future Road?

Under the headline ‘What way shall Germany go?” the
Stuttgarter Zeitung (Stuttgart, Nov. 21) gave a detailed
appraisal of the possible solutions for Germany’s foreign
policy problems. Weighing several courses of action, the
paper summarized the main arguments championed by
various groups.

It started out with the so-called “Austrian solution,"
which would reunify Germany after free elections, but
return it to four-power control with occupation troops in

(Ruhr-Nachrichten, Dortmund, Nov. 7)

(Luebecker Nachrichten, Luebeck, Dec. 25)

German Defense Contribution.
“Have you been good children?"

the country: ‘A not very satisfactory solution, which still
has some supporters.”

The second possibility, according to this paper, would
be the neutralization of Germany, either armed or unarmed,
and in any case only after an East-West agreement. ‘'The
first can be ruled as impossible, because Germany could
not bear the tremendous burden of an armament necessary
to maintain this neutrality between the two great blocs.
But it is also most unlikely that the USSR and United
States would be interested in creating the vacuum of a
neutral and disarmed Germany, because this vacuum would
be an ever-present invitation to the big powers to fill it.”

Next, the “European solution" would attempt not to
upset the balance of power in Europe by compensating the
integration of a unified Germany into the Western Euro-
pean community with the . withdrawal of US troops from
the continent. However, the Stuttgarter Zeitung gave this
solution little chance, ‘‘as the Russians would hardly regard
the stationing of European Army troops in Magdeburg and
Dresden as not upsetting the balance of power in Europe.
It appears doubtful, too, whether Europe will remain
united without pressure from the United States.”

Finally, the paper weighed the arguments for the treaties
now under discussion between the Federal Government

(Mannheimer Morgen, Mannheim, Nov. 19)

Egypt.
“I can lick anybody in the house!"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Too Many Cooks Spoil the Broth.

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 59 ---
(Frankfurter Rundschau, Dec. 21)

“Quit horsing around, Winnie,
or you'll ruin the act!”

and the Allied High Commission against the arguments of
the opposition: “Common economic and cultural interests
direct Germany into the Western camp, and complete
equality cannot be expected immediately in view of Ger-
many’s geographical and internal political situation: an
army with contingents from more than a dozen nations can
hardly be expected to wage aggressive war; the danger of
a Russian attack diminishes with the increasing strength
of the West; people who believe that Germany's integration
into the West makes her reunification impossible are un-
realistic and by far too optimistic regarding the present
chances of this reunification.”

Summing up, the paper stressed that “there is no policy
without risk, and the risks inherent to Germany’s present
foreign policy are not greater than those involved in the
Austrian solution, in neutralization or in the European
solution."

Communist Strike Instigators Unmasked

When the Communists staged their first major attempt
at infiltration in the Federal Republic by inciting and
financing an illegal ‘wild strike” in the vital seaport of
Hamburg, the German press was prompt in unmasking the
instigators. .

(Hamburger Freie Presse, Hamburg, Nov. 15)

“We're the UN Election Commission.”

JANUARY 1952

“There is no doubt that the strike is a remote-control
Communist action," said the weekly Die Zeit (Hamburg,
Nov. 1) a few days after the first workers walked off their
jobs. “The chairman of the Hamburg strike committee is
a well known party leader, detailed to the transport work-
ers’ union from party headquarters. Bremen reports that

~a strike committee was formed which included several

Communist Party members. In Luebeck 50 agents showed
up suddenly and tried to persuade dock workers to walk
out, though unsuccesfully. Foodstuffs worth approximately
100,000 Soviet Zone marks were shipped from the Soviet
Zone to Hamburg and Bremen, to aid the strikers... Who
benefits from all that? Stalin!"

The Hamburger Morgenpost (Hamburg, Oct. 29) deplored
the fact that the great majority of the strikers seemed not
to know how they were being misused. "The Communists
do not care about wage agreements. In their zone they
discontinued them long ago. Every worker has to fulfill
Soviet-model standards and his pay is cut mercilessly if
he fails to meet them." The paper reproached the German
trade unions for their laxity in informational work. It
should be brought home to the strikers that the Com-
munists use them as their puppets, the Morgenpost felt.

The labor organ Welt der Arbeit (Cologne, Nov. 16)
argued that this was a difficult task. ‘Unfortunately, not
all workers recognize the wolf under his sheepskin,” it
said. ‘Since the Communists have increasingly lost con-
fidence, they have made it their tactic to use non-political
personalities and demands as a guise, restricting them-
selves to wire-pulling.”

Another paper, Freie Presse (Hamburg, Oct. 27), said
that the impulse for such “wild actions" came from envy
and jealousy at the higher standard of living of others, and
tried to explain to the dissatisfied workers that “only afew
of the new automobiles in the streets of our cities are really
private property, since most of them have been purchased
on company accounts and under tax-exemption rules.

“However, without these expenditures our automobile
industry would not have recovered to the point where it

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Nov. 7)

Germany in Paris.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 60 ---
(Neue Ruhr-Zeitung, Essen, Nov. 7)

Ali Joe, the Arabs’ Friend,
and his Trojan Camel.

(Muenchner Merkur, Munich, Nov. 17)

The Awkward Recruit.

(Rheinzeitung, Coblenz, Nov. 3)

“This is our big chance, Winnie!"

(Frankenpost, Hof, Nov. 15)

East-West Talks, Anno 2000,

INFORMATION BULLETIN,

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Nov.25)

Occupation Statute.
“He needs a new suit —
he's a growing boy!"

(Frankenpost, Hof, Nov. 20)
a

“Why's the train late?"

“Too many brakemen and
only one fireman!"

(Berliner Anzeiger, West Berlin, Oct. 24)

Little Red Riding Hood, 1951.

(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, Oct. 18)

Beuryr—

ee N

Adenauer to Resign
As Foreign Minister.
“Don't fret! I'm quitting when this soup
(the contractual agreement talks) is
finished!"

58

(Nordsee Zeitung, Bremerhaven, Nov. 16)

San

———o

bee es
| | |
German Michel: “Are you an
observer, too?”

PAaLals
CHalLLor
6.UN>
TREFFEN

seasationer!

(Braunschweiger Zeitung, Brunswick, Nov. 7)

No Way to Treat a Lady!

(Braunschweiger Zeitung, Brunswick, Dec. 7)

German Neutralist on X-Day:
“I think I'll join
the Atlantic Pact.”

(Die Zeit, Hamburg, Nov. 8)
°

)

Peace Feelers.

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 61 ---
(Rhein-Neckar Zeitung, Heidelberg, Dec. 6)

America to Europe: “Are you a bull
or just an ox?”

now can compete in the international market; without
them, thousands of workers in this and affiliated industries
would not have found new jobs. If maintenance costs were
not so high in Germany, it would not be long before every
skilled worker would have his own car, just as in the
United States."

Badische Neueste Nachrichten (Karlsruhe, Oct. 30) fig-
ured the cost of the strike at DM 240,000 daily ($57,000)
in each port, Bremen and Hamburg, adding that ‘the moral
damage is even greater, because this strike brings a factor
of uncertainty into the shipping business, which is so
closely associated with our export trade.”

The paper warned of illusions about the strength of the
Communists in West Germany. ‘Satisfying though it may
have been to see the Communists defeated in the elections,
we have to realize that the remaining cadres are com-
pletely reliable. True, they did not succeed in spreading the
strike to other ports, the strike committee was finally
arrested and the Communist delegates were prevented
from entering the port area, but as a test case, the strike has
given them the feeling that they are well in the position to
create disorder for a few days. Next time there will bea mi-
nor act of sabotage here, a propaganda campaign there...”

Firm Stand against Neo-Nazis Urged

Competing for space on the editorial pages with Chancel-
lor Adenauer's negotiations for a new Allied-German rela-
tionship was the problem of the resurgence of neo-Nazism.

“Something has to be done!’ exclaimed the Rhein-Neckar-
Zeitung (Heidelberg, Nov. 16), plotting a two-way course:
“First, we need severe legal action, designed not only to
prevent the spread of the neo-Nazi plague, but to extermi-
nate it completely... Secondly, of course, the democrats
must become active and rise against their enemies... What
the right-wing radicalists seem to be doing is reconnais-
sance along the democratic front line, They want to find
out just how much the democrats are going to tolerate...
The government should no longer hesitate!"

Kasseler Zeitung (Kassel, Nov. 17), on the other hand,
warned of the dangers of legislation against political par-
ties. “A prohibition by the police is the best way of making
interesting what would normally be forgotten in the

JANUARY 1952

course of time. We are almost hesitant to say the blunt
truth that prohibited things have a special attraction...
Explaining things to the people seems to us to be a more
reasonable way than police orders. It leaves decision up
to every citizen himself, and the odds are 100 to one that
he will find the right attitude.”

The Heidelberger Tageblatt (Heidelberg, Nov. 17) ana- -
lyzed the causes of right-wing radicalism in Germany,
finding that its very source is the German defeat of 1945.
“There is no nation in the world that did not react to a
national misfortune with an increased nationalistic feel-
ing...The Allies made a grave mistake when they
refused for years to permit a German right-wing party.
The result was that all parties have uncontrolled, and now
uncontrollable, rightist elements in their ranks. And, more-
over, the result was that the increasing rightist opposition,
unshackled by any responsibility, became more and
more radical..."

Judging the matter from the Berlin point of view, Der
Tag (West Berlin, Nov. 8) declared that history has already
held the trial and passed a verdict that will remain in the
eyes of the public. “The Berliners have not forgotten the
lessons of the Nazi regime and they have learned a lot of
new things from the Soviet-Germans. They know that they
owe all the grief and sorrow of today to one or the other
of these two totalitarian systems. They know these fellows
thoroughly, the red ones as well as the brown ones, and
they want to have nothing to do with any of them... We
criticize the West Germans — and the West Europeans
in general — for a certain spiritual instability, which Ber-
lin does not know. A visitor, coming to our city from the
outside, senses that. It is a different kind of atmosphere.”

Westdeutsche Rundschau (Wuppertal, Nov. 20) lashed
out at the pseudo-democratic Germans who covertly
support the radicals. “They think it is good enough to give
financial support to all parties which might someday be in
power, in order to retain all properties and relations when
‘it breaks’ and to be allowed to continue a prosperous
business, These donors, who operate under cover and
never want their names published, have not learned from

(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, Nov. 24)

Help Italy!

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 62 ---
(Kasseler Post, Kassel, Nov. 27)

(

Adenauer and the Allies.

A nice model
but a little tight!

(Frankenpost, Hof, Nov. 22)

Floods in Paris, too!

(Hamburger Freie Presse, Hamburg,
Nov. 9)

“Tell me the old, old story,”
by Vishinsky.

(Frankfurter Rundschau, Frankfurt,
Nov. 27]

The Soviet Woodpecker.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

history. They have forgotten that all these ‘reinsurers’
finally fell into their own traps."

A Peek behind the Iron Curtain

Aachener Nachrichten (Aachen, Nov. 8) published an
article by Gustav Heinemann, former federal minister of
the interior, who had toured the Soviet Zone of Germany
in his capacity as a Protestant church leader. His findings
aroused wide public interest.

“Living conditions have improved," he reported. ‘The
people feel that this is their accomplishment, for which
they had to overcome numerous obstacles. They do not
want to revert to former conditions in general, but they
approve of one or the other basic change. They complain
of being overburdened to the point of exhaustion with
work, indoctrination and service in the numerous organi-
zations, so that the eight-hour day by and large has be-
come an illusion, and people just do not get a quiet
moment for themselves. Workers complain of the factory
committee-made collective agreements with their variety
of special requirements.

“There is an enormous shortage of physicians; people
ask why more doctors do not come from the overcrowded
West. Independent businessmen feel threatened by arbi-
trary acts of public authorities. There is a general longing
for legal security. The recent clemency action has been
a bitter disappointment. Again and again I was approached
by relatives, who asked me to try to find out the reason
for the arrest and sentencing of their next of kin or their
whereabouts. Bitterness against the German leaders of the
regime seems to be greater than that against the occu-
pation power, whom they give credit for some things in
German history and for their own way of life...”

Investigating the church situation, Dr. Heinemann found
that “dialectic materialism" is not only taught in the
schools but is considered a kind of religion, and the edu-
cation to “democratic patriotism" includes education to
hatred against the enemies of this ‘democratic patriotism.’
For the children as well as for the parents and teachers,
this often results in conflicts of conscience. It is quite
natural, in view of this situation, that religious instruction
by the church is often interrupted by school authorities.
For instance, children may not bring their bibles to school
(subject to control) even though religious lessons are
given in the school building.” + END

(Der Kurier, West Berlin, Dec. 4)

The Big Four Pose in a Group.

60

(Main-Post, Wuerzburg, Dec. 8)

Neutral Germany.

A tender morsel
for a hungry bear.

(Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Munich,
Nov, 27)

The Big Four.

(Frankfurter Rundschau, Frankfurt,
Nov. 13)

“Dictator by the “will”
of the people.

(Duesseldorfer Nachrichten,
Duesseldorf, Nov. 17)

Middle East.

Raising the Banner
of the Prophet.

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 63 ---
Plans for Terminating the International
Authority for the Ruhr

The Allied High Commission published Dec. 21, 1951,
the text of the protocol signed by the governments of
Belgium, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United
Kingdom and the United States covering an agreement
to abolish the Ruhr Agreement signed in London on
April 28, 1949,

The instructions to the three high commissioners from
their governments concerning lifting of restrictions on
the production and production capacity of the German
steel industry were also published Dec. 21. The texts of
these documents which follow are unofficial texts.

As was announced in the communique of Oct. 19, 1951,
issued simultaneously by the governments of the six
powers concerned, the International Authority for the
Ruhr will cease to exercise certain functions upon the
entering into force of the treaty establishing a European
Coal and Steel Community (Schuman Plan) and will be

abolished after the common market provided for by the
treaty has been established. For details see agreement
accompanying the protocol.

The instructions to the high commissioners provide
that the present regulations under which no increase of
steel production and capacity may be authorized by the
Allied High Commission, remain effective until the
Schuman Plan enters into force. This situation is only a
provisional one, since according to the new instructions
the restrictions imposed by the Allied High Commission
on German steel production and production capacity will
be lifted with the entry into force of the treaty (Schu-
man Plan). Simultaneously, the Allied High Commission
will remove the controls it has exercised so far on the
German coal, iron and steel industries except to the
extent necessary for the fulfillment of the deconcentra-
tion and reorganization of these industries under Allied
High Commission Law No. 27.

* * * * *

Six-Power Protocol Relating to the Proposed Agreement
For the Termination of the Ruhr Agreement

The governments of Belgium, France,
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland and the United States of America:

Having considered the relation of the
treaty constituting the European Coal and
Steel Community signed at Paris on April 18,
1951, to the maintenance of the Inter-
national Authority for the Ruhr, established
by the agreement signed at London on
April 28, 1949, have decided:

1, To approve the draft agreement at-
tached hereto terminating the functions
of the International Authority for the Ruhr
and the Ruhr Agreement.

2. To sign, through their respective and
duly authorized representatives, the draft
agreement attached hereto as soon as the
aforesaid treaty constituting the European
Coal and Steel Community shall have
entered into force in accordance with
Article 99 thereof.

The original text of the present protocol
shall be deposited in the archives of the
Government of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland which
shall supply certified true copies to each
of the governments on whose behalf it has
been signed. This protocol shall be reg-
istered with the secretary-general of the
United Nations.

Done at Paris this 19th day of October,
1951, in the English and French languages,
both texts being equally authentic.

In witness whereof, the undersigned re-
Presentatives, duly authorized by | their
respective governments, have signed the
present protocol.

* OK OK :

Agreement between the governments of
Belgium, France, Luxembourg, the Nether-
lands, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and the United States

JANUARY 1952

of America relating to the Termination of
the Functions of the International Authori-
ty for the Ruhr and of the Agreement for
the Establishment of an _ International
Authority for the Ruhr.

Whereas the governments of Belgium, the
Federal Republic of Germany, France,
Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands
have established the European Coal and
Steel Community by a treaty accompanied
by a convention concerning transitional
provisions at Paris on April 18, 1951, and

Whereas the governments of Belgium,
France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, and the United States
of America are the signatory governments
of the Ruhr Agreement, and

Whereas the maintenance of the Inter-
national Authority for the Ruhr after the
establishment of the common market en-
visaged by the treaty constituting the
European Coal and Steel Community will
no longer have any purpose, and certain
of the functions of the International Autho-
rity for the Ruhr can be terminated at
earlier dates,

The governments of Belgium, France,
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, and the United States of America
have agreed to the following:

Article 1

The Ruhr Agreement shall terminate upon
the establishment of the common market
for coal within the European Coal and
Steel Community in accordance with the
provisions of Section 8 of the Convention.

Article 2
The International Authority for the Ruhr

shall cease to exercise all functions under
Article 14 of the Ruhr Agreement on the

61

date when the High Authority shall have
assumed, in accordance with Paragraph 2
of Section 2 of the Convention, its func-
tions under Article 59, Paragraph 3 of
the Treaty,
Article 3

The International Authority for the Ruhr
shall cease to exercise all functions under
Article 15 of the Ruhr Agreement on the
establishment of the common market for
coal in accordance with the provisions of
Paragraph 8 of the Convention, or on such
earlier date as the High Authority may
decide that the provisions of Article 15
are no longer necessary in order to elimi-
nate the discriminatory practices, measures
or arrangements covered thereby.

Article 4
The International Authority for the Ruhr
shall not exercise any functions under
Articles 16, 17, 18 and 19 of the Ruhr
Agreement after the Treaty has entered
into force,
Article 5
The International Authority for the Ruhr
shall cease to exercise all functions
(a) Under Paragraphs (i) and (ii) of
Article 20 of the Ruhr Agreement, upon
the termination of its functions under Ar-
ticle 14 of the Ruhr Agreement in accord-
ance with Article 2 of the present agree-
ment, and
(b) Under the other provisions of Article
20 of the Ruhr Agreement, upon the ter-
mination of its functions under Article 15
of the Ruhr Agreement in accordance with
Article 3 of the present agreement.
Article 6
All the functions or powers of the Inter-
national Authority for the Ruhr for the
cessation of which an earlier date is not
expressly provided by the present agree-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 64 ---
ment shall terminate at the same time as
the Ruhr Agreement, except to the extent
necessary to complete the administrative
liquidation of the Authority itself.

Article 7

In all cases where the application of any
provision of this agreement depends on
the effective date of a measure to be taken
in implementation of the Treaty, such date
shall be that fixed by the High Authority
and notified or communicated by it. The
Government of France undertakes to notify
such dates to the International Authority
for the Ruhr and to the Government of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland as depository of the
agreement unless the High Authority noti-
fies them directly and so informs the Go-
vernment of France.

Article 8

For the purposes of the present agree-
ment:

(1) The expression “‘Ruhr Agreement”
shall mean the Agreement establishing the
International Authority for the Ruhr signed
at London on April 28, 1949;

(2) The expression ‘’Treaty’’ shall mean
the Treaty constituting the European Coal
and Steel Community, signed at Paris on
April 18, 1951;

(3) The expression ‘'Convention’ shall
mean the Convention containing the tran-
sitional provisions, annexed to the Treaty
constituting the European Coal and Steel
Community;

(4) The expression ‘‘High Authority”
shall mean the High Authority established
by the Treaty constituting the European
Coal and Steel Community.

Article 9

The present agreement shall enter into
force as soon as it shall have been signed
on behalf of the governments of Belgium,
France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Nor-
thern Ireland, and the United States of
America.

Article 10

The original text of the present agree-
ment shall be deposited in the archives of
the Government of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
which shall supply certified true copies to
each of the governments on whose behalf
it has been signed. It shall be registered
with the secretary-general of the United
Nations.

Done at Paris this 19th day of October,
1951, in the English and French languages,
both texts being equally authentic.

In witness whereof the undersigned re-
presentatives, duly authorized by their
governments, have signed the present
agreement on the dates appearing opposite
their respective signatures.

x Ok OK

Joint Instructions

Upon the entering into force of the
Treaty constituting the European Coal and
Steel Community signed at Paris on
April 18, 1951, certain controls heretofore
exercised in Germany will no longer be
appropriate. In order to take account of
this situation, the following measures shall
be taken:

1. The governments which signed the
Agreement of April 28, 1949 establishing
the International Authority for the Ruhr
have signed the text of a protocol and
approved the text of an agreement concern-
ing the termination of functions of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Ruhr Authority and the termination of the
Ruhr Agreement. The governments will
put this agreement into effect as soon as
the Treaty constituting the European Coal
and Steel Community enters into force in
accordance with its terms (Article 99).

2. As soon as the Treaty constituting the
European Coal and Steel Community enters
into force the agreement hereto attached,
amending the agreement on prohibited and
limited industries concluded on April 3,
1951, shall be signed by the High Commis-
sioners on behalf of their governments in
order to remove the restrictions imposed
on German steel production and capacity.

3. When the Treaty constituting the Euro-
pean Coal and Steel Community enters
into force, the Allied High Commission
and its agencies (including the Combined
Coal Control Group and the Combined
Steel Group) shall cease to exercise those
of their functions concerning coal and
steel for which competence is given to the
High Authority under the terms of the
Treaty progressively as the High Authority
is authorized to exercise competence under
the Convention containing the transitional
provisions,

In particular, the Allied High Commis-
sion shall cease to exercise:

a) Its functions under Article 22 of the
Ruhr Agreement as soon as the functions
of the International Authority for the Ruhr
under Articles 15 and 20 are terminated.

b) All functions relating to investments
or the management of steel or coal con-
cerns, except as required for the appli-
cation of Allied High Commission Law 27.

4, No provision of the present instruc-
tions shall have the effect of restricting
the exercise by the High Commission of
functions now exercised or to be exercised
in conformity with the provisions of Law
27 and any regulations thereunder, or in
execution of the said law and the said
regulations.

* ok Ox

Agreement
Amending the Agreement

Concerning Industrial Controls

The High Commissioners of France, the
United Kingdom and the United States of
America on behalf of their respective gov-

ernments hereby amend* the agreement
concerning industrial controls in the French,
the United Kingdom and United States
areas of occupation in Germany signed on
April 3, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as
“the Agreement’):
. Article 1

Article V of the agreement is amended
as follows:

Delete:

“a) steel

b) electric arc and high frequency fur-
nace steel.”

Article 2

Article VI of the agreement is deleted
in its entirety.
Article 3

The present agreement shall enter into
force on the date of signature. -- END

* The text of the pertinent articles of the
agreement is as follows:

Article V . .

1. Control shall be maintained over capacity
in the following industries:

(a) steel;

(b) electric arc and high frequency furnace
steel;

{c) shipbuilding;

(a) synthetic rubber;

{e) synthetic petrol, oil and lubricants, pro-
duced directly or indirectly from coal or
brown coal;

(f) ball and roller bearings, except equipment
only capable of producing non-precision bear-
ings.

2. No enterprise shall be permitted, except
under license from the Allied High Commis-
sion, to increase the productive capacity of
any of its plants or equipment that is engaged
or partly engaged in the industries listed in
this article, or of the industry as a whole,
whether it is proposed to effect the increase
by extension of existing facilities, the con-
struction of new facilities or the addition of
new equipment. Such licenses shall not be
granted unless the Allied High Commission is
satisfied with the arrangements made for the
disposal of the capacity replaced.

Article VI

1, Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 2
of this article the production of crude steel shall
be limited to 11,100,000 tons a year.

2. The Allied High Commission will allow
crude steel to be produced outside the fore-
going limitation where this will facilitate the
defense effort.

Bibliography

The following related documents have
been published in past issues of the
Information Bulletin:

Ruhr Authority—Agreement for Inter-
national Control (signed April 28,
1949), Issue No. 153, Jan. 25, 1949,
page 5.

A Summary of the Essential Provisions
of the Schuman Plan Treaty Con-
stituting a European Coal and Steel
Community (signed April 18, 1951),
Issue of April 1951, page 63.

Agreement on Relaxations of Control

over German Industry (signed
April 3, 1951), Issue of May 1951,
page 64.

A selected list of articles published

in the Information Bulletin includes:
~Meaning of Six-Power Agreement, by
John Elliot, adviser to director, Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS,
Issue No, 138, June 29, 1948, page 21.

on the Ruhr

The Ruhr—Vital to Recovery, article
by Robert R. Estill, director, US-UK
Coal Control Group, Issue No. 141,
Aug. 10, 1948, page 3.

Ruhr Industry's Problems, address by
John J. McCloy, US High Commis-
sioner, at dinner of Ruhr industrial-
ists, political leaders and bankers in
Duesseldorf-Graffenberg, June 16, Is-
sue of August 1950, page 23.

Coal Productivity, statement by Michaei
Harris, chief, ECA Special Mission
to Western Germany, Issue of No-
vember 1951, page 2.

“Glueck auf!", article by John J. Slo-
cum, chief, ECA and Economics
Branch, Public Relations Division,
HICOG, on life of Ruhr miners,
Issue of November 1951, page 3.

Coal in Postwar Germany, statement
by US Element, Coal Control Group,
Essen, Issue of December 1951,
page 39.

62

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 65 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Nov. 29

Following their meeting with the trade
union representatives the Allied High
Commissioners convened on Nov. 29, also
at Mehlem, for the 81st meeting of the
Council of the High Commission.

Present at the meeting, during which
current matters were reviewed, were John
J. McCloy, United States High Commis-
sioner (chairman), Andre Francois-Poncet,
French High Commissioner, and Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner.

HICOM Meeting of Dec. 6

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion met at the Petersberg Dec. 6. Present
were Armand Berard, French Deputy High
Commissioner (chairman), J. G. Ward,
United Kingdom Deputy High Commis-
sioner, and John J. McCloy, United States
High Commissioner.

The Council took note that, in response
to the invitation from the United Nations
organization, Dr. Heinrich von Brentano
and Dr. Hermann Schaefer (representing
the Federal Republic) and Prof. Ernst
Reuter (representing the Western sectors
of Berlin) had been appointed by the
German authorities to appear before the
ad hoc Political Committee of the United
Nations General Assembly in Paris. The
committee is now discussing the appoint-
ment of an international impartial commis-
sion to carry out investigations throughout
Germany to determine whether existing
conditions make possible the holding of
free all-German elections.

The High Commission is informing the
secretary-general of the United Nations
of the appointment of these German rep-
resentatives,

HICOM Meeting of Dec. 20

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission held its 83rd meeting Dec. 20 at
the Quartier Napoleon, Berlin headquar-
ters of the French High Commissioner.

Present were Andre Francois-Poncet
(chairman), French High Commissioner;
Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom
High Commissioner; John J. McCloy,
United States High Commissioner, and the
Berlin commandants, General de Brigade
P. Carolet (French), Maj. Gen. C. F. C.
Coleman (UK) and Maj. Gen. Lemuel
Mathewson (US).

At the conclusion of the normal business
of the meeting, the high commissioners
took the opportunity of discussing with
the Berlin commandants the present situ-
ation regarding Berlin trade.

The next meeting of the Council is pro-
visionally scheduled for Jan. 3, 1952, at
the Petersberg.

Labor-Relations Problems Discussed
At the request of the German Federation
of Trade Unions (DGB), the Allied High
Commissioners met representatives of the
trade unions at the office of the chairman
high commissioner in Mehlem Nov. 29 to
discuss labor-relations problems in connec-
tion with implementation of AHC Law 35
(Deconcentration of the I. G, Farbenindus-

JANUARY 1952

trie), in particular the question of co-
determination,

Union representatives were Willi Gefel-
ler, president of the Chemical-Industry
Union, and Hans vom Hoff and Ludwig
Rosenberg, members of the executive board
of the DGB.

After an exchange of views the high
commissioners reaffirmed their position
that the question of co-determination in
this industry as in others was a matter for
German determination.

Laws and Regulations

Formation of First Coal Unit
Companies

The reorganization of the German coal
and iron and steel industries, under which
19 new iron and steel unit companies have
already been created, entered a new stage
Nov. 14 with the issue by the Allied High
Commission of regulations providing for
the creation of the first five coal unit
companies from the existing complex of
the coal industry.

The formation of these new companies
has been agreed with the Federal Govern-
ment. Of the five companies, which are
to be formed from assets of the Krupp,
Kloeckner and Hoesch combines, three
will be affiliated with iron and steel unit
companies already established.

The new stage is introduced by three
regulations and one decision under Allied
High Commission Law No. 27 (Reorgani-
zation of German Coal and Iron and Steel
Industries).

Regulation No. 9 requires the Combined
Coal Control Group to take all necessary
action to form the following coal unit
companies:

Coal Unit Company

(See Note A”)

1. Mine Emil Emscher

“Colliery Assets"
to be operated by it

and shall cause the transfer to unit com-
panies of any additional assets considered
necessary or appropriate.

Unit companies may be formed either
from existing companies or by the creation
of new companies. No taxes, duties, fees
or costs may be charged in connection
with the creation of unit companies, The
use or formation of subsidiary companies
may also be authorized. Under Regulation
No. 9, unit companies will, in general,
assume rights and duties arising out of
contracts or other legal transactions that
have been entered into in connection with
the operation of assets transferred to them.
Upon assumption by a unit company of
any contractual duty or other liability, the
former obligor or debtor shall thereby be
released from any obligation with respect
to any such contractual duty or liability.

Rights and duties of the trustees of the
new coal unit companies are defined in
Regulation No. 10. They are to be ap-
pointed by the Combined Coal Control
Group and will exercise their rights of
administration in accordance with its in-
structions.

Regulation No. 11 applies to the affili-
ation of coal unit companies with steel
unit companies.

Managing holding companies which re-
ceive shares of unit coal and steel com-
panies will be considered as “unit com-
panies’ within the meaning of Law No. 27.

Decision No. 14 requirés that orders of
the Combined Coal Control Group pursuant
to Regulati No. 9 shall, unless other-
wise specified, come into force as soon
as they are enacted.

The texts of the three regulations and
the decision will be published in the Of-
ficial Gazette dated Nov. 14, 1951.

Transfer of Assets to New Coal
Companies

The Combined Coal Control Group of
the Allied High Commission issued Dec. 6
the first order seizing coal assets and
transferring them to new unit companies
created under Allied High Commission Law
No. 27 (Reorganization of the German

Present Owner
of Assets

Hoesch A.G.

Mine Fritz Heinrich

Mine Radbod
2. Mine Werne

Kloeckner Werke A.G.

Mine Koenigsborn

Il, Mine Kaiserstuhl 1 Hoesch A.G.

(See Note "'B") Mine Kaiserstuhl 2
Mine Fuerst Leopold-Baldur

Vv. Mine Viktor Ickern Kloeckner Werke A.G.

VII. Mines Bergwerke Essen Friedrich Krupp
Steinkohlengewerkschaft
Rossenray

Note ‘‘A'': Precise determination of the assets which are to be transferred to the unit com-

panies will be made in the orders of seizure.

Note “‘B’: Coal unit companies .which are to be affiliated with steel unit companies are
designated by Roman numerals, non-affiliated coal unit companies by Arabic numerals.

Coal unit companies III, V and VIII are
to be affiliated with steel unit companies
as follows: III with Westfalenhuette Dort-
mund AG.; V with Huettenwerk Haspe AG.,
and Georg-Marienhuette and Stahlwerke
Osnabrueck AG.; VIII with Huettenwerk
Rheinhausen A.G.

Regulation No. 9 also provides that the
Combined Coal Control Group shall form
additional unit companies as specified by
further regulations of the High Commission

63

Coal and Iron and Steel Industries). The
formation of new unit coal companies is
provided for in Regulations Nos. 9, 10
and 11 under Law No. 27.

The Coal Control Group's orders which
were issued to representatives of the
Kloeckner Werke A.G., transfer assets
of Kloeckner to the following new- coal
unit companies:

1) Bergwerke Koenigsborn-Werne A.G.,
Unna-Koenigsborn.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 66 ---
2) Steinkohlenbergwerke Viktor-Ickern,
Castrop-Rauxel.

The first of these two new unit com-
panies is created as an independent unit
company.

The second unit company will be affili-
ated by means of a holding company, the
Westdeutsche Huetten- und Bergwerke
A.G., with the steel unit company Georg-
Marienhuette Haspe, Stahlwerke Osna-
brueck. The holding company will hold
all the shares of both the coal and steel
companies.

The new unit companies’ capacities:

Bergwerke Koenigsborn-Werne A.G.

The coal production recorded in the year
July 1, 1950, to June 30, 1951, is as follows:

Mine Koenigsborn . .. 1,990,000 tons.

(1.72 percent of total West German coal
production),

Mine Were ...........+. 789,000 tons.

(0.68 percent of total West German coal
production.)

Estimated coal reserves of the two mines
are 145,000,000 tons for mine Koenigsborn
and 160,000,000 tons for mine Werne. The
number of persons employed at mine
Koenigsborn is 7,596, at mine Werne, 3,707.

Steinkohlenbergwerke Viktor Ickern

Coal production for the year 1950-51 was
2,123,000 tons.

(1.83 percent of total West German coal
production.)

Coal reserves are estimated at 207,000,000
tons. A total of 7,918 persons are employed
at the mine.

Official Statement

Facts on Ernst Kamieth’s Death

The following letter was dispatched on
Nov, 14 to A. Susin, representative of the
Soviet Control Commission in Berlin, by
Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson, US com-
mander in Berlin:

I must reject as completely false the
accusation in your letter of Nov. 10, 1951,
that Herr Ernst Kamieth was murdered by
US Sector police, The facts in the case are
as follows.

On Nov. 7, 1951, shortly before 12:30
p.m., a group of policemen, under Police
Inspector Zunker, entered Potsdamer Sta-
tion freight yard in the performance of
their duty to search for illegal propaganda
material, having been informed that there
was a quantity thereof in the station, As
the police were preparing to remove this
material, Herr Kamieth interfered with
them by requesting that they leave the
station and, when they refused, by attempt-
ing to lock the door of the room they were
occupying. Thereupon Herr Kamieth was
pushed aside, but without any violence
whatsoever being directed against him. He
then left the scene. The police, after com-
pleting their duty, also withdrew.

My investigation discloses that Herr
Kamieth not only continued at his work for
several hours after this incident but sub-
sequently attended a meeting held in Pots-
damer Station. It was at this meeting, which
was not interfered with in any manner by
US Sector police and where they were, in
fact, not even present, that Herr Kamieth
became ill and was taken to a hospital in
the Soviet Sector, where he died. The
meeting at which Herr Kamieth was taken
ill occurred approximately four hours after
his discussion with the US Sector police.

Herr Kamieth's death is greatly to be
regretted. However, I also regret that his
death has been exploited.for purposes of
political propaganda and has been used as

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the basis for false and tendentious charges
against the police; who were in no way
responsible for the death, as the above-
stated facts clearly show.

Official Announcements

Hunting Guide Fees

American hunters are required to pay
German guides DM 3 (71 cents) for each
still hunt, according to David Rosendale,
chief, Field Operations Division, OLC
Hesse.

Reports have been received indicating
that some American hunters had under-
stood that the DM 3 fee could cover a
single cleared hunt lasting a period of days.

However, if a hunter goes out with a
guide for a still hunt once in the morning
and again in the evening of the same day,
he must pay DM 3 for each hunt, or a total
of DM 6,

In the case of drive hunts, the guide is
to be paid a fee of DM 3 regardless of the
duration of the hunt, plus the additional
fee for each animal shot.

These payments are to be made to the
guide himself and not to the forestry office
or to a bank. Article 10 of HICOG Ordin-
ance No. 15* is interpreted as meaning
that such payments are compensation to
the guide for services which he renders
American and Allied hunters.

Transport Authorizations Suspended

EUCOM Headquarters announced a tem-
porary suspension of space-available trans-
portation authorizations for European Com-
mand personnel traveling to the United
States,

The announcement affects personal trav-
eling in a non-official status (for personal
reasons on leave) aboard government-con-
trolled ships or planes. However, it was
stated that in cases of extreme hardship, an
appeal could be made to EUCOM Head-
quarters for an exception to this policy.

A headquarters spokesman explained that
the ruling resulted from a reduction in space
allocations aboard MATS planes, which
puts almost the entire burden of passenger
transportation upon the Military Sea Trans-
port Service. Transportation officials said
that no change in the situation is foreseen
until spring. —- from EUCOM announce-
ment, Dec, 14.

Coffee Rations Increased
Effective Jan. 3 the following rations per
month are established on the items indicated:
Coffee, Vac-Pack or R&G 7 \bs;
Tea. D oa o00 3 lbs.
(For each member of a special or billet
mess account or for each member over 16
years of age of a family account.)
Coffee, soluble . 16 ozs, per account
(If additional quantities of soluble coffee
are desired, they may be obtained by sub-
stituting six ounces of soluble coffee for
each pound of Vac-Pack or R&G coffee.)
Ration cards will be kept at the coffee
counter in the sales commissary. — from
HICOG Daily Bulletin.

* See Information Bulletin for October 1951,
page 70.

Recent Publications

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 303,
Press and Publications Branch, Infor-

64

mation Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Nov, 30,
1951. ‘Covers German newspapers and
other publications dated up to Nov, 30.

Information Bulletin for December, Special
Publications Branch, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
(Frankfurt), Dec. 18, 1951. Contains ar-
ticles and features on US operations in
Germany.

Report on Germany, 8th Quarterly, Policy
Reports Secretary, Office of Executive
Secretary, HICOG (Frankfurt), Dec. 12,
1951, Covers July 1-Sept. 30.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 304,
Press and Publications Branch, Infor-
mation Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Dec. 7, 1951.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Dec. 7.

The Establishment of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany.
Historical Division, Office of the Exe-
cutive Secretary, HICOG (Frankfurt),
Dec, 11, 1951. Historical monograph by
Guy A. Lee with the assistance of Rodney
C. Loehr, Sept. 21, 1951.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 305,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Offices of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Dec. 14,
1951, Covers German newspapers and
other publications dated up to Dec. 14.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 306,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Dec, 21,
1951. Covers German newspapers and
other publications dated up to Dec. 21.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 307,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Dec. 28,
1951. Covers German newspapers and
other publications dated up to Dec. 28.

Vereint im Kampi in Korea (United Action
in Korea). United Nations Department of
Public Information. Printed by Special
Publications Section, Press Branch, In-
formation Services Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Oc-
tober 1951. Picture pamphlet illustrating
the combined efforts of the United Na-
tions fighting Communist aggression in
Korea.

Die Vereinten Nationen kaempfen fuer Frei-
heit und Frieden (The United Nations
Fight for Freedom and Peace). Special
Publications Section, Press Branch, In-
formation Services Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Oc-
tober 1951. The story of the Communist
aggression in Korea and United Nations
action. Illustrated,

Der Friedenskampf der Sowjetunion (The
Peace Fight of the Soviet Union). Special
Publications Section, Press Branch, In-
formation Services Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Oc-
tober 1951, Listing of non-aggression
pacts entered into by the Soviet Union
and indicating which have been broken.

Weltfrieden, ein Vorschlag des Westens
(World Peace — Proposal from the West).
Special Publications Section, Press Branch,
Information Services Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Nov. 10,
1951. Text of President Truman's speech
commenting on the Three Power peace
proposal at the General Assembly, No-
vember 1951. Also includes the seven
peace points proposed by the United
States, Great Britain and France. -+END

JANUARY 1952

--- Page 67 ---
Studying is fun during vacation at the Dilsberg Youth |

Hostel — time is usually found, however, to hike and play.

Gateway to Dilsberg Youth Hostel, reminiscent of medie-
val castle, is modern youth's gateway to recreation spot.

High above the Neckar River, Swiss, Persian and Ger-
man students relax over chess. (PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

--- Page 68 ---
Parker Watkins, soloist with Hall-J Tecently on German tour,
teaches German youngsters American ngs and ! spirituals at Berlin
Information Ce The young singers enthusiastically respon to his direc-
tion and presented a number of Christmas concerts at Free

homes for the aged and orphanages.