--- Page 2 ---
_ Back from America

"(See page 6)

ISsue:
Science for the Farmer Special Labor Congress
Youth at the Helm Why “Vopos” Desert
“erlin Festival, 1951 _ Memorial for Airlift Dead

es

--- Page 3 ---
Young working girls get two-bed room and full board for mere DM 70 ($16.65) per month

Home for Young Girls

A home for young girls and students operated by the “Friends
of Young Girls” is a boon to stenographers, typists and students
whose monthly income ranges from DM 125 to DM 175 per month,
for in this Nuremberg institution they pay but DM 70 a month
for their half of a comfortable two-bed room and full board.
Rebuilt with a DM 97,787 grant from the HICOG Special Projects
Fund, the institution opened last November with six girls. Today
it is home to 75.

The girls take their meals in a common dining hall. They are
allowed to stay out or up until 11 p, m. weekdays, until midnight
Saturday and Sundays. Visitors are permitted in neat living room.
Good company, homey surroundings and substantial food thus
are provided at a cost which is the envy of non-residents.

The Nuremberg home is maintained by the Friends of Young
Girls," an organization founded in 1877 at Geneva, Switzerland,
by Josefine Butler and women representatives from seven
European nations. + END

It's fun to try a new hair-do with someone to hold up
mirror, help with sugge

ions, give uncritical opinion.

Miss Anna Hofstaetten
supervises the home,
decides on applicants.
(Photos by Maske, PRB OLCB)

Roommates relax in cosy quarters: one stretches out
comfortably to read, other catches up on letters home.

Guests may be received in common living room or girls
are free to stay out until 11 p. m., week ends until 12.

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

EGItoRs steers oe H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer
Jean Kinnaird Helen McLaughlin

Cherry Lou Fellner Liselotte Goldbeck

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
APO 757-A, US Army

German mailing address is:
Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
HICOG Hochhaus

Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison
Office of Public Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
August 1951

Brannan Urges Greater Food Production fale es

Science forthe Parmer :.7,. 2.2202) 1s ue 3
Article by Dr. Conrad H. Hammar

Back srom America’. <<< 2 yas sen) ie Us ora se ake 6
Article by Louise Conner

Youth at-the Helm +. 255.75 55-- 02 7mens.. ):, 0. en eee 9
Article by Raymond Lascoe

Montmient to-Airhit Dead=. 07.2.2: enon ch. 3.45. coe 11
Article by Lowell Bennett

ache Worker Goes to-school 7.08. = tat ee 14
Article by Joseph L. Taylor

Health:Problems in-Bavaria << 62220. .a0244 ie ee 16
Article by Dr. B. Av Kogan

Resident Olicers- Conference - 0s Got, ee Cece ee 17

Youth Learns Government 19
Article by Herbert Grai

Berlin’ Festival, 16tss see cakes es ee we 2h
Article by William Keeie

Child's Play Becomes Woman's Work (pictorial feature).... 23

Special Labor Congress 25
Article by Albert H. Berman

Junior Chamber Arrives 2 io. 6220 ys 3 cess aulen ys dace 29
Article by Eugene L. Weyland

Books jor: Bayreuth :4'25.. 0.05). ee ee ee 31
Article by Donald S. Root

Berlin Nutrition Program << <5 -.< 3... 250s. .o ooh sec wse bee 33
Article by Margaret Fedde and Dr. Erwin P. Brauner

From Nissen Huts to New Homes (pictorial) .............. 36

Germany's -Problenises 22°00 5 eons, Ce rt ah eee 38
Address by Paul-Henri Spaak

Nation? Of Neighbors *ascocincil-s peak ee oe ee 39
Article by Otto Herr

‘Germans: Form Study“Group : . 3.0 giee< 0s bs ni ad eee 42
Article by Matthew D. Smith, Jr.

The Quiz Comes to Nuremberg 43

Calendar of Coming Events ... 45

Working Together .. 47

Article by Dr. Sterling W.
Personnel Notes "2k. tsa seco ce ee 50

Exports Again Exceed Imports 52
Economic Review by A. J. Cefaratti
Germans Cartoons). f) Botte. vats nae aes ee 55
Humor from the Soviet Zone .. 57
Why. “Vopos*' Desert: (survey). 0256 2. a2 cen eee 59
Propaganda “Protest Answered by HICOG .............. 61
Washington Report. . Foes 62
Declaration of Friendship (text) 63

Proposal for Terminating State of War with Germany .... 65
First Postwar Song Festival in Frankiurt (pictorial)
Reorganization of Germany's Iron and Steel Industries .... 68
International Solution of Problems Urged
Official Notices

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
ETTTTMNIUUUUOOOUUUULMUUUULLIDUTUUIDUULULCDDOUUOUUODIOOUOUUDOUOUUDOUULUDLUUUCCUUOUUUUOOOUUCCOOOOUUODODOOUUUUDCIOOUOUDOOOOOUUONOUUUCOOUULUONOUUUUOUOUUUNOOUOUUOOUUOLUNOOUOOOUOOOOUUOOUOOUTT OUT

E=SUVTTTTITVUTTTUTUUTTTUOVTUTTETTVCTTOOUUUTTTOOUUUTOOUUUUUCOOOOUUUUOCUUCCOCUUUOOOUOUUOHOOOUCUOOOUODOOUUCUOCOUUUCOOOCOUUCCNOOOULOICOUOLLOOUULLUOOOULUUNTOUULUTCUUULUGCUULLLOOUUUUULOUUU LOLOL

Brannan Urges Greater Food Production

«S. SECRETARY OF Agriculture

Charles F. Brannan believes

the millions of dollars invested by

the United States in encouraging

and increasing food production in

western Europe is “paying off’ for
the following reasons:

“1, I think it has made a very
important contribution to the stabil-
ity of the general economy of
western Europe.

“2. I think that the capacity to
produce a substantial portion of
the food needs of this part of the
world here at home is essential to
the well-being of this part of the
world and, as a matter of fact, to
our interrelated economies...

“3. The capacity of the United
States to produce in unlimited quan-
tities for export should not be
overemphasized because we are
tight now pushing our production
capacities quite heavily.”

Mr. Brannan presented this con-
clusion at a press conference in
Frankfurt July 25 while on a survey
tour of eight western European
countries, spending five days in
Germany to get a firsthand view
of its food and agricultural prob-
lems.

The press conference was open-
ed by the introduction of Wilhelm
Niklas, German federal minister for
food, agriculture and forestry, who
emphasized that it was a pleasure
for him, in the presence of the re-
presentatives of the German, Amer-
ican and Allied press, to thank the
American secretary of agriculture
on behalf of his ministry in the
German Government for the aid
which had been given Germany by
the United States,

“Perhaps nobody knows better
than I what importance for Ger-
many the American food had, which
began to flow in immediately after
the cessation of hostilities,’ Mr.
Niklas said, in German. ‘I would
like to stress that Germany would
have been completely lost at that
time if the GARIOA* help had not
come in. Then came the Marshall
Plan and you and the whole world
know what that meant.”

Speaking of the assistance to Ger-
man agriculture of the DM 453,000,000
($107,814,000) from ECA counterpart
funds, either as a loan or as a grant,
the "German agriculture minister
cited as an example the statement
a few days earlier of the Bavarian
minister of agriculture ‘‘that with

* Government and Relief in Occu-
pied Areas.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Secretary of Agriculture Brannan
(tight) converses with Mr. Niklas
after their press conference in
Frankturt. (PRD HICOG photo)

the aid of these counterpart funds
more agricultural schools were built
in Bavaria than in the previous
60 years.”

Mr. Niklas concluded: “During
the last few years we were able
to send literally hundreds of Ger-
man farmers and agricultural stu-
dents over to the United States.*
It is almost impossible to describe
in words how these various persons
who were able to go to the States
benefited from their observations.”

R. BRANNAN, EXPLAINING the
ison for his trip to Europe,
said, ‘The United States has been an
exporter of food to this part of the
world. We want to be as long as
it is necessary. Nevertheless, we
recognize the high desirability of
production in this part of the world
for the consumption in this part of
the world and I have been trying to
see how far that has gotten, how
far that has progressed and what
other things might be of assistance
in encouraging and aiding them.”
Speaking on the relative impor-
tance of the effort to increase pro-
duction of food in western Europe
to the effort to build up the mil-
itary strength, he declared: ‘‘There
can be no effective resistance of
any form unless the people have
access to food. The man who works
in the factory can not do a good
job unless he has food. The people

* See “Back from America’ on
page 6.

2:

who move in the field in a military
sense, can not do so unless they
have food...

“I would just like to go on to
say that the farm people of any
country are in reality the custo-
dians of a common resource—the
soil. They must not only make it
produce for the current and imme-
diate needs, but they must also
keep it in condition so that it can
produce for the year after and for
generations to come.”

Giving his impression of how
more food can be grown in Ger-
many, Mr. Brannan sai First of
all, I think that opportunities for a
more efficient use of fertilizers is
evident here... I think the oppor-
tunity for assisting the smaller
farmers through an adequate credit
base by means of which they can
acquire the equipment they need,
the fertilizers they need, the new
varieties of seed that they need,
can effect the consolidations .. . and
generally carry themselves through
the marketing period, can be in-
creased with a great deal of benefit
in terms of increased production. . .

“I see also the opportunities for
improving the quality of the food,
a more direct and effective attack
on tuberculosis in cattle, the better
marketing of the dairy products or
preparation for marketing through
the several new milk sterilization
and bottle-handling plants, the stor-
ing of the foods in a more nutri-
tious way...as evidenced by the
deep-freeze lockers that we saw.”

Admitting that some principles
of the Schuman Plan could be bor-
rowed for agriculture for the pos-
sible pooling of food resources, Mr.
Brannan said: “I think the funda-
mental problem, of course, is free-
dom of movement of what is now
produced, so that the people who
need it can have access to it, and
at the same time, the farmers who
can produce it can be encouraged
to keep on producing it. I find it
difficult to believe that there can
genuinely be said to be any sur-
pluses of foodstuffs in Europe or
in the world.”

The remarks made at the press
conference were widely quoted in
the German press. The tape-record-
ed speech by Mr. Niklas and the
German translation of Mr. Bran-
nan's statement were broadcast by
RIAS, US-operated radio station in
Berlin, on Sunday, July 29, as a
feature of the station’s regular
“Farm Hour” program beamed to
farmers in the Soviet Zone. -+END

a

AUGUST 1951

Wii

--- Page 6 ---
Science for the Farmer

By DR. CONRAD H. HAMMAR
Deputy Chief, Food and Agriculture Division, HICOG

\F ALL THE NATIONS of Europe, western Germany

is the most dependent on foreign supplies of food.
A total of 47,589,000 persons (September 1950 census)
lives in the Federal Republic, which is about the size of
the state of Oregon, the population of which is, by con-
trast, less than 1,500,000. By no stretch of the imagination
can West-German farmers supply the food needed by
these 47,500,000 persons. In fact, in 1950 food produced
on German farms was only half that consumed in Ger-
many. The other half came chiefly from the United States.

West-German agriculture can and apparently must,
however, do more than it has since 1945 to meet domestic
demands for food and it can certainly do much more if
properly assisted and guided. The problem of what to do
is the great question and, while complex, can be greatly
simplified for purposes of analysis if broken down into
the two functions of: :

1, What can be done by way of intensification.

2. What can be done to improve the efficiency of pro-
duction.

Intensification requires the use of more capital and
labor to get greater production, while improved efficiency
calls for greater production with the same or lesser
amounts of land, labor and equipment.

The case for increased intensification appears, on the
surface, great and obvious. Here is a nation that has
gained 25 percent in population — largely because of the
influx of refugees and expellees — in the five years
since 1945. These extra people must be fed and, given the
fact that the land available is a fixed quantity, what is
more obvious, than to use more labor, supplies and equip-
ment to produce the needed extra food.

HERE ARE, IN FACT, however, two grave difficulties
in the way of further intensification. First, West-German
agriculture already has 2,000,000 farms or a third as many
as the United States, which is more than 20 times as

large. These farms are already extraordinarily small with.

more than 60 percent of them 12.5 acres or less in size
and more than 80 percent of them 25 acres or less in size.
In fact, there are only approximately 400,000 farms in
the 2,000,000 tota! that would be counted normal oper-
ating units in the United States.

For this reason West German farm policy makers feel
that it would be a mistake to make farms still smaller by
any program of further intensification. They do concede
that there is some land that may be reclaimed from the
sea in lowland areas, some areas of neglected forest land
that can be reclaimed and a very small number of estates
that could be divided into smaller farms. They insist,
however, that increasing production by increasing the
number of farms is only too limited a prospect. Facts
support this judgment.

AUGUST 1951

Other methods of intensification are far more promis-
ing. Rich soil produces more than poor soil and West-
German farmers use a much lower tonnage of commercial
fertilizers than are used in such neighboring countries as
Denmark, Holland and Belgium. With her 25 percent
increase in population, it appears that Germany should
now be using about 30 percent more fertilizer per acre of
land than she has used at any time in the past.

In this case intensification interlocks with efficiency.
That is, fertilizers cannot be applied indiscriminately.
There are in fact three major fertilizers, nitrogen, potash
and phosphate, and the amounts and proportions of these
needed vary with soils and locations which differ on
every farm. The effectiveness with which fertilizers may
be used depends on how well informed farmers are in
applying them. Instructing farmers in fertilizer application
is, therefore, one of the important goals in 1951 farm policy.

HE SECOND DIFFICULTY with intensity occurs in

connection with farm mechanization, and there again
the great number and small size of farms is the problem.
The usual sized tractor — that is, the tractor of from 10 to
20 horsepower — fits well enough on the large farms of
the United States and Canada and on the 400,000 of the
largest farms in Germany. But 80 percent of German
farms are under 25 acres in size and on these ordinary
tractors are simply not an economical source of power.
On the 1,200,000 farms which are 12.5 acres and under in
size these large tractors are a still poorer fit.

It is on these small and often part-time farms that cows
furnish most of the draft power and women most of the
human labor. For this reason, too, the statement is often
made that “the woman and the cow’ symbolize German
agriculture, as do “the tractor and the man” for US agri-
culture. So far, at any rate, tractors have not proved good
substitutes for cows on the 1,200,000 small farms in West
Germany and intensification on these smaller farms
awaits either some form of cooperative tractorization and
mechanization with many small farmers using a single
large tractor or tractors themselves must be made much
smaller so as to fit the power needs of small farms.

In fact, cooperative mechanization has been making
great strides in Holland and methods used there are being
copied in West Germany. Also, the so-called orchard or
garden tractor, rated at three to five horsepower, has
been designed for use on individual small farms. In time,
therefore, there is prospect that the challenge of mech-
anization for small farms in Germany will be met. The
time required can, however, hardly be less than 20 years
and will probably be considerably more.

THIRD OBSTACLE to intensification occurs because.
farm labor is already so poorly paid in western Ger-
many. In fact, of all the major occupations, farming, and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
its close cousin, forestry, pay the poorest wages. Further
intensification by the use of still more labor in farming
would still further reduce these already too low wages.
Many scientists, indeed, think that there is already far
too much labor used in agriculture and that economy of
production demands that ways be found to move many
farm people into better paid urban occupations.

The above examples are enough to indicate that, despite
the critical need for more food in western Germany, get-
ting it by a program of intensification alone is not going
to be as easy as the proverbial rolling of a ball down
hill. In fact, intensification alone would be disastrous.
Fortunately, no such thing is intended and the major
plank of West-German farm policy in 1951 is that for the
improvement in production efficiency.

Unfortunately, there are no quick ways to improve
efficiency of output for an occupation in which there are

‘2,000,000 separate operating units, and some 6,000,000
gainfully employed all demanding attention. The im-
provement of efficiency comes largely in the improvement
of the operator himself and the workers who labor along
with him. It comes, in other words, with advancing sci-
ence and education and, because of this fact, progress is
often irregular and unpredictable.

As an example of this unpredictability take a case from
the United States. The use of. hybrid seed increased corn
yields more than 30 percent and has marked, therefore,
an important step forward in efficiéncy. The improvement
came out of science, in this case agricultural research,
but there were many. preceding decades of pure research
in genetics and even the most farseeing of the geneticists
could hardly have foreseen how remarkable would be
the results even 10 years in advance of the general use
of hybrid seed. Certainly, looking backward, it came
suddenly and unpredictably on the scene of US farming.

HAT WEST GERMAN farm-policy makers of 1951

do know, however, is that there are well proven
methods by which efficiency can be raised. What is
required is, first of all, a strongly supported agricultural
research service. Out of such research has come hybrid
corn, rust resistant wheat, the scientific fertilization of
seeds, wilt-resistant flax, the control of animal and plant
diseases, the use of 24-D in the control of weeds and of
DDT to control insects, and all modern farming methods
as these differ from the rules of thumb that are followed
in primitive farming. Agricultural research, therefore, is
the instrument that blasts the way to the use of more
science in agriculture.

Farm-policy makers, however, know equally well that
more difficult than getting the research done is the prob-
lem of getting it applied. And here in West Germany with
its 2,000,000 farms, the overwhelming number of them
very small, the problem of application is unusually dif-
ficult. The methods to employ are, however, both known
and tried. They are, first, general education for farm
youth and, second, adult education for operating farmers
and their wives. This latter is commonly called agricul-
tural extension or advising.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

There are some very considerable weak spots in the
West-German system of agricultural research and ex-
tension. Its agricultural research agencies are too often
small, scattered and badly coordinated. Research scien-
tists work too much alone. Almost no beginning has yet
been made in the use of research teams, in tackling dif-
ficult scientific problems, though this method is rapidly
gaining ground in the US. .

(The team approach to research involves the use of
many scientific specialists to solve different aspects of a
single problem. Progress is usually, though not always,
faster when, for instance, on a complex problem the
physicists, chemists, plant pathologists, animal breeders,
economists and so on, all study different aspects of the
same problem and pool their knowledge.)

ESEARCHERS AND SCIENTISTS are proverbial in-

dividualists and farm policy in western Germany is
now to explore means of getting them to act more in con-
cert, pool more of their work and get it more definitely
into shape for use by farmers. The Agricultural Research
Council, established first in 1948, has waded into this
problem and has to date published six big surveys of the
more than 10,000 research projects known to be in prog-
ress in West Germany. Perhaps out of this effort will
eventually come not only greater coordination but far
more team research as well.

Extension needs modernization even more than re-
search, however. Even if western Germany had no agri-
cultural research of her own she could borrow research
results from other countries and put them to work. There
is no such possibility for getting research results into
practice. In this matter tradition, as it does in all aspects
of education, plays a most important role and West-Ger-
man traditions in extension are not wholly good.

Briefly, extension began before there was any, ap-
preciable agricultural research and with that start gained
an independence that now stands as the chief obstacle to
further progress. The agricultural chambers and their
associated agricultural winter schools are the major ex-
tension agencies. Unfortunately, they stand altogether
too much alone and have yet to achieve an effective
procedure for working in the best possible manner with
agricultural research agencies.

In the United States coordination of research and ex-
tension is achieved automatically by placing these under a
single head in colleges of agriculture. In Germany so far,
colleges of agriculture, agricultural research and agricul-
tural extension all come under different agencies that have
not yet worked out entirely satisfactory means of work-
ing together. However, the problem is being most seriously
attacked and a large number of agricultural experts have
recently visited the United States, Great Britain and other
countries to survey systems used for achieving closer
cooperation between research and extension agencies.

HE PROBLEM OF ADAPTING research results for
information and use of small farmers is also being
rapidly developed. What small farmers, who have not
had opportunity for much study, most often need are

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 8 ---
simple brief instructions and facts contained in leaflets
rather than ponderous scientific bulletins. A remarkable
start on a program of putting out information on scientific
methods in leaflet form has been made in the last four
years. The states began first with the help of funds pro-
vided under the US Cultural Exchange Program and ERP
came along later with a grant of DM 2,500,000 ($595,000)
to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Forestry. In 1951
it is estimated that no less than 2,000,000 leaflets on
nearly 100 different topics will be printed and distributed
free to farmers of West Germany.

Under a many-sided attack the fortress of inefficiency
in West-German agriculture is yielding, but there is a
further great problem confronting farm-policy makers
that may prove an even greater challenge. This is the
traditional rural-urban antagonism that has been built
up over decades by the farmers’ demands for high tariff
protection and the consumers’ demands for cheap food.
Farmers, constituting only 16 percent of the population,
have small voting and political power. By contrast to the
United States, where farmers’ political power is far greater
than their economic power, the situation is the reverse
in West Germany. Perhaps much of this political weakness
of farmers in West Germany results because the majority
(or a near majority) of them are small part-time farmers
with their interests not securely anchored in farming but
about equally divided between agriculture and industry.

At any rate, really constructive and farseeing legisla-
tion for the improvement of agricultural production similar
to that embodied in the US Soil Conservation and Domestic
Allotment Act or in Britain's Agricultural Act of 1947 is
lacking in Germany.

ACKING THE CONFIDENCE in its farmers that only
carefully thought out statutory agreements between
farmers and consumers can provide, West Germany has
since 1945 had an unusually hand-to-mouth, day-to-day
policy toward its farm production problems. The political
instability encouraged thereby has deepened rural-urban
antagonism and, what is worse, keeps it seething. Every
rise in prices allowed for farm products, however badly
needed, is met with a storm of abuse from urban areas and
every reduction in farm product prices or in protective
tariffs on farm products is met by cries of dismay from
farmers’ organizations, however acute the need for such
adjustments may have been.

Working out of a fundamental law for farm production
is, therefore, a major task confronting West German
farm-policy makers in 1951. The public must have far
greater confidence in the government's program for farm
production than it now has if it is to accept and encourage
wholeheartedly programs for agricultural improvement.
The enactment of a basic law for production within the
year 1951 may not be too much to hope for, despite the
fact that the issues to be resolved are complex.

Experience in the US, Britain and Holland has demon-
strated unequivocally the value of such law. They have
shown that there are ways of granting farmers reasonable
guarantees of price and income stability, so that they
may feel justified in extending themselves to the utmest

AUGUST 1951

in increasing production. There are also ways of har-
nessing public investment in farming to get the greatest
returns in production.

Even more important, there are ways of harnessing
science for use to improve efficiency in agriculture and
these have proven astonishingly effective in the US and
in bordering countries of Europe. Science can certainly
be made to serve equally well in West Germany. And,
finally, there are ways of assuring the public that invest-
ment in agriculture yields a return in farming efficiency
and in increased food production that constitute a fine
quid pro quo for funds appropriated for the purpose.

West German farm-policy makers have begun careful
consideration of what may be done to reduce rural-urban
antagonism in West Germany. There is a mammoth public
relations problem involved and how to invite consumers
to express themselves considerately on what must be
done to improve public confidence in farm programs is
in itself no small undertaking. The enactment of a Federal -
Law for Agricultural Production will, therefore, almost
certainly be the major farm policy matter for considera-
tion in the remaining months of 1951 here in Western
Germany. +END

1952 Wheat Needs Major Problem
Due to Germany's Lack of Dollar Resources

The ECA Special Mission to Western Germany is con-
cerned that the Federal Republic will not be able to
obtain as much wheat as it needs from the US under
the International Wheat Agreement during the fiscal
year of 1951-52. Although restrictions as to the quan-
tities of wheat which Western Germany was permitted
to buy from France and Australia imposed at the time
the Federal Republic acceded to the IWA have now
been removed, it is expected this will not materially
increase German purchases from these countries under
the agreement, since France's total quota is very small,
and Australia's crop prospects are poor.

Western Germany does not have the dollar resources
needed for any substantial amount of forward buying,
as have other major wheat importing countries. The
possibility exists, therefore, that the US export quota
under IWA may be used before the Federal Republic is
in a position to purchase the 1,400,000 to 1,500,000 tons
it needs from the US.

Legislative action was completed. on June 15 on a
“Federal Guarantee for Loans Granted to Finance Stock-
piling of Food." The federal finance minister is authorized
to stand surety for loans to wholesalers and processors
up to a total of DM 900,000,000. The government's an-
nounced stockpile goal represents 90 days’ supply of
grain, 35 of fats and 20 of meat.

The first international conference on agriculture was
held in Bonn on May 9-10. A proposal by this conference
for the enactment in Western Germany of a Basic Law
for Agriculture is an initial postwar step toward establish-
ing a comprehensive federal program for increasing farm
production, for providing greater incentives for agri-
cultural efficiency, and for stimulating farm investment.

At a recent special meeting, US, British and French
food and agriculture advisers and the federal minister
for food, agriculture and forestry discussed the initial
steps necessary for enactment of such a law. The minister
declared himself in favor of the project and agreed that
he would, after discussing the matter with the federal
chancellor, appoint an advisory council to draft the law.
Further consultations between ECA and Federal Republic
authorities are planned.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
“We are sorry and, at the same time, happy to be back,’ said this group of teen-age farm
exchangees upon landing at Bremen after a year in United States. (George Schmidt photo)

Back from America

By LOUISE CONNER
Exchanges Staff, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

Bremen policeman registers admiration as he carefully in-
spects cowboy boots brought from US by Helmuth Kircher.

HY NOT HAVE THIS WORK both ways and also

send American youths to our homes in Germany?"
ask many families whose boys and girls are spending a
year in the United States under HICOG’s Exchanges
Program. As more and more German families experience
the cordiality and friendliness with which their children
are received in American homes, they express a wish to
extend this same hospitality to young Americans who can
bring American ideas to German communities and ac-
quire a better knowledge of Germany and Europe.

To a limited. degree exchange of American young
people and students to Germany has been carried on, but
postwar conditions here have precluded much of this.
Five American students spent a year at the University of
Munich on scholarships last year, and Munich is offering
scholarships to 10 American students for the coming year.
A number of German universities have exchange agree-
ments with American universities, for example, the Uni-
versity of Chicago with the University of Frankfurt, and
Georgia Institute of Technology with the Stuttgart Tech-
nische Hochschule.

AUGUST 1951

cast in more than a year.

Five of the returned exchangetisien to their first German broad-
(PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

Many “foster’’ parents of German exchangees in the
United States correspond with families in Germany and
a sponsoring agency’s program of visitation to German
homes showed that parents appreciated the purpose of the.
program. Visitors inquired particularly about plans for
the children’s futures upon return from the United States.

HILE INGEBORG JULIUS-KREBING is in Wabash,
Indiana, her mother is anxiously awaiting her return
to Bocholt, in North Rhine-Westphalia, where the people
of the community are interested in hearing her tell them
of American life. Ingeborg is the only exchangee in her
area; her weekly letters are read, not only by her mother,
but by all their friends, and a writer is planning to edit
and publish them. Her mother feels that Ingeborg's friends
will be receptive to many ideas she can give them, such
as teacher-pupil relationship, about which she has en-
thusiastically written. ;
he family of Paul Herzog, who is now living on a farm
in Pennsylvania, feel that he will be active in rural youth
groups and agricultural school in and around Hochstet-
ten, in Laupheim county, Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.
Paul's foster-parents write that he has.done well in school,
is very popular; and they hope the short dairy course
which he took at Pennsylvania State College has given
him some useful information to bring back with him.

The father of one exchangee, who is presently living
on a farm in Indiana, is already telling his associates in

AUGUST 1951

Part of group of more than 100 teen-agers snapped on steps of the Casino, Frankfurt,
where they held a final meeting with HICOG olficials before dispersing to their homes.

Eleven hundred German teen-agers have gone to
the United States on the US exchange program
during the last two and a half years. American
families in every one of the 48 states have been
hosts to these German youth, under the sponsorship
of church, welfare, civic and farm organizations.
Rural teen-agers have been sponsored by the
Brethren Service Commission, the National Grange,
the American Farm Bureau and the National
Catholic Welfare Council. Rotary Clubs, the Ameri-
can Field Service and the National Catholic Welfare
Council have sponsored urban teen-agers.

Christa Schacht (right) presents souvenir book to Mr. and
Mrs. Wib Justi in appreciation of help on exchange pro-
gram. Mr. Justi is youth director of National Grange, which
sponsored 77 German boys and girls on exchange projects.

--- Page 10 ---
“Returned home — to begin a new life,’ reads inscription
chalked on side of train by farm youth after spending a
year in the United States, studying in high schools and
living with American “foster families in every one of
the 48 states. Cowboy character at right is identified as

the film star Roy Rogers. (PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)
farm meetings about his son's experiences and is looking
forward to the many ideas which will be brought back
to the group by the young “American” farmer when he
returns to work as a farm apprentice.

Some parents were so enthusiastic they were already
inquiring about the possibilities of another son or daugh-
ter going to the United States “as soon as Hans returns!"

T IS NOT INFREQUENT that young Germans find their
life in America so appealing that they wish to emi-

grate, and this is a very serious point which must be
considered at the time of selection and preparation for
the US trip. American foster-parents and sponsoring
agencies must be aware of this, too, and though strong
family ties are made, they must not lose sight of the fact
that this is basically an “exchange” program — rather
than an emigration plan.

A teen-ager from Hesse writes: “I heard many of our
group say that they would like to return to the United
States right away. Some even planned to do that. Yes,
I love the United States, too, but I know that I can't go
back right away. Did some of us forget the purpose of this
year's stay? I certainly hope not. I lost my real home
in Mecklenburg* when we had to leave it because of the
Russians, and I must say that I found a new home across
the ocean. But momentarily I have to do something more
important than to go back. We all have to carry on the
idea of our program. I feel sorry for each one of us who
forgets that.”

Georg Siefert, a teen-ager from Hetzbach, near Erbach,
in the Odenwald Mountains, Hesse, is one youth who cer-
tainly has the proper idea about the program. Georg
returned on June 13 from a year with a family on a farm
in Pennsylvania, and farmers in Hetzbach and Erbach
have already decided that one of the ideas he brought
back is outstanding. They are now making plans to ac-
quire the necessary machinery to put into effect in their

* The Prussian province of Mecklenburg is in the Soviet Zone.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

county a new system of hay drying by using electric
cold-air fans. i

Besides talking with farm groups, Georg has also
spoken at the local adult evening school and met with
other groups at the home of the US resident officer. In
addition, he has become more active in youth groups and
since his return has been chosen as Kreisjugendbetreuer,
which means he is chairman of a group similar to the
American Future Farmers and 4-H organizations.

'EEN-AGERS HAVE HELPED one another in working

out ways to utilize and apply their experiences in
Germany and in overcoming problems that sometimes
face them upon returning.

At a conference, of which Guenther Dressler, teen-ager
from Flensburg, Schleswig-Holstein, was chairman, some
youths reported difficulties when their communities ob-
jected to their “loud” shirts, ties and socks, and the
girls’ use of lipstick. The majority, however, felt that
their communities would have been disappointed if they
had not shown these external signs of their year in the
States. They agreed that they should not flaunt their new
mannerisms, take it easy on chewing gum and try to
make good grades and lead exemplary lives so others
could see how they had benefited.

Heinrich Lehmann of Hamburg, writes these hints to
other teen-agers: ‘I believe all of us came back so loaded
with experiences, impressions and new ideas that we
were ready to explode any time and at any chance of a
contact with other Germans; and we often were aston-
ished and offended, meeting denial and reluctance. In
most cases we had forgotten that Germans have been
fed with slogans such as ‘freedom,’ ‘democracy,’ ‘better
schools,’ ‘better living, ‘modern machinery,’ etc. ever
since 1945. They have developed a certain sensitiveness

(Continued on page 18)

Ingeborg Steckel, who spent a year at Lake Village, Ind.,
is interviewed in Frankfurt by Harold Mehlem of the
United Press. Lake Village is 60 miles from Chicago.

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 11 ---
Youth
At
The
Helm

By RAYMOND LASCOE
US Resident Officer, Pforzheim

HE YOUNG PEOPLE of Pforzheim, on being given the

opportunity, showed such keen interest in the running
of the city government that their demonstration belied the
characterization by many critics of the youth of postwar
Germany as “disinterested,” “apathetic,” “helpless,”
“hopeless,” “lacking in idealism,” “uninterested in gov-
ernment” and “without appreciation for the positive values
of life.”

Realizing the need for a comprehensive program for
young people, the progressive Wuerttemberg-Baden city
of 60,000 instituted a study of the local situation. The.city
council hit upon the idea, for years popular in America,
of turning the city administration over to the young
people for a day to give them a working knowledge of
how a city is run and what are some of the problems
confronting city officials.

An article in the Information Bulletin* encouraged Dr.
J. Peter Brandenburg, mayor of Pforzheim, and municipal
officials to launch the experiment. Mayor Brandenburg
declared, “I wish to judge its merits." The results were
gratifying.

Timed for Youth Week, held in Pforzheim in mid-June
under the sponsorship of the County Youth Committee,
the youth government day focused the attention not only
of the young people themselves but also of Pforzheim’s
entire adult population upon the importance of encourag-
ing active participation in community affairs.

HE DAY STARTED OFF bright and early on June 16.
Promptly at 8 a.m., 42 boys and girls between the
ages of 17 and 21 reported for work in the various city
administration offices and in the US resident office. They
included representatives of the city’s eight schools and
the County Youth Committee, elected by their classmates

* See “Youth Help Run City for a Day" (Bremerhaven) in Informa-
tion Bulletin, January 1951 issue.

AUGUST 1951.

‘An Information Bulletin article inspired Pforzheim's mayor
to let 42 of the city's youth run its affairs for a day.
In photo are Mayor J. Peter Brandenburg, his young depu-
ty, Heiner Wittrin, and their secretary, (Photos by Glaser)

Marriage ceremony is being performed by marriage bu-
reau's temporary chief, Regular official signed certificate.

Lady Resident Ojficer Karin Lichtenberger gets a few
tips on duties from Resident Officer Raymond Lascoe

--- Page 12 ---
Pforzheim's young city officials closed busy day with
a discussion in which its regular officials participated.

by secret ballot. The job of their selection was an excel-
lent one; every young officeholder turned in an outstand-
ing performance.

Adult officials cooperated completely in the day's activ-
ities, each going to considerable effort to explain the
workings of his office to his young deputy. Much of the
success of the project was due to their interest.

At the outset, the youngsters learned that the duties
imposed upon city officials are not easy to carry out. For
instance, Heiner Wittrin, the youthful mayor, remarked
at the luncheon table: "I was under the impression that
the mayor reported at 9 o'clock, signed a few papers, per-
haps made a speech or two and drove home. I was amazed
to find that every minute of his time is scheduled — that
there are dozens of telephone calls, letters to be answered,
conferences with other officials and interviews with citi-
zens regarding a host of matters."

Before the day was over, he had come to the realization
that the responsibility of solving the multitudinous prob-
lems which befall a city approximately 85 percent de-
stroyed in the war is a tremendous one.

N THE REGISTRAR'S OFFICE, a young girl officiated

at a wedding, going through the entire marriage cere-
mony. The only thing she did not do was sign the neces-
sary papers. The boy who took over the construction
office attacked his duties with a serious attention to detail
which won him the glowing praise of the official he
replaced. In the resident office, a pretty brunette found
that every minute of her time was taken with the mani-
fold duties relinquished to her for the day by HICOG's
representative in Pforzheim.

City planners explain a new project to highly-interested
temporary head oi construction office (second from right).

All offices closed at 5p. m., and the young officials then
moved to the city hall to consider the budget, an im-
portant item on the agenda of the city council. A lively
discussion of the i125-page budget brought forth a number
of positive suggestions from the fledgling officials; regular
city councilors sat nearby to answer questions and to
explain the “hows and whys" of the budget figures. A
youth forum was arranged several days later, at which
certain of the young people's ideas were probed, and in
which both the youngsters and adults took part.

Public reaction to youth government day was most
encouraging. Each of Pforzheim's four newspapers wrote
detailed articles about it; people were heard to remark
that the activity constituted an unusual innovation, a defi-
nite break with tradition, The vast majority considered
the project “progressive, well worth the time expended,
and most enlightening." Die-hard conservatives and a few
businessmen, however, expressed the opinion that ‘city
officials have more important duties than to play games."
Youth should be trained for their jobs, they said, and
then given the opportunity to exercise them.

FFICIALS FROM THE neighboring counties of Nuer-

tingen and Bad Mergentheim came to Pforzheim to
observe the youth government day, and papers in the
two communities evinced a keen interest and pleasure
in what they had witnessed. The Armed Forces Network
radio station at Stuttgart broadcast a report, and South-
west Radio in Baden-Baden made recordings of numerous
speeches,

All the young officials were thrilled with their jobs and.
gratified with the cooperation they received from the
authorities, and it was commonly agreed that the project
gave them a wonderful start in political enlightenment.
Only two took a slightly dim view — the heads of the
forestry office and of the local jail. The one was not too
keen about spending a day in the woods, and the other
found the city jail ‘a little too confining.”

Appointment of the young city administrators was only
part of the Youth Week activity. Another highlight was
the opening of the new youth center, called the ‘House
of Open Doors," to signify that it is open to all youth,
regardless of race, color, creed or organization. In oper-
ating this center, which cost the city more than DM 120,000
($28,560), Pforzheim young people are learning to manage
their own affairs with guidance from city authorities and
two youth leaders. -+-END

All eyes were focused on “His Honor the Mayor" as
Piorzheim City Council convened for open discussion.

:

--- Page 13 ---
Crowd of approximately 100,000 Berliners turned out for dedication July 10 of the memorial to the Airlift dead, a 63-foot
tridentated concrete monument recalling the American, British and French airlanes through which ilying freighters poured
food and coal supplies to nullify the Soviet blockade of 1948-49. High-ranking Allied and German officials attended the
ceremonies at the Platz der Luftbruecke, the huge square beside Tempelhof Air Base renamed in honor of the Airlift.

Memorial to Airlift Dead

By LOWELL BENNETT
Chief, Public Relations Branch, Berlin Element-HICOG

N A BRILLIANT, CLOUDLESS morning last month

the people of Berlin relived for an hour their historic
blockade and recalled with pride and gratitude the mira-
cle of the Allied Airlift. They paid solemn tribute to the
memory of the young fliers who gave their lives that
the city might live.

The occasion was a ceremony at Tempelhof airport on
July 10 to dedicate a giant monument to the dead of the
Airlift. It was attended by a galaxy of top Allied and
German officials and by a crowd of nearly 100,000 citizens
of the “island” metropolis who have defied Communist
terror and defended their freedom.

A towering 63-foot concrete memorial, tri-pointed to
represent the American, British and French airlanes, loom-
ed above the speakers and the crowd massed in the semi-
circular Platz der Luftbruecke (Airlift Circle) before the
main entrance to Tempelhof. The Platz was so named in
honor of the air-bridge over which continuous convoys of
Allied cargo planes fed and clothed 2,000,000 West Ber-
liners during the 11-month Soviet siege.

AUGUST 1951

11

The speakers included Maj. Gen. William H. Tunner,
commander of the Combined Airlift Task Force that de-
feated the blockade; Prof. Ernst Reuter, mayor of Free
Berlin and the man who has symbolized its resistance to
Communist terror; and Jakob Kaiser, federal minister for
all-German affairs.

Air Commodore G, W. S. Murer of the Royal Air Force,
General Michel Bouvard of the French Air Force and Dr.
Otto Suhr, president of the Berlin House of Representa-
tives, also spoke.

John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner for Germany;
Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, British High Commissioner; Bernard
Baruch, American elder statesman and adviser to Presi-
dents, and the three Western Commandants of Berlin
were honored guests.

Soviet representatives were conspicuously absent.

HE MEMORIAL WAS FLANKED by honor guards of
the British and US Air Forces and the French Army.

Nearby was the Berlin police band, which provided com-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 14 ---
US High Commissioner John J. McCloy places the Ameri-
can wreath at foot of the memorial, on whose base are
inscribed the names of the 75 British, American and Ger-

man dead. (PRB BE-HICOG photos}
memorative music for the opening and closing of the
ceremony. Before the memorial was a rostrum with a bat-
tery of microphones and draped with a banner displaying
the Berlin Bear, symbol of the undaunted city.

A public address system carried the words of the speak-
ers echoing down the streets eastward from Tempelhof,
toward the Soviet Sector of the city, a bare three miles
distant.

A single plane passed overhead during the ceremony.
The stillness was in total contrast to the days a little more
than two short years earlier when an unending stream of
cargo planes thundered to the city with supplies.

General Tunner, visibly moved, spoke of his deep pride
“to be here to pay tribute to those men, aircrews and
ground personnel alike, who fed and clothed Berlin during
that cruelly conceived blockade.

“This monument,” he said, ‘should serve as a lasting
memorial to the entire world that free men are willing to
lay down their lives to maintain freedom.”

He recalled the strenuous efforts of the Berliners, half
of them women, who labored tirelessly on the airfields at
Tegel, Gatow and Tempelhof, repairing and expanding
the runways to receive ihe vital cargoes. And he spoke
solemnly of the 75 fliers and ground crewmen — 39 Brit-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

*ish, 31 American and five German — “who gave their
lives that the Airlift would not fail.”

Professor Reuter, who has been constantly in the fore-
front of his city's struggle against Communism, urged
that — while the monument is in memory of a victory the
West has won — the fight was not yet over. Young British
and American fliers died for us," he said. "We must make
sure their sacrifice was not in vain. Our struggle will not
be ended until the enslaved peoples of the East can breathe
the same free air as we here in Berlin.”

IOLLOWING THE MAYOR'S WORDS, the great monu-

ment was unveiled and the honor guards presented
arms. Wreaths were laid at the bronze base of the mem-
orial on which were inscribed the names of the fliers
and workers killed during the lift, Berliners from all walks
of life came forward with flowers in grateful remem-
brance. There were few dry eyes in the crowd.

One man was absent from the ceremony — General
Lucius D, Clay, former US military governor for Germany,
and the man who inspired the Airlift and was a guiding
spirit behind Berlin's victory.

General Clay had been unable to attend the ceremony,
busy as he was as leader of another movement on behalf
of liberty: the Crusade for Freedom. But though he was
absent he was not forgotten. Each time a speaker men-
tioned his name, there was a roar of applause from the
massed crowd.

Berliners had not forgotten, nor will they soon forget,
the epic period of the siege, when the eyes and hopes
of the free world were upon them. They cannot forget
the privations they underwent to preserve their liberties.
But memory is tinged with pride and dignity, not sorrow.

ERLIN DURING THAT GRIM siege two years ago

_was a city of darkness, of meager rations, of cold and
uncertainty — but it was also a city of unbending de-
termination.

There was electricity and gas for only four short hours
a day, Nearly all the food, except scant supplies of meat
and bread, was dehydrated and virtually tasteless. There
were 25 pounds of coal per family for the entire blockade
winter. Transportation was at a virtual standstill; industry
operated at one-tenth of its capacity. And there was a
constant barrage of Communist threats and intimidation.

But overhead, day and night, and in all kinds of weather,
droned the reassuring roar of Airlift cargo planes carry-
ing out the most spectacular and humane supply effort in
history.

The beginnings of that Airlift in June 1948 were pre-
carious and unsure. When the brutal Soviet blockade con-
stricted around the city, when a cold-blooded attempt was
made to starve more than 2,000,000 peaceful citizens into
submission, there were but 82 American air transports in
all Europe. These, moreover, were war-weary ‘Goony
birds,” small, two-engined C-47s capable of hauling little
more than two tons of supplies each.

A dramatic call'for help went out to the US and British
Air Forces around the world. Transport squadrons flew

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 15 ---
to Western Germany from such distant points as Guam,
South Africa, Hawaii, Australia, Alaska, Texas and Japan.
Within weeks, a massive and intricate air bridge was built
between Berlin and the West, and nearly 400 heavy trans-
port planes were shuttling food, fuel and medicine to the
beleaguered city.

A high point in complex precision was reached when
nearly 13,000 tons of supplies were flown to the city in
a single day, During those 24 hours a plane landed on
one of Berlin's three airfields every 63 seconds,

TY\HE ALLIED AIR LIFT was inaugurated on June 26,

1948, and continued until Sept. 30, 1949. During that
period, 277,264 flights were made to deliver some 2,343,301
tons of essential supplies to the blockaded city.

The role of the Berliners during that crucial period was
not a passive one. Their lives and freedom were at stake
and they knew it, and they accepted full, individual re-
sponsibility for success or failure.

The miracle in the skies was paralleled by another in
the city. There was never a question of surrender or of
compromise.

When the Soviets sought to sabotage the Airlift by
inviting West Berliners to draw their coal and food rations
in East Berlin nearly 98 percent of the people answered
a defiant No!" And within weeks, the few thousands
who did desert returned shamefaced to West Berlin to
take their stand with their neighbors.

When the Soviets, in yet another propaganda stunt,
offered to supply free, fresh milk to West Berlin children,
the mothers unanimously refused — preferring air-lifted
powdered milk with no political taint.

N THE MIDST of the blockade, more than 300,000 Free

Berliners massed at an open air meeting, in the great
Reichstag square near the Soviet Sector border, and shout-
ed their defiance at the forces which were attempting
to enslave them. :

Maj. Gen. William H.Tunner, commander of the Com-
bined Airlift Task Force which defeated the blockade,
declared in his address: “This monument should serve as
a lasting memorial to the entire world that free men are
willing to lay down their lives to maintain freedom.”

During the blockade, and despite its privations and
discomforts, scores of thousands of East German refugees
continued to stream into West Berlin — preferring siege
to persecution, Fifteen Soviet Sector universities and
schools, with a combined enrollment of more than 10,000
and a faculty of approximately 500, moved to West Berlin
during the siege.

It was a historic and meaningful epoch, the blockade
of Berlin. And the monument which stands in the Platz
der Luftbruecke today is more than a tribute to the 75 men
who died to save a city.

The memorial is a permanent reminder, as Mayor Reuter
said, “that the hearts of men can become the strongest
weapon, that unity and determination can overcome the
worst terror.” +END

Mr. Bennett, writer of this article, served with US public relations in
Berlin during the Soviet blockade of the city in 1948-49 and is author of
the recently-published book “Berlin Bastion,” telling of the success of
the Airlift and breaking of the blockade. This book is Mr. Bennett's fourth.
A native of Kansas City, Mo., Mr. Bennett served in the French Foreign
Legion in North Africa and the Free French Army in England in 1940-41.
He joined the International News Service in 1941 as a war correspondent.
While accompanying a Royal Air Force bombing mission over Germany
in 1943, his plane was shot down and he was rescued from a lake near
Berlin, being held prisoner of war until the end of the conflict, despite:
several unsuccessiul attempts to escape. Mr. Bennett was correspondent
in Berlin for the American Broadcasting Company in 1946-47 and worked
with UNESCO in 1947-48 before joining the public relations staff of the
US Office of Military Government, Berlin Sector.

Lowell Bennett.

(Photo by Uekerus, Berlin)

AUGUST 1951 13 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 16 ---
Graying men with families, young men and women in their
twenties are among students at Hesse trade union school
being trained as union functionaries. (PRB OLCH photos)

Class numbering up to 50 listens intently as instructor
explains organization of industrial and commercial firms.

DGB school at Oberursel has spacious grounds, ideal for
outdoor classes in summer. Below right, typical bedroom.

The Worker
Goes to School

By JOSEPH T. TAYLOR
Chief, Labor Affairs Division, OLC Hesse

HE WORKERS USUALLY arrive early, by train and

bus and car. And rather shyly, almost like children,
they fill out entry cards and are assigned to rooms. They
are going to school again! To many of them, who had gone
to work at 14, school is a long-ago memory, and advanced
training — of any kind — a forgotten dream.

Every two or three weeks, the scene is the same at
the trade union school in Oberursel, beautiful old Taunus
mountain village in Hesse. There are approximately 50
in each new class and they vary in age. Some are still
fresh-cheeked young men, others are graying men with
families. Often there are women among them. All have
one thing in common — a deadly seriousness about their
studies not characteristic of the ordinary schoolroom.

These students, chosen for their interest in the activi-
ties of one of the 16 labor unions which form the German
Trade Union Federation (DGB), must take their school-
work seriously for they are obliged to cram into two or
three weeks, courses in labor legislation, political econo-
my, social insurance regulations, history of German and
foreign trade unions, basic courses in political science,
works council laws and trade union organization. When
school is over, they must be prepared to assume a posi-
tion of leadership in their unions,

HE OBERURSEL TRADE UNION school has come a
long way since the re-establishment of the Hesse
trade union movement back in the early postwar years
of 1945 and 1946. In those days, after 12 years of Nazi
domination of labor, training of union leaders presented
a difficult problem. During Hitler's regime, trade union
schools were seized by the profligate Nazi minister of
labor Robert Ley, and many of the instructors taken to
concentration camps to suffer the sadistic horrors reserv-
ed for so-called “enemies of the state." A democratic labor
movement, let alone specialists in labor affairs, had long
disappeared from the German scene.
With the assistance of the US Office of Military Gov-
ernment for Hesse, the state's trade union federation ob-

--- Page 17 ---
tained return of the old trade union school of Oberursel
and set about restoring it as a training center. Sleeping
accommodations and a dining room were provided and,
in September 1947, the first course was opened. As union
membership spiraled, however, the institution became
inadequate and plans for a rebuilding program were begun
by Willi Birkelbach, chief of the school, and Otto H.
Scheugenpflug, Hessian DGB executive.

An estimate of DM 130,000 ($30,940) was given as the
cost of enlarging the school and installing adequate fur-
niture and teaching aids. DGB headquarters at Duessel-
dorf contributed an initial DM 66,000 ($15,700) and the
state of Hesse donated 4,000 marks ($952). In the mean-
time, OMGUS had been replaced by the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany and the duties of
the former Manpower Division were taken over by
HICOG's Labor Affairs Division, whose officials, working
in close cooperation with the DGB in Hesse, solicited a
grant for the Oberursel school from the HICOG Special
Projects Fund. A grant of DM 60,000 was made and in
addition, 300 books on labor affairs. were donated.

EBUILDING WAS BEGUN in July 1950 and on May 3,

1951, the new Oberursel school, now well-equipped
to serve the increasing demand for training more union
leaders, was reopened. The three-story building, set in the
midst of a large, well-kept lawn, has 18 bedrooms to ac-
commodate 50 students and three bedrooms for instruct-
ors. There is a new, comfortably furnished library con-
taining 700 books, and the large classroom has 50 brand
new desks. Two dining rooms, a reading room and two
offices for school administrators complete the picture.

This summer, students are taking their courses outdoors
on the lawn. A repaired swimming pool on the grounds
is available for hot weather relaxation.

Excellent instructors are provided at Oberursel and in
the seven other trade union schools in West Germany.
They include lecturers from the Academy of Labor, offi-
cials of the labor ministry, judges of labor courts, uni-
versity professors of political economy and _ political
science, and leading union officials. The entire expense
of operating the school, including food, lodging and trans-
portation, is borne by the German Trade Union Federation.

Students come from all over Hesse and represent all
of its 16 industrial unions. Not only are they trained as
inion leaders, but their association with other union mem-
bers in the far-flung field of West Germany's industrial
rebirth is an important means of cementing ties among
workers which is lending greater strength to the entire
German labor movement. + END

Neat, well-equipped library contains more than 700 books,
of which 300 dealing with a wide variety of labor sub-
jects were a donation from HICOG ‘Special Projects Fund.

Meals -are taken in two cheerful comfortably-furnished
dining rooms overlooking school's large grounds and
affording a view of the beautiful Taunus countryside.

--- Page 18 ---
Health Problems in Bavaria

By DR. B. A. KOGAN
Public Health Adviser, OLC Bavaria

URING THE WORST DAYS of the war there did not

occur in Germany one major epidemic of sickness.
One can only find the explanation for this extraordinary
fact in the traditional training of the average German citi-
zen in the sanitation that is so much a part of his culture.
The German people have an international reputation for
searching for the best hygienic methods.

It is this fact, as much as any other, that prevented
serious outbreaks of disease when the whole German
population was under the pressure of war. But now we
have peace. Let us briefly consider what can be done
for the public health in peacetime. What are some of the
major health problems in Bavaria?

It is important that you know that in 1950 there were
more cases of diphtheria in Bavaria, the population of
which is only 9,100,000, than there were in the United
States in 1950— and the population of the United States
in that year was approximately 150,000,000. More than
200 children died of diphtheria in Bavaria in 1950. Diph-
theria is an easily preventable disease. That is, it can to-
day be prevented by the injection of a harmless material
which has been used all over the world for many years.

And who was it that invented this material? It was a
world famous German scientist, Emil von Behring, who
was born in 1854 in Hansdorf. Professor von Behring
made many medical discoveries; his serum against diph-
theria was but one. There is also his famous method of
producing active diphtheria protection in the human body.

IHERE HAVE BEEN MANY refinements in these pro-
cedures since von Behring died in 1917; but even
today his serum and his method are basic for protection
against diphtheria, and are used throughout the world.
Moreover, they have saved the lives of countless chil-
dren, In Bavaria, however, what Emil von Behring discov-
ered so many years ago is still not adequately used.
Years ago an American, Louis W. Sauer, discovered a
way to prevent whooping cough. Last year in Bavaria
there were more than 14,000 reported cases of whooping
cough, and 61 children died of this disease. It can be pre-
vented if harmless injections are given early enough.
Again the Bavarian people must know this, and must co-
operate with and seek help from their local health depart-
ment.
I must note, incidentally, as an American, that in the
United States we still have far to go in the prevention
of whooping cough just as we had so

diphtheria and whooping cough, can be prevented by
means of harmless injections which should be begun not
later than at the age of six months.

Another serious disease occurs far too frequently in
Bavaria. Last year there were reported by the Bavarian
State Health Department almost 12,000 infectious cases
of tuberculosis of the organs of respiration, and almost
3,000 cases of tuberculosis of other organs, such as the
bone, the skin and the glands. An infectious case of
tuberculosis is one which can be given to another person
over a short period of time. Again it was the masterly
work of Dr. Robert Koch, the immortal German bacteriolo-
gist, which proved that a germ is the cause of tuberculosis.

As Dr. Koch pointed out in 1882, the problem of tuber-
culosis is in part tied up with poverty and inadequate
housing. The Bavarian government is doing much to help
to solve these problems just as the State Health Depart-
ment, under the splendid leadership of Professor Gustav
Seiffert, is doing everything it can to meet the situation.
But they need the active support of the citizens of Bavaria.

NOTHER PROBLEM WITH which Bavaria is faced is
the problem of unsafe water supplies. In 1948, in
Neuoetting, there was a disastrous epidemic of typhoid
fever. More than 1,000 persons contracted typhoid fever,
and almost 100 died of this disease.* Yet it could have been
prevented by adequate chlorination of the water supply.
A German scientist of Halle, Karl Joseph Ebert, dis-
covered the germ which is now known to be the cause
of typhoid fever. I repeat that it is absolutely clear that
adequate chlorination of water kills the germs that cause
typhoid fever, as well as other germs which are danger-
ous to the public health. Yet in Neuoetting, as late as
1948 — almost 70 years after Karl Joseph Ebert discov-
ered the cause of typhoid fever — approximately 100 per-
sons died of this preventable disease!

There is hardly a county in Bavaria which does not
have human carriers of this disease. The Bavarian State
Health Department knows this, and is doing all it can,
but again the active support of the people is essential.

The picture is not entirely discouraging. Even though
diphtheria, for example, is so much more common in
Bavaria than it should be, it has decreased in the past
five years. Milk sanitation is still another example of

the improvement effected. Much is

far to go in the prevention of diph-
theria 20 years ago. These diseases,

* See ‘'Typhoid Outbreak Fought in Neuoet-
ting’ in Information Bulletin, issue of June 28,
1948,

This article consists of excerpts
from an address delivered by Dr.
Kogan over the Bavarian radio
station in Munich recently.

being done in Bavaria to prevent the
transmission of tuberculosis from in-
fected cows to the people who drink
milk, This is particularly true at
Nuremberg and Munich. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 19 ---
Resident
Officers’

Conference

Resume of Third Annual Gathering
Of American Field Representatives

S HIGH COMMISSIONER John J. McCloy told US

resident officers assembled at their third annual
meeting in Frankfurt July 16 that "Germany remains the
major target for Soviet aggression” and declared that
the restoration of a balance of strength in the world
was a matter of urgency.

Speaking before 150 resident officers, state observers,
French and British officials and US Army guests, Mr.
McCloy welcomed the other speakers to the morning's
session, including French High Commissioner Andre
Francois-Poncet, General Thomas T. Handy, EUCOM
commander-in-chief, and Prof. Walter Hallstein, German
state secretary for foreign affairs. Mr. McCloy said all
the guest speakers, Allied, military and German, were
seeking one common goal.

That goal, the US High Commissioner emphasized, “is
to maintain and strengthen those communities in the
world which seek peace in a free life.”

Counseling the resident officers on a sense of urgency
in their mission, Mr. McCloy reported that “all around
the world there remain powerful signs of the Soviet Union
seeking its totalitarian aims." The Soviets have stepped
up their peace propaganda, he said, but their policy
remains to promote confusion where they can.

Mr. McCloy reported on the thinking in the United
States which he observed during his recent visit. The
United States is convinced, he said, in the face of the
Soviet menace, that our only task is to build up our
own defense and that of nations who wish to protect
themselves.

With the Soviet Union built up as it is, Mr. McCloy
stated, the United States sees no realistic defense of west-
ern Europe including West Germany without some form of
German participation, He reiterated that German participa-
tion is up to the German people to decide and said if Ger-
many does join in the Atlantic army, the United States
plans an honorable role for her with no discrimination.

R. FRANCOIS-PONCET, SPEAKING in English,
stressed that the European idea has made progress
in Germany within the past year. “The best elements
of German youth eagerly welcome the prospect of
working together with their comrades from the other
countries, to build a more liberal Europe with more

AUGUST 1951

17

Addressing the opening session of the third annual Resi-
dent Officers’ Conference, held in the Casino at HICOG's
Frankfurt headquarters, is French High Commissioner

Andre Francois-Poncet. (PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)
elbow room, a Europe better adapted to the exigencies
of modern techniques... capable of overcoming the obstacle
of undue national prejudices, capable of bowing before a
new spirit, a new standard, in a rejuvenated and regener-
ated atmosphere, within which Germany and France will
cease to regard each other as enemies.”

The French High Commissioner paid tribute to German
Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, who has promoted the idea
of European union. Praising him as a man “young in
mind and heart,” Mr. Francois-Poncet said that Dr.
Adenauer has acted as a genuine statesman in coming
out courageously for the Schuman Plan and for partici-
pating in the work of the Paris conference, from which
should come a European army.

In interpreting the significance of the Schuman Plan,
Professor Hallstein stated that the framers of the’ plan
were concerned not only with the special needs of the
iron and coal industries but “with developing a frame-
work of European integration.”

He said that once agreement was reached in European
integration in other fields, such as a European army,
a European agency for food and agriculture and for
transportation, then some institutions of the Schuman Plan
might be prepared to take over responsibilities in these
fields. é

He said that the further work of the Schuman Plan
agencies in defining the terms and operations of the plan
would thus develop the “first real European Law.” The
Schuman Plan's European Court, “which was inspired by
the US Supreme Court,” will preserve this rule of law
which is basic to the entire structure, he added.

The economic organization’s General Assembly, devel-
oped to insure public control of the basic industries,
may also eventually be competent to take over additional
authority in the process of European integration, he said.

Professor Hallstein said that the Federal Government
had joined the Schuman Plan not only for economic
reasons but with the political motives of promoting
European integration. He declared that this policy of the
Federal Government had the popular support of the
German people, especially of the youth.

. INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 20 ---
ENERAL HANDY EMPHASIZED the mission of

American troops of participating in European defense
and supporting the political policies of the US High
Commissioner.

He denounced the talk of alleged high occupation
costs, pointing out that the German nation had received
“a good bargain” through the American occupation. The
United States had poured $4,000,000,000 in economic aid
into Germany during six years of occupation as compared
to $1,400,000,000 paid out by the German government,
he said. He noted that Americans were buying about
$66,000,000 of Deutsche marks per year, and that the
EUCOM PX system had spent $15,000,000 in Germany.
In addition 30 percent of EUCOM's construction funds
were spent for American housing which would eventually
be turned over to Germans.

Other speakers concluding the opening session were
Maj. Gen. Truman H. Landon, deputy commander general,
US Air Forces Europe, who described to resident officers
the Air Force's participation in West European defense;
Shepard Stone, director of the Office of Public Affairs,
and Frank Miller, acting director of the Office of Eco-
nomic Affairs.

The conference continued through July 18, there being
daily sessions from 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. in the HICOG Head-
quarters Building and the nearby Casino. Resident officers,
US Army officers and guests from the French and British
High Commissions participated in the meetings, which
were in the form of roundtables. A parallel conference
for resident and army officers’ wives was held each day.

The conference was planned largely by the resident
officers, their suggestions and requests having been fol-
lowed regarding both program and participants. The
agenda included discussion of the youth program, cultural
relations, preservation of freedom and internal administra-
tion, The resident officers conferred with many EUCOM
post and subpost officers on HICOG-EUCOM relations
and joint activities. +END

Communist Canard Exposed

A Communist-published report has been exposed and
proved false by William J. Hoffman, US resident officer
for Obertaunus County, Hesse.

In a recent issue, the French-Zone Communist news-
paper Unser Tag carried a report on an alleged plebiscite
on remilitarization and a peace treaty in 1951 supposedly
held in a hospital in Obertaunus County. The report
claimed that the so-called plebiscite was conducted among
the patients, personnel and visitors at the hospital, and
among passersby between the Koeppern railroad station
and the hospital.

Mr. Hoffman checked with the local mayor and police
and, after receiving negative replies, had the entire
report thoroughly investigated. Not only was the hospital
itself carefully surveyed, but also an old-people’s home
in the area. Both investigations proved that no such
plebiscite was ever held.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

On the dock at Bremen, newly-returned exchangees offer
a cigarette and light to German dock worker who said his
only wish was to again see the United Siates, where he

had spent several years. (PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)

(Continued from page 8)
Back from America

toward any ‘Besserwisser' (know-it-all person), and I
don't blame them if they are skeptical toward the outflow
of a mental explosion of ours.

“They will rather yield to an influence not noticeable
to them, so my advice is this: Don't explode right away;
don't jump at conclusions, but use your feeling of tact in
selecting the speed and amount for injections of your
American ideas. You will get along easier and accomplish
more.”

Another teen-ager, Marissa von Damnitz of Munich,
says: “There are many things we could learn from them,
but too many of them are unacceptable for our country,
and we have to change them according to our standard
of living, but I'm really astonished how well these things
can be put into practice, if you start off the right way,
and don't get the people mad at you in the first place.”

S THEY CONSIDER the best ways to share their US

experiences and adapt new ideas, this point of view
seems to be a common realization of the teen-agers, and
another one of them, Bruno Weber of Wuerttemberg-
Baden, expresses it this way:

“In school I got the reputation of and a job as an expert
on American affairs. We have had some interesting dis-
cussions lately on problems of democracy, about the
Marshall Plan and other actual political problems. I've
established a kind of a parliamentary procedure and it
works quite well.

“At first, upon my return from the United States, I was
full of ambition to do as much as I could at once, but
very soon I noticed that you can’t catch all the flies at
one and the same time. So I take it easier now and move
forward step by step and I can say it has worked very
well so far.” -++-END

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 21 ---
Youth Learns
Government

By HERBERT GRAF

Youth Activities Specialist, US Resident Office, Giessen

[ROOF OF A GROWING DEVELOPMENT among the
German people of a new civic consciousness and the
value of civic activities has been shown in several com-
munities where “Youth Government Days’ have been
held with surprising success. Such a project, staged re-
cently in the Lahn River city of Giessen, in the state of
Hesse, is further evidence of a German awareness of the
need to acquaint young people with the workings of a
government which they will one day take over.
Although spadework for Giessen's "Youth Government
Day" was done by John G. Gough, US resident officer,
and his staff, the planning and execution of the entire
project was carried out by the city's German officials,
youth group leaders and the young people themselves.
Although an effort to stimulate civic interest among
youth had previously been ventured in several towns in
the county of Giessen by choosing one or more boys and
girls to spend a day with the mayor, the activity went
virtually unnoticed by most of the county's mayors and
the general public. “Youth Government Day” on a large
scale was thus introduced to awaken city officials to the
importance of teaching self-government to the community's
youth. It was planned for countywide Youth Week.

HEN THE IDEA WAS BROACHED to Giessen city

officials and youth group leaders, there was a di-
vided response. Some were enthusiastic from the begin-
ning; others saw no point in such an activity. Following
further discussion of German youth problems, however,
the value of a ‘Youth Government Day” was put across,
It was decided that the head of every municipal office
would be replaced for an entire day by a boy or girl,
and a special committee set about the task of listing offices
lo be occupied and selecting students from the six city
high schools for the governing job. Both local newspapers
cooperated by consenting to youth editors.

Eventually, 75 boys and girls were chosen to fill 35
public offices, municipal and county, including the US
resident office, and the two newspaper offices. In the
morning of the big day, the group assembled in the city
hall, where Mayor Otto Engler outlined city government
and city officials met their young deputies and escorted
them to their new positions-for-a-day.

On a tour made during the morning and early after-
noon, newspaper reporters and photographers found the
office heads and their deputies busy attending confer-
ences, listening to visitors, studying maps and weighty
files, and doing all the things that occur daily at the

AUGUST 1951

Gerhard Oelkers (right) watches as Mayor Engler studies
report submitted by electricity plant director Georg
Heym (left). (Photos by courtesy Giessener Freie Presse)

various offices. The young police commissioners went
out on an alarm with the traffic accident squad; their
colleagues in the homicide bureau studied evidence; the
youthful housing officer went on an inspection tour; the
boy youth commissioner looked into many homeless
youth cases; and the deputy mayor peered over the
mayor's shoulder while discussing with the director of
the city power works an involved plan designed to sup-
port this important public utilities plant.

Resident Officer John D. Gough explains many problems
of office to, 1.-r., Renate Richter (deputy for day), Students
Schenk, Schmidt, Kauth. (US Army photo)

--- Page 22 ---
Ludwig Hedrich (left) and Klaus Schaefer (center) climb
into police squad car to rush to scene of an accident.

Wolfgang Braun studies files in Landrat's Youth Office.

Irmgard Kern and Ulrich Stork view gruesome clue held
by Criminal Police Chief Seng in Homicide Bureau.

Although not many of them were given so much respon-
sibility as the “lady resident officer," who even answered
telephone calls, the impression was that the officials did
their best to give the young people a thorough insight
into their jobs in the short time they had.

T 5 P.M. THE OFFICIALS and their “deputies for a
day" met again in the city hall. Mayor Engler asked
them to tell of their observations and discussed with them
the many aspects of city administration, the functions of
the city parliament, and the general topic of German youth.
In a frank discussion with the head of their city the
youth spoke openly of their problems and opinions and
were answered openly by the mayor. All of them agreed
that administering a city is a job much more involved
and certainly quite different from what they had imag-
ined. Said one young man: "I have seen that the many
reproaches made to state and city government that they
do not take care of youth are unjustified; a lot is being
done at the Youth Office, as I have observed." The
mayor's appeal to the youth “to be always eager to learn"
concluded the day's activities.

Called a ‘quiet revolution” and covered with a picture
story by the local newspaper, the youth government day
was also given publicity in a radio program recorded by
the Southwest German radio station three weeks later.
Speakers at the panel discussion recorded in the Giessen
youth center were some of the chief dramatis personnae
of the youth government day: Mayor Engler and the city
police director, as dethroned" office heads; Gerhard Keg-
ler and Maria Knapp, city youth workers, and Gerhard
Werner, representative of the city youth organization, as
members of the committee which made the preparations;
and five of the youthful public servants for a day.

N INTRODUCTION BY THE YOUTH workers who
thought it a successful continuation of the boys’ week
held previously was followed by a lively interplay of
questions and answers. When asked what she had found
most remarkable while she served in the US resident
officer's job, 17-year-old high-school student Ilse Schenk
said: “I was struck by the remarkable difference between
the resident office and most German offices. In the former
I found much freer relations and no noticeable distance
at all between boss and employees. I noticed that espe-
cially when Americans came into the office. I don't believe
that such frank manners are possible in German offices.”
A prospective student of medicine, who had been at
the city slaughterhouse, remarked that he was most im-
pressed to see how cattle were killed and how strictly
the many sanitary regulations were observed. A judge-
to-be and a prospective newspaper reporter said they were
happy to have had an opportunity to “snoop around” in
their future professions.

Said Police Director Wilhelm Duesing in conclusion:
“I am all for such youth government days, and I am
very proud that so many students wanted to go to the
police. That, to me, is enough proof they're interested in
public affairs. I would like to see students in my office
again soon — but this time for a whole week.” -++END

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 23 ---
Berlin Festival, 1951

By WILLIAM KEEFE
Deputy Chief, Public Relations Branch, Berlin Element-HICOG

HEN GERMAN CONDUCTOR Wilhelm Furtwaeng-

ler brings down his baton on the evening of Sept. 5
to introduce the opening chords of Ludwig van Bee-
thoven's immortal Ninth Symphony, he will simultane-
ously launch the Berlin Festival, 1951, Twenty-five days
later, on Sept, 30,an uninterrupted series of festival plays,
concerts, operatic performances and other special attrac-
tions will come to a fitting end with the presentation of
another Beethoven masterpiece, the “Missa Solemnis.”

In the interval between Sept. 5 and 30, visitors and
native West Berliners will be treated to a memorable ar-
ray of cultural and entertainment offerings. The visitors
are expected to stream into the city from all parts of the
free world as well as from the eastern sector of Berlin and
the Soviet-occupied zone. They will be joined by outstand-
ing artists from half a dozen European countries as well
as the’ United States.

Appropriately, the Schiller Theater, named after one
of Germany's greatest poets, will be the scene of open-
ing-night festivities. Now undergoing reconstruction in
preparation for the Sept. 5 inaugural, the theater will be
dedicated in ceremonies preceding the Berlin Philhar-
monic Orchestra's rendition of the Ninth Symphony.

| URING THE REMAINDER of the festival, first ever

held in the former German capital, Berlin and west-
ern German stars will compete or collaborate with visit-
ing artists from France, England, Austria and the United
States, In many instances, such as the opera appearance
of Astrid Varnay, leading soprano of the New York Met-
ropolitan Opera's Wagnerian wing, German and foreign
performers will share the same stage.

Orchestral accompaniment for Miss Varnay's per-
formances in the roles of Isolde in Wagner's ‘Tristan and
Isolde’ and of Brunhilde in ‘Die Walkuere’ will be pro-
vided by the Berlin Civic Opera Orchestra, and support-
ing casts will be made up of star members of the Berlin
Opera Company.

Later in September Suzanne Juyol of France will re-
place Miss Varnay in repeat performances of "Tristan and
Isolde" and "Die Walkuere."

Comprising an integrated whole, the festival program
has been weighted with complementary admixtures of
tried, proven attractions and premiere performances. It
has also been spiced with ingredients representing the
best in orchestral concerts, light concerts, opera and
stage, ballet and choral works, and with such special items
as pantomime programs and chamber music evenings.

The Berlin Civic Opera, now undergoing a thorough
grooming for its regular fall schedule of operatic per-
formances, will present five new productions especially
prepared for festival audiences. The list of special produc-
lions includes Malipiero’s opera, "Phantasien um Callot;”

AUGUST 1951

Bartok's “Bluebeard;" Stravinsky's "Oedipus Rex;" Gian-
Carlo Menotti's ‘The Consul," and a re-studied version
of Strauss’ ‘Salome. The last will feature the Viennese
star, Ljuba Welitsch.

Opera-lovers will also have an opportunity during the
festival to attend guest performances of the famous "'Beg-
gar's Opera" by the Hamburg State Opera Company.

Following the September curtain-raiser, the restored
Schiller Theater will feature—very appropriately —
Schiller's ‘Wilhelm Tell" as well as Zuckmayer's new
play, “Gesang im Feuerofen" and Hugo von Hoffmanns-
thal's orchestration of Sophocles’ tragedy, "Oedipus."

Concerts are to be presented by the Berlin Philhar-
monic Orchestra under the direction of Sergiu Celibidache
and guest conductors, and the RIAS (US-sponsored radio
in the American Sector of Berlin) Symphony Orchestra
is planning a Mozart evening with Erna Berger as soloist.
The RIAS Symphony Orchestra will also give a special
Bartok program starring Tibor Varga as soloist.

Poster announcing 26-day Berlin Festival, first ever held
there, goes up outside Schiller Theater, which is being
reconstructed for grand premiere of international cultural
event. Top stage, screen and radio artists from many
countries will participate. (PRB BE-HICOG photos by Schubert)

ER FESTWOCHEN

--- Page 24 ---
MONG STANDOUT CHAMBER music programs and
recitals listed on the festival schedule are appear-
ances by the brilliant Juilliard Quartet of New York, by
the Amadeus Quartet from London, the Koeckert Quartet
from Munich, the Berlin String Quartet and the renowned
Dennis Brain Wind Ensemble. Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau
will sing “Die schoene Muellerin,” a song cycle. Helmut
Roloff will present an evening of modern piano music,
and Gerhard Taschner will give a violin recital,
Pantomime will be the order of the day at Berlin's tiny
Tribuene Theater during the colorful festival. “Bip,” “Der
Jahrmarkt" and “Der Mantel," after the novel of Gogol,
are slated for presentation by Marcel Marceau and his
company from Paris, while the United States will be
represented by pantomimist Angna Enters. The Tribuene
will also stage Boris Blacher’s “Romeo and Juliet.”
Neither Shakespeare nor the Broadway musical has
been overlooked by festival program-makers, The Old
Vic Company of London will step before the footlights of
the Hebbel Theater to present Shakespeare's “Othello,”
while Broadway will come to Berlin with full-cast per-
formances of the hit show “Oklahoma” and a new pro-
duction of Robinson Jeffers’ “Medea,” starring Judith
Anderson. Guthrie McClintoc has accepted an invitation
to direct the Berlin staging of ‘Medea,’ an adaptation of
the classical Greek tragedy by Euripides. “Medea” will
be presented 13 times between Sept. 11 and 22.
The US and British troupes will receive competition
from the Comedie Francaise, which is planning a perform-
ance of Moliere’s “Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme.”

IN THE LIGHTER SIDE of the festival are open air

performances in the 25,000-seat Waldbuehne, where
special mixed programs are to be given by artists from
the opera and ballet. A Johann Strauss evening is also
on schedule. Choral works will be presented by the
Aachener Chor (Aachen Choir) singing Carl Orff's Car-
mina Cartulli" and the famed Hall Johnson Choir of New
York, specializing in Negro spirituals.

Berlin and world premieres of a number of concert
works are planned for the festival, among them the
“Kantata Profana” of Bartok, a violin concerto by Boris
Blacher, Honegger's symphony No. 4, a piano concerto
by Pepping and the violin concerto of Schoenberg.
Blacher's “Lysistrata” ballet will also be premiered at
West Berlin's Civic Opera House.

As a matter of course many of the troupes and indi-
vidual artists billed for performances during the Berlin
festival have received international acclaim from critics
and audiences. These noted stars and groups form the
festival's headline circle. To utilize the 25-day cultural
holiday in another direction, the city-sponsored festival
committee is also recruiting unemployed local actors for
a company to be trained by a “name” director. Appear-
ances by the amalgam group are to be announced shortly.

From a statistical viewpoint, the range of festival
events is decidedly impressive.

Approximately 200 separate, complete programs will be
presented between Sept. 5 and 30 on nine different Berlin
stages, including those of the Berlin Civic Opera, Titania

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

Ale

Schiller's Theater, now under reconstruction, will be scene
of gala opening with Wilhelm Furtwaengler conducting
the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra in a rendition of Lud-
wig van Beethoven's unforgettable “Ninth Symphony.”

Palast, Korso Theater, the Schiller Theater, the Tribuene,
the Hebbel, Renaissance and Schlosspark Theaters, and
the Theater am Kurfuerstendamm. Total seating capacity
of the nine theaters is approximately 9,000. An additional
25,000 persons can be seated in the Waldbuehne.

ESTIVAL PERFORMANCES will be given in three
languages — English, German and French. Among
guest conductors will be Wilhelm Furtwaengler; Sergiu
Celibidache and Ferenc Fricsay of Berlin; Josef Keilberth,
Hamburg; Paul Sacher and Carl Schuricht, from Switzer-
land. Scheduled to visit Berlin with orchestral and choral
groups are Hans Schmidt-Isserstedt, conductor of the
Northwest German Radio Symphony Orchestra of Ham-
burg, Ernest Bour of the Orchestre National of Paris and
Felix Raabe of the Aachen Choir. The Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra and the local Hochschul Choir will be directed
by Hans Chemin-Petit and Werner Egk.
Visiting and local artists will present orchestral, oper-
atic, dramatic and other compositions by playwrights and
composers representing more than half a dozen nations.

As added insurance that Berlin during September will
impress visitors as the “Show-Window of the West," a
variety of side attractions has been scheduled for the
festival weeks. These include sporting events and a series
of special art exhibits, among them a display of sculpture
and drawings by Henry Moore, sculpture by Bourdelle,
and a retrospective show of Max Bachmann's works.

During 10 days of the festival, an auto show, featuring
famous "makes" of half a dozen countries, will also be held. ~

Blueprinted by West Berlin authorities for nearly a 7
year, the Berlin Festival is receiving moral and financial —
support from the Allied High Commission. Berliners con-
fidently expect that it will supply a conclusive answer to
the question: ‘What is Berlin today, culturally speaking?"

Equally important, the festival is expected to furnish ©
irrefutable proof that the island city, though geographi-
cally isolated from the Western-democratic world, stands
—in an artistic as well as in a political sense — in the
forefront of the current struggle against Communist con-
trol and oppression. +END

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 25 ---
Child’s Play

Becomes
Woman’s Work

HE LITTLE DOLLS SIT primly in a row, blonde hair

neatly braided, blue eyes reflecting pride in their
new clothes, painted lips just faintly smiling at the pro-
spect of a long journey somewhere — perhaps to a far-off
nursery and the eager arms of a child.

Smiling, too, as if remembering their own happier child-
hoods, are a number of refugee women who are again
sewing doll-clothes and dressing the little figures, care-
fully adjusting the gay-cclored skirt, the puffed-sleeve
blouse, the jacket gay with buttons or the beribboned
hat. For 20 of these homeless women who have found
asylum in western Germany, making doll-clothes again
has become a blessed means of making a living, free of
the Soviet oppression from which they and their families
had fled.

With the aid of a grant of DM 11,121 (about $2,800)
from the HICOG Special Projects Fund, the doll industry
is being operated as a “'self-help" project by the Bavarian
Mothers’ Service of the Evangelical Lutheran Church
at refugee Camp Schafhof, in the historic old city of
Nuremberg, in Bavaria.

Approximately 40 dolls, all clothed in the traditional
costumes of various parts of Germany — Franconia,
Swabia, Allgaeu, the Chiemgau, Saxony — and a few
from Austria's famed Salzburg, are produced each month,

Braiding blonde tresses, making doll-clothes are most wel-
come work for these mothers. (Pbotos by Kurt Lorz, Nuremberg)

Forty dainty little dolls such as these are the monthly
output of a self-help project for refugee women at Camp
Schathof sponsored by the Bavarian Mothers’ Service.

and sent to the Bavarian Mothers’ Home at nearby Stein
for distribution and shipment.

Each of the women employed on the project earns
DM 15-16 per week. Some work in their own homes,
painting the dolls’ heads and faces, making hats and
baskets from bast, knitting stockings, making the tiny
shoes and braiding the hair. The work of assembling
the dolls, however, is done at Camp Schafhof, and the
finished product is boxed there. In addition, one refugee

Sorely-needed employment is provided a number of
women who now each earn DM 15 ($3.60) per week.

--- Page 26 ---
woman is employed full-time at DM 3 per day repairing
and altering cloth needed for the project, and for sewing
courses conducted for women and girls at the camp.

IGHT SEWING MACHINES have been purchased with

the money provided by the Special Projects Fund
for the self-help program. Besides utilizing them for the
doll-making industry, the refugee women are repairing
their families’ meager clothing and making new garments
as rapidly as they can procure materials. The special
sewing courses are available to everyone, so each woman
who comes to the camp has an opportunity to learn to
sew if she has not already mastered the art.

Dr. Antonie Nopitsch, a graying energetic woman who
heads the Bavarian Mothers’ Service, is credited with
the development of the doll industry and the expansion
of sewing facilities to permit the refugee women to help
themselves. Dr. Nopitsch, who, in addition, is directing
the Mothers’ Service principal task of restoring to health
the bodies and spirits of war-weary German mothers as
well as the destitute, ill and hopeless mothers of refugee
families that have poured into Bavaria in recent years,
has taken on the further job of finding a wider market
for the Camp Schafhof dolls. She has prepared advertis-
ing material for distribution over a wide area, and has
arranged displays in a number of cities, including Munich,
Frankfurt, Bad Nauheim, Wuerzburg and Nuremberg.

American Women's clubs in the Nuremberg area as
well as other commercial media are being enlisted in
the campaign to increase sales. A recent opportunity to
spread the story of the refugee project all over America
was the visit to the camp in June of 11 American
women, representatives of 12 major women’s organi-
zations in the United States, each of whom was given
a doll during a visit to the Mothers’ Home at Stein, Some
of them made additional purchases and all promised to
augment the United States market by showing the dolls
at their organization meetings. + END

Haus Schwalbach to Carry On

Haus. Schwalbach, the successful Hessian community-
education school,* will continue to be operated for one
more year with American funds, it was disclosed recently
by Tom A.Noonan, former American supervisor of the
center,

Mr. Noonan, who left his former position with OLC
Hesse recently to join the HICOG staff, rejected rumors
that the house was about to be closed down. “‘It is true,”
he said, ‘that all employees were given provisional notice
some weeks ago because funds for the fiscal year 1951-52
had not come in yet."

The financial situation of Haus Schwalbach is secure
for the next year, Mr. Noonan said, but at the end of
that period, German funds must be forthcoming for the
purpose if the school is to be maintained.

* See article ‘‘Haus Schwalbach” in Information Bulletin, Issue
No. 169, Sept. 6, 1949.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

To mark the 4th of July, High Commissioner and Mrs. John
J. McCloy were hosts at their Bad Homburg home to
2,000 US, Allied and German callers. Above, they greet
Cpls. Milton Schroeder and Daniel Leidig, both of the
newly-arrived Fourth Division. (Photos, courtesy Stars & Stripes)

Independence Day Celebrated

Col. Philip M. Johnson, chief of the Armed Forces Net-
work, cuts AFN‘s eighth-birthday cake at garden party
for approximately 1,500 persons at von Bruning Castle.

Other Independence Day ceremonies in the US Zone in-
cluded military parades, athletic events, dances, fireworks.
Below, 1,700 troops of 4th Division march in Bad Nauheim.

--- Page 27 ---
Special Labor Congress

By ALBERT H. BERMAN
Chief, Manpower Analysis Branch, Manpower Division, Office of Labor Affairs. HICOG

‘ERMAN TRADE-UNIONISTS received a clear defini-
JF tion from their new president of his views on major
labor issues of the day as Christian Fette was elevated
in June to the top executive office of the German Trade
Union Federation (Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund, or DGB).
Mr. Fette, elected by an overwhelming vote to fill the
remainder of the term of the late Dr. Hans Boeckler, de
clared he favored stabilization in prices or corresponding
wage increases, direct negotiations between management

and labor on co-determination in other than basic indus-

\ries, German defense contribution under conditions of full
equality, endorsement of the Schuman Plan despite weak-
nesses, positive labor counteraction against “‘anti-demo-
cratic subversive activity” of both extreme right and left
elements, and strict neutrality in political-party affairs.

His stand on the Schuman Plan was expressed at a
press conference, at which he said the DGB Council would
meet eventually to determine if certain conditions had
been met for final endorsement by the labor movement.

The election of Mr. Fette took place at a special labor
congress June 22 and 23 in Essen, heart of the iron and
steel producing industry of the Ruhr, Participating in the
deliberations were the 251 delegates elected by the 16 trade
unions affiliated with the German Trade Union Federation,
the central body of organized labor in western Germany.

'PVHE MAJOR PURPOSE for the extraordinary conven-

tion was the election of a new DGB president to serve
out the unfilled term of Dr. Boeckler, whose death last
February marked the loss of a courageous, determined
and indefatigable champion of democratic reconstruction
in postwar Germany. The successor to Dr. Boeckler would
hold office until the regular Biennial Congress in the spring
of 1952. A new executive board, including the principal
DGB officers, will then be elected.

Besides the election of the chief DGB official, current
social. and economic problems vital to the interests and
welfare of the German workers came under consideration
by the delegates to the Essen congress. High on the list
were wages and prices, social security, labor participation
in management and broad economic policy. The conven-
tion spotlight also turned upon the Schuman Plan, national
defense, the threat to democracy seen in the extreme left
and right, and the relationship of the DGB to the political
parties,

Decisions on these matters imposed a serious responsi-
bility on the delegates, who represent one of the most
influential organizations in the German Federal Republic.
The DGB, the only union federation in western Germany,*

* There are however some trade unions not affiliated with the DGB.

** Copyright photographs used with this article are reproduced by
courtesy of the Bildstelle des Deutschen Gewerkschaftsbundes.

AUGUST 1951

boasts a united labor movement supported by members
and officers of rival pre-1933 labor groups who have ad-
justed their differences in order to strengthen the ability
of organized labor to combat any repetition of a totali-
tarian threat. A combined enrollment within the 16 affili-
ated unions of 5,600,000 members, representing 36 percent
of all wage and salary earners in the Federal Republic
and western*Berlin, makes the DGB the second largest
national union federation in free Europe.

ESTIMONY TO THE IMPORTANCE of the special con-
gress was lent bythe presence of fraternal delegates
from abroad, including those from the American Federa-
tion of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organization
and of representatives of the German Federal Government
and of the three Allied high commissioners. The absence
of guests from the Soviet Zone “trade unions” came as
no surprise. They had simply not been invited. On the
other hand, the western Berlin unions, which were inte-
grated in the DGB in June 1950 as a symbol of democratic
solidarity, sent a full-fledged delegation.
The name of newly-elected DGB President Christian
Fette had, only the day before the voting, been virtually
unknown to the general public. The DGB Executive Coun-

Mrs. Boeckler, widow of the late president of German
Trade Union Federation, is among first to congratulate
Christian Fette on his election to fill husband's post.**

--- Page 28 ---
cil presented its candidate — in this case, Mr. Fette — to
the convention. No other nominations came from the floor
although the delegates had been left free to propose whom
they wished. On the first ballot, 184 delegates, an over-
whelming majority, cast their votes for Mr. Fette, There
were also nine write-in ballots, four “no” votes, 53 ab-
stentions and one not recorded.

Although national prominence was new for Mr. Fette,
he was no stranger within the German labor movement,
having been the president of the Western German Printing
and Paper Union, the most highly-organized union in the
consumer goods industries, immediately prior to elevation
to his present post. A native of Bremen, where he was
born in 1895, he joined, the German Bookprinters Union
shortly after completing his apprenticeship in 1913. After
service in World War I, he returned to his home town
where, in 1920, he was first elected to union office. In
1931, he became a full-time functionary as head of the
union district for Rhineland and Westphalia, where Dr.
Boeckler then held a similar position with the Metal
Workers Union.

Life proved difficult for Mr. Fette upon the advent of
the Nazi regime which, in 1933, suppressed the trade
unions and which suspected union leaders, and with good
reason, of being hostile to dictatorship. Mr. Fette under-
went constant police surveillance and was arrested on
three occasions, After a long period of unemployment,
he was finally engaged as a linotype operator by a Co-
logne daily newspaper. Upon the crushing of Nazism in
1945, he together with his colleagues tackled the arduous
task of rebuilding the German labor movement from the
bottom up. In 1948, he was elected first president of the
newly-founded Western German Printing and Paper Union,
which expressed its confidence by reelecting him in 1950.

HE DGB SPECIAL CONGRESS at Essen, after electing

Mr. Fette as federation president, took up its respon-
sibility as the highest policy-making body of the federa-
tion concerning current problems affecting labor. Resolu-
tions adopted by the congress are binding
on the DGB Executive Council as guiding
principles. In turn, Mr. Fette, who as DGB
president heads the Executive Council, clear-
ly informed the convention delegates where
he personally stood on these issues.

The unions’ case for equitable wage and
price adjustment was explained by Mr. Fette:
"Statistical data have been introduced to
show clearly that real wages are continuing
to decline. On this point, I should like to say
that no one wishes more than we for prices
not only to become stabilized but also to take
a downward trend. If the opposite occurs,
the unions have no other recourse but to seek
compensation for new price rises by corres-
ponding wage increases — and for the quite
simple reason that the man on the street has
no way out in as much as he doesn't have

INFORMATION BULLETIN

reserves into which to reach, and still has to live from
hand to mouth.”

The DGB congress, in a resolution adopted unanimously,
called upon the individual trade unions to continue all
efforts to restore a fair purchasing power to wages. The
recommendation urged the unions to maintain their ‘’gen-
eral active wage policy” as long as effective measures
were not taken to prevent further price increases and to
reduce prices to ‘an economically defensible level.”

HE COURSE OF ACTION in the wage question has

been troublesome for the labor federation. For the
two years after Germany's currency reform in June 1948,
the unions had exercised considerable restraint in their
wage program. Wage policy was directed at avoiding an
inflationary wage-price spiral which might endanger the
stability of the new “hard money" and at promoting the
competitive ability of German industry on the world
market on which Germany depends heavily. Their states-
manlike approach won commendation from government
and management leaders. During this period, real income
of manual workers employed in manufacturing and con»
struction in the Federal Republic rose steadily. Contribut-
ing factors to this development were wage increases, a
marked lengthening of the work week, and declining
consumer prices.

Sudden increases in mid-1950 in prices of sensitive con-
sumer articles such as bread, meats and fats caused the
unions to reexamine their wage policy. With industrial
recovery having achieved considerable progress, due in
stance and with little pros-

no small measure to ECA ass.
pect of any indirect benefits to real wages through price
decreases or longer working hours, the unions embarked
on a general wage campaign which is still under way.
Sharp price increases since January 1951 which have
boosted the official German consumer-price index by al-
most 10 percent have tended to cancel virtually all wage
gains obtained in the last six months of 1950, Although
real wages over the year as a whole have remained stable,

Addressing the special DGB congress as fraternal delegates from abroad
were the representatives of the two largest labor unions in the United
States: Henry Rutz (left) of the American Federation of Labor (AFL)
and Victor Reuther of the Congress of Industrial Organization (CIO).

--- Page 29 ---
the decline in recent months which has tended to restrict
consumption has nevertheless occasioned considerable
discontent among the working population.

S WAS DEMONSTRATED at the DGB congress, the

unions have not altered their basic approach to the
wage-price problem although their course of action has
changed. They still maintain that they would prefer to
increase real earnings by lowering prices. One of their
most frequently-aired charges is that official German eco-
nomic policy is to blame for not having established con-
trols designed to hold prices down.

Unless consumer prices are rolled back, the unions
contend, they have little alternative but to seek further
wage increases. The DGB president told the delegates
that the passage of legislation for effective price controls
was particularly urgent and suggested the establishment
of a central price supervision agency endowed with com-
plete authority.

No permanent solution to the problem of maintaining
real income by matching price increases with wage in-
creases was seen by the director of the DGB Economic
Research Institute, Dr. Viktor Agartz, who stated that such
efforts were doomed to failure, Instead, he urged revision
in governmental economic policy along the lines proposed
in the DGB economic program of March 12, 1951. This
policy statement recommended the elimination of bottle-
necks to production expansion by investment planning
favoring the basic industries with funds coming from com-
pulsory loans out of depreciation reserves,

Other suggestions were the formulation of "a construc-
tive public finance policy" including a more equitable
distribution of the tax burden, stricter tax collection en-
forcement, the establishment of a long-term economic pro-
gram and of controls over the distribution of raw mate-
rials, and increases in farm output and productivity.

| ABOR PARTICIPATION in management at the plant
~ level, especially in economic affairs, a main issue in
current industrial relations, also figured prominently in
the convention deliberations. Union demands for so-called
co-determination* recently met with initial success when,
in April 1951, federal legislation was enacted granting
labor equal representation on the boards of directors in
the mining industry and of the decartelized iron and steel
producing enterprises.

The DGB congress empowered the federation executive
council to take measures necessary to promote the pas-
sage of special legislation on co-determination in the
basic chemicals and railroad industries and general legis-
lation for co-determination covering all branches of em-
ployment and the establishment of joint union-employer
economic councils.

On July 6, 1951, the Federal Parliament (Bundestag)
passed the Railway Law, a measure which will soon be
given consideration by the Federal Council (Bundesrat),
providing for partial labor representation in the adminis-

See ‘'Co-determination, Keystone of Trade Union Policy’ by Lloyd
White in Information Bulletin, December 1959.

AUGUST 1951

27

Scene of the convention hall in Essen, in the heart of
the Ruhr, during session of the special labor congress.

tration. Postponement of the final Bundestag reading had
unsuccessfully been requested by the DGB Executive
Council, several of whose members were attending at the
time a convention of the International Confederation of
Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) in Milan.

A significant move was taken at the DGB congress by
Mr. Fette who declared that, for the best possible settle-
ment of co-determination in other than the basic indus-
tries, he would regard with favor the resumption of direct
negotiations between management and labor represen-
tatives. After the apparently unsuccessful conclusion of
these talks in July 1950, the Federal Government submit-
ted a bill which is now in Bundestag committee. Mr. Fette's
invitation was accepted on July 10, 1951 by the Federal
Association of Employers’ Associations, whose chairman,
Dr. Walter Raymond, made this acceptance subject to the
condition that the Bundestag defer further consideration
of the draft law until the new parleys have been held.

HE NEED FOR ADEQUATE protection against unem-

ployment and for the extension of social security
coverage was stressed by Willi Richter, DGB social policy
chief. He urged immediate action on a further increase
in unemployment benefits to meet higher living costs,
compulsory social insurance for all employed persons re-
gardless of income and the adoption of federal legislation
ensuring job opportunities for severely-disabled persons
desiring employment,

A unanimous convention resolution called attention to
the plight of persons completely dependent on social-in-
surance benefits and recommended a 25-percent increase
in old-age and invalidity pensions effective April 1, 1951.
The congress also urged that. the lowest pension groups
be given this supplement without deducting any part of
the increase granted in 1949. On July 11, the Bundestag
approved a law according a 25-percent increase retro-
active to June 1 with certain deductions, however, for
supplements provided under the 1949 act. In the Bundes-
tag debate, the labor and finance ministers maintained
that sufficient funds are not available for a blanket 25-per-
cent boost.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 30 ---
Fireworks at the convention exploded as the literal
handful of seven Communist delegates went into action
with what DGB Vice President Georg Reuter termed the
product of a “resolutions factory." Their main effort came
in sponsoring a resolution against the Schuman Plan and
against remilitarization with the usual Communist argu-
ments. In reply, the Berlin DGB district leader, Ermst
Scharnowski, commented tersely: “My views can be ex-
pressed in just one sentence: Better a European coal, iron
and steel industry than a Soviet-Russian Sta(h)lindustrie.""*
The resolution was turned down unanimously by all the
delegates except the seven Communists.

HE DGB PRESIDENT, speaking at length on this point,

expressed support of a German defense contribution
under conditions of full equality. His remarks were in
reply to an apparently Communist-prepared leaflet ask-
ing the delegates to take a stand on peace and remilita-
tization. Mr. Fette noted that the union position on peace
was well-known since the German trade unions had al-
ways demonstrated on May Day for world peace and,
therefore, no collection of signatures was required on so
self-evident a point. The unions are much more radical
than elements on the left, Mr. Fette declared. ‘‘We abhor
war ‘because precisely Korea has shown us again that
wars can also be conducted without an atom bomb."

Remilitarization and security, Mr. Fette continued, are
interrelated and inseparable concepts. “I believe that we
have more to lose than our chains," he added, “and must
therefore be prepared to make our contribution to defense
for the preservation of our freedom under conditions of
self-evident complete equality with other free nations of
the world. A free labor movement can develop only in a
free and democratic state.”

The Schuman Plan agreement was endorsed by Mr.
Fette at a press conference where he stated that he, speak-
ing personally, would answer “yes despite weaknesses
which he sees in the plan. For three decades he had
striven for international cooperation, he said, and would
consider it wrong to destroy the first concrete opportunity
toward a Europe on the way to unification. He interpreted
a recent resolution by the DGB Executive Council as
neither a clear-cut approval nor dissent but rather as an
endorsement dependent upon the fulfillment of certain
conditions.

On May 7, the DGB Council urged complete lifting of
all regulations of the Allied authorities ‘which have pre-
vented German equality in the economic area” before
ratification of the Schuman Plan, and noted that the DGB
endorsed the basic idea of the Schuman Plan in whose
development it had cooperated, Mr. Fette said that the
council will eventually meet to review the situation in
order to determine whether its conditions had been met.

CoeNING THE PROBLEM of internal security, the
DGB congress reiterated its demand, most recently
presented in a White Book on “Enemies of Democracy,”
for vigorous government action against alleged efforts

* A pun linking ‘'Stahl,"‘ German word for steel, with the first syl-
lable of the Soviet premier’s name. 7

INFORMATION BULLETIN

28

by extreme right and left elements to undermine democ-
racy. Repeating this criticism, Mr. Fette announced it his
duty to warn clearly that the unions were unwilling any
longer to stand idly by in the face of ‘anti-democratic
subversive activity.”

Several recent examples were cited to indicate that
“the total loss of the- most total of all wars has also left
behind spiritual debris which must be removed.” To the
Communist delegates of the convention, Mr. Fette said:
“Don't you understand that you are again standing so
far to the left that you swish the right with your tails?"

Over Communist opposition which charged that the
reference to “agents of Bolshevist state capitalism" as
working hand in hand with “hirelings of neo-Fascism" to_
undermine democracy was a violation of DGB political ®
party neutrality, the convention adopted a resolution urg-
ing determined action by governmental authorities. The
German unions, it was further stated, would not tolerate
the “totalitarian lust for power,’ whether coming from
the right or left, to lead to the destruction of all freedom.

The DGB, which subscribes to strict neutrality in po-
litical party and denominational affairs, appealed to all
political parties to refrain from any effort to influence or
determine union policy. In this connection it may be noted
that the Social Democratic Party (SPD) recently spon-
sored a meeting of union officials belonging to the SPD
where an anti-Schuman Plan agreement statement was
approved, while the “Social Committees’ of the Christian
Democratic Union (CDU) called upon CDU trade unionists
to keep the DGB from changing its ‘positive stand" on
the Schuman Plan. Highlighting the dilemma confronting
the DGB, the World of Labor, the DGB journal, pointed
out that no matter what the final position of the DGB on
the Schuman Plan one or another of the political parties
would be certain to charge the DGB with bias.

PEAKER AFTER SPEAKER stressed the value and im-

portance of a united labor organization and deplored
outside action which might split this unity. DGB Vice
President Matthias Foecher, a pre-1933 Christian trade
unionist, said: “It has already been pointed out that po-
litical groups have caused us much concern. All down
the line, it should have been understood that the present
labor movement can exist as a united movement only if it
is completely independent from political parties, tolerant
in matters of world philosophy, and respects the equality
of all its members.”

Commenting in the same vein, Mr. Fette, a Social Demo-
crat, declared that there must be no reversion from united
trade unions to the former unions which were closely
linked with political parties. Recognition of this principle,
he noted, required the greatest possible tolerance in mat-
ters of faith which must be granted by everyone who
takes union activity seriously. The appointment to lead-
ing positions in the union movement, Mr. Fette added,
should be governed exclusively by performance and
ability and never on the basis of general philosophic
doctrine. + END

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 31 ---
International Friendship” meeting sponsored by Fulda’s Junior Chamber of Commerce was held in its US Information

Center and attended by many delegates. On rostrum is Alfred Boerner, American’ radio commentator.

(PRB OLCH photos)

Junior Chamber Arrives

By EUGENE L. WEYLAND
US Resident Officer, Fulda, Hesse

N SHARP CONTRAST to the so-called “international

friendship" meetings which the Soviets and their satel-
lites stage periodically in a thinly-disguised effort to woo
nations outside their orbit, was the recent Day of Inter-
national Understanding sponsored by the Junior Chamber
of Commerce in the northern Hessian city of Fulda.

Members of junior chambers of commerce in several
German cities participated in the Fulda program, part of
a simultaneous worldwide effort for the promotion of
international understanding initiated by the Junior Cham-
ber International (JCI) in 35 countries of the free world.
The West German Junior Chamber was received into full
membership in the JCI at the World Congress in Manila,
capital of the Philippines, last year.

The success of the Fulda meeting from an attendance
standpoint and the seriousness of purpose evidenced
during the main speaking program and the discussions
which followed are noteworthy for this reason: members
of the West German Junior Chambers of Commerce are
men and women from 28 to 40 years of age who, when
they were growing up, came under the influence of the
Nazi ideclogy. It is a heartening sign, in Germany's new
democratic society, that this group — Hitler’s particular
targets in a ruthless campaign to reshape the thinking of
an entire people — has rejected the class struggle and
the “isms” of a totalitarian philosophy to contribute its
joint efforts to promoting the democratic way of life.

AUGUST 1951

29

Their recently-manifested ‘desire to go beyond Ger-
many’s borders to plead for the ideal of world peace is
further convincing evidence of their conversion to belief
in the brotherhood of men and of nations.

ATHERING IN FULDA'S US Information Center —

decorated for the occasion with the flags of many
countries lent by consulates in Frankfurt — the Junior
Chamber of Commerce delegates opened their session
early in order to take in a well-rounded program touching
on several aspects of international understanding.

The program was opened by Guenter Preusker, vice
president of the West German organization, who spoke
on the significance and purposes of the JCI and its in-
terest in world peace, and by Mayor Cuno Heinrich
Raabe of Fulda, who emphasized international friendship.

Speakers of other nationalities also addressed the meet-
ing. They included Alfred Boerner, American radio com-
mentator, who spoke on “Our Path to World Understand-
ing; Walter Buesch, a young Swiss student who is vice
president of the youth parliament in Schaffhausen, whose
topic was “A Free World to Free Youth;" Josef Joos,
French author and former member of the German Reich
parliament from Alsace, who spoke on “Mutual Under-
standing of all Nations — from a Psychological View-
point,“ and Dr. Rudolf Jestaedt, young German jurist,
whose speech was entitled “The European Idea." Adal-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 32 ---
While the majority of the audience were youthful, quite
a few members of the older generation also attend-
ed, In foreground is Josef Joos, noted French author.

bert Huber of the Fulda Junior Chamber and president
of the West German Junior Chamber of Commerce, was
chairman of the meeting. Interspersing the speeches were
various national folk songs and selections by two school
choirs — one from Fulda and the other from Hilders, a
village close to the Soviet border,

German newsreel cameramen and members of both
the German and foreign press covered the meeting, and
Radio Hesse broadcast a roundtable discussion by the
leading speakers on its well-known "New Ways" pro-
gram. Newspaper comment was particularly favorable.

HE WEST GERMAN Junior Chamber of Commerce

has come a long way since the first chapters were
organized two years ago. The initial suggestion came
from US Military Government officers. Later, with the
change over to administration by the Office of the US
High Commissioner for Germany, HICOG resident officers
helped to promote the formation of the various com-
munity organizations. Ten chapters were soon meeting
regularly, and the opportunities they offered for the self-
development of young German business men and women
quickly became apparent.

Soon the various individual organizations promised to
fulfill the need of young Germans to grow in civic stature,
broaden their intellectual horizons and create friendly
relations with junior chambers in other countries. Last
year, they joined forces and established the West Ger-
man Junior Chamber of Commerce, which requested and
received full membership in the JCI at its 1950 congress.
The JCI was one of the first international organizations
to accept a German group on a basis of strict equality.

The JCI is itself a young organization, begun in Panama
in 1946 with a meeting of several national organizations
which pledged themselves “lo work together for the im-
provement of their community and nation — and the
world.’ The constitution was formally adopted at its 1947
meeting in Dallas, Texas, at which there were delegates
from 19 national junior chambers, and annual meetings
in Rio de Janeiro, Brussels and Manila followed. The
Sixth World Congress was held in Montreal from May 25
to 30. Several German representatives were present.

The preamble to the constitution of the West German
Junior Chamber of Commerce follows,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

E, THE YOUNG PEOPLE who are members of this

organization, express our willingness to observe the
principles of tolerance and mutual respect, and thus
obtain a wider horizon, and aided by a disregard for
party or religious affiliations, to become worthy and
tolerant members of the business profession.

“We believe. that the brotherhood of man is superior
to the rule of nations. We resolve to apply ourselves
unstintingly to strengthen and widen the practical in-
fluence of the Junior Chamber Iniernational (JCI) because
the JCI is the coming common meeting ground and in-
termediary among young people of the various nations.
It is our wish that all nations, and especially our own
country, will obtain the cooperation of young and able
persons who are qualified to meet the various problems
of contemporary life.

“We are convinced that the cooperation of the youth
in the problems of political affairs can have a decisive
influence on the just solution of the problems of mankind,
We are resolved to protect the younger generation from
misunderstandings and disputes and are willing to spon-
sor the progress of all peoples.”

HAT THE PREAMBLE is not just a collection of empty

phrases has been well demonstrated by junior cham-
bers throughout West Germany. To take Fulda as an
example, here are a few of the things they do to exem-
plify the preamble’s noble purposes: the group regularly
sponsors lectures, discussions, workshops, panels, social
events, visits to industrial fairs, including international
fairs, and other activities designed to educate and stim-
ulate its members to become responsible and well-inform- ~
ed citizens.

Topics recently discussed at public meetings arranged
by the Fulda chamber include: "German Participation in
World Trade," a lecture by Helmut Kopp, now of the
German consulate in Chicago; ‘The New Tax Law of the
Federal Government; “Building Plans of the City of
Fulda," lecture by city architect Nuechter; ‘The European
Meeting in Strasbourg and its Meaning to Us," lecture by
Dr. Becker, a member of the Bundestag (federal lower
house); “The Co-Determination Law,"' a panel discussion
by representatives of a trade union, employers’ associa-
tion, church, labor court, jurist and US resident office;
“Some Aspects of German Social Security Institutions,”
lecture by a health insurance official; “Is Liberalized
Economy Desirable?” "Employment Policies of the Federal
Government," lecture by Anton Sabel, Bundestag mem-
ber, and "German Foreign Trade Possibilities,’ lecture by
Dr. Wolfgang Kaupisch, noted Radio Frankfurt economic
commentator. A general discussion followed each address.

In several cities, the Junior Chamber cooperates with
the local institution for adult education in holding lec-
tures on business and other economic subjects.

West Germany has many organizations which are
working to promote the democratic, ideal. Many of them
are having outstanding success, but the West German
Junior Chamber of Commerce is among the foremost to
come close to achievement of this ideal. -+-END

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 33 ---
Books
For
Bayreuth

By DONALD S. ROOT

US Resident Officer, Bayreuth, Bavaria

AYREUTH IS A FAMED Bavarian city known the

world over as the home of the Wagner Musical Fes-
tival and burial place of the immortal Richard Wagner
and his great composer father-in-law, Franz Liszt. It is
also the county seat of an ordinary Bavarian county
peopled by small farmers, handicraft shcepkeepers and
foresters.

Bayreuth’s communities range all the way from the
exclusive health resort of Berneck, whose population of
3,600 is supported largely from the tourist revenue which
pours into the area each year, to the primitive little
farming village of Schamelsberg with its 150 inhabitants
living off the land.

In the county, there are 61 elementary schools with a
total enrollment of approximately 6,500 children of all

Resident Officer Donald S. Root, author of this article, is
presented with a bouquet of flowers by curtsying Babette
Gubitz as a token of the school children’s appreciation.

AUGUST 1951

Flowers and happy smiles marked ceremony to celebrate
the arrival at the Seulbitz County Schoo] of the first of
the traveling libraries made possible through a grant of
DM 950 ($220) from HICOG's State Commissioners’ Small
Projects Fund. Students Michael Gruber and Fritz Meier
draw books of their choice from Schoolmaster Fritz Al-
brecht, one of the three chairmen of the District Teachers’
Association, who conceived the project. (PRB OLCB photos)

grammar school grades — first through eighth. There are
no higher educational institutions in the county, and
elementary school graduates. who wish to continue their
education must go to the city of Bayreuth, the county seat.

A recent survey revealed that there are libraries in
only 20 of the 79 communities and that only one or two
of them are the property of the schools. This dearth of
reading material, alleviated recently by a HICOG-spon-
sored “traveling library," was coupled with an acute
shortage of school textbooks. Late in 1950, a survey to
determine the equipment of the county's schools, parti-
cularly with regard to textbooks, revealed the following
unhappy facts:

No textbooks on history, geography or music were
available at all.

The books available to pupils in the entire county by
grades showed these percentages: First, 113.9 percent;
second, 76.5; third, 86.2; fourth, 85.2; fifth, 86.7; sixth, 58.3;
seventh, 60; eighth, 57.7. Of 13 titles, there were less than
75 percent of the required number of copies. Of these,
seven have less than 50 and five less than 25 percent.

OST OF THE TEACHERS recognize the shortage of
textbooks and reading material as a real danger,
especially as it relates to the problem of idle youth. In
this respect, Bayreuth is not much different from any
other Bavarian county — there is a vast amount of un-
employment among youth and the inevitable result has
been an upsurge of juvenile delinquency.
Representatives of the Bayreuth resident office were
told repeatedly at teachers’ meetings that books were a
primary need. None believed that they would provide

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 34 ---
Enjoying the books whose acquisition was a community
event are, I.-r., Mayor Hans Horn of Seulbitz; councilor
Georg Mann; Mayor Hans Doertler of Aiching; clerk Paul
Stoy and Seulbitz's deputy mayor, Johann Graebner.

\
a cure for wayward youth, but all agreed that boys and
girls might find in them a reading pleasure which would
fill many hours of idleness otherwise ill spent.

There is something else to be considered in this matter
of books for young people. It is difficult to find a German
born since the early 1920's who has ever been exposed
to the history or literature of any country other than
Germany. Few of them, indeed, have ever seen a book
about Germany which was not radically slanted to the
Nazi notion of what they should contain.

As Soviet-inspired propaganda has been coming into
Germany in great volume, and many read anything which
comes into their hands just for the sake of reading,
thousands are still getting ‘slanted books and magazines.

Thus, an opportunity to procure books through the
US State Commissioner for Bavaria's Small Projects Fund
was a welcome one to school authorities. An application
for a grant of DM 925 ($220) to set up a “traveling library”
for the county schools was made by the three chairmen
of the District Teachers’ Association, Fritz Albrecht of
Seulbitz, and Georg Frosch and Karl Zeuner of Laineck.

Y THE TIME THEIR REQUEST was granted, the three-

man committee had completed plans for the purchase
of 200 books (a third of them for children) and six book-
cases. The cases are so constructed that each can be
loaded into the back of a car and the entire unit — books,
control system and other material — moved from one
school to another. The units are to be left in a given
school for a certain period of time and then moved to
the next. In this way, every elementary school pupil in
the county will be able, in the course of a school year,
to read every book in the library applicable to his or
her age.

Selection and purchase of the books was handled by
the committee in collaboration with Miss Gertrud Baruch,
librarian of the Bavarian State Library in Bayreuth. With
her cooperation, it was possible to save enough on the
purchase price of the books to build the cases.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ey

Great care was taken to make the original distribution
of the six units to schools in widely separated areas of
the county so that their.movement from one place to
another could be achieved with the least possible diffi-
culty. All of them were delivered in April.

When the preseniation was made to Wuelfersreuth,
which has the distinction of being the highest community
in the county and approached by the county's worst
road, 95 percent of the village population crowded into
the school for the occasion. Incidentally, this one-room
school, with 29 pupils, is a first-class little institution,
equipped with a slide projector, a radio and excellent maps,

I ADDITION TO THE original 200 books acquired
through the HICOG grant, the Bavarian State Library
is purchasing others. Many of the schools are planning
local campaigns to raise enough money to augment the
units of the “traveling library." The bookcases for each
of the six units are large enough to contain twice as
many books as the initial funds provided and at the
present time, the Bayreuth resident office keeps these
spaces filled with pamphlets, in both English and German,
dealing with all phases of the occupation. These are
supplied in several copies, sometimes 20 or more, so that
the reading appetite of the community can be fed.

Recently copies of "The America Book,” * the new
German-language book presented to youth of Germany
as a gift from young people in the United States, were
given to the Seulbitz-Aichig school at a ceremony attend-
ed by several community officials. These books and a
number of new HICOG publications have been included
in the school's library.

Already, the bookcases, which are everywhere deco-
rated with flowers, have come to mean a great deal — not
only to the children for whom they were originally in-
tended, but to their parents as well. +END

See ‘‘The America Book” in Information Bulletin for July 1951,
page 5.

Designs Invited for Berlin Memorial Library
To be Built with DM 5,000,000 Grant from HICOG

Architectural designs for an American Memorial Li-
brary, to be erected in West Berlin with a HICOG Special
Projects Fund grant of DM 5,000,000 ($1,190,000), are now
being accepted as entries in a competition open to all
West Berlin and West German architects.

Awards totaling DM 41,500 ($9,877) will be presented
to entrants submitting the best designs in the competition,
the Berlin city government has announced. The competi-
tion, open to architecture students as well as practicing
architects, will close Oct. 2, 1951.

Announcement of the grant for the public library proj-
ect was made several months ago. In a letter sent to
Prof. Ernst Reuter, governing mayor of Berlin, US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy said: "I trust that this li-
brary will endure through the years as a lasting and ex-
panding monument embodying the admiration of the
American people for the people of Berlin and their valiant
struggle for the cause of democracy and freedom, as well
as a practical aid toward their achievement.”

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 35 ---
Berlin
Nutrition
Program

— An Experiment in Democracy —

By MARGARET FEDDE
Nutrition Specialist, Food and Agriculture Division
Office of Economic Affairs. HICOG

and

DR. ERWIN P. BRAUNER
Chief, Public Health and Welfare Branch
Public Affairs Division, Berlin Element, HICOG

“We are wasting our money trying to teach

children with half starved minds and bodies.”
'

HE ABOVE STATEMENT, made by Dr. Thomas Par-

ran, former'surgeon general of the US Public Health
Service, applies in Germany as much as in the United
States. That there is a direct relationship between nutri-
tion and health, both physical and mental, is an accepted
fact; also that if children cannot function at their best
with “half starved minds and bodies” neither can adults.

Because there is a relationship between a healthy, well
nourished body and the way it functions in social, eco-
nomic and political life, a group of interested persons in
3erlin decided that an educational program for the im-
provement of nutrition is essential because the times
demand “strong minds in strong bodies." They formed
the Berliner Komitee fuer Ernaehrungsiragen, the Berlin
Nutrition Committee, composed of approximately 25 per-
sons representing medicine and public health, food in-
dustries, education, women's organizations, research in-
Sslitutes, welfare and labor groups.

With the financial assistance of HICOG's Public Health
and Welfare Branch, the group went to work to investi-
gate the question of nutrition in a city of more than
2,000,000 people with a serious unemployment problem
and with supply coming from western Germany, more
than 100 miles away, by rail, road, water or air.

To assist the nutrition program in Berlin, arrangements
were made by HICOG'S Food and Agriculture Division
in Frankfurt to send an American nutritionist to Berlin
to work with the Public Health and Welfare Branch and
various interested groups and individuals to determine
the more urgent needs and means of meeting those needs.

AUGUST 1951

Pupils of Berlin's Third Elementary School line up to draw
daily hot lunch, an aid in building strong bodies. Bare-
footed boy at left has key tied to string around his neck,
which indicates that his parents are away from home all
day and leave him unsupervised. (US Army photo)

As there existed this organized German committee on
nutrition it seemed appropriate to use this organization
and the technical abilities represented in it.

NE OF THE FIRST PROJECTS undertaken by the

Berlin Nutrition Committee, after the arrival of the
American nutritionist, was the preparation of an attractive
and useful four page brochure with inexpensive menus
and recipes which families can use in planning, preparing
and serving interesting and adequate meals with a limited
amount of money. Six basic food groups are described
in a graphic colorful form so that all families, whether
they have much or little education, may understand how

Women at Kreuzberg Neighborhood Center, Berlin, learn
from dietitian (at right, holding food and nutrition guide)
the importance of conserving the vitamins and minerals
in cooking various vegetables. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

--- Page 36 ---
they can plan interesting meals which meet the daily
needs of family members.

Six hundred thousand copies of the brochure were
printed through the cooperation of the Food and Agri-
culture Ministry at Bonn. They were distributed to all
the households of Berlin with appropriate interpretation
of the brochures over the radio and through the press.

Through the interest and support of Dr. Charlotte Muel-
ler; the nutritionist of the city of Berlin, who is also a
member of the Berlin Nutrition Committee, four teaching
centers were opened in four different districts of Berlin.
Two of these nutrition centers are located in neighbor-
hood houses* and form a vital part of the center.

In one of these centers a laboratory has been equipped
to accommodate 16 persons. There groups of unemployed
girls and adults come for instruction twice a week. For
a small amount of money which the individuals pay, they
plan and prepare an entire meal~which they eat, seated
around four tables simulating family groups. In these
courses boys and girls and adults learn food values, meal
planning, food costs and food preparation as well as good
food service and sanitation, all of them important phases
of family living.

In two of the centers demonstrations of food buying,
cooking and nutrition are given by volunteer women
who have had some food and nutrition-education in the
schools and who are taking refresher courses in the
training center under the supervision of Dr. Mueller.

The fourth center is known as the training center and
is directed by Dr. Mueller under the auspices of the

% See ‘House of Neighbors,’ Information Bulletin, June 1951 issue,
page 20.

Dr. Erwin P. Brauner (center), chief of HICOG-Berlin Ele-
ment's Public Health and Welfare Branch and co-author
of this article, explains use of microfilm reader to Dr. Paul
Meyer (left) and Dr. H. Kliever, who recently were pre-
sented with HICOG Special Projects Fund checks for
purchase of similar instruments for libraries at Berlin
Medical Academy for Postgraduate Education and Berlin

Dental Association. (PRB BE-HICOG photo}

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

Berlin Nutrition Committee. There practical food and
nutrition information through demonstrations by com-
petent teachers is offered. Facilities are also available
for individuals to prepare food or teaching materials
under the direction of the teacher. Groups of persons,
both men and women, who have responsibility for food
in canteens, factories, old people's homes, children's
homes, refugee camps, youth centers and hospitals, come
for instruction in food buying, menu planning, food prep-
aration, and in nutrition in order to be able to serve
well balanced, well cooked, nourishing and tasty food
in their respective food-preparation centers.

FIFTH PROJECT is the Wanderwagen or “home on

wheels,” a trailer which is being equipped as a mobile
kitchen and homemaking center, to be used especially
for the Landirauen (farm women) although city women
may use it in so far as space and time permit. During
the summer and fall it will demonstrate practical kitchen
arrangement and working heights for convenience and
step-saving; medium priced durable cooking utensils which
have utility, will also be shown. In the late summer and
early fall, it will have a canning and a juicing machine
which will be used by individual families in the com-
munities visited.

In the winter and spring sewing and other homemaking
problems will be demonstrated and discussed. A sewing
machine will be available for family use by appointment.
A trained home economist will accompany the Wander-
wagen. She will aid homemakers with all kinds of home-
making problems, such as the cooking of vegetables to
conserve nutrients, planning inexpensive meals to meet
family needs, food preservation, laundering, management
of time, energy and money, child development, family
relationships and making the house more attractive and
homey.

Thus through the Wanderwagen, which will serve par-
ticularly small farm families, the training center and the
other three nutrition education centers in different parts
of the city, many families are given an opportunity to
learn practical ways of stretching the family income, so
that family members will be better nourished and that
family life may be made ever stronger, more satisfying
and more democratic.

A different, but equally important part of the Nutrition
Program in West Berlin is the school lunch which, at
present, is financed with a grant of DM 8,500,000 by the
HICOG Special Projects Fund and with DM 5,000,000 from
the Berlin Magistrat. The US funds are used for purchase
of food and the German money for purchase of equip-
ment and payment of labor and administration costs.

WO GERMAN SCHOOL Lunch Committees function

in an advisory capacity; one is a tasting committee,
consisting of some 25 persons, men and women from the
different city districts, the Bezirke (boroughs), who make
suggestions regarding the flavor, appearance and methods
of serving the food. The lunches are planned by Dr. Muel-
ler, and at present there are more than 30 tested recipes

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 37 ---
Youngsters and a teacher at elementary school eat midday
snack in new model classroom built under direction of
HICOG-Berlin Element's education officials, (US Army photo)

available so that there is no need for monotony in the
lunches served.

The other school lunch committee consists of represen-
tatives of HICOG's General Education and Public Health
and Welfare branches and of German representatives
from the public schools, public health and the Berlin
Magistrat. This committee meets monthly to discuss the
problems of school feeding and the implementation of
the proyram.

At present there are approximately 280,000 children
and 16,500 college students participating in the school
lunch program in West Berlin. For many school children
and particularly for many college students the school
lunch provides the only warm meal they receive. The
children, their parents and especially the college students
are very appreciative of the hot snack.

Because it is important for the teachers to have a good
understanding of the purpose of the school lunch, a
brochure is being prepared for the teachers to use with
the older children in the biology classes. For the younger
children, a well illustrated and attractive folder is being
prepared for the teachers to use with the children under
10 years of age. They will be urged to take this folder
home in order that the parents also may have a better
understanding of the school lunch program and the nutri-
tional needs of children.

To obtain an insight into the actual food habits of
families in Berlin, the Berlin Nutrition Committee made
a study of the food patterns and consumption habits of
94 selected families with average or below-average in-
comes. The study revealed that calories, proteins, calcium
and vitamins especially need to be emphasized in the
nutrition program. The committee's findings, publicized
by radio ane the press, are playing a vital part in helping
the people to understand how they may stretch their
budgets in order to provide adequate diets for all members
of the family, from the grandparents to the smallest tot.

AUGUST 1951

HE SUCCESS OF THIS’ program is due in no small

part to fine cooperation of many groups and indivi-
duals. In HICOG, the Food and Agriculture Division in
Frankfurt and the Public Health and Welfare and the
Education and Cultural Relations branches in Berlin
worked together as a team.

On the German side there is the Berlin Nutrition Com-
mittee, consisting of lay, labor and professional personnel;
there is the nutritionist in the Berlin City Council; there
are the business interests which help by providing the
rooms in two of the teaching centers; there are the reli-
gious groups which provide two of the other educational
centers. And last but not least, there is the Food and
Agriculture Ministry in Bonn, which subsidized the print-
ing of the brochures on menus and recipes and is giving
other financial aid.

As representatives of their organizations and as indivi-
duals, all have given their wholehearted support to the
program.

In planning and in carrying through this program, two
ideas were always paramount, namely, that the aims of
the program must be related to fundamental need, which,
in this case, is health, and that the methods used to attain
the goal must be democratic.

In the Berlin centers where a local committee was
responsible for the over-all program, subcommittees were
appointed who are responsible for planning the nutrition
and related programs to meet the needs of the people in
the neighborhood, to recruit groups for the program, and
to help in securing leaders. Not only do ihe local com-
mittees enjoy this democratic experience but they are
learning how to work together, and above all they have
the satisfaction of knowing that it is their program and
their responsibility to carry on. -+-END

Margaret Fedde (third fromJeft), nutrition specialist and co-
author of this article, is shown discussing home-making
techniques at the first conference of the Berlin Advisory
Council for Home Economics held at the Neukoelln
Neighborhood Center last spring. Below, left to right,
are Mrs, Julie Froeschle, chairman of the Berlin branch
of the State Women's Association; Mrs. Maria vom
Stein, director of the Neukoelln Neighborhood Center;
Dr. Carlotta Mueller, nutrition adviser to the Berlin
Senate; Lewis Hartman, of the Kreuzberg Neighborhood
Center, and Mrs. Anna Heinicke, chairman of the Berlin
Housewives’ League, all members of the Berlin Nutrition
Committee. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

--- Page 38 ---
Humble Nissen hut is home to refugee-farmers from the Communist-dominated
East. When one family moves to ECA-financed house, another quickly moves in.

Three generations of a single family relax outside their
crowded home aiter a long, arduous day tending farm.

Stone and brick house and barn rise where once a bomb-crater stood on former
Luftwaffe bomb-testing ground. Proud owner drives horse and cart into barn.

From Nissen Huis

Two huge former German military installations, the Luftwaffe's
the vast army base at Lettgenbrunn-Villbach, are now a thriving,
to the refugee families which have been working the 75 full- a
since the end of the war. Taking up quarters in Nissen huts, grol
were in business as farmers.

ECA aid in the form of long and shori term credits enabled th
harvest having brought better times, these refugees have begun}
of them farmhouses with attached or separate barns, are rising

up their cramped Nissen-hut accommodations.

Allied and German correspondents who-recently toured
hausen farm district to survey the progress Hesse has made to¥
The newsmen were escorted by Eugene Epstein of ECA’s Ft
Populations Branch and John L, Behling, Jr., US resident offi

Education of their young was not neglected bye ne
and the youngsters studied while their parentfilled 1!

Classes are conducted by teachers who, |
During tour by Allied and German con

4

uaa

ivals. This school was set up ina hut
e fields, built permanent residences.

fugees to set the new rural communities going. And now, with each
i nent homes, also with ECA assistance. New homes, most
en over immediately upon completion by their proud
families, also escapees from Communist oppression, take

Zone’s borders were conducted on an inspection of the new Geln-
integration of its refugee population into the state’s economy.
id Agriculture Division, Catherina van Ribbink of OLCH's Displaced
r Gelnhausen county. 2

ure refugees from Iron Curtain Jands,
al evinced keen interest in school.

o New Homes

esting ground known as the Rothenbergen Air Base and
part of the state of Hesse’s agricultural area and important
)frt-time farms established in that section of the county of Gelnhausen

es from Iron Curtain countries reclaimed the land and soon

The little church at Lettgenbrunn-Villbach, also housed in a Nissen hut, was
a first with the settlers. In background, farmers are helping build a new home.

Altar and sacred pictures show with what devotion refugee.
settlers furnished their church. Note individual chairs.

John L. Behling, Jr. (second from right), resident officer for Gelnhausen county,
chats with happy owners after inspecting their new homes. (PRB OLCH photos)

--- Page 39 ---
Germany's Problems

By PAUL-HENRI SPAAK

President. Council of Europe

ODAY I WANT TO REFER to cer-
tain impressions I gained during

my visit to Bonn. The Federal Republic
has, in my opinion, to face enormous
problems which are difficult to solve.
On their speedy solution, however,
depends the stability of conditions in
Germany and, with it, that of the en-

' tire Western world.

Nothing appears to me more urgent-
ly required than sound German poli-

tics. The danger of an unbalanced Ger- Dison HICOG:

This article by Paul-Henri Spaak,
former premier of Belgium and now
president of the Council of Europe,
was originally published in “Le
Peuple,” Brussels newspaper, June
14, It was distributed in Germany
June 15 by the Press and Informa-
tian Office of the German Federal
Republic, Bonn. Translation from
the German was by the German
Editorial Section, Public Relations

By their sudden influx they have
caused confusion in Germany‘’s eco-
nomic life and in living conditions
already severely affected by the war.
They constitute about one-third of the
approximately 1,700,000 unemployed
who are a heavy burden for Germany.
They have found shelter in those states
which are nearest to their former home-
lands: Schleswig-Holstein, Lower Sax-
ony and Bavaria.

Today 71.55 percent of the German

many, with tendencies toward Com-

munism or reversion to Nazi ideologies, cannot be suffi-
ciently emphasized. Such a development would endanger
all that we have achieved for the defense of the West
in the last four years. However paradoxical this statement
may sound, a.democratic Germany is an essential element
today in the fight against Communism and for freedom,
which means an esSential factor in the consolidation of
the 1945 victory.

If Germany were to turn Communist or if Nazism were
again to come to power — and both would only be the
effects of the same cause — it would constitute a terrible
danger for the rest of Europe. We all need our strength
so that Europe can be developed and defend itself. If
Communism stood at the Rhine or if between the Oder and
the Rhine a power should gain a foothold which is by its
nature hostile to any democratic civilization and which
adheres to totalitarian ideologies — in other words, if in
Germany in one form or another those parties which stand
for misery, despair and revenge were in power, then our
already difficult situation would become really perilous.

I think it superfluous to further explain such a truism.
However, if we are convinced of its truth we must not
hesitate to follow a policy which can prevent this disaster.

E NEED NOT ABANDON the reservations we may

have in our minds, and such a policy would not
be a sign of sentimentality or weakness. What is required
is to act according to a very simple and easily compre-
hensible situation.

The refugee problem is, in my opinion, the main prob-
lem in western Germany. Figures illustrate a terrible situ-
ation. In the Federal Republic a population of more than
45,000,000 must absorb 10,000,000 refugees, people who
were expelled from Silesia, Hungary and Czechoslovakia
or who fled from the Eastern zone because they did not
want to live under tyranny and Soviet misery. The ma-
jority of them arrived completely destitute in western Ger-
many, robbed ofall their property, furniture, clothing and
money. They arrived in a devastated country, where the
native population was short of 5,000,000 dwellings.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 38

population of 1939 are crammed into
an area only 52.3 percent the size of the former Reich.
I do not intend to speak of the human problem created
by such a migration of people, of the physical and spiritual
misery inevitably caused by it.

LTHOUGH WE MUST NOT neglect these. aspects, I

want to point today only to the undeniable political
danger represented by these masses of ruined, desperate
and destitute people. They are obviously easy victims
for Communist or Nazi propaganda, more even for Nazism
than for Communism.

They have no sound political ideas and these masses
cannot have such ideas. They have no chance at all of
a sensible choice. They are neither liberals, nor Christian
socialists nor socialists. They follow him who will promise
them an end to their misery. They are a political prey
for the boldest or the most irresponsible politician. At
the latest elections in Lower Saxony 11 percent of the
votes were given to the new Nazi party, and there is
no doubt that the major part of these votes were those
of the refugees.

Western Germany cannot achieve a sufficiently quick
solution of this problem if it is left to its own resources,
because it does not possess the necessary financial means.
The Strasbourg Assembly tried to mobilize the Council
of Ministers and it responded with its usual inertia.

How much time will it require to study this question,
how much time will it need for working out the beginning
of a solution, when a quick move is needed because
speed is in this case an essential factor for success! Once
again such an immense national emergency can only be
overcome by European cooperation, and the possible
effects of this national emergency reach far beyond the
narrow limits of Germany's frontiers.

I said that the Federal Republic, if left to its own re-
sources, could not solve the refugee problem for financial
reasons, Is it realized, that Adenauer's Catholic govern-
ment — with the support of all other parties — is to
introduce a 50 percent capital levy to solve the problem
of war damages? This means “(Continued on page 42)

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 40 ---
Touring press and radio representatives of 14 countries meet President Truman in Washington.

(Ankers photo from TWA)

Nation of Neighbors

By OTTO HERR

News Editor and Political Commentator, Radio Frankfurt

HAVE BEEN WELL AWARE that the United States is
a democracy. But I went to America to see why this
workable ideology had succeeded and what it meant to
its citizens. The first thing I found upon my arrival

was that for the American people dem-
ocracy is not a form of government,
but a way of life.

Many impressions led to this revela-
tion — among them the fact that gar-
dens of homes in America’s residential
areas are seldom separated by fences.
The lack of fences symbolizes much
when one realizes that, in contrast to
America, separating walls can hardly
be constructed high enough to suit
most Europeans.

In those beautiful small towns of
America, the individual, while living
for himself, never loses sight of his
neighbor's rights. This neighborliness is

AUGUST 1951

This article is a brief summary
of opinions gathered by Radio
Frankiurt news chief Otto Herr
during two trips to the United
States since the end of the war.
The first trip took Mr. Herr and
five other broadcasters on a study
tour of the US from April to Sep-
tember 1948 under the auspices of
the Rockefeller Foundation. On
May 6, 1951, Mr. Herr returned to
Germany from a two-week air tour
of America along with 32 other
press representatives of Western
Europe, the Near East and India
as guests of Trans-World Airlines.

39

probably an outgrowth of the American pioneer spirit, still
prevalent today throughout the young country. The lack
of this spirit in Europe might easily be a reason why
neighborliness finds so little response with a European.

For most Americans being a good
citizen is but the natural supplement
to being a good neighbor. The aver-
age citizen of the United States seems
to regard it as completely self-evident
that everyone must contribute his
part to the success of the numerous
institutions in his community.

NFORTUNATELY THE WORD

“community” has for the German,
in its counterpart, the German word,
“Gemeinschaft,” which has a some-
what disreputable meaning because
of its use by the Nazis for their pur-
poses. Consequently, most Germans

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
Otto Herr, author of this article, examines the engine
installation on a new Constellation as the huge airplane
moves down the assembly line of the Lockheed Aircrait
Corporation factory in Burbank, Calif. Mr. Herr. was
amazed—and impressed: “It must seem almost incredible,”
says he, “that we could move about freely in a big air-
plane factory and ask questions about anything we liked!"

regard publicly supported institutions such as schools,
libraries and recreational projects as something unrelated
to his responsibility. Because of state sponsorship the
German thinks of such undertakings in terms of bu-
reaucracy.

In America nothing could be farther from the truth.
Americans take active interest in public projects. Success
in these endeavors stems from a direct reliance on each
individual. Collective public pride is the result.

Thus an insight into community public life in the
United States illustrates the solid foundation of America’s
democratic way of life. There one finds the proof that
citizen participation in a successful democracy demands
much more than a trip to the polls every four years.

I particularly looked forward to social get-togethers
during my trips. These events provided a genuine op-
portunity to meet the ‘average’ American, particularly
the charming American woman. Although in the States
the leading roles in public life lie almost exclusively in
the hands of men, American women play a prominent
part in democracy through their efforts to better social
conditions where necessary.

I was always pleasantly surprised, too, at the friendly
relations between the employers and officials of industry

INFORMATION BULLETIN

and their workmen. This positive situation has hardly
a relationship between a “superior” and a “subordinate
but rather the expression of a personal contact, man to
man, though professional functions and social positions
of the individuals concerned might be totally different.

I asked many workers about wages and conditions of life.
And the result and discussions proved to me again the sur-
prisingly high standard of living existing in the States.

HAD GROWN UP in.the belief that America was a

horrible land where a handful of multimillionaires
was opposed to an enormous mass of workers who pos-
sessed little or nothing, and where the so-called “middle
class" was almost non-existent. Perhaps I had developed
this personal conviction from listening to the discussions
of adults, or from reading incorrect books, or maybe I
had developed it in school.

But my travels have proved that almost the opposite
is true. The visitor actually gets the impression that
America is a nation of middle-class people, with, of
course, certain social and economic differences, but with
principally the same habits of life for all citizens. With
few exceptions everyone is well fed and decently dressed.
Almost everyone has his own car and lives in his own
house.

Real poverty in America has become almost as rare
as excessive wealth. Those who receive high wages in
turn must pay high taxes, which results in a somewhat
fair equalization of the wage level. The habits of life of an
executive may well be compared to those of an average
worker. While the latter drives to his workshop in a
modest car, the former might well ride to his office in a
brand-new Cadillac. But both in their own cars. The same
contrast could apply io their homes and social habits.

Naturally this situation does not apply everywhere. In
some cities, the slums have not totally disappeared. Some

people still live a needy life, through no fault of their,

own. But one can safely say these cases are exceptions
and that the Americans themselves regard them as un-
worthy conditions and are striving to do away with them.

Jane Russell and Victor Mature interrupted work to
pose with press-flight members on a film set in Holly-
wood after visitors had been Juncheon guests at the RKO-
Radio studio commissary.

(RKO-Radio Pictures photo)

--- Page 42 ---
The general trend tends toward a fair distribution of
the nation’s material and spiritual wealth. It is therefore
not surprising that the term “class warfare” meets with
no more understanding in the States than the expres-
sion “good neighborliness does in Germany.

-\UR DESIRE TO ACQUIRE a thorough picture of Ameri-

can life took us into America’s industrial heart. There

we found out why the United States feels strong. Western

Europeans who do not feel strong are afraid that America

sometimes might be going a bit too far with its frankness.

This feeling of strength best explains the Americans’
readiness to share their discoveries and plans.

Thus to an inhabitant of an East-European people's
democracy, where even the production figures of a lin-
gerie firm are top secret, it must seem almost incredible
that we could move about freely in a big airplane factory

- the Lockheed plant in Los Angeles — and ask ques-
tions about anything we liked. The general manager of
this company gave us an extremely interesting insight
into the development of the American airplane industry
in general and his firm in particular.

It was similar with other companies, as for instance
United States Steel in Pittsburgh, the Ford Motor Com-
pany in Detroit where Mr. Henry Ford II personally re-
ceived us, or International Harvester in Chicago, where
we not only visited the tractor works but also the scien-
tific laboratories.

Everywhere people liked our thirst for knowledge and
at once were willing to satisfy it. We were given material
with statistical information about each firm so that we
could study the data at leisure back home. (Often these
facts provide a wealth of knowledge regarding the
economic and social life of America.)

WAS VERY IMPRESSED by the important part which

public relations offices play in all big firms of the
United States. This is a surprising discovery for Euro-
peans. For “public relations” is a notion which has been
practically unknown in Europe until very recently. Even
now we do not, in our Continental languages, have a
term which adequately corresponds to the American
meaning.

“Public relations” is more than a mere auxiliary service
for the sales manager. I consider “public relations” as a
necessary corollary to the American philosophy of “free
and private enterprise.” For free as it may be or perhaps
would like to be from government interference, and pri-
vate as it certainly is from the.legal angle of ownership,
American business today is becoming more and more a
“public trust’ and, in its social function, a “public service.”

The ever growing importance which American business
men and executives attach to “public relations” seems to
me to be striking proof of how decreasingly ‘“private-
minded" and how increasingly “public-minded” they
actually are. Thus I found that in business this spirit is
but a natural supplement to what I noticed about the
“citizenship” of the individual in America.

On the way home a Spanish colleague asked me whether
I thought the United States would be capable of assuming

AUGUST 1951

Al

Members of international press flight were greeted by
the St. Mary's Girls’ Chinese Drum Corps on arrival at
the San Francisco international airport. The 40 young and
attractive musicians serenaded the delighted newsmen.

leadership of the free nations. After having seen Ameri-
can miracles on the spot, I was able to give a most con-
fident, affirmative answer. I also believe that World
War II might not have come if Hitler and his henchmen
had in time traveled to the United States and seen the
very things which I beheld.

And now I suggest that Stalin and his ministers be
invited to the United States and accorded the same privi-
leges and sights that were ours. I'm sure the results would
be a step closer to world peace. -+-END

Radio Bavaria on New Frequency
The Bavarian. Radio has been assigned a new broad-
casting frequency designed to improve radio reception in
southern Bavaria. Beginning July 12, Radio Bavaria (also
known locally as Radio Munich) has been using the
new frequency .of 800 kilocycles, employing the trans-
mitters at Ismaning with special directional antenna.

Kuenzelsau, small city in northern Wuerttemberg-
Baden, has no chamber of commerce but its cries of
anguish and wounded pride were quite audible when
the Information Bulletin identified it in the July issue
(photo on page 5) as “in Bavaria.’ Mayor Richard
Dilger, whose daughter is pictured in a group read-
ing the popular new “America Book," asked William
P. Harris, local US resident officer, to forward two
colorful circulars, placing Kuenzelsau in northern
Wuerttemberg, an area famous for its wine, historic
castles and Goethe's “Goetz von Berlichingen.” The
editors of the Information Bulletin profess no desire
to revise the map of Germany and so take this op-
portunity to return Kuenzelsau to its proper place.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
Germans Form Study Group

By MATTHEW D. SMITH, JR.
US Resident Officer. Dillingen, Bavaria

SIGNIFICANT DEMONSTRATION of the increasing

understanding among German citizens of the basic
techniques for building a democratic society was shown
recently in the small southwestern Bavarian town of
Dillingen, where 75 delegates from every walk of life
gathered for the first of a series of conferences on social
and economic problems.

The conference was initiated and organized by the
Germans themselves, entirely independent of any HICOG
inspiration or support. It was spearheaded by a few com-
munity leaders who had learned of similar postwar con-
ferences in Munich and other cities.

The delegates, who came from all over Dillingen county,
were representatives of every stratum of society — em-
ployers and employees, members of the clergy, educators,
professional and business men, trade unionists, farmers
and government officials.

The purpose of the conference, in the invitation’s
phraseology, was the “free discussion among individuals,
dissociated from their collective organizations, of the
Major current issues of a sociological and economic
nature.” Objectives were the examination and illumina-
tion of these questions with a view to finding the best
solutions and establishing principles upon which to base
informed and independent opinion. In both content and
method, the discussion was of the highest quality. It was
‘the most successful meeting of its kind which this resident
officer has yet seen in Germany.

HE CONFERENCE, WHICH calls itself the ‘Union

for Christian Work in Labor and Economy,” has as
its aim the furtherance of the concept of Christian social
justice; the guarantee and strengthening of labor peace,
and the safeguarding of Christian practices. The second
meeting is slated to be held in late August.

At the initial meeting, which was a day-long affair,
the agenda included: (1) a review of current political-
economic problems; (2) a detailed explanation of the
present situation regarding co-determination, and (3) the
decisions facing the individual in these matters.

The conference sought to inform, to explain and to
examine problems objectively, and to reconcile the solu-
tions proposed with the highest standards of economic,
political and spiritual well-being for the individual. All
were generally agreed that the individual citizen in a
democratic society must be aroused from a lethargic, in-
active attitude to take a personal, vital part in decisive
action on present-day problems.

» It was in this spirit of inquiry that such major public
issues as the Schuman Plan and co-determination were
discussed. There was virtually unanimous approval of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A2

the Schuman Plan, discussion of which brought forth
considerable criticism of the opposition voiced by Dr. Kurt
Schumacher, Social Democratic Party (SPD) leader.

HE DISCUSSION OF co-determination (that labor . —

should have a voice in the direction of personnel
matters and in determining its share of the economic
product) was further evidence of the group's objectivity.
Despite the presence of several owners and managers
among the delegates, there was a majority agreement
regarding co-determination’s basic principles. It was
pointed out that although much of the practical applica-
tion of co-determination must be worked out by an evo-
lutionary process, the basic principle is sound.

The conference thus demonstrated that it does not
adhere to the thinking of any particular group or interest,
but is conscientiously seeking the best solutions in terms
of the welfare of the individual — whatever the source.

Although the conference is a study rather than an
action group, positive work toward the solution of social
and economic problems is expected to stem from their
meetings because each delegate carries back to his own
group the wide scope of discussion of various problems
and the decisions reached by the entire conference re-
garding the best means of dealing with them.

Particularly impressive to the writer as a US resident
officer is this: Here is a German-initiated, entirely in-
dependent group inspired by the very same goals HICOG
has been aiming at through its public affairs program.

It is most heartening to see the ideals and the methods
which the US mission has advocated taking root in ‘the
German social fabric. Groups such as this will be an
important factor in the establishment of a strong, well
knit democratic state. The Dillingen social conference
has inspired a feeling of optimism and accomplishment
among those who have had an opportunity to see its
beginnings. -+END

(Continued from page 38)
Germany’s Problems

a silent revolution, an actual redistribution of property,
and nobody, in my opinion, can predict the social and
political consequences of such a measure.

The purpose of this article is to show that the domestic
problems of West Germany represent today the whole
question of its balance and future, and this means also our
future; that Germany alone cannot solve these problems;
that a common European policy is required, and it is most
urgent to work it out and put it into operation.

AUGUST 1951

+END@

ts

--- Page 44 ---
The Quiz

Comes

HEN THE AVERAGE AMERICAN hears about a

quiz program, he usually begins to dream longingly
of a brand new house in the country, an electric kitchen,
the latest in a television set or a mink coat.

Not so in Germany's famed Bavarian city of Nuremberg
and its surrounding countryside, into which the quiz
show has recently been introduced. There no luxuries
are given away, but everywhere the quiz program is
drawing crowds. Why? Because what is given away is
something Germans went without for many, many years —
information, myriads of it, about the new democratic
society in which they are living for the first time since
that dark day in 1933 when Hitler's totalitarian govern-
ment came to power.

Initiated by LeVan Roberts, US resident officer in
Nuremberg, the quiz program was originally designed as
a means of giving out facts about their democracy to the
younger citizens. Participants at the outset were members
of the various youth organizations — the county youth
group, trade union members among the young people, the
German Youth Activities, independent summer camps
for youth, and similar groups. It met with such success
that recently quizzes were also~planned to include oldet
citizens, and these, too, are drawing enthusiastic audiences.

A standard operating procedure, covering timekeeping,
methods of scoring and selecting contestants, tips on
questions and other details, has been set up and the quiz
program is conducted so as to permit free discussion of
an extremely wide variety of subjects.

reorientation into a democratic society form an
important part of each program. Ten percent of all ques-
tions asked are of that type and deal principally with
queries about the Bavarian constitution, the basic law of
the Bonn government, community regulations of various

Oe ON MATTERS relating to the German

Audiences, too, enjoy the question-and-answer routines.
In back row are Cecil von Rospach, deputy chief, Public
Relations Branch, OLCB; Resident Officer Roberts; Mrs.
Lund; Mrs. Roberts, and Harald T. Lund, chief resident
officer for Bavaria’'s District III. (PRB OLCB photos by Maske)

7

Interest and competition are keen among young and old
in Nuremberg's quiz contests, shown here being conducted
by Kurt Mecklenburg, reorientation adviser to the HICOG
Youth Affairs Office in that Bavarian city. Initiated by
Resident Officer LeVan Roberts, the quizzes, the lack
of prizes nothwithstanding, are drawing large turnouts.

kinds, county laws, election procedures and the United
Nations Declaration of Human Rights.

Although Resident Officer Roberts and his staff have
made it clear that they do not wish to supervise or run the
quiz shows, they are eager to see them integrated into
an over-all youth program, and so youth organizations
have all been informed that they may call upon the
resident officer for assistance if they require a quiz
master, a demonstration of quiz technique or other help.
In addition, more than 200 questions relating to reorienta-
tion have been prepared together with answers, in Ger-
man, and facts pencil-marked in such documents as the
Bavarian constitution, to which participants can refer.

There are also on file more than 2,000 questions on a
wide variety of subjects including famous personalities,
landmarks, buildings, inventors and inventions, flags,
foreign terms, science, geography, history, mathematics,
religion, traffic, history of art, architecture, literature,
fairy tales, film and theater, music, painting, coins, sports,
industry, technical subjects and other brain teasers.

HE M.A.N. Plant in Nuremberg, one of the largest

manufacturers of diesel motors in Europe, has suc-
cessfully utilized the quiz as a project for more than 600
teen-age workers in the organization. At the M.A.N. works,
the quiz is a Saturday morning feature, and prizes are
given to winners. The program has also met with success
at the A.E.G. plant, which manufactures electrical equip-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
ment, and in other concerns which have become con-
vinced of its twofold recreational and educational value.

A number of company heads have expressed satisfac-
tion with the importance of the program as a combative
medium against propaganda being spread by the Free
German Youth and other Soviet Zone youth organizations.
As a further result, information has been collected regard-
ing youth committees operating in these large plants
which are similar in purpose to the factory council of
employees, and on a number of occasions, shop stewards
have volunteered suggestions regarding methods by which
US officials could assist West German youth groups in
resisting the Communist organizations of the East.

The Nuremberg Military Post German Youth Activities
officer has included the quiz as part of the GYA program,
and has arranged for prizes of tools and equipment for
the winners. On one occasion, a two-week holiday at a
summer camp was given to a trade union quiz winner.

OLLOWING THE QUIZ PROGRAMS, there has been

amarked upsurge of interest in questions which have
come up for discussion, especially those on government.
As a result, there is a wide increase of young people's
knowledge of the constitution and of state and local laws.
Having observed the quiz program's success in the
Nuremberg area, the Community Activities Section of the
Public Affairs Division, OLCB, has recommended that all
US resident officers in Bavaria incorporate it in their
reorientation program. Plans are underway for staging a
competitive show on a county-district level which would
promote competition among the youth groups in the
various counties. Radio Bavaria has also indicated an
interest in broadcasting such a statewide quiz.

Monthly get-together of former HICOG cultural exchangees,
both students and experts, is more than just a friendly
evening. Here, at a recent meeting, Hessians who have
visited the United States, hear a lecture on Schuman Plan
before a discussion of new pact. In foreground, center, is

J. Robert Harris, deputy senior resident officer for
Wiesbaden, who attends all ius Eings of the group in the
capacity of an observer. (PRB OLCH photo)

With the success of the program already established
in Nuremberg, its sponsors are looking eagerly to its
wider development throughout the US Zone. The German
youth themselves are well aware of the threat which lies
in the highly-organized FDJ program of the East, with its
unlimited funds for sports and its constant harping —
however hypocritically — upon idealistic slogans which
have a definite appeal for the immature.

It is believed that young Germans will use not only
the quiz program but other methods as well, to show the
superiority of the democratic government over the police
state which the Soviets have imposed on their blood-
counterparts in the East. +END

15 US Information Centers to be Permanent

HE US INFORMATION CENTER or Amerika Haus

program for improved service in heavily populated
areas of Germany is being reorganized to include 15 per-
manent Information Centers, three institutes for American
Studies at America Houses in university cities, 35 branch
libraries and 20 bookmobiles.

In July 1950, HICOG operated 27 centers and 120 read-
ing rooms. Since October the number has been reduced,
in most cases by placing the book collection in the hands
of competent German authorities with pledges from them
to continue the open-shelf system, to make the books
available free of charge to everyone and to keep the
library open at least 20 hours a week.

“In most instances, public opinion, through manifesta-
tions in the local press or special petitions to the city
and the American reading rooms, contributed greatly to
the continuance of the libraries under German manage-
ment,’ explained Mrs. Patricia van Delden, chief of the
Information Centers Branch, Education and Cultural Re-
lations Division, HICOG.

“Bookmobiles will form the backbone and instrument
of an extensive program to supplant and augment the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

activities of the small reading rooms, carrying information
and knowledge even farther afield in the rural areas of
Germany,” she said.

More than 13,900,000 persons in 1950, an increase of
46 percent over 1949, used the America House facilities
and attended programs. Book circulation was 3,300,000
during 1950, an increase of 42 percent over 1949.

Under the new program, Information Centers will oper-
ate in Munich, Nuremberg, Stuttgart, Mannheim, Frank-
furt, Kassel, Mainz, Freiburg, Bonn, Cologne, Hanover,
Hamburg, Essen, Bremen and Berlin.

Branch libraries will be in Wuerzburg, Augsburg, Ingol-
stadt, Bamberg, Coburg, Rosenheim, Amberg, Regensburg,
Landshut, Passau, Straubing, Aschaffenburg, Schweinfurt,
Bayreuth, Hof, Ulm, Heilbronn, Karlsruhe, Ludwigsburg,
Pforzheim, Schwaebisch-Gmuend, Schwaebisch-Hall, Darm-
stadt, Fulda, Bad Hersfeld, Giessen, Eschwege, Hanau,

Ruesselsheim, Wiesbaden, Tuebingen, Kiel, Bremerhaven,

and in the Neukoelln, Steglitz (or Kreuzberg) and Zehlen-
dorf boroughs of the US sector of Berlin.

The Institutes for American Studies will be at the In-
formation Centers in Erlangen, Heidelberg and Marburg.

AUGUST 1951 .

--- Page 46 ---
Calendar of Coming Events

CURRENT (with closing dates)

Aug. 21 — Bonn (NRW): International
Old-Catholic theologians’ conference.
Aug. 24 — Munich (Bav): International

Alpine automobile races.

Aug. 25 — Bayreuth (Bav): Richard Wagner
1951 festival opera performances.

Aug. 26 — Munich (Bav): Society for Orig-
inal Etchings, jubilee exhibition.

Aug. 26 — Mittenwald (Bav): Exhibition of
ancient and modern string instruments.
Aug. 26—Kempten (Bav): 1951 Allgaeu

festival week; exhibition.

Aug. 26 — Bochum (NRW): Art exhibition.

Aug. 26 — Frankfurt (Hes): Historical Mu-
seum, exhibition of Frankfurt furniture.

Aug. 26 — Hamburg: ‘‘Hummel"' festival
during “Hamburg Dom” folk festival.

Aug. 26 — Baden-Baden (SB): Grand Baden-
Baden Week: horse and harness races;
international tennis and golf tournaments.

Aug. 31 — Munich (Bav): Operetta festival
in Gaertner Theater.

Aug. 31— Coburg (Bav): Art exposition.
English and French 18th century color
prints, in commemoration of 50th anni-
versary of Queen Victoria's death.

Sept. 6—Ratingen (NRW): 675th anni-
versary.

Sept. 9— Soest (NRW): Art exhibition in
commemoration of Morgner.

Sept. 10 — Augsburg (Bav): Open air opera
and operetta performances at Red Gate.
Sept. 16 — Hanover (LS): ‘‘Flowers and Gar-

dens," exposition.

Sept. 16—Coblenz (RP): “1,001 Nights,”
open air operetta performances on Rhine.

Sept. 24 — Mainz (RP): ‘In the Realm of
Script,’ exposition of 2,000 years of de-
velopment.

Sept. 30— Berlin: 1951 German art exposition.

End of September — Trier (RP): Wine-grow-
ing exposition.

End of September — Lahr (SB): Dahlia show.

End of September — Borkum (North Sea is-
land): Concerts, every Monday.

Oct. — Landau (RP): Flower
Suewega Park.

Oct. 7 — Munich (Bav.); 1951 art exhibition
at Haus der Kunst.

Oct. 15 — Fuerth (Bav.): ‘Foliage and
Blossoms,” gardening show.

Oct. 31 — Hanover (LS): 1951 German
Federal Garden Show; exhibition of an-
cient Lower Saxony sacred art and to-
day’s German sculptors,

Oct. 31 — Freiburg (SB): Upper Rhine art
exposition.

AUGUST

Aug, 21 — Bad Pyrmont (NRW): Concert,
Brunswick State Music School.

Aug. 21-22 — Hamburg: “Harlem Globe-
trotters,"" two basketball games.

Aug. 21-22 — Borkum (North Sea island):
Concert, Vienna Boys’ Choir.

Aug, 22-26 — Juist (North Sea island):
Tennis tournament.

Aug. 23 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Vocal con-
cert; Hans Hopf, tenor; Willi Domgraf-
Fassbaender, baritone.

Aug, 23-25 — Bad Pyrmont (NRW): German
dancing instructors’ association, tourna-
ment,

Aug. 23-26 — Berlin: International tennis
championships.

show in

AUGUST 1951

Aug. 21 to Sept. 30, 1951

Aug. 23-31 — Schwaebisch-Hall (WB): Stutt-
gart chamber music, county meeting.

Aug. 24 — Bad Neuenahr (RP): Symphony
concert, Rhenish Philharmonic Orchestra;
Gerhard Taschner, violin.

Aug. 24 — Hanover (LS): German Dahlia
and Gladiola Society, meeting.

Aug. 24 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra, concert; Leopold Stokowski,
conductor.

Aug. 24 — Markgroeningen (WB): Historic
shepherds’ race.

Aug. 24-26 — Westerland/Sylt (North Sea):
International tennis tournament.

Aug. 24-26 — Frankfurt (Hes): Jehovah's
Witnesses, European congress.

Aug. 24-27 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Ger-
man astronomers’ congress.

Aug. 24-26—Itzehoe (SH):
festival.

Aug. 25 — Nuremberg (Bav): Serenade
concert in Swedish court of Kaiserburg.

Aug. 25 — Brunswick (LS): Peoples and
their dances at various periods, garden
festival.

Aug. 25 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Reunion
in Regentenbau.

Aug. 25 — Wilhelmshaven
festival, fireworks.

Aug. 25-26 — Gelsenkirchen (NRW): Horse
and harness races.

Aug. 25-26 — Euskirchen (NRW): Riding,
driving and jumping tournament.

Aug. 25-26 — Essen (NRW): Rowing regatta.

Aug. 25-26 — Dinkelsbuehl (Bav): Sudeten
Ethnic Germans’ athletic contests.

Aug. 25-27 — Bad Ems (RP): St. Bartholo-
mew’s mart.

Aug. 25-27 — Neuwied (RP): Dike festival.

Aug. 25-27 — Neu-Isenburg (Hes): Athletic
Union's 90th anniversary festival.

Aug. 25-27 — Mainz (RP): Wine mart.

Aug. 25-27— Hanover (LS): Textile fair.

Aug. 25-28 — Neuss (NRW): Folk festival.

Aug. 25-Sept. 2 — Miltenberg (Bav): Lower
Franconian folk festival.

Aug. 25-Sept. 2 — Worms (RP): Fish Fry,
ancient folk festival.
Aug. 25-Sept. 2 — Kiel

regattas.

Aug. 25-Sept. 2 — Worms (RP): Industry
and commerce in Wonnegau’s Wine-
land, fair.

Aug, 25-Sept. 30 — Stuttgart (WB): ‘Color’
exposition.

Aug. 26 — Markgroeningen (WB): Historic
shepherds’ race.

Aug. 26 — Bad Harzburg (LS): St. Bartholo-
mew, outdoor folk festival.

Aug. 26 — Kiedrich (NRW): St. Valentine
pilgrimage.

Outdoor folk

(LS): Beach

(SH): Sailing

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse,
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden,
WH — Wterttemberg-Hohenzollern.

45

Aug. 26 — Stuttgart (WB): International
motorcycle races, Grand Prize of Germany.

Aug. 26 — Duisburg (NRW): Handball con-
test, Germany vs. Sweden.

Aug. 26 — Hanover (LS): Bicycle races.

Aug. 26 — Bad Nauheim (Hes): Symphony
concert.

Aug. 26 — Freiburg (SB): Organ concert
in Freiburg Cathedral.

Aug. 26 — Braunlage (LS): Choir singing.

Aug. 26 — Buesum (SH): Sandbank festival.

Aug. 26 — Bad Aibling (Bav): Guild pageant.

Aug. 26 — Remagen (RP): Rose festival.

Aug. 26 — Biberach/Riss (WB): Automobile
races (smallest types) on Gigelberg.

Aug. 26 — Kalkar (NRW): Seydlitz Riding
Union, horse races.

Aug. 26 — Munich (Bav): Horse races.

Aug. 26 — Berlin: Light athletics, Berlin
vs. Bremen.

Aug. 26 — Munich (Bav): Light athletic
meeting: Munich, Swabian and Allgaeu
womens’ leagues.

Aug. 26 — Tegernsee (Bav): Rowing regatta.

Aug. 26 — Cologne (NRW): Handball con-
tests for Adenauer Prize.

Aug. 26-29 — Hanover (LS): Autumn fair.

Aug. 26-29 — Heidelberg (WB): German
Society for Child Hygiene, convention.

Aug. 26-30 — Wallduern (Bav): Flower
festival.

Aug. 26-31 — Hanover (LS): German bowl-
ing championships.

Aug. 26-Sept. 16 — Brunswick (LS): Exhi-
bition of water colors by Prof. A. Ton,

Aug. 27 — Heidelberg (WB): Serenade
concert; Ludwigshafen Palatinate Or-
chestra; B. Conz, conductor.

Aug. 27-29 — Mainz (RP): German Physio-
logical Society, meeting.

Aug. 27-31 — Duesseldorf (NRW); Inter-
national music students’ congress; 1951
German music fair.

Aug. 29 — Gelsenkirchen (NRW): Horse
and harness races. us

Aug. 29 — Hanover (LS): Horticultural
convention during 1951 federal flower
show.

Aug. 29-31 — Mainz (RP): German Society
for Physiological Chemistry, convention.

Aug. 29-Sept. 2 — Cologne (NRW): Rhenish
agricultural show,

Aug. 30 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Symphony
concert; Gerhard Taschner, violin; K.
Tutein, conductor.

Aug. 30 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Harness
races.

Aug. 30 — Munich (Bav): Richard Strauss
concert, Munich Philharmonic Orchestra;
Detlev Kraus, piano; Fritz Rieger, con-
ductor.

Aug. 30-31 — Bad Ems (RP): Golf cham-
pionships.

Aug. 30-Sept. 3— Munich (Bav): Catholic
social week.

Aug. 30-Sept. 5 — Emden (LS): Handicraft
and retail trade show.

Aug. 31-Sept. 1 — Hanover
show.

Aug. 31-Sept. 2 — Darmstadt (Hes): Hesse-
Nassau riding and driving tournament,
horse show.

Aug. 31-Sept. 2— Mainz (RP): Pharmaco-
logical Society, convention.

Aug. 31-Sept. 2 — Bremen: German gym-
nastic championships.

(LS): Horse

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 47 ---
Aug. 31-Sept. 3— Luebeck (SH): 700th anni-
versary, St. Mary’s Church.

Aug. 31-Sept. 4— Trier (RP): German Asso-
ciation for the History of Medicine,
Natural Sciences and Techniques, con-
vention.

Aug. 31-Sept. 5 — Duesseldorf (NRW): 1951
German music festival.
Aug. 31-Sept. 8 — Bremen

and Economics‘ exposition."

End of August — Trier (RP): German Wine
Growers’ Association, convention.

End of August — Wetzlar (Hes): Open air
concert, ‘The Seasons,’ Haydn.

End of August — Krefeld (NRW): 1,900th
anniversary of Krefeld-Gellep.

End of August — Cologne (NRW): Art ex-
position, Neue Sezession (New Seces-
sion), Duesseldorf,

End of August — Hamburg: Hamburg har-
bor.and Lower Elbe, photographic show.

SEPTEMBER

Sept. 1 — Bamberg (Bav): Chamber music
in New Residence, Emperor's Hall.

Sept. 1 — Hamburg: State Opera, “‘The
Magic Flute,’' Mozart.

Sept. 1 — Munich (Bav): Horse races.

Sept. 1-2 — Stuttgart (WB): International
dog show,

Sept. 1-2 — Adenau (RP): International 24-
hour automobile and motorcycle races.

Sept. 1-2, — Eutin (SH): Riding and driving
tournament.

Sept. 1-2 — Dortmund (NRW) and Bad
Neuenahr (RP): Tennis matches.

Sept. 1-2 — Frankfurt (Hes): Water sport
regattas.

Sept. 1-2 — Stuttgart (WB): International
light athletic tournament, Germany vs.
Italy.

Sept, 1-2 — Bad Ems (RP): Golf foursome
championship.

Sept, 1-3 — Dortmund (NRW): Dog show.

Sept. 1-3 — Mainz (RP): Wine mart.

Sept. 1-3 — Remagen(RP):Vintners festival.

Sept. 1-4 — Neustadt (RP): Neustadt mart.

Sept. 1-5 — Bonn (NRW): Marksmen’'s and
outdoor folk festival.

Sept. 1-5 — Emden (LS): Marksmen's and
outdoor folk festival.

Sept. 1-6 — Offenbach (Hes): Leather goods
trade fair.

Sept. 1-9 — Bensheim (Hes): Bergstrasse
vintners’ festival.

Sept. 1-9 — Ruedesheim (Hes): 1951 wine
festival.

Sept. 1-Oct. 14 — Hamburg: Exposition of
modern color-graphic arts.

Sept. 1-Nov. 4 — Munich (Bav): Art expo-
sition, ‘Old Munich Secession."

Sept. 2 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Association
of German Music Trade, convention.

Sept. 2 — Oberwesel (RP): Wine mart.

Sept. 2 — Dortmund (NRW): Motorcycle
races,

Sept. 2 — Hamburg: City Park motorcycle
Taces.

Sept, 2 — Munich (Bav): Horse races.

Sept, 2-6 — Frankfurt (Hes): Autumn fair.

Sept. 2-8 — Karlsruhe (WB): German thera-
py week; exposition of medicaments.

Sept. 2-9 — Eberbach (WB): Cuckoo mart.

Sept. 2-9 — Ratzeburg (SH): Island week,
miscellaneous events.

Sept. 2-9 — Wiesloch (WB):
vintners’ festival.

Sept. 2-16 — Frankfurt (Hes): Antique fair.

Sept. 3-6 — Berlin: Art. historians’ congress

Sept. 3-8 — Marburg (Hes): Evangelical
Michaeli Brotherhood, convention.

Sept. 4-9 — Rendsburg (SH): German farm-
ers’ convention.

Sept. 4-14 — Nuremberg (Bav): Institute
of Social Sciences, international vacation
seminar.

“Agriculture

Palatinate

INFORMATION BULLETIN

‘Sept. 5-8 — Baden-Baden (SB): Max Planck
Society, meeting.
Sept. 5-30 — Berlin:
national festival.
Sept. 6-16 — Berlin: 1951 international auto-

mobile show.
Sept. 7-10 — Bremen:"Bach music festival.
Sept. 7-11 — Berlin: German Society for
Metallurgy, annual meeting.
Sept. 8 — St. Goar and Goarshausen (RP):

1951 Berlin inter-

“Rhine in Flames,’ illumination and
fireworks.
Sept. 8-9 — Freiburg (SB): Alemannian

accordionists convention,

Sept. 8-9 — Rothenburg ob der Tauber
(Bav): Hans Sachs plays; historical shep-
herds’ dance.

Sept. 8-9 — Baden-Baden (SB): International
dancing tournament for the Grand Prize
of Europe.

Sept, 8-11 — Bad Duerkheim (RP): Tradi-
tional “Sausage Mart,’' wine festival.
Sept. 8-23 — Essen (NRW): ‘Rail and Road,”
North Rhine-Westphalia transportation

exposition,

Sept. 9 — Bad Honnef (RP): Vintners’

Bad Pyrmont (NRW): “Golden

Kurpark illumination.

Sept, 9 — Eberbach (WB): Skippers’ Guild's
600th anniversary.

Sept. 9 — Ebstorf/Uelzen (LS): Motorcycle
races, dirt track.

Sept. 9 — Wegberg (NRW): Automobile
and motorcycle races.

Sept. 9 — Munich (Bav); Frankfurt (Hes);
Hanover (LS); Bremen: Horse races.

Sept. 9 — Marburg (Hes): Association of
German Gymnasts, junior-championships.

Sept. 9-11 — Cologne (NRW): Textiles and
Clothing, autumn fair,

Sept. 9-11 — Schussenried (WB): ‘Homeland
Day‘ and church festival.

Sept. 9-16 — Kranenburg (NRW): Carry-
ing of Cross, religious festival.

Sept. 9-16 — Fritzlar (Hes): Autumn fair.

Sept. 10 — Feldberg/Black Forest (SB):
Laurentius Day, folk festival.

Sept. 10-14 — Stuttgart (WB): Riding and
driving tournament.

Sept. 11 — Bad Pyrmont (NRW): Concert,
Lower Saxonian Symphony Orchestra.
Sept, 12-15 — Baden-Baden (SB): German

jurists’ convention,

Sept. 13 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Symphony
concert; Elly Ney, piano; K. Tutein, con-
ductor.

Sept, 14-18 — Wuppertal (NRW): German
Philatelists’ Association, ‘Postal Stamp
Day."

Sept, 15 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Dancing
tournament, German professional cham-
pionships.

Sept. 15-16 — Munich (Bav): International
motorcycle races, dirt track.

Sept. 15-16 — Coblenz (RP): Riding and
driving tournament.

Sept. 15-16 — Bad Duerkheim (RP): Tradi-
tional ‘Sausage Mart," wine festival.
Sept.. 15-16 — Kempten (Bav); German

Alpine Society, convention.

Sept. 15-17—Bingen (RP): Vintners’ festival.

Mid-September — Hamburg: State Opera,
“Don Carlos,” Verdi.

Sept. 16 — Oberwesel (RP): Wine mart.

Sept. 16 — Munich (Bav); Frankfurt (Hes);
Bremen: Horse races,

Sept. 16 — Mannheim (WB): Autumn re-
gatta.

Sept, 16-20 — Berlin: German Association
of Mathematicians, meeting.

Sept. 16-23— Cornelimuenster, near Aachen
(NRW): ‘‘Corneli Octavo,’' religious
festival.

46

Sept. 16-17 — Hamburg: Symphony concert,
Northwest German Broadcasting Co.;
Ruggiero Ricci, violin; H. Schmidt-Isser-
stedt, conductor.

Sept. 18 — Bad Pyrmont (NRW): Academy
concert; State Conservatory, Cologne,

Sept. 18 — Krefeld (NRW): Horse races.

Sept. 18-19 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): German
Antituberculosis Society, congress.

Sept. 19 — Cologne (NRW): Horse races,

Sept. 19-21 — Duesseldorf (NRW): German
Society for Urology, convention.

Sept. 19-22 — Berlin: German Union of
Employees (White Collar Workers) con-
gress.

Sept. 19-25 — Frankfurt (Hes): Book fair.

Sept. 20 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Concert;
Helge Roswaenge, tenor.

Sept. 20-22 — Bremen: Society of Harbor
Construction, 20th general meeting.

Sept. 21-22 — Cologne (NRW): Society for
Comparative Jurisprudence, meeting.

Sept. 21-22 — Wuppertal (NRW): Danzig
and Breslau Technical Colleges Society,
convention,

Sept. 21-23— Passau (Bav): German Rowing
Societies, 1951 convention.

Sept, 21-Oct. 1 — Frankfurt (Hes): Associa-
tion of Hotel and Restaurant Trades; an-
nual show, cookery exposition,

Sept. 22 — Munich (Bav): Horse races.

Sept, 22-Oct. 7 — Munich (Bav): October
festival; brewers’ exposition.

Sept, 23 — Frankfurt (Hes): Association of
German Bookdealers, meeting.

Sept, 23 — Schotten (Hes): Round-about-
Schotten international race for racing
cars (formula 3) and sporting cars.

Sept. 23 — Munich (Bav); Dortmund (NRW):
Horse races.

Sept, 23 — M. Gladbach (NRW): Harness
races,

Sept, 23 — Baden-Baden (SB): Symphony
concert; Southwest German Broadcasting
Orchestra, .

Sept. 23 — Biberach/Riss (WB): Concert;
baroque and classical church music.

Sept. 23-24 — Hamburg: Bestowal of the
Hansa City’s Bach Prize upon Paul Hinde-
mith. Philharmonic concerts; Carl See-
mann, piano; J. Keilberth, conductor.

Sept. 24 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-
cert; Jan Dahmen, violin; P. van Kem-
pen, conductor.

Sept. 26 — Dortmund (NRW): Horse races.

Sept. 26-28 — Munich (Bav): German brew-
ers’ convention; exposition.

Sept. 26-30 — Baden-Baden (SB): Roent-
genologists’ convention.

Sept. 26-30 — Stuttgart (WB): German So-
ciety of Neurologists and Psychiatrists,
convention.

Sept. 28-Oct. 7 — Offenburg (NB): 850th
anniversary. Ortenau autumn fair.

Sept. 29 — Munich (Bav): Horse races.

Sept, 29-Oct. 6 — Hersbruck (Bav): County
fair and festival.

Sept, 29-Oct. 27 — Darmstadt (Hes): Fall art
exposition, New Darmstadt Secession;
graphics, water colors, plastic art.

Sept. 30-Oct. 1 — Weinsberg (Bav): ‘‘Wei-
bertreu’’ autumn festival.

Sept, 30-Oct, 3 — Koenigswinter (NRW):
Vintners’ festival and autumn folk festival.

Sept.30-Oct. 14—-Karlsruhe (WB): “Autumn
Days,'' musical and literary events.

September-October — Hanover (LS): Hano-
ver artists’ fall exposition,

September-October — Munich (Bav): Sculp-
ture exhibition.

September-December —- Hanover (LS):
State museum exposition, European art
from 1400-1800. + END

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 48 ---
Working Together

Comparison of Christian-Jewish Cooperation
Today in Berlin with the Trying Times of the
Beginning of the Inter-Faith Youth Movement
In the Island City during the Soviet Blockade

By DR. STERLING W. BROWN*

S MY PLANE CIRCLES over Berlin more than two and half years since
I was last there, a vivid scene flashes back:

Tempelhof Airdrome is under the shadow of hundreds of planes in a
succession of landing, unloading and taking off — one plane every minute
and 20 seconds.

Thousands of German workmen are unloading food from western Ger-
many, England and America to feed 2,000,000 West Berliners who other-
wise would be starved into submission to Communism.

It is a great demonstration of teamwork. And for the first time since
the end of the war West Berliners feel themselves a part of the team.

On that cold November day in 1948 I ask a dozen Germans what they

Inter-Faith Council's three interlocking
think about the situation, Their answers show determination and even

some hope. Puzzled at this I ask why and get this answer:
Hoeren Sie! Die Luftbruecke — jetzt wissen wir, dass
die Amerikaner bestimmt hier bleiben!” (Listen! The Air-
lift now we know that the Americans surely are stay-
ing here.)
The West Berliners are beginning to find a cause!

AS WE LAND AT TEMPELHOF early this summer, there
are three other planes on the field: one of these is
a commercial ship. A dozen American soldiers are play-
ing baseball on the green alongside the runway. It is
quiet now — almost too quiet!

A soldier meets us politely, escorts us to a comfortable
lounge and we pick up our baggage — no security check,
no questions on travel orders, no passport inspection.
When I remark about this to the sergeant in charge, he
grins and says: “It's a free country, you know!”

And it is free —- a democracy in the making in one
notable spot jenseits des Eisernen Vorhangs (behind the
Iron Curtain),

The West Berliners are proud. They know they are
being sustained by strong friends from the West. But they
do not resent it. They like the idea of being identified
with the Western Allies. Even Germans in West Germany
recognize this strong commitment of West Berliners to
democracy. As one Frankfurter puts it, "West Berliners
have what you Americans call ‘guts’.”

Berliners feel they have done and are doing their part.
Their drive and determination to be free and democratic

Editor's Note.— Dr. Brown previously served on the staff of
the Education and Cultural Relations Division, OMGUS, in 1947-49
as chief of the Inter-Faith and Inter-Group Section. He is now
general director of the National Council of Christians and Jews in
v York and chairman of the Religious Affairs Panel to advise
the Department of State on policy regarding religious questions in
the occupied areas.

AUGUST 1951

circles link Christian cross, Jewish star

— and to remain free and democratic — is everywhere
in evidence. Gone are the “grauenvollen Hungerjahre,
die nun wie ein boeser Traum hinter uns liegen’ (horrible
hunger years which lie behind us like a terrible dream).

EW ROOFS, NEW BUILDINGS, lovely replanted

parks, repaired streets; stores bulging with meats,
fruits, clothes, furniture and hardware to meet every need!
New automobiles of a dozen German makes and a half
dozen well-known American, French, British or Italian
cars are available. Traffic is heavy. There is a good bus
and street car system to supplement the subway. And
amid the lovely flowers and shrubs of a parkway a group
of German boys and girls sing folk songs. It is good to
hear German youth sing! I never heard them sing in
1947-48.
.

Dr. Brown, author of this article, shown during discussion
with Youth Committee of Berlin Counéil of Christians
and Jews, was in Germany this summer as consultant to
HICOG, specializing in inter-group relations “to assist
the local councils of Christians and Jews with promotional
and organizational problems.’(Photo by Klaus H. G. Voss, Berlin)

--- Page 49 ---
But this prosperity is misleading. The abundance of
goods is in a very real sense a facade for the serious
economic realities in Germany. Few Germans have money
enough to buy what they need, much less what they would
like for a fairly comfortable life. Prices are about the
same as in the United States. But wages are much lower.
An employed woman must work three weeks to make
enough to buy a good pair of shoes. Most Germans have
no reserve — many having lost savings several times,
no longer try to put something aside. Prices are entirely
too high for all except the few who have money.

Thus the economic scene appears to be healthy, but
those in the know say that it is not yet sound. And in
the meantime the Germans just go on receiving what they
can get and spending it, thinking the future will surely

bring a war — but being human, possessing a much
starved hope that life may somehow be sustained.
* * *

HAVE JUST RETURNED from a meeting with 10 Ger-

man young people. Back in 1947 the writer and his
wife organized a group with six each of Catholic, Jewish
and Protestant young people. For more than a year they
met once a week in our home to discuss common interests,
meet visiting American leaders and exchange ideas. Then
came the blockade, and in late summer of 1948 our divi-
sion of OMGUS was moved to the zone. But these youth
continued for several months to meet in the home of one
of the group. We kept in touch with them with occasional
visits and upon our return to the United States in 1949,
we wrote to each of the group. For more than two years
we have kept up with more than a dozen of them through
correspondence. It is good to see them again!

Do you want to know: what has been happening to
German youth in West Berlin? Here are the data on what
has happened since 1948 to members of this inter-faith
group of handpicked German youth:

Klaus and Hans emigrated to South America, where
they are employed in industry but homesick for Germany.

Uschi, Liselotte and Gunter emigrated to Palestine, the
first two having married soon after their arrival in 1949.

Konstantin is still in Berlin attending the Technische
Universitaet (Technical University), but he hopes to emi-
grate to America upon completion of his course. .

Herbert is employed by a welfare agency in Berlin.

Bernhard spent one year at Syracuse University in the
United States and is now a member of the staff of one
of West Berlin's newspapers.

Juergen moved away and we never learned his new
address — we hope he is attending the Hotelmeister's
Schule in Switzerland, which was his great desire.

Inge is a student in the Free University of Berlin, after
having spent a year in Scotland with a minister's family.

Kurt, who had been a prisoner of war for three years
in the United States, is working for a large electrical
concern in Berlin.

Elisabeth, having completed her school work, is em-
ployed in a dress designer's shop in Berlin, while her
brother Walter, a graduate engineer, is directing building
work in Stuttgart.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

48

Hannelore is attending the university in Berlin, having
spent three months on a scholarship in England.

Caecilli is spending a year in college at Portales, N.M.

Gudrun became ill with tuberculosis in 1949 but after
a year of hospitalization is recovered and at home again.

Franz is a senior at Dartmouth College; his sister Erika
is in Heidelberg University, where her engagement to a
young American was recently announced.

Irene, who waited six years for her fiance to return
from a Russian prisoner of war camp only to see him
fall in love with, and marry, a younger sister, is happily
married to an American soldier now at Ft. Riley, Kan.

It is good to learn that four of those remaining in
Berlin have already become active in the Youth Section
of the Berlin Council of Christians and Jews. Now the
others, too, desire to become active in helping to make
group relations livable in a democratic society.

xk Ok

HE BERLIN COUNCIL of Christians and Jews* is one

of 11 councils in western Germany. Organized a year
ago, it has good leadership, committees for promotion of
intergroup education in churches and synagogues, schools
and colleges, press and radio, youth and community
organizations. A full-time director with a small staff is
made possible by Deutsche-mark assistance from HICOG,
but German contributions have come from several indi-
viduals and the city of West Berlin, although no formal
campaign has been attempted.

This past year’s program has included, among other
activities, radio addresses, panel discussions, mass meet-
ings with speakers and distributions of literature.

The Berlin Council is as active as those in Munich,
Frankfurt, Stuttgart and Wiesbaden which have been in
operation for more than two years. There are also coun-
cils in Offenbach, Bremen, Freiburg, Karlsruhe, Nurem-
berg and Duesseldorf. These have come into existence
largely through the efforts of Carl Zietlow, liaison repre-
sentative with HICOG of the National Conference of
Christians and Jews. But their organization would not
have been possible without the leadership and interest
of German leaders — Protestant, Catholic and Jewish.

The existence of 11 well organized local councils for
bettering inter-group relations in western.Germany is as
much a “miracle’’ as the economic recovery.

HERE IS A TREMENDOUS URGE on the part of Ger-

mans to participate in international activities. And
there is also a growing faith in Germany's future along
with the ever-present danger of a resurgence of extreme
nationalism. Thus, their basic problem may be somewhat
like that of the United States, but there is one great dif-
ference — Germans know that they cannot go it alone.
They want to go with he West, but all the while the

* Previous articles published in the Information Bulletin dealing
with inter-faith relations of Christians and Jews include:

“Religious Cooperation," article by Dr. Brown, Issue
Dec. 22, 1947.

“Inter-Faith Councils," article by Carl F. Zietlow, Issue No.
June 28, 1949,

“Courage to Love,". address by Dr. Theodor Heuss, president of
the Federal Republic’of Germany, January 1950 issue.

No. 124,

164,

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 50 ---
terrible threat of war — the realities of which they know
as well as any people in the world — hangs darkly over-
head. And if it comes, West Berliners feel, Germany may
be a battlefield.

To answer these fears and give a sense of security in
an insecure society is the great challenge to German lead-
ers and to Allies, to whom Germany is now bound by the
exigencies of time and circumstance. The basic values
in a democratic view of life which can give a sense of
security, are rooted in the Christian-Jewish tradition of
the Western world. Therefore, the religious groups of

Germany constitute a bulwark against any breach of basic
human rights.

The refusal of the late Cardinal von Preysing (Catholic)
and Bishop Otto Dibelius (Evangelical) to submit to the
Nazis is now matched by cooperative efforts in the Berlin
Council of Christians and Jews to educate for decent
human relations and to stand firm against threats to
freedom. These values of the spirit and mind can contrib-
ute to the economic and military strength which are
necessary for the preservation of the peace and security
of the free world. +END

Experts Urge Increased Food Production

N AN ADDRESS before the International Agricultural

Conference in Bonn in May, Stanley Andrews, director
of the Office of Foreign Agricultural Relations, US Depart-
ment of Agriculture, told assembled farm leaders and
government officials that the United States would do
everything in its power to assist Western Germany to
achieve agricultural security and stability.

R. H. Allen, director of the Food and Agricultural Di-
vision, ECA, Paris, urged that western Europe apply all
possible improvements in agricultural technology to make
a production increase possible, and pledged continued
Marshall Plan assistance to those areas which need it.

Mr. Andrews said that America has recognized the need
for keeping its granaries filled to meet the needs of the
Western Hemisphere, and possibly even to contribute to
Europe and Asia, should an emergency arise. For this
reason, the United States is interested in seeing that
Europe becomes as self-supporting as possible, he said.

The world food picture is serious, Mr. Andrews said,
because the world population is increasing faster than
food production is expanding. “In addition, the obstruc-
tion, dislocations and man-conceived rigging of economic
forces are hindering the normal flow of food, goods and
peoples between areas,’ he added.

SING THE EXAMPLE of the Soviet Union as an

illustration, Mr. Andrews said that before World
War I, Russia exported to western Europe an annual
average of 11,000,000 tons of bread and food grains. After
it sovietized and its agriculture collectivized, less than
1,500,000 tons of grain came to western Europe.

“We can only reach the conclusion that production
was reduced drastically by collectivization or that the
population consumed more and production failed to keep
pace with demands of the growing population,” Mr.
Andrews said. “Now, with the rest of eastern Europe
falling under ever tightening Soviet control, patterned
largely on the economic regimentation and planned econ-
omy of the Kremlin, the paralyzing effect on East-West
trade is too well evident to dwell upon. This places an
additional burden on western Europe to try not only to
increase its own production but literally also demands
that western Europe develop trade with the Western
Hemisphere on an even greater scale. Production is the

AUGUST 1951

49

major key to building up of supplies needed for the ex-
panding populations of the world and to meet the con-
stant pressure for a better standard of living.”

Mr. Allen, whose topic was “Increasing Food Produc-
tion in Europe,” stated that there had been gratifying
progress in both agricultural production and the level of
food consumption in all the countries participating in the
Marshall Plan. He also said that the general improvement
in food supply was a necessary part of the general eco-
nomic progress of the recent past.

“It has been clearly demonstrated,” Mr. Allen said,
“that unless the industrial worker and his family are
decently fed, he cannot and will not stick to his job and
produce the industrial products that are essential to
national strength and prosperity. To sacrifice the gains
of recent years would be a great tragedy, and yet there
is reason to believe that unless more attention is given
to agricultural production in Europe, there is a real danger
that this may happen.”

He said the Marshall Plan countries constitute the
greatest food importing area in the world with about a
third of annual supply imported. It would be impossible
to guarantee the continuation of this supply in the needed
amount should an emergency arise.

R. ALLEN SAID that the question is: “Can Europe
materially improve and safeguard its food supply for
the next two or three years through the stimulation of its
agricultural production?” He believed it could do so in
spite of intense cultivation by shifting types of produc-
tion and better feeding and disease control in livestock
production. Farmers must be given the opportunity to
use more fertilizers, mechanical power and equipment.
Capital and credit facilities must be made available.
The ECA will continue to provide agricultural supplies
and equipment where necessary and will also make pro-
visions for the exchange of technical knowledge between
Europe and America by having European agricultural
experts visit the United States and sending qualified
American technicians to Europe. ECA counterpart funds
may be used for a wide variety of purposes including
credit for farm improvements, grants in aid, public recla-
mation and development projects and the improvement
of research and informational services to farmers.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 51 ---
Personnel Notes

Jones New HICOG Berlin Chief

The appointment of Howard P. Jones as director of
Berlin Element, HICOG, and the transfer of Edward Page,
Jr., former director, to Washington, D.C., became effective
July 23.

In his capacity as director of Berlin Element, Mr. Jones
also becomes deputy US Commandant, Allied Kommanda-
tura. He was previously deputy director and ECA repre-
sentative for Berlin, and during Mr. Page's absence on
leave in the United States last spring, was acting director.

A native of Nyack, N.Y., Mr. Jones, 52, served as state
civil service commissioner of New York state; deputy
comptroller; research director of the New York State
Commission for revision of tax laws; executive director
of the National Municipal League, research and edu-
cational organization in the field of state and local govern-
ment; as lecturer and professor in governmental problems
at Columbia University; and as a lecturer at the Institute
of Banking in New York City.

During World War II, Mr. Jones held the following
posts: lecturer in public finance and public administration
at the Charlottesville School of Military Government;
head of Public Finance Branch, SHAEF mission to Belgium;
chief, Finance Branch, G-5, 9th US Army; chief of the
Civil Service Branch, Civil Affairs Division, OMGUS; and
chief of Public Finance Branch, OMGUS.

Honorably discharged from the US Army as a colonel,
he remained overseas, joining the State Department as a
Foreign Service officer in 1948, Prior to his latest appoint-
ment with Berlin Element, he served as US chief of the
Finance Group of the Bipartite Control Office since Jan. 1,
1948, This office had responsibility for the supervision of
all public and private finance in the Bizonal Area (US and
UK Zones) of Germany before the formation of the Ger-
man federal government.

Mr. Page, a native of Ardmore, Pa., and a career diplo-

mat, had been director of Berlin Element since Feb. 27, -

1950. His early posts in the State Department included
Montreal, Tokyo and Harbin, Manchuria. After assign-
ment as a language officer and vice consul in Paris, he
was transferred to Riga, Latvia. In 1935, he was posted
to the embassy in Moscow, where he was stationed until
1937. He was recalled to Washington that year and was
again assigned to Moscow in 1942 as second secretary
and consul. He was first secretary in Moscow in 1945
when he was again recalled to Washington. He became
first secretary and consul at Rome in 1946. After assign-
ment'to the National War College in Washington for the
1947-48 term, he returned to Rome as counselor of embassy.

Mr. Page was a member of the American delegation at
both the Yalta and Potsdam conferences, and was secre-
tary general of the American delegation at the Paris
conference of 1946 when the peace treaties with Italy and
the former Axis satellite states were signed. He was also

INFORMATION BULLETIN

50

his appointment as director of Berlin Element of HICOG
on July 26. (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Marczallek)

an adviser at the meetings of the Council of Foreign
Ministers in Paris and New York.

His next assignment is deputy commandant of the Na- ;

tional War College.

Medical Consultant Visiting Zone
Dr. Franklin H. Top, professor of epidemiology at the

University of Minnesota, has arrived in Germany to assist —

various US Zone states as a visiting consultant on com-

municable disease control for a period of three months. —

The purpose of Dr. Top’s visit is to establish a definite

program of close cooperative activities with the German E

public health authorities in order to influence basic
thinking, methods and techniques in the field of com-
municable disease control.

New General Counsel for HICOG

. Edward Page, Jr. (left) congratulates Howard P. Jones on —

Eli Whitney Debevoise, former New York City attorney,
has arrived in Frankfurt to assume the post of general —
counsel for the Office of the US High Commissioner for ~

Germany.

Mr. Debevoise succeeds Robert R. Bowie, who is re- ~

maining in Germany as special adviser to the US High

Commissioner until August, when he will Yeturn to the q
faculty of Harvard Law School, from which he has been 7

on leave of absence since February 1950.

A New Yorker by birth, Mr. Debevoise was educated j

at Yale University and Harvard Law School. He began ©

the practice of law in New York City in 1925 with the

firm of the Honorable John W. Davis, former ambassador ©
to Great Britain, and in 1931 started his own law firm. ©
His practice has included matters in the financial, in- 7

dustrial and international fields as well as considerable
court work. He has been named a member of the board
of directors of several corporations. y

During the first World War, he served as a second ~

lieutenant in the field artillery and during World War IL,

AUGUST 1951 —

--- Page 52 ---
he was chairman of the Alien Enemy Hearing Board in
New York City.

In addition to his professional work, Mr. Debevoise has
been active in charitable and civic circles. He is president
of the Russell Sage Foundation and until recently was
president of the New York Association for the Blind. He
has also been engaged in bar association activities, in both
the New York City and the American Bar associations.

ECA Trade Development Chief Resigns

Paul S. Nevin, chief of the ECA Mission's Export Pro-
motion Branch, has resigned his post and left late in July
for the United States. His deputy, William E. Rothfelder,
tendered his resignation at the same time, and is also
returning to America.

Mr. Nevin was called to Frankfurt to head the ECA
Mission's dollar-drive organization when it was formed
in May 1950. In that position he has been concerned for
the most part with bringing German manufacturers and
business men in contact with American importers to fur-
ther trade relations between the two countries, and to
narrow the West German dollar gap.*

For five years preceding his appointment to ECA, Mr.
Nevin held key economic posts in Bavaria, where he was
successively chief of the Office of Military Government's
Trade and Commerce Branch, director of the Joint Export-
Import Agency for Bavaria, and chief of the Economics
Division, OLCB.

During his six years in West Germany, Mr. Nevin has
met with German manufacturers and business men through-
out the country and has advised them on modern export-
ing and merchandising methods. He has initiated export
programs in a variety of industrial fields.

New Public Affairs Appointments

New appointments within the Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, include George A. Selke, who has been desig-
nated acting chief of the Education and Cultural Relations
Division, and Caleb G.Baxter, who has taken up the
duties of administrative officer.

Court of Appeals in Frankfurt Offices
The HICOG Court of Appeals and the US. chief at-
torney opened offices in Frankfurt in the Resident Of-
ficer's building, 45 Bockenheimer Anlage, late in July.
The court and chief attorney moved from Nuremberg
to Frankfurt pursuant to recent legislation reorganizing
the US court system. The Frankfurt offices are on the first
floor of the Resident Officer's Building. The Court of Ap-
peals will hold hearings in the- Area III courtroom.
Members of the Court of Appeals are Chief Justice Wil-
liam Clark, Justice Carl Fulghum and Justice Marc Roh-
inson. The US chief attorney is Worth B. McCauley.
The US Court of Restitution Appeals is now established
as a separate court and its seat will remain in Nuremberg.

* See “Promoting German Trade," Information Bulletin for July 1951,
Pages 15-18,

AUGUST 1951

Sl

Education Adviser Returns to US

Kenneth A. Bateman, education adviser with OLC Hesse,
has returned to the United States for a new assignment
with the Bureau of Ger-
man Affairs, Department of
State, in Washington, D. C.

Mr. Bateman, who ar-
rived in Wiesbaden in Feb-
ruary 1948 as a _ teacher
training expert with the
Office of Military Govern-
ment for Hesse, holds de-

| grees from Milwaukee
State Teachers College,
Northwestern University

and Michigan State Col-
lege. He served as consult-
ant in elementary educa-
tion for the state of Mich-
igan before joining OMGH
to help in the democratic
reorganization of German schools. His successor has not
yet been named.

Kenneth A. Bateman.

Changes in Berlin Element Positions

Recent changes in personnel of Berlin Element, HICOG,
include the appointment of Dr. Charles B. Robson of
Chapel Hill, N.C., as chief of the Education and Cultural
Relations Branch; appointment of W. Wallace Kirkpatrick
of Washington, D.C., as chief of the Legal Affairs Division;
and resignation of Leon J. Steck, chief of the Economic
Program Branch.

Before joining the HICOG organization in Berlin, his
first appointment as a member of the Foreign Service,
Dr. Robson served for more than 25 years as a member
of the faculty of the University of North Carolina. Since
1942, he has been head of the Department of Political
Science there. He has written numerous articles and bro-
chures on political theory, comparative government and
American foreign policy.

Mr. Kirkpatrick assumed his new post with Berlin
Element following more than a year of service with the
Decartelization and Deconcentration Division, Office cf
General Counsel, in Frankfurt. He is a former special
assistant to the Attorney General of the United States in
the Anti-Trust Division, US Department of Justice.

“Mr. Steck, a veteran of nearly six years’ service in
Berlin, was formerly chief of the Food and Agriculture
Branch of OMG Berlin Sector, during the critical 1948-49
blockade. During the early days of the occupation of Ber-
lin, he was a key member of the American team there.
The provision of food was the most urgent problem faced
by the Occupying Forces and it was Mr. Steck’s respon-
sibility, among other duties, to see that food which was
made available was distributed fairly among the popu-
lation, a responsibility which had to be carried out in the
face of obstructionist tactics by the Russians. As chief of
Economic Program Branch following the changeover to
HICOG, he was instrumental in planning and allocating
ERP investment funds to revive the city's economy. --END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
Economic Review

Exports Again Exceed Imports ©

By A. J. CEFARATTI

Chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Program Division
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

NDUSTRIAL OUTPUT SUFFERED its first decisive drop in June after steady month to month increases had
carried the index of production from the winter low of 127 percent of the 1936 level to a postwar record of
139 in April. While May production held at 138 percent, production in June fell three points to 135 percent. Most
of this decline was accounted for in the consumer goods index, which dropped by another three percent.
Preliminary Western German foreign trade figures for June show that, once more, total exports ($297,000,000)
exceeded imports ($255,000,000) — a trade surplus equal to the surpluses for April and May combined.
Although labor developments by mid-July registered a favorable 4,000 decrease in the number of unem-
ployed and an additional 35,000 employed, this was the smallest two-week decline in unemployment since
the downward trend began in mid-January. This slower rate of decline in unemployment is accounted for
largely by the slackening in consumer goods production and by the fact that the number of workers em-
ployed for new building and construction just offsets the number of those released from completed jobs.

a a ee

XPECTATIONS THAT MAY industrial production $35,600,000 to the other Western Hemisphere areas,
: would slacken below earlier spring output were and $14,000,000 to the non-OEEC sterling area are postwar
confirmed by a one point drop in the May index, Raw peak figures. The record high of $9,100,000 to Yugoslavia
material shortages, especially of coal and steel scrap, and Finland, non-Soviet Bloc Eastern countries, resulted
continue to be reported, with little prospect of immediate from the recently augmented Western German deliveries
betterment. of finished products to Yugoslavia. Exports to the non-
The second postwar monthly trade surplus was reported sterling OEEC countries declined considerably from
in May — exports were $23,000,000* over imports — as $162,900,000 in April to $149,000,000 in May. Sterling
well as another European Payments Union (EPU) pay- OEEC countries (UK, Ireland and Iceland) accounted for
ments surplus for June. Registered unemployment again $24,300,000 of the total May exports, a slight increase
showed a decline, and the number of employed wage over April. Deliveries to the Soviet Bloc in May were
and salary earners rose to a new peacetime and possible $4,500,000, or 25 percent below April, and, significantly,
all-time record. Labor persisted in its drive to realize at the lowest level for any month since July 1949.
demands for wage boosts as the consumer price index Imports in May totaled $250,000,000. The restrictions
rose 1.4 percent in May and another 1.3 percent in June on licensing imports from the EPU area were continued,
to reach 167 percent of the 1938 level. and there was an apparent switchback to the old trend
Discussions concerning ratification of the Schuman of procurement of dollar imports from the Western
Plan continued within the Federal Republic. The Bundesrat Hemisphere rather than from the OEEC countries. OEEC-
(upper house), in debating the Schuman Plan on June 27, origin imports fell $21,500,000 (18 percent) to $97,500,000
gave general approval of the Plan, but passed a resolu- in May 1951, the lowest figure since May 1950.
tion requiring that, prior to ratification, there be a definite Imports from the Western Hemisphere increased
commitment by the Allied High Commission to end the $14,900,000 (18 percent) to $98,300,000, the highest figure
International Authority of the Ruhr (IAR), the Allied Steel since October 1949, and imports from the US alone totaled
and Coal Control Groups, the control rights of the Military $60,700,000 in May. Imports from the non-OEEC sterling
Security Board (MSB) over coal and steel, and the limita- countries within the EPU also rose from $24,900,000 in |
tions on steel production and capacity, as soon as the April to $27,600,000 in May, but this deviation from the
Schuman Plan agencies became operative in these fields. general trend (EPU area to Western Hemisphere procure-

ment) probably is accounted for by the longer delivery
time from the non-OEEC sterling countries to Western
Germany.

The reversion to purchasing from the Western Hemi-

During June further progress was made for Germany's
participation in international organizations. The Federal
Republic's applications for membership in both the Inter-
national Labor Organization (ILO) and the International

Telecommunications Union (ITU) were approved by sphere concurrent with restrictions on import licensing
majority votes of the respective administrative councils. from the EPU area is in direct conflict with the principle
of ECA aid. Furthermore, it comes at a time when
Foreign Trade additional demands on US and other Western Hemisphere
May exports from Western Germany remained at the markets can only add to the difficulties of rearmament
postwar record level of the previous month; imports in the United States.
declined slightly, and the second postwar monthly export The commodity breakdown reveals almost no change
surplus was recorded in May — $23,000,000 compared in individual export commodity groups. Food and agricul-
to $18,000,000 in April. tural product imports rose to $107,200,000 while de-
Area breakdown of the $273,000,000 May total export liveries of industrial goods totaled only $142,500,000, the
shows increased shipments to the Western Hemisphere, lowest level since September 1950. Although imports
the non-participating sterling countries and Yugoslavia of finished industrial goods were at the lowest figure
and Finland. Exports of $21,800,000 to the United States, in 15 months and those of semi-finished items at the
lowest figure since July 1950, a continuing decline of
* DM 96,638,650 at the official rate of 23.8 cents to the Deutsche mark. industrial raw materials imports (7.9 percent in May)

INFORMATION BULLETIN 52 AUGUST 1951

--- Page 54 ---
could create a serious handicap for internal German
production and future exports.

In June the accounting surplus with EPU amounted to
$46,800,000 ($81,200,000 in May), which reduced the
cumulative deficit to $272,762,000. This includes a semi-
annual interest payment to the EPU of $2,551,000, An
increase in the issuance of import licenses and in the
use of licenses previously issued has caused a decline
in the monthly surplus,

Industry .

The index of industrial production declined by one
point to 138 percent of 1936, but the decline on an
unrounded basis was only 0.2 percent. May industrial
activity did not quite meet the postwar record reached
in April, breaking the usual seasonal pattern of increases
during late spring and early summer.

The index of investment goods production rose by
three percent to 143 percent of 1936. Within this group
the highest rates of increase were in industries connected
with building — sawmills, woodworking and steel con-
struction. Other industries within this group showed more
moderate rates of increase, but few declines. During the
month the index of general production goods declined
by two percent, led by a seasonal decline in electric
power production, and a 1.8 percent decline in hard coal
mining, which can be attributed to absenteeism and a
seasonal increase in vacations.

The index of consumer goods production declined by
five percent. This slackening of output seems due almost
entirely to a drop in consumer demand.. Anticipation
of price decline following the raw material price drops
on the world market and contraction of purchasing power
are possible explanations for this drop inconsumer demand.

Coal and Electricity

reliminary figures show that total hard coal production
for June of 10,039,000 metric tons (May: 9,373,000 MT;
April: 10,023,000 MT) exceeded the two preceding months,
but the daily average of 382,062 MT was below that of
May (388,000 MT) and April (396,000 MT). This loss is
attributable to a combination of many factors: loss of
labor, lack of equipment, breakdown of equipment, geo-
logical faults, many mine accidents, unexcused absentee-
ism and short strikes. Coal stocks remain at a low level.

The mines lost 660 underground workers in May, of
whom 498 were face workers. There was an increase of
149 surface workers so that the net loss was 511 workers.
In June there was a continued loss of face and other under-
ground workers and also a slight drop in surface workers.
As a result of the labor force changes and increase in
absenteeism, the total number of shifts worked dropped
in May and the normal shifts lost were about 18 percent
of the total shifts possible compared to 15 percent in April.
A general strike in the industry threatened early in June
was averted at the end of the month by a compromise pay
boost. (See labor section, below.)

Although the May production index of electricity
showed a seasonal decline of 4.5 percent below April, there
was a 20 percent increase over May 1950.

_ Excellent water conditions together with continued
increase of power imports met all demands for electric
power in the Federal Republic without restrictions which
might have resulted from the current coal shortage. In
fact, favorable hydro conditions permitted savings in coal.
Water from rains and melting snow is rapidly filling the
storage basins, Schluchsee, Vorarlberg and Walchensee.

The electric utility units are disturbed about their
position for the coming winter, because of low coal
allocations and recurring short deliveries. There has been
a slow increase in coal stock but the low allocation pro-
posed for the third quarter of 1951 will not permit the
maintenance of normal production to meet increased
power consumption and simultaneously provide adequate
stock piling for the coming winter.

AUGUST 1951

53

Low coal stocks and short deliveries continued to
hamper normal operations of the gas plants. The over-all
stock figure still remains at approximately 11 days’ supply.
However, some plants have coal sufficient for only two
days’ operation. There has been some improvement in
deliveries of coal allocated and shortening of delivery
time but the allocations to gas plants are still considered
to be lower than they should be for safe operation.

The stocks at the end of May were reported to be 400,000
tons gasoline and 250,000 tons of diesel oil; consumption
in May 1951 was estimated at 130,000 tons of gasoline and
120,000 tons of diesel oil. It is reported that these stocks
are higher than were estimated and consumption was
lower than expected. Therefore, the Federal Government
expected to proceed without restrictions or rationing
during July and August. German crude oil production in
May was reported at 112,230 tons, a record for indigenous
production. Serious arguments continue between the oil
industry and the ministry of economics on one side and
the finance ministry on the other concerning the fixed
custom duties on crude oil. The application of preferential
duties has been refused by the finance ministry. A final
decision will probably have to be made at Cabinet level.

Freight traffic demands on the Federal Railways
(Bundesbahn) decreased slightly in June compared with
May. At the same time, the average stock of serviceable
freight cars showed a small increase to around 249,000
cars, largely due to increased repair output and continued
stress on emergency repairs designed to keep freight cars
in traffic even though overdue for periodic overhauls. As
a result, no freight car shortages similar to those in March
and April were experienced during June.

The 19 train paths to Berlin were still in full operation
during June. This traffic has been moving on schedule
during the last three months.

Food and Agriculture

Unseasonably wet and cool weather, particularly during.
the latter half of June, retarded the growth of crops, which
are generally 10 to 14 days behind in development. The
condition of fall-seeded grain is satisfactory, and, given
two or three weeks of warm, dry weather, a good harvest
may approximate last year's yield.

The continued wet weather, however, has so far
minimized damage to potatoes by the Colorado beetle.
Harvesting of early potatoes began with generally good
yields indicated. Late potato planting has been finished.
Thinning and hoeing of beets and other root crops has
almost been completed.

A brief period of sunshine at the beginning of June
permitted a start on the hay harvest. Clover and alfalfa
are stacked in the fields. Grass has not been harvested,
but the stand is good. Local hail and thunderstorm damage
was reported, especially in Bavaria. Data on frost-kill
during the winter point to only small damage: less than
1.3 percent for grain and 3.4 percent for oil-crops.

Labor

Registered unemployment declined during June by
61,000, reducing the total number of jobless to 1,326,000 at
the end of the month, or about the level prevailing in
mid-September 1950. Unemployment declined to 8.3
percent of the wage and salary labor force as against 8.7
percent in May 1951 and 10 percent in June 1950.

The number of employed wage and salary earners rose
by 120,000 during the month to 14,720,000 at the end of
June, thus setting a new peacetime and probably all-time
record. June 1951 employment, as disclosed by the quarter-
ly census of the German public employment service,
topped the 1950 high mark attained last October by
300,000 and the June 1950 level by close to 900,000.

The increase of 232,000 in the labor force during the
second quarter closely matched: the abnormally high ex-
pansicn of 224,000 in the corresponding quarter of 1950.
Most labor market newcomers, approximately 175,000,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
were school-leavers placed in apprenticeships (estimated
160,000) or in their first jobs (15,000), The remaining 60,000
were adults previously resident in the Federal Republic
or refugees and voluntary immigrants from the Soviet
Zone and Berlin,

Of the total 473,000 increase in employment during the
second quarter of 1951, building accounted for 37 percent
(approximately 175,000 persons); manufacturing, 28 percent
(133,000); trade, commerce, hotels and restaurants, 13 per-
cent (68,000); agriculture and forestry, eight percent
(39,000); mining, four percent (17,000); transportation and
communication, two percent (10,000) and public and pri-
vate services and domestic service, seven percent (31,000).
This development would remarkably parallel that in the
second quarter of 1950 with the exception that the addi-
tion to building employment in the second quarter of 1951
was lower.

The economy has well been able to absorb the increase
in the wage and salary-earning labor force, which was
once feared as a cause of additional unemployment. The
tise in dependent employment of 875,000 between June
1950 and June 1951 was greater than the expansion of
600,000 in the labor force in the same period, As a result,
unemployment was reduced by 215,000. Barring an early
and severe winter, prospects of integrating the anticipat-
ed labor force increment of 650,000 to 700,000 are bright.

The union wage drive, avowedly designed to compensate
for higher living costs, continued in June. A special
congress of the German Trade Union Federation (DGB)*
asked its member unions to continue their wage campaign
until effective measures are taken to reduce prices to “an
economically defensible level. During June, labor
activities were focused on the mining unions’ demands.

Wage negotiations between the German Coal Mining
Management (DKBL) and the Mining Union broke down
early in June, and a general strike was threatened by
the union to enforce its wage demands. Miners asked for
a,14 percent increase effective May 1, and DKBL and
Federal Republic compromise proposals did not meet
with union approval until late June. Representatives of
the Mining Union and DKBL on June 28 agreed on a
compromise 12 percent boost for all wage and salary
earners, retroactive to May 1, 1951.. This compromise
proposal was approved at the special DKBL general meet-
ing July 3, and a general strike was averted.

The Federal Government has announced! its intention
to offset the wage increase by a “split market system”
whereby coal output exceeding 380,000 tons daily would
be sold above prevailing prices to certain domestic
industries considered able to bear the higher cost. The
DKBL has expressed the view that this arrangement
would be seriously inadequate to meet increased costs.

Temporary wage and salary agreements for government
employees were also concluded, and negotiations will
be resumed for new wage agreements. In addition, the
Railway Union and the Bundesbahn administration reach-
ed an agreement June 30 granting railway employees a
cost-of-living supplement between April 1 and June 30,
and raising hourly wages effective June 1 by 10 to 14
percent. Agreements were also concluded in June cover-
ing postal and telegraph employees.

Finance

Federal Government fiscal operations in April resulted in
a_ deficit of DM 277,700,000 compared to a surplus of
DM 124,600,000 in March. Expenditures of DM 1,438,700,000
were DM 382,100,000 higher than in the previous month.
Only DM 85,000,000 of this increase in expenditures is
accountable to occupation and related costs, which rose
from DM 444,700,000 in March to DM 530,100,000 in April.
Federal revenue of DM 1,161,000,000 was only DM
20,000,000 lower than in March. The decrease in receipts
is not due to a decline in tax revenues, which, in fact,

* See ‘Special Labor Congress,'* Page 25,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

54

tose by DM 23,000,000 but to a reduction in the contribu-
tion of the states. The states have ceased payment of
regular contributions (Interessenquota) because of the
planned application of Article 106 of the Basic Law
which authorizes the Federal Government to take over
a part of the states’ income and corporation tax receipts
in lieu of the Interessenquota. :

The final decision on the share to be taken by the
Federal Government has not yet been made. For this
reason the states miade onlysmall advances, DM 15,100,000,
in April, in addition of the share to be taken eventually
by the Federal Government.

On July 1, 1951, several tax increases finally became
effective. According to an estimate of the federal ministry
of finance they will increase the annual revenue by
DM _ 2,700,000,000 of which: (a) increase of turnover and
transportation taxes from three to four percent is expected
to yield DM 1,350,000,000; (b) amendment to the income
and corporation tax law, eliminating several exemptions
and deductions, and raising the corporate rate from 50 to
60 percent is expected to yield DM _  1,000,000,000;
(c) elimination of several customs exemptions is expected
to yield DM 350,000,000. These estimates reportedly take
into account losses resulting from new tax preferences to
exporters which became effective on the same date.

Prices

The basic material price index declined two percent in
May to 245 percent of 1938, the level reached in February
1951, but still nearly one-fourth higher than in May 1950.
The industrial component declined by 2.8 percent to 281,
and the agricultural component by 0.5 percent to 191.

The index of industrial producer prices remained stable
at 222 percent of 1938. The index of consumer prices rose
in May by 1.4 percent to 165 percent of 1938. In June this
index rose another 1.3 percent to 167 with the exception
of rent and stimulants which remained steady and a 0.2
percent decrease in the price of clothing, all components
showed an increase,

Berlin

In May, the West Berlin index of industrial production*
was 44 percent of 1936, a two point decrease below the
March-April level. The decrease was accounted for chiefly
by a seasonal decline in the clothing industry where the
index fell from 85 in April to 59 in May, and by a decline
from 61 to 58 in electrical engineering. The latter decrease
was believed to be due to a monthly fluctuation on the
completion of long-term orders rather than to a change
in production trends. Fine mechanics and optics also
showed a one point decrease. Other production cuts in
May were brought about by many holidays and one less
working day than in April. On the other hand, the index
figure for machine construction (machinery and machine
tools) increased from 38 in April to 41 in May.

During the first half of June, total registered employ-
ment increased by approximately 1,600, reaching a total
of more than 889,000. This represents the highest employ-
ment level since the summer of 1949, The gain in total
employment during the first half of the month represent-
ed an increase in unsubsidized employment, as the
number of workers under the GARIOA work-relief pro-
gram declined slightly. The number of part-time workers
in the economy also showed a further decrease.

The number of registered unemployed remained virtu-
ally unchanged at 286,500. In keeping with a trend which
has been evident for some time, increases in ‘employment
came from increases in the total labor force. During the
first two weeks of June, the labor force increased by
more than 1,400. This was due; among other things, to
the continued entry of large numbers of young people
and housewives into the labor market. +END

* Excludes food and stimulants, building, and electric power and

gas production. The index is estimated from the value of current
deliveries and is not corrected for changes in inventories.

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 56 ---
SUC E

German Cartoons

This section is compiled from translations prepared by the

Press and Publications Branch, Information Services Division,

HICOG, of cartoons in the German press. Publication of these

German cartoons is intended to inform the American readers

of what the Germans are thinking, without interpretation. The

inclusion of any viewpoint does not give concurrence to that
view or opinion.

TOELEM Oe Oa

(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, June 13) (Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, July 6)

for the Japanese Conference. . .
Justice by Injection.

Judge: ‘Ten years!"

(Freie Presse, Bielefeld, June 16) ge: , ;
Oatis: ‘Thank you, that’s wonderful!"

(Westdeutsche Rundschau, Wuppertal, June 30)

Choosing Miss France, 1951.
The audience doesen't seem
greatly interested.

(Braunschweiger Zeitung, Brunswick, June 17)

Ban on FDJ.
Cut down the tree, too!

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, July 4)

WY,
oe)

eoLeMrl kee
Oe Manca

Mure

aes

Marshall Plan Curtailment
and German Defense.

Forging New Press and Radio Laws
in Bonn.

AUGU
UGUST 1951 55

(Der Mittag, Duesseldorf, June 17)

Brandenburg Gate, Berlin, to get
Soviet Peace Dove to replace the

Quadriga.

(Bayreuther Tagblatt, Bayreuth, July 7)

Armistice
at the 38th Parallel.

(Freie Presse, Bielefeld, June 26)

“How can I march with only one boot?"

“Say something nice until we're
ready for the next scene!”

(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, June 25)

Russia Suggests an Armistice.

Malik: “I propose that each
take a step backward."

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
(Nordsee Zeitung, Bremerhaven)

Trade Unions Favor Schuman Plan.
Schumacher: ‘But you're forgetting
your (SPD) upbringing!"

(Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, June 12)

(Frankenpost, Hof, June 26)

PERSIAN OIL...

The benefits of nationalization
in Iran.

Iran Tears Up Contracts.
German Michel: “This phlegmatic

Oriental gives me ideas!" (Schwaebisches Tagblatt,

Tuebingen, May 25)

Sonnen
FREUNDE

(Main Echo, Aschaffenburg)

No rest for this old world. iy
“Hi, Michel, you a
nudist, too?”
“No, I just got back from
the tax office!”

(Bayreuther Tagblatt, Bayreuth, June 23)

(Maerkische Volksstimme, Potsdam,
Soviet Zone, June 27]

British Foreign Office.
A new security measure
to prevent flight.

European Unity.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 56

(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, June 6)

Soviet Zone “Plebiscite’’ against Remilitarization.

(Frankenpost, Hof, July 1)

Nywry ,

Iranian Oil.
“Now what'll I do with the
darned stuff2"

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg)

4 OD Tose “.
High Commission: ‘Gliding permitted."
Michel soars again.

[Rheinische Zeitung, (SPD), June 28]

German Defense Army.
Prince Charming McCloy and the
Sleeping Beauty

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 58 ---
JHU HTUMIUNUTIATEUETTMTEUENUEUMENUATURENENEENEENTE

HUMOR

from

The Soviet Zone

vnc

ANY JOKES CONCERNING Soviet-Zone conditions

and difficulties are circulating by word of mouth
in eastern Germany but they are carried out of the Soviet
Zone by refugees and visitors to Free Berlin, where one
can laugh openly. A collection of these jokes has been
compiled by the Public Relations Branch, Berlin Element-
HICOG. From it the following have been selected.

i

COOOL CC COP Cor

STAM CHEEET

* ok Ok

In Former Times

A West German Communist was traveling in the Soviet
Zone. On the train he sat beside an old woman who was
very hard of hearing and to whom he tried to explain the
tough life in the capitalistic western zones.

“Everything -is so expensive in the West,” he said.
“For instance, you have to pay 20 marks for a pair of
shoes.”

“Shoes,” echoed the old woman. "Yes, we had them too
in former times.”

“And then we get margarine sometimes on our ration
cards in the West.” *

“Margarine,” said the woman. “Yes, we had margarine
too informer times.”

“And the workers go on strike."

“Strikes? Yes, we had strikes too a long time ago.”

The comrade from western Germany got angry. “‘Lis-

ten,” he said. “Are you pulling my leg? I am a Com-
munist.”
“Communists, said the old woman. “Yes, that’s what

we had here too in former times.”

* * *

He Knows His Line

“How come,” says one hobo to another, “that the ‘peo-
ple’s judges’ always set you free? They ask so many
embarassing questions which a man can hardly answer.
Do you happen to know the penal code by heart?"

“No,” says the other, ‘but I know the works of Marx
and Lenin.”

* * *
Progressive Music

During a festive meeting in a Soviet-Zone plant, the
Communist trade union speaker talks about work, work,
work, plus threats against truants and saboteurs. Then
the good orchestra plays a symphony.

After the symphony is over, the speaker takes the
conductor aside and says: “Discipline among your musi-
cians is no good. I saw — and everybody in the hall saw
it, too — that when you looked to the right the musi-

AUGUST 1951

57

cians on the left didn’t play, and when you looked to the
left the ones on the right hand side stopped playing. That
must not happen again."

“But — sure it had to happen. They had a pause."

“A pause? In the middle of the symphony? No, not in
our progressive society. You are on duty then and there
is no pause while on duty.”

“But it was prescribed by the composer!"

“That's old-fashioned. Pauses will be dropped im-
mediately. Prepare a declaration saying all progressive
musicians have — voluntarily, of course — agreed to give
up all pauses granted them until now by the composers.”

The Example * * co

A group of Soviet-Zone functionaries visited a plant.

“Here you can see the improvement in our economy,"
the director explained. ‘Last year we employed 500 work-
ers, now we employ 1,000, next year we will employ
2,000 and thus it goes on."

The manager of the hospital liked the example very
much and planned to use it in the next meeting of the
hospital's staffers.

“Comrades,” he said, “here in our hospital you can
watch the improvements of our economy. Last year we
had 200 patients in our hospital, now we pee 500, next
year there will be 1,000 and thus it goes on.’

* * *
Questions and Answers

Why does the peace dove always look to the right?

There's nothing she can expect from the left.

Why does the peace dove have feathers on her feet?

She's got to sweep a lot of dirt before she can reach
peace.

Why. do so many SED functionaries like to go to the
dentist?

Because that is the only place where they may open
their mouth. .

What's the difference between the old and the new
intelligentsia?

The old intelligentsia had wrinkles on the forehead,
the new intelligentsia has wrinkles on the back of the

neck,
* * *

Strike Propaganda

Pamphlets are being distributed in a people’s owned
plant in the Soviet Zone, The workers read in amazement:

“Workers! Don't let yourself be exploited! Don't sell
your working power for the dirty money of the oppressors
and enemies of the people! Use your right to strike!
(Signed) FDGB Trade Union of Greater Berlin.”

Five minutes later all the workers stopped working.
In frustration the director calls the chairman of the FDGB
trade union who sinks back into his armchair aghast.

“Man, what have you done?" he says to his secretary.
“Those pamphlets were meant for distribution in West

Berlin plants!"
erlin p’ e Ps

International Trade
A Communist trade-union functionary speaks to work-—
ers of a people's owned brick mill. Comrades,” he shouts,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
“we must raise our quota and produce more and more
bricks to raise the standards of living of the broad masses.

“We sell the bricks to Italy and get lemons in return.
(Loud cheers.) Then we deliver the lemons to Denmark
and receive butter in return. (Cheers.) We send the butter
to Sweden and receive steel in return. (Cheers.) Then
we deliver the steel to Soviet Russia—but not for nothing!
No, we receive clay in return so we can produce more

bricks!"
* * *

Agreement Needed

The SED speaker at a farmers’ meeting declares that it
goes without saying that a progressive farmer must exceed
his quota. “I, therefore, suggest that we raise our egg
quota voluntarily in a spontaneous declaration in favor
of our peace economy. Who is in favor of the proposal?”

Of course, ail farmers raise their hands, except farmer
Winkelmann.

“Farmer Winkelmann, you don’t wish to exclude your-
self from the raising of our living standard?” the speaker
asks menacingly.

“No, certainly not," the farmer replies thoughtfully, “but
I think I should talk it over with my chickens first!"

* *
The Difference *

“There are still criminal elements in our population who
sell valuable non-ferrous metal to West-Berlin junkmen
instead of delivering them to East-Berlin state-supervised
collectors to be used for the rebuilding of our economy.
Comrades, what's the difference between a man that sells
them to the West and the man that delivers them to
the National Front?"

The comrades think very hard. Answers one:

“The difference is that in the West he gets paid for it.”

x Ok *
Selling Quota

The boss of an East-Berlin state-owned store turns to
his salesgirls, saying: “Starting today the girl that sells
most will get paid most. Now try hard.”

A pair of pants arrives at the store and is put on the
shelf. A man enters the store and asks for a pair of pants.

Result: The customer takes flight, the pair of pants gets
torn up, and two salesgirls have to be taken to the
hospital.

* * *
Meat Rations

A fisherman in the Soviet Zone said to a visitor one
day: “Until now we have always managed to fulfill our
quota but now we'll have to work harder.”

“Why?" asked the visitor, “do you have a higher quota
now?"

“Naturally,” the fisherman retorted. “Meat rations were
increased in the East Zone.”

Realistic Math * * *

In a school at Nordhausen the teacher tries to make
his students understand arithmetic. ‘Your family includes
four persons. Each receives 700 grams of meat per month.
What's the total, Paul?”

“Two rolls of cheese, professor.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

58

Ration Cards

An East-Zone woman goes to see a fortuneteller. “Are
you really saying the truth?’ she asks anxiously.

“The cards never lie,’ the fortuneteller replies.

“You really think so?" the woman retorts. ‘You should
have seen what we got last week on our meat ration card.”

* * *

Positive Evidence

The chairman of the local trade union group in the
Soviet Sector of Berlin sees the chief manager. :

“IT watched your workers Danke and Krause lining up
for herrings in the western sectors, You'll have to tell
them it is a crime to squander our valuable money for the
benefit of monopoly capitalists.”

“Of course," the manager assures. ‘But did you really:
recognize the two?”

“Sure, I was lined up right behind them.”

* * *
Beautiful Siberia

Soviet-Zone farmers hold a meeting. They are cautioned
by a Soviet control officer: “Everybody who fails to ful-
fill his delivery quota will henceforth be sent to Siberia.”

One of the farmers rises and earnestly declares: "I know
Siberia very well from many Soviet films. I know that it
is a country where milk and honey flow. Life there is
incomparably beautiful and paradisiacal. And this shall
be a punishment for saboteurs? I demand more harshness
for such miserable creatures. So I suggest that these
people be sent to the Western Zones — to starvation. I
know Western Germany from the same films. It simply
is hell..."

The farmers enthusiastically agreed to the demand of
the speaker and closed the meeting.

* * *
Communistic Method

Soviet-Zone President Wilhelm Pieck is about to visit
an insane asylum. The director of the hospital prepares
the inmates for the high visitor by telling them to shout
“Long live Daddy Stalin" after Pieck is through with his
speech. After a while they have learned to say it quite
smoothly and everybody looks forward to the visit with
satisfaction.

Pieck arrives, inspects the asylum, and finally addres-
ses a short speech to the inmates who are assembled in
the living room. After he is through they shout “Long
live Daddy Stalin’ several times, and Pieck is happy.
Suddenly he discovers a man leaning against a wall who
does not join in the shouts,

“Why don't you shout, too?”

The man shrugs his shoulders: “I am not insane, sir,
I'm just a ward attendant.”

* * *
The Largest Country

“What is the biggest country on earth?” a Soviet soldier
asked a Potsdamer the other day. The Potsdamer did not
think long and replied: ‘The East Zone, of course. It be-
gins at the Elbe river and a large number of its inhabitants
live in Siberia.” +END

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 60 ---
Why “Vopos” Desert

HE TYPICAL DESERTER from the so-called “people's

police" (Vopo)* force in Eastern Germany is approxi-
mately 19 years of age, was born and raised in the area
now comprising the Soviet Zone, receiving elementary
school education of eight years’ duration, and—partly
because of his youth—has had no previous military or
police experience.

His specific reasons for leaving his unit to seek political
sanctuary in West Berlin vary to a great degree but
strong, complementary admixtures of fear on the one hand
and an incurable hunger for political and personal free-
dom on the other are to be numbered among the promi-
nent elements which influenced his decision to desert.

In the great majority of cases this average defector,
by his own admission, was “fed up’—on a variety of
specific grounds—with life as a member of a ‘'prepared-
ness unit" or “Bereitschaft," Soviet-sponsored and trained
military force which nominally passes as a sub-division
of the East German police organization.

Before he came into free Berlin, the typical deserter
planned his escape fairly carefully. Dressed in civilian
clothes and unarmed, he crossed into Berlin's western
sectors during daylight hours, traveling usually on foot
and reporting to a west-sector police station, either by
day or night, within a few hours of his arrival.

Often he came with two or three comrades with whom
he had conspired, while still a member of a Bereitschaft
unit, to lay plans for a successful journey across the line.

RECENT SURVEY released by Public Affairs Division

of Berlin Element-HICOG also shows that he is single;
held the rank of private in the Vopo; is the son of a poor
laborer or small farmer; and was a member of the East
German police-army for about 14 months on the average.
However, there are extreme fringe examples of defectors
who have served as little as eight days or as long as
27 or 28 months. Some have been members since the
Vopo was organized early in 1949,

Deserters are crossing into West Berlin at the rate of
four or five daily, the survey indicates. The monthly rate
of flow in the first six months of 1951 has been nearly
50 percent greater than the average for the last half of
1950, reaching a high of 137 in May of this year.

The ratio of women deserters to men is about one to
10. Like their male counterparts, the female Vopos bring
with them into West Berlin little beside the civilian
clothes in which they are dressed, their service documents
and identification papers. Very few defectors decide to
sever relations with their organizations on the spur of
the moment, without previous planning or preparation.

On the contrary, in the average case the move has
been planned for days or weeks. Civilian clothing has
been stored with friends or relatives, to be donned at

* “Vopo" is the name commonly applied to the "'Volkspolizei‘’ or a
member of that organization. The term is drawn from the first two
letters of each half of the combined German words, ‘Volks (people's)
and “Polizei (police).

AUGUST 1951

59

the appointed moment. West Berlin's accessibility and the
ease with which its 93-mile boundary can be crossed
make it the obvious and logical choice as a destination.

A few deserters tried to cross the Iron Curtain border
separating East from West Germany, found it too difficult
or dangerous, then returned to enter West Berlin.

F THE 1,400 OR 1,500 ex-members of the “people's

police” still in West Berlin, only a handful signed up
for Vopo duty freely and voluntarily. The pressure exerted
upon them took a wide range of forms, and varied broadly
in degree. Some, unemployed or unable to make ends
meet in civilian life, were forced to join because of eco-
nomic need. Others were given the choice of duty with
the Vopo or labor service in one or other of the East
zone's uranium mines.

A third group includes graduates of the FDJ, East Ger-
many’s Communist German youth organization. Sold on
the merits of the Vopo as a long-term occupation while
in the FDJ, most of these say that they were subsequently
disillusioned, learning after they had signed on for three-
year periods of service that they were not members of
a police force, but soldiers in a mercenary army.

A very small minority of deserting Vopos state that
they were regularly recruited, and of these nearly all
advance disillusionment with Communism, or with Vopo
life, as a reason for defection. Some deserters say they
tried to obtain valid discharges before becoming refugees,
and many admit that they arranged to have their govern-
ment-issue clothing and equipment sent back to their
units—normally by mail.

Uniforms and equipment are returned to avoid their
being branded as thieves, defectors say.

Specific aspects of Bereitschaft life commonly named
as reasons for deserting include the following: Too much
Communist political indoctrination; former residence in
Western Berlin or Western Germany, a fact which auto-
matically draws suspicion from spy-conscious officers and
enlisted agitators; failure of the “people's police’ hier-
archy to fulfill pre-enlistment promises relating to leave,
promotion, etc.; and harsh discipline, with a day in a
unit guardhouse an ordinary punishment for returning an
hour late from leave or pass.

Defectors who have sought asylum in West Berlin,
during the last two months cite a new general order
— No. 201-—- under which Vopos with relatives in West
Berlin or the German Federal Republic can be discharged.
Existence of west-resident relatives is checked through
spies, by examining mail and in other ways.

EADING MATERIAL AVAILABLE to the average de-
fector during his service with the Vopo is restricted
mostly to political pamphlets and magazines, and Com-
munist-licensed newspapers. Indoctrination classes, discus-
sions, newspaper-reading sessions and self-study courses
occupy three to five hours of his day, week in and week

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
out, filling him to surfeit with two major themes: the
benevolence and intrinsic superiority of the Communist
system and the destructive, extravagant nature of the
monopoly-capitalist order.

It is a major ideological offense, punishable as a crime,
for the Vopo rank and file to be found in possession of
western originated literature, or to be discovered listening
to RIAS (American-sponsored radio station in Berlin) or
other western stations.

Estimates of the monthly cost of written propaganda
to the Vopo enlisted man averagé approximately 40 East
marks,* about one-sixth of the private’s cash pay. These
funds are paid out “voluntarily,” after the fashion of
Nazi-sponsored welfare collections. Other “voluntary”
contributions are taken up for the Korea aid fund and
similar special projects.

In addition to purchased material, the Vopo is required
to read pamphlets such as the anti-American “Atomkraft
und Atomkrieg" (atom power and atom warfare), biog-
raphies of Stalin, statements and speeches by top figures
in the “German democratic republic," and eulogies of new
agricultural or industrial developments within the DDR
— all of them distributed free of charge by Vopo agi-
tators, and passed from hand to hand in small groups.

HE TYPICAL VOPO is discriminated against both in

relation to his own officers and to the Red Army,
with which he trains periodically. Vopo officers, receiv-
ing salaries ranging from about 580 East marks for a
“Kommissar," or first lieutenant, to 1,500 marks or more
for an “Inspekteur,” the equivalent of a colonel or briga-
dier general, are taxed proportionately less with each step
up the ladder of rank.

Officers, according to many defectors, eat in closed
dining rooms to which enlisted men are not admitted.
When lower ranks complain about their food, individual
officers sometimes come and eat with them to prove that
the food is edible. Grumblers are sometimes punished
with periods of detention.

Nearly all Bereitschaft defectors believe that the disci-
pline they were subject to was too harsh, that officers
received a better grade of food than the men, that the
supply of food for lower grades was subject to a large
degree to the commander's personal whims, and that the
commander was the best-fed man in the unit.

Meat, formerly provided for force members every other
day, is now never seen in some units, having been largely
teplaced by fish as a menu item. Menus calling for daily
quotas of staple items for each man—3.87 ounces of meat,
2.46 ounces of butter, 1.65 pounds of bread, etc.—are no
longer met anywhere, ex-members say.

Soviet officers wearing “‘people’s police’ uniforms act
as aides to the commanders of Bereitschaft units, which
normally number 1,600 to 1,800 men. Assigned officially
as “liaison personnel between the Vopo and the Red
Army, the Soviet officers actually supervise the entire
range of functions performed.

* An East mark, used in the Soviet Zone, has an exchange value of
five to one Deutsche mark of the German Federal Republic. The
Deutsche mark is worth 23.8 cents in US currency.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

60

As a result the typical Bereitschaft deserter has re-
ceived training according to a purely Red Army pattern,
sometimes with Red Army units. In recent months he
has been issued standard Soviet arms of all types to a
steadily increasing degree, and believes that Red Army
weapons will soon replace the old German army and other
weapons used generally in Vopo training in earlier days,
as the East-German Bereitschaft units progressively lose
all semblance of a police force.

Distaste for a career as a Soviet mercenary has thus
gained in recent months as a reason for desertion.

N AVERAGE DEFECTOR, arriving in West Berlin, has

formed no specific plans for the future, though about
one man in every 10 requests permission to join the
west-sector police force. He is universally relieved that
he has been able to leave his unit without detection. Even
when he learns—as many do—that he will be unable to
acquire the status of a political refugee, he expresses
satisfaction with his lot.

Difficulties preventing the grant of political refugee
status to more than a scattering of former Vopo personnel
stem from the requirement—applied without exception to
all refugees—of proving that definite, immediate danger
to life or limb prompted the flight.

Approximately 12 percent of the defectors are able to
adduce this type of proof. The remaining 88 percent accept
the asylum offered to all persons fleeing from Communist
oppression and terror. Most of them live with ordinary

. refugees in one of Berlin's 35 city-operated refugee camps,

where they receive food and shelter.

Regarding the effect of desertions on the morale of
“people's police’ who remain with the force, defectors
cite their own cases as examples, pointing out that all
the men in a given unit know that some of their former
comrades have departed and have secured asylum in the
West. They agree that the resultant deleterious effect on
morale is serious.

None of them has yet claimed that he will be the last
man to seek freedom in the West; a significant proportion,
on the other hand, state that conditions in the Bereit-
schaften are worsening, not improving, and that today’s
deserters will be followed by hundreds, perhaps thousands
more from the East-German army.

* * *

Correct “Vopo” Terminology

The following was issued recently by the Office of the
US Commander, Berlin, for information and guidance:

A certain amount of difficulty has arisen concerning the
correct terminology to be applied to members of the East
German police force, the so-called “ Volkspolizei" (people's
police).

To clarify any misapprehensions that may exist on this
subject, it is noted that difficulties result from continued
reference to members, units and activities of the HVA
(Hauptverwaltung fuer Ausbildung, or Main Administra-
tion for Training) as members, units or activities of the
“people's police’ organization. Such references conceal
the real nature and significance of the HVA as opposed
to the HVDVP (Hauptverwaltung fuer Deutsche Volks-

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 62 ---
polizei, or Main Administration for German People’s
Police). The former is actually an army in being, while
the latter is a legitimate police force.

In view of the foregoing, it is pointed out that distinc-
tions may be made between the various branches of the
roof organization, termed by East German authorities the
“Volkspolizei,” on the following basis:

HVA (Hauptverwaltung fuer Ausbildung), the over-all
administrative and command headquarters of the Soviet-
sponsored East German Army;

HVDVP (Hauptverwaltung fuer Deutsche Volkspolizei),
the East German law-enforcement agency;

HVSP (Hauptverwaltung fuer Seepolizei, or Main Admin-
istration for Sea Police), the over-all administrative and
command head of the Soviet-sponsored East German
Navy;

HVLP (Hauptverwaltung. fuer Luftpolizei, or Main Ad-
ministration for Air Police), the administrative and com-
mand headquarters of the Soviet-sponsored East German
Air Force. +END

Propaganda “Protest” Answered by HICOG

N REPLY TO A LETTER from Dr. Erich Frenzel of

Munich, protesting the proposed enlargement of a US
Army training area in Bavaria, the following letter has
been written at the request of the US High Commissioner
by Staff Secretary Eric G. Gration.

Dr. Frenzel signed his protest letter as a representative
of the Bavarian State Committee for Carrying Out the
Popular Referendum against Remilitarization.

Text of Mr. Gration's reply follows:

“Mr. McCloy has requested me to reply to your letter
of June 3rd.

“Your membership in a large number of the groups
specially created as ‘front’ organizations for the KPD,
ranging from the Helmut von Gerlach Gesellschaft (So-
ciety) through the Landesausschuss Bayern zur Durch-
fuehrung der Volksbetragung gegen Remilitarisierung
(Bavarian State Committee for Carrying Out the Popular
Referendum against Remilitarization), plus the fact that
your secretary (if not yourself) is a known member of the
KPD, do not lead me to believe that your letter of June
3rd was written for any purpose other than Communist
propaganda aims, and also lead me to believe that you
would only utilize any reply from me or Mr. McCloy for
the same purpose.

American-German co-operation is an actuality in Hesse.
Here, Dr. James R. Newman, US state commissioner, dis-
cusses welfare activities with Wiesbaden leaders. L.-r. are
Emil Jallouk, Wiesbaden senior district resident officer;
Mrs, H. H. Redlhammer, wife of the Wiesbaden mayor;
Dr. Newman; Mrs. F. R. Upthegrove, wife of the com-
manding general, Wiesbaden Military Post, and Mayor

Redihammer. (PRB OLCH photo)

AUGUST 1951

61

“Therefore, since your letter is not written with’ the
aim of possibly reaching an understanding concerning,
or better comprehension of, the problem which you have
raised, I see no point in attempting to tell you facts about
it which the KPD would never allow you to believe.

“T would like to point out, however, that the size and
extent of training areas in western Germany is hardly
comparable to the tremendous areas under requisition by
Soviet forces in the smaller Soviet Zone of Occupation,
where Soviet forces apart from Volkspolizei (people's
police) military cadres, occupy at least 10 large training
areas ranging in size from 100 square kilometers to 600
square kilometers (24,711 to 147,466 acres). In addition
numerous smaller training areas, located near the per-
manent Kasernen (barracks) are in constant use through-
out the entire year.

“From early spring through late fall when Soviet troops
are engaged in large-scale exercises in the field training
areas practically no farming is permitted whatsoever. In
many instances whole farming communities have been
evacuated to satisfy the training space requirements of
the Soviet army.

“Furthermore, German farmers in large sections of the
country outside the training areas must often harvest
their crops early in the fall before they are fully matured
or else run the risk of having them destroyed by Soviet
units during the final large-scale exercises during which
Soviet forces maneuver over most of the zone. These
farmers are, on the one hand, afraid to register protests,
while on the other hand the Eisler-controlled press is
under instructions to make no mention of damage done
to farmlands by Soviet troops.

“At such time as your ‘Committee,’ or other Communist-
sponsored groups like it, is ready also to raise questions
concerning the massive military power assembled in the
Soviet Zone, about the establishment of German military
cadres under the direction of the DDR's Hauptverwaltung
fuer Ausbildung (Main Administration for Training), or
about the covert production of military arms and equip-
ment in the Soviet Zone, I will be very happy to discuss
with you or other Communist sympathizers the charges
raised by your letter of June 3rd. At that point there
should be no difficulty in convincing you of the very
modest character of the training needs of the United
States forces as they are put forward in West Germany."

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
Washington Report

Culture, Russian Brand

Culture, which the Russians constantly extol as a prod-
uct of their system, is a political weapon. Like all else
in the Soviet Union and the Soviet Zone, music, art and
literature must serve to extend the ideas of the men in
the Kremlin or be consigned to oblivion.

Two examples of Soviet “culture” have recently come
to light. A foaming campaign against American jazz and
boogie-woogie is being carried on in eastern Germany.
Russia is trying to utilize the fact that the Germans are
a nation.of music lovers and have produced some of the
world's greatest composers to place America in a bad
light by calling attention to its popular music

America is poisoning Germany with the “seditious” use
of jazz, we find. A series of articles in Neues Deutschland
(SED newspaper in East Berlin) based on the “findings”
of German and Russian composers and musicians says:

“Through boogie-woogie the poison of Americanism is
penetrating the minds of the working people and threatens
to paralyze them. A mudflood of boogie-woogie has been
unleashed on the German people and even our German
democratic republic has not remained unaffected. It would
be wrong to underestimate the dangerous role of Ameri-
can jazz music in the preparation for war.”

How this can prepare for war is not explained by the
erudite Communist journal. It does try to show, however,
that only in the eastern zone is there true culture and
peacefulness and light. Its readers are told that Bach,
Beethoven, Brahms and Wagner are “the national inherit-
ance of the new German (meaning Communist) republic.”

What is so carefully overlooked is that, while Ameri-

»cans and other people like jazz, they also play more of
the traditional German classical composers than any
other people. Since this is true, as the turn of the knob
of any radio will reveal, then, according to the Soviet
reasoning, America must also be the most peaceful
country.

Another aspect of Soviet enlightenment is the per-
manent theft of thousands of paintings from German art
galleries. Not long ago the Russians thundered against
the exhibition of German paintings in America. But these
were all returned. Moscow has refused to honor The
Hague convention which prohibits the removal of art
works, and has now announced they will be kept. Alto-
gether there are 920,000 objects of art involved.

Culture to the Russians is not an end in itself for the
benefit of the people, but a means to a political end—
from Cleveland Plain Dealer, June 6, 1951.

Progress Report

The Organization for European Economic Cooperation,
in its third annual report on activities under the Marshall
Plan, has drawn a heartening picture of what has been
achieved to date and what the 18 participating nations

INFORMATION BULLETIN

62

hope to accomplish in the immediate ‘future. Our —
American aid obviously has been well invested. With _
$11,000,000,000 of it, as the report points out, the recipient i
countries have already earned $29,000,000,000 more in q
real income — a development that has played a tremen-
dous role in restoring the West to the kind of vigor and — :
strength it must have to cope with the threat of Red
aggression.

Moreover, this additional real income has in turn been
largely reinvested to create new wealth — new plants,
new equipment and new agricultural and industrial enter-
prises designed to expand production and promote steadi-
ly rising living standards. In the process the free European
economies have been moving closer and closer toward
a self-supporting basis in terms of ability to balance
imports with exports. Thus, according to the OEEC report,
in 1947 the countries now in the Marshall Plan imported
vitally needed American goods costing $8,000,000,000
more than they could pay for, but now that huge ‘dollar
gap" — which a few years ago represented a grave crisis
in the Western world — has been reduced to about
$1,000,000,000.

Dangerous world tensions and the need to rearm have
lately forced the OEEC countries to divert a lot more of
their resources to defense. But in their report they have ©
emphasized their resolve to do everything possible to
build up military strength and at the same time prevent
a setback in the steady recovery of their civilian econ-
omies.

To that end, they have drawn up a 10-point program —
of action aimed at achieving, among other things, effective
control of inflation, reduction of-trade barriers, increased
production of key materials in Europe and overseas, fair —
distribution and efficient use of scarce commodities,
greater farm output, and a substantial boost in produc-
tivity per man-hour of labor.

Our Economic Cooperation Administration, which ad-
ministers the Marshall Plan, has repeatedly made the
point that the participating countries, if they act vigor-
ously and together — with vision and determination — —
can expand their agricultural and industrial production
by $100,000,000,090 a year between now and 1961. That —
is a great goal for them to strive for, and the program ~
outlined in the OEEC report constitutes a good. step
toward it. If they do what they say they hope to do, then
Western Europe can look forward to a continuing advance ~
toward both prosperity and security—from Washington
Evening Star, June 19, 1951. + END ©

Berlin Employment at Two-Year High 7
Employment figures for West Berlin for June reached ~
their highest point in two years, totaling 889,703 on June
30. The figure, covering all persons gainfully employed
in the western sectors, represented an increase of 1,897 —
over employment totals registered at the end of May.
The rise in employment was partially offset by an in- —
crease in the west sectors’ labor force. Unemployment
decreased by 583 persons, with unemployment totals drop-
ping to 286,161 by June 30.

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 64 ---
Declaration of Friendship
Resolution Adopted by US Congress

HE HISTORIC AND ABIDING friendship of the Ameri-

can people for all other peoples” was reaffirmed by
the US Congress in a concurrent resolution adopted by
the House of Representatives on June 26 by a vote of
349 to six after similar approval by the Senate.

“The American people," the resolution declares, “deeply
regret the artificial barriers that separate them from the
people of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and
which keep the Soviet peoples from learning the desires
of the American people to live in friendship with all other
peoples.”

President Truman embodied the resolution in a letter
July 7 to Nikolai M. Shvernik, president of the Presidium
of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, asking that the Soviet
peoples be acquainted with the contents of this resolution
of friendship passed by the US Congress.

But 10 days passed and there was no indication that
even a courteous recognition had been extended by the
Soviet Union to the letter of the President of the United
States and any effort had been made to inform the peoples
of the Soviet Union of the expression of friendship from
the people of the United States.

The Voice of America, the powerful radio broadcast of
the US Government for describing the principles and
opinions of the Americans to the world, called attention
to the fact that the Soviet Government had thus far
ignored President Truman’s request. VOA stressed in all
its Russian-language broadcasts the number of days that
had elapsed since the President forwarded the friendship
resolution to Mr. Shvernik.

The failure of the Soviet Union officials to transmit the
text of the resolution to the Soviet peoples was not unex-
pected as the American press had already expressed
skepticism that Mr. Truman’s message would ever reach
the Soviet peoples without at least being distorted into
Soviet propaganda. The provisions of the resolution were
too direct and expressive to be interpolated. The text of
the resolution adopted by Congress follows.

HEREAS THE GOAL of the American people is now,
and ever has been, a just and lasting peace; and
“Whereas the deepest wish of our nation is to join
with all other nations in preserving the dignity of man,
and in observing those moral principles which alone lend
meaning to his existence; and
“Whereas, in proof of this, the United States has of-
fered to share all that is good in atomic energy, asking
in return only safeguards against the evil in the atom; and
“Whereas the Congress reaffirms its policy as expressed
in law to continue to exert maximum efforts to obtain
agreements to provide the United Nations with armed
forces as contemplated in the charges and agreements to
achieve universal control of weapons of mass destruc-

AUGUST 1951

63

tion and universal regulation and reduction of armaments,
including armed forces, under adequate safeguards to
protect complying nations against violation and evasion;
and

“Whereas this nation has likewise given of its substance
and resources to help those ravaged by war and poverty;
and

“Whereas terrible danger to all free peoples compels
the United States to undertake a vast program of arma-
ments expenditures; and ’

“Whereas we rearm only with reluctance and would
prefer to devote our energies to peaceful pursuits:

“Now, therefore, be it resolved by the House of Repre-
sentatives (the Senate concurring) that the Congress of °
the United States reaffirm the historic and abiding friend-
ship of the American people for all other peoples, and
declares:

“That the American people deeply regret the artificial
barriers which separate them from the peoples of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and which keep the
Soviet peoples from learning of the desire of the American
people to live in friendship with all other peoples, and
to work with them to advance the idea of human brother-
hood, and

“That the American people believe the Soviet Govern-
ment could advance the cause of peace immeasurably by
removing those artificial barriers, thus permitting the
free exchange of information between our peoples; and

“That the American people and their government desire
neither war with the Soviet Union nor the terrible con-
sequences of such a war; and

“That, although they are firmly determined to defend
their freedom and security, the American people welcome
all honorable efforts to resolve the differences standing
between the United States Government and the Soviet
Government and invite the peoples of the Soviet Union
to cooperate in a spirit of friendship in this endeavor; and

“That the Congress request the President of the United
States to call upon the Government of the Union of the
Soviet Socialist Republics to acquaint the peoples of the
Soviet Union with the contents of this resolution."

N ACCOMPANYING STATEMENT by several con-

gressmen said in part: “The purpose of this resolution
is to ask the Soviet Government to lift the Iron Curtain
so as to inform the Soviet people of the peaceful pur-
poses of the American people and the American Govern-
ment.”

The influential American press immediately took up
the cudgel, agreeing that the free exchange of ideas and
culture suggested in President Truman's letter to the
Soviet Government would “do more than any other

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
single action to put an end to the world’s present grave
tensions." But many of their editorials were tempered
by skepticism.

The New York Herald Tribune said: “It (Mr. Truman's
letter) was, in fact, a dramatic effort to break through the
Iron Curtain with a word of amity and hope for the mil-
lions behind it...

“The Communists have no such difficulties. They bom-
bard the world, including the United States, with their
attempts to distinguish between the ‘ruling circles’ of
‘capitalistic imperialism’ and the ‘peace-loving masses’
and strive to conceal the fraudulency of their approach
by constant reiteration.

“Mr. Malik (Jacob Malik, Soviet delegate to the United
Nations) can complain, and be quoted in the American
press, that his remarks about the ‘peaceful co-existence’
of capitalism and Communism were ‘censored,’ even
though those same remarks were printed in the same
medium. Tass, the Soviet news agency, functions freely
in the West, while a correspondent for the Associated
Press is jailed in Prague.*

“The United States Congress has stated the great truth
that America has only friendship for the peoples of the
USSR and for all the world; that this nation, prepared to
defend liberty, seeks only peace. On that basis rests the
moral and material strength of America.”

HE WASHINGTON POST SAID, in part: ‘The grim

fact is that the imperialistic system centering in
Moscow flourishes on suppression, fear and falsehood. It
cannot permit understanding, good will and the free ex-
change of information between peoples without signing
its death warrant.”

The Baltimore Sun editorialized: “Back of the resolution
is the idea that individuals cannot truly be said to be
friends until they know each other so well that occasional
expressions of anger or resentment cannot damage their
relationship. And this happy state of affairs, as the Presi-
dent implied in his covering letter, can never come to pass
between Russia and the United States while barriers exist
to the friendly exchange of ideas and information.

“We must not, even as we arm, desist from seeking new
ways to break down those barriers, for friendship between
peoples is not measured by what governments say but
rather by how well individuals in one country know and
think of those in another.”

The Washington Evening Star said: ‘There can be no
doubt that the removal of the Iron Curtain would do more
than any other single action to put an end to the world’s
present grave tensions. The Soviet dictatorship, of course,
will take no such step unless and until it makes up its
mind to revolutionize its policy for the better. Still, the
President's challenge, since it tends to put Moscow's
propagandists on the spot, may help a bit to spread a
measure of light through the darkness now engulfing the
masses of Russia and all the satellite lands.”

*% William N. Oatis, AP correspondent in Prague, was arrested
and convicted on spy charges by the Czech Government, an act
described in the US Senate as ‘‘an example of ruthless suppression
of individual freedoms.”*

INFORMATION BULLETIN

64

IHE NEW YORK TIMES, its editorial repeated here in
full, said:

“The Russian government is being asked by the Presi-
dent and Congress of the United States to tell the Russian
people that the people of this country have nothing but
the friendliest feelings toward them. This is the substance
of the McMahon-Bificoff resolution (quoted above) passed
in both houses and sent to Moscow with a letter from
Mr, Truman.

“On the basis of the past record the men in the Kremlin
will not deliver this communication to the many millions
of addressees for whom it is intended. The Moscow gov-
ernment lives by propaganda, not by truth. The very
words of the joint resolution would seem dangerous to
Mr. Stalin and his colleagues. They would find it beneath
their dignity to welcome the statement (in the US resolu-
tion):

““That the American people deeply regret the artificial
barriers which separate them from the peoples of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and which keep the
Soviet peoples from learning the desire of the American
people to live in friendship with all other peoples and to
work with them to advance the ideal of human brotherhood.

“The Soviet Government may reject such messages on
the grounds that they are insincere. After all, Moscow
has its own ‘peace petition,’ according to the terms of
which everybody should disarm but Russia. But the
Kremlin, if it did care to face facts, would find it difficult
to answer the implication in the quoted paragraph that
the ‘artificial barriers’ between the two peoples are not of
American making. There is no hindrance whatever of the
publication in this country of anything the Russian gov-
ernment cares to Say to us. There is plenty of hindrance,
as everybody knows, on messages from this country to
the Russian people.

“We have means, however, of getting this message to
the Russians even though the Kremlin will not deliver it.
Not only the message itself but the sincerity behind it
can be made evident through the Voice of America and
other agencies. Americans regard the Russian people as
unfortunate, just as they might do if Russia were afflicted
by a famine or plague instead of a Soviet government.
But we certainly do not hate the Russians; as the Presi-
dent says, ‘If we can acquaint the Soviet people with the
peace aims of the American people and government there
will be no war.’"

The Voice of America began beaming its series of
broadcasts to Russia in mid-July, pointing out that Mr.
Truman’‘s message to the president of the Soviet Presidium
contained “a simple request." This request, VOA ex-
plained, was “that those who head the Soviet Union
transmit to the people of the Soviet Union a resolution
passed by the elected representatives of the American
people, the Congress, expressing to them the feeling of
friendship."

The initial broadcast added: "The resolution of friend-
ship has appeared in no Soviet newspaper; it has not been
heard on any Soviet radio; nor has any Stalin prize-win-
ning actor stepped to the footlights to read it to his
audience.” -++-END

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 66 ---
Proposal for Terminating State of War
With Germany

Text of President Truman's letter giving to the US Con-
gress the proposal for termination of the state of war
with Germany, is reprinted here. Also given is the text
of the draft resolution to effect this. Congressional action
had not been completed at the time this issue of the
Information Bulletin went to press.

* * *

JHE PROGRESS WHICH has been made in the recov-

ery of Europe and in the strengthening of democratic
institutions there makes it appropriate at this time to end
the status of Germany as an enemy country. Bit by bit
in recent years we have carried out a policy, agreed upon
with our allies, of building up a freely elected German
government, and returning to the German people an in-
creasing degree of-control over their affairs. This policy
has been most successful. As a legal matter, however,
we are still in a state of war with Germany. It therefore
becomes desirable, in pursuance of our policy, to bring
this state of war to an end.

Six years ago, when the wartime Allies achieved com-
plete victory over Germany, the country was destitute
and there was no effective German government. Allied
control was the only way to manage the prostrate country.
We went forward with a clearly stated policy which
anticipated that after a period of Allied occupation and
reconstruction we would be able, together with our allies,
to conclude a treaty of peace with a newly. established
German government — a government truly representative
of the German people, willing to assume its reponsibili-
ties as a member of the world community and anxious to
work with its free neighbors in maintaining the peace and
fostering the prosperity of Europe.

We have never deviated from this policy. Neither have
our British and French allies. Unfortunately for all of us,
however, and especially for the people of Germany,
Soviet Russia has actively prevented the growth of a
representative democratic government in a unified Ger-
many, and has thus made impossible for the time being
the arrangement of a final peace settlement. The Soviet
effort has been, instead, to cut the eastern third of Ger-

many away from the rest of the country and to develop
it as a province of the new Soviet empire.

As it became plain that we could not expect Soviet
cooperation in rebuilding all of Germany as a self-respect-
ing, democratic and peaceful nation, we were forced to
change our approach. The ultimate fulfillment of our
German policy had been delayed but we were determined
to do all we could to advance that policy in the part of
Germany under our control. We were joined in our ef-
forts by the British and French governments. Together
with them, we gave the German people under our juris-
diction the chance to create their own government.

Now, approximately two-thirds of the area of prewar
Germany and. three-fourths of the German people are
free of Soviet control, within the present borders of the
German Federal Republic. The government of the Federal
Republic rests on a democratic constitution worked out
by representatives of the people themselves and approved
by the Western Occupying Powers. Since its birth in
September 1949, this German government has. shown
steadily increasing responsibility and readiness to take
its place in the community of free nations and to do its
share toward: building peaceful and cooperative relation-
ships with its neighbors of the west.

N THEIR SIDE, the Occupying Powers have shown

faith in the German people and in the Government
of the Federal Republic by a continuing process of relax-
ing occupation controls on the one hand and increasing
the scope of the Federal Republic government's responsi-
bility on the other. This process has been accompanied
by a changing attitude on both sides, The relationship of
conqueror and conquered is being replaced by the rela-
tionship of equality which we expect to find among free
men everywhere.

Last September, the governments of Great Britain,
France and the United States took another step in har-
mony with their developing policy when they joined in
the following statement ‘regarding continuation of a state
of war with Germany.

with respect to any such property or interest.

Text of Draft Resolution
To Terminate the State of War between the United States and the Government of Germany

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled, that the state of war
declared to exist between the United States and the Government of Germany by the joint resolution of Congress approved
Dec. 11, 1941, shall be terminated and such termination shall take effect on such date as the President shall by proclamation designate:

Provided, however, that notwithstanding this resolution and such proclamation by the President, any property or interest which
prior to Jan. 1, 1947, was subject to vesting or seizure under the provisions of the Trading with the Enemy Act of Oct. 6, 1917
(40 Stat. 411), as amended, or which has heretofore been vested or seized under that act, including accruals to or proceeds
of any such property or interest, shall continue to be subject to the provisions of that act in the same manner and to the same
extent as if this resolution had not been adopted and such proclamation had not been issued. Nothing herein and nothing in
such proclamation shall alter the status, as it existed immediately prior hereto, under that act, of Germany or of any person

AUGUST 1951

65

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
“In the spirit of the new relationship which they wish to
establish with the Federal Republic, the three governments
* have decided, as soon as action can be taken in all three
countries in accordance with their respective constitutional
requirements, to take the necessary steps in their domes-
tic legislation to terminate the state of war with Germany.
“This action will not affect the rights and status of
the three powers in Germany, which rest upon other
bases. It will, however, create a firmer foundation for
the developing structure of peaceful and friendly relation-
ships and will remove disabilities to which German na~-
tionals are subject. It is hoped that other nations will
find it possible to take similar action in accordance with
their own constitutional practices.”

In this statement, our government and the governments
of the other Western Occupying Powers clearly recog-
nized the desirability of bringing the existing technical
state of war to a close, and pledged themselves to take
action in collaboration with one another to that end. Since
this declaration was issued, discussions have been held
with the other friendly countries who are also in a technical
state of war with Germany, and most of them have indi-
cated their willingness to take similar action in the near
future, thus lifting Germany from its present enemy status.

NDING THE STATE OF WAR with Germany will

have many tangible benefits. Germans who wish to
travel or do business here will receive the status accorded
to nationals of other friendly governments. They will no
longer be classed as enemies. While Germans have been
permitted to have commercial relations with this country
since the Presidential proclamation of Dec. 31, 1946, de-
claring hostilities at an end, German citizens are still
subject to certain disabilities, particularly with respect
to suits in United States courts. General disabilities of
this kind will be eliminated by the termination of the
present state of war.

The termination of the state of war with Germany will
not affect the status of the occupation. The rights of the
Occupying Powers do not rest upon the existence of a
state of war, as such, and will not be affected by its legal
termination. The rights of the Occupying Powers result
from the conquest of Germany, accompanied by the dis-
integration and disappearance of its former government,
and the Allied assumption of supreme authority. We are
not surrendering these rights by terminating the state of
war. We do intend, however, in agreement with our allies,
to grant the Federal Republic increasing authority over
its own affairs, and eventually to see Germany restored
as a fully sovereign nation.

Similarly, the termination of the state of war will not
affect in any way the rights or privileges, such as the
right to reparations, which the United States and its
citizens have acquired with respect to Germany as. a
result of the war.

'URTHERMORE, IT IS not intended that the termina-
tion of the state of war shall in any way change or
alter the program, which Congress has authorized, of seiz-
ing, under the Trading with the Enemy Act, German

INFORMATION BULLETIN

66

property in this country on or before Dec. 31, 1946, and
using the proceeds to pay just and legitimate claims aris-
ing from the war in accordance with the War Claims Act
of 1948. The vesting of German property under this pro-
gram does not extend to property acquired since the
resumption of trade with Germany on Jan. 1, 1947, fol-
lowing the cessation of hostilities. It is limited to German
property and rights located here before or during the
period of hostilities.

Most of this German property has already been identi-
fied and vested. This government does not intend to
embark on any new program in this field. However, some
of the property already subject to vesting is believed to.
be cloaked or hidden and not yet discovered, and some
is still under examination or subject to legal proceedings.
Most of the property remaining unvested is involved in
problems of conflicting jurisdiction between this and other
governments, which are in the process of settlement by
negotiation under authority of legislation which was
enacted in September of last year.

Should the vesting power lapse immediately, this gov-
emment would find it difficult to wind up this program
in an orderly way, or to carry out its commitments for
the equitable settlement of intergovernmental differences ©
relating to enemy property. .

Completion of the vesting of wartime enemy property,
even after the conclusion of peace, is commonly accepted
practice in connection with the settlement of claims be-
tween the nations which were at war. Our peace treaties
with Bulgaria, Hungary, Rumania and Italy all authorize
the continued vesting and retention of such property.

In the absence of treaty provisions, however, there may
be legal obstacles to the continued vesting of German ,
property, after the termination of the state of war, unless
there are changes in our existing statutes. According to
the terms of the Trading with the Enemy Act, many of
its powers expire at the ‘end of the war,’ a phrase which
the act defines to mean the date of proclaiming the ex-
change of ratifications of a treaty of peace, or an earlier.
date fixed by Presidential proclamation. There is some
doubt that the vesting powers of the Trading with the
Enemy Act can be exercised after termination of the state
of war, unless expressly provided for in new legislation.

This doubt should be eliminated, and it should be made
clear that the Congress intends the vesting of German
property for the purpose of paying war claims to continue:

In this circumstance, I believe that the best method
for terminating the stale of war with Germany would be
by the enactment of appropriate legislation in advance
of the issuance of a Presidential proclamation.

Such action will give the German people a new demon-
stration of our desire to help bring them back to member-
ship among nations of the free world. It will represent
another and logical step on the road which leads toward
the eventual restoration of German independence. . "

I will appreciate it if you will lay this matter before the
Congress for its consideration. For the convenience of the
Congress I am attaching a draft of a joint resolution that
would be appropriate to achieve these objectives. + END

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 68 ---
Alt opening ceremony of German Choral League's first Gala parade through streets of Frankfurt was a-highlight

postwar song festival, German national anthem is sung of five-day song festival staged in the Hessian capital
by Mrs. John J. McCloy, President Theodor Heuss (third in mid-June. All singers participated in march. German
from right), Frankfurt's Mayor W. Kolb and packed hall. Choral League gave 40 concerts. (PKD HICOG photos)

First Postwar Song Festival in Frankfurt

bis

State Commissioner George N. Shuster (left) looks on as Truman Hall, new information center, was opened recent-
Elmer Falk, deputy Europe coordinator for US Displaced ly to serve DPs. Hungarians, eight and 11, give outline
Persons Commission, cuts tape at Truman Hall, Munich. of US history before President's portrait. (PRB OLCB photos)
First exchange trip to Finland in 12 years was arranged Twenty-three teen-agers prepare to leave Wiesbaden for
by Dr, Arthur Kalischeck and Mrs. Gertrud Degener. Helsinki and vacations in Finland. (PRB OLCH photos)

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 69 ---
Reorganization of Germany's Iron
And Steel Industries

First Orders Issued Transferring Assets to New Companies

The reorganization of the German iron
and steel industry entered on a new and
its most important phase July 10 when the
Combined Steel Group of the Allied High
Commission issued the first orders under
Allied High Commission Law No. 27 trans-
ferring iron and steel assets from their pres-
ent concern owners to new unit companies.

Under these orders property was trans-
ferred from Vereinigte Stahlwerke A.G.,
the largest iron and steel concern in west-
ern Germany, to four unit companies:

1, Rheinische Roehrenwerke A.G.

2. Huettenwerke Ruhrort-Meiderich A.G.

3. Gusstahlwerk Witten A.G.

4. Gusstahlwerk Oberkassel A.G,

In addition, property owned by Otto
Wolff, Cologne, was transferred to Stahl-
werke Bochum A.G.

These five companies are the first of the
24 companies whose formation is scheduled
in Regulation No. 6 of Law 27, of which 13
will be derived wholly or in part from assets
of Vereinigte Stahlwerke. Additional as-
sets may also be transferred subsequently
to the new unit companies. These addition-
al assets may include iron ore, colliery,
processing and finishing and commercial
assets where appropriate in any particular
case.

Rapid progress in the creation of the xe-
maining iron and steel unit: companies is
expected, It is anticipated that approxi-
mately five or six companies will be cre-
ated each month.

The five companies which acquired as-
sets on July 10 have been in existence since
1947 when they were created by action of
British Military Government. Hitherto they
have operated assets which were the sub-
ject of the July 10 transfer and from July 10
forward they became sole owners of such
assets. Valuation studies are in progress
in each of the companies and when these
studies have been completed the companies
will be finally capitalized. Before that date
the companies will authorize an interim in-
crease in capital at general meetings sched-
uled to be held in the coming week. At the
same time they will adopt new articles of
incorporation (statutes) embodying stand-
ards designed to facilitate future independ-
ence and healthy competitive status for
them.

The ultimate composition of the super-
visory boards of the companies will conform
to the federal Government law on co-deter-
mination. It is expected that composition
of the new boards will be resolved in the
next few weeks. At the same time the
shares of the companies will be transfer-
red to the newly-to-be appointed trustees
for each company who will serve as stock-
holders of the company pursuant to Ger-
man law. The High Commission in May
informed the Federal Government that the
shares of the companies would eventually
be distributed to private owners.

Recent Policy Decisions

Developments of Allied High Commis-
sion policy for the reorganization of the
German coal and iron and steel industries

INFORMATION BULLETIN

are summarized in four memoranda pub-
lished July 17.

The memoranda record:

1, The High Commission's decision that
the shares in the new unit companies to
be formed under the reorganization plan
will be distributed to private persons. This
does not prejudice the legal right of the
federal legislature to determine at any time
the principles of ownership of the industries.

2. The High Commission's agreement to
the Federal Government's request for tex-
tual changes in Regulation No.6 under Law
No. 27. The regulation, published in the
Official Gazette No. 54 dated May 9, pro-
vides for the immediate creation of 24 iron
and steel unit companies from the existing
complex of the industry.

3. The granting by the High Commission
of the Federal Government's request for
changes in the statutes (articles of incorpo-
ration) of the new unit iron and steel com-
panies.

4, The High Commission's decision, in
accordance with the views expressed by
the Federal Government to release entirely
from control under Law No. 27 the 36 coal
companies listed in Schedule “'C” of the
law as being available for inclusion in the
reorganization. Plans produced so far had
envisaged using 20 of the companies in the
reorganization. These 20 companies pro-
duce 31 percent of Western Germany's hard
coal; now, the 36 companies will be free
to take part in the reorganization on a
voluntary basis or to remain outside the
scheme altogether.

Correspondence on these matters from
the High Commission to the Federal Govern-
ment has emphasized that this reorganiza-
tion must proceed without delay. For its
part, the Federal Government has expressed
complete agreement with and its desire to
promote the objectives of Law 27.

* Ok Ok

Memorandum No. 1

Distribution of Shares of the New Unit
Companies

Law No. 27 provides that the assets of
the new coal and iron and steel companies
which are to be set up as a result of re-
organization shall initially be transferred
to and held by approved trustees.

In this connection, the High Commission,
by letter dated May 24, 1951, informed the
federal chancellor that:

“Regarding the problem of ownership of
iron, steel and coal industries... (the High
Commission) ... has decided that the shares
of the new companies will be distributed to
private persons as and when the new com-
panies are formed. The aim of this distri-
bution will be to assure the claimants af-
fected by the reorganization measure of
just and appropriate compensation. The dis-
tribution will be carried out in such a way
as to avoid the reconstitution of excessive
concentration of economic power, and to
exclude those persons deemed to be dis-
qualified under the provisions of Law 27.
The Allied High Commission will give the

68

Federal Government prior notice of each
such proposed distribution."

It is officially stressed that this decision
does not detract in any way from the rights
of any federal legislature to determine the
eventual ownership of the industries. The
preamble to Allied High Commission Law
No. 27 states that ‘the question of the
eventual ownership of the coal and iron
and steel industries should be left to the
determination of a representative, freely-
elected German government."

Procedure for distribution of the shares
is at present under consideration by the
High Commission.

x Ok Ok
Memorandum No. 2

Changes in Regulation No. 6
Of High Commission Law 27
Federal Government's Objections

The federal economics minister, at a meet-
ing with the Allied economic advisers on
May 23, expressed the Federal Government's
various objections to Regulations 6 and 7,
in particular:

1. That the preamble to Regulation No. 6
indicated, incorrectly, that the Federal
Government had proposed the reorganiza-
tion procedure described in this and other
regulations.

2. That Article 2 of Regulation No.6 con-
ferred on the Allied Combined Steel Group
arbitrary and unlimited powers to issue
orders.

3. That Article 2, Paragraph 1, of Regu-
lation No. 7, gave the Combined Steel
Group complete control over the trustees
holding the shares of the unit companies.

4, That Paragraph 2 of Article 4 of Regu-
lation No.7 (which provides that the trus-
teeship shall be terminated and the trus-
tees discharged pursuant to orders of the
Combined Steel Group) implies an indefin-
ite continuance of Allied control over the
new companies,

Views of the High Commission

The views of the High Commission on
these objections were expressed at the
meeting by the economic advisers and were
later confirmed in letters from the High
Commission to the federal chancellor sent
on May 24 and June 8.

The preamble to Regulation No. 6, it was
stated, was intended to make it clear that in
the implementation of Law No. 27 the High
Commission was adopting the compromise
proposals proposed by the Federal Govern-
ment and accepted by the High Commission.
The preamble was not meant in any way to
alter the fact that the implementation of
Law 27 was a High Commission responsi-
bility. However, to meet the views of the
Federal Government the preamble would be
deleted. (In accordance with this decision
an amendment to Regulation6 will be pub-
lished in the Official Gazette.)

As to Article 2 of Regulation 6 and the
opinion that this conferred on the Steel
Group arbitrary and unlimited powers to

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 70 ---
issue orders, the High Commission stressed
that: “Article 2 merely repeats in slightly
different language the provisions of Ar-
ticle 11 and Paragraph 2 (b) of Article 12
of Law 27, which provide for the issue of
regulations and orders necessary and appro-
priate to carry into effect the purposes of
the law, and designate the Combined Steel
Group as the administrative agency under
the law in matters relating to the iron and
steel industries. This provision of the regu-
lation, like the provisions of the law itself,
is not intended to confer on the Combined
Steel Group any power or authority beyond
that necessary to perform its functions as
the administrative agency for the reorgani-
zation. The Combined Steel Group con-
tinues to be part of the Allied High Com-
mission and subject to its internal regu-
lations and controls. The Federal Govern-
ment will continue to be informed of and
consulted on all major steps to be taken
and it can inform itself on a day to day
basis of the various steps in process by
reason of its liaison with the Steel Trustee
Association. It will continue to be free to
raise any questions for discussion which
it deems appropriate."

Article 2, Paragraph 1 of Regulation 7,
concerning control of the trustees of the
new unit companies by the Combined Steel
Group, is, in the High Commission view,
only a réstatement of Paragraph 4, Article 4
of Law 27, taken in conjunction with Para-
graph 2 (b) of Article 12 of that law. This
control is to be used only as necessary to
carry out the reorganization responsibility
of the High Commission, including its ob-
ligation to protect creditors and stockhold-
ers against the waste of assets in which
they have a claim or interest, pending dis-
tribution of the securities of the new unit
companies.

As to the fear of indefinite continuance
of Allied control, the High Commission
stressed that Paragraph 2 of Article 4 of
Regulation 7 is purely a formal provision.
Upon the distribution of shares the trustees
should, of course, be given a discharge and
the Combined Steel Group is entrusted
with purely administrative tasks. There is
no basis for any fear that this provision
implies an intention to perpetuate the con-
trol of the group any longer than is neces-
sary to fulfill the purposes of Law 27, The
High Commission is determined to cause
the distribution of shares of the new com-
panies as quickly as possible among the
shareholders, and thereafter to terminate
all control over those companies.

The High Commission's letter of May 24,
confirming these views, was signed by
John J. McCloy as chairman High Com-
missioner. The letter ends:

“I particularly wish to emphasize the
importance, from the point of view of the
Allies, the Federal Government and the
enterprises and shareholders concerned, of
completing as quickly as possible the de-
concentration program under . Law 27, in-
cluding the distribution of the shares of
the new companies. Moreover, the Schu-
man Plan presupposes the completion of
the deconcentration under Law 27. That the
High Commission feels it necessary to re-
tain control over the implementation of
Law 27 until its basic objectives are as-
sured has been repeatedly made known to
the Federal Government both in formal com-
munications and in our many informal con-
versations. Since the purpose of the regu-
lations is merely to carry out this process,
in accordance with the terms of Law 27
itself, I do not believe that there can be
any objection of substance to them."

AUGUST 1951

Memorandum No. 3
The Statutes of the New Unit Companies

Draft statutes (or articles of incorpora-
tion) for the new iron and steel companies
were drawn up by the Combined Steel
Group in November 1950, copies being
sent to the Federal Government.

Subsequently, in numerous discussions
and exchanges of letters between the fed-
eral chancellor and the Allied High Com-
mission and between the federal econom-
ics minister and the Allied economic
advisers, the Federal Government view was
expressed, both generally and in detailed
references to various provisions of the
statutes, that they did not sufficiently con-
form to joint stock company practice in
Germany and that they would in some
measure place the German iron and steel
industry ata disadvantage within the frame-
work of the Schuman Plan organization.

In order to dispel the fears of the Federal
Government, the Allied High Commission
has made important modifications to the
statutes.

Referring to these changes, which fall
under 14 headings (see HICOM Official
Gazette for full listing), the chairman High
Commissioner, Andre Francois-Poncet, in
the letter from the High Commission to
the federal chancellor dated June 8, 1951,
stated:

“As modified, the statutes contain only
the bare minimum of provisions essential
to allow the new unit companies to develop
as independent enterprises. Within this
limit, the High Commission has sought to
give full effect to the suggestions of your
representatives.’ The letter adds, in a con-
cluding reference to the discussions which
have taken place concerning the statutes
and the regulations, and to the modifi-
cations which have been agreed to by the
High Commission:

“In view of these facts and of the im-
perative need for speedy action in carry-
ing out Law 27, as recognized by the Fed-
eral Government and by the Bundestag
(federal parliament) in its resolution of
June 6, the High Commission is directing
that immediate action be taken for the
creation of the new unit steel companies
in conformity with the procedure hereto-
fore outlined."

* OK Ok

Memorandum No. 4

Release of Schedule “C’* Companies

Schedule “C" of Allied High Commis-
sion Law 27 for the reorganization of the
German coal und iron and steel industries,
lists 36 coal companies, four public utility
companies with coal interests, and two
iron and steel companies. These companies
were not considered to be excessive con-
centrations of economic power but, under
the terms of the law (Article 2), were list-
ed in Schedule ‘‘C’’ so as to be available
for inclusion in the reorganization scheme
if their owners consented or if the High
Commission determined that their inclu-
sion was essential to accomplish a satis-
factory scheme of reorganization.

The 36 coal companies (list attached):

The Deutsche Kohlen Bergbauleitung
(DKBL) recommended the inclusion of 20
of the 36 companies in the reorganization
scheme for the coal industry. On being
asked for their views about inclusion, 10
of these companies rejected the proposals
and 10 actepted with reservations, the main

69

one being that participation should be on a
voluntary basis through normal German
company law rather than under Law 27.

Subsequently, on May 14, 1951, the Al-
lied High Commission invited the Federal
Government to give its views about the
necessity for inclusion of the Schedule
“C" companies.

The federal chancellor, in a letter dated
June 10, 1951, observed that by 1953 the
output of the companies which had ac-
cepted with reservation would be ap-
proximately 21 percent of the total Ruhr
production. Those which had rejected the
plan contributed only some nine percent
of the total production.

The chancellor's letter continued:

“The Federal Government considers it
advisable to exploit all possibilities for
voluntary participation on this basis, since
it assumes that by this method, too, a
proper and reasonable reorganization of
the coal mining industry could be
achieved."

Referring to the legal aspects of com-
pulsory inclusion, the chancellor stated
that in the view of the Federal Govern-
ment:

“Paragraph 4 of the preamble to Law
No. 27 should be considered only as a
directive for the framing of measures to
be taken in eliminating excessive eco-
nomic power and not sufficient in itself
to justify a compulsory inclusion of the
enterprises listed in Schedule ‘C,' since
it appears very well possible to promote
the recovery of German economy by
resorting to other methods.”

In a letter of reply, sent on July 11,
the High Commission stated:

“As you know, the High Commission
wishes to exercise no greater controls than
are necessary over the German economy.
It considers also that while it must itself
assume responsibility for the deconcen-
tration of the coal and steel industries,.
their general technical and economic im-
provement is primarily a matter for the
Federal Government. In view of these facts
and of the view expressed in your letter
to the effect that the adjustments with
respect to the Schedule ‘C’ companies
deemed necessary for the technical and
economic improvement of the German coal
industry can and should be accomplished
by voluntary action outside the frame-
work of Law 27, the High Commission
has determined to decontrol from that law
the Schedule ‘C’ coal companies remain-
ing thereunder.

“The High Commission wishes to em-
phasize that it in no way opposes the
rearrangements envisaged with respect to
the Schedule ‘C’ companies, but agrees
with the Federal Government that such
rearrangements can more properly take
place by voluntary action than under
Law 27."

Appropriate orders will be issued in the
near future by the Allied High Commis-
sion decontrolling and excluding from Law
27 these 36 Schedule “‘C’ companies.

The four public utility companies:
Among the 42 companies listed in
Schedule ''C’ are four public utility under-
takings possessing coal assets: .
1, Vereinigte Elektrizitaets- und Bergwerke
A.G. (VEBA).
2. Vereinigte Industrie-Unternehmungen
A.G. (VIAG).
3. Vereinigte Elektrizitaetswerke West-
falen A.G,
4, Rheinisches Elektrizitaetswerk A.G.
On June 9, prior to the general decision
on Schedule "'C’' companies, the High

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
Commission informed the federal chancel-
for that it had decided to grant his re-
quest, put forward in letters dated -Jan.
15, Feb. 17 and May 21, that VEBA and
VIAG should be released from control.

In respect of VIAG, the chancellor had
pointed out that title to this enterprise,
which was former Reich property, devolv-
ed upon the federation under Article 134,
Paragraph 7, of the Basic Law, as well as
being not an excessive concentration of
economic power, there were numerous
technical reasons why VIAG was not need-
ed in the reorganization plan.

As to VEBA, the chancellor had pointed
out that the Preussag assets of this com-
pany (Gesamtbergamt Obernkirchen-Bar-
singhausen and Steinkohlen Ibbenbueren)
had already been decontrolled as unneces-
sary in the reorganization plan which now
required only the participation of the as-
sets of the Hibernia Mine, the largest single
mine in Western Germany.

In this connection the chancellor wrote:

“The Federal Government completely a-
grees with the objectives of Law No. 27
and desires to promote these plans. Also
the Federal Government has already stated
that it agrees in principle to the proposals
for the operational and economic reorgani-
zation of the Ruhr coal mining industry
submitted by the DKBL to the Combined
Coal Group. In its capacity of shareholders
of VEBA and thereby of Hibernia too, it is
willing to realize this basic concept of
DKBL with regard to Hibernia, and, with
this objective in view, to exert its in-
fluence on the representative bodies of
Hibernia, to have this company bring about,
through private agreements with the own-
ers of the other enterprises concerned, the
economic conditions aimed at in the DKBL's

take an appropriate commitment vis-a-vis
the Combined Coal Group, and the Federal
Government is prepared to guarantee its
observance,”

As to Vereinigte Elektrizitaetswerke
Westialen A.G.,

The decontrol was announced by the
High Commission in January.

The Rheinisch-Westfaelisches Elektrizi-
taetswerk A.G.

Remains listed under Schedule ‘'C.”
Future of this company has not yet been
decided.

The two
These are:

Roechling Buderus A.G.
Buderus‘sche Eisenwerke.

The companies remain listed under
Schedule “'C."" Their future has not yet
been decided.

iron and steel companies:

* OK Ok

List of 36 Decontrolled Schedule “C”
Coal Companies:

5. Gewerkschaft des Steinkohlenbergwerks
Alter Hellweg.

6. Gewerkschaft Aurora Steinkohlenberg-
werk, .

. Gewerkschaft Cleverbank Steinkohlen-
bergwerk.

. Concordia Bergbau Aktiengesellschaft.

. Deutsche Erdoel-Aktiengeselischaft,
Zechen Graf Bismarck und Koenigs-
grube.

10. Gewerkschaft Elisabethenglueck.

11. Vereinigte Gideon Bergwerks G.M.B.H.

12. Gewerkschaft Hammerbank unter der

on xn

16.

17.
18.

19.
20.

_ 24.
22.

23.
24.

25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.

32,
33,

34,
35.
36.
37.
40.
41,

42.

Gewerkschaft Jupiter Steinkohlenberg-
werk.

Gewerkschaft Vereinigte Klosterbusch,
Gewerkschaft des Steinkohlenbergwer-
kes Langenbrahm.

Bergbau Aktiengesellschaft Lothringen.
Mansfeld A.G. fuer Bergbau und
Huettenbetrieb, Zeche Mansfeld.
Gewerkschaft Neumuehl,
Gewerkschaft des Braunkohlenberg-
werks Neurath.

Gewerkschaft Neuruhrort.
Niederrheinische Bergwerks-Aktienge-
sellschaft.

Gewerkschaft Petrus Segen.
Gewerkschaft Plaetzgesbank.
Gewerkschaft des Braunkohlenberg-
werks Prinzessin Viktoria.

Rheinische Stahlwerke.

Gewerkschaft Rheinland.

Gewerkschaft Steinkohlenbergwerk
Rheinpreussen.

Gewerkschaft Roderburg Zeche Neu-
wuelfingsburg.

Victor Rolff Kommanditgesellschaft.
Gebr. Stumm G.M.B.H. Zeche Minister
Achenbach.

Vereinigungsgesellschaft Rheinischer
Braunkohlenbergwerk m.b.H.

Wilhelm Werhahn, Abteilung Herremer
Brikettfabrik.

Gewerkschaft Westfalen.
Gewerkschaft Wohlverwahrt.
Braunkohlen- und Brikett-Industrie A.G.
(BUBIAG).

Mining Concessions “Ress,” ‘An den
Berkenbergen” and ‘‘Muensterland.”
Preussen A.G. Muelheim.

13.
14,
15,

Stollensohle.

Gewerkschaft Hausbach.

Gewerkschaft Zeche Heinrich,

I.G. Farbenindustrie Aktiengesellschaft

Note: Serial numbers are those given in
Schedule "'C.""

2. Serial No. 15, although decontrolled
under Law 27, remains subject to AHC

proposal — VEBA and Hibernia will under-

in Aufloesung.

Law 35 (Dispersal of I.G, Farben). -+END

International Solution of Problems Urged

HE PROBLEMS OF FREE EUROPE must be solved

from an international background, and not from the
point of view of one or two nations, John J..McCloy,
US High Commissioner for Germany, told a press con-
ference in Bonn July 13 in response to a question about
the status of the Saar. He pointed out that the Saar issue
is a good example of the necessity for international
solutions of problems.

Mr. McCloy stressed the international viewpoint again
in reply to a question about the possibility of a US loan
to Germany in the event of German participation in a
European defense force.

Discussing his recent stay in Washington and meetings
with US congressional committees, he said: “I think that
there is a very general acceptance of the idea that Ger-

many, along with other nations, will be helped to the.

extent that she could show a need for help, for money,
for aid beyond her powers to produce. Certainly, with
Germany as a participant, she would be treated just as
all other members of the Western nations.”

In reply to further questions about the possibility of
the German Federal Republic’s participation in a European
defense force, Mr. McCloy said he hoped a ‘‘practical and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

70

expeditious” solution could be found to the differences
of opinion as to the nature of German participation.

“The US position, as I see it, is in favor of the concept
of a European army, because there again the emphasis
would be on the communalty of Europe,” he said.

He said he did not wish to get involved in the dispute
about the nature of German participation because “I am
on only one side of it."

Referring to the discussions of the Allied-German com-
mittee on the matter, Mr. McCloy said he felt the report
of the committee contained ‘an encouraging basis . . .
to expect that there would not be a revival of sheer
nationalism in terms of military forces.”

Asked if he had any date in mind by which an agree-
ment on the nature of German participation should be
reached, Mr. McCloy replied: ‘No, I can't give you a
deadline. All I can say is that I am convinced it should
be as Soon as possible.”

ECA Authorizes $15,800,000 Purchases
Western Germany received authorizations: to purchase
$15,826,000 worth of Marshall Plan goods during June,
the ECA Special Mission to Western Germany announced.

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 72 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of July 12

The 68th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg July 12. Present were Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner (chairman); Mr. John J. McCloy,
United States High Commissioner, and Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner.

In the course of a study of current
questions, the Council:

1, Approved an amendment to Allied
High Commission Law No. 13, concerning
the Occupation Authorities’ judicial powers
in the reserved fields, The amendment
makes permissive, instead of mandatory as
hertofore, the issue, on request from Ger-
man authorities, of certificates concerning
“the existence, terms, validity or intent of
any order of the Occupation Authorities..."
Such certificates are binding on the German
authorities, Leaving the issue of such certi-
ficates to the discretion of the Occupation
Authorities recognizes that in many cases
the questions involved, can be decided by
German courts without need for an Allied
pronouncement.

2. Agreed to hold its next meeting at the
Petersberg on July 19.

HICOM Meeting of July 19

The 69th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg July 19, Present were Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner (chairman), Mr. John J. McCloy,
United States High Commissioner, and Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner.

The meeting was also attended by the
Berlin commandants, Maj. Gen. G, K.
Bourne (UK), Brig. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson
(US), and General de Brigade P. Carolet
(Fr.), who were accompanied by their
economic advisers,

After a short business meeting, the Coun-
cil adjourned to meet with Vice Chancellor
Franz Bluecher, who was acting on behalf
of the federal chancellor. In the course of
a discussion on current matters, the vice
chancellor took the opportunity of inform-
ing the high commissioners of the situation
relating to deliveries of goods from West
Berlin to the federal teiritory.

The Council provisionally scheduled to
meet again on July 26 at the Petersberg.

HICOM Meeting of July 26

The 70th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg July 26. Present were Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner (chairman); Mr. John J. McCloy,
United States High Commissioner, and Mr.
Armand Berard, French Deputy High Com-
missioner, acting for Mr. Andre Francois-
Poncet.

The Council:

1. Signed a law to supplement Control
Council Law No. 57, “Dissolution and Liqui-
dation of Insurance Companies Connect-
ed with the German Labor Front", which
will permit the final transfer to successor

AUGUST 1951

companies of the assets and liabilities of
these companies and will release them
from Allied control.

Under Control Council Law No. 57,
which entered into force on Sept. 6, 1947,
six insurance companies formerly connect-
ed with the German Labor Front (four
located in Hamburg, one in Munich, and
one in the British Sector of Berlin) were
dissolved and the zone commanders were
authorized to form new companies which
were to take over the assets and liabilities
of these firms in order to safeguard the
rights of policyholders and other creditors
in accordance with the principles set forth
in the law. There was, however, no final
distribution of assets and liabilities or
allocation of shares in successor compa-
nies, as envisaged in Control Council Law
No. 57.

The new High Commission legislation
will make possible the completion of the
final transfer of assets and liabilities.

2. Agreed to hold its next meeting at the
Petersberg Aug. 2.

IAR Meeting of July 13

The Council of the International Authority
for the Ruhr terminated its 31st meeting
July 13.

The Council took note of the progress
made in the work of the international
bodies as regards the breakdown by
countries and by qualities of the export
quota of solid fuels from the Federal Re-
public for the third quarter of 1951.

During the meeting the representative
of the Federal Republic submitted a request
to the Council for a reduction by 1,000,000
tons of the quantity of solid fuels to be
exported by the Federal Republic during
the third quarter of 1951. In support of
his request, he submitted a memorandum,
the study of which will be undertaken
without delay.

The Council agreed to meet in plenary
sessions on July 25 in order to hold an
exchange of views on this question.

Official Statement

Shooting of Customs Policeman

The United States Embassy in Prague
has protested the shooting of a German
customs policeman on the Czech border
on July 3, in a note which was handed to
the Czech Foreign Office on July 17. Fol-
lowing is the text of the note:

“The Embassy of the United States of
America presents its compliments to the
Foreign Office of Czechoslovakia and has
the honor to refer to the Embassy's Note
No. 653 of June 19, 1951, concerning two
violations of the US Zone of Germany by
members of the Czechoslovakian armed
forces,

The Czech Government's attention is now
called to another and even more serious
violation of the US Zone of Germany, a
violation resulting in the death of a Ger-
man customs policeman.

At about 0150 (1:50 a.m.) on July 3,
1951, an unidentified person tried to cross

71

from Czechoslovakia into Germany in the
vicinity of the Gruensteg bridge between
Hohenberg and Sommerhau. When stopped
by a German customs patrol on a road
inside German territory which parallels
the frontier, the illegal border-crosser fired
a shot at the German patrol but missed
and then fled back to Czechoslovakia.
Immediately a fusillade of shots was fired
at the German customs patrol from. the
Czechoslovakian side apparently to provide
cover for the illegal border-crosser. These
shots were fired by two or three different
persons. George Nirschl, a German customs
policeman who formed part of the patrol,
was killed on German territory by one of
these shots. The bullet was subsequently
recovered and identified as having been
fired from a Czechoslovakian machine
pistol.

The American Government requests that
an immediate investigation be made by
the appropriate Czechoslovakian authorities
to determine the person or persons guilty
of this violation of the US Zone of Ger-
many, It also requests that a prompt report
be made to this Embassy, pending the re-
ceipt of which the American Government
reserves all rights in premises including
the right to claim compensation on behalf
of the German customs policeman who
was killed.

The Foreign Ministry is reminded that
it has made no reply to the Embassy's
request for information as to the results
of an investigation by the Czechoslovakian
authorities into two previous border vio-
lations by Czechoslovakian personnel de-
scribed in the Embassy’s note of June 19,
1951, and no reply to its request for as-
surances that steps have been taken by
pertinent Czechoslovakian authorities to
prevent such violations in the future. The
Embassy further reminds the Ministry that
it expects the Czech Government to show
the same diligence in dealing with reports
of violations by Czech personnel of the
US Zone of Germany as American author-
ities have consistently shown with respect
to the representations made by the Czech
Government.”

Official Announcements

Currency for Travel

Military and civilian personnel in the
European Command traveling on temporary
duty or leave to Belgium, Italy, Great Bri-
tain, Trieste, Tripoli, Greece, Hungary or
Yugoslavia may exchange up to $10 in
Military Payment Certificates (MPC) for
US currency.

The purpose of the local MPC to US cur-
rency exchange of $10 is to provide per-
sonnel with readily convertible funds for
immediate expenses, and one-dollar bills
should be requested from Army finance
offices or authorized agents in the US Zone
of Germany.

According to current regulations, the
countries listed are known as ‘Military
Payment Certificate Countries," and have
US government operated facilities where
MPCs can be used to purchase goods and
services, or can be exchanged for local
currencies. .

Personnel traveling into France or Austria
are not authorized possession of US cur-
rency. Local commercial banking institu-
tions and army finance offices are author-
ized to exchange MPCs for French francs,
while Austrian schillings may be purchased
in limited quantities from commercial banks

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Confuse and Control—Soviet Techniques
in Germany, Office of Public Affairs
(Washington), February 1951.

History of the Allied High Commission
for Germany; Its Establishment, Structure
and Procedures, Research Project No. 107,
Historical Division, HICOG (Frankfurt),
March 6, 1951.

Thirty-Fourth Report for the Public Ad-
visory Board, ECA (Washington), March
31, 1951.

Quarterly Report of Public Safety Sta-
tistics, Crime Incidence in the US Zone
during January; February and March 1951,
Public Safety Division, OPA, HICOG
(Frankfurt), April 1951.

Eighteen Months of Religious Radio, July
1949-December 1950, a Radio Scrutiny
Report, Radio Branch, ISD, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), April 1951.

Schule und Gegenwart (Schools Today),
pedagogical monthly magazine in German,
Vol. 3, No. 4, Educational Office, OLC Ba-
varia (Munich), April 1951.

Rev. John F. Cronin, S. J., Ph. D., Report
of American Specialist, Religious Affairs
Branch, E&CR, PUB, HICOG, May 7, 1951.

Realites Allemandes (Facts of Germany),
Nos. 28-29, High Commission of the French
Republic in Germany, April-May, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 24, PIO,
EUCOM Special Activities Division, June
15, 1951.

HEUTE (in German), No. 139, POB, ISD,
HICOG (Munich), June 20, 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 280,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), June 22, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 25, PIO,
EUCOM Special Activities Division, June 22,
1951,

The Infantry-Tank-Artillery Team, EUCOM
Information Bulletin Vol. 6, No. 29, I&E
Office, EUCOM, June 24, 1951.

Trade Union Membership in the Federal
Republic of Germany and Western Berlin,
March 31, 1951, Office of Labor Affairs,
HICOG, June 27, 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 57, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, June 28, 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 281,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), June 29, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 26, PIO,
EUCOM Special Activities Division, June
29, 1951.

Official Gazette, No.58, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, June 30, 1951.

The Erding Journal, Vol. 2, No. 8, 85th
Air Depot Wing (Erding), June 1951.

Copies of publications, etc. listed

in the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters.

Public Opinion in American Democracy,
EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No.30,
I&E Office, EUCOM, July 1, 1951.

Schule und Gegenwart (Schools Today),
pedagogical monthly magazine in German,
Vol. 3, No. 6, Educational Office, OLC Ba-
varia (Munich), June 1951.

Buecher-Vorschau (Preview of New
Books—in German), No. 53, Central Distri-
bution Section (Frankfurt), June 1951.

HEUTE (in German), No. 140, POB, ISD,
HICOG (Munich), July 4, 1951.

The Erding Journal, Newsmagazine of
the 85th Air Depot Wing, USAFE, Vol. 2,
No. 9, July 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 282,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), July 6, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 27, PIO,
EUCOM Special Activities Division, July 6,
1951,

Alaska, Our Northern Outpost, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol.6, No. 31, I&E
Office, EUCOM, July 8, 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 283,
ISD HICOG, July 13, 1951.

12 Months in Korea, EUCOM Information
Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 32, IE Office, EUCOM,
July 15, 1951.

Daily Press Review, Nos. 109-132, ISD,
HICOG, June 15-July 19, 1951.

Der Monat (in German), No. 35, POB,
ISD, HICOG (Munich), July 15, 1951.

Information Bulletin, July 1951,
PUB, HICOG, July 19, 1951.

PRD,
-+-END

or army finance offices near the German-
Austriah border.

When on temporary duty or leave to
countries other than those designated Mili-
tary Payment Certificate countries, or
France and Austria, EUCOM personnel may
request up to $200 in US currency from
their local finance office. However, upon
reentering the US Zone of Germany, per-
sonnel are required to convert any US
currency into MPCs at any Army finance
office, within 48 hours after arrival. —
from EUCOM Hq. announcement, July 16.

Accounts of Certain Banks

The Allied High Commission has ap-
proved a law providing that banks and
financial institutions in areas occupied by
Germany in the period between May 1, 1940,
and Dec. 31, 1940, which were taken over
by German financial institutions and oper-
ated as their branches, or were opened as
branches of German financial institutions,
shall be considered to be separate entities
having their seat outside the Federal Re-
public. Among the financial institutions af-
fected are a number of banks in Luxem-
bourg and France.

By giving the status of independent
entities to these institutions, the Allied
High Commission has made it possible for
their Reichsmark accounts to be released
and converted into Deutsche marks in ac-
cordance with currency reform legislation.

It has been estimated that accounts
amounting to several million Reichsmarks
are involved.

The law has been published in the Of-
ficial Gazette, dated July 6, as Allied High
Commission Law No. 57. As is the case

INFORMATION BULLETIN

with all laws bearing on currency reform,
the German text will be the official text.

Obligation of Funds

Operating and administrative officials
charged with the responsibility for incur-
ting obligations of government funds
should familiarize themselves with Finance
Circular No. 87 and Circular Airgram
dated May 25, 1951, 8:20 a.m., which
prescribe regulations for the administrative
control of funds, and which indicate the
penalties for incurring obligations in excess
of budget allotments.

It is imperative that each person who
has authority and responsibility for incur-
ring obligations shall assure himself that
a reservation of available funds (obligation)
has been made by the Fiscal Services
Division before an obligation document
issued by him is released to a third party.
This Fiscal Services Division has account-
ing operations in Frankfurt, Bremen, Ber-
lin, Bonn, Stuttgart and Munich which will
reserve funds for obligating officials. —
from HICOG Daily Bulletin.

Passport Check Cautioned

A European Command Headquarters an-
nouncement June 28 cautioned Americans
and Allies stationed in the US area of
responsibility to make sure before they
leave that their passports or other travel
documents are valid for the entire period
that they plan to be away from their
stations.

During the current tourist season, the
number of persons stationed in the Euro-
pean Command who are traveling in neigh-
boring countries and who are delayed

72

and inconvenienced due to invalid travel
documents has increased.

European Command officials stated that
in a number of reported cases, passports
or permits expired while travelers were
away from their stations, forcing them to
report to an American embassy or con-
sulate for extensions of their documents
before they could continue their travel or
return to their stations. This has also
caused an unnecessary burden on US con-
sulates abroad.

German Travel in Trieste

The Combined Travel Board of the Allied
High Commission has been informed by
Allied Military Government, Free Terri-
tory, Trieste, that German nationals in
possession of valid federal passports or
valid Combined Travel Board temporary
travel documents will no longer require
entry permits or visas to enter the British
and US Zones of Trieste.

Berlin Wage Increases

To correct certain misimpressions re-
garding the payment of salaries to Ger-
man employees of the Allied Powers in
Berlin, the Allied Kommandatura wishes
it to be known it has instructed the Ber-
lin Senate that all increases, in salaries
and all cost-of-living bonuses granted to,
employees and workers of the Senate since
Jan. 1, 1951 shall also be granted to em-
ployees of the Allied authorities.

The Allied Kommandatura has also in-
formed the Senate that any future in-
creases granted to Senate employees shall
be similarly paid to German employees of
the Allied authorities. — from BE-HICOG
announcement, July 7. -- END

AUGUST 1951

--- Page 74 ---
\lert newshawk (left, with armband) for the ‘Fre
teacher at the Bavarian School Week exhibition. Audiences totaling £

(center). One great attraction was daily traffic safety demonstration (right).

i

od

State Commissioner for Bavaria Ge
huster spoke at opening ceremonie:

Bavaria to Repeat
“School Week”

So successful was the School
Week* Exhibition held in Munich
last spring that Bavarian education
authorities intend to repeat the
event next year.

Unprecedented interest was
shown in the exhibits, which rang-
ed from demonstration classes to
newly-introduced classroom equip-
ment and teaching aids. Attendance
figures reached proportions which
surprised even the most optimistic
officials, for crowds of parents,
teachers, students and other visit-
ors who came from all parts of the
state, filled the Congress Hall in
the German Museum throughout
the seven days of the exhibition.

* See “Bavarian Schools on View*’ by
Dr. Martin Mayes in information Bulleti
for July 1951.

000 saw children in

ann School News," a Munich students’ newspaper, interviews a vi

stage performa s
(PRB OLCB photos by Maske)

Grownups were fascinated by new
recently introduced individual desks.

Old and young exhibited keen interest in the outcome of a series of contests for students of all Munich schools. Results

were exhibited (below, left). Demon:

ration class in arithmetic (center) drew spectators, as did kindergarten (.

--- Page 75 ---
VISIT THE CITY OF THE FREEDOM BELL