--- Page 2 ---
<a

HIS issuc

/ Ma vunt for 6,000,000 Democracy Comes to Dachau

.s I See America Young Farmers Return

¥
;

~ Six Points of US Policy Program for German Youth

--- Page 3 ---
x hundred thousand spectators from 20 European and

overseas

countries pack Fra International Automobile Show

at the end of April to set courag

ing records at West Ger-
=most were the sale of 70,000

German passenger cars and trucks for the

y's first postwar auto e»

mestic market and of

nd the purchase of 3,000 foreign-made vehicles

were sales results and attendance —

approximately

laily — that it is certain that the

international auto show will bec

e@ an annual event.

(above) one section of the 537 exhibits which made

up and s of interes rgoers; (left) legless
vet echanized and cles, bra e crowds
to see the latest in German and world auto (below, left)

racy roadster, with underslur

gs, including

white-walled tires, caught

many an eye — convertibles are extremely
popular in Germany; and (bel

by “Volkswagen”
(People's Car), the Federal motor cars.

C cover and this page ( e Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

fal) weer

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

Editor. 5 ae aeisscccne H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor . Alfred L. Meyer
Editorial Writer Maurice E. Lee

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
APO 757-A, U. S. Army

German mailing address is:
Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
HICOG Hochhaus

Frankfur/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
Source will be appreciated.

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

May 1951

US Women Leaders Touring Germany.................... 2

As I See America 3
Article by Ernst Reuter

Manhunt for’6,000,000) 5202 02.3 oo sos Seco ae a 7
Article by Hugh G. Elbot

Approach to Clemency Decisions ........................ 11

What are We Doing for German Youth? .................. 13
Survey by Haynes R. Mahoney

A Literary Trip to America (pictorial) 16

Liberty is at Stake 17

The Face is Familiar ... 19
Article by William F. Keefe

Bridgebuilders in: Straubing 2002.02.28 2.2 2s 22
Article by Lt. Richard R. Canaday

Democracy Comes to Dachaws. 6 2g. 25550 gents se 23
Article by William J. Caldwell

“Design for-Use, USA*"(picioridl) 0250 Jsc0052 Sn. wks oe 26

The Citizens Meet Their Government 27

sixPoints of US .POMCY: si... etndarce soe iwninurn ty ee 29

Address by John J. McCloy
Schuman Plan Treaty Signed s..07.52. 23-0034 31

Freedom for Farm Women 36
Article by Katharine Holtzclaw

Classroom on Tour (pictorial) 38

Voung- Farmers Retunn so. och «Siete ee eo em 39
Survey by Margaret Glick

East German Schools Sovietized ........................ 43

Modern Schools Planned 44

Singers with a Message 46

Community Council Arrives 47
Article by Jack P. Houlihan

Berlin Film \Pestivals v.02 2-2 tao Ua. .o c oee eae eee 49

Wide: of Toys<(pictorial)=3 5532 2s cays oro. Sel eon 50

New: Approach fo History, 35 .os3c oe cos: ol Se St
Address by John J. McCloy

. Production, Employment Rising -... 0.200... 60.0. ices 53

Economic roundup by A. J. Cefaratti

1.G. Farben Dispersal Plan Announced .................. 55

Personnel: Notes:.:..0.. ./ fis )on3 sees aise eee ale

German Cartoons (77 5 econ ot - 58

Calendar of Coming Events 60

In:and; Arotind-Genmany. 7 32-24:22.oc8 oe es cae ca ee 62

Agreement on Relaxations of Control over German Industry 64
Federal Republic Plan for Implementation of Law 27 Approved 67

Oificial (Notices (25. asec ace es ee ad Va eee ee 70
(COMMUNIGUOS 5 45 aie ap ais hae Ohss 2 on ates AE 70
Laws and Regulations 70
Statements 71

Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents ........ 72

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
a = : 7
American women's panel was briefed on Germany by
HICOG officials at Frankfurt headquarters April 23 prior
to going on tour. Front row, l.-r., Mrs. Philip H. Jones;
Mrs, Arthur F. Anderson; Dr. Minnie L. Maffett; Glenn G.
Wolfe, director, Office of Administration; Assistant High
Commissioner Benjamin J. Buttenwieser; Alfred V. Boer-
ner; chief, Policy and Planning, Office of Public Affairs;
Mrs. Frederick Gilstrap; Dr. Dorothy B. Ferebee; Mrs.
Walter Rose; Mrs. Harold D. Dyke; Mrs. Mildred E. Allen,
special assistant, Office of Public Affairs; back row, Jean
Cattier, director, Office of Economic Affairs; Mrs. Marie
C. Mengersen; Shepard Stone, director, Office of Public
Affairs; Samuel Reber, director, Office of Political Affairs;
Miss Luela Reckmeyer and Mrs. Anthony J. Scholter.

(Photos by Claude Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Mrs. McCloy and visitors are interviewed by Station
AFN while guests at the McCloy home in Bad Homburg.

High Commissioner McCloy chats with guests from USA.

US Women Leaders
Touring Germany

W* HOPE TO LEARN very much here in Germany
and we have come with our eyes, our ears — and
our hearts open.’ This was the greeting to the women of
Germany from a panel of 11 women representing Ameri-
ca’s largest and most influential women's groups upon
their arrival in Frankfurt at the start of a six week tour
of Western Germany.

In the US Zone for six weeks at the invitation of the
US Department of State, the women will tour most of the
zone and visit the French and British Zones as well as
Berlin, meeting and consulting with German women in
all fields of endeavor.

Those participating in the traveling panel are: Mrs.
Arthur F, Anderson of New York City, president, National
Board, Young Women’s Christian Association (mem-
bership 3,000,000); Mrs. Harold D, Dyke of Syracuse, N.
Y., League of Women Voters (membership 89,000); Dr.
Dorothy B. Ferebee of Washington, president, National
Council of Negro Women (membership — with affiliated
organizations — 5,000,000); Mrs. Frederick Gilstrap of
Albuquerque, N. M., American Association of University
Women (membership 110,000); Mrs. Philip H. Jones of
Shelton, Conn., Associated Country Women of the World
(membership 5,000,000 in 21 countries); Dr. Minnie L.
Maffett of Dallas, Tex., National Business and Professional
Women's Clubs (membership 155,000); Mrs. Marie C.
Mengerson of St. Louis, Mo., Congress of Industrial Or-
ganizations; Miss Luela Reckmeyer of New York City
United Council of Church Women (membership: 50 state
councils and 1,582 local groups); Mrs. Walter Rose of
Congers, N. Y., American Federation of Labor; Mrs.
Anthony J. Scholter of Milwaukee, Wis., National Coun-
cil of Catholic Women (membership: 6,000,000 through
federated groups); and Mrs. Joseph Willen of New York,
National Council of Jewish Women (membership 88,000).

HE WOMEN LAUNCHED their study with an all day

briefing session conducted by HICOG officials. The
following day was spent in a similar briefing by leading
German women representing government, civic and
social organizations discussing German politics and the
position of women in Germany today.

The rest of the short stay in Frankfurt was devoted to
sightseeing, meeting with the city's Mayor Walter Kolb,
talks with Hessian women’s leaders in the state capital
at Wiesbaden and visiting various women’s institutions
such as the women’s prison, a social schoo] and an ap-
prentice school for girls. The group also were guests in
the homes of High Commissioner John J. McCloy and
Assistant High Commissioner for Policy Benjamin J. But-
tenwieser. From Frankfurt the panel moved to Wuerttem-
berg-Baden.

The group's transportation to and from the United
States has been financed by the organizations they re-
present. Their itinerary was planned by the Women’s
Affairs Branch, HICOG, with the cooperation of Women’s
Affairs offices of the British and French High Commis-
sions. + END.

MAY 1951

--- Page 6 ---
Mayor Reuter (above) snapped at press conference at
Rhine-Main Airport upon his return from America. In
Cleveland (right) Dr. Reuter spoke at the fourth annual
convention of the Americans for Democratic Action. He
is shown being welcomed by Cleveland's Mayor Thomas
A. Burke. (Photo at top by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

] HAVE JUST RETURNED from my third tour of the
United States. It lasted only 14 days, but each day

was filled from morning to night with discussions,
speeches and conversation with hundreds, perhaps even
thousands from all strata of the population; with sight-
seeing, interviews, broadcasts and television programs.

From New York the route led to Cleveland, from there
to Detroit, Chicago, Milwaukee, Washington, back to
New York and to Philadelphia. In Washington, I enjoyed
a lengthy talk with President Truman, and had a number
of discussions with leaders in US politics. Meetings with
numerous senators, representatives, and leading men of
the Department of State and other authorities kept me
busy. These days of my sojourn in the States during
which, from dawn till dusk, and sometimes until late at
night, I spoke, discussed and argued have left profound
impressions which it will take some time to sort and
straighten.

Some of what I saw and experienced in the United
States is as certain and solid as a rock. This country, the
size of a continent, is not only great from the geographical

MAY 1951

As I See

Ameriea

By ERNST REUTER

Governing Mayor of Berlin

This article on his impressions of
the United States was written by
the governing mayor of Berlin at
the special request of the Informa-
tion Bulletin. Mayor Reuter’s most
recent visit to America, from Feb. 22
to March 8, was a tour sponsored

by the Americans for Democratic
Action.

--- Page 7 ---
point of view or because of its economic potential, not
only because it is about to develop great military
strength in all fields: no, this country is great because it

- has realized its task and because it is determined to
tackle it.

This perception and this determination are what I
encountered wherever and with whomever I spoke. The
people of this country are open-minded: wherever op-
portunity offers, they endeavor to learn from experience,
both past and present. America has gained immense
political maturity, through her historical development
and through her bitter experiences in two world wars.

This impression, of all that I gained during my stay on
the other side of the ocean, stands out. It is a fact that
is all the more important since America is a real democracy
and boasts a public opinion that is shaped neither by
propaganda nor by pressing a button to make people
follow a given line. In the United States people strive to
comprehend significant problems. Hundreds of thousands,
even millions, concern themselves with economic and
political questions; they discuss them, they try to hear
the views and opinions of other parties, and then they
judge and form their own opinions.

HE UNITED STATES’ POLICY of the past is finished.

I know, of course, that words like “isolationism”
have not vanished. As a matter of course a nation of
150,000,000 persons includes individuals with all shades
of views and political philosophies, and there are un-
questionably people, even today, whom we might call
“jsolationists." However, as a result of recent events, in
particular the brutal attack on Korea, the majority of the
American people have awakened, and have made up

Beside MayorReuter, shown addressing convention in Cleve-
Jand, is Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota, national
vice-chairman of the Americans for Democratic Action.

their minds to build up the strength needed to ward off
the dangers that threaten not only the United States but
all of us. e

Thus, without twinges of conscience, we can say that
isolationism no longer counts as one of the decisive fac-
tors of American politics, and that it is a matter of the
past. It is the present which Americans understand, and
the future for which they are determined to work.

This current was so strong that I felt it everywhere,
The last time I was in the States — during the Berlin
Blockade — I was cordially welcomed wherever I went.

At that time I sensed that the hospitality was accorded _

in tribute to the courage of Berlin's people, who showed
so much fortitude during the siege. It was cordiality and
respect for a city whose struggle was essentially impres-
sive, but at the same time it was a cordiality not yet
mixed with any strong feeling of union, nor with the
realization that Berlin stood for more than its own in-
dependence and freedom.

It was the latter type of cordiality and respect that I

" found this time; yet there was another element, namely,

an understanding that the struggle waged by Berlin at
that time and continued today is a struggle in which the
United States is both directly and indirectly involved,
Realization of our common cause is now widespread,

I felt on this visit that the people of the United States
hold our needs and hopes to be part and parcel of their
own, that they are imbued with the decision to master
fate jointly, and to support with all their strength the free
peoples of the world who are struggling for existence,

HIS IS BASICALLY why the atmosphere in the United

States has changed. Of course, the United States is
still a rich country, with whose wealth — plainly dis-
played in shops and stores — only very few countries
can compete. But throughout the country one observes
a determination that was by no means gained easily or
gaily. It is the determination to become as strong as
possible.

This determination requires plenty of sacrifices and
restrictions, and in this regard the American people do
not differ from other nations: they do not like and rejoice
at burdens, restrictions and financial sacrifices, Still, they

have struggled to comprehend that it is necessary if

their liberty and the freedom of the world are to be
maintained and defended. Americans have come to realize
that this course must be pursued to its ultimate end.

Americans have also become aware of the fact that
the globe has grown smaller, that events on other con-
tinents — whether in Europe or in Asia — concern them
directly. This is the reason why they feel today that the
struggle in Berlin, like the struggle of any free nation
against the powers of tyranny and oppression, is their
own cause as well. And this is also the reason why Ber-
lin is not only respected, but is considered a sort of
vanguard and outpost in a struggle that is also an Ameri-
can affair.

It would be wrong, very wrong, to presume that en-
thusiasm prevails in the United States concerning the
necessity of building strength in all fields at high speed.

MAY 1951

i

Yi

--- Page 8 ---
Dr. Reuter is given traditional welcome home upon step-
ping from plane at Rhine-Main, (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

This development certainly will bring about a boom. The
whole country produces the impression of a huge, busy
factory in which all the wheels are turning at top speed;
but we know that booms also bring future disadvantages
and difficulties. People in the US are not very keen on
making sacrifices and surrendering giant sums in taxes.
Yet they have abandoned the illusion of 1945, when they
believed that the epoch of peace and understanding had
begun, And since they have come to understand the
present, they march along their new road as the only
one that leads to the heartfelt aim of all reasonable
people with good will: to prevent war through strength
and firm will.

The majority of Americans — we have to underscore
that, time and again — do not want war, nor do they
want to buy peace by appeasement which, when hardly
pronounced, will be followed by new demands.

HE TWO WORLD WARS and the events in Korea

have been a warning and a lesson to the American
people. Yet the events in Korea have not diverted their
attention from Europe, which remains today the theater
of decision. Americans know their fate is tied up with
the destiny of Europe. They know that the loss of Europe
would be a fatal loss to the United States -and to the
entire Western world. Therefore, from the American
point of view, Europe must be held and defended under
all circumstances.

In a democracy like the United States there is natu-
rally a wide range of opinion on the policy to be pur-
sued. I may say that this is good, for unanimity would
mean uniformity; yet unanimity of opinion on the general
trend, idea and purpose of US foreign policy is so strong
that it will impress everybody who converses with
American political leaders. Senators of both the Re-
publican and Democratic Parties, responsible men in the
government, of the Marshall Plan administration, of the
labor unions — all firmly expressed the clear conviction

MAY 1951

that there can be no return to the policy of appeasement,
nor any surrender to the powers of tyranny and oppression.

The illusion that peace can be gained through appease-
ment is gone. It has been replaced by the earnest and
determined will to make peace-time efforts that will equal
or even surpass what the United States accomplished in
two world wars.

This determination and this will have impressed and con-
vinced me that the American people recognize their his-
torical task, and are willing to shoulder the burden of be-
ing the leading power in Western culture, the main defend-
er of the principles of freedom, peace and independence.

CONSIDERING THAT THE PERIOD in which the US

did not take active interest in world politics was at
a high point only a few decades ago, the development of
America’s national consciousness is tremendous. Ameri-
can recognition that the two oceans are no longer ram-
parts behind which wealth and prosperity can develop,
uninfluenced by events in other partsof the globe, is so
important a factor in world politics that that fact alone
suffices to strengthen and encourage us in Europe. I know
that the help extended by the United States to Europe
is not completely unselfish. But what nation would not
also think of itself and its well-being when making up
its mind to help others?

The strength of the ties uniting the Western world, of
which the United States regards herself an integral part,
can no longer be doubted. Acknowledgment of this fact
is the foundation of all that is being done in the United
States today, politically and economically. The preced-
ence foreign politics takes over home politics has been
generally accepted,

For this reason the United States is arming herself in
time of peace, and is spending huge sums for the rein-
forcement of her army, navy and air force — sums that
can be raised in the United States, as in other countries,
only through an immense burden of taxes. Even in a
country so rich in raw materials as the United States
this cannot be accomplished without restrictions on the
production of consumer goods, control of raw materials,
and economizing in various other fields of consumption.

This nation, which until now had introduced and tol-
erated compulsory military service only in times of war,
is now supporting a program of military service for all
young men of 18, a program which will take youth out of
vocational training and jobs for almost two and one-half
years. So impressive an invasion of private family life in-
dicates that this measure cannot be overestimated as a
yardstick of the firm determination of the American people.

I repeat: the impression that the United States is irre-
vocably committed to stay on the road now recognized
as the right one until the very end, is the profoundest
and strongest impression I gained during my travels.

ROM THIS VERY CLEAR POSITION of the United
States can be drawn clear and simple conclusions.
We are jointly confronted with an adversary who scored
successes not only by the application of force, but also
by means of threats, propaganda and subversive activi-

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 9 ---
ties. Resistance often seemed to be futile, and it was this
hopelessness which helped the representatives of tyranny
to overcome obstacles. The feeling that the struggle was
hopeless has hitherto been the enemy's strongest ally
in this struggle, which has been waged not only with
material weapons but also with ideas.

The unmistakable attitude of the United States has ini-
tiated a decisive change of position in this struggle. Eu-
rope knows that the United States is ready to play for
the last and highest stake. There can be no more doubt;
this alone has tremendously strengthened the front of resist-
ance. As a result, not only elements of defense, but also
of counteraction, have been awakened and made stronger.

All peoples of the globe are inspired with new hope.
In addition, in the countries behind the Iron Curtain,
people know the cause of freedom has mighty followers
and sponsors. Everywhere the hope has been kindled that
the crusade for freedom will gain in power, strength and
might so that some day it will irresistibly tear down the
walls and ramparts dividing the world into two halves.

The idea of a free and unified world, of a fr
peaceful Europe, contains the fulfillment of a dream
mankind to which people of good will have adh
at all times as an ideal worth striving for. That
dream remain not only a dream but may become reali
is the hope the world's peoples draw from the inexorab|
will of America.

T WILL NOT SUFFICE that the American people alo n

mobilize all their strength and courage to attain thi
unheard-of accomplishment. Every nation, every in- —
dividual favoring freedom and peace, independence and
a community of nations must make contributions to the
greatest degree possible in the light of his knowledge
and ability.

That a great nation with immeasurable technical and
material skill has adopted our cause is a long step
forward on the road at whose end stands our common
goal: untroubled relations between nations living in
prosperity, peace and freedom. +END —

Trade Group Assumes Defense Role

HE GERMAN-AMERICAN TRADE Promotion Com-

pany (GATPCO), the ‘dollar drive’ organization
made up of leaders of West German industry, business
and foreign trade, has informed the ECA Special Mission
to Western Germany that it is expanding its role to in-
clude cooperation in the Western defense program.

The assurances of support were contained in a formal
letter to Jean Cattier, chief of the ECA Mission to
Western Germany and director of HICOG's Office of
Economic Affairs, from W. A. Menne, chairman of the
board of directors of GATPCO and vice-president of the
Federal Association of German Industry.

No specific listing of new functions was contained in
Mr. Menne'’s letter, which said, in part: ‘Representatives
of the German economy, such as the offices of the
Federal Association of German Industry, have repeatedly
stated in public their decision to stay with the West and
their willingness and readiness for cooperation in West-
ern defense. As the vice-president of the Federal Associa-
tion of German Industry and as chairman of the board of
directors of GATPCO, Ihave emphasized the preparedness
of German industry torendera contribution to secure peace.

“In consideration of these facts,” the letter added, “the
scope of our company has changed and grown."

N A REPLY to Mr. Menne, Mr. Cattier stated, in part:

“T was particularly gratified to note that the GATPCO
is prepared, in addition to its trade development activi-
ties, to participate actively in the implementation of
measures contributing to Western defense. The ex-
perience, capabilities and widespread representation of
your organization make it uniquely well-suited to give
valuable assistance to industry and trade in their efforts
to supply the needs of Western defense.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“My staff and I wish you success in your important
dual understanding and stand ready to give the benefit
of our counsel and advice.”

The German-American Trade Promotion Compan
officially formed in June 1950, was designed solely to
aid German producers in their efforts to export to dollar
areas, and to assist businessmen from such areas t
locate sources of supply of German products. It is mak-
ing energetic efforts to reduce the dollar gap, and its”
activities have the support of the federal ministries 0:
economics and ERP as well as the ECA Special Mission.

GATPCO, a non-profit German organization, has its”
headquarters in Frankfurt and a branch office in Ne’
York. On its advisory committee are well-known Ge!
man business executives and financiers. The scope of
its activities covers every major industry in German
Its officers are working closely with the various associa-
tions representing industry, to bring together potential
buyers and sellers, and to stimulate interest in increase
trade. . +END

Loan Fund to Aid DP’s

announced by the International Refugee Organizatiot
(IRO) and the Expellee Bank Corporation of Bonn,
agency of the German Federal Government. ;

The agreement will enable a limited number of refug
under IRO protection to borrow up to DM 5,000 ($1.1
from a fund established in the Expellee Bank by the
Special Agency.

--- Page 10 ---
Manhunt for 6,000,000

By HUGH G. ELBOT
Displaced Populations Division, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG

7 PRS. FRANCOIS: Can you find any trace of my son?
VM He was taken to Mauthausen Concentration Camp
in 1942. I have not heard from him since.

Chief of Records Branch: We can try. We have here
some of the original registers used at Mauthausen. Just
a minute. Is this it? Emile Francois?

Mrs. F.: Oh yes... but... there is a red line through
his name!

Chief: There is a red line through many of the names,
I am sorry to say. Look, here is a whole page of red lines.
All dead. :

— Excerpt from a conversation be-
tween an inquirer and an official of
the International Tracing Service in
Arolsen, Germany.

* * *

( N APRIL 1 OF THIS YEAR the Allied High Commis-

sion took over from the International Refugee Organi-
zation custody of the information gathered in six strenuous
years by the biggest missing-persons bureau of all time,
the International Tracing Service. Its herculean assign-
ment in 1945: To find out what had happened to the victims
of Nazi terror — the Poles, the Yugoslavs, the Russians,
the Frenchmen — all those who disappeared in the long
night of Nazi barbarism.

It was in the mid-war year of 1943, when the names
Belsen, Auschwitz, Dachau and Mauthausen began to
filter through Allied intelligence pipelines, that the first
plans were laid for the manhunt for 6,000,000 that was to
follow the surrender. Two years later as International
Tracing Service men (the name came two years after that,
when IRO took over) followed General Eisenhower's
armies into Germany and into the concentrated misery of
the camps, the ugly names became world-shocking reality.

But while the world stared in horror at the cordwood
piles of anonymous bodies, the ITS people began the long
and sorrowful job of identification. Dead, the guiltless
unfortunates received the first individual attention since
being thrown into the gears of assembly-line slaughter.

HE TASK WAS AS ABSORBING as it was big: a

detective story in reverse. The clues were captured
concentration camp files, testimony of war criminals,
statements of the survivors, and rusty number tags linked
around a skeleton's wrist. A dozen factors complicated the
search, It was immediately evident, for example, that even
the captured camp records could not be trusted. For
various reasons, SS clerks had falsified the death lists or
confused them with misspellings. Such errors in data were
particularly flagrant with the Slavic prisoners, whose

MAY 1951

jaw-breaking names the camp clerks either could not or
would not get right.

A result of this linguistic lack was that one prisoner
might pick up a new name with every entry in the records.
(The name Kusnerzow was spelled 77 different ways.)
Too, there was the fact that the camp administrations,
frightened by the approaching Allied armies, tried in the
last days to cover their tracks by destroying records,
hiding mass graves, and shooting as many inmates who
“knew too much” as possible.

ITS's separation of frightful fact from Nazi fiction
required field work as well as sorting and sifting.

As the dust settled over shattered Germany, ITS men
plowed into the 100 tons of captured documents. Out of
some 20,000,000 names, crosschecks on SS spelling weak-
ness left approximately 6,000,000 bonafide entries. Every
one of those 6,000,000 cards that now came into the
phonetically ordered master file was a person who at one
time had worn a concentration camp number or had been
assigned to a factory as slave labor. Hospital, prison and
municipal records were combed for additional names.

SING THE WRITTEN RECORDS asa springboard, ITS
people took to the field. Interviews with guards, sur-
vivors, German doctors and civic officials were all warp

The story of International Tracing Service is history's
greatest detective story — an attempt to solve the mystery
of the fate of 6,000,000 persons who disappeared during
the Nazi era of concentration camps. At gate of ITS's
headquarters at Arolsen, in Hesse, are liaison officers
tepresenting Allied missions seeking missing nationals.

) NTERNATON Lin
INg

--- Page 11 ---
This is ITS's Buchenwald Division's index room. Filed
here are more than 1,000,000 documents relating to fate
of 220,000 persons who passed through notorious camp.

CCRUCHENWALD . |
;

AND KOMMANDO®

Dr. Marian Ciepielowski, 44, who survived five years
at Buchenwald, leafs through files concerning that camp.

Girl goes through some collective lists of Buchenwald
inmates at biggest missing-persons bureau of all time.

threads to the woof of the documentary evidence. Nearly
always, first interviews led to others, ITS staffers plotted
the routes of the camp-to-camp death marches of the last
war months, sent field men to interview farmers and vil-
lagers along the way. Hundreds of unmarked graves were
turned up.

Over and over again data was sifted, compared, supple-
mented. The ITS goal was to get the complete picture of
what happened to each inmate from the time he entered
the camps to the end. Where death was recorded, the staff
insisted on location and positive identification of the body
As the grisly task proceeded, ITS personnel came to learn
perhaps more about the Nazi concentration and slave labor
camps than Himmler himself knew, but ITS was always
conscious that the investigation was no pure intellectual
exercise.

The main purpose was always to enable relatives and
friends of the concentration camp inmates to learn what
had happened and—the bit of sunlight in the death-laden
atmosphere —to reunite surviving inmates with relatives
whom the storm of the war had scattered to the four winds,

At the same time, the accumulated data acquired monu-
mental significance. Because ITS was not set up to prose-
cute the sponsors of the camps but only to help the in-
mates and their families, the cold, factual documentation
of Nazi barbarism contained in the millions of case
histories, is one of the most eloquent objective testimonies
to the bottomless evil of the Nazi system with its trappings
of leader principle and master-race theory.

HIS OBJECTIVE WAS always in the minds of the ITS

staff, although it was not specifically mentioned in
the quadripartite directive of Sept. 17, 1945, which formu-
lated the task thus:

(a) To search for and trace military and civilian missing
of the United Nations;

(b) To establish, where possible, the fate of those miss-
ing who cannot be found alive;

(c) To locate, collect and preserve all available records
regarding displaced persons in Germany;

(d) To serve as a link to bring interested persons into
contact with each other.

During the first postwar years ITS was under UNRRA's
administrative roof. On Jan. 1, 1948, the International
Refugee Organization (IRO) inherited the tracers, and,
with the naming of Swiss Maurice Thudichum to the top
desk, ITS entered its busiest phase. Early tracing had been
largely through radio and press channels; now, as the
word got around the world, letters began to stream into
ITS's Arolsen headquarters in the US Zone.

Some of the inquirers came personally to Arolsen, like
Mrs. Francois, whose recorded conversation with the in-
vestigator is printed above, but most of them wrote — some-
times literate and cultivated, often a painful, childish
scrawl—but all with the same theme:.Can you tell me
what happened to him—to her—to my father—my son
—my friend. Forty percent of the time, ITS could.

MAY 1951

--- Page 12 ---
YADLY, MOST INQUIRIES led to an entry like that of

Emile Francois, or of the Pole, Wladyslaw K., which
states: “K., Wladyslaw. Polish nationality. Born in W...
on 5-19-95. Occupation machinist. Arrived in Camp Maut-
hausen on 9-22-44, was registered under prison number
105,589, and died in the camp hospital cn 4-17-45 at 0150
hours, as a result of colitis and low blood pressure." It
took the SS only eight months to starve Wladyslaw.

Sometimes the investigators unearthed poignant side-
lights. A field worker checking reports of a mass grave
near a camp fell into conversation with a waitress at the
village inn, learned that her fiance, who had died a year
before, had been a Jewish doctor, a prisoner at the camp,
and had ministered to the other inmates. ‘He was deter-
mined that those who died should at least have some iden-
tification,” she told the investigator, So he put into the
mouth of each victim a capsule containing name, date and
cause of death." Thanks to these capsules, ITS was able
to positively identify 3,000 bodies.

Another eloquent conversation was recorded by the
field worker checking the case of Vladimir Renzo, An in-
quiry after Renzo launched a search in the Master Index,
where the investigator discovered that he had been first
at Concentration Camp Sachsenhausen as No, 21,234. The
Sachsenhausen records stated that he was transferred to
a camp at Laura, and from there he was traced to Buchen-
wald.

One of the last records of the Buchenwald camp note
the departure on March 2, 1945, of a 200 man group, includ-
ing Renzo, marching to Mauthausen. A look at the Maut-
hausen records for March 31, four weeks later, show that
20 men arrived from Buchenwald. Vladimir Renzo’s name
was no longer among them. With 179 brothers in suffer-
ing, he had died or—unlikely but not impossible—had
escaped en route. A field check was called for, and after
exhaustive door-to-door interviewing, the investigator
found a farmer who could give information. The conver-
sation follows:

Investigator: Have you been farming here long?

Farmer: All my life.

I: Then you were here in March 1945?

F: Yes, of course.

I; Do you remember that period well?

F:; Who could ever forget those terrible times!

I: Did you see men from the concentration camps pass-
ing this way?

F: Yes, many times.

I: Did any of them ever die here on the road?

F: Yes, many did. I buried them myself at the end of
the field.

One of the skeletons had a tarnished wrist tag, No. 21,234.
Viadimir Renzo had not escaped.

OST OF THE AROLSEN “meetings” (ITS workers
refer to an inquiry which coincides with a name in
the Master File as a “‘meeting’’) turn out that way, a tribute
to the thoroughness of Nazi extermination methods, An
even more impressive tribute is the fact that inquiries
have only been received for ‘approximately three and

MAY 1951

Across this page of record of British and Netherlands
captives held at Mauthausen concentration camp, diagon-
al line was drawn with explanation, “Shot while attempt-
ing to escape.” US troops captured the register in 1945.

ationalitatenstand

Ss i

Muster sheet shows Buchenwald had 67,665 inmates when
area was captured April 26, 1945. Included were 22,100
Jews, more than 14,000 Poles, some 13,000 Russians.

Buchenwald card of Willem Drees, ranking Netherlands
government official, says he was arrested as hostage.

--- Page 13 ---
BAVARIA

Maurice Thudichum, ITS director, points out on map of
Bavaria where organization's search teams located single
and mass graves of luckless concentration camp inmates.

one-half percent of the 6,500,000 names on file, It seems
certain that in many of the other cases the entire families
were swallowed up.

An important and happier part of the ITS job was the
tracing of children kidnaped by the Nazis to be “Ger-
manized,"' orphans of concentration camp inmates, chil-
dren born in Germany to forced laborers or abandoned by
displaced persons. Checking of all institutions, foster home
and adoption records turned up 343,000 such children in
institutions (children's homes and Lebensborn baby farms),
130,000 in foster homes, and 21,000 adopted. Many of these
children could be returned to their parents, but this opera-
tion was not always free of tragic undertones, since often
the children had forgotten their own parents and had
come to love the new ones.

ITS workers like to document the happy endings. A
Polish mother whose husband was killed in 1939 made her
way to France and there remarried. Her son was taken
from her by the Germans in Poland and, as far as she
knew, sent to a children’s home in Silesia. ITS found him
in one week.

Another Polish couple, brought to Germany as slave
labor in 1942, had their two-year-old daughter Erica taken
from them. In 1950 the parents heard of ITS and initiated
tracing action. Little Erica, now 10 years old, was found
by checking records of children’s homes. She was listed
as turned over to a children’s home in 1942 and later
given to a foster family only 60 miles from where her
parents were living. The reunion was happy in this case.

A more complex case of child tracing affected the chil-
dren of a Yugoslav woman picked up with her children by
the Gestapo in 1942. After two days of imprisonment the
children were taken from her and she was sent to Ausch-
witz. She managed to stay alive and after liberation return-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ed to her former home, where she was reunited with the —
daughter. The boy, who had been two and one-half years
old at the time of the arrest, was missing. The daughter
reported that she had seen him last in the same baby farm
home where she had been, but her statements were vague,
By means of a letter from the mother to a Yugoslav agency
in Germany, ITS learned of the case, and the plot thickened
when ITS sleuthing turned up the fact that the likely foster
family, living in the Soviet Zone, had probably been ex-
pelled from their home.

Correspondence with IRO and Red Cross produced a
list of families by that name who had sought refuge in
the Western zones. One of these families, it developed,
had taken a child in 1943. The papers from the baby farm
gave the correct date of birth, but a false place of birth
and the indication that the parents were dead. Here
again a reunion was effected.

ESIDES THE MOUNTAINOUS JOB of tracing, Mr

Thudichum’s 1,500 man staff was obliged to take on
heavy statistical tasks. Legal death certificates for con-
centration camp victims, certificates of births which oc-
curred in baby farms and forced-labor camps, documen-
tary proof of confinement for surviving inmates eligible
for indemnification under postwar German laws, all of
these documents had to come from ITS, the only agency
in a position to know.

In one important instance this work had to be done
twice. In connection with the Auerbach scandal in Ba-
varia, where authorities suspect that persons have cashed
indemnity checks who never saw the inside of a barbed-
wire confine, ITS must recheck 40,000 names.

The year 1949 was the highwater mark for ITS. In 1950
both child tracing and individual field work came to an
end, with corresponding phasing out of tracing personnel.

To continue under HICOM sponsorship is the job of
processing the remainder of the material gleaned by the
field service staffs in the past years. Five hundred em-
ployees will remain with Mr. Thudichum; Allied direction —
will be in the form of a tripartite executive board with
a British, and a French member, and the writer as US
member. In announcing the transfer, IRO Director-
General J. Donald Kingsley paid tribute to the “great
humanitarian significance" of the work. There is no sign
that the work is anywhere near finished: 4,000 inquiries
still stream into Arolsen every month. +END

Mr. Thudichum meets with executive board named by
Allied High Commission: (1.-r.) Charles P. Wilson, United
Kingdom; Hugh G. Elbot, US member, who is chairman,
and the author of this article, and Armand Klein, French
(Photos by Claude Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

representative.

--- Page 14 ---
,

Approach to Clemency Decisions

OLLOWING ARE EXCERPTS from a letter from Mr.

John J. McCloy, United States High Commissioner
for Germany, to Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, dated March 12,
1951. The letter was released with the permission of Mrs,
Roosevelt.)

Dear Mrs. Roosevelt:

Thank you for your letter of Feb. 15 on the question
of my recent clemency action in the cases of the war
criminals confined at Landsberg Prison. I am glad that it
gives me an opportunity to tell you how I approached
the problem...

I inherited these cases from General Clay, who, for
one reason or another had been unable to dispose of
them finally. A year ago, in March 1950, I appointed a
Clemency Board consisting of the Honorable David W.
Peck, presiding justice, Appellate Division, First Depart-
ment, New York Supreme Court, chairman; Commissioner
Frederick A. Moran, chairman, New York Board of Parole;
and Brig. General Conrad E. Snow, assistant legal adviser,
Department of State, to review the cases and to see
whether there was any basis for clemency. I took this
action as soon as a number of appeals to United States
courts, based upon purely jurisdictional points, which
were blocking all questions on the cases had been dis-
posed of.

I established the Clemency Board in part because of
the many letters and petitions which I had received
asking for clemency, but more important because I con-
sidered that it is a fundamental principle of American
justice that accused persons shall have a final right to
be heard, particularly on the ground of possible clemency.

The Clemency Board was set up in March 1950, long
before there was any thought that Germany might par-
ticipate in Western defense and its appointment was
clearly not related to that issue. Neither the Clemency
Board nor I for one moment permitted political pressure
inside or outside Germany to affect our decisions, In
general, as you know, I followed the recommendations
of this Clemency Board in my own decisions, though I
of course bear the responsibility for whatever decisions
were finally made. Moreover, I call your attention to the
fact that unlike criminal cases in the United States and
England there was no provision for further court review
of these cases for possible errors of law or fact after the
court of first instance passed on them. The Board's report
and my own study of the cases convinced me that a
review was indeed necessary to accomplish just results.

N GERMANY, AS YOU may know, there has been
considerable agitation that we should release the
imprisoned generals at Landsberg and it was argued that

Such action would be helpful in achieving wide public’

support in Germany for participation in European defense.

MAY 1951

11

I repeat that.such arguments had no effect on me. If you
will look at the attached document* you will notice that
the chief German generals in Landsberg will remain there.

In Case No. 7, the Hostages Case, Field Marshals List
and Kuntze are still serving life sentences. If you will
look at Case No. 12, the High Command Case, you will
find that I did not reduce the sentences of Generals
Reinecke, Hoth and Reinhardt, and that Warlimont,
Kuechler and Salmuth still have very sizable sentences
to serve, I will not attempt to review the reasons for my
decisions in the case of the generals here but I feel I can
say I followed a principle which I believe was based on
a distinction between actions taken for reasons of military
security and those based on furtherance of Nazi racial
or political objectives.

As for the Krupp case, I find it difficult to understand
the reaction on any other basis than the effect of a name.
After detailed study of this case, I could not convince
myself that Alfred Krupp deserved the sentence imposed
upon him. There was certainly a reasonable doubt that
he was responsible for the policies of the Krupp Company,
in which he in fact occupied a somewhat junior position.
It was also very doubtful that he had any responsibility
for the use of slave labor in the Krupp plant.

It is true that the name of Krupp has become a symbol
of evil: the German armaments industry; I was concerned,
not with a symbol, but with the extent of the guilt of.a
specific individual, Alfred Krupp. Others more respon-
sible than he had received lighter sentences (and been
released) for the same crimes for which he was convicted.
Moreover, it was this man's father, not the defendant,
who helped finance Hitler and who was the directing
force of the Krupp works. His father was on his deathbed
when these trials took place and this Krupp was the next
in line.

In connection with the property question in the Krupp
case, I felt I had no alternative but to wipe out the decree
of confiscation. It had already been partially rescinded
by General Clay and no action had been taken under it
by the British in whose zone Krupp’s property lies. On
the merits of the case I could see no reason for treating
Krupp differently from Flick and others, owners and
operators who were also tried at Nuremberg for the same
offense.

My finding has no effect on the status of the Krupp
plants. The bulk of them have been dismantled as war
plants; what remains is subject to deconcentration under
Allied law. No other person had his private property con-
fiscated — not even the worst mass murderers. Why then
single this man out for a type of punishment which, as
Justice Jackson has pointed out, was entirely foreign to
American tradition? ...

% Attached document refers to ‘Landsberg, A Documentary Report."
See “Information Bulletin,” Feb. 1951, page 2.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Y ABHORRENCE FOR THE NAZI crimes and for the
crimés of many of these men is deep and lasting,
but when you are called upon to review sentences you
must match individual to crime. I granted reductions
where particular sentences were out of line with sen-
tences for crimes of similar gravity in other cases; where
the reduction appeared justified on the ground of the
relatively subordinate authority and responsibility of
~ defendants; and where new evidence not available to the
court supported clemancy.

In making these decisions I tried to adhere at all times
to the basic principle of law and justice. I knew that the
decisions might well be unpopular in Germany and in
other countries, but I could not permit that to influence
what I considered to be just.

What really smarts with me is the suggestion that
these decisions were the result of “expediency,” i.e., that
they were timed to gain a political objective. Do the
people of the United States suggest that I measure a
man’s life or his liberty in terms of expediency? Could
it have been justifiable to take or spare one human life
for expediency? After I came to the conclusion that
certain innocent men, or men at least not deserving of
death, were lying under death sentences, would it have
been humane to postpone decision until some more ex-
pedient moment? If we were moved by expediency,
would it have been reasonable to release a man with
such a world-resounding name as Krupp when it would
have been quite simple to allow him to remain in jail a
year or two longer?

AY I ADD A BRIEF COMMENT on your column, —
“Why are we freeing so many Nazis?’, which has 3

just come to my attention?

The people whose sentences I reviewed were not im-

prisoned for being Nazis, but for specific offenses against
law or humanity. The denazification proceedings, under
which millions of people had their records reviewed and
nearly 1,000,000 were actually tried, were entirely sepa-
rate from the Nuremberg trials. In determining that
certain of those tried at Nuremberg were deserving of
clemency, I was not passing judgment upon the degree
of their incrimination as Nazis, but upon the extent of
their guilt in terms of the offenses for which they were
convicted by the US Military Tribunals.

We do believe that Nazism was morally bad. But you
would not maintain that because a man was a Nazi he
should be ineligible for clemency when convicted for
other offenses. Not only would this ignore the question
of the degree of his incrimination as a Nazi, around
which the entire denazification process was built, but it
would violate our own ideas of justice. In the past
prisoners released from Landsberg were frequently
arrested and tried under the denazification law by the
Germans. I do not know whether this will happen now
because the Federal legislature has advised the state
legislatures to bring denazification to an end, but the
principles applied in denazification and at Nuremberg

are quite distinct.
a Sincerely,

Joun J. McCroy,
United States High Commissioner
for Germany.

+ END

US consular officers in Germany met with HICOG officials at HICOG Headquarters in April to discuss visa regulations
and other consular matters. Seated, I. to r., Robert B. Streeper, consul general, Berlin; Albert M. Doyle, consul general,
Frankiurt; Edward D. McLaughlin, consul, Bremen; Dewilda E. Naramore, chief, Reports and Statistics Division (first
woman division chief in HICOG); Sam E. Woods, consul general, Munich; Bernice R. Schoonover, secretary, Frankfurt;
Pau] S. Nevin, deputy chief for export promotion, Industry Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG; Wilson C. Flake,
Foreign Service inspector, Department of State, Washingion; and Robert J. Ryan, assistant chief, Division of Foreign
Service Personnel, Department of State, Washington. Standing, 1. to r., Herbert P. Fales, economic officer, Otfice of Eco-
nomic Affairs, Bonn Element, HICOG; LaVerne Baldwin, consul general, Duesseldorf; Patrick Mallon, consul general,
Stuttgart; Paul H. Pearson, consul, Munich; Herbert S. Weast, vice consul, Frankfurt; David Wilken, chief, Personnel
Division, HICOG; Robert T. Cowan, consul general, Hamburg; Pierson M. Hall, vice consul, Frankfurt; and Byron B.
Snyder, consul, Frankfurt. (Photo by Schoenborn, PRD HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN 12 MAY 1951

;

--- Page 16 ---
What are We Doing
For German Youth?

By HAYNES R. MAHONEY
Staff Writer, Public Relations Division, HICOG

W HAT ARE WE DOING FOR GERMAN YOUTH? is a recurrent question among
American observers every time the Communist “Free German Youth" (FDJ)
stages another blue-shirted demonstration.

In East Germany, all youth are marshaled into the poisonous program of the FDJ
through threats, bribery or persuasion. FDJers gets priority on jobs, on college
degrees, on political appointments. One town in East Germany has a 24-year-old
mayor. In another, all street car conductors are teen-aged FDJ members.

Admittedly, such tactics are winning young East Germans to Communism.

What are we doing to win young Germans for democracy? American officials,

along with their Allied colleagues and German youth leaders, are certainly not

adopting the regimented tactics of Communism or Nazism. There is no youth pro- ‘A ipleal south iin thing a
gram of “bread and circuses" and ruthless regimentation in West Germany. But of W ictent doer oar NuiER
there is_a vigorous and growing program, recognizing individual rights and the berg. His future and that of
variety of interests in youthful society, to create an alert and critical young genera- 5,400,000 other German youth

tion, ready to demand its rightful place in democratic life and reject dictatorial
threats whether such come from either the left or the right.

are one of today’s vital problems.
(Photos by Claude Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

N° ONE CLAIMS that West Germany's youth problem
has been solved. The task of building a democratic
tradition in youth affairs is a long, slow process, but given
time and support it will provide the best answer to the
Communist threat.

There are 5,400,000 young persons between the ages of
10 and 25 in the US Zone. The problem of their education
is formidable.

Youth leaders of the future are these students of Pestalozzi School in Berlin who are
studying to become kindergarten teachers. They are singing a folk song in recreation room.

oa

rs

The schools have generally begun to introduce citizen-
ship training in classes. But even if these programs were
adequate, 90 percent of German youngsters leave formal
schooling at the age of 14 years and must depend on com-
munity and organizational programs for character devel-
opment, political attitudes and citizenship training.
HICOG has adopted varied and numerous. programs,
working through youth leaders and organizations, in pro-
moting the re-education of
German youth.

Initially, US youth officers
assisted in rebuilding the vol-
untary organizations which
had been banned by the
Nazis. By October 1950, ap-
proximately 1,500,000 youth
in the US Zone belonged to
these West German church,
trade union and _ political
organizations, sport clubs,
scouts, camping and hostel-
ing groups, cultural societies
and rural organizations. Their
combined strength is prob-
ably equaled by membership
in the hundreds of small and
local youth groups.

HICOG urged emphasis on
self-government, training for
democratic leadership, com-

--- Page 17 ---
Supe de $

bie a

Under US-sponsored film program, small community
schools scheduled showing for which this boy drew a
poster which he is submitting to his teacher.

munity service, international understanding and coopera-
tion between groups in youth councils (Jugend Ringe)
—though not always with success. The authoritarian
policies — which exclude young members from planning
and developing their own programs — still persist in many
youth organizations.

HE WELL-MEANING MEN and women, both profes-

sional and volunteers, who plan and guide the new
youth programs, as well as the young leaders themselves,
were long cut off from democratic procedures. The Fuehrer
Prinzip (leader precept) was the Nazi theme of all youth
work; the direction, plans and financial means were
handed down from the state.

To bridge this 15-year gap in democratic action, HICOG
has promoted and supported four youth leadership schools
in Germany—House Schwalbach in Hesse, the Ruit
School near Stuttgart, the Niederpoecking school near
Munich and Wannseeheim in Berlin. The courses, rang-
ing from one week to a month, emphasize democratic
group action, such as group discussion and how to lead
it, the techniques of working through committees, the for-
mation of young citizens’ councils to take action and
perform civic service, the skills of organizing a forum
public meeting or conference.

In their two years of operation the schools have pro-
vided training for 19,000 persons, plus an additional
11,000 engaged in extension courses conducted by circuit-
riding teams from the schools.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

The new youth leadership needs guidance and infor-
mation. As a partial answer, a Youth Publishing Com-
mission has been organized in Wiesbaden, financed by
HICOG, to produce books and brochures, foreign trans-
lations and originally prepared material which provide
the youth leadership with handy references on how to run
a summer camp, elect club officers, conduct a democratic
meeting, etc. A monthly magazine Wir Alle (We All)
reaches 20,000 youth leaders with helpful information.

O DEVELOP LOCAL PLANNING and financing of

youth programs, HICOG stimulated the creation of
youth councils, comprised of civic leaders, and young
representatives in almost every county and city in the
US Zone. All states now have youth councils coordinat-
ing the work of major youth organizations, and youth
serving agencies. Through such councils group differences
are ameliorated and cooperation fostered.

These local planning bodies are also important for the
3,800,000 youth who have not joined the major organi-
zations. Without loyalty programs and places to meet,
they are targets for the propaganda of the far right and
the far left. The local youth councils, often with advice of
resident officers and other HICOG officials, have created
community centers, organized civic recreation and edu-
cational programs for all youth.

Now open to unorganized youth in the US Zone are
more than 1,000 community centers, many of which were
partially financed by HICOG. In addition another 250
centers are operated by the US Army's "German Youth
Activities" (GYA) program.

To reach the mass of youngsters with the lessons of
democracy, HICOG has organized a non-commercial film
program which attracts 2,000,000 persons monthly, approxi-
mately two-thirds of whom are under 25 years of age.
Sandwiched in with travelogs and life in America, are
films on discussion techniques, civic rights and youth
problems. The American-trained operators, who make
constant rounds to youth groups, schools and community
meetings, use the films as a springboard for discussions.

S RESIDENT OFFICERS have used the leadership

school participants, county youth councils and public
youth officials to promote more than 15,000 public forums
and hundreds of local civic service projects, such as
safety drives, community nurseries, recreation areas, com-
munity centers, campaigns for new roads, political study
groups, etc.

In the past year, HICOG has assisted two new organi-
zations, the Bund Europaeischer Jugend (Federation of
European Youth) and Ring Politischer Jugend (Council
of Political Youth) in conducting such activities as: a
rally of 6,000 young people on “Political Freedom,’ ad-
dressed by Mayor Ernst Reuter of Berlin; a European
Union meeting in Munich attended by more than 15,000
from all over Germany; a European Union meeting in
Coburg with 15 nations represented among the 1,000 dele-
gates; a rally in Essen on “Freedom of the Individual,”
attended by 12,000.

MAY 1951

--- Page 18 ---
The adult education schools in the US Zone provide
an important channel for further education of youth after
they have left school. Of the 350,000 persons in the US
Zone attending regularly these community night schools,
50 percent are under 25. Many of the schools feature civic
and political education for young adults.

A particular pressing problem is created by unem-
ployed out-of-school youth, estimated at 300,000 in west
Germany by the Jugend Aufbauwerk (Youth Reconstruc-
tion Work) agency, of whom nearly 80,000 are thought
to be homeless and wandering. Without an assured place
in society and often even without basic necessities of
adequate food and shelter, this element of the young
generation implies future unrest and radicalism.

I ICOG HAS ASSISTED many private organizations in
tackling this problem, Funds have been given to the
Jugendaufbau and Jugendhilfe Land (Rural Youth As-
sistance) programs to assist these new groups in organiz-
ing. Grants have been made directly to many of their
800 youth homes and training centers now in operation
or under construction. These institutions provide decent
living conditions and apprenticeship training for 28,000
homeless and refugee youngsters. Approximately 540
community work projects, sponsored by Jugendaufbau,
provide jobs and training for an additional 18,000.

Naturally, HICOG ties strings to all its grants, requir-
ing that the institutions be open to all youth without re-
gard for race, religion or political creed, and that the
youngsters be given the fullest measure of self-govern-
ment.

The situation of the 107,000 German university students,
who have swelled university rolls by 50 to 100 percent
more than the prewar enrollment, is also a vital part of
the total West German youth problem. HICOG has aided
the organization and financing of the Verband Deutscher
Studentenwerke (Student Relief Association), which has
been successful in organizing student dormitories, ar-
ranging student exchanges with other countries and pro-
viding jobs for working students (approximately 40 per-
cent of all students are partially self-supporting).

(O PROMOTE AN INTERNATIONAL outlook and

further democratic training, HICOG has sent 330
youth leaders and experts, and 800 young people to the
United States since 1948, to study various phases of youth
work or to attend American schools and colleges. In ad-
dition, more than 250 have been sent to European countries.
The traffic is not all one way. Each summer since 1948,
approximately 40 international work camps have been
held in the US Zone where each year some 2,000 youths
from other countries, including the USA, worked with
German youth on building playgrounds, youth centers
and other community projects.

Since the occupation began, the US has contributed
DM _ 13,000,000 ($3,094,000) to the operation of various
youth and community projects. In addition DM 22,000,000
($5,236,000) of ECA counterpart funds contributed by
HICOG for youth homes, centers and student buildings,
has been matched from German sources.

MAY 1951

15

Film showings are a key factor in HICOG youth program.
Documentaries draw adults as well as young, but, as
faces confirm, kiddies enjoy cartoons most.

Undoubtedly, the various youth programs in west Ger-
many involve many more active participants than the
combined membership of the Communists’ “Free German
Youth" in the East. But probing deeper into these pro-
grams, indicates that they are not always effective.

A majority of West German youth still express no
interest in politics; more than half favor one unified
organization for West Germany, rather than the present
system of numerous youth groups reflecting varied inter-
ests and objectives. While the Communist youth organiza-
tion has steadily lost strength and been ejected from most
West German youth councils, its well-trained, fast-talking
members are still able to confuse young minds with talk
of peace, anti-rearmament and “Ami, go home" in a youth
forum or meeting.

ICOG'S PROGRAM AT BEST is a slow method

(although no one has yet demonstrated a quicker one)
of winning the minds of West German youth. The greatest
success has been achieved in developing a corps of youth
leaders who have grasped the principles of individual
rights and democratic group action.

However, their number and influence is not nearly great
enough. One or two youth forums do not accomplish the
political education of the youthful participants. Joining a
youth organization does not always provide youngsters
with democratic experience. Many local chapters of the
major organizations still operate on old autocratic policies.

The preparation of youth for effective citizenship and
allegiance to Western freedom is a long-term problem.
It will only be solved if HICOG and the other Allied
authorities can succeed in building a democratic youth
leadership sufficiently strong to break with the autocratic
past. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
A Literary

Trip

To America

German youth are acquiring a better
insight into life in America as a result of
the recent publication of "The America
Book for German Youth.’ The work covers
the history of the United States, the course
of life of its citizens, its science, culture,
education, industry, commerce and sports.

he 500 pages with as many illustrations,
including some in color, tell the story in
the form of reports, essays, stories, letters
and poems. Prepared by various HICOG
agencies with the aid of the Voice of
America, the edition is designed to promote
better understanding between Germans and
Americans. The initial distribution of

gift copies was highlighted by a
presentation ceremony of autographed
volumes (left) to eight representatives of
West German and Berlin youth organi-
zations by Mrs. John J. McCloy in her
home at Bad Homburg near Frankfurt. A
game, “Travel Through America," played
with pins and dice and printed on the
inside of the book's cover, is enjoyed by
Mrs. McCloy and the students (below) after
presentation. (Photos by Schoenborn, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 20 ---
Liberty is at Stake

Summary of a pamphlet distributed throughout the Federal Republic of Germany
by the Social Democratic Party (SPD).

ve MENTAL ATTITUDE of the politically indifferent,
particularly of those who are indifferent to party
politics, is becoming increasingly dangerous to democ-
racy. It is impossible to live in a secure world, and at
the same time remain neutral while the great contest
continues between Western democracy and Eastern
terror. Against the Soviet attempts to create an atmos-
phere of gloom by spreading fear or propagating the
fatalistic “count me out" or “play on the safe side’
psychosis, we set our belief in a humanity which is
based upon culture and character.

We do not doubt that social security and welfare are
the strongest foundations of peace, liberty and justice
in national and international relations, ‘and for that
reason we demand that the Western Democracies grant
Germany equal political, economic and social rights.
Germany can only become a strong bulwark within the
front of the ‘free West,-if the question of her national
and political unity and equality is no longer a matter to
be discussed at conferences, but an established fact.

People who follow the ‘neutrality’ or ‘count me out"
slogans without realizing that they are only intended to
break our will to live and that they will ultimately
destroy our democracy and all our hopes for a better
future, misjudge in their political indifference the true
reasons for the great contest between East and West.

This contest is actually one between ‘liberty and
slavery, and it demands a decision. People who are faced
with the choice between these two and try to avoid a
decision by declaring their neutrality these people
have in fact chosen slavery,

Te “NEUTRALITY” THEORY is an illusion, because
it is based on the misconception that the contest
between East and West is confined to the two world
powers, while it is actually a fight between democracy
and dictatorship. The Germans cannot keep out of this
contest, because they live in a country where the two
great blocs collide. They cannot be neutral because
they have already made their decision to side with the
West.

Eastern dictatorship would never respect our neu-
trality, and trying to defend it we would. only become
hopelessly isolated in the face of the powerful East. Pro-
fessor Noack’s demand that the Western Powers and the
Soviets should jointly guarantee Germany's neutrality
and withdraw their occupation forces would practically
mean that the West, the US in particular, would no
longer be able to help us if our neutrality were violated
by the Soviets, while the latter, although they might
perhaps withdraw behind the Oder-Neisse line, could
easily reappear on German territory within a few hours.

MAY 1951

German neutrality would therefore depend exclusively
upon the assumption that the Soviet Government will
adhere to a written promise, but this seems rather doubt-
ful in view of past experiences. If Professor’ Noack's
proposals and those of his “Nauheim Circle'’** were car-
ried into effect, an unprotected Germany would be at
the mercy of Russian despotism, and even if the Russian
occupation forces withdrew, the danger would remain
that the military “People’s Police” of the Soviet Zone
might follow the Korean example and invade the un-
protected Federal Republic.

To pay ransom to the Soviet Union by acknowledging
East Prussia’s integration in Russian territory and plac-
ing the West German industry under Russian control, as
Professor Noack proposes, is tantamount to asking the
Western Powers not only to give up all their positions
in Germany in exchange for the illusion of a practically
non-existent German neutrality, and to approve Soviet
expansion in Europe, but to leave the whole of Ger-
many's economy, including the Ruhr, to the Soviets for
exploitation. This would make the Soviet Union ruler of
all Europe.

OR YEARS SOVIET PROPAGANDA has been busy
launching "peace offensives, but never has men-
tioned the war preparations of the Soviet Union and her
satellites, although it is a plain fact that the Soviet Union
is the only power which jeopardized or violated peace

* “Nauheim Circle’ — West German group, headed by Professor
Noack, which advocates all German unity and appeasement of
Eastern zone government. Headquarters of the group is in the US
Zone town of Bad Nauheim, 25 miles from Frankturt.

A new school in the north Bavarian community of Weiss-
dorf will be built soon with $15,000 gift from a villager
who left in 1891 to seek a new home in America. Christian
Seidel of Pittsburgh, Pa., donor, was represented at cere-
mony by his nephew, Anton Schott of Weissdorif, a brick-
layer (left, with wife); US State Commissioner for Ba-
varia George N. Shuster made presentation to Weissdorf
Mayor Kaufenstein (right). Model of school is typical of
present day Bavarian architecture. (PRB OLCB photo)

--- Page 21 ---
West Berlin's first blood bank begins operations as mem-
ber of Spandau police schoo] donates blood to center in
Berlin's Rudolf Virchow Hospital. Unit was established
with aid of DM 34,975 ($8,324) from HICOG Special

Projects Fund, (Photo by Schubert, PRB BE-HICOG)
several times since 1945, as the annexation of the East
German territories, Berlin's blockade and the Russian-
sponsored North Korean aggression prove. Those who
in view of these facts still contend that the Soviet Union
is a stronghold of peace and that the Western Powers
are driving toward war, distort the truth.

If the Soviet Union had earnestly wanted peace with
the German people, it could have proved it a long time
ago by releasing the German prisoners of war and the
German civilians whom they abducted to Russia, or by
disbanding the "People’s Police," which they organized
to prevent German reunification.

The offer of the Soviet Zone government to negotiate
with the Federal Republic on Germany's reunification
demonstrates the insincerity of all these maneuvers.
Grotewohl and the Volkskammer (lower house of East
German parliament) are nothing but pawns in Soviet
Russia's diplomatic game, and the only possible answer
to these “offers is to ask these men to dissolve their
government and leave the country, because they have
no right to speak for the German population whom they
suppress. :

We Germans must realize that the present critical
situation can only be mastered if the dictators in the
Kremlin are made to realize that they will never succeed
in persuading us to adopt a policy of isolation or neu-
trality.

We Germans in particular should show no fear. We
should face the facts and properly appraise the real
strength of our opponents. While the Soviet Union and
her satellites are united by force and terror, the unity
of the Western nations is based on voluntary agree-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ments, of which one of the most important, the Atlantic
Pact, provides that West Germany should be protected
against a possible attack.

This means that an attack against the Federal Republic
would be the cause of another world war, which Russia
will try to avoid, because she knows that she has little
chance to win, and this is the reason why she is trying
time and again to extend her power over Germany by
waging a “cold war.’ One move in this political maneuver-
ing is her protest against German “remilitarization,”
Here the Kremlin sees a chance to sow discord among
the Western Powers, and at the same time to persuade
the German people to revoke their decision in favor of
the West.

OTHING IS MORE IMPORTANT for the Germans in
this question of participation in Western defense
than to keep a clear head and not to lose courage.

Prerequisite for any German defense contribution is the
Western Powers’ consent that they will grant Germany
full equality. The German people can never renounce
that claim because it touches their life and their security.
German defense participation can only be decided by
the Germans themselves, and they will only decide in
favor of it if they are convinced that the Allied military
power is strong enough to defend Germany and to drive
aggressors back across the German frontiers.

There is no doubt regarding the final result of a war
between East and West. The West is certain to win the
last battle and this certainly is an important factor in
preventing war.

It is absolutely necessary to establish a united front
of all nations threatened by aggression, and Germany
will participate if she is granted full equality.

The SPD opposes all illusions of neutrality. It will
oppose all those who are trying to keep aloof and to
play on the safe side.

The German people's life is at stake. We must find
the most effective way to prevent war by scaring off the
aggressor and must fight cowardice and fatalism.

A neutrality between liberty and slavery is impossible,
just as impossible as any attempt to compromise with
dictatorship. + END

Six hundred refugee children who attended special Munich
performance of Walt Disney's film “Pinocchio” are given
souvenir pins by Dr. George N. Shuster, US state com-
missioner for Bavaria, and Mrs. Shuster, chairman of the
German-American “Good Neighbor Committee,’ which
sponsored the program. (Photo by Maske, PRB OLCB)

bintes Windeewerk.
von aah Aoi

——

--- Page 22 ---
When you see a Germany-'dubbed"' film, you may neither understand

the dialogue nor recognize the voice, but the chances are you'll discover

The Face is Familiar

By WILLIAM F. KEEFE
Staff Writer, Public Relations Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG

HE HEADS OF TWO YOUNG WOMEN, professional
I actresses selected to speak in the German version
of the Italian movie, Vulcano, were silhouetted blackly
against the screen, Half a dozen people occupied chairs
along the walls.

Nothing was said. A scene from Vulcano flashed
briefly across the screen, lasting perhaps 20 seconds.
There was a pause, then it appeared again—the same
scene, but with the Italian dialogue cut out. It reappear-
ed with the dialogue tuned back in. It was repeated in
the silent version, and this time the actresses could be
heard whispering animatedly.

One of the men seated at the side of the darkened
studio spoke. Once again the screen revealed the sisters
in the Italian movie in a vivid word-exchange, but with
a radical difference, They were speaking German — or,
rather, their German “doubles’’ had spoken for them,
addressing a regular studio microphone.

The “live German voices, substituted for the record-
ed Italian, duplicated amazingly and almost flawlessly
the tone and expression of the original.

One had the momentary impression that he had been
tricked somehow, that he had actually witnessed an
interchange of languages by two linguistically-talented
Italian movie stars.

An absorbing moment in the German-language pro-
duction of a foreign film, the studio incident served to
highlight one of the most exacting tasks of the movie-
synchronizer: “dubbing.”

M AKING GERMAN FILMS out of movies produced in
other countries has become an industry netting
well over DM 6,000,000 ($1,428,000) annually in Berlin,
Germany's greatest contemporary synchronization capi-
tal. Translations of approximately 90 feature films are
completed annually by Berlin's five major ‘dubbers,”
with a handful more coming out of studios operated by
a number of smaller organizations. Some 60 percent of
all films translated are currently Hollywood products,
while the remainder come from Italy, France, Spain,
England and other countries.

Though not otherwise the subject of rejoicing among
professional film people, Germany's relative poverty of
topnotch movie-producers puts bread in the mouths of
the synchronizers, and incidentally of many an industrious
actor and actress as well. Six of every 10 films making
the rounds of West Berlin and West German theaters
these days are synchronized foreign films.

MAY 1951

The German translation of a script must naturally
conform to accepted rules of grammar and the standards
set by colloquial usage. In other words, it has to be
couched in correct, up-to-date German. But the require-
ments do not end there. As the script is written expressly
to permit vocal synchronization into German of a film
which, presumably, contains action, expression and other
essential ingredients of a modern movie, it has also to
be written in such a way that it matches, as far as
possible, the sound and syllabification of the spoken
word in the original.

The translators of film scripts, a separate breed work-
ing on contract with the film-synchronization firms, run
into a number of major headaches, but perhaps the most
painful is making their German product match the
original script in length. A German paragraph, they
point out, ordinarily runs about one-third longer than a
paragraph expressing the same ideas in English, the
language most commonly confronting them,

European tongues, ‘somewhat more verbose than
English, are none the less more chary of words and
more sparing of syllables than the German. Needless to
relate, the final German script is a finely-drawn master-
work to which professional script-writers and bilingual
translators have devoted many long, painstaking hours.

NEVITABLY SOME FILMS, among them slang-filled
American Westerns, lose flavor in the translation
despite the best efforts of the language experts. There

Dubbing in German dialogue for a scene from the Italian
film “Volcano,” two German actresses (silhouettes at
tight, foreground) keep pace with action on the screen.

--- Page 23 ---
Technician manipulates buttons, switches and dials on

“mixing table’ to control recording of new voices for
synchronization of German in place of original dialogue.

is, in addition, no adequate means of expressing in
German the essential vigor and color of distinctive dia-
lects, some of which are inextricably based on unique
vocal habits like the prairie drawl or the Bronx twang.

Conscientious in their trade, they feel a departure
from the sense of an original statement or passage — no
matter how necessary — more keenly than the spectacle
of a cowboy speaking good, if somewhat drawly, Hanov-
erian German.

Once the script is—literally — hewn into shape, it is
ready for the synchronizers. Their next task involves
testing and selecting actors and actresses, one for each
of the film’s speaking roles.

The files of Berlin's synchronization firms are filled
with the names of local German artists whose voices, in
tonal quality, correspond with those of noted American,
French, Italian and other actors and actresses, and in
some cases no more is required than picking a name
from the files, making a telephone call, and running
a sound test. In other cases the problem is not so easily
resolved. Among the world’s top performers are many,
most of them men, whose range of expression enables
them virtually to “change voices" from film to film.

HE SYNCHRONIZERS NAME Spencer Tracy as the
possessor of one of the most "difficult" voices on

the modern screen, noting that as many as four or five
different German actors may be required effectively to
register his voice-mood in an equal number of movies.
A couple of weeks generally pass after an original
script has been given to the translators for rendition
into German, and before the film moves into the studio.
In the meantime the actors and actresses are chosen, a
director is appointed, and the film is sliced finely into
as many as 800 “takes,” or brief sequences lasting 20 to
30 seconds each. Directors are hired for synchronization
on the basis of their experience and success with various
types. of the art-form; in other words, the director

INFORMATION BULLETIN

known to be expert in the production of flaming ~
romances will be selected, normally, to direct dubbing
of similar films, while the scientific master of drama-
on-the-high-seas movies will find himself signing a con-
tract to supervise studio synchronization of a film falling
in that category.

In the studio the director supplants the synchroniza-
tion firm, his employer, as boss of the show; and while
not often a competitor of famous and colorful directors
in the department of tempestuous studio behavior, the
synchronization director is inevitably a man who has
earned esteem in ‘his calling.

NE OF THE INDISPENSABLE prerequisites of the

director's job is infinite patience. For a period of
several weeks he spends long days in the studio trying
to extract from the artists working under him the
optimum in voice performance. As the synchronization
actor's efforts depend entirely on his ability to imitate
a foreigner’s speech, the director cannot demonstrate by
suiting the act to the word.

Instead, he must personally be able to mimic, vocally,
the actors of different foreign nations, or know at least
how to direct by oral order. During dubbing-in of the
epithets cast by the principals in a barroom brawl, he
cannot leap up, tear off his shirt and slug it out — with
either the air or a human opponent. Such a performance
would only distract the attention of the studio group,
and would put the director in open competition with the
actors on the studio screen.

Further, the director works of necessity in a darkened
studio, often enough with another language sounding
to his unfamiliar ear like no more than a steady flow
of clever animal noises. The result is that the quality
of the dubbing depends to a large extent on the actor's
agility with his larynx and on the director's patience
and skill. In striving to elicit perfect duplication of the
specific sample of voice action, the director works with
one eye on the screen and an ear cocked to the fine
tonal variations in his artists’ voices.

A single take is often recorded and re-recorded 10 or
20 times before the director is satisfied that he has one
series of German sounds which adequately reproduces

Checking as many as 20 recordings of a single scene,
operator watches a short run to seléct the one which
corresponds best to lip movements of the original film.

--- Page 24 ---
Reels are checked with special equipment for simultane-
ous showings of original and adapted films to permit better
synchronization with lip movements, musical background.

(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

the sense, emotional content and pace of the original
dialogue, and which also so matches the movie “take” that
the untrained witness can be led to believe that he is
watching performers who naturally speak German.

Paes THE STUDIO the “takes” and the correspond-

ing voice recordings are transferred to a cutting
room where, using a special machine, another technician
selects the recordings which most perfectly match the
lip-movements of the actors in each separate “take.”
Recordings are then clipped and spliced to form a single,
continuous German dialogue track. The cutter is actually
an editor who hears, weighs, matches, sorts and con-
nects tangled masses of sound-track and film celluloid
to produce one movie with one German dialogue.

From that point the human element in the synchroniza-
tion process fades out gradually as machines take over.
The reels of film with their new — and still separate —
German sound-track go into a projection room for an
“audition” by director and synchronization firm officials,
who view the product as it will appear in German movie-
houses, If passed for further processing, black-and-white
reels are re-exposed in an operation that simultaneously
cuts in the new sound-track, The number of new prints
depends on the film, though normally approximately
30 copies of the German version are made.

German-language prints of new Italian films, many of
which have achieved enormous success in German thea-
ters, have numbered as many as 60 in recent months. No
better barometer of their popularity exists, excluding box-
office proceeds; the dubbers bypass mediocre movies and
total flops with equal facility when selecting films for
synchronization, basing their final choice on the film's
reputation and on the estimated response it will awaken
in Germany. THey are seldom wrong.

With completion of developing, fixing, drying and some
minor hand-processing, the dubbed black-and-white films
are ready for issue to theater owners. Copies of color
films are made by their producers, in the producers’ own

MAY 1951

laboratories. In this way the film companies protect their
individual color formulas.

Music presents the synchronizers with a special prob-
lem, since it sometimes happens that the original music-
track, for one reason or another, is unusable in the
movie's German version. Where this occurs, the syn-
chronization firm hires an orchestra and records its own
background noise, employing basically the method used
in the dubbing-in of German voices.

A costly necessity, recording film music also ranks
among the synchronizer's worst temporal enemies. Scores
must be obtained, generally by mail from the producer
of the original movie, and the orchestra, like the German
artists, must “perform” to a partially darkened studio,
under the baton of a director who is simultaneously
watching the movie for which the music was written.

Re-recording movie music lengthens the translation-
synchronization process from six or eight weeks to as
long as three or four months, and substantially raises the
costs of production,

In the average case these costs run to approximately
DM 40,000 ($9,520) or DM 50,000 ($11,900), a figure which
includes the salaries of the 100 or more artists and tech-
nicians engaged in the synchronization of each film.

HOUGH DUBBING as an industry has lost some of its

pristine financial pre-eminence as a result of official,
quantitative limitations on importation of foreign films,
it remains a thriving business pursuit. Its peak year was
reached in 1948, when the industry brought DM 10,000,000
($2,380,000) into Berlin.

Seventy percent of all foreign films synchronized into
German are currently being processed in the former Ger-
man capital — largely because of the intercession of
HICOG Berlin Element's Film Section. The city’s struggling
economy is thereby receiving a solid fillip in the direction
of normalcy. +END

Processing nearly a mile and quarter of film an hour, this
French-made machine turns out duplicates of synchronized
tilms practically ready for use in German movie theaters.

--- Page 25 ---
Bridgebuilders
in
Straubing

By LT. RICHARD R. CANADAY

6th Armored Cavalry, Straubing, Bavaria

MERICA IS MAKING new friends in Straubing, and the
American Women's Welfare Club is doing the friend-
ship job. By giving of what they have to help those in
need, the American wives in the Bavarian city have demon-
strated a person-to-person version of American policy that
caused the editor of the local newspaper, the Straubinger
Tageblatt, to break out his handsomest compliments.

Persistence and an honest desire to help overcame
initial suspicion. (Some of the townspeople, for example,
thought the help given by the Americans came out of occu-
pation costs or Marshall Plan funds until the editor told
them otherwise.) Now it looks as if the Americans have
beaten the risks of the touchy. business of being helpful.
They appear, not as Ladies Bountiful, but as friends.

Two years old, the club had its first big chance to step
into public view last autumn, when a fire destroyed the
homes of 31 Germans. The Army wives found food and
clothing to tide them over. That made its mark. A few
months later, the club made Christmas real for all the
orphanages and the two refugee camps in the vicinity. Day
to day help is running at a level of 60 blankets (value
DM 600) per month in winter, bundles of clothing and
shoes, and enough food packages to feed 30 families every
month the year round.

RGANIZATIONAL HELP and advice come from the
local HICOG Resident Officer, John T. Lawrence, and
his secretary, Miss Gretel Over. Requests for help are

Fire victims pick out shoes and clothing for size from the
donations of the American Women's Welfare Club.
Thirty-one Straubing families lost everything in the blaze.

At Christmas party sponsored by American Women's
Welfare Club in Straubing, John T. Lawrence, Resident
Officer for Straubing County, chats with refugee children,

handled in cooperation with the German County Welfare
Committee. But the ladies insist on investigating cases of
need themselves. Twenty-five to 30 requests are checked
and filled in an average week. That doesn't leave much
time for bridge.

While the American women do the work, they cannot
carry the financial load alone. Money help has come from
churches, organizations and individuals in the United
States, but the chief donor is the American GI in Straubing,
who has become accustomed to dipping into his pay for
the good of the club — and liking it.

The club's example has already struck sparks among the
Germans. After the fire of last autumn, a German woman
who had heard of the club's help for the homeless insisted
on giving one of the two chairs in her one-room dwelling
to a victim of the blaze as a start toward some new fur-
niture. A man donated some valuable old cups that had
been in his family for more than 100 years.

The club members were happy when they heard about
that. They hope it's a sign that the editor of the Tageblatt
was right when he said that the work of the club had
opened the way to understanding and working together.
They hope that they are what the editor called them —
bridgebuilders. +END

Gratitude is easy to read on the faces of these homeless
fire victims who received gifts of food and clothing from
Americans in Straubing — and Germans they inspired.

--- Page 26 ---
This is a story of people — average people — who see in mutual understanding
and cooperation a basis for real and lasting peace. Other communities, too, can proudly
point to their own achievements. Still others which have been lax may See in this
story a pattern which they may apply to their own community affairs. The idea is
ageless — its application requiring only the determination of citizens to know and
understand each other, and to make a real effort to bridge the sea of misunderstanding.

Democracy Comes to Dachau

By WILLIAM J. CALDWELL
Chief, Public Relations Branch, OLC Bavaria

P.\HEY USED TO SAY in the Bavarian city of Dachau
that Americans and Germans there got along just
fine as long as each stayed on his own side of the street.
Some said the feeling of animosity stemmed from
reminders of the concentration camp of the Nazi era,
which made the name Dachau synonymous with evil.

Other thought the term “animosity” a bit strong. They
were inclined to say it was rather a matter of distrust
between conqueror and conquered.

Still others, and in the beginning a very few, thought
the whole trouble revolved around mere misunderstand-
ing, or rather total lack of understanding.

As one Dachau citizen put it: "We knew the Ameri-
cans wouldn't like us because we were, unfortunately,
residents of a city in which a notorious concentration
camp had existed. The sins of the Nazis were passed on
to every man, woman and child here. So we felt the
easiest way to get along with the Americans was to
keep out of their way as much as possible.”

Americans and Germans did just that for the first few
years of the occupation, Occasionally, when they did
come together, tempers flared, harsh words were flung
and, sometimes, someone was pushed around. Each such
incident was duly investigated by American authorities
with punishment meted out to the offenders. Usually
though, neither participants nor witnesses were exactly
sure what had started it all — except that Americans
and Germans “just happened to get together.”

STRAINED ATMOSPHERE existed up until late sum-

mer of 1950, when two Americans — one a US Army
officer, the other a HICOG resident officer — were
assigned to posts in Dachau.

Herman Frankel, of Brooklyn, N.Y., the resident officer,
and Lt. Col. Vincent J. Conrad, of Hollywood, Cal., the
Army officer, almost immediately sensed that something
was wrong when they took up their duties in Dachau.

Mr. Frankel said government and community rep-
resentatives who visited him in his office during his first
few days there were “cordial in a reserved way.”

“They seemed to want to be friendly, Mr. Frankel
explained, “but at the same time they were distant.
They reminded me of people who acted unfriendly be-
cause they felt the people they were dealing with ex-
pected them to be and, accordingly, were on their guard.”

MAY 1951

Colonel Conrad, too, was mystified by the attitude
shown by the Germans with whom his work as com-
manding officer of Munich Military Post's Service Center
in Dachau, brought him into contact.

“It wasn't something you could actually put your
finger on," the amiable colonel asserted. “It just seemed
to be a situation born and exaggerated as the postwar
years rolled by.”

Mr. Frankel and Colonel Conrad both decided to look
into the matter to determine causes and-possible solutions
to a seemingly hopeless problem. The fact each speaks
fluent German, is conscious of his responsibilities in
creating better relations between Americans and Ger-
mans, and is gifted with a personality conducive to
encouraging and fostering the desired relations, helped
their tasks greatly.

HE RESIDENT OFFICER'S investigation disclosed one
pertinent factor: that while relations between Ameri-
cans and Germans were anything but friendly, relations
between various community interests in Dachau were
not much better.
“It seemed that each group — religious, educational
and so on — worked just among itself," observed

German and American youngsters in Dachau are learning
at an early age the value of tolerance and friendship.
They know no nationalistic differences in the classroom.
(PRB OLCB photo)

They are truly democracy’s seedlings.

--- Page 27 ---
Mr. Frankel, “Civic spirit was
sadly lacking with no one
apparently making any effort
to bring about a working
arrangement within the com-
munity as a whole.”

Shortly after assuming his
duties in Dachau last August,
Mr. Frankel hit upon an idea
to better relations not only
among Germans and Ameri-
cans but among the Germans
themselves. He invited various
representative citizens of the
city to his office one day and
suggested a community chest-
type Christmas fund raising
drive.

“In other words,” the youth-
ful American proposed to them,
“instead of Catholics and Evangelicalists, girls’ and boys’
schools, and the various charity organizations in Dachau
carrying out individual Christmas programs for your
needy families, why not get together and have one over-
all community-wide campaign?”

vot

Hetman Frankel,
US Resident Officer
at Dachau.

(PRB OLCB photo)

Dachau, like many other German communities, tra-
ditionally had never before attempted such a bold under-
taking. But a few were impressed and their enthusiasm
kindled the interest of others. Some 37 German groups,
as well as representatives in Dachau of the Office of the
US State Commissioner for Bavaria and of the US Army,
joined in bringing Christmas cheer to more than 3,000
needy families and individuals, or one out of every eight
residents in the little city of Dachau.

Colonel Conrad and members of his command gave
the Christmas drive committee their unequivocal support,
providing transportation facilities whenever necessary
and in other ways assisting the committee. To help in-
crease funds for the drive, he further arranged a sym-
phony concert presented by members of the faculty of
the US Army in Europe Bandsmen’s School, located at
the Service Center in Dachau, with the wholehearted
approval of the EUCOM chief of Special Services. All
the proceeds were turned over to the committee.

HE COMMUNITY-WIDE CHRISTMAS

helped greatly also in bringing about a community
spirit that Dachau had sadly lacked. Even some who
had originally scoffed at such an “unorthodox scheme”
have since opened their eyes to the potential advantages
of civic cooperation. Some are now exploring the pros-
pect of making the committee a permanent communal
institution which can be the springboard for other civic
enterprises.

committee

Already the various sectarian welfare groups are co-
ordinating their efforts. Recently, a city welfare official
called at the office of a private welfare organization to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

discuss a mutual problem. Hitherto such a visit was
virtually unheard of in Dachau.

One needy Protestant woman with seven children liv-
ing in one of Dachau’s many refugee camps was among
the recipients of the Christmas packages. Her plight
moved a Catholic priest, who assured her of further
assistance from his organization.

“The Christmas committee,” declared one community
leader, “showed us the way toward neighborly coopera-
tion — something we had neglected in the past. I myself
have lived in Dachau for about 25 years and never
thought for a moment I would see the day when Catho-
lics and Protestants, for example, would ever get together
to work out their problems and objectives."

EANWHILE, COLONEL CONRAD also concentrated
his attention on the question of improving German-
American relations.

One day while strolling through the Service Center's
grounds he noticed a group of ragged German children
grouped outside one of the buildings eagerly peering
through the windows. He looked, too, and saw that their
intense interest was focused on some American children
joyfully roller skating on the rink within the building.

The colonel checked, learned that the German children
had no similar skating facilities. Consequently he directed
that the rink be made available to German as well as
American children in the community. And when winter
rolled around, German children were permitted to use
the Service Center's outdoor skating rink, which pre-
viously was reserved for American children only.

Earlier it was discovered that the city had no kinder-
garten facilities for children of the Service Center's
employees, who are housed in their own community
within the center. The Service Center had one for
children of its American personnel. A study of available
facilities and teaching staff in the American-run kinder-
garten disclosed these already were overtaxed. As an
alternative, it was decided to have one built for the
German children, and to make sure they'd have op-
portunity to mix with Ameri-
interested
were

Lt. Col. Vincent J. Conrad,
commanding officer,
Dachau Service Center.
(US Army photo)

can youngsters,
American parents
granted permission to enroll
their children. Many did. The
Army further provided the
same school bus service for
the German children, as it had
for the American youngsters.

HE AMERICAN Parent-
Teacher Association at
Dachau welcomed the mixed
class idea as a means of
creating a spirit of comrade-
ship between children of the

two nations.

--- Page 28 ---
“In the past," said one American parent, “our children
had little if any opportunity for contact with German
children. Now, however, thanks to the Army's interest
and initiative, these children can study and play together
and are realizing that basically they have much in com-
mon. Language was a barrier at first, but in a few weeks
the American children were picking up German and the
German children were learning American. Most im-
portant, though, they were learning to be friends."

The Parent-Teacher Association furthermore invited
German parents to visit the kindergarten to see the class
in action, The visiting parents were happily impressed
for two reasons — one, that their children and the Ameri-
can children were at last playing and studying together
and, secondly, because American school officials had
permitted the parents to observe their children in the
classroom,

“In Bavaria," explained one German parent, ‘parents
can visit the classroom only with the explicit permission
of the ministry of education, In our schools the teacher
is the boss, and unfortunately, most of the teachers
prefer not to have parents visit the class. They seem to
think that parents seek only to interfere. The Americans
on the other hand try to foster parental interest in the
school. I think that is an excellent way of bringing the
school and community closer together so that one may
better serve the other.”

OLONEL CONRAD FURTHER helped break down
German-American prejudice last New Year's Day,
when he invited German civic representatives to a party
in the Dachau Officers’ Club, That was another Dachau
precedent. And he set still another when, after speaking
briefly in English, he spoke in fluent German, reciting
the beloved German ballad, Lorelei, It made a big hit
with the Germans, several of whom commented later that
they never had expected an Army officer to invite them
to one of his parties, least of all to speak to them in
their own language.
Colonel Conrad said American members of the Service
Center's staff, both officers and ‘enlisted men, were

Combat veteran spends part of his free time enjoyably
with younger members of German population of Bavarian
town which is making tremendous strides in bettering
(US Army photo)

German-American relations.

Prejudice has no place on Dachau's playgrounds, where US,
German kiddies show democracy inaction, (PRB OLCB photo)

greatly responsible for helping to create better US-Ger-
man relations. He especially singled out the work of
Maj. E. J. Summers, Jr., Service Center executive officer,
who, as Special Services officer and German Youth
Activities officer at Dachau, has contributed much toward
better understanding between youth of the two. nations.

Mr, Frankel felt that Dachau was handicapped in its
efforts to create a cooperative community atmosphere
because there was no meeting hall available to serve as
a cultural focal point for community planning. Further-
more, the city has no indoor gym. Its only theater,
located in a building 300 years old, went bankrupt some
time ago, and its only cultural center, if you can call it
that, was an old beer hall.

Consequently, he and Colonel Conrad joined forces
with interested Germans to provide Dachau with its own
community center. A town meeting was held, By getting
together to air the problem, interested civic groups were
able to reach agreement on a youth center, Later they
expanded their plans into a community center which
would have public baths, a combination theater and
gymnasium, and meeting halls available to all groups in
the city, regardless of religious views.

Through the help of the Resident Officer, American
funds are being obtained to help defray the cost, and
Colonel Conrad promised assistance in the form of lumber
and trucks to haul the building materials to the site of the
proposed structure.

Mr. Frankel said it is hoped that ground for the com-
munity center will be broken this month,

ODAY IN DACHAU there is a new spirit. Americans

and Germans are now becoming friends, are learning
to know each other, to understand each other and to work
and play together. Since Dec. 14 last, troop incidents
have declined from the previous three to five a week
to none.

Said Mr. Frankel: “At last we've been able to open
the door to better community relations, among Germans
themselves and between Germans and Americans.”

“Yes,” agreed Colonel Conrad, “and now that it is
open, we must keep it open. And we can if each of us
will continue to try to understand the other fellow and
try to be friends." +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
esigen For Use,

by
A touch of modern American liv-
ing descended recently upon Stutt-
gart in the form of an exhibition
entitled “Design For Use, USA." As

many as 3,000 persons visited the State Trade Museum
each day to survey the more than 500 American house-
hold items ranging from comfortable modernistic furni-
ture to handy kitchen gadgets. Stuttgart was the first
stop of an over-all European tour by the exhibition,
which was assembled in New York by the Museum of
Modern Art with the aid of ECA and the Department
of State. Fritz Ulrich (top, left), Wuerttemberg-Baden
minister of the interior, registered delight and comfort
as he tried one of the show's many armchairs. The
curious (left) had a heyday with the many unusual
articles displayed. State Commissioner for Wuerttem-
berg-Baden Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross (bottom, left),
and exhibition director Edgar Kaufmann discuss the
latest in modern kitchenware, which also impressed a
museum guard (below). Catalog (above) supplied names
of the American manufacturers whose products made up
exhibition. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

.

--- Page 30 ---
The
Citizens
Meet
Their

Government

For the first time in history Hessians were given an opportunity
to meet their government face to face when approximately 1,000
citizens gathered in Ruesselsheim city hall, asked questions and
had the Hessian state cabinet ministers personally answer them.
Meeting, conceived by a 47-year-old worker, took place Feb. 23.

ERMANY'S TRADITIONAL AUTOCRATIC official-
dom —slowly dying under the hammer strokes of
democratic action — received a staggering blow recently,
when, for the first time in the nation’s history, an entire
state cabinet turned up at a public citizens’ meeting to
answer the questions and complaints of their constituents.
The Place: Ruesselsheim, an industrial city in the state
of Hesse and site of West Germany's largest automobile
plant.
he Time: Feb. 23, 1951.

Dramatis Personae: the entire newly-elected Hessian
cabinet, with the single exception of the education minister,
previously committed to a Bonn conference.

The idea for such a meeting originated with a 47-year-
old locksmith named Guido Kiessling, who had been wor-
ried for some time about the thinking of his fellow workers
in Ruesselsheim's Opel auto plant. Kiessling, chairman of
the Social Democratic group of the works council in the
Opel factories, concluded that the employees’ ill-disguised
scorn for their government and their unfounded prejudices
could be counteracted only by a direct contact between
the workers and their duly-elected representatives, the
Hessian cabinet.

Undeterred by a centuries-old tradition of aloof Prussian
officialdom, the locksmith presented his plan to Dr. Georg
August Zinn, recently-elected minister-president of Hesse,
who greeted it with enthusiasm. Dr. Zinn accepted an in-
vitation for himself and his cabinet to appear at an open
forum prepared to discuss publicly a number of diversified
problems related to community affairs, wages, housing,
education and the like.

MAY 1951

27

LANS FOR THE MEETING moved rapidly and Friday,
Feb. 23, was set as the date. Kiessling became ill, but
his idea had caught fire and spread quickly among Opel
workers, eager now to air some of their grievances, and to
demand answers to the pressing problems besetting them.
Nearly 1,000 citizens streamed into the Ruesselsheim city
hall, well in advance of the eight o'clock opening address
of Minister-President Zinn. Sharing the platform with him
were Ruesselsheim’s Mayor Doerfler, who introduced the
cabinet; Heinrich Zinnkann, minister of the interior;
Dr. Heinrich Troeger, finance minister, and Heinrich
Fischer, minister of economics, labor and agriculture.
Dr. Zinn outlined the general problems facing the new
Hessian government, pointing chiefly to Ruesselsheim's
tremendous industrial concentration, which requires a
total of 16,000 of its workers to commute daily to their
jobs from distances of 15 miles and more. The Hessenplan
project, designed principally to permit the transfer of
expellees from the East zone to industrial areas, he declar-
ed, should be expanded to effect the establishment of
small industries where there is a surplus of manpower.
The cabinet chief stressed the fact that the social ad-
vancement of the working population is a powerful weapon
for peace. “There is no doubt, however, that peace will be
threatened as long as there exists the bolshevistic mili-
tarism of today,” he stated. In the face of such a situation,
he said, “even more important than readiness in arms will
be the spiritual readiness and unity of all free nations.”
Promising that he and his cabinet would not lose them-
selves in party politics, Dr. Zinn concluded with the hope
that similar town meetings might be held elsewhere in
Hesse and throughout Germany to help create “a better

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
hunter,

nation with a new social order, a new Europe and a world
of peace and freedom.”

Dr. Zinnkann discussed this year’s housing program;
Dr. Troeger, finance matters and Hessian economy meas-
ures; and Dr. Fischer, the economic policies of Federal
Minister Ludwig Erhard.

HE QUESTIONS PUT to the cabinet members in the

open forum period following the ministers’ talks re-
flected a wide interest both in the improvement of work-
ing conditions and community betterment. They included
the following:

Could not employers be forced by the government to
train a higher quota of apprentices?

Can saving by schoolchildren be stimulated by the
government to improving the housing capital market?

How long will the houses requisitioned in Ruesselsheim
remain unoccupied and unheated?

Why are the DM 72,000 ($17,136) state housing loans
not being paid out by the banks although they were au-
thorized in the summer of 1950?

Why is such a high level examination given to appli-
cants for apprenticeships in various common trades?

Can the grant of a state housing loan not be coupled
with a first mortgage?

What can the so-called “little man” do to prevent rising
prices?

What is the ratio between the number of unemployed
to the number on relief in Hesse?

What can the government offer to stimulate public
saving?

Can it be made mandatory, through legislation, that in-
dustry be required to accept a minimum number of ap-
prentices?

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Among the many in audience who had ques-
tions to put were (left) the mayor of a small
nearby community; (center) a luckless house-

and (right) an Opel auto factory
worker who stressed his fellow-workers' need
for suitable housing; 16,000 employees, he said,
now commute up to 15 miles each day to and
trom the big Ruesselsheim plant, leaving this
army of workers hardly any time for recreation.

28

Will there be a “new line’ in school reform since the
new education minister is a member of the SPD (Social
Democratic Party)?

What is the Hessian government's attitude regarding
German participation in European defense?

To what extent can Hessian and federal politics be co-
ordinated?

Will persons who refuse military service be respected
in Hesse?

EADLY SERIOUS from the start, the audience soon

demonstrated that they would have no part of a young
Communist apostle who was hissed off the platform when
he attempted to “‘sell" the Soviet Zone government. It was
to him that Dr. Zinn directed the remark that “peace is
threatened as long as there exists the bolshevistic mili-
tarism of today.”

All of the cabinet members stressed the importance of
maintaining further close contact between the people and
their government. With such cooperation, Dr. Zinn de-
clared, “the state of Hesse will contribute its part to the
social foundation without which life would not be worth
living nor worth defending.”

Although he missed the meeting, Guido Kiessling may
well be proud of the tremendous single contribution he
has made to such a cooperative effort. -+END

Youth Friendship Day Held in Fulda
Youth was the emphasis at International Friendship
Day ceremonies held in Fulda, Hesse, recently. School-
teachers in the area devoted at least part of the day to
the subject of international friendship and held lectures,
discussions and exchanges of essays and ideas on co-
operation among youth of all nations.

MAY 1951

--- Page 32 ---
- Six Points of US Policy

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

WANT TO DISCUSS BRIEFLY the outlook and tasks

ahead for Germany and to outline the policy of the
United States in Germany.

Six years ago the obstacles to the rebuilding of Ger-
many seemed to be staggering. The tasks of restoring
order from chaos, of preventing the starvation and death
of millions of people, of cleaning up the physical and
moral debris of war looked almost hopeless.

Look at your country today. It is easy to criticize, but
you must see the situation in perspective. The progress
since 1945 is astounding. More people are now gainfully
employed than ever before in Western Germany. Hundreds
of thousands of new dwellings are going up everywhere
in the Federal Republic. Restrictions on almost all kinds
of production, including shipbuilding, have fallen. Much,
to be sure, remains to be done to reduce unemployment,
to reach a better equilibrium in the price-wage scale, to
provide more housing. But the simple fact is that your
economy provides you with unrationed food, clothing
and other consumer goods on a scale at least equal to
that of other Western European countries, and far greater
than that achieved anywhere behind the Iron Curtain.

Politically, you have created a free democratic com-
munity in the Federal Republic. The individual is safe
from the arbitrary will of one man or of one party. Men
and women are free to speak and to take active part in
the affairs of their country.

The Federal Republic is gaining increasing respect
abroad. Your position as a full member of the European
Council now seems assured. Two weeks ago your Chan-
cellor was received in Paris as an honored guest to
negotiate on a basis of equality with the ministers of five
other European countries.

HE REBIRTH OF GERMANY in the past six years has
been a great constructive accomplishment. It has
been the result of hard work by the German people and
their representatives, aided by the great economic and
moral contribution from the free world. It has been
achieved without slave labor, without fear of a secret
police, without false promises of five-year plans. If there
were a way to do so, a vast majority of the millions of
Germans in the East zone would try to share in the
economic and political progress made by the republic.
The outside world has noted these achievements of
postwar Germany. The German people

by the Communists by their control of the East zone makes
the situation here much more complicated, for example,
than the case of Japan. |

In the next period the task of Germany will be two-
fold: First, to maintain and extend at home the gains al-
ready achieved, especially in strengthening and modern-
izing economic and political institutions. The second
main task is to forge strong and enduring links with the
free world. In this connection, I want to outline to you
briefly how the policies of the United States in Germany
are designed to help carry out these tasks:

IT IS THE POLICY of the United States to support
1. the integration of Germany with the other free
countries of Europe. The European countries themselves
must join together to solve their joint problems. Here
the Schuman Plan represents a striking example of the
possibilities of such cooperation. In American eyes the
Schuman Plan is a test of the sincerity and ability of
European countries to act as one community.

In a basic sector of the European economy, the Schu-
man Plan will consolidate the economic strength of
Western Europe, free markets and develop new eco-
nomic opportunities. It will create employment, not un-
employment. It is fantastic to assert, as some have, that
the United States, which has poured billions into Ger-
many to help revive production, would favor a plan to
put people out of work or hamper German industrial
development. Politically, it marks Germany's emergence
as an equal partner in a great European project.

If this bold, imaginative concept were rejected, it would
be a serious and perhaps fatal blow to the hopes built up
slowly during the past few years. It would create the danger
of a disunited, weak Europe and an isolated Germany.

Farsighted leadership on both sides of the Rhine has
carried the Schuman Plan concept thus far. It is now a
matter for debate by the various parliaments. I hope that
through this process all of you will become fully aware
of the character of the plan and its high objectives.

IT IS THE POLICY of the United Statés to assure

2. the peace and to deter aggression by supporting and

participating in the effort to create a strong Western

European security system. It is our policy to resist any
armed attack on West Germany or West Berlin.

The necessity for defense prepara-

should take pride in them. The fact
that Germany is obliged to pay a
Portion of the costs involved in the
occupation or that a peace treaty is
not in the immediate offing does not
lessen these gains. The threat posed

The above address on US policy
in Germany was given by Mr.
McCloy over Bavarian Radio in
Munich, April 25, 1951, and relayed
over other German stations.

tions is an unpleasant fact we must all
face. Korea has shown — and the new
Communist offensive shows again —
that aggression in any part of the
world affects European and German
security.

MAY 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
. The NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) forces
are being built up in Europe to deter aggression, not to
institute it. The power of the Western world will come
into action only in the event of aggression against any
member. But if attacked the power of each country will
become the strength of all.

THE UNITED STATES RECOGNIZES the right of

e Germany to participate in her own and in the com-
mon defense within an integrated European defense
system under conditions of equality.

We are firmly opposed to any revival of German
militarism or of any German army which would be
independent of an international security system and we,
together with the German people, will guard carefully
against any such development.

We believe that German participation in an integrated
European force is a decision which the German govern-
ment and people must make for themselves. We are not
attempting to buy or force and do not intend to buy or
force such participation. .

We believe it must be obvious to the German people
that the nature, and the efficacy and extent to which Ger-
many can be protected depend in a large measure on
German participation in its own defense. Neutrality has
never been an effective bar to aggression against an un-
protected country.

4, IT IS THE POLICY of the United States to support
'e the development of a democratic Germany and to
aid all democratic elements in Germany to safegard
against the revival of Nazism or the imposition of Com-
munism. The German people have shown their rejection
of Communism in every free election which has taken
place in Germany.

Once identified, the Communistic approach is always
repudiated. This is now so clear that the Communists
have resorted to their familiar tactic of using false fronts,
such as neutrality, pacifism and peace plebiscites to cover
up their own imperialistic designs. These attempts are
cynical frauds, just as the Communist cry for German
unity is a fraud when, at the same time, free elections
are outlawed.

Equally sinister is the threat from other totalitarian
groups composed in large part of former Nazi activists.
In certain areas of Germany small groups are again try-
ing to spread the evil doctrines, the old slogans and
tactics, which brought Germany to ruin and will do so
again if they should ever prevail.

The German people, through their democratic govern-

ments, must be aware of these developments and be pre-'

pared to deal effectively with them. The German people
cannot ever again permit such forces to gain control in
their country. Nor will the democratic world permit it.
5 IT IS THE POLICY of the United States to help Ger-
e man youth to recognize that its future opportunities

can be found only in a democratic Germany within a
great European community in a united, free world.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

We recognize that a majority of German youth is eager
to attach its loyalties to affirmative objectives; that it
will not be deceived again by glittering promises that
only a decade ago caused the destruction of its hopes
and ideals. For that reason the United States has made
large contributions, including financial support, to Ger-
man organizations which assist youth. We do not seek
to control, to propagandize or to regiment youth. We
seek only to give German youth a chance for a better life.

For their part, the German people and their govern-
ments — city, county, state and federal — should, in my
judgment, take greater interest in the problems of youth,
spend more money on projects to help youth and give
youth greater opportunity for self-development.

Young men and women should not be barred by their
elders from office simply because of their youth, restrict-
ed in their participation in public affairs, or have their
freedom to engage in a trade or profession arbitrarily

circumscribed.
6 IT IS THE POLICY of the United States to help the

e city of Berlin. The free world has been profoundly
impressed by the fortitude of the people of Berlin in their
determination to stand up for and defend their freedom.
I hope and I am confident that the Federal Republic will
do everything possible to aid the city and to strengthen
ties with it.

These aims of the United States are not complex, and
in no one of them is there the slightest suggestion of
aggrandizement or extension of American power.

The condition of our aid, the condition of the mainte-
nance of our policy is likewise simple. It demands only
that the German people and their government put their
great energies and capacities into the making of a liberal,
tolerant community, in which all men can walk with
dignity and freedom. +END

The following is a list of addresses, statements, interviews and
letters by US High Commissioner John J. McCloy which have
appeared in previous issues of the Information Bulletin.

Sept. 20, 1949.
. November 1949.
. December 1950.

US Attitude on Bonn

Message to HICOG Personnel .
Germany Today an
Progress Report on Germany «

. February 1950.
Stuttgart and Boston Speeches . . March 1950.
Free Vote for Unity . : April 1950.
Germany in a United Europe 5 . May 1950,

ERP Marks Second Anniversary . June 1950.
Defense of Democracy . . July 1950,
Ruhr Industry's Problems . August 1950.

Reverence for Life .
Germans Jolted, But Morale Stable .
Fallacy of Stockholm Resolution .
Adding the Human Element
New Status of Germany .
Tasks for the Coming Year .
An International Aspect

(Hamburg and Kiel addresses) .

September 1950.
September 1950,

+ October 1950.
October 1950.

. November 1950,
. November 1950.

. December 1950.
. January 1951.

Unity and Strength

Statement on Landsberg Case . February 1951.

Youth and German Defense . . February 1951.
MAY 1951

--- Page 34 ---
Schuman Plan Treaty Signed

ON APRIL 18, THE FOREIGN MINISTERS of France, Germany, Italy, Belgium, Netherlands,
and Luxembourg signed the Schuman Plan, bringing a week of discussion to successful con-
clusion, and leaving only one last step — ratification by the parliaments — between plan and reality.
Reaction in Germany to the signing was generally favorable, although the Social Democratic
Party and some industrial groups still had their doubts about it. On his return from Paris,
Chancellor Konrad Adenauer took occasion to answer his critics. He pointed out that the Schuman
Plan means advantages for Germany, as well as for Europe as a whole. Further, he expressed the
hope that the United States and the rest of the free world would lend active support to the Plan.
Sometime in May the debate on ratification will begin in the Federal Legislature.

Following is a detailed explanation of the background and operation of the Schuman Plan.

* * * * *
( N MAY 9, 1950, Robert Schuman, barriers to trade and of private res-
the French foreign minister, an- This analysis was prepared by trictive agreements. The discrimina-
nounced his government's proposal to the Office of Public Affairs, US De- tory devices heretofore frequently
merge the coal and steel industries of partment of State, and is reprinted employed in the sale of coal and
France and Germany, together with from the Department of State Bulle- steel in member country markets
\ tin of April 2, 1951. ; i
those of any other European country, would be removed. Coal and steel
in a single market. His announcement products and coal and steel workers
was a major development in the political and economic would move freely among the member countries.
life of Western Europe. When critical shortages or other crises required
Mr. Schuman's invitation to develop a treaty was governmental controls, these emergencies would be
extended to all European nations. Five nations accepted developed and administered by the new supra-
his invitation — Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, Luxem- national institutions.

bourg and the German Federal Republic. These five
nations, together with France, have now developed a
detailed treaty in implementation of the original proposals;
except for a few remaining issues which have been held
in abeyance for negotiation among ministers of the six
countries, the treaty is now ready for ratification by

The single market, created by these provisions, would
not be isolated from the rest of the world. Non-member
producers would also have access to the market, without
any increased trade barriers being interposed to the im-
port of their products. Furthermore, countries which import
from producers in the single market would be assured

national parliaments. ‘ :
‘ ae equitable treatment and reasonable prices.

The treaty proposes that any necessary govern-

mental powers over these industries be vested in These revolutionary agreements and institutions de-
new institutions akin to those of a federal govern- serve the most careful study. The summary which fol-
ment, The keynote in the administration of these lows indicates the chief provisions of the plan and how
industries would be the elimination of national it can be expected to operate.

Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, as Federal Republic's
foreign minister, signs Schuman Plan Treaty in Paris,
April 19, Right, the two French statesmen who conceived
the plan to pool six signatories’ coal and steel for 50
years: Robert Schuman, foreign minister, who adapted
the Monnet Plan, and Economic Planner Jean Monnet.

--- Page 35 ---
HROUGHOUT THE PRESENT CENTURY, the coal

and steel industries of France and Germany have
had an important effect on their political and economic
relations. One reason why these two basic industries
have figured so prominently in French-German relations
has been their location. The bulk of the coal and steel
industry of France and Germany lies in a compact area
close to the border dividing the two countries, an area
which includes Lorraine, the Saar and the Ruhr.

Within this small area, divided by the French-German
border, lie the raw materials essential for the develop-
ment of a modern steel industry. The iron ore on which
the French and German industries were originally built
lies largely in Lorraine, an area which was a part of
France until the Franco-Prussian War of the 1870's, which
Germany controlled until World War I, and which France
thereafter regained. The coal deposits which initially led
to the creation of the French and German steel industries
lie largely in the Ruhr area, and to a lesser extent in the
Saar region; both of these areas are close by the western
German border, and the status of the latter area has
frequently been in dispute between the two countries.

The explosive nature of French-German relations in the
past century led each of these countries to use her pos-
session of raw materials, which the other needed, as
a prime bargaining weapon and retaliatory device.

From the end of World War I until the time of Mr.
Schuman's proposals, the one development which might
have been characterized as French-German cooperation
in the field of steel production was the creation of the
European Steel Cartel in the middle 1920's, an organiza-
tion which enjoyed a checkered but increasingly signi-
ficant role up to World War II. The European Steel
Cartel, however, was basically a negotiated truce among
the steel industries of the Western European countries.
Particularly in its later versions, it was an agreement
among producers and sellers of steel on the terms under
which each national group would sell in the markets of
any other group and in the market of third countries. The
emphasis was primarily on avoiding market situations
that would cause a decline tin the price of steel.

Far from promoting increased efficiency and wiping
out national barriers, the cartel froze Europe's steel in-
dustry and national markets into a rigid mold, which was
a major reason for the inefficiency which has handicapped
the industry since. After the initial enthusiastic reactions
to the cartel, which were expressed in 1926 and 1927,
little was heard of its contribution to political harmony
between France and Germany.

R, SCHUMAN'S PROPOSALS were broached at a
time when, with a revival in her industrial capacity,
Germany was seeking to be freed of any restraints im-
posed upon her freedom of action. Meanwhile, most of the
Western World was becoming increasingly convinced
that the long-run solution to the German problem lay in
the closer integration of the German economy with the
West, rather than in isolation and restraint.
Accordingly, Mr. Schuman's proposals, which are based
upon the principle of a pooling of German resources on a

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

Count Carlo Sforza, Italy's elder statesman and foreign
minister, caught in conversation while in Paris to sign
pact. Other signatories: Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg.

basis of equality with other Western European countries,
were greeted by large segments of the Western World
as a welcome and courageous development in French
national policy.

The principles of the Schuman Plan, as enunciated in
the French foreign minister's statement of May 9, 1950,
were without precedent. A group of supranational in-
stitutions would be created and would be endowed with
broad powers of a sovereign nature over the coal and
steel industries of the member countries. The basic purpose
of these institutions would be to achieve the elimination
of all elements of nationalism in the conduct of the coal
and steel industries of the member countries; among other
things, this arrangement would mean the elimination of
all barriers to trade among the member countries.

The new institutions also would have the means of en-
couraging the modernization and improvement of mine
and plant facilities. They would also be charged with
improving and equalizing the living standards of coal and
steel workers. Finally, provision would have to be made
for transitional measures to ease the shock of merging
into a single market area the coal and steel economies of
countries with widely varying cost structures.

HE CONSTITUTION OF the Schuman Plan reflects the

delegation of sovereignty through a number of basic
provisions. An executive body will be created under the
agreement with power to enforce most of the substantive
provisions. The members of this executive body, known as
the High Authority, will be elected for a six-year tenure
by the member governments acting together, from a slate
of nominees drawn up by them; and no member of this
Authority would report to or receive instructions from the
national government of any participating country.

The powers proposed for the High Authority are exten-
sive. They include the right to tax the production of enter-
prises under their jurisdiction; to issue directives relating
to coal and steel which are binding on the individual
enterprises and states to which they are addressed; to fine
enterprises in violation of their orders and to offset the

MAY 1951

er

--- Page 36 ---
effects of any illegal acts by member states by fines.on the
production of the enterprises in their area; to borrow and
to lend; and to make studies and suggestions to the enter-
prises and states under their jurisdiction. Member states
are bound to use their respective police powers to enforce
the directions of the High Authority.

The High Authority will report periodically to a Com-
mon Assembly, made up of representatives drawn in
agreed proportions from each of the member countries.
The Assembly will review the Authority's work annually.
By a two-thirds vote, the Assembly will be able to censure
the Authority and compel its members to resign. The
Assembly also will have the right to review and approve,
as a whole, an annual budget proposed by the High
Authority. :

A third institution basic to the Plan is the special Council
of Ministers. The concept of a Council arose out of a need
to find some means whereby the work of the High Authori-
ty in the coal and steel sectors of the economies of the
member countries could be tied in closely with the
measures being taken by these governments in the rest
of their economies. The impact of actions by the High
Authority in coal and steel upon such national problems
as the maintenance of an adequate defense, the control of
inflation, the balance of external accounts, and similar
problems, was recognized early in the negotiations.

Accordingly, the Council of Ministers, which is to
consist of ministers drawn from the governments of each
of the signatory countries, will be endowed with the
powers necessary to insure this coordination. For example,
the Council will have the right to initiate proposals and
will have a voice in the determinations of the High
Authority whenever the question of market contro] is
involved, such as the possibility of the fixing of maximum
prices or allocations to meet a shortage situation. The
Council also will be directly concerned in the process
whereby the tariff rates of the six countries applicable to
coal and steel shipped in from outside sources are set.

NOTHER ELEMENT IN the structure created by the
Schuman Plan is the proposed Court of Justice. In
most typical intergovernmental agreements, differences
over interpretation ordinarily are settled by agreement
among the signatory governments, with provisions some-
times included for the right of appeal by governments to
the International Court. The Schuman Plan provides for
its own Court to deal with the juridical problems arising
out of the relations among the constituent organs created
by the Plan and arising out of complaints by aggrieved
governments, enterprises or individuals. The Court's mem-
bership will be determined by very much the same process
as that provided for the membership of the High Authority.
The Court's most important power is the right to nullify
the decisions of the High Authority, in much the same
way and on much the same grounds as the courts of the
United States may declare laws of Congress unconsti-
tutional or nullify the decisions of administrative bodies
of the governments.
In short, if the Authority were exceeding its powers
under the treaty or were acting capriciously, the Court

MAY 1951

33

would have a basis for reversal. The Court could also
nullify acts of the Council of Ministers or the Common
Assembly, where these bodies exceed their powers.

The system of institutions is completed with one final
organ, the Consultative Committee. The Committee is
to provide a direct link between the High Authority, on
the one hand, and producer, labor and consumer groups,
on the other. It will consist of 30 to 50 representatives,
drawn in equal numbers from the three groups, and will
have advisory functions of a general character.

HE DOMINANT PRINCIPLE of the Schuman Plan is

that the coal and steel industries of the member
countries are to be treated as if no national boundaries
existed among them. The countries of Western Europe
are to abandon their efforts to be self-sufficient in coal
and steel and are to allow these industries to develop in
a common market embracing all the member countries.

Accordingly, the principal operative provisions of the
Plan deal with the elimination of existing national barriers
to trade. They call for the immediate suspension of
virtually all tariffs applicable by any member country to
the coal and steel products of any other member country.
The provisions also require the suspension of quantitative
restrictions on imports and exports of coal and steel prod-
ucts among the member countries, and the elimination
of various other restrictive or discriminatory devices.

These proposals, which are not unlike those typically
associated with a customs union, are supplemented by
more revolutionary provisions with respect to restrictive
arrangements among producers of coal and steel. Any
agreements among producers which restrict competition,
whether by fixing prices, allocating customers, limiting
the introduction of new technology, or other means, are
outlawed,

Joint selling agreements or agreements among com-
panies to promote specialization in the manufacture of
particular products may be permitted in some circum-
stances; however, any such agreements would require
the prior approval of the Authority, which is only to be
granted if the Authority has found that the agreement
would make a positive contribution to the efficiency
of the enterprises in question and would not significantly
affect the degree of competition in the markets concerned.

ANAL PROVISIONS are aimed at reducing the
possibility on the part of enterprises in the single
market, through stock ownership, interlocking directorates
and similar devices, to circumvent the prohibition against
restrictive business practices. Transactions which, in
effect, would merge or affiliate previously independent
enterprises in the area under the Authority's jurisdiction,
require the prior approval of the High Authority, which
must act under standards similar to those by which it
judges joint selling and specialization agreements,

Under the High Authority's general powers to prevent
or offset governmental measures which have a discrimi-
natory effect upon the coal and steel enterprises in its
jurisdiction, the High Authority can bring about a change
in discriminatory freight rate structures imposed by the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
public carriers operating in the area. The negotiating
countries intend that the High Authority would exercise
this power early in its life, thereby ending a long-
standing source of friction.

Once the provisions were in force, it is expected that
producers in the common market would be exposed to
a considerable degree of price competition. The expec-
tation is that the long-run impact of this release of
competitive forces would be to increase productivity,
cut costs and lower prices of coal and steel in the single
market. Unless some safeguards were provided, however,
the danger would exist that producers might develop
pricing practices which generally fall under the head of
“unfair competition.” They might, for example, seek to
drive competition out of a local market by selling tempo-
rarily in that market alone at a greatly depressed price.

Another possibility is that producers might follow the
practice of favoring customers of one nationality over
those of another. Possibilities such as these have led to
provisions vesting in the Authority the power to impose
rules which would govern the pricing practices (not the
prices) of the producers in the area. The general objective
of the Authority would be to enforce a non-discrimi-
natory pricing pattern without unnecessarily inhibiting
price competition and price flexibility.

The provisions of the agreement also allow for more
direct intervention by the Authority in the market for
coal and steel under certain special circumstances. Cur-
rent European thinking on the subject of coal and steel
is, of course, greatly influenced by the recurrent short-
ages of recent years and the strong inflationary pressures
which such shortages have created. Accordingly, pro-
vision has been made for dealing with such situations;
the agreement would permit the High Authority, acting
in concert with the Council of Ministers, to impose price
controls or to initiate a system of allocations for coal
and steel in periods of shortage. At the other extreme,
the Authority, acting together with the Council of Min-
isters, is empowered to limit production and to introduce
minimum prices in a period of ‘manifest crisis.”

T PRESENT, EACH OF THE prospective members of
the pool has undertakings to many countries outside
the pool to grant the latter most-favored-nation treat-
ment in trade matters; that is to say, each of the prospec-
tive participants is now bound by agreements which
require them, for example, to apply the same tariff rate
to coal or steel imported from the United Kingdom or
the United States as is applied to coal or steel imported
from other countries participating in the Schuman Plan.
The participating countries will have to negotiate for the
modification of these commitments in order to be able
to eliminate coal and steel tariffs among themselves
while continuing to apply them to imports from non-
participating countries.
Until the negotiations associated with these waivers
are completed and the terms of the waivers are known,
any discussion of the commercial relations of the Schu-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

Joseph Beck, Luxembourg’s foreign ‘minister, signs Schu-
man Plan Treaty for tiny state, a busy producer of steel,

man Plan countries with outside countries is bound to be
tentative in nature. Meanwhile, the High Authority is not
empowered to take any measures inconsistent with the
international obligations of the participating countries.

Despite the unresolved state of the trade relations
between the six countries and the outside world, a few
basic points are clear. Although the dominant theme of
the Schuman Plan is the creation of a single market
among the participating countries, the agreement also
stresses the principle that the single market should not
be an area which enjoys heavy protection from the coal
and steel exports of the rest of the world. This intention
will be put to the test initially in connection with the
process of harmonizing the tariff structures of the partici-
pating countries.

This problem of harmonization is an unavoidable conse-
quence of the agreement to suspend tariffs on coal and
steel among the participating countries. If Germany im-
posed a very much higher tariff rate on imports of Brit-
ish steel than Belgium imposed on its imports of British
steel, German importers of British steel would be likely
to bring their products through Belgium and thereby
avoid the high German tariff. Similar problems would
arise if the countries had very different policies regard-
ing other types of import restrictions. To deal with these
problems, therefore, member countries would have to
develop arrangements whereby the import restrictions
which each of them applied to outside countries were
not sufficiently different to encourage needless trans-
shipments among them.

HE MEMBER COUNTRIES would reserve one im-

portant right to the High Authority, however, which
might in some circumstances reduce the import of the
products of other countries. In the event that a “mani-
fest crisis’ developed, justifying the imposition of pro-
duction quotas on coal or steel in the single market area,
and, in the event that imports were being effected in
such relatively increased quantities and under such con-
ditions as seriously to injure producers of competitive
coal and steel products in the single market, the Authori-
ty would be authorized to impose import quotas. This
power, it.should be noted, is directly analogous to the
so-called escape-clause rights which participating coun-

MAY 1951

ahi

reaminenin er

--- Page 38 ---
tries reserve to themselves under the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade.

The treaty says little regarding the treatment to be
accorded by the pool to outside countries which import
their coal and steel. Such provisions as exist, however,
are of a constructive nature. The objective of the group
is to be the development of sales practices which would
produce ‘equitable prices for exported coal and steel.
Among other things the Authority will have the means
of preventing companies in its jurisdiction from “dump-
ing" coal or steel abroad, that is, selling these products
at a price below their sale price in the single market or
below their cost of production.

In general, competitive forces are expected to deter-
mine the location of coal and steel facilities in the single
market’and to encourage the expansion and moderniza-
tion of these facilities. The High Authority will have no
direct power to close down high-cost mines or steel
plants, nor can it compel investments in added coal or
steel facilities; in these fields, the Authority will have to
rely upon market forces to bring about the results it
desires.

On the other hand, the Authority could influence the
pattern of investment in several other ways. To begin
with, the Authority could veto a proposed investment in
coal or steel facilities which a company proposed to
finance from funds other than its own reserves, if the
Authority concluded that the proposed facilities could
not be expected to survive without subsidies or other
artificial means of support. In addition, the Authority
could make loans to enterprises to help in the expansion
of their facilities. Finally, the Authority will have the
obligation of making continuing studies of the coal and
steel facilities of the complex, to point out the needs and
opportunities for added investment in the area.

N THE COURSE OF NEGOTIATING the provisions of

the Schuman Plan, it became increasingly apparent
that the project for a single market might well involve
shifts in coal and steel facilities among the participating
countries, These shifts, in turn, might require the migra-
tion or displacement of some workers engaged in those
industries. Accordingly, the High Authority was given
responsibility for assisting workers in the readjustments
which might be involved. This assistance may take any
of several forms. It may include liberal separation pay,
retraining courses, or payment of resettlement expenses
and similar payments. It might also include the financing
of new industries in the affected areas which could ab-
sorb the displaced workers.

The High Authority's obligations with respect to labor
also have certain more positive objectives. One of the
High Authority's major purposes is to eliminate the de-
liberate use of wage reductions as a technique of com-
petition. One provision of the treaty prohibits any reduc-
tion in wages, except in certain defined circumstances,
such as when living costs also had declined. In addition,
the Authority may enter into consultation with govern-
ments with a view to correcting abnormally low wage
situations already in existence. .

MAY 1951

35

The treaty also contains other commitments which have
few precedents in international labor history. The par-
ticipating countries will be committed to the development
of a detailed agreement to eliminate virtually all restric-
tions in the hiring of experienced steel and coal workers
who are nationals of any of the other countries. Particular
efforts are to be made to eliminate barriers to the re-
employment of workers displaced in other countries. Any
discriminations practiced against coal or steel workers
of other member countries, whether they are experienced
or not, also will have to be eliminated by the treaty.

ROM THE FIRST, the drafters of the Plan considered

that certain special measures would have to be taken,
during a relatively short period at the outset of the Plan's
operation, in order to deal with the differences in costs
which existed among the coal and steel industries of the
various nations. It appeared that free trade among the
coal and steel industries of the six countries might force
shifts in production in the merged area on so large a scale
as to be intolerable for some of the countries concerned.
The most difficult problems in this category are those pre-
sented by the relatively high cost Belgium coal industry
and by the Italian steel industry.

To deal with the Belgian coal problem, provision is
made for. the operation of a so-called coal equalization
fund which would operate during a transitional period of
five years. The fund would be raised by levies on the
coal and steel production, of the low cost producers in
the area and wouid be paid to the highest cost segment
of the Belgian producers. These subsidies would taper off
at a rapid rate, the exact pace depending on the speed with
which Belgian industry can adjust itself to the situation.

The solution for Italian steel takes a different form. The
negotiators concluded that for technical reasons it was
not practicable to operate an equalization fund for the
steel industry. Accordingly, if the High Authority con-
siders it necessary, the Italian industry can be protected
by tariffs during the transitional period. However, the
duties involved cannot in any case be higher than those
which prevailed at the beginning of the Plan and would
be reduced by some fixed percentage each of the transi-
tional years, until the duty was eliminated.

IX COUNTRIES HAVE participated in the develop-
ment of the Schuman Plan treaty — Belgium, France,
Germany, the Netherlands, Italy and Luxembourg. Ratifica-

.tion by the parliaments of the signatory governments

will put the Plan in operation.

The discussions on ratification will raise political issues
of the first importance in most of the countries concerned.
Each country is bound to test the Plan for its impact on
its domestic economy and to explore the effects of par-
ticipation on other international issues.

Ratification of the Plan will be a tribute to their imag-
ination and courage. It will represent an experiment in
new concepts of sovereignty and of international or-
ganization, which will help to knit the free nations of the
world with stronger and more enduring ties. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
Modern labor-saving devices installed in seven newly-
built community houses are making life easier, pleasant-
er in Bavaria. New projects have proved tremendously
popular — and inspired many communities to follow suit.

Electric washing machines, wringers, driers, and sewing
machines for making clothes and sacks are highly popular.

Freedom fo

By KATHARINE HOLTZCLAW

Food and Agriculture Division
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

NTO THE PICTURE-POSTCARD FARM scene of Ger-

many’s Bavaria, where ways of living are deeply
rooted in the past, has come an innovation which is
revolutionizing the duties of Bavarian. farm wives, long
accustomed to limited means, hard work and lack of
modern equipment.

As new to the women as is power machinery to the
men is this latest project of the Bavarian rural villages
— community houses for farm women. So far, seven have
been erected — all in ancient, traditionally poor villages
near the Czech border, skirting the Soviet Zone.

Built sturdily and simply in typical Bavarian archi-
tectural style, with overhanging roofs and deep-set,
shuttered windows, each house contains a miracle of
labor-saving devices. All include community laundries,
completely equipped with power washers and driers,
baths and showers, meeting rooms, a sewing room which
provides not only electric machines for clothes-making,
but additional higher powered ones for the all-important
sacks which hold potatoes and other farm produce.

There are rooms for food preservation in the modern
way, and these have sausage grinders, cider presses,
small cabinets for smoking meat, a machine for cutting
cabbage to be processed into kraut, and a bottle washer.
Some have a sealer for tin cans, although complete
canning equipment is not yet available.

In communities where there is no bakery, the com-
munity house provides one; a house near Bamberg has
milk-cooling equipment; another, located in an area where
fowl are a prime market item, has a chicken-picking
machine. All equipment is constantly in use, except that
which is strictly seasonal, such as fruit presses. Baths
and showers are in demand so continously that time
limits have had to be established for them.

OST OF THE CREDIT for the community houses
belongs to Sophie Deppisch, a member of the Ba-
varian ministry of food and agriculture, who planned
and instigated them. Once the project got underway,
Fraeulein Deppisch counted heavily on the cooperation
and assistance of Maria Baur, president of the Land-
frauenverband, the Bavarian farm women's organization.
Frau Baur and her farm women associates bent eagerly to
furnishing the communal meeting rooms, which are in-
vitingly comfortable though simple, and in excellent taste.
Although the initial cost of each community house
was set at DM 80,000 ($19,040) the thrift-wise villagers
were able to reduce this outlay: (1) by a gift of land
from a public-spirited citizen; (2) by a village contribu-
tion of labor for all construction; and (3) by villagers’
donation of wood and other building materials.

MAY 1951

a caamnaiatn

--- Page 40 ---
arm Women

The final investment has thus approximated DM 50,000
($11,900), secured on a long-term loan with a low inter-
est rate, Taxes have been imposed on each community
by the people themselves to meet the yearly payments.

Financing of each community house is further achieved
by a diversified plan to augment the coffers from which
costs of operation must be paid. One house has admitted
a shopkeeper, whose rental goes into the payment fund;
another has two apartments for rent; still another pro-
vides a Turkish bath which brings in regular income.

IX EACH LOCALITY where the community houses
have been built, the interest of the farm women has.
been shared by their husbands. One farmer, watching a
teacher instruct his wife in the use of a chicken-picking Invitingly comfortable, community meeting rooms in new
machine, took over the operation himself; another ran a centers are drawing not only farm women, :but men too.
washer so that his wife could utilize the modern baking
ovens. Regular visitors are the village's mayor, the
priest and the men schoolteachers.

In every village, too, is a fine community spirit which
focuses attention upon decisions regarding particular
services which the community house provides — for
example, choice of books to be purchased from DM 1,000
($238) given by the HICOG Special Projects Fund.

Pride in achievement is apparent among both women
and men; in fact, the farmers, committed to a genera-
tions-old acceptance of back-breaking labor — not only
for themselves but for their wives, too — figure prom-
inently in the success of each community venture.
As often as not, it will be a man who says, “Have you
seen our house?"

The idea is spreading rapidly. Visitors from surround-
ing areas who have seen the community houses already
in operation are eager to promote one for themselves
and are bombarding the ministry of food and agriculture

with inquiries about how to initiate the project. Within ,
a few years, the community house is expected to become Entire village turned out for formal opening of this
as important a village institution as ‘the church and school. community house, including its all-male brass band.

ACH COMMUNITY HOUSE is scrupulously cared
4 for by a couple who are given a rent-free’ apartment

in the building in exchange for their services. In ad- In areas where there is no bakery, center provides one:
there villagers bake their daily bread and weekend cake.

dition to keeping the house clean and attending to its
smooth operation, the woman caretaker is an instructor
in the use of each piece of equipment. Because the

equipment is the property of the Bavarian state, it must
be properly utilized or is confiscated by the government
for assignment to another village.

Have there been such abuses, or are there indications
of improper use of the community houses? The answer:
“Emphatically not."

Women who are flocking daily to their dream-come-
true house are not only learning emancipation from the
bitterly hard life of the Bavarian farm, but are estab-
lishing a community of interest which bodes well for the
future of a democratic Bavaria. " --END

MAY 1951

--- Page 41 ---
Classroom on Tour

Students of the American Dependents School in Stuttgart have
been taking time off from classroom studies to visit industry
in the area. The idea to bring the American youngsters into
contact with the German worker and his job originated with
Labor Affairs Chief Newton S. Friedman of the Office of the
State Commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden, and had the

backing of the local Parent-Teacher Association, All grades
are included. Recently 60 members of the third grade visited
the Margarete Steiff Toy Company. Others in previous trips
had visited such installations as a cotton mill, a bicycle and

motor cycle factory, and a machinery works. In top photo,
members of the ninth grade hear an explanatory talk by the
foreman of the Stuttgart ““Abendzeitung" (Evening Newspaper)
printing plant. Some of the 30 students also had an opportunity
to see the Army's Stuttgart Post News‘ in process of publi-
cation (center) while others watched German apprentices getting
an education through experience. The visits will continue in
view of the students’ avid interest and the resultant friendlier
German-American relations.

--- Page 42 ---
On this farm in Wuerttemberg-Baden, exchangee Richard Hertler will apply what he is now learning during year as

farm guest in the United States. Shown are Richard's father, cousin and women farm helpers.

(Schwarz photo)

Young Farmers Return

By MARGARET GLICK

Brethren Service Commission

N US ZONE FARM HOMES, Brethren Service Commis-

sion and HICOG state commission offices, it was time
to take stock. The first batch of HICOG’s young German
farm exchangees returned from the United States with
saddle shoes, letter sweaters, impressions and plans. At
banquets and conferences, sponsors and travelers added
up the experience, blueprinted for the future. Brethren
Service Commission, the Stateside sponsor, even sent
19-year-old special delegate Rodrick Rolston to talk to
returnees and their families and re-

Americans are no different from Germans, have no
hate for former enemies.

Co-ed schools, mechanized farms, absence of strip farm-
ing, use of father’s car by high school students made
hits with most of the visitors.

Nearly all liked the American schools for the informal
atmosphere and practical approach, but insisted that
German schools were “harder,” ergo, better, at least for
“classical education” what the youngsters termed.

Most found something special to

port on his youth-to-youth findings.

Everyone seemed to be satisfied
with what the boys and girls had
brought back. Out of experiences in
nearly all.the farm states of the
union, out of home life with a host
farm family selected by the Brethren
Service Commission, out of US high
school classes crystallized the awaited
conclusions:

Life in America is freer, friendlier,

The Brethren Service Commis-
sion is one of the three private
organizations of farmers cooperat-
ing with the Department of State
on the Exchange Program for Ger-
man rural youth. There are pres-
ently 250 teen-agers living in the
United States for one year under
the sponsorship of the National
Grange, the American Farm Bureau
Federation and the Brethren Serv-
ice Commission.

praise or criticize. One boy was re-
lieved to find that “the average
American does not want war.” A girl
admired American separation of
church and state; another deplored
the lack of religious training in the
schools. Most were critical of race
problems, while the more objective
noted progress being made.

But the leitmotif in all returnee com-
ments remained the surprise of democ-
racy experienced. “The tremendous

happier — at least for young people.

MAY 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
freedom, the elbow-room," one boy called it. One girl,
in a magnificently laconic summation of a year, declared:
“I've learned to understand American people, improved
my English, made friends and come closer to God."

Some of the exchangees spoke hopefully of returning
to the States; others rolled up their sleeves for Germany.
Said one girl: “Somehow my visit here in the country
of ‘unlimited possibilities’ challenged me to go back to
mmy own country and strive toward a higher goal."

To strengthen this resolve among the returnees, Maj.
Gen. Charles P. Gross, state commissioner for Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, spoke encouraging words to a banquet group
of 44 at Stuttgart's Hohenheim Agricultural College.
His plan:

1, Decrease drudgery of farm work for your mothers,
sisters and your sweethearts as well as for yourselves.

2. Increase the interest and participation of your rela-
tives and friends in the political, social, cultural and
economic conditions surrounding you in Germany and in
the world. The horizons should reach beyond the village
and its yearly fest.

3. Show that the time and the money to accomplish
the above can be gained by following modern methods
in agriculture and in home economics.

4, Prove that the closest and’ most intimate contacts
must be maintained between the farm and the research
agencies of school and ministry.

“When the German farmer reads and gets out his
pencil to figure instead of doing what his father and
grandfather did, when he thinks rather than drives him-
self and his family, there will be a happier and better
life on the farm,’ General Gross declared.

IETURNEES APPLAUDED, proceeded to organize a com-
mittee to coordinate their efforts and to maintain con-
tacts across the ocean. Organization of 4-H Club groups of
farm youth in villages was labeled a high priority task.

Two returning America travelers share their experiences
at Rhine-Main. Gudrun Mochler lived with a family in
South English, O.-Hubertus Determann spent year on
farm near Waterside, Pa. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

cgarre

Ilse Fuercht from Bavaria lends a hefty hand in leveling
ground for a Brethren Service playground in Germany.

Another group of exchangees, already back home a
while, met in Kassel to share readjustment experiences.

Rudolph Stahl had encouraging news. He has already
introduced some outstandingly new ideas. For one thing,
he has brought Holstein cows onto the farm to increase
milk production. For another, he is'building for use on
his farm a special hog feeder similar to the one he built
in agriculture class in America.

People of the community are a little pessimistic about
his work, and he knows they are watching him with a
great deal of curiosity, but he works on anyway because
he believes the new things he learned about agriculture
in America can be transplanted here and can improve
Germany's own agriculture.

His Stateside sponsoring family keeps him up to date
on improved methods and sends him latest information
in the agricultural field. Rudi, like most of the students,
has shown a great deal of care in his introduction of
new ideas since his return. They say: “I am just a small
person and cannot make many changes. But by my
actions people will see what life in America did to help
me, and it is only slowly that these ideas can be intro-
duced to the community and become a part of it.”

HHRISTA STOBER, OF HESSE, made a good adjust-

ment in the States. She lived in Michigan, studied
chemistry, English, mathematics, government and home
economics at school. During her stay she gave approxi-
mately 35 speeches to clubs, church and school groups.
Her cheerful personality, her maturity gained by hard-
ships as a refugee, won her many friends. When she re-
turned she worked first in an office, later began her
studies in dietetics.

A letter she wrote to Miss Verna Rapp, representative
of the exchange program for Brethren Service Commis-
sion in Germany, points up dramatically one of the main
problems facing the returned student:

“Here in Wiesbaden I had the opportunity to attend
meetings of all kinds. We are here just about 45 ex-
changees of all ages and occupations. We together built
a group with the help of the resident officer. Besides I
went to the America House and to some American church

MAY 1951

--- Page 44 ---
clubs. I did this in the early days after my return. Be-
cause at that time I felt the American people would be
interested in me, the same way they were’ in the States.
3ut I found out that most of them don't care very much
about a German.

“People I met in the States and meet here again are
just entirely different. My personal thought is and always
will be: There may be more than 1,000 students going
over to the States and may come back as enthusiastic as
we did and here in Germany it won't help very much,
as long as the Americans, who live over here are not an
example of their own country.”

‘ERHARD WEISER, A STUDENT from Wuerttemberg-
Baden, is a good example of one who has found
many of the experiences he learned in America useful
to him now that he has returned. He has helped form
11 rural youth groups, basing them on the 4-H and FFA
pattern he saw in the States. From January through
March he has attended 76 evening meetings of rural youth.
In connection with this work, and cooperatively with
the Jugendverband (Youth Association), he arranged for
the rural youth in Heidelberg county to have oppor-
tunity to participate in a judging contest of chickens and
cows, held April 8, in Heidelberg. The idea for this contest
also came from similar contests he saw in America.

Gerhard works on these projects for DM 80 ($19.04)
monthly — semi-voluntarily. He lives on a small farm
not far from Heidelberg, and helps on the farm in his
spare time, His many activities there are only an ex-
tension of the activities he found time for in the States.
He gave 52 speeches there to farm bureaus, church
groups, high schools, Lion's clubs and youth groups, and
as proof of what the experience gave him, he wrote:

“T learned to know the Americans as very fine people.
| learned to know that wars between different countries
are not only unreasonable, but foolish, because I made
in America — in the country with which my country was
at war just a few years ago—the very best of friends
very easily. I learned to love America and its inhabitants.
I learned to know what it means to live in a democracy.”

Just as Gerhard has found a big place for himself
in the life of the community to which he has re-
turned, so also. has Johannes Haese, a refugee student

Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, state commissioner for Wuert-
temberg-Baden, speaks welcoming words to reunion of
44 farm youth, returned from year of study in the US
under auspices of Brethren Service Commission and Ex-
changes Division, HICOG. Reunion was held in Stuttgart.

Wilhelm Schaufelberger (left, with UNO flag), spent his
year in Sebraton, W.Va. Gerhard Mueller, also 19, is
proud of high-school letter from Lindsay, Calif. On way
home entire group visited United Nations headquarters.

from Bremen. Johannes works as assistant to the leader
of two youth groups in the Evangelische Lutheran
churches of Bremen. In one group there are 60 boys
under 14 years of age, in the other are 15 boys under
18 years of age. A camp is planned for the smaller group
this summer, to teach these boys more about their country
and about nature. Finance is a problem because the boys
come from working men's homes and economic resources
are very limited.

Another project of Johannes’ began when 25 to 30
packages, worth DM 2,000 ($476), came to him at Christ-
mas from the people of Oregon whom he had learned to
know during his year in America. From these packages
he and his parents prepared 82 smaller packages, distrib-
uted them to every child in his father’s school, and also
to some parents,

“How thankful I am that I could show to the people
here that the Americans too have a desire for peace and
that they want to help where help is needed,” Johannes
said. He has come back to find himself more at home in
his community than before, and even though his school
work takes a great part of his time, still he finds a place
in his busy schedule for community activities.

OT ALL THE STUDENTS find their adjustments so
easy when they return home. Two letters which
came into the Brethren Service office stress the difficulty
of adjustment for Ilse Fuercht, a refugee student from
Bavaria. On Jan. 28 she wrote: ‘You see, I live here in
a very small town near the Russian border and have a
pretty tough time. Prejudice and jealousy are so great
that I get often so discouraged, that I give up fighting
it. In school I hear all the time remarks about my stay in
America and I am telling you they are not nice ones...”
Another letter on March 5 is more hopeful: “...I have
never been asked to talk. I don’t think there is much
interest and I don’t feel as much a part of the community
as I did before. The longer I am back, the better I get
along with people. They forget that I was over there and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
slowly see that I haven't changed and that their preju-
dice was unreasonable.

“The last two Sundays it was the first time I was with
my old girl friends again. We went skiing, but never
talked one word about America. Now they ask me more
to be together with them again, because I am not so
proud as they thought... You have to consider that I
live as a refugee in a small town near the Russian border,
that I am a Protestant in a Catholic region, and that Iam
just a girl. Maybe that clears the situation a little bit..."

In order to give Ilse some encouragement and support,
the Brethren Service Commission invited her to an Easter
work camp near Kassel. Her contribution was good, and
the participation with people sympathetic to her problem
gave her a new sense of her capabilities. Contact with
the students is always good, the Commission feels, and
in the case of students like Ilse who have had so many
difficulties in their adjustment, it is a positive need.

ITH THIS IN MIND a program of visitation has
been developed, whereby all the homes of students
who are in the States at the present time can be visited.
Brethren Volunteer Service personnel, under the direc-
tion of Miss Rapp, visit in the homes, take pictures to be
sent later to the student in America, and seek to find if
any difficulties have arisen that can be referred to John
Eberly, Brethren Service director of the program in America.
Mr. Eberly, in turn, contacts the student in the States and
works to adjust any misunderstandings or problems.
Good relations are thus developed, both here with the
parents, and in America with the'student and his sponsor.
The background gained has proved valuable in helping
students to readjust to life in Germany when they return.
Visitation is not the only means of contact with the
students. A newsletter, Echoes, published each six weeks,

Bei

Returnee Johannes Haese, shown with parents, has been
busy organizing boy's clubs since return. He has had no
trouble readjusting, feels more at home here than ever.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

42

Special delegate for Brethren Service Commission,
Rodrick Rolston, 19, chats with the father of Indiana
visitor Kar] Brugger. Father Brugger is obviously pleased.

is by, for and about the teen-agers. All student cor-
respondence is given immediate attention, and the student
is encouraged to write about his problems. Whenever
possible, Brethren Service staff members visit in the
homes of the returned teen-agers.

ENATE HANDKE, OF LOWER SAXONY, unlike many

of the students, has retained much of her German
conservatism since her return. Her adjustment in the
States was excellent. She fitted well and maturely into
her foster home when the mother of the five small
children died. Now back in Germany, she is most en-
thusiastic about‘her year in America, and she has writ-
ten to the Brethren Service Commission a letter that is
a testimonial to the value of the program in terms of
helping to build better human relationships:

“But there have been other moments, and many more
of these, when I have been feeling a great, indescribable
love in my heart for all those I learned to know and,
most important of all, to love and to understand, to be
able to think of them as of people with. great ideals,
which didn't exist just as ideas in their minds but as
something which was brought into action, first of all. This
living picture of Christianity I shall never forget.

“T learned to know my foster parents and lots of other
people as great persons, so impressive I can't but strive
to become like them, although it will be a constant
striving to a faraway, high goal, never entirely to be
reached... Several times I said to people in America
that I believe the future first will prove the real and
everlasting value of our being together.

“IT know, I can feel already, how strong this tie of love
is which binds us together... Now, don't you think, that
the fact of loving and understanding each other has been
worth a whole year's stay in America?“

The Brethren Service Commission thinks so. So do the
US officials who administer the exchanges program in
Germany: James R. Keim, OLC W-B, Dr. Trude Gunther
of HICOG Cultural Exchanges and Dr. John F. Mead,
chief, Cultural Exchanges Branch, OLC W-B. The pro-
gram will be accelerated. Before long, the returnees here
can look for reinforcements. -+END

MAY 1951

--- Page 46 ---
East German Schools Sovietized

HE SYSTEM OF POLITICAL indoctrination now be-
T ing applied to the Soviet Zone of Germany is rapidly
becoming a cradle-to-the-grave affair for nearly every
segment of the population. All possible media are ex-
ploited, such as public propaganda, Communist Party
schooling, compulsory instruction in the factories and
government administrative agencies, training within the
so-called “mass organizations, and the public school
system. Of these the public school system offers the
government authorities one of their choicest opportuni-
ties (of which they take full advantage) for implanting
within the future adult East zone population the theo-
retical and practical aims of the Communist program.
The following is a summary of a special report prepared
by HICOG on the sovietization of the school system in
East Germany.

The considerable expenditures of effort, time and
money, which have been applied toward developing the
so-called “new democratic school” in East Germany,
have been inspired by the conviction contained in Karl
Liebknecht's saying that ‘who possesses the youth, pos-
sesses the future.”

Communist authorities were quick in 1945 to seize upon
the school system as an invaluable instrument for bolshe-
vizing East German political, economic and cultural life.

Specifically, the school system has been given the
task of indoctrinating youth with Communist ideology;
of gaining youth's support for the political (including
military) and economic Communist program; of training
a skilled new generation to implement this program; and
of developing a ‘new intelligentsia’ to provide cultural
and scientific stimulus along Marxist lines.

O ACCOMPLISH THESE OBJECTIVES the school

system itself had first to be sovietized. This entailed,
on the one hand, the elimination of influences which
might deter the school’s conversion to a Communist in-
stitution and, on the other hand, the introduction of
innovations to accelerate the transformation. In other
words, the changes made in the structure of the school
system, in the instruction manuals and textbooks, and in
the training of the teaching body were determined solely
by political and economic considerations.

Since 1945 the school structure has been re-formed
according to a pattern which paved the way for central-
ized Communist state control over education.

First of all, private schools and institutes were
abolished.

Secondly, normal parental authority over the formal
education of youth has been undermined. The right of
Parents to make collective protest or give advice via
Parent-teacher associations has been taken over by a
Communist-controlled agency in which “mass organi-
zation” representatives predominate.

Thirdly, the elimination in 1945 of confessional schools,
and the banning of religious instruction from the public

MAY 1951

school system removed church influence from the public
education of youth. This was followed by harassing
tactics against the church even in the restricted spheres
left to it. Religious instruction of youth is still tolerated
outside of school hours but Communist-inspired frustra-
tions have consistently dogged the churches’ activities
even in this field. Constant efforts are made to discredit
and intimidate those elements within the churches which
have continued to resist the ‘‘democratization" of youth.
And in general, the Christian churches in East Germany
which form at present the strongest overt body of oppo-

~ sition to Communist tactics in the schools, are being

43

more and more openly attacked.

ARENTAL AND CHURCH INFLUENCE over the form-

al early education of youth has been further weak-
ened by integration within the school system of the
Communist-controlled ‘mass youth organization" of the
Free German Youth (FDJ) and its junior branch, the
Young Pioneers. The youth organization has been given
an increasingly stronger hand in the planning and con-
trol of education and general cultural activities within
the school. In addition, the youth organization forms a
cordon sanitaire, as it were, between youth and the in-
fluence of the home and church by virtue of its exten-
sive extracurricular activities.

Teaching manuals and textbooks issued by the central
ministry of education are being completely and carefully
revised according to Marxist-Leninist ideology, with
practical and graphic applications to the present East-
West struggle. On the assumption that a child absorbs
in school not only knowledge but also a “concept of
life," the East German educational authorities have done
all possible to insure that the raw material of instruction,
whatever the subject, is so slanted as to promote the
Bolshevist concept.

So-called bourgeois elements on the teaching staff of
the East German school system, which have survived
the first waves of purge and inundation by Communist-
trained Neulehrer (new teachers), are subject to increas-
ing intimidation and pressure.

N THE WHOLE, SOVIETIZATION of the educational

system in East Germany has progressed to such a
degree that Minister of Education Paul Wandel (SED)
predicted at the end of 1949 that within two years a
sufficient number of young people will have passed
through the East zone schools to insure that the younger
generation will be brought up in the “correct Marxist
atmosphere.”

While more objective observers are inclined to think
that this goal will not likely be reached for another five
years or so, a survey of the present situation indicates
that Wandel’s prediction is supported by more than
wishful thinking. (Continued on Page 45)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
Modern
Schools
Planned

E HAVE BEEN BUILDING Kasernes (barracks) for

too long — we must learn to build schools all over
again,” a ranking German education official said recently.
He expressed the. sentiments of many liberal German
educators and architects as well as most American ob-
servers. Once a leader in architectural design, Germany
had neglected school construction during the period of
Nazi dedication to aggression, Meanwhile, Western na-
tions had begun to convert their red brick schoolhouses
into airy temples of glass and steel in answer to the
needs of democratic education.

To stimulate modern design in the new school build-
ing which must eventually rise from the rubble, HICOG
began sending small groups of German architects to the
United States two years ago through the exchange pro-
gram. They returned impressed, but with a common com-
plaint — ‘Anything is possible in wealthy America, but
Germany is too poor to construct such buildings.”

In response to this reaction, the HICOG Education
and Cultural Relations Division in conjunction with the
Exchanges staff arranged for two groups of German
architects and finance officials to visit Scandinavian
countries where financial and material resources were
relatively similar to German conditions. The first tour
of eight architects from the US Zone was conducted in
October 1950, and the second for five architects and two
finance officials took place last February.

In two whirlwind weeks, each group, escorted by a
HICOG official, visited scores of schools, housing devel-
opments and government buildings, inspected them from
cellar to roof, collected building plans, books and
brochures, and talked with educators, financial experts
and architects. With typical German thoroughness they

German architects on HICOG-sponsored tour of Scan-
dinavian schools land in Stockholm on first leg of recent
tour. L.-r., George W. Ware, vocational education adviser,
HICOG, who conducted tour; Ludwig Oberneder, of
Pfarrkirchen; Hans Nuechter, Fulda; Bruno Wiesinger,
Ansbach; Gunter Wilhelm, Stuttgart; Ernst Vieler, Bremer-
haven; Carl-Otto Vorlaender, Darmstadt, and Ernst Muhr,
Euskirchen. Group represented the four states of US
Zone. Each is a resident of a community which has
requested or been granted HICOG Special Projects Fund
assistance for the construction of needed school buildings.

measured, sketched and photographed everything from
doorknobs to soundproofed ceilings.

HEY WERE AMAZED and stimulated by the modern

design and new construction concepts in Denmark,
Sweden and even Finland, which had suffered extensive
destruction and postwar economic privation.

They found flat, one-story school buildings, with sepa-
tate wings for each classroom, big windows, movable
furniture and extensive-soundproofing. They discovered
that the bright and cheerful atmosphere stimulated new
teaching techniques, education by discussion and coopera-
tive group work as opposed to recitation and memorized
facts.

They also rejected the old bugaboo of prohibitive costs.
“As technicians, we must plan modern buildings so
that they will not cost more than the old-style schools,”

Lecture hall (left) in Swedish secondary school impressed upon visiting architects that Germany too can achieve higher
educational standards through better study conditions by making classrooms attractive. As a result of architects’ travels,
Germany's future school buildings may have exterior beauty equaling that of large Copenhagen vocational school (right).

--- Page 48 ---
said Dr. Alfred Fischer, an architect at the Karlsruhe
Technical College, who went with the second group.
“We should not construct buildings to last 100 years,
when educational needs may change in the meantime."

Karl F. Leibl, chief government architect for Upper
Bavaria, was impressed by the lighting and ventilation,
which included long windows in two or more walls of
each classroom, or skylights in the ceiling, and glass
enclosed corridors. He urged that one modern school be
built in each German state as a model for future con-
struction.

Heinz Dinter, building official for Wiesbaden, called
for better acoustics in German schools after seeing the
Swedish soundproofing in classrooms, gymnasiums and
even halls and stairways.

Heinz Arndt, Berlin architect, made detailed photo-
graphs of Danish school corridors which had been es-
pecially widened to accommodate coathooks, washstands
and lunch counters and stools —thus eliminating the
costly construction of additional rooms for such facilities.

He also cited the success of small Swedish communities
which had joined together to construct one central, mod-
ern school. Even with the extra expense of bus trans-

portation, the consolidation provided better and cheaper
school facilities than each community could maintain alone.

EMBERS OF THE FIRST GROUP, back only three
months, have already begun to put new ideas into
effect. Hans Neuchter of Fulda and Ernst Vieler of Bremer-
haven revised their plans for large vocational training
centers, being financed partly with HICOG Special Proj-
ects Funds, to include some new Scandinavian features.
In Bremen, where three modern schools are already
under construction, architect Johann Krajewski has even
additional ideas to incorporate in the already progressive
plans for five new schools and a DM 4,000,000 ($952,000)
vocational training center.

Two members of the first tour are compiling a liberally
illustrated book on modern school building, as a result
of their trip.

A few modern schoolhouses in each state could in-
fluence the course of all future construction. And it is
difficult to use ‘‘Kaserne-style" teaching methods in bright
and modern classrooms.

The success of the tours has prompted HICOG education
officials to plan additional visits. +END

«

(Continued from Page 43)

East German Schools Sovietized

Opening of the 1950-1951 school term may be regarded
as marking the end of the period of experimentation and
improvisation.

As the Soviet-sponsored “German Democratic Republic"
entered in January 1951 upon its five-year economic plan,
the educational authorities faced a twofold basic task.
The first was that of improving and consolidating the
educational system in its present pattern, and the second
that of integrating it within the framework of the five-year
plan in order to insure that it will make the most direct
and effective contribution possible to the communization
of East Germany.

Specifically the public school system must raise its
present unsatisfactory academic level, so that the mass
of the population will be capable of applying a more
intelligent approach to the tasks of the five-year plan.

Further expansion and development of vocational and
technical training will be undertaken. Higher school edu-
cation catering increasingly to a pro-Communist “elite”
will be greatly extended under tighter government control.

The “mass youth organization” will have an even
greater role within the school system. Church-going
youth are to be further “enlightened” regarding the
necessity of pursuing political activities within the FDJ.

HE SCHOOL-BUILDING program, including use of
modern educational aids, is to be accelerated in 1951.
Finally, ‘ideological indoctrination which stresses inte-
gration of Marxist theory and practice is to be intensi-
fied both within and outside the school.
It should be pointed out that the school system is
tegarded here primarily from the aspect of the new

MAY 1951

45

structural form imposed upon it to facilitate its con-
version into still another instrument of government
control. Within the human element administering this
instrument, passive resistance and opposition to the
Communist system will of course always be possible and
will always be present to some degree or other. Even
such resistance, however, has disturbing implications for
the future moral and mental well-being of those indi-
viduals who are forced by the system to lead a
“double life."

On the whole, it is perhaps safe to assume that barring
countering external influences, the East German educa-
tional system will produce within the next five years
a nucleus of staunch Communist adherents, a corps of
technically and manually skilled manpower and a col-
lectivized ‘new intelligentsia” to continue the process
of provocation and misinformation against the West.

OME OF THE EVENTUAL EFFECTS of the new school

system are now discernible, such as growing igno-
rance on the part of youth of all but Communist in-
fluences; the slow but inevitable elimination of all
humanizing influences from a system devoted exclusive-
ly to materialistic goals; the crippling of the individual
personality in the interest of developing a technically
specialized and compartmentalized intelligentsia; and
reduction of a large part of the youth to a condition of
intellectual irresponsibility.

A superficial measure of the present progress of the
new East German educational process lies in the grow-
ing estrangement between the East and West German
educational systems. The point has now been reached
where the product of one system, even scholastically
—not to mention ideologically — speaking, has little in
common with the product of the other. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Singers with a Message

N THE TRADITION of ancient Nuremberg and its
historical Meistersinger* contests, people by the

hundreds gathered in the Bavarian city recently to hear
another singing competition. It was the second annual
German Youth Activities (GYA)-sponsored Meistersinger
contest open to all vocally interested German youth in
Western Germany between the ages of 18 and 25.

For months preceding, eliminations were held at vari-
ous US Army installations in the US Zone and US Sector
of Berlin to determine the 36 semi-finalists who would
go to Nuremberg to vie for the coveted top 10 places.
As in Richard Wagner's opera on the singing guild mem-
bers, Die Meistersinger, an outsider won the highest
honors — Gertrude Wagner, an alto from Berlin. Along
with other winners, including a blind girl from Stuttgart,
she received a cash award and other prizes.

The ceremonies were opened with an address by As-
sistant US High Commissioner for Policy Benjamin J. But-
tenwieser, who compared the plot of the Wagner musical
drama and its symbolic characters with Germany and its
present day inhabitants. Mr. Buttenwieser's speech follows.

AGNER GLORIFIED the Meistersingers as a guild,

whose purpose was to foster a love of the noblest
ideals in art, and related that to the art of brotherhood;
so, too, is the present contest aimed at fostering similar
ideals. There is a theme in the opera in which the citizens
of Nuremberg hymn their praise of all that is finest in
their native art. Surely a present-day contest to choose
the best performers in the field of music serves not alone
to advance the art of music, with all the cultural values
that flow from it, but likewise develops and furthers the
many other intangible, but none the less constructive,
assets which inevitably derive from such a contest, es-
pecially among youth.

“Contests such as this develop a spirit of fair play and
fellowship and teach the invaluable lesson of how to be
a good loser as well as a modest winner. These are sig-
nificant attributes to inculcate in young people. In youth
lies our greatest hope for achieving what is so sorely
needed in the world today; namely, better understanding
between neighbors — neighbors not alone in the im-
mediate sense of those who live in close proximity, but
neighborliness and understanding on a national basis and
then in the wider realm of international relationships.

“German youth today is, I fear, somewhat prone to feel
that it represents a forgotten generation or one for which
life holds but little promise. This philosophy of despair,
I am convinced, is as ill-founded as it is unconstructive.
Much is being done for the youth of Germany today.
Public and quasi-public authorities at all levels in Ger-
many and the peoples and governments of many foreign
nations — among the forefront of which it is only fitting
to say is our own country — are rendering aid to the
youth of Germany unparalleled in history.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

46

“They do this because they know the development of a
healthy, contented and enlightened youth will go far
toward ensuring Germany's establishing herself as a bul-
wark of democracy and gaining a rightful place in the
family of peace and freedom loving nations of the world.
With Germany's own development of her vast recuper-
ative powers, plus all the aid and encouragement that
she is obtaining from the West, it could well be that the
very present may be ushering in Germany's finest era.

es ae

Gertrud Wagner, representing Berlin, receives first prize
in GYA 1951 Meistersinger Contest from Gen. Thomas T.
Handy, EUCOM commander-in-chief. Miss Wagner re-
ceived DM 500 and round trip plane ticket to any point in
Germany. At right, Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, assistant
US high commissioner for policy, who gave main address.

(US Army photo)

“For the youth of Germany, this may well be its finest
hour, if it but has the vision, integrity, capacity for hard
work and devotion to democratic principles to capitalize
on its present great opportunity.

N THE OPERA DIE MEISTERSINGER, Hans Sachs
sounds the warning that disunity among Germans
would be the death of holy German art. Even though
Hans Sachs is only a cobbler, it is generally recognized
that Wagner cast him as representing public opinion. As
the mouthpiece of this public opinion, he confined to Ger-
(Continued on page 63)

* A “'Meistersinger’’ or master singer was a member of one of
particular guilds, chiefly of workingmen, established between about
1300 and 1500 in certain German cities (Nuremberg probably being
the most famous today by virtue of the popularity of Wagner's “Die
Meistersinger“), for the cultivation of poetry and music.

MAY 1951

--- Page 50 ---
Community Council Arrives

By JACK P. HOULIHAN
Special Consultant, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

F THEIR AVID ACCEPTANCE of
the Community Council idea is a
criterion. Germans are taking to de-
mocracy as a duck takes to water.
That's the opinion this consultant
gleaned on a fact-finding mission to

Mr. Houlihan, visiting consultant
to the Community Activities Branch,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, is
in Germany on leave from the
Community Chest, Philadelphia, Pa.

AVE THERE BEEN PROBLEMS?
Surely. In the early stages of or-
ganization both city officials and in-
dustrialists cast cold eyes on these
citizens groups. But they were sold on
the merit of “teamwork in their towns”

citizen's community planning councils
in Wuerttemberg-Baden and Bavaria during a two-week
survey.

Germany is broken down into states, known as Laender,
and the Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany
operates from each state commissioner's office with a
“field staff’ of Kreis (county) resident officers, aided by
professional consultants in community activities and
youth activities, directed by Lawrence E. Norrie, former
National YMGA official; John C. Pixley, former Los
Angeles Council attache; and Austin Welch, American
recreation authority and former Federal Public Housing
Authority official.

Resident Officers interviewed agreed that Community
Councils were the most encouraging democratic develop-
ment seen, whether formed as a result of a “suggestion”
or coming into being spontaneously through community
interest — which, surprisingly, has often been the case.

FEW KILOMETERS from Stuttgart, in Wuerttemberg-

Baden, we found the county of Waiblingen a hotbed
of community council activity. Four communities, Schon-
dorf, Fellbach, Waiblingen and Winnenden, all have
active councils, all formed within the past two years.
There, the initiative came from Resident Officer Hilton
Rosner, who found that the mayor, Catholic and Evan-
gelical clergy, union leaders and social workers were all
eager to work together to face community problems.

Putting their problems under the spotlight through a
militant press whose cooperation was enlisted early,
they took definite action to improve conditions. Results
included establishment of a community laundry to which
townsfolk in Schondorf take their clothes each week; a
community cooperative store where clothes from friends
in the United States which do not fit may be swapped
for some which do; a day nursery for working mothers in
Waiblingen, as well as a library and adult education
center in the same town.

In every instance, council action resulted in tax funds
being allocated to carry on these services which are now
permanent features under local auspices and not ‘Ameri-
can handouts.” These communities want to lift themselves
up by the bootstraps and they feel that community coun-
cils and citizen participation are the way.

MAY 1951

and some of the city officials now
admit they have been assisted in getting welfare legisla-
tion passed by town councils because of backing from the
community planning council.

The Germans have found that through citizens forums
they have been able to sound out community thinking
and through the council transmit plans into action on a
cooperative basis.

A new development, councils in Germany haven't given
too much thought to structure, constitution and bylaws
and other such refinements, but generally, their objectives
are much the same as those of American councils. If any
criticism is to be found it is that many of these embryo
councils are over-ambitious. They try to reach out and
solve problems not within the sphere of local competency
— problems such as federal finance and interstate com-
merce — but they are ultimately able to transmit such
local problems through the proper channels so that even-
tual action may result.

At any rate, most of these councils are the antithesis
of our old version of “Councils of Social Agencies,”
which were often limited to private social agencies.

Membership generally in the German council brings
in every element of community leadership and schools of
thought, churches, labor, city officials, industrialists and
tourist promoters. Many tend toward a chamber of com-
merce complexion; others would resemble a combined
chamber and council. Some call themselves ‘economic
councils," yet hasten to assure you that this means social
welfare in a broad sense. Practically all are open to the
public at large, and a few have official delegate bodies.

Citizen's Planning Committee of Beilngries in Bavaria at
work. Young woman in picture, local schoolteacher and
youth leader, has two children of her own and serves as
chairman of the town's sub-committee on youth problems.

--- Page 51 ---
Jack Houlihan, HICOG consultant and author of this article,
is shown in conversation with little Bavarian children in
village schoo]. Mr. Houlihan's findings on his extended
tour of cities, towns and villages throughout US Zone have
convinced him the community council has come — to stay.

UNIQUE DEVELOPMENT — and one which may

be the forerunner of state planning councils — exists
in the so-called Grenzland (border land) area in Bavaria.
As we drove from town to town near the Czech border,
we talked with council people who pointed out that com-
mon problems as a result of the influx of refugees ne-
cessitated a federation of planning councils. So, a 14-
county council exists, with delegates from each of the
counties meeting regularly. Problems of transportation,
tariffs, employment, etc. are discussed by the federated
council, bringing into focus individual council problems
as well.

While many councils have started on the county level,
probably because of the stimulus of American Resident
Officers, they are now developing on a more grass roots
basis — on the neighborhood council idea. Counties with
several towns, like Waiblingen, have found that local
councils best serve the local needs, but yet through
federation, allow for exchange of thought.

One could go on endlessly with examples of striking
community council triumphs. The town of Pforzheim
particularly stands out.

ANNHOFFER WEG was a section in Pforzheim which
was used as the Siberia for the town's undesirables—
prostitutes, opium addicts, homosexuals and other un-

Press of Neumarkt in Bavaria has been lavish in its praise
and coverage of activities of local community council.

Citizen's councils in Tirschenreuth, Bavaria, and Phila-
delphia, Pa., are compared by Mr. Houlihan and the
executive committee of local Citizen's Planning Committee,
Basic community problems, they quickly found, are simi-
lar and warrant prompt action by the citizens themselves,

fortunates. A watch manufacturing center, Pforzheim
during the war switched to the manufacture of delicate
aircraft instruments and was, accordingly, bombed to
the ground. Decent home-owners crawled from the rubble
to find their homes ruined, while Tannhoffer Weg by
some miracle had escaped the fury from the sky. But,
because the section had never been considered as need-
ing decent sewage, house toilet facilities and other
amenities, it was not livable for those who now sought
refuge there.

What to do? A community council was organized with
clergy, officialdom and labor represented. Blueprints for
making the area habitable were rushed. The citizen's
council called on the officials for action and got it. Today
Tannhoffer Weg is a respectable residential section —
a living tribute to what may well have been Germany's
first community welfare council.

This community and many other German towns are
anxious to use new-found democratic means, along with
their native culture, to make community life better. When
one considers that in four decades these people have
lived under four different ideologies, it is gratifying to see
how they accept democratic vehicles such as the welfare
council for meeting their local problems. HICOG has truly
brought a touch of American democracy to many Ger-;
man communities.

The word is spreading: Community Councils are here
to stay! -+-END

Homemobile Visits Country Housewives

The modern kitchen is to be brought to the country
housewife. As part of Hesse’s rural education program,
a “homemobile,” complete with modern kitchen, laundry
and inexpensive household gadgets, has begun the rounds
of Hesse's rural communities.

The project is designed to introduce a more efficient,
less expensive modern household to Hesse’s farm wives,
and will visit almost every hamlet of Hesse this year.

MAY 1951

--- Page 52 ---
Berlin Film Festival

),REE BERLIN'S HOROSCOPE shows nothing but stars
I these days — movie stars who are expected to make
the city a firmament of twinkling brilliance come June,
when Germany's first postwar Film Festival will be writ-
ten into screen history.

International film celebrities will invade Berlin both in
person and on celluloid during the gala Filmfest which is
already receiving advance billing as one of Europe's top
1951 attractions. Always ready for a celebration, a festi-
val, a fair or a combination of all three, West Berliners
have undertaken their 1951 spring cleaning with a venge-
ance and a special purpose; and even while at work they
manage to keep an eye on the horological scorecard.

They smile when they see some of the signs, among
them the following: Films from Hollywood, from India and
from some 20 other movie-producing nations of the world
are slated to go on exhibition during the festival, scheduled
for June 5 to 17. Some of the nations, including Italy, have
announced that they will be represented by some of their
most famous artists as well as by feature-length movies,

Reservations have been confirmed at internationally-
known Berlin hotels located all the way from the Kur-
fuerstendamm, “Berlin's Fifth Avenue," to Wannsee, sum-
mer resort area, The names going into the reservation
books number many hitherto seen in Berlin only on
theater marquees and in movie reviews.

.|PECIAL FESTIVAL EVENTS are taking shape, at least
in the files of the Berlin Film Festival Committee, city-
appointed group attending to plans for the 12-day cellu-
loid fest. To be translated into fact at the appropriate
time, these highlight attractions range from an outdoor
concert at the Funkturm (Radio Tower) to a Midsummer

Night's Ball. The latter, climatic event of the festival, will
be attended by all the screen faces and behind-the-scenes
movie notables — including directors and composers —

who happen to be in Berlin on the night of June 16. They
will be joined by several hundred Berliners and tourists.

Thousands of posters and placards in at least four
languages have gone up in strategic places throughout
Europe. Inscribed with clearly-couched notices that no
one can afford to miss the Berlin Film Festival 1951, these
advertisements have also appeared in various forms in
the United States and other countries.

The recent West German film making the greatest con-
tribution to international understanding will be selected
for a Silver Laurel Award during the June festival. The
Winning movie is to be chosen by a panel of Berlin-
Stationed American news correspondents, and will be
eligible for the coveted Golden Laurel, to be presented in
Venice in September.

Titania Palast, whose seating capacity of 1,800 and
modernistic architectural design make it one of West
Berlin's top theaters, will serve as festival headquarters.
lhe Palast's projectors will flash as many as three of the
world’s top films daily throughout the festival. As resi-

MAY 1951

dents of East Berlin and the Soviet Zone are expected to
swarm across Free Berlin's borders for a glimpse of’ the
Western democratic world's movie stars, half of the seats
at each performance will be reserved for customers who
can show East German identification papers.

On dates thus far undetermined, the four best festival
movies will move into the openair amphitheater in Grune-
wald forest for four separate performances, As with the
Titania Palast presentations, the openair programs will
be open to both East and West Germans.

The "best" movies at the Festival are to be selected by
ballots cast by audiences at the Titania Palast. Compe-
tition is expected to be keen as some 40 films have al-
ready been named for exhibition at the festival, and more
are coming. The top 15 festival movies, also to be chosen
during the Titania Palast's public balloting, will be award-
ed silver Berlin Bears at the festival's close.

COUNTRIES WHICH HAVE accepted invitations to the
festival include France, England, the United States,
the Netherlands, Spain, Austria, Sweden, Switzerland,
Australia, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Mexico and, of
course, Western Germany. Bids for participation were to
have been accepted until May 1.
Present indications are that the festival will open with
a gaily-bedecked cavalcade of more than 100 vehicles
which, hung generously with festival announcements, will
snake through West Berlin's major thoroughfares. Various
civic and private organizations plan to take their own
measures to join in the spirit of the occasion, and theaters
are seeking special box-office successes, old and new,
that will enable them to compete with the Titania Palast.
And as the festival fever takes hold, evidences that
business organizations and individuals are falling in with
the City Government's plans for a festival to beat all
festivals multiply on all sides. Certain Berlin clothing
manufacturers have even issued specimens of their sar-
torial skill under the title, “Film Festival 1951." +-END

Golden Laurel (center) presented by Hollywood producer
David O. Selznick in 1949, is Europe's “Oscar.” At Berlin
Film Festival next month contestants will vie for a Silver
Laurel (two of six such medals are shown below) to be
awarded the West German film, released since June 15,
1950, which contributes most effectively to international
understanding and good will. The winner will be eligible
for the Golden Laurel, which will be awarded at Venice
Film Festival in September. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

--- Page 53 ---
Tide of Toys

One hundred and fifteen tons of toys
donated by children of America have been
distributed to kiddies in Western Germany
by the American Legion, sponsors of the
“Tide of Toys." Among many orphans in
Frankfurt who received gifts and friendly
letters were the youngsters in photos. Le-
gion National Commander Erle Cocke, who
headed distributing team, is greeted by US
High Commissioner John J. McCloy (right)
while Herman Luhrs (left), chairman of
Legion's National Public Relations Com-
mission, shows orphanage children mechan-
ics of operating some toys. Confusion often
accompanied presentations (below, left).
In Berlin (below, right), ceremony was
presided over by Commander Cocke. Fol-
lowing German distribution, Legion group
visited other cities of Europe to complete
program of giving away 5,000,000 toys to
Europe's less fortunate children. (Photos
by Jacoby, PRD HICOG and PRB BE-HICOG)

--- Page 54 ---
New Approach to History

Following is the text of the address given by US High Commissioner John J. McCloy at the University of

Mainz on April 23, 1951.

T IS PARTICULARLY GRATIFYING to me to have the

opportunity of speaking at the University of Mainz.
Here is a great institution of higher learning of Renais-
sance times, dormant for the past century and a half,
raised up to continue a noble heritage. An institution that
is awakened to new life is bound to inspire.

It is a most appealing circumstance that Mainz is a
renascent university. Starting with a tradition, but with
no books, buildings or professors, it has already become
a. vigorous’ factor in the modern German university
system. When I hear of the lack of facilities and the
spirit of those who re-founded this institution, I am re-
minded of a definition coined by a former president of the
United States. It was President Garfield who stated that
all that was needed to produce a university was “Mark
Hopkins (his teacher) sitting on one end of a log anda
student on the other. Perhaps Goethe was saying the
same thing when he wrote: ‘Man kann nur von dem ler-
nen, den man liebt’ (Man can learn only from somebody
he loves).

Certainly the spread of this spirit of mutual respect
and regard among students and professors is an en-
couraging element in the new Germany. The Free
University of Berlin has given us another outstanding
example of it. It should never be forgotten what un-
flinching courage and wonderful faith was displayed by
these young men and women who decided to reconstitute
the tradition of Humboldt and Mommsen in another and
freer atmosphere.

To this and other progressive universities reborn with
renewed dedication to the love of truth and the spirit of
free research I would express my hope that they do not
weary but continually press ahead. It is so easy to fall
into the ways and errors of the past. The temptation
comes often to the successful young liberal to become
more Bourbon than the Bourbons, to legitimize the new
regime by adopting all the forms and finally even the
content and spirit of the ancient regime. You here in
Mainz and your fellow scholars in Berlin have broken
with certain forms that have outlived their usefulness,
and adopted others that fit the needs of the modern age.
Let us hope that nothing happens to turn back the hands
of your clock,

HAT I HAVE SAID up to this point may sound like

confirmation of the charge that Americans are anti-
historical, if not unhistorical. I admit to having urged a
fresh approach to old problems and a reformation in
attitudes within established institutions. But I protest vig-
orously at the same time against the prevalent notion that
Americans are lacking in appreciation of things historical.

MAY 1951

Si

You remember Goethe's lines, perhaps too often cited
by Americans:

“Amerika, du hast es besser

Als unser Kontinent, der alte,
Hast keine verfallenen Schloesser
Und keine Basalte.

Dich stoert nicht im Innern,

Zu lebendiger Zeit

Unnueizes Erinnern

Und vergeblicher Streit.”

You may be happy, America

Far more than old Europe is,

For you've none of those old palaces
And no basaltic stones,

And your spirits will never be
Distracted from present problems
Through many futile remembrances
And many useless quarrels.

In Goethe's day this was an important truth about our
country; the freedom from tradition gave impetus to a
new way of life. But by this time, this freedom itself, and
the deeds and ideals which developed from it, have
become part of our heritage and are venerated by us all.
I do not believe that any country in the world is more
replete with national shrines or historical markers than
the United States. Every year Independence Hall in
Philadelphia, where the Declaration of Independence was
signed, and Mount Vernon, the home of George Wash-
ington, are visited by hundreds of thousands of Ameri-
cans. Along the highways are innumerable signs com-
memorating the acts of our pioneering forbears.

The re-creation of whole villages and historical monu-
ments such as the colonial center of Williamsburg,
Virginia, or Dearborn, Michigan, are further testimonies
to the historical sense of Americans. In fact one German
observer recently returned from the United States has
written: “But in spite of the youth of the American
nation, Americans show reverence to past history. We
marveled at the crowds blocking the way to the historical
places of the nation. They try to preserve their heritage,
their freedom and memories and all things dear to them
which are woven around it.”

With such a tradition we do, to be sure, have as a
nation some fairly definite ideas on history as science
and history as an aid to our social advance. As a general
rule, we are not intimidated by history and we refuse to
believe that the historical analogue is always accurate.
We are too conscious of the changes that have come to
bless mankind precisely because breaks with the past
were bravely and persistently undertaken.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
E HAVE BEEN ABLE to make a modest contribution

to this Institute of Modern History at Mainz. It is
a token manifestation of our interest in and hope for the
rebirth of democratic university life and work in Ger-
many. You may be interested in knowing even more
specifically what is in our minds when we do this.

In the first place we hope hereby to encourage a free
and untrammeled pursuit of historical truth. National
prejudices must be overcome in the writing of history.
We must all rid ourselves of this tendency to nationalize
history. The dangers of a shackled historical science are
as great for the social and political well-being of man as
would be a fettered science of psychology or medicine
for his physical well-being. Without freedom to interpret
the past, the spirit of research withefs and dies. “Ye shall
know the truth and truth shall make you free.”

Our feelings on the usefulness of history were perhaps
best summed up, in a negative way, by a Harvard phi-
losopher, Santayana, who said: “Those who cannot
remember the past are doomed to repeat it.”

We do not, however, have much respect for history as
pure antiquarianism. He who collects facts as facts, and
calls it science, has been condemned again and again by
our men of letters. Ralph Waldo Emerson condemned
these pseudo-scientists in his Essay on History, and if
you would care to see what he says about these “Beck-
messers"* of history, look it up as a good exercise in
research,

To make the living past a guide to the future is the real
purpose of historical research. Or as a later American
historian, James Harvey Robinson, put it, it is the duty
of historiography to throw light upon “our present quan-
daries" by tracing the development of the circumstances
from which they sprang. ‘

HE SECOND GREAT HOPE that we have for the
future of historical science in Germany is that it
will come to grips with the problems of the day. Spe-
cialization is a necessary evil of our time, but we are
less and less impressed with historians who are so spe-
cialized that they cannot emerge from their private and
particular “decade of specialization.” The tide is turning
away from pure analysis; the times call for a broad view
of historical development that will aid statesmen as well
as struggling youth to “see life steadily and see it whole.”
Indeed, unless the modern historian is able to start with
the present world picture and fit his specialty into the
stream of world events, his students and the public are
likely to view his work with great and justified suspicion.
A statement of the English historian Edward A. Free-
man, “history is past politics and politics is present
history” has been the target of many a critic because of
its narrowness of definition. It is true that we need more
social hisfory. History should certainly be more than
political, but if it is not partly political, if it is not somehow
related to man’s needs and present problems it is of

* Beckmesser, Sixtus, character from Richard Wagner's opera
“Die Meistersinger von Nucrnberg,"’ a typical representative of
-philistine perception of art.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

dubious value except as an isolated work of art. A history
which does not relate present political quandaries to their
historical background, and the historical background to
the present political scene, represents a disservice if not
an act of criminal negligence to the democratic society
and youth of our time.

In this connection let me express the hope that in some
way this institute will help alter a situation which I con-
sider to be acute. In many states of the Federal Republic
there is growing up a generation of historically illiterate
youth. Many of the schools do not have history texts
even yet. I am aware that American educators are charged
with being too reliant on the textbook. But certainly the
schoolchildren of this country do not have access to the
historical material which they have-a right to and which
could help ensure their becoming mature and social-
minded citizens. I realize that there are good books avail-
able in some states.

My questions therefore are these: Why cannot the
means be made available to put these good books into
the hands of all children? Why cannot states without
such books use those developed in other states? And
finally, why cannot all such material be made more cur-
rent? All too infrequently does the school youth learn today
what were the evils of National Socialism, how it came
to power, what the record of the Communist dictatorship
has been, how the United Nations were born, what trends
have developed in the West, as in Asia and in the United
States in the last 20 years.

Our third great hope is that this Institute of Modern
History, at a university with strong connections to France,
will emphasize a common European history and heritage.

T IS TO BE HOPED that this institute in Mainz, one of

the spiritual centers of Europe, will be a center of
research for scholars who will come from various coun-
tries and look at Europe from a world view, and that
such research will show that, despite the political dif-
ficulties in the last 150 years, the cultural, social and
economic ties binding Germany and France together are
much stronger and of more lasting importance than the
nationalistic differences which have in the past erupted
into disagreement and war. I would almost venture to
suggest that Mainz prepare a Schuman Plan in history.

Let us hope that this institute will help us master our
own destiny, to prove the truth of Arnold Toynbee’s
statement that “we are not doomed to make history repeat
itself; it is open to us, through our own efforts, to give
history, in our case, some new and unprecedented turn.”

We are proud to have a small part in the great cultural
work which this university is doing in the birthplace of
Johannes Gutenberg. His great mechanical and artistic
genius changed the face of Europe. May this institute
show how science and culture bind men together, and
may its research be carried on in the spirit of the pre-
amble to the UNESCO Charter: “Since wars begin in the
minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defenses
of peace must be constructed.” +END

MAY 1951

--- Page 56 ---
Production, Employment Rising

By A. J. CEFARATTI
Chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Program Division
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

PRELIMINARY FIGURES FOR APRIL indicate that production and employment in Western Germany con-
tinued to expand. Unemployment declined further by 57,000 during the first half of the month. Daily hard
coal production rose ‘to a new high of 396,692 during the week ending April 15. As expected, industrial out-
put rose in March, though at a lesser rate than in February; the index (excluding building, stimulants and
food processing) climbed to 135 percent of 1936.

Exports during March reached a postwar peak of $259,700,000. Prices increased at an alarming rate. Dur-
ing March consumer prices rose by three percent; industrial producer prices by 2.8 percent and basic materials
prices by 2.4 percent.

* * * * *

NDICATIONS OF AN EARLY REVIVAL of the whole couraging exports gains of from $1,000,000 to $2,000,000

economy of Western Germany from its winter slump each were recorded to the United States, South America,
were confirmed in March. Industrial production rose sub- the non-participating countries, and the participating
stantially in February (despite some reports of a continu- sterling countries,
ing shortage of coal) and almost reached the postwar Imports in February ($290,700,000) were the lowest since
record level of November 1950. The labor market situation last September. Major changes were increased imports
in the first quarter was far more favorable than in the from the non-sterling OEEC countries ($152,000,000) of
corresponding period of 1950. Foreign trade developments approximately $10,000,000 above January imports; the
were favorable during February, with exports rising and $7,000,000 decrease in imports from South America
imports at the lowest point since September 1950. On the ($12,400,000); and a decline of almost $3,000,000 to
other hand, the consumer price index, a delicate subject $6,000,000 in imports from the Soviet bloc, including China.

in labor-management negotiations, showed a rise in Febru-
ary with an even sharper increase foreshadowed.
Although some industrial raw materials were reported
in tight supply, measures of conservation and allocation
were being considered to insure an adequate supply for
essential users. The result of the February suspension of
import licenses and the administrative measures taken to
implement this suspension resulted in a small surplus with
the European Payments Union (EPU) during March, and

The commodity group breakdown reveals the export rise
occurred almost exclusively in finished goods ($165,100,000
of the February exports total of $231,200,000). Exports of
food and agricultural products were only $7,400,0000 —
half of the January total. Imports of food and agricultural
products ($115,600,000) were $3,000,000 above January
while in the industrial sector, all three groups — raw mate-
rials, semi-finished and finished — declined equally.

thus a slight decrease in the cumulative deficit. Industry
Committees of the government, its opposition and
several separate agencies, including the manufacturers’ February brought an abrupt end to the two-month de-
association and the trade union federation, have presented cline in industrial activity and output rose substantially,
for government and public consideration programs de- almost reaching the postwar record level set last Novem-
signed to alleviate the present economic crises — soaring ber. The federal index of industrial production (excluding
prices, EPU deficit, etc. — and adjust to probable defense building, stimulants and food processing) climbed six
requirements. This series of programs is symptomatic of points (five percent) from the January low to 132 percent
the general acknowledgment in Western Germany that of the 1936 level. Production reached a level almost 25 per-
immediate action is necessary to meet critical domestic cent higher than mid-1950 and more than a third higher
and international economic problems. than a year ago. The dipping, then rising, trend during the
The Schuman Plan was initialed by heads of member last three months has followed, month for month, that of
country delegations following preliminary agreement on a year ago, but at a sharper rate of change and at a higher
certain contested questions. The Prohibited and Limited economic level. It was held likely that March production
Industries Agreement (PLI) concluded by the Military would set a ous postwar record.
Governors in Washington in April 1949 has been revised. The per capita rate of production climbed to six percent
The new agreement provides for relaxation of a number above 1936 and a little more than 10 percent below the
of the prohibitions and limitations on industry and will 1938 level.
facilitate the production in Germany of items and materi- Orders received by manufacturers, after a slight drop in
als for defense. The agreement was. signed by the Allied December, rose again in January (by six percent). Orders
high commissioners April 3. received continued well above the value of current sales
. by producers, investment goods orders averaging 41 per-
Foreign Trade cent higher than sales, producer goods 26 percent, and con-
Western German exports, after slumping in January, sumer goods nine percent. Orders booked in January for
increased considerably in February to $231,200,000 — the investment goods were at a postwar high.
second highest monthly total in the postwar period and Steel
just $10,000,000 under the record of December 1950. ee)
February exports to the non-sterling OEEC countries Production has fallen off rather steadily from the peak
($139,500,000) were 11 percent above January, the most in October 1950, primarily due to shortage of coke and
significant increase in the rise in total exports. Other en- scrap. New pressure for further increases in steel prices

MAY 1951 53 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
resulted from wage increases, increased freight costs for
import ores, and increased blast furnace costs caused by
reduced ratio of scrap used.

Crude steel production for February was 941,800 tons,
approximately 100,000 tons below January and 200,000 tons
below the October peak. Preliminary figures for March
indicated a slight increase — to 1,026,800 tons. In February
pig iron production also declined to 710,400 tons as com-
pared with 806,000 tons in January and the peak of
927,000 tons last October. March production was estimated
at 782,200 tons.

While the German steel mills are complaining about
increasingly tight supplies of alloys (tungsten, nickel and,
to a lesser extent, molybdenum), the main shortages are
coking coal and scrap. It is estimated that the present coal
allocations to the steel industry are only 70 percent of those
for the fall of 1950, but distribution of the allocations con-
tinues to be reasonably equitable. One new aspect of the
coke problem is the reported purchase by some pig iron
producers of 1,500,000 tons of US coking coal for delivery
during 1951, which is to be used in idle cokeries of iron
and steel companies and will be paid for through the ex-
port of rolled products.

There is a problem of availability and equitable distri-
bution of scrap collections, which’ are below the 1950
monthly average but must satisfy both domestic require-
ments and export commitments. Thus, the Federal Govern-
ment has curtailed scrap export until May 31, 1951.

Coal

In March, the daily average output of hard coal increased
more than 8,000 metric tons over February to reach
392,596 tons. Total March production was 10,029,000 tons
for the 25 working days, with only 214,000 tons reported
from extra shifts. Both the number of underground work-
ers and the rate of output per manshift increased.

Domestic coal supplies continue to be tight, and because
of increased export loadings, daily domestic deliveries
decreased slightly during the first half of March. Con-
sumption still exceeds deliveries and consumer stocks
continue to decline. If coal supplies must increase substan-
tially to permit expanded production and a sizable in-
dustrial contribution to Western defense needs, some re-
building of stocks must begin.

Domestic allocations — that is, a guiding quantity
against which shipments are made — are now based on
past consumption patterns rather than past deliveries and
full consideration is given to consumers’ stock positions,
to insure a more equitable distribution of available coal.
Beginning with April, allocations were calculated on a
quarterly rather than a monthly basis. It is believed that
this lengthening of the allocation period will give industry
a better basis for planning production against forecasted
coal supplies.

Actual export shipments are running somewhat behind
allocation schedules. Daily export loadings improved in
March and the German Coal Miners’ Administration
(DKBL) expects that over-all export performance in the
quarter would approximate 97.5 percent.

In March, primary aluminum production increased by
500 tons but production of copper, lead and zinc showed a
slight decrease. The processing of complex Burma nickel-
cobalt increased by 40 tons each. These metals head the
list of scarce metals and the added production should help
relieve the tight supply situation.

Electricity

Heavy rains and spring thaws in the mountains increased
the availability of hydroelectric power. Moreover an addi-
tional 40 MW in new generating capacity was placed in
service in March, This increased availability of hydro-
electric power will permit urgently required spring and
summer overhaul on plants to begin. Power consumption
for the month was 23 percent above March 1950. The federal

INFORMATION BULLETIN

54

decree restricting electric power consumption, unobserved
for several weeks, expired at the end of March.

The gas industry reports that shortage of coal still re-
quires restrictions to be imposed on industrial consumers
on the grid system and adequate line pressure cannot be
maintained in certain municipal works where the coal
shortage is acute.

Although the chemical industry continued to report
shortages of certain raw materials, the ratio of these
materials to total output is not sufficient to bottleneck
production. Contrary to pessimistic forecasts, coal sup-
plies were increased and the production index in February
shot up 14 points to a postwar record of 140 percent of
1936. Contributing considerably to this rise was the full
production resumed by the Bavarian chemical industry,
where hydroelectric power limitations were discontinued
for the first time in several months.

Railway Traffic

The freight car situation in Federal Germany was criti-
cal throughout March. Only 90 percent of freight car de-
mands could be met — the most unfavorable showing since
currency reform in June 1948. The Bundesbahn (state rail-
road system) has already planned a car repair program to
be financed from its own funds to help alleviate this severe
shortage of rolling stock.

On March 9, an agreement was signed between. the
Bundesbahn and the French Railways (SNCF) for a com-
mon French-German freight car park, to become operative
on May 1 when a common car office was to be opened in
Paris. The common car park is expected to grow steadily
through original contribution of both railways and the
incorporation of all new cars constructed in France and
Germany.

This agreement, which is the first major step toward the
integration of French and German railways, fits well into
the objective of the Schuman Plan. It will facilitate tariff
negotiations between the two railways, as provided for in
the recently signed Schuman Plan Treaty (see page 31).

Labor

Results of the quarterly employment census show that
the labor market situation in the first quarter of 1951 was
far more favorable than in the corresponding periods in
1949 and 1950. For the first time since currency reform,
employment increased during the first three months of the
year. The favorable turn in the weather in mid-January,
permitting resumption of building construction unfinished
in 1950, and the upward swing in manufacturing in February
and March largely explain the current encouraging em-
ployment situation.

During March, registered unemployment in the Federal
Republic, which has pursued a downward trend since mid-
January 1951, declined further by 96,000 to 1,567,000. At
the end of March, unemployment was almost as low as at
the close of June 1950. In terms of the wage and salary-
earning labor force, the unemployment rate was 9.9 percent
as compared with 10.7 percent in December and 9.8 percent
in mid-July 1950. Since the turning point in mid-January,
unemployment has dropped by 344,000, thus offsetting one-
half of the increase between the end of October 1950 and
mid-January 1951.

In February the three major price indexes continued to
rise, though not as sharply as in January. Both the basic
materials price index and the index of industrial producer
prices rose to new post-currency reform highs; the con-
sumer price index, at 156 percent of 1938, while still below
the high of 168 reached in February 1949, was estimated
to be 160 in March. The sharp increase in consumer prices
in recent months, particularly since December 1950, has
caused growing labor unrest which has been evinced in
protest demonstrations, union terminations of collective
wage agreements, and union demands for changes in
government economic policy.

MAY 1951

--- Page 58 ---
Food and Agriculture

At the end of February the Federal Republic suddenly
faced a critical breadgrain supply outlook, because of
possible decreased US shipments. Under conditions of
full delivery of domestic supply and full realization of
trade imports, ECA-GARIOA breadgrain imports represent
almost one-half of breadgrain imports, and about one-fourth
of the total German breadgrain food supply, including a
small portion as food for rural population. In the bread-
grain supply pattem, these imports represent the difference
between unrationed bread supply and the possible
resumption of bread rationing by early summer, parti-
cularly in the critical food areas of the cities. Germany
also depends on these imports for its spring and summer
breadgrain supply until September, when domestic pro-
duction reaches the market.

During March an upward revision of US breadgrain
shipments scheduled for March through August followed
the Federal Republic's adoption of US recommendations
to improve the breadgrain supply position and possibly
prevent bread rationing. Foreign exchange has been
allocated for the maximum quantities of grain immediately
available under trade agreements with non-EPU countries;
internal wheat and rye prices have been raised approxim-
ately 30 percent to increase domestic collections; the
extraction rate for breadgrains has been increased by five
percent; farmers and dealers have pledged cooperation
with the government to conserve supplies and implement
the new price and delivery regulations; and the use of
breadgrains as fodder or for the production of alcohol has
been prohibited.

In addition to the potential shortage of breadgrains, the
possibility of a severe shortage of fats and oils during June

and July may develop since 98 percent of Western Ger-
many’'s fat and oil imports have come from EPU sources.
The recent suspension of import licenses must be modified
to again permit heavy purchasing. Recommendations sub-
mitted to the federal ministry for food and agriculture to
relieve this shortage are now under consideration.

Berlin

Industrial deliveries during February (excluding con-
struction and energy production) totaled DM 186,000,000
($44,268,000), an increase of approximately DM 20,000,000
($4,760,000) as compared with January. The city's index
of industrial production (excluding construction, energy
production, and food and stimulants) with 1936 as the base
period, rose from 39 in January to 46 in February. Raw
material shortages have not yet been reported as affecting
total output. Percentagewise, the largest rise was shown
in the clothing industry, where, due largely to seasonal
factors, the index increased from 52 in January to 88 in
February. The producers goods index, which is affected
most by deliveries of the electrical and machine con-
struction industries, rose from 40 to 45.

Developments in the labor market since the beginning
of February point to an upward movement both in general
economic activity and in industrial production. Total un-
subsidized employment, which was just under 830,000 at
the end of December, dropped by 5,000 during January,
but rose again in February. By the middle of March it had
reached almost 832,000. However, the number of part-time
workers, which rose from 12,000 to 13,500 during January,
had declined to 12,500 as of the middle of March. +END

I. G. Farben Dispersal Plan Announced

IHE MASTER PLAN for the dispersal of I.G. Farben-

industrie,* the giant German chemicals and dyes trust
which once controlled 85 percent of Germany's chemical
industry, has been communicated to the Federal Govern-
ment by the Allied High Commission.

The plan had been discussed for several months by
Allied and German experts and the Allied High Commis-
sion noted that the final plan “now represents a large
measure of agreement” between the original plan pro-
posed by the Allied High Commission and the counter
proposals made by the Federal Government.

The plan provides for the dispersal of four-fifths of the
Farben assets in Western Germany among three main
groups and six smaller, independent works. Plans for the
dispersal of remaining assets are being prepared.

The nine new companies are as follows:

Larger Works

1. Ludwigshafen-Oppau, producing fertilizers, plastics,
dyestuffs and heavy chemicals.

2. Maingau Group, including the Farbwerke at Hoechst,
the Chemische Fabrik at Griesheim and Naphtol-Chemie
at Offenbach, all of which are located near Frankfurt. To
this group, which produces heavy chemicals, fertilizers,

* For detailed Allied High Commission announcement of April 18
on the master plan for dispersal of the I.G. Farben Industry, see page 66.

MAY 1951

55

solvents, plastics, dyestuffs and pharmaceuticals, will be
added the A.G, fuer Stickstoffduenger at Knapsack and
the oxygen plants in the US and British Zones. The future
of Behring Pharmaceutical Works, originally recom-
mended for inclusion in this unit, has not been decided.

3. Leverkusen Group, consisting of assets remaining
at Bayerwerk, Leverkusen, together with plants at Uer-
dingen and Elberfeld, and photographic film and paper
plants at Leverkusen. Other products of this group are
heavy chemicals, dyestuffs, pharmaceuticals, plant pro-
tection agents, veterinary products and plastics.

Smaller Works .

4, Dormagen Synthetic Fiber Company, producers of
viscose rayon and other synthetic fibers.

5. Agfa Camera Works, in Munich.

6. Casella Farbwerke, at Mainkur, fabricators of dye-
stuffs, plastics and polyacrylonitrile fibers.

7. Titangesellschaft m.b.H., in Leverkusen, presently
producing mostly titanium dioxide.

8. Chemische Werke of Huels, manufacturers of sol-
vents and plastics based on ethylene and acetylene.

9. Chloberag-Rheinfelden, makers of caustic soda,
chlorine and hydrogen, and derivatives of acetylene.

A decision on the final disposition of the synthetic
fiber plants at Bobingen and Rottweil, producing viscose
rayon and perlon, will be made later. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
Personnel Notes

Kenneth Dayton New Political Deputy

A number of changes have taken place in the top
personnel of HICOG's Office of Political Affairs following
the recent transfer of that office’s deputy director, E. Allan
Lightner, Jr., to the American Embassy in Korea.

Replacing Mr. Lightner is Kenneth Dayton, former
adviser to the director and
chief of the Civic and
Legislative Activities Di-
vision. Mr. Dayton’s former
position is now held by
John B. Mason, who pre-
viously was chief of the
Civic Activities Branch. Mr.
Mason will be assisted by
Ernst F. Linde as deputy.

George L. West has as-
sumed the position of chief
of the Foreign Relations Di-
vision, which was formerly
headed by Bernard A. Guf-
ler, who recently returned
to the United States for
reassignment.

Mr. Dayton has been in
Germany since July 1945, when he joined the civil ad-
ministration of the Military Government. After serving
as deputy director of the Office of Military Government
in Bavaria, he became a governmental affairs adviser to
the Bipartite Control Office. Prior to arrival in Germany
Mr. Dayton held various positions with the LaGuardia
administration in New York City, including the post of
budget director. In 1944 he was treasurer of the“ United
Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA).

Mr. Mason is a former professor of political science at
Oberlin College.

Mr. Linde served with the regional Government Co-
ordinating Office in Stuttgart and later was chief, US
Secretariat, Bizonal Control Office.

Mr. West and Mr. Gufler are foreign service officers
who have held posts in various parts of the world.

Kenneth Dayton.
(PRD HICOG photo)

Administration Director Returns

Glenn G. Wolfe, director of the Office of Administra-
tion, HICOG, has returned from Washington where he
attended hearings on the 1952 fiscal year budget before
members of the Bureau of the Budget.

Miller Appointed Deputy ECA Chief

Frank J. Miller has been appointed deputy to Jean Cat-
tier, director, HICOG Office of Economic Affairs, and chief,
ECA Special Mission to Western Germany.

Mr. Miller, a native of Buffalo, N.Y., has been special
assistant to the chief of the ECA Mission since June 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

56

The new US naval commander in Germany, Rear Adm.
Carl F, Holden (right) and Mrs. Holden are welcomed
at Rhine-Main Air Base by his predecessor, Rear Adm.
John Wilkes. Admiral Holden held various naval com-
mands in the Pacific during World War II, including
command of the battleship USS New Jersey, which
assisted in the Marshall Islands, Carolines, Saipan and
Tinian operations. Prior to arrival in Germany he was
commander of the New York Naval Base. Admiral Wilkes
reports to the commander, Eastern Sea Frontier in New
York for reassignment. (Stars and Stripes photo)

In his new position, he succeeds Charles E. Marshall,
who recently returned to the United States to re-enter
private business.

The new appointee has served in various capacities in
West Germany and West Berlin since 1945, including
positions with the Finance, Property and Economic
Divisions of Military Government. Later Mr. Miller be-
came chief of the Property Division, Office of Economic
Affairs, HICOG. He is a graduate of the University of
Buffalo and attended Harvard University.

Simultaneously H, Andre Weismann and Carl R. Mah-
der were appointed special assistants to Mr. Cattier.

Mr. Weismann, a permanent foreign service officer
and graduate of Princeton University, prior to joining
HICOG served in the Department of State in Washington
as well as the US Embassies in Buenos Aires and Rio
de Janeiro and the American Consulate General in Berlin.

Mr. Mahder, a former resident of Hamilton, O., has
been serving HICOG as chief of the Industrial Progress
Branch of the Office of Economic Affairs. In 1949 he was
in charge of establishing West Germany's representation
in Washington, the group which handles all requests for
ECA aid for Germany. He is a graduate of Ohio State
University and the Georgetown University School of Law.

Industry Division Chief Leaves for US

Luther H. Hodges, chief of the Industry Division of
HICOG's Office of Economic Affairs, has resigned to
return to private business in New York City. Francis L.
Mayer, deputy chief, has been appointed acting head.

MAY 1951

--- Page 60 ---
Mr. Mayer, a native of Minneapolis, Minn., has held
various US governmental posts in Germany since June
1945. Previously he had assisted in the formation of the
Military Security Board and held the post of chief of its
Industrial Division.

Another member of the Office of Economic Affairs,
Valentine K. Gaertner, has also resigned as chief of
the East-West Trade Group. Mr. Gaertner, who has been
in Germany since 1946, served as a negotiator for the
Joint Export-Import Agency (JEIA) on trade agreements
between West Germany and Eastern countries and as
market resources chief for the European Exchanges System.

New Consultant Joins OLCH

Katherine H. Read, specialist in home and family life,
has joined the Community Activities Branch, OLC HesSe,
as a visiting consultant. Mrs. Read, who is on the faculty
of Oregon State College, Corvallis, O., as director of
nursery schools and professor of child development, holds
degrees from Mills College and Purdue University.

She has served on the staff of the Illinois Institute for
Juvenile Research, the Buffalo Foundation, and as a
teacher at the Purdue University Nursery School.

New Exchanges Official Appointed

C. Dean Chamberlin, educator and specialist in the
administration and evaluation of training programs, re-
cently joined HICOG as
chief of the Liaison and
Evaluation Unit of the Ex-
changes Division, Office of
Public Affairs. This newly
formed section is concerned
with the followup program
of returned exchangees and
their activities.

Born in Manchester, N.
H., Mr. Chamberlin is a
former member of the fac-
ulty of Dartmouth College,
where he acted also as pub-
licity director, assistant
dean of freshmen, and as-
sistant director of admis-
sions and personnel bureau.
In 1936 he became a staff
evaluator on “The Eight Year Study of School Preparation
and College Success’ conducted by the Progressive
Education Association of the Rockefeller Foundation. Dur-
ing this period, he was associate professor in the Depart-
ment of Education at Ohio State University and the Uni-
versity of Chicago.

C. Dean Chamberlin.
(PRD HICOG photo)

After discharge from the Air Force and later work with
the Veterans Administration in New England, Mr. Cham-
berlin came to Germany with the International Refugee
Organization (IRO) and served as chief of the vocational
rehabilitation of displaced persons in the British Zone.

MAY 1951

57

The co-author of “Did They Succeed in College," Mr.
Chamberlin also has been a contributor to magazines and
the press.

E. K. Neumann Returns Home

E. K. Neumann, chief, Public Affairs Division, OLC
Hesse, has departed for his home in Carlsbad, N. M., where
he will resume the law
practice he left in 1942 to
join government service.

Mr. Neumann joined US
Military Government in No-
vember 1943, as a major.
Following World War II,
which brought him to duty
in Europe, Mr. Neumann
became ‘the first public
safety chief for the US Sec-
tor of Berlin, and with his
French, British and Russian
counterparts, organized the
first postwar police force
there. In January 1946, he
was Called to Wiesbaden to
serve with OMG Hesse as
legal division chief, public
safety chief and executive officer. In 1948, he terminated
his military career, as a colonel, and remained with OMG
Hesse in a civilian capacity. When HICOG supplanted
OMGUS in October 1949, Mr. Neumann became head of
the Public Affairs Division of OLC Hesse.

After graduating from the University of Kansas, where
he received his law degree in 1923, Mr. Neumann moyed
to New Mexico, where, besides practicing law, he served
as a member of the state legislature, interstate river com-
missioner, chairman of the state police board, and at-
torney-general. He also has served federal government
agencies in Washington, D.C., as associate general counsel.

E. K. Neumann.

CRALOG Field Director Returns to US

Dr. Elden R. Burke, field director for Germany of the
Cooperative of Relief Agencies Licensed to Operate in Ger-
many (CRALOG), has returned to the United States. With
his departure, all responsibilities concerning the distribu-
tion of CRALOG donations have been taken over by four
German welfare agencies, the Evangelisches Hilfswerk,
Caritasverband, Arbeiter Wohlfahrt, and the German Red
Cross. A fifth group representing American welfare
agencies such as the Quakers and the Mennonites will
continue to operate under the auspices of CRALOG.

Dr. Burke, a professor of European history at Ball
State Teachers College, Indiana, worked with the Heifer
Project Committee in France and in the Prisoners of War
Relief in Belgium in 1945. He came to Bremen in April
1946 and shortly thereafter became CRALOG field director
for Germany, making Bremen an advanced base for the
activities of the organization. During the five years of his
directorship, 1,100 ships delivered almost 100,000 tons of
CRALOG relief goods valued at $60,000,000. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
ail

German Cartoons

This section is compiled from translations prepared by the

Press and Publications Branch, Information Services Divi-

sion, HICOG, of cartoons in the German press. Publica-

tion of these German cartoons is intended to inform the

American readers of what the Germans are thinking, with-

out interpretation. The inclusion of any viewpoint does
not give concurrence to that view or opinion.

TU UO

it

TUCO LUCE

STUN AANA UUUAU UCU UOUEUUEN UCU DUA LUA EET EEO EEE EAD EEE EEUU EE

(Ruhr Nachrichten, Dortmund, Mar. 20)

ey

Schuman Plan Initialed.

(Mannheimer Morgen, Mannheim, Mar. 29)

ay,

md

“What will your relatives say to our
engagement, Konradine?”

(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg,

(Wiesbadener Kurier, Wiesbaden, Mar. 13)

Crusade in Prague.

The Peace Dove in Korea.

Mar. 28)

Franco Spain and Portugal woo USA.

{Freie Presse, Bielefeld, Mar. 20)
(Mannheimer Morgen, Mannheim,

Mypeney
Basis)

2 =
Pfc. Green changes posts
(on occupation costs).

Herbert Morrison.
The new toreador.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

58

Mar. 16)

(Der Kurier, West Berlin, Mar. 22)

Paris Conference.
The 15th Round.

(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, Mar. 31)

Things are warming up in Paris.

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Mar, 14)

The future of the Paris Conference.

(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, Mar. 15)

Chancellor Adenauer congratulates
Foreign Minister Adenauer.

MAY 1951

--- Page 62 ---
(Ost-West Kurier, Bremen) (Essener Allgemeine Zeitung, Essen, Mar. 21) (Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, Mar. 14)

Uncle Joe's April Fool Joke.

Fuldaer Volkszeitung, Fulda, Mar. 20} ap
ae . ! Peace Cupid's Toughest Job.

“I guess I'll have to use a rocket
instead of an arrow!”

(Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, Mar. 26)

Economic Minister Erhard:
“Fellow Germans, pull in your belts!”

(Frankfurter Rundschau, Frankfurt, Mar. 16)

a le Petroleum,
“That 1945 anti-militarist serum was the perfume of the god of war.
too long-lasting in effect!”

(Rheinische Zeitung, Cologne, Mar. 13)

rs
g We.
Ne

(Bayreuther Tagblatt, Bayreuth, Mar. 24)

%
O es

Q

Economic Magician Erhard:

“If I only knew how to bring her
down again!”

ik

Fashion Show in Paris.

(Die Welt, Hamburg, Mar. 21)

(Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen, Mar. 20) Ulbricht, Grotewohl and Eisler:

“How can we play the unity song with
that lemon (free elections) in sight?”

(Soviet-licensed Taegliche Rundschau,
East Berlin, Mar. 13)

An official Communist organ’s view
: of the Bundestag rejecting the
The Progress of Communism. Eastern Volkskammer's proposals. =

“Machine nix gut!” Danger of fire in Iran.

MAY 1951 59 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
Calendar of Coming Events

CLOSING:

July 15 — Darmstadt (Hes): Kranichstein
Music Institute, international vacation
courses in modern music,

July — Bruehl, near Bonn (NRW): Concerts
in Augustenburg Palace.

July — Feuchtwangen (WB): Open air plays.

July — Weissenburg (Bav): Open air plays.

July — Cologne (NRW): Max Beckmann,
collective art exposition.

July — Heidelberg (WB):
Palace court.

August — Trier (RP): Flower show.

August — Cologne (NRW): Exposition of
French art from museum and private
collections.

August — Munich (Bav): Society for Ori-
ginal Etchings, exposition.

August — Kassel (Hes): Wilhelmshoehe
festival plays (Kassel State Theater).

September— Prien (Bav): Exposition of paint-
ings on Herren and Frauen Islands.

Sept. 15 — Coblenz (RP): ‘1,001 Nights,"
operetta performances on the Rhine.

Sept. — Burg/Wupper (NRW): Festival
Open air performances in castle.

Sept. — Reutlingen (WB): Open air perfor-
mances (every Sunday afternoon).

Oct. 15 — Fuerth (Bav): Garden architects’
and trade exposition.

Oct. — Landau (RP):
SUEWEGA gardens,

Oct. — Munich (Bav): Art exposition (Ignaz
Guenther).

Oct. — Hanover (LS): 1951 German Horti-
cultural Show.

MAY

May 17-21 — Stuttgart (WB): West German
confectioners’ meeting and trade expo-
sition,

May 17-27 — Mannheim (WB): Inland ship-
ping exposition, in conjunction with 1951
inland shipping meeting, May 18-19.

May 18-22 — Duesseldorf (NRW): 106th
Lower Rhenish music festival, “Music of
Our Time;"' orchestras and choirs from
Aachen, Cologne, Duesseldorf and Wup-
pertal.

May 19-20 — Stuttgart (WB): Light athletics
sports festival.

May 20 — Feldberg/Taunus (Hes); Feldberg
auto-racing.

May 20 — Biberach (WB): Upper Swabian
horse show.

May 20-21 — Berlin: Philharmonic concert;
Ernest Ansermet, Geneva, conductor.

May 20-21 — Hamburg: Northwest German
Radio symphony concerts; A. Troester,
cello; H, Schmidt-Isserstedt, conductor.

May 20-23 — Goslar (LS): International So-
ciety of Ladies’ Hairdressers, congress.

May 21 — Karlsruhe (WB): Symphony con-
cert; Tibor Varga, violin.

May 21 — Luebeck (SH): Symphony. con-
cert; H. Roloff, piano; G. E. Lessing, con-
ductor,

May 21-22 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert,

May 22 — Munich (Bav): Musica Viva con-
cert; Nikita Magalow, Geneva, piano;
Igor Markevitch, conductor.

May 22-24 — Hamburg: Sunday School con-
ference,

Concerts in

Flower show in

MAY 1951

May 17 to June 30, 1951

May 23-24 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; F, Leitner and H. M. Theopold,
piano; F, Rieger, piano and conductor.

May 24 — Oberhausen (NRW): Symphony
concert; H. Roloff, piano. .

May 24-28 — Trier (RP): Federation of Ger=
man Architects’ congress.

May 25-28 — Goslar (LS): Lower Saxonian
Cooperative Association, meeting.

May 25-June 10 — Duesseldorf (NRW):
“DRUPA," international printing and
paper show.

May 26 — Mainz (RP): Symphony concert;
L. Hoelscher, cello; K. M. Zwissler, con-
ductor.

May 26-27 — Stuttgart (WB): Rowing re-
gatta,

May 27 — Essen (NRW): Concert.

May 27 — Ziegenhain (Upper Hesse): Histo-
tic outdoor folk festival.

May 27 — Aachen (NRW): Auto racing.

May 27-28 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra concerts; G. Herzog, piano;
Artur Rodzinsky, conductor.

May 27-June 3 — Hamburg: Agricultural
Week; dairy experts’ congress.

May 29-30 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Paper
and cardboard products industries’ asso-
ciation, meeting.

May 30-31 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert;
Haydn, ‘‘Creation;"" G. L. Jochum, con-
ductor.

May 30-June 1 — Nuremberg (Bav): German
Gas and Water Experts’ Society, annual
meeting.

May 31 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; H, Roloff, piano.

End of May — Munich (Bav):
movie plays.

End of May — Muenster (NRW): German
librarians’ congress.

JUNE

June 1 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Richard Strauss
concert; C, Krauss, conductor.

June 1-17 Munich (Bav): German handi-
crafts fa:

June 2 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): German pro-
fessional dancing championships.

June 2-3 — Goettingen (LS): Concert; E.
Mainardi, soloist and conductor;

June 2-3 — Mannheim (WB): 75th anniver-
sary, German Red Cross,

June 2-4 — Biberach-Riss (WB): Gustav
Adolf festival.

June 2-4 — Zell/Moselle (RP): Wine-grow-
ers’ outdoor festival.

June 2-4 — Krefeld (NRW): 100th anni-
versary, Krefeld Liederkranz (singing
circle),

June 2-4 — Goslar (LS): Northwest German
Stenographers’ Association, meeting.

Festival

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
‘WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

60

June 2-6 — Berlin: 700th anniversary of
borough of Wedding (French Sector).
June 2-24 — Augsburg (Bav): ‘Sports and

Health’ exposition.

June 2-July 14 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Inter-
national 1951 May Festival plays; guest
performances by European opera com-
panies at State Opera.

June 3 — Mainz (RP): Palace concert.

June 3 — Adenau/Eifel Mountains (RP):
International auto-racing on Nuerburg
Ring.

June 3-4 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Concert;
Tibor Varga, violin,

June 3-4 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic con-
cert; G. Solti, soloist and conductor.

June 3-4 — Boppard/Rhine (RP): Orgelborns,
historical outdoor folk festival.

June 3-7 — Verden/Aller (LS): Dedication
of Verden Cathedral.

June 3-7 — Stuttgart (WB): “‘DOB" (ladies’
outer garments) sales week.

June 5-8 — Baden-Baden (SB): Automobile
Industry Association, meeting.

June 5-9 —Travemuende (SH): Internation-
al amateurs’ automobile trials.

June 6-17 — Berlin: International film festi-
val,

June 7 — Oberhausen (NRW): W. Trenkner,
“Requiem; 50th anniversary of City
Music Club.

June 8 — Munich (Bav): Musica Viva con-
cert; S, Vegh, soloist; Jan Koetsier, con-
ductor,

June 9-11 — Niederlahnstein (RP): Straw-
berry festival.

June 9-11 — Oestrich/Rhine (NRW): 70th
anniversary; choral singing contests.

June 9-17 — Weener-Ems (LS): 1,000th
anniversary.

June 10 — Karlsruhe (WB): Motorcycle
races.

June 10-11 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra concerts; E, Jochum, conductor.

June 10-12 — Laubach (Hes): Farm youth
contests, pageants,

June 10-12 — Goslar (LS): Northwest Co-
operative Society for Shoes, meeting.

June 11 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; Joh, Schueler, conductor.

June 11-12 — Cologne (NRW): Chamber
concert,

June 11-19 — Cologne (NRW): Richard
Strauss festival performances; C. Krauss,
R. Kraus, G. Wand and E, Szenkar, con-
ductors,

June 14 — Bochum (NRW):
concert,

June 14 — Munich (Bav): Choral concert;
Richard Holm, tenor; G. Solti, conducto

June 14-15 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; L. Hoelscher, cello; H.
Hollreiser, conductor.

June 15-17 — Verden/Aller(LS): Horse show.

June 15-17 — Wilhelmshaven (LS): Society
of Northwest German Universities, con-
gress.

June 15-19 — Frankfurt (Hes): Festival of
DAS (German Singers’ Federation).

June 17 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert; Orff,
“Carmina Burana."

June 17 — Frankfurt (Hes): Motorcycle
racing on triangular Ular track.

June 17 — Kiel (SH): Motorcycle racing.

June 17 — Wilhelmshaven (LS): Horse
racing,

Symphony

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 64 ---
June 17 — Norderney (North Sea Island):
International regatta.

June 17 — Neustadt (RP): Rhineland-Pala-
tinate and Saar light athletic contests.

June 17 — Mainz (RP): Palace concert.

June 17-18 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra, concert; Ariana Browne, violin;
Fabian Sevitzky, conductor.

June 17-19 — Krefeld (NRW):
Rhenish bakers’ meeting.

June 17-24 — Kiel (SH): Kieler Woche;
regattas; motorcycle-racing; Schleswig-
Holstein economic exposition; outdoor
folk festival with fire works display on
June 24,

June 17-24— Marburg (Hes): Marburg Organ
Week,

June 18-21 — Duesseldorf (NRW): German
Butchers’ Association, meeting; with
foreign participation.

June 21-23 — Hamburg: Association of Pri-
vate Hospitals, meeting.

June 21-24 — Stuttgart (WB): German fur-
niture transport trade, meeting.

June 21-24 — Krefeld (NRW): National golf
championships (men and women).

June 22-24 — Frankfurt (Hes): Central Trade
Association of German Saddle Makers,
Paper Hangers, Upholsterers and Deco-
rators, meeting; 25th anniversary of the
master class; trade exposition.

June 22-30 — Goettingen (LS): 1951 Festival
Handel; 30th anniversary.

June 23-25 —-Leichlingen (NRW): Outdoor
strawberry festival.

June 23-30 — Wuerzburg (Bav): Mozart
festival,

June 23-30 — Frankfurt (Hes): International
Society for Modern Music, 25th inter-
national music festival.

June 23-July 1 — Mainz (RP): Gutenberg
Week, exposition.

North

June 23-July 7 — Darmstadt (Hes): Inter-
national Society for Modern Music, con-
gress.

June 24 — Iphofen/Main (Bav): St. John's
folk festival, with city illumination.

June 24 — Tuebingen (NB): Auto racing on
City Ring.

June 24—Hanau (Hes): Racing-boat regatta.

June 24 — Constance (SB): International
Lake Constance regatta.

June 24 — Berlin: German football cham-
pionship final.

June 24 — Leverkusen (NRW): German
women's handball championships.

June 24-July 1 — Duesseldorf (NRW):
“DOB" (ladies’ outer garments), sales and
fashion week.

June 24-July 1 — Lauda (WB): 600th anni-
versary.

June 24-July 1 — Hamburg: Derby Week.

June 24-Aug, 5 — Aachen (NRW): Ars
Sacra art exposition,

June 25-26 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert; Elly Ney, piano; Professor G.
Wand, conductor.

June 25-28 — Eschwege (Hes): Historical
St. John's festival.

June 25-29 — Hanover (LS): German tree-
nursery owners’ association, convention
in conjunction with Hanover Garden
Show,

June 28-July 2 — Muenster (NRW): Send
auf dem Domplatz, outdoor folk festival.

June 29-July 4 — Pirmasens (RP): ‘Shoe
and Leather," industrial show.

June 30 — Caub/Rhine (RP): “Elslein von
Caub," native play.

June 30-July 1 — Reit im Wink! (Bav):
Union of Mountain Fashions, 50th an-
niversary.

June 30-July 1 — Frankfurt (Hes): 74th
regatta,

June 30-July 1 — Marburg (Hes): German
kayak slalom championship.

June 30-July 2 — Frankfurt (Hes): Sachsen-
hausen Fishermen's and Skipper's Guild,
1,000th anniversary.

June 30-July 2 — Harxheim (RP): Vintners’
festival; Zellertal wine festival.

June 30-July 4 — Frankfurt (Hes): Water,
Ship and Harbor Architects’ Association,
trade show.

June 30-July 15 — Augsburg (Bav): Aqua-
tium and terrarium exposition,

End of June — Krefeld (NRW): Riding,
jumping and driving tournament,

June — Essen (NRW): Water supply en-
gineers' meeeting,

June — Stuttgart: (WB): Jewelers’, gold
and silver smiths’ central trade associa-
tion, meeting and exposition,

June — Wuppertal (NRW): German Theater
Association and Theater Society, meet-
ings.

June — Wuppertal (NRW): West German
Hockey -Association, annual general
meeting.

June — Krefeld (NRW): Fashion show,
fall and winter collections.

June — Bamberg (Bav): Serenades in New
Residence Rose Garden,

June — Heidelberg (WB): Illumination of
castle,

June — Ludwigsburg (WB): Hlumination
of castle,

June — Wuppertal (NRW): 30th anniver-
sary of people's theater,

June — Bad Neuvenahr (NRW): Riding,
jumping and driving tournament.

June — Monschau (RP): Motorcycle-racing
on Burgring track.

HICOG Begins Building Housing for German Staff

MERICAN-GERMAN COOPERATION for mutual bene-

fit was the theme expressed at a ceremony in Bonn
recently marking the ground breaking ceremonies of a
project which will provide homes for more than 500
German employees of the Office of the US High Com-
missioner for Germany.

Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, deputy US high commis-
sioner, turned over a spadeful of earth symbolizing the
start of construction of 372 apartment units in the capital
of the Federal Republic and future headquarters of HICOG.

Other officials in the ground-breaking ceremony in-
cluded Glenn G. Wolfe, director, HICOG Office of Ad-
ministration, Prof. Max Baeuerle, director, Federal Minis-
try of Finance, and Dr. Schornstein, representing State
Secretary Dr. Wandersleb of the Federal Ministry for
Housing Construction.

In describing the development, Mr. Wolfe said, ‘The
German employees of the Office of the US High Com-
missioner, for whom this housing unit is designed, are an
integral part of our work here in Germany. In this year
1951, mutual effort is the keynote of German-American
relations. We are doing a job together. A large part of
the contribution of the US High Commissioner's Office

MAY 1951

61

to this common effort depends on the integrity and ability
of our German employees.”

HE PROJECT is being erected on land furnished by the

Federal Government. In building the apartments, the
US Element of the Allied High Commission will spend
approximately DM 8,000,000 ($1,904,000), none of which
comes from occupation costs or is a charge on the German
public. Tenants will be persons and their families desig-
nated by the High Commissioner's Office from among Ger-
man personnel working with the US elements in the Bonn
area. The Federal Government will collect all the rent
from the apartments.

Among the 372 units designed to avoid strain on housing
in the federal capital will be eight dormitory-type units
for large families; 40 four-room apartments; 100 three-
room apartments; 120 two-room apartments; and 104
“efficiency-type’ one-room units. All units will include
kitchen and bath facilities.

Earlier a project to house American personnel was
dedicated in Bad Godesberg.* A second housing project
for German personnel is planned in the vicinity of Muf-
fendorfer and Koblenzerstrasse, Bad Godesberg.

* See Information Bulletin for March 1951, page 2.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
In and Around Germany

Huge Housing Program Announced

Representatives of West Germany's state governments
have met in Bonn to discuss a special housing develop-
ment program of 3,600 dwelling units.

Thirty to 40 proposed sites are expected to be offered
soon. Of this total, 12 will be selected for projects of at
least 300 dwelling units each, to be constructed entirely
with Marshall Plan counterpart funds. Thirty million
Deutsche marks ($7,140,000) has been earmarked for the

program.

Following selection of sites, West German and Berlin
architects, engineers, housing cooperatives and contrac-
tors will be invited to submit plans and bids. A panel of
nine German and four American experts, chosen from
private life, will choose those plans embodying the most
efficient methods and materials for building low-cost
workers’ housing.

According to the Bonn announcement, the purpose of
this special housing development program, in addition
to supplying homes in key industrial areas, is to de-
termine the value of rational, progressive methods in
building low-cost dwelling units. Certain housing restric-
tions in various states are expected to be waived to
permit construction of thoroughly modern types of
dwellings.

Priorities for occupancy of the units when completed
will be:

1) Refugees who cannot make use of their industrial
skills due to residence in remote areas;

2) Refugees presently employed who must travel con-
siderable distances to and from work;

3) Bombed-out families now living in sub-standard con-
ditions, such as in bunkers, etc; and

4) Displaced persons intending to remain in Germany
who are not now properly housed.

All tenants will be selected from among those engaged
in productive work — industry, export trade or agri-
culture. Approximately 65 percent of the occupants are
expected to be refugees.

“Voice” Broadcosts to Continue

Negotiations between the general managers of four
German radio stations and the Voice of America for an
agreement on the relay of Voice German language pro-
grams have begun.

This is the result of requests made several months ago
by the German broadcasters for discussions with re-
presentatives of the Voice of America on the present
Voice German language programs relayed by the sta-
tions in the American zone. These programs have been
rebroadcast as an occupation requirement by the stations:
Radio Bremen in Bremen, Hessian Radio in Frankfurt,
South German Radio in Stuttgart and Bavarian Radio
in Munich.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

62

Hebding 4 ‘%.
HICOG headquarters building health unit, recently
opened for benefit of employees, is inspected by Glenn
G. Wolfe, director, Office of Administration, and unit's
physician, Dr. Peter Stern. Under administrative super-
vision of the Employee Relations and Services Branch,
the new medical center will provide personnel with first
aid facilities, inoculations, physical examinations and a
reference service for more extensive treatment. Similar
units are planned at field offices. (PRD HICOG photo)

Commenting on these negotiations, Edward W. Barrett,
assistant secretary of state for public affairs, said:

“The negotiations now going on between the German
stations and the Voice of America are an eloquent ex-
ample of free people cooperating wholeheartedly in the
international struggle for truthful information. We are
happy that through the cooperation of the German
broadcasters continued relays of the Voice of America
will be possible in a mutually acceptable and beneficial
manner. We are particularly happy that through the
medium of the Voice of America the German people will
continue to receive a complete picture of American
thought, action and culture.

“The amazing and rapid development of German radio
during the occupation into a vital instrument of free ex-
pression and thought for all the people of Germany has
indeed been gratifying. This latest step in cooperation
marks an important milestone in the wholesome relation-
ship between the German and the American people. It
is a high sign of good will and mutual cooperation in
these difficult times. We welcome it as the expression
of a free people banded together with us in the cam-
paign of truth so necessary in the world today.”

OLC Bavaria Moves Headquarters
The offices of the US State Commissioner for Bavaria
have moved from McGraw Kaserne to the State Depart-

. ment Building at 28 Ludwigstrasse, Munich.

MAY 1951

Pe ner ae ene RE

--- Page 66 ---
16,000,000 Sign Freedom Scroll

Freedom scrolls containing the signatures of 16,000,000
Americans pledged to resist aggression and tyranny have
been enshrined in the tower of the Berlin City Hall along
with the famous Freedom Bell.

In presenting the scrolls April 12, Howard P. Jones,
acting director of HICOG Berlin Element, declared: ‘With
these scrolls, America once again reaffirms her sense of
unity and common purpose with all those willing to join
in the cause of universal freedom. Thus it is only proper
that free Berlin be entrusted with custodianship of these
scrolls — symbols of the spirit of democracy.”

Mayor Ernst Reuter in replying on behalf of the city
said: “We have many evidences of outside aid to Berlin.
The American people have given us much material help
for which we shall always be grateful. But I want to
assure you that the gift of the World Freedom Bell and
of these scrolls is not less precious. These scrolls are not
gifts from one nation to another, but are from one people
to another. We shall be proud of them and we shall keep
them in the spirit in which they are presented.”

The eight-ton World Freedom Bell was presented by
Gen, Lucius D, Clay, former military governor of Ger-
many, to the people of Berlin on behalf of the Crusade
for Freedom Oct. 24, 1950.

East Police Continue to Desert

Another 111 Communist ‘People’s Policemen” have
fled service with the East German military force to seek
sanctuary in West Berlin during March.

Almost an entire battalion of the Soviet Zone police has
deserted to West Berlin alone in 10 months, the number
who have applied for political sanctuary between June 1,
1950, and March 31, 1951, totaling 817.

Allied Hunters Spare Hesse Game

Almost 50 percent of the Hessian game quota for Allied
hunters during the past hunting year has been spared.
Killed by Allied personnel were 406 red deer stags, 548
females and calves, and 2,741 bucks and 1,071 females
and calves of the roe deer family. The foreign hunters
were also credited with killing- 781 wild boar. Boar in
Hesse are known to have caused damage estimated at
more than $1,200,000 to other game in the last year.

Meanwhile US soldiers of the Giessen Quartermaster
Depot Rod and Gun Club are taking action to show their
appreciation for the use of Hesse’s limited wild life
resources, The funds raised by the raffle of a pair of
Leitz binoculars and other prizes will be turned over to
the Hessian State Forest Administration for restocking
and increasing game and fish in the West German state.

Civic Teams Visit America

Three teams of German civic leaders, representing
Straubing, Bavaria; Pforzheim, Wuerttemberg-Baden, and
Krefeld, North Rhine-Westphalia, are in the United States

MAY 1951

63

Two high ranking officers leaving their commands in
Germany were honored at combined Army, Navy and
Air Force review in Heidelberg, Ceremony was in honer
of Rear Adm. John Wilkes, retiring commander, US Naval
Forces in Germany, and Maj. Gen. Robert W. Douglass,
former commanding general, 12th Air Force. On review-
ing stand, I. to r., are: Admiral Wilkes; General Douglass;
EUCOM commander, Gen. Thomas T. Handy; US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy; Lt. Gen. Manton S. Eddy,
commanding general, US 7th Army; Rear Adm. Carl F.
Holden, new commander, US Naval Forces, Germany;
and Maj. Gen. Dean C. Strother, new commanding general,
12th Air Force. (US Army photo)

on a new type of exchange program designed to promote
stronger civic interest in and political control over local
government. -++END

(Continued from page 46)
Singers with a Message

man art his observations concerning disunity. With equal
validity, however, he could have broadened his horizon
and warned that disunity would result in the death of all
that is sacred to any nation. What is sacred to a nation?
In essence and in primacy, it is freedom so to develop
itself that the greatest good will be achieved for the
greatest number. Only through the operation of the truly
democratic processes can this be achieved.

“While the Meistersinger contest...may seem to re-
present only a relatively limited or remote example of
the working of these democratic processes, its significance
is no less evident. The winners in the various categories
are being picked along democratic lines for the awards
they are to receive. There will be no single winner and
there will be no single prize like the hand of Eva in the
opera. Every winner, in fact every contestant, will carry
away from this contest the warranted pride gained from
hard work, with its resultant accomplishment, and the
enduring knowledge that true achievement has been the
reward for his or her own individual effort and ambition.
The lessons learned through such competition are well
to learn early in life. They will be mental bulwarks for
all the contestants throughout their careers.”

US High Commissioner and Mrs. John J. McCloy; Gen.
and Mrs. Thomas T. Handy, EUCOM commander-in-
chief, and President Theodor Heuss of the German Federal
Republic were co-chairmen of the contest’s honorary
committee. -+-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
Agreement on Relaxations of Control
Over German Industry

The High Commissioners of the United
Kingdom, the United States and France,
on behalf of their respective governments,
on April 3, 1951 concluded an agreement
concerning industrial controls to replace
the prohibited and limited industries agree-
ment concluded by the Military Governors
in Washington in April 1949.

The new agreement provides for relax-
ations of a number of the prohibitions and
limitations hitherto imposed on industry
in the Federal Republic and will facilitate
the production in Germany of items and
materials for the common defense of the
West.

A copy of the new agreement has been
sent to the Federal Chancellor together
with a letter in which the High Commis-
sion outlines the relaxations and develop-
ments arising from the agreement.

The text of the High Commission's letter
to the Federal Chancellor and the text of
the agreement on industrial controls fol-
low.

* ok OK

Letter to Chancellor

April 2, 1951.
Mr. Chancellor:
I have the honor to inform Your Excel-
“lency that, following upon the decision
taken by the three Foreign Ministers in
September 1950, to institute a review of
the prohibitions and limitations upon in-
dustry, my colleagues and I will tomorrow
sign an agreement on industrial controls.
I enclose a copy of this document which
shall, as from tomorrow, replace the agree-
ment concluded between the three Mili-
tary Governors in April 1949.

You will observe that the new agree-
ment, which is subject to review at the
request of any two of the signatory gov-
ernments, and in any event not later than
Dec. 31, 1951, relaxes a number of the
limitdtions hitherto imposed on industry
in the federal territory and will facilitate
the production in Germany of items and
materials for the common defense of the
West.

By the terms of the agreement, the limi-
tations and restrictions hitherto in force
upon the size and speed or tonnage of
merchant ships built or otherwise acquired
in Germany, primary aluminum, synthetic
ammonia, chlorine, styrene and upon ma-
chine tools of types listed in Annex “'B”
to the former agreement are removed, In
addition the High Commission will be will-
ing to authorize production of crude steel
outside the limit of 11,100,000 tons per
annum where such production will facil-
itate steel being provided for the common
defense effort. The prohibition on the pro-
duction of synthetic oil and rubber is
removed and the restrictions upon the
capacity of these and of the ball and roll-
er bearing industries are now modified.
Control is retained but in a modified form
over the production of electronic valves.

The three governments do not desire to
hamper technological progress or to pre-
vent the modernization of production lead-
ing to the reduction of costs and econ-
omies in raw materials, power and fuel.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Consequently, in those few industries
where a limitation of capacity is main-
tained, the High Commission will be pre-
pared to authorize the substitution . of
more efficient equipment, the rearrange-
ment of machinery and the introduction
of new processes or other technical chan-
ges even though this may involve a minor
increase in the capacity of the factory or
equipment in question.

In authorizing the rehabilitation of
plants (including the installation of new
equipment) and the utilization of new pro-
cesses for the production of synthetic
tubber and synthetic oil, the High Com-
mission will, as long as solid fuels are
in short supply, grant licenses only to the
extent that the additional consumption of
coal and coke necessary for the produc-
tion contemplated does not affect the sat-
isfaction of the needs of the solid fuel
importing countries. Nevertheless, the
applications outstanding for the use of the
plants at Bergkamen, Viktor, Scholven
and Ruhroel will be granted forthwith.

While the necessity for obtaining a
license to manufacture the machine tools
listed in Schedule ‘‘B’’ of the old agree-
ment on prohibited and limited industries
is not maintained, my colleagues and I
require that a system of declaration of
manufacture by the producer (indicating
the intended destination of each machine)
and of reporting on the quantities of such
machines in Germany shall be put into
operation.

The coming into force of the agreement
on industrial controls will entail certain
amendments to Allied High Commission
Law No. 24 and to the ordinances which
your government has issued in respect of
the various items concerned. It is not in-
tended that the coming into effect of the
new agreement shall await the completion
of all the administrative processes invol-
ved in these amendments, and instructions
have been issued to the Military Security
Board to treat applications from industry
in the spirit of the new agreement pending
the issue of the necessary amendments.

I beg Your Excellency to accept the
assurance of my high esteem,

Ivone KirKPATRICK,
Chairman.
x ok Ok

Agreement Concerning Industrial
Controls

The High Commissioners of France, the
United Kingdom and the United States of
America, duly authorized thereto by their
respective governments, hereby conclude
on behalf of those governments the follow-
ing Agreement concerning industrial con-
trols in the French, United Kingdom, and
United States areas of occupation in Ger-
many.

Article 1

1. The provisions of this Agreement shall
be reviewed on the request of any two
of the governments parties to the Agree-
ment and in any event not later than
Dec. 31, 1951. .

64

2. Except as may be subsequently agreed
among the governments parties to this
Agreement, the prohibitions laid down in
this Agreement shall remain in force until
the peace settlement.

3. Except as may be subsequently agreed
among the governments parties to this
Agreement, the limitations laid down in
this Agreement shall remain in force until
January 1, 1953, or until the peace set-
tlement, whichever is the earlier, and
thereafter as may be agreed.

Article 2

Except with the authorization of the
Allied High Commission the manufacture,
production, installation, import, export,
transport, storage, possession, ownership
or use of any of the following articles or
products is prohibited:

(a) Items listed in Annex A to this
Agreement;

(b) Primary magnesium.

Article 3

Materials, products, facilities and equip-
ment relating to atomic energy shall con-
tinue to be subject to Allied High Com-
mission legislation.

Article 4

1. The manufacture of electronic valves
shall be unrestricted in respect of types
included in a list of permitted types as
established, and modified as required, by
the Allied High Commission. These per-
mitted types shall not exceed 50 watts
anode dissipation, or a frequency of 250
megacycles per second.

2. The manufacture of electronic valves
included in the categories listed in Annex
B to this Agreement is prohibited. This
Annex is subject to review and revision
by the Allied High Commission.

3. The manufacture of all other cate-
gories or specific types of electronic valves
is prohibited except under license from
the Allied High Commission.

Article 5

1, Control shall be maintained over ca-
pacity in the following industries:

(a) Steel;

(b) Electric arc and high frequency fur-
nace steel;

(c) Shipbuilding;

(d) Synthetic rubber;

(e) Synthetic petrol, oil and lubricants,
produced directly or indirectly from coal
or brown coal, and

(f) Ball and roller bearings, except
equipment only capable of producing non-
precision bearings.

2. No enterprise shall be permitted,
except under license from the Allied High
Commission, to increase the productive
capacity of any of its plant or equipment
that is engaged or partly engaged in the
industries listed in this Article, or of the
industry as a whole, whether it is proposed
to effect the increase by extension of
existing facilities, the construction of new
facilities, or the addition of new equip-
ment. Such licenses shall not be granted

MAY 1951

--- Page 68 ---
unless the Allied High Commission is
satisfied with the arrangements made for
the disposal of the capacity replaced.

Article 6

1. Subject to the provisions of Para-
graph 2 of this Article the production of
crude steel shall be limited to 11,100,000
tons a year.

2. The Allied High Commission will
allow crude steel to be produced outside
the foregoing limitation where this will
facilitate the defense effort.

Article 7
1. The construction and acquisition of
ships which include the military features,
characteristics and equipment listed in
Annex C to this Agreement and the modi-
fication of ships to include such features,
characteristics and equipment shall be
prohibited except under license from the

Allied High Commission.

2. The term “acquisition” as used in this
Article includes bare-boat chartering.

Article 8

Nothing in this Agreement shall be inter-
preted as impairing or reducing the powers
with which the Military Security Board is
vested.

Article 9

This Agreement shall come into force
from the date of signature and shall re-
place the Agreement concerning Prohibited
and Limited Industries approved by the
Foreign Ministers of France, the United
Kingdom and the United States and signed
by the Military Governors of the French,
United Kingdom and United States Zones
of Occupation in Germany in April 1949.

Done in Bonn-Petersberg, April 3, 1951,
in the English and French languages,
both texts equally authentic.

* Ok Ok

Annex A
Group I

(a) All weapons including atomic means
of warfare or apparatus of all calibers
and natures capable of projecting lethal
or destructive projectiles, liquids, gases or
toxic substances, their carriages and mount-
ings.

(b) All projectiles for the above and
their means of projection or propulsion.

(c) All military means of destruction
including but not limited to grenades,
bombs, torpedoes, mines, depth mines,
depth and demolition charges and self-
propelled charges, all types of fuses there-
for and all apparatus for the guiding,
control and operation thereof including
timing, sensing and homing devices. _

(d) All military cutting or piercing
weapons.

Group IT

(a) All vehicles specially equipped or
designed for military purposes including
but not limited to tanks, armored cars,
tank-carrying trailers and armored railway
rolling stock.

(b) Armor of all
purposes.

Group lil
(a) Instruments and devices of the fol-
lowing classes, designed for military pur-

Poses, irrespective of the form of energy
or the part of the spectrum used:

(i) Range-finding apparatus of all kinds;

types for military

MAY 1951

(ii) Aiming, guiding and computing de-
vices for fire control;

(iii) Locating devices of all kinds;

(iv) Instruments for observation of fire;

(v) Instruments for the remote control
of objects.

(b) All signaling and inter-communi-
cation equipment and installations specially
designed for military purposes; all appa-
ratus intended specifically for the purpose
of producing radio interference.

Group IV

(a) Warships of all classes. All ships
and floating equipment specially designed
for war purposes including the servicing
of warships. All ships designed or con-
structed for conversion into warships or
for military use.

(b) Special machinery, equipment and
installations which in time of peace are
normally used solely in warships.

(c) Submersible craft of all kinds; sub-
mersible devices of all kinds, designed for
military purposes. Special equipment per-
taining to these craft and devices.

(d) All military landing devices.

(e) Material, equipment and installations
for the military defense of coastal areas
and harbors.

Group V

(a) Aircraft of all types, heavier or
lighter than air; with or without means
of propulsion, and all auxiliary equipment,
including aircraft engines and component
parts, accessories and spare parts specifi-

-cally designed for aircraft use.

(b) Ground equipment and installations
for servicing, testing or aiding the oper-
ation of aircraft, including but not limited
to catapults, winches and beacons. Ma-
terial for the rapid construction or prep-
aration of airfields.

Group VI

All drawing, specifications, designs,
models and reproduction directly relating
to the development, manufacture. testing
or inspection of the war material, or to
experiments or research in connection
with war material.

Group VII

(a) Machine tools or other manufactur-
ing equipment specifically designed for
the development, manufacture, testing and
inspection of weapons, ammunition or
other materials listed in this Annex.

(b) Attachments, devices, tools or other
objects having no normal peacetime use
and specifically designed to convert or
adapt machine tools or other manufactur-
ing equipment to the development, manu-
facture, testing and inspection of weapons,
ammunition or other war materials listed
in this Annex.

Group VIII

(a) (i) Explosives and accessories.

(ii) Double base propellants (i. e. nitro-
cellulose propellants containing nitrogly-
cerine, diethyleneglycol dinitrate or analo-
gous substances).

(iii) Single base propellants
weapons.

(iv) Nitroguanidine.

(v) Chemicals particularly useful as
poison war gases (including liquids and
solids customarily included in this term).

(vi) Hydrogen peroxide of 37 percent
concentration or higher.

(vii) Hydrazine hydrate.

for any

65

(viii) Alkyl nitrates.

(ix) Other chemicals particularly useful
as rocket fuéls.

(x). Highly toxic products from bacterio-
logical or plant sources, with the exception
of those bacteriological and plant products
which are used for therapeutic purposes.

(xi) White phosphorous.

(xii) Incendiaries and incendiary com-
positions, including but not limited to
thermites and gell fuels.

(b) All special means for individual and
collective defense used in peace exclu-
sively by Armed Forces.

Group IX

All apparatus, devices and material spe-
cially designed for training and instruction
Personnel in the use, handling, manufacture
and maintenance of war material.

Group X

Spare parts, accessories and component
parts of the articles ahd products listed in
this Annex.

* kK Ok

Annex B

Categories of Electronic Valves the

Manufacture of which is Prohibited

(1) Velocity modulated valves, e.g. Klys-
trons.

(ii) Magnetrons.

(iii) Valves employing direct coupling
of the electron stream to the output
circuit.

(iv) Valves designed mechanically to fit
wave guide, cavity, coaxial or parallel
wire line resonant circuits or having such
circuits built into the valves.

(v) Memory or storage valves.

(vi) Triggered spark-gap valves.

(vii) Subminiature valves (i.e. valves
capable of being passed through a hole
one-half inch in diameter, or specially
designed to withstand great acceleration
or the shock of departure of projectiles).

(viii) Cathode ray tubes, except those
specifically designed and produced for
television receiver purposes.

(ix) Germanium, silicon, and other semi-
conductor crystal rectifiers, or modifica-
tions thereof capable of operation at radio
frequencies.

(x) Special purpose valves having no
known commercial application or valves
designed for optimum performance above
250 megacycles.

* Ok Ok

Annex C
Features, Characteristics and Equipment
which may not be constructed. or installed
in any Ship except under License from the
Allied High Commission

(a) Any special features or character-
istics which render it readily convertible:

(1) for amphibious assault operations;

(ii) to an aircraft carrier or for operating
aircraft;

(iii) to a repair or depot ship for sub-
marines, aircraft or coastal forces craft;

(iv) to a fighter direction vessel;

(v) to any other combatant or naval
auxiliary type of vessel.

(b) Any of the following weapons, equip-
ment and material:

(i) All items listed in Annex A of this
Agreement (except radio direction and
position finders and radar equipment of
normal commercial marine type);

(ii) paravanes;

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
(iii) minesweeping gear of any des-
cription;

(iv) catapults for aircraft launching;

(v) rocket or missile launching devices,
except such as may be in normal com-
mercial usage for emergency signaling
and rescue purposes;

(vi) smoke-making equipment or appa-
ratus of special devices for concealment
purposes;

(vii) high concentration hydrogen perox-
ide or special submarine fuels or supplies;

(viii) depth sounding gear and radio and
gyrocompass equipment which do not

conform to normal commercial marine
types.
(c) Any special fittings or special

structures readily adaptable for mounting,
carrying or storing any of the items listed
in Paragraph (b) above.

(a) Any of the following machinery or
features of ship design, and provisions
therefor, which in relation to the type of
vessel in which they are installed, do not
conform to normal commercial marine
practice, or which in time of peace are
normally used solely in warships, and
which in the opinion of the Military
Security Board also constitute a security
threat:—

(i) main and auxiliary machinery, notably
that with characteristics such as would
give abnormally long range in miles at
speeds other than service speed or that
which would result in speed substantially
greater than that normal to the type of
vessel and for the services intended;

(ii) gas jet propulsion or atomic pro-
pulsion;

(iii) auxiliary electrical generating ma-
chinery and equipment of capacity in
excess of that normal to the type of vessel;

(iv) cargo lifting gear in excess of that
normal to the type of vessel;

(v) subdivision significantly different
from that normal to the type of vessel;

(vi) evaporators of capacity in excess
of that normal to the type of vessel and
for the services intended;

(vii) fuel and fresh water capacity in
excess of that normal to the type of
vessel and for the services intended;

(viii) hull and deck openings in excess
of those normal to the type of vessel;

(ix) unobstructed deck space in excess
of that normal to the type of vessel.

* Ok Ox

Annex “B" to Old Prohibited and Limited
Industries Agreement Signed in Washington
in April 1949
(Note: — Items in this Annex may now
be freely produced. Previously they were
subject to license)

Annex “B”

1. Spiral bevel gear cutters.

2. Breaching machines of the following
kinds:

(a) Continuous surface type.

(b) Reciprocating type (bar type cutter)
with cutter diameter of equivalent cross
section exceeding two inches (51 mm.), or
working stroke exceeding five feet
(1,524 mm.), or pull capacity exceeding
35,000 Ibs. (15,876 kgs.).

3. General purpose lathes of the follow-
ing kinds:—

(a) Lathes of work diameter capacity
(swing over carriage) exceeding 56 inches
(1,422 mm.).

(b) Lathes of work diameter capacity
(swing over carriage) of from 36 inches
(914 mm.) to 56 inches and with distance
between centers (length of work piece)
exceeding 14 feet (4,267 mm.).

(c) Lathes of work diameter capacity
(swing over carriage) of from 18 inches
(457 mm.) to 36 inches (914 mm.) and with
distance between centers exceeding 18
feet (5,486 mm.).

4, Vertical turret lathes (turret type
head, not rotating table) of work diameter
capacity exceeding 39 inches (991 mm.).

5. Chucking and facing lathes of work
diameter capacity exceeding 96 inches
(2,438 mm.) or with travel of carriage
exceeding seven feet (2,134 mm.).

6. Car and locomotive wheel lathes
(machines designed specifically for this
work) of work diameter capacity exceed-
ing 96 inches (2,438 mm.).

7..Turret lathes of chuck capacity ex-
ceeding 24 inches (610 mm.) or of bar
capacity exceeding three inches (76 mm.).

8, Milling machines of general purpose
and universal types, horizontal and ver-

tical, any of whose specifications exceed
the following limits:—

(a) Maximum over-all weight: four tons.

(b) Following rectangular table dimen-
sions:— :

(i) maximum length: 48 inches (1,219 mm.).

(ii) maximum width: 14 inches (356 mm-)

(c) Following round table dimensions: -

(i) maximum table diameter: 24 inches
(610 mm.).

(ii) maximum work diameter capacity:
32 inches (813 mm.).

9. Planer milling machines of distance
between housings exceeding four feet
(1,219 mm.) or of length of platen exceed-
ing 12 feet (3,658 mm.) or of number of
heads exceeding three.

10. Grinding machines of the following
kinds:

(a) Cylindrical general-purpose machines
of work diameter capacity exceeding 30
inches (762 mm.) or of distance between
centers exceeding nine feet (2,743 mm.)
but not including machines specifically
designed of and limited to finishing rolling
mill, calendar, printing and other similar
machine parts.

(b) Surface rectangular table machines
of platen width exceeding 24 inches (610
mm.) or of platen length exceeding 72
inches (1,829 mm.).

(c) Surface round table machines of table
diameter exceeding 36 inches (914 mm.,).

11. Gear-producing machines of all types
whose work diameter capacity exceeds 60,
inches (1,524 mm.).

12, Forging hammers of all types of
falling weight exceeding 31/2 tons (3.556
metric tons).

13. Forging machines of bar stock diam-
eter or equivalent cross section exceeding
32 inches (89 mm.).

14, Mechanical presses of an effective
operating pressure exceeding 1,000 tons:
(1,016 metric tons).

15. Hydraulic presses of an effective
operating pressure exceeding 1,000 tons
(1,016 metric tons).

16. Precision jig-boring machines of a
lateral displacement of cutter with refer-
ence to work (or displacement of work
with reference to cutter) exceeding 24
inches (610 mm.). + END

Master Plan for I. G. Farben Dispersal

The master plan for the dispersal of I.G.
Farbenindustrie, the German chemicals and
dyes trust, has been communicated to the
Federal Government in a letter sent by the
Allied High Commission.

-The plan, which has been discussed at
length by Allied and German experts in
accordance with the High Commission
policy of consulting the Federal Govern-
ment on deconcentration matters, embraces
approximately four-fifths of the I.G. Farben-
industrie assets in Western Germany and
calls for the setting up of nine independent
undertakings. Plans for the dispersal of
remaining assets are being prepared.

In its letter to the Federal Government,
the High Commission records its satisfac-
tion ‘that the groupings will now represent

INFORMATION BULLETIN

a large measure of agreement between the
Allied High Commission and the Federal
Government.’ The letter adds that, in
reaching its conclusions, the High Commis-
sion has given the fullest consideration
to the views expressed by the Federal Gov-
ernment. Full text of the letter, dated Pe-
tersberg, Bonn, April 17, 1951, follows.

“On Nov. 23, you were advised of the
Allied High Commission’s intention to
establish nine independent companies con-
sisting principally of assets contained in
the Ludwigshafen, Leverkusen and Main-
gau complexes.

In reply to this letter the Allied High
Commission received, under cover of the
Chancellor's letter dated Dec. 18, a memo-
randum setting forth the views of the

66

Federal Government on the Allied High
Commission's proposals.

On Jan. 2, copies of the report of the
tripartite investigation: team appointed to
consider the dispersal problem of I.G, Far-
ben were sent to the office of the Chan-
cellor and arrangements were made for
discussions with the Federal Government
experts. In accordance with these arrange-
ments meetings were held between the
Allied and Federal Government experts on
Jan. 11, 16, 23 and 27. As a result of these
and further discussions, a letter was sent
to the Ministry of Economics by the Tri-
partite IG. Farben Control Group on
March 17, 1951, requesting the views of
the German Federal Government on certain
specific points connected with the A.G. fuer

MAY 1951

--- Page 70 ---
Stickstoffduenger, Knapsack, and the Beh-
ringwerke and Behring Institut at Marburg
and Eystrup, respectively. No reply has
yet been received.

Subject to the matters referred to the
Ministry of Economics, which are still
outstanding and subject to further con-
sideration of the problem presented by the
two synthetic fiber spinning plants at Rott-
weil and Bobingen, it is now possible to
state the final conclusions which have
been reached by the Allied High Commis-
sion. In reaching these conclusions the
Allied High Commission has given the
fullest consideration to the views. expressed
by the Federal Government both in writ-
ing and orally in the course of the meeting
referred to above.

These conclusions will result in the
establishment of nine new undertakings,
outlined below. The Allied High Commis-
sion is particularly glad to note that these
groupings will now represent a large
measure of agreement as between the
Allied High Commission and the Federal
Government.

1. Ludwigshafen, Oppau.

2. Farbwerke, Hoechst,

Chemische Fabrik, Griesheim, and
Naphtal-Chemie, Offenbach.

To this unit will be added the organiza-
tion resulting from a merger of the A.G.
fuer Stickstoffduenger, Knapsack, and the
oxygen plants in the UK and US Zones, in
such form as may be decided upon. The
future of the Behringwerke, formerly re-
commended for incorporation in this unit,
is not yet decided.

3. Casella Farbwerke, Mainkur.

4, Titangesellschaft m.b.H., Leverkusen,
5. Agfa Camera Werke, Munich,
6. Dormagen.
7. Remaining assets at Leverkusen,
Elberfeld and
Uerdingen.
Subsidiary company consisting of
photographic film and paper plants
at Leverkusen,
8. Chemische Werke, Huels.
9. Rheinfelden.
* *K *

It is desired to bring the following ex-
planatory notes to your attention:

Farbwerke, Hoechst, etc.

The two matters referred to the ministry
of economics, namely, the future of the
Behringwerke and the form which the
merger with the Knapsack group will take,
are the only remaining problems, the
solution of which is necessary to the final
constitution of this unit.

Casella Farbwerke, Mainkur

In view of the representations of the
management of this undertaking to the
effect that it is fully capable of independ-
ent existence, the Allied High Commission
does not consider it desirable to insist on
its merger with the Hoechst unit. Casella
will, therefore, be set up as an independent
unit.

Titangesellschait m.b.H., Leverkusen

Since this undertaking is already a
legally independent company, the decision
to separate it presents as its principal
problem the question as to the future

ownership of the ex-I.G. Farben share of
the company's capital, This problem is at
present under consideration.

Leverkusen, etc.

In view of your representations, the
previous proposal to incorporate the photo-
graphic film and paper plants at Lever-
kusen into an independent company to-
gether with the Munich camera works, has
been modified, It has now been decided
that the Leverkusen departments in question
shall be formed into an independent com-
pany but that Bayer shall be permitted to
retain control of the new Agfa company
either by means of holding the shares as
a subsidiary, or by means of a holding
company, whichever may be considered the
more satisfactory solution.

The Allied High Commission regrets it
has been unable to agree to the retention
of Dormagen in the Bayer group. Dormagen
will therefore be set up as an independent
company,

Rottweil: and Bobingen

The question of the final treatment to
be accorded to these two plants is still
under consideration.

The Allied High Commission intends to
press forward with the implementation of
the decisions communicated to you in this
letter as soon as possible. Specific plans for
setting up the new companies are at present
under active ‘consideration, The Allied
High Commission will be glad to receive
the final recommendations of the Federal
Government as soon as_ possible in
regard to the Behringwerke and Knapsack
problems." + END

Federal Republic Plan for Implementation
Of Law 27 Approved

In a letter of reply to the Federal Chan-
cellor, the Allied High Commission has
given its approval to proposals made by
the Federal Government, in the light of
the developments of the Schuman Plan,
for the implementation of High Commission
Law 27 (Reorganization of the German Coal
and Iron and Steel Industries).

The text of the High Commission's reply
and the text of the Federal Chancellor's
letter of March 13 stating the Federal
Government's proposals follow.

* ok Ox

German Proposals Welcomed

March 27, 1951.
Mr. Chancellor,

The High Commission has received your
letter of March 13, 1951, with respect to
the implementation of Law 27. It welcomes
the attitude expressed in your letter and
agrees with you as to the desirability of
an agreed solution of the problems of
reorganization under Law 27 dealt with in
your letter, as a basis for the initiation of
the Schuman Plan.

Your letter states that your proposals are
based on the premise that the Schuman
Plan will become effective. We feel as you

MAY 1951

do that the Schuman Plan enables the High
Commission to consider these problems in
a broader context than would otherwise
be the case. In this context, the High Com-
mission feels justified in adopting more
liberal solutions of these problems than
would otherwise be feasible. On the as-
sumption that the Schuman Plan will be-
come effective, the High Commission has
decided to accept the present proposals
of the Federal Government as an agreed
solution. Accordingly the High Commis-
sion will issue the appropriate implement-
ing orders to carry these proposals into
effect.

The High Commission has noted that
additional proposals are to be submitted
with respect to the allocation of coal assets
to the steel units, Huckingen, Bochumer
Verein and Maximilianshuette. These will
be considered upon their receipt and con-
sideration will also be given to the request
of the Federal Government that the High
Commission consider the allocation of
Bergwerke Essen to the steel unit Rhein-
hausen.

Accept, Excellency, the assurance of my
highest consideration.

(s) Ivone KirkpaTRIck,
Chairman.

67

Chancellor's Letter
Bonn, March 13, 1951. -
To the Chairman,
Allied High Commission,
Bonn-Petersberg.

The discussions with the Allied High
Commission and the negotiations on the
Schuman plan would seem to indicate to
the Federal Government the desirability
of reaching a solution of the principal
outstanding questions relating to the im-
plementation of Law 27. The Federal Gov-
ernment is of the view that such a
settlement would be to the advantage of
all parties and would assist in creating a
proper atmosphere for carrying the Schu-
man Plan into effect. The Federal Govern-
ment has once more reviewed the whole
problem thoroughly to determine on what
basis a solution could be found.

These solutions should be treated as an
indivisible whole. Since the Federal Gov-
ernment is acceding tho the views of the
High Commission on certain points by put-
ting aside its own wishes in order to pro-
vide a proper basis for agreement, it con-
siders it reasonable that the High Com-
mission should in turn make concessions
problems.”*

INFORMATION BULLETIN -

--- Page 71 ---
The Federal Government counts on these
concessions espécially as the Schuman
Plan, which was brought into being with
its active cooperation, is about to be
initiated. Once the Schuman Plan has
become effective, the German coal and
steel industry will be subject to super-
vision by the supranational High Authority
and will be part of the European com-
munity in the field of coal and steel. The
entry into force of the Schuman Plan is
the prerequisite for the proposed solution.

The Federal Government has not been
able to agree in all respects with the pro-
posals of the Combined Steel Group trans-
mitted to it by the High Commission. The
Federal Government desires that the solu-
tions to be found will serve the recovery
of the German economy, that they will
take into reasonable consideration the
interests of all parties, and at the same
time will fulfill the essential objectives
of Law 27 with which the Federal Govern-
ment has expressed its agreement. The
Federal Government has started from the
premise that one of the principles of
Law 27 is to create economically viable
structures. Should, in any particular case,
one of the proposed solutions prove not
workable, the Federal Government takes
it that the measures taken under Law 27
do not rule out a modification with the
approval of the High Authority in ac-
cordance with the provisions of the Schu-
man Plan.

The proposals of the Federal Government
refer to the following points: (1) the unit
iron and steel companies, (2) the opera-
tional integration of coal mining and iron-
producing industries, and (3) the problem
of coal marketing.

1. Unit Iron and Steel Companies

The Federal Government since its memo-
randum of Jan. 14, 1951, has held further
discussions with the experts of the High
Commission and with its own ‘experts. It
has once more reviewed the questions aris-
ing with regard to the new unit companies.
Moved by the desire to give due consider-
ation to the views of both sides, the
Federal Government believes that unit
companies of the iron and steel industries
can be constituted embracing the following
combinations:

No.

No. in table 1 Description of Plant

1 1 Deutsche Edelstahlwerke.

2 3 Eisenwerke und Gusstahlwerk
Gelsenkirchen — Muelheim —
Meiderich.

3 4 Gusstahlwerk Oberkassel.

4 5 Huettenwerke Ruhrort — Mei-
derich.

5 6 Huettenwerk Niederrhein —
‘Westfaelische Union.

6 7 Rheinische Roehrenwerke.

7 8 Huettenwerk Oberhausen —
Gutehoffnungshuette, Gelsen-
kirchen,

8 9 Stahlwerke Bochum.

9 10/11 Huettenwerk Haspe — Georgs-
marienhuette — Stahlwerk Osna-
brueck.

10 12 Westfalenhuette Dortmund —
Hoesch Hohenlimburg.

mu 15 Huettenwerk Huckingen —West-
deutsche Mannesmannroehren.

12 16 Stahl- und Walzwerke Grossen-
baumkammerichwerke.

13°17 Huettenwerk Rheinhausen —
Westfaelische Drahtindustrie.

1418 Huettenwerk Geiswald — Stahl-
werk Hagen.

15 19/20: Huettenwerk Hoerde — Dort-
munder Union.

16 21 Bochumer Verein.

17 24 Henrichshuette Hattingen.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18 2 Gusstahlwerk Witten.

19-23 Maximilianshuette.

20 24 Siegerland—Charlottenhuette —
Friedrichshuette. 7

21 27 Hochofenwerk Luebeck.

2228 Rasselstein — Andernach.

23 «29 Luitpoldhuette.

2422 August-Thyssen-Huette.

With respect to the treatment of the
works of Stahl- und Roehrenwerke Reis-
holz (No. 13 of Table 1 of CSG) and of
Ilseder Huette (No. 14 of Table 1 of CSG),
the Federal Government refers to the ex-
planations in Section 1 (2)b of its memo-
randum of Jan. 14, 1951. In Section 1 (4)
of the same memorandum with regard to
Reichswerke and.the Roechling-Buderus-
Wetzlar case, the Federal Government had
pointed to its desire that these cases should
be dealt with separately. With regard to
August-Thyssen-Huette it is of the opinion
that in accordance with the statements in
Section 1 (2)f of the memorandum of Jan. 14,
1951, the establishment of a unit company
should be deferred as long as possible.

2, Integration of Iron Works and Coal Mines

In its earlier memoranda, especially in
Annex A of the memorandum of Jan. 14,
1951, the Federal Government has already
pointed out the importance it attaches to a
partial integration of coal mining with the
iron and steel industry in order to attain
a maximum economic efficiency of the
works. In order to achieve the benefits of
such integration while taking account at
the same time of the views of the High
Commission regarding the objectives of
Law 27, the Federal Government believes
that integration between iron and steel
enterprises and coal mining enterprises
should be permitted under the following
conditions:

(1) In each individual case the coal
mining enterprise will be organized into a
separate company which will supply the
affiliated iron and steel companies in ac-
cordance with customary trade practices.
This includes, in particular, selling at mar-
ket prices on invoice, including taxes
payable on such transactions.

(2) The coal produced by the coal com-
panies affiliated with iron and steel com-
panies shall be subject to the same alloca-
tion regulations within the provisions of
the Schuman Plan as coal produced by
other companies not so affiliated.

In the light of these principles, the fol-
lowing solutions seem to the Federal Gov-
ernment to be appropriate:

1) Eisenwerke Gelsenkirchen and Muel-
heim-Meiderich are allocated the cokery
Alma with the mines Pluto and Holland.

2) Dortmunder Union Hoerde is allocated
the mines Hansa, Westhausen and Hanse-
mann with the cokery Tremonia.

3) The Westfalenhuette is allocated the
mines Kaiserstuhl 1 and 2 with Fuerst Leo-
pold and Baldur.

4) Ilsede-Peine is
Friedrich der Grosse.

5) Haspe-Georgsmarien-Huette is
cated the mine Viktor Ickern.

6) Ruhrort-Meiderich is allocated the
mines Westende, Friedrich Thyssen 4/8 and
Friedrich Thyssen 2/5.

7) The August-Thyssen-Huette
cated the mine Beckerwerth.

8) Rheinhausen is allocated the coalfield
Rossenray.

The Federal Government requests the
High Commission also to consider the al-
location of Krupp Bergwerke Essen to

allocated the mine

allo-

is allo-

68

Rheinhausen so as to facilitate the open-
ing up of the Rossenray coalfield.

9) Oberhausen is allocated the mine
Osterfeld.

The Federal Government, however, has
been inforrhed that the plant will not insist
on having this coal mine allocated to it.
To this the Federal Government has no ob-
jection,

In the cases of Bochumer Verein, Huck-
ingen and Max-Huette, the Federal Gov-
ernment can under the present circum-
stances make no final proposals, as it is
still being studied at this time which mines
can be allocated to these plants within
the limits recognized by the Federal Gov-
ernment. In this connection it has already
been determined that the Consolidation
mine cannot be proposed for Huckingen
nor the Hugo mine for Maxhuette, since
they are too large.

3. Coal Marketing and Control

The Federal Government is aware that
the German coal sales organization (DKV)
is to be dissolved under Law 27. In the
same way, under the Schuman Plan, all
monopolistic purchase and sales syndi-
cates within the common market shall be
dissolved.

The Federal Government starts from the
assumption, however, that the Schuman
Plan will contain a provision to the effect
that the High Authority must study the
problems resulting from liquidation of the
DKV in order to establish procedures or
organizations consistent. with the pro-
visions of the Schuman Plan for solving
the questions of coal qualities, maintenance
of mine output, and of equalized employ-
ment to avoid social tensions, all of which
are particularly complex in Germany.

In this connection the High Authority
will have the advice and cooperation of
the Federal Government, the German coal-
mining companies, and of the mine workers’
union (Gewerkschaft Bergbau).

On the basis of the above, and to insure
an orderly transition, the Federal Govern-
ment proposes in conformity with the pro-
visions of Law 27 and the Schuman Plan,
the following:

(1) The DKBL shall be dissolved within
three months from the completion of the
reorganization of the coal mining industry
effected by transfer to unit companies or
otherwise.

(2) Deutsche Kohlenverkauf (DKV) shall
be placed in liquidation not later than
July 1, 1951. For this purpose, the Federal
Government will appoint a commissioner
for the liquidation of Deutsche Kohlenver-
kauf (DKV). His appointment shall be sub-
ject to confirmation by the High Authority
as soon as it has become operative. Until
such time as the High Authority is es-
tablished, this commissioner will be subject
to instructions of the Federal Minister of
Economics in accordance with the contents
of Part 3 hereof. Once the High Authority
is established, the commissioner will be
responsible to the High Authority in all
matters within its jurisdiction. He shall be
subject to the instructions of the Federal
Minister of Economics as far as the latter
carries out allocation measures. The com-
missioner shall be responsible for the elim-
ination of central coal marketing to be
carried out. As rapidly as possible he
shall take all steps to bring about free
competition in the sale of Ruhr coal.

(3) Participation in Deutsche Kohlenver-
kauf (DKV), once its liquidation has been
instituted, shall be entirely voluntary and
shall be free from any direct or indirect

MAY 1951

--- Page 72 ---
coercion. No buyer or seller shall be re-
quired in any way to buy or sell through
Deutsche Kohlenverkauf (DKV). Any buyer
shall be free to buy partly from individual
mining company, shall be free to sell part
of its output through Deutsche Kohlenver-
kauf (DKV), will be required to sell to
all buyers without discrimination and on
equal terms.

(4) Deutsche Kohlenverkauf (DKV) shall
be liquidated by progressive stages in
conformity with the following details:

(a) Beginning not later than Oct. 1, 1951,
the Deutsche Kohlenverkauf and the form-
er regional syndicate sales companies—
unless these have already been subjected
to more comprehensive measures—shall
no longer make direct sales to industrial
consumers using less than 12,000 tons per
year.

(b) Beginning not later than April 1,
1952, the Deutsche Kohlenverkauf and its
former regional syndicate sales companies
may sell only to large public consumers
using 12,000 tons per year and above, and
to large consumers in the iron and steel
industry and the basic chemical industry
using more than 60,000 tons per year.

(c) By Oct. 1, 1952, Deutsche Kohlen-
verkauf (DKV) and all regional syndicate
sales companies shall be completely liqui-
dated and all further centrally-controlled
sales activities, direct or indirect, shall
cease.

(d) If, however, the High Authority of
the Schuman Plan concludes that the com-
missioner has taken all practical steps to
liquidate Deutsche Kohlenverkauf (DKV)
by Oct. 1, 1952 and to create effective
competition within the German coal in-
dustry, but that an additional period is
required for the accomplishment of these
purposes, the High Authority may extend
the time for final liquidation of Deutsche
Kohlenverkauf by a period of six months
beyond Oct. 1, 1952. The High Authority
may under the same conditions extend this
time limit by a further period of six months.

The High Authority shall insure that
the commissioner takes effective action to
complete the liquidation of the Deutsche
Kohlenverkauf (DKV) in the shortest pos-
sible time. In granting any extension the
High Authority may impose such con-
ditions or restrictions as it deems proper.
In any event, during any such period of
extension, the DKV may sell only to the
Bundesbahn (Federal Railroads) and to
consumers in the iron and steel industry
and the basic chemical industry who use
more than 120,000 tons per year and to
large public consumers using more than
60,000 tons per year.

After DKV has ceased its activities and
until the end of the transition period
under the Schuman Plan, the commissioner
may establish an allocation agency for the
Ruhr coal mining industry. This organiza-
tion shall have authority to issue regula-
tions binding on coal mines and sales or-
ganizations concerning utilization of avail-
able coal qualities and quantities in the
Federal Republic to the extent necessary
to balance demand and supply. This agency
shall not engage in any sales activities of
its own. It shall be subject to the High
Authority in all matters within its juris-
diction. The agency will take instructions
from the Federal Minister of Economics
concerning allocation functions.

The Federal Government is of the opinion
that the foregoing solutions represent a
reasonable compromise within the frame-
work of the Schuman Plan. The Federal

MAY 1951

Government, however, cannot stand in the
way of any interested person or company
asserting any rights which they may be-
lieve they have under the provisions of
Law 27 of the Allied High Commission or
otherwise.

(signed) ADENAUER.

Combined Coal Control Group

Order No. 3
Under Law No. 27

(Terminating Control over Certain
Coal Enterprises)

Article 1

This order applies to

enterprises:

1, Gewerkschaft Aurora Steinkohlenberg-
werk.

. Gewerkschaft Cleverbank Steinkohlen-

bergwerk.

. Gewerkschaft Elisabethenglueck.

. Vereinigte Gideon Bergwerke G.m.b.H.

. Gewerkschaft Hammerbank unter der
Stollensohle.

. Gewerkschaft Hausbach.
Gewerkschaft Jupiter Steinkohlenberg-
werk.

. Gewerkschaft Neuruhrort.

. Gewerkschaft Petrus-Segen.

. Gewerkschaft Plaetzgesbank.

. Gewerkschaft Roderburg, Zeche Neu-
wuelfingsburg.

. Gewerkschaft Wohlverwahrt.

Article 2

The Allied High Commission having
determined that no transfer of assets of
the enterprises listed in Article 1 hereof
to unit companies will be required under
Law No. 27, the said enterprises and the
assets owned or controlled directly or
indirectly by them are hereby released
from control under the said Law pursuant
to Paragraph 3 of Article 8 thereof.

Article 3

British General Order No. 5 (pursuant
to Military Government Law No. 52 —
Blocking and Control of Property) ‘‘Col-
lieries and Associated Undertakings in the
British Zone’’ and the Notices of Assump-
tion of Control issued thereunder shall
no longer apply to the above mentioned
enterprises nor to the colliery and associ-
ated undertakings owned, possessed, or
controlled directly or indirectly by them.

Article 4

All prohibitions, restrictions and con-
trols on the above mentioned enterprises
or on the colliery and associated under-
takings owned, possessed or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by them, which
have been imposed pursuant to Military
Government Law No. 52 in consequence
of British General Order No. 5 are termi-
nated.

the following

FS28nm No aaw on

S

Article 5
This order shall become effective on
the date of its publication.
———————

Weser Shipyard Limitations Lifted
The A.G. Weser shipyard in Bremen,
which has been limited to ship repairs
since 1946, will be permitted to construct
ships in accordance with the provisions of
the Agreement on Industrial Controls an-
nounced April 3 by the High Commis-
sion.—from HICOM announcement.

69

Official Announcements

Licenses Needed for Car Pickups

European Command personnel. calling
for privately owned motor vehicles at the
Bremerhaven Port of Embarkation must be
in possession of a valid driver's license
issued in EUCOM to permit operation of
private motor vehicles.

Such licenses must be obtained at local
offices of the European Command Regis-
trar of Motor Vehicles before proceeding
to Bremerhaven to pick up a vehicle. Eu-
ropean Command motor vehicle operators’
permits are issued by registrars of mil-
itary posts without examination upon
presentation of a valid military operator's
permit, or an American driver's license
issued by almost any of the states not more
than three years prior to making an ap-
plication for a European Command license.
—from EUCOM announcement.

Hunters Urged to Check Policies

US European Command Headquarters
cautions hunters among occupation per-
sonnel to check the validity of their per-
sonal liability and property damage in-
surance policies, because such policies if
issued by German insurance firms gen-
erally expire with the end of the German
hunting year, March 31.

Checking the validity of personal liabil-
ity insurance policies held by hunters be-
comes especially important if the hunting
season is extended beyond the normal ex-
piration date.

American insurance companies and others
licensed to operate in the US area of re-
sponsibility in Germany sell hunters’
liability insurance policies valid for one
year from date of purchase.—from EUCOM
announcement.

New EUCOM Dependent Regulation

Travel of dependents of US Military and
Department of the Army civilian personnel
to Germany will be governed by the availa-
bility of family-type quarters because of
the critical housing shortage.

To provide for a continued smooth flow
of dependents without protracted delays in
obtaining family-type quarters, the depen-
dents will be brought to the theater on a
priority basis rather than automatically by
concurrent travel with the sponsor. Spon-
sors will apply for family housing on ar-
tival at their permanent duty station and
their names will be placed on priority wait-
ing lists. When housing becomes available,
and transportation priorities are established
by Headquarters EUCOM, dependents may
initiate their travel to Germany.

All travel applications approved before
Feb. 15, will, however, remain in effect, as
will priority lists now being implemented.
—from EUCOM announcement.

Foreign Service Tour Extension

Army officer and enlisted personnel in
the European Command must complete a
foreign service tour of 48 months plus any
additional time the tour was extended by
all voluntary extensions.

All normal tours of duty will be four
years under new Department of the Army
regulations which became effective March 1.
1951.—from EUCOM announcement.

INFORMATION BULLETIN -

--- Page 73 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of March 29

The 59th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg March 29. Present were Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner (chairman), Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick,
United Kingdom High Commissioner, and

- Mr.- John J. McCloy, United States High
Commissioner.

The Council:

(1) Agreed to send an aide memoire to
the federal chancellor outlining policy and
procedures for the accommodation of the
Allied Forces in the Federal Republic. The
aide memoire is in reply to a memorandum
from the chancellor to the High Commis-
sion on this subject. The High Commission's
reply has been drawn up following dis-
cussion between Allied and German ex-
perts. The Federal Government is to be
given greater powers in connection with
the accommodation of Allied Forces.

(2) Agreed on the terms of a reply to be
made to the chancellor's letter of March 13,
concerning the implementation, in the light
of the Schuman Plan developments, of
Allied High Commission Law No. 27 for
the reorganization of the coal and iron
and steel industries.

(3) Signed a law, Amendment No. 1 to
Allied High Commission Law No. 34, al-
lowing non-Germans, who through restitu-
tion proceedings acquire land in excess
of the acreage permitted under the land
reform laws, a period of one year from
the date of such acquisition to dispose of
the excess acreage.

(4) Signed an Allied High Commission
law providing that no further proceedings
are to be instituted before the high court
for the combined economic area (Bizonal
High Court). Cases pending before the
Bizonal High Court are to be transferred
to the appropriate federal courts which
have been or are being established pursuant
to the Basic Law. Disposition of the pend-
ing cases will be made by the federal
authorities.

HICOM Meeting of April 12

The 60th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg April 12. Present were Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner (chairman); Mr. John J. McCloy,
United States High Commissioner, and Mr.
Armand Berard, French Deputy High Com-
missioner, acting for Mr. Andre Francois-
Poncet.

After a short business session, the Coun-
cil adjourned at 11.45 hours.

HICOM Meeting of April 26

The 61st meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg April 26. Present were Sir
Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High
Commissioner (chairman); Maj. Gen. George
P. Hays, Deputy United States High Com-
missioner, representing Mr. John J. McCloy,
and Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French
High Commissioner.

The Council took note with pleasure of
the signature of the Schuman Plan by the
Chancellor of the Federal Republic, in his

INFORMATION BULLETIN

capacity as Foreign Minister. Although
two of the governments represented in
the High Commission do not participate
in the European community of coal and
steel, they have already made clear that
they welcome its creation, and that they
consider it to be an important factor in
the political and economic integration of
Western Europe.

Coming after its entry into the Council
of Europe, the participation of the Federal
Republic in the Schuman Plan on a basis
of full equality is a major step in the
direction of its progressive association
with the community of free and democratic
nations, which is one of the main ob-
jectives of the governments represented
in the High Commission.

The Council:

(1) Signed Amendment No. 1 to Allied
High Commission Law No. 31 ("Reciprocal
Assistance in Criminal Matters between
Occupation Courts and Authorities’). The
amendment extends the categories of per-
sons covered by the law to include ‘‘mem-
bers of the families of, and civilian
nationals of the Occupying Powers in the
service of military members of the Oc-
cupation Forces."

(2) Signed an Allied High Commission
law depriving of effect in the Federal
Republic Articles 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 of Control
Council Law No. 47 (Termination of Ger-
man Insurance Operations Abroad) and
repealing A. H. C. Law No. 36 (Operations
Abroad of German Insurance Companies).
The new law will remove all remaining
legal obstacles on the operation of German
insurance companies abroad. The only
Allied legal provisions now affecting the
activity of German insurance companies
abroad are: —

(a) Head offices, agencies and branch
offices outside Germany of German in-
surance and re-insurance companies in
existence on May 8, 1945, and also all
interests of such companies in insurance
and re-insurance outside Germany on that
date will continue to be subject to the
general provisions for the disposition of
German external assets.

(b) Article 4 of Control Council Law
No. 47 remains in effect. It provides that
obligations entered into before the date
of Law 47 (March 10, 1947) remain in force
until they are discharged or have lapsed,
and that German external assets shall not
be used to meet these obligations unless
authorized by the German External Proper-
ty Commission.

(3) Decided to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg May 9, 1951.

Laws and Regulations

Allied High Commission
Directive No. 6

Treaties Concluded
by the Former German Reich
1, Any communications received by the
Allied High Commission from an inter-
ested Power, pursuant to the invitation
extended by the three Allied Governments,
proposing that a treaty or treaties of the
former German Reich be given effect as

70

between the Federal Republic and such
interested Power, shall be transmitted by
the Allied High Commission to the Federal
Republic. The Federal Government may
then communicate directly with such inter-
ested Power with reference to the treaty
or treaties in question.

2, If the Federal Government desires that
a treaty or treaties of the former Germa
Reich be given effect as between the
Federal Republic and the other party or
parties thereto, it shall transmit a notice
of this desire to the Allied High Commis-
sion. On the basis of this notice, the Allied
High Commission will authorize the Feder-
al Government to communicate directly
with the interested Power with reference
to the treaty or treaties in question.

3. When the Federal Government. offi-
cially notifies the Allied High Commission
that it and the other interested Power
desires to give effect to all or part of a
treaty of the former Reich, and, if neces-
sary, are agreed on the effective date of
that treaty, the Allied High Commission,
unless it disapproves, shall, in a communi-
cation to the Federal Government, declare
that the treaty is applicable to the Federal
Republic and is binding upon it. This com-
inunication shall be deemed to authorize the
Federal Government to publish the treaty
concerned or make such other announce-
ment as may be appropriate in the official
Gazette of the Federal Republic.

4, If reciprocity is the basis of a multi-
lateral convention it will be binding only’
as between the Federal Republic and such
of the other signatories as agree.

5. If there is any objection on the part
of the Federal Republic to a request by
an interested Power to put a treaty into
operation, the Allied High Commission will
not decide what action, if any, will be
taken until after the expiry of six months
from the receipt of the initial request of
the interested Power.

Done at
Bonn-Petersberg, March 19, 1951,

Decision No. 9
(Revised)

(Extraditions)

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion decides as follows:

Article 1
Subject to the provisions hereinafter
contained extraditions to and from the
Federal territory shall be dealt with by
the German authorities. —

Article 2

Requests for extraditions within the
competence of the German authorities
shall be submitted directly by the German
authorities to the foreign authorities or
shall be addressed by the latter to the
German authorities. The competent Ger-
man authorities shall notify all such re-
quests to the Allied High Commission
through the Allied General Secretariat
without delay.

Article 3

Except as may be authorized by the
Occupation Authorities, the German
authorities shall not be competent to deal
with the following extraditions:

(a) Extraditions, between the Federal
territory, on the one hand, and France,
the United Kingdom and the United States
on the other.

MAY 1951

--- Page 74 ---
(b) Extraditions of persons exempted
from the jurisdiction of German courts
pursuant to Allied High Commission Law
No. 13 or occupation legislation issued
thereunder.

(c) Extraditions of persons accused of
war crimes.

Article 4

Requests for the extradition of persons
from the Federal territory which are not
within the competence of the German
authorities shall be submitted to the
Allied High Commission, except that re-
quests by France, the United Kingdom and
the United States for the extradition of
persons from the zones of their respective
high commissioners may be submitted
directly to such high commissioners.

Article 5
(a) Requests by a high commissioner for
the extradition of persons to the Federal
territory for trial in Occupation Courts
may be submitted by him directly to the
government to which the request is ad-
dressed.
(b) Other requests for the extradition
of persons to the Federal territory which
are not within the competence of the Ger-
man authorities, including requests ad-
dressed by the German authorities to
France, the United Kingdom and the
United States with respect to which the
German authorities are without compe-
tence only by reason of the provisions
of Article 3 (a) of this Decision, shall be
submitted by or through the Allied High
Commission.
Article 6
Requests for extradition submitted by,
to or through the Allied High Commission
and all accompanying documents shall be
in sextuplicate in English, French and
German.
Article 7
In connection with extraditions coming
within Article 3 of this Decision, the
Occupation Authorities may take all pre-
liminary measures provided by law for
the arrest and detention of the requested
person, pending receipt of a formal Te-
quest for extradition. In connection with
extraditions coming within the provisions
of Article 3 (a) but not within the pro-
visions of Article 3 (b), the German au-
thorities may also take such measures.

Article 8

The German authorities shall notify the
Allied High Commission, through the
Allied General Secretariat, of all final
decisions regarding the extradition of per-
sons from the Federal territory.

The Occupation Authorities may sub-
stitute their own decision for any decision
of the German authorities if the latter
decision is incompatible with the require-
ments of security, other reserved powers
or obligations of the Occupying Powers
relating to Germany.

Article 9

No person shall be removed from the
Federal territory by virtue of a decision
of the German authorities, before the ex-
piration of 30 days from the date of the
receipt of the notification pursuant to
Article 8 or of such shorter period as the
Allied High Commission may authorize.

The Allied High Commission may at
any time require the production of the
record of the extradition proceedings and
all other relevant documents and infor-
mation,

MAY 1951

Article 10

The provisions of Articles 4, 5, 6 and
7 of this Decision shall not apply to re-
quests for extradition which come within
Article 3 (c) whether or not such requests
also come within Article 3 (a) or (b).
Done at
Bonn-Petersberg, April 5, 1951.

Law No. 49
Traffic Code for the Allied Forces

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion enacts as follows:

Article 1

1. Except as provided in the following
Paragraphs, the provisions of the Ger-
man Traffic Ordinance (Strassenverkehrs-
Ordnung) of Nov. 13, 1937 (RGBI. Ip. 1179),
as amended by Ordinances of Oct. 13, 1938
(RGBI. I p. 1433), May 3, 1939 (RGBI. I
p. 874), Oct. 3, 1939 (RGBI. I p. 1988),
April 24, 1940 (RGBI. I p. 682) and Jan. 28,
1944 (RGBI. I p. 48), shall apply to the
Allied Forces.

2. The following provisions of the Ger-
man Traffic Ordinance shall not apply to
the Allied Forces, nor to employees of
such forces driving vehicles in the course
of their employment:

Sections 5 and 6, Section 7, Paragraph
(2), and Sections 14, 22, 34, 45 and 47.

In addition, the following provisions
shall not apply to the Allied Forces:

Sections 49 and 50.

The following provisions of the said
Ordinance shall not apply to vehicles be-
longing to the Allied Forces which are not
registered with German authorities or are
so registered in a special series:

Section 21, Paragraph (2), Section 23,
Section 24, Paragraph (1), third and fourth
sentences, and Paragraph (5), Section 25
(except its first sentence), and Section 33,
Paragraph (4).

3. Members of the Occupation Forces
and persons driving vehicles of the said
forces shall be exempt from the provisions
of the German Traffic Ordinance whenever
the observance of those provisions would
impede the proper performance of their
official duties.

4, Nothing in this Article shall be
deemed to prohibit the Occupation. Forces
from erecting traffic signs for vehicles. of
the said forces. Such signs shall be in a
form different from that prescribed by the
German Traffic Ordinance.

Article 2

No member of the Allied Forces owning
a motor vehicle may operate or permit
the operation of such vehicle in the ter-
ritory of the Federal Republic unless the
liability which may arise from such oper-
ation is covered by insurance in such
sums as shall be prescribed by the high
commissioner concerned. The foregoing
provision shall not apply to motor vehicles
operated in the federal territory in ac-
cordance with the provisions of the ordi-
nance concerning International Motor
Traffic of Nov. 12, 1934 (RGBI. I p. 1137)
or of any other legislation replacing the
said ordinance.

Article 3

1. Without prejudice to the provisions
of Paragraph 2 of Article 1, any other
provisions of German law relating to the
technical features, equipment and regis-
tration of motor vehicles shall not apply
to vehicles of the Allied Forces which are
not registered with German authorities,

71

or are so registered in a special series,
and the provisions of German law relating
to driving licenses shall not apply to such
forces,

2. Each high commissioner may enact
legislation governing the registration of
motor vehicles of members of the Allied
Forces, the technical details and equip-
ment of motor vehicles so registered and

. the issue of driving licenses to such per-

sons. He may prohibit the operation in
his zone by any member of the Allied
Forces of any motor vehicle without Teg-
istration or without a driving license, pro-
vided that any registration or license valid
in one zone shall be recognized as valid in
the other zones without any additional
tegistration or formality.

Article 4

Any person who violates any provision
of the German Traffic Ordinance appli-
cable to him or who violates the provisions
of Article 2 shall be liable to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding three months
or to a fine or to both such imprisonment
and fine. Each high commissioner may
prescribe maximum amounts of such fines
and specific amounts for certain categories
of offenses.

Article 5

Each high commissioner may enact ad-
ditional legislation not inconsistent with
this law concerning the operation by the
Allied Forces of motor vehicles in his
zone,

Article 6

Such articles of Ordinance No. 137 of
the French Commander-in-Chief in Ger-
many dated Jan. 29, 1948, concerning the
punishment of traffic offenses as are still
in force are hereby repealed.

Done at
Bonn-Petersberg, March 15, 1951.

Official Statements

Accommodation of Allied Forces

In an aide memoire, the Allied High
Commission has informed the Federal Chan-
cellor that it has agreed in principle that
the future requirements of the Allied forces
for real estate, new construction, training
areas and defense installations shall be
addressed to the Federal Government. The
aide memoire was sent in reply to a memo-
randum from the Federal Chancellor in
which he requested that the responsibility
for the provision of accommodation for
Allied Forces in the Federal Republic
should be transferred to the Federal Gov-
ernment to the greatest possible extent.

In fulfillment of this policy, each of the
three elements of the High Commission
will prepare an over-all accommodation
plan for its respective zone and will in-
form the Federal Government of its detailed
requirements. The Federal Government will
be free to choose whether to meet these
requirements by new construction or by
requesting the Allies to exercise their
power to requisition. Although the right
to requisition is being retained, the High
Commission has informed the Federal Gov-
ernment that it intends to exercise this right
with the utmost discretion and only when
requirements cannot be satisfied in any
other way.

In the case of military installations
(airdromes, training areas, etc.) the Ger-
man authorities may present alternative
proposals, but Allied military authorities

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
_ Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Thirty-First Report for the Public Ad-
visory Board, ECA (Washington), Jan. 31,
1951.

Realites Allemandes (Facts of Germany),

No. 25, High Commission of the French -

Republic in Germany, January 1951.

Recovery Guides—A Record of Progress
in the ERP Countries, No. 18, ECA (Wash-
ington), February 1951.

Buecher-Vorschau (Preview of New

- Books — in German), No. 48, Central Dis-
tribution Section (Frankfurt), February 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 50, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, March 14, 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 51, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, March 21, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 12, PIO,
EUCOM Special Activities Division, March
23, 1951.

The Job of the FBI, EUCOM Information
Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 14, I&E Office, EUCOM,
March 25, 1951.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 268,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), March 30,
1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 13, PIO,
EUCOM Special Activities Division, March
30, 1951.

Buecher-Vorschau (Preview of New
Books — in German), No. 49, Central Distri-
bution Section (Frankfurt), March 1951.

One Year of German Radio, April 1949-
July 1950, Radio Branch, ISD, PUB, HICOG,
March 1951.

One Year of Cultural Radio, July 1949-
June 1950, ISD, PUB, HICOG, March, 1951.

HEUTE (in German), No. 133, POB, ISD,
HICOG (Munich), March 28, 1951.

Our New Weapons, EUCOM Information
Bulletin, Vol.6, No. 15, I&E Office, EUCOM,
April 1, 1951.

Understanding Your Mission Key to
Adjustment, EUCOM Information Bulletin,

Copies of publications etc. listed

in the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters

Vol. 6, No. 16, I&E Office, EUCOM, April 1, —
1951.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 269,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), April 6, 1951.

How to Measure a Nation's Strength, —
EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol.6, No. iy
I&E Office, EUCOM, April 8, 1951.

HEUTE (in German), No. 134, POB, ISD,
HICOG (Munich), April 11, 1951.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 270,
ISD, HICOG, (Bad Nauheim), April 13, 1951.

Daily Press Review, Nos. 54-67, ISD,
HICOG (Bad Nauheim), March 21-April 10,
1951.

What's New in the Armed Forces,
EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No.
18, I&E Office, EUCOM, April 15, 1951.

Information Bulletin, April 1951, PRD,
HICOG, April 17, 1951. Z

Der Monat (in German), Vol. 3, No. 31,
POB, ISD, HICOG (Munich), April 1951.

The Erding Journal, Vol. 2, No. 6, 85th
Air Depot Wing (Erding), April 1951. ;

Schule und Gegenwart (Schools Today), 3
pedagogical monthly magazine, Vol. 3, 4

No. 4, Educational Office, OLCB (Munich),
April 1951.

will make final decisions in the light of
technical suitability.

The aide memoire explains that, since
the program for the arrival of troop rein-
forcements must be kept on schedule,
delays cannot be permitted. The require-
ments laid down by the high commissioners
must be satisfied with respect to time,
location, standards and specifications.

The High Commission has indicated that
it will deal directly with local authorities
on matters of detail or minor importance.

The High Commission does not contem-
plate at present the establishment of a
single coordinating agency to deal with
German representatives on problems aris-
ing from the reinforcement of Allied Forces.
However, the Federal Government may
raise matters of policy with the High Com-
mission or may address each element of
the High Commission directly on other
matters. The High Commission has invited
the Federal Government to nominate ex-
perts to consult on housing and building
questions with Allied authorities in the
three zones.

The Federal Government has also been
informed that, in the interests of economy,
the High Commission is taking steps to
standardize specifications of building com-
ponents in the three zones as far as possi-
ble. The High Commission has further in-
formed the Federal Government that it
x will welcome suggestions from the Federal

Government concerning other means of
achieving economy in building construction.
The measures outlined in the aide mem-
oire do not preclude the negotiation of a
contractual agreement on this matter.

Berlin Shootings Protested

Simultaneously with his verbal protest
to the representative of the Soviet Control
Commission for Berlin, Sergei A. Dengin,
Maj. Gen. Lemuel A. Mathewson, US com-
mander of Berlin, presented an aide mem-
oire outlining the details of the incident in
which 13 Soviet Sector Volkspolizei (‘‘Peo-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ple's Police’’) fired on four US sightseeing
buses at Potsdamer Platz in Berlin's Sov-
iet Sector on March 28. The text of the
aide memoire follows:

“At 1515 hours on March 28, 1951, four
buses of the US Berlin Military Post were
fired upon by Volkspolizei on Potsdamer
Platz while returning from a sightseeing
tour of the city. These tours are regularly
conducted every Wednesday and Saturday
afternoons and follow an established route.
In the present instance the four buses were
carrying 61 adults and 12 children.

A total of some 12 or 15 shots were fired
by Volkspolizei, some of whom were in the
middle of Potsdamer Platz and others stand-
ing on the sidewalk in front of the Colum-
bus House at the corner of Bellevue Allee
and Potsdamer Platz. The sketch map at-
tached shows the route followed by the
buses: in proceeding through Potsdamer
Platz.

An examination of the buses immediately
after the incident revealed that three re-
volver shots struck the fourth bus. One
bullet struck and shattered the windshield
in front of the driver and then entered the
roof of the bus. Two other bullets pene-
trated the left front door of the bus. One
bullet passed through the coat of an Amer-
ican officer who was riding on the right
front seat behind the driver. The attached
five photographs show the impact of the
bullets on the bus as described above.

The US Commander, Berlin, protests in
the strongest possible terms against the
irresponsible and outrageous action of the
Volkspolizei in thus endangering the lives
of American men, women and children. It
was only by a fortunate miracle that per-
sons in these buses were not killed or
seriously injured.

The US Commander demands that the
Soviet authorities institute proceedings at
once to assure the punishment of the indi-
viduals responsible for this outrage and
requests assurances that the Soviet authori-
ties will take all necessary measures imme-
diately to prevent any possible repetition.”

72

Statement on STEG

The following announcement has been
made by the Office of the US High Com-
missioner for Germany concerning the
recent lifting by the Federal Republic of
Germany of the freeze of US-origin surplus
stocks remaining with STEG.

“The German Federal Government and
STEG, as its agency, have shown great —
understanding and cooperation in effecting
the freeze and in alleviating the task of
the Department of the Army survey teams
during their examination of the remaining
STEG stocks. Prior to the freeze of
March 17, 1951, more than 90 percent of
STEG's original stocks of US original had
been disposed of. It is anticipated, as a
result of the survey, that US Armed For-
ces may re-acquire approximately 50 per-
cent of the remaining US stocks through
negotiations with the German government.

It should be reiterated at this time that
the freeze orders of last autumn and more
recently of last March were issued to per-
mit surveys for defense purposes. Earlier
press reports, which may have linked
these freeze orders with the business con-
duct of STEG, were not based on fact,
nor did the hearings by a US House of
Representatives’ sub-committee in Wash-
ington refer to the business conduct of
STEG. This committee was interested in
the resale by business men of surplus~+ ©
military supplies acquired not only from ~
STEG, but also from agencies in the Paci- —
fic and other areas.

The Office of the US High Commissioner
for Germany wishes it to be understood
that no deregatory allegations have been
made against STEG by US officials either ~
in Germany or in the United States. EE

Past experience has shown that STEG,
in handling the vast amount of US surplus”
stocks and captured material, has accom-
plished a tremendous task with outstand-
ing success, especially with regard to the ~
German economy, a fact of which STEG ~
officials and workmen can be equally
proud.” END

MAY 1951

--- Page 76 ---
John J. McCloy dials European
hone to hear recorded talk by
Ludwig Rosenberg, German Trade
rion councilor, one of the numerous
eatures aboard ECA's “Europa-Zug.”

a a
=
\

Sa

PRB OLCB)

Graph (above) traces Europe's up-surge in production; exhibit (below, left) stresses ECA countries’ need for “Strength
through cooperation;" visitor at Munich premiere (below, right) scans faces of citizens of the Marshall Plan countries.

--- Page 77 ---
US jet fighters, important
contributions to defense of
Western Europe, pass in for-
mation before the Supreme
Commander of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization,
Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower,
at Neubiberg, US air base in
Bavaria. Display was part of
NATO chief's four-day in-
spection trip of US, British
and French military bases in
Western Germany.

(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)