--- Page 2 ---
FES ISSUE:

formation Nativity Play
ete ee IS Information Center
In Heidelberg
Impact of

(See page 15)

_xchanges Program

More Homes
For Germans

Seminar
In Democracy

-uropean Movement

Ethnie Germans
Emigrate

Coal in
Postwar Germany

JECEMBER
1951

--- Page 3 ---
Radio Frankfurt representative interviews Elsie as German
newsreel records arrival of teen-age group in Germany.

Elsie tries oul spinet in Frankfurt Goethe House as students
look on (l.-r.), Lin Wilson, James Dalley, David Lee, Elsie

Hansen and Lorne Hunter.

(PRD HICOG photos by Gassner)

lir

ng
Under
nes for 70
; 600
1952,

Europe

Freedom Bell (left) was point of interest in Berlin for
(1.-r.) Larry Thomas, Lin, Jim and Elsie. Eight-ton bell in
tower of Schoeneberg city hall was presented by American
people to Berliners as symbol of their heroic fight for
freedom. Below, Elsie visits with West Berlin students
who are former HICOG exchangees. Left to right are
Christa Poppe, Karla Eckert, Karola Schmidt, Elsie and
Hedwig Mann. (PRB BE-HICOG photos by Schubert)

--- Page 4 ---
Information
| Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

EQUOE Eye ne Sgeute cle H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor . Alfred L. Meyer
Jean Kinnaird Helen McLaughlin

Cherry Lou Fellner Liselotte Goldbeck
Wilfried Saliger
e

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Room 030
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: 8228, 8184, 8738, 8896

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

German mailing address is:
Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
HICOG Hochhaus
Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison
Office of Public Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.

.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
December 1951

Termination of the State of War with Germany ............ 2
Proclamation by President Harry S. Truman

Impact of Exchanges Program .............---.---.+.-.-65 3
Article by Anne Turner and James G. Rogers
4

Resolution of the European Movement (text) 8

Germany and Europe .......-- +--+... +--+ essere seen eee 9)
Resume by Liselotte Goldbeck

Information. Uncensored: <2. 22%... .. - 2 pis lee ee Sees Ja nan o3)
Article by Jean Kinnaird

Communique of the Foreign Ministers’ Conference
in Paris (1xt) 3 ec-. - e ee eeee 18

Seminar :in: Democracy 2. 00220126 te a ee enw 19
Article by Harry L. Franklin

More Homes for Germans.........-..-----.--++ees sees 21
Article by Bernard Wagner

Pthnic Germans Hutigrate c.60 oe 565 as on si Sase ent ee 25)
Article on activities of US Displaced Persons Commission

Hessian Ministers-President Honored ...............-...- 28

Bremen Helps its Youth.-..-5.-.<..--... 1-5/2. .5 ae 29
Article by Cherry Lou Fellner

Meeting “Their Government" ...........2.............04. 31
Article by Paul R. Phillips

Refugee Enterprise .......--.--2-2 2520 -- se ee edocs seen eee 33
Article by Herman Frankel

Bavaria Was Never Like This! (pictorial).................. 35

HICOG Moves to) Bonn 12.2. 3.6504 essen sess here 37
Article by Henry A. Goodman

Coal in Postwar Germany: :52.-26:22 52 eo oes 39
Survey by US Element, Coal Control Group, Essen

Industrial Production Again Up .... 4G
Economic review by A. J. Cefaratti

In. and: Around Germany 220.0. 0 caisson ee aac 49

Calendar of Coming Events for 1952...................... hs)

German Editorials and Cartoons.......................... 61

Personnel INGleS 7 .soss Sis ac sae se hss a ON ea oe 66

Washington Report.- ici. acg orc eee erent 67

Official Notices 70
Communiques eset)
Laws and Regulations... 0:00 6. oes tees se caw cece 71
Announcements veges tora oe eee eh oe eo ia 71

Publications Received cs <25.:. 34.000 ew eae Sls Nos ern aes 12)

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY _ APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Se TUTTE LLLULO LULL LUPCUULULLLLOOCULLCUOELLCCOOOUMOCOOOUOLUUOOLOLEUMOCOOCLUULOOOOHODLOGAOPPOOUUOILUUEGGOOLEGeGOTAUUUOOOOHTeCEUOGATeCOCOOUUUUCOOOLIULOGOHIILEUEEAULOUGAALULUOOOEA LUTE U os

[it

Termination of the State of War

With Germany

A Proclamation

HEREAS, by a joint resolution, approved by the President on December 11, 1941, the
Congress of the United States formally declared a state of war to exist between the United
States and the Government of Germany (55 Stat. 796); and

WHEREAS on December 31, 1946, the President proclaimed the cessation of hostilities
of World War II; and

WHEREAS it has been and continues to be the policy of the United States to bring about
the conclusion of a treaty of peace with the government of a united and free Germany, but
efforts to this end have been frustrated and made impossible for the time being by the policy
of the Soviet Government; and

WHEREAS it has nevertheless been considered desirable to bring the existing state of
war with Germany to a close and to remove Germany from its present enemy status, thus
eliminating certain disabilities affecting German nationals; and

WHEREAS the rights, privileges, and status of the United States and the other occupation
powers in Germany, and the rights and privileges of the United States and its nationals to
which it or they have become entitled as a result of the war, as well as the right to exercise
or enforce the same, derive from the conquest of Germany and the assumption of supreme
authority by the Allies and are not affected by the termination of the state of war; and

WHEREAS the Congress of the United States by a joint resolution, approved October 19,
1951 (Public Law 181, 82d Congress), has resolved that the state of war declared to exist
between the United States and the Government of Germany is terminated and that such termi-
nation shall take effect on the date of enactment of such resolution:

NOW, THEREFORE, I, HARRY S. TRUMAN, President of the United States of America,
pursuant to such joint resolution, do proclaim that the state of war between the United States
and the Government of Germany declared by the joint resolution of Congress approved
December 11, 1941, was terminated on October 19, 1951.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United
States of America to be affixed.

DONE at the City of Washington this twenty-fourth day of October, in the year of our
Lord nineteen hundred and fifty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America
the one hundred and seventy-sixth.

ATTTTUUUTTUPARIMA ATOM TLOLECGLUOUALUA LUCCA LLOEGR

STHTVAPLAUIALUUUAEUGLUAULADLORLOUAT OO EAL UO LARDATLULORUULCOUEA EEA LOAEALLA LEGA EOAEAEAOR OAT EA OAT LAT LAT CGALEL CE

By the President:

Dean ACHESON
Secretary of State.

Proc. 2950, 16 Fed.Reg. 10915.

UTTER MEULCLUALUAT LEAL LEA LOA ELAR AD

STM MM

INFORMATION BULLETIN y) DECEMBER 1951

a Oe

a ee

--- Page 6 ---
Impact of Exchanges Program

By ANNE TURNER and JAMES G. ROGERS

NN THE NIGHT OF July 19 last, 500 men and women

crowded into the 400-capacity city theater at Pforz-
heim, Wuerttemberg-Baden; they were there to partici-
pate in a public forum featuring six local citizens recently
returned from America.

In the afternoon of that same day, another group of
500 gathered some miles away in Stuttgart to dedicate
the “Anna Haag Haus,” a unique social institution com-
bining the functions of a home for working women and
a community youth center.

In the preceding month, on June 14, a number of Frank-
furt residents, including newspaper men and radio broad-
casters, collected at a public library for the opening of
Frankfurt’s first reading room for children.

Apparently unrelated, these ceremonies have a com-
mon denominator — the HICOG Exchanges Program. This
vast social and political experiment, which within three
years has sent some 6,000 persons on exchange visits
to the United States and more than 500 teachers and other
professional persons to neighboring European democracies,
is making a solid impact upon nearly every aspect of
German life today. It is working to democratize the think-
ing and standards of thousands, modify deeply entrenched
social attitudes and institutions, and release into German
life forces for progress banned during the long years of
Nazi government and war.

HE PFORZHEIM FORUM was thu a report on Ameri-

can ideas and practices by a “citizen team’ which
had traveled for three months in the United States under
the Exchanges Program.

The Stuttgart opening was the communication of an
idea which had its origin in the American tour of Mrs.
Anna Haag, Stuttgart journalist and legislator, who had
returned to Germany to initiate and lead a joint German-

Miss Turner is public liaison officer of the Ex-
changes Staff, Office of Public Affairs, and Mr. Rog-
ers is reports officer of the Office of Public Affairs.
Prior to her joining the Exchanges Staff last March,
Miss Turner had served in the public relations of-
fice of the Nuremberg war-crimes trials in 1947-48,
on the staff of the US Feature Service (Amerika
Dienst) in 1948-49 and in HICOG’s women’s affairs
office in 1950-51. She was with the Division of Inter-
national Press and Publications, Department of
State, in Washington for several months in 1949-50.

Coming to Germany in the early days of the occu-
pation, Mr. Rogers was appointed reports and public
information officer of the Information Control Di-
vision, OMGUS, in May 1948 and with the advent
of the Office of the US High Commissioner in
October 1949 was named to his present position.

DECEMBER 1951

American campaign to build a home for young working
women — the first of its kind in Germany. ‘America gave
me not only the idea but the courage to do this,’ Mrs.
Haag declared.*

The Frankfurt ceremony marked the introduction into
German state-supported libraries not only of the new
idea of a children’s reading room but also many other
related innovations. Dr. Gertrud Gelderbom, chief of the
Frankfurt Public Library and sponsor of the new room,
told the dedication audience that it was the result of her
study of American library methods during a three-month
exchange visit.

Even more dramatic, perhaps, than these activities of
returned German exchangees was the action of a dozen
or so “teen-agers” during the recent Communist Youth
Festival in East Berlin. These youngsters, all of whom
had spent a year in the United States, living with Ameri-
can families and going to high school, served as recep-
tionists and guides for the thousands of youths from
Communist-controlled territory who dared to cross into
West Berlin for a look at the free world.

The idea was suggested by the teen-agers themselves.
As one put it when volunteering, "The youth in the
Soviet Zone have been told many lies about America.
I can convince them of the truth. I know. I was there
for a whole year; I saw it myself.”

TRIKING THOUGH THEY ARE, these incidents do
not convey the full purpose, scope and effectiveness
of the HICOG Exchanges Program. An appraisal of its

* See ‘‘Dream-Come-True House** in Information Bulletin, Sep-
tember 1951.

German students and teacher trainees, sent to the United
States under the Exchanges Program, chat with American
fellow students on the campus of Columbia University.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
German veterinarians are briefed prior to their departure
for America under the ECA technical assistance program.

effectiveness must take into consideration that the HICOG
program covers much more than the normal social and
cultural exchange which exists between the United States
and many other countries. The program has certain criti-
cal — and difficult — goals ‘‘definitely aimed at the demo-
cratic education of the German people and orienting them
toward ways of living with which they have for many
years lost all contact...”

Also to be kept in mind are two “nots" of the HICOG
program: it is not intended to ‘‘Americanize” the ex-
changee. And it is not aimed primarily at improving his
technical or professional skill, as are exchanges made
under the ECA technical-assistance program. The HICOG
Exchanges Program points directly toward furthering the
democratic reconstruction of Germany by sending selected
Germans to visit free nations that they may see democ-
racy in action.

The measure of performance, then, of the HICOG Ex-
changes Program lies in how well these individual and
social concepts basic to all democratic societies are in-
troduced or reintroduced into German life. In this con-
nection, Americans, Germans and expert observers from
other European countries are agreed that ultimate judg-
ment cannot be made today — a decade or more will be
required for the influence of today’s exchangees to mature.

Traditions and social and political mores are slow to
change; and the exchangees, although they run the gamut
of German society, are comparatively few in number,
with almost half being students.

O DATE, SOME of the most decisive testimony re-

garding the effectiveness of the HICOG Exchanges
Program comes from the US resident officers. Working
at the grass-roots level, these American representatives
are in a position to render definitive judgment on the
force and extent of nearly all social and political influ-
ences in German community life. Most of the resident
officers agree with one who said, ‘My personal opinion
is that these exchangees are perhaps the most effective
force in our whole program in bringing lasting demo-
cratic influence to bear on individuals.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Many of the American field representatives have noted
the influence of the returned exchangee on his neighbors.
“The average German is more inclined to believe his
fellow-citizen who has been ‘over there’ and made per-
sonal studies and observations," was the analysis of one.

Supporting this natural tendency to believe the friend
or neighbor who has “seen for himself" is the fact that
approximately 3,000 of the visitors to the United States
under the HICOG Exchanges Program have been men
and women in leading positions in public or professional
life. These include federal, state, county and local
government officials; labor union functionaries; jour-
nalists; radio specialists; publishers, judges and lawyers;
public health doctors and nurses; social workers; agri-
cultural and home. economic specialists, and leaders in
the areas of youth, religious and women's activities.

N THE FIELD OF civic responsibility, men and women

of all interests and professions have returned from
American study-tours as advocates of the value of group
effort in Germany. Impressed by the American approach
of group action to solve community problems — group
action that relies on the expenditure of common effort
rather than large sums of money—the Germans have
been quick to adapt the idea to their own communities,
which are universally short of funds but long on capable
manpower.

The exchangees have founded or helped found dozens
of voluntary citizens groups which have educated both
themselves and the general public on how to attack and
solve community problems. They have been prime movers

--- Page 8 ---
in establishing day nurseries for children of working
mothers, city playgrounds, other recreational facilities,
self-help projects for refugees, and community aid for
war veterans and the unemployed.

Similarly, exchangees of all ages and interests took to
the idea of the parent-teacher association, previously
unknown in Germany. Returning to their home communi-
ties, many plunged into organizing German parent-teacher
societies —a long-standing goal of HICOG education of-
ficials and progressive German educators.

Today, there are scores of these parent-teacher associa-
tions in western Germany. These associations have been
instrumental in improving the curricula of German schools
by advocating more social studies, citizen training and
democratic techniques in the classroom. Sparked by ex-
changees, the parent-teacher groups have had a strong
influence toward liberalizing an educational system in
which the teacher has long been the absolute authority.

HESE CHANGES IN the educational field, as well as

advances scored in the other areas in which ex-
changees are active, have not been made without over-
coming opposition and serious obstacles, For example,
some teachers have faced the opposition of their supe-
riors when they attempted to introduce into their class-
rooms the techniques and attitudes learned during ex-
change visits in the United States or in the European
democracies. In one case, a teacher recently returned
from the United States was dismissed from her post on
the ground that, after her American study, she was “on a
different pedagogical level” than her fellow teachers.

Seven delegates of Federal Republic's upper house return
after study of US government methods and procedures.

In all fields, the returning exchangees have of course
encountered the conservatism, fear of new ideas and
practices, indifference and opposition-to-all-things-new
that face any proposed change in social concept or cus-
tom, Frequently, exchangees have collided with the
antagonism of Communists and neo-Nazis.

In the case of the younger exchangees — those in the
teen-age, college or young professional levels — the prej-
udice of older persons, the suspicion of stay-at-home fel-
low students or the need of employment have created
obstacles. Sometimes younger exchangees returning from
the United States have hampered their own effectiveness
in promoting German democracy by expressing the desire
to emigrate immediately to America.

This emigre attitude is diametrically opposed to the
intent of the Exchanges Program, which is concerned with
developing democratic Germans — not future Americans.
It has, fortunately, never seriously hampered the young
returning Germans, since most regain their enthusiasm for
their homeland after a short period of readjustment,

ESPITE THESE OBSTACLES, the exchangees —

whether firmly established leaders in today's Ger-
many or the teen-agers, university students and younger
professional men and women on whom the nation’s future
will largely depend — have been tireless in sharing their
American experiences through speaking and writing activ-
ities. Not unusual are these examples:

A leading Regensburg publisher interpreted America
to more than 3,000 persons in 20 separate speeches,

A professional youth worker sent to HICOG the sum-
maries of 70 talks he had delievered to audiences totaling
5,000 persons.

Most of the returned Germans speak to several groups,
at the least; the talks are usually informal and followed
by question-and-answer sessions. The importance of these
talks cannot be overestimated in bringing to the aver-
age German new ideas and encouragement for facing and
solving his individual and group problems.

Exchangees in official life, as well as private citizens,
have returned from study tours to conduct campaigns to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
liberalize or reform election and governing procedures.
They have demanded better candidates and better offi-
cials, made them declare their platforms, and fostered
more political representation and expression for minority
elements of the population, such as refugees.

A county official in Wuerttemberg-Baden was so im-
pressed by open city-council meetings in America that
he stopped a practice in which he had previously con-
curred —the holding of closed sessions by the various
town councils in his county. Until he saw on his US trip
the effect of citizen interest on local government, thg
county officer had not been convinced that the average
citizen could or would contribute to governing his
own town.

The political activity and power of American women
have been translated into German concepts by returning
exchangees, Since women had been excluded, during the
Nazi period, from German political affairs, it is note-
worthy that not only women leaders but also men, public
officials and leading professionals, have assisted and en-
couraged German women to organize political campaigns
and run for office.

N AN EFFORT TO educate potential leaders and teach-

ers, exchangees have assisted in organizing seminars,
forums, courses and institutes in political and social scien-
ces, At the Frankfurt Seminar of Political Science,* more
than 600 private citizens have studied government and
civic responsibility with the aid of outstanding guest
speakers and visits to reprensentative government agen-
cies and bodies.

Development of the HICOG-supported Institute for
Political Science in Munich has been strongly influenced
by seven staff members who have participated in the Ex-
changes Program, To a great extent, they have based
courses and lectures on their American experiences and
materials.

Another aspect of German life in which the effect of
the Exchanges Program can be observed is the growth of

* See ‘Seminar in Democracy,” page 19.

Cecil B. Lyon, director of Berlin Element, HICOG, speaks
on further expansion and importance of the Exchanges
Program before 250 Berliners who have traveled to the
United States under the program, and before. members
of the Berlin American community during informal social
(PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

evening.

German College Life vs. US College Life is debated by
German with fellow students at Georgetown University.

an internationalist spirit now making a rent in the nation-
alism that has cloaked German thinking for many years.
Exchangees are among the most active leaders of groups
and movements promoting internationalism in Germany.

A woman civic leader in Wuerttemberg-Baden returned
from an exchange visit in England to initiate the founding
of five chapters of Europa-Union. In Hesse, several
young exchangees made themselves the nucleus of a local
group to study international affairs and to enlist the aid
of the Europa-Union organization in promoting the ex-
change of persons among neighboring European nations.

This broad interest in internationalism has made for a
tremendous growth in privately. sponsored exchanges.
The returned Germans have worked to make the Ex-
changes Program a two-way street. For example, a “citi-
zen-team" from Krefeld, North Rhine-Westphalia, has
announced a plan to invite a team of eight citizens of
Kalamazoo, Mich., for a six-week study-visit to Germany.
In like manner, a Karlsruhe group is raising funds to
finance two American exchangees at the Karlsruhe Tech-
nical College.

HE ACTIVITIES CITED here are the more readily evi-

dent reflections of the myriad changes being made
in German cultural, political and social concepts —
changes which, dramatic or obscure, are a measure of
progress toward a genuinely democratic society. In stimu
lating and focusing German initiative and responsible
participation in this work of democratic cultural recon-
struction, the Exchanges Program has been a potent force
behind many of these changes.

As such it has complemented and heightened the ef-
fectiveness of the other components of the many-sided
HICOG program for helping the German people prepare
for national sovereignty and membership in the family
of democratic nations. --END

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 10 ---
TTT TTT TET EITUTT OTT UTT TOUT LUTES OOH eeTOO UU LUGO OOO LUO LOGLUOTUOTUODUOOO OOOO PDI UOLUI CSL DIOL OLE DOIDEODELLULOLUOEODUILULLUGLEGUUIPOGCeGPOO OO UOOULOLOOVEOTUOTUOTTOOHUOTOOTUILOOILOTLOLOTTOOLONTOOOOLUTTOOTHOTUNTEOT TUT TOOTOT NOTE TOON UOTE On TOIT Dest

STHNUIUIIUIUGIAUUIUUUULUEUUUUO ULE ULGEUOUUEO OLEATE

Bibliography of Exchanges Program Articles
In Information Bulletin

The Information Bulletin has
published nearly 50 articles and

‘features concerning the Exchanges

Program, including impressions of
visitors to the United States, re-
sults of work by American visiting
consultants, material aids and
aifiliated activities. The list of
these articles in order of issue of
publication follows.

Student Exchange, article by Frank G.
Banta, chief, Cultural Exchange Sec-
tion, Education and Cultural Relations
Division, OMGUS, on initial progress
of exchange program, No. 149, Nov.
30, 1948.

German Politicians Observe US Elec-
lions, article by Louis Kelly, special
escort officer, Civil Administration
Division, OMGUS, on tour of four
German political leaders during 1948
national election, No. 152, Jan. 11,
1949,

Seeing for Themselves, review by Dr.
Edward H. Litchfield, director, Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS, of

» governmental affairs exchange pro-
gram, No. 154, Feb. 8, 1949.

Hindemith, review by John Evarts and
Carlos D. Moseley of composer's tour
of Germany, No. 157, March 22, 1949.

Visit to United States, digest of report
by Mayor Emst Reuter to City
Assembly of Berlin, No. 159, April
14, 1949,

Practicing Democracy, article by Willi
Birkelbach, Hessian youth leader, on
reactions to study in United States,
No. 161, May 17, 1949.

Visual Arts, review by William G.
Constable, curator of painting, Mu-
seum of Fine Arts, Boston, and vis-
iting consultant, on changes needed
in German art, No. 165, July 12, 1949.

New Ideas on Information, review by
James G, Rogers, reports officer, In-
formation Services Division, OMGUS
(also co-author of this month's ar-
ticle), of exchangees’ reactions, No.
171, Oct. 4, 1949.

New Ideas for Women, resume by Mar-
jorie A. Yahraes, Information Bulletin
staff writer, of conference of returned
women exchangees at Haus Schwal-
bach, Hesse, December 1949.

For Better Understanding, text of ad-
dress by Ambassador Robert D. Mur-
phy at luncheon in Washington for
15 German lawyers, December 1949.

Exchanges Division, review of program,

special issue on “Activities of the
Office of Public Affairs,” January
1950,

American Affairs Institute, article by
Dr. David L. Hoggan, assistant to the
director, on first such school at Uni-
versity of Munich, February 1950.

Medical Associations, resume of survey
by Dr, Franz Goldmann, visiting con-

DECEMBER 1951

sultant from Harvard School of Public
Health, March 1950.

Women in Industry, digest of survey
by Sara Southall and Pauline M.

Newman, visiting consultants from
the United States, March 1950.
Exchangees Applaud US Visits, sum-

mary of discussions at conference of
returned exchangees, August 1950.

Edeltraut's on Her Way, description of
15-year-old girl's departure for United
States, August 1950.

Midway on the Main, article by Dr.
Leroy Vogel and H. A. Rhoades of
OLC Hesse on exchange of pro-
fessors between Chicago and Frank-
furt Universities, September 1950.

America is Different, article by Friedrich
G. K. Grohe of Darmstadt on im-
pressions during year's study in
United States (reprinted in several

American publications), September
1950.

Farmers from America, article by
Trudy Kriegsmann, staff writer,

Public Relations Branch, OLC Hesse,
on activities of four American farm
youth in Hesse, September 1950,

The Exchangees Say ..., article by Beth
Burchard, Information Bulletin staff
writer, summarizing comments by re-
turned exchangees, October 1950.

Adding the Human Element, description
of departure of 350 exchangees for
United States, with text of address
by US High Commissioner. McCloy,
October 1950.

Little Michel's Fear, article by Gisela
Konopka, visiting consultant, on
training for delinquent youth, No-
vember 1950.

German Experts Study US Tax System,
November 1950.

US Architects Display Ideas, Novem-
ber 1950.

Medical Mission, pictorial feature of
work of US medical group in Ger-
many, November 1950.

Young Visitors from America, pictorial
feature, November 1950.

An Old Farming Custom, article by
Jack E. McKee, visiting consultant
from California Institute of Tech-
nology, on unsanitary German agri-
cultural practices, December 1950.

Seeds of Understanding, interview by
William J. Caldwell, chief, Public
Relations Branch, OLC Bavaria, with
visiting American farm youth, De-
cember 1950.

Exchange Students Visit New York,
pictorial feature, December 1950.

Message from America, resume of im-
pressions of Wolfgang Bernhardt,
Berlin youth, of visit to United States,
February 1951.

The Gift of Self-Respect, article by Kay
Boyle, noted American author, on
work of German woman among ref-
ugees after US visit, March 1951.

Bundestag Group Sees Link with West,
March 1951.

7

The German Viewpoint, article by Hein-
rich von Brentano, member of Federal
Parliament, on visit to United States,
April 1951.

US Women Leaders Touring Germany,
May 1951 (also see July 1951 article).

As I See America, article by Mayor
Ernst Reuter of Berlin on his US visit,
May 1951.

Design for Use, USA, pictorial feature
on exhibit of American household
articles, May 1951.

Young Farmers Return, review by Mar-
garet Glick of Brethren Service Com-
mission on experiences of German
youth in United States, May 1951,

Community Council Arrives, article by
Jack P. Houlihan, visiting consultant
from Philadelphia, May 1951,

Hand of Friendship, article by Aileen
S. Miles, press escort officer, Public
Relations Division, HICOG, on five-
week tour of Germany by 11 Ameri-
can women leaders, July 1951,

Looking Stateward, interview by Lise-
lotte Goldbeck, Information Bulletin
staff writer, with Magda Maier,
daughter of minister-president of
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden, concerning her
going to United States for study on
scholarship, July 1951.

Back from America, article by Louise
Conner, Exchanges Staff, HICOG, on
reports from returned exchangees,
August 1951.

Nation of Neighbors, article by Otto
Herr of Radio Frankfurt on impres-
sions during tour in United States,
August 1951.

Hesse’s Elder Statesman Views Life in
America, article by Alfred W. Gourge,
staff writer, Public Relations Branch,
OLC Hesse, on US tour of Christian
Stock, former minister-president, Sep-
tember 1951.

Homes for Better Living, article on
American household display at Han-
over international housing exhibit,
September 1951.

Friendship Camps, article by Mary M.
Coppock of the Brethren Service
Commission on international work
camps in Germany, October 1951.

Nation of Youth, article by Wilfried
Saliger, chief, German Editorial Sec-
tion, Public Relations Division,
HICOG, on three-month study in
United States, October 1951.

Hitchhiking through America,
by Otto Baer, exchange
October 1951,

Berlin's Cultural Festival, review by
William Conlan, Berlin Element,
HICOG, of German reactions to
presentations, especially American,
November 1951.

Mannheim Builds for Tomorrow, article
by Dorothea Lensch, visiting consult-
ant from Portland, Ore., on program
for recreation, youth and community
activities, November 1951.

article
student,

Cee ee UT CTT TTT ETT ETO MCORP LCO COOOL UDO DOGO LOD RECO LED LOOSE SO UOOODOOMOUOA TELCO TUCO ROO LOG TPEO LOO LONT LOGIT HOTTINAeNOTI NTA DOUT TON TNOTT ONTO UTTIICTTT

Cee ee ee TTT IIUILULLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLoLLoU ALLO ee e c od

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
GE TT TTT ULLAL LLAMA LLL LMPLULLCUCCUOOOOMAA UL UULCUEUCCOMeMTOA LM UEEUUCCOOOOARUUUUUCeCOOUOMMOOLLLALUCCCOMeeeeO AU LLLUOUU UOT os

Resolution of the European Movement

HE MEMBERS AND DELEGATES of the European Movement, meeting at Hamburg on Sept. 21, 22 and

23, 1951, to study the problems of the relations between Germany and the other countries of western
Europe, declare that, in order to safeguard the principles of Western civilization, to restore the prosperity
of Europe, to raise the living standard of the peoples and to ensure the stability and peace of the world, it
is essential that Germany should, without delay, take part with the other European nations, in organizing
a European community.

It is impossible to ask the peoples of Europe to forget the events which have separated them and to
efface the memory of so much distress and heroism. On the other hand, it is not only possible but
indispensable, in approaching the problem of the relations between Germany and her western European
neighbors, to overcome these understandable and quite natural sentiments, and to concentrate not on the
past that would separate, but on the future that demands unity.

The European community can only be based on principles of democracy. This means the condemnation
of all totalitarian doctrines, as well as the condemnation of all crimes committed in their name against
men and nations.

The European community must aim at embracing the whole of Europe. The conference recognizes the
legitimate desire of all Germans to achieve the unity of Germany and recognizes that they will never resign
themselves to the permanent partition of their country. The conference declares its solidarity with the
German people in this aspiration. At the same time, it emphasizes that the integration of Europe and the
unity of Germany must only be obtained under conditions of freedom and peaceful means.

The neutralization of Germany would in no way promote peace. On the contrary, it would permanently

make Germany a pawn in international conflicts. The integration of a free Germany into a free Europe is
far from jeopardizing or obstructing German unity but appears as the surest way of achieving it.

N A EUROPEAN COMMUNITY Germany must be a partner enjoying the same rights as all the other

partners and must regain the same degree of sovereignty as is retained by the other nations. This
principle which, at present, is not being followed must henceforth be applied fully and without reserve in
all the institutions which may be set up in the process of organizing the European community, and likewise
in the transformation of the occupation regime which has to take place immediately. Nothing must be done
which might jeopardize the final objective of European unity or contradict its principles, and nothing
must be left undone to promote this goal.

Germany, thereby, will be bound by the same obligations as the other partners and will have her fair
share of responsibility in the solution of the problems facing Europe. This, of course, includes the joint
defense of Europe as well as the improvement of living standards and the assurance of social justice, which
are essential requisites in the problem of defense.

The organization of the European community must necessarily provide for the utilization of productive
resources for the benefit of all in such way as to ensure that no one shall obtain a privileged or dominating
position. Close liaison in regard to foreign politics must be established between the countries concerned.

In the same way it implies joint means of defense and the sharing of the burden among the participating
countries, each according to its capacity. The aim of such defense is to avoid war and, effectively and to
the utmost, to defend the whole territory of the European community.

The realization of all these objectives implies the creation of special authorities of other supra-national
institutions to which each of the participating countries will transfer, on equal terms, a certain amount of
its national sovereignty.

The delegates of the Hamburg conference feel that only the rapid realization of such a policy can solve
the German problem and help Europe to recover and preserve peace.

* * * * *

Groups Participating in the European Movement

The European Movement, constituted at Brussels Oct. 25, 1948, as an unofficial organization, represents six groups
which are in close cooperation among the free nations of Europe:

{1) Union Europeenne des Federalistes (UEF — European Union of Federalists).

(2) Mouvement Socialiste pour les Etats-Unis d'Europe (Socialist Movement for the United States of Europe).

(3) Nouvelles Equipes Internationales (New International Group).

(4) Ligue Economique de Cooperation Europeenne (Economic League for European Cooperation).

(5) United Europe Movement.

(6) Conseil Francais pour l'Europe Unie (French Council for the United Europe).

The European Movement is represented by an international council and by national councils in 17 West European
countries. The Europa-Union is the German member organization of the UEF.

Hoe re rr TTTTTIIMMMLuM LLL ALoLLLLLLLLOLOLLLLOLULLOLLCLOCCCOUOOOOOOOOOOOOUOOOOUOLOOUUOCOOUUOUOOUUUOOUOOUOUUOUOOOOOOLUOCOUOOOOOCOOUUOOUOOUOOECOOOOUOOOUOUCUMOOUOTOUOUUOOOULUUUT OOOO

Fil

INFORMATION BULLETIN 8 DECEMBER 1951

at as os ial

--- Page 12 ---
Germany and Europe

Resume of Conference Discussions

By LISELOTTE GOLDBECK ;

Staff Writer, Information Bylletin

UIET REIGNED THROUGH the crowded ballroom of
Q the Hamburg city hall. More than 100 political, eco-
nomic and cultural representatives of western European
countries attended Germany's first international con-
ference of the European Movement and listened intently
as Belgian statesman Paul-Henri Spaak sounded the
keynote:

“The conference which we are here to hold is an im-
portant one, It is a political conference which could have
dangerous results if we do not produce positive resuits.
It is important because the German problem is now more
than ever the problem of the hour...If we do not suc-
ceed — and succeed very quickly — in setting up a clear
and precise policy for Germany in Europe, and if we do
not make our choice with all its consequences, events
will move faster than we."

From the pronouncement of that warning by Mr. Spaak
to the adoption of the conference resolution (see opposite
page) with only one dissenting vote, the delegates spent
the three-day session in intense discussion and study of
the place which Germany can gain among the free coun-
tries of Europe. Its working committees investigated the
psychological difficulties resulting from the past, the mean-
ing of equality of rights and duties of the partners in the
European community, and the basis and limits of the Euro-
pean community into which Germany is to be integrated.

Voting against the resolution was the Italian federalist,
Altiero Spinelli, who argued that mention of a transfer of
sovereignty required an exact statement as to whom it
should be transferred. The integration of Europe is only
possible, Mr. Spinelli said, if a European state is created.
Referring to General Dwight D. Eisenhower, Mr. Spinelli
said the NATO general declared not too long ago that he
could not accomplish his job in the Atlantic community
if a European federation were not organized. A European
army without common foreign politics and a common
budget, Mr. Spinelli insisted, is impossible.

Henri Frenay, former French minister and president of
the executive office of the European Union of Federalists
(UEF), withheld his vote, claiming that the resolution did
not go far enough. He said that he was “deeply disap-
pointed by the vague attitude and reluctance of the
assembly as to defining the structure of a future Euro-
pean community.”

DPD EUGEN KOGON, PRESIDENT of Germany's Europa-
Union, declared that although parts of the resolution
may not be concrete enough, it establishes cooperation
among the partners on the basis of equal rights and duties
and therefore means a step forward.

DECEMBER 195i

“Parts of our resolution,’ Dr. Kogon said, ‘‘will not be
accepted by a large number of, Germans." He pointed to
the German people's psychological confusion which was
evidenced at the Europa-Union's mass rally for the
Hamburg public Sept. 20, the night before the conference.
At that meeting more than 10,000 followed with “sympathy
and enthusiasm,” Dr. Kogon said, the outlines of aims and
general principles of the European Movement as presented
by Mr. Spaak, French Socialist Andre Philip, Mrs. Louise
Schroeder, former acting mayor of Berlin during the Soviet
blockade, and other prominent Europeans.

Reserve and open disapproval greeted British Conserv-
ative Duncan Sandys, co-founder of the European Move-
ment and son-in-law of Winston Churchill, during his ad-
dress at the pre-convention gathering, especially when
dealing with the German contribution to the defense of
Europe.

“We must not lose any more time," Mr. Sandys said,
“and must now concentrate all our energy to build up the
strength of the West... Of you, the Germans, it is demand-
ed to contribute within a European army to your own
defense of all West Europe. I hope that you will follow
this summons unconditionally, except for the conditions,
of course, that the German armed forces of the European
army must be incorporated on the basis of equality with
the other nations.

“It has been said,” he continued, “that the Germans will
only agree to rearmament provided that sufficient troops
are sent to Germany to protect her against any possible
Russian aggression during the period of remilitarization.
This — excuse me — is an unfair demand. If the Atlantic
Pact nations were strong enough to defend the western
front without Germany's participation they would not ask
the Germans now to rearm.”

R. SANDYS SAID that “if Germany wanted to be de-

fended at the Elbe and not on the Rhine she had to
assume her part immediately.’ Europe needs Germany,
but Germany needs Europe even more.

“It is useless,“ he went on, “to suppose that Germany
in case of war would remain unhurt. Whether she is re-
militarized or not, through her geographical location she
must inevitably become the battlefield. If we can enforce,
with German help, the power of the West, Germany will
be the front— a front which can be held. If you do not
participate, the chances to hold the Elbe line decrease
considerably. In a case such as that you would be behind
the Russian front, but not as a neutral area. You will
find yourself on the main junction lines of the Red Army.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ry

--- Page 13 ---
Delegates and guests crowd large conference hall in Ham-
burg for seventh plenary meeting of European Movement.

That means that you will inevitably become one of the
most important targets of the Western Allies’ air raids.

“All inter-European conflicts could be settled on the
basis of understanding of the others’ viewpoints and the
belief in the common future," Mr. Sandys pointed out.
“The unification of Europe,’ he said in closing, ‘means a
way to this objective...it is,our privilege and our duty
to serve this cause and to help make it come true.”

The three-day session of the European movement was
based on two reports, both titled “Germany and Europe,”
by Dr. Ernst Friedlaender, German political writer, and
Professor Raymond Aron of the Ecole National d'Adminis-
tration (National School of Administration) in Paris. By
sketching German and European. history during the past
75 years, the two authors tried to explain the psycho-
logical conditions of the present political situation,
Dr. Friedlaender from the German point of view and
Mr. Aron on behalf of France and the rest of Europe.

Dr. Friedlaender declared the basis for democracy in
Germany is fairly sound and there is no longer danger
from Germany and German nationalism since Germany
has learned from its mistakes and its tragic past. Pro-
fessor Aron, claiming that Germany was largely —if not
entirely — responsible for two world wars, explained the
fears of her neighbors, who distrust German peaceful and
democratic declarations on account of past experiences.
A general debate followed the outline of the two reports.

ROF. CARLO SCHMID, deputy chairman of the Ger-
man Social Democratic Party, vice president of the
German federal parliament and German delegate to the
Council of Europe, defined the German position. He said,
“We reject the theory of the collective guilt of the Ger-
man people, but we should also reject the theory of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

idea of collective innocence... After all that happened
(before 1945) — we Germans have little moral right to
protest against anything that happened later on. We
will accept everything that is necessary, but not what is
needless and could jeopardize the future.

“Germany belongs to the West," Professor Schmid
continued, “but she will have to be accepted as an active
power by the West. We will have to let ourselves be
guided by what our partners claim for themselves. We
do not demand anything that we would not be willing to
do for the others.”

As to the defense of Europe, Professor Schmid declared,
Germany should not be a shield for the Western nations
but one of their partners, with the same right of protec-
tion. As long as one does not know what defense means
in clear terms, he said, there is little use of making plans
for defense. ‘We must demand that political and military
efforts are made which make sense.”

Regarding reunification of Germany, he emphasized
that it should be considered as a European problem since
it does not affect Germany alone.

ON SALVADOR DE MADARIAGA, president of the

cultural section of the European Movement and
Spanish ambassador to Washington in 1931, suggested
that the responsibility for the present situation not be
placed on the Germans alone and that the Germans in
turn, by a spontaneous and symbolic act, should purify
their past by, for instance, an act of parliament condemning
Nazi crimes or by erecting a monument to the Unknown
Jew. He said: “We have offered the Germans an amplifi-
cation of their motto: Deutschland ueber alles (Germany
above everything), Europe above Germany, Liberty above
Europe."

Sean McBride, leader of the Irish Republican Party and
former foreign minister in the DeValera government,
pointed out that it was impossible to rebuild Europe
without both German and French participation. In his
opinion, the German demands were justified, but the
importance of a European community was not well enough
known by the German public. The work of the Council
of Europe should be given the greatest possible publicity.

The importance of winning the enthusiasm and cooper-
ation of the younger generation for Europe's unification
was underlined by Socialist Andre Philip, former minister
of economics and finance in the French government.

He said if the youth are not soon given the kind of
hope and encouragement they looking for, they might
become an easy prey to any demagogic leader. He agreed
with Professor Schmid that the problem of German unity
is of greatest importance to all European nations and that
it cannot be separated from the problem of all of Europe,
“which includes the countries behind the Iron Curtain.”

A European army in which Germany should have equal
rights and duties is not sufficient for European defense,
he went on. Social defense is necessary as well. Whether
the economic system in Europe would be liberal or social-
ist would have to be decided by the future European
political parties, he declared.

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 14 ---
British Conservative Duncan Sandys gives instructions to
press conference secretary Stanley C. Davies (standing).

ECOGNIZING THAT “GERMANY '’s integration into
the European community is absolutely imperative,”
Lord Layton, Liberal member of the British upper house,
said he is of the opinion that Germany was not yet ready
for this integration. Therefore, he suggested restoration
of Germany's sovereignty so she could resume of her own
accord “her rightful place within the European family.”
Clement Davies, leader of the British Liberal Party in
the House of Commons, in a speech at the initial session
of the conference, pointed to the disastrous wars of the
recent past, to their pitiful consequences and to the fact
that “no other country has had to pay more dearly for
its part in these catastrophes than Germany herself...
One of the direct consequences of the Nazi lust for domi-
nation has been the tremendous and dangerous expansion
of Soviet Russian power since the war.”

If the free countries were to fight and defeat the menace
of Communism economically as well as militarily, Mr. Da-
vies said, it could only be done by the maximum coordi-
nation of their national economic policies and the maxi-
mum integration of their resources. “No amount of Ameri-
can arms and American soldiers, no amount of American
goods and American dollars, he went on, “will suffice
to save Europe if she does not try first to save herself.”

N THE LAST TWO or three years, the British politician

pointed out, there have been advances in international
cooperation such as the Benelux, OEEC, the Council of
Europe, the Brussels Treaty, the Atlantic Pact, the Euro-
pean Payment Union, the European Army and the Schu-
man Plan.

“I have no doubt,’ Mr, Davies said, “that by far the
greatest, by far the most generous and imaginative proposal
which has ‘hitherto emerged is the Schuman Plan...
because it strikes at the roots of the Franco-German
problem and the Franco-German quarrels which have been
the cause of most of Europe's main troubles ... We realize
at long last now, that we are interdependent ... But if each
harps all the time upon individual rights—demanding equal-
ity here and preeminence there—we shall get nowhere.

“Let us remember that the Marshall Aid which saved
us all from complete disaster and from being an easy prey

DECEMBER 1951

11

for Stalinism and its extension, was given to us upon
conditions which we have never fulfilled: first, that each
country should put its house in order, and second, that
—as quite obviously we could not succeed individually —
we should cooperate and help each other... America
came to our assistance without our having fulfilled either
of the two preliminary conditions...

“We were all deeply moved that it was France who,
having suffered so heavily in 1870, 1914 and 1939... came
forward with the hand of friendship and of cooperation
extended toward Germany and proposed the Schuman
Plan...It was the most generous gesture. Might she not
also make the generosity complete and withdraw from
the Saar? The people of the Saar are German, German-
born and German-speaking. Their outlook, customs, charac-
teristics and traditions are essentially German.

“France is the birthplace of the doctrine which helped
more than any other doctrine to build up free countries
everywhere in the world — the doctrine embodied in the
words ‘Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.’ The whole object of
the Schuman Plan is to instill and consolidate fraternity
and equality. Let France again lead the way and restore
liberty wherever it is in her power to do so, Her generosity
will bring her more blessings than she or anyone else has
yet conceived."

URING THE LIVELY FINAL debate, several motions
for changes in the resolutions were made, but they
were either withdrawn or rejected.

In closing the conference, Mr. Spaak declared that he
conceived the idea to call the conference when he listened
to the discussions at the Strasbourg sessions of the Council
of Europe, where little progress was achieved due to the
constant misunderstandings among the delegates.

The purpose of the Hamburg congress, he stated, was
not to revise the various viewpoints but to investigate
how the difficulties between Germany and the other
European nations might be overcome. One must remember
how great the obstacles and the hatred were in 1945, he
said, in order to appreciate the progress made in German-
European relations since then.

“We adopted a resolution which is revolutionary in the
history of Europe. We have decided not to live any longer
as separate nations but to form a European community.
We have declared our solidarity with the German demands.
Who would have thought of that in 1945?... We have
also made it clear that the new Europe has to be built on
the principles of democracy.”

To realize the aims for a European Union as laid down
in the resolution of the Hamburg congress it is not enough,
the speakers repeatedly emphasized, that delegates from
the political, cultural and economic sectors in the life of
European nations meet and discuss what can and should
be done. It is vitally important to inform and win the
masses of the peoples of Europe to the idea of European
unity, because it is they who must urge their respective
governments that the necessary steps be taken for the
benefit of all. -++-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
‘Refugee Ministry (Hanover)... commented on the excellent
work of (giving) cultural performances, free, for the refugees.

‘in

. A truly great exhibit (children's painting: yn in Munich)
.much more perfect than one could have ever expected.”

crowd into spe “ Z 2" reading
welcome, too, is the open shelf system..."

he cultural and documentary

films attract so many. After seeing some, I know why

rica House is the only stronghold for free

A ? ‘These concerts have now reached such a standard of ex-
th, free thought," was‘said of a

cellence that they serve as an example of the ideal series.

“You cannot imagine an America House activity (English
classes) capable of ensuring deeper and more lasting effect.”

--- Page 16 ---
i ae UT oe eS — 5 > pet hen lian bei g) eigy the leogothe, ¥.
nse nti pone 20, yous Ae ae Ue *k sethen Apne 408 oti Cscwsy teases he Aaitece” Ep Lan Abele? 98,8 Bi Sen fie Gougwengick “7023
ree ugh Seere SES to Bin ae Vawhemye /lap ade 1% f- Mody Stetemo ten y Lage ia? Pa fen fer £3

DEY antert eeled® publ Naito g e ingen Wat ohne “2, C0 RE uptl, Ste Bh
e+ canted’ copertl on vege lttepha he Qe Bilge’ fingte e Loner, dacy Teal

oe Senne, sarilen ey

E Qo VF dig Ah
! Vig da
rag Se %, Lean tones

”
4. CHTHON.SCHULE
TE con Peace oer cvnvasnt sores
ee tno scituemvene
00 Oity of murturg vente toh <q - we ase SOO De at] ooney..asoeninc tinea WALDO
House in gurburg/Lehn. Rumors rote yr ae

8) tees namie Za (Pee Rey
plane for closing down the and ase ’

that Murburg und ite citizens 13008 soeertt
ms @erica House has been arr. aries
Seas ne les» exhibitions, concerts, | yop ai?
a Leo yg perully and theroby nae had\ yyxee *™
Dein je , ef our poputation. Peopie | yon wht
jtyrbeaul ih 299) ly for the free ada het OOF
4g uterstrect onan
on of Marburg woula lik i
20 + MRO Stoner of ine fsalelooese Tea ”
By JEAN KINNAIRD
Staff Writer, Information Bulletin
HE MEDIEVAL WATCHTOWER that stands as a sym- lecturers on its rostrums and the English teachers in its
bol of many German cities has a partner —the US classrooms are powerful voices calling to Germans to
Information Center. The centers have made many friends enter its doors.
in Germany since the war's end. They represent a new The center, known in German as Amerika Haus (Ameri-
kind of stronghold symbolic of the democratic West. ca House), is usually described as “the intellectual and
These centers were established under US Military cultural center by the “constant customer.” Phrases
Government sponsorship to dispel the invidious propa- picked at random from a stack of correspondence and
ganda about America during the Nazi period and to make press clippings which poured into the mail room of the
available literature that had been suppressed in Germany central office in Frankfurt on behalf of continuing the

as well as to augment her depleted libraries. program, speak of the individual center as “our only intel-

Their force has been felt with such impact throughout lectual home," “an urgently needed institution,” “a place
Germany that, contrary to the prevalent yearning to have of so much value for the German people,” “the one
postwar occupation controls restored to the Germans, source of political enlightenment,” “a sort of mental
announcements that the US Information Centers would be
scaled down in 1952 brought streams of protests from the
German population.

The 1951 program operated 27 Information Centers, 122
branch libraries and four bookmobiles throughout western
Germany and Berlin, but 1952 will find the plan revamped
to include 15 centers, three university institutes, 35 branch
libraries and 20 bookmobiles. Some collections are being
merged with German facilities.

bridge” and “the best embassies the United States could
ever have sent us.”

The studied, repetitive phrases of the propagandist do
not exist within the Information Center corridors. This
absence has caused many comments from the German
users, including a statement by a magistrate of Giessen
who wrote, “I am convinced that these beautiful institu-
tions have only just begun to exercise their influence
now that people have finally realized that these houses

HE INFORMATION CENTER is a passive medium but are no instruments of planned propaganda but aim at
the authors of the books on its library shelves, the dealing with present-day problems and questions con-
musicians on its platforms and on its recordings, the nected with them in an impressive and objective way."

DECEMBER 1951 13 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
A white Christmas enhances the appeal
of the US Information Center in Ulm.

The validity of selecting books without the
censor's scrutiny and allowing complete free-
dom to them has proved successful. The
proof of operation is attested by the obser-
vation that ‘surely, many people must have
been struck by the clear, frank way in which
American writers (in contrast with others)
express their opinions on political, military
and other matters and it is only natural that,
apart from other considerations, they should
feel drawn toward those who do not hide
their opinions behind ambiguous statements,
but freely allow them to gain an insight into
the fundamental truths on which their life
and history are based.”

The American taxpayer, who has found
himself both embroiled and disturbed during
the past decade of German-American rela-
tions, can take personal satisfaction in the German
response to the library and cultural center he runs by
remote control. He, too, increases his understanding when
he reflects that the hatred engendered by a totalitarian
regime could not thrive in the kind of a program his
government has sponsored in Germany.

“Unquestionably the activity of the house in its various
fields has largely achieved the aim to acquaint our people
with the thinking of a free world in general and of the
American people in particular," was the way one German
reader saw it, but he thought it should go on as long as
possible.

OROLLARY TO THIS goal is the stimulation of citizen

participation and assumption of responsibility in all
phases of German life. The American word for such
participation is “democracy.” The German is learning the
meaning of this word, especially the “faithful reader’ and
the “ardent user’ who have assisted the American effort
to shatter the Nazi swastika and consequently “to forge a
shield in Germany for a democratic concept of life.”

The disheartening prospect of losing their reading room
in the little town of Esslingen was reason enough for 154
to sign a petition which said that such an act would “ruin
our chance of getting acquainted with the American ways
of life and American democracy."

On the occasion of reopening the refurbished Regens-
burg center a speaker on behalf of the mayor said that
“The America House will remain what it has been for this
city...a scientific and cultural center, and a school of
democratic life.”

For fear “that its spirit and its democratic atmosphere
are lost forever," an Amberg reader appealed to keep the
Information Center. “It is generally known that in Amberg
all cultural endeavors for freedom of mind always have
been suppressed, slowly but surely. Now, the America
House was an institution where this was not possible, but
which brought a lively aversion of all opponents of ‘dis-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

agreeable innovations’... Please, when reaching your final
decision, think what a triumph it will be for the guardians
of the Amberg tradition!"

In Schwaebisch Gmuend, the library shelves with its
newspapers and periodicals “cannot be appreciated highly
enough. From the living example of your happy country
we learn what results can be attained by a people grown
up in the democratic way of thinking, a people fortunate
enough to live in freedom, far removed from dictatorship
and police ruling... This study of a living democracy is
at the same time a remedy against Communist and
Bolshevik ideology.”

HE 1950 ATTENDANCE FIGURE has been computed

at 13,885,000 as contrasted with 3,724,728 in 1948,
Paralleling the rise in attendance figures, the general
usefulness of the US-run libraries and reading rooms and
the gradually decreasing shyness of the German reader,
other needs developed. The visitors browsed through the
open shelves at first sampling American thought from the
democratic shelves and then drew up a comfortable chair;
finally they eagerly searched for standards so that they
could “measure and assess their own opinions.”

The “intellectual home” put the newly-developed intel-
lectual skills to work by introducing discussion-group
lectures and more lately a seminar on contemporary
history. A refugee who “discovered” the Hamburg center _
wrote, “I should like to thank you for all you are doing to
spread a bit of the American spirit in this country... be-
ing a psychologist, I enjoyed the discussions... which I
think are most important for educating our people to be
frank and feel free.”

The Heidelberg: newspaper Rhein-Neckar Zeitung re-
ported on the seminar on contemporary history, held dur-
ing the summer at Heidelberg: “Americans and Germans
have met and exchanged their opinions frankly and
honestly. Sometimes the excitement rose to a high pitch,
but this should be interpreted as something positive... As

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 18 ---
long as people can talk with each other, it is possible to
approach agreement or at least a compromise. It is silence
which is dangerous. Envy and want of understanding are
like rapidly growing weeds capable of smothering not
only Europe but the whole world."

An individual response to the rounded-out information
program was: "I cannot think of one single place here in
Schwaebisch Gmuend where it would be possible for a
circle of so different people from all sections of the popu-
lation to meet as they do in the America House on the
occasion of lectures or discussions. These lectures, for
which a large circle of readers adequately prepare them-
selves by pertinent reading, have surely done more to
show the concepts of life of the West from the right angle
than could have been achieved by any amount of pam-
phlets and radio broadcasts.”

ITH EAST-WEST TENSION very much a part of

today's world, a third objective of the information
program developed. The easy access to volumes on the
shelves of the reading rooms with books chosen not for
party-line content proclaims in still another way the
essential difference between two political systems.

West Germans, expellees and refugees write with emo-
tion to the Information Center authorities. One corre-
spondent warned: “Already once German democracy
went to pieces because of lack of moral and political
support from the democratic world outside, This time a
real working alliance between extreme left and extreme
right in Germany against the West is the imminent danger
— a danger far greater than the former Nazi danger. May
God help that America will not have to repent her short-
sightedness one day."

A writer from Czechoslovakia told at length of per-
sonal suffering and admonished that it would “be a policy
of gross inconsistency to preach democracy to the West
Germans on the one hand and on the other to rob them cf
the very instrument by which this can be brought about."

The integration of American reading rooms with Ger-
man libraries or other community facilities has brought
various reactions. The Rodach town council passed a for-
mal vote of thanks for valuable contributions in library
material from the Coburg Information Center. When cere-
monies opening the new, modern library at Stederdorf
near Hanover were reported in the press, tribute was paid
to the library of the Hanover Information Center which

Twenty bookmobiles will take American books and litera-
ture throughout Germany so remote areas can be serviced
with information on life and culture in the United States.

Cover Photograph

An example of the activities presented at the
US Information Centers is depicted on the cover.
Shown in a children's theatrical group are an
American boy and a German girl interpreting a
scene from the Nativity Play as enacted last
Christmas at the Information Center in Heidel-
berg. (All photos from US Information Centers Branch, HICOG)

inspired the creation of the ‘first open shelf library of the
state of Lower Saxony." Further recognition was given by
the fact that annual meetings will be held at the Hanover
center so librarians may gain technical and professional
inspiration from equipment and working methods there.

“The Friends of the Bad Schwalbach Reading Room"
organized and pledged active membership from DM 0.50
(12 cents) upward so that they might continue lectures,
concerts and library; whereupon the district government
subsidized the former center with a monthly DM 50
($11.90) to take care of heating and lighting.

MARBURG UNIVERSITY professor expressed con-
cern on the change-over: “I certainly understand that
the America Houses mean a lot of money to the American
taxpayer which probably is needed presently for more
important purposes... One point I have to stress... is the
wonderful library for science and medicine. My university
institute has used it or, better, simply had to use it as the
supply of foreign journals for the institute and the uni-
versity library is absolutely inadequate for lack of money.
“Our students and we ourselves work in the library and
find what we could get nowhere else. Furthermore, the
American way of running this library makes its use a real
pleasure compared with the bureaucratic style of our own
libraries. The loss of this library would be for our students
and our research workers a gap which could not be filled
by any other means.”

Another user said that the “specifically American
‘something’ which we look for in your libraries would
then be lost."

The response at all levels of society for having some-
thing done about the crucial situation produced many plans
of German assistance. The mayor of Marburg, for example,
wrote:

“The City of Marburg would like to suggest to keep the
America House going as a community center — as a mat-
ter of fact, it already serves as such. In the event it is
necessary to cut down the budget of the America House
—rumors mention a reduction of 20 percent —the city
could make up the difference by bringing in two city-
librarians from the City Youth Library and two managers
from the Marburg Extension School. In this way, we are
sure, the America House could be kept going in the old
way even after a reduction of 20 percent in its budget.”

NOTHER PLAN WAS EVOLVED by the mayor of
Laubach who thought that ‘the maintenance of the

America Houses is of particular importance in country

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
districts, because they enable the population to take
part in cultural life’ and “‘are available to the rural public
free of charge...it would be regrettable if all that has
been built up were suddenly to be demolished again.”

The mayor proposed “that the community put the rooms
at your disposal, free of charge, and pay for the heating
and lighting. If you could see your way to contribute
DM 100 ($23.80) per month, our America House could be
held open six hours a day, with the exception of Sun-
days. I should then merge our own Popular Library with
that of the America House."

Regret was expressed by a user of one combined
library because the librarian was “trained in the closed
shelf system, so that she is trying to keep such a close
check on all persons thumbing through the books that
many readers are alienated by the changed, seemingly
suspicious attitude of the librarian.”

One of the largest segments of readers has been the
educator group. Hundreds of letters have been received
from ,university professors, high school and elementary
teachers, as well as from their pupils. “As a high school
teacher I always recommended my upper grade students
to go to the American library assiduously in order to get
their information” and it “has proved most beneficial,
especially to the younger generation eager to study by

body, free of charge, has been welcomed by the German
adult education schools from the beginning, because it
is in harmony with their own endeavor to place the
possibilities for extended education within the reach of
all, regardless of social and financial standing. If these
example-setting institutions were lost to, or estranged
from, their original purpose, damage beyond repair would
be done.”

Similar appeal was. made through a petition signed by
various trade groups representing theater, trade unions,
newspapers, arts and similar associations in Karlsruhe.
The appeal said the Information Centers had gained
“sympathies which in the earlier stages were not easily
won." The signers spoke of “valuable preliminary work"
done for the theater and declared scientists “continued to
patronize the America House even after it had been pos-
sible for German libraries to fill the worst gaps in their
literary and scientific equipment.”

The manager of an association representing several
hundred advertising specialists, backed up this Karlsruhe
petition when he wrote that “books, catalogues, lists anc
direct information received greatly helped us in our effort
to promote the trade relations between the United State
and southwest Germany...”

reading and to form their own ideas
about America, and I do believe that
this is indeed the best and most natural
way to get acquainted with the men-
tality of the American people.”
Typical of the school children’s let-
ters is one in which the writer proudly
says that she has been studying Eng-
lish for almost a whole year and that
she can read children's books ‘with
a little help of the dictionary. I was
hoping that next year I would be able
to read all the books without the help
of a dictionary but that probably will
not be possible, for I heard the sad
news — the American library will soon
be closed. Oh, how sad even the
thought of it makes us school children!"

N CONTRAST TO the school child

is the expression from Bavaria's
State Association for Free Adult Edu-
cation, which at one time was very
suspicious of American activities in
the field of adult education. Now the
very same group writes its members
“would deeply regret it if the America
House reading rooms were not main-
tained and enabled to serve their
original purpose.”

They have made ‘an important con-
tribution to adult education in Ger-
many. The democratic idea underlying
their operation, to put library and
reading space at the disposal of every-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Bibliography of Information Centers Articles
In the Information Bulletin

The forerunner of the US Information
Centers program was the setting up
in July 1945 of a library in Bad Hom-
burg modeled after the wartime library
cf the Office of War Information in the
US Embassy in London. A few months
Jater, it was moved to Frankfurt under
the name of the “American Library.”
Within the following year nine more
were opened in the US Zone and Ber-
lin, Their name was changed to “US
Information Center,” and later known
locally as ‘‘Amerika Haus" (America
House). Record of this development is
presented in several articles published
in the Information Bulletin. These in-
clude the following:

US Library in Heidelberg, July 15, 1946.

US Information Centers, article by Dr.
Cecil William Headrich, chief, Infor-
mation Centers Section, Office of In-
formation Control, OMGUS, Aug. 19,
1946.

Information Control Division, review
including Information Centers oper-
ation, Feb. 10, 1947, also in special
MG Series edition, March 25, 1947.

US Information Centers, review of first
year's operation, July 7, 1947.

Centers Expanded, June 1, 1948.

Talks on America Heard by Germans,

July 27, 1948.

Largest Information Center
(Munich), Aug. 10, 1948.
US Teachers Lecture at Information

Centers, Sept. 7, 1948.

Opened

Amerika Haus, review of US Informa-
tion Centers, Nov. 16, 1948.

US Information Centers, review of
operation, special issue ‘‘Activities
of the Office of Public Affairs,”
January 1950:

Stuttgart US Information Center, pic-
torial, March 1950.

American and German Theater, digest
of Information-Centers lecture by
Frederic Mellinger, visiting consult-
ant, June 1950.

Windows to the West, article by Haynes
R. Mahoney, chief, Bad Nauheim
Branch, Public Relations Division,
HICOG, on Information Centers oper-
ations, August 1950 (also reprinted
in American publications).

US Information Center in Hamburg,
pictorial, October 1950.

Popularity of US Information Centers,
summary of public opinion survey,
October 1950.

America Comes to Heidelberg, pictorial
December 1950.

A Lesson to Learn, text of address by
Wilhelm Kaisen, president of Bremen
Senate, at opening of US Information
Center in Bremen, December 1950.

Democracy Stalks the Library, article
by Robert Behrens, director, US In-
formation Center in Stuttgart, February
1951,

Mannheim Information Center Formally
Dedicated, pictorial, September 1951.

Young Thespians, pictorial of youth
theater group at US Information Cen-
ter in Berlin, October 1951.

16

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 20 ---
HE VISUAL AID PROGRAM undertaken by the In-
-L formation Centers officials has included art exhibits,
documentary and educational films. “The two movies
‘Boundary Lines’ and ‘Picture in Your Mind' were shown
to my seminar in social psychology," wrote a professor of
psychology at the University of Hamburg. ‘They ob-
viously made a strong impression on my students and we
will have a discussion about them today."

The chairman of the local group of the Social Democratic
Party expressed appreciation of the films, which he said
“conveyed a good impression of the everyday life in for-
eign countries and thus contributed to a better inter-
national understanding.”

The film program has dovetailed the information pro-
gram. A showing in the city jail prompted the Heidelberg
newspaper Tageblatt to remark: “We appreciate both this
idea and the way it was carried out very much because
we believe that punishment is not enough to lead human
beings back to the right path."

The correlation of the English language classes with the
library facilities has proved most successful. The curtail-
ment of American operations will “severely hit all those
who are highly interested in the English language.” The
writer explained that “among them are people who, having
lost home and property, now wish to emigrate; teachers
anxious to itensify their knowledge by penetrating to the
very spirit of the language... It is through participation in
these classes that they are enabled to read American and
English books in the original and to become acquainted
with the American way of life.”

O BRING AMERICAN MUSIC and interpretations to

Germany, recordings were added to the libraries and
the music programs ensued. The Information Center audi-
ences responded with surprising eagerness, the result be-
ing that the Speakers and Artists Bureau brought artists
and programs of high standards.

The response can be judged by the newspaper clippings,
which average 300 to 400 a month—“one must admire
again and again the eminent degree of technical per-
fection;" “artists of more than average stature in regard
to technique and musical ability;" “North American pi-
anists of the young generation... individualistic musical
concept which indicates personality in the making,” and
“again absolutely first-class.“ One artist was called “‘an
ambassadress in the full sense of the word.”

The newspaper Neue Presse, in Coburg, wrote: “There
are still elements in the music loving countries of Europe
who profess to look down on American musicians and
musical culture in the United States. As the cultural bar-
riers have gradually faded away, we have had ample
evidence to convince us that the ‘New World’ has taken
the lead also in the field of music and has developed
singers, virtuosos and large orchestras who have full claim
to world status.”

The same idea was expressed in the Frankfurt Neue
Presse when the reviewer said, “In Germany we often
tend toward haughty smugness in cultural matters. Thus
we sometimes underestimate the forces that are at work

DECEMBER 1951

17

“There is only one place where we can find good books,
magazines and newspapers...our American Reading Room.”

in other countries. Through its periodic concerts by for-
eign artists, the Frankfurt America House has had the
merit of widening our perspective and of creating new
standards in this field. Particularly the contact with rep-
resentatives of the younger American generation of
pianists has brought to us the evidence that the average
level of achievement ‘over there’ is evidently consider-
ably higher than our own."

RS. PATRICIA VAN DELDEN, chief of the Infor-
mation Centers Branch of HICOG, handed this anony-
mous letter from the Soviet Zone across her desk:

“You may be surprised to get a letter from the ‘Worker's
Paradise.’ Two of us visited the America House (Ham-
burg) in August. In the meantime, we have returned to
our ‘Volksdemokratie’ (people's democracy) and often
think of our America House visit, which gave us renewed
courage to fight for freedom and democracy with all pos-
sible means despite pressure and terror." +END

Youth Farm Home Opened

A Youth Farm Home was opened recently at Rupperts-
hofen, Schwaebisch Gmuend county, to house 30 German
boys who will work as agricultural apprentices,

The building, which will provide living accommodations
for the youths, also has classrooms, a community hall
complete with a stage, and several other recreation rooms.
Sports facilities will be available. The home was aided
by a grant-in-aid check for DM 40,000 ($9,520) from the
HICOG Special Projects Fund. :

US Resident Officer Walter Galling and Dr. James F.
Keim, adviser on youth reconstruction, OLC Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, as well as many German officials attended
the opening ceremonies.

Joseph Waldenmaier, school official, said, “You are
preparing for the better education of the youth of the
community. It is upon them that the future of this village,
of this county and of all western Germany depends. I
hope that many rural communities in Schwaebisch Gmuend
will be stimulated to follow your example.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
= MMMM

Dr. Konrad Adenauer, chancellor and foreign minister of the Federal Republic of
Germany, met in Paris Nov. 22 with the foreign ministers of the major Western Powers,
Robert Schuman of France, Anthony Eden of the United Kingdom and Dean Acheson of
the United States. At the conclusion of the meeting, the following communique was issued.

Communique of the Foreign Ministers’
Conference in Paris

HE FOREIGN MINISTERS of France, the United Kingdom and the United States met today (Nov. 22)
with Dr. Adenauer.

This meeting, the first occasion on which the chancellor and foreign minister of the German Federal
Republic has jointly conferred with the foreign ministers of the three Western Powers, marked in itself a
notable advance in the progressive association of the German Federal Republic with the West on the basis
of equal partnership. All participants welcomed the opportunity given for a general review of a problem
of mutual concern.

In the course of the conversation which dealt with the general political situation of the Federal Republic
in connection with the present world situation, the four foreign ministers reviewed the progress so far made

in the negotiations carried on in Bonn for the establishment by freely negotiated agreements of a new
basis for the relationship between their countries.

In particular they examined the draft of a general agreement between the four governments which had
been prepared in Bonn. This is to establish the main principles of their future relationship and can only
enter into force together with the related conventions referred to below and the treaty establishing a
European defense community.

Certain outstanding points in the general agreement were settled and, subject to final confirmation by
their governments, the ministers have approved the draft of this agreement. It will not be signed or
published at present, since the four governments agree that it must be completed by a number of related
conventions governing in more detail other important matters arising out of the future relationship between
them, The ministers agree on the need for rapid progress in the completion of all these related conventions.

HE GENERAL AGREEMENT will be a concisive step toward the realization of the common aim of the

three Western Powers and the Federal Government to integrate the Federal Republic on a basis of
equality in a European community itself included in a developing Atlantic community.

With the coming into force of the general agreement and the related conventions, the Occupation
Statute with its powers of intervention in the domestic affairs of the Federal Republic will be revoked, and
the Allied High Commission and the offices of the Land (state) commissioners will be abolished. The three
powers will retain only such special rights as cannot now be renounced because of the special international
situation of Germany, and which it is in the common interest of the four states to retain. These rights
relate to the stationing and the security of the forces in Germany, to Berlin and to questions concerning
Germany as a whole.

The mission of the forces stationed in Germany by the three powers will be the defense of the free
world, of which the Federal Republic and Berlin form a part. Their status will be settled in detail in one
of the related conventions. Any disputes rising from the interpretation or application of the general
agreement or the related conventions — with the exception of certain special rights — will be settled 3
by a court of arbitration. ‘i

The Federal Republic will undertake to conduct its policy in accordance with the principles set forth
in the charter of the United Nations and with the aims defined in the statute of the Council of Europe.

HE FOUR MINISTERS have agreed that an essential aim of the common policy of their governments

is a peace settlement for the whole of Germany, freely negotiated between Germany and her former
enemies, which should lay the foundation for a lasting peace. They further agree that the final settlement
of the boundaries of Germany await such a settlement.

They reaffirmed their intention to strive for the establishment of German unity, and agree on the impor-
tance of the proposals now before the General Assembly of the United Nations designed to ascertain whether
free elections can be held simultaneously in the Federal Republic, Berlin and the Soviet Zone of Germany.

The four foreign ministers consider the contractual arrangement to be concluded between their governments
as well as the treaties for the creation of an integrated European community as essential steps to the achieve-
ment of their common aim: a unified Germany integrated within the western European community.

OTTUUUVUNUUUOTOVOOONTUUUUUIATHNOUOOUUUUUUULUUUUOONOOUUALUULUUUUOOOUUUOLLULULOOCOUUUULULUOEROOOCUOOUDELUEOOOOOUULLULLTLOOULUEDUDLLLULOOeLUUDLLLELLOLeceeLODLLLLLCCLOLe LLL LLLeL cece LLLLoo cece

INFORMATION BULLETIN 18 DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 22 ---
Seminar in Democracy

By DR. HARRY L. FRANKLIN
Assistant Chief, Political Affairs Division, OLC Hesse

HAT SHOULD MR. AVERAGE CITIZEN in Germany

know about voting systems, political party programs,
local self-government, the basic rights guaranteed in his
state and federal constitutions, the European Movement,
or the Schuman Plan?

Why is his information on most of these and other
current topics either often sketchy or entirely lacking,
or coupled with distaste for all things political?

How can the problems of political ignorance and apathy,
chief hindrances to democratic development, be attacked?

In order to help fill the gap in general political informa-
tion and to arouse an interest in civic and governmental
affairs, a small group of civic-minded citizens of Frank-
furt in cooperation with the US resident officer there,
established the now popular Seminar for Politics in Feb-
ruary 1951. The idea originated with a German employee
of the resident office, Helmut Kimpel, who as a graduate
exchange student in political science had participated in
many public discussion groups in the United States.

HE TITLE "SEMINAR" was chosen for the proposed

organization for psychological reasons, inasmuch as
it presupposes a serious, academic approach to political
problems. But in practice, lectures and talks are given in
a free style inducing active and lively discussion among
participants, who represent a cross-section of the popu-
lation. It has, in fact, turned out to be more of a small
“town hall” than a seminar.

The German title of the Seminar for Politics is Frank-
furter Seminar fuer Politik e. V. Horst Siebecke, of the
Gesellschaft fuer Christlich-Juedische Zusammenarbeit
(Society for Christian-Jewish Cooperation) is chairman,
and Mrs, Ulla Illing is business manager. Sessions are
held five nights a week, Monday through Friday, at the
Frankfurt Civic Affairs Center, 55 Mylius Strasse. Some-
times two meetings are held in a single evening.

In a sense, the seminar could be termed a progressive
Volkshochschule (Public Education Center) for politics.
Modern pedagogical techniques — group discussions,
films, tape recordings and other procedural aids — are
employed. Mrs, Illing reports that great emphasis is
placed on stimulating maximum group discussion of the
various topics presented and the individual group partici-
pant is considered more important than the lecturer.

The so-called Grundkursus, or basic course, in political
affairs was established in March 1951, and comprises a
series of six talks and discussions on basic rights and
duties of citizenship, political parties, democracy as a
way of political life, and so on, with continuous stress
on greater citizen participation in governmental affairs
especially at the local level. The same material is arranged
in somewhat different form for participating groups of

DECEMBER 1951

elementary and secondary school teachers, particularly
those who teach civics; it is called Lebendiger Politischer
Unterricht or roughly, “‘vitalized civics,"

N ADDITION TO the basic political affairs course, a

wide range of current topics are dealt with mostly in
a single lecture-discussion meeting. Among those which
have elicited widest participation and after-comment, are
the Marshall Plan, peace with Israel, increase in Frank-
furt streetcar fares, the Schuman Plan, acute need for
more school buildings, the role of women in politics, train-
ing of youth for public affairs, and trade union problems.

Public interest was aroused early —at the March 13
meeting — where more than 200 participants heard argu-
ments as to whether the Veit Harlan film Die unsterb-
liche Geliebte (The Immortal Beloved) should be banned
because of Harlan'’s connection with the highly anti-
Semitic movie Jud Suess (The Jew Suess) under the Nazis.
Although the meeting was orderly, the police intervened
to keep out further participants because of dangers in
overcrowding. Later, other controversial matters were
discussed in an objective manner and without incident.

The seminar, under the able management of Mrs. Illing,
has been very successful in attracting lecturers and dis-
cussion leaders from those active in public life and
practical politics. Since March 1951, these have included
13 Bundestag (federal lower house) deputies, six Hessian
state legislature deputies, 21 Frankfurt city councilors and
city assemblymen, and a number of leaders of the major
democratic parties, high administrative officials, university
professors, trade unionists, leaders of women's and other
organizations and journalists. Most of these have almost
invariably contributed their services on a gratis basis.

Ulla Illing (at microphone) is explaining to participants
of the “rhetorical course’ different forms of discussion
techniques. Public speaking exercises are recorded on tape
recorder (in background) and played back to aid teaching.

--- Page 23 ---
TTENDANCE AT THE individual meetings, lectures

and discussions from March through October 1951,
totaled 5,242, of whom approximately 40 percent were
young people under 35 years of age. About 40 percent,
too, were women of all ages. Special participating groups
have been teachers, women's organization leaders and,
in one case, the staff of a German news agency.

To supplement the work in the seminar proper, arrange-
ments have been made for participants to view in action
the Bundestag in Bonn (three visits) and the Hessian state
legislature in Wiesbaden (four visits). They have made
15 visits to the Frankfurt city assembly, not only to ob-
serve the procedures of parliamentary bodies, but to see
just how particular issues are handled by the legislators,

More than 400 propaganda letters from the Soviet Zone,
addressed to individuals in western Germany, have been
answered directly by the seminar at the request of the
addressees, who did not wish to reply themselves. From
March through September, the seminar distributed around
4,600 brochures dealing with political or civic topics in
the Frankfurt elementary and secondary schools,

To arouse interest and a sense of citizen responsibility
of young Germans reaching the voting age of 21, a “Poli-
tical Birt day Festival'’* was arranged by the seminar last
Oct. 18, which was attended by more than 400 young
Germans who had reached their majority in the previous
quarter. The meeting was addressed by Dr. Walter Kolb,
Frankfurt mayor; Hermann Schaub, chairman of the city
assembly, and leaders of the three major democratic
parties. Meetings for these 21-year-olds will henceforth be
held every three months, and it is expected that many of
them will become active seminar participants.

Financially, the seminar has thus far operated on a
rather modest basis expenditures since Feb 20, 1951,
totaling less than DM 5,000 ($1,190). During this period
the seminar has succeeded in building a near-phenomenal
position for itself in the public life of Frankfurt. Mem-

* See “Young Citizens Hold Forum,"
vember 1951.

Information Bulletin, No-

Dr. Franklin has been associated with German
affairs for 25 years, 18 of which he has spent in
this country. His direct contact with Germany began
in 1919, when he started a three-year occupation
duty assignment in Coblenz as an army captain.
Later, as US consul in Berlin and Leipzig, he was
in a position to follow closely German economic
and political developments.

Dr. Franklin joined OMGUS, Berlin, in December
1945, and served successively in the Office of the
Chief of Staff, Information Control Division, and
was chief of the Civil Administration and Political
Affairs Branch, Berlin Sector, during the Soviet
blockade of the city in 1948-49, Since January 1950,
he has served as assistant chief, Political Affairs
Division, OLC Hesse, in charge of the political re-
orientation programs such as civil liberties, local
government reform, electeral reform, and citizen
participation in government.

He holds a doctor of philosophy degree from the
University of Leipzig, and has also studied at the
Universities of Bonn, Heidelberg and Berlin.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

Frankfurt Seminar for Politics is attended by approximately
1,000 men and women every month. Shown are partici-
pants in one of courses designed to acquaint citizens with
tights and responsibilities, (PRD HICOG photos by Gassner)

bers of the city assembly, including party leaders, fre-
quently refer in assembly meetings to matters which
have been discussed in the seminar, and viewpoints
expressed there, an indication of the growing influence
the organization is exerting on civic affairs.

A large share of the credit for this unique development
in such a short space of time is undoubtedly due Mrs.
Illing, who through her zeal for the seminar's purpose
and her ability to publicize it and its activities has reached
virtually all circles of Frankfurt, and even into many
neighboring communities. Relations with the press and
radio, especially the former, are most favorable, scarcely
a day going by without the appearance of some item, and
frequently a long article, about the seminar in one or more
of the Frankfurt newspapers.

HE TASK OF DEVELOPING political awareness today
in Germany is made doubly difficult not only by the
average German's fear of ‘‘politics'' stemming from his un-
fortunate experiences of the past, but also by the present
Eastern threat to the Western idea of individual rights and
responsibilities in relation to government, The Frankfurt
Seminar for Politics has, however, tackled this job effec-
tively and has already made a significant contribution
toward stimulating interest in political and civic affairs.
Already there are evidences of a growing desire on
the part of the citizens, at least in the Frankfurt area, to
take a more active part in governmental affairs and to
assume a greater sense of responsibility as citizens for
what happens in the building of their new nation.

The Frankfurt Seminar is taking a prominent place in
Hesse, along with the Schmitten Buergerkundlicher
Arbeitskreis (Working Circle for Citizenship Training)
with its nine-day ‘seminars in democracy” for young
people, and also the Seminar for Politics recently organized
in Wiesbaden under US resident office sponsorship, which
provides lecturers from the University of Mainz and
from local Wiesbaden public affairs circles.

These organizations with their development of success-
ful techniques in popularizing civic and political affairs
in Hesse during recent months may well serve as an
inspiration to similar civic-minded groups in other cities
in western Germany. +END

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 24 ---
More Homes for Germans

By BERNARD WAGNER

HEN THE FAMOUS DUTCH ar-

chitect I. P. Oud designed his
dwellings for the Weissenhof housing
project in Stuttgart in 1929 little did
he know of their fate two decades
later. The Weissenhof housing project
was at one time a shining example of
the work of the “avant garde” of
European architects, which included
Le Corbusier and Mies van der Rohe.
Partially damaged during the war,
Oud's buildings are now rebuilt in
tile-roof and dormer-window fashion.
It would be difficult to visualize its

Bernard Wagner is regularly an
architect for the Housing and Home
Finance Agency, Division of Hous-
ing Research, in Washington, D.C.
In 1950 he erected a complete pre-
fabricated American house for the
Berlin Industrial Fair — furnished
all the way from kitchen sink to
salt and pepper shakers. Lectures
in US Information Centers in 10
German cities followed. Recently
he has served as special consultant
for the ECA Housing Development
Projects for Western Germany.

and housing in Germany. Professional
organizations quarrel among them-
selves, labor and consumer groups are
rather indifferent, and contractors and
builders are too busy with small jobs
and red tape to bother about the big
jobs, especially if the projects have
not even reached the discussion stage.

4. There is little building money in
Germany. Since the currency reform,
which wiped out a substantial part of
the people's savings, money has be-
come a scarcity and banks are reluc-
tant to make long term loans. Building

original design. The extremely fruitful

period in German architecture of the 1920s failed to leave
any mark on the work executed since then. The years
of Nazi regime systematically strangled any new ideas
in architecture, thoroughly eradicated the earlier modern
spirit and saw to it that German architectural schools
produced nothing but obedient servants in the National-
Socialist conception of art and architecture.

Today a small numberof German architects are trying
to pick up where Poelzig, van der Rohe, Gropius and
Martin Wagner left off. To assist them, the ECA Housing
Development Projects Program recently offered German
ingenuity a chance to set an example for future housing
projects.

HE FREE DEVELOPMENT of architecture, housing
and city planning in Germany has been restricted
by many obstacles. The most significant of these are:

1. There is no city planning legislation to enable the
German people to rebuild their cities according to present
and future needs. Practically every city has vast areas
either completely leveled or consisting of ruins beyond
repair. City officials, architects, engineers and bankers
look at these ruins helplessly. Although bombings de-
stroyed buildings they could not destroy property lines
and inflated land values.

2. There are no new building techniques which promise
a drastic reduction of building costs and there are no
building codes which would permit the introduction of
such techniques. German architects and engineers are
still inventive and productive, but their talent cannot be
used to the fullest if they are not given a chance through
proper legislation by city and state governments. The
Federal Government and the Housing Ministry recognize
this to some extent but they are in a difficult position
because of their limited means to spur action by local
officers.

3. There is no central organization or group of persons
either capable or in a position to promote city planning

DECEMBER 1951

money can only be obtained at ex-
tremely high interest rates and is therefore going mostly
into industrial and commercial construction.

O DATE ECA has spent approximately DM 400,000,000
($95,200,000) for housing in Germany. However, James
W. Butler, chief of the ECA Housing Section in Frankfurt,
deeply concerned because some of this money from
counterpart funds was apparently not spent as effectively
as possible, prompted the initiation of a nationwide com-
petition for architect-builder teams to submit in the form
of firm bids their best proposals for modern low cost
housing.
The winning team in each city was granted the build-
ing contract for their project and runners-up received

ECA housing competition jury takes look at site plans.
L-r., Mack Arnold, North Carolina manufacturer; Edgar
Wedepohl, Berlin architect; Walter F. Bogner (chairman
of jury), Harvard University architecture professor;
Donald Monson, city planner; Mrs. Emmi Bonhoeffer, and
Prof. Otto Bartning, president of the German Institute
(ECA photos by W. Heine)

of Architects.

--- Page 25 ---
American and German jury members listen to Hanover
city official describe local conditions to be considered in
making choice of dwelling unit plans and site location.
During six-week tour almost 1,000 entries were judged.

cash prizes. The program was sponsored jointly by ECA
and the Federal Housing Ministry with some $10,000,000
of Marshall Plan counterpart funds for the whole oper-
ation. Because of the desperate need for housing in Ger-
many, competitors were given only 10 weeks to prepare
and submit their entries.

The cities and sites within these cities were selected
on the basis of suitability for demonstration purposes.
Forty cities throughout West Germany were invited to
submit proposals for suitable building sites for 200 to
300 dwelling units. Those cities offering superior sites in
respect to cost, location, availability of community fa-
cilities, relationship to places of employment and other
important factors, were given preference.

ECA in conjunction with the housing ministry selected
15 cities for the program: Frankfurt, Hanover, Munich,
Nuremberg, Brunswick, Mannheim, Stuttgart, Bremen,
Krefeld, Aachen, Luebeck, Freiburg, Reutlingen, Mainz
and Kaufbeuren.

HENEVER POSSIBLE PLANS were promoted in

cases where the construction of these dwelling
units would be the beginning for a larger housing de-
velopment or neighborhood. In that way the progressive
design of the initial project could set the pattern for
any future development.

Only Bremen submitted a construction site in the
bombed-out center of the city, Bremen used to be a town
of the two-story row house and for that reason land
values were relatively low. Furthermore, real estate
owners were willing to pool their properties for common
development. A successful project there could determine
the residential rehabilitation picture for the rest of Bre-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

men and could also serve as an example for other cities
to follow.

What may be good for Bremen may not be good for
another city as each has its own particular problem.
However, Bremen is in a position to show that action
by progressive citizens can make it possible to turn into
reality the seemingly utopian plan on some architect's
drafting board.

Since construction of all the projects was to be en-
tirely financed by Marshall Plan funds, the selected cities
in actuality received 200 to 300 dwelling units as a pre-
sent. In turn, the cities had to agree to the following con-
ditions: donate the site and carry the cost of site im-
provements up to the project boundaries; permit architects
to deviate from local building codes and zoning ordi-
nances; accept the decisions of the jury and restrict the
list of tenants to refugees, bombed-out families and a
small percentage of displaced persons.

Each project will be run by a non-profit development
organization acting as a temporary owner in line with
the ECA and Federal Housing Ministry aim of eventual
home ownership by the tenants.

HE JURY FOR THE COMPETITION was composed of

13 members. The American team of five was organ-
ized in Washington under the ECA Technical Assistance
Program and included: Walter F. Bogner, chairman,
member of the American Institute of Architects and pro-
fessor of architecture at Harvard University; Mack Arnold,
construction expert and manufacturer of concrete building
material, Greensboro, N.C.; Donald Monson, former
member of the Detroit City Planning Commission; Wil-
liam Wittausch, economist from the Federal Housing Ad-
ministration, Washington, D.C., and Bernard Wagner,
the writer of this article.

The Germans had as their chairman Prof. Otto Bartning,
head of the German Institute of Architects. Other mem-
bers were: Dr. Otto Ernst Schweitzer, architect, Karlsruhe
Technical University; Edgar Wedepohl, Berlin architect;
Dr. E. Mengeringhausen, consulting mechanical engineer,
Wuerzburg; Dr. Fritz Leonhardt, consulting engineer,
Stuttgart; Mrs. Emmi Bonhoeffer, Poenitz; Dr. Philip Rap-
paport, president of the organization of settlers in the
Ruhr coal district (Siedlungsverband Ruhrkohlenbezirk),
Essen; Walter Blind, consultant for housing, economics
and financing, Brunswick, and Helmut Doescher, coun-
cilor for the Federal Ministry for Housing, Bonn.

For six weeks this jury traveled from city to city judg-
ing close to 1,000 entries. In Bonn the task was com-
pleted Oct. 20. The whole trip with its meetings and
discussions was a splendid example of German-American
cooperation, Several winners were architects who had
been to America under the HICOG Exchanges Program.

RELIMINARY IMPRESSIONS INDICATED that there
were a great number of outstanding projects at reason-
able cost. In every city the plans chosen for awards were
not only of better design but were also lower in cost
than the traditional housing project in the same lo-

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 26 ---
cality. The primary aim of the housing development
projects program —to achieve better housing at lower
cost —has thus far been accomplished.

The sites in Nuremberg, Bremen and Luebeck lent
themselves to the creation of whole townships. The
dwelling units to be designed for the competition had
to fit into a limited area, but the architects were at
liberty to make proposals for a much larger area. The
sites of Hanover, Munich, Brunswick, Aachen and Reut-
lingen offered similar opportunities on a smaller scale.
Failure of most architects to take advantage of these
opportunities helped to demonstrate the severe dearth of
city planning talent in Germany.

There were a number of oufstanding designs for the
project sites proper where the architects succeeded in
creating an interesting pattern of open and enclosed
spaces and in relating proposed building groups to existing
conditions of the surrounding area.

A great variety of building types were represented,
many with excellent unit plans. Multi-story walk-up
apartments and two-story row houses were the dwell-
ing types most often used. Even the one-story row
houses received some attention, A Munich architect
developed an extremely interesting idea from the old
‘Atrium"-type house, which consists of a series of one-
story dwellings with courts in between. The dwellings
and courts are offset in such a manner as to give the
tenant complete privacy. Elevations were in general
simple and straightforward, expressing the various func-
tions of the floor plans.

Bibliography
Of ECA Housing Articles

Previous articles published in the Information Bui-
letin concerning ECA assistance to construction of
new homes in Germany include:

New Homes for Refugees, article by John E. Mc-
Gowan, chief, ECA and Economic Affairs Branch,
Public Relations Division, HICOG, onextensive ECA-
assisted housing program in Schleswig-Holstein,
Issue of May 1950.

ERP House Building for Refugees Progresses in
Schleswig-Holstein, pictorial feature of develop-
ment since above article “New Homes for Re-
fugees,” Issue of September 1950.

800 New Dwellings for Refugees Dedicated, pic-
torial story of refugee housing project in Luebeck,
Schleswig-Holstein, Issue of October 1950.

The Sonthofen Case, article by Alfred T. Schadde,
Public Relations Branch, OLC Bavaria, describing
ECA-assisted housing project in southern Ba-
varian town. Issue of December 1950.

ERP Providing Homes, article by William T. Neal,
US resident officer for Heidelberg, about ECA-
assisted housing project at Weiblingen, near Hei-
delberg, Issue of April 1951.

Big New Housing Projects for Bavaria, resume of
German construction program with Marshall Plan
assistance, Issue of July 1951.

DECEMBER 1951

23

Actual visit to proposed sites was first action of jury in
each of 15 chosen cities. The panel's selections were
made on the basis of cost, location, availability of com-
munity facilities and proximity to centers of employment.

EW CONSTRUCTION METHODS or systems did not
appear as often as expected although the average
plan showed a logical and somewhat improved use of
existing traditional construction methods. Hollow con-
crete blocks with pumice aggregate were most popular
for walls usually 10 inches thick finished with plaster
inside and stucco outside. Lightweight concrete slabs
such as “Ytong’ and “Porenbeton” were also used suc-
cessfully. Floor constructions were predominantly rein-
forced concrete slabs or hollow tile and rib systems.
A number of contractors used precast concrete beams.
Because of the shortage of wood and steel in Germany,
joists of those materials were used in only a few cases.
The pitched roof versus flat roof controversy usually
hinged on the roof covering material. The selection com-
mittee recommended that research experiments made in
the United States and in prewar Germany be utilized for
construction of a roof covering equal to the American
conception of a standard three to five ply built-up roof,
which carries a 20-year manufacturer's guarantee.
German technicians voiced considerable skepticism as
to the use of corrugated Eternit or Fulgurit (asbestos-
cement) for a roof covering. They questioned the treat-
ment of joints as well as the quality and durability of
the postwar German material. The selection committee
suggested that winning architect-contractor teams should
get together with the materials manufacturer to work
out a solution for roof covering which would be ac-
ceptable to the German Housing Min'stry and ECA.
Proposals employing prefabrication or semi-prefabri-
cation methods were not as numerous as expected and
most of them were technically immature. Only one pro-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
posal was free from major technical deficiencies but it was
too expensive to compete with a number of good designs
employing standard construction methods.

OMEWHAT MORE PROGRESS was achieved in the

field of mechanical installations. While a completely
prefabricated utility core, including kitchen and bath-
room fixtures, was not in evidence, a great many design-
ers had worked out standard plumbing trees and plumb-
ing walls. Kitchen and bathroom layouts were back to
back |p most cases.

Th /fuel shortage in Germany makes present systems
of central heating too expensive for low cost housing.
The individual stove is the predominant method of heat-
ing and affords the most amount of control and flexibility
to the tenant and his pocketbook. In some localities
people buy their own stove and take it along with the
rest of their furniture when they move to another dwell-
ing unit. As a rule central heating pays off only in elevator
apartment structures with efficiency-type dwelling units.

While definite savings have been achieved through
more functional design, simplified construction and com-
petitive bidding, there are other possibilities for aids
which have not been sufficiently exploited. They include
intelligent site planning, taking advantage of the natural

“the 1920s.

characteristics of the site and aiming at a minimum of
earth movement, roads and utility lines; integration of
architectural, structural and mechanical design for the
purpose of repeating a few standard components as often
as possible, and streamlined financing which would make
construction funds available to the project development
organization in a more direct manner.

HE FINAL PHASE of the ECA Housing Development

Projects Program remains unfinished pending com-
pletion of construction of this low cost housing. However,
the program has already brought about several major
achievements. The idea of combining architect and con-
tractor as a working tgam— unique in Germany and
most parts of Europe—has proved to be the best way
to arrive at bids which promise better design for less
money. .

The competition gave recognition to a great many
young architects, who produced new and valuable ideas.
Lastly, the operation stimulated professional groups,
city and state officials. A wedge has been driven into
wasteful traditionalism. It is up to the Germans to see
that this lead will grow until architecture in their country

reaches or surpasses the high standard it enjoyed in
+END

Many Education Service Centers to be Taken Over

ERMAN AUTHORITIES WILL take over during the

coming year a majority of HICOG's 16 Education
Service Centers, which have become focal points for
the planning of democratic education reform in Germany
during the last four years.

‘Dr. Mildred English, acting chief of the Education
Branch, Education and Cultural Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, said Oct. 8 the voluntary efforts of Ger-
man authorities to keep the centers operating after HICOG
withdraws support, indicates the value of these services
to thousands of German teachers and school officials.

HICOG will continue to operate three of the centers
— in Munich, Nuremberg and Berlin — while four will
be consolidated with US Information Centers in Bremen,
Wiesbaden, Karlsruhe and Hamburg. The remainder will all
be taken over by education ministries, teachers’ colleges
or local education groups. In turning over the centers,
HICOG will provide the German receivers with all books
and equipment on long-term loan and a small financial
grant to assist in the first months of independent.operation:

German authorities have agreed to promote the same
democratic and progressive principles as were introduced
by the Americans in the centers.

Established in 1947, the Education Service Centers have
an average monthly attendance of approximately 49,000
teachers, school supervisors, parents and students. Each
center features a library of 10,000 books and hundreds
of periodicals, in German and English, relating to pedagog-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

ical subjects, as well as films projectors, tape recorders
and other aids for conducting educational programs.

HE AMERICAN DIRECTORS and German staffs at

each center have organized forums, seminars and
workshops on citizenship-training, democratic teaching
methods and hundreds of other problems relating to
education. Several of the centers have published monthly
journals, including translated articles from education
magazines of other countries.

Most of the centers have conducted series of forums
in which teachers, parents, journalists, labor and business ©
leaders and government representatives have concen-
trated their efforts toward solving local school problems.

Many centers conduct research and demonstration pro-
jects designed to improve German education. Thus the
Berlin center has developed new intelligence and aptitude
tests to replace the outmoded tests now used in German
schools. The Augsburg center has operated a child guid-
ance center, in which a local psychiatrist, doctor and
social worker have joined in treating problem children
and demonstrating modern methods in this field. Many
of Germany's new textbooks have been written by com-
mittees working in the Education Service Centers.

The centers which are to be turned over to German-
authorities during the coming year are located in Bremer-
haven, Kassel, Jugenheim, Weilburg, Stuttgart, Bruch-
sal, Heidelberg, Mannheim and Augsburg.

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 28 ---
Ethnic Germans Emigrate

LOND BALTICS, DARK-HAIRED

Hungarians and Rumanians, Polish
farmers and Ukrainian professors can
be seen hurrying in and out of the Re-
settlement Center for German Expel-
lees at Hanau, all with the same object
in mind: emigration to America.

this article was
furnished by George Wellde, pub-
lic relations officer of the US Dis-
placed Persons
Frankfurt. Photographs were taken
by Julius Roemer, photographer for
the Commission.

Material for

Commission in

One year later the Soviet Army
entered Czechoslovakia and all ethnic
Germans were arrested. On their way
to jail the Barbatschis were beaten
in the streets while mobs shouted and
threw stones. Gisela, their 15-year-old
daughter, was wounded in the leg by

These people are Germans of ethnic
origin. In other words, their forefathers were born in Ger-
many, but due io one reason or another they moved to
countries to the east where they retained their Germanic
language and customs. In some cases the ancestors were
groups of farmers or professional men who because of
their talent or enterprise were invited by foreign dynasties
to settle in their kingdoms. Others never moved from their
native soil but the land changed hands as frontiers moved
backward and forward after each European war.

Some 54,744 Germans of ethnic origin who were resid-
ing in western Germany and Austria, on Jan. 1, 1949,
became eligible to emigrate to the United States through
an amendment June 16, 1950, to the US Displaced Persons
Act of 1948. This group included persons who fled from
non-German eastern countries and German territory east
of the Oder-Neisse line to escape Communist persecution;
persons of German ethnic origin who were born in
Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Po-
land, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., Yugoslavia or areas under
the control and domination of these countries.

The resettlement center at Hanau near Frankfurt, which
was Officially dedicated Aug. 10, 1951, is the only instal-
lation of its kind in Germany used exclusively for proc-
essing German expellees. The German government con-
tributed 85 percent of the cost for building the center
and the state of Hesse the remaining 15 percent. The
Karlsfeld Displaced Persons Resettlement Center near
Munich, Wentorf Center near Hamburg, and another DP
camp at Salzburg, Austria, also deal with matters per-
taining to applicants residing in their areas.

YPICAL OF EMIGRANTS processed daily at the Ha-

nau Center are Hans Barbatschi and his family, who

are of Danubian Swabish descent. ;

The Barbatschis moved to Prague in 1944 at the invi-
tation of an export-import glass firm from which Hans
accepted a position.

The Barbatschis' ancestors came from Swabia, Ger-
many. In 1785 Maria Theresa of the Austro-Hungar-
ian Empire lured the peasants away from their life
of serfdom with the promise of a few coins, a bag
of corn and a sack of flour for those Germans who
would help drain the swamps of Banat, now located
on the borders of Hungary, Rumania and Yugoslavia.
The hardy band built a fleet of canoes and sailed
down the Danube to Vienna, constantly hindered by
natural obstacles, robbers and hostile principalities.

DECEMBER 1951

a bullet. In prison their shoes, stockings
and coats were removed and they were left to spend the
night shivering in a prison cell wondering what their fate
would be. The family was released two days later but it
was merely a temporary respite. Within a week they
were again arrested and this time imprisoned in the in-
famous Pankrac prison, one of the largest in the country.
The swamp mosquitoes were a death-trap for the
weakened 18th century travelers and it was several
months before enough trees had been felled to pro-
vide shelter. The crude houses were barely completed
when a Cholera epidemic killed the majority of per-
sons between 30 and 40 years of age. The disease
recurred through the lifetime of two generations until
the swamps were drained and the land planted.

Hans was placed in the men’s quarters in damp under-
ground cells while his wife was confined in a bleak wing.
It was a consolation to them to know that their chil-
dren, Gisela and Ferdinand, then 11, had better accommoda-

Gisela and Ferdinand study English while waiting for
medical examination. Third emigrant shows keen interest,

--- Page 29 ---
Gisela, Ferdinand, Hans and Flonka Barbatschi leave big
canteen at Hanau Processing Center for German expellees.

tions and received moderately good food. Hans spent three
of his six months’ imprisonment in solitary confinement.

“My cell was small, dark and airless," he said. “I got
hot water called soup and one piece of bread each day.
Gradually I became so weak I could not stand and my
sight began to fail until I could see not more than a
few feet before me, But it was the lack of anything to
do that was the hardest part of my sentence, sitting aim-
lessly day after day when even thinking was torture.”

HEN HE WAS RELEASED, Hans boarded a refugee

train and started the journey to Germany to search
for his wife and children. In Pilsen members of an Ameri-
can army unit took pity on the pale, haggard man who
was only half his former weight.

The former Banat marshlands drained by the Ger-
man peasants is one of the finest corn belts in Europe
and is source of the main supply of hops for the
famous Pilsen breweries in Czechoslovakia.

Hans recalled, “When I told the American captain
who interviewed me that I had been in Pankrac he under-
stood my sufferings and offered me plenty of good food
and bathing facilities with hot water and soap. I felt I
had already reached heaven.”

When Hans finally located his family in Hof, Bavaria,
their happiness was overshadowed by the difficulties
encountered in finding work and living space. Only a
small amount of the money Mrs. Barbatschi brought out
of Czechoslovakia remained — and they were not entitled
to claim unemployment compensation.

By buying and selling raffia bags Hans was able to
make enough to support his family and to save sufficient
money to enable the Barbatschis to move farther north
where business possibilities were considerably better.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

N FRANKFURT, AFTER an intensive search, the Bar-

batschis found one room which was adequate to meet
their immediate needs. Hans purchased a pushcart and
with the help of his wife and children set up a small
door-to-door business selling any salable merchandise
he could buy. Soon it was possible for Hans to purchase
an old tavern which he converted into a warehouse and
offices. He dealt mainly in wholesale glass, porcelain
and stationery. The family moved into a small apartment
near the business.

Hans was elated with his success in building up a new
life, but what he wanted most was assurance of freedom
and security for his family in the future. The chance to
emigrate to the United States under the German ethnic
program gave Hans this assurance.

“We have so many friends in America,” he said, “that
we feel it is closer to us than Germany for although we
are of ethnic origin, we have never felt at home here."

During the 10 to 15 days which the Barbatschis and
other families spent in the center they were housed free
of charge in freshly-painted apartments, adequately fur-
nished, and with baths and showers in the basement —a
true luxury for those who had been sharing unheated
rooms or primitive shelters with three or four other fami-
lies, with ragged curtains or cardboard partitions provid-
ing the only semblance of privacy. The center mess halls
are large, bright and airy and the food is cooked in
modern equipment with an emphasis on cleanliness.

HE US DISPLACED PERSONS Commission has set
up an extensive English and orientation program in
the nearby US Information Center to help make the ad-
justment to the American way of life. An auditorium and
movie hall in the center make it possible for the residents
to have entertainment without leaving the camp.
Alfred Cardinaux, senior officer of the US Displaced
Persons Commission, Hanau, and his five officers are

Gisela and Ferdinand take oath of good faith given by
Laureat L. Martineau at US Displaced Persons Commission.

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 30 ---
responsible for processing. operations. The US Consulate,
US Public Health Service, US and German voluntary
agencies and US Emigration and Naturalization Offices
are also located in the camp.

Each ethnic German family must obtain beforehand a
guarantee of housing and employment at their destination
prior to departure for the United States. Those without
relatives or friends in America can apply to the DP Com-
mission area office or to Catholic, Protestant or Lutheran
voluntary agencies which have applications from Ameri-
can families wishing to employ single domestics, married
couples or a group of ethnic German workers.

The agency assists its individual group with the proc-
essing and travel. This selection, documentation and
transportation varies from two to four months. The ethnic
Germans ‘chosen are sent to a US port of entry without
cost to the sponsor or expellee. The sponsor is respon-
sible for transportation costs from the port to final desti-
nation.

After receiving this assurance of employment, the pro-
spective emigrant must submit documentary proof of ethnic
origin. A thorough security check is then made and if
this investigation is favorable the family members report
to the center, where they remain until their processing
is complete.

PON ARRIVAL AT CAMP the family registers for
food cards and accommodations. Next the Public
Health Service conducts a general physical checkup,
blood and X-ray tests. These examinations occasionally
reveal incurable weaknesses, contagious diseases, active
lung conditions and other illnesses which may cause
either rejection for emigration purposes or a long delay.
Those receiving a clean bill of health proceed to a US
Displaced Persons Commission officer, who explains fully
the terms of the emigrant's work contract. Employees

Hans Barbatschi and his daughter are first in long line to
receive their midday meal at big Hanau Processing Center.

DECEMBER 1951

Sparklingly clean kitchen and modern equipment make
for sanitary preparation, swift serving of quantities of food.

must remain with their sponsor six months or as long
as it is convenient for both parties concerned,

A US consular official makes another check of docu-
ments and issues a US visa — which is not charged against
the normal German quota but is charged to the country
of the emigrant’s origin. After final clearance by the
US Immigration and Naturalization authorities the emi-
grants are ready for transportation to their new home.

This marks the end of the applicant's struggle to com-
pete with more than 1,000,000 unemployed in western
Germany in order to establish independence on the Ger-
man economy. The majority of the ethnic Germans are
strong, hard-working, honest people. When they fled to
the West for sanctuary many brought with them closely
guarded trade secrets now lost forever to Communist-
dominated countries.

The group from Czechoslovakia included musical in-
strument makers of world-wide reputation and others who
specialize in heavy cut glass, rich engravings, antique
designs and ornamental cuts on glass. The Sudeten Ger-
mans are experienced craftsmen in glove and doll-making.
Paintings, handmade lace and blouses are the special
crafts of the ethnic Germans from the Baltic states.

HUS, COMING FROM ALL PARTS of eastern Europe

these refugees have displayed in their efforts, both
before and after their flight from Communism, infinite
patience and resourcefulness coupled with an unusual
amount of natural artistic ability which they will carry
with them to the New World.

Hans has planned to start an export-import business
when he arrives in the United States while his son goes
to college. Mrs. Barbatschi and their daughter hope to
earn extra money to keep the family going by knitting
sweaters and children’s clothing. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Hessian Ministers-President Honored

HE SIXTH ANNIVERSARY of installation of the first

postwar minister-president for Hesse recently served
as a forum platform for American and German leaders
to review German progress,

In 1945 Dr. James R. Newman, then director of the
Office of US Military Government for Greater Hesse,
installed ‘Dr, Karl Geiler as minister-president of the
newly created state. Six years later the same American
official was serving as US state commissioner for Hesse.

In a talk marking the occasion Dr. Newman took note
of recent progress, particularly the Hessian lead in
educational reform and in combating Communism. Then
he made an appeal for “higher wages, increased produc-
tion, lower profits and lower prices’ and called on the
state government to take the lead in reversing the
present trend of European capitalism.

US High Commissioner for Germany John J. McCloy
telegraphed a congratulatory message which praised the
political and economic progress made in Hesse and the
contributions of its people to the development of demo-
cratic government in Germany. He expressed the hope
that the German Federal Government would receive

shortly “the fullest authority over its own affairs with

no further controls or supervision on our part.”

“This will mark," he said, “the logical development
from the date your postwar government was first estab-
lished. But with all of the distress, difficulties, success
and progress which the new state of Hesse has ex-
perienced to date, its faith in the democratic and con-

stitutional processes of government and the inner strength ,

of that government will be tested to a degree they never
have been while the Allies have been in authority here.”

EPUTY US HIGH COMMISSIONER Maj. Gen. George
P. Hays declared that the great progress made by
the German state and federal governments demonstrated
that the time had come to entrust them to carry on their

Sixth anniversary of the installation of the first postwar
Hessian minister-president was celebrated by US State
Commissioner James R. Newman (second from left) with,
l-r., Georg August Zinn, present minister-president, who
served as OMGUS-appointed minister of justice in first
postwar cabinet; Christian Stock, second minister-president,
who was selected by his party following first postwar
state elections, and Prof. Karl Geiler, first postwar minister-
president, who was appointed by US Military Government
headed by Dr. Newman. (Photo by Herzog)

own work. He warned, however, that certain problems
—especially the threat from the East—would remain and
that Western military forces would have to be maintained
in Germany.

The three postwar Hessian state ministers-president,
Georg August Zinn, Christian Stock and Dr. Karl Geiler,
all praised American aid, both material and spiritual,
given Germany during the past six years. They also paid
tribute to the US state commissioner and his staff for
their efforts and human understanding.

Others attending the commemoration included Benjamin
T. Buttenwieser, retiring assistant US high commissioner
for policy; Francis E. Sheehan, deputy state commissioner
for Hesse; Col. L. B. Kelly, Wiesbaden Military Post com-
mander; Dr. Newman's division chiefs; Brigadier C. H. V.
Cox, British observer; M. R. Gromand, French observer,
and members of the present Hessian cabinet.

National Safety Council,
Army Present Special Awards

Special safety awards tendered by the National Safety
Council and the Department of the Army, have been
presented to the United States Army Engineer Command,
the Wuerzburg Military Post and the Signal Corps Com-
mand in the European Command in recognition of the
outstanding effectiveness of their safety programs and
the successful application of accident prevention tech-
niques. The awards were based on safety activities for
the year 1950 as compared with the preceding two-year
period. Presentations were made in Heidelberg recently.

The National Safety Council's highest recognition, the
Award of Honor for Distinguished Service to Safety, was
given to the Engineer Command and was presented to
Col. W. E. Teale, European Command chief engineer. The
award was made in recognition of the EUCOM Engineer
Command's reduction of accidents and injuries by more
than 35 percent during 1950 and the outstanding manage-
ment of their safety program.

The Department of the Army's Award of Merit for
Safety was conferred on the Wuerzburg Military Post and
presented to Col. H. C. Osborne in the absence of the
post commander, Brig. Gen. T. L. Futch. The Wuerzburg
Military Post achieved a 33 percent reduction in accidents.
The degree of interest and participation in the safety
program by the commanding general and his staff was
rated excellent.

The Department of the Army Award of Merit for Safety
was earned by the Signal Command in EUCOM, and was.
presented to Brig.Gen, R. V. Corput, EUCOM chief signal
officer. Accidents and injuries involving Signal Corps
personnel showed a reduction by nearly 15 percent
during the period covered by the awards, and the quality
of preventive effort, and safety education and training
were rated as excellent.

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 32 ---
Bremen Helps its Youth

By CHERRY LOU FELLNER

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

HEN I WAS A BOY we got our exercise by walking

two miles to school or by jumping into the old swim-
ming hole. Why should there be such a fuss now about
recreation facilities?"

Those words, which represented the general way of
thinking in America some 20 years ago, are again being
voiced. This time in Germany. Only in Bremen the city
government as well as the man on the street is doing
something about bettering recreation facilities for youth
and older folk.

The progressive program is directed in particular at
“unorganized” youth, that 60 percent of the city’s young
population who do not belong to clubs or private or-
ganizations, Included in this group are many expellees,
refugees, trade union youth, youngsters who due to
financial reasons quit school before or shortly after
the ninth grade (the end of compulsory education), and
others who do not know what it is to play a game of
soccer or to hit a ball with a bat.

The situation is similar in Bremerhaven, a port like
Bremen city. Both are in the state of Bremen—a US
enclave deep in the British Zone giving Americans a
shipping outlet in Germany.

This is the way things have developed.

HE BREMEN CITY youth office in the spring of
1950 set up a recreation program with a chief, a
secretary and four assistants to carry out the work.
This pioneer project received a HICOG grant-in-aid
amounting to DM 38,000 ($9,044) in 1950 and a similar
amount this year. German authorities yearly set aside
DM. 270,000 ($64,260) for the Bremen city youth office
and DM 32,000 ($7,616) for youth activities in Bremer-
haven, The six Germans have all visited the United
States under the HICOG Exchanges Program in con-
nection with recreatign activities. All are youthful and,
what is important, have a young person's viewpoint.
The four assistants—three men and one woman—
work at the city’s four youth centers, Two of the centers
were recently constructed an@ the other two were
converted from old barracks. Plans call for erection of a
fifth, giving Bremen more community centers than other
areas of comparable size and population in Germany. The
recreation program also includes a summer camp, handi-
crafts, sports, discussions, indoor and outdoor games.
In Bremerhaven there are playground helpers during
the summer months but no full-time regular helpers.
Although Bremen city is well ahead in its organized
recreation program, a private non-profit group, the
Bremer Jugendfreizeit e. V. (Bremen Youth Recreation
Association) was organized in June to follow up the
duties of the municipal program and to promote and or-

DECEMBER 1951

ganize throughout the state regular sports programs and
activities for youth not in schools or clubs by making
available more private facilities through civic support
and other methods. F

The organization has a nine-man executive board made
up of three representatives of the city recreation group,
three members of the staff of the Office of the US State
Commissioner for Bremen— James E.. McDaniel, chief,
Education and Cultural Relations Branch, Public Affairs
Division; Walter V. Burrows, field adviser on Youth
Affairs and Sports, and Roy Schlenter, visiting consult-
ant — and three private citizens, This group meets every
two weeks with the regular committee, now composed
of 12 persons but eventually to number 25. An advisory
committee of professional men will be formed later,

Little tots at Palverberg center have light snack at junior
sized tables and chairs before trained leaders start play
games and other activities designed for worth-while learning.

Boys and girls take advantage of big sports hall in Haben-
hausen School, Bremen, where facilities are provided for
indoor sports. (Community Activities Branch photos by K. Hopp)

\f

--- Page 33 ---
Recreation congress sponsored by and held in Bremen from Oct. 22 to 25 drew more than 200 delegates from all over
West Germany and free Berlin. Bremen’s leaders, both state and city, are well-known for their progressive thinking.

NE OF THE FIRST ACTS of the group was to set the

wheels in motion for a survey of available facilities
and the use of them, Charles B. Cranford, director of
the recreation department, San Francisco State College,
was in Bremen for two months as a HICOG visiting con-
sultant in community recreation and youth activities to
aid in planning the gathering of background information
to be used in a master plan. He was succeeded by Mr.
Schlenter, superintendent of recreation in Plainfield, N.J.,
who will work with the group in a similar capacity.

Mr. Cranford’s report regarding planning of the survey
stated: “It was decided in the beginning that this study
should be done by the Germans, because equal in im-
portance to the completion of the survey and the master
plan is its acceptance and adoption by the official Ger-
man community. This report and plan must involve those
German elements that are essential to its completion and
adoption.”

The study will include all leisure-time resources for
sports, camping, art, music, dance, drama, clubs and hob-
bies along with the facilities, leadership, finance, pro-
gram, organizations and their relationships. Included will
be the cities of Bremen, Bremen-North and Bremerhaven.

Many of the publicly owned recreation and sports fa-
cilities have been assigned for the erxclusive use of
members of private clubs. It is hoped that an agreement
can be reached whereby the use of the facilities could be
divided between the public and private clubs and that
“unorganized” youth may also have an opportunity to use
the playgrounds and gymnasiums in private schools.

O ORGANIZE THE ASSOCIATION more closely, a

full-time director was elected in September. He is
Alfred Ciecior, who has been an active sport participant
for many years and once was director of the Danzig
sport office. Serving on a trial basis for six months, Mr.
Ciecior is directing the survey work. An assistant is in
Bremerhaven working with a seven-man executive com-
mittee on proposed changes, Chairman of that committee
is a member of the city council.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

The director reports to the executive board every 14
days on progress of the survey. The gathering of in-
formation and study of it are expected to be completed
within six months. Decisions will be made as to what

- facilities or activity are lacking in Bremen state and

suggestions will determine how these shortcomings can
best be remedied. As the corporation is composed of pri-
vate individuals and receives no funds from the state, re-
quests can be made for introduction of legislation to help
bring the program into operation along with the existing
recreation activities.

A provision will likely be made to establish a leader-
ship training program for community recreation and youth
activity leaders in one of the existing schools.

All of this community and state action offers evidence
of why recreation experts have called Bremen “one of
the brightest spots in western Germany” in youth activity
progress. The change has been slow, but steady, which
has proved to be the best way when it concerns changing
the ways of thinking or tradition. -+-END

.
New day care center for children at Palverberg-Bremen has
latest innovations. Entire side of windows insures maximum
amount of sunlight for light and other healthful benefits.

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 34 ---
Visit to the sprawling federal parliament building in Bonn is goal for interested citizens from Huenfeld County, Hesse.

Meeting “Their Government”

By PAUL R. PHILLIPS
US Resident Officer, Huenfeld, Hesse

I was amazed to see an SPD* member of the ‘Bundestag’ (Federal Parliament) talking amicably
with a CDU member.

The ‘Bundestag’ building itself is very simply constructed and the furnishings are anything but
lavish. The ‘'Bundestag’’ members themselves have very small offices, some only eight by 12 feet. The
newspapers lead one to believe otherwise.

Our “‘Bundestag’' delegate spent more than one hour answering our questions and listening to our
comments.

HESE AND MANY OTHER REMARKS made by local many towns as possible in Huenfeld County to visit the

groups after their return from a day in Bonn are Bundestag (Federal Parliament) for a day has already
convincing proof of the value of such visits. Begun only caused more discussion of, and genuine interest in, the
in June, the program to send representatives from as operation of the Federal Government than any other
— single program being undertaken in the county.

* The SPD or Social Democratic Party is the opposition party Largely responsible for this growing interest in the
while the CDU or Christian Democratic Party is the largest group in ent are the discussion evenings held by the
the CDU-CSU (Christian Socialist Union) coalition government headed ila z ar 2 au
by Chancellor Konrad Adenauer. visitors to Bonn before groups in their own communities

DECEMBER 1951 31 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
ntl:

Group halts Chancellor Adenauer near his home on the
Rhine to exchange pleasantries. Tours acquaint visitors
with dignitaries as well as parliamentary procedures.

after their return. One group that spent a day at the
‘Bundestag has traveled to three other communities of
the county, as a sort of traveling forum, to tell about
their experiences in Bonn — of seeing the federal
buildings, attending a Bundestag session and speaking
with a number of Bundestag members,

More than 80 persons from Huenfeld had made the
trip by the first week in October—and at least twice
that number were waiting for a chance to go during the
current session, All groups make their own arrangements
for the trip, generally with one of the Bundestag delegates
from their voting district. They also find a place to stay
over night, either in Bonn or en route. One such party
recently spent the night in the Kolpingsfamilie house near
Bonn while another batch of visitors to the capital of the
Federal Republic stayed with friends.

HE FIRST GROUP to visit Bonn started the ball roll-

ing in interesting other county groups in observing
the Bundestag. They spoke in several towns and during
every discussion several persons, usually the local
teacher and several young people, would ask the group
how they could also make a day's trip to the German
capitol. One of the group would explain simply:

“Write Mr. Sabel or Mr. Massoth (two of the four
Bundestag members representing the voting district which
includes Huenfeld County), ask him for cards of admission
to the Bundestag for a day scheduled for a general
session and then try to borrow the Volkswagen bus from
the resident office.”

Articles appearing in the two local papers about these
trips have also been responsible for arousing the interest
of mayors, teachers, community leaders and youth
throughout the county in visiting the capitol.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

Bundestag members help to arrange schedule and cards
for admission to general session. More attention locaily
to government actions is marked result of Bonn visits.

Each group has been met in person by the Bundestag
member who arranged the trip. The delegate has usually
given from one to two hours from his busy schedule to
explain to the group the political parties represented in
the Bundestag, his personal opinion on a number of
pending issues, the procedure for passing a federal law
and other parliamentary technicalities. He has usually
also introduced the group to several other members of
the Bundestag as well as to a federal minister or two.

One group met Jacob Kaiser, minister for all-German
affairs, but only got a look at busy Finance Minister
Fritz Schaeffer. The last batch to go to Bonn happened
to meet Dr. Konrad Adenauer on the street near his
home. One of the party, more bold than the rest, jumped
out of the bus and told Dr. Adenauer how happy the
group was to see the chancellor in person and thereupon
wished him a long, happy and successful life. The
75-year-old federal chancellor, not to be outdone by such
camaraderie, replied with equal cordiality to the group
and stood together with the visitors while two photo-
graphs which the visitors greatly prized were snapped.

IHE IMPORTANCE OF THESE visits of citizens to

the new Federal Government cannot, I believe, be
overemphasized. Because the Federal Government is
hardly more than two years old, most West Germans
have not yet developed the feeling that the government
is “their government.”

Once they have seen the government at work and
talked with the people who make it work, their interest
in what the government is doing from day to day becomes
a much more personal matter. Through this process of
the citizen’s developing a personal interest in his govern-
ment will perhaps come a feeling of greater responsibility
for what it does. +END

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 36 ---
The small household metalware firm of H. Zenker and Company is another success story. Due to the perseverance of
its principal, an expellee from Karlsbad in Czechoslovakia, this little factory in the county of Aichach, an agricultural]
area of Bavaria, today employs more than 30 workers, most of them refugees from the Sudetenland. It has expanded
with Marshall Plan help and is developing a growing export trade with the United States. (PRB OLCB photos by Maske)

Refugee Enterprise

— An Example of ECA Benefits —

By HERMAN FRANKEL
US Resident Officer, Aichach, Bavaria

HIS IS A STORY of perseverance. It describes the in June 1948 almost wiped out the small enterprises that
fortitude and the industriousness of a former Sudeten industrious refugees had begun. One of these firms re-
who refused to take No" for an answer. mained, however, and today, with the encouragement of
In 1946, more than 15,000 refugees from Sudetenland ERP funds, a small household metalware firm is regaining
and Silesia filled the central Bavarian county of Aichach. economic stability — H. Zenker and Company.
Agriculturally underdeveloped, this county was not pre- Before Mr, Zenker was expelled from Karlsbad, Czecho-
pared economically or even socially to accept these new- slovakia, he had a well-established concern for manu-
comers. Only a few found jobs on surrounding farms, and facturing tinware and other household items and em-
a small number worked in Augsburg and Munich, 30 and ployed approximately 200 persons. More than 50 percent
60 miles away, respectively. The influx created unemploy- of the output in prewar years was exported to the United
ment and housing problems. Then the currency reform States, Canada, South America and India.

DECEMBER 1951 33 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
Products destined for the United States are
crated and stapled in readiness for shipment —
to earn needed dollars for West Germany. Girl
employee (center) stacks cake-molds and other
household items preparatory to packing. Irene
Steiner (right), 20-year-old expellee from the
Sudetenland, walks half-hour to work, earns
Deutsche marks 40 per week (approximately
$9.50), is fully satisfied with her job. Says she
“I'd heard wonderful (ERP) statistics and high-
sounding words, but now I have a job myself!"

Aichach had little to offer this restless, energetic man
in 1947 but, in spite of seemingly insurmountable difficul-
ties and adverse business conditions, he set up shop in a
small wooden shed. With no financial support, with only
borrowed tools and by working day and night, he once
more was able to produce marketable goods. Then came
the currency reform, Although such a sweeping edict
might have discouraged any other person, Mr. Zenker
was undaunted. Turnover began to climb and a mere
$129.71 in July 1948 rose to $542.88 by June 1949; $973.90
in August 1949 climbed to $2,449.59 in February 1950;
and $6,416.24 in June 1950 soared to $8,597.27 in Novem-
ber 1950. These figures show a 75-fold increase in a period
of a little more than two years.

(OWARD THE END OF 1948, Mr. Zenker obtained a
DM 30,000 ($7,140) loan through the refugee office in
Aichach. Connections were taken up with old customers
and many orders were received. Things began to change.
New machinery was purchased and a larger wooden build-
ing was erected beside the old shed. If the firm, however,

While staff, composed principally of women, now numbers
close to 40, expansion to 60 is anticipated, thanks to ERP aid.

ey

were to meet the demands of domestic and export orders,
if it were to employ more workers, more credit was needed
to buy even more machinery and to construct the neces-
sary building.

On Oct. 6, 1949, Mr. Zenker filed an application for ERP
credit amounting to DM 100,000 ($23,800), which was re-
jected. In July 1950 he went personally to Frankfurt where,
with substantiating documents, advance orders and a
statement of credit stability, he at last persuaded the of-
ficials to grant a credit of DM 57,000 ($13,566). Today, this
enterprise has a turnover of more than $23,800 a quarter.
Mr, Zenker now employs 30 persons but expects to in-
crease the personnel to 60 or more as the production
capacity of the plant increases. The firm has annual con-
tract possibilities with the United States amounting to
more than $238,000.

Some employees were vague when asked by the resi-
dent officer if they knew the origin of the credits which
made the plant's operations possible. One young woman,
however, emphatically replied, “Oh, yes, I know all about
this Marshall Plan and the ERP counterpart loans! But
this was the first time that I saw a practical and personal
result. Before, I had heard wonderful statistics and high-
sounding words, but now I have a job myself!" -+END

East Zone Enterprises Failing

More than 16,000 private industrial, trade and handi-
craft enterprises in the Soviet Zone have gone out of
business since the beginning of the year, according to
the trade registers of the individual Soviet Zone states,
said Die Neue Zeitung Sept. 18.

In addition, the East zone authorities have received
10,000 applications for deletion from the trade registers.
The number of bankruptcies of private enterprises in
the Soviet Zone is still on the increase.

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 38 ---
%

US Resident Officer Russell Wickmann welcomes Franz and
Kurt back to Erding from study of American farm methods.

Farm family had cake and presents for Franz on his 18th
birthday. Sandwiches also impressed the Bavarian youths,
who reported difficulty in acquiring two-handed technique.

Farmer Smoot and his son explain operation of a hay bind-
er to Kurt, who was quick to acquire denims and boots.

Kurt raised Brahma calf during his year on a Utah cattle
ranch, Animal won a prize in local 4-H club competition.

Bavaria Was Never Like This!

TD AVARIA HAS A GENUINE COWBOY and his name
is Kurt Hoyley, a stocky 17-year-old farm boy from
Freising, who spent a year on a cattle ranch near Brigham,
Utah. His buddy, tall, blond, 18-year-old Franz Hilger,
from Moosen, a village 20 kilometers south of Erding,
spent a year on a general farm near Fort Jennings, Ohio.
Both of the young Bavarians have just returned from
a year’s trip to the United States, where they studied
American farming methods. While in the States each
received $12 a month plus living expenses.

“I stayed with a farmer by the name of Smoot. He had
10 kids of his own so he didn't mind adding another,”
said Kurt, who came back to Bavaria wearing cowboy
boots and telling his goggle-eyed iriends about roping
cattle and riding the range in a jeep at roundup time.

Franz stayed with Albinus Metzger and his family of
seven children, five of whom were girls. “My farmer got
up at eight o'clock —just like a businessman. But he
got a lot done when he got down to work," said Franz.
Metzger's farm was a combination dairy and general farm.

Both of the boys attended agricultural high school while
in the United States and each scored high marks, much
to the delight of ‘their farmers. “I especially liked the
courses in mechanics. I learned a lot about farm machines
and motor vehicles," said Franz. Numerous field trips
and farm experiences supplemented the schools. +END

Franz enjoyed agricultural high school. Instructor explains
grain storage. (Photos by courtesy "'Erding Journal’’)

--- Page 39 ---
New HICOG Headquarters building (right) in Mehlem, financed by GARIOA counterpart funds, has 130,000 square feet of
office space. Seven-floor structure is finished entirely in masonry. Eight elevators serve building and its several wings (leit).

Newly-built apartments will house a total of 2,096 Ameri- Rear view of gas-heated Mehlem building. Labor and ma-
can and German employees and members of their families. terials were all of German origin. (PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

ao wu

INFORMATION BULLETIN 36 DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 40 ---
HICOG Moves to Bonn

By HENRY A. GOODMAN
Press Officer, Public Relations Division, HICOG

FTER A YEAR OF INTENSIVE PLANNING and less

than nine months of high speed construction work,
the Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany
completed, Nov. 29, the move of its headquarters from
Frankfurt to the capital of the German Federal Republic
in the Bonn Enclave.

On Nov. 5, the 90-mile superhighway between the two
cities began to hum with the transfer contractor's big
vans, moving the belongings of HICOG's German and
American personnel in a daily shuttle. By the end of the
month, 560 American employees and 618 German employ-
ees, with their 918 dependents, had been moved into their
new homes in HICOG’s one American and two German
housing projects. HICOG functioned normally throughout
the 18 working days of the move, and on Nov. 29 was
completely installed in its new office building on the
banks of the Rhine River at Bad Godesberg-Mehlem.

Two days after the vans started to roll, HICOG placed
its four building projects before the public through a
press conference and tour of the new installations. “We
are proud of the construction that has gone on here for
several reasons," said Glenn G. Wolfe, director of the’
Office of Administration, in opening the press conference.

“Most of all," he continued, “we are proud of the way
in which negotiations between Germans and Americans
were carried on for the entire project...in every instance
of the procurement of land, of architecture and construc-
tion, everything was worked out around the table with
the German authorities.”

R. WOLFE GAVE particular credit to Lt. Col. George

G. Davies, architect of the Army Corps of Engineers,
attached to HICOG, who was responsible for initial draw-
ings, site planning and all the technical work on the
projects. J. H. Lennon, special assistant to the director
of HICOG's Office of Administration, was highly com-
plimented by his chief for his handling of all the financial
arrangements, which included procurement of land, and
policy negotiations with the city and German Federal
Government officials relative to the projects.

The two German housing projects and the office build-
ing will eventually become the property of the Federal
Republic of Germany, he went on to explain, and for
that reason HICOG wished them to conform to German
standards and meet German needs. Furthermore, as Mr.
Wolfe said, “We are looking forward to closer relation-
ships here in Bonn.”

Another reason for HICOG’s lack of modesty regard-
ing the building projects is the speed with which they
were constructed. Ground was broken in the early spring
of 1951 and, with the exception of a few buildings in the
German employee housing projects, construction was com-
pleted when HICOG finished moving into its new home.

DECEMBER 1951

37

“On Dec. 15, 1950, Mr. McCloy and his staff approved
the plan of moving to Bonn," Mr. Wolfe informed the
reporters, “There was not even a blueprint, not even a
piece of land ready or purchased or arranged for. Less
than a year from that time the move will be completed.”

The new housing projects have released housing in
Frankfurt through the move of many of HICOG'’s German
employees from that city to Bonn. Others, already living
in the Bonn area, will eventually move into the projects,
further relieving the situation in the old university town,
which is bursting at every seam with civil servants of
the Federal Government and members of the rapidly-
growing international community in the capital.

NDER THE FOREIGN Service Act of 1946, members

of the Foreign Service living abroad receive housing
allowances. The minimum allowance in Western Europe
is $2,500. By providing homes for its American employees,
HICOG will save the American taxpayer $600,000 an-
nually after amortization and upkeep costs of the project,
are taken into account. In addition, these employees will
be saved perhaps months of time in an almost impossible
search for housing in the Bonn area.

Moving Process

In the 18 working days between Nov. 5 and 29,
HICOG moved 2,096 US and German employees and
members of their families. It went off like clockwork.
Everyone was packed up two days in advance, their
possessions loaded by 10 o'clock the morning of the
move. They then left Frankfurt by train or private
auto and were installed in their Mehlem offices by
4 p.m. The family had supper on the table in the
new apartment that night.

Approximately 350 packers, laborers, loaders and
drivers were employed by the German contractor
to move HICOG. More than 1,200 van loads were
hauled in the 18 working days. Heavy objects —
filing cabinets, safes, boxes — were loaded on
dollies, remained on these wheels during the trip
to Mehlem, and were taken off on arrival, the dollies

‘coming back with the trucks. Handling was thus cut
by 50 percent and loading and unloading time
lowered 30 percent,

The truckers followed a heavy schedule. A crew
would’ begin loading at 7 a.m., leave for Bonn about
10 a.m. and arrive at 3 or 4 p.m. They would unload
and return to Frankfurt by 3 a.m. the same night.
The trucks would be serviced and a new crew
would take over at 7 a.m. for the next 20-hour grind.

The moving contractor was the H. & C. Fermont
Company of Frankfurt. They were supervised by
Space Management Branch, Operating Facilities Di-
vision of the Office of Administration.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
Altogether, HICOG has constructed apartments for
2,500 persons in the Bonn area. The American housing
project in Bad Godesberg, with 458 units, will provide
homes for approximately 1,000 individuals. The two Ger-
man housing projects, one in Bad Godesberg and the
other in Bonn-Tannenbusch, will house 1,500 persons in
a total of 824 units. Approximately 1,300 of these Germans
and Americans will work in’the new headquarters build-
ing, which has 130,000 net square feet of floor space.

These four projects, built at a cost of DM 99,500,000
($23,681,000), were paid for from dollar-backed GARIOA
counterpart funds which represent US taxpayers’ aid to
the German economy. By providing employment and
stimulating the economy through the building program,
and by giving lasting value to Germany, HICOG’s proj-
ects have fulfilled the purpose of these counterpart funds.

The construction cost was 80 cents per cubic foot,
which is about avérage in Germany, and far below the
cost of similar projects in the United States.

Regarding the ‘new office building in Mehlem, Mr. Mc-
Cloy stated at a recent press conference: “In building
these offices, we were closely associated with the archi-
tects of the Federal Government, with the idea that as
our staff was reduced those offices might be made avail-
able for offices of the German Government or might be
used as buildings for academic purposes and possibly a
hospital. For that reason, the offices were built in a
sectional form rather than in one unit, which would
normally be the type we would use.”

Already the German Government is maintaining and
operating the two German housing projects under an
agreement with HICOG. This agreement stipulates that
HICOG must approve each apartment assignment, that
the rents will be established by HICOG after consultation
with German officials and on the basis of German con-
trolled rents, and that the projects will be maintained
according to standards set by American officials.

The Federal Republic invested between DM 7,000,000
($1,666,000) and DM 8,000,000 in the two projects, and,
in repayment, is receiving all rents from them. They are
built upon land supplied by the German Government and,
when no longer needed by the US Government, will be
deeded to the Federal Republic.

HE AMERICAN PROJECT is owned outright, land

and all, by the US Government, which plans to retain
ownership indefinitely. The land was bought by the
United States from 60 individual owners.

In addition to the DM 99,500,000 spent directly on
the building projects, HICOG gave approximately DM
25,000,000 ($5,950,000) to the communities as grants-in-aid
for utilities, schools and other public services.

A new German elementary school in the Bonn-Tannen-
busch area was financed by HICOG at a cost of DM 360,000
($85,680). It is being used primarily by children of the
German employees of the US Government, but is open
to all children living in the immediate area. It will be part
of the Bonn school system, and embodies the most modern
features of school construction including airy classrooms,
reading rooms and libraries (new features for the German

INFORMATION BULLETIN

38

elementary school) and lunch rooms. The school, which
opened Dec. 1, accommodates more than 300 children.

An-elementary school for the children of American
employees is nearing completion on the site of the Ameri-
can housing project. As with the new German school,
this school was a necessity because the schools of the
Bonn area are already greatly overcrowded.

An international high school financed by a grant of
DM 295,000 ($70,210) from the HICOG Special Projects
Fund and DM 800,000 ($190,400) from the North Rhine-
Westphalia government will be opened in Bonn to serve
students of the international community. To be known
as the Nikolaus Cusanus Gymnasium, the school will
function so as to accommodate the varying educational
backgrounds of the children. It will, however, be part
of the state school system.

T HIS PRESS CONFERENCE Nov. 7, Mr. Wolfe gave
the reporters additional facts and figures regarding
the construction projects. .

Rentals in the German projects are based upon agree-
ments between German and American authorities and
upon current German controlled rents. They are expected
to come to approximately one-fourth of the tenants’ in-
come, utilities and heating included. Rents range from
DM 25 to a ceiling of DM 82 per month.

The German projects have various styles of apartments.
The first is the dormitory, with. individual bedrooms for
,six individuals and community living rooms and kitch-
ens. Beds, tables, chairs and wardrobes or closets are
furnished. Then there are kitchenette efficiency apart-
ments for single individuals. The units range upward to
three-bedroom flats. All have large rooms and huge win-
dows, and each apartment has its individual balcony or
terrace. The two German projects, which are practically
twins although miles apart, are to have shopping centers.

The American housing project has been constructed
in American style. Like the German projects, however,
all material, furnishings and equipment came from Ger-
man sources. Much of the furniture, for example, came
from the hard-pressed artisans of Berlin. A post exchange
and commissary building is now operating in the project,
and a recreation center is planned. When built and put
into operation, the recreation center will be open to every-
one, Germans and Americans, insofar as its facilities permit.

A non-sectarian chapel will soon open in the American
project, and its congregation is expected to integrate itself
with the local German church community.

S FOR THE VIEWS of local German officials on

HICOG's new communities in their towns, Mayor
Heinrich Hopmann of Bad Godesberg, speaking at ground-
breaking ceremonies last winter, said:

“For our town the housing project is of the utmost
importance. Not only individual houses or streets, but
whole sectors will be developed. That will mean quite
an expansion for the town. And it will certainly mean
an economic aid- for our citizens. In return, our town
promises again to support the new project with all her
strength.” -++END

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 42 ---
Coal in Postwar Germany

Statement

By US ELEMENT, COAL CONTROL GROUP, ESSEN

HE GREATER PART of West Germany's coal resources

lie in the area just north of the valley of the Ruhr
river. This area produces 25 percent of the coal of Western
Europe. Because of this fact, and because much of the coal
is of quality suitable for making coke, Western Germany
has always been a heavy exporter of coal and coke. This
export, on the other hand, has served to bring Germany
raw materials, agricultural products and finished goods
that were not sufficiently available within her national
boundaries,

The Ruhr coal area contains 140 mines, each operating
from one to seven shafts, and now producing 370,900
metric tons of cleaned coal a day. The annual coal pro-
duction of the Ruhr for 1938 was 127,284,000 metric tons;
for 1946, 40,452,000 tons, and it is estimated it will be
114,000,000 tons for 1951. Other mines are in the Aachen
area and in Lower Saxony, producing together an ad-
ditional seven percent of West German coal. Not included
in these figures-is West German brown coal production
of 80,000,000 tons per year.

The number of miners employed underground in the
Ruhr was 228,813 in 1938 at which time they produced
1.97 metric tons per man-shift. In 1946, 183,186 Ruhr miners
produced 0,987 tons each per man-shift, and it is estimated
that the 283,000 Ruhr miners underground today will pro-
duce 1.47 tons per man-shift in 1951.

LTHOUGH THE PER-MAN tonnage increase for 1951

over 1946 is considerable, it has not yet reached the
1938 peak. This lag has been explained in the following
manner:

1. The incentive on the part of the miners for greater
coal production is not as strong as it might be. They have,
for example, been led to believe that greater coal pro-
duction would merely mean greater export.

2. Since 1936, the Ruhr coal mines have been under
pressure to produce coal faster than they could properly
open up new coal seams. Normal development work was
neglected or reduced to a minimum.

3. During the war many miners in the 21-35 year age
group were lost and a large percentage of miners’ housing
was destroyed. The result is a very heavy turnover of
personnel in the mines and a relative shortage of skilled
miners.

4, Deteriorated mine equipment has not been fully re-
placed at the necessary rate.

5. Lack of final clarification as to ownership of the
mines is an unsetting factor, from the viewpoint of
management.

HE FOLLOWING MEMORANDUM considers the post-
war coal industry in Germany historically and cur-
rently in these sections;

DECEMBER 1951

I.—-The Coal Situation at the Beginning of the Occu-
pation.

II. — The Coal Industry under Quadripartite Control.

Ill.— Control Measures in the British Zone and the
Bizonal Area.

IV. — Production Incentives and Price Measures before
Currency Reform.

V.— Financial Condition and Investment Needs of the
Coal Industry.

VI.— The Coal Situation in 1950.

VII.— Measures to Increase Coal Production in 1959.

VIII. — Development of Coal Production Programs in
1951 and ECA Participation.

* * *

I. Coal Situation at the Beginning
Of the Occupation

When the Ruhr was occupied in 1945, hard coal pro-
duction which before and during the war had exceeded
400,000 tons a day had fallen to about 30000 tons a day.
During hostilities the Ruhr mining area was extensively
damaged by air and ground warfare. Mines accounting for
10 percent of the prewar output were so severely damaged
as to be out of service for years, while another 25 per-
cent were so badly damaged as to present a serious prob-
lem of reconstruction and repair.

In the general devastation of the area, miners’ housing
was hard hit: out of a total of 250,000 miners’ houses,
66,000 were completely destroyed and 130,000 damaged.
Manufacture of mining supplies ceased, and stocks of
machinery, pitprops and other essential stores were de-
pleted. Coal-loading and distribution facilities were
damaged, while transportation was completely dis-

Cars at Muelheim-Ruhr factory are loaded with egg-shaped
(Photo by Byers)

briquettes fresh from the presses.

--- Page 43 ---
organized. Actually, it was not coal production but trans-
portation that was the bottleneck in that first winter. In
fact, during the winter of 1945-46, stocks at the mines rose
from approximately 3,000,000 tons at the time of the start
of the occupation to 6,000,000 tons at the end of the winter.

War damage was one of the factors which kept coal
output at a very low level in the three years following
the end of hostilities, but the most important single factor
limiting production was the short food supply. In spite of
strenuous efforts to provide adequate rations, food sup-
plies fluctuated very considerably, ranging from 2,800
calories per miner per day in early 1945 to 3,400 calories
per day in the last half of 1945 and early 1946. In March
1946, the miner's ration fell to 2,900 calories per day, but
in June 1946 it again reached 3,400 calories daily, and in
October 1946 it was raised to 4,000 calories. A critical
food shortage developed again in March 1947, which
necessitated decreasing the miner's ration to an average
of 3,600 calories per day.

These rations were distributed only to very heavy mine
workers. Rations of the normal consumers were very
much lower throughout these periods, and in practice the
miners shared their extra rations with their families.
Malnutrition of the miners was, therefore, rather wide-
spread. Another result of the food scarcity was that miners
left work in search of food, so that the rate of absenteeism
was high.

At the end of the war, of the required 400,000 mine
employees, less than 150,000 were on hand. A large pro-
portion of this labor force was over age, During the war
most of the able-bodied miners had entered the army and
were replaced by prisoners of war or foreign forced labor.
The foreign miners were reieased after the German
capitulation and repatriated, while German labor between
the ages of 18 and 40 had been seriously depleted during
hostilities. The net result was that, in mid-1945, only
about 13 percent of Ruhr miners were under 30 years of
age, 22 percent were between 30 and 39, 40 percent be-
tween 40 and 49, and 25 percent were over 50, In 1935 by
contrast, 36 percent were under 30 and only 27 percent
were over 40.

* * *

II. The Coal Industry
Under Quadripartite Controls

The first Allied organizations to enter Germany with
specific functions dealing primarily with coal distribution
and production were already inter-Allied in character and
authority before their arrival. They were the Solid Fuels
Section of Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary
Forces (SHAEF), as a policy and allocations body on the
one hand and, on the other hand, the Rhine-Ruhr Control
Section of the Advance Section, Communications Zone,
of the advancing armies which was charged with the
actual responsibility for protecting the mines, stimulating
their production and directing the initial distribution from
production and from stocks.

However, with the establishment of the zones in eco-
nomic semi-isolation as a result in practice under the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

Mountain of coal is piled up beside water purification
plant at Zollverein mine, Essen, (PRD HICOG photo by Jacoby)

Potsdam Agreement, these purely military sections were
replaced not by an over-all Allied Coal Board as originally
planned in 1944 but by coordination committees in Berlin
and by control organizations that were basically zonal,
not interzonal, in their scope and interest.

The Potsdam Agreement stated that during the period of
occupation, Germany should be treated as a single eco-
nomic unit. To this end common policy would be establish-
ed in regard to coal mining, production and allocation. It
also said that measures should be taken promptly to
enlarge coal production. While the concept of Germany
being treated as a single economic unit has not been
fulfilled, the balance of the agreement with respect to
coal has been followed.

After the Potsdam Agreement, the next major quadri-
partite decision touching upon coal was in connection
with the first studies on the Level of Industry Plan which
were designed to determine the size and nature of a
reparations program. Here again no restrictions were
placed on coal production. The plan stated that ‘until the
Control Council otherwise decides, coal production will
be maximized as far as mining supplies and transportation
will allow. The minimum production is estimated at
155,000,000 tons Sieinkohle (hard coal) equivalent, includ-
ing at least 45,000,000 tons for export.’ These figures
referred to targets to be attained in 1949. History shows
that neither target was reached and that the export target
was unrealistic. Within this plan, no limitations on inland

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 44 ---
coal consumption were considered, and the coal industry
was not expected to provide reparations, only certain
minor restitutions.

When growing political and economic difficulties within
the Allied Control Authority (ACA) led to the establish-
ment of the Bizone, one of the first steps taken by the US
and UK military governors was to revise the Level of
Industry Plan, removing any reference to coal production
and coal exports, because the earlier unrealistic figures
had applied to the whole of Germany and because in their
view, coal was not concerned in the reparations question.

The policy coordinating committees established by the
quadripartite Allied Control Authority were within its
Economic Directorate and consisted of a Fuel Committee,
a Coal Subcommittee, and a Technical Staff of Experts to
service these committees. One of the most important
functions undertaken by the Fuel Commitee was the
monthly allocation of coal availabilities to the four zones
and to export. This allocation was at first based on stated
requirements collected by each zone commander from the
competent local German organizations within his zone.

As the winter of 1945-46 passed, these deliberations
became more difficult as confidence in the accuracy of
zonal statements of availabilities and requirements lessen-
ed. For several months the allocations meetings became
in practice barter meetings, with the result that in the fall
of 1946 the procedure was abandoned as between the east
and west zones. In its place, East-West coal trade was
handled along the lines of a trade agreement. In the
western zones, the allocation system continued but on a
quarterly basis and with a careful examination of state-
ments of availabilities and requirements.

The determination of the tonnage for export from
Western Germany became a tripartite military governors’
decision at the same time, while the sub-allocation and
distribution of coal within the western zones was turned
over to German authorities.

With the exception of the tonnage for Austria, Military
Government made no attempt itself to divide the export
tonnage among various importing countries. From the
beginning of the occupation until January 1948, this was
a function of the European Coal Organization in London,
the same as it has more recently been a function of the
Coal Committees of the Economic Commission for Europe
in Geneva and the Organization for European Economic
Cooperation in Paris.

At first the decisions of the ACA Fuel Committee and
then of the tripartite military governors as to the tonnage
available for export were arbitrary, based on their own
estimate of relative internal and external need. However,
in order to stabilize and standardize this division to export,
the three Western military governors proposed and their
foreign ministers accepted a scale which became known
as the Moscow Sliding Scale simply because the foreign
ministers were meeting in Moscow at the time.

This scale provided for an export of 21 percent of Ruhr
and Saar coal net merchantable availability calculated on

DECEMBER 1951

a hard coal equivalent basis with an adjustment for the
size of the coking program when daily production for the
Ruhr and Saar would average 280,000 tons. It increased
stepwise to 25 percent corresponding to a daily production
of 370,000 tons. This scale was used quarterly by the
Western military governors until the separation of the
Saar, after which it was revised merely to take that
separation into account.

With the functioning of the International Authority for
the Ruhr, the Moscow Scale and the allocation authority
of the military governors were abandoned at the end
of 1949.

The Allied Control Authority through its Fuel Com-
mittee in Berlin managed to do a few additional things for
the coal industry before it became ineffective. For ex-
ample, it authorized a 20 percent wage increase in Novem-
ber 1946. During the summer of 1946, it created a quadri-
partite committee of coal experts and assigned it the task
of inspecting coal production units in all four zones and
recommending measures leading to an increase in coal
production. The results of this inspection were reported
to the Council of Foreign Ministers in Moscow in 1947
along the lines of the following statement to the press of
that date:

“At the time of the occupation, German industry was
at a standstill. Since then progress has been made but
nevertheless production is still at a low level. Until coal,
the keystone of the German economy, is produced in suf-
ficient quantity to satisfy the requirements of industry,
the attainment of target levels for industry presents con-
siderable difficulty ... Therefore, coal production must be
considerably increased.”

Mine tower (center) is adjacent to Rheinisch-Westfaelische
power plant (foreground) inEssen. (PRD HICOG photo by Jacoby)

--- Page 45 ---
Each zone commander was instructed to take all pos-
sible measures to increase coal output.

* * *

Ill. Control Measures in the British Zone
And the Bizonal Area

When the British zonal commander took over responsi-
bility from SHAEF, he had the authority to set up what-
ever type of control mechanism he considered essential.
Basically the UK military governor established a single
control agency, the North German Coal Control, with
British Military Government officers drawn in part from
the British coal industry to give the top policy direction
and with German operating personnel. In effect, the
NGCC took over the Bergbau-Verein, the Bergbau-Ver-
band (mining supplies) and the Rheinisch-Westiaelisches
Kohlen-Syndikat (RWKS).

The North German Coal Control at first concentrated
available labor in mines not too damaged, and in recon-
struction of those surface plants most easily and quickly
repaired. Later it balanced the growing working force over
all of the mines to be operated. It encouraged mechani-
zation and the efficient employment of labor, and it ad-
vocated and obtained special miners’ rations, a point
scheme, a recruitment campaign and the repair of miners
housing. It supervised centralized mine supply procure-
ment during the difficult period prior to the currency
reform (June 1948) and it also programed and supported
certain imports of food, equipment and supplies for the
mining industry.

The North German Coal Distribution Office took over
not only the RWKS but also the various brown coal syndi-
cates in the British Zone. It had the function of breaking
down the internal and export allocations into the proper
sizes and qualities and supervising loadings according to
these allocations.

After the Bizonal Area was established at the beginning
of 1947, a Coal Production Committee to form bipartite
policy for the NGCC to follow was first established. At
the same time, discussions in Germany and later in
Washington led to an agreement between the US and
UK Governments whereby the responsibility for manage-
ment control of the coal industry would be turned over
to a German agency to be created by the two military
governors and known as the Deutsche Kohlenbergbau-
Leitung (DKBL). The DKBL was to be responsible to the
military governors and receive its policy guidance from
the UK-US Coal Control Group, which acted like a board
of directors.

This arrangement went into effect in November 1947,
while at the same time the North German Coal Control
was abolished. The authority of the DKBL has been defined
in British Military Government Ordinance No. 112 which
was the same as US Military Government Ordinance
No. 19. The Coal Control Group became tripartite in
March 1949 with the fusion of the French Zone.

The British military governor issued an order under his
Military Government Property Control Law No. 52, which
was to be of far reaching importance with respect to the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

coal mining properties of the British Zone. This order,
known as General Order No. 5 of Dec. 22, 1945, declared
specified colliery properties to be subject to seizure of
possession, direction, management, supervision or other-
wise being taken into control by Military Government.
A controller was appointed to act as custodian on behalf
of British Military Government. In connection with this
order, the owners were informed that the collieries would
not be returned to them and that foreign interests would
be protected.

With the bizonal fusion, a plan for the coal industry
called “Plan Segregation” was studied but was not put
into effect. This was because the UK-US Control Group
and the DKBL were being formed and it became desirable
to develop a more permanent solution for the coal industry
rather than at that stage to form temporary leasing com-
panies to operate the coal industry as had taken place in
the steel industry. Accordingly for about one year after
the formation of the Coal Group and the DKBL the military
governors studied and finally issued Law 75, now ATIC
Law 27, for the decartelization and deconcentration of
the combine that had controiled the German coal and

steel industries.
* * *

IV. Production Incentives and Price Measures
Before Currency Reform

With the spring of 1946, transportation ceased to be the
bottleneck, partly because of good strides in the repair of
railroad and barge equipment and reconstruction or clear-
ance of railroad lines and canals, and partly because coal
production declined as a result of a reduction in the zonal
food ration at the beginning of February, including food
for miners. Toward the end of the year the zonal authority

Coke oven at a plant in Essen emits red-hot coke as men stand

--- Page 46 ---
th water hose to solidify the molten stream.

with the assistance and cooperation of other Allied bodies
created a special miners’ food ration of 4,000 calories,
restored social insurance for miners, put into effect the
20 percent wage increase authorized by the ACA, and
stepped up recruiting.

As of Feb, 1, 1947, this same interzonal cooperation
made possible the introduction of the so-called “point
scheme” which provided additional food and consumer
goods, especially bacon, coffee, UNNRA clothing, items
from German army stocks, etc. During the second half of
1947 and the first quarter of 1948, the point scheme was
supplemented by three special incentive programs tied to
production where the reward to the miners was CARE
packages or the equivalent, mostly from US Army stocks.
These special incentives provided short-lived but note-
worthy increases in production,

A fourth special issue of meats and fats as a production
incentive was in force during the month of June 1948,
which was also the month of currency reform. Thereafter
with a solid wage and solid currency, it was not necessary
or advisable to resort to incentive programs in terms of
food and clothing tied to production. Some advantages
in terms of consumers goods or tax exemptions on
Schnapps (liquors) and tobacco were retained until quite
recently as a miners’ recruitment and stabilization aid.

As a hedge against inflation of basic food and raw
materials prices prior to currency reform, the inland price
scale for coal was at first held at the 1941 level. Just
before currency reform, Military Government permitted
a substantial increase, and an additional small increase
was authorized two months after currency reform. Then
the responsibility for the inland coal price level was
turned over to the German authorities who permitted a

(Photo by Byers)

minor upward adjustment on Jan. 1, 1950 and still a further
increase of inland prices in December 1950.

* * *

V. Financial Condition and Investment Needs
Of the Coal Industry

While the price of coal was frozen during most of the
period prior to currency reform, wages rose 20 percent
in 1946, and the cost of materials of equipment for the
supply of the mines as well as for their reconstruction
quickly exhausted the resources of the mining companies.
Of necessity the British zonal budget lent the mining
industry a total of about RM 2,200,000,000 prior to cur-
rency reform. Recently the German authorities decided
that only DM 6,000,000 ($1,428,000) of this RM 2,200,000,000
need be repaid by the industry.

Immediately after currency reform the coal industry
faced a temporary crisis for lack of operating funds. The
military governors studied the situation and directed that
the coal industry receive the export rather than the in-
land price for exported coal, directed the inland price in-
creases mentioned above, directed temporary subsidies
of marginal mines and undertook to help find capital for
the industry.

DM 135,000,000 ($32,130,000) of counterpart funds from
the US GARIOA aid to Germany was allocated as a loan
to the industry, and several million dollars worth of
American mining machinery was imported against Mar-
shall Plan dollar allotments. Since then, Marshall Plan
Deutsche-mark counterpart funds have been the principal
outside investment capital available to the industry. Alto-
gether from April 1949 through June 1951 the hard coal
industry has received DM 424,838,000 counterpart fund
loans for investment.

The Marshall Plan has actually supplied roughly 62 per-
cent of the capital invested in approved hard coal tech-
nical projects, not including DM 34,000,000 ($8,092,000) of
counterpart funds presently being programed. Other ECA
funds have been granted to the brown coal industry, and
for miners’ housing as described hereafter.

Today, the ECA Mission is pleased to observe that all of
the present coal companies are capable of meeting their
day-to-day operating costs, with the exception that a few
companies are not capable of carrying such fixed charges
as depreciation.

The average company in the first six months of 1951
showed gross total mining costs of DM 36.56 ($8.60) per
metric ton of clean coal produced, including DM 0.89
(21 cents) of allowable depreciation. Its gross receipts of
DM 37.94 ($9.03) per ton left a book profit of DM 1.38
(33 cents) for mining operations. The book profit on ancil-
lary operations such as coking and by-products, briquet-
ting and public power plants was sufficient to raise the
average book profit for all operations to DM 2.64 (63
cents) per ton before income taxes.

This profit has averaged as high as DM 3.77 (90 cents)
per ton in the first half of 1951. The figure for gross total

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
mining cost includes among other cost funds set aside for
a reserve to cover depletion of coal reserves, damage due
to subsidence, deferred maintenance charges and depre-
ciation partially based on present replacement costs, but
it does not include any fixed return on total investment
capital.

The average company today is, therefore, able to
finance for itself moderate capital investment projects
and requires outside capital only for larger programs or
major projects. The strongest of the present companies
are in very favorable financial position today. The major
capital needs of the industry for the future are, therefore,
for the development of new mines, for the improvement
of operations presently marginal but technically promis-
ing and for extraordinary housing requirements.

The German mining industry has, under Allied control,
come to a position where the great bulk of its rehabilita-
tion from war-time damages and malpractice has been
accomplished. The industry is now waiting for clarifi-
cation of ownership which should make for a steady in-
crease in production, accompanied by increased ef-
ficiencies. In the meantime, there is general agreement
that miners’ housing is the No. 1 requirement for stabi-
lizing the workers and increasing efficiency since there
is presently a very high labor turnover.

Early in 1951, the ECA Mission made available
DM 45,000,000 ($10,710,000) for the construction of about
11,000 dwelling units in the Ruhr and Aachen areas.
Recently, the mission has offered to approve an additional
DM 100,000,000 ($23,800,000) for miners’ housing. Together
with the impending levy of DM 2 (48 cents) per ton on
hard coal and DM 1 (24 cents) per ton on brown coal for
miners’ housing plus matching industry funds, a large
housing program of more than 92,000 dwelling units for
miners is being planned over the next two years. Fulfill-
ment of this housing program will help return the Ruhr
to its rightful position as a well rounded industry com-
munity vital to the economic welfare of Germany and
Western Europe.

* * *

VI. The Coal Situation in 1950

After currency reform, hard coal output improved sub-
stantially in 1949 and in 1950. The unusual development
of coal stock piling in Western Germany and elsewhere
in Europe in 1950 had an especially marked effect on the
trend of coal production during the year. This phenomenon
was responsible for the loss of perhaps 2,000,000 tons of
production in Germany.. The winter of 1949-50 was the
first one in postwar Germany in which demand for both
domestic consumption and export was on the whole more
than met by production.

Reacting to an unusual plentiful consumer stock situ-
ation plus a holding-off by buyers in anticipation of price
reductions, mine stocks available for sale began to rise
sharply — from about 153,000 tons in January 1950 to
more than 1,000,000 tons in May and close to 2,000,000
tons in July 1950. These large stocks at mines had an ad-
verse psychological effect on miners, many of whom
began to leave the industry, attracted by growing employ-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

ment opportunities in other industries, particularly iron
and steel.

Due to seasonal demand and rising industrial output
after the outbreak of the Korean war, coal demands for
consumption and export quickly absorbed the available
production and eliminated stock piling in the third quarter
of 1950, then quickly drew down stock piles in the fourth
quarter at the same time that employment and production
were rising sharply. German public and governmental
awakening to the full significance of the situation was
not widespread, however, until about the beginning of

October.
* * *

VII. Measures to Increase Production in 1950

To meet the threat of a coal shortage, steps were taken
in the fields of coal production, productivity, recruitment,
wages and prices. Miners’ wages in the hard coal industry
had been increased nine percent as of Jan. 1, 1950, after
negotiations between the miners’ trade union and the
DKBL representing the industry. By November the new
situation, including the rising cost of living, created an
atmosphere wherein DKBL and union negotiators agreed
to a further 10 percent increase in wages effective Nov. 1,
and to a three percent bonus for underground workers for
full shift attendance in any month (except for absences
on a doctor's certificate), The miners through their union
furthermore agreed to work two extra shifts per month
during the five months November 1950 through March
1951, in view of the coal shortage, although they already
were working a full six-day week.

These measures were generally successful as hard coal
output rose from about 352,000 tons per day in the third
quarter of 1950 to more than 390,000 tons per day in
March and April of 1951. However, production then began
to fall due to seasonal loss of workers, increased absentee-
ism and ending of the agreements providing for extra shift
performance and overtime work. Q

In June, the miners were given a 12 percent wage in-
credse retroactive to May 1. To cover this wage increase
and provide additional investment capital to the industry,
the Federal Government introduced in July a domestic
split-price system whereby certain industrial consumers
would pay a surcharge of DM 35 ($8.33) per ton for all
hard coal mined in excess of 373,000 tons per day. In ad-
dition, the Federal Government announced in Juiy that
export prices retroactive to May 1 would be increased
by an average of about DM 14.50 ($3.45) per ton. (This
action is still under consideration by the Council of
the TAR.)

* * *
VIII. Development of Coal Production Programs
In 1951 and ECA Participation

These wage and price measures had no stimulating ef-
fect on production during the third quarter, with daily out-
put lagging at 375,000 tons. In order to get production
back up to the first quarter of 1951 level, the DKBL in
August announced a short-range production incentive
program in the form of bonuses and prizes. However, this
program was not effective as the mining trade union

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 48 ---
instructed the works councils not to cooperate with these
plans, believing that the miners were not given sufficient
participation.

However, the trade unions immediately set out to de-
velop a program of their own to increase coal production
on a short term basis which in general corresponds tech-
nically with the measures proposed in the DKBL plan.
It envisages a union-management cooperation program
to provide for participation of all employees in the gains
of increased production or, in other words, a profit-sharing
system.

The mining companies, according to German technical
opinion shared by the US technical staff, can at this stage
increase production by a return to higher efficiencies
through rationalization of mining practices underground
and through more extensive mechanization. These pro-
cedures, for the most part, do not require extremely large
increases in investment nor increases in labor forces.

The central idea is to reduce the number of operating
underground working faces and to increase the output per
face. This would be made possible by increasing the rate
of advance of working faces and concomitantly the rate
of coal haulage away from the faces and the rate of de-
livery of materials and supplies to the faces.

It requires changes in the daily working cycle, in face
work procedures, in the haulage pattern underground, and
can only be carried out by management with the collabo-
ration of labor. Enthusiasm to increase output, initiative
and incentive are prerequisites.

This concentration of fewer faces, as pointed out by
General Director Heinrich Kost of the Deutsche Kohlen-
bergbau-Leitung in July 1951, can lead not only to a better
utilization of all machinery and equipment but also to a
better ratio of productive to unproductive shifts. As
several German mining engineers have pointed out, it will
permit greater utilization of existing equipment and take
advantage of practices newly developed. It has been
demonstrated that economics as well as increased pro-
duction will result from this rationalizatioh and emphasis
‘on, mechanization so that both are achieved without in-
creasing the burden on the individual worker. In the long
run the improved competitive position of the industry
provides greater security for the worker.

The ECA Mission, seriously concerned with the critical
coal shortage in Western Europe and the resulting effect
upon industrial production, employment and the needs
of the mutual defense program, has been meeting with
representatives of ‘the Federal Government, the DKBL and
the trade unions to develop a broad program along the
lines outlined above to. increase output immediately and
to study the industry's long range problems and their
solution.. ,

An Interministerial Coal Production Committee has been
established with three working groups to examine: (1) the
problems of premiurf plans for extra production and other
measures leading to an immediate increase of output;
(2) mechanization investment and other technical and
organizational measures and (3) miners’ housing. +END

Bibliography of Articles

on Coal

Articles which have been published
in past issues of the Information Bul-
Jetin on the coal industry in Germany
include:

Coal, detailed description of the coal
mining situation in Germany shortly
after the end of the war, Issue No. 16,
Nov. 10, 1945.

Coal: A Four-Zone Problem, summary
of the prevailing conditions, Issue
No. 53, Aug. 5, 1946.

Bipartite Board Approves Basic Princi-
ples of Economic Unity, statement of
principles, Issue No. 59, Sept. 16, 1946.

Decartelization: The Coal Industry, re-
port from the Decartelization Branch,
Economics Division, OMGUS, Issue
No, 65, Oct. 28, 1946,

“If Offers No Help, advice of deputy
_military governor, Issue No. 79,
Feb. 10, 1947.

More Housing Planned in Ruhr, details
of new program, Issue No. 87, April 7,
1947.

Ruhr Food Crisis Explained, German
editorial, Issue No, 88, April 14, 1947.

Confidence Expressed in British MG,
statement by US military governor at
press conference, Issue No. 90, April
28, 1947.

Coal Production, review, Issue No. 91,
May 5, 1947.

British Share in Bizonal Activities,
statement by British deputy military
governor to Bizonal Advisory Council,
Issue No. 98, June 23, 1947.

Ruhr Coal Industry, review from British
Zone Review, Issue No. 106, Aug. 18,
1947,

Bizonal Organizations, review by Ste-
phen L. Freeland, public information
officer, Bipartite Control Office, on
bizonal economic fusion, Issue
No. 108, Sept. 1, 1947.

Ruhr Coal and European Recovery,
report of US economists for European
Recovery Program, Issue No. 113,
Oct. 6, 1947.

Ruhr Coal, summary of plan for joint
US-UK control, Issue No. 121, Dec. 1,
1947,

The Ruhr — Vital to Recovery, article
by Robert R. Estill, director, US-UK
Coal Control Group, Issue No. 141,
Aug. 10, 1948.

Coal-Iron-Steel Reorganization Plan,
text of bipartite plan for the Ruhr,
Issue No. 149, Nov. 30, 1948,

Hard Coal Industry Continues Climb,
Issue No. 159, April 19, 1949.

Ruhr Authority, summary of internatinal
agreement and announcements estab-

lishing International gAuthority of
the Ruhr, Issue No. 153, Jan. 25, 1949.

Ruhr Industry's Problems, address by
John J. McCloy, US High Commis-
sioner, at dinner of Ruhr industrial-
ists, political leaders and bankers in
Duesseldorf-Graffenberg, June 16,
Issue of August 1950.

Ruhr Steel and Coal for Western De-
fense, pictorial feature, Issue of
March 1951.

Summary of the Essential Provisions of
the Schuman Plan Treaty Constitut-
ing a European Coal and Steel Com-
munity, text of official release from
Paris, Issue of April 1951.

Reorganization of Germany's Iron and
Steel Industries, text of HICOM
orders, Issue of August 1951.

Codl Productivity, statement by Michael
Harris, chief, ECA Specia: Mission
to Western Germany, Issue of No-
vember 1951.

“Glueck auf!", article by John J. Slo-
cum, chief, ECA and Economics
Branch, Public Relations Division,
HICOG, on life of Ruhr miners, Issue
of November 1951.

Economic Review, monthly summary
of economic conditions in Western
Germany, Issues from May 1950 to
date. +END

DECEMBER 1951

AS

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Economic Review

Industrial Production Again Up

By A. J. CEFARATTI
Chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Program Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

EPTEMBER-OCTOBER INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY in Western Germany changed abruptly the trend of the
past few months with seasonal rises sharper than anticipated. A five percent monthly increase in Septem-
ber industrial production reversed the downward trend begun in June, and early indications of October
production point to a new postwar record level of output. In particular, the consumer goods industries have
revived from the summer slump, and account for a‘major part of increased employment in manufacturing.
There are continuing reports of increasing raw material and fuel shortages. Restrictions have been ne-
cessarily applied to the use of hydroelectric power because storage basins and coal stocks are low. During
October, the persisting problem of the coal shortage, however, became the subject of open discussions in
Germany between the Federal Minister of Economics and the director of the German Coal Mining Manage-
ment (DKBL).

German newspapers headlined the economics minister's statement that actual coal consumption far ex-
ceeds DKBL reported coal availability, on which coal allocations are determined. This discrepancy can
partially be explained by the fact that industry is using quantities of low grade hard coal, while other coal,
the distribution of which is outside the control of the DKBL, is finding its way to industry at excessive
prices. Nonetheless, there does appear to be a discrepancy between deliveries and consumption.

* x * * *

profits on possible devaluation, im-
porters are evidently accepting deli-
very with payment deferred, which
has resulted in substantial monthly
surpluses with the EPU, despite. larger

HE FOREIGN TRADE of the Fed-
eral Republic during September
was greatly influenced by factors of a
temporary nature and showed a def-
icit for the first time since March.

This review is based on con-
tributions submitted by | reports
officers in the Office of Economic
Affairs and the Office of Labor

Imports climbed to $375,000,000* —
$88,000,000 above August; exports,

Affairs, HICOG.

imports.
Germany's cumulative accounting

on the other Hand, rose to- only

$325,000,000. In terms of value, these are both postwar
records. In view of the changes in the terms of trade,
exports on a volume basis reflect a slight regressive
tendency. On the other hand, the volume of imports
exceeds the November-December 1950 average — the pre-
vious high period for Federal Republic imports.

The principal reason for the large and sudden increase
in imports was the revision of the tariff system effec-
tive Oct 1, Rather than on the standard of quantity and
weight, the new tariff law is on an ad valorem basis,
which means a tariff increase on many items. There
was a marked effort by importers, therefore, to use
outstanding licenses to import commodities from neigh-
boring countries which could deliver goods before the
new tariff became effective. As a result, about four-fifths
of the increase fell in the EPU category.

Another factor in September imports was the $7,000,000
coal shipments, mostly from the United States. Seasonal
imports of grain, again primarily from the United States,
also contributed, as did sizable imports of other agri-
cultural products of European origin.

Beginning late in September and continuing through
early November, there has been a remarkable vari-
ation between German trade and payments in the Euro-
pean Payment Union (EPU) area. imports from such
countries have increased substantially, but outpayments
have not kept pace, primarily because of the rumor of
franc and sterling devaluation. Hoping for windfall

* DM 1,575,631,000 at official rate of 23,8 cents to the Deutsche mark.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 46

deficit with the EPU at the end of
September was $106,000,000. In October, the trend of
payment surpluses was even more pronounced, and the
Federal Republic's surplus of $96,800,000 reduced its cu-
mulative deficit to $9,200,000.

The trend of imports during the last half of 1951 is
upward — imports for the third quarter exceeded mid-
year levels and are expected to be even higher for the
fourth quarter. The use of outstanding licenses to pro-
duce the September import figure, however, indicates
that many sectors will have no “surplus” licenses
available and will be somewhat restricted in their
imports for a short period. It is unlikely, therefore, that
the level of imports will again reach this September
level until after reliberalization.

Complying with OEEC decisions, the Federal Govern-
ment has drawn up a list of imports to be liberalized
as of Jan. 1, 1952. The list, which will be further revised,
represents slightly more than 50 percent of total imports
in 1949 based on Bizone statistics. By categories, 55 per-
cent of raw materials, 50 percent of agricultural com-
modities and 45 percent of finished goods will be
liberalized.

Exports rose slightly in September to $325,000,000, the ‘
highest postwar export figure. This was, however, more
the result of increased prices than of a larger volume.
Exports to the Western Hemisphere remained the same;
exports to the EPU area rose by $10,000,000.

By commodity groups, the import of foodstuffs showed
the greatest absolute increase in September — to

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 50 ---
$153,000,000 from $119,000,000 in August— mainly ac-
counted for by grains, fruits, butter and cheese. Raw
material imports also increased, primarily because of
more coal imports as well as increased cotton and wool
deliveries. Semi-manufactures imports increased by
$15,000,000, due to larger textile imports. The 83 percent
increase in imports of finished products—from $30,000,000
to $55,000,000—was spread’ evenly through all categories
of finished goods.

There was almost no change in the commodity distribu-
tion of exports during September.

Industry

In September the usual seasonal factors effected a
sharper than expected upswing in industrial output to
push the index of industrial production up six points to
135 percent of the 1936 level. The consumer goods
component of the index showed the major increase (up
seven to 114 percent) following a slump during the sum-
mer months. Shoe production showed the largest separate
industry increase (up 26 percent), with other important
gains in leather goods and textiles. While this increase
was an expected seasonal movement, the other major
components also showed substantial increases despite
continuing raw material shortages. Investment goods
production rose by six points to 138 percent and general
production goods by four points to 146 percent.

Coal

Daily average production reached a record level of
394,000 metrt tons in April 1951, but showed steady
monthly decreases to a 1951 low of 373,000 tons in Sep-
tember. This decline in production through the summer
months was seasonal, and October output showed consi-
derable improvement.

Total hard coal production in October was 10,480,000
tons for the 27 working days, a daily average of 388,100
tons. This increase resulted from less absenteeism (the
end of summer vacations), and a larger underground
labor force, although there was a slight decrease in
underground output per manshift and from extra shifts.

Inland availabilities in the third quarter exceeded by
more than 1,000,000 tons the estimates forecast in
Chancellor Adenauer's memorandum of June 13 to the
High Commission, and were only 200,000 tons short of
the revised estimates submitted by the German delega-
tion to the International Authority for the Ruhr (IAR)
on July 23. v

Availability estimates are based largely upon fore-
casts of hard coal output, and in the third quarter, these
were revised several times. The original estimate was
392,000 tons per day and the final estimate made in July
was 379,000 tons per day. Actual average daily output
in the quarter was only 374,496 tons and imports were
lower than the July forecast, but total availabilities
closely matched the revised German forecasts because
of higher net merchantable output.

Imports of solid fuels increased in the third quarter
to 2,600,000 tons with 1,300,000 tons coming from the
United States. Exports totaled 6,140,688 tons — 98.9
percent of the allocations established by the IAR and
99.9 percent of the export orders placed.

There is increasing pressure for a general increase of
coal prices and adoption of a uniform or mixed price for
all availabilities. Representatives of German industry, in
discussions with the Ministry of Economics, have de-
manded such an increase and its application to all con-
sumers, including household users. The iron and steel
industry has stated that it can accept allocated surcharge
coal in the fourth quarter only if there is a corresponding
increase in iron and steel prices. The economics ministry
has replied that these measures have been discussed in
the Federal Cabinet, but that the Federal Government
does not believe it possible to consider a general in-
crease at present.

DECEMBER 1951

47

In accordance with the Federal Government's solid
fuels distribution plan for the fourth quarter, all industrial
groups including iron and steel have been allocated
2,234,806 tons of coal at the surcharge price level: This
represents 45 percent of the total -ipdustrial consumer
allocations and compares to 20 percent in the third
quarter. :

It is estimated that solid fuel stocks held by the Federal

Railways, utilities and industry increased by 700,000 tons
in the third quarter, from 2,500,000 tons to 3,200,000 tons.
This increase matches the over-all goal established in the
Chancellor's memorandum of June 13, but is 125,000 tons
short of the target set in the Federal Government's re-
quirement estimates of May 10. :
, The German-Allied committee established to consider
coal distribution problems relating to the dissolution of
the Central Coal Sales Organization (DKV) in October
agreed its report to the Allied High Commission (AHC).
This report recommended creation of six independent
coal sales agencies in the Ruhr to replace the DKV, and
also recommended that a Federal Coal Office be establish-
ed as well as a Ruhr services organization to coordi-
nate planning, statistical and transport functions present-
ly handled by the DKV.

The German members of the committee signed the
proposed plan because it is the best possible agreement
that could be had under the terms of reference as laid
down by the AHC. They stated, however, that it is their
opinion that retention of a centralized sales agency is
preferable, and that in the event of a change of the
committee’s terms of reference, they would insist upon
acceptance of the German proposal for one selling
agency.

The Council of the Allied High Commission has agreed
to inform the Federal Chancellor that it has accepted the
committee’s report and intends to act upon its recom-
mendations.

Meanwhile, the’ miner's union and the German Coal
Mining Management (DKBL) have protested against ac-
ceptance of the plan and have demanded that the German
proposal for retention of a single Ruhr selling agency
be accepted. It has also been reported that the Federal
Cabinet has objected to the plan and desires new dis-
cussions with the AHC regarding the future of the DKV.

Iron and Steel

Total production of pig iron and crude steel showed
major increases in October, because of both increased
daily output and the number of working days. Total steel
production was 1,256,500 metric tons, with a daily aver-
age output of 46,500 tons. October pig iron production
totaled 972,000 tons, .a daily average of 31,400 tons. While
shortage of coal continues to he subject of considerable
general interest, the iron and steel industry during Oc-
tober has evinced little specific interest, except in costs.
This appears due in part to increased consumption of US
coal and in part to the availability of ‘excess coal
under the domestic dual pricing system.

In spite of the scrap collection drive, the scrap situation
worsened during September. The principal iron and-steel
producers in the Federal Republic started August with
scrap stocks of 293,500 tons and ended the month with
286,000 tons. During the’ month these works consumed
583,500 tons (compared with 582,200 in July) of which
270,600 represented internal generation (as compared with
257,400 int July).

The production of pig iron and, steel directly attributed
to US coal imports continued its steady upward climb.
The first month on which statistics are available, March
1951, attributed production of 63,800 tons of pig iron and
56,600 tons of steel to US coal. In September, 300,000
tons of pig iron and 250,000 tons of steel are so attributed,
and in October, 375,000 and 255,000 tons, respectively. The

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
comparative monthly average in the April-September
period is 216,400 for pig iron and 191,100 for steel.

It has been reported that the steel producing industry
has filed an application with the Federal Ministry of
Economics for a further increase in the domestic price
of steel. One of the reasons given in justification is direct-
ly related to the dual pricing system for coal. The indus-
try asserts that it is presently purchasing some 34 per-
cent of its coal at the price fixed for the so-called
excess output.

The order book as of September 1, 1951 decreased for
the first time since January 1950.

Electricity .

In October hydroelectric power availability decreased
to a figure below normal for this season of the year.
Storage basins were drained more than is considered safe
for emergency operation in January and February. The
short water situation and the shortage of generating
capacity was further aggravated by an accident at one
power station, with a direct loss of 135,000 kilowatt hours
in peaking power,

Low capacity and inadequate coal stocks necessitated
the application of load restrictions in North Rhine-West-
phalia and Bavaria early in the month. These particular
restrictions were replaced by general restrictions of
power consumption applicable to all states in accordance
with a new decree issued by the Ministry of Economics.

Traffic demands on the railways continued to rise
during October until they reached 72,500 cars per work-
day. Despite excellent traffic performances, only 90 per-
cent of these demands could be met by the railways, and
in the week Oct. 14-20 not more than 86 percent could
be covered. The position was especially critical with
regard to gondolas, since for goods other than coal and
sugar beets only 58 percent of gondolas requested could
be spotted on time.

The increase in railway rates proposed by the Federal
Governmet was approved by the Bundesrat (upper house)
Oct. 5 and became effective Oct. 15, The increase was
necessitated by the steadily rising costs of personnel and
material, The increase in passenger rates will amount to
five percent in revenues. Freight tariffs were increased
more sharply, ranging from 15 to 25 pecent, and are ex-
pected to boost revenues by 18 percent.

If the present price level remains stationary, the new
railway rates will make it possible for the German rail-
ways to pay their own way in 1952, though 1951 will still
show a substantial deficit.

Tax Increase Program

In its efforts to find new sources of revenues to cover
part of the deficit in its 1951-52 budget, the Federal
Government has introduced a special luxury tax which it
hopes will yield DM 300,000,000 per year. The Bundesrat
provisionally disapproved the draft law in October, Fi-
nance Minister Schaeffer has tried to convince the states
that the projected tax would not lead to any noticeable
decrease in the sale of goods affected. He termed as ‘an
enormous exaggeration” the fears expressed by the inter-
ested enterprises. He has also reminded the Bundesrat
(upper house) of the obligation under Article 110 of the
Basic Law which requires the government to keep reve-
nues and expenditures in balance, since only a bal-
anced budget could ward off inflationary trends.

Another important reason for the enactment of luxury
tax legislation is, in Dr. Schaeffer's opinion, the fact that
the Federal Government should not be burdened with a
political handicap in the talks on Germany's financial
capacity to contribute to Western defense. Indications
are, however, that the law will not pass the Bundestag
(Lower House) in its present form.

On Oct. 2, the Federal Cabinet agreed upon a draft law
increasing the Berlin aid tax in order to increase the an-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

48

nual revenue DM 100,000,000. The draft law provides an
increase of the former rates and a more detailed scale of
progressive rates. Proposed to become effective Jan. 1,
1952, the law is expected to be approved by the Bundes-
tag and the Bundesrat.

Labor

Registered unemployment declined to the lowest point
in two years as the number of jobless dropped during
October by 21,000 to a total of 1,214,000°'— some 16,000
lower than in October 1950. About one-half of the de-
crease is probably due to higher employment in manu-
facturing, particularly in the consumer goods industries,
which are recovering from the slump earlier this year.
The remainder came from increased employment in
building and trade and commerce.

New building activity which gained some momentum in
September may keep building employment at a compara-
tively high level until the advent of inclement weather.
The rate of unemployment in terms of the wage and
salary-earning labor force dropped in October 1951 to
about 7.5 percent as against 7.9 percent in October 1950.

Food and Agriculture

Although most of the data on the 1951 crop is still pre-
liminary, it is clear that western Germany has an excel-
lent harvest and this year has produced a greater pro-
portion of its own food than at any time since the war.
During October, supplies of all foodstuffs continued to be
adequate for current requirements. In view of increased
deliveries of grains and the continued heavy import of
grains, sugar, fats and oils from trade agreement sources,
reserve stocks of these commodities continued to improve.

Tonnage-wise, the only noteworthy production decrease
is in potatoes, because of a smaller average. The crop,
nevertheless, is good and supplies will be adequate.

As a result of the bumper grain harvest, increased
producer prices, and the premiums for early threshing
and delivery, grain collections will reach a pdstwar rec-
ord. July-October deliveries are so far nearly 50 percent
higher than those of a year ago, and 1951-52 collections
may total more than 2,700,000 metric tons bread grain and
750,000 metric tons coarse grain.

Berlin
In Mid-October, the total registered labor force in West
Berlin (including self-employed) was approximately

1,175,000. Employment, including 42,000 subsidized work-
ers hired under the GARIOA Work Relief Program, was
907,000. Employment was 267,000, or 23 percent of the
labor force.

The value of industrial deliveries rose in September by
more than six percent (DM 13,700,000) to a figure of
DM 226,500,000. In terms of deliveries per working day,
the rise was approximately 15 percent. Practically all of
the increase in the value of goods delivered (DM 13,000,000)
‘was accounted for by increase in the electrical industry.
This was partly due to the circumstance that a number
of large contracts in process of production were com-
pleted during September. For example, one of the four
largest electrical engineering firms reported that its de-
liveries increased from DM 9,500,000 in August to
DM 12,600,000 in September.

On the basis of value per working day, sizable increases
were also shown in clothing (primarily a seasonal gain),
structural engineering, chemicals and pharmaceuticals,
paper and printing, and some other industrial sectors.

Berlin's second postwar Industrial Fair closed Oct. 21,
and early reports indicate that exhibitiors were generally.
satisfied with results. Visitors to the two-week exhibition
totaled 778,000, approximately 45 percent of whom were
residents of East Berlin or the Soviet Zone. Some 30,000
West German and 4,500 foreign guests were registered
in the city during the fair. +END

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 52 ---
In and Around Germany

Christmas Yummies

Pfeffernuesse are piled next to the Christmas nuts and
candy, and Pomeranzen-Broetchen have been mixed in
with the gingerbread men in some American homes in
Stuttgart for the holiday season.

It isn’t merely the German atmosphere which has con-
verted the usual American festive goodies into their
foreign counterpart — the ladies have made special efforts
to learn the culinary secrets for Stollen (Hefe), Zimt-
sterne, Springerle, Christbaumschmuck, Runde Nuern-
berger (Elisen) and Lebkuchen-Herzen.

Early in December the Technical Works of Stuttgart
sponsored baking classes to aid the wives of US per-
sonnel in making German Christmas pastry. Mrs. S.
Katsarsky, president of the German-American Women's
Club, made all arrangements for the school. The two-
day course was repeated as the demand grew.

Marcus L. Hoover, US resident officer for Stuttgart,
said that the project was an effort by the hosts to
further promote and cultivate good human relationship
and understanding among German and American people.

Soldiers Give Children Party

Language differences were no obstacle when men of
the 41st Armored Infantry Battalion, 2nd Armored Di-
vision, entertained youngsters of the Rheinau Children’s
Home in Mannheim recently.

There was the typical reaction to ice cream, cookies
and pop — one three-year-old concocted his own ice
cream soda while his neighbor snatched cookies.

Committee members introduced several American
games to the children; “The Twilight Playboys,” the

Enactment of a scene from “The Wise Men of Gotham”
was part of students’ contribution at formal opening of a
model classroom at Leibnitz Schoo] in Berlin. HICOG
financial aid has been extended to the program to im-
prove educational techniques through modern classroom
facilities. Ten rooms are already in use. New features
include swivel chairs for pupils, better-type desks and

blue “‘blackboards." (PRD BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

DECEMBER 1951

49

Children at Mannheim’s Rheinau Home use fingers as well
as spoons to delve into ice cream and cookies provided
by men of 41st Armored Infantry Battalion, 2nd Armored

Division, during recent kids’ party. (US Army photo)
4ist's Western band, played several numbers, and Sgt.
Russell E. Weaver was a hit with his magic tricks. The
soldiers and children exchanged bags of candy, nuts
and washcloths for yarn dolls, macaroni bracelets and
other handmade presents.

Men of the 41st Infantry have unofficially adopted the
home, which is sponsored by the city of Mannheim. The
48 children range in age from two and a half to 12 years.

Rural Hospital Completed

A new hospital in rural Frankenberg, in northern Hesse,
costing DM 2,000,000 ($476,000), was dedicated recently.

Construction of the four-story building overlooking
the picturesque Eder River valley was started more than
four years ago. The hospital is equipped with the most
modern medical and surgical facilities. The project was
aided by a contribution of DM 450,000 ($107,100) from the
HICOG Special Assistance Fund for self-help projects.

Dr. James R. Newman, US state commissioner for Hesse,
speaking at the dedication ceremonies, appealed to Ger-
man hospitals to aid in preventing as well as curing sick-
ness. He noted that only 15 percent of the children in
Hessian cities are afflicted with rickets, while as many
as 80 percent of rural children have contracted the dis-
ease. Hospitals, especially those in rural areas, he said,
could contribute to the reduction of the incident rates
of such diseases by “working with local public health
offices in curbing epidemics, promoting hygienic habits
and spreading the gospel of sanitation.”

US Gets 200 Exchange Students

Full-paid scholarships for one academic year will be
provided by the US Government and various private
American agencies for approximately 200 German men
and women who will be sent to the United States during
1952 under the HICOG Exchanges Program.

Most of the students are expected to arrive in America
next August and spend a month with an American family
before starting the September or October term at a
college or university.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
This program is designed to give young Germans an
opportunity to become acquainted with the American
people and their way of life. Any qualified student may
apply although selection will be highly competitive.
Preference will be given students with superior ability
and attainment. The scholarships are offered principally
in the field of humanities and the social sciences. Appli-
cants must have a good knowledge of English and guar-
antee in writing to return to Germany upon completion
of one year in the United States.

Meanwhile, other phases of the Exchanges Program
continue. Four leading state interior ministry officials
recently left for a 45-day visit to the United States to
study and observe governmental structure and the or-
ganization and operation of law enforcement agencies
on all levels.

Those making the trip are Paul Pagel, minister of
interior and education for Schleswig-Holstein; Otto
Schmidt, former secretary of state for Rhineland-Pa-
latinate and deputy minister of interior; Fritz Ulrich,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

50

Michael S. Harris, chief of the ECA Special Mission to
Western Germany, and other mission members have
been holding meetings with German trade union officials
to discuss the productivity drive and other ECA policies
and problems. In photo at left, 1.-r., are Adolf Ludwig,
chief of DGB (German Federation of Trade Unions) for
Rhineland-Pfalz; Mr, Harris;‘ Ludwig Rosenberg, chief,
foreign affairs parliamentary section and ERP section of
DGB, and Wilhelm Ruhnke, DGB official. In photo above,
L-r., are Helmut Jockel, industrial relations, HICOG;
ECA representatives Toby E. Rodes, Harry C. Thomas,
Gordon O. Fraser, Richard G. Leonard, Frank J. Miller,
George B. Gardiner, Frank L. Mayer; John J, Slocum,

Public Relations Division, HICOG; Philip A. Heller, ECA; ~

Dr. Hans Buettner, DGB; Mr. Harris; Kurt Schmidt, DGB;
Gustav Nottbohm, Construction Workers Union; Georg
Bank, Metal Workers Union; Dr. Roland Nimptsch, Social
Research Institute; Heinz Frehse, Horticulture, Agricul-
ture and Forestry Union; Adalbert Stenzel, DGB; Gustav
Dahrendorf, German consumer cooperatives; Bernhard
Tacke, German Texlile Workers Union; Dr. Willi Richter,
Chemical Workers Union; Dr. Rolf Wagenfuehr, Trade
Union Economic Research Institute, and Ed Deuss, Man-
power Division, HICOG. (PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

minister of interior for Wuerttemberg-Baden, and Erich
Shuster, deputy minister of interior for Hesse.
Bremen Youth Conference

The Bremen chapter of the League of European Youth
played host recently to 20 German and 30 foreign dele-
gates from 11 nations for a 10-day conference on the
general aim of achieving European union.

The conference, assisted by a HICOG grant of DM 2,500
($595), was opened by Senate President Wilhelm Kaisen
and other officials of Bremen State.

The group passed a number of resolutions unanimously
calling for: increased emphasis on mutual defense against
totalitarianism and aggression; the integration of Ger-
man armed forces on the basis of equality into a Euro-
pean army; the solidarity of a free, democratic western
Europe with the oppressed populations of eastern Europe;
a larger measure of social welfare for all Europeans, and

a hope that necessary rearmament would not too greatly ~

depreciate the present living standard of Europeans.

DECEMBER 1951

;

--- Page 54 ---
Allied Powers Relinquished

Allied reserved powers in foreign trade and con-
stitutional fields have been turned over to the Federal
Republic. The Allied High Commission stated recently
that the newly established Federal Constitutional Court
is capable of effectively upholding the civil rights of
the individual as defined in the Basic Law. Allied re-
sponsibility in that matter is thereby relinquished.

Allied controls over foreign trade had been exercised
to ensure the Federal Republic's observance of the prin-
ciples of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT), which was concluded by 20 nations in 1947 to
regulate international trade on a multilateral basis.
Those controls have been yielded since the German
government is now a member of GATT. The Federal
Republic thereby benefits from tariff concessions, agreed
upon by GATT member nations, which facilitate German
exports to other GATT countries.

The High Commission considers this membership in
GATT as an “important step toward joining the inter-
national organizations designed to increase and facilitate
foreign trade." In accordance with this policy change, the
international trade agreements negotiated by the Federal
Government (except those with countries designated by the
Allied High Commission for security reasons) will no long-
er be subject to a 21-day delay to permit Allied scrutiny.

Boys’ Town Gets Washing Machine

The 80 formerly homeless youths at the Heilsberg
“Boys’ Town," near Frankfurt, are finding it easier to
keep spic and span. A much-needed modern washing
machine was recently made available to the home
through a grant of DM 1,371 ($326) from the HICOG

Delegation representing Boys Scouts, Girl Scouts, Cubs
and Brownies presents cigarette box to Brig. Gen. Charles
D. W. Canham at farewell review for Bremerhaven's com-
manding officer on his appointment as EUCOM's director
of military posts. Gift to departing BPE chief was inscribed,
“To our most loyal friend, General Canham, from the Scout

Organizations, Bremerhaven, 1951.” (US Army photo)

DECEMBER 1951

Sl

N A ~
Ute Goetz and Edgar Stahl wave good-by to their friends
in Germany, while Alice L. Shugars, child welfare officer,
US Displaced Persons Commission, wishes them happiness
in their Illinois home. Mrs. Ethel Butler, Chicago school
teacher, adopted these European orphans through auspices
of the DP Commission. Although hundreds of homeless
children have been adopted, others in Europe are look-
ing for homes. DP Headquarters in Washington, D.C., or

Frankfurt will assist persons in meeting official adoption
requirements. (Photo by US Displaced Persons Commission)

self-help project fund. Dr. James R. Newman, US state
commissioner for Hesse, made the presentation.

The Boys’ Town was originally a German Youth Ac-
tivities project supported by a US military police unit
in Frankfurt. It is now managed by the Evangelical Wel-
fare Organization for Hesse.

Dr. Newman congratulated the camp youth and manage-
ment on progress made through their self-help efforts
Wooden buildings have replaced army tents; formal
educational and vocational. courses take the place of
improvised lecture training, and youths are given assist-
ance in finding jobs. Dr. Newman said, “It does not
matter whether youth live in palaces or under the most
primitive conditions, for each has the opportunity of
contributing to German civilization through becoming a
good citizen and possibly a future leader.”

Political Problems Emphasized

Lectures and discussions on current political prob-
lems and European unity will be a special feature of
the fall and winter program of the US Information
Center at Erlangen.

Plans for the lecture series were made by a Gerinan-
American advisory board composed of the US resident
officer, the president of Erlangen University, the city’s
mayor and representatives of high schools, industry,
labor unions and youth organizations. The board is
headed by Helmut Kuhn, formerly of the University of
North Carolina and Emory University, Georgia, and now
professor of philosophy at the University of Erlangen.

Events of political importance will be discussed by
university professors, mainly from Erlangen, in addition
to the current talks on international cultural and politi-
cal relations and on German-American questions.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
9 oP 8&ae ae

tase
See te
ese ot
Pa’ *

ss
s

First elements of the US 43rd Infantry Division to arrive
in Germany were welcomed Oct. 20 at Bremerhaven by
Lt. Gen. Manton S, Eddy, commanding general, Seventh
Army. The 43rd is the first National Guard unit to join
General Dwight D. Eisenhower's NATO Army. The 43rd
has been assigned to the Seventh Army. (US Army photo)

The concept of European unity will be discussed by
Dr: Louise Schroeder, a deputy mayor of Berlin; Dr. Dolf
Sternberger, well-known lecturer and journalist; Hans
Georg Gadamer, Heidelberg University professor, and
Bruno Snell, Hamburg University professor.

Although the Erlangen center has special appeal for
students, the facilities are also used regularly by youth
and community groups and by other local institutions.

East Germans Jam Movie Theaters

Special reduced-rate motion pictures shown daily in
19 West Berlin theaters have attracted more than
1,900,000 East Berlin and Soviet Zone residents.

The program started in July 1950, through the voluntary
cooperation of west-sector movie distributors and four
theater owners. The present 19 movie houses can seat
15,000 persons and are located within walking distance
of the Berlin East-West sector border.

During the two afternoon showings daily 293 different
feature films, doctiffentaries and newsreels produced by
West German, American, British, French and Italian
movie companies have been presented. The admission
prices average about 25 pfennigs (about two cents at
East-Zone mark value) per person and tickets are sold
only to holders of East German identification cards.

US Army Returns Land

Brig. Gen. Eugene McGinley, Stuttgart Military Post
commander, at a brief ceremony recently returned 39.3
acres of land in Bad Cannstatt to the city of Stuttgart on
behalf of the US Army.

General McGinley pointed out that in spite of the
strain which the augmented military program had im-
posed, it had become possible to return the property in
line with the EUCOM policy to release requisitioned
property to German owners as quickly as possible.

The site was taken over Oct. 24, 1945, and has been
used as a supply point for petroleum, oils and lubricants

INFORMATION BULLETIN

for military vehicles. The city of Stuttgart was paid
DM 179,388 ($42,795) for use of the land. Real estate
appraisers considered this a fair income.

American Selling Guide

Considerable interest has been shown by German busi-
nessmen in “Selling the United States Markets,’ a com-
prehensive guide to US business opportunities.

The publication, soon to appear in German, is designed
by the US Department of Commerce primarily to serve
as a practical guide for the many new and smaller busi-
ness firms seeking information about American markets.

Orders for the free copies are being taken at the
Commerce Department information booth in the George
C. Marshall House, Berlin. Department officials call the
guide the “only real survey ever done with the aim of
enabling the foreign businessman to make his own contacts.”

Army Repairs Damages

Engineers of the 2nd Armored Division are constantly
repairing damage to German roads and streets which
occurs when tanks of the outfit are moved due to
military necessity.

Routes used by the vehicles are chosen after careful
study. The local mayor and police chief of each village
are consulted as to the best possible route of travel with
minimum interference to traffic and private property.

Road surfaces and a bridge were recently unavoid-
ably torn up in the town of Gonsenheim during a tank
movement. Members of the division's engineer battalion
surveyed the damage and a repair crew set about using
600 bags of cement, 140 yards of sand and gravel, rein-
forcing steel and form lumber to repair the passages.

In almost every case the finished surface after the
repair job has been better than the original condition
of the street.

Men of the 2nd Armored Division's 17th Armored Engineer
Battalion lay new cement pavement onGonsenheim bridge.
Original cobblestones were damaged by division's tanks
during recent movement. (US Army photo)

--- Page 56 ---
Value of HICOG Exchanges Program was chief topic during
informal discussions at meeting attended by 250 German
exchangees and Berlin Americans, L.-r., Friedrich Luft,
member of Berlin's main exchanges committee; Dr, Rainer
Hildebrandt, chairman of the Fighting Group Against In-
humanity; Thomas McCabe, chief, Exchanges Branch, and
Dr. Charles Robson, deputy chief, Public Affairs Division,
Berlin Element. (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

Hessian Students Assisted

A new employment program is underway in Hesse to
provide financial assistance for needy students, especially
refugees, of higher education institutions.

Funds from a HICOG self-help program are available
to employ approximately 140 students for a period of
seven months. The students must perform work of social
significance in the general area of community activities,
such as youth work, women's work, adult education, reli-
gious activities and other civic activities. Clerical or
routine work will not be acceptable.

Dr. Howard W. Oxley, Community Activities chief,
OLC Hesse, indicated that each student could work a
maximum of 50 hours per month, for which he will receive
DM 60 ($14). During the school holidays, he may work
on a full-time basis up to a maximum of 220 hours per
month, for which he will be paid DM 1 (23.8 cents) per hour.

The students will receive practical training on the
projects for their future careers. At the same time the
employing agencies will benefit from the program because
the students’ work will enable the agencies to strengthen
and expand their services to the public.

Americans Learn Augsburg History

The “Augsburg Digest," a booklet designed to ac-
quaint American servicemen and their dependents with
the historical, cultural and commercial aspects of the
Swabian city, is currently being distributed by US
Resident Officer W. Rhyne. The booklet was published
by George Rieger, former Military Government employee
who later became an Augsburg businessman.

Free distribution is possible because of selected com-
mercial advertisements in the publication, which rep-
resent reputable firms in the city anxious to do business
with Americans.

The contents include a history and the legends of
Augsburg, compiled by M. Virginia Hughes, Augsburg
Military Post. Special Services librarian; a map’ of the
city and suggested tours; famous men of Augsburg; an
index of merchandise and services, and other features.

DECEMBER 1951

Eight hundred copies have been made available for
distribution to Augsburg Military Post. families and to
Special Services libraries, troop reading rooms, dis-
pensary waiting rooms, chaplains’ offices, billeting of-
fices, etc. Additional copies will be available as personnel
changes occur.

Parent Advisory Board Created

The first Parent State Advisory Board for Wuerttem-
berg-Baden has been set up with the goal of correcting
some of the educational inequalities that now exist in
the schools and working for a well-rounded educational
program without political or religious influence,

Approximately 200 parents representing the elementary
and intermediate schools attended a recent two-day con-
ference in Stuttgart at which 41 delegates, one for
each county in the state, were elected to serve on the
board for two-year terms. The executive committee is
made up of Mrs, Luise Koelmel, group president from
Stuttgart, and seven other elected members,

A fee of 10 pfennigs (about two cents) for each of the
300,000 children enrolled in the primary and secondary
schools is to be collected from communities and local
groups to cover the organization's minimum operating ex-
penses. Mrs, Koelmel explained that the action was not
intende me!

to detract from the ‘invaluable help, financial and
otherwise” which HICOG has given the organization.
The group will work cooperatively with all govern-
ment agencies particularly with regard to the following
important issues: low salaries of teachers; inadequate
preparation of vocational schools’ teachers; free text-
books and training aids; free tuition; broadening of the
curriculum to include social studies courses, and the
need for special schools to care for handicapped children.

Special Interests Emphasized

Recognizing the advantages of greater personal ac-
quaintanceship and understanding between American
troops and German citizens, a program has been worked
out in Kaufbeuren, through the help of US Resident

Costumes and masks were prime requirements when the
Army's 7781st Signal Corps Unit's German Youth Activi-
ties in Berlin held a masquerade party, Sfc, Anne L, Balser
presents first prize for best costume while Cpl. Keith S,
Ours holds other awards. (US Army photo)

--- Page 57 ---
W. George Keen (right), former US resident officer at Hof,
Bavaria, tells about life next to the Soviet Zone to fellow
natives of Tennessee, left to right, Henry A. Goodman and
Vaughn Smartt, former staffers on the ‘Chattanooga
Times" and now HICOG press Officers. (PRD HICOG photo)

Officer George C. Moore, for sharing experiences and
facilities in special interest fields.

During a regular monthly meeting of German and
American leaders, a list was made of groups such as
photo clubs, sport groups, chess associations, etc. al-
ready existing among soldiers of the Kaufbeuren Sub-
Post. Mayor Karl Wiebel then personally invited the
leaders of the corresponding German clubs to a joint
planning meeting in the city hall. Approximately 10
fields of interest were represented.

Positive progress has been achieved in the field of
religious affairs. Through the efforts of Chaplain (Capt.)
Albert J. Tibbs and Evangelical Father Hans Seifert,
soldiers have been specially invited to civilian church
services, the sub-post’s Negro choir has sung in the
city church, and Father Seifert has given a sermon
in the American chapel.

Cooperation in sport activities has also been develop-
ing smoothly. Two joint track meets have been held,
Americans were invited to attend a public athletic ex-
hibit, and plans are underway to arrange for one eve-
ning a week of joint training in the sub-post gymnasium.

Invitations for the Americans to attend specific meet-
ings and special events and other plans for definite
get-togethers have been exchanged by the auto group,
the photo club and the nature study group. The German
Women's Working Group plans to discuss women's
affairs with the two Special Services club hostesses.

Both Mayor Wiebel and Maj. Francis G. Thompson,
executive officer of the 29th Signal Battalion, have been
active in encouraging the program.

The Kaufbeuren Tagblatt, in an editorial, noted that
the greatest task for both American soldiers and Ger-
man citizens is “for one to get to know the other and
to become acquainted with his psychological and mental
attitudes.”

The editorial added, “It seems to us that a good
beginning was made when men and women of our
city met with responsible Americans and did not just
talk but came to the first practical results with due

INFORMATION BULLETIN

consideration of all difficulties. The sport groups found
mutual interests, the photographers are willing to join
their hobby, the clergy invited the followers of their
religion to attend masses, the mountain climbers and
hikers offered their hands.”

English Farmers Visit Germany

The HICOG Exchanges Program, whereby Germans
are sent to the United States and to democratic European
countries, has stimulated interest among young farm
groups in England to visit Germany.

Seven delegates of the Hampshire (England) Feder-
ation of Young Farmer's Clubs recently spent four days
in Wuerttemberg-Baden at their own expense, visiting
local farms, youth homes, agricultural cooperatives and
the Hohenheim Agricultural College.

The visit had its origin in an Exchanges Program trip
to the United States. Inge Schreiber of the Youth and
Community Activities Branch, Public Affairs Division,
OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, spent six months in America
studying rural youth work under auspices of the West
Virginia Agricultural Extension Service. During her
visit she became acquainted with Annesley Voysey,
secretary of the English Young Farmer's Clubs. Miss
Schreiber visited England to observe the work of the
groups and later arranged for the visit of the young
English farm people to her country.

The British visitors were housed at the HICOG-sup-
ported Ruit Sports and Leadership Training School near
Stuttgart. They were particularly impressed with a youth
home being built by homeless boys in Ludwigsburg
county.

A program for the visit was planned by HICOG Youth
and Community Activities workers; the Farmers Asso-
ciation, Bonn; the Farmers Association, Bavaria, and the
Wuerttemberg-Baden Ministry of Agriculture.

The English visitors have since written that they left
Germany “with the very greatest respect for the amount
of work done by the German people toward the recovery
of their country.” +END

Col. Park Holland (right), Erding Air Base commanding
Officer, receives thanks from high-ranking Syrian officers
for courtesies extended during a recent visit. The group
observed “Exercise Combine,’ then toured US military
installations in Germany before returning to Damascus.
L.-r., Maj. Sonhel Achi, air force chief; Maj. Sharam Sule-
mein; unidentified civilian; Maj. Hassan Abed, infantry
chief; Lt. Col. Nicolas Mansourr, engineer chief; Capt.
Faiz Condsi and Colonel Holland. (USAFE photo}

--- Page 58 ---
Calendar of Coming Events

2 January

Congresses and Meetings

Jan. 12-13 — Stuttgart (WB): Convention of
German Society for Emergency Surgery.

Jan, 22 — Frankfurt (Hes): German Gym-
nasts Association rally.

Jan, 26-27 — Stuttgart (WB): 3rd German
narrow-film competition; 25th anniversary
of German Amateur Film Association.

Jan, 27 — Essen (NRW): Meeting of Ger-
man Society for Public Health and Social
Welfare.

January — Berlin: Annual meeting of Ger-
man Agricultural Society.

January — Goslar (LS): Meeting of As-
sociation for German Tree Nurserymen.

Fairs, Expositions and Marts

Jan. 5-6 — Munich (Bav): Rabbit show.

Jan, 6-10 — Stuttgart (WB): Sales fair of
ladies’ outer garments industry.

Jan, 11-13 — Frankfurt (Hes): National poul-
try show.

Jan, 25-Feb, 2 — Berlin: Agricultural Ex-
hibition and “‘Green Week."

Jan. 28-Feb. 2 — Hof (Bav): Annual fair.

Art and Related Exhibitions

Jan. 5-Mar. 31 — Munich: Exhibition, ‘Art
of the South Seas” at US Information
Center (America House).

Till January 6 — Mannheim (WB): Exhibi-
tion of Otto Dix.

Till January 6 — Rottweil (Bav): Exhibition
of paintings from the Alps.

Jan, 6-27 — Wuppertal (NRW): Exhibition

_ of Eduard Bargheer (Ischia).

Jan. 13 — Hamburg: First award of Licht-
wark prize for plastic arts.

January — Dortmund (NRW): Hans Poelzig
architecture exhibition. a

January — Hamburg: Exhibition of master-
works of French and Berlin painters.

January — Cologne (NRW): Exhibition of
modern paintings and water colors by
Georg Becker-Hemmenhofen.

January — Aachen (NRW): Exhibition of
works by Dupre-Brunkow-Flecke.

January-February — Essen (NRW): Exhibi-
tion of plastic art of the Middle Ages.

Theater and Music

Jan, 6 — Tuebingen (WH): Christmas ora-

torio.

Jan. 7-8 — Cologne (NRW): ‘'Verspro della
Beata Vergine,"’ opera by C, Monteverdi
(1610).

Jan. 24-25 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Sym-
phony concert, Ataulfo Argenta (Madrid),
conducting.

Jan, 25 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert,
Schumann's “‘Das Paradies und.die Peri",
Hans Weisbach, conducting.

Jan. 27 —Tuebingen (WH): Concert, Bach's
“St. Matthew's Passion."

Festivals and Social Events

Jan. 1 — Mannheim (WB): New Year's
celebration of the Carnival Societies.
Pageant of rowing boats on Rhine.

Jan.6 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW): Elec-
tion of Prince Carnival.

Jan. 6 — Pottenstein (Bav): ‘Light Festi-
val," pageant of lights; bonfires on
mountain tops.

Jan. 9 — Aachen (NRW): Grand festive
session of Northwest German Broadcast-

DECEMBER 1951

Jan. 1 to Dee. 31, 1952

ing Symphony Orchestra, including all
carnival societies.

Jan, 12 — Bonn (NRW): Festive gala car-
nival of city militiamen.

Jan. 13 — Cologne (NRW): Election of
Prince Carnival, the Princess and court.

Jan. 20 — Cologne (NRW): Grand gala
carnival,

Sports Events

Jan. 1 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
New Year's jumping on the Olympia
Jump. Ski climbing contest, Wank route.

Jan. 1 — Warmensteinach (Bav): New
Year's ski jumping.

Jan. 1 — Rottach-Egern (Bav): Downhill
race for Alois Hoess cup. -

Jan. 1 — Gmund (WB): New Year's ski
jumping.

Jan, 1 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Ice hockey
match: Berchtesgaden vs. Munich; New
Year's jumping.

Jan. 1 — Lam (Bav): New Year's ski jump-
ing.

Jan, 1 — Habichtswald/Kassel (Hes): New
Year's jumping; Max Hoefer jump.

Jan, 1 — Weiden (RP): Junior ski contests.

Jan, 1 — Neustadt/Black Forest (WB): New
Year's ski jumping; downhill run from
High Ridge.

Jan, 1 — Braunlage (LS): New Year's jump-
run.

Jan, 1 — Hahnenklee-Bockswiese (LS): Ice
hockey games.

Jan. 1 — St. Andreasberg (LS): New Year's
slalom,

Jan, 1 — Eisenstein (Bav): Slalom on the
Arber.

Jan. 4-6 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
International races for sporting and tour-
ing cars.

Jan, 5 — Hahnenklee-Bockswiese (LS):
North German two-man bobsled cham-
pionship.

Jan, 5 — Wildbad/Black Forest (WB): Dis-
trict junior championships.

Jan, 5 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): Night ski
jumping.

Jan, 5-6 — Dortmund (NRW): Indoor sports
festival with Olympic Games candidates.

Jan, 5-6 — Urspringen/Rhoen (Hes): Junior
ski day, downhill, long distance and
slalom.

Jan. 5-6 — Neubau (Bav): District junior
ski day.

Jan. 5-6 — Mittenwald (Bav): Werdenfels
ski championships.

Jan, 5-6 — Kreuth (Bav): Ski contests.

Jan, 6 — Hahnenklee-Bockswiese (LS): Ger-
man two-man bobsled championship.

Jan. 6 — St. Andreasberg (LS): Ski jump.

Jan, 6 — Adenau/Eifel (RP): Eifel district
ski championships. .

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
~ Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia,
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein. _
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

55

Jan, 6 — Murbach (RP): Mosel-Hunsrueck
district ski championships.

Jan. 6 — Feldberg/Black Forest (WB):
District junior ski championships.

Jan. 6 — Hundseck (WB): Ski jumping for
Baden-Baden Casino challenge trophy.
Jan, 6 — Gersfeld/Rhoen (Hes): Rhoen ski

championships.

Jan. 6—Hellenthal/Eifel (RP) : Eifel ski relay.

Jan, 6 — Wildbad/Black Forest (WB): Dis-
trict ski championships.

Jan. 6 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen- (Bav):
Slalom on the Horn.

Jan. 6 — Habichtswald (Hes): District ski
championships.

Jan. 6 — Schliersée (Bav): Munich uphill
race to the Stolzenberg.

Jan. 6 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Special sla-
lom from Hornkopf. .

Jan. 6 — Weiden (RP): City and district ski
championships.

Jan, 6-7 — Winterberg (NRW): City ski
championships.

Jan, 6-12 — Willingen (NRW): Ski jumping
on the Muehlenkopf.

Jan, 12 — Weiden (RP): District ski champ-
ionships.

Jan, 12-13 — Warmensteinach (Bav): Dis-
trict ski championships.

Jan, 12-13 — Oberammergau (Bav): Wer-
denfels ski championships.

Jan. 12-13 — Bayrisch Zell (Bav): Oberland
ski championships.

Jan. 13 — Willingen (NRW): International
grand jump.

Jan, 13 — Neumarkt (RP): Downhill race.

Jan. 13 — Rothenburg (Bav): Ski long-
distance race.

Jan. 13 — Freiburg (SB): Eugen Winter-
halter ski endurance race over 40 km. (25
miles); Black Forest championship.

Jan, 13 — Hundseck (WB): District ski
championships.

Jan, 13 — Pruem/Eifel (RP): Eifel ski relay
challenge trophy.

Jan. 13—Braunlage (LS): Harz ski relay race.

Jan, 13 — Hoher Meissner (Bav): District
ski championships.

Jan, 18-20 — Usseln (NRW): West German
ski championships.

Jan. 19 — Arzberg (Bav): Night ski jumping.

Jan. 19 — Hanover (LS): Bicycle races.

Jan. 19-20 — Rottach-Egern (Bav): Ski
championships.

Jan. 19-20 — Hohe Geiss (LS): Harz junior
ski championships.

Jan, 19-20 — Hoher Meissner (Bav): Ski
championships.

Jan, 19-21 — Hauzenberg (Bav): Bavarian
Forest ski championships.

Jan. 19-27 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
Eighth international winter sports week.

Jan. 20 — Braunlage (LS): Downhill race
for the “‘Golden Hex."

Jan. 20 — Wildbad (SB): Ski jumping.

Jan, 20 — Saig/BlackForest (WB): District
ski relay challenge trophy.

Jan, 20 — Altglashuetten/Black Forest
(WB): District ski championship,

Jan. 20 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): Junior
ski championships.

Jan, 20 — Wunsiedel (Bav): 11,3-mile ski
race.

Jan, 25-27 — Habichtswald (Hes): Hesse
state ski championships.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
Jan, 26-27 — Oberwarmensteinach (Bav):
North Franconian ski championships.

Jan, 26-27,— Berchtesgaden (Bav): Chiem-
gau ski championships.

Jan. 26-27 — Clausthal-Zellerfeld (LS):
Harz ski championships,

Jan, 26-27 — Bodenmais (Bav): Bavarian
Forest ski championships.

Jan. 26-27 — Hinterzarten (WB):
Forest ski championships.

Jan, 26-27 — Hanover (LS): International
riding tournament.

Jan. 26-Feb. 3 — Hahnenklee-Bockswiese
(LS): German bob and toboggan sports
week,

Jan. 27 — Oberammergau (Bav):
conian Jura ski championships.

Jan. 27 — Regenhuette (Bav): Special ski

Black

Fran-

jump run.

Jan. 27 — Braunlage (LS): Ice hockey
games.

Jan, 27 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): Night ski
jumping.

Jan, 27-28 — Winterberg/Sauerland (NRW):
‘West German ski championships.

February

Fairs, Expositions and Marts

To Feb. 3— Berlin: Agricultural exposition;
Green Week (Gruene Woche).

Feb, 3-March 2 — Wuppertal (NRW): Tex-
tile exhibition by Textile Engineers
School of Krefeld.

Feb, 9-14 — Offenbach/Main (Hes): Leather
goods trade fair. :

Feb, 16-17 — Hamburg: 47th textile sample
fair.

Feb, 27-March 2 — Hanover (LS): German
Industries Samples Fair.

February — Aachen (NRW): Exhibition of
textile materials.

Art Exhibitions

February — Dortmund (NRW):
Marcks and Werner Gilles.

February — Cologne (NRW): Paintings by
Eckhard.

February — Hildesheim (LS): Works by
H.A.P. Grieshaber; paintings and plastic
art by Society of Artists.

Theater and Music

Feb. 3 — Aachen (NRW): Bach's Cantatas.

Early Feb, — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony
and choral concert byBach choir;"’Psalms.”*

Feb. 4 — Wuppertal (NRW): Guest per-
formance by Vienna Philharmonic Or-
chestra; Wilhelm Furtwaengler, con-
ductor.

Feb. 6 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Orches-
tra; contemporary German composers;
Ferenc Fricsay, conductor.

Feb, 6 — Aachen (NRW): Concert; Haydn's
“The Seasons."

Feb. 7 — Leverkusen (NRW): C. Orff's
“Carmina Burana."

Feb. 10-11 — Hamburg: Concert; Beet-
hoven's ‘‘Missa Solemnis;"" Jos. Keil-
berth, conductor.

Feb, 10-11 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra; Shura Cherkassy, piano; Artur
Rodzonsky, conductor.

Feb. 13 — Tuebingen
“Samson.”

Feb. 13 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): C. Orff's
“Carmina Burana."

Feb. 17 — Heidelberg (WB): Concert;
Psalms Symphony by Stravinsky; “Te
Deum" by Bruckner.

Feb, 24-25 — Hamburg: Northwest German
Broadcasting Symphony Orchestra; Ida
Hendel, violin; Issay Dobrowen (Stock-
holm), conductor.

February — Bremen: Concert; J, Anouilh:
“Die weisse Taube,'’ German premiere.

Gerhard

(WH): Handel's

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Festivals and Social Events

Feb. 2 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Election of
Carnival Prince.

Feb, 2 — Cologne (NRW): Carnival; 50th
Anniversary of Honor Guard.

Feb, 2 — Aachen (NRW): Carnival pageant.

Feb, 9 — Cologne (NRW): Carnival ball of
the Prince's guard and the Rote Funken
(Red Sparks).

Feb. 19 — Bonn (NRW): Reception for
members of ministries and government
offices.

Feb. 23 — Stockach/Black Forest (WB):
Traditional ‘‘Jester's Tree Planting.”

Feb, 23 — Bonndorf/Black Forest (WB):
Hemdglonker procession, carnival play,
pageant.

Feb. 23 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Carnival
pageant,

Feb. 23 — Cologne (NRW): Prince's guard
ball and Ball of the Nations.

Feb. 24 — Cologne (NRW): Koelsche
Stroepp Day and Veedeslzog (proces-
sion).

Feb, 24 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Carnival pro-
cession.

Feb, 24 — Hasslach (WB): Carnival plays
at city hall square.

Feb. 24 — Augsburg (Bav): Carnival pro-
cession.

Feb, 24-26 —
festivities.

Feb, 24-27 — Throughout Western Ger-
many: Peak of carnival (Fasching) cere-
monies with Rose Monday procession.

Feb. 25 — Goslar (LS): Miners’ carnival.

Feb, 25-26 — Throughout Bavaria: Aleman
fasnet (carnival) with famous Narren-
sprung (Jester’s jump).

Feb, 26 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW):
Traditional Violet Tuesday procession.
Feb, 26 — Cologne (NRW): Traditional ball
of the United Tuesday Ball Societies.
Feb, 27 —- Duelken (NRW): Traditional
Schoeppen Markt on Ash Wednesday.

Iphofen (Bav): Carnival

Sports Events

Feb. 1-3 — Kreuth (Bav): Bavarian ski
championships.

Feb. 1-7 — Dortmund (NRW): Six-day

bicycle races.

Feb. 2-3— Brannenburg (Bav): Bavarian ski
championships.

Feb, 2-3 — St. Andreasberg
winter festival.

Feb, 2-3 — Warmensteinach (Bav): German
junior ski championships.

(LS): 56th

Feb, 2-3 — Gersfeld (Hes): Hesse state
championships.

Feb, 3 — Hundseck (WB): Black Forest ski
championships.

Feb, 3 — Muggenbrunn (WB): Black Forest
junior ski championships.

Feb, 3 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Bavarian
curling championships.

Feb, 3 — Willingen (NRW): West German
22-mile ski championship.

Feb. 7-10 — Oberammergau (Bav): Inter-
national college ski championships.

Feb, 8-11 — Braunlage (LS): German ski
championships.
Feb. 10 — Oberwarmensteinach
Downhill race for Silver Star.
Feb, 10 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): Night ski
jumping.

Feb, 10 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Ski jump-
ing at the Ramsau.

Feb. 10 — Breitenberg/Black Forest (WB):
Trophy ski jumping.

Feb, 10 — Weiden (RP): Junior ski day.

Feb. 10 — Schliersee (Bav): Jens Jaeger
Memorial jumping.

Feb. 10 — Schleching (Bav): Junior ski
championships.

Feb, 11 — Oberammergau (Bav): Ammer-
gau junior ski championships.

(Bav):

56

Feb, 11 — St. Andreasberg (LS): German
32.25-mile ski championship.

Feb, 16-17 — Altenau (LS): Harz ski
championships.
Feb. 16-17 — Grafenau (WB): District

junior ski championships.

Feb, 17 — Neubau (Bav): Bavarian club
relay championship.

Feb. 17 — Hahnenklee-Bockswiese (LS):
German bobsled championships.

Feb. 17 — Peissenberg (Bav): Challenge
trophy ski jumping.

Feb. 17 — Bayrisch Zell (Bav): Ski jump-
ing for Count Schoenborn Cup.

Feb. 17 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Motorcycle
races on Hintersee Lake.

Feb. 20 — Menschenschwand (Bav): Chal-
lenge trophy ski jumping.

Feb, 23-24 — Bodenmais (Bav): Bavarian
Forest ski championships.
Feb, 24 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): 30th anni-
versary winter sports.
Feb. 24 — Kreuth (Bav):
for Golden Alpine Goat.

Feb, 25 — Oberammergau (Bav): Puersch-
ling ski relay race.

Feb, 28-March 2 — Oberstdorf (Bav): Third
international ski flying week.

Feb, 28-March 6 — Berlin: Six-day bicycle

Traces,
March

Fairs, Exhibitions and Marts

March 2-4 — Cologne (NRW): Spring fair,
textiles and clothing.

March 2-7 — Nuremberg (Bav): Third Ger-
man toy trade fair.

March 6 — Sinsheim (SB): Fillies Mart.

March 9-11 — Cologne (NRW): Spring fair,
household goods and hardware.

March 9-14 — Frankfurt (Hes): Internation-
al spring fair.

March 11 — Offenburg (WB): Wine mart.

March 15-March 31 — Duesseldorf (NRW):
Ladies apparel sales week.

March 21-24 — Cologne (NRW): Furniture
trade fair.

March 23 — Kassel (Hes): Spring fair.

March 23-April 12 — Nuremberg (Bav):
Easter sales fair.

Late March — Idar-Oberstein (RP): Ex-
hibition, precious stones, jewelry and
gem cutting art.

March till April — Aachen (NRW): Bor-
derland exposition.

March till May — Mainau in Lake Con-
stance (SB): Spring flower show.

Art and Related Exhibitions

March 9-30 — Wuppertal (NRW): Art ex-
hibition by Heinz Battke of Florence.

March — Essen (NRW): Exhibition of
paintings by German masters in Italy.

March — Cologne (NRW): Exhibition by
Paul Kleinschmidt.

March — Hildesheim (LS): Exhibition of
paintings by Ahrens-Becker.

March-April — Dortmund (NRW): Exhibi-
tion of modern Westphalian paintings
and plastic art.

March-April — Hamburg: Sylt painting
and Old-Angel tapestry.

Theater and Music

March: 3-4 — Mannheim (WB): Academy
concert; ‘‘Requiem” by Verdi.

March 4-5 — Paderborn (NRW): Concert;
Handel's ‘‘Messiah."

March 5 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert;
Bach's “St. Matthew's Passion.”

March 5 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert by
Bach Society.

March 6 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra; contemporary works; Mascia
Predit, soprano; Igor Markevitsch, con-
ductor.

Downhill race

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 60 ---
March 10 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-
cert; Verdi's “Requiem.”

March 10 — Bonn (NRW): ‘‘Von deutscher
Seele,” cantata by Hans Pfitzner.

March 14 — Kassel (Hes): Concert in com-
memoration of 125th anniversary of Beet-
hoven's death.

March 16 — Darmstadt (Hes): Concert;
Quintetto dell’ Accademia Chigiana
(Italy).

March 16-17 — Berlin: Concert; RIAS Or-
chestra; Kathleen Ferrier, alto.

March 20-21 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; Clemens Kraus (Vienna),
guest conductor.

March 23 — Aachen (NRW): Concert in
commemoration of 100th anniversary of
municipal orchestra.

March 23 — Bonn (NRW): Concert in com-
memoration of 125th anniversary of Beet-
hoven's death.

March 31 — Hamburg: Concert; Haydn's
“The Seasons,”

Festivals and Social Events

March 6 — Sinsheim (WB): Fillies mart.

March 23 — Heidelberg (WB): Summer
Day procession.

March 23 — Oberwesel (NRW): St. Werner
procession.

March — Saeckingen (WB): Fridolin festi-
val.

March — Breisgau (SB): Easter egg jump-
ing.

March-April — Hamburg: Spring festival,
Hamburg Cathedral.

Sport Events

March 2 — Kreuth (Bav):
grand slalom.

March 2 — Hundsbach (WB): Black Forest
ski championships.

March 2 — Rottach-Egern (Bav): Inter-
national downhill race for “‘Golden Wall-
berg Escutcheon."

March 2-7 — Berlin:
races.

March 7-9 — Lenggries (Bav): German ski
championships.

March 14 — Munich (Bav): International
ice hockey game: Germany vs. Switzer-
jJand.

March - 15-16 — Feldberg (WB): Interna-
tional ski jumping for. Curiccala cup.
April

Congresses and Meetings

April 15-19 — Tuebingen (WB): Meeting
of German teachers of mathematics and
natural sciences.

April 16-18 — Marburg (Hes): Agricultural
Society meeting.

April 27-29 — Flensburg (SH): General
Synod of United Evangelical-Lutheran
Church of Germany.

April 27-29 — Baden-Baden (SB): Rotary
club convention,

April — Bochum (NRW): Shakespearean
festival week, in conjunction with Ger-
man Shakespearean Society's annual
convention.

April — Goslar (LS): Meeting of Society
for Mathematics and Mechanics; meeting.

Fairs and Marts

April 16-17 — Essen (NRW): ‘German
Homeland in the East," exhibition.

April 20-23 — Frankfurt (Hes): Fur Fair.

April 25-May 4 — Munich (Bav): Hotel
and restaurant trade show.

April 6-May 4 — Cologne (NRW): Inter-
national photography and cinema ex-
hibition.

April 27-May 6 — Hanover (LS): German
industries technical fair.

International

Six-day bicycle

DECEMBER 1951

Art and Related Exhibitions

April — Heidelberg (WB): Reopening of
Netherlands’ paintings section of the
Kur-Palatinate Museum.

April-May — Hamburg: Italian art crafts
exhibition.

April-May — Essen (NRW): Art and archi-
tecture exposition.

Theater and Music

April 1-2 — Bonn (NRW): Bach's “‘St. Mat-
thew’s Passion."

April 3-4 — Muenster (NRW): Bach's ‘’St.
Matthew's Passion."

April 4 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; guest performance by Academic
Choir of Finland.

April 5-6 — Neheim-Huesten (NRW): Bach's
“St, Matthew's Passion." .

April 6 — Essen (NRW): Bach's “St. Mat-
thew's Passion."

April 6-7 — Berlin: Bach's “St. Matthew's
Passion;'' Ferenc Fricsay, conductor.
April 6-7 — Hamburg: Bach's “St. Matthew's

Passio'

April 6-7 — Heidelberg (WB): Bach's ‘St.
Matthew's Passion.’

April 7 — Aachen (NRW):
John's Passion.”

April 11 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Bach's ‘St.
John's Passion."

April 11 — Nuremberg (Bav): Bach's “‘St.
John's Passion."*

April 11 — Munich (Bav): Bach's ‘St. Mat-
thew's Passion."

April 19-20 — Berlin:
Conrad Hansen, piano
Boehm, conductor.

April — Bochum (NRW): Shakespearean
festival weeks.

Festivals and Social Events

April 12 — St. Andreasberg (LS): Tradi-
tional Easter bonfire.

April 13 — Lonau (LS): Traditional Easter
bonfire.

April 21 —- Kochem/Mosel (RP): ‘Knipp
Monday” (folk festival).

April 27-29 — Kaldenkirchen (NRW): Easter
festival.

April 30 — Bochum (NRW): May Night
Festival (since 1388).

April 30-May 1 — Throughout the Harz
district: Walpurgis celebrations.

April — Freiburg (SB): St. George’s Ride.

April-September — Essen (NRW): 1,100th
anniversary.

Sports Events

April 6 — Feldberg (WB): Leni Wagner
memorial race.

April 13-14 — Bad Ems (WB): Easter golf
matches.

April 13-14 — Bad Kreuznach (RP): Inter-
national hockey tournament.

April — Dieburg (Hes): Motorcycle races.

April — Koenigswinter (NRW): Reliability-
run in Siebengebirge (Seven Mguntains).

May

Congresses and Meetings

May 3-4 — Wolfratshausen (Bav): Phila-
telic societies of Bavaria.

May 7 — Hamburg: Overseas Day.

May 8 — Nuremberg Bav): Southwest Ger-
man music dealers’ association, conven-
tion.

May 18-25 — Frankfurt (Hes): Association
for Chemical Apparatus: convention;
25th International Congress for Industrial
Chemistry.

May 22 — Aachen (NRW): Bestowal of
International Charlemagne, Prize of city
of Aachen.

Bach's ‘St.

RIAS Orchestra;
soloist, Karl

57

May — Mainz (Hes): German archeologists
convention,

May — Essen (NRW): Power research con-
vention.

Fairs and Marts

Till May 17 — Cologne (NRW): Photo-
graphic and cinema exposition.

May — Friedrichshafen (SB): International
Lake Constance fair.

May — Freiburg (SB): Hotel and Restau-
rant trade show.

Art and Related Exhibitions

May — Essen (NRW): Art and architecture
exposition.

May — Hamburg: Exhibit of Italian crafts.

May — Constance (SB): Antique paintings
and graphic art from municipal collec-
tions.

Theater and Music

May 5 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; G. Wand, conductor.

May 5-6 — Bremen: Philharmonic concert:
Mozart's C-minor Mass.

May 7 — Kassel (Hes): Beethoven's Ninth
Symphony.

May 8 — Munich (Bav): Concert: Nino
Sanzogno (Milan), conductor.

May 10 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW):
Beethoven's ‘‘Missa Solemnis."

May 11 — Muenster (NRW): Beethoven's .
"Missa Solemnis.”

May 11 — Dortmund (NRW): Haydn's
“The Seasons."
May 14-15 — Munich (Bav): Handel's

“The Messiah.”

May 27-31 — Bayreuth (Bav): Franconian
festival week.

May — Wiesbaden (Hes): International
May Festival, European Opera Biennial
of dance and festival concerts.

May — Bonn (NRW): Beethoven

May — Nuremberg (Bav): Verdi's
Boccanegra."’ First performance.

May-Aug. — Tecklenburg (NRW): Open-
air plays in castle ruins.

May-Aug. — Oberdollendorf (NRW): Open-
air performances at Heisterbach ruins.

Folk Festivals

May 1 — Bad Neuenahr (NRW): Festival
of Youth.

May 1-4 — Hoechst (NRW): May mart.

Early May — Aachen (NRW): Spring
festival.

May 1-10 — Brakel (NRW): Homeland and
culture week.

May 1-10 — Mannheim (WB): May amuse-
ment fair.

May 4 — Lustadt (RP): Cheese festival.

May 11 — Karlsruhe (WB): Summer day
procession.

May 18-27 — Heidelberg (WB): Spring
amusement fair.

May 22 — Bensberg (NRW): Folk festival
with children's fairy pageant.

May — Hamburg: Spring show.

May — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW): Town
marksmen’s festival.

May — Bad Soden (Hes): Fountain festival.

May-Sept. (Sundays) — Hamelin (NRW):
Pied Piper (rat catcher) plays.

May-Sept. — Osterode/Harz (LS): 800th
anniversary.

Religious Events

May 23 — Weingarten (WB): Blutritt

(Blood Ride).
May 27-29 — Fulda (Hes): German Catho-
lic bishops’ conference.
May-Oct. — Kevelaer (NRW): Pilgrimages
to Kevelaer. .
May-Oct. — Neviges (NRW): Pilgrimages
to Gracious Image of Ardenberg-Neviges
and to Kreuz- and Marienberg shrines.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
Sports Events

May 1-4 — Wiesbaden (Hes): International
tennis tournament.

May 11 — Hanover (LS): Eilenriede motor-
cycle races.

May 11-30 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Interna-
tional race for sports and touring cars.
May 31-June 2 — Wiesbaden (Hes): 16th
International riding, jumping and driving

tournament.

May — Duesseldorf (NRW): Traditional
Rhine relay.

May — Cuxhaven (SH): North Sea week
and regatta.

May — Loerrach (SB): International hand-
ball tournament. f

June

Congresses and Meetings

June 1-2 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Evangeli-
cal Educators Association convention.

June 8-14 — Mainz (Hes): German Libra-
rians Association meeting.

June 15-16 — Stuttgart (WB): Convention
of Master Barbers Association.

June 21-29 — Mainz (Hes): Gutenberg
week and exhibition.

June 21-30 — Cologne (NRW):
Society meeting.

June 28 — Stattgart (WB): Industrial gra-
phic artists convention.

June — Wilhelmshaven (SH): Northwest
German Universities Association con-
vention.

June — Bonn (NRW): Bonn University Day.

June — Cologne (NRW): German Catholic
Youth Association convention.

Fairs and Marts

June 15-16 — Stuttgart (WB): Hairdressing
exhibit.

June 22-26 — Stuttgart (WB): Ladies outer
garments industry sales fair.

June 29-July 6 — Frankfurt (Hes): ‘‘Econ-
omy in the Service of the Housewife.”
June — Kiel (SH): Schleswig-Holstein

trade exhibition and ‘Kiel Week."

Art and Related Exhibits

June 1-15 — Wuerzburg (Bav): 1,200th
anniversary of ‘‘Franconia Sacra," ex-
hibit by Franconian artists.

June 8-15 — Baden-Baden (SB):
national cultural exposition.

June — Duesseldorf (NRW): Art exhibit
“Iron and Steel.”

June — Constance (SB): Old paintings and
graphics from municipal collections.

Theater and Music

June 1-2 — Schwaebisch Hall (WB): Open-
air performances on the great staircase
of St. Michael's Cathedral.

June 8 — Essen (NRW): Singers’ rally of
German and foreign post office singing
societies.

June 8-15 — Baden-Baden (SB):
national cultural week.

June 12 — Munich (Bav): Haydn's ‘'The
Seasons."

June 13 — Wuppertal (NRW): Hindemith's
“Requiem.” -

June 14-22 — Ludwigsburg (WB): “Old
Wuerttemberg" festival week in palace.

Middle of June — Stuttgart (WB): Mozart
festival.

June 16 — Hanover (LS): Concert in com-
memoration of Stravinsky's 70th birthday.

June 18-19 — Duisburg (NRW): First festi-
val concert in celebration of city’s 100th
anniversary.

June 22 — Duisburg (NRW): Second festi-
val concert: Haydn's ‘‘The Seasons."

June 30-July 1— Cologne (NRW): Haydn's
“St. Cecilia's Mass."

Juné — Wuerzburg (Bav): Mozart festival.

Silesian

Inter-

Inter-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

June — Nuremberg (Bav): International
organ week.

June — Kassel (Hes): Open-air plays of
State Theater.

June — Aachen (NRW): 107th Lower
Rhenish music festival of Aachen, Dues-

seldorf, Cologne and Wuppertal.

June — Darmstadt (Hes): International
vacation courses in contemporary music.
June — Recklinghausen (NRW): Ruhr

festival plays.

June-July — Heidelberg (WB): Serenade
concerts and open-air performances in
castle court.

June-July — Eppstein/Taunus (Hes): Open-
air plays in castle.

June-July — Cologne (NRW): Chamber
concerts by Northwest German Radio
Orchestra in Augustenburg palace.

June-August — Nuremberg (Bav): Hans
Sachs’ plays and castle serenades in
Swedish court of the Kaiserburg.

June-August — Marburg (Hes): Open-air
performances on castle hill.

June-August — Bamberg (Bav): Festival
concerts by Bamberg Symphony Or-
chestra in Dominican Church, Rose Gar-
den and Kaiser's Hall.

June-Sept. — Augsburg (Bav): Open-air
performances at Red Gate.

June-Sept. — Coblenz (RP): Operetta per-
formances on Rhine.

June-Sept. — Hamburg: Garden symphony
concerts in “‘Planten and Blumen” ex-
position grounds.

Folk Festivals

June 1 — Rees (NRW): Marksmen’s festi-
val,

“June 1-2 — Schwaebisch Hall (WB):
Historical salt boilers’ dance,
June 1-2 — Schwetzingen (WB): Whit-

suntide fair,

June 1-2 — Rothenburg/Tauber (Bav): ‘‘The
Master Draught" historic play and
“Shepherd's Dance.”

June 1-4 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW):
Marksmen's festival.

June 1-7 — Muelheim (NRW): Old Muel-
heim Whitsuntide festival and homeland
week,

June 2 — Unterhausen (WB): Cave of Fog
festival.

June 2-3 — Ochsenfurt (Bav): Horse ride to
Wolfgang chapel, blessing of horses, etc.

June 3 — Deidesheim (RP): Billy goat festi-
val (since 1404).

June 3 — Frankfurt (Hes): Waeldchestag,
grand folk festival.

June 7 — Schwetzingen (WB): Asparagus
festival.

June 7-17 — Karlsruhe (WB): Spring festi-
val.

June 21 — Ludwigsburg (WB):
illumination with fireworks,
June 21-23 — Erbach (NRW): Strawberry

festival.

June 24 — Throughout the Harz district:
St. John's Festival.

June 28 — Leichlingen (NRW): Strawberry
festival.

June — Heidelberg (WB): Summer festival
of university.

June — Zweibruecken (RP): Rose festival.

June — Kiel (SH): Kiel week.

June-July — Pforzheim (WB): Children's
and flower festival of Garden City.
Annual fair.

June-August — Bad _ Reichenhall
Festival of the 10,000 lights.

Anniversaries and Jubilees

June 1-8 — Bad Gandersheim (Bav): 1,100th
anniversary.

June 1-Oct. 12 — Wuerzburg (Bav): 1,200th
anniversary.

Castle

(Bav):

58

June 7-22 — Wiedenbruck (NRW): 1,000th
anniversary,

June 13-15 — Birkenau (WB): 400th city-
hall anniversary.

June 28-July 5 — Ilsfeld/Neckar (WB):
850th anniversary.

June-August — Nuremberg (Bav): Cen-
tennial of Germanic National Museum.

Religious Events

June 10 — Oberwesel (NRW): Corpus
Christi procession.

June 12 — Fulda (Hes): Corpus Christi
procession.

Sports Events

June 1-2 — Bad Ems (Hes): German pro-
fessional tennis championships.

June 1-2 — Bruchsal (RP): International
hockey tournament.

June 1-2 — Bad Harzburg (LS): Tennis
tournament.

June 6-8 — Ludwigsburg (WB): Internation-
al riding and driving tournament.

June 6-8 — Stuttgart (WB): German
amateur boxing championships.

Early June — Heidelberg (WB): 20th row-
ing regatta.

Early June — Stuttgart (WB): International
rowing regatta.

June 13-15 — Travemuende (SH): German
Automobile Club international rally for
sports and touring cars.

June 28-29 — Hanover (LS): German field
and track championships.

June — Bonn (NRW): Venusberg festival.

June-July — Hamburg: Derby week with
Grand Hansa Prize and German derby.

July

Congresses and Meetings

July 7-21 — Hamburg First general con-
gress of International Missions Council.

July 24-31 — Hamburg; International print-
ing and paper fair.

July 24-Aug. 3 — Hanover (LS): Congress
of Lutheran World Association.

July — Duesseldorf (NRW): Convention of
“The Problem Child.”

Fairs and Marts

July 4-14 — Wuerzburg (Bav): Main-Fran-
conian fair.

July 4-20 — Munich (Bav): German handi-
craft fair,

July 11-13— Baden-Baden (SB): Internation-
al rose show.

— Stuttgart (WB): Bakeries

ion.

July — Essen (NRW): Garden and flower
show.

July — Aachen (NRW):
German handicraft.

Art and Exhibitions

July-Aug. — Bamberg (Bav): Exhibition of
art of the Middle Ages.

July-Aug. — Darmstadt (Hes): Exhibition
of Darmstadt secession,

July-Oct. — Munich (Bav): Exhibition of
arts, 1952.

Theater and Music

Early July — Wuerzburg (Bav):
festival.

July 22-Aug. 25 — Bayreuth (Bav): Richard
Wagner festival.

July — Munich (Bav): Open-air perfor-
mances by Bavarian State Opera; sum-
mer plays at Nymphenburg.

July — Erlangen (Bav): International stu-
dents theater week,

July — Siegen (NRW): Castle plays.

July-Aug. — Eichstaett (Bav): Mozart plays
in courtyard and Hall of Mirrors of the
Residency.

Exhibition of

Mozart

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 62 ---
July-Aug. — Kempten (Bav): Drama and
operetta open-air performances.

July-Aug. — Jagsthausen (WB): Perform-
ance of Goethes’s ‘Goetz von Berlichin-
gen’ in Jagsthausen castle.

Festivals and Social Events

Early July — Karlsruhe (WB): Linden
blossom festival in Gutenberg Square.

Early July — Karlsrulie (WB): Grand rose
festival of Baden State Theater.

Early July — Duisburg (NRW): 441st marks-
men's festival,

Early July — Frankfurt (Hes): Folk festival
on Main river.

July 5-7 — Dortmund (NRW): Theater folk
festival.

July 6 — Schlitz (Hes): Historical costume
festival.

July 6 — Koenigswinter
summer festival.

July 12-14 — Schliersee (Bav): Grand sum-
mer festival.

July 12-14 — Alsbach (WB): Castle festival.

July 13 — Alzey (Hes): Castle festival.

(NRW): Rhine

July 13.— Traben-Trarbach (RP): Wine
festival,

July 13 — Bayrisch Zell (Bav): Summer
festival, costume pageant.

July 14 — Muenster (NRW): Fire and

pestilence procession (since 1383}.
July 19-20 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Schierstein
harbor festival.
July 20 — St. Goar (RP):
festival at Rheinfels castle.
July 20 — Wildberg (WB): Shepherds’ race.
July 26 — Essen (NRW): St. Ann festival.
July — Wuerzburg (Bav): Kiliani festival
(since 12th century).
July — Duisburg (NRW): Rose festival.
July-Aug. — Borkum (SH): Lantern pageant.
July-Aug. — Essen (NRW): Traditional
festival in the woods. .

Marksmens’

Anniversaries and Jubilees

July 5 — Ilsfeld (WB): 850th anniversary.

July 6 — Trier (RP): 700th anniversary of
St. Paul's skippers’ brotherhood.

July-Sept, — Osterode (LS): 800th anni-
versary.

Religious Events

July — Mainz (Hes): Ketteler pilgrimage.

July — Abensberg (Bav): Stilla festival.

July-Nov. — Telgte (NRW): Pilgrimages to
St. Dolores.

Sports Events
July 4-6 — Baden-Baden (SB): International
race for sports and touring cars.

July 5-6 — Berlin: German field and track
semi-final tryouts for Olympic Games.
July 6 — Neheim-Huesten (NRW): Riding
and driving tournament.
July 13 — Beerfelden (Hes):

driving tournament.
Middle of July — Schotten (Hes): Famous
race for sports and racing cars.
July — Mannheim (WB): Junior rowing
regatta.
July — Duisburg (NRW): Canoe regatta.
July — Frankfurt (Hes): Rowing regatta.
July — Essen (NRW): Rowing regatta.
July — Hamburg: Rowing regatta.
July —Travemuende (SH): Rowing regattas.
July — Schleswig (SH): Schlei sailing
week,
July — Constance (SB): Rowing regatta.

Riding and

July — Bad Godesberg (NRW): Riding,
jumping and driving tournament.
July — Bad Homburg (Hes): Riding and

driving tournament.

July — Remscheid (NRW): Riding, jump-
ing and driving tournament.

July — Westerland (SH): International
tennis tournament.

DECEMBER 1951

July — Juist (SH): Tennis tournament.
July-Aug. — Muenchen/Gladbach (NRW):
Motorcycle sand-track races.

July-Aug. — Wuppertal (NRW): Motor-
cycle cement-track races.
July-Aug. — Wuppertal (NRW): Profes-

sional and amateur bicycle races.
July-Aug. — Muenchen/Gladbach (NRW):
Professional and amateur bicycle races.
July-Aug. — Borkum (SH): Tennis tourna-
ment.
July-Aug. — Borkum (SH): Dancing tour-
nament.
July-Sept. — Hamburg: Sailing regattas
on Alster and Elbe rivers.

Congresses and Meetings

Aug. 27-31 — Stuttgart (WB): 4th German
Evangelical Church Day.

Aug. 29 — Bad Wiessee (Bav):
of German Ski Union,

August — Stuttgart (WB): Annual conven-
tion of German bakery trade associations.

August — Bonn (NRW): Convention of
German orientalists.

August — Bonn (NRW): International vaca-
tion course at Bonn University.

August — Bonn (NRW): Bonn University
week; Catholic University Union.

August — Hamburg: Esperanto congress.

Fairs and Marts

Aug. 23-24 — Ilsfeld (WB):
trading mart.

Aug. 28 — Hanover (LS): Textile fair.

Aug. 29-Sept. 2 — Munich (Bav): Third
international exhibition for cosmetics,
fashions and hairdressing.

Congress

Lumber and

“Aug. 29-Sept. 7 — Bremen: Agricultural ex-

hibition.
Aug. 31-Sept.7 — Frankfurt (Hes):
national fair.

Art and Exhibitions

August — Cologne (NRW): Art exhibition
by Anton Raederscheid.

Aug.-Sept. — Prien (Bav): Art exhibition
on “Herren- und Fraueninsel."

Theater and Music

Early Aug. — Feuchtwangen (Bav): Open-
air performances in romanesque cloisters.

Early Aug. — Marburg (Hes): Open-air
plays in courtyard.

Early Aug. — Trier (RP): Festival plays in
St. Simeon's cloister.

Early Aug. — Weissenburg (Bav): Opera
and operetta open-air performances in
woodland theater.

Early Aug. — Cismar Monastery, Holstein
(SH): North-German monastery festival
plays.

Early Aug. — Marburg (Hes):
performances on the Palace Hill.

Early Aug. — Freiburg (SB): Open-air per-
formances of ‘‘The Gipsy Baron."

Early Aug. — Munich (Bav): Serenade con-
certs in Residency courtyard.

Early Aug. — Monschau/Eifel (NRW): Sum-
mer festival plays.

Inter-

Open-air

Early Aug. — Balve (NRW): Balve cave
plays and concerts.
Aug.-Sept. — Ratingen (NRW): Open-air

performances at Blue Lake.
Aug.-Sept. — Wuerzburg (Bav): Franconian
singers festival.

Festivals and Social Events

Aug. 2-4 — Hilpoltstein (Bav):
festival.

Aug. 3 — Kassel (Hes):
festival of 100,000 lights.

Aug. 3 — Memmingen (Bav): Fishermen's
Day.

Aug. 3 — Trifels (RP): Trifels festival plays.

Castle

Kasseler Zissel;

59

_ Eatly Aug.—Polle (NRW): Knights festival
plays in castle ruins,

* Barly Aug. — Essen (NRW):
festival in the woods,

Early Aug. — Weinheim/BergstraBe (WB):
Weinheim week, costume festival.

Early Aug, — St. Goar (RP): Hansen festi-
val in Rheinfels Castle.

Early Aug. — Heidelberg (WB):
days in the castle,

Early Aug. — Bruehl (WB):
of the “Blue Queen."

Early Aug. — Constance (SB): Lake night
festival with fireworks.

Early Aug. — Zeltingen/Mosel (RP): Wine
festival,

Aug. 2-5 — Travemuende (SH):
week, ,

Aug. 4-6 — Bad Zwischenahn (LS):
festival and homeland plays.

Aug. 8-12 — Wanne/Eickel (NRW):
scherland folk festival.

Aug. 9-17 — Kronach (Bav): Traditional
Franconian woods homeland festival.

Aug, 10 — Feldberg/Black Forest (WB):
Laurentius festival of the shepherds and
peasants.

Aug. 11 — Ulm/Danube (WB): “
montag’’ (Oath-taking Monday).

Aug, 15 — Bernau/Black Forest (WB): Hans

Traditional

Flower

Prune festival

Festival
Folk
Em-

Schwoer-

Thoma Day.
Middle of Aug. — Gross-Gertach (WB):
“Kaes ride,"’ ancient folk festival.

Aug. 17 — Waldshut (SB): 484th Waldshut
Chilibi festival.

Aug. 17 — Bingen (NRW): Rochus festival.

Aug. 17 — Hanover (LS): Flower festival.

Aug. 23-24 — Bad Harzburg (LS): St. Bar-
tholomew’s festival. ~

Aug. 24 — Markgroeningen (WB): Histori-
cal shepherds’ race and dance. .

Aug. 24-31 — Furth im Wald (Bav): ‘’Kill-
ing of the Dragon," ancient festival.

Aug. 30-Sept. 1 — Martinsthal (Hes): Vint-
ners festival.

August — Hildesheim (LS):

August — Wuerzburg (Bav):
festival.

August — Baden-Baden (SB):
Miss Germany, 1952,

Sports Events

Aug. 10 — Freiburg (SB): International
mountain prize races for automobiles and
motorcycles.

Aug. 17 — Stuttgart (WB): International
solo races for sports and touring cars
and motorcycles.

Aug, 23-26 — Herrenalb/Black Forest (WB):
International tennis tournament.

Aug. 24-31 — Baden-Baden (SB): Grand
Week of Baden-Baden with horse races.

August — Hamburg: German jumping and
driving derby.

August — Aachen (NRW): International
riding, jumping and driving tournaments.

Rose week.
Grand Main

Election of

August — Essen (NRW): Post-Olympic
Games regatta.

August — Wilhelmshaven (SH): Water
sports week.

August — Hamburg: International tennis
championships of Germany.

August — Constance (SB): International
tennis tournament.

August — Feldberg/Taunus (Hes): Gym-
nastics festival of Frankfurt.

August — Bad Reichenhall (Bav): Inter-
national dancing tournament.

September:
Congresses and Meetings
Sept. 1-8 — Karlsruhe (WB): German

therapy week; fourth German medica-

ments fair.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
Sept. 3—- Hamburg: Congress of European
druggists and German Druggists’ Day.
(Planned).

Sept. 15-20 — Munich (Bav): Annual meet-
ing of German Electrotechnicians Union.

Middle of Sept. — Frankfurt (Hes): Con-
vention of German clock and watch-
makers; sample fair.

Middle of Sept. — Nuremberg (Bav):
Meeting of German Dairy Experts Union.

Sept. 17-23 — Frankfurt (Hes): Convention
of German booksellers; Frankfurt book fair.

Sept. 21-24 — Essen (NRW): Convention
of German Natural Science researchers
and physicians.

Sept. 29-Oct. 3 — Berlin: Autumn meeting
of German Physical Union.

~ September — Duesseldorf (NRW): Con-
vention,of German apothecaries.

September — Essen (NRW): Convention
of German Horticultural Association with
exhibition.

September — Duesseldorf (NRW): Con-
vention of German Foundrymens Asso-
ciation.

September — Wuppertal (NRW): Meeting
of Societies of Danzig and Breslau Tech-
nological Institutes.

September — Essen (NRW): Convention
of Welding Engineers Association with
exhibition.

September — Duesseldorf (NRW): Con-
vention of Union for Social Politics.

Fairs and Marts

Sept. 7-9 — Cologne (NRW): Textile and
clothing fall fair.

Sept. 14-16 — Cologne (NRW): House-
hold and hardware fair.

Sept. 14-23 — Hanover (LS): Exhibition of
international machine tools.

Middle of Sept. — Duesseldorf (NRW):
Sales and fashion week of women's
apparel.

Sept. 19-Oct. 4 — Nuremberg (Bav): Fall
sales fair.

Sept. 20-Oct. 5 — Munich (Bav): Munich
electrical fair.

Sept. 28-Oct. 6 — Cologne (NRW): Trade
fair of German hotels and restaurants.

September — Hamburg: 48th textile
sample fair.

September — Essen (NRW): Garden and
flower show.

September — Berlin: Fifth sample fair of
Berlin leather goods.

September — Berlin: International auto-
mobile show.

September — Landau (RP): Fall market,
production show, meeting of Palatinate
vintners and peasants, with pageant and
costume festival.

Late Sept.-early Oct. — Darmstadt (Hes):
Autumn fair. .

Sept.-Oct. — Kassel (Hes): Fall sales fair.

Art and Exhibitions
Early Sept. — Bad Homburg (Hes): Exhibi-

tion of plastic arts.
September — Constance (SB): Exhibition

of old paintings and graphics from
municipal collections.
September — Karlsruhe (WB): Interna-

tional poster show.

Theater and Music

Sept. 1-7 — Hanover (LS): 100th anniver-
sary of Hanover opera house.

Early Sept. — Freiburg (SB): Ballet per-
formances in Colombi park.

September — Biberach/Riss (WB): Festival
week in commemoration of the 200th
anniversary of birth of Swabian composer
J. H. Knecht.

September —
concert of

Viersen (NRW): Choral
the Amsterdam Concert-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

gebouw choir, with Hilversum Broad-

casting Symphony Orchestra; Piet van”

Kempen, conductor.

Sept.-Oct. — Cologne (NRW): 125th anni-
versary of the Guerzenich Choir.

Festivals and Social Events

Early Sept. — Koblenz (RP): Vintners festi-
vals in wine village.

Early Sept. — St. Goar (RP): ‘The Rhine
Aflame,"’ illumination and fireworks in
St. Goar and St. Goarshausen.

Early Sept. — Wiesloch (RP): Palatinate
vintners festival.

Early Sept. — Ruedesheim/Rhine (Hes):
Wine festival week.

Early Sept. — Trier (RP): Mosel wine
festival.

Early Sept. — Bad Hoenningen (NRW):

Vintners festival.

Sept. 6-7 — Dinkelsbuehl (Bav): Children's
and shepherds’ festivals.

Sept. 7 — Bad Homburg (Hes): Lantern
festival.

Sept. 7 — Pappenheim (Bav):
aflame,” fireworks display.

Sept. 13-15 — Neheim-Huesten (NRW):
Huesten festival; Sauerland folk festival.

Sept. 13-15 and 20-22 — Bad Duerkheim
(RP): Traditional sausage market and
wine festival.

Sept. 14 — Kochem/Mosel (RP): Vintners
festival.

Sept. 17-25 — Buchen (Hes): Buchen home-
coming with markmens' festival.

Sept. 20-Oct. 5 — Munich (Bav): ‘“‘Oktober-
fest’ (state fair).

September — Heidenheim (WB): Shepherds’
race and dance.

September — Constance (SB): Fall fair.

September — Wuerzburg (Bav): Wine
festival.

September — Bad Cannstatt (WB): Folk
festival.

Sept.-Oct. — Berlin: October festival.

Anniversaries and Jubilees

“Castle

September — Hanover (LS): 100th anni-
versary of opera house.

September — Wuerzburg (Bav): 1,200th
anniversary.

Religious Events

Early Sept. — Bochum (NRW): Pilgrimage
to Mother of God Shrine.

Sept. 8 — Dieburg (Hes): Pilgrimage to
Mother of God Image.

Sept. 13-21 — Kranenburg (NRW): Pil-
grimage and procession.

Sports Events

Sept. 6-7 — Adenav/Eifel (RP): Inter-

national 24-hour race for sports and
touring cars on the Nuerburgring.

Sept. 7 — Hamburg: Motorcycle races.

Sept. 12-14 — Bad Neuenahr (RP): Auto-
mobile races.

Sept. 13-14— Wickrath (NRW): Traditional
parade; riding and driving tournament.

Sept. 13-14 — Baden-Baden (SB): Dancing
tournament.

September —
regatta.

September — Warendorf (NRW): Traditional
stallion parade.

September — Munich (Bav): International
field and track meeting, Germany vs.
Italy.

September — Baden-Baden (SB): Tennis
tournament.

Mannheim (WB): Rowing

October

Congresses and Meetings

Oct. 14-15 — Essen (NRW): Annual con-
vention of North Rhine-Westphalia Hair-
dressers Association.

60

Oct. 26-Nov. 2 — Frankfurt (Hes): Inter-
national bicycle and motorcycle ex-
hibition.

October — Essen’ (NRW):
poultry exhibition.

October — Essen (NRW): Used car fair.

October — Essen (NRW): Gardeners fair.

October — Berlin: German industrial fair.

Theater and Music

Oct. 10-13 — Kassel (Hes): Music festival.

Oct. 11-12 — Donaueschingen (Bav): Music
festival.

October — Wilhelmshaven (LS): Perform-
ances by Association of Lower Saxon
composers and music teachers. .

Festivals and Social Events

Oct. 1-10 — Fuerth (Bav): Michaelis festi-
val (since 13th century).

Early Oct. — Bacharach/Rhine (RP): Vint-
ners festival.

Early Oct. — Mannheim (WB): Autumn
fun fair.

Oct. 5-8 — Weinsberg (WB): Weibertreu
(Faithful Women) pageant.

Oct. 5-12 — Neustadt (RP): German vintage
festival.

West-German

Oct. 13-19 — Hersfeld (Hes): Folk
festival.
Middle of Oct. — Baden-Baden (SB):

Flower festival.
Oct. 19-28 — Heidelberg (WB): Autumn
fun fair.

October — Reinfeld (SH): Traditional carp
festival.
October —
festival.
October — Iphofen (Bav): Vintners festival.

Sports Events
Oct. 25-Nov. 1 — Frankfurt (Hes): Six-day
bicycle races.

Essen (NRW): Markmen's

November

Congresses

November — Duesseldorf (NRW): Conven-
tion of German Iron Foundry Association.

Fairs and Exhibitions

Nov. 1-10 — Karlsruhe (WB):
autumn fair.

November — Munich (Bav): Poultry show.

Theater and Music

November — Brunswick
chamber music festival.

Festivals and Marts

Nov. 1-10 — Karlsruhe (WB): Autumn fair.

Nov. 7-15 — Soest (NRW): All Saints’
mart.

Nov. 10 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Traditional
St. Martin's festival.

Nov. 11 — Throughout Western Germany:
Opening of the 1952-53 carnival season.

Nov. 11 — Heidelberg (WB): St. Martin's
procession.

Sports Events

Nov. 2 — Kassel (Hes): German amateur
dancing championships.

December

Exhibitions, Fairs and Marts

Dec. 12-14 -— Stuttgart (WB):
exhibition.

Dec. 21 — Essen (NRW): Christmas mart.

Dec. 22 — Kassel (Hes): Christmas fair.

Dec. 24 — Hildesheim (LS): Christmas mart.

December — Baden-Baden (SB): Christmas
flower show.

December — Berlin: Christmas fair.

Folk Festivals
Dec. 5 — Throughout Western Germany:
St. Nicholas pageants. + END

Annual

(LS): Modern

Poultry

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 64 ---
PEELE

SCAPUUUDVUU UCL TTEET USTEDES ee

British Elections

Winston Churchill was the man of the week, as far as
the West German press was concerned, following the
Conservative election victory in England. Most of the
independent and government coalition papers thought that
his return to power was more likely than not to work
to Germany's ultimate advantage. For one thing, France
would probably feel itself more secure, being assured
of British backing at Strasbourg in the effort for a united
Europe and would thus be apt to regard with a greater
degree of equanimity Anglo-American moves to reincor-
porate Germany in the Western polity of nations. Rela-
tions between the United States and Britain were expected
to improve, with consequent beneficial effects on the
entire Western effort to counter the threat of Communist
aggression.

While most papers thus regarded the Conservative
success as a victory for European integration, there was
no lack of voices pointing out the various ‘flies in the
ointment.” Part of the Tory gains was attributed to “dis-
couraged Liberals and this fact was noted with some
regret as indicating a crasser division along class struggle
lines. In this connection the advances of Aneurin Bevan's
left-wing Laborites were considered significant. The
London Daily Telegraph's pronouncement that the Tories

(Suedkurier, Constance, Oct. 31)

AUAVEAAUAUTOEUD ANA HULSNOUSA TEA EA SSO OUAESATADEGDUAUEQUUSUGOUEOOOOUAEOCUOOOUEDAMEOOS UCN TODSR TEMA EA SEDUCE UMA ATS

German Editorials
And Cartoons

Material for this section is compiled from press digests and analyses prepar-
ed by various divisions of HICOG and OLC offices, and from official releases
of German agencies. These compilations are intended to inform the American
readers of what the Germans are thinking, without interpretation. The
inclusion of any viewpoint does not give concurrence to that view or opinion.

(Rhein-Echo, Duesseldorf, Oct. 27)

Attlee: “Never mind; whatever goes up
must come down."

were celebrating a simple victory rather than a triumph
and that Labor had suffered a defeat but not collapse,
was frequently quoted.

The Social-Democratic (SPD) press was gloomy. It was
at pains to disparage the Conservative victory, often
pointing out that although that party had gained a work-
ing majority in Parliament it was in a minority as far as
the popular vote was concerned. Ht stressed Labor success
and called Churchill a danger to peace. Many leftist
papers charged the British voter with ingratitude in the
face of the many political and social benefits conferred
on him by the “much-maligned" Socialist regime. This
part of the press largely attributed such disloyalty to
“nervous” anticipation of stormy weather ahead.

Mr. Churchill's personal popularity in Germany was
very much in evidence. The term ‘Grand Old Man,” for
instance was used surprisingly often. Most of the press
spoke’ with respect, sometimes approaching admiration,
of his realistic toughness and color.

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt) was pleased with
the election results. It feared, however, that Churchill
would sooner or later collide head-on with the British
labor unions, on whose support in essential: matters Attlee
could always count. Nevertheless, the outcome had once

(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, Nov. 3)

Pieck to Heuss: “A little game, pal?”

DECEMBER 1951

Tony Eden — The New Girl in the Act.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Nov. 3-4)

Britain's Troubles.
Mutiny on the Bounty.

New.Treatment for the. British Lion.

more demonstrated the English people's feeling of com-
mon sense and moderation.

Schwaebische Landeszeitung (Augsburg) appeared to
believe that the end of “‘austerity’’ in England was at
hand. It blamed the present state of affairs on Labor's
controlled economy. Die Welt (Hamburg) differed. It be-
lieved that even more stringent ‘austerity’ might follow,
in an attempt to stem Britain's disastrous economic situa-
tion. Die Welt was sure, since the new prime minister
was “imbued with the European conception,” that a favor-
able Anglo-German policy could be developed.

Hamburger Freie Presse (Hamburg) also predicted closer
Anglo-American cooperation. Oberbayerisches Volksblatt
(Munich), independent, attributed Labor's defeat to
its “unfortunate foreign policy and Bevan's radicals,
combined with the “independent floating vote." Frank-
furter Neue Presse (Frankfurt) counted on closely cooper-
ation with France and a stiffer policy toward Peking.
The Flensburger Tageblatt (Flensburg) believed that
Stalin would view Churchill's accession to power with
a distaste “similar to his aversion to German troop con-
tingents.”

The Stuttgarter Zeitung (Stuttgart) and the Industrie-
Kurier (Duesseldorf) differed with most papers in refus-
ing to believe that radical changes in British policy would
take place, except in such internal matters as the nulli-
fication of steel nationalization and coal mine reorgani-
zation, The independent Muenchener Merkur (Munich)
doubted that the Tories could turn back the clock and
cancel out the ‘welfare state’ or would even attempt to
do so.

Deutsche Zeitung (Stuttgart), representing the views of
big business, made a speculative outline of Britain's new
course, opining that Churchill would press for a deal with
Moscow, via continued rearmament, consolidation of the
Atlantic Pact, firm maintenance of the British Near East
position and stress on Commonwealth relations. This
paper professed to believe that the new prime minister
would, if anything, soft-pedal European federation.

The nationalist Kasseler Post (Kassel) used the occa-
sion to launch a vehement tirade against practically

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Der Fortschritt, Essen, Nov. 2)

62

.
(Der Mittag, Duesseldorf, Oct. 18)

Egypt's Farouk
Breaks the Bank.

everybody. It attacked Churchill for helping to tear down
Germany, “the strongest barrier against Bolshevism,”
while admitting his ‘essential fairness.’ At the same time
it excoriated SPD leader Schumacher for “playing footsie”
with the late Labor government, which, it claimed, had
caused the Federal Republic untold damage by its dis-
mantling and similar policies.

Christ und Welt, Stuttgart Protestant weekly, prophe-
sied a rise in importance of Aneurin Bevan’s radicals but
pinned its hopes on the activity of the younger, progres-
sive elements of the Conservative Party. It also hopefully
remarked that Churchill might bring to pass a “Yalta
in reverse’ and could possibly become the “spokesman
for the West,” even though the United States would neces-
sarily continue as ‘senior partner.”

The Christian Democratic Union (CDU) press generally
expressed satisfaction over the Tory victory. Rheinische
Post (Duesseldorf) said that Churchill's return to power
would “reanimate" the European political scene and that
Germany too would benefit. Deutsche Tagespost (Regens-
burg) celebrated with the headline “Churchill's victory
is a victory for Europe." Bonn's General Anzeiger be-
lieved that Churchill had an “inherent” confidence in the
Germans, much more so than his predecessor. .

The Social Democratic Party (SPD) papers made no
attempt to conceal their disappointment and concentrated
their editorials on an attempt to minimize the Tory victory
as far as possible. Hannoversche Presse (Hanover) and
the Westfaelische Rundschau (Dortmund) predicted that
Labor would soon return to power and the Rhein-Echo
(Duesseldorf) headlined “By No Means a Landslide."
Neue Ruhr-Zeitung (Essen) was bitter in its comment. It
called the Churchill victory “a defeat for Germany” and
feared that Churchill would again try to play the strong
man, with unpredictable results.

Fight against Neo-Nazis

“The industrial unions affiliated with the German Trade
Union Federation are no political parties and have no
intention to claim their rights, but it is their duty to
keep an eye on political events and to make sure that

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 66 ---
these events keep within the framework of democracy,”
said an article Oct. 27 in the Gewerkschaftspost, organ
of the Chemicals, Paper and Ceramics Union, at Hanover.

“At a time such as the present when anti-democratic
forces and neo-Fascists are resuming their political activity
just as they did before 1933, the unions feel called upon
to give their highest attention to political life and to
point out to the governments of the Federal Republic and
the states that their activities are not likely to eliminate
the enemies of democracy.

“The anti-democratic forces in Germany which, in the
course of the last four decades have twice led the people
to disaster and have started two wars...have learned
nothing from those two catastrophes and are now using
human forgetfulness to restart their irresponsible game.
We have not yet recovered from the consequences of
the last collapse and already neo-Fascists, busy at their
subversive task, are getting support and backing from
numerous people in posts of public administration and
of economic life.

“The trade unions condemn this and see in all these
activities not the pranks of a few adolescents but the
organized actions of subversive forces with definite plans,
loyalty to the black-white-red colors and thoughts of
Maffia courts, as expressed in a letter to the Brunswick
state judge and jurors who condemned the SRP* spokes-
man von Bothmer to four months in jail. Those are no
boyish pranks! It is an organized challenge to democracy.

“Trade unionists will reach this conclusion when they
are asked to accept the verdict of other judges who said
that there was no evidence of political motivation in
acts of vandalism against the flag which took place in
Peine (Lower Saxony) despite...the statement of the
culprit: “I did it in protest... against the attempts of the
Trade Union Federation to cover Communist officials
within its ranks...

“To defile and to destroy the flag of the Federal
Republic is not the only shameful activity of neo-
Fascists and adolescents... Remer (former Nazi general
and head of the Socialist Reich Party) recently an-
nounced publicly that, in the future, he would reply

* Socialist Reich Party, see ‘The Radical Right" in the Information
Bulletin, September 1951.

(Essener Allgemeine Zeitung, Essen, Oct. 31)

Heavy Luggage
For that Paris Trip.

DECEMBER 1951

(Die Zeit, Hamburg, Oct. 18)

to terror with terror whenever Dr. Adenauer or Dr. Schu-
macher addresses a public gathering...

“The emergence of politicking generals, covering the
Stahlhelm (nationalist veterans’ organization between the
wars, reestablished in September 1951) and ‘soldiers’
associations of the most divergent types is also part of
the anti-democratic activities of the...old guilty forces.
They represent a political burden for the Federal Repub-
lic... because they hurt our integration into the world
of free peoples and because they lower our prestige abroad.

“Besides all these references to the lurking danger of
undermining democracy, other happenings also deserve
notice, such as the reemergence of dueling student-
fraternities and the attending division of men into those
able and those unable to give satisfaction. This stig-
matization of higher and lower human being is on the
same level with the... distinction between the Fuehrer
and the oppressed masses without rights.

“The trade unions are filled with mistrust against the
laxity of the democratic executive agencies. In it they
see a danger, just as they consider it dangerous that
well-known politically active industrial barons are again
trying to. resume their positions of power. Thus the
unions demand that the governments fight against all
these who once already have contributed to the death
of democracy.

“The many happenings of which we have sketched
but a small part, have their roots in the fight of Fascism
against democracy...None of these who are partly to
blame for our misery — who share the respensibility for
the fate of 6,000,000 innocent people in the concentration
camps, who have part of the guilt for the...senseless
sacrifice of millions of soldiers, and who helped lose a
Reich — have a right to play even the smallest role in .
the affairs of state or to take the stage as critics of dem-
ocracy... We must tell the governments of the Federal
Republic and the states: ‘Don't let democracy again be
choked by the adherents of totalitarianism!""

Heuss Answers Pieck .
Prominent news coverage was given Nov. 8 to President
Theodor Heuss’ refusal of Soviet Zone President Wilhelm

(Rheinische Zeitung, Cologne, Oct. 16)

Art Exhibit, Moscow, 1951.

Korea.
“Rockets or peace doves today?"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
(Frankenpost, Hof, Oct, 20)

German Economic Situation.
Minister Erhard
As Miss-Management

(Die Zeit, Hamburg, Oct. 11)

(Rhein-Zeitung, Coblenz, Oct. 27)

(Hessische Nachrichten, Kassel,
Oct. 31)

The German
“Neutrality” Dreamer.

Bonn Plans Drastic
Tax-Collection Methods.

Pieck’s invitation to all-German talks in Berlin. Most
newspapers published the full text of President Heuss'
letter, which was forwarded to Pieck by an official of
the federal representative in Berlin.

In an editorial, the Darmstaedter Echo (Darmstadt)
wrote that the sole purpose of Pieck's letter was to cause
unrest among the West German population. Calling the
reply a milestone on the obstacle-studded “road from fear
to security," the paper thanked the federal president for
frustrating this Soviet intention by his answer, which gave
“convincing evidence of the growing feeling of security
prevailing in the Federal Republic."

The Kasseler Post (Kassel) declared that President
Heuss' answer put an end to an “episode in the Eastern
propaganda campaign with regard to all-German elec-
tions" and expressed extreme satisfaction that Heuss re-
jected the Soviet: Zone’s “intrusive advances” with, so to
speak, a “wave of his hand.” The Berlin Volksblatt called
the president's reply “firm without being insulting, digni-
fied and uncompromising.'**

“SS" Meetings

Various recent reports on the meetings of former SS
and Waffen SS members in Berlin and Hamburg were

climaxed Nov. 7 by a two-column front-page dispatch”

to the Frankfurter Rundschau on a Waffen SS meeting in
Frankfurt in which approximately 40 former SS men and
a number of Frankfurt and Offenbach merchants and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Japanese Treaty.
“Nix gut!”

64

(Nuernberger Nachrichten, Nuremberg, Oct. 20)

A Great Act —
If They Can Reassemble Her!

(Ruhr Nachrichten, Dortmund, Nov. 1)

All Aboard
For German Sovereignty.

academicians participated. The Rundschau printed ex-
cerpts from the speech of a former SS leader, who rejected
any political tendencies of the recently founded SS Hilfs-
gemeinschaft and called the support of needy comrades,
SS widows and orphans the main purpose of the organi-
zation.

Sharply criticizing the Hamburg and Berlin meetings
of the SS Hilfsgemeinschaft in which SS and not Waffen
SS men participated, the Frankfurter Rundschau rejected
any cooperation of the “political and criminal soldiery,”
whose “terror made a whole people tremble.’ The paper
placed before the Federal Government and the opposition
the alternative of either protecting democracy against
the “black vermin" or of giving up the “freedom labori-
ously acquired since 1945."

The Rundschau opposes. former SS members being in-
cluded in the defense front against the East, because
“this would mean war, while we all want peace with
Russia," and because cooperation of the SS would “bury
the idea of democratic defense.”

Longer Working Hours Opposed

A reply to recent statements to the effect that coal
production could be increased through an increase of
working hours per shift, was made by Fritz Dahlmann,
head of the Tariff Division of the Mining Union in his
union's official publication, Die Bergbau-Industrie, Oct.27. .

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 68 ---
“In view of the fact that, under the special agreement
to raise coal production which ran from November 1950
to March 1951, an additional 2,372,960 tons of hard coal
was produced by special shifts, it has been suggested
that the social partners conclude a similar agreement for
the coming months." The article said, “we understand
this thought process, but must point out that the miner
working the coal...is very heavily burdened, Produc-
tivity has almost reached the prewar level. Furthermore,
especially in direct production, considerable overtime
work is being done...

“The continuing appeal to the physical capacity of the
miners means nothing basically but the intention to shift
the burden unilaterally; it also amounts to a non-recog-
nition of reserves actually available. It must be considered
how these reserves can be mobilized. The Mining Union
is prepared to take part in negotiations to accomplish
this aim. It is not surprising that there are people who
do not agree with our position. What is surprising to all
responsible people is that certain sources are openly
advocating longer daily shifts...

“The Industriekurier of Oct. 13 clearly shows this. In
the opinion of federal Minister of Interior Dr. Lehr, the
deplorable coal situation could be remedied by the in-
troduction of an additional working hour. The same paper
carried a short notice on Oct. 16 which goes one step
further. According to this item, ‘it is considered probable
in Bonn that the trade unions, in connection with a
premium system, will agree to an extension of the work-
ing time by half an hour to one hour.’

“How this conclusion was reached is a mystery to all
those who took part in the discussions.

“We consider it necessary to state here that the Bonn
Officials have been advised if they look for a remedy in
an increase of the hours worked each day, there can
hardly be a responsible management official who would
be prepared to accept such a thoughtless idea. A special
regulation of that nature directed against the miner would
have disastrous effects on productivity. Today we are
trying to stop fluctuations, the most important factor
limiting production. These attempts would be superfluous
if the shifts were to be lengthened.

“Not only would miners leave the pits, but, in our
opinion, few young workers would, in the future, be

(Der Tag, West Berlin, Oct. 18)

(Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen, Oct. 23)

(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, Nov. 7)

RUSSIA

CHINA VIETNAM POLAND

HUNGARY

SOVIET ZONE

Uncle Joe, the Quick-Change Artist.

attracted to mining...We feel too much responsibility
for 4 healthy mining economy to be able to agree to such
archaic attempts which are clearly doomed to failure.

“On the contrary, the Mining Union again demands that
the miner be granted the best possible living conditions.
Only the aggregation of several measures, such as favor-
able wages, excellent housing conditions, the improve-
ment of working conditions through mechanization, suf-
ficient social insurance and, last but not least, shorter
working hours for underground miners can, in the long
run, solve the employment problem in the mines..."

Soviet Zone Five-Year Plan

Several papers carried stories Nov. 1 on a speech by
Soviet Zone Deputy Minister-President Walther Ulbricht
before the People’s Chamber in which he favored the bill
for a new five-year plan. Somewhat ironically, a few
papers emphasized Ulbricht’s statement that the plan
provides for each person in the Soviet Zone 1.24 pairs of
shoes in 1955.

The Wiesbadener Kurier (Wiesbaden) pointed out that
Ulbricht considers this plan as a “basis for the reunifi-
cation” of the two zones, which, the Soviets hope, will be
a “return home to the Soviets.’ The Kurier admonished
France and England to become aware of the situation in
which they would find themselves if the Soviet Union and
the Soviet Zone should succeed in attacking the West.

The Berlin Telegraf wrote that the shoes of the partici-
pants in the so-called Berlin World Youth Festival were
an “illustration” of Ulbricht's “house of cards” and demon-
strated what would be the result of a five-year pldn in-
tended for a united Germany. -+END

(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, Oct. 15)

OS

Berlin's Postal Problems.
“Stamp upside down! Wagon nix gull!"

DECEMBER 1951

Quo Vadis Germanis Unita?

65

Grotewohl and Prompier.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
Personnel Notes

Oron Hale Succeeds Dr. Shuster

Dr. Oron J. Hale, deputy US state commissioner for
Bavaria since Sept. 13, 1950, has succeeded Dr. George N.
Shuster, who resigned as state commissioner to reassume
the presidency of Hunter College in New York City.
Dr. Shuster returned to the United States Dec, 1.

Dr. Hale, who is on leave of absence from the
University of Virginia, has specialized in German history,
and is the author of many books and articles on German
affairs. He was in Germany during the summers of 1927
and 1928 for graduate study and research, and again in
1932-33. He returned to Germany in 1945 as a member of
a special War Department historical commission which
was then operating in Germany under the direction of
Dr. Shuster.

Born in Washington state on July 29, 1902, Dr. Hale
attended the University of Washington and took his
doctorate at the University of Pennsylvania before joining
the faculty of the University of Virginia in 1929. He has
served continuously on the Virginia university staff since
that time, with the exception of nearly four years during
World War II, when-he was with the War Department's
general staff.

Dr. Hale is the author of two books, “Germany and the
Diplomatic Revolution” and “Publicity and Diplomacy,
1890-1914," and numerous articles and reviews in histori-
cal, literary and military journals.

Economics Expert Leaves Berlin

After four years of service in Germany, John H. Gayer,
retiring communications expert with the Economic Affairs
Division, Berlin Element, HICOG, has returned to the
United States, where he plans to go into business as an
electrical industry consultant in Omaha, Neb.

Mr. Gayer came to the US Zone of Germany in June
1947, subsequently holding posts as consultant with Mili-
tary Government units in Nuremberg, Frankfurt and
Regensburg. He was transferred to Berlin during the Soviet
blockade, arriving there in June 1948 to assume the post
of chief of the Communications Branch, Office of Military
Government, Berlin Sector. When Military Government
was replaced by the Office of the US High Commissioner
in 1949, he was named electrical and communications
adviser, and later deputy for industry, in the Industry
Branch, Economic Affairs Division, Berlin Element.

In the months after Mr. Gayer’s arrival in Berlin, recon-
struction of West Berlin's DM 77,000,000 power plant*
was completed under the Marshall Plan.

Noted Chicago Lawyer in Germany
Mrs. Edith Sampson, well known Negro lawyer from
Chicago and an alternate US delegate to the 1950 United

* See ‘Lights for Free Berlin’’ in Information Bulletin, January 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

66

Edith Sampson.
(PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)

Nations General Assembly, arrived in Germany in mid-
November for a 45-day speaking tour under the HICOG
Exchanges Program.

Throughout her tour of western Germany and West
Berlin, Mrs. Sampson is speaking about the United
Nations program for peace. In addition to talks in many
of the US Information Centers, she is holding discussions
and leading workshops with German women’s groups.
She is also addressing meetings at various Educational
Service Centers.

Mrs. Sampson holds the‘ degree of master of laws
from Loyola University, Chicago. She is a specialist in
criminal law and domestic relations and has counseled
and guided hundreds of children. For 18 years she served
as a referee in the juvenile court of Chicago and later
developed a successful law practice.

Mrs. Sampson is president of the World Town Hall
Seminar, a radio educational group; chairman of the
committee on international relations of the National
Council of Negro Women; a member of the board of the
United Nations Association of Chicago, the National Bar
Association, the League of Women Voters and other
organizations dealing with interracial, international and
national affairs. Last year, she toured more than 20 coun-
tries for the World Town Hall of the Air.

New Political Affairs Deputy in Berlin

Robert C. Creel, of Long Island, N.Y., has arrived in
Berlin to take over a new post as deputy chief of the
Political Affairs Division, Berlin Element, HICOG.

Mr. Creel started his service with the Department of
State in 1946 .as a member of the Office of the Foreign
Liquidation Commission, and joined the Foreign Service
in 1947. His posts have included Bucharest, Rumania, and
New Delhi, India. A graduate of Harvard Law School,
he is a member of the New York bar. +END

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 70 ---
Washington Report

Labor's Role in Peace.

Labor's role in building the strength through which the
free world can preserve peace was emphasized at the 13th
national convention in New York of the Congress of In-
dustrial Organizations (CIO), one of the two major labor
organizations in the United States.

Some 600 delegates of 35 component unions attended
the convention. About 125 trade unionists from countries
in Europe, the Middle East and the Far East were present
as visitors,

J. H. Oldenbroek, secretary general of the international
confederation of free trade unions, in a speech Nov. 5
praised the contribution made by labor to the Marshall
Plan program of aid to other free nations. He added: “If
there had been no Marshall Plan, the situation in the
European countries would have been disastrous. Enormous
strides have been made in rebuilding the economies of the
war-devastated countries, in raising their production and
in improving their standards of living.”

Mr. Oldenbroek contrasted these activities with the
nature of Soviet foreign aid efforts. “Such resources as
they (Soviet Union) have available for foreign aid,” he
said, “is only used to maintain a large fifth column, to
maintain Communist parties and Communist newspapers
without readers, and to send arms and munitions to pro-
voke armed insurrections, and, mind you, a not incon-
siderable part of what is so spent by the Kremlin is
squeezed out of the satellite countries, whose economies
are controlled by Moscow."

In a formal report to the convention, CIO President
William Murray pledged the labor organization not to
shirk “our responsibility to the democratic forces of the
world.”. The report recommended prompt US Senate
tatification of the Japanese peace treaty, and the return
of sovereignty to Germany.

The report said that the tactics of the Soviet Union, as
one of the occupying powers in Germany, have continued
to block the reunification of Germany on a sound demo-
cratic basis. It added that authorities in the Eastern zone
have continued to prevent a democratic election for the
whole of Germany.

Small Farms Praised

The economic and social advantages of cooperatives,
and small farms, as compared with Soviet collectivized
farming, were discussed during a conference in Madison,
Wis., on world land tenure problems.

The conference, which began Oct. 8 and ended Nov. 17,
was sponsored by the University of Wisconsin, the Eco-
nomic Cooperation Administration, the Technical Coopera-
tion Administration and the Department of Agriculture.

The 80 agricultural specialists from 37 countries ended
the conference with a tour through varied sections of
United States farmland areas and to several universities.

The small, family-sized farm was praised by Otto Schil-
ler from the College of Agriculture of Hohenheim in the
German Federal Republic, Mr. Schiller said that this type
of farm, although often uneconomical in its use of farm
machinery, may represent the best type of land tenure in
the long run.

DECEMBER 1951

67

He said farm machine cooperatives have been initiated
with varying success in western Germany in an attempt
to fit the use of machinery to small farms. This is being
tried as an alternative to the Soviet collective system
which, he said, “cannot be considered the solution of the
machinery problem.”

Mr. Schiller added, “The Soviet program is an attempt
to adjust the size of the farm to the requirements of the
machine. In the free world the agricultural machine and
its uses have to be adjusted to the size of the holding.”

He pointed to another difference between the free and
the Soviet systems when he said, “in Germany our prob-
lem is not to liquidate the small holders but to help
them.”

European Women Lauded

Robert D. Murphy, US ambassador to Belgium and
political adviser to the US military governor for Germany
in 1945-49, declared the women, of western Europe are
becoming increasingly aware of their civic responsibilities
and will play an important role in future European political
developments.

Addressing a meeting of the Virginia Women's Forum
in Richmond, Va., Nov. 8, the ambassador said that the
“women of western Europe — in fact, of most democratic
nations — are more than keeping pace with their chang-
ing environment. In some places,"' he added, ‘‘women have
had grave new responsibilities thrust upon them by
circumstances,” and in other places they have “taken it
upon themselves to seek responsibilities.”

“But everywhere,” he continued, ‘they are actively
participating in meeting the needs of the governed and in
furthering the efficiency of those who govern.”

The American diplomat told the meeting that it was in
Germany where the role of women has undergone the
most pronounced change in the past generation.

He said it was not merely the war-caused “numerical
superiority” which has made German women “the crucial

To help finance construction of a model apprentice train-
ing school in the US Sector borough of NeukoelJn in Berlin,
a HICOG grant of DM 470,000 ($111,860) was presented by
Dr. Christopher B. Garnett, chief, Berlin Element Educa-
tion and Cultural Relations Branch, to Annedore Leber,
chairman of the Verein Handwerker Lehrstaetten e. V.
School will provide apprentice training for West Berlin
youth aged 14 to 18 and also night courses for 200 persons
18 to 25 years of age. (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
political factor that they are in European politics.” In
addition, he said, it was the hardships and privations
during the war which have “awakened in them a sense of
civic responsibility: which may be of immense value for
the future.”

The ambassador said that German women's “ideas and
notions about world politics and their desire to share in
political affairs will—if wisely channeled — profoundly
influence not only German but European developments
for generations to come."

Drive to Aid Iron Curtain Refugees

A chain of 11 “frontier freedom stations" ranging along
the edge of free Europe from Istanbul to Stockholm to
give aid and comfort to refugees from Soviet captive
nations is being planned by a private American organi-
zation.

The International Rescue Committee launched Oct. 31
in New York an “Iron Curtain refugee campaign” to raise
$2,000,000 for the establishment of the stations and to
care for the refugees.

The purposes of the campaign were described in full
page advertisements in leading newspapers. The advertise-
ment, entitled “Massacre of the Innocents," recalls how
more than 3,000,000 Ukrainian peasants ‘‘were murdered
in the man-made famine and mass deportations attending
the Sovietfarm collectivization program” in the early 1930's.

“Tt is now evident that another great crime against
humanity is taking place,” the ad continued. It mentioned
that the middle-class, the professional and all potential
dissident elements are being systematically removed in
all eastern European states under Communist control.

One of the liquidation compaigns described in the
advertisement told how the Bulgarian government is
rounding up tens of thousands of persons charged with
collaborating with anti-Communist parties.

“Some victims are simply dumped in the neighboring
countryside. Many are being sent to forced labor camps,
from which few ever return. Over a period of a few days
last spring, more than 10,000 men, women and children
were deported from Sofia alone.”

The advertisement noted that Turkey is one of the
countries which have been receiving the bulk of the Iron
Curtain refugees. It is pointed out that the stations would
serve as free world outposts which “could welcome new
escapes and provide them with necessary medical atten-
tion, nourishment, clothing, individualized counsel and
resettlement wherever possible.”

Assistance to the refugees, the advertisement asserted,
“is not only a humanitarian program. It has practical
content. So long as men and women behind the Iron
Curtain know that if they risk death crossing the barbed-
wire frontiers they can be assured of welcome and heip,
hope and the will to freedom can be kept alive. But if,
deprived of all hope, they become impotent inhabitants of
national concentration camps, they must submit. They will
become automatic legs in a slave machine which would
destroy all freedom everywhere... We call upon every
American to help in this program of aid through support
of the Iron Curtain refugee campaign.”

Opposition to Red Regimes

The “best intelligence reports” indicate that 80 to 90
percent of the peoples in the various Soviet satellite states
are against their Communist regimes, Thurman L. Barnard,
general manager of the State Department's International

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

cmguniies Suisse

ac ees aS
iin ne Cee
wat) m8

DEUTSCHES JUGENDWERK

FAHRENDE BIBLIOTHEK

GYA Mobile Library, sponsored by Berlin Military Post's
GYA Office, makes selected good books available to 80
youth homes and orphanages in Berlin. Started in March
1949, library makes round every 14 days. (US Army photo)

Information and Exchange Program, said in an address in
Williamsburg, Va., Oct. 31.

“Truth can be used —and is being used — around the
world to show up the essentially vicious, phony and truly
reactionary nature of Communist imperialism,” Mr. Barn-
ard said.

“Truth can be used — and is being used — to encourage
other free nations to cooperate with us. It shows up the
Soviet lies about us; it demonstrates that we are honest
in our motives and that our physical and moral strength
can safely be counted on.

“Truth can be used —and is being used — to build up
behind the Iron Curtain every possible obstacle to Kremlin
aggression. Truth is being used to give hope to the satellite
peoples and to the Russian people themselves, to make
them resist aggressive plans, to make them realize that
the free world and its principles are bound to win out in
the long run.”

In discussing the Voice of America, the radio broadcast
part of the US Government's information program, Mr.
Barnard said: ‘The best estimates today indicate that we
are being heard by more than half of the radio set owners
in the satellite countries, While we were almost jammed
out of Russia 18 months ago, we are now getting more than
20 percent of our broadcasts through to Moscow and from
60 to 75 percent through to the smaller cities and rural
areas in Russia. And in Russia, by the way, there are about
4,000,000 receiving sets that can hear the Voice of America."

Mr. Barnard said further that “we have learned that by
building certain new types of transmitter facilities, we can
force the Soviet Union to spend five to one in terms of
manpower and dollars if they are going to keep us from
being heard. They either let the truth through or spend
huge sums in the effort to keep it out.”

The State Department official called on the peoples and
governments of other free nations to move more rapidly
into a position of full partnership, “in a massive educa-
tional campaign to expose the vicious and phony nature
of Communism, and to teach the vital, dynamic and truly
revolutionary nature of the cause of freedom.”

He continued: “There are governments, such as the
British, and there are private groups, like Paix et Liberte
in France, that are already doing a major job in this field.
But much more is needed. Other governments, and
hundreds of other private organizations abroad, must do
their part. I hope and believe they will.”

Private organizations in the United States have a major
role to play, Mr. Barnard said. He cited the Crusade for
Freedom as a private project deserving of support. He

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 72 ---
said the US Information and Educational Exchange Pro-
gram had a “private enterprise unit" which is regularly
cooperating with approximately 500 private organizations.

Mr. Barnard said that “in western Europe, there is no
doubt that there is a growing spirit of spunk and unity
and determination — determination to resist Communism.
Of course, there are petty differences but they by no
means outweigh the fundamental revival of enthusiasm
for freedom — an enthusiasm to which General Eisen-
hower has contributed very substantially.”

Mr. Barnard said the Soviet propagandists had blundered
in handling the Marshall Plan, in attempting to suppress
Yugoslav independence, in handling Korea and in handling
the San Francisco peace conference. He predicted the
Soviet propagandists would continue to blunder.

“Freedom Train” Refugees in Canada

Eleven of the Czech citizens who rode the ‘Freedom
Train" into Germany in September to escape the Com-
munist regime in their country were among the more than
1,000 refugees who arrived Halifax, Nova Scotia, Oct. 24
for resettlement in Canada under the auspices of the UN
International Refugee Organization.

The group, which made the Atlantic crossing aboard the
S. S. Goya, departed from Halifax on two special trains
which will take them to their new homes in agricultural
areas or to jobs in foundries or mines in Canada.

The refugees reached free territory by individual trips
across the Czech-German or Czech-Austrian border.
Among them was a Slovak lumberjack who said, “You
have no idea how it feels to be really free again.” A
Bohemian farmer said he expected to miss his little farm.
He looked forward, however, he added, to “new fields to
plow,” because he had been told “one good farmer can
have here as much good land as he wants to work on."

A Czech mine worker offered his reasons for leaving.
“We choose freedom because our so-called ‘people's
democracy’ was neither popular nor democratic,” he
emphasized. “We just could not swallow any more of
these brigades and whatnots nor their program designed
to be nothing more than a socialist-glorified sweatshop.

“No one will fool me with talk of American capitalism,”
he continued. “I have distant relatives in Chicago and do
know. They are no capitalists but honest workers to
whom American democracy has now given everything that
the Communists promise for thousands of years from now.

“I came from a farmer family and I like to keep what I

, have in my hand. No false promises and lies. That is why
I chose freedom, and chose the West. That is why I am
sure to get a fair chance and a square deal here in North
America," he concluded.

Stronger Campaign Promised

General Lucius D, Clay, national chairman of the
Crusade for Freedom, pledged that present projects to get
the truth to Soviet-dominated peoples will be accelerated
and that the crusade will continue “to search for new
ways to get through the Russian wall.”

Speaking on a nationwide radio broadcast Oct. 25 ob-
serving the first anniversary of the world Freedom Bell
dedication in Berlin a year ago, General Clay reviewed
the anti-Communist activities of Radio Free Europe and
the penetration of the Iron Curtain by Crusade for Free-
dom balloons.

He said that “Soviet propaganda has convinced millions
that there is no better way — that the people of the free

DECEMBER 1951

69

world, including our own United States, are hungry, ill-
housed, unemployed and victimized by governments pre-
paring to make war on the peace-loving Soviet Union.”

The only way to convince them of Communist lies, he
remarked, is to tell them the truth, “and to keep telling it
to them.” To accomplish this, he added, the crusade will
“build and strengthen Radio Free Europe, and send more
balloons, and we will search for new ways to get through
the Russian wall.

“For every friend that we make behind the Iron Curtain,
Soviet Russia has gained an enemy," General Clay con-
tinued. ‘We cannot see into the dark minds of the Polil-
buro. We can only guess at their plans. But we do know
that the idea of an easy conquest of the world is fading
from their sight. Our own growing strength is daily cut-
ting down the chance that they will risk a general war.”

He said the crusade’s campaign “to bring truth behind
the Iron Curtain could well become a deciding factor in
their final eclipse. When they see that their campaign of
lies and hate against us is failing— when they see their
allies changing to open hostility ——then they will know
that the tide of Communism is ebbing.

“And when a tyranny finds its strength leaving, then
that is only a matter of time until it completely vanishes.
When that day comes, the Freedom Bell will ring for the
emancipation ofhundreds of millions of our fellow beings.”

Soviet Propaganda Statements

Understanding of Soviet techniques in using propaganda
as an agent of imperialism can bring strong and continu-
ing support for the policies the free world must follow in
order to maintain world peace, the US Department of
State said in issuing a compilation of statements by Soviet
leaders. .

The compilation, in pamphlet form, was issued Oct. 20.
Its foreword says Soviet leaders “have carried their
aggressions to the threshold of World War III" in seeking
to achieve their purpose of dominating and communizing
the world,

A State Department spokesman, after making copies of
the booklet available to the press, said its purpose is “to
clearly indicate that, peace protestations to the contrary,
this is what the leaders of the Kremlin have to say on
subjects directly related to peace.”

Publication of the pamphlet following the recent release
of an exchange of communications between Alan G. Kirk,
US ambassador to Moscow, and Soviet Foreign Minister
Andrei Vishinsky was purely coincidental, the spokes-
man added.

The 37 page pamphlet includes quotations from the
speeches and writings of Russian Communist leaders, from
early day revolutionaries like Lenin, to the present rulers
of Russia. The statements are presented under six major
headings of world aims, Soviet plans, Soviet techniques,
Soviet ethics, individual freedom and international co-
operation.

“The men of the Kremlin,” the pamphlet said, “are
power hungry men who use doctrine and language as
means to an end. They are skillful. They speak from many
positions and in divers tongues. It is not always easy to
find the true meaning behind what they say, for they
make use of the peaceful man's desire for friendly and
sensible solutions. We need to know more about their
thinking. When they borrow the language of the free
world, we need to watch their acts as well as their
words.” -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Nov. 8

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion held its 79th meeting at the Peters-
berg Nov. 8.

Present were Mr. John J. McCloy, United
States High Commissioner (chairman); Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner and Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick,
United Kingdom High Commissioner.

The Council session lasted slightly more
than an hour. The next meeting was sched-
uled for Nov. 15 at the Petersberg.

HICOM Meeting of Nov. 15

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion held its 80th meeting at the Petersberg
Nov. 15.

Present were Mr. John J. McCloy, United
States High.Commissioner (chairman); Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner, and Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick,
United Kingdom High Commissioner.

During the course of the meeting, the
Council considered the form of a report
to be made to the Foreign Ministers of the
United States, France and the United King-
dom on the status of the negotiations which
are taking place with the Federal Gov-
ernment for the establishment of the pro-
posed new relationship between the Allied
and the Federal Governments and on
associated questions.

Next week the three High Commissioners
will be in Paris, where they will meet with
the Foreign Ministers and will participate
in the meeting between the Foreign Minis-
ters and the federal chancellor Nov. 22.

A date for the next meeting of the
Council was not set.

Meeting with Chancellor

The federal chancellor and the Allied
high commissioners met Nov. 2 at the
Office of the United States High Commis-
sioner, at Mehlemer Aue near Bonn, for
a further discussion on contractual re-
lations.

The high commissioners and the chan-
cellor considered the first detailed draft of
the general agreement which is designed
to set forth the main principles establish-
ing the new relationship between the three
Allied Powers and the Federal Republic.
On many essential points agreement was
reached, and these provisions of the draft
will be recommended by the high commis-
sioners to their governments. A few other
points require further study by the experts
who will submit new drafts to the chancel-
lor and the high commissioners at their
next meeting.

The whole field of work now in progress
between German and Allied representa-
tives looking toward the completion of
the agreement between the three Western
governments and the Federal Government
was also reviewed, Allied and German
representatives are engaged in discussion
of:

1. Convention designed to regulate the
status and immunities of Allied Forces in
Germany and containing provisions re-
lating to their security.

2. Draft charter for the arbitration tri-
bunal which is to settle differences arising

INFORMATION BULLETIN

between the parties out of the interpre-
tation and application of the agreements.

3. Problems arising out of the abolition
of the Allied High Commission, such as
the transfer to the Federal Government of
certain responsibilities now held by the
High Commission, the continuation of pro-
grams which the High Commission will
not have completed at the time of its aboli-
tion, and the liquidation of certain matters
arising out of the war.

Further provisions, not yet the subject
of negotiations between German and
Allied representatives, will deal with the
method for the satisfaction of the material
requirements of Allied Forces in Germany
and with the financial and material con-
tribution to: defense to be made by the
Federal Republic. Studies on these and
other matters are at the moment being
pursued separately.

The principles contained in the general
agreement, together with the more detailed
provisions of the supplementary conven-
tions will form an integrated structure. It
is hoped that there will be rapid progress
toward the completion of this structure so
that these agreements may enter into effect
and thereby establish the basis for Ger-
many’s new partnership with the other
peace-loving nations of the West.

Ruhr Authority

During the 34th meeting of the Council
of the International Authority for the Ruhr
held in Duesseldorf Nov. 15-22, the
following questions were examined: ’

1. The new export prices of German solid
fuels and,

2, the minimum tonnage of German solid
fuels for export.

These problems were examined in a spirit
of the greatest cooperation which enabled
unanimous agreement to be reached.

The Council of the International Authori-
ty for the Ruhr unanimously adopted the
following texts:

Resolution Regarding the New Export
Prices of German Solid Fuels
For Export

The Council:

Having examined the new export price
schedule for solid fuels contained in the
communication from the Federal Gov-
ernment to the executive secretary of the
International Authority for the Ruhr, dated
July 30, 1951, and the memorandum trans-
mitted by the Federal Ministry of Eco-
nomics dated Sept. 1, 1951,

Recognizes that the new export price
schedule involves a system of dual pricing
as between exported coal and coal retained
for inland consumption,

Agrees, that the temporary application
of the new price schedule must not be
construed as an abandonment of the
resolution of July 12, 1950, but only as a
temporary suspension of its application,

Agrees that the temporary application
of the new price schedule must not operate
as an obstacle to the discussion on the
modification of the price of German coal
which might result from a system of multi-
lateral compensation which is now being
discussed in the OEEC,

70

Taking note that the member countries
of the International Authority for the Ruhr
which have subscribed to the treaty estab-
lishing a European community for coal and
steel consider that indefinite maintenance
of such differentials which impose upon
non-German consumers of German solid
fuels sales conditions different from those
applicable to German consumers would
constitute an ‘obstacle to the economic
integration contemplated in that treaty,

In view of the above considerations,

The Council decides unanimously: -

To take note of the establishment of the
new. export price schedule for solid fuels
which is effective as of July 1, 1951, and
to re-examine this price schedule on Oct. 1,
1952, unless the high authority foreseen
under the treaty for the European com-
munity for coal and steel decides to
exercise its jurisdiction in this field before
that date.

* *

Memorandum on Agreement

In regard to the allocation of solid fuels
to be exported from Western Germany, the
representatives of the member countries of
the International Authority for the Ruhr
have reached unanimous agreement on the
following points:

1, The allocation for export of solid fuels
from Western Germany during the fourth
quarter of 1951 (IAR decision No, 254,
dated Aug, 10, 1951) will be adjusted to
a minimum of 5,100,000 tons (exclusive
Saar exchange).

2. The export of solid fuels from Western
Germany for the first quarter of 1952 will
be set at a minimum of 5,000,000 tons
(exclusive Saar exchange).

Since there is in practice only one month
left during which the adjustment of the
allocation for the fourth quarter 1951 can
be effected, it is recommended that within
the OEEC, when the distribution program
is being established, consideration will be
given, as regards German solid fuels, to
the revised allocation for the fourth
quarter 1951 and the allocation for the
first quarter 1952, taking into account
deliveries already made against the allo-
cation for the fourth quarter 1951.

3. The basic allocation for the second
quarter 1952 will be a minimum of 5,000,000
tons (exclusive of Saar exchange) to which
will be added:

a. 15 percent of the production in excess
of 395,000 tons average per normal working
day (including overtime production) per
reference period (Para. 5), excluding from
the calculation of the average those
working days of which work is transferred,
in total or in part, to a preceding or sub-
sequent Sunday or holiday.

b. 10 percent of the total production on
all Sundays and holidays.

4, The Federal Government formally gave
the assurance that the export quota of
coke, in quantity and quality, will not be
decreased during the period covered in the
above paragraphs.

5, The reference period for the allocation
covered in Paragraph 3 shall be: the most
recent 13-week period for which actual
official production figures are available.

6. .The Council of the International
Authority for the Ruhr will make a formal
decision regarding the second quarter allo-
cation at an appropriate date in harmony
with established timetables.

* * *

Resolution

The Council, having reviewed the divi-
sion of Ruhr solid fuels as between Ger-

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 74 ---
man internal consumption and export in
the light of the global requirements of
European importing countries and German
essential needs, decides,

1, To adjust the Ruhr export quota in the
fourth quarter of 1951 to 4,260,000 tons,
exclusive of the Saar exchange and
assuming 840,000 tons are exported from
districts other than the Ruhr,

2. That 4,160,000 tons shall be exported
from the Ruhr in the first quarter of 1952,
assuming that 840,000 tons. will be exported
from districts other than the Ruhr, and
exclusive of the Saar exchange.

Laws and Regulations

Patent Law Amendments Approved

Acting in response to a request by the
Federal Government, the Allied High Com-
mission has approved a law amending High
Commission Law No. 8 (Industrial, Literary
and Artistic Property Rights of Foreign
Nations and Nationals).

The amendments remove the time limits
for appeals by foreign nationals and Ger-
mans to the Grand Senate of the German
Patent Ofifice in disputes over licenses for
property rights arising out of cases covered
by Law No. 8, and extend eligibility for the
procedures provided in Law No. 8 to Ger-
man nationals affected by the broadening
of the definition of foreign nationals con-
tained in Law No, 41.

The text of the amending law will be
published in the next issue of the Official
Gazette of the Allied High Commission.

New Berlin Ordinances

New US, British and French Sector ordi-
nances defining offenses against the inter-
ests of the occupation went into effect on
Nov. 15.

The three commandants, in deciding to
promulgate their Ordinance No. 511, which
replaces British Military Government Ordi-
nance No. 1, French Military Government
Ordinance No. 176, and US Military Gov-
ernment Ordinance No. 1, have taken this
decision in order to effect a general re-
duction of. penalties and to bring their
sector legislation into conformity with
Allied High Commission legislation in the
western zones.

Official Announcements

Reduction in HICOG Staff

A reduction in American and German
personnel of the Office of the US High
Commissioner for Germany will be effect-
ed during the course of the next few
months, it was announced Nov. 3 by the
Office of Administration, HICOG.

It was further announced that at the
same time certain activities which are
normally the responsibilities of the con-
sular agency and which in the past have
been directed by the Office of the US State
Commissioner will, under the contemplat-
ed arrangements, be assumed by the
American consulates general.

These activities include such functions
as public affairs, political and economic
reporting.

The reduction and revision in the state
commissioners’ organizations are another
step towaftd centralizing and coordinating
the respective activities of the state com-
missioners and the consulates general. The

DECEMBER 1951

action will result in a significant decrease
in operating costs to the benefit of the
American and German taxpayers.

Publication of HEUTE Discontinued
Publication of HEUTE, the fortnightly pic-

ture magazine, will be discontinued with,

the Christmas issue reaching the newsstands
Dec. 20, it was announced by Information
Services Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG.

It was emphasized that Die Neue Zei-
tung, American-sponsored daily newspaper,
will continue publication indefinitely in
order to maintain and strengthen the cul-
tural bridge between the United States and
Germany. Der Monat, monthly intellectual
journal published by HICOG, will also be
continued.

All costs of publishing HEUTE, as well
as of the other publications, are paid from
US Government funds.

Educational Benefits

With certain exceptions persons who
were separated from the Armed Forces
on or prior to July 25, 1947, may qualify
for educational benefits under the Serv-
icemen’s Readjustment Act after July 25,
1951, only if they have initiated their
courses of education or training prior to
the latter date and are actually engaged
in the pursuit thereof on that date, except
for normal summer vacation periods or
other interruption beyond the veterans’
control.

For those who were discharged after
July 25, 1947, or have not yet been dis-
charged, the critical date is four years
after the date of discharge. A course is
initiated, not by merely obtaining per-
mission to enroll in an approved insti-
tution, but by actually enrolling therein
and commencing the pursuit of the course.
Enrollment in a correspondence course
within the statutory delimiting period can-
not be considered to constitute initiation
of any course other than the correspond-
ence course thus commenced.

The Veterans Administration has now
ruled that a Foreign Service employee
who is compelled to interrupt a course
of training under Public Law 346 in order
to comply with an order issued by com-
petent authority directing him to return
to the United States on statutory home
leave, or for official consultation, may be
considered to be in valid interrupted status
for such period, provided he resumes his
course of study under the law at the
earliest practicable time after-the con-
clusion of the leave or consultation period.

Eligible Foreign Service employees wish-
ing to interrupt their training for the
above stated reason should submit to the
Veterans Affairs Attache, American Em-
bassy, Paris, through the American Con-
sulate General in Frankfurt, prior to the
interruption of training, or immediately
thereafter, either a copy of their leave
orders, or a statement from their post per-
sonnel officer stating over what period of
time (giving dates as closely as possible)
they will be in a statutory home leave
or consultation status. Copies of leave
orders should be in duplicate —from HICOG
Daily Bulletin.

Army Reenlistment Leaves

No more reenlistment leaves to the
United States will be granted to US Army
personnel who have served more than 23

71

months of their current overseas tour. This
directive followed an order of Oct. 23, stop-
ping all reenlistment leaves to the United
States temporarily. .

The announcement listed two excep-
tions. Not affected are personnel who
reenlisted prior to Oct. 23, 1951, and had
their leaves to the United States deferred
for military reasons. Leaves in this cate-
gory may be granted now if approved by
the post commander and major commands
designated by the commanding general,
Seventh Army. F

Other personnel who may be granted
leave in this category are infantry, armor,
artillery and combat engineer units, or
units assigned to infantry and armored
divisions, whose reenlistment leave is
recommended by their commanding officers
and approved by EUCOM Headquarters.

Army personnel may still take reenlist-
ment leaves in Europe, but they do not
begin a new overseas tour upon returning
to their units. — from EUCOM announce-
ment.

Shipment of. Automobiles

Regulations governing the shipment of
private automobiles on US Government-
owned vessels have been relaxed to in-
clude the vehicles of employees of EUCOM
Special Activities Division, Information
and Education Division and American Red
Cross, who are paid from non-appropriated
funds. EUCOM Headquarters specified that
only employees who were hired in the
United States for assignment in the Euro-
pean Command are authorized this privi-
lege.

EUCOM transportation officials advised
all individuals planning to ship privately-
owned vehicles to the United States, to
write well in advance to the registrar of
motor vehicles in the state where they in-
tend to register their car, to obtain US
registration certificate and license plates
before leaving EUCOM.

New York City police may allow de-
barking personne! to drive vehicles bearing
EUCOM C-plates to the nearest registrar's
office. However, EUCOM license plates
are not valid in the United States and
owners of vehicles bearing such plates,
are subject to arrest and a fine. — from
EUCOM announcement.

Austrian Entry Permits

German citizens desiring to travel to
Austria and holding Federal Republic
passports or Combined Travel Board tem-
porary travel documents will receive
Allied entry permits, valid for the zones
of Austria occupied by the United States,
France and the United Kingdom, at certain
designated control posts along the Austro-
German border. These permits will be valid
for a period of one month for one entry
and return journey.

Under this procedure it will no longer
be necessary for German nationals desiring
single entry permits for one month into
the French, US and UK Zones of Austria
to obtain them from Allied. offices in
western Germany as has been the case.
in the past.

These entry permits for Austria will be
issued at the following control posts on
the border between the Federal Republic
and the US Zone of Austria:

Railroad Travel:

Salzburg.

Passau-Scharding.

Simbach-Braunau.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Road Travel:

Saalbruckerott.

Walserberg (Autobahn).

Walserberg (Bundesstrasse).

Hangendenstein(Salzburg-Berchtesgaden).

Stein Pass (Reichenhall-Lofer).

Passau-Neuhaus-Scharding.

Simbach-Braunau,

Burghausen-Ach.

Permits will be issued at the following
control posts on the border between the
Federal Republic and the French Zone of
Austria:

Railroad and Road Travel:

Bregenz.

Fuessen.

Scharnitz.

Kufstein.

Boat Travel:

Bregenz.

All entry points into the US and French
Zones of Austria will be open to German
travelers 24 hours a day.

The above procedure does not apply for
German nationals desiring to travel to
Vienna or the Soviet Zone of Austria, and
such persons will continue, as in the past,
to require visas issued by the appropriate
offices in western Germany. — from
HICOM announcement

Currency for Travel

The regulation forbidding European
Command military and civilian personnel
to exchange Military Payment Certificates
(scrip) for United States currency when
traveling to France or Austria, has been
rescinded.

Personnel on leave or duty to Austria,
France, Belgium, Great Britain, Greece,
Hungary, Italy, Trieste, Tripoli and Yugo-
slavia may exchange up to $10 in scrip for
United States currency to provide for
immediate and incidental expenses upon
arriving in those countries.

When traveling on duty or leave to other
countries, personnel may request up to
$202 in US currency from their local
finance offices. Upon returning to the US
Zone of Germany, European Command
personnel must convert any US currency
in their possession to Military Payment
Certificates within 48 hours. — from
EUCOM announcement.

Gasoline for Travel in Italy

The American Embassy in Rome is
authorized a fixed amount of duty-free
gasoline, by agreement with the Italian
Government, for the official use of
United States Government transportation
in Italy and personnel of the United States
Government assigned in Italy. The quantity
established is the minimum required for
these needs, Under the circumstances
issuance of tax-free gasoline to personnel
not in the above categories is not possible.

The embassy will continue to make
every provision for personnel traveling in
Italy on official business. It regrets that
circumstances make it necessary to dis-
continue the provision of assistance to
personnel traveling on leave and personal
business. — from HICOG Daily Bulletin.

Entry Permits to Germany

A recent letter from the American Em-
bassy at The Hague indicates that an in-
creasing number of American personnel
from both HICOG and the consulates in
Germany travel to the Netherlands not

INFORMATION BULLETIN

realizing their entry permits to Germany
have expired or will expire while travel-
ing in the Netherlands. The embassies at
The Hague, Rotterdam or Amsterdam have
no consular section and are in no position
to issue visas or Allied entry permits valid
for travel into Western Germany.

Should it become necessary to renew an

‘Allied military permit in the Netherlands,
HICOG or EUCOM personnel should apply
to the Visa Section of the British Embassy
in The Hague, located at 25 Wassenaarse-
weg. Telephone 777-875. Hours: 10 a.m. to
12 noon; 2:30 to 4 p.m.

It is important to note that the British
Consulate at The Hague issues Allied mili-
tary permits only to Allied Occupation
Personnel and does not issue visas to other
civilians and tourists.

Military officials not assigned to HICOG
or EUCOM must apply for visas or permits
for the western part of Germany at the
West German Consulate in The Hague,
located at 7 Pompstationweg. Telephone
552-320, — from HICOG Daily Bulletin.

DP Resettlement

The US Displaced Persons Commission
is now in the phasing out period of its
DP program, which authorized the issuance
of 309,000 visas to eligible displaced per-
sons. As of Aug. 1, there have been 256,426
displaced persons resettled in America
while approximately 12,000 displaced
persons have been issued visas and are
awaiting transportation.

More than 75,000 applications are now
on file with the DP Commission, having
been filed prior to July 31, the deadline
for registering with the commission. Of
that number only 35,000 can be granted
visas under provisions of the DP Act.

The retiring European coordinator for
the commission pointed out that very
limited time is left to process the re-
maining displaced persons authorized entry
under the act and warned DPs_ that
unless the processing schedule is strictly
adhered to, eligible DPs who might have
received visas will be forced to remain
in Germany after the Dec. 31 termination
date of the act.

As an example of DPs' failure in keeping
their processing schedule, it was pointed
out that more than 4,000 persons have
completed the necessary processing steps
required by the DP Commission and could
be issued visas immediately if they would
report to the appropriate resettlement
centers in Munich, Ludwigsburg, Ham-
burg, Salzburg, Rastatt and Naples.

In addition a great number of cases
are pending, which require positive action
on the part of the applicant, proclaiming
his desire to emigrate to the United States
or to remain in Germany,

Unless these DPs cooperate fully, they
may forfeit their opportunity for resettle-
ment in the United States. — from DP
Commission announcement.

Coffee Ration Reduced

Effective Oct. 1, 1951, all post exchange
patrons in the European Command who
are entitled to military post commissary
privileges will not be allowed to pur-
chase coffee at Post Exchange instal-
lations.

The announcement, outlining the new
policy governing the purchase of rationed
coffee throughout the European Command,
also set Oct. 1 as the effective date for
reduction in the coffee allowance for PX
card holders without commissary privil-

72

eges. Under the new regulations, such
PX patrons will be permitted to purchase
two pounds of coffee per month instead
of the one pound per week ration in effect
until that date.

The change in all allowances on rationed
coffee for the two categories of EUCOM
personnel was recently decided upon by
EUCOM Headquarters after completion of
a study of the rationing of scarce items
in EUCOM. Results of the zone-wide sur-
vey showed that some adjustment in
rationing of PX coffee was advisable,

Prior to January 1951, EUCOM indivi-
duals who were members of families with
commissary privileges had been permitted
to purchase — on their PX cards — one
pound of coffee per week, in addition to
the commissary allowance, with all mem-
bers of the family eligible, regardless of
age. In January the PX privilege was
withdrawn from family members under 18
years of age.

Under the new regulations, post com-
manders will be empowered to authorize
special extra rations in individual cases
where justification exists, but only when
complete justification can be established
in writing. The change in the PX coffee
ration allowances does not affect any
other rationed items carried in Post
Exchange stocks.—from EUCOM announce-
ment.

Recent Publications

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 299,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Nov. 2,
1951. Covers German newspapers and
other publications dated up to Nov. 2.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No, 300,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Nov. 9, 1951.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Nov. 9.

Official Gazette, No. 68, Allied High Com-
mission for Germany (Bonn-Petersberg),
Nov. 12, 1951. Contains official texts of
legislation adopted by or under authority
of the Allied High Commission, pages
1251 to 1279.

Buecher Vorschau (Book Preview), No. 60,
Information Centers Branch, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt),
Nov. 15, 1951. Lists books being received
by US Information Center libraries in
Germany.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 301,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Nov. 16,
1951. Covers German newspapers and
other publications dated up to Nov. 16.

Der Monat (The Month), No. 38, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Berlin), November 1951,
Monthly magazine published in German
of politics and cultural understanding.

Information Bulletin for November, Spe-
cial Publications Branch, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
(Frankfurt), Nov. 20, 1951. Contains
articles and features on US operations
in Germany.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 302, —

Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), ‘Nov. 23,
1951. Covers German newspapers and
other publications dated up to Nov. 23.

DECEMBER 1951

--- Page 76 ---
Between the halves, the two teams pose for camera. L,-r., first row, kneeling, John Davies, Grant Kelleher, Thomas Kilifer,
Mike Burke, all of HICOG; US High Commissioner John J. McCloy; Dan DeLuce and Dick O'Malley, Associated Press;
Ed Haaker, National Broadcasting Company; Rudolph Hafter, Neue Zuericher Zeitung, and Ernie Leiser, Overseas News
Agency. Back row, A. V. Boerner and Gardner Cox of HICOG; Waldo Drake, Los Angeles Times; Shepard Stone, James
King, Haynes Mahoney of HICOG; Lt. Robert H. Hansen, Army press liaison officer; Allen Dreyfuss, American Broad-
casting Company; Tom Stone, Associated Press; Jerry Schroder, McGraw Hill Publications; and Harold Melahn, United Press.

Rules governing touch football are explained by Referee
Stone (center) to captains, Ed Haaker (left) and Mr. McCloy.

Left, HICOG team awaits signal for kickoff. Center, High Commissioner McCloy, in professional stance, has football poised
in forward pass. Right, O'Malley (1.) and Stone (1) carry Captain Morrisey from the field, (PRD HICOG photos by Gassner)

--- Page 77 ---
DEUTSCHES ZENTRALKOMITEE

ZUR BEKAMPFUNG DER TUBERKULOSE

0 k le

Tuberkulose

German-American
Clubs

in Germany

Two million German health seals (above)
and American Christmas seals (left) will be
sold by the Federation of German-American
Clubs during the Yuletide season to raise
funds for ananti-tuberculosis campaign. The
seals were donated at cost by the German
Tuberculosis Association and the US Tuber-
culosis Association, whose seals are being
sold outside of the United States for the
first time. (Photo reproductions by PRD HICOG)