--- Page 2 ---
S Issue

Heone sic Prospects for Germany Hand of Friendship

Report to America The America Book 1951
\Voman’s Role Today Promoting German Trade

--- Page 3 ---
German

Recipients of the honorary degrees are
shown at top, I.-r., Mr. McCloy; Theo-
dor Heuss, president of German Federal
Republic; Konrad Adenauer, federal
chancellor and foreign minister; and
Hans von Kress, president of Free Uni-
versity of Berlin. Ernst Friesenhahn,
Bonn University president also honored,
was not present. Bottom photo shows,
Mr. McCloy about to receive his degree
from President Byrd (center), while Dr.
Adolf E, Zucker, Maryland University’s
European director, reads the citation.
Above is a view of the ceremonies,
which took place at the University of
Bonn, in the German Federal Republic's
capital. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG}

The University of Maryland “wishes to
express appreciation of the high type of
leadership that the German people them-
selves have selected,” said Maryland
University’s President Harry C. Byrd at
a recent ceremony in Bonn at which four
prominent Germans and US High -Com-
missioner John J. McCloy were present-
ed with honorary degrees. The university
president praised each of the German
leaders honored for his outstanding con-
tribution to Germany's democratic reviv-
al, and his citation of Mr. McCloy cred-
ited the High Commissioner with further-
ing democracy in Germany ‘with under-
standing, courage and skill.” In his con-
cluding remarks to the largely-German
audience, President Byrd stressed that
Americans hope to build an enduring
friendship with the German people.

--- Page 4 ---
| information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

Editor jemanee ee) en H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer
Staff Writer ...... Helen McLaughlin
Staff Wiiter <n cues. Maurice E. Lee

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
APO 757-A, US Army

German mailing address is:
Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
HICOG Hochhaus

Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison
Office of Public Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
Source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

July 1951

Big New Housing Projects for Bavaria .................... 2

Economic Prospects for Germany ........................ 3
Article by Jean Cattier

The Ammbrica Book 003 Gos 05 eee eo eee 5
Article by Helen McLaughlin

Hand: ob. Priendshipy 2 <s..c02.4222 0s estes ee ee 7
Article by Aileen S. Miles

Promoting ;German “Tradey 0.3 <3 y oicee tees Coes 15
Review of GATPCO's First Year of Activities

Exports Seen as Solution for Berlin ................. ss ATED:

Workers Turn Over Bonn Projects 19

Looking: Statewardiiscs Gio. oa. anos oso SU eee 21
Article by Liselotte Goldbeck

Report to America ... tg Se ES Fete ele Be ea eed db cee 23)
Address by John J. McCloy

Church. Social Problems i ..00 cis oes oa ee 27
Survey by Beryl R. McClaskey

High German Officials See Big Paradrop (pictorial) ...... 30

Stars over West Berlin ...... RN ae et ee Sais 32
Article by Maurice E. Lee

Bavarian ‘Schools on View 9.2.3.4. Seal Soca sues 34
Article by Martin Mayes

Labor's Responsibilities: 7.2...) 0a A coe Pee 35,
Address by Harvey W. Brown

Free-Enterprise Principle Surveyed ....................-. 36

In and Around the American Zone (pictorial) ............ 37

The “Ivy” Fourth Division (pictorial) 38

“Batter Up, (pictorial) sc.isc <scsccaes a N00 - 40

Woman's Role Today 3.220 2.0 se ener eons e ke acer 4l
Address by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser

Youth's Greatest Opportunity... 0... 0... eek eee os 45
Address by John J. McCloy

Exports Agath: Top/imports s4<.<2 2.505 s Sa ec bees 48
Economic Review by A. J. Cefaratti

Personnel Notes ....... ee ae:

German Cartoons 53

Calendar ‘oi*Coming Events; 2% 20.05 5 <ssbics oe 55

In and Around Germany ST:

‘Washington Report) = ..ss Siu. oto hie iota ee ue 59

Settlement oi German ‘Debts. 20/25 2.25 5s ee oo ou ee 66

Newly-Enacted laws) 21.262, cant e nisisce poser 69

Official Notices (01g 22 ahi sai os ce iecton gos Sasi ee “75
Communiques 75
Laws and Regulations 75
Announcements 75

Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents 76

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
SUUUTLTUUU VEU ULLUUU UAC

Big New Housing Projects

For Bavaria

THREE-POINT PROGRAM to ease Bavaria’s housing shortage is being carried out

by US authorities. The program emphasizes new construction for German civil-
ians financed by Marshall Plan counterpart funds, construction of new dwelling units
for occupation personnel, and the release of German properties under requisition.

Marshall Plan counterpart funds equivalent to $14,280,000 have been released for
housing projects in Bavaria during the past two years and have contributed in whole
or part to the construction of 14,200 dwelling units there.

For the most part, the funds have been used as part financing for workers housing.
An average of $900 went into each of the 14,200 housing units, approximately 70 per-
cent of which are for refugees.

In addition, two projects have been approved for Bavaria which will be built en-
tirely from ERP funds. Each project — one at Munich and one at Nuremberg — will
contain 300 dwelling units. Construction will start in September.

American awareness of the Bavarian housing problem which led to this construc-
tion program was reflected as early as 1947 when Gen. Lucius D. Clay, then US
military governor, ordered revisions in the standards for military and civilian use of
German housing. :

This resulted in the release of a great many German properties. In the area of the
Munich Military Post, which includes the greater part of Upper and Lower Bavaria,
nearly 1,200 properties have been returned to the German economy. They include
dwelling units of all kinds, restaurants, hotels, schools, studios, hospitals and factories.

During May 1951, residential units numbering 86 were returned to German occu-
pants in the Munich area. Included were five single houses and 13 apartment houses
with 81 separate living units. Other property released in May includes two hotels,
two office buildings and seven open land areas.

NCOMPLETE REPORTS from the Nuremberg area show that 97 total properties

and parts of 40 properties have been returned to the German economy in the past
year. The continuous review to which Occupation Authorities have always put the
housing problem has led directly to a large, independent construction program to
accommodate personnel.

Since 1947 it has been the established policy not to requisition dwelling space and
since 1949 the Occupation Authorities have constructed necessary dwelling units.

In Bavaria alone 2,231 dwelling units have been completed expressly for occu-
pation personnel. These units, plus 324 more now under construction, will eventually
revert to the German economy and further contribute to the solution of the housing
shortage. In the meantime, these units will accommodate some of the additional army
personnel to be stationed in Bavaria. +END

TUUUUILUIUUUUAUUEGUUUSEUUUEUUSUURLUUUGEU UGTA

|

ee ee rT TTSTITTTTTITIILILLLGNTGUGetOUUHOPLLULLLULOGeOOODLUULLUULLeOOOGOOOO LU ULILULUDUUCOOCOODOUOLUUCUOOOHITOLULUTUUUOOOHITILINUETUOOOOTIT III Ni

INFORMATION BULLETIN ) JULY 1951 —

--- Page 6 ---
ES

Jean Cattier.
(PRD HICOG photo by Jacoby)

Mr. Cattier prepared this article at the
request of the Information Bulletin shortly
before he left for the United States July 1 after
serving the past year as chief of the ECA
Special Mission to Western Germany and of
the Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG. In
writing this article, Mr. Cattier reviewed the
unstable economic conditions in Germany in
the first three years following the war; de-
scribed the contributions of ECA assistance,
other international and governmental programs
to strengthen this economy, and outlined the
immediate economic prospects in Germany.
Pictured at the left is Mr. Cattier as he
delivered the opening address during the cere-
monies June 6 for the dedication of the new

Peace Bridge in Frankfurt.

Keonomie Prospects for Germany

Article

By JEAN CATTIER

HE FIRST THREE YEARS of the Marshall Plan have
been completed. In many respects our most optimistic
expectations have been exceeded. It is common know-
ledge, however, that the emphasis of ECA policy has
been changed since the attack on Korea so as to provide
the maximum support for the Western defense effort.
It is clear that important changes in the internal economic
policies of the free nations are necessary, and it must
be reluctantly realized that a partial postponement of
the higher living standards which would otherwise ac-
company rising levels of production and employment is
the price which must be paid for the retention of liberty.
The situation in western Germany is unique. Although
the Federal Republic is not as yet a full partner in the
Western defense system, its government has already
taken several important steps in support of the mutual
effort and others are proposed. However, a review of
the highlights of economic developments in Germany
since the inception of the Marshall Plan will be parti-
cularly useful in considering immediate economic pros-
pects in Germany since it provides a perspective for
viewing the elements of strength and weakness present
in the western German economy.

The Marshall Plan was launched in the spring of 1948.
At that time the German economy was still in a state
of paralysis. Little had been accomplished to repair the
immense destruction which occurred during the war, and
an already serious situation had been worsened by two
Successive poor harvests and an influx of millions of
refugees and expellees from the East. A considerable
portion of the country’s 1937 territory, including the best
of the agricultural lands, had either been lost or was
under the despotic thumb of the Soviet occupation. The

JULY 1951

very seriousness of conditions compelled the utilization
of all available resources for sustenance, and prevented
the necessary investment and the purchase of imports
required for the recovery of the country’s - essentially
industrial economy.

HE OBJECTIVES OF the Marshall Plan at that time

can be stated in simple terms. We hoped to help Ger-
many, through her own efforts and in cooperation with
the other free nations, to achieve a standard of living
sufficiently high to reduce, if not eliminate, the pos-
sibility of political and social disorders. To achieve this
broad goal industrial and agricultural output would have
to increase substantially. A high level of exports would
be needed to pay for the vastly increased imports of food
and industrial raw materials.

At the same time internal finances would have to be
managed in such a way as to stimulate economic pro-
gress and to prevent major inflationary or deflationary
dislocations.

Through the fulfillment of these conditions, we ex-
pected to see Germany emerge as an important contri-
buting factor to a politically stable and economically
sound community of European nations no longer depend-
ent on the United States for assistance.

In the spring of 1948, however, the accomplishment of
these objectives seemed indeed remote. Industrial output
was less than a third of prewar levels. Production and
commerce were handcuffed by a distorted system of price
and wage controls, consumer rationing, and raw material
allocation controls. Such foreign trade as existed was
managed according to a very complicated system. A wide
range of exchange rates existed. Foreign exchange re-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
ceived for exports or paid for imports had little or no
relationship to internal prices. Money was used prin-
cipally as a unit of account, as inflation resulting from
the war and its immediate aftermath had completely
destroyed most of its other normal functions,

As was to be expected under these circumstances,
living standards were at dangerously low levels, and
virtually no incentive existed — either for workers or
for businessmen — to increase their output.

RROBABLY THE MAJOR barrier to recovery, however,

was the absence of sufficient foreign exchange to
buy the imports of food, fertilizer and industrial raw
materials needed for an expanding economy. Without
such goods normal production could not be resumed,
and without increased production which would permit
high levels of exports foreign exchange could not be
earned. .

While the GARIOA grants had considerably amelio-
rated this situation, the vicious circle was only finally
broken by the ECA import program. During the first year
of operations, ECA had authorized Germany to buy more
than $500,000,000 worth of vitally needed goods. In-
cluded was food needed to raise the daily output of the
average worker, fertilizer and fodder to increase agri-
cultural yields, vitally needed industrial and agricultural
machinery, cotton and wool for the textile industry,
chemicals, non-ferrous metals, leather and a variety of
other raw materials needed for the processing industries.

It was also generally recognized that a drastic financial
reform designed to place the functioning of the economy
on’a rational basis was another prerequisite to imrove-
ment in economic conditions, Such a financial reform
was long overdue, having been delayed as a result of
the disagreement of the Soviets in the Allied Control
Council for Germany. At last, in June 1948, a new cur-
rency was introduced; currency and bank deposits were
revalued, one new Deutsche mark replacing about 15 old
Reichsmarks, Taxes were reduced and preparations were
made to remove most of the price and other economic
controls, A new Central Bank, established only a few
months before, was provided with the tools to exercise
monetary policy. From the outset the bank dedicated
itself to the preservation of the new currency.

HE IMPACT OF THE financial reform on the internal
economy was immediate and very encouraging. The
re-establishment of a money economy, the removal of
economic controls and thetsupply of badly needed raw
materials, financed by ECA and other US aid, enabled
industrial output to expand rapidly until in six months
it had doubled. A bountiful farm harvest plus basic food
supplies from ECA were also important factors in raising
industrial efficiency. The Central Bank found itself faced,
not with a business depression as some had feared, but
with a very rapidly expanding economy which soon called
for mild restrictive measures to contain certain distor-
tions then developing and to arrest inflationary pressures.
After December 1948, the process of expansion con-
tinued but certain problems began to arise which had

INFORMATION BULLETIN

been smothered temporarily in the upsurge that immedi-
ately followed the currency reform. The inflationary pres-
sures in the preceding period abated as quickly as they
arose. In the process of a long overdue ‘rationalization of.
industry, many workers were dismissed. At the same
time farm workers flocked to the industrial areas seeking
higher wages. Refugees from behind the Iron Curtain con-
tinued to pour into western Germany and added to the
pool of unemployment which grew rapidly even though
the number of employed workers also increased.

Poor and insufficient housing — since the war a source
of personal discomfort and evidence of a low living stand-
ard — became more and more an impediment to indus-
trial expansion in certain areas and certain industries,
and was one of the principal causes of structural un-
employment. It was thus in early 1949 that the problem
of unemployment emerged as one of the dominant in-
fluences on economic and financial policies.

Industrial production, however, continued to rise in 1949"
even though temporary reverses at times caused concern.
One of the principal deterrents to a more rapid expansion
was the fact that 90 percent of all savings had been ex-
tinguished by the currency reform, with the result that
private capital was not available to finance the acute
investment needs which arose as an aftermath of the war.
To help remedy this situation, the first ECA counterpart
program was drawn up during the fall of 1949.

IHESE PROGRAMS, USING funds deposited as a result

of the payment of local currency by German importers
of goods financed by US dollar assistance, have played
an extremely important role in German recovery. Long
term money for investment in plant and equipment was
by and large unavailable to many industries which had
to expand if Germany was to achieve a badly needed im-
provement in balancing and expanding production. Heavy
or basic industries, for example, were not permitted under
prevailing price ceilings to charge what the traffic would
bear. In many other industries not so restricted it was high
prices leading to high profits which provided funds for
self-investment.

Counterpart funds, carefully allocated in programs
jointly approved by the German Government and ECA, °
answered two vital needs. They helped to compensate for
the dearth of long term investment funds and they also
provided a means for selecting those types of investment
most compatible with the needs of the economy as a whole.

Meanwhile, foreign trade had tripled from the time of
the currency reform to the end of 1949. Although far from
sufficient to permit Germany to support its import re-
quirements, this development was a satisfying note, The
domestic market also continued to be extremely attractive
to German producers and competed strongly with the
export market. Although a single rate of exchange was
introduced in principle shortly before currency reform,
it was not until late 1949 that the last vestiges of export
subsidies were removed.

It was also at this time that the newly created Federal
Republic at Bonn became a signatory to a new Economic

(Continued on page 62)

JULY 1951

--- Page 8 ---
The America Book

By HELEN MecLAUGHLIN

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

HE LITTLE BOY RAISED his head from a color illus-

tration of a young tow-headed fisherman about his
own age perched on a rock beside a stream. The fisher-
man's feet were bare, and his faded overalls were fast-
ened with a safety pin. Beside him was a rusty tin can,
and he watched — with the frown of intense concentra-
tion —the shiny home-made float which dangled from
the end of his home-made pole.

The little reader and the boy in the picture are more
than 3,000 miles apart, but a book has brought them
closer together. “I, too, like to fish. I would like to fish
sometime with this boy, and in this brook,” the child said,
nodding at the picture. He spoke in German.

* * *

MERICAN BOYS AND GIRLS who recently made a
A gift of 20,000 copies of “The America Book for
Youth" to children in Germany can hardly realize
how great is their contribution toward a better under-
standing by German youngsters of the American way of
life. There have been as many responses to the book al-
most, as there have been readers, and they vary with the
reader's age. Some, like the little boy who felt a kinship
with the 10-year-old fisherman, have merely a simple,
friendly desire to know the boy or girl they see pictured
—fishing, skiing or skating— doing something which is
fun for all children. The older ones take a more mature
interest, in a dozen different ways. But everywhere, the
book has produced a common effect: “Thank you; we
love it; we would like to have more.”

The idea for "The America Book for Youth,“’ which is
printed in German with the title “Das Amerika Buch fuer
die Jugend,” originated with a well-known German news-
paper editor, Horst Schmid von Dannowsky, who has long
believed that there is a great lack of books to acquaint
boys and girls in Germany with the life of people in other
parts of the world. Mr.von Dannowsky was not inter-
ested in a book which was actually just a textbook on
the history of the United States, nor did he want one
showing the scenic beauties of America, or describing
the American government, or literature, or natural re-
sources. He thought German boys and girls needed a
book which would tell about all of these things and in
addition show how they are a part of the daily life of
Americans. And he wanted such a book to be simple
enough for boys and girls to understand. .

When he told Information Services officers of the Of-
fice of the US High Commissioner about his idea, he
found an instant, interested response. HICOG's Informa-
tion Services Division, with the aid of the International
Press and Publications Division of the Department of

JULY 1951

State, began the arduous task of preparing a vast fund of
information to go into the book. Mr. von Dannowsky re-
mained the driving force behind the tremendous editorial
and rewrite job which he had inspired.

HE FIRST QUESTION to be decided by the German

and American editors was: how much do our poten-
tial German readers know about America? It was agreed
that they knew very little. American history, certainly,
would be a dim hodge-podge of facts in most young Ger-
man minds —a cursory knowledge, at best, of the Ameri-
can Revolution, colonization, the war between the states
and a few names of great leaders, perhaps. In most cases,
the young German's picture of daily life in the United
States would be largely composed of odds and ends
gleaned from films, especially the gangster and the G-
man ones, from books about cowboys and Indians — par-
ticularly Karl May’s—and from newspaper accounts of
the latest publicity stunt, such as a flagpole sitting endur-
ance contest or a dance marathon.

To provide in a single volume a good introduction to
the history of the American government, folkways and
literature, industry, commerce, culture, sports, religion,
politics, and myriads of other information, simple enough
to be easily understood by boys and girls from 10 to 18,
informative and comprehensive enough to.be worth the
effort, entertaining enough to make reading a pleasure
rather than a chore — that was the aim of the editors of
“The America Book.”

The finished product is just that. Articles on history,
for instance, alternate with short stories; there are favor-
ite American songs interspersed with excerpts from a

Typical of smiling recipients of “The America Book for
Youth" is this group of German girls, who were made the
happy owners of copies in a ceremony at Kuenzelsau, in
Bavaria, April 4, 1951.

(Photo by Lindenberger)

--- Page 9 ---
childhood classic such as ‘Tom Sawyer." There are dozens
of illustrations and a host of statistics, charts, pictures,
maps. The inside of the cover is a game played with a
10-pfennig coin on a map of the United States.

WENTY THOUSAND COPIES of the 500-page volume

were published early last spring. Distribution began
in March with the initial presentation by Mrs. John J.
McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner, to eight re-
presentatives of West German and Berlin youth organi-
zations at her Bad Homburg home.*

Although virtually all the books were distributed in the
American zone, 1,500 copies were sent to Berlin and 15
each to localities in the British Zone where there are US
Information Centers or American reading rooms. Of the
Berlin presentation, Professor Ernst Reuter, governing
mayor, wrote: “Due to its manifold and interesting des-
criptions the ‘Amerika Buch’ is of great value to the
Berlin youth, many of whom will surely get a more im-
pressive idea of the United States by reading it. To get
acquainted with the history and the people of a foreign
country is certainly the basic condition for a good inter-
national understanding. We are greatly obliged to you
for this gift...”

School libraries in the American zone received 5,500
books; youth organizations 4,000; each of 211 US resident
officers was given 15 copies; 35 US Information Centers
received 15 each; American book-mobiles were allocated
10 each; American reading rooms in the smaller localities
each were given five; installations operated by the US
Information Centers got 1,000, and presentations were
also made to youth hostels, apprentice hostels, school
newspapers, radio stations broadcasting youth programs,
youth magazines and to 200 winners of the ERP essay contest.

* See Information Bulletin for May 1951, page 18.

Horst Wiesebach (left), representative of the students’
newspaper, “Wetterauer Tintenfass," in Friedberg county,
Hesse, and Else Blumenauer, member of its Schiller School
students’ self-government committee, receive copies from
(Photo by H. Schuessler)

Resident Oificer Ernest A. Knoblauch.

Resident Officer John G Kormann makes presentations to

contest winners at Neumarkt, in Bavaria. (Photo by Hailer)
EVERAL CHILDREN WERE ABLE to win a copy of the
book in contests arranged by resident officers. Al-
ways, presentation of the books was made a special oc-

casion with the town mayor, school officials and Ameri- ~

can representatives taking part.

A refugee child from Silesia who earned a copy wrote:
“We lost all our books; it is so wonderful to have this one.”

Another said: ‘Thank you so much for the book. I have
not read it all yet as my father is reading it, too. My
sister always wants it when I do, so we have decided
that since my father reads loudest, he will read it to us
and no one will have to wait.”

A 17-year-old high school editor, expressing his thanks,
wrote: “When the book arrived, work on our paper was
forgotten — my staff dropped everything to read it.”

A Bavarian child said: “I showed my book to my teach-
er, and he wanted to borrow it. I hope he gives it back.”

Adults were equally enthusiastic. Said a school prin-
cipal: “All of our 250 children are reading the book with
great interest. They are all so eager to have it, it is dif-
ficult to know to whom to give it.”

A teacher wrote: “This is easily the best book I have
seen about America. I prefer it to any of our official text-
books dealing with American life.”

From a Bremen radio station came a letter which said
in part: “Your ‘America Book’ will be the basis for un-
counted youth broadcasts in the future.”

F PARTICULAR INTEREST is the fact that German

and American writers and editors cooperated so
fully and so successfully in production of ‘The America
Book.” The idea came from a German journalist; a great
part of the raw material for the book was contributed by
the archives of the US Feature Service; and German and
American editors shared the work of preparation.

Said one US official in commenting upon the success of

the book: “It is a source of the greatest satisfaction to us
that there was not a single negative response to this proj-
ect designed to promote mutual understanding between
German and American children. The enthusiasm of adults
increases our belief that such an understanding can and
will be fully achieved in the years ahead." +END

JULY 1951

--- Page 10 ---
of | Friendship

Review of the Six-Week Survey of Germany
By Panel of 11 Prominent American Women

By AILEEN S. MILES
Press Escort Officer, Public Relations Division, HICOG

THE LITTLE OLD WOMAN looked about her and

smiled at the roomful of earnest faces, Her bright
eyes swept the cafe dining room where nearly 100 Ger-
man women were assembled to meet with 11 representa-
tives of major American women's organizations, and
marveled at what they saw. “It is wonderful to see Ger-
man women meeting like this," she said. ‘I am so glad —
for them and for Germany — that it is happening at last.”

The speaker was German-born Mrs. Anna Metcalfe, 80,
who had walked five miles from Stuttgart, capital city of
the US Zone state of Wuerttemberg-Baden, to the Uls-
bach cafe where the meeting, one of many which had
been arranged throughout Western Germany and Berlin
to cement working ties between German and American
women’s groups, was held.

Members of the visiting American women's panel join
with representative German women in a discussion at
the US Information Center in Munich. L,-r., Dr. Martha
Rehm, Munich School for Social Workers; Miss Else
Otte, interpreter; Dr. Maffett; Mrs. George N, Shuster,
wife of the US state commissioner for Bavaria; Dr.
Thekla von Zwehl, president, German Union for Women
Physicians; Dr. Ferebee; Mrs. Stoelzl, Bavarian Union
of Housewives, and Dr. Schneider, teacher at Munich's
Teacher Training Seminar. (PRB OLCB photos by Maske)

JULY 1951

“During my girlhood, the participation of women in
German public life was unheard of,’ Mrs. Metcalfe re-
called. "And now, even though their interest has been
aroused, the average German housewife and even those
women who are in business or in professions are combat-
ing the years and years of Nazi domination during which
women had not the slightest freedom of action in com-
munity or national affairs, I believe that they are doing
splendidly so far, and the encouragement they are re-
ceiving from these American women who are now visit-
ing Germany will be really invaluable,"

HE ECHO OF LITTLE Mrs, Metcalfe’s words was

heard in the major cities and the out-of-the-way
corners of the Federal Republic as the 11 American women
bustled from point to point on their carefully mapped six-
week itinerary, speaking here, listening there, discussing,
conferring, probing and advising. Through the scenic
American zone, the largely rural French Zone, the hurried
industrial centers of the British Zone, the city of Berlin,
and the nodding university town of Bonn, now Germany's
seat of government, the American women, flagging but
unbowed, determinedly settled their jaunty hats more
firmly and went out to meet still more people — to ex-
change more ideas.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Mrs. Willen, center, chats with two of Berlin's leading
Jewish women during a meeting at Harnack House in
the US Sector to Berlin. With her are, left, Jeanette
Wolff, member of the Berlin House of Representatives and
chairman of the Berlin Jewish Women's club, and Ruth
Galinski, who is the deputy chairman of the Berlin Jewish

organization. (PRB BE-HICOG photos by Schubert)
The idea for the West Germany-wide tour of the Ameri-
can Women’s Panel originated as Department of Labor
officials in Washington and members of HICOG's
Women's Affairs Branch became even more keenly aware
that German women's organizations needed stimulus in
the form of direct personal contact with experienced and
successful organizational methods of outside countries.
The Women’s Bureau of the Department of Labor, in
conjunction with the Department of State, approached
various national non-governmental women’s organizations
throughout the United States and met with a wave of
enthusiasm which sent the already moving ball speeding.
German women's counterpart organizations were
sounded and responded with alacrity. The German women
requested HICOG to issue on their behalf an invitation
to the American organizations to send delegates on a tour
of the Federal Republic in an effort to establish closer
relations between the organized women of both countries.

'WELVE US WOMEN'S organizations representing

approximately 15,000,000 American women accepted,
offering to finance their respective delegates’ travel to
and from Germany. Reaching into all areas of American
life — business and professions, industry, church work,
government, education, and citizenship in both urban and
rural communities, the organizations, with the exception
of the National Council of Negro Women, have counter-
part or similar groups in Germany.

Organizations and delegates participating in the panel,
the first of its kind to represent the United States in Ger-
many, were:

Young Women's Christian Association — Mrs. Arthur
Anderson, New York, N.Y.

League of Women Voters — Mrs. Harold D. Dyke, Syra-
cuse, N.Y.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

National Council of Negro Women — Dr. Dorothy 3
Ferebee, Washington, D.C. 4

National Council of Women in the United States am
Dr. Ferebee.

American Association of University Women — Mrs,
Frederic Gilstrap, Albuquerque, N.M.

Associated Country Women of the World — Mrs. Philip
H. Jones, Shelton, Conn.

National Business and Professional Women's Clubs ~~
Dr. Minnie Lee Maffett, Dallas, Tex.

Congress of Industrial Organizations — Mrs. Marie C.
Mengerson, St. Louis, Mo.

United Council of Church Women — Miss Louella Reck-
meyer, New York, N.Y.

American Federation of Labor—Mrs. Walter Rose,
Congers, N.Y.

National Council of Catholic Women — Mrs. Anthony
J. Scholter, Milwaukee, Wis.

National Council of Jewish Women—Mrs. Joseph
Willen, New York, N.Y.

ERMAN WOMEN'S GROUPS, exhibiting a reticence

at first for collective effort, did unite to elect Mrs.
Emmi Beckmann, president of the German Federation of —
University Women and member of the parliament of the
Free City of Hamburg, as project chairman, to sit with
American, British and French Women’s Affairs officers to_
plan a comprehensive and fast-moving program.

By the time the American women’s panel arrived at the
Rhine-Main airport outside Frankfurt, headquarters for
the Office of the US High Commissioner in Germany, on
April 20, the six-week schedule was so tightly jammed

Mrs. Jones shakes hands with a little girl who lives with
her refugee parents in an overcrowded hostel maintained
by the Welfare Section of the City of Hamburg. Hostel
(PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

houses 30 families.

JULY 1951

--- Page 12 ---
with events ranging from social teas to visits to German
prisons, refugee camps, labor meetings, consultations and
German-American “get-togethers” that the visitors stifled
astonished gasps as they viewed their itinerary.

German women, anxious that their guests get a well-
rounded picture of German life and burning to meet and
talk with the first group of American women to come to
their country since the war to learn, to help and to under-
stand, were eager to open their homes, their schools, their
institutions and their hearts and fearful lest the Ameri-
cans miss any tucked-away corner of German life.

The American women plunged in with zest. They had
tea with US High Commissioner and Mrs. John J. McCloy,
met with many other HICOG officials, then temporarily
turned backs on Americans. They wanted to meet the
German women.

HEIR FIRST WEEK was set at whirlwind tempo. In

Frankfurt and nearby Wiesbaden, capital of the state
of Hesse, panel delegates held exhaustive consultations
with German women's groups. The meetings showed the
Americans that their German counterpart organizations
have a long way to go before they can achieve the active
role and effective influence in community affairs which
come as second nature to American women's groups.

German women leaders, conscious that their groups are
functioning below their potential, told their visitors that
the German women's movement has not fully recovered
from the demoralizing blow dealt it by the Nazis and that
economic problems and the ‘children, church and kitchen”
tradition were still slowing the pace to a walking trot.

Scribbling notes, listening and absorbing, the Ameri-
can women got a firsthand, person-to-person briefing on
current organizational life in Germany from their Ger-
man hostesses. They learned that women in Germany
— there are 3,700,000 (1950 census) more women than men
in the Federal Republic— constitute 68 percent of the
population and represent two-thirds of the voters; that
through their numbers German women are in a decisive
position today either to promote or retard the develop-
ment of Germany as a democratic state.

But German women because of the traditional social
system are ill prepared for the responsibility circum-
stances have placed upon them. The lack of active partici-
pation of women in civic affairs shows that the great
majority are politically unaware, uninformed on public
issues, unconscious of their responsibility as citizens and
reluctant to identify themselves with public issues.

But there are encouraging signs, too. German women
leaders are alert, fully aware of deficiencies where they
exist and eager to conquer them. New groups formed
after the Hitler era are steadily growing in effectiveness.
Many of the organizations have incorporated objectives
in their programs which were adopted by German
groups 30 years ago and later wiped out by the Nazis:

“Equal rights for women;"

“Equal pay and job opportunities;"

“Admission of women to all legal institutions;

“Revision of family laws,” and

“More women in leading educational posts.”

JULY 1951

Mrs. Elly Heuss-Knapp, wife of the president of the Ger-
man Federal Republic, chats with Mrs. Gilstrap at a tea
she gave for the American women’s panel at Villa Hammer-
schmidt, the ‘White House’ of Bonn. (Photo by PRD HICOG) ,

ND THERE ARE NEW TRENDS. The modern organiza-

tions are not direct copies of the old. The new groups

do not show the nationalistic tendencies characteristic of

the period after the first World War. There is more

programming emphasis on social and cultural issues, and

the post-World War II groups include a wider representa-
tive cross-section of the population.

The consultations were punctuated by visits to enter-
prises initiated or helped by progressive women’s groups
illustrative of the new patterns developing: an old bunker
whose three-feet-thick walls once protected citizens from
air-raids now houses a training school for girls estab-
lished by funds raised by Frankfurt women’s associations;
a women's prison where women's groups have been in-
fluential in organizing handicraft work, trade training
and discussion programs to provide a rehabilitating
diversion from the traditional gray monotony of German
prison routine.

Sandwiching in luncheons with the mayors of Frank-
furt and Wiesbaden, and a lightning trip to the ancient
city of Marburg for a chat with university students there,
the panel took off from the Frankfurt area for a series of
similar visits in Mainz, Heidelberg, Stuttgart, Freiburg,
Munich, Nuremberg, Berlin, Hamburg, Hanover, Bremen,
Kiel, Duesseldorf, Bonn and the surrounding countryside.

‘VERYWHERE GERMAN WOMEN turned out enmasse

to greet the panel. In Stuttgart where the American
women spent May Day and Ascension Day (May 3), both
long-accepted family holidays in Germany. HICOG
Women’s Affairs officers estimated that more than 1,000
German women attended meetings in the area to meet
the Americans. All meetings were characterized by a
frank “give and take” between the Germans and Ameri-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Mrs. Dyke reaches for trinket made by a child at the
Waller Park Children's City Day-Home, one of the most
modern and progressive institutions of its kind in

Bremen. (Photo by Georg Schmidt, PRB OLC Bremen)
cans. German women seized the opportunity to unburden
their problems while the Americans listened, advised and
suggested, and sometimes told them to forget their past
woes and look to the future.

Typical of meetings between the groups were those
held in the famous city of Munich, capital of Bavaria, and
Freiburg, capital of the Black Forest state of Baden, in
southwest Germany.

In an informal meeting in Munich where approximately
40 women of German counterpart agencies sat down for
a two-hour “woman to woman” chat on questions of
mutual interest, Mrs. Dyke told the Germans she was im-
pressed with the relief and welfare work they were doing
but was disappointed in their ‘‘citizenship work.”

“Particularly in your work with young people,” the
League of Women Voters’ delegate said, ‘I have seen
little evidence of an effective parent-teacher group work-
ing with the schools or of your teaching the child the
value of democratic government at an early age by
instituting self-government in your schools.”

Answering Mrs. Dyke, the German women explained
that, because of the shattered illusions of the Hitler era,
women in Germany were hesitant to join new organiza-
tions and many were apathetic toward politics and their
civic responsibilities.

One German teacher explained that in her school of
70 girls she had inaugurated self-government but found
that the students were suspicious of it and felt that it was
being imposed upon them from a higher authority. “It is
too early for this type of training,” she stated.

ECAUSE OF THE SHORTAGE of young teachers,
another German woman told the American panel,
“we must use those who taught under the Nazis and after

INFORMATION BULLETIN

teaching Nazism for 12 years it is difficult for those ~

teachers to turn around and teach democracy."

“In America we have Parent-Teacher Associations,”
Mrs. Rose, representing the American Federation of Labor,
told the German women. ‘When we think the teachers
aren't good for our children we take action through that
organization. Why don’t the mothers in Germany take
similar action against the faults in the school system?

“In the schools I have visited so far,’ Mrs..Rose con-
tinued, “I have found that the young people are inter-
ested in politics and citizenship, but they are not getting
the proper instruction in these subjects. That is the prob-
lem which you women must face.

“You have told us that your schools are overcrowded
and space limited, but you are rebuilding industry and
civic buildings first while school space is so cramped that
rural schools intended to accommodate 30 students are
now crowded with as many as 80 pupils. Again, it is
up to the German women to make their voices heard
and to find a remedy for the situation."

R. FEREBEE, REPRESENTING the National Council

of Negro Women and the National Council of
Women in the United States, asked the assembled Ger-
man women if the great mass of German people were
convinced that democracy is what they want.

“After the Nazi era," a German woman answered, show-
ing that the ‘‘Fuehrer Princip" (principle of strong leader-
ship) is still alive in Germany, “it is impossible to switch
over quickly and be told ‘you must be democrats.’ In this
period of transition there must be some strong leading
personality.” q

In Freiburg, in the French Zone, where Paul A. Neuland,
US state observer, threw open his home for an evening
meeting between the German and American women, the
panel members were told that the German Hausfrau
(housewife) with her waking hours devoted to the prob-
lems of feeding and clothing her children under postwar
conditions has little time in which to take an active
interest in civic affairs.

Panel members inspect the Henkel works, Germany's
Jargest manufacturer of cleansing agents, at Duesseldorf, in
the Ruhr district. The visitors are seen in the packaging
department. (Photo by PRB OLCB)

ee eo

--- Page 14 ---
Panel members confer with administrators of the German Trade Union Federation (DGB) school at Kochel, Bavaria. Left

to right are Mrs. Mengerson, Mrs. Rose, Mrs. Gilstrap, Philip Cernet, manager of the school, Mrs.
Kurth, president of the school, and Mrs, Margarethe Kempe, DGB representative.

While the American housewife is assured of spare time
made possible through the modern technical equipment
in her kitchen and home, the German woman's duties are
a fulltime job, a young German mother told the discus-
sion meeting. “It is for this reason,"*»she said, “that Ger-
many is a man’s country.”

Mrs. Rose, mother of two children, informed the Ger-
man women that they must correct their impression that
all American women enjoy a large: measure of leisure
time. On the contrary, she pointed out, “thousands of
women in the United States like myself work an eight-
hour day outside the home and return at night to face our
household duties. At the same time we work in our
organizations and still find time to develop our civic
responsibilities. We have educated our husbands that the
home is a 50-50 partnership and they must do their share
of the work if their wives have an outside job.”

Dr. Maffett, representing the National Business and
Professional Women's Clubs, reminded the German
women that there are millions more women than men in
Germany. “And yet," the Texas physician said, “you are
still asking men to give you an occasional crumb. It is
through your vote that you get what you want, so why
don't you get it?”

Discussing women’s role in world peace, a German
representative of the local Social Democratic Party (SPDj,
which opposes Federal Chancellor Konrad Adenauer’s
policy of German participation in European defense,
declared that, in the midst of current world rearmament,
women should refuse to work in munitions or allied
industries.

“We
repr:

all hate war," Dr. Ferebee answered the SPD
sentative, ‘but in these times of stress our best
protection is a strong country. For our united defense
effort military strength is essential.”

I UT THE TOUR WAS NOT CONFINED to meetings.

The women inspected schools and kindergartens,
labor schools, farms and bunkers. They took a quick look
into the refugee problem — one of the greatest confront-

JULY 1951

11

Anderson, Joset
(Photo by PRD HICOG)

ing the Federal Republic. In Hamburg, world famous Elbe
river port in the British Zone, they inspected old air-raid
shelters converted into temporary homes for the thou-
sands of refugees drifting in and out of the harbor city.
They found the homeless crowded into small airless com-
partments with scanty bedding living under primitive
conditions which brought tears to the eyes of the Ameri-
can delegates.

Mrs. Jones, visiting delegate of the Associated Country
Women of the World, told the German organization
members who escorted the Americans to one .women's
bunker: “The animals on our Connecticut farm enjoy
better living conditions than these Hamburg refugees."

In other districts the Americans found that the Ger-
mans were knuckling down and doing a job without any

A youngster in the kindergarten of the Social Women's
School at Munich explains the workings of his ‘model
plane” to Dr. Maffett. (Photo by PRB OLCB)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
help or push for the refugees trickling over the border
into western Germany. Outside Hanover, ancient capital
of Lower Saxony, several panel members toured the
Poggenhagen refugee camp, maintained by the local
district government and local private enterprise.

Dr. Franz Fresen, director of the camp — once a manor
house of the kings of Hanover — explained that he was
“in the happy position of taking the young people in
without conditions and excess questioning.” The camp
is merely used for transients, Dr. Fresen said, and the
boys and girls remain there only for a two or three week
period after which jobs are found for them in suitable
places all over western Germany.

Most of the available jobs are on farms, the director
said. There 50 percent of the young fugitives from Com-
munism find their niche while 15 percent go voluntarily
into the Ruhr coal mines, and the remainder find work
in various trades in which they are interested. Every-
thing in the camp, the women found, is on a voluntary
basis. The boys and girls come and go as they wish and
there are no fences to remind them they are camp in-
mates,

The Americans found some of the youths who were
slated to leave shortly for the Ruhr mines laughing over
a Soviet Zone newspaper story which depicted life in the
Poggenhagen camp from a Communist viewpoint. In an
effort to discourage young Germans from leaving the
Communist fold, the party-line newspaper warned of the
“horrors” of the refugee camp in the West where young
fugitives from Communism were “beaten” daily and kept
“behind barbed-wire.'" The German boys showed the
newspaper to the American visitors and told them:

Miss Reckmeyer helps push a round-about loaded with
excited children at the rebuilt Margaretenhort (kinder-
garten) in Harburg, near Hamburg. The 45-bed home is
maintained by the German Federal Protestant Women's
organization.

(PRD HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Dr. Ferebee points to the Freedom Bell hanging in the
tower of the Schoeneberg borough city hall as Mrs. Rose
gets her first glimpse of the famed gift of the American
people to Berliners, The American visitors climbed 300
steps to the tower where the bell hangs. Dr. Ferebee was —
a member of the committee which sponsored the gift of

the freedom symbol to Berlin. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)
“Stories like these discourage no one. We in the East
zone know the true story all too well, and more young
people will follow us to Poggenhagen.”

LTHOUGH PANEL MEMBERS traveled mostly as a
group, individuals found time to pursue their spe-
cialized interests as related to their organizations.

Mrs. Jones, identifying herself to German women as
“the farmer's wife," for instance, took time off from the
crowded schedule to visit German farm women in their
homes, to view farming methods and inspect livestock.

She reported that farming in Germany is far behind
that in the United States and on many farms primitive
methods are still in use. She expressed her astonishment
at the number of uses to which cows are put. “In Ger-
many,” she said, “they are a five-purpose animal, all
beginning with the letter ‘M’' — milk, meat, maternity,
motive power and manure.”

Dr. Maffett, practicing physician in Dallas, Tex., left ©
the group at times to visit hospitals, and to talk with doc-
tors and nurses. Although not too hopeful about the
medical situation as a whole today in a country which
once led the world in medical thought and research, Dr.
Maffett said she was impressed with the excellent work
being done in a number of larger German hospitals de-
spite many handicaps. She pointed in particular to the
research work being carried on in Hamburg in the field
of virus diseases, especially polio.

ANEL MEMBERS, REPRESENTING America’s’ two

large labor organizations, detached themselves from
the panel schedule to visit a trade union school at Kochel,
near Munich, one of eight schools of its kind in West
Germany now providing an extensive educational pro-
gram for workers. Eighty trade union members represent-
ing 16 unions are currently enrolled in the training
classes, which cover two to three week studies. Workers,

JULY 1951

--- Page 16 ---
both men and women, are taught economics, social poli-
tics, union history, wage and other legislation and union
leadership.

Guided on their tour of the classrooms and living quar-
ters by Mrs. Margarete Kempe, women’s secretary for
Bavaria of the German Trade Union Federation, Mrs. Rose
and Mrs. Mengerson were able to observe at firsthand
what German labor is doing to promote its own welfare.

They learned that women workers are often hampered
in their efforts to obtain equal pay, working conditions
and otherequal rights with men workers, most of
whom continue to harbor a traditionally inherent belief
that a woman is a less productive worker than a man.
Mrs. Kempe told the Americans that information she re-
ceived during a recent three-months’ visit to America
under the US Department of State’s exchange program
has been invaluable in her efforts to make German wor-
kers aware of the need for improvement in their status
as employees, both within and without the union.

At still another labor school, the Hans Boeckler school,
outside Nuremberg in Bavaria, which is financed by the
German Trade Union Federation and aided by grants
from the HICOG Special Projects Fund, Mrs. Rose and
Mrs. Mengerson were told by the all-male student body
that women's participation in union activities is a prob-
lem throughout the trade unions. Organized trade union
men, the two panel members were told, are trying to
make women realize that the union is also their respon-
sibility, but German women are more interested in their
household problems. “We have never seen women as
enthusiastic as you about labor problems,” one of the
boys informed the American visitors.

1 HEN THE GROUP REACHED Berlin in the fourth

week of their trip they discovered a changed pic-
ture from that in the western zones, The American women
found that Berlin women’s organizations are making
forceful impact on the social and political life of the
island city.

Meeting as usual with their counterpart groups, the
Americans expressed astonishment at the vigorous pro-
gram set by the Berlin women in contrast to that of their
sisters in the Federal Republic.

Mrs, Else Ulich-Beil, chairman of the Citizens League
(Staatsbuergerinnen-Verband) explained the difference
by pointing out that Berlin women had lived for several
years in the center of East-West conflict. ‘The force of
women's organizations is essential in such times of
stress," she said, ‘and we have had to assume a more
active role than women’s groups in the western zones
have yet learned to do.”

The Berlin women, the panel members found, among
other enterprises are helping refugee university students
from the eastern zone to establish a free life in West
Berlin, They are helping single women with their hous-
ing problems by renting large apartment units and con-
verting them to smaller apartments to accommodate
several women. All groups. are working to educate both
Berlin men and women toward better citizenship through
information programs on city government affairs, while

JULY 1951

Louise Schroeder, left, borough president of Berlin-
Schoeneberg and former acting mayor of Greater Berlin,
signs the autograph book of Dr. Ferebee. Mrs, Schroeder,
also a member of the Berlin House of Representatives and
the Council of Europe, and head of the Berlin delegation of
observers to the federal lower house of parliament, is one of
Germany's outstanding women leaders: (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

representatives of women's organizations are being invited
to the different states of the Federal Republic to spur the
efforts of the more lagging groups in the western zones,

EETING WITH PROFESSOR Ernst Reuter, governing

mayor of Berlin, at a reception given in their honor
by the world-famed city executive, the organization
delegates were told that there was no chance for peace
in the world until Germany's “guests from the East’ have
returned to their homelands.

During a welcoming speech to the American women,
Mayor Reuter spoke of Berlin as a “frontier city" and
said because Berliners live on the fringe of Communism
they are fully aware of what they are fighting. The

Miss Reckmeyer and Mrs. Scholter talk with two Soviet
Zone refugees living in the ruins of a bombed out Ham-
burg church. (PRD HICOG photo)

--- Page 17 ---
mayor told his guests he hoped they would have a
chance to visit the eastern sector of the city, so that they
might contrast ‘two worlds in one city.” In West Berlin,
he declared, there is spirit and life. There is that in the
air, Professor Reuter said, which says this city of Berlin
has the will to survive. ‘The best export commodity we
have is the Berlin spirit.”

Later in the week some of the women followed Mayor
Reuter's advice, and visited the Soviet Sector of the
divided city. They talked with school children on their
way home from a Communist-dominated classroom,
thumbed through the youngsters’ textbooks, and struck
up conversations with women still clearing the rubble
from badly-bombed streets.

In interviews and discussions with West Berliners the
panel received a one-week's intensive briefing on the
East-West tension in the city. Ernst Tillich of the Fight-
ing Group Against Inhumanity, an organization which
has become synonymous with German resistance against
Communism, in one evening meeting painted a depress-
ing picture of the subjugation of 18,000,000 East Germans
to their Russian masters. Political conditions existing
before 1945, when the Nazi totalitarian regime separated
the entire nation from the rest of the world, are being
repeated in the Soviet Zone, Mr. Tillich pointed out.

He urged the women to help in urging a strong link
between the Germans imprisoned behind the Iron Curtain
and the other nations of the free world by a warm flow
of messages and food parcels. Letters will tell East Ger-
mans that they are not forgotten by the free world, he
said, and: food packages will bolster their courage in the
face of an almost hopeless situation. Good books and
information about the free world will go a long way
toward keeping these oppressed people united — spirit-
ually, at least — with the West.

S THE TOUR NEARED its last lap, the women, frayed
but undaunted, smoothed their wrinkled dresses,
donned fresh white gloves, and went to tea at the Bonn
home of the first lady of Germany, Frau Elly Heuss-
Knapp, wife of the president of the Federal Republic.
In the next few days, the Americans met with ‘high
officials of the German federal government, many of
whom are women. The Americans expressed amazement
at the large number of women holding important govern-
mental posts and acknowledged that more women in
Germany hold federal offices than in the United States.
Entertained at a dinner reception by members of the
German Federal Ministry of the Interior and the German
Foreign Office, Hans Ritter von Lex, state secretary for
the Interior Ministry, reminded his American guests that
the women’s movement in Germany started from the
“grass-roots” only in 1945. Paying tribute to the help
given German women from abroad in their efforts to
create effective organizations through létters of encour-
agement and understanding, he said: “We have done
more than just organize women's groups. We included
a statement on women's equality with men in our con-
stitution and our federal chancellor (Konrad Adenauer)
insisted on a women's division in our Ministry of Interior.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

Mrs. Aileen S. Miles (right), HICOG press officer who
escorted the panel on its tour and is the author of
accompanying article, chats with Mrs. Rose, left, and
Mrs. Jones, during a tour of the port of Hamburg in the
Jaunch of Dr. J. K. Dunlop, British state commissioner
for Hamburg. (PRD HICOG photo)

During their six-week stay in Germany, he said, the
American women probably found many incidents of im- —
perfection. ‘But, he added, ‘give us time. We have the
serious intention of bringing full equality between men
and women, but you must help us to put this into effect.”

Following their Bonn social whirl, the Americans re-
tired to the staid and quiet Hotel Lorelei in Koenigswinter, ~
across the Rhine from the capital, where they dug in for
a two-day workshop meeting with their German counter- i
parts who came to participate from all over the Republic,
and to confer on the role of women's organizations in
both domestic and international life, and to listen to —
women members of the German parliament define their
role in national life.

N A VERBAL FLASHBACK of the tour following the

conclusion of the Bonn workshop, German and Ameri-
can women were deep in assessing its value. Speaking to
Mrs. Gilstrap of the American Association of University
Women, Mrs. Beckmann said simply: “We German —
women feel very strongly that your trip about Germany E
has made a most important contribution to the lasting
friendship of the two countries. Its effect will be felt long ~
after you have returned home. There is one thing, how-
ever, which stands out in most of our minds, and that is
this: the mere fact that you came at all — regardless of
anything which was accomplished while you were here —
proves to all of us that the hand of friendship was ex-
tended in good faith. We have clasped it, too, in friend-
ship, and that alone is a remarkable beginning.”

“However diversified the efforts of our individual
organizations will be in the continuance of the relation- 3
ship we have begun,” Mrs. Gilstrap returned, “we as an
entire group have found here a corresponding ‘united
front’ which cannot fail in the years ahead." +END —

JULY 1951

--- Page 18 ---
Promoting German Trade

Review of Progress Achieved during the First Year
Of the German-American Trade Promotion Company

F THE PRESENT DOLLAR export pace continues the
remainder of this year, West German exports to the

United States will reach an estimated $200,000,000 for the
{2-month period — nearly double the figure for 1950.

Much of the credit for this greatly increased flow of
goods to America belongs to an infant organization
which is observing its first birthday this month — the
German-American Trade Promotion Company, better
known, by the abbreviation of its initials as GATPCO.
Just how much credit can rightfully be claimed by
GATPCO in the growing success of the drive to close the
“dollar gap” cannot be accurately determined, but it is a
clearly evident fact that the year-old enterprise has made
a highly valuable contribution toward stepping up ex-
ports to the United States — a prime factor in the effort
to keep West Germany's economy on an even keel.

The proved success of GATPCO is especially gratifying
for the ECA trade development officials who first con-
ceived the idea of a super trade promotion organization
to promote dollar sales, because their suggestion was
looked at askance initially by German industrialists,
whose cooperation was a necessarily integral part of such
a plan, The Germans were of the opinion that there were
already in existence, sufficient organizations for trade
promotion, and further, they pointed out, the United
States had never been, and probably would never be,
an important market for German goods. But that was a
year ago, Now they are clamoring to “get on the band
wagon," convinced that GATPCO is doing the job they
thought couldn't be done.

Paul S. Nevin, formerly chief of Economic Affairs and
director of the Joint Export-Import Agency (JEIA) in
Bavaria, was the man called in last summer by the ECA
Special Mission to Western Germany to put GATPCO in
operation, and it was his tireless diligence and patience
which kept it a going concern in the early days of its
existence. Mr. Nevin became chief of trade develop-
ment for the ECA Mission, and he and his staff im-
mediately plunged into the work of uniting existing trade
promotion groups — widely scattered and disorganized —
into a single, non-profit organization.

FFICES WERE ESTABLISHED in Frankfurt and New

York, and GATPCO began its program of delving
into market research, locating sources of supply for for-
cign businessmen and helping to make contacts between
German and American firms. At the same time, Mr. Nevin
carried on an uninterrupted campaign against the Ger-
man businessmen’s ingrained belief regarding the un-
importance of the US market and its supposedly insur-
mountable obstacles, and gradually he began convincing
more and more of them of the value of promoting Ger-

JULY 1951

15

man-American trade. Results, which first became appar-
ent in about three months, did the rest, and excellent
cooperation from all branches of German industry, trade
and banking followed.

Commenting on GATPCO's first birthday, Mr. Nevin
reminisced, with a wry smile, about the many difficulties
encountered at the start. Actually, we had only three
German industrialists with us when we began," he said,
“and they were not completely optimistic. Our whole
operation literally hung by a thread for weeks, but we
were determined to make a success of it.

“Naturally,” he went on, “it is most gratifying to us
now to see the eagerness with which German business-
men are endorsing GATPCO as a trade medium. We get
dozens of calls daily from German businessmen wanting
information, citing increased inquiries from American
firms, and quoting figures. Hundreds of new connections
have been created between US and German businessmen
which have contributed materially to closing the dollar
gap. We think that in this relatively short time, GATPCO
has definitely proved itself."

Mr. Nevin credits-the initiative of the Federal Republic
as well as that of ECA with helping to promote German
exports to the dollar area.

URING THE FIRST four months of 1951, West Ger-
many exported a total of $65,000,000 (an annual rate
double the 1950 level) of finished products and raw
materials to the United States. The $103,000,000 total for
1950 was a postwar record. Principal exports were metals,
scrap and cement, basic chemicals and other chemical
products, steel manufactures, fine machinery and optics.
Recently the German-American Trade Promotion Com-
pany gave full backing to German efforts to. export
materials for Western defense,
a highly significant move in
view of the wide representation
GATPCO has among major
trade and industrial elements.
W.A.Menne of Cologne, who
is vice president of the Federal
Association of German Indus-
tries (the equivalent of the
National Association of Manu-
facturers in the United States)
and president of the Association
of Chemical Industry, Frank-
furt, is chairman of GATPCO’'s
board of directors. Other mem-
bers of the board, all prominent
industrialists, are: Fritz Berg,
president, Federal Association

Paul S. Nevin.

(PRD HICOG photo

--- Page 19 ---
PROGRESSUSI@@y,

ENGINEERING PROGRESS

eee”

IN THE DEVELOPMENT

| NEW TENDENCIES
OF GERMAN MACHINE DESIGN

| EXAMPLES OF PROGRESS MADE

CHEMISTRY
IN

DURING THE PAST FIFTEEN YEARS
GERMANY

NACHRICHTEN ee

FOR DEN

DEUTSCH-AMERIKANISCHEN HANDEL

GERMAN EXPORT CATALOGUE
CATALOGUE DE LEY?”
CATALOG
EXPO,
DEUTSCHER FE) = WSS

ee

--- Page 20 ---
of German Industries, Cologne; Dr. Henri Dumur, director
of Ernst Leitz Co., Wetzlar; Dr. Gustav Gerbaulet, mem-
ber, Federal Ministry for the Marshall Plan, Bonn, Dr.
Hans A. Sante, Federal Ministry of Economics, Bonn;
Eduard Guembel, owner of Broenner & Heuss, Wiesloch,
Baden; Richard Uhlemeyer, president, Central Associ-
ation of German Handicraft, Hanover; Alfred Toepfer,
head of the Hamburg export firm of Alfred C. Toepfer;
and Dr. Wilhelm Borner, director, Schering A.G., Berlin.

STEADILY INCREASING stream of information about

the US market for German producers and exporters
is channeled through the New York branch office in the
Empire State building and distributed in Germany in a
biweekly bulletin and statistical survey. There are more
than 7,500 firms on this mailing list.

An average of 30 American businessmen call GATPCO's
New York office every day seeking information about
German companies with which they wish to make connec-
tion. The US office also handles a large volume of corre-
spondence. Last month, for instance, incoming corre-
spondence totaled 1,450, and outgoing, 1,900, as compared
with 680 incoming and 1,000 outgoing in November 1950.
Queries average 1,600 a month.

A number of publications prepared by GATPCO have
had wide distribution in Germany. Here are some of them:

“New York Determines US Buying Habits," 5,000 copies;

“Small Businessmen — Small Markets in the US,’ 5,000

copies;

“Import Market for Consumer Goods in the US," 1,000
copies; ‘

“Customs Hints for Persons Entering the US," 5,000
copies;

“Directives for Travelers to the US," 3,000 copies;

“Germany at the 1950 Chicago Fair," 2,000 copies;

“Wegweiser durch das amerikanische Zollwesen fir
die Ausfuhr nach USA" (German translation of booklet
"Customs Information for Exporters to the US"), 3,600
copies;

“Retail Trade and Packaging," 2,500 copies;

“Cameras from Germany,” 26,000 copies,
distribution;

“How to Package My Product," 10,000 copies;

“Progressus,” 4,000 copies;

“New Tendency in the Development of German Ma-
chines," 4,000 copies;

“Chemical Industry in Germany," 4,000 copies;

“Packaging of American Products,’ 3,000 copies;

“Advice for Exports to the US," 3,000 copies;

“Einfuhrbestimmungen der USA-Gesetze ueber Nah-
rungsmittel, Arzneimittel und Kosmetika’ (translation of
booklet “Import Requirements on the US Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act"), 2,000 copies. ,

including

UTSTANDING AMONG THESE publications is ““Cam-
eras from Germany,” which not only contains a list-
ing, with complete specifications, of all cameras produced
in western Germany, but excellent illustrations of photo-
graphic art and articles designed to guide the amateur
in his selection of a German camera. Also available for

JULY 1951

17

distribution in the United States within the past month
were a tools catalogue, a machinery catalogue, a cata-
logue on chains of all kinds, and a brochure on chemicals.

Advertisements are regularly inserted by GATPCO’s
New York office in US trade journals urging firms to
give orders to German companies under sub-contracts;
trade fairs are analyzed and German firms advised when
and where to display their products.

The company made all arrangements for German par-
ticipation in the World Trade Week Exhibit held May 20
to 26, the first time since the war Germany has been re-
presented in this exhibit.

Excellent use was also made of the ECA packaging
exhibit, shown for the first time in Germany at the Hano-
ver Light Industry Fair in February and March. This
exhibit, supplemented by samples from the New York
branch office, duplicate packages from ECA Washington,
and information material prepared by GATPCO in Frank-
furt, was later shown at the Frankfurt Fair and again at
the Hanover Heavy Industries Fair. It is to be shown
soon in several other commercial centers. Later, the com-
pany plans to create a permanent packaging exhibit of
its own for use throughout West Germany.

RROMINENT GERMAN INDUSTRIAL leaders, con-

vinced of GATPCO's role in the increased trade to
the US, are taking an enthusiastic part in its program.
Thirty leading German businessmen and bankers repre-
senting all branches of industry, trade and banking, are
serving on the organization's newly created advisory
council. Among them are Otto A. H. Vogel, president of
Julius Schurer A.G., Augsburg; Dr. Hans Baumann,
director of the Deutsche Zentrale fuer Fremdenverkehr
(German Tourist Association), Frankfurt; Hermann Abs,
head of Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (Reconstruction
Loan Corporation), Frankfurt; and Dr. Rudolf Brinckmann,
of Brinckmann, Wirtz and Company, Hamburg.

Recently the German-American Trade Promotion Com-
pany sponsored a tour of several West German industries
for a group of US newspaper correspondents in an effort
to acquaint them, and subsequently the American public,
with the present-day industrial picture in the Federal
Republic. GATPCO also participated last month in the
third of a series of conferences designed to expand Ger-
man trade which have been held in the states of Wuert-
temberg-Baden and Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern,

As a further aid to European manufacturers exploring
avenues for expanding their export balances, the ECA
Mission has directed its efforts toward the formation of
export cooperatives of handicraft firms. Handicraft prod-
ucts, before the war, represented an important German
export commodity. Even now, they have a large export
potential, but until recently cooperative export sales
organizations designed to exploit this potential were
lacking. As there are 564,000 handicraft firms with more
than 3,000,000 employees and with annual sales of goods
and services amounting to $4,760,000, ECA officials point
out, cooperative export sales organizations are clearly
a “must to combat the commercial weaknesses inherent
in smal] businesses,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
The first handicraft export cooperative, and one of
the most important— Export Promotion Agency of German
Handicraft, in Hanover — was set up in November 1950
with the financial aid of GATPCO. Today, this organi-
zation is servicing more than 500 firms. Three other
similar cooperatives are: Handex, in Bavaria, which
specializes in applied art products; the North, Rhine-
Westphalian Export Promotion Office; and the Export
Working Committee of Baden.

Services performed by export cooperatives for their
members are briefly: (1) preparation of export offers;
(2) price calculation for export; (3) foreign language
correspondence; (4) packaging and shipping; (5) market
research; (6) preparation of export catalogues; (7) legal

and financial advice; and (8) splitting large orders amon
its member firms.

S THE GERMAN-AMERICAN Trade Promotion Com-

pany completes its first year, two important facts —

stand out: the organization has become one of the best —

trade development organizations in Marshall Plan coun-
tries, and its continuation as a permanent commercial
link between Germany and the United States is assured,

Its primary purpose—that of increasing dollar sales
to the United States—has been achieved, Also vastly
important has been GATPCO’s fulfillment of a secondary
function—that of promoting the international understand-
ing which has such a vital meaning among countries of
the Western World today. +END

Exports Seen as Solution for Berlin

CONOMIC PROBLEMS of production and trade which

now face West Berlin are essentially the same as
those which faced Chicago after the Great Fire of 1871,
according to Lawrence H. Whiting, US banker and indus-
trialist currently serving as an adviser and counselor
for ECA.

In an address before a group of West Berlin businessmen,
the retired brigadier general stated that “Chicago solved
her problems, and given the same degree of intelligent,
foresighted planning which she has exhibited to date,
West Berlin will do the same.”

The ECA adviser is spending seven weeks in Europe
to investigate trading potentialities and to aid European
manufacturers in exploring avenues for expanding their
export balances, especially with the dollar areas.

Sketching the broad outlines of a suggested plan for
reinstating Berlin as a full-fledged competitor in world

Librarian Ursula Platte and Professor Hans W. Eppelsheim-
er, director of the university and municipal branch of
the public library system of the City of Frankfurt, look
over a volume from the new open shelf library

recently established in the Hessian capital. The library
was financed by funds contributed by the Frankfurt public
library system and the City of Frankfurt, and a grant of
DM 4,000 from HICOG's Office of Public Affairs and
(PRD HICOG photo)

OLC Hesse.

markets, he named two prerequisites to a successful
solution of present trade problems. First, Berlin industri-
alists must “let the world know that goods of first-class
quality are being produced in Berlin in quantity.” The
second essential is to convince buyers on international mar-
kets that Berlin-made goods can be delivered on schedule,

Mr. Whiting stated that Berlin's delivery problems are
in general — despite the city’s semi-isolated position —
no greater than those facing numerous other West
European producers, many of whom are far behind on
deliveries.

Noting that a demand for Berlin-produced articles and
goods ‘‘definitely does exist,” and that both small and
large manufacturers should be able to exploit the American
market, in which demand for many types of goods is
“virtually unlimited, Mr. Whiting suggested that Berlin
name a committee of seven or more local businessmen
who could go to the United States and study marketing
conditions and possibilities on the spot.

The visiting expert hailed this method of exploring
the American trade scene as already having been employed
to tremendous advantage by other European countries.

Potential markets for Berlin's products in Latin America
and Canada can be developed once the American market
has been opened up on a broad scale, according to the
ECA adviser, who is president of the American Furniture
Mart in Chicago. He warned Berlin businessmen against
underestimating the fundamental importance of mer-
chandising methods in America:

“Merchandising is the second half of the production
process in the United States. For this reason, I would
recommend that Berlin producers start by working with
experienced American merchandising firms.”

During his present visit to Europe under joint spon-
sorship of ECA and the US Department of. Commerce,
Mr. Whiting visited nine Marshall Plan countries in addi-
tion to Western Germany.

JULY 1951

--- Page 22 ---
Workers
Turn Over
Bonn Projects

IX THOUSAND GERMAN construction workers set
aside their tools recently to accept gifts from their
American employers. The festivities, the traditional
Richtfest (roof-raising), marked the turning over by the
workers to HICOG officials of buildings in three Bad

Godesberg HICOG housing projects — financed by
GARIOA (Government and Rehabilitation in Occupied
Areas) counterpart funds — which will be homes for

American and German employees of the US organization
when it moves from Frankfurt to the Bonn area in
September.

At the ceremony were US High Commissioner John J.
McCloy; Glenn-G. Wolfe, director of HICOG's Office of
Administration; Dr. Robert Lehr, Federal Minister of the
Interior; Mayor Heinrich Hopman of Bad Godesberg and
Dr. Peter Stockhausen, mayor of Bonn.

The Richtfest is a celebration which, according to Ger-
man tradition, symbolizes the turning over of a new
building to the owner by the workers. In return the
workers are given gifts. The celebration is customarily
held when the framework of the roof is completed.

In taking. over the buildings, Mr. Wolfe expressed
appreciation to everyone connected with the projects.
Signaled out for commendation on the American side
Lt. Col. George G. Davies, chief of the HICOG
Engineering Division, and Jack H. Lennon, special as-
sistant in the Office of Administration.

In his commendation to construction workers, Mr.
Wolfe said: “I want to thank you workers, because in
the last analysis it is the men who put one stone on an-
other and one beam against another who really build the

ide

houses. I know that you are skilled craftsmen and that you
take pride in your work. I think you can well take pride
in what you've built here. We're proud of it, and of you.

“T want to thank everyone connected with this project
for the fine spirit of cooperation, of friendly working-
together, that has made it possible for us to overcome
all difficulties and bring this project so far so successfully.
I hope and trust that this spirit will continue through to
the end. This festival is the halfway point. We said at
the very beginning — when there was nothing here but
open field — that we hoped to finish the job by Sept. 1.
Some people said that was impossible, but our presence
here today, June 1, shows that it is possible when we all
work together. That's the way we have always worked.
Let's finish the job the same way." (Continued on next page)

US High Commissioner
John J. McCloy (top) rai-
ses a glass of wine in re-
sponse to short speech by
worker standing on a
building under construc-
tion as a small fir tree is
raised to roof during
“Richtfest"’ at new HICOG
quarters near Bonn. Left,
a view of crowd at tradi-
tional festive ceremonies.
(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Shack ae

--- Page 23 ---
PEAKING INFORMALLY at the ceremony dedicating

the building development, Mr. McCloy said:

“It is matural and proper that Americans should be
building these structures near the Rhine. For two genera-
tions American tourists have been traveling up and down
the river, photographing every castle, climbing every
tower and seeking always those charming ladies with
the golden hair. In return for these privileges, we Ameri-
cans are now building some modern castles for the
German employees of HICOG. I hope they get as much
joy and satisfaction out of these new castles as we
Americans, in the years past, have received from the old.”

Then the High Commissioner reviewed the German
housing situation and told his audience about another
huge building project that would directly benefit large
sections of the population throughout the Federal Re-
public. Since autumn of 1949 more than DM 450,000,000
(more than $100,000,000) of ERP and GARIOA counterpart
funds have been invested in housing here in Germany.
This money is money that the American people have
contributed to help build a free and democratic and pros-
perous Germany.

“Translated into brick and stone, this money has helped
to build more than 100,000 dwellings in the last two
years. Roughly speaking, that means that one in five
dwellings built in this time has been partly or wholly
financed with counterpart funds.

"I would also like to tell you about a special housing
program we are planning with counterpart funds. We have
set aside DM 30,000,000 (more than $7,000,000) to build
10 special housing projects with more than 300 dwellings
each in 10 large cities here in the Federal Republic.

“On these -10 projects the best and most progressive
German architects and engineers will have a free hand
to try new methods and new ideas to produce better
housing for less money. We have made sure that these
builders will be completely free from old-time restrictive
building codes and all other outmoded limitations.

“We expect that the building industry will be able to
learn much from this experiment. To you who know
building the value is clear. If by these experiments we
can learn to build good, modern dwellings with a saving

in costs of even so little as two percent or three percent,
that can mean a saving of more than DM 1,000,000,000
($238,000,000) when applied to the estimated
DM 40,000,000,000 (more than $9,520,000,000) of housing
that must yet be built in Germany.”

HICOG's Bonn housing projects consist of one group
of apartments for American employees and two separate
clusters of apartments for German employees. One
German group of 373 dwellings is in the Tannenbusch
area just north of Bonn; the second, equally large, is
near Bad Godesberg. It is expected that approximately
1,000 German employees will be housed in the two units.

The American apartment group, .comprising 458 dwell-
ings, is on the bank of the Rhine north of Bad Godesberg.
Of these dwellings 50 are large apartments, 120 are
single-bedroom and 144 each are two- and three-bedroom
apartments.

Also under construction is an office building for the
HICOG agencies in Bonn. The new building, with 200,000
square feet of space, will house a
daytime working force of some 1,500
employees. In addition, ample parking
space is provided.

Ground for the housing projects
and the office buildings was broken
on Feb. 15. Completion of the units
is expected by Sept. 1. +END

Top, Mr. McCloy presents carpenter
foreman with one of the 6,000 gifts
handed workers on the HICOG build-
ing projects at Bad Godesberg at the tra-
ditional roof-raising festivities. At left,
Mr. McCloy in informal address tells of
Jarge new housing projects in 10 Ger-
man cities planned for the near future.

JULY 1951

va

--- Page 24 ---
Looking
: Stateward

Interview

By LISELOTTE GOLDBECK

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

FRIENDSHIP MADE in Stuttgart in the early days of

the Allied occupation is giving a special meaning
to the entrance into a United States university this fall
of Magda Maier, daughter of the minister-president of
Wuerttemberg-Baden,

Miss Maier, 21-year-old brunet student at Heidelberg
University, will enroll at Western Reserve University in
Cleveland, O., Sept. 17 on a scholarship named in
memory of Col. William W. Dawson, first US director
of the Office of Military Government for Wuerttemberg-
Baden, whom she knew when she was a schoolgirl of 15.

Colonel Dawson in his capacity as military governor
of the state selected Dr, Reinhold Maier, the young
student's father, to be the MG-appointed minister-
president, After the first German democratic elections,
Dr, Maier was continued in office by choice of the
Wuerttemberg-Baden people.

It was in those early days when her father and the
American colonel conferred often on matters of state
that the young schoolgirl became acquainted with Colonel
Dawson. For Christmas in 1946 Colonel Dawson gave her
a copy of “The Portable Emerson." That was only six
weeks before he died of a heart ailment complicated by
pneumonia.

Colonel Dawson, at the time of his death, was on leave
from Western Reserve University, where he had been
professor of law for many years. Alumni of the univer-
sity and fellow workers in Military Government con-
tributed to the William W. Dawson Memorial Fund “for
the purpose of giving scholarships for the promotion of
understanding and appreciation between the citizens of
the United States and Germany.”

SPEAKING OF HER SELECTION for the William W.
Dawson Memorial Scholarship brought back fond
memories to Miss Maier.

“I remember the colonel very well," she said in an
interview, “although I was very young at that time. He
was tremendously nice. It was due to his initiative that
I was brought back to Germany with my mother and
brother soon after the war in a British Army plane.” She
had been living and studying in England during the
war years.

Miss Maier currently is in her third semester at the
liberal arts school in Heidelberg University, studying
German, English, history and history of art. She speaks
English fluently although with a British accent.

JULY 1951

21

Magda Maier, 21-year-old daughter of the minister-presi-
dent of Wuerttemberg-Baden, leaving the Seminar House
at Heidelberg University. She is to depart Sept. 17 for a
year at Western Reserve University in Cleveland, O., ona
scholarship named in memory of Col. William W. Dawson.

‘ "I am afraid it will take me at least a year to get rid
of that accent, she commented. “I do like English very
much, but to have to start out all over again with basic
grammatical courses and practical exercises which I am
required now to attend in order to qualify for my later
profession is apt to spoil all my pleasure studying it."

She does not know yet what her courses will be at
the American university, but a letter from Dr. Carl
Wittke, Western Reserve dean, has notified her that her
schedule will follow closely subjects she has specialized
in at Heidelberg. Dr. Wittke also informed her that she
will live in a dormitory and receive $480 for tuition and
$1,500 for living expenses.

Miss Maier hopes that the schedule at Western Reserve
will include lectures on American history and American
literature particularly, as she feels the latter might help
her develop a better understanding of American modern
poetry.

“I have read some poems by Walt Whitman, for in-
stance," she explained, “but I do not seem to get the
right feeling for him. I can't help being under the
impression that American poetry is awfully realistic, or

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
Miss Maier (left) during interview by Information Bulletin
writer, Liselotte Goldbeck. (PRD HICOG photos)

rather that realistic, and sometimes trivial, things are
dressed with poetry. It is a little difficult for me to get
used to that.”

HE SERIOUS-MINDED YOUNG student considers her

visit to the United States ‘a wonderful opportunity
to see a great deal of the world and to meet a lot of
people.” Highly important to her is the chance to get to
know the real America through personal observation
and contact.

“Americans over here,” she said, “are in a foreign
country and often will show a different attitude than at
home. So, you never can tell who is an exception and
who is to be considered as a true representative of his
country.”

Asked if she had any special ideas of the country
which is to be host to her during the coming year, Miss
Maier said: “I think it must be a wonderful country.
Of course, I won't go there unprepared. I have been
reading quite a bit about the United States. I also have
received many lively descriptions on life and people in
the US through letters from relatives in New York,
Philadelphia and San Francisco as well as from a girl
friend and former classmate of mine who has been
studying chemistry in New York since 1949."

In spite of being delighted and grateful in the expect-
ation of her one year stay in the States, Miss Maier is
a little afraid of getting homesick. Although a practical
young lady who even sews many of her own dresses
she has a romantic appreciation of Germany's historical
places. In sight of the Heidelberg castle she gave an
enthusiastic discourse on the historical background of
the various buildings of the castle and the people who
once lived there.

“T love that place," she declared, “and I go there at
least once a week. Imagine how many ages and how
many different generations it has seen, and how many
wars it has outlasted! It's this enchantingly quiet and
peaceful atmosphere that attracts me so much. And that's
why I fear that I may get homesick. I am afraid that I
will miss all that in the United States.”

*“ INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

N HER SPARE TIME, Miss Maier revealed, she likes.
to go for long walks, and she is much interested in ~
theater and music. She likes to recall an occasion during —

her last years in school at Stuttgart when she participat-
ed in an English performance of Shakespeare's Henry IV,
presented by students of her school in February ,1948.
Charles M. LaFollette, the director of Military Govern-
ment at that time, and Mrs. LaFollette were so impressed
with the performance that they invited the members of
the cast to luncheon at their home.

As to music Miss Maier's preferences depend largely
on her mood. Her favorite composers are Haendel and
Mozart. She likes operas and concerts, and does not
miss a concert presented at the castle grounds. She does
not play an instrument herself now, but did play a
violin during her stay in England. She was a member
of the Stuttgart philharmonic choir while at school there
and now sings with Heidelberg's Bach Association choir,

“The reason for my being so much interested in fine
arts," Miss Maier explained, “is perhaps my education
at a Rudolf Steiner school.” There are not many schools
of this type in existence. In Germany they gradually
had to close down after 1936 and were reopened after
the war. These schools use a different teaching system
which is based more on artistically creative than on
intellectual principles and substantial knowledge, “It has
its advantages,” she said. “However, coming from such
a school myself I feel that a student has difficulty in
changing to a system of acquiring knowledge through
memorizing, or to adapt himself to the hard reality of
business life."

Miss Maier is excitedly looking to the United States
for experience and instruction to be a high school teacher,
a vocation she intends to follow upon completion of her
studies. She feels that a teacher's horizons are very
broad, and she wants to be a teacher whose standard
is “certainly above average." +END

War Crimes Executions

The death sentences of the last seven war criminals
convicted at Nuremberg and Dachau were carried out
June 7 ai Landsberg Prison.* The war criminals were
executed by hanging after their appeals had been made to,
and denied by, the US Federal Courts.

Five of the war criminals were convicted by the Mili-
tary Tribunals at Nuremberg under provisions of MG
Ordinance No. 7. Oswald Pohl was convicted in the
concentration-camp case and the other four, Otto Ohlen-
dorf, Erich Naumann, Paul Blobel and Werner Braune,
in the extermination-squads (Einsatzgruppen) case.

Two of the executed war criminals, Hans Schmidt and
Georg Schallermair, were convicted by the Military
Courts conducted at Dachau by the US Army in the
European Command. They were convicted of committing
atrocities in concentration camps at Muehldorf and
Buchenwald.

* See ‘Landsberg, A Documentary Report’ in the Information Bul-
letin, February 1951, and “Nuremberg Trials,’ a review by Brig.
Gen, Telford Taylor, in Information Bulletin, No. 162, May 31, 1949.

JULY 1951

--- Page 26 ---
Report to America

Address
By JOHN J. McCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

AM VERY HAPPY to be back in this country for a
short visit and to have this opportunity to give you
a brief account of the situation in Germany as I see it.

When Germany is discussed, I think three major ques-
tions come to everyone's mind:

1. Why is Germany important to the United States?

2. Where does Germany stand in the great East-Weét
struggle?

3. What progress has been made toward achieving a
democratic state in Germany?

Germany is important to the United States for many
reasons. Twice, within the lifetimes of many of us, Ger-
many has compelled the United States to send troops to
Europe to check her aggression. Now a strange twist of
fate has placed western Germany on the frontier of the
free peoples of the West. We have had to spend vast
sums and great energies in the attempt to help this new
state become a peaceful democratic country.

The boundary line between freedom and suppression
runs through Germany from the North Sea to the Czecho-
slovakian border and along it to Austria. Seventy miles
from my office in Frankfurt, the Soviet Zone begins and
in that zone there are many fully equipped and thor-
oughly trained Russian divisions. I have another office in
western Berlin, which lies like a tiny island of freedom
100 miles inside the Soviet Zone. That island is a frontier as
well, It does not survive there because of any indulgent
attitude on the part of the Soviets. West Berlin survives
because of the spirit of its people and because the West-
ern Powers have made it clear that aggression there
would constitute aggression against the entire free world.

ERMANY IS ONE of the highest tension areas in the

world. The Soviets are putting every possible effort,
short of outright military aggression, into a campaign to
overwhelm the Germans and to make that country their
greatest satellite. They know that if they could do this
all Europe might be forced to succumb. Their menacing
military forces in eastern Germany, in the satellite coun-
tries and in Russia provide a base from which they
and blandishment. This campaign is

nomic pressure and all other weapons of the totalitarian
strategy of repression.

A mighty Soviet propaganda machine is also at work
which submits the Germans of both the east and west
zones to an intense, incessant barrage of psychological
warfare which you must experience to appreciate. No
expense, no effort is spared to win the war of ideas.
Every day powerful transmitters in the East zone and
in Russia pour out this material, some of it crude, some
of it subtle. The Communists employ every distortion and
take advantage of every element of weakness. Every
person, group, institution and organization is subjected
to this flood in newspapers, films, posters, pamphlets, |
books and letters. It is augmented and stimulated by
infiltration of agents and activists. It adds up to an
enormous expenditure of energy and wealth on the part
of the Communist world. In recent months it has been
largely directed against the United States.

This coming August in East Berlin a propaganda show,
which may well be the greatest propaganda show of all
times, will take place. Some 1,750,000 young people will
be regimented to march and demonstrate in favor of
Soviet political aims. This march of the so-called Free
German Youth (FDJ), in reality slave German youth, will
be a vast masquerade of these aims in the dress of such
attractive slogans as peace, freedom and unity.

HAT IS THE COMMUNIST GOAL in all this? The
principal objective of all these efforts is to destroy
faith in the principles and power of the free nations of
the West. The Communists are trying to interfere with
and destroy the unity of the free nations. They are trying
to prevent German participation in the common defense
of the West. They are trying to keep Europe weak.
These efforts have to be constantly combated on our
side by a vigorous and sustained flow of truthful infor- -
mation, by demonstrating the strength and value of a free
way of life, by evidence of our determination to defend
that life if attacked.
I think it requires no extensive argument to convince
us all that the outcome of this struggle in the center of
Europe is of the greatest importance

and blandishment. This campagin is
designed to break the will of the Ger-
man people — and other free peoples -—
to resist and to live an independent
life. In the Soviet Zone of Germany
every familiar technique of the police
State is used to subjugate the people
— forced labor camps, secret police,
tigged elections, political and eco-

This address was delivered by
Mr. McCloy over nationwide radio
networks in the United States the
evening of June 26. Mr. McCloy
was in Washington for several
days to testify before Congres-
sional committees on work and
problems in Germany.

to the United States.

In June 1950 when the Communists
crossed the 38th parallel in Korea, the
analogy between Germany and Korea
came to many an anxious mind. Both
geographically and politically that
analogy in large part still holds.

I stress this point because there has
recently been so much discussion of

JULY 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
whether the more important front in the struggle against
Communism is in Europe or Asia. The answer is that both
are important and vital. In Berlin and in West Germany
we meet in different for the same forces which we are
meeting in Asia. In Berlin there is no shooting, but we
are closer to the mainspring of the action which induces
the shooting in Korea.

Western Berlin and western Germany are outposts.

Their fate is coupled with that of free people everywhere.’

We do not propose to make them satellites or subject
them to the doctrine of any single party or creed. We
seek only to give them a free choice and a free life. We
intend to respect their choice as long as it does not take
the form of a new extreme leading to aggression.

HIS BRINGS ME to my second question: Where do
the Germans stand in the struggle between East
and West?

This question has to be examined in several different
ways before one can get a full answer to it.

In one sense, there is no doubt whatever of the answer.
Germany feels itself a part of the West. And despite the
great propaganda barrage, Communism has steadily lost
ground in western Germany; in the elections during the
past year in the US Zone, the Communist Party lost all
of its representatives in the state legislatures.

Unlike the West Germans, the 18,000,000 East Germans,
living under Soviet-Communist domination, have been
unable to express themselves. There is no doubt that they
too seek a free life, undominated by Communist influence.
One day the two zones must be united as a free state
within a united Europe.

The 47,000,000 people of the Federal Republic have
thus far withstood all Communist attempts to separate
them from the West. The blandishments of the so-called
peace plebiscites, staged by the Communists, have found
no real response in western Germany. The strategy of
fear has not only failed to reduce the West Germans
and the West Berliners to submission, it has evoked
vigorous countermeasures.

LL OF THE EVIDENCE indicates that the people of

the Federal Republic identify themselves with the
life of the West. Differences of opinion arise, however,
on the question of active German participation in Western
defense. Opposition to participation comes not only from
Communists whose major aim is to weaken the West.
Many Germans honestly oppose a contribution to defense
because of their fear of anything suggesting the re-
creation of a German army with its possible use as an
aggressive instrument.

Some oppose participation because they see in it a

threat to a unified Germany; some because they fear it_

might bring on a war in which their land might not be
sufficiently protected by the Allied Forces. Others simply
hope for a neutral Germany which somehow will be able
to avoid all the unpleasant consequences of taking a
firm position.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

The debate has been going on since last September
when the foreign ministers in New York first raised the
question of a German contribution to Western defense,
Personally, I find the debate a healthy sign. Certainly, the
German decision on a contribution to the defense of
Europe will be a free one. If participation comes, as |
think it will, it will come because the German people feel
it is their responsibility to participate in the defense of
their country as a member of the free community of
nations.

At the present time there is no clear decision. But the
idea of neutralism seems to be less appealing as it be-
comes apparent that such a policy would play so patently
into the hands of the Communists. The growing strength
of the Western Powers and their increased forces in
Germany will bring greater confidence that defense of
Europe and Germany is a tenable proposition. It is becom-
ing clearer that Germany will be accepted by the Allies
as an equal partner in the Western community. Another
factor is the growing awareness among the German
people that it would be anomalous if the Germans them-
selves did not take a place at the side of non-Germans
in the defense of Germany.

HIS BRINGS ME to my third and, in some ways, the

most important question: How democratic is Ger-
many today? Can the Germans be trusted with any arms
at all?-

There must be many people in this country who won-
der whether this talk of a German military contribution,
however safeguarded, is not dangerous and perhaps
foolish. Does it mean, you may ask, that we have for-
gotten what Germany's militarism meant in the past? Are
we not risking the same fearful consequences again? Six
short years ago the German armies were defeated in the
most destructive war in history. Have we forgotten how
we vowed that never again would we allow Germany
to become a military power? Is not our present policy a
reversal of this resolve; is it not a shortsighted policy
of expediency?

These are all’serious questions and honesty demands
that they be thoroughly explored. The answers will be
more easily understood, however, if we can first be quite
clear about exactly what policy we are now following
toward Germany.

In the first place, it is not a policy which advocates or
condones a revival of German militarism. The United
States and its allies are as determined as ever that there
will be no German general staff in the old Prussian sense,
no military caste with the political and social power it
once exercised, and no German national army, which
would be capable of becoming the source or the instru-
ment of a future aggression. It is the fundamental prin-
ciple of all proposals made to date that whatever Ger-
man contribution to defense is made may only take the
form of a force which is an integral part of a larger
international organization. These conditions of a German
contribution are of vital importance. If the German people
decide to contribute to Western defense it will be on
these terms and every precaution will be taken to see

JULY 1951

--- Page 28 ---
that they are enforced. I am glad to say that we have
evidence that the Germans themselves want it this way.

In the second place, our policy on participation does
not mean that the United States and its allies are making
or will make any concessions toward Nazism or neo-
Marxism. There must be guarantees for the future that
such groups would not be permitted to guide or control
any German contribution.

As for expediency, the concept of German defense
participation is no more expedient than any other action
which is needed to cope realistically with the present
world situation.

ND NOW I COME to the fundamental question — how

democratic is Western Germany?

As you know, the United States, Great Britain and
France, who- occupy West Germany and West Berlin,
have given major attention to the problem of bringing
about a democratic government and social order in Ger-
many. Six years is not a long time to achieve such an end,
A democracy is not produced by fiat — one can not
legislate it into being. It must come as a result of edu-
cation and in the last analysis it must be self-education.

It must be borne in mind that Germany's social structure
was a predominantly authoritarian one and that Nazism
was not-some freakish phenomenon that appeared over-
night. It was a direct product of an authoritarian society
in a great social crisis. In such a society, a totalitarian
solution finds ready followers.

It would be false to deny that a great deal of this
authoritarian cultural pattern is still in existence in Ger-
many. It is there — it still exists in the whole sphere of
human relations.

In six years, even in this time of revolutionary trans-
ition, Germany could not be expected to have trans-
formed itself into a democracy in the sense that we in
America understand it — as a habitual social practice. But
at the same time, one can truthfully say that the new
Germany is moving to become a democracy. Starts have
been made and we have been devoting large efforts to
further this.development on every level of German
society — in the schools and universities, in labor, church
and civic organizations, in radio and press, in the political
and governmental structure.

The form of a German democracy will never be en-
tirely like ours, but its constitution and its government
are democratic and its chief political leaders are pro-
democratic. The country has a free press. Freedom of
speech and the rights of the individual are respected.
All over Germany there are small groups of people who
really understand the principles of representative govern-
ment and the bill of rights. They are sincerely and effec-
tually working for it.

CONOMICALLY, WESTERN GERMANY has made a
large recovery which not only helps the Germans, but
other peoples of the free world. Its level of production
is now one-third greater than before the war. The old
cartels which once turned a large part of Germany's
economy over to Hitler have been or are being broken

JULY 1951

25

up into smaller competing units. If the German people
recognize their own best interests, they will see to it in
future that these concentrations do not re-emerge, Al-
though its economic and financial structure is still shaky,
West Germany is now able to maintain a decent standard
of living for the majority of its population. Compared
with conditions in the Soviet Zone, the Federal Republic's
economy is prosperous indeed. .

The government of western Germany has displayed
a salutary willingness to join various plans for inter-
national cooperation such as the Organization for Euro-
pean Economic Cooperation and the Council of Europe.
Most significant, both politically and economically, has
been the signing of the Schuman Plan in which France,
Germany and the Benelux nations have agreed to share
their coal and iron and steel resources for the common
good. If France and Germany, traditional enemies in
Europe's wars, endorse this type of cooperation and
carry it out, the cornerstone of European unity will be
securely laid. The Schuman Plan is a great, constructive
step toward European peace and union. No issue must
be allowed to get in its way.

Of course, Germany faces many problems, which if
not solved, could produce dangerous opportunities for
radical groups of the right and the left. There is a short-
age of capital for improving the industrial plant. High
prices and taxes engender discontent among the working
groups. There are still a great number of refugees among
the 9,000,000 who have streamed into West Germany
since the war, who must be fully assimilated into the
economy.

In Germany, as in other countries, there are venal
people. Some make money by selling strategic materials
to the East zone and other Communist-dominated areas.
The long eastern border and the difficulty of adequate
inspection controls have made it easier for them to carry
on their harmful trade. I have requested the government
of the Federal Republic to take action against these
practices, and I am convinced that it is serious about
checking this trade. The federal chancellor has instituted
a centralized licensing system to control closely all trade
with the East. We have sent American inspection teams
to augment the work of German police along the border.
These measures and others with German and Allied co-
operation have greatly reduced and should continue to
reduce the flow of strategic materials to Communist areas.

N THE POLITICAL FRONT we are watching closely
the outcroppings of small fanatic parties, who seek
to appeal to malcontent groups.

In the state elections in Lower Saxony, in the British
Zone, on May 6, the Socialist Reichs Party, largely under
leadership of former Nazis, won 11 percent of the popular
vote and 16 seats in the legislature. This has been widely
publicized as a revival of Nazism, and it is indisputably
an outcropping of the old Nazi spirit.

This event occurred in a state which was once a strong-
hold of Nazism, where unemployment is exceptionally
high, and where one- fourth of the population consists of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
refugees. Yet in that state 85 percent of the voters gave
their support to parties which upheld the democratic
idea. In my judgment a group similar to the SRP could
not marshal as much support in any of the other German
states in the west zone.

Nevertheless the potential threat of the Socialist Reichs
Party to German democracy must not be minimized.

The federal and state governments are alert to the
danger, and possess the power to suppress extremist
political groups. Such action has already been taken
against the SRP’s strong-arm squads. Further action
against the party itself may be taken when in the next
few ,weeks the constitutional court, which alone can
outlaw it, is established.

A situation, such as this, gives the Germans a chance
to show the strength of the Federal Republic. The world
will watch closely how the German authorities and people
meet this test. I believe they will meet it successfully.
They must, if the peoples of the world are not again to
turn against Germany.

ET ME NOW TRY to summarize my answer on the

question of democracy in Germany. I think there is

a residue of authoritarian attitudes in German society,

there is some aggressive nationalism, there is a feeling

among certain groups of superiority over other peoples.

There is a reluctance among some to face the full signifi-
cance of the terrible crimes of the Hitler years.

And yet in West Germany, and in West Berlin, parti-
cularly among the youth of the country, there is a growing
understanding of and appreciation for concepts of freedom
and democracy; there is a strong desire to become a
part of a wider community and to cooperate with the
Western world. In the press and radio, in schools, in
adult education groups, in civic organizations, in some
of the political parties and in parliaments, courageous
men and women are emerging. They are trying to show
the way to a democratic life. It is our policy to help
them.

Not long ago I had an opportunity to speak before the
students of the University of Frankfurt.* I was interested
to know what the reaction would be when I made the
following statement: ‘The time has come in Germany
to stop debating the question whether or not democracy
is the right form of government for the Germans. It is
the only form in which men can live in freedom and
decency.’ There was long and deep-felt applause. The
response of the students reflects a belief that is growing
among the German people.

Ten years from now we shall have a more complete
answer to the question of democracy in Germany. But,
as I have said, I have confidence today that progress
is being made. I am convinced that our programs to
aid democratic- developments in Germany are vital.
Above all I am convinced that German integration with
western Europe and with the Atlantic community is the
best way to ensure that Germany will be democratic.

* See page 45.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

I want to emphasize this thought. Local solutions are
no longer solutions anywhere in the world. There is no
real solution of the German problem inside Germany
alone. There is a solution inside the European-Atlantic-
world community. Inside this wider community there
is room for the imagination and energies of all young
Europeans, including the Germans, to flourish. In it some
of the perennial, minor disputes, onto which demagogues
and nationalists like to fasten, would disappear.

HE BASIC AIM OF OUR POLICY in. Germany has
been, and will remain, the development of the Ger-
man Federal Republic into a cooperative member of the
Western community of free nations. In six years, as I
have said, a significant start has been made. I believe
that these beginnings are sound enough to warrant con-
fidence in western Germany as a partner in the defense
of the West. ‘
In the attempt to carry out this policy, the foreign
ministers met in Brussels last December. They decided
that a logical counterpart to Germany's participation in

. Western defense would be the return to Germany of a

large measure of sovereignty. We are at present en-
gaged in studies directed toward the replacement of the
present Occupation Statute by a series of contracts with
the Federal Republic. These contracts will provide for
the protection of the interests and functions of the Allies
which are vital to their security and defense.

There are, of course, risks in our decisions on Ger-
many, but it is wise and necessary that we take these
risks. In the Western world, nations must be free. The
paramount necessity today is the alignment of the free
nations into a determined union in defense of a civilized
social order which permits individual freedoms.

The magnitude of the stakes warrants the utmost in
effort and sacrifice from the democratic nations of the
world. In this task, the United States has a tremendous
responsibility of leadership. The biggest contribution we
can now make is to give clear evidence to the world
that we are capable of carrying out this responsibility.

FEW WEEKS AGO a prominent German said to me:
“We Europeans like you and your great debates, but

it's a little too much to have one every six weeks.” This’
thought is prevalent in the minds of. many Europeans.
It is of the greatest urgency today that the people of
the United States, who are making such large sacrifices
for freedom, recognize the importance of a united and
firm policy, and support it. The strength of such a policy
will then flow out to the rest of the democratic world.
From my experience in Europe I am convinced that
nothing would do more to strengthen the democratic
forces in Europe, particularly in the young republic of
Germany, than such a manifestation from this country.
I am convinced that it would invigorate the forces
of freedom’ everywhere, even those behind the Iron
Curtain. It would help assure that peace and freedom
will prevail. +END

JULY 1951

--- Page 30 ---
Church Social Problems

By DR. BERYL R. MeCLASKEY
(Excerpt from forthcoming monograph “The History of Religious Affairs)

HE INEVITABLE WEAKENING of the family as an

institution during the war years together with the
more recent threats associated with overcrowding, un-
employment and the breakdown of normal village life
which have resulted from the strain on all service agen-
cies of the community caused by the huge influx of refu-
gees, and the social and psychological problems which
the refugees bring with them are matters which have had
their effect on the moral fiber of society. The church is
concerned because of the threat of morality and because
it fears that, if the social and economic reconstruction of
West Germany cannot be achieved in the near future,
Communism may make serious inroads on Christianity
as a philosophy and as a way of life.

Both established churches have expanded their pro-
grams far beyond the traditional area of youth groups
and welfare and relief activities. These include sponsored
projects to increase employment, special building pro-
grams initiated often by joint action of clergy and laity,
vocational training programs for expellees who find
themselves unable to practice their former trades, adult
education courses for a great number of special groups,
training courses for working women, special institutes
for training laymen as teachers of religion, orientation
courses for refugee clergy who are needed in German
churches and, finally, a great. variety of programs to
encourage lay participation in the solution of current
community problems and to foster a sense of civic respon-
sibility in the individual.

It is particularly these last two programs which the
Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany has
supported and encouraged during the 1949-1950 period.

“The History of Religious Affairs’ is a monograph
prepared by the Historical Division, Office of the
Executive Secretary, HICOG, in conjunction with
other HICOG offices closely affiliated with this
activity. It gives a brief resume of the German
churches from early times and under the monarchy,
Weimar Republic and Nazism. The development
since World War II of the churches and their re-
lations to other economic, political and social fields
are described in detail.

Author of the monograph is Dr. Bery!] R. McClas-
key, who recently returned to the United States after
being with the Occupation Forces in Germany for
several years. She was formerly assistant chief of
the Organization and Program Branch, Control Of-
fice, OMGUS, and later special assistant to the
control officer. With the advent of HICOG, she
joined the staff of the Historical Division.

The monograph was produced under direction of
Dr. Harold Zink, chief of the Historical Division.

JULY 1951

27

N 1950, ONE of the most distinctive developments in
the religious affairs field came about as a result of the

work of two consultants from Holland, Dr. Antoine Olden-
dorff and Dr. George H. H. Zeegers, who were brought
to Germany. under the HICOG Religious Affairs ex-
changes program to recommend ways and means of en-
couraging greater utilization of lay leaders in dealing
with current social problems.

On their recommendation and as a result of the interest —
they aroused, there is to be established a sociological
institute sponsored by a church group, the first of its kind
in Germany. Current plans call for sending the German
religious leaders who will establish this institute to the
Holland Institute for Social Research for training.

During 1950 there was a striking growth in “com-
munity mindedness" in the religious affairs field which
has manifested itself not only in the increase in total
programs and the total number of persons participating
in these, but also in the proportion of programs planned .
directly around local community problems. Cooperation
of the two churches in joint projects has also improved.

For the fields of housing and the refugee the contribution
of church groups has been particularly outstanding. Since
1948 both groups have had housing programs and upon
the establishment of the Federal Republic, the churches
took an active part in securing the organization of a
Ministry of Housing which could develop a coordinated
housing plan for western Germany.

In February 1949, the Catholic bishops of Germany
conducted drives in every diocese for funds to aid work-
ers’ housing settlements. In many cases housing re-
construction offices were established to centralize parish
efforts and some of these formed building cooperatives.
As a result of Catholic efforts, by October 1950 every
diocese in West Germany had an organizdtion to pro-
mote home building.

The Evangelical Church has also organized a variety
of housing projects, some financed wholly or in part by
church membership and others organized by ‘church
groups on a self-help basis. The activities of the Hilfs-
werk, which has taken the lead in the housing program
of the Evangelical Church, will be dealt with later.

N RELATION TO THE REFUGEE, the churches have

concerned themselves with the long-range problem of
their ‘reincorporation into the world community as well
as the immediate problems of relief and employment.
They have been a major factor in the formulation of
public policy in relation to the refugee. Less than one
year after the expulsion of ethnic Germans from Eastern
Europe began, the World Council of Churches directed
the attention of the signatories to the Potsdam Agreement
to the human distress involved in this transfer of popula-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
tion, pointing out that expulsions were proceeding with-
out regard to human suffering and that those who had
already been transferred were in great need.

It was recommended that the United Nations Organi-
zation assume responsibility for the appropriate settle-
ment of transferred populations. The National Catholic
Welfare Conference took similar action.

In the autumn of 1948 on the occasion of the interna-
tional meeting of the World Council of Churches, the
English delegate, Sir Henry Carter, took the position that
the refugee problem was an international one and must
be dealt with on that level. As a result of decisions
reached at this meeting, in which German Protestant
Church leaders participated, the Ecumenical Council at
Geneva, in cooperation with the Btitish Foreign Office,
sponsored an international meeting on this subject, which
was held at Hamburg in late 1949.

This conference, attended by representatives of vari-
ous countries, of the German government and of the
Western Allies, again focused the attention of the world
on the refugee problem. Recommendations were made
that Marshall Plan funds be released for use in special
projects to house refugees and give them employment.
Shortly afterward, the German bishops of the Catholic
Church, at their annual conference at Fulda, addressed
an appeal to the conscience of the world to assist the
refugees to find appropriate homes and livelihoods.

In November 1950, Dr. Eugen Gerstenmaier, director
of the Evangelical relief organization, Hilfswerk, who is
also a member of the Bundestag (lower house of parlia-
ment), was appointed by the Federal Government to
draw up proposals for the international handling of the
refugee problem under which the United Nations Organi-
zation would coordinate all refugee work through four
committees: for emigration, for resettlement, for matters
of legal status, and for the care of the sick and infirm.

Proposals were presented in the fall of 1950 by Dr.
Gerstenmaier to the Council of Europe, to which he was
one of the German representatives, at its meeting in
Strasbourg. Largely as a result of his recommendations,
the Council appointed a Committee for Expellees to study
this problem.

HE MORALE OF EXPELLEES is not good and it has

not in general improved during 1950. Bitterness en-
gendered by expulsion, together with resentment of the
discrimination often practiced by the native population,
particularly in regard to the assignment of housing and
employment, have bred an attitude of discontent and a
sense of outrage. In recent months these attitudes have
found expression in political activities and in at least one
state (Schleswig-Holstein) the refugee vote has dominated
the election. -

Refugee organizations are making an increasingly
strong bid for support among all the "dispossessed" classes.
With demagogic leadership a united refugee party could
become a strong force in any incipient nationalism.

In so far as social assimilation is concerned, it seems
fair to say that church groups and foreign voluntary
agéncies are the only two German organizations which

INFORMATION BULLETIN

28

have made serious attempts toward the permanent as-
similation of the refugees. There is a fairly general view:
in many German communities that refugees will some day
be able to return to their homes and this is often not
discouraged by local authorities.

The local pastor has often played the dual role of
persuading the natives to accept the refugees and of_

_convincing the latter that they must adjust themselves

to their present environment. Religion has been. the one
“home” to which the refugees could turn and church-_
related activities the most important source of social
intercourse. The refugees have played an important part
in the religious revival that Germany is experiencing.

MONG THE OLDEST and most important service or-

ganizations of the Catholic and Protestant churches
of Germany are the welfare organization Caritas Verband,
a 50-year-old association of all Catholic welfare societies,
and the Evangelische Hilfswerk, organized by the Prot-
estants in 1945 around their century-old council of so-
cial agencies known as the “Innere Mission.’ On Jan. 9,
1949, the relation of the Hilfswerk to the Evangelical
Church in Germany was formalized by a new church law,
making welfare work an official duty of the church.
Evangelical leaders felt this was a step forward in iden-
tifying the interests of the church more directly with
those of the community.

These two associations, in addition to distributing 90
percent of the funds and supplies contributed to Ger-
many by US voluntary agencies since 1945, have col-
lected and distributed funds and supplies from private
contributions in West Germany, which represent a sizable |
proportion of the total private relief program.

The financial position of both welfare groups, seriously
jeopardized by confiscations under the Nazis and by war
losses, was further weakened as a result of currency
reform. Hilfswerk, for example, claims to have lost a total
of Reichsmarks 110,000,000 at that time. Some organiza-
tions were forced to suspend their services; others man-
aged by borrowing to tide themselves over the lean
period between currency reform and the resumption of
normal giving which would follow economic recovery.

By the summer of 1949 most institutions could count on
a fair income to cover current expenses, but interest on
debts contracted during the transitional period continued
to be a drag, and for many welfare and relief organi-
zations, the actual repayment of principal is still an un-
solved problem,

N THE FALL OF 1949 the major welfare agencies in the

US Zone, including Hilfswerk and Caritas, joined with
their counterparts in the British Zone in appealing to the
Occupation Authorities to make certain readjustments
in the currency reform laws,

While they acknowledged the necessity for currency
reform, they appealed for the immediate release of the
seven percent of the impounded Deutsche-mark balances
in their accounts, pointing out that these funds had
been contributed voluntarily by many people of limited
means. Therefore, the agencies argued, their funds could

JULY 1951

--- Page 32 ---
not justifiably be regarded as belonging in the same cate-
gory as business firms. Moreover, they could not suspend
service to the sick and the needy until times improved.

Meanwhile, they reported borrowing from banks, at
interest rates ranging from six to 10 percent. In some
cases, as in Hesse, the state granted the voluntary agen-
cies a loan at five percent. In Bavaria, however, the
government was dubious as to its own solvency and
delayed offering substantial loans until the end of 1949.

In general, agencies in the field of welfare work have
received a very limited per capita subsidy from the
states. The remainder of their budgets — a large propor-
tion of the running expenses of each — has been gather-
ed through voluntary contributions of the people:

* * *

HEN THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC was established, the

welfare organizations of both church groups had
regained the status in the community which they enjoyed
before the advent of Hitler. There can be little question
that, with the aid of outside voluntary agencies, they
represented one of the greatest constructive forces on
the German scene. Another example of cooperation with-
out precedent in German church tradition is the practice
of sharing the same place of worship where one church
is without adequate facilities.

The Catholic Caritas Verband had a staff of 120,000
professional workers under employment during the year
1949 and an additional 600,000 voluntary helpers. In ad-
dition to contributing material assistance to the needy
within the parishes, Caritas operated feeding stations,
a large number of temporary shelters and youth hostels.
Its present long-term program aims to strengthen home
life and the activities of its various training-schools, day
nurseries, kindergartens and convalescent homes are or-
ganized toward this end.

Representing the Protestant Church, the Innere Mission
and its related organization, the Hilfswerk, had 4,000
related ingtitutions and stations in actual operation in
December 1949, with 80,000 workers, some 40,000 of them
deaconesses, and 200,000 voluntary part-time workers.
The Innere Mission has a threefold program which in-
cludes activities in the fields of welfare work, evangelism
and social action. Care of the sick, the mentally ill, the
imprisoned, the physically handicapped, the spiritually
neglected and of homeless youth are among its activities.

During 1949 and 1950 both organizations stressed work
among the sick, needy and unemployed among the refugee
population, The Protestant welfare agencies have devoted
great efforts toward the relief of the refugee and expellee
population and there has been, perhaps, no other area of
religious activity where interfaith cooperation has been
so successful. Both groups minister to the refugee popu-
lation without regard to church affiliation.

HILE THE PROTESTANT Hilfswerk during 1949 and
1950 had perforce to concentrate most of its efforts
on short-range programs, it has attempted to interpret
the refugee problem and to relate it to the total com-
munity problem. This welfare group has taken over
several barrack camps with the object of developing com-

JULY 1951

29

mercial enterprises among the refugees. It also spearhead-
ed the Adelheide project, a joint Catholic-Evangelical
effort where 3,000 refugee youths are being trained for
vocational adjustment.

One of its most interesting projects is Espel Camp,
which, with state assistance, is being developed into a
complete town primarily for refugees. This former arma-
ment plant is located in a 1,200-acre wooded area with
approximately 100 buildings of varying sizes. The British
occupation authorities released this property to the
Evangelische Hilfswerk for a church project with educa-
tional and vocational training schools. In order to make
the settlement into a real town, the church and the state
formed a non-profit reconstruction society which was
incorporated in late 1949. Already firms have been es-
tablished for the manufacture of office furniture, steel
mattress springs, machinery and cigars.

Two hundred and forty-four persons, 195 of them ex-
pellees, were already at work by the end of 1950. In the

" planning stage, there are a cardboard factory, a concrete

factory, a spinning mill, a factory for the manufacture of
electrical appliances and a plumbing concern. The proj-
ect calls for the eventual employment of 2,000 persons
and housing for their families. Further financial assistance
will be granted by the state government to complete this
program. +END

Expert Reports on “Co-Determination“

In a comprehensive study entitled “Joint Labor Manage-
ment Control of Industry,’ the Rev. John F. Cronin of
Washington, D. C., who recently visited Germany for
three months, states that equal participation by labor
in the control of German industry can best be achieved
if it is accepted by all the interests concerned on a
voluntary basis, “even though enforced by law."

An expert on social and economic problems and the
author of several books, Father Cronin is assistant
director of the Department of Social Action of the National
Catholic Welfare “Conference in Washington. A visiting
consultant under the HICOG exchanges program, his
work in Germany was under the auspices of the Religious
Affairs Branch. His report points up the extensive work
of the churches in developing programs aimed at better-
ing the lot of the worker. Father Cronin emphasizes that
the American government has adopted a policy of ‘'strict
neutrality” upon this “extremely controversial problem.”

The result of more than 100 interviews and a detailed
study of all available material, the report describes the
historical factors and manifold viewpoints concerning the
problem, as well as the complications involved in achiev-
ing genuine “co-determination” in German industry.

Recommendations made by, Father Cronin include sug-
gestions that HICOG concentrate upon programs leading
to labor-management collaboration and that it sponsor
international exchange and study programs enabling
German labor, management and religious leaders to study
the methods used by other Western nations in dealing
with similar problem. He believes it is important that
all affected groups in German society “try to invigorate
the German labor movement at the plant level.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
~ - +>. - = High German

ie Officials See
Big Paradrop

At Rhine-Main

As guests of US High Commis-
sioner John J. iwicCioy, a group
of ranking German officials of
the federal and various state
administrations, toured US Air
Force bases early in June. Es-
corted by top USAFE officers,
the visitors are shown at Rhine-
Main Air Base near Frankfurt,
watching a paradrop by C-82
Flying Boxcars. Below, the big
air freighters unload _ their
parabundles over the drop zone.

Mr. McCloy (seventh from right)
and Deputy High Commissioner
Maj. Gen. George P. Hays (extreme
left) talk over big air show with
their German guests. Their escorts
included Maj. Gen. Truman H. Lan-
don (fourth from right), USAFE's
deputy commander-in-chief, and
Col. Auby C. Strickland (third from
tight), Rhine-Main Air Base com-
mander. (USAFE photos)

--- Page 34 ---
High Commissioner McCloy is strapped into rear cockpit
of T-33 fighter by Col. George T. Lee, commanding officer
of the group, for Mr. McCloy’s first jet hop. _ (USAFE photos)

Roaring by in perfect formation, F-84 jet fighters of the
36th Fighter-Bomber Wing welcomed to Fuerstenfeldbruck
Air Base near Munich, in Bavaria, Mr. McCloy and his
party of federal officials and state ministers-president.

Welcome at Fuerstenfeldbruck

German and American flags fly side by side as Air Force Uses of equipment worn by jet fighter pilots are explained
honor guard awaits arrival of the visiting dignitaries. to visitors. Behind Mr. McCloy is Vice-Chancellor Bluecher.
At left, Col. Robert L. Scott, wing commanding officer.

Static displays lined the parking ramp at Fuerstenfeld-
bruck Air-Base for the benefit of German, US officials.

ee

--- Page 35 ---
A 20-year-old astronomy enthusiast views celestial extremities through the
Wilhelm Foerster Institute's eight-inch telescope salvaged from a bombed-
(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

out observatory in Berlin's East sector.

Hans Muehle, amateur astronomer intent upon bringing
his first interest to all West Berliners, lectures in basement
of his home-made observatory, to group of adults. Younger
students of Wilhelm Foerster Institute, which Mr. Muehle
heads, prefer smaller, less complicated telescope. Pend-
ing completion of cupola, telescopes remain in courtyard.

Stars
Over

West

Berlin

By MAURICE E. LEE

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

F HANS MUEHLE HAS his way, West

Berliners will be seeing stars by the
millions in the months to come. Hans, a
student of astronomy, was one of the
first to realize that the results of war
had left the western portion of Berlin
without an observatory. The famed Trep-
tow Planetarium had become part of the
Russian sector and the well-known
astronomical facilities of Potsdam were
in the Russian zone outside Berlin.

As Hans and his few associates had
little desire to study astronomy with
political connotations, the small group
of stargazers appealed for help to West Berlin’s Revenue
Office for Landed Property. Hardly a Mount Palomar but
still a starting place, the rubble strewn remains of an
old German army officers’ club in the industrial section
of south Berlin were eagerly accepted by the youthful
astronomers,

In the fall of 1947 the work of cleaning up began and
by spring of the following year the first telescope had
been installed. Today three telescopes are situated in the
courtyard of the old Kaserne while a 12-inch telescope,
to be the largest in the collection, is under construction.
In the meantime the basement of the ruined building
finally has yielded a workroom for 40 persons, an office
with a small library, a photographic laboratory and a
gallery for poster displays.

Every Thursday evening approximately 30 persons,
mostly students of astronomy, gather to listen to Mr.
Muehle's lectures, The group has named its small instal-
lation the Wilhelm Foerster Institute after the well-known
German astronomer, who, in 1888, was a co-founder of
Berlin's first “people's observatory," the Urania. It is in

JULY 1951

--- Page 36 ---
the spirit of this scientist's desire to bring astronomy to
the man in the street that Hans Muehle and his associates
have dedicated themselves.

LTHOUGH NOT A PROFESSIONAL scientist and
A lacking much of the necessary equipment for a well-
functioning observatory, Mr. Muehle by his persistence and

- deep love for astronomy has brought his dream of a peo-
ples’ planetarium for West Berlin before the city govern-
ment, which has donated some funds for his present lec-
tures. The Office of the US High Commissioner has given
the institution furniture for the lecture hall. The tele-
scopes have been presented by friends or constructed out
of scrap metal. And the group is in contact with the
American Association of Variable Star Observers, which
furnishes much needed data and information.

Models owned by the Institute include one of the
planet Saturn with its ring system; a tellurian demonstrat-
ing the movements of moon and earth, a chart detailing the
distance from earth to moon and an astrolabe demonstrat-
ing the rising and setting of the sun, moon and stars.

A special interest of the Institute's small staff is its
photography classes, which give the students an oppor-
tunity to record their discoveries high in the skies. These
photographs have helped greatly in illustrating the lec-
tures given for visiting students as well as the regularly
scheduled talks to the organization's members.

In 271 days since the first observation in August 1949,
a total of 7,063 celestial observations were made. Pictures
were taken and measurements recorded. In between
clearing rubble and constructing equipment that first hectic
year, Mr. Muehle gave lectures in 47 youth summer camps

An important part of the Wilhelm Foerster Institute's work
is its effort to bring knowledge of astronomy to all phases
of West Berlin population through media of lectures.
Various pictures of moon serve to illustrate the lectures.
Al left are photographs taken at the Foerster Institute.
Right, a photo from Mount Wilson Observatory, California.

Mr. Muehle knows telescopes well. Because of limited funds
he personally must repair and rebuild those — such as this
six-inch reflector — which are not scientifically correct.

and 66 youth homes. Since its inception the Institute has
taken the story of astronomy to 12,000 young people.

It may be a long time before West Berlin has something
equaling Treptow or Potsdam, but increased activity at
those two observatories has been reported, rumoredly in
anticipation of Hans Muehle’s results. Consequently, says
Mr. Muehle, it’s possible that the so-called Cold War may
be extended to the moon. +END

Sound knowledge of astronomy is necessary to plot stars’
position on graph at each reading, as demonstrated here to
two earnest young Institute enthusiasts by teacher Muehle.
The Institute's interest in young members stems from a
desire to make youthful West Berliners avid devotees of
the stars and supporters of a permanent city planetarium.

--- Page 37 ---
Bavarian Schools on View

By DR. MARTIN MAYES
Education Adviser, OLC Bavaria

What is my child doing in school?
What facilities does he have?

What sort of person is his teacher?

* * *

HESE QUESTIONS AND MANY others were answer-

ed for more than 500,000 citizens of Bavaria during last
spring's School Week, the first program of its kind ever
attempted either by Bavarian parents, by teachers or by
school officials.

Taking as their pattern the School-Week plan which
has long been a standard practice in America, the spon-
sors of the project— the Association of Bavarian Teach-
ers and Educators, comprising all teacher groups in the
state — set about the task of preparing exhibits and dem-
onstrations, directing theatrical performances by pupils

Four German youth were chosen in Heidelberg May 21
to visit farms in the United States for three months as
representatives of the German Youth Activities (GY A)
program in the US Zone. Selected on the basis of char-
acter, intelligence and practical farming experience, the
young farmers were flown to America to attend the an-
nual 4-H Club encampment in Washington, D. C., in June
and then went on to visit farming communities in various
states as guests of the Department of Agriculture and
the 4-H clubs. Above, front row, I.-r., are Gustav Kret-
tenauer, 21, of Nuremberg; Lt Col. Robert A. Norman,
assistant GYA officer, EUCOM; Ruth Rehn, 20, Heidel-
berg; Marianne Scherf (alternate), 22, Wetzlar; back
tow, Jobst-Dietlef Zielke (alternate), 20, Wiesbaden;
Anneliese Schmidt, 23, Wiesbaden, and Ludwig G. Wohl-
fahrt, 20, Nuremberg. (US Army photo,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

and arranging parent-teacher meetings in 3,000 com-
munities. Approximately 160 working committees were
organized throughout the state for the School-Week ob-
servance, held the first week in April.

Designed to arouse public interest in the schools and
in the problems of education, the Bavarian School Week
offered a wide range of activities for the information of
parents, long used to the traditional “hands-off” policy
in educational matters. More than 2,800 parent-teacher
meetings and approximately 250 teacher get-togethers
were held; 500 sports and athletic events were run off;
there were some 150 theatrical performances given by the
school youngsters, and 790 school exhibits were set up in
addition to a large exhibition in the Munich exposition
hall and a traveling exhibition which made the rounds
of the entire state, the largest in the US Zone.

HE EXHIBITS WERE AIMED at familiarizing ali

citizens with present-day teaching and learning aids, -

plans and models of modern school buildings, modern
school furniture and examples of the work produced by
pupils at various age levels. Arrangements were made
for the public to visit demonstration classes ranging from
kindergarten through secondary school, and thousands
of persons availed themselves of the opportunity to ob-
serve them,

The Munich exposition hall was filled with exhibits,
demonstrations and samples of pupils’ work in different
types of schools. A total of 47,000 viewed these exhibits,
and 25,000 attended the theatrical and motion picture pre-
sentations in another building near the exposition hall.
A total of 150 prizes was awarded to Munich students
who entered the various competitive events which were
a feature of School Week.

Of unusual interest at the Munich exhibition park was
a miniature traffic safety demonstration, in which police-
men and pupils of the school scout patrol directed traftic
of pedestrians, bicycles and small cars supplied for the
daily demonstrations by the city’s automobile dealers.

MONG PROMINENT SPEAKERS on the several pro-
grams during the week were Dr. George N. Shuster,
US state commissioner for Bavaria; Dr. Josef Schwalber,
Bavarian minister of education and culture; Thomas
Wimmer, Munich mayor; Dr. Eduard Brenner, state
secretary of the Bavarian Ministry of Education and
Culture; Dr. Karl Bos] and Franz X. Hartmann, both of
the Association of Bavarian Teachers and Educators.
So successful was the entire program that arrangements
were commenced at once to stage a similar School Week
early in the coming year. +END

JULY 1951

--- Page 38 ---
Labor’s Responsibilities

By HARVEY W. BROWN
Director, Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG

OUR UNION (WOODWORKERS’ UNION), together
with your sister organizations, has done an excellent
job in rebuilding a trade union structure out of the ruins
you found at the time of the collapse of the Nazi regime.
Your energy and patience combined have made it pos-
sible for German labor to develop into a force which is
able to make a constructive contribution to the develop-
ment of a German democratic state within a free Europe
and a free world.

The work of the trade unions in the Free Trade Union
International and in such international undertakings as
the Schuman Plan is highly important both in terms of
short-run needs and long-range plans for fuller coopera-
tion of all free peoples in the world.

In the economic field, I believe the trade unions have
a tremendous task ahead. With the economic improve-
ment, especially since currency reform (in June 1948), the
well-being of the wage earners has not improved in pro-
portion to that of other segments of the population. Or-
ganized labor has the right and the responsibility to insist
upon an improved standard of living for the wage earners.

N INCREASE IN WAGES does not necessarily mean

an increase in prices. If industry and commerce
operate efficiently, it can result in an increased demand
in consumer and semi-durable goods and improved pro-
ductivity.

Moreover, to the interested observer it appears that
many German manufacturers and merchants, in the inter-
est of the economy as a whole, might well cut down on
their rates of profits to absorb wage increases and not
charge them to the consumer.

With still almost 1,500,000 unemployed, the German
economy cannot afford to maintain one segment of the
population in comparative luxury. It is the right and the
responsibility of the unions to press for a fair distribution
of the national income.

The trade unions also have a great responsibility in the
political field. You are committed to a policy of political
neutrality, a policy on which I fully agree with you. This
should not prevent you, however, from using your power
to combat elements and organizations whose main goal it
is to destroy the democratic state. The resurgence of an
extreme right wing party in the recent election in Lower
Saxony is a real warning. Labor, through its press, must
do its share to keep the workers ap-

ever, that the agents of the Kremlin are giving up the
fight. In fact, labor must be aware that, as a result of such
political reverses, the Communist agents will intensify
their activities in the unions. They will parade as good
trade unionists interested only in the welfare of the work-
ers. Yet, as we all know, their only interest is to capture
control of the trade unions to use them as political
institutions of their masters in the Kremlin.

F THERE ARE ANY MEMBERS within your organization
or in the labor movement who do not agree with this

statement, ask them to inquire about the workers’ rights
and working conditions in eastern Germany or in any of
the other colonies of the Soviet Union.

Behind the Iron Curtain there are no labor unions. There
labor has no right to organize for the purpose of protect-
ing and improving its standards of living. What you have
in the Soviet Union and its colonies under the guise of
trade unions is what you had in Nazi Germany — political
organizations created and controlled by the state for the
purpose of keeping labor from using its economic strength
for its own good.

Communists in the ranks of any trade union always
claim to be good trade unionists; yet they know that we
know Moscow's orders to the leadership of the German
Communist movements require them to follow: a program
which leads to destruction of the unions as effective,
independent, economic organizations, and undermines the
political life in the Federal Republic, thus making it ripe
for forceful seizure. :

In the “white book,’ published by the German Federa-
tion of Trade Unions, you will find documentary evidence
to prove that Communists must be ready and willing to
make all kinds of sacrifices of law, truth and secrecy to
get into the trade unions and, at any price, to perform
Communist work in them, and that the lie used by Com-
munists as a conscious weapon is no lie but an actual
necessity.

N A DEMOCRACY, the members of a union have the

democratic right to prevent their union from becoming
a haven for the members of a movement whose ultimate
aim is to destroy democracy. Expelling Communists from
the labor movement is not violating the political
neutrality of the German Federation of Trade Unions.
I appeal to every trade union in

prised of the issues involved in the
fight for democracy. Fortunately, the
extremists on the left have received
a significant setback in recent state
elections. That does not mean, how-

This article is the text of an ad-
dress made by Mr. Brown, at the
first convention of the Wood-
workers’ Union in Stuttgart June 11.

Western Germany to take inventory
within your union with a view toward
cleansing your unions of Communism.

By protecting and improving the
economic status of the wage earners,

JULY 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
you will perform an important function in combating
the destructive and slanderous propaganda of the Com;
munists and neo-Fascists.

However, there is another field in which organized
labor can make an important contribution toward pro-
tecting and strengthening the democratic state. I am
talking about the educational system. Unfortunately,
the German educational system is still predominantly
a class system, carefully designed to keep the sons and
daughters of the workers from securing the necessary
education which will permit them to compete on equal
terms, at least education-wise, with those of other
economic groups.

While I agree that some valuable work has been done —
to improve teacher training, to improve the school cur-
ticulum, and in some states to provide free education —
beyond the grammar school level, none of these improve-
ments has essentially changed the rigid class character
of the German school system.

The result is that, with few exceptions, training for
political, economic and cultural leadership is still limited
to a small segment of the population. To bring about a
change in this deplorable condition requires a fundamental
change in the entire educational structure. Toward this
end, organized labor may well provide the leadership
seeking the support of all progressive elements. © +END

Free-Enterprise Principle Surveyed

BOUT HALF THE WEST GERMAN public say they
favor the principle of freedom of the individual to
engage in a trade or business (Gewerbefreiheit*), while
only one-third of those questioned expressed opposition
to this principle, according to a survey of 1,000 West
Germans and Berliners made by the HICOG Reactions
Analysis Staff. Almost half of those questioned, however,
felt that a man who wished to set up a radio shop should be
required to obtain permission from members of the trade.
US policy in Germany has been to encourage the
development of Gewerbefreiheit, but under a draft law
now pending in the German Parliament approval by a
council of tradesmen would be required before an indi-
vidual can enter a trade or business.

Restrictive licensing is a surviving remnant of the
medieval guild system. It was abolished by the Germans
during the 19th century but was revived by the Nazis.
It is now prohibited in the US Zone of Germany, but is
still prevalent in the remainder of West Germany.

In the survey, two lines of inquiry were followed. The
first was designed to measure the extent of acceptance
of the term “Gewerbefreiheit,” when presented without
any further description. Measured this way, 47 percent
in West Germany favored it, 32 percent were against,
13 percent had no opinion, and the remaining eight
percent had never heard of the term.

The second line of inquiry dealt with a specific illustra-
tive situation. The public was asked to decide whether or
not a specific entrepreneur — a man who wished
to establish a radio shop — should be able to set up
a business without first receiving permission from mem-
bers of the trade. In response to this question, 47 percent
said they thought the man should be allowed to open a
shop without permission, 43 percent thought permission
should be required, and 10 percent had no opinion.

Almost all of the people questioned who felt that the
man who wished to open a radio shop should be free to
do so without first securing the permission of those
already engaged in the trade would grant the same
freedom to persons wishing to enter most other trades.

* See Information Bulletin for April 1951, page 5.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

In effect, then, four in 10 Western Germans support
freedom of enterprise in ‘practice.

The few who voiced the opinion that this freedom
should not apply to all trades indicated by their com-
ments that entry into certain businesses, particularly
those that bear directly on the public welfare, should
require proof of ability.

The argument that a man's technical ability should
first be established to the satisfaction of those already
engaged in the trade was the principal reason given in
explanation of the views of those who felt that a man
wishing to open a radio shop should first be required to
secure the permission of members of the radio trade.
The argument that unrestricted competition was wasteful
was less frequently mentioned. + END

Mrs. Myra Woodruff (second from left in foreground), of
the Department of Education, State of New York, and Dr.
Magnus Jensen (left, foreground), Norwegian educator,
were guest speakers at the June monthly meeting of US
Sector vocational school principals at the Little Wannsee
Guest House in Berlin. With the visiting educators are Ellen
Schuetz (third from left, foreground), director of Home
Economics at West Berlin's Lette-Verein, Dr. Harry B. Wy-
man (right, foreground), chief of HICOG Berlin Element's
General Education Section, and some of the 30 principals
who participated in the meeting. Discussion centered on
vocational school problems, (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

JULY 1951

--- Page 40 ---
Lt. Gen. Guy Simmonds (left), chief of staff for the Ca-
nadian Army, is greeted at Rhine-Main Air Base by Maj
Gen. Daniel Noce, deputy chief of staff, EUCOM. Accom-
panied by Brig. Gen. R. W. Moncel (right), General
Simmonds visited EUCOM Headquarters. (USAFE photo)

Maj. Gen. James M. Gavin (right), chiel of Integrated
Allied Forces, Southern Europe, arriving to assume duties,
is welcomed by Lt. George P. Heald, of Frankfurt Post.

Greek medical mission visiting Allied medical installa-
tions in Germany are shown during tour of the 97th
General Hospital, Frankfurt. Maj. Gen. George Apalakis
(center), surgeon general, Hellenic Army, puts question
to Col. Merikanges (left), 97th’s Medical Services chief.

Brig. Gen. Charles Babet, commandant of the French Army
Signal School, and Lt. Col. Dulaney L. O'Roark, com-
mandant of the EUCOM Signal School, saluting the Honor
Guard during General Babet's inspection of the EUCOM
Signal Schoo] at Ansbach on recent tour. — (US Army photos}

In and Around
The American Zone

Gift of DM 2,000 from Heidelberg Serra Club is handed
Rev. Dr. Leo Scheficzyk, of Albertus Magnus Seminary,
Koenigstein-Taunus, in Hesse, by Chaplain (Capt.) M. L.
Sullivan, Special Troops, EUCOM, The money is for the
support and education oi refugee priests and seminarians.

--- Page 41 ---
JULY 1951

--- Page 42 ---
HE FOURTH DIVISION shoulder patch that you wear...

means an outstanding record in Europe in 1918, and
again in 1944 and 1945, It means ‘mission accomplished’
it Utah Beach on D-Day, at Cherbourg, at the liberation
of Paris, as the spearhead of the Breakthrough, in the
pursuit across France and through the Siegfried Line, in
the bitter battle of the Hurtgen Forest, in the defense of
Luxembourg, in the second penetration of the Siegfried
Line, in the capture of Prum, in the successful pursuits
in southern Germany. It also means nearly 22,000 battle
asualties — killed, wounded or missing — in 11 months
of almost continuous fighting..."

These words of commendation sum up the wartime
record of America’s famed fighting division, the Fourth (Ivy)
Infantry. They were spoken shortly before battle-hardened
men of the Fourth sailed for home following the end of
World War II, and at a time when peace seemed secure.

Today, elements of the Fourth Division are back in Eu-
rope for the third time in 33 years, this time to join Gen.
Dwight D, Eisenhower's Atlantic Pact armies, which are
committed to the defense of Western Europe against
Communist aggression. As part of the US contribution
to the strengthening of the West, the Fighting Fourth is
ready to go into action at the first sign of any move which
threatens the freedom and peace of Europe.

Photos (left top and bottom) show advance elements of
the division lined up on the Bremerhaven dock shortly
after their arrival at the north German port in June. First
vnlisted man to disembark was Pvt. Edwin H. Slrnberg
(left center), of Richmond, Va., German-born victim of a
Nazi concentration camp, who joined the Army soon
after going to the USA as a displaced person in 1949.
Dignitaries welcoming the division were headed by
Gen, Alphonse Juin (left, below, at microphone), com-
mander-in-chief designate, Allied Army Forces, Central
Europe, and, L.-r., EUCOM Commanding General Thomas
Tl. Handy; Lt. Gen, Manton S. Eddy, Seventh Army com-
mander; and Maj. Gen. Harlan N, Hartness, commander
of the Ivy Division, From Bremerhaven, the Fourth’s
advance element moved to its temporary home, a tent
city near Mannheim. En route, the soldiers took care-
ful note of European train accommodations (right), and
opened mess-kits for breakfast (top) as they moved south
through the beautiful countryside, green and lush in
the late spring sun. Pictures below show the men at
field quarters. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG and US Army)

--- Page 43 ---
Pa Up ed

Most Americans who go to for-
eign lands to serve their govern-
ment take their favorite pastimes
right along with them. No excep-
tions are US High Commissioner
for Germany John J. McCloy and
Assistant US High Commissioner

for Policy Benjamin J.Buttenwieser, ~

both members of the HICOG "Oldtimers’ softball team,

In a recent game with the regular HICOG team of the
Frankfurt Military Post League, the High Commissioner,
after choosing a good bat (lower left), made two hits, one
when the bases were loaded (upper left), The spectators,

among them Mrs. McCloy and Mr. Buttenwieser (left

center), were disappointed when some fast fielding by
the opposition prevented him from coming home after his
hit had brought in three men safely. However, his long
hit drew cheers for Second Baseman McCloy from the
fans, including his daughter Ellen (below, directly behind
her father). The seven inning fray seemingly was too
much for the ‘‘Oldtimers,’’ who had to bow to the regular
HICOG team, 10-6. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 44 ---
Woman’s Role Today

Condensed Text of Address
By BENJAMIN J. BUTTENWIESER

Assistant US High Commissioner for Policy

j Y REMARKS ARE PRIMARILY addressed to the
women of Germany because of the vital importance
of the German women’s recognizing and assuming the
broad responsibility which is theirs of actively participat-
ing in the public life of their country today. At the present
juncture in German history, the men, while not actually
monopolizing the field of influence over Germany's
destiny, are playing a role out of all proportion to their
numbers and their capabilities and potentialities, too.
While some women have played a notable part in Ger-
man public life, up to the very present, the emphasis on
their place, activities and influence has been centered
around the three traditional K's: Kinder, Kirche, Kueche
(Children, Church, Kitchen). This reference is not in any
way to be interpreted as a possible reflection on the
importance of these three facets of women’s lives. .The
impact of the proper upbringing of children, of the home
and of religion on the development of a nation, cannot
be overestimated. Dedication to promoting and preserv-
ing the solidarity of family life, along enlightened lines,
cannot be overemphasized. In this whole important
sphere of activity, it is patent that the mother must and
should take the lead.

However, I think, it would be a confession of consider-
able lack of ability and initiative, if the women of any
country were to concede that their activities on a per-
sonal, local or national scale could not transcend the
boundaries of their homes, their children and their
churches. Furthermore, if their interests and activities
were to be thus circumscribed, the development of their’
country would be hampered in almost direct proportion
to the degree of that limitation.

HESE GENERAL OBSERVATIONS are applicable

during even normal times in any country which has
been “keeping the noiseless tenor of its way. However,
they apply with greater cogency to a country which, like
Germany, has been emotionally ravaged by the diabolic
teachings of a Nazi ideology and political system. Sub-
sequently, there were added to these desperate mental
and spiritual woes, the horrors of savage murder from
within and war's destruction from without. Such a nation
requires the utmost in physical, mental and moral stabil-
ity; and it needs this with the most

proximately 113 women for every 100 men. This dis-
parity — and the consequent urgent necessity for women
to participate actively in public affairs — is even more
marked when it comes to the adult population, for of the
population over 21 years of age, there are approximately
119 women for every 100 men. From the reconstruction
standpoint, the picture becomes still more striking, since
in the best working age group — namely, those between
25 and 34 — there are approximately 133 women for
every 100 men.

These figures furnish irrefutable evidence of the im-
portance of women making their voices heard in the
solution of Germany's present-day general problems, In
particular, they furnish a background against which is
etched some of the specific, important areas of German
national life in which I believe it is urgently necessary
for women to shoulder greater responsibility.

To revert again to the family as the very foundation
of our human society, I think that, in gauging the pro-
gress of any nation or society, in the very forefront of
criteria would be the degree of development of the family,
the home and religion — all under the primary inspiration
and leadership of the mother. Next, and very close in
the order of these criteria, would be the relationship
between the governed and those elected by democratic
processes to do the governing. With women constituting
approximately 55 percent of the voting population of
Germany today, it needs but few words to underscore
the power which reposes in German women, through the
proper use of their ballot, to ensure a government which
vouchsafes to all, but especially to the rising generation,
the rights and privileges which were so viciously denied —
to Germany in the all too recent past.

The rebuilding of a government along truly democratic
lines, after the nightmare through which Germany passed,
is difficult. It requires understanding, patience, coopera-
tion and, above all, courageous and dynamic breaking of
the fetters which so often hinder political progress. Nat-
urally, those who have been schooled and have actively
participated in such practices, which are the very nega-
tion of self-government, can emancipate themselves
therefrom but slowly. The women of Germany were not
very intimately associated with political life of the pre-
Nazi era; and, in general, not actively

consummate understanding and the
greatest possible speed. To achieve ail
or even a part of this, the characteristic
idealism, sympathy, understanding and
devotion of womanhood must play
their significant role.

This is accentuated in the case of
the Germany of today with its ap-

This article was adapted for pub-
lication in the Information Bul-
letin from the text of the address
delivered by Mr. Buttenwieser at
the annual convention of the Fed-
eration of German-American Clubs
in Heidelberg May 26.

with the soul-searing machinations of
the Hitler tyranny, which masquerad-
ed in the guise of a government. Conse-
quently, the women of Germany can
play a fresh part in the new Republic
which is emerging and developing —
a part free of those reactionary and
politically debilitating tendencies and

JULY 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
traditions, which placed power in the hands of a few,
to the detriment of the many.

O MUCH FOR THE GENERAL accomplishments, which

can result from the proper use of the new and in-
creased power that has come to the women of Germany.
Now as to more specific aspects of the considerations
bearing on the better development of a nation, of its
families and particularly of its youth. Allowing for the
difficulties under which Germany functions today, and
not losing sight of the fact that progress must, therefore,
necessarily be slow, the German people, particularly the
mothers of Germany, should be ever vigilant, active and
articulate in the interest of obtaining the best that is
possible for the nation as a whole, but especially for
their children, in the important areas of housing, public
health, education, social legislation and, last but not
least, in the broad area of wages, working conditions and
employer-employee relationships.

These labor matters should be women's concern, not
alone for themselves or for men, but particularly for such
of the youth as necessity dictates working earlier than
modern sociological concepts would normally countenance.

I underscore youth in relation to the working problem,
as, indeed, I would in every aspect of this discussion where
it is germane, because it cannot be too often repeated or
emphasized how vital and far-reaching is the importance
to Germany of the creation of a healthy, enlightened and
contented youth, if she is to play the role in the family
of nations for which her culture, her creativeness, her
industriousness, her ingenuity and her very geographic
location so eminently qualify her.

The youth of Germany must have a constant and valid
demonstration that they are not the forgotten generation
and that there exists for them a constructive and an
honorable future. Their mothers must and can play a
substantial part in this demonstration. Important though
the ballot may be, it alone will not suffice for this difficult,
but surely not impossible, task. In addition to exercising
their franchise, women can and must take an actual and
active part in public affairs — governmental, quasi-
governmental and communal.

O REVERT TO THE SPECIFIC list of areas on which
attention should be focused, looking toward improve-
ment in government, let us touch on them seriatim: in
housing, public health, education and social legislation,
women are, unquestionably, uniquely fitted to take the
lead. American co-members of this federation can furnish
eloquent and concrete testimony of the part that women
play in our country in these important fields. Comparisons
are often invidious because the circumstances applying
are often quite dissimilar. There is, however, this valid
common denominator of the activity of American and
German women outside their homes. In the United States
it has reached large proportions, with resultant great and
growing effect.
Some skeptical, cynical, reactionary, chronic lamen-
tators — fortunately few in number or stature — tend to
decry this growing emancipation of womanhood from their

INFORMATION BULLETIN

42

home duties. They continue to be apostles of the outmoded
concept that a woman cannot satisfactorily discharge the
dual function of being a good mother and wife and still
find the time and muster the energy not alone to have a
separate career, but even to take any part in public affairs,
So deep and abiding is my respect for the sanctity of the
home and the primacy of the development of the family,
under the equal guidance of wife and husband, that if I
harbored the slightest fear that there was any possible
derogation of that role of women to their participation
in public affairs, I would be the very last to counsel such
participation. I would be in the forefront of those who
would advocate the family first and public affairs a very
far second,

While it is one of the very cornerstones of freedom and
sound government that there be a clear demarcation be-
tween church and state, this does not in any slightest
degree lessen my most fervent conviction as to the essen-
tial and pervading role which religion must play if
society is to develop according to enlightened, ethical
concepts and not follow a sordid materialistic, atheistic
pattern. Women can, and, if a nation is to advance, must,
combine their home duties with public responsibilities.

OME CRITICS OF THE AMERICAN way of life are
prone to carp at American women’s participation in
public affairs or, as is the case in many instances, of
their having careers independent of their husbands’. These
critics sometimes seek to buttress their criticism by the
indictment that, as a result of this gregariousness of our
women, American family life is deteriorating, that our
moral standards are being compromised, that graft and
corruption are increasing and that gangsterism is growing.
I question whether the actual facts support this contention.
However, even if that sad state of affairs should actually
exist, 1 am extremely doubtful that women’s activities out-
side their homes is a contributing factor. In fact, I think a
very convincing presentation can be made to demonstrate
just the opposite: namely, that women’s participation in
public affairs has a very benign influence on public conduct.
We, as American officials here in Germany, have taken
the liberty of speaking frankly and freely with the Ger-
mans whom we are here to assist and to help protect. We
would, indeed, be disingenuous if we sought to portray
an unfair picture of our own American life or were
unwilling to discuss it with the same objectivity as marks
our consideration of present-day life in Germany. In
all frankness, therefore, but with equal sincerity, I think
the more pessimistic picture which some of our critics
seek to paint of the United States, or the impression which
some of my German listeners may have, paralleling this
distorted picture, derives from an unfair, sensation-seeking
portrayal which, unfortunately, is occasionally embodied
in the wrong, commercialized type of Hollywood moving
picture or American publication.

Let me hasten to make crystal clear that it is not all
sweetness and light in our country. We have our difficul-
ties; we have our shortcomings. There is much to be
desired in improving our housing, our public health
measures, our social legislation and our school systems.

JULY 1951

--- Page 46 ---
We are far from the millennium in the field of employer-
employee relationship or, in regrettably too many in-
stances, in satisfactory working conditions or even equi-
table distribution of profits as between labor and capital.

HE POINT IS THAT American women are playing

an active part in trying to achieve improvement in
all these highly significant areas of national well-being.
Much that has been accomplished thus far is due to their
initiative. Their efforts have involved them in active
participation in government, in political party leadership,
in the professions, in industry, in quasi-public organiza-
tions such as leagues of women voters, parent or parent-
teacher associations concerned with our educational
system, in various types of advisory councils related to
housing, public health, community work and social legis-
lation, in top strata positions in labor unions and the field
of labor relations, in leagues of women shoppers, and in
countless other similarly constructive ways. :

The field of education is the one which should particu-
larly commend itself to the attention and requisite action
of women. An enlightened and. effective educational
system is so inextricably bound up with every aspect of
the sound development of a people as to make any elabo-
ration of this observation superfluous.

Women are doing all this without neglecting their homes
and their families in the slightest degree. In fact, such
interests outside the home have a broadening and vi-
talizing effect on women's lives and, hence, qualify them
for more enlightened stewardship within their homes.
This participation in public life makes a woman better
informed, more civic conscious, more articulate and, con-
sequently, a more respected mother and wife. Certainly
these are attributes and these are lines of activity which,
far from impinging on family life and proper upbringing
of children, can but enrich women for that all important
relationship and function.

IHERE IS ANOTHER IMPORTANT sector of a coun-

try's life in which women have not alone an equal
role with men. It is in the areas of economics. This applies
to women not as workers but in the field of buying power.
One is apt to lose sight of the enormous portion of the
cash income of a people that is spent under the aegis of
women. In the normal family, it is the mother who makes
the actual expenditure of the predominant portion of the
family income. The influence that can be wielded on the
entire economic development of a country through this
individual family purchasing power is not easily exag-
gerated.

Through their ability to use this power intelligently,
courageously and, if need be, collectively, through
leagues of shoppers, women can go far toward’ bringing
about proper conditions in the labor field. These include
acceptable hours and conditions of work, equitable distri-
bution of profits between employer and employee, fair
trade practices, reasonable pricing methods and adequate
safeguards against exploitation of youth, be it through
the so-called apprentice system or through just plain,
downright, woefully inadequate “sweated labor” wages.

JULY 1951

43

Ancillary to this, the entire field of freedom to engage
in trade is one where, though somewhat indirect, the
influence of women's purchasing power can play a deter-
minative role. Just as the power and validity of labor's
strikes, if they must be resorted to, are well recognized,
so too can be that of buyers’ strikes. Freedom of women
themselves or of their husband and children to engage
in trades, untrammeled by obstructive craft or guild
dictates, which are often manifested against them under
the guise of valid professional or trade qualifications, is
something which bears scrutiny, with requisite action
where the restrictions are unfair or capricious.

It would be wise for the women of Germany, both in
their interest and that of their husbands and children,
vigilantly to watch the whole question of equitable
distribution of profits, not alone as to fair participation
between labor and capital, but also from the standpoint
of equal pay for equal work, whether it be done by men,
by women or by youth. Equally, in the common interest
of all — of the whole health and well-being of the nation
— working conditions constitute a field in which women
should take a vital interest. The whole apprentice
system in Germany, which can and does have some
desirable aspects, warrants constant observation, lest its
beneficial concepts be compromised into selfish and, in
some instances, almost cruel exploitation of youth.

T IS PATENT that in order to achieve improvements

in the labor and economics field, women can do much
by taking a more active part in the important work carried
on by labor unions. From the viewpoint of representing
their own interests, constituting as they do about 37 per-
cent of all gainfully employed persons, and from the
standpoint of achieving these improvements, German
women can and should participate more actively in the
councils of labor.

Once again, in their own behalf and that of their
countrymen in general, women should concern themselves
more with the whole question of taxation. In but few
countries, so far as I am aware, does the taxation system
approach acceptability, let alone perfection. Here in
Germany, where, in some quarters at least, conscientious
effort is being made to improve a system which has been
highly regressive, there is still much to be desired. This.
therefore, is but another instance where the power of the
ballot, plus other methods of making their influence felt,
vouchsafes to women the potentiality, and, therefore, the
responsibility, of helping to advance this important aspect
of national policy.

Not only is it highly important that taxes are raised on
the fairest and soundest basis, but also that they are spent
on that basis. In this latter facet of taxation, women, once
again, can and should make their influence constructively
felt.

HERE IS ONE FURTHER segment of public affairs in
Germany today on which I would seek to focus the
attention not merely of this audience, but of all Germany.
I refer to the ominous and alarming spectacle of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
emergence ofa political party which openly and brazenly
endorses certain parts of the Nazi program and which
numbers among its leaders some of the very leaders of
that infamous gang which brought such untold suffering
and ruin to Germany and Europe.

For six years, ever since the downfall of the Nazi
regime, the world has watched with anxiety for any signs
of a revival of Nazism. Within that time it has been a
matter for gratification that the German people have
overwhelmingly rejected all extremist parties, both of
the right and the left, that challenged the democratic
order and the decencies of moral life. Within that time
more has been done by Germany's former enemies to blot
out the destruction of war and to make a place for their
beaten foe in the family of peace-loving and democratic
nations than was ever done before in the history of man.

In all fairness to Germany, I think the predominant part
of her people is aware of this and is dedicated to severing
every tie with and memory of that Nazi past. The eyes of
the world are focused on Germany and are carefully
scrutinizing the degree, scope and sincerity of that
severance.

The fact that 11 percent of the electorate of any German
state, be it economically ailing Lower Saxony or any
other, would cast its votes for a party openly advocating,
as does the Socialist Reich Party, those same sordid doc-
trines and false panaceas which history has so utterly
discredited, is a warning which we would ignore at our
peril, and which cannot fail to cause serious misgivings
both in Germany and throughout the world. Aid, both
material and spiritual, has been given to help Germany

bind up the wounds of war; aid which, I think it is
reasonable to say, far exceeded the fondest dreams and
expectations of even the most optimistic in Germany.

But only Germany herself can take efféctive, preventive
measures against a renewal of the danger. In the ultimate
analysis, Germany can only regain an honorable place
in the freedom loving world by a deep and sincere innér
purge of her own people, which will make them fit for the
community of free nations.

O THIS END there must be prompt, courageous and

forthright action. The major factor in combating the
menace of reviving Nazism will be an enlightened public
opinion, And here the women of Germany may play a
decisive role. The women who have suffered the incredible
losses inflicted by the Nazi regime, who have lost homes
and husbands and sons, who have experienced un-
speakable humiliations, must be aware that the road to
restoration can never turn back to an insensate national-
ism, but can only lead forward to a new Germany,
dedicated to freedom in a united Europe.

They will know best how to shield despairing or cynical
youth from the mendacious appeals and specious promises
of unscrupulous adventurers, who would trifle again with
a nation’s fate. On the rock of their own bitter experience
and hard-won knowledge, they can help to build a new
faith and a better future.

Destiny calls Germany. I hope, and truly believe, that
the women — and, too, the men and youth — of Germany
will not be deaf to that call — a clarion call that may
sound but once. +END

Greater Parent Interest in Schools Urged

ERMAN TEACHERS HAVE been challenged to
“mobilize’’ parents for more interest and influence
in school affairs.

Speaking at the opening of a three-day conference in
Stuttgart of German educators who have visited the
United States under the HICOG exchanges program,
Dr. James M. Read, chief of the Education and Cultural
Relations Division, HICOG, said that one of the most
important methods of strengthening democratic education
is the participation of parents as well as teachers in
educational] affairs.

“You as teachers can mobilize these parents if you
will. They must be mobilized if the full power of public
opinion is to be focused upon the schools and upon the
promotion of school improvements. They must be mobi-
lized if the findings of modern educational psychology
are to be applied in the educational process. These
findings call for teamwork between school and home.

“... We are coming to realize everywhere that the
education of the parent in his pedagogic responsibilities
is a function which the teacher can disregard only at
the risk of having his work in school neutralized or
even undone in the home.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

44

Dr. Read said that “as a parent with a child in a
German school, I have missed being called into any
regular or frequent consultation by the teacher or into
a parents’ meeting or council. He urged that teachers
organize study groups with parents on modern theories
of child growth and development. He cited the many
parents’ councils currently established in Wuerttemberg-
Baden as an excellent step in that direction.

Two other fields of concentration in an attempt to
bolster the educational foundations of democracy are the
introduction of social studies in all schools, and improving
school finances, according to the HICOG education chief.

“The science of human relations in one form or another
must be in the forefront of all of our educational processes
today, from the bottom to the top of the educational
ladder,"" he emphasized.

To provide the material needs for better education
— new buildings, books and teaching aids — teachers
must “take the political initiative aggressively.

“They should organize to make known the needs of
the schools and never tire in bringing these matters to
the attention of an interested public through all the media
they can command."

JULY 1951

--- Page 48 ---
Youth’s Greatest Opportunity

Address

By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

WELCOME THE OPPORTUNITY to speak here today.

The University of Frankfurt was born in the free atmos-
phere of a city long famous for its spirit of independence
and progressiveness. It was founded by private scientific
organizations who worked with voluntary initiative. They
gave the new university a constitution which made it a
stronghold of academic freedom combined with local com-
munity responsibility. The close connection with the
citizenry which it has maintained ever since has been of
inestimable advantage.

The students and faculty of this university have reason
to be proud of the liberal academic tradition which
flourished here until the Hitler regime came to power.
You have equally good reason to be proud of what has
happened here since the war. I refer not only to the
physical reconstruction which is going on, but to the
efforts which the university is making to meet the needs
of the modern student in the modern world. Although
there is a long way to go, you have made beginnings here
which demonstrate an awareness of the need for change
in higher education.

Frankfurt has been among the first German universities
to establish a chair in Political Science. I understand that
some university circles have doubts about Political
Science. They do not think it is an independent Fach
(study) or that it is a true science. The way to resolve
these doubts is by actual performance — by showing that
Political Science is both sound and capable of making a
significant contribution to modern learning.

NE OF THE GREAT modern needs is a better under-
standing of human behavior and human relationships.
The developments in natural science and technology
have made us acutely aware that the constructive use of
this great power depends upon a better understanding of
man as a social being. The University of Frankfurt has
made an outstanding contribution to this need by estab-
lishing its Institute for Social Research. .
Still another progressive innovation is the arrangement
which this university has made with the University of
Chicago for the exchange of professors. By establishing
this exchange, Frankfurt has shown that it realizes the

to be excellent. But many Americans and Germans feel
that it should not be only in one direction, that Americans
should come here to gain the understanding of this
country which so many Germans are now getting of the
United States. I share this view, and hope that the coming
years will see a program of bringing my countrymen to
Germany to teach and study and work with you. When
this happens we will have a program of full Gleich-
berechtigung (equality) in cultural exchanges.

There is one other point I should like to make in regard
to the curriculum, and what I say is not motivated by
nationalist feeling. I think the time has come at German
universities when courses in American literature, history,

- economics and philosophy should be considered just as

important as courses in Sanskrit and Egyptology!

O FAR I HAVE TALKED only of curriculum changes.

I should also mention some beginnings which have
been made in the field of student-faculty relations. The
fact that two student representatives serve on the Senate
here when student questions are being discussed may not
seem a very spectacular innovation to some people. In
my judgment, however, it is of the utmost importance
because it shows an awareness of a need for a new form
of faculty-student relationship.

A truly modern university realizes that the student is
not a passive receptacle to be filled with “wisdom” but
an active partner who has a contribution to make to the
institution. A living university sees to it that students
have an opportunity to participate in a responsible
fashion in its affairs. The dignity of the faculty is in no
way decreased by such an attitude. Students are quick
to detect the difference between the real dignity which
comes of maturity and insight and the false dignity which
rests only on titles and status.

A leading member of the Bundestag (lower house), who
is also a professor, asserted not long ago that the most
important reform needed in German universities is in the
relationship between students and professors. It seems
to me that representation of the students on the Senate
is a recognition of the principle on which this new re-

need for living contact with other
institutions of the free world. It is
particularly gratifying that this pro-
gram has had such success because it
is a reciprocal one, based on the belief
that we can learn from one another.
The Exchanges Program, which the

United States has been conducting with Frankfurt.

The accompanying address was
delivered by US High Commis-
sioner John J. McCloy at a cere-
mony on May 25, marking the lay-
ing of a cornerstone for a new
student home at the University of

lationship must be based, namely, that
students and faculty alike have rights
and responsibilities as creative mem-
bers of a community of learning.
Finally, this occasion itself marks a
significant university reform. We are
about to lay the cornerstone for a
student center anda student dormitory.
This is to be welcomed, not only

Germany, is universally considered

JULY 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
because it helps the housing shortage, but because it
marks the beginning of a new form of student living. In
these buildings students will not only be able to live
together, but a large number can come together there for
recreation and discussion. It is my hope that it will provide
the conditions for a healthy community of scholars.

ANY PEOPLE DEPLORE today the beginning of the
return of the old student corporations with their
snobbish and primitive traditions. If these corporations
should come back in anything like their prewar form, it
will be a dangerous retrogression. The lack of social
facilities for students is one of the conditions which
makes their return easier. Student centers such as the
‘one being built here, by providing a constructive alter-
native, strengthen the democratic life of the universities.
The universities of Germany have much to do if they
are to regain the great prestige which they had throughout
the world when I was a student. One thing is clear: they
will not regain that position by trying only to become
what they were. The world has changed a great deal, and
your universities must be transformed if they are to be
meaningful in that world.

I have spoken about some of the things being done at
this university whick seem to me to be important con-
tributions to modern educational practice in this country.
If the spirit behind these beginnings spreads throughout
your institution and to other universities, you will be on
the way, not back, but forward to new eminence. The
University of Frankfurt is to be congratulated for the
leadership it has taken in this direction,

I should not like to let this occasion pass without also
congratulating the State of Hesse for making these
educational opportunities available to you. This is the
only state in the Federal Republic where citizens can
attend a university without paying tuition. Obviously
that does not solve all the problems of assuring access to
the university for all qualified students, but it is one
barrier the less, and that is all to the good.

Up to this point I have spoken mainly about this uni-
versity and its curriculum.

SHOULD NOW LIKE to address myself to its students.

From your ranks here and at other institutions of
higher learning will come those who will fill a large
proportion of the leading positions in the community and
in the nation. The fate of the new Germany is inextricable
interwoven with your own. Your future will depend on
the health and vigor of a democratic Federal Republic
just as the Republic will depend upon you.

Despite its domestic and foreign problems, the Federal
Republic is becoming daily a more vigorous community.
Six years ago this country seemed to be a ruin that could
not be salvaged. It was ruined by a dictatorship. Today,
the nation is making enormous strides toward recovery,
and it is doing so under democratic rules and principles.

The time has come, I think, for Germans, particularly
young Germans, to stop debating the question whether or
not democracy is the right form of government for the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

46

German people. Democracy is the only form of govern-
ment in which people can develop and live free and
without fear. Democracy, with all its debates, can
generate more power — physical, psychological, economic
and spiritual — than any other form of human society.

The great Italian statesman, Cavour, once said:

“Parliamentary government, like other governments,
has its inconveniences; yet with its inconveniences, it is
better than all others. I may get impatient at certain
oppositions, and repel them vigorously; and then, on
thinking it over, I congratulate myself on these oppo-
sitions because they force me to explain my ideas better
and to redouble my efforts to win over public opinion.
Believe me, the worst of Chambers is still preferable to
the most brilliant of antechambers.”

Take these words to heart, Remember that the demo-
cratic form of government deliberately makes provisions
for its own criticism and improvement. Concentrate on
improving it; work inside of it and with it, be positive
about it. Give up such ideas as ‘‘Polilik verdirbt den
Charakter” (Politics spoil the character). If you think
Bonn, is ineffective, ask yourself how it can be made
better.

Your apathy toward politics, if you have any, is worse
than ineffective in a world in which there are so many
dangerous enthusiasms, These can only be met’ by
interest, participation and enthusiasm in the possibilities
of constructing a working democratic political and social
order.

I know that the German student is having a hard
struggle for existence and that he is courageously battling
his way through to an education against almost insur-
mountable financial odds. In the face of low income and
high prices he can scarcely make ends meet. But these
difficulties are not a complete block to self-development
on a broader scale.

HAT THEN CAN A STUDENT actually do to play

his part in the political life of the Federal Republic?
The first thing that can be done, I would say, is for you
to make up your mind that something ought to be done.
It will not do for you to blame everything on your
professor or on the politicians or on the cultural minis-
ters. You too are part of the public and if the public
changes its mind, the politicans and the cultural minis-
ters will change their minds, But your own mind has to
be changed first. You must be convinced that there is a
political responsibility in society which no one in a
democracy can avoid.

This is the opposite of neutralism which would seem
to be the safest way for the individual. That is of course
a delusion; neutralism has led to the disintegration of a
democratic society and the end of the individual too. I
am sure that you are not looking for the “safe way.
You want to do the right thing, no matter what the cost
or how dangerous it appears.

The next step would be, in my estimation, for you to
take political life seriously. One cannot be indifferent to
the great issues of these days, to the trends leading to a

JULY 1951

--- Page 50 ---
political and economic integration of Europe, to the
Schuman Plan, the question of European Union, to the
development of world organization through the United
Nations, to the great problems of refugees not only in
Germany but throughout the world. It is not enough
that these things be ‘settled’ by the decisions and
actions of a few statesmen; in fact, they cannot be settled
that way.

All of the political intelligence that can be mobilized
in the nations of the western world must be brought into
play. Professors must play their role, and it is a tribute
to the University of Frankfurt that one. of its faculty
members headed the German delegation to Paris on the
Schuman Plan and has now become State Secretary for
Foreign Affairs.* Alert students have always been the
greatest asset of the professor who takes his civic
responsibilities seriously.

OU STUDENTS CAN of course prepare to play your

part. The action taken the other day by the ASTA
(General Students Association) of this university to
establish a Referat on Problems of European Integration
is an example of what students can do, You can join
political parties. If the existing ones need reformation,
you can aid in that process by working from within
rather than simply standing on the sidelines and criticiz-
ing. To play that role intelligently requires great prepa-
ration. Much of this should be done while you are study-
ing and &s a part of your studies.

Let no one think that the studies of the principles and
theories of social and political science are something for
which there is no time, or which are unsuited to the
academic scene, It was your own Friedrich Naumann
who warned: “Ist erst einmal die Bildung unpolitisch
geworden, dann wird auch die Politik ungebildet” (Once
education has become unpolitical, then politics also will
become uneducated), And as for the time, there is
always time for that which is important. As I have said
before, it is up to you to decide what is important and
then make room for it.

Of course you may feel it necessary to resort to
imaginative ways of educating your elders. If they are
really not giving you the broad liberal education that
you need to meet the problems of modern living, if
there is too much emphasis on the accumulation of facts
and specialized knowledge, then you might be the ones
to make this known to the public. You have your publi-
cations and you can write letters to the newspapers and
to your political leaders,

TUDENTS IN EUROPE have had a lively political

interest in the past; one needs to think only of the
barricades of 1830 and 1848, It is not necessary today to
mount the barricades; there are other ways of participa-
tion in the civic affairs of the day. And if it is not possible
to get the time even to inform oneself about these prob-
lems, then the first requirement is to demand the time
and the opportunity to obtain such information.

* Walter Hallstein.

JULY 1951

47

I wish to make it clear that in suggesting increased
student participation and interest in.the political life of
the Federal Republic I am not recommending that the
universities become hotbeds of politics or that the
podium should be politicized. The university should and
must be a place of learning, of the search after objective
truth, a place where men of ideas and good will discuss
and learn. What I am asking is that the young man and
woman who is studying to become a philosopher or a
lawyer, a doctor or a teacher, should at the same time
study to become and by practice develop into a good
citizen.

I have spoken in a personal vein today, for I feel, as
a Frankfurter Mitbuerger (fellow citizen), a deep interest
in this university and through it a deep interest in all
German universities. In our limited way we have tried
to help the German schools and universities in the past
year help enlarge opportunities for German youth. I
want to take this opportunity to state that we Americans
are eager to help out further — in the exchange of
students and professors with the United States and other
countries, in helping to provide facilities for common
life and experience at German universities, When the
time comes to turnover to Frankfurt and other cities
some of the buildings we have built for our own staff,
I hope it will be possible to earmark a-few of the build-
ings in each of these developments for university stu-
dent homes or colleges.

FTER TWO YEARS in Germany I want you to know

that one of my great hopes for the future of this
country is the young people, I agree with a prominent
German professor who recently said that the German
students of today, compared with the students of the
post-World War I era, are more broadminded, inter-
national-minded and social-minded.

Democracy can be practiced at all times, including
one's time spent as a student. It is strongly to be hoped
that the opening of the student house and student center
which we are celebrating today will facilitate all forms
of democratic student activity. Indeed, I understand
that it has already been decided, in accordance with the
wishes of the faculty and the students, that this house
which we dedicate today will become an international
center where the fraternity, the equality and freedom of
all peoples shall be expressed.

Some young men come to me and say: “There is no
future in Germany for youth. Germany's days are past.”
To these I say, there never was a period of German
history in which there was a greater demand for the
development of an energetic and open-minded youth. A
youth whose energy is directed toward constructive
goals, which does not allow itself to be led around by
the nose by demagogues, could help make Germany a
great liberal and tolerant community. And the accom-
plishment of this task may be decisive in resolving the
world issues which we face today, No future? You have
the opportunity to help create a new community of peo-
ples walking in freedom. There has never been such a
future for German youth. -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Exports Again Top Imports

By A. J. CEFARATTI

Chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Program Division
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

KAky REPORTS FOR THE MONTH OF MAY indicate some slowing in the rate of improvement of the
Western German economy evidenced during the earlier months of this year. The index of industrial pro-
duction shows output slightly below the postwar record of April, with the greatest decline in the manufacture ,
of consumer products. Holidays and the continuing shortage of raw materials were responsible for the slow
expansion of production in some industries while in others, particularly the consumer goods industries,
slackening demand and the resultant accumulation of excess stocks were the responsible factors. Crude steel
and pig iron production during May advanced three percent and a little more than six percent respectively,
but the daily average output of hard coal dropped two percent.

The reduction in world market prices noted during the preceding two months had only begun to reach the
West German internal economy as basic materials prices dropped two percent, industrial producer prices
halted their preceding month's rises and consumer prices moved up, but only 1.4 percent. Earlier import li-
censing restrictions designed to end Germany's foreign payments deficit, cut May's imports to $248,000,000
and — for the third consecutive month — brought a favorable balance of trade as exports rose to $273,000,000.

* ok kK ok *

ITH RISING PRODUCTION and employment, de- (3) ECA- and GARIOA-financed imports in April 1951
velopments during April and May in the Western amounted to $50,400,000. Thus, the commercial balance
German economy showed a steady over-all improvement. of trade in April shows exports exceeding imports by
The foreign trade surplus reported for April was repeated $68,400,000, as compared to the excess of $18,000,000
in May. Preliminary figures show that May exports ex- when total trade is considered.
ceeded imports by $25,000,000* as compared with April's On an area basis the export rise was chiefly accounted
$18,000,000. With a European Payments Union (EPU) for by increased shipments to the United States
payments surplus in May, the cumulative deficit has been ($18,700,000), South America ($24,200,000), Yugoslavia
brought below the credit quota originally set for the and Finland ($6,700,000), and the OEEC sterling area
Federal Republic. . . ($23,800,000). The decline in imports was almost entirely
The index of industrial production rose another four from the OEEC group, both sterling ($27,200,000) and non-
points, but although a postwar record of 139 percent of sterling ($91,800,000). Imports from the USA ($54,400,000),
the 1936 level has been reached, there are signs of weaken- South America ($21,600,000), and Yugoslavia and Finland
ing in the indexes for May or June, particularly in con- ($4,800,000) were all higher than in March 1951. Both ex-
sumer goods output. 5 . . ports to ($6,200,000) and imports from ($5,200,000) the
Employment reached a new peacetime high by the end Soviet Bloc were slightly lower than in the previous month.

of May, and the number of registered unemployed showed
another decline to less than in mid-August 1950.

Basic material prices fell in April and May, and the
May index of industrial producer prices remained at the
April level. The consumer price index, however, continued
to rise, 1.5 percent in April and 1.4 percent in May.

A commodity breakdown of exports disclosed that the
increase was wholly in finished goods. These were $199,-
300,000, or almost three-fourths of total exports. All major
commodity groups suffered equally in the import decrease.

In the month of May the surplus with EPU amounted
to $81,152,000 ($45,071,000 in April), reducing the cumu-

Foreign Trade oo, ; lative deficit to $319,585,000. The Federal Republic is

In April 1951, for the first time in the postwar period, thereby enabled to repay the special EPU credit, and, in
Western Germany's monthly exports exceeded imports addition, has brought its cumulative deficit within the
to show a $18,000,000 trade surplus. Total exports of quota originally accorded it. Germany will be refunded
$274,600,000 in April were at a record level for the second the net dollar payment of $30,666,000 made after it had
consecutive month. Total imports of only $256,600,000, exceeded the quota and will also receive a dollar pay-
the lowest figure since October 1950, clearly showed the ment of $332,000, which is 80 percent of the amount by
effects of the temporary suspension of licensing of imports which the net cumulative deficit fell below the original
from the EPU area in late February and in March, _ quota of $320,000,000. Therefore, Germany will receive a
b The true significance of the Aen foreign Rose figures total dollar payment of $30,998,000. Repayment has occur-

ecomes 4a] arent when ree facts are noted: 7 ii

(i) Prior to April 1951, the postwar month of least total es era HAE TTS ENC ese
ena trade deficit was At 1950, when imports were Industry

161,100,000, exports were $140,300,000, and the deficit The volume of industrial production in April expanded
was $20,800,000. While trade in May 1950 amounted only substantially to new Rorirar record proportions despite
a $301,400,000, the April 1951 total was $531,200,000, or persistent reports of raw material shortages. During the
u Fe percent higher eet akeoe thly i t month the index of industrial production (excluding build-
wa) $314 pagagd ees fo50 ee Y ee e ing, stimulants and food processing) rose by four points

bat F Ports were to 139 percent of the 1936 level—well beyond the 135

$241,100,000. Had imports in April been at this postwar
high, they would still have been covered 87.3 percent by
April exports.

postwar record of November 1950. Production in the iron
and steel and steel construction industries, among those
showing decreases during the last few months, increased
* Deutsche marks 105,041,000 at the official rate of 23.8 cents to DM 1. in April by 10 and 13 percent, respectively.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 48 JULY 1951

--- Page 52 ---
The index of both investment goods and general pro-
duction goods continued to increase. Production of raw
materials, showing a nine-point increase in April, has had
a remarkable expansion since January of almost 18 per-
cent. Consumer goods output continued its slow increase
from the January low point (115), but rose only 11/2 per-
cent over the March index.

Production increases in the various industry groups
were almost general during April, and especially strong
in the finished goods group, steel construction rising
13 percent. Of the 29 industry groups for which data are
available, 23 showed increases in output and five showed
decreases. The largest increases were in stones and
earths, iron and steel (excluding castings). Important
decreases were in leather production, rubber and shoes.

The index of orders received in selected industry
groups in western Germany during March went down for
the first time in three months by 11.3 percent to 186 of
the 1949 monthly average—a greater decline than in
September 1950, when orders fell off after the first Korean
boom. Orders received in March dropped in both the
production goods and investment goods industries, but
there was a sharper decline in the consumer goods in-
dustries. The discrepancy between orders received and
current sales is still especially high in machinery (orders
157 percent of sales), drawing plants and cold rolling mills
(149 percent of sales as compared to 302 percent in August
1950), and iron and steel foundries (146 percent of sales).

Coal

Hard coal production in May amounted to 9,372,000
tons, somewhat lower than April's 10,023,000 tons. Daily
average production (excluding Sundays and holidays) was
388,038 tons, compared with 396,000 in April. Total com-
mitments for US coal are now estimated to be approxi-
mately 2,500,000 tons with deliveries running through the
first quarter of 1952. Actual US loadings of coal consigned
to Western Germany for April were reported to be
210,000 tons. About 80 percent is scheduled for the iron
and steel industries, the remainder for the textile, paper
and cement industries.

The third quarter coal export allocation of 6,200,000
tons, as set by the International Authority for the Ruhr,
has aroused considerable antagonism within the Federal
Republic. Probably appeals will be made to the Allied
High Commission to reduce this quota substantially, since
there is a recognized shortage of coal for increasing steel
production and other basic commodities as well as the
need for stock building by industries and public utilities.

The Federal Government has proposed an increase in
coal export prices of DM 14.70 per ton, which, if adopted,
would increase the differential of export prices over in-
land prices to DM 17 per ton. The Federal Government
will attempt to justify this price increase as making a
contribution to a proposed investment program for the
coal mining industries, which: contribution would total
some DM _ 316,000,000, and with other funds totaling
DM 2,800,000,000 by the middle of 1953, would develop a
daily production of 450,000 tons of hard coal. The pro-
posed increase may not be acceptable, since it appears
to be contrary to the purpose of the Schuman plan.

Iron and Steel

Crude steel production (ingots and castings) during
May totaled 1,154,000 metric tons (MT), with a daily
average production of 48,083, to bring both figures well
above the April production, and set a new postwar daily
production rate. April output totaled 1,121,300 MT, and
a daily average of 44,852 MT. It is estimated that 125,000
MT of the total were produced with US coal imports. For
the first time in months, orders received were in balance
with outgoing shipments, so that April saw no increase
in the backlog of domestic or export orders.

Pig iron production rose from 866,500 MT in April to
919,980 MT in May, which increase is mainly the result
of higher imports of coke from the US. However, there is

JULY 1951

49

almost negligible improvement of the inland situation of
iron and steel, since the steel barter deals against Ameri-
can coke require extensive exports of steel to the States.
Actual relief can be expected only with higher deliveries
of German coke to the mills.

Scrap collections have not improved materially, and
were estimated in April at 525,000 MT, of which 40,000
MT were exported. The German scrap drive has developed
very slowly and tangible results are not expected before
July. The iron industry will contribute DM 5,000,000 for
promotion of scrap mobilization. This money will be spent
for salvaging ships, bridges and other scrap projects, and
for wide publication on scrap collection.

Severe sheet metal shortages are reported by the iron,
metal and steel industry. Some firms were forced to dis-
miss workers, and 70 firms introduced the “short week."
Only 60 percent of the needed metal wares were de-
livered, which is already affecting some buyers, e.g., the
export business of the chemical industry is endangered
by insufficient metal packing material.

“The production of aluminum increased to 6,000 tons,
and the production of copper and zinc remained about the
same. Lead production showed a slight decrease, how-
ever, due to the insufficient supply of ores and scrap, and
it is expected that two smelters will close down soon.

Copper scrap as well as ores are in short supply. The
copper smelters can maintain the present level of produc- ©
tion only by accepting more processing contracts for
foreign accounts. Processing contracts a year ago aver-
aged 2,500 tons monthly, but now run 3,000 to 3,500 tons
monthly. The coal allocation, although slightly increased,
is insufficient and some US coal has been imported. Aver-
age stocks are 14 to 16 days’ supply — half normal stocks.

Chemicals

Although the May coal allocation was reduced to
248,000 tons from 282,000 tons in April, over-all produc-
tion has been maintained at about the previous level.
The smaller coal allocation is partially alleviated by im-
ports, barter deals and use of more low grade fuels. There
was adequate hydroelectric power in Bavaria for the
chemical plants, but the shortage of coal cut the produc-
tion of calcium-carbide and calcium-cyanamide. Due to
curtailed imports of phosphate rock from North Africa,
two major superphosphate firms were forced to close
down. The French agreed to ship 40,000 tons of phosphate
before the end of June, however, and it was hoped trade
negotiations in Paris would soon bring increased imports.

Current potash production, only two percent below the
1938 output, totaled 986,000 tons for the German fiscal
year just ended, a 20 percent increase. A further 20 per-
cent boost in output is planned for the coming year.

The cement industry continued to complain during May
of coal shortages, which caused many plants to continue
at 40 to 50 percent operation. Plants with a large export
business, however, are getting US coal from their dollar
earnings to permit full operation.

The cotton textile industry began to curtail operations
in May. Many weavers operated five days per week
instead of the customary six days, due to serious decline
in domestic sales without any increase in exports. The
trend, it was feared, might worsen during June and July.
This comes at a time when raw cotton is becoming scarce,
and perhaps many plants will be forced to curtail opera-
tions anyway, before the new US cotton crop is available
this fall. Raw cotton stocks are now about 21/2 months,
with 4-5 months’ yarn stocks on hand at the spinners and
weavers. In view of this situation, an increased interest
is being taken in exports of cotton textiles.

The tanning, shoe and leather goods industries ‘con-
tinued curtailment in May due to declining domestic sales
and despite price reductions. Many firms reported diffi-
culties from a shortage of operating capital which is ag-
gravated by the drop in sales. Loans from banks or the
government have been requested to tide over this period.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
Rail Traffic Developments

The month of May with its many holidays brought a
drop in freight car demands on the federal railroads.
Consequently the critical freight car situation improved
considerably and the Federal Railroad System was able
to return 2,000 freight cars hired from France and 1,000
rented from Belgium. In spite of this momentary improve-
ment, the outlook for the harvest remains unfavorable.
The stock of serviceable freight cars now is 247,000, but
a minimum of 270,000 will be required in the fall and no
orders for new construction have yet been placed.

The 100,000 common wagon park between the German
railroads and the French railroads (SNCF) became opera-
tive on May 1. The common car office opened in Paris on
that date is headed jointly by one German and one French
rail official. The additional marking on the cars belong-
ing to the common pool will consist of the word “EUROP,”
which will strongly underline the intention of the French
and German railroads that this pool is intended as a
forerunner of a single European car park.

Finance

Combined federal and state fiscal operations yielded a
surplus of DM 454,800,000 for the last quarter (January-
March) of the 1950-51 German fiscal year. The over-all
deficit of DM 1,015,300,000 resulted from the deficits in-
curred in the first three quarters: April-June 1950,
DM_ 993,300,000; July-September 1950, DM 93,400,000;
October-December 1950, DM 383,400,000; and January-
March 1951, DM 454,300,000.

Since currency reform (June 20, 1948), the expenditure
pattern has shown the greatest spending during the April-
June quarter, with a decrease during the October-
December and January-March quarters to a low in the
July-September quarter. Thus, the seemingly favorable
development of a surplus in January-March 1951 stemmed
primarily from seasonal factors affecting both revenues
and expenditures. Expenditures other than occupation
and related costs were DM 352,000,000 lower than in the
preceding quarter.

Revenues reached record heights for January-March
1951. Most of the increase over the previous quarter re-
sulted chiefly from the many annual tax accounts col-
lected in January, and also from the increasing geheral
revenue trend, especially in the turnover and income
taxes. Much of the profits of the July-November period
of business expansion was reflected in January-March
income tax collections.

Another factor affecting this surplus was the fact that
the increase in occupation costs and related expenditures
was less than expected. These expenditures increased by
only DM 122,600,000 over the previous quarter to reach
DM 1,181,800,000, which is approximately DM 400,000,000
below estimated cash requirements of the various ad-
ministrative services. As the 1951-52 budget calls for
greatly increased occupation costs, substantial deficits
can be expected in the near future if these costs are
accurately estimated at their high level and unless federal
and state revenues are increased or sources extended.

Labor

The downward movement of unemployment, which had
slackened appreciably during the first part of May (down
9,700), regained momentum during the latter half when
unemployment dropped by 49,500 for a monthly decrease
of 59,200. Since mid-January 1951, unemployment has
declined by 524,000, thus compensating for 77 percent of
the winter increase.

As of the end of May 1951, registered unemployment
in the Federal Republic had been reduced to 1,386,900, or
somewhat less than in mid-August 1950. In terms of the
estimated wage- and salary-earning labor force, the un-
employment rate has dropped to 8.7. percent as against
9.1 percent in April 1951 and 10.9 percent in May 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

50

The improvement in the unemployment situation con-
tinues to be most evident in the agricultural states which
were most severely affected last winter by seasonal in-
fluences. The three major farm states, which have 61 per-
cent of total unemployment, accounted for 72 percent of
the unemployment drop during the latter half of May 1951.

On the whole, the employment situation continued to
be favorable with higher employment in building and
construction, manufacturing industries taken as a group,
agriculture, and in trade and commerce. Estimated employ-
ment of wage and salary earners, climbing slightly above
the 14,500,000 mark, achieved another new peacetime
high for the federal area.

Seasonal causes, especially expanding activity in build-
ing and agriculture, remain the chief factors in the employ-
ment rise. The increase in building employment, however,
was significantly less in May than in April 1951 due per-
haps to the interim which usually prevails between the
completion of construction begun the year before and
new building. The effect of difficulties in financing,
especially of housing, cannot yet be clearly determined.
However, employment in the building industry now
stands at the level of about midsummer 1950.

Manufacturing employment also attained a new post-
war record in May with the increase coming almost
exclusively, as in April, from the capital goods industries,
almost all of which increased their staffs. Automobile
plants, which had had to curtail working time due to raw
material shortages, resumed more normal schedules.

Prices

During April the sharp rate of increase in recent months
of the three major price indexes slowed noticeably. The
basic materials price index actually showed a drop of
one point from 251 to 250 percent of 1938, which is the
first decline since April 1950. The index of industrial
producer prices continued earlier increases, but at a
much slower rate (+1.8 percent), to reach 222 percent.

The only decline in the index was in the group “iron,
steel and non-ferrous metals, including castings’ due to
a decrease in the “non-ferrous metals.’ The most im-
portant rise was in “chemicals, plastics, rubber and as-
bestos," while the upward trend in “sawmills, woodwork-
ing, paper and printing” continued — caused by rising
pulp and paper prices. The consumer price index went up
by 1.5 percent to reach 163 percent of 1938. All the items
with exception of rent increased slightly.

Berlin

In April, with one more working day than March, the °
value of industrial deliveries totalled DM 210,300,000 (ex-
cluding building industry), a slight increase over the
previous month, and a new post-blockade record. The
largest percentage gains, as compared with March, were
recorded in fine mechanics and optics, chemicals and
pharmaceuticals, and structural engineering.

Industrial employment, which in March had also reach-
ed its highest leyel since the end of the blockade,
increased somewhat during April, reaching almost 160,000.
Total employment during May increased by 4,200, due
chiefly to new hirings under the Work Relief Program.
The number of gainfully occupied totaled 887,900 at the
end of May. The registered labor force increased by less
than 1,000; during the second half of the month, it showed
a slight decline for the first time this year. Unemployment
was 286,700, a decrease of 3,300 below April.

For the first four months of 1951, Berlin's deficit in
current commodity trade with Western Germany and
foreign countries amounted to an estimated DM 519,200,000.
Since exports to foreign countries (DM 64,300,000) were
approximately balanced with imports from such areas
(DM 60,300,000), the deficit arose in trade with Western
Germany.. For the comparable period of 1950, the deficit
was about DM 406,000,000, but since the 1950 total trade
volume was substantially smaller, the relative position
of the city has improved. -+END

JULY 1951

--- Page 54 ---
Personnel Notes

Dr. Shuster to Leave OLCB Post

Dr. George N. Shuster, US state commissioner for
Bavaria since June 1950, plans to return to his former
post as president of Hunter College, New York City, Dec. 1.

Dr. Shuster returned to Germany in late June from the
United States where he accompanied John J. McCloy, US
High Commissioner, on a visit to Washington for a series
of conferences. While in the US, Dr. Shuster obtained the
Dec. 1 extension of his leave of absence from Hunter Col-
lege, of which he has been president since October 1940.

Edmond L. Taylor in Germany as Consultant

Edmond L. Taylor has arrived in Frankfurt on three
months’ leave from the Council on Foreign Relations, New
York City, to serve as a general consultant to Shepard
Stone, director of the Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

Mr. Taylor,is director of
a new group set up by the
Council on Foreign Re-
lations last fall to study
the problem of strengthen-
ing democratic leadershifs
outside the United States.
He has been connected
with the Council since
September 1950. Previous-
ly, he served for two
years with UNESCO's Mass
Communications Depart-
ment in Paris.

A native of St. Louis, Mo.,
Mr. Taylor was formerly a
reporter on both the St.
Louis Globe-Democrat and
the St. Louis Times, and
later on the Chicago Tribune. He served as assistant man-
aging editor of the Chicago Tribune's European edition
from 1928 to 1930, as chief of the Paris bureau of its For-
eign News Service from 1933 to 1940, and also as a corres-
pondent for the Columbia Broadcasting Company in France.

For three years (1943 to 1946) Mr. Taylor was on duty
with the United States Navy as a lieutenant commander
end commander.

He is the author of two books, the well-known “The
Strategy of Terror,” published shortly after the war, and
“Richer by Asia," a more recent one published in 1947.
He also contributes articles to the Saturday Evening Pos!,
Reader's Digest and other current magazines.

Edmond L. Taylor.
(PRD HICOG photo)

Dr. Read Leaves HICOG

Dr. James M. Read, chief of the Education and Cultural
Relations Division, left HICOG July 1 to accept the post
of deputy United Nations high commissioner for refugees,
with headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland.

JULY 1951

51

Dr. J. G. van Heuven Goedhardt of the Netherlands
heads the commission, which is concerned with the
political and legal protection of refugees in countries
where there is a need for such services.

“The departure of Dr. Read is a severe loss to HICOG,"
said Frederick H. Burkhardt, acting director of the Office
of Public Affairs. “During the past year and a half,
Dr. Read has made an outstanding contribution to our
education and cultural relations program through his
thorough understanding of German problems and his
able direction of his division.”

Dr. Read became chief of HICOG's Education and Cul-
tural Relations Division in January 1950. He was formerly
director of the far-flung foreign relief activities of the
American Friends Service Committee. Born at Camden,
N.J., and a graduate of Dickinson College in Pennsylvania,
Dr. Read also studied at Berlin University and the Uni-
versity of Marburg, where he received his doctorate.

He subsequently became an instructor at Dickinson
College, and professor of history and chairman of the
Department of Political Science at the University of Louis-
ville (1935-1943) in Kentucky. He is the author of several
books, including “Europe — 1870 to 1918," “Atrocity
Propaganda, 1914-1918," and numerous magazine articles.

Portland's Mayor Visits Berlin

Dorothy M. Lee, mayor of Portland, Ore., visited Ber-
lin in June for an unofficial one-day visit during which
she consulted with Ernst Reuter, Berlin's mayor, and
other Berlin officials. Mrs. Lee came to Europe to attend
a recent international conference of mayors in London.

Two Division Chiefs to Berlin

Recent appointments in Berlin Element, HICOG, are
Ray W. Smith of Arlington, Va., as chief of the Economic
Affairs Division, and Re-
becca G. Wellington of
Washington, D. C., as chief
of the Political Affairs Di-
vision.

Mr. Smith relieves Her-
bert N. Higgins, who had
served since the end of
April as acting Economic
Affairs chief in addition to
his duties as head of the
Industry Branch. Mr. Hig-
gins has resumed his post
as Industry Branch chief.
John van Stirum, of Cam-
bridge, Mass., former Eco-
nomic Affairs chief, return-
ed recently to private life
in the United States.

A member of the Berlin Element staff since its organi-
zation in 1949, Miss Wellington succeeds Eric C. Wen-
delin as Political Affairs chief. Mr. Wendelin, of Milford,
N.H., has been transferred to Ankara, Turkey. Miss
Wellington has been with the Department of State since

Ray W. Smith.
(PRB BE-HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
* 1941, joining the Foreign Service in 1947, when she was

assigned to Berlin. She was previously deputy chief,
Political Affairs Division.

Mr. Smith, former head of the export-import firm, Basic
Industries, Inc., located in Houston, Tex., served with Air
Force headquarters in Washington as staff officer in
charge of briefing activities from 1943 to 1946, and on
the staff of the commanding general of the Military Air
Transport Service, in a civilian capacity, as a special
assistant from 1946 to 1951.

From 1929 to 1936, he lived in Cologne, Germany, as
manager of the Sinclair Oil Co.'s German subsidiary.

Snow Heads Exchanges Budget

Galen Snow, former chief of the Berlin Exchanges
Branch, has been named chief of the Program and Budget
Unit for the entire HICOG
Exchanges Program. Before
serving in Berlin, Mr. Snow
was in charge of the ex-
changes program in Austria
from its inception in 1949
until February 1950.

An advertising executive
and World War I veteran,
Mr. Snow was recalled to
the Army in 1942 and as-
signed to SHAEF Head-
quarters staff in London
and later to the Control
Council for Germany. He
transferred to the Allied
Control Commission for
Austria in 1945, but left in
1949 to join the Berlin staff
of HICOG., Mr. Snow is a native of Greenfield, Mass., and
was educated at Hotchkiss Preparatory School in Con-
nectitut and at Yale.

os

Galen Snow.
(PRD HICOG photo}

Customs Unit Head Leaves for US

Col. George B. Buell, Jr., commanding officer of the
7751 Military Police Customs Unit,* relinquished his post
June 25 to return to the United States, where he is
scheduled to become provost marshal of the Second
Army at Fort Meade, Md. His successor is Maj. Warren
E. Crane, who has been executive officer of the unit
since March 15, 1949.

Colonel Buell came to the European Command in
August 1948, and was assigned as commanding officer
of the Ansbach sub-post of Nuremberg Military Post. In
November 1949, he was transferred to the Military Police
Customs Unit, with headquarters in Frankfurt. He also
performed the duties of the US member of the Tripartite
Customs and Frontiers Inspectorate and of chief of the
Customs Branch of the EUCOM provost marshal's office.

Major Crane, a native of Waterloo, Iowa, has been on
active duty with the Army since 1941. In July 1948, he
was assigned to the 508th MP Batialion in Munich, where

* See ‘Vigil on the Border’ in Information Bulletin, April 1951.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

he assisted in the organization of the EUCOM Highway
Patrol. He was assigned to the original cadre which
organized the 7751 MP Customs Unit in April 1949.

Traffic Consultant Arrives from US

Joseph Lingo, associate professor of police adminis-
tration and director of the Public Safety Institute at
Purdue University, Purdue, Ind., is on a three-month tour
of Germany as consultant to the Public Safety Division of
HICOG’s Office of Political Affairs.

Professor Lingo is touring Western Germany to observe
traffic conditions, and consulting with German author-
ities on traffic legislation, education and enforcement.

Jergensen, Backer Transferred to Bremen

Two officials who have been serving with the Office
of the US State Commissioner for Hesse have recently
been appointed to new positions with OLC Bremen. They
are John W. Jergensen, former deputy chief of Public Safety
for OLCH, and Allen A. Backer, previously US resident
officer for Gelnhausen. Mr. Jergensen heads the newly
created Public Safety Division and Mr. Backer has been
transferred to the Exchanges Branch of OLC Bremen.

A native of Chicago, Mr. Jergensen studied police
science and administration at the University of California
at Los Angeles, and later attended the FBI Academy
in Washington. From 1936 through 1942, he worked as
branch chief with the police departments of Alhambra
and San Gabriel, Calif. During the war, he served in the
California State Guard and in 1945 came overseas to
work with the US Military Government in Hesse as chief
of the Identification Branch, Public Safety Division. More
recently, he has served as county resident officer in
several Hesse counties. .

Mr. Backer, who comes
from Nashua, N. H., is a
graduate of the University
of New Hampshire and Bos-
ton University Law School.
A veteran of the occupa-
tion, he joined Military
Government in Hesse as a
legal division officer early
in 1946, and later served as
a chief prosecutor and
magistrate. When Military
Government was replaced
by the Office of the US
High Commissioner for
Germany, he became resi-
dent cfficer for Gelnhausen.

Allen H. Backer.
(PRB OLC Bremen photo)

Bavaria PRB Has New Chief

Lucien D. Agniel has replaced William J. Caldwell as
chief, Public Relations Branch, OLC Bavaria. Mr. Cald-
well has left for Washington to take a new post with
the Division of International Press and Publications,
Department of State. Mr. Agniel was formerly with the
ECA Information Office in Frankfurt. +END

JULY 1951

--- Page 56 ---
AUVEUAUCUUEA LEELA UCU (Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Munich,
May 25)

German Cartoons

This section is compiled from translations prepared by the

Press and Publications Branch, Information Services Division,

HICOG, of cartoons in the German press. Publication of these

German cartoons is intended to inform the American readers

of what the Germans are thinking, without interpretation. The

inclusion of any viewpoint does not give concurrence to that
view or opinion.

TUTTE COPEL CELLS CL

SCT CTT TEE eee

(Braunschweiger Zeitung, Brunswick, June 2) [Rheinische Post, Duesseldori, (CDU), May 31]

Hope for the best,
be prepared for the worst.

(Luebecker Nachrichten, Luebeck, May 9)

Tito'’s Support

5 ; In the Soviet Zone.
against the Cruel East Wind.

“Come down,’ Comrade, time
to vote against remilitarization.”

{Essener Allgemeine Zeitung, Essen, May 20)

(Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen,
May 31)

Hatred Makes Blind.

Oil crisis. One way of solving Allied Cooperation.
The matches are free. the Iranian oil problem. The last bastion.

(Ruhr Nachrichten, Dortmund, May 12) (Rheinische Zeitung, Cologne, June 2}

een en. TT

[ CHING > EXPORT -

TTALIENISCHE
GE WENDE nn PROVINTAL
‘wineen 7)
x
: \ ee

Temporarily closed.
John Bull: “In especially urgent cases
we have a window at the back.” A poor crop this time, Uncle Joe.

Italian Elections.

JULY 1951 53 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
(Kasseler Zeitung, Kassel, May 18) (Westfaelische Nachrichten, Muenster, May 19)

The Barber and the Taxpayer. Europe Today.
“I'm sorry, sir, but if you keep on

SCO

reading about the new taxes, I'll never West: Rearmament East: Peace propaganda
. get your hair to lie down flat!” to protect the peace. to conceal rearmament.
(Der Telegraf, West Berlin, May 25) (Braunschweiger Zeitung, Brunswick, May 31), (Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, June 5)

War Shipments to the East.

_ Korea Peace Rumors.
The hole in the Iron Curtain. Rightist Remer Gets Four Months. Mao: “For heaven's sake, Joe,

“Gives ae ae to purite throw in the towel!”
(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, May 23) CRCGIZ eC EOd Seite
(Ruhr Nachrichten, Essen, June 9)

(Westfaelische Rundschau, Dortmund, May 21)

Two British Diplomats Disappear.

The Export Quota on Coal. Destination: Rearmament. Magician Joe: “Now you see them,
“How'm I gonna fire my stove?” Dangerous traffic for peace. now you don’t!"
PITT PET Pty SESSCROREESRRCRERERREEEED:

(Der Tag, West Berlin, May 25)

Progressive Education in Sovzonia

8 o'clock 9 o'clock 10 o'clock 11 o'clock 12 o'clock
History Geography Literature Botany Physics
4 |
ee.
3 To, [S_)
SS 4}

:
OG GaNa Geoa WEaa

The greatest soldier The modern The poet Discover of the The inventor of
of all time. Columbus. laureate. Colorado beetle. Soviet inventions.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 54 JULY 1951

--- Page 58 ---
Calendar of Coming Events

CURRENT (with closing dates)

July 25— Hanover (LS): Holiday course
for foreign veterinary surgeons and
students of Veterinary College.

July 27—Bad Boll (WB): First Euro-
pean Ecumenical laymen's meeting.

July 29—Recklinghausen (NRW):
festival plays.

July 31 — Bochum (NRW): Mining Museum,
art and mining exposition.

End of July — Cologne (NRW): Exposition
of portraits and modern paintings.

End of July—Bremen: Art exposition,
Eugene Delacroix.

End of July — Feuchtwangen (Bav): Open
air plays in Romanesque Cloister.

Aug. 8 — Hanover (LS): International bi-
cycle tour of Germany for professionals
(start and finish, Hanover).

Aug. 10 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Interna-
tional congress for social hygiene.

Aug, 12 — Hanover (LS): “Consiructa,”
international building exhibition.

Aug. 12 — Cologne (NRW): Health exposi-
tion.

Aug. 18 — Marburg (Hes): Marburg festival
plays; open air plays on Schlossberg.
Aug. 15—Wunsiedel (Bav): Luisenburg

festival plays.

Aug. 26 — Munich (Bav): Society for Orig-
inal Etchings, jubilee exhibition.

August — Baden-Baden (SB): Open air plays
in new castle court.

August — Eutin (SH): 1951 festival plays,
Carl Maria von Weber memorial.

August — Frankfurt (Hes): Open air plays
in Carmelite monastery.

August — Fuessen (Bav): Richard Wagner
concerts in Neuschwanstein Palace.

August — Trier (RP): Festival plays in
Simeon Foundation.

End of August — Kassel (Hes): Wilhelms-

* hoehe festival plays, Kassel State Thea-
ter,

End of August— Munich (Bav): Art ex-
position (Meistermann, Fritz Winter, Mat-
isse and M. Beckmann).

End of August — Cologne (NRW): Art ex-
position: Stephan Lochner; French graph-
ics art from Manet to Picasso.

End of August — Kempten (Bav): Open air
plays at Burghalde.

End of August— Hanover (LS): Art ex-
position, German expressionism.

Sept. 5—Isle of Mainau/Lake Constance
(SB): Serenade in palace court.

Sept. 10 — Augsburg (Bav): Open air opera
and operetta performances at Red Gate.

Sept. 16—Coblenz (RP): ‘1,001 Nights,”
open air operetta performances on Rhine.

Sept. 24— Mainz (RP): “In the Realm of
Script," exposition of 2,000 years of de-
velopment.

Sept. 30—Billerbeck (NRW): Open air play.

Sept. 30 — Berlin: 1951 German art exposi-
tion,

End of September — Prien (Bav): Art ex-
position on Herren and Frauen Islands.
End of September—Borkum (North Sea is-

land): Concerts, every Monday. *

End of September — Burg/Wupper (NRW):
Open air festival plays at castle,

End of September — Reutlingen (WB): Nat-
ural Theater, open air plays.

End of September — Krefeld (NRW): Open
air plays in Linn Castle.

Ruhr

JULY 1951

July 21 to Aug. 31,1951

Oct. 7 — Munich (Bav): 1951 art exhibition
at Haus der Kunst.

Oct. 15 — Fuerth (Bav): “'Foliage and Blos-
soms,’’ gardening show.

Oct. 31 — Hanover (LS): 1951 German
Federal Garden Show; exhibition of an-
cient Lower Saxony sacred art and to-
day's German sculptors.

Oct. 31— Freiburg (SB): Upper Rhine art
exposition.

JULY

July 21-23 -—Schwaebisch-Gmuend (WB):
600th anniversary, Parler Cathedral.

July 21-29 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Association
of German Amateur Photographers, expo-
sition.

July 21-Aug. 8-—- Hanover (LS): Interna-
tional bicycle race for professionals,
start and winning post at Hanover.

July 22—Urach (WB): Historical shepherds’
run; costume show.

July 22 — Recklinghausen (NRW): German
motorcycle-and-sidecar championships.
July 22-—Stuttgart (WB): International

athletic festival.

July 22-25 — Heidelberg (WB): Open air
plays in palace court.

July 22-29— Erbach (Hes): Eulbach Mart,
outdoor folk festival.

July 22-Aug. 26 — Mittenwald (Bav): Expo-
sition of ancient and modern string in-
struments,

July 24-Aug. 3— Hanover (LS): Lutheran
World Federation, convention.

July 26— Aachen (NRW): International
missions’ congress.

July 26-29— Munich (Bav): German lock-
smiths, meeting.

July 28-29 — Berlin: German bicycle cham-
pionships, on track.

July 28-29-— Duesseldorf (NRW): German
light athletic championships.

July 28-31 — Heidelberg (WB): Open air
plays in palace court.

July 28-31— Wesel (NRW):
citizens’ outdoor festival.
July 28-Aug. 3— Mittenwald (Bav): Asso-
ciation of International and German Vio-

lin Makers, meeting.

July 28-Aug. 4—— Constance/Lake Constance
(SB): International Esperanto week.

July 28-Aug. 5 — Coburg (Bav): Traditional
shooting and outdoor folk festival.

July 28-Aug. 18 — Erlangen (Bav): Erlangen
University’s international students’ tour
of North Bavaria.

July 29 — Adenaw/Eifel (RP): Auto racing;
grand prize for world championship.

July 29 — Frankfurt (Hes): German bicycle
championships.

July 29-Aug. 4 — Constance (SB): Interna-
tional Lake Constance sailing-week.

Traditional

Key ‘to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
‘WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern,

55

July 29-Aug. 4— Dueren (NRW): 450th anni-
versary of assignment of St. Ann's relics
from Mainz to Dueren.

July 29-Aug. 6 — Altoetting (Bav): 1,200th
anniversary pilgrimage.

July 29-Aug. 11 — Goslar (LS): Internation-
al meeting of Luther Academy.

July 29-Aug. 12 — Bonn (NRW): Inter-
national holiday courses at university.
July 29-Aug. 25 — Bayreuth (Bav): Richard

Wagner 1951 festival opera performances.

July 30-31 — Hamburg: German 1951 sen-
ior boxing championships.

July 30-Aug. 1 — Aachen (NRW): Technical
College, European rail vehicle meeting.
July 30-Aug. 3— Hanover (LS): Union of
German Engineers (VDI), convention.
July 30-Aug. 3— Marburg (Hes): German

Society for Psychology, congress. .

July 30-Aug. 19— Munich (Bav): Interna-

tional holiday courses at Munich College.

AUGUST

Aug. 1-10 — Wuppertal (NRW): New York
“Rheinischer Saengerbund," concert.

Aug. 1-12— Schwaebisch-Hall (WB): In-
ternational teachers’ congress.

Aug. 1-16 — Kiel (SH): Kiel Student Week.

Aug. 1-25—Freiburg (SB): International
summer course, Freiburg University.

Aug. 1-31— Coburg (Bav): Art exposition:
English and French 18th century color
prints, in commemoration of 50th anni-
versdry of Queen Victoria's death.

Aug. 2— Bad Kissingen (Bav): Symphony
concert; R. Schoene, violin; F, Kisskalt,
cello; K, Tutein, conductor. a

Aug. 2-5 — Hamburg: German jumping and
driving derby.

Aug. 2-24 — Mainz (RP): International
summer course, Mainz University:

Aug. 3-5 — Cologne (NRW): German Catho-
lic Youth, West German congress.

Aug. 3-6— Hamburg: Shoemakers' Asso-
ciation, meeting and exposition.

Aug. 3-7 — Aachen (NRW): Catholic Com-
mercial Women Employees’ Association,
convention,

Aug. 4— Bamberg (Bav): Chamber music
concert in Emperor's Hall, New Palace.

Aug. 4— Hanover (LS): 1951 international
flower show.

Aug. 4— Borkum (North Sea): Internation-
al dancing tournament.

Aug. 4-5 — M. Gladbach (NRW): Fancy
roller-skating (featuring champion team
of Baran-Falk); roller-skating hockey.

Aug. 4-5— Heidelberg (WB): Youth and
school children's regattas; German junior
championships,

Aug. 4-5 — Gersfeld-Rhoen (Hes): Millen-
nial festival.

Aug. 4-5—St. Goar (RP): Folk festival.
Aug. 4-5— Aachen (NRW): International
Border Land dog show.
Aug. 4-5 — Baden-Baden
Tailors’ Day, meeting.
Aug. 4-6 — Castrop-Rauxel (NRW): Marks-

men's outdoor festival.

Aug. 4-6 — Lindenfels (Bav):
costume festival.

Aug. 4-6— Neukirchen (Hes): 600th anni-
versary.

(SB): German

Castle and

Aug. 4-11 — Munich (Bav): 36th world
Esperanto congress.
ma INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
Aug. 4-11 — Neustadt (RP): Vacation course
for wine-growing and industry. .

Aug. 4-11—Burghausen (Bav): Traditional
Woehr Lake festival.

Aug. 4-12— Neustadt (RP): ‘'2,000 Years
of Palatinate Wine" festival.

Aug. 4-12 — Hamburg: International tennis
championships of Germany.

Aug. 4-18 — Munich (Bav): Electric indus-
try fair.

Aug. 4-26— Hamburg: ‘Hummel’ festival
during “Hamburg Dom"’ folk festival.
Aug. 4-Sept. 16— Darmstadt (Hes): “Man
and Space’ and ‘Darmstadt Discussion’’
expositions, showing architecture from
1901-1951; plastic, graphic, painting, art

crafts.

Aug. 5— Bad Aibling (Bav): Music contest
of 20 brass bands from Bavarian high-
lands.

Aug. 5—Bad Friedrichshall (WB): Mine
inspection at state salt works.

Aug. 5— Freiburg (SB): International mo-
torcycle racing on Schauinsland.

Aug. 5 — Hanover (LS): Horse-racing.

Aug. 5— Cologne (NRW): Bicycle endur-
ance and-sprint races.

Aug. 5— Bad Nauheim (Hes): Opera guest
performance,

Aug, 5-12 — Stuttgart (WB): International
“‘Mazdasnan”" (religious sect) conference.

Aug. 5-19—Bonn (NRW): International
summer course, Bonn University.

Aug. 5-26— Marburg (Hes): International
summer courses, Hessian universities and
academies. :

Aug. 5-31 — Cologne (NRW): International
summer course, Cologne University.

Aug. 5-Sept. 16 — Hanover (LS): ‘Flowers
and Gardens,’ exposition.

Aug. 6-8 — Heidelberg (WB): 37th regular
synod of Old-Catholic Church of Ger-
many.

Aug, 6-18 — Bonn (NRW): International
Friendship League, convention.

Aug. 7 — Essen (NRW): New York ‘'Rhein-

ischer Saengerbund’’ and Hans Sachs
chorus of Essen, concert.
Aug. 7 — Bad Pyrmont (NRW): Haydn

concert; W. Stoever, conductor.

Aug. 9—Bad Kissingen (Bav): Chamber
music concert; Heinz Schroeter, piano.

Aug. 9-10— Hanover (LS): German So-
ciety for Horticulture and Landscaping,
convention.

Aug. 9-12—Berlin: German canoe cham-
pionships.

Aug. 10 — Hanover (LS): Bicycle races.

Aug. 10-11 — Westerland/Sylt (North Sea):
International amateur dancing tourna-
ment.

Aug. 11—Bad Nauheim (Hes):
illumination,

Aug. 11 — Meersburg/Lake Constance (SB):
Town and castle illumination.

Aug. 11 — Munich (Bav): International
Hans Braun light athletics festival.

Aug. 11— Hanover (LS): Water ball cham-
pionships,

Aug. 11-12 — Mainz (RP): German rowing
championships.

Aug. 11-12 — Radolfzell (SB): Alemannian
day, folk festival.

Aug. 11-12 — Rothenburg ob der Tauber

Kurpark

(Bav): Hans Sachs plays; also “The
Masterdraught.”
Aug. 11-12—Bad Kissingen (Bav): 1951

“Rakoczy" well festival.
Aug. 11-19— Kronach/Frankenwald (Bav):
Outdoor folk festival.

Aug. 11-19 — Wejden (Bav): Traditional
outdoor folk festival, native costumes.
Aug. 12 — Hockenheim/Baden (WB): Inter-
national Rhine trophy motorcycle races

on Hockenheim track,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Aug. 12 — Ansbach (Bav): Rococo festival.

Aug, 12— Neustadt (RP): Palatinate cos-
tume festival.

Aug. 12 — Oberwesel (RP): Wine mart.

Aug. 12-19—Sylt (North Sea): ist Sylt
festival week; symphony concert; guest
performance, Berlin State Opera.

Aug. 12-22 — Hamburg: International youth ©

congress.

Aug. 13—Bad Nauheim (Hes): Chamber
music concert.

Aug. 13-18 — Wilhelmshaven (LS): German
Zoological Society, annual meeting.

Aug. 13-20 — Schwaebisch-Hall (WB): Ref-
ugee teachers’ congress.

Aug. 13-21— Bonn (NRW): International
Old-Catholic theologians’ conference.
Aug. 15— Bad Nenndorf (LS): Haydn con-

cert, ‘‘The Seasons."

Aug. 15 — Zeil am Harmersbach (Bav):
Pageant with historical freemen’'s militia
and women's costume groups.

Aug. 15— Aachen (NRW): International
riding, jumping and driving tournament.

Aug. 15-31 — Munich (Bav): Operetta festi-
val in Gaertner Theater.

Aug. 15-Sept 15— Tuebingen (NB): Inter-
national summer course, Tuebingen Uni-
versity.

Aug. 16 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Symphony
concert; Eric ten Bergh, piano; K. Tutein,
conductor.

Aug. 16-19 — Frankfurt (Hes): German
Watch and Clock Makers’ convention,
with trade fair.

Aug. 17-19— Cologne (NRW): German jun-
ior tennis championships.

Aug. 17-19— Hamburg: Sailing regatta on
Alster.

Aug. 17-19 — Hanover (LS): German ath-
letic championships.

Aug. 18 — Bamberg (Bav): Symphony con-
cert; Jos. Keilberth, conductor.

Aug. 18 — Borkum (North Sea): Inter-
national dancing tournament for the
Grand Prize of the North Sea.

Aug. 18-19 — Wetzlar (Hes): Light athletic
junior championships.

Aug. 18-24— Munich (Bav): International
Alpine automobile races.

Aug. 18-24 — Gelnhausen (Hes): 275th anni-
versary of Grimmelshausen's death.

Aug. 19 — Bingen (RP): ‘‘Rochus"'
festival,

Aug. 19 — Waldshut/Hochrhein (SB): ‘‘Chil-
bi" folk festival, native costumes.

Aug. 19— Aachen (NRW): Cathedral pa-
trons’ festival.

Aug. 19— Aachen (NRW): International
riding, jumping and driving tournament.

Aug. 19 — Frankfurt (Hes): Rowing regatta.

Aug. 19— Cologne (NRW): Bicycle stayer
and sprinter races,

Aug. 19 — Bad Nauheim (Hes): Operetta
performance, Wiesbaden State Theater.

folk

Aug. 19-26 — Baden-Baden (SB): Grand
Baden-Baden Week: horse and harness-
racing; international tennis and golf
tournaments.

Aug. 19—M. Gladbach (NRW): Harness-
racing.

Aug. 19-Sept. 6— Ratingen (NRW): 675th
anniversary.

Aug. 20-26 — Hamburg: International con-
gress of German dentists, exposition.

Aug, 20-Sept. 1— Cologne (NRW): Inter-
national summer course, Cologne Sports
College.

Aug. 21—Bad Pyrmont (NRW): Concert,
Brunswick State Music School.

Aug. 21-22 — Hamburg: ‘Harlem Globe-
trotters,’ two basketball games.

Aug. 23 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Vocal con-
cert; Hans Hopf, tenor; Willi Domgraf-
Fassbaender, baritone.

56

Aug, 23-25 — Bad Pyrmont (NRW): German
dancing instructors’ association, tourna-~
ment.

Aug, 23-26 — Berlin:
championships.
Aug. 24—Hanover (LS): German Dahlia

and Gladiola Society, meeting.

Aug. 24 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra, concert; Leopold Stokowski, ©
conductor.

Aug. 24 — Markgroeningen (WB): Historic
shepherds’ race.

Aug, 24-26 — Westerland/Sylt (North Sea):
International shore resorts tennis tourna-
ment.

Aug. 25-27 — Mainz (RP): Wine mart.

Aug. 25-27 — Hanover (LS): Textiles fair.

Aug. 25-28— Neuss (NRW): Outdoor folk
festival.

Aug. 25-Sept. 2 — Miltenberg (Bav): Lower
Franconian folk festival.

Aug, 25-Sept. 2— Worms (RP): Fish Fry, .
ancient folk festival,

Aug. 25-Sept. 30 — Stuttgart (WB): ‘Color’
exposition.

Aug. 26 — Markgroeningen (WB): Historic
shepherds’ race.

Aug. 26—Bad Harzburg (LS): St. Bartho-
lomew, outdoor folk festival.

Aug. 26— Kiedrich (NRW): St. Valentine
pilgrimage.

Aug. 26— Stuttgart (WB): International
solitude motorcycle races, Grand Prize of
Germany.

Aug. 26 — Duisburg (NRW): Handball con-
test, Germany vs. Sweden.

Aug. 26 — Hanover (LS): Bicycle races.

Aug. 26— Bad Nauheim (Hes): Symphony
concert.

Aug. 26-29— Heidelberg (WB): German
Society for Child Hygiene, convention.

Aug. 26-31 — Hanover (LS): German bowl-
ing championships.

Aug. 27 — Heideiberg (WB): Serenade con-
cert; Ludwigshafen Palatinate Orchestra;
B. Conz, conductor.

Aug, 27-29 — Mainz (RP): German Physio-
logical Society, meeting.

Aug. 27-31— Duesseldorf (NRW): Inter-
national music students’ congress; 1951
German music fair.

Aug. 29-31 -— Mainz (RP): German Society
for Physiological Chemistry, convention.

Aug. 29-Sept 2— Cologne (NRW): Rhenish
agricultural show.

Aug. 30 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Symphony
concert; Gerhard Taschmer, violin; K.
Tutein, conductor.

Aug, 30-31 — Bad Ems (RP): Golf champion-
ships.

Aug. 30-Sept. 1— Stuttgart (WB): German
carpenters’ and joiners’ convention; fur-
niture exposition.

Aug. 31-Sept. 2— Mainz (RP): Pharmaco-
logical Society, convention.

Aug, 31-Sept. 2— Bremen: German gym-
nastic championships.

Aug. 31-Sept. 3 — Luebeck (SH): 700th anni-
versary, St. Mary's Church.

Aug. 31-Sept. 3 —— Hamburg: German Metal
Smelting and Mining Association, meet-

International tennis

ing.

Aug. 31-Sept. 4—Trier (RP): German Asso-
ciation for the History of Medicine,
Natural Sciences and Techniques, con-*
vention,

Aug. 31-Sept. 8 — Bremen: ‘Agriculture
and Economics” exposition.

End of August — Trier (RP): German Wine
Growers’ Association, convention.

End of August — Wetzlar (Hes): Open air
concert, Haydn, ‘‘The Seasons.”

End of August — Krefeld (NRW): 1,900th
anniversary of Krefeld-Gellep. -+END

JULY 1951

--- Page 60 ---
In and Around Germany

Cities Chosen for New ECA Housing

The skill and energy of Germany's best architects,
engineers and contractors will be utilized in a new ECA
housing program to include the cities of Brunswick, Frank-
furt, Hanover, Mannheim, Munich and Nuremberg.

The cities were chosen following studies by the Federal
Ministry of Housing and ECA, Under consideration are a
number of other communities in addition to those in the
Ruhr district where ECA housing projects are already
under construction. City officials have been requested to
set aside many of their building regulations to give the
program directors a free hand in experimenting with cur-
rent housing needs.

The German building experts will be chosen by a 13-
member impartial committee, nine selected by the Hous-
ing Ministry and four by the ECA Mission. The competi-
tion, open to all architects and other building experts, will
close Sept. 1.

Construction of the several projects, to include 200 and
300 units, will be completely financed by ECA funds.
Ownership of the buildings will eventually be turned over
to cooperatives shared in by their occupants.

Model Community School near Realization

Germany's first major consolidated, unified community
school will soon be started in the town of Bergstrasse, in
Hesse. With a $200,000 grant from the HICOG Special

John M, Seus of the 7728 Claims Office Team, Munich,
stands proudly beside his car display.ing the red “K" em-
blem awarded by the Munich ‘‘Sueddeutsche Zeitung" to
drivers recommended for their politeness and good driving
by Munich citizens, Mr. Seus is the first American winner
of the “Kavalier am Steuer’ (Gentleman behind the
Wheel) award, which he received for helping an injured
bicyclist to a hospital and retrieving his damaged machine.
Onlookers reported the incident. (PRB OLCB photo)

Bee Bo Dy td rs na ae ata ana ae et ae

The famed “Richard Wagner in the World” exhibition was
opened recently in the rooms of the Munich Collecting
Point for artistic works. The exhibition has already been
shown at the Grand Opera in Paris, and will be sent to
the Festival of Britain, to Salzburg and Spain. Shown
looking at a picture of the famous composer are, 1.-r.,
Dr. Karl Ipser, Vienna art historian in charge of the
exhibition, Stefan P. Munsing, director of the US Informa-
tion Center, Munich, and Dr. Charles D. Winning, chief,
Public Affairs Division, OLCB. (PRB OLCB photo by Maske)

Projects Fund, the project, known as the Bergstrasse
School Village, will soon realize plans prepared almost
six years ago.

Under the Bergstrasse plan, it will be possible for a
child to start in kindergarten, go through elementary and
secondary school, and then on to a vocational or academic
school.

The plan consolidates parts of the elementary school
systems of three communities and unifies into one school
complex—under a single administration—a_ kinder-
garten, a school for retarded children, a secondary school,
and a home economics and agricultural vocational school.
The plan also provides facilities for adult education and
a community center. At the same time the “Village” will
serve as a demonstration school for the Teachers College
in Jugenheim, one of the three communities in the con-
solidation.

Berlin Youth Center Dedicated

Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner
for Germany, and Professor Ernst Reuter, governing may-
or of Berlin, were the main speakers at ceremonies mark-
ing dedication June 19 of the new Wannsee Center for
Youth Work in Berlin.

Renovation of the Wannsee Center was completed
recently with the aid of a DM 160,000 ($38,080) grant
from the HICOG Special Projects Fund. Also DM 40,000
($9,520) was allocated for the purchase of the center's
equipment and furniture by the federal government;

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner
for Germany, joins pupils of the Fifth Elementary School
in Steglitz during a study session in the Berlin school's
model classroom. Mrs. McCloy visited the school after
participating in ceremonies June 19 marking dedication
of the newly refurbished Wannsee Center for Youth Work

in Berlin, (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)
these funds were made available through the Berlin
Main Youth Office.

Nearly 4,500 youth leaders were trained in the old
quarters of the Wannsee Center, attending some 125
separate courses averaging one week in length. The new
facilities are expected to make possible training of 50 or
more candidates at one time. All courses are part of an
over-all leadership training program for youth.

The first course to be held in the new building is
already under way, according to the Berlin Element-
HICOG announcement. In a workshop-type study pro-
gram, 30 young persons representing all West Berlin
youth organizations are conducting research and discus-
sions on current problems and difficulties hindering ef-
fective education of youth leaders,

Schoo] Feeding Grant Completed

The final installment of the HICOG $2,000,000 grant to
Berlin's school-feeding program was paid over to city
officials recently. Under the program, one warm meal is
provided each day of the school year to 325,000 students
of all grades in West Berlin educational institutions.

Berlin Element educational officials report that the pro-
gram, financed by American funds for the third conse-
cutive year, not only contributes to the general health of
the students but actually improves their classroom effi-
ciency. For many the midday snack has meant the differ-
ence between hunger and sustaining nourishment.

CARE Delivering 800 New Packages

Centers of need in the state of Bremen and the British
Zone of Germany will be recipients of 800 newly created
CARE (Cooperative for American Relief in Europe) units
of food weighing 900 pounds each.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The Universities of Kiel, Muenster, Goettingen, Bonn,
Cologne and Hamburg were among the first institutions
to receive 10 units each. The packages have provided
their cafeterias with 300 free meals for a period of three
months.

Hospitals, orphanages and refugee-expellee camps will
also receive similar gifts in the near future.

The contents of these CARE packages — skimmed milk,
egg powder, dairy butter, cheddar cheese and dried pea
beans — stem from US surplus food purchased by the
US government and given outright to CARE for hungry
people abroad. Shipment of the food from its US sources
to CARE warehouses in Philadelphia was financed from
CARE surplus dividends. Ocean freight was paid by ECA, :

East Zone Writing “Personal Letters”

The personal touch is the latest device of the East zone
Communists in their ever-increasing efforts to flood West
Germany with propaganda, This latest media — personal
letters — is the result of pressure on Soviet Zone resi-
dents by local branches of the Communist SED (Socialist
Unity Party) to engage in private — but officially in-
spired — propaganda against the Allied forces and the
German government.

West Berliners and West Germans have been receiving
letters from Soviet Zone residents in the same profession,
calling for opposition to remilitarization and the policies
of "McCloy and his American and German underlings."

Purposes of the letters, all of which repeat the usual
Communist phrases, are to undermine the confidence of
the West Germans in their political parties and, in doing
so, to breed political apathy.

The handwritten letters contain no open threats and
are generally conciliatory in tone, They all end “in the
hope" that the recipients “will be conscious of their
responsibilities as honest Germans.” -+END

Dr. Haven Emerson (left), professor of Public Health at
Columbia University, examines a chart showing the
status of preventive medicine in Hesse, on his recent
arrival in Germany as chairman of the Unitarian Mission's
seven-man panel which is holding a series of public
health seminars with various authorities in Hesse and
other parts of the Federal Republic. Describing the sta-
tistical chart are Dr. Ludwig von Manger-Koenig, (center),
Hessian Ministry of Public Health, and Dr. Charles M.
Benning, chief of Public Health, OLCH. (PRB OLCH photo)

JULY 1951

--- Page 62 ---
Washington Report

US Troops Here “in Excellent Shape”
S TROOPS IN EUROPE are “in excellent shape,”
according to General J. Lawton Collins, US Army
chief of staff, on his return to the United States June 5
after a 10-day trip on which he visited troops in France,
Germany, Austria and Trieste.

“IT found our troops in excellent shape all along the
circuit," he told reporters. When asked how other
European armies looked to him, General Collins said he
did not have an opportunity to visit them all, but had
heard good reports.

Additional US Army units, General Collins added,
probably will be sailing for Europe within the next few
months. He said he has requested the additional forces
for Europe, but could not say when they would sail.

In addition to US forces amounting to two divisions
which have been on occupation duty in Europe for some
time, elements of the Fourth Infantry Division arrived in
Germany recently, with the balance of the division
scheduled to follow sdon. The Second Armored Division
was scheduled to sail for Europe in late June or early
July. Present plans call for shipping at least two more
divisions to Europe, raising to six divisions the total of
US troops committed to the European defense forces
under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

US troops in Europe are well supplied, General Collins
said, and he is “particularly pleased” with the type of
training they are getting. He said a concentrated effort is
being made on teaching night fighting tactics. His only

General J. Lawton Collins, US Army chief of staff, visited
the “tent city” camp of the newly-arrived Fourth Division
at Sandhofen on his recent two-day tour of US installations
in Germany. With him are Maj. Gen. Harlan N. Hartness
(center), Fourth Division commander, and Col. Maxwell

Emerson (right), commander at Sandhofen. —_ (US Army photo)

JULY 1951

59

criticism of training was that troops appeared to be mak-
ing too many manevver frontal attacks, rather than hold-
ing frontally and attacking from the flanks.

Illegal Eastward Trade Slowed Up

The Occupation Powers in western Germany are
achieving “substantial success’ in reducing exports of
strategic materials to eastern Europe, John J. McCloy,
US High Commissioner for Germany, told a group of
Senate investigators in Washington. People of the Federal
Republic, he added, generally oppose such exports, since
“they don't want—any more than we do—to put guns
and bullets into the hands of those who will shoot them.”

Mr. McCloy testified June 14 at a hearing of a Senate
interstate and foreign commerce subcommittee investi-
gating the flow of critical materials from the German
Federal Republic to Soviet Bloc countries.

Saying he did not want to speak specifically at an open
hearing, Mr. McCloy told the senators there was an in-
flux of Communist agents who have gold for purchasing
illegal Western exports, and who are doing everything
they can to induce shipments eastward.

He also noted that smuggling has been developed in
Europe for centuries and that experts in the field have
been operating in both zones of Germany for a consider-
able period. Mr. McCloy said it is hard to estimate illegal
trade between the two zones, but he had heard it was
about one-fifth the extent of legal trade.

The German government, Mr. McCloy said, has been
encouraged to establish and exert its own authority on
export controls. At first, he added, a decentralized pro-
cess of issuing export licenses was used, which lent it-
self to increased exports, but lessened control. After the
Allied High Commission exerted pressure on the Bonn
government, he added, the system was tightened and
eastern trade has dwindled.

He said western German trade now approximates
$6,000,000,000 a year, of which about half is in exports.
Of this, Mr. McCloy added, only 2.7 percent of all legal
exports are to eastern Europe, a decline he described as
an “enormous change.” He also told the senators, “We
are getting more from the East than the East is getting
from the West,” a comparison that is the ultimate factor in
determining the extent of success in controlling exports.

Throughout the customs and export control systems,
he said, a “great deal of tightening up of enforcement is
needed.’ Asked why this has not developed before now,
Mr. McCloy said the efforts of “top people” are just be-
ginning to show results.

Ruhr industrialists, Mr.McCloy said, are giving con-
siderable cooperation, with many offering voluntary as-
sistance to the High Commission in combatting illegal
exports. When asked what should be done to make con-
trols more effective, he offered these recommendations:

(1) More persuasion and insistence; (2) Constant inter-
views with and encouragement for German officials by
US officials to exercise the government's authority, and
(3) More prosecutions of export violators by the Ger-
man government.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
Members of US Army's specially-trained 7751 Military
Police Customs Unit cooperate with German customs po-
lice in examining trucks at US Sector checkpoint on the
super highway. Specially-assigned detachment went on duty
along US Sector-Soviet Zone border in Berlin on May 24,
1951. (PRB BE-HICOG photos, above and on back cover, by Schubert)

Mr. McCloy told the senators the Allied High Commis-
sion now has two objectives in Germany: Economic re-
habilitation and rebuilding of the political structure. In
the first, there has been a “major degree” of success, with
economic activity rising since the end of the war from
zero to from 120 to 130 percent of prewar peaks. On the
political side, an indigenous government has been estab-
lished for nearly two years. Noting that in forming their
own democratic structure the Germans had to start from
the beginning, he said:

“We have done everything we can possibly do to throw
responsibility on the government of Germany.”

Mr. McCloy also visited the White House June 14, in
company with Secretary of State Acheson. On leaving he
was asked for his views on the general European situa-
tion, particularly with respect to the possibility of war.

“There is nothing that I know that you do not know,"
he answered. “The tension is there. The potentials are
there. But I see nothing that is new, other than the gen-
eral buildup of strength, that would indicate the im-
mediacy of war.’ When asked whether strength buildup
indicated war possibility, Mr. McCloy replied: “We
know that the strength of the Eastern forces is being built
up and that causes a certain uneasiness. There is nothing
beyond that that indicates any immediate prospect."

Asked about progress toward rearming Germany, Mr.
McCloy said the first phases of conversations with Ger-
man officials have been completed and they represent
a constructive exchange of views.

Speaking at a press conference June 20, Mr. McCloy said
the government of the Federal Republic has shown great
development toward political maturity in the less than two
years it has been in existence in spite of an increase in
virulent propaganda from the Soviet Zone of Germany.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

60

Emphasizing that there is no question of the rearma-
ment of Germany, he said increases for Germany's de-
fense represented a contribution to an international force
for the defense of all Europe and that a substantial re-
sponse and willingness of the German people themselves
was necessary.

European-Federation Concept Encouraging

Henry F. Byroade, director of the Bureau of German
Affairs of the Department of State, expressed in Washing-
ton the belief that the concept of European federation,
regardless of what form it takes, is the most encouraging
factor in Europe today. He said that if democracy is
developed in Germany, the United States will not be
interested in controls. .

On the subject of arming Germany, Mr. Byroade said
the United States does not believe in conscripting a de-
feated enemy for military service against the will of that
people, and never did propose creation of German divi-
sions on any basis other than voluntary acceptance by
the German nation. He said he had opposed any form
of German rearmament because he thought it would be
acceptable neither to Germany nor to some allies of the
United States.

Mr. Byroade added that he changed his mind after the
Communist invasion of South Korea, which he said had
a tremendous effect on Europe, bringing conviction that
an international force to protect western Europe must
be made effective.

The concept of a common force, he added, had never
before been tried on the basis of each nation giving
away some of the control over its armed forces as es-
sential to the common defense of Europe.

Mr. Byroade’s audience consisted of 35 students from
Austria, Germany, Belgium, France, Finland, Greece,
Italy, West Indies, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden and
the Netherlands who have completed a year of scholar-
ship work in US preparatory and high schools. They were
brought to the United States by the American Field
Service International, a private organization, after dis-
playing qualities of potential leadership and ability to
work for mutual understanding.

German Envoy Thanks US for Aid

The first accredited representative to the United States
from a postwar German government expressed gratitude
for the help the United States has given his country since
the war.

The representative, Dr. Heinz L. Krekeler, presented
his letter of introduction as charge d'affaires for the Ger-
man Federal Republic to Secretary of State Acheson July 2
in Washington.

Talking to newsmen after being received by Mr.
Acheson, Mr. Krekeler, who has been functioning as Ger-
man consul-general in New York City, said:

“I feel deep gratitude for all the help the United States
has given our people since the war. It was not political.
We would have been a prey of Communism if this had
not been done. I have been here one year, and I have
received good cooperation.”

JULY 1951

--- Page 64 ---
Dr. Harry B. Wyman, chief of the HICOG-sponsored Edu-
cation Service Center in Berlin, shows books in the
“corner library’ of the new model classroom in Berlin's
Tenth Elementary School to some of its students. Model
classrooms are equipped with the latest in school furnish-
ings, including movable chairs and desks, and are set
up with financial support from HICOG. The Tenth School's
model classroom is the eighth to be opened in Berlin.

(PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

Dr. Krekeler will retain direction of the New York
consulate in addition to his duties as charge d'affaires.
He said, however, he will spend most of his future time
in Washington,

A State Department spokesman said Dr. Krekeler will
have diplomatic status, but without the rank of ambas-
sador or minister, and it is not considered likely that full
diplomatic relations will be established with the German
Federal Republic until after the Office of the Allied High
Commission is either changed or abolished.

US Friendship for All Peoples Affirmed

A resolution reaffirming the friendship of the American
people for all other peoples, including those of the Soviet
Union, has the final approval of the US Congress. Final
congressional action came June 4, when the House of
Representatives without opposition approved the resolu-
tion as previously passed by the Senate on May 4.

The resolution as adopted differs only slightly from
identical resolutions introduced in both houses of Con-
gress on Feb. 8. The original Senate resolution was spon-
sored by 23 senators from both major political parties and
was introduced by Senator Brien McMahon.

The House resolution was introduced by Rep. Abraham
Ribicoff, and sponsored by him and eight additional re-
presentatives of both parties.

The final resolution says ‘The goal of the American
people is now and ever has been a just and lasting peace."
It adds: “The deepest wish of our nation is to join with
all other nations in preserving the dignity of man and in
observing those moral principles which alone lend mean-
ing to his existence.’ The resolution also notes that the
United States “has given of its substance and resources
to help those peoples ravaged by war and poverty.

JULY 1951

“Terrible danger to all free peoples compels the United
States to undertake a vast program of armaments ex-
penditures... We rearm only with reluctance and would
prefer to devote our energies to peaceful pursuits.”

In the resolution the legislators state that the American
people regret the “artificial barriers which separate them
from the peoples of the Soviet Union and which prevent
the Soviet peoples from learning of the American people's
desire to live in friendship with all other peoples.

“The American people and their government desire
neither war with the Soviet Union nor the terrible con-
sequences of such a war,” the resolution says.

It observes further that “although they are firmly
determined to defend their freedom and security, the
American people welcome all honorable efforts to com-
pose the differences standing between the United States
Government and the Soviet Government and invite the
peoples of the Soviet Union to cooperate in a spirit of
friendship in this endeavor.”

During discussion in the House of Representatives, Rep.
Charles R. Howell (Dem., N.J.) said the desire for brother-
hood is strong in the hearts of the American people.

If this truth were available to the Soviet peoples, he said,
“IT am confident they would answer us in the same spirit."

Rep. Walter H. Judd (Rep., Minn.) said the resolution
“tells the truth about the American foreign policy."

US Secretary of State Acheson has called the resolu-
tions impressive for three things: Reaffirmation of friend-
ship for all peoples; the American people's desire for
peace; and the provision calling on the President to ask
the Soviet Government to make known the contents of
the resolution to the Soviet peoples.

“These words," he recently said, “point to the oppor-
tunity which the men of the Kremlin have of setting
affairs on a better course. No others are in such a position
to say the words and perform the acts which can either
strengthen or confound men’s hopes."

He also pointed out that the American people desire not
merely “peace,” but a “just and lasting’ peace. +END

Foreign students and guest professors of the Free Uni-
versity of Berlin gather informally in the students’ club-
house for a discussion sponsored by the university's
foreign relations committee. In group are an American
student, Harold Krause of New York (third from right,
rear); and three British students, Evelyn Elbogen (second
from left), London; Bryan Newton (third from left), Not-
tingham; and Leslie Whittome (right rear), London. Sixty-
five students from foreign countries are now studying at
the Free University. (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

--- Page 65 ---
(Continued from page 4)
Economic Prospects for Germany

Cooperation Agreement with the United States, one of
its first important sovereign acts. Germany also took her
place in Paris with the other European nations participat-
ing in the Marshall Plan in the Organization for European
Economic Codperation. There Germany was a partner in
the development and implementation of many programs
effective in increasing European trade and reducing the
need for American assistance. In September 1949, Ger-
many joined other countries in adjusting her foreign ex-
change rate as a part of a successful attempt to arrive at a
more rational and advantageous pattern of European and
world trade.

The Federal Government and Central Bank authorities
became increasingly concerned as unemployment rose
during 1949. The Central Bank had been preoccupied —
and rightly so — with preserving the stable internal
financial relationships which were the basis for maximiz-
ing revenue from exports. It was felt during 1949 that the
degree of monetary expansion required to eliminate the
largely structural unemployment might also produce in-
flationary pressures strong enough to dislocate Germany's
improving foreign payments position. Moreover, in the
winter of 1949-50, industrial production failed to increase
over several months for the first time since the currency
reform and unemployment rose to about 10 percent of the
labor force.

The bank and federal authorities decided in early 1950
that a moderate monetary expansion was necessary and
embarked upon a cautious program to combat unemploy-
ment which consisted mainly of removing existing credit
restrictions and supporting new investment. In the spring
of 1950 public budgets were in substantial deficit. Although
this condition came about by default rather than design,
it was influential with other factors in reducing unemploy-
ment and starting industrial output upward again.

Y JUNE 1950 THE GOAL of German economic re-

covery, if not clearly in sight, was no longer viewed
with skepticism. Employment was high. Aided by seasonal
factors and a construction boom, unemployment was
rapidly easing. Output was nearing three times its pre-
currency reform volume. Exports were climbing to a level
not thought possible two years before.

It was about this time that the European Payments
Union (EPU) was launched with full US support and with
Germany as a full-fledged member. One of the prime
objectives of the ECA has been to increase the free move-
ment of goods between European countries. The EPU was
to provide an institutional mechanism in support of this.
Concurrently with the establishment of the EPU, the
initial steps were taken to ex@end the list of goods which
would be imported by one Marshall Plan country from
another without quota restrictions. Western Germany was
one of the leaders in applying the liberalization measures
although her foreign exchange position was still very
weak. As a result she found herself on two different oc-
casions in serious payment difficulties.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

62

More than 100 Hessian teen-agers who departed in July
for a year's study in the United States pose with members |
of a team of experts who briefed them on America and
world problems. Members of the briefing team shown are, °
l-r., Professor Charles Dilley, exchanges chief, OLCH;
Dr. Ralph Burns, exchanges chief, HICOG; Dr. James
R. Newman, US state commissioner for Hesse, and Dr.
Eugene Fair, education chief, OLCH. (PRB OLCH photo)

Every effort was made by western Germany to avoid
the actual suspension of liberalization in order to prevent
the undesirable repercussions which such a move was
bound to have on those member countries which relied
heavily on the German market. At the outset almost
complete reliance for corrective action was placed on
monetary restrictions aimed at reducing internal pur-
chasing power and hence the demand for imports. By
making the home market less attractive it was hoped
that German producers would stimulate their efforts to
sell abroad. Nonetheless, the German balance with the
EPU countries deteriorated seriously last fall and com-
pelled a temporary suspension of import licensing.

As evidence of the spirit of cooperation of the other
Marshall-Plan countries, these nations extended a sub-
stantial credit to Germany in order to bridge her ex-
change difficulties. The special credit allowed her to
resume the liberalization of imports until the end of
February of this year. At that time the balance had
failed to show the hoped-for improvement, and another
suspension became necessary.

T IS WORTH NOTING that the Central Bank actually

was successful not only in curtailing the expansion of
commercial bank loans but was able to effect a moderate
reduction. Central Bank action, however, was inadequate
to turn the tide. It should also be pointed out that the
government and the Central Bank were severely crit-
icized in Germany for the severity of the measures insti-
tuted to rigidly control imports. This was done, however,
to leave no possible doubt as to the Federal Republic's
ability not only to stay within the limits of the special
credit but to insure that the credit would be repaid at an
early date.

It was feared that the sharp restrictions on bank credit
together with a reduction in the volume of imports would

JULY 1951

--- Page 66 ---
have a serious impact on the domestic economy. In parti-
cular, a fall in production could have aggravated the
unemployment problem. In retrospect, the situation was
not as serious as was believed in some quarters, The
huge increase in the demand for goods of virtually all
descriptions, resulting from the higher levels of economic
activity which had been achieved and reinforced by the
demands generated by the Korea outbreak, served to
keep business prospects at a high level. .

Even in the face of prospective and actual shortages of
goods required for current production, dismissals were
not widespread because of the universal belief that con-
tinued high levels of demand would prevail and that in
the final analysis sufficient raw materials would be on
hand, The labor market was also stimulated by the
spectacular rise in exports. The postwar high was re-
corded in April 1951 for both exports and industrial
production.

As severe as they appeared at the time the various
monetary and direct control measures instituted to re-
verse the critical payments deficit did not seriously impair
production and employment. At the same time they were
responsible in the main for the reversal in Germany's
EPU position. Commencing in March, Germany began to
develop an EPU surplus which in the meantime has con-
tinued in a magnitude sufficient to permit the repayment
in full of the special credit extended by the EPU coun-
tries much sooner than was originally anticipated.

At the present time Germany is still operating under
strict control of import licensing in order to hold im-
ports to a level which she can afford with her foreign
exchange reserves. If the trade situation develops fa-
vorably, it is hoped that Germany can return gradually
to full liberalization. Germany’s EPU difficulties have pro-
vided a valuable practical example of the possibilities of
European cooperation and have served to instill con-
fidence in the principle of international mutual assistance.

In the course of further progress toward the complete
removal of trade restrictions, other countries may well
find themselves in temporary foreign exchange difficul-
ties. Germany, however, must continue to be somewhat
more cautious than most other countries until she is able
to build up a sufficient reserve of foreign exchange to
ensure that she can bridge normal trade fluctuations with
her own resources.

HAT ARE THE IMMEDIATE PROSPECTS for the
future? At the present time the US Congress is re-
viewing in detail the basis upon which American assist-

ance will continue to be provided to free nations of the -

world. Two fundamental trends in thinking have emerged.
First, we will concentrate the granting of our assistance
to those nations which demonstrate their determination,
to expand their defense capacity and their cooperation in
the Western defense effort. Secondly, due account will
be taken of the need to maintain adequate living standards
in these countries.

Even though western Germany is not a formal partner
in the defense system it will doubtless be necessary for
her to cooperate in this vital undertaking if she is to be

JULY 1951

63

presumed to be eligible for obtaining scarce materials from
abroad and further assistance from the United States. In
this connection Germany faces many complex problems
common to other European nations.

It is clear that the increased public expenditures for the
organization and equipment of military units in other
countries and in Germany for the support of additional
Allied troops will lead to serious monetary and fiscal
problems. The increase of public expenditures means
that governments will be purchasing goods and services
in much greater amounts and will be competing for them
with the private sector. If governments increase their
expenditures without taking appropriate measures to re-
duce or limit the spending power of private individuals,
the total demand for scarce resources will increase. to
such an extent as to cause serious inflationary pressures.
An inflation would lead to a much higher direct cost of
goods to the government, and would cause dislocations
of commodity markets and great hardship for many seg-
ments of the population.

It is true that in Germany there still remain unemploy-
ed labor and plant capacity which can be used to in-
crease production and to meet to some extent the in-
creased demand. In spite of the pool of unemployed
workers and the existence of some unused production
capacity, existing shortages and production bottlenecks
will become acute if the defense program reaches any-
thing like the magnitude required to make it effective.
The most prominent shortages will in all likelihood be
coal, power, iron and steel and non-ferrous metals.

FURTHER PROBLEM RESULTING from the defense

effort involves the diversion of resources to defense
requirements. This will reduce German's ability to export
goods to other European countries, and to the outside
world. Consequently, the achievement of equilibrium in
the balance of payments will be delayed and American
dollar aid may therefore need to be continued for longer
than was originally expected. Such dollar aid would, of
course, not be granted merely because of the balance
of payments gap, but would depend.on the performance
of the country in building up and contributing to an
effective defense system. .

The ECA Missions in the various countries have urged
the governments to take the necessary steps to mobilize
their resources into defense channels. The measures so
advocated and undertaken by the governments have
been similar to those undertaken in the United States in
the past nine months, but on the whole less severe and
less comprehensive. In Germany, we have encouraged
the Federal Government to pass legislation giving the
Ministry of Economics wide powers to control the pro-
duction, processing, storage, supply and purchase of a
large number of scarce materials. A law providing such
powers was passed in May and is an important step in
guaranteeing that scarce materials will not be hoarded or
used for non-essential purposes. In the meantime, a
materials allocation agency has been set up headed by
a leading German businessman for the purpose of carry-
ing out the required measures. Needless to say, the ECA

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
Mission is watching: closely the performance of the
government in implementing this important piece of
legislation.

In all European countries, and in Germany in par-
ticular, the destruction and dislocations caused by the
last war have not- yet been completely overcome, and as
a result, particular production sectors are likely to be
the source of shortages before the maximum production
potential is reached. Such a situation will require that
the government take adequate measures to assure that
bottleneck sectors obtain enough investment funds and
are supplied with enough materials to expand their pro-
ductive capacity. D

In Germany this problem continues to be particularly
serious because of the slow formation of private capital
through savings. While the “sound money” policy of the
Central Bank has been designed to encourage savings,
taxes and consumer needs have by and large forestalled
such a development. .

The volume of counterpart funds available for in-
vestment is sharply declining as foreign assistance de-
lines. This means of directing investment thereby loses
some of its effectiveness. There is at present some re-
luctance on the part of the Central Bank to assist in
providing investment funds for such bottleneck in-
dustries as coal mining, iron and steel, electric power
and housing. Even if this attitude changes it will result
in new problems in connection with the control of com-
mercial bank lending. The provision of Central Bank
funds for direct investment tends to increase the reserves
and therefore the lending power of the commercial
banks. While it is possible to restrict lending by the
commercial banks through the usual weapons of raising
reserve requirements, refusing, if necessary, to rediscount
commercial paper, and exerting moral suasion, we none
the less will havea more difficult situation to deal with.

HILE PUBLIC BUDGETS have not, to date, con-

tributed significantly to economic instability, the
outlook for the immediate future is anything but favor-
able. At the same time that the ECA Mission urged the
institution of the various control measures necessary to
prepare for the defense effort, it was emphasized that
taxes should be increased. The German government is
faced with a large increase in occupation costs necessi-
tated by the increased strength of the Allied Forces
stationed in Germany. Parliament has, moreover, during
the course of recent months, passed a series of bills
providing for large outlays to cover higher social bene-
fits. The result is a prospective budgetary deficit of
sufficient size to seriously impair internal financial sta-
bility. The necessity to raise tax revenues must be faced
up to as a matter of urgency.

The payment of occupation costs represents Germany's
main direct contribution to defense. Unfortunately, con-
siderable opposition has been met within Germany when-
ever the question of increased occupation costs has been
raised. This hostility has been evident not only on the
part of the Social Democratic opposition, but on the part
of the government coalition parties as well. This critical

INFORMATION BULLETIN

64

attitude toward Allied military expenditures in Germany,
is retained: in spite of the fact that the German people
are well aware that the Western Allies are the only
force standing between them and the Soviet Union. The
hostility of the. government and the population to the
enactment of the tax measures needed for the higher
expenditures is attributable in part to the delay in includ-
ing Germany in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization -
as an equal member.

While it is clear that it will still be necessary to take
certain precautions in controlling Germany's military
development, it is equally clear that the Western de-
fense organization cannot be fully effective ‘unless
German resources are added to the common pool. It is
common knowledge that the Allied Powers intend to
replace the Occupation Statute with a contractual
agreement which will virtually restore Germany to the
status of a sovereign power. There are, however, a wide
range of extremely complex problems which must be
worked out to the mutual satisfaction of all parties. This.
is by its nature a very time consuming process. Pending
the conclusion of these agreements, there can be no
question but that it will be in the long term self intergst
of Germany to go forward rapidly with the reorientation
of internal policies to provide for direct support of the
defense effort.

T IS NOT YET CLEAR to what extent price controls

and rationing will be needed in the immediate future,
but the danger exists that, when defense expenditures get
into full swing, the scarcity of at least some consumer
goods will become great enough to require price ceilings
and rationing at different levels of production and distri-
bution. The control of prices may well need to be ex-
tended to wage payments in order to prevent an upward
spiral in wages and the prices of consumer goods. We
are urging the enactment of measures necessary to im-
plement such controls, so that they become effective im-
mediately when the need arises.

One of the elements of difficulty in ascertaining the
standard of defense performance of the nations eligible
for US assistance will be those expenditures which do
not directly support military units but which nevertheless
do tend to unify and strengthen the West or support its
common objectives. It is, for example, certainly the ob-
jective of the West to sustain the western sectors of
Berlin and to make possible an improvement in the eco-
nomic life of the city. Not only is a large share of the
counterpart funds generated in Germany used to support
Berlin, but the Federal Republic contributes a large sum
from its own budget.

A somewhat similar case involves the large budgetary
outlays required to improve the lot of those refugees who’
are living on only a subsistence level. One need not be
reminded of the explosive force inherent in a situation
whereby large numbers of a nation’s population is strug-
gling for survival.

It is again to Germany's credit that she is taking special
pains to expedite exports to NATO members and to give
the highest priority to military orders placed in Germany

JULY 1951

--- Page 68 ---
Nicolas Nabokov, Russian-born composer and president
of the executive committee of the Congress for Cultural
Freedom, lectures to a German-American audience at the
US Information Center in Berlin-Schoeneberg on “Music
in the Totalitarian State.” Mr. Nabokov is an American

citizen, (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)
to cover military requirements of the Allied Forces sta-
tioned there. Other European countries, however, are sup-
porting efforts of a similar character and in the final
analysis it may not be feasible to give more than nominal
credit for these activities.

An important part of tightening up our defenses will
be the control of the flow of strategic materials from Ger-
many to the Iron-Curtain countries, either directly across
the eastern border, or indirectly through other western coun-
tries. This program has achieved at least partial success
but efforts toward strengthening the controls must continue.

HILE OUR EMPHASIS has shifted to the wide range

of problems connected with German defense partici-
pation, we have not lost sight of the recovery problems, in
particular, increasing productivity, the absorption of un-
employed refugees and others into the economy, the con-
tinuation of the housing program, the industrial bottle-
necks, the balance of payments improvement and, of
course, raising living standards to the greatest extent com-
patible with the defense effort.

Many of the refugees have already found a place in the
western German economy and are no longer a burden.
But there remains a group of several million located in
areas where job opportunities are limited or non-existent
and who are discouraged from moving into industrial
areas by the shortage of housing. Because housing isa
key factor in moving labor to areas of low unemployment,
the German government and the ECA Mission have
made substantial funds available from counterpart and
other sources to finance housing in key areas. For
example, the most recent ECA counterpart investment
program provided a very large sum for the construction
of miners’ housing in the Ruhr.

The problem of bottlenecks in basic industries will
continue to plague us as over-all production rises and
makes greater demands on basic materials. Lifting the
production and capacity limitations on certain industries,

JULY 1951

65

which were imposed by the Occupying Powers, has done
something to solve this problem, but great difficulties
are still being faced in raising the level of coal produc-
tion high enough to support the larger industrial
output needed for defense and consumption purposes. The

‘supply of steel will depend as much on coal supplies as

on actual plant capacity, although capacity for produc-
ing particular kinds of steel, for example sheet steel, is
still very limited.

Assistance for Berlin remains one of the principal
areas of US activity in Germany, Although the dramatic
type of assistance afforded during the Airlift is fortuna-
tely no longer necessary, the problems of Berlin remain
critical, Unemployment is high and production low, The
causes are numerous: the separation of Berlin from the.
rest of free Germany, and its further subdivision into
two segments; the loss of the city’s principal industry,
government; the removal of machinery during the Rus-
sian occupation in the immediate postwar period; the
lingering effect of the blockade and the psychological
difficulties connecled with deliveries of Berlin exports.

It was obvious that unless remedial action were taken,
the Berlin economy would remain in a depressed con-
dition indefinitely; consequently, the ECA Mission drew
up a four-year investment program aimed at raising the
level of production, increasing employment by 220,000
and reducing Berlin's unfavorable trade balance. It was
believed that through a properly managed program of
investment, as contrasted to the relief assistance previ-
ously prevailing, Berlin could attain a degree of pros-
perity comparable to that prevailing in the rest of the
ECA participating area. This program already has been
initiated and it is hoped that funds become available for
its completion.

ONE OF THE GERMAN economic problems is by

any means insoluble. It cannot be repeated too often,
however, that there are physical limitations as to the rate
of progress which can be made. The first large steps
toward economic recovery come easier than those which
follow. The task of attaining recovery objectives has
already become more formidable by reason of the sacri-
fices inherent in a successful defense effort. Skillfully
directed and soundly conceived government policies
will become even more necessary to finish the job than
to start it. The government, the trade unions and business
management alike share the responsibility for demon-
strating to the broad masses of the population that the
rewards of economic reconstruction and the burden of
defense preparation will be equitably shared.

I hope that this brief commentary on a very large and
complex subject will enable those readers who are not
intimately familiar with the German economy to obtain a
better grasp of the current and prospective situation Al-
thoug amazing progress hasbeen achieved, formidable prob-
lems remain. We are confident, however, that all obstacles
to continued economic expansion will be overcome, and
that a dynamic German economy will provide the basis for
a significant German contribution to the common efforts
of the Western community of free nations. + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
Settlement of German Debts

(Text of Release of Allied High Commission, May 26, 1951)

The Governments of the United States,
the United Kingdom and France announced
May 26 plans for the settlement of German
prewar external debts and of debts for
economic assistance extended to Germany
since May 8, 1945, by the Occupying
Powers.

The announcement by the three govern-
ments was preceded by the transmission to
the German Federal Government and to a
number of interested countries of details of
procedure and principles for settlement.

The letter to the Federal Government was
transmitted via the Allied High Commission
and its text is attached. The letter was ac-
companied by the following documents
which have also been sent by the three
governments to interested countries:

1. Text of communication to interested
countries, entitled ‘The Settlement of
German External Debts."

2. Proposed procedure for the settlement.

3. Points of principle relating to the
settlement.

4, Technical questions also expected to
arise.

5. Terms of reference of the Tripartite
Commission on German Debts.

In addition, the Federal Government was
given a list of the interested countries
notified.

The letter to the Federal Government and
the communication to interested countries
were also accompanied by copies of the
exchange of letters in October 1950 and
March 1951 between the Allied High Com-
mission and the federal chancellor on the
subject of external German debts, These
texts were published at the time of the
first revision of the Occupation Statute *.

The full text of the communique of the
Governments of the United States, the
United Kingdom and France follows.

* OK OK

The Governments of the United States,
the United Kingdom and France have been
considering the problem of bringing about
a settlement of German debts as envisaged
by the agreement of March 6, 1951, with the
German Federal Government. They have
now transmitted to the Government of the
German Federal Republic and to the
governments of a number of interested
countries a communication which describes
a proposed procedure for arriving at a
settlement of Germany's prewar debts and
which outlines their present views on the
points of principle relating to it. A copy
of this communication, together with its
several enclosures, is being released
simultaneously.

It is proposed that a meeting of interested
parties, both governmental and private,
should be held in London in the autumn of
this year. To prepare for this meeting and
to represent their interests in the discus-
sions of the German debt problem, the
three governments have established a
Tripartite Commission on German Debts.
The commission will also represent their
interests in regard to the question of Ger-
many's debts arising from the postwar
economic assistance which the three gov-
ernments have extended to Germany.

* (Text published in Information Bulletin,
issue of April 1951, pages 65-63.)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The Tripartite Commission on German
Debts will carry on the work on German
debts hitherto performed by the Intergov-
ernmental Study Group on Germany, which
has now completed the various other tasks
assigned to it by the three governments.

* OK O*
May 23, 1951.
Ministerialdirektor Blankenhorn,
Office of the Chancellor of the
Federal Republic of Germany,
Palais Schaumburg, Bonn.
Sir,

I have been requested by the Govern-
ments of the United States, the United
Kingdom and France to forward to you a
communication regarding the settlement of
German external debts. This communica-
tion, including the supporting documents,
is attached hereto.

Accept, Sir, the assurance of my high
esteem.

J. E. SLATER,
Secretary General.
Enclosures:
1. As contemplated in the letter of

March 6 addressed to the German federal
chancellor by the Allied High Commission
on behalf of the Governments of France,
the United Kingdom and the United
States, regarding German indebtedness,
the three governments have now drawn
up proposals for working out arrangements
for an orderly over-all debt settlement.
These proposals comprise a tentative pro-
cedure, a statement of the present views
of the three governments on points of prin-
ciple and a list of certain technical ques-
tions requiring consideration, The relevant
documents are attached.

2. The three governments have estab-
lished in London a commission to be known
as the Tripartite Commission on German
Debts which will represent their interests
in the proposed discussions.

3. In accordance with the procedure en-
visaged, it is proposed that informal pre-
liminary meetings should be held in London
between the Tripartite Commission and
representatives of creditors in France, the
United Kingdom and the United States and
of the German Federal Government and of
German debtors. The meetings are planned
to begin on June 25, and to be concluded
by about the middle of July. It is proposed
that at first they should be attended by the
creditors’ representatives, and that a Ger-
man delegation should join the discussions
on July 5, The Governments of Belgium,
the Netherlands, Sweden and Switzerland
are being invited to send observers.

4, The German Federal Government is
accordingly invited to send a delegation
which, it is suggested, should also include
representatives of the principal classes of
German debtors to take part from July 5
onwards. It is hoped that the arrangements
proposed for these meetings will be con-
venient to the Federal Government.

5, The three governments also desire to
confirm their proposal that a short meeting
of Allied. representatives, including the
Tripartite Commission, with the German
Federal Government should be held in Ger-
many beginning on June 5, at which further
explanations on the proposed procedure
could be given. The meeting would also
provide an opportunity for a preliminary

66

reference to the question of the German
debts for postwar economic assistance.

6. The enclosures to this communication
are also being sent simultaneously to cer-
tain other interested governments and are
being furnished to creditor representatives
who are expected to attend the meetings in
June and July. They will be published

shortly. aA
*

The Settlement of German External
Debts (Enclosure 1)

1. The Governments of France, the United
Kingdom and the United States have reached
the conclusion in agreement with the Ger-
man Federal Government that the settle-
ment of German external debts is in the
interests of the restoration of normal eco-
nomic and financial relations between Ger-
many and other countries. They have also
agreed with the Federal Government that
interested governments, including that of
the Federal Republic, creditors and debtors,
shall participate in working out a settlement
plan in accordance with certain principles.

2. The exchange of letters which placed
this agreement on record, and the letter
from the Allied High Commission to the
German federal chancellor which preceded
it and which set out the views of the three
governments in regard to the settlement of
claims against Germany, were published on
March 6, 1951.

3. As recorded in this exchange of letters
of March 6, the three governments have
been engaged in preparing proposals for
the working out of arrangements for an
orderly over-all debt settlement which
would be fair and equitable to all the inter-
ests affected. They have now completed a
tentative procedure for arriving at accep-
table settlement arrangements, a statement
outlining their present views on points of
principle relating to the settlement, and a
list of certain technical questions requiring
consideration. The relevant documents,
which are attached as Enclosures 2, 3 and 4,
are intended to serve as a preliminary basis
for consultations later in the year. To pre-
pare for these consultations the three
governments intend to hold informal pre-
liminary meetings in order to obtain views
of some of the interested parties. Thereafter
further communications will be sent on the
subjects of the enclosures listed above, and
arrangements will be made for participation
in these consultations by representatives
of creditors and debtors, of the German
Federal Government and of the govern-
ments of countries having a significant
creditor interest.

4. The three governments, in order to
make an over-all settlement of German
debts possible, are prepared to modify the
priority of their claims in respect of the
postwar economic assistance which they
furnished to Germany, on condition that
the settlement plan is acceptable to them.

5. The arrangements contemplated relate
to Germany's prewar public and private
indebtedness and to the German debt arising
out of postwar economic assistance; they
do not relate to claims arising out of the
war, which can only be dealt with in con-
nection with a peace treaty.

6. The three governments have set up a
Tripartite Commission on German Debts to

JULY 1951

--- Page 70 ---
act.on their behalf in the necessary consul-
tations and negotiations. Its terms of ref-
erence are attached as Enclosure 5.

* OK OK

Proposed Procedure (Enclosure 2)

1. In order to arrive at a settlement of
German prewar and postwar external debts
in cooperation with the interested parties,
the three governments have worked out a
tentative procedure for organizing consul-
tations and negotiations, in which interested
governments, including the German Federal
Government, and representatives of debt-
ors and creditors, would take part. In the
meetings envisaged in this procedure the
three governments would be represented
through the Tripartite Commission on Ger-
man Debts.

2. The procedure is designed to lead to
the conclusion of an intergovernmental
agreement which would establish the gen-
eral conditions under which outstanding
debts would be settled between individual
debtors and creditors.

3. In the view of the three governments
the agreement should be arrived at in such
a way that its terms would be acceptable
to the various interests affected. This means
that representatives not only of govern-
ments but also of private creditor and debt-
or interests should have the opportunity to
participate fully in working out the gen-
eral settlement arrangements which would
form the basis of the agreement. Their
participation is in fact an essential step
toward and constitutes in itself an element
in the normalization of Germany's inter-
national relations. On the other hand in
view of their interests in the subject, the
three governments intend to participate
fully in each stage of the procedure.

4. The following procedure is proposed:

(a) Consultations between the three gov-
ernments and the German Federal Govern-
ment, the governments of other countries
with a significant creditor interest, and
representatives of creditors and debtors, on
the implications of the statement on points
of principle in Enclosure 3, on certain
technical issues listed in Enclosure 4, and
on the procedure itself. The purpose of the
consultations is to explain these matters
to the participants and to obtain their views
on them and upon the practical methods of
implementations, As a result of these consul-
tations, the three governments would revise
and elaborate the documents as necessary.

(b) Preparation of proposed settlement
arrangements by the interested parties. The
detailed organization of meetings for this
purpose and the procedure to be followed
will be discussed in the consultations refer-
red to above. It is, however, agreed that
the procedure should allow for direct nego-
tiations between representatives of debtors
and creditors and for full participation by
the Tripartite Commission acting on behalf
of the three governments.

(c) Conclusion of an intergovernmental
agreement which would enter into force
when signed and approved by the three
governments and the Government of the
Federal Republic and to which other govern-
ments would be able to accede.

5. The three governments have con-
sidered the best way of organizing the
consultations referred to in Paragraph 4 (a)
and believe that it is desirable that a
meeting should be held at which the inter-
ested parties, both governmental and pri-
vate, should have an opportunity of ex-
pressing their views. It is proposed that
such a meeting should be called in London
in the autumn of this year.

JULY 1951

6. In order to insure that this meeting is
productive and leads without undue delay
to the negotiations envisaged in Para-
graph 4 (b), adequate preparation must be
made. The three governments intend that
this preparation should include informal
meetings with German representatives and
with representatives of the principal credi-
tor groups in the three countries, to which
the governments of four other countries
which have a major creditor interest, name-
ly, Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden and
Switzerland, are being invited to appoint
observers. Such meetings will be. purely
preliminary and designed to explore the
issues and prepare the ground for the au-
tumn meeting. Governments of créditor
countries not represented will receive fur-
ther documents drawn up after these in-
formal meetings. It is hoped that through
the circulation of the present and later docu-
ments all interested governments will be
able to consult the private creditor interests
in their own countries and make adequate
preparation for their participation at the
autumn meeting.

7. Following a short visit to Bonn early
in June to explain the procedure to the Ger-
man Federal Government, the Tripartite
Commission will hold the preliminary in-
formal meetings referred to in Paragraph 6
in London at the end of June. Thereafter,
it will complete its own preparatory work,
and during August invitations will be is-
sued to the full consultations which it is
hoped will be held at the end of September.
The negotiation of the general settlement
arrangements and the preparation of the
intergovernmental agreement would follow
as soon as possible. .

* Ok Ok
Points of Principle (Enclosure 3)

I

1. The three governments acting in con-
formity with their responsibilities and by
reason of their position as the principal and
priority creditors of Germany, have agreed
with the Federal Government, in an ex-
change of letters of March 6, 1951, between
the federal chancellor and the Allied High
Commission that a debt settlement plan
should be worked out in the interest of the
re-establishment of normal economic rela-
tions between the Federal Republic and
other countries. The general purpose of this
plan would be to provide for the settlement
of the prewar external debts of Germany
and of German debtors and of the debts for
economic assistance extended to Germany
since May 8, 1945, by the three Occupying
Powers.

2. It is the view of the three governments
that, in order to further the re-establish-
ment of normal economic relations between
the Federal Republic and other countries,
the settlement should:

(a) Eliminate the state of default of Ger-
many to the utmost extent possible by suit-
able treatment of matured and maturing
debts and of arrears of interest.

(b) Lead to a situation which would per-
mit a return to normal debtor-creditor: re-
lationships by providing methods for set-
tling these debts by agreement between
the parties. B

(c) Be of such a character as to contribute
to the recovery of Germany's international
credit by the restoration of confidence in
her financial standing and reliability as a
borrower, while giving a reasonable assur-
ance that Germany will not again default
on her undertakings.

(d) Be compatible with and as far as pos-
sible facilitate Germany's eventual compli-
ance with obligations which members of

67

the International Monetary Fund and the
Organization for European Economic Co-
operation have assumed with regard to the
transfer of payments on current account,
including interest and earnings on invest
ments.

I

3. The three governments, which are also
Occupying Powers, have a special and con-
tinuing interest both in the attainment of
the above-mentioned objectives and in the
settlement arrangements adopted to pro-
mote them. They have indicated to the Fed-
eral Government in their letter of Oct. 23,
1950, which continues to represent their
views, that provided a settlement plan is
worked out which is acceptable to them,
they will modify the priority of their claims
in respect to postwar economic assistance
to the extent necessary to permit the ful-
fillment of such an agreed: plan. To be ac-
ceptable the plan must conform to the fol-
lowing principles:

(a) It should take into account the gen-
eral economic position of the Federal Re-
public; it should not dislocate the German
economy through undesirable effects on the
internal financial situation, nor unduly
drain existing or potential German foreign
exchange resources, and it should not add
appreciably to the financial burden of any
Occupying Power.

(b) It should provide for an orderly over-
all settlement of the debts to be included
in the plan and assure fair and equitable
treatment of all the interests affected, in-
cluding those of the Federal Government.

(c) It should be subject to revision as
soon as Germany is reunited and a final
peace settlement becomes possible, and
should be capable of adjustment in the light
of changed circumstances.

In the view of the three governments
agreed procedures and controls must also
be established to govern this settlement and
all payments made under it.

4, The settlement of debts can only be
put into effect by agreements between par-
ticular German debtors and their foreign
creditors, but the three governments have
agreed that such individual settlements
should conform to general settlement ar-
rangements which would reflect the fore-
going principles. These arrangements would
be arrived at in negotiations between re-
presentatives of creditors and debtors, the
Federal Government, the three governments,
and other interested governments, and
would be incorporated in an intergovern-
mental agreement. This agreement would
provide patterns for the latter agreements
between the individual debtors and credi-
tors. If a creditor does not wish to accept
settlement in accordance with one or other
of these patterns, then under the inter-
governmental agreement there would be no
present possibility of the debt being dis-
charged.

5. It is clear that a settlement plan of the
nature outlined above requires that all par-
ties be prepared to make sacrifices in the
interest of common agreement. It cannot
be expected that creditors will make sacri-
fices unless the Germans make real efforts
to meet their obligations and unless the
German Federal Government on its side
pursues such foreign exchange and internal
fiscal policies as will enable German obli-
gations to be met under the settlement
agreement. The Germans must also bear in
mind the heavy burden borne by many
other countries. On the other hand, other
creditors, like the three governments, will
have to give due regard to Germany’‘s pres-
ent and future economic position, the
other economic burdens which she has to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
bear, and the fact that she is still receiving
governmental economic assistance from
abroad.

6. The three governments will give due
consideration to the internal financial posi-
tion of Germany and the budgetary position
of the Federal Government, both of which
will be affected by certain problems such
as the impact of Western defense require-
ments.

Tl

7. The settlement plan should provide
that as a rule holders of existing debts de-
nominated in foreign currencies’should con-
tinue to hold obligations so denominated
which would be serviced in foreign ex-
change. It is, therefore, the amount which
Germany can afford to pay in foreign ex-
change that is likely to be the most im-
portant factor. At present Germany has
small foreign exchange reserves and is con-
tinuing to receive foreign aid or credit.
Although it is desirable that service on the
debts should be resumed at an early date,
it is evident that in the short run, while
Germany continues to receive foreign aid,
debt service on more than a limited scale
would add appreciably to the financial bur-
den of the three governments. It seems rea-
sonable to assume, however, that in the
long run Germany's external payments can
be balanced without the need for excep-
tional assistance. It is necessary, there-
fore, to make a distinction between what
Germany can pay in the immediate future
and what she can be expected to pay in
the long run.

8. It seems clear that Germany will have
sufficient resources to resume service pay-
ments on her external-debts under a reason-
able settlement arrangement provided that
she is determined to do-so and to accept
the sacrifices which may be necessary for
the sake of removing a serious obstacle to
good relationships with others, improving
her credit standing and opening the way
to normal sources of credit. On the other
hand, the volume of German prewar and
postwar foreign indebtedness will be dis-
proportionately large in relation to Ger-
many’s prospective ability to make pay-
ments thereon. Moreover, a large part of
the prewar debts has matured and con-
siderable amounts of interest are in arrears.
In view of these factors a realistic ap-
proach by the creditors to the problem
will be necessary, and this will probably
involve adjustments of the terms of the
debts. The methods and extent of such ad-
justments are matters which must be deter-
mined in the negotiation of the settlement
plan. :

Iv

9. Other questions for consideration arise
from the prospect that some creditors will
seek settlement of their debts in Deutsche
marks (DM). Consideration must be given
to what extent and under what conditions
it would be possible to permit settlement
in Deutsche marks of foreign currency
debts. It will be necessary to assure that
the plan provides equitable treatment be-
tween creditors who receive payment in
foreign currency and those who desire to
receive payment in Deutsche marks, and
among creditors holding different catego-
ries of German debts. To the extent that
any Deutsche-mark settlements may be per-
mitted, it is considered that the use of the
Deutsche marks received will have to be
controlled in order to reduce the potential
loss of foreign exchange to the German
economy and in order to channel the Deut-
sche marks into long-term investment in
Germany.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Vv

10. The most practicable method of ar-
riving at an equitable treatment of the
various creditor groups would seem to be
a process of negotiation among them with
a view to reaching agreement respecting
the treatment to be provided for the various
types of claims in the settlement plan.
Whatever method is adopted, however, the
three governments will wish to ensure that
the settlement arrangements do not lead to
inequity or preferential treatment as be-
tween some groups of creditors and others.
It will be the aim of the three governments
to see that all groups are properly repre-
sented, have a full opportunity to participate
in working out the arrangements, and agree
to the treatment of each type of claim in
the settlement arrangements as a whole.
They are agreed that the terms of the debt
settlement should not vary according to
the currencies in which obligations are
denominated.

VI

11, Although the settlement arrangements
must be sufficiently flexible to permit of
revision when Germany is reunited and to
allow the creditors to receive higher an-
nual payments as Germany's ability to make
payments improves, they should, never-
theless, provide a stable basis for future
financial relations by giving both creditor
and.debtor a clear picture of their expecta-
tions in the future. This aim would not be
achieved if there had to be frequent re-
negotiation of the terms of the settlement.
Therefore, the settlement plan should go as
far as possible in including provisions de-
signed to obviate the need of any early re-
negotiation, For this purpose it will be
necessary to provide in the plan for ad-
justment in the light of changes in the Ger-
mah economic situation and the manner in
which this can be achieved is a subject
which will require careful consideration
during the negotiations. The plan must in
any case clearly contemplate the pos-
sibility of renegotiation at such time as
Germany becomes reunited.

* OK OK
Technical Questions (Enclosure 4)

In connection with the establishment of a
plan for the settlement of German external
debts a number of questions are expected
to arise for consideration.

Among these are:

(1) Whether German debts owed to for-
eign creditors which may not be strictly
classifiable as external in character should
be included in the plan.

(2) Questions connected with the opera-
tions of the Konversionskasse (Conversion
Office) and Verrechnungskasse (Clearing
and Settlement Office).

(3) What debts of corporate bodies which
functioned as Reich agencies constitute
liabilities of the Reich.

(4) The extent of the liability of the
Federal Republic with regard to interest
and other charges which became due after
March 12, 1938, and before May 8, 1945, on
securities of the Government of Austria.

(5) Specific problems relating to the debts
of Prussia.

(6) Effect of the gold clause provisions
in specific German obligations.

* OK OK

Terms of Reference of the Tripartite
Commission on German Debts
(Enclosure 5)

1, The Governments of France, the United
Kingdom and the United States have de-

68

cided to establish a commission to be
known as the Tripartite Commission on
German Debts for the purpose of carrying
forward the work of the three governments
in preparing for the orderly over-all settle-
ment of German prewar debts and of the
German debt arising out of postwar eco-
nomic assistance, as envisaged in the
agreement of March 6, 1951, between the
three governments and the German Federal
Government. The commission will have
its headquarters in London.

2. The functions of the commission will be:

(a) To-serve as a means of coordinating
the policies of the three governments
regarding foreign-held German debts,

(b) To take the necessary steps so that a
plan for general settlement arrangements
for these debts is worked out in consulta-
tion with the German Federal Government
and other interested governments and with
representatives of creditors and debtors,
and so that the settlement arrangements
are embodied in an intergovernmental
agreement.

(c) To represent the three governments

(1) In the negotiations relative to these
settlement arrangements and the inter-
governmental agreement.

(2) In dealing with problems in connection
with the settlement of postwar debts for
economic assistance.

(d) To deal with such other matters
relative to German debts as are referred
to it by the three governments.

3. In carrying out these functions the
commission will be guided by the agreed
policies of the three governments, including
the principles relating to German debts
which were communicated to the chancellor
of the German Federal Republic in the
letter of Oct. 23, 1950, from the Allied
High Commission, and by the agreement
of March 6, 1951, between the three govern-
ments and the German Federal Government.

x OK OK

Schedule of Governments Notified
Concerning Debt Consultations

Afghanistan Jordan
Argentina Japan
Austria Korea
Australia Lebanon
Belgium Liberia
Bolivia Luxembourg
Bae Mexico
ata Netherlands
Ceylon Nepal
Chile New Zealand
Colombia Norway
Costa Rica Nicaragua
Cuba Pakistan
Denmark Panama
Dominican Republic Paraguay
Ecuador Peru
Egypt Republic of the
El Salvador Philippines
Ethiopia Pp
Finland ortugal
Saudi Arabia
Greece Fi
Guatemala Spain
Haiti Syria
Honduras Sweden
Holy See Switzerland
Iceland Thailand
India Turkey
Indonesia Trieste
Iran Union of South
Iraq Africa
Republic of Ireland Uruguay
Israel Venezuela
Italy Vietnam
former Italian Yugoslavia.
colonies -++END

JULY 1951

--- Page 72 ---
Newly-Enacted Laws .

HICOG Law No. 20

United States Court and Court of Appeals of the Allied High Commission for Germany

The United States High Commissioner
enacts as follows:

Article 1
United States Court

1. A United States Court of the Allied
High Commission for Germany is hereby
established for the United States Area of
Control for Germany, which term is defined
as comprising the states of Bremen, Ba-
varia, Hesse, Wuerttemberg-Baden and the
United States Sector of Berlin.

2. Except in cases falling within the pur-
view of Article 10, Section 1 of this law,
the United States Court shall exercise
original jurisdiction as provided by this
law. Judges of the United States Court
shall be known as United States Judges for
Germany.

3. A United States Judge for Germany
may sit as the United States Court to hear
and decide any case other than one which
must be heard before a three-judge court.
Three United States Judges for Germany
shall sit as the United States Court to hear
and decide any criminal case in which the
crime charged may be punished by death,
life imprisonment or confinement in a
penitentiary for life and in which the
chief attorney or his representative de-
clares his intention to recommend such
penalty. No sentence of death, life im-
prisonment or confinement in a penitentiary
for life shall be rendered by a United
States Judge for Germany sitting singly. A
majority of a three-judge court shall decide
any case before it; provided, however, that
imposition of a sentence of death shall be
unanimous, and shall be imposed only after
a unanimous finding of guilty.

4. In addition to or in lieu of any power
of sentence herein authorized, the United
States Court may make such order as is
authorized by law:

a. concerning any property or business
involved in an offense; or

b. concerning the person of the accused.

5. If an accused is charged with an offense
under German law, the United States Court
may, subject to Section 3 of this Article,
impose any penalty which is authorized by
such law.

6. The United States Court shall have
the power to modify or amend its findings,
sentence or judgment, or to order a new
trial if required in the interests of justice.
A motion for a new trial based on the
ground of newly-discovered evidence shall
be made not later than two years after
final judgment. A motion for a new trial
based on any other ground shall be made
within five days after judgment or within
such further time as the Court may fix
during the five-day period. The Court may
correct an illegal sentence at any time
and may reduce a sentence within 60 days
after sentence is imposed. Clerical mistakes
in judgments, orders or other parts of a
record and errors in the record arising
from oversight or omission may be cor-
rected by the Court at any time and after
such notice, if any, as the Court orders.

7. Subject to the provisions of Article 6,
Section 3 of this law, United States Judges
for Germany shall have power to ad-
minister oaths, to punish for contempt of
court (whether or not committed in their

JULY 1951

presence), to compel the attendance of
witnesses and order their detention, to
compel the production of documents, to
take depositions and to issue commissions
for the taking thereof, to receive and
execute commissions for the taking of
depositions, letters rogatory and rogatory
commissions on behalf of other courts, to
issue warrants of arrest and for search
and seizure, to admit to bail (except ‘in
the case of murder), to commit for trial,
and to exercise all other powers incidental
to the performance of their judicial func-
tions. United States Judges for Germany
shall have power to act on applications for
release from confinement, except as provid-
ed in Article 10, Section 1 of this law.

8. A record shall be made and kept of
all proceedings before the United States
Court, in such form as may be prescribed
pursuant to Article 3 of this law. Findings
of fact and conclusions of law shall be
made in all cases decided by the United
States Court, except in criminal cases in
which a plea of guilty has been accepted.

Article 2
United States Court of Appeals

1. A United States Court of Appeals of
the Allied High Commission for Germany
is -hereby established for the United States
Area of Control as defined in Article 1,
Section 1 of this law.

2. The Court of Appeals shall consist
of a chief justice and not fewer than two
associate justices, ‘together with such
United States Judges for Germany as may
be assigned to sit as Justices of the Court
of Appeals pursuant to Article 3 of this
law. The seat of the Court of Appeals shall
be at Frankfurt-on-Main. The Court shall
hold special sessions elsewhere in the
United States Area of Control when
directed so to do pursuant to Article 3 of
this law.

3. The Court of Appeals may sit in
panels consisting of not fewer than three
justices. A majority of the justices on
any panel shall constitute a quorum, and
the decision of the majority of the justices
on any panel shall constitute the decision
of the Court. The Chief Justice of the Court
of Appeals shall designate the members
of the panels of the Court, the presiding
justice thereof, and the times at which
the panels shall sit, and shall assign the
cases to be heard by each panel. The chief
justice shall be responsible for the assign-
ment among the justices of the Court of
all matters coming before the Court, and
he shall, in the event of his absence or
disability, designate an associate justice
to act as chief justice.

4, Except as provided in Article 6, Sec-
tion 3 of this law, justices of the Court
of Appeals shall have power to administer
oaths, to punish for contempt of court
(whether or not committed in their pres-
ence), to act on applications for release
from confinement, and to exercise all other
powers incidental to the performance of
their judicial functions.

5. Parties appearing before the Court of
Appeals either in person or by counsel shall
be entitled to submit briefs, and, by leave
of Court, to make oral arguments.

69

6. All opinions shall be reported in the
English and German languages, of which
the English shall be the official text, Sub-
ject to and consistent with applicable
legislation, directives and regulations, the
Court of Appeals may prescribe and publish
rules for the admission and discipline of
persons who shall be entitled to practice
in the United States Court and the United
States Court of Appeals of the Allied High
Commission for Germany.

Article 3
Administration of the Courts

1. A Judicial Committee shall supervise
the administration of the United States
Court and the United States Court of
Appeals of the Allied High Commission
for Germany. The Judicial Committee shall
consist of the chief justice of the Court
of Appeals, the general counsel of the.
United States High Commissioner, or his
nominee, an administrative officer of the
Courts who shall be appointed by the
United States High Commissioner and such
additional members as the United States
High Commissioner may appoint. The
chairman of the Judicial Committee shall
be designated by the United States High
Commissioner.

2. The Judicial Committee shall, when
necessary or appropriate:

a. assign United States Judges for Ger-
many to hold sessions of the United States
Court;

b. assign United States Judges for Ger-
many to three-judge courts sitting pursuant
to Article 1, Section 3 of this law;

c. prescribe the form and style of the
seal of the United States Court and the
Court of Appeals;

d. prescribe the form of civil and crim-
inal complaints, answers, motions, orders,
petitions for leave to appeal, appeal peti-
tions, and other formal papers which may
be filed in or issued by the United States
Court and the Court of Appeals;

e. prescribe and publish, consistently
with applicable laws, directives and regula-
tions, rules of practice and procedure and
schedules of fees and costs for the United
States Court and the Court of Appeals;

f. assign justices of the Court of Appeals
to sit as United States Judges for Germany,
and United States\Judges for Germany to
sit as associate justices of the Court of
Appeals, and determine the period during
which such justices and judges shall so
serve;

g. designate places other than Frankfurt-
on-Main where the Court of Appeals shall
hold special sessions; .

h. perform such other functions as the
United States High Commissioner may from
time to time direct.

3. The administrative officer of the Courts
shall recommend to the Judicial Committee
plans and methods for the exercise by the
Judicial Committee of the functions set
forth in Section 2 of this article, and shall,
unless otherwise directed, be responsible
for the implementation of decisions made
by the Judicial Committee to carry out
those functions.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 73 ---
4, Subject’ to the supervision and direc-
tion of the Judicial Committee, the ad-
ministrative officer of the Courts shall:

a. designate the places and times at
which sessions of the United States Court
shall be held;

b. prescribe the venue of actions in the
United States Court by specifying and
publishing the places in which actions
shall be brought and tried in the United
States Court;

c. designate a clerk-marshal of the Court
of’ Appeals, and a clerk-marshal or clerk-
marshals of the United States Court, and
such deputy clerk-marshals as may be
necessary;

d. designate the places at which the
clerk-marshals and their deputies shall con-
duct business;

e. exercise administrative supervision
over the conduct of the business of the
clerk-marshals and their deputies;

f. prescribe the records to be kept by
the clerk-marshals and their deputies, and,
subject to applicable directives of the
Office of the United States High Commis-
sioner, the measures to be taken by the
clerk-marshals and their deputies to ac-
count for and dispose of money or other
property deposited with them;

g. maintain a record of the volume and
kind of business of the United States Court
and of the Court of Appeals and require
the submission by such Courts, by clerk-
marshals and their deputies, and by the
chief attorney and his assistants of such
reports as may be necessary for the car-
rying out of this function;

h. perform such other functions as the
Judicial Committee or the United States
High Commissioner may from time to time
direct.

5. Subject to the provisions of Article 6,
Section 3 of this law, and with the consent
of the appropriate state commissioner or
of the United States Commander, Berlin,
the administrative officer of the courts
may, with the approval of the Judicial
Committee, empower officials other than
United States Judges for Germany to issue
warrants of arrest and for search and
seizure, to compel the attendance of wit-
nesses and the production of documents,
to admit to bail (except in the case of
murder), to administer oaths and to commit
for trial.

Article 4
Authority of the Clerk-Marshals

The clerk-marshals of the United States
Court and of the United States Court of
Appeals of the Allied High Commission
for Germany and their deputies shall be
authorized, on behalf of their respective
Courts, to authenticate documents, to affix
the seal of such Courts, to administer
oaths, and, subject to the provisions of
Article 6, Section 3 of this law, to summon
witnesses and to enforce the orders of such
Courts,

_ Article 5
Chief Attorney

1. Except as otherwise ordered by, or
under the authority of, the United States
High Commissioner, a chief attorney for
the United States Area of Control shall
be responsible for the prosecution of all
criminal cases in the United States Court
and the United States Court of Appeals of
the Allied High Commission for Germany
and shall represent the United States High
Commissioner and any agency of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

Allied High Commission in all civil cases
in which they may be parties in the United
States Court and in the Court of Appeals.

2. The chief attorney may be assisted
in the discharge of his duties by one or
more attorneys, and he may designate
such attorneys to appear for him in all
cases in which he is authorized to appear.

Article 6
Jurisdiction in Criminal Cases

1. Subject to the provisions of Sections 2
and 3 of this article, the United States
Court of the Allied High Commission for
Germany’ shall have jurisdiction to hear
and decide any criminal case arising under:

a. any applicable legislation of the Con-
trol Council for Germany or of United
States Military Government;

b. any applicable legislation of the Allied
High Commission for Germany, the Berlin
Allied Kommandatura, the United States
High Commissioner for Germany, the
United States Commander, Berlin, and,
with respect to offenses committed in the
British or French Areas of Control, any
applicable legislation in effect in the area
of control in which the offense is com-
mitted;

c. any applicable German law.

2. Subject to the provisions of Section 3
of this article, the United States Court
shall have jurisdiction over any person in
the United States Area of Control with
respect to any case referred to in Section 1
of this article if:

a, the offense is committed in the United
States Area of Control; or

b. the offense is committed within the
area of Greater Berlin; or

c, the offense is committed within the
Bonn Enclave or the British or French Zones
of Occupation and the person alleged to
have committed the offense is delivered to
United States Occupation Authorities pur-
suant to Article III of the Bonn Enclave
Statite or to Article 4 of Allied High Com-
mission Law No. 31.

3. Military, Naval or Air Force personnel
of the Armed Forces of the United States
shall not be brought to trial for any offense
in, or be subject to the powers of, the
United States Court as set forth in Article 1,
Section 7; or to the powers of the United
States Court of Appeals of the Allied High
Commission for Germany as set forth in
Article 2, Section 4 of this law, except
upon the authorization of the Commander-
in-Chief, European Command. The United
States Court and the Court of Appeals
shall not review, or exercise any jurisdic-
tion with respect to, any decision of any
court or commission appointed by a mili-
tary commander or any matter or pro-
ceeding pending before such court or com-
mission. Military, Naval or Air Force per-
sonnel serving with the forces of any country
other than the United States shall not be
brought to trial for any offense, or be
required to attend or be detained as
witnesses or be required to produce any
documents.

Article 7
Jurisdiction in Civil Cases

1, The United States Court of the Allied
High Commission for Germany shall have
civil jurisdiction to hear and decide any
claim arising in law, equity or admiralty
in any case in which any member of the
Allied Forces (as defined in HICOG Law
No. 6) or a person accredited to the Com-

70

mander-in-Chief, European Command or the
United States High Commissioner for Ger-
many is a proper party; provided, however,
that the United States Court of the Allied
High Commission for Germany shall not
have jurisdiction to hear and decide claims
for slander, libel, insult, false arrest or
imprisonment, malicious prosecution, seduc- -
tion, loss of right of consortium, alienation
of affections, breach of promise to marry,
divorce, dissolution or annulment of mar-
riage or proceedings to establish the
paternity of or liability for the maintenance
of illegitimate children, and local actions
arising elsewhere than in the United States
Area of Control, as defined in Article 1 of
this law, or the area of Greater Berlin.

2. The United States Court shall have
jurisdiction to hear and decide proceedings
in rem brought by the United States High
Commissioner for Germany to enforce
penalties and forfeitures.

3. In the adjudication of claims of exemp-
tion from levy and sale under a writ of
execution, and in attachment and garnish-
ment proceedings, the law of the domicile
of the judgment debtor shall control.

4, In cases of actual controversy within
the competence of the United States Court
to adjudicate, the Court shall have power
upon complaint, or other appropriate
pleadings, to declare rights or other legal
relations of any interested party petition-
ing for such declaration whether or not
further relief is or could be, prayed. Any
such declaration shall have the force and
effect of a final judgment or decree and
shall be reviewable as such.

5. Periods of limitations for the bringing
of civil actions shall be as prescribed by
German law except that, with respect to
any cause of action in existence on the
effective date of HICOG Law No. 10, which
would have been governed by the pro-
visions of Paragraph 15 of Military Govern-
ment Ordinance No. 6, as amended, the
provisions of said Paragraph 15 shall con-
tinue to govern.

6. Judgments for damages shall be. in
German legal tender and shall have the
same force and effect as valid judgments
rendered by German courts of competent
jurisdiction in the United States Zone;
provided however that if at the time of
entry of final judgment all parties to a suit
are nationals of the United States, depend-
ents of nationals of the United States, or
juristic persons who are nationals of the
United States, or, in tort actions arising
out of the operation of motor vehicles, if
all the parties:

a. have, at the time of entry of final
judgment, legal access to dollar instru-
ments,

b. have registered, and at the time the
cause of action arose, had registered, their
vehicles with the appropriate military
authorities, and

c. were required in connection with such
registration to purchase compulsory liabil-
ity insurance, the premiums on which are
payable in dollar instruments,
the judgments shall be expressed in United
States dollars; but the Court shall have
discretion, in cases falling within this
proviso, to order judgment to be expressed
in German legal tender if the Court finds
that the judgment would otherwise work
injustice on the party against whom it is
rendered.

7. No execution shall be issued and no
levy shall be made under any execution,

JULY 1951

--- Page 74 ---
based upon a judgment more than six years
old. No action shall be brought upon any
judgment after six years from the date of
its rendition.

Article 8

Civil and Criminal Jurisdiction
as Rhine Navigation Courts

1, The United States Court of the Allied
High Commission for Germany shall have
criminal jurisdiction in all cases excluded
from the original jurisdiction of German
Rhine Navigation Courts pursuant to the
provisions of Allied High Commission Law
No. 13 and HICOG Law No. 6.

2. Subject to the provisions of Section 1
of this article, the United States Court
shall have competence to sit as a Rhine
Navigation Court for the purposes of the
revised Rhine Navigation Act of Oct.
17, 1868 (Preussisches Gesetzblatt 1869,
page 798), as amended.

3. Subject to the provisions of Section 1
of this article, the United States Court
shall have criminal jurisdiction to in-
vestigate and punish all violations of reg-
ulations concerning navigation and the
policing of the river, to impose fines upon
conviction thereof of not less than DM 50
and not more than DM 1,000, and in
default of payment to impose a term of
imprisonment not exceeding one month.

4, Subject to the provisions of Section 1
of this article, the United States Court
shall have civil jurisdiction to decide, in
summary proceedings, actions:

a. concerning the payment and the
amount of pilot fees, cranage, weighing
fees, harbor and pier dues;

b. concerning obstructions placed by
individuals on the tow path;

c. concerning damages to others caused
by boatmen or raftsmen during a voyage
or while landing;

d. concerning claims against the owners
of horses used in towing boats upstream
for damages to landed property.

5. Appeals from decisions of the United
States Court sitting as a Rhine Navigation
Court shall be made to the Commission
Centrale du Rhin, as prescribed by Article
37 of the revised Rhine Navigation Act.

6. The provisions of Article 6 and of
Article 7, Section 1 of this law shall govern
the jurisdiction of the United States Court
acting as a Rhine Navigation Court. In
exercising such jurisdiction the Court shall
be governed by relevant German legislation
applicable to Rhine Navigation Courts in
effect immediately before Nov. 14, 1936,
in so far as such legislation is not incon-
sistent with the provisions of this article.

Article 9
Process

Process, which shall include summons,
subpoena and other writs provided for
issuance by the Courts, shall be in such
form as the Judicial Committee may pre-
scribe and shall run throughout the United
States Area of Control.

Article 10
Jurisdiction of the Court of Appeals

1. The United States Court of Appeals
of the Allied High Commission for Ger-
many shall have original jurisdiction to
act on applications for release from con-
finement when the petitioner is confined
by virtue of a sentence of the United
States Court of the Allied High Commission
for Germany imposed by a three-judge

JULY 1951

court pursuant to Article 1, Section 3 of
this law.

2. The Court of Appeals shall have ap-
pellate jurisdiction to consider on appeal
final orders of individual justices of the
Court of Appeals and final judgments and
orders of the United States Court and of
individual United States Judges for Ger-
many, except as provided in Article 8,
Section 5 of this law. The appeal may
include both questions of law and of fact;
provided, however, that in dealing with
questions of fact in either a civil or
criminal case, the Court shall not set aside
or reverse a judgment or order if it is sup-
ported by any substantial evidence.

3. The Court of Appeals shall grant leave
to appeal in any criminal case upon ap-
plication of the person or persons con-
victed, or in any civil case upon appli-
cation of any party or parties thereto,
if it appears that the decision of the United
States Court is in conflict with a decision
of the Court of Appeals, or that there has
been a denial of due process of law or
that an important question of law is
presented, or that substantial rights of any
party making application for appeal have
been prejudiced.

4. In any criminal case in which the
United States Court has imposed a penalty
of 10 years or more, the Court of Appeals,
upon application of the person or persons
convicted, shall grant leave to appeal.

5. Even though no petition for appeal is
filed, the Court of Appeal shall review
every case in which the United States
Court has imposed a sentence of death,
life imprisonment or confinement in a
penitentiary for life in the same way as if
the defendant had prayed and been granted
leave to appeal.

6. The Court of Appeals may grant leave
to appeal in any criminal case upon ap-
plication of the chief attorney upon any
questions of law arising at the trial in the
same manner and to the same effect as if
such request for leave to appeal had been
made by the defendant. A decision upon
any such appeal shall not modify the
judgment or sentence of the United States
Court to the prejudice of the defendant.

7. Even though no petition is filed for
appeal from a judgment or order of the
United States Court, the Court of Appeals
may call up and review any criminal case
in which it appears that substantial rights
of a defendant may have been prejudiced.

8. Upon any appeal or review, the Court
of Appeals may reduce the sentence, vacate
the findings in whole or in part, enter a
judgment for the defendant or set the
judgment or findings and sentence aside
and order a new trial, and issue any other
order or orders appropriate in the circum-
stances. In any case on review under Sec-
tion 7 of this article, if a new trial is
ordered and such new trial results in a
conviction, the sentence may not be in-
creased.

Article 11

Cases Removed or Transferred
from German Courts

1. The powers conferred upon the United
States Court and the United States Court
of Appeals of the Allied High Commission
for Germany under this law may be exer-
cised by said Courts in any case removed,
transferred or referred to said Courts from
a German court under Article 6 of HICOG
Law No. 6, as amended, or under Allied
Kommandatura Law No. 7.

71

2. In addition to the powers referred to
in Section 1 of this article, and notwith-
standing any other provisions of this or
any other law of the United States High
Commissioner;

a. in any case so transferred from a Ger-
man court to the United States Court, the
Court may suspend for a definite or in-
definite period, declare null and void or
invalidate as of any date, in whole or in
part, any proceedings, rulings or judg-
ments of the German court and may
proceed de novo or otherwise, with trial,
adjudication, or other appropriate disposi-
tion of such case.

b. In any case so referred from a German
court to the Court of Appeals, the Court
of Appeals may suspend for a definite or
indefinite period, declare null and void or
invalidate as of any date, in whole or in
part, any proceedings, sentences or inter-
locutory or final judgments, decrees or
orders of the German court, and may pro-
ceed with final adjudication or other appro-
priate disposition of such case or may re-
mand such case to a German court with
instructions for disposition. The Court of
Appeals may remand any such case to the
United States Court with instructions for
disposition.

3. The United States Court and the Court
of Appeals shall have, in any case removed,
transferred or referred to them from Ger-
man courts, in addition to the jurisdiction
otherwise conferred by this law, all juris-
diction over persons and subject matter
which, under German law, the German
court in which the case was originally
instituted would have had but for the pro-
visions of Allied High Commission Law
No. 13 and the exercise of the powers of
removal and intervention afforded by Ar-
ticle 6 of HICOG Law No. 6 and but for
the provisions of Allied Kommandatura Law
No. 7 and the exercise of such powers
thereunder. In addition thereto, the United
States Court and the Court of Appeals shall
have the power to determine the jurisdic-
tion of the German court over persons and
subject matter in the case so removed.

Article 12
Personnel of the Courts

1. The chief justice and associate justices
of the United States Court of Appeals of
the Allied High Commission for Germany
shall be appointed by the United States
High Commissioner. United States Judges
for Germany and the chief attorney shall
be appointed by or under the authority of
the United States High Commissioner. Ter-
mination of such appointments shall be
subject to applicable United States Foreign
Service acts and regulations.

2. All justices and judges appointed shall
take the following oath before performing
the duties of their respective offices:

“I swear (or affirm) that I will at all
times administer justice without fear or
favor to all persons of whatever creed,
race, color, or political opinion they may
be, that I will do equal right to the poor
and to the rich and that I will faithfully
and impartially discharge and perform all
the duties incumbent upon me as.......
according to law and to the best of my abi
ities and understanding (So help me God)."
The United States High Commissioner or
his representative shall administer the oath
to the chief justice and associate justices
of the Court of Appeals. A justice of the
Court of Appeals shall administer the oath
to United States Judges for Germany.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
3, Subject to Section 1 of this article, the
chief justice and all justices, judges and
magistrates now serving in the system of
Courts established for the United States
Area of Control by HICOG Law No. 10
shall hold office under this law as follows,
and need not be reappointed under this law.

a. The chief justice of the Court of Ap-
peals serving under Law No. 10 shall be
the chief justice of the United States Court
of Appeals of the Allied High Commission
for Ggetiay:

b. Associate justices of the Court of Ap-
peals serving under Law No. 10 shall be
associate justices of the United States Court
of Appeals of the Allied High Commission
for Germany; and

c. District judges and magistrates of the
District Courts serving under Law No. 10
shall be judges of the United States Court
of the Allied High Commission for Ger-
many.

Article 13
Qualifications of Personnel of the Courts

1. The chief justice and associate justices
of the United States Court of Appeals of
the Allied High Commission for Germany
and United States Judges for Germany shall
be graduates in law and members in good
standing of the bar of one of the states of
the United States or of the District of Col-
umbia, and shall have been engaged in
active legal work (as an attorney at law, as
judge of a court of record or as a teacher

of law at a law school approved by the
American Bar Association) for at least:

a. 10 years in the cases of the chief
justice and associate justices of the Court
of Appeals;

b. five years in the cases of United States
Judges for Germany.

2. The above qualifications may be waiv-
ed by the United States High Commissioner
in any particular case.

Article 14
Repeals and Transitional Provisions

1, HICOG Law No. 10 is hereby repealed.
All matters pending, on the effective date
of this law, in the courts established by
Law No. 10 shall be concluded and disposed
of in the United States Court, or in the
Court of Appeals, of the Allied High Com-
mission for Germany, as may be appro-
priate, and all proceedings in such matters
after the effective date of this law shall
be governed by applicable provisions of
this law.

2. Cases commenced or tried before a
magistrate under Law No. 10 shall be treat-
ed as though commenced or tried under
this law before a United States Judge for
Germany.

3. On the effective date of this law:

a. a United States Judge for Germany
shall exercise all powers heretofore vested
in a magistrate or district judge;

b. the words “District Court’ as hereto-
fore used shall be deemed to refer to the
United States Court; and

c. the words ‘‘United States Courts of the
Allied High Commission for Germany" as
heretofore used shall, except as provided
in Article 8, Section 4 of HICOG Law No. 21,
be deemed to refer to the United States
Court and the Court of Appeals.

4, The United States Court shall have,
with respect to any case tried and decided
by a court established by Military Gov-
ernment Ordinance No. 31, as amended, or
by HICOG Law No. 19, the powers speci-
fied in Article 1, Section 6 of this law.

5. If any provision of any Military Gov-
ernment or HICOG legislation or regulation
is in conflict with any provision of this
law, such provision of this law shall
prevail.

Article 15
Effective Date and Area of Applicability

This law is applicable within the states
of Bavaria, Bremen, Hesse and Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, and shall become effective
there on the date of its publication in the
Official Gazette of the Allied High Com-
mission. The law is also applicable within
the United States Sector of Berlin and shall
become effective there on the date of its
publication in the Official Gazette of the
Allied Kommandatura, Berlin.

Done at

Frankfurt-on-Main, May 24, 1951. +END

Notice No. 1 — Under HICOG Law No. 20

Venue in the United States Court of the Allied High Commission for Germany

Article I

Pursuant to Article 3, Section 4b of
HICOG Law No. 20, it is hereby ordered
that except as hereinafter provided criminal
cases shall be tried in the area in which
the alleged offense was committed and
civil cases may be tried in the area:

a. in which the defendant resides, is
stationed, or is served with process; or, if
a juristic person, has a place of business;
or

b. in the area in which the cause of
action arose; or

c. in the area in which property which
is the subject of the litigation is situated.

Article IT

The United States Area of Control is
hereby divided into areas for the sole pur-
pose of establishing venue in the United
States Court of the Allied High Commis-
sion for Germany, as follows:

Area I: Comprised of the state of Brem-
en; the principal seat of the court shall
be at Bremen.

Area II: Comprised of the United States
Sector of Berlin; the principal seat of the
court shall be in the United States Sector
of Berlin.

Area III: Comprised of the state of
Hesse; the principal seat of the court shall
be at Frankfurt.

Area IV: Comprised of the state of
Wuerttemberg-Baden; the principal seat of
the court shall be at Stuttgart.

Area V: Comprised of Regierungsbezirke
(governmental districts) Upper Bavaria and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Swabia; the principal seat of the court
shall be at Munich.

Area VI: Comprised of Regierungsbezirke
(governmental districts) Lower Bavaria and
Upper Palatinate; the principal seat of the
court shall be at Regensburg.

Area VII: Comprised of Regierungsbezirke
(governmental districts) Upper Franconia,
Middle Franconia and Lower Franconia;
the principal seat of the court shall be at
Nuremberg.

Article TIT

1, Any criminal case in which the alleged
offense was committed in the area of
Greater Berlin shall be tried in the United
States Sector of Berlin.

2. Any criminal case in which the alleged
offense was committed within the Bonn
Enclave, or within the British or French
Zone of Occupation of Germany shall be
tried by the United States Court of the
Allied High Commission in Area III.

3. Any civil case in which the cause of
action arose within the Bonn Enclave, or
within the British or French Zone of Oc-
cupation of Germany may be tried by the
United States Court of the Allied High
Commission in Area III, or, alternatively,
in the United States Court of the Allied
High Commission in which the defendant
is served with process.

4, Criminal and civil cases under the
Revised Rhine Navigation Act of Oct.
17, 1868, as amended, shall be tried by
the United States Court of the Allied High
Commission in either Area III or Area IV

72

as determined by Article 35 of the Revis-
ed Rhine Navigation Act.

5, With respect to any case transferred
to a United States Court of the Allied
High Commission, as described in Article
11 of HICOG Law No. 20, the case shall
be tried in the United States Court of the
Allied High Commission in the area in
which is located the German court from
which such case was transferred, and in
Greater Berlin in the United States Court
of the Allied High Commission in Area II.

6. The hearing of any proceeding provid-
ed for under HICOG Law No. 11 (Repatria-
tion and Resettlement of Unaccompanied
Displaced Children) shall be held in the
United States Court of the Allied High
Commission in the area in which the
ordinary residence of the child is locat-
ed at the time of the institution of the
proceedings. 0

Article IV
Effective Date and Area of Application

is applicable within the
states of Bavaria, Bremen, Hesse and
Wuerttemberg-Baden, and shall become
effective there on the date of its publica-
tion in the Official Gazette of the Allied
High Commission. This notice is also ap-
plicable in the United States Sector of
Berlin and shall become effective there
on the date of its publication in the Of-
ficial Gazette of the Allied Kommandatura,
Berlin.

Done at
Frankfurt-on-Main, May 24, 1951.

This notice

-++END

JULY 1951

--- Page 76 ---
HICOG Law No. 21

United States Court of Restitution Appeals
of the Allied High Commission for Germany

The United States High Commissioner
enacts as follows:

, Article 1
Composition, Jurisdiction and Powers
of the Court of Restitution Appeals

1. A United States Court of Restitution
Appeals of the Allied High Commission
for Germany is hereby established. The
United States Court of Restitution Appeals
shall have jurisdiction to review any
decision on any claim for restitution under
Military Government Law No. 59, “‘Restitu-
tion of Identifiable Property,’’ and to take
any action which it shall deem necessary
or proper in respect thereof.

2. The Court of Restitution Appeals shall
consist of three justices, one of whom
shall be appointed president of the Court,
together with such other justices or judges
as may be assigned to sit as justices of
the Court of Restitution Appeals pursuant
to Article 6, Section 5 of this law. The
seat of the Court shall be determined by
the United States High Commissioner. The
Court shall hold sessions elsewhere in the
United States Area of Control for Germany
(which term is defined as comprising the
states of Bremen, Bavaria, Hesse, Wuert-
temberg-Baden and the United States Sec-
tor of Berlin), when directed to do so
pursuant to Article 6, Section 4 of this law.

3. A majority of the justices of the Court
of Restitution Appeals shall constitute a
quorum, and decisions, rulings, orders,
judgments and advisory opinions shall be
by a majority vote of the justices sitting.
The Court may sit in panels consisting of
not fewer than three justices. A majority
of the Justices on any panel shall constitute
a quorum, and the decision of the majority
of the justices of any panel shall constitute
the decision of the Court. The president of
the Court of Restitution Appeals shall
designate the members of the panels of the
Court, the presiding justice thereof, and
the times at which the panels shall sit,
and shall assign the‘cases to be heard by
each panel. The president shall be respon-
sible for the assignment among the mem-
bers of the Court of all matters coming
before the Court, and he shall, in the event
of his absence or disability, designate one
of the justices to act as president.

4, Any party aggrieved by a decision
of the Civil Division of the German Court
of Appeals (Oberlandesgericht) may file
with the Court of Restitution Appeals a
petition for review of that decision based
only on the ground that the decision
violates the law.

5. Any party aggrieved by a decision
of the Restitution Chamber may file with
the Court of Restitution Appeals a petition
for review of the decision of the Restitution
Chamber upon the following grounds only:

a. that the findings of fact upon which
such decision is based are not supported
by substantial evidence;

b. that there has been abuse of dis-
cretion by the Chamber;

c. that prejudice on the part of the
Chamber is indicated.

JULY 1951

6. The Court of Restitution Appeals, in
its discretion, may refuse to grant petitions
for review under Séctions 4 and 5 of this
article.

7. The Court of Restitution Appeals,
pending final decision upon the petition
for review, may stay execution of the
decision of the Civil Division of the Ger-
man Court of Appeals (Oberlandesgericht)
or of the Restitution Chamber.

8. The Court of Restitution Appeals shall
have jurisdiction to enter judgment af-
firming, modifying or reversing, in whole
or in part, the decision reviewed and to
order execution thereof, or in its discretion,
to remand the case or any part thereof to
the Restitution Chamber or the Civil Divi-
sion of the German Court of Appeals
(Oberlandesgericht) which had previously
heard the case.

9. For the purpose of the review of a
decision under Section 5 of this article, the
Court of Restitution Appeals shall have
power to subpoena witnesses, require pro-
duction of evidence and administer oaths.
The Court of Restitution Appeals shall
have power to punish for contempt of court
(whether or not committed in its presence)

and to exercise such other powers as may |

be incidental to the performance of its
judicial functions, subject to the same
provisions of law which govern the exer-
cise of such powers by justices of the
United States Court of Appeals of the
Allied High Commission for Germany.

10. The United States High Commis-
sioner may request the Court of Restitution
Appeals to issue an advisory opinion on
any question submitted by him,

11. Decisions of the Court of Restitution
Appeals shall be final and not subject to
further review.

Article 2
Cases Removed or Transferred
from German Courts

1. The powers conferred upon the United
States Court of Restitution Appeals under
this law may be exercised by said Court
in any case removed, transferred or refer:
red to said Court from_a German court
under Article 6 of HICOG Law No. 6 or
under Allied Kommandatura Law No. 7.

2. In addition to the powers referred to
in Section 1 of this article, and notwith-
standing any provision of this or any other
law of the United States High Commis-
sioner, the Court of Restitution Appeals
may, in any case so referred to it from a
German court, suspend for a definite or
indefinite period, declare null and void
or invalidate as of any date, in Whole or in
part, any proceedings, sentences or inter-
locutory or final judgments, decrees or
orders of the German court, and may pro-
ceed with final adjudication or other ap-
propriate disposition of such case or may
remand such case to a German court with
instructions for disposition.

3. The Court of Restitution Appeals shall
have, in any case removed, transferred or
referred to it from German courts, in ad-
dition to the jurisdiction otherwise confer-
red by this law, all, jurisdiction over per-

73

sons and subject matter which, under Ger-
man law, the German court in which the
case was originally instituted would have
had but for the provisions of Allied High
Commission Law No. 13 and the exercise of
the powers of removal and intervention
afforded by Article 6 of HICOG Law No. 6
and but for the provisions of Allied Kom-
mandatura Law No. 7 and the exercise of
such powers thereunder. In addition thereto
the Court of Restitution Appeals shall have
power to determine the jurisdiction of the
German court over the persons and subject
matter in the case so removed.

Article 3
Decisions

1. Decisions, rulings, orders, judgments
and advisory opinions of the United States
Court of Restitution Appeals shall be in-
corporated in written opinions, except in
cases where the Court refuses to review
a matter under Article 1, Section 6 of this
law. An opinion of the Court shall be
deemed to be published within the meaning
of this section when a copy thereof is filed
with the clerk of the Court. Such copy shall
be open to inspection by any member of
the general public. Reproduction and distri-
bution of English and German texts of
opinions of the Court shall be made in ac-
cordance with the rules of practice and
procedure prescribed by the Court.

2. All opinions of the Court of Restitu-
tion Appeals which are published within
the meaning of Section 1 of this article
shall, in so far as they involve the inter-
pretation of Military Government Law
No. 59, be binding upon all German courts
and authorities. In case of discrepancy
between the English and German texts of
an opinion of the Court, the English text
shall prevail.

Article 4
Practice and Procedure

1. The proceedings of the United States
Court of Restitution Appeals shall be con-
ducted in accordance with such rules of
practice and procedure, including provi-
sions for costs and fees, as the Court may
from time to time prescribe. The Court may
prescribe the form and’style of its seal and
the form of papers filed with it or issued
by it. Subject to and consistent with
applicable legislation, directives and regu-
lations, the Court of Restitution Appeals
may prescribe and publish rules for the
admission and discipline of persons who
shall be entitled to practice in the Court
of Restitution Appeals.

2. The justices of the Court of Restitution
Appeals shall not be subject to challenge
by the parties to a proceeding or their
counsel, Any justice who feels that for any
reason he may be biased in connection with
a proceeding may disqualify himself.

Article 5
Time Limitations on Petition for Review

Petitions for review under Article 1, Sec-
tions 4 and 5 of this law may be filed only
within the following periods:

a. Petitions for review under Article 1,
Section 4 of this law shall be filed within

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 77 ---
one month after the date of service of the
decision of the Civil Division of the German
Court of Appeals (Oberlandesgericht), or
within three months thereafter, if the ag-
grieved party resides in a foreign country.

b. Where an appeal under Paragraph 2 of
Article 68 of Military Government Law
No. 59 has been taken, petitions for review
of the same case under Article 1, Section 5
of this law shall not be filed before, and
shall be filed during the period specified
in Subparagraph (A) of this article,

c. Where no appeal has been filed with
the Civil Division of the German Court of
Appeals (Oberlandesgericht) under Para-
graph 2 of Article 68 of Military Govern-
ment Law No. 59, a petition for review
under Articl Section 5 of this law shall
not be filed beNye, and shall be filed within
one month after, the expiration of the time
within which an appeal under Article 68
could have been taken.

Article 6
Administration of the Court

1, Except as hereinafter provided, the
president of the United States Court of
Restitution Appeals shall have respon-
sibility for the administration of the busi-
ness of the Court of Restitution Appeals.

2. The administrative officer of the Courts,
holding office pursuant to Article 3, Sec-
tion 2 of HICOG Law No. 20, shall report
to the High Commissioner on the business
and administration of the Court of Restitu-
tion Appeals. The president and the clerk
of the Court shall provide the administra-
tive officer with such information as he
may deem necessary to carry out this
function.

3. The administrative officer shall, con-
sistently with applicable United States
Foreign Service acts and regulations, des-
ignate a clerk of the Court and administra-
tive and supporting personnel, both Ameri-
can and German, to serve the Court of
Restitution Appeals. The administrative
officer shall prescribe the records to be
kept by the clerk of the Court and, subject
to applicable directives of the Office of the
United States High Commissioner, the
measures to be taken by the clerk to ac-
count for and dispose of money or other
property deposited with him.

4, The administrative officer may des-
ignate places other than the seat of the

Court where the Court of Restitution Ap-
peals shall hold special sessions.

5. The Judicial Committee established by
HICOG Law No. 20 may, with the advice
of the president of the Court of Restitution

’ Appeals, assign associate justices of the

United States Court of Appeals of the
Allied High Commission for Germany and
United States Judges for Germany to sit
as justices of the Court of Restitution Ap-
peals, and determine the period during
which such justices and judges shall so
serve.

Article 7
Appointment of Justices

1. The justices of the Court of Restitu-
tion Appeals shall be appointed by the
United States High Commissioner and shall
hold office subject to applicable United
States Foreign Service acts and regula-
tions. The president of the court shall be
designated by the United States High Com-
missioner.

2. The justices appointed under this
article shall take the following oath before
performing the duties of their respective
offices: “I swear (or affirm) that I will,
at all times, administer justice without fear
or favor to all persons of whatever creed,
race, color or political opinion they may
be, that I will do equal right to the poor
and to the rich, and that I will faithfully
and impartially discharge and perform all
the duties incumbent upon me as a justice of
the United States Court of Restitution Ap-
peals according to law and to the best of
my abilities and understanding (So help me
God)."" The United States High Commis-
sioner or his representative shall administer
the oath.

3. The justices of the Court of Restitution
Appeals shall be graduates in law and
members in good standing of the bar of
one of the states of the United States or of
the District of Columbia and shall have
been engaged in active legal work for at
least 10 years; provided, however, that
the above qualifications may be waived
by the United States High Commissioner.

Article 8
Repeals and Transitional Provisions
1, Article 69 of United States Military
Government Law No. 59, HICOG Law
No. 2, amending Military Government

Law No. 59, HICOG Law No. 7 and all
regulations thereunder, and Regulations
Nos. 7, 8, 9 and 10 under Military Govern-
ment Law No. 59 are hereby repealed.

2. All proceedings pending before the
Board of Review created by Military
Government Law No. 59 on the effective
date of Regulation No. 7 under Military
Government Law No. 59 and all decisions
and actions made or taken by such Board
in the due exercise of its jurisdiction and
powers shall be deemed proceedings before
and decisions and actions of the United
States Court of Restitution Appeals. The
Court of Restitution Appeals shall permit
such proceedings to go forward from the
stage at which such proceedings became
subject to its jurisdiction or from any
earlier stage and may take any action in
the premises which it may deem appro-
priate to protect the interests of the parties
thereto; provided, however, that the Court
shall not review or reverse final decisions
of the Board of Review.

3. All proceedings pending, on the effec-
tive date of this law, before the Court of
Restitution Appeals established by Regula-
tion No. 7 under Military Government Law
No. 59 as amended, and all decisions and
actions made or taken by such shall be
deemed proceedings before and decisions
and actions of the Court of Restitution
Appeals established by this law.

4, Any function or power entrusted, on
the effective date of this law, under any
provision of law to the Court of Restitution
Appeals as one of the ‘United States Courts
of the Allied High Commission for Ger-
many” ghall be deemed to be entrusted to
the Court of Restitution Appeals established
under this law.

Article 9
Effective Date and Area of Application

This law is applicable within the states
of Bavaria, Bremen, Hesse and Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, and shall become effective
there on the date of its publication in the
Official Gazette of the Allied High Com-
mission. This law is also applicable in the
United States Sector of Berlin and shall
become effective there on the date of its
publication in the Official Gazette of the
Allied Kommandatura, Berlin. :

Done at

Frankfurt-on-Main, May 24, 1951, +END

HICOM Law No. 55

Second Amendment of Legislation concerning Monetary Reform

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion enacts as follows:

Article 1

Article 13, Paragraph 4, of United States
and British Military Government Laws
No, 63 and Article 35 of French Military
Government Ordinance No. 160 are hereby
amended to read as follows:

For the purposes of this legislation, the
expression ‘‘United Nations Nationals"
means:

(a) natural persons who at any time be-
tween Sept. 1, 1939, and June 27, 1948, were
nationals of or, if dual nationals, had a
nationality of any of the United Nations,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

unless such dual nationals resided in Ger-
many at any time between Sept. 1, 1939,
and May 8, 1945, and enjoyed full rights of
German citizenship;

(b) corporations and associations which
were in existence on May 8, 1945, under
the laws of one of the United Nations and
which were in existence on June 27, 1948,
under the laws of one of the United
Nations.

Article 2

The schedule attached to United States
and British Military Government Laws
No. 63 and to French Military Government
Ordinance No. 160 is hereby deleted.

74

Reference in any other legislation to the
nations listed in such schedule shall be
construed as relating to the United Nations
as defined in Article 1 of Allied High Com-
mission Law No, 54, ‘Definition of United
Nations." 7
Article 3

The German text of this law shall be

the official text.

Article 4

This law shall be deemed to have come
into force on June 27, 1948.

Done at

Berlin, May 31, 1951. +END

JULY 1951

--- Page 78 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of June 14

The 65th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg June 14, Present were Andre
Francois-Poncet, French High Commissioner
(chairman); Lt. Gen, Sir Gordon N, Mac-
ready, representing Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick,
United Kingdom High Commissioner; and
Maj. Gen, George P. Hays, representing
John J. McCloy, United States High Com-
missioner. .

After a business session, Allied repre-
sentatives from Berlin reported on current
developments affecting Berlin's trade.

The next meeting of the Council is to
be held at the Petersberg June 21.

HICOM Meeting of June 21

The 66th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg June 21, Present were Armand
Berard (chairman), representing Andre
Francois-Poncet, French High Commission-
er; Lt, Gen. Sir Gordon N, Macready,
representing Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United
Kingdom High Commissioner, and Maj.
Gen. George P. Hays, representing John
J. McCloy, United States High Com-
missioner,

The Council:

1. Approved, on the request of the Feder-
al Government, a law depriving of effect
Articles 1 and 3 of Control Council Law
No. 15 (amendment of turnover tax laws).
This law, to be published in the next issue
of the Official Gazette of the High Com-
mission, will permit a federal law amend-
ing the turnover tax to take effect. Articles
1 and 3 of Control Council Law 15 had
established the existing turnover tax rates
which the federal law proposes to amend.

2. Noted that a federal law to repeal
wartime regulations had been published in
the Bundesgesetzblatt (Federal Official Ga-
zette) on June 16, 1951.

3. Considered .a memorandum from the
federal chancellor on the general situation
of the coal supply in the Federal Republic
for the third quarter of 1951. The Council
agreed that the High Commissioners would
communicate the contents of the memo-
randum to their governments, who are
concerned with its conclusions in their
capacity as members of the International
Authority for the Ruhr.

4, Paid tribute to the services rendered
to the High Commission by Jean Cattier,
US economic adviser, Maj. Gen. Wans-
brough-Jones, UK commissioner, Military
Security Board, and Leo Handley-Derry,
UK secretary-general to the High Com-
mission, who are relinquishing their ap-
pointments,

5, Agreed to hold its next meeting at
the Petersberg on June 28, 1951,

HICOM Meeting of June 29

The 67th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg June 29. Present were Andre
Francois-Poncet, French High Commis-
sioner (chairman); J. G. Ward, representing
Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom
High Commissioner; and Maj Gen, George

JULY 1951

P. Hays, representing John J. McCloy,
United States High Commissioner.
In a short business session,.the Council

approved a law amending Allied High Com-

mission Law No. 19 concerning claims
against the Joint Export-Import Agency
(JEIA). The amendment finalizes adminis-
trative decisions with respect to claims
against the JEIA and provides that the

‘Federal Republic, to which JEIA funds are

being transferred, will not be liable in
respect of claims against the agency.

The Council tentatively scheduled its
next meeting for July 12 at the Petersberg.

Laws and Regulations

HICOM Law No. 54
Definition of United Nations

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission enacts as follows:

Article 1

In any legislation of the Occupation
Authorities or of authorities to which
they have succeeded, the expression “Unit-
ed Nations," in the absence of any indi-
cation to the contrary, shall mean:

(a) the nations listed in the schedule of
this law, being nations which signed or
adhered to the United Nations Declaration,
dated Jan. 1, 1942, or which by declaring
war on Germany became associated with
them in the war prior to May 8, 1945;

(b) any. territorial entity which was
administered or controlled by a nation
included in Paragraph (A) and was in-
volved in the war against Germany by
reason of the participation of such nation;
and

(c) any nation which has become or
becomes independent after May 8, 1945
and whose territory at that date formed
part either of the territory of a nation
included in Paragraph (A) or of an entity
included in Paragraph (B).

Article 2
The following legislation is
repealed:
SHAEF Law No. 3 (Definition of United
Nations);
United States Military Goverment Law

hereby

No, 3 (Amended) (Definition of United
Nations).
Done at
Berlin, May 31, 1951.
x OK OK
_ Schedule
Argentine Republic.
Australia.
Belgium,
Bolivia.
Brazil.

Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic.
Canada.

Chile.

China.

Columbia.

Costa Rica.

Cuba.

75

Czechoslovakia.

Denmark.

Dominican Republic.

Ecuador.

Egypt.

El Salvador.

Ethiopia,

France,

United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.

Greece,

Guatemala.

Haiti.

Honduras.

India.

Tran (Persia).

Iraq.

Lebanon.

Liberia.

Luxembourg.

Mexico.

Netherlands,

New Zealand.

Nicaragua.

Norway.

Panama.

Paraguay.

Peru.

Philippine Commonwealth.

Poland,

Saudi Arabia.

Syria.

Turkey.

Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.

Union of South Africa.

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

United States of America.

Uruguay.

Venezuela.

Yugoslavia.

Official Announcements

Import of Deutsche Marks
Under a new ruling of the German

exchange control authorities, occupation
personnel are permitted to import 100
Deutsche marks per individual when

entering Germany. Formerly the maxi-
mum limit was DM 40. The limit upon
export remains at DM 40,

Announcement of the change was made
June 22 by HICOG's Finance Division.
The new ruling was issued, effective
June 20, by the Bank deutscher Laender
(Bank of German States) in the form of
a general license under MG Law No. 53
(revised).

At its Jan, 25 meeting, the Allied High
Commission amended AHC Law No. 40
to place occupation personnel upon the
same footing, regarding .import and
export of Deutsche marks, as all other
travelers to and from the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany. The new German ruling
thus affects all travelers entering Germany.

Law on Homeless Foreigners

The Allied High Commission has trans-
mitted to the Federal Government a com-
mendatory message from the United
Nations high commissioner for refugees
and the director-general of the Inter-
national Refugee Organization with regard
to the federal law on the status of home-
less foreigners. Text of this law was
recently sent by the High Commission to
the secretary-general of the United
Nations at his request.

In part, the message to the Federal
Government stated that: in the opinion of
the UN high commissioner for refugees

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 79 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Sovietization of the Public School System
in East Germany, HICOG, Feb. 1, 1951.

Marriage, from EUCOM Announcement,
WD No. 12, March 23, 1951.

Thirty-Third Report for the Public Advi-
sory Board, ECA (Washington) March 28.
1951.

Recovery Guides — A Record of Progress

* in the ERP Countries, No. 19, ECA (Wash-
ington), April 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 19, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, May 11,
1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 20, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, May 18,

1951.
ns Analysis, No. 275,

Weekly Publitgt
ISD, HICOG (Bad uheim), May 18, 1951.

You and The German People, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 23, I&E
Office, EUCOM, May 20, 1951.

HEUTE (in German), No. 137, POB, ISD,
HICOG (Munich), May 23, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 21, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, May 25,
1951.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 276,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), May 25, 1951.

More Sweat—Less Blood (Soldiers' train-
ing), EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol. 6,
No. 24, I&E Office, EUCOM, May 27, 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 55, Allied Secretariat,
HICOM, May 31, 1951.

Buecher-Vorschau (Preview of New
Books — in German), No. 52, Central Distri-
bution Section (Frankfurt), May, 1951.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 277,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), June 1, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 22, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, June 1,
1951,

Western Germany 1950-1951, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 25, I&E
Office, EUCOM, June 3, 1951.

HEUTE (in German), No. 138, POB, ISD,
HICOG (Munich), June 6, 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 56, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, June 7, 1951.

Copies of publications etc. listed

in the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters

Jugend in Westdeutschland (Youth in
Western Germany), Special Publications
Section, Editorial Projection Branch, ISD,
HICOG, June 8, 1951.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 278,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), June 8, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 23, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, June 8,
1951.

Look to the Low Countries, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 26, I&E
Office, EUCOM, June 10, 1951.

Highlights of German Culture, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 27
(Optional), I&E Office, EUCOM, June 10,
1951.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 279,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), June 15, 1951.

France and The Free World, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 28, I&E
Office, EUCOM, June 17, 1951.

Information Bulletin, June 1951,
HICOG, June 21, 1951.

Der Monat (in German), Vol. 3, No. 33,
POB, ISD, HICOG (Munich), June 1951.

Daily Press Reviews, Nos. 89-108, ISO,
HICOG (Bad Nauheim), May 16—June 32,
1951,

PRD,

and the director-general of IRO, the
federal law on the status of homeless
foreigners marks considerable progress in
securing a satisfactory legal status for
these displaced persons and refugees who
come within the mandate of the high
commissioner and of the International
Refugee Organization and who will remain
in Germany. The message adds: ‘“‘Its
liberality constitutes a testimony to the
good will of the German Federal Govern-
ment toward refugees and displaced per-
sons, and it is sincerely to be hoped
that a satisfactory implementation of this
law will be assured by all the competent
authorities in Germany.”

The law puts homeless foreigners on
a par with German nationals in nearly
every field. It states that a homeless
foreigner may not be discriminated
against on account of his descent, race,
language, homeland and origin, creed or
religion or on account of his being a
refugee. Residence and freedom of move-
ment, schooling, professional status and
equality before German courts are
among the protections provided for home-
less foreigners by the law.

Visa Section at Duesseldorf

The American Consulate General at
Duesseldorf opened a visa section authori-
zed to issue non-immigrant visitor's visas
on May 23 at Zapp House, 6 Bleichstrasse.

The Duesseldorf consular district includ-
es all of the state of North Rhine-West-
phalia. Prospective visitors to the United
States or travelers to other destinations
who must transit the United States should
write to the visa section of the American
Consulate General in Duesseldorf for
instructions about obtaining the appro-
priate non-immigrant temporary visitor's
visa.

Residents of North Rhine-Westphalia
who have already applied for a non-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

immigrant temporary visitor's visa at the
American Consulate General in Bremen
are advised to request by mail an appoint-
ment to appear at the visa section of the
American Consulate General in Duessel-
dorf for continuing the formalities. They
should indicate when their application
for a non-immigrant temporary visitor's
visa was submitted to the American Con-
sulate General in Bremen. — from HICOG
Daily Bulletin No, 212.

Currency Conversion

Conversion of Military Payment Certifi-
cates used during the past three years
by authorized personnel in areas outside
of the United States to a new type of
MPCs was completed June 20, The con-
version was directed by the Department
of the Army. European areas affected
included the US Zone of Germany,
France, Trieste, Austria, the United King-
dom, Greece, Tripoli and Morocco,

The primary purpose of the conversion
was to protect the interest of the US
Government since it is known that, in
spite of all precautions, the series of
MPCs had been getting into unauthorized
channels, Not only did this conversion
stop this unauthorized use of MPCs but
would, for the time being, end the
counterfeiting of such currency. — from
EUCOM announcement.

TDY Per Diem Claims

HICOG personnel who have been issued
official travel orders for either temporary
duty outside Germany or statutory leave
authorizing per diem and/or reimbursement
of dollar expenses should submit their
claims on Foreign Service Form No. 286 —
“Public Voucher for Reimbursement of
Travel and Other Expenses’’— and Stan-
dard Form No. 286a, Memorandum Copy,
to the Fiscal Services Division, Internal

76

Audit Branch, Room 560F, HICOG Hgs.
Bldg., Frankfurt, immediately upon return
to official headquarters. This branch will
offer any technical assistance and informa-
tion that may be requested by the traveler
in aiding him to prepare his voucher.—from
HICOG Daily Bulletin No. 203.

German Entry Visas

The Combined Travel Board of the Allied
High Commission has announced that as of
April 23, 1951, the Allied High Commission
permit office in Brussels will close and
transfer its functions to the German Con-
sulate General. This is the 10th Allied per-
mit office to close and hand over its func-
tions to German consulates general in ful-
fillment of the High Commission's policy
of transferring responsibilities for travel
control to the federal authorities.

The Allied permit office in Rome closed
April 16, 1951. Other cities in which such
functions have been transferred to German
offices are London, Paris, New York,
Copenhagen, Stockholm, Ankara, Athens
and Pretoria. The Allied permit office in
Luxembourg closed May 1 and the offices
in Berne and Oslo were scheduled to cease
operations June 1, 1951.

The German consulates will deal with
all normal passport and visa matters. How-
ever, members of the Allied Forces and
their dependents may obtain entry permits
for Germany from the following offices:

Great Britain: Permit Section, Foreign
Office, London.

France: Foreign Office, Paris, and Allied
Permit Office, Strasbourg.

USA: Passport Division, Department of
State, Washington, D.C.

Belgium: French Embassy, Brussels.

Denmark: US Embassy, Copenhagen.

Norway: British Embassy, Oslo.

Luxembourg: French Legation, Luxem-
bourg, — from HICOM announcement.

JULY 1951

--- Page 80 ---
Visitors, old and young, were amazed at the degree of View of some of 504 exhibits, made up of 42 entries from
professional skill represented in many woodcraft exhibits. each of 11 EUCOM military posts and Twelfth Air Force.

EUCOM Handicraft Contest

More than 500 exhibits of handmade items produced by German youth were displayed at the EUCOM Special
Services center in Heidelberg, May 23 to 27, as part of the German Youth Activities’ (GYA) Handicraft Contest. The
exhibits were winning entries in a contest in which all Army and Twelith Air Force posts in the US Zone participated.
The contestants consisted of 14 classes in three age groups and selection of the 42 final winners took place May 24.

Entries included knitting, crocheting, lace, tailoring, leather work, wood and metal work, sculpturing, dress designing,
painting and marionette crafts — all produced since Sept. 1, 1950. Awards were presented by Mrs. Thomas T. Handy, wife

of the EUCOM commander-in-chief, and Mrs. Daniel Noce, wiie of the EUCOM chief oi staff. (US Army photos)

Handy and Mrs. Noce presented certificates to the Erica Baumgaertner, 22, of Bruchsal, crippled by rheuma-
final winners, whose ages ranged from 10 to 25 years. tism since 13, sits beside many lace articles she made.

Miniature racer built by three teen-age Garmisch youths
has two forward speeds, can travel 25 miles per hour.

--- Page 81 ---
A special detachment of the 7751 Military Police Customs Unit has been assigned
to the Dreilinden checkpoint on the super highway in southwest Berlin, bordering the
Soviet Zone, to prevent illegal trade in strategic materials between West Berlin and
Soviet Bloc countri In photo MPs and ‘German customs police check a truck.