--- Page 2 ---
NFORMATION

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

ercise Combine”

(See page 6)

--- Page 3 ---
A brief advertisement in Berlin newspapers, which attracted 300 stage-
struck youngsters, and auditions which pared the number down to 50
marked the organization in August of the “Amerika Haus Children's Theater.”

Henry Koller, founder and director of New York City's Young Thespians’
Club, currently a consultant for the Department of State, worked the
young German actors and actresses into shape for a presentation of his
original musical comedy “Comics for Carter“ during the Berlin Festival.
Music was written by American composer Alfred Goodman.

Newspaper critics said: “The group performed the play with great
sensitivity, charm and brilliancy.” “Their acting was fascinating through its
ingenuity and lack of apparent conscious ‘performing.'“ “The play is
designed to be seen both by children and by those who regret they are
no longer children.”

The Berlin-born producer will visit cities in West Germany to help in
the organization of similar groups under sponsorship of US Information
Centers. He said, “Once others see how much jun, entertainment and real
educational value can be derived from groups oi this type, these groups
will spring up everywhere." +END

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

Editor sean esses H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer
Jean Kinnaird Helen McLaughlin

Cherry Lou Fellner quiselotte Goldbeck

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
guiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

German mailing address is:
Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
HICOG Hochhaus

Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison
Office of Public Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
Source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
October 1951

Foreign Ministers’ Declaration on Germany .............. 2
PIR AF ROMS W AME eo cea crepe oe ek ee 3
“Article by Cherry Lou Fellner

Gorman Scientific Research c. «re eee aes eee Uae ee eL
Article by Helen McLaughlin

seeping; Youth: On: Farms cass dikes cst. ow NUS Bole As 10
Article by Haynes R. Mahoney

Priendship’ Camps.y iio on Gn sores creeds EG ML pare coolest 13
Article by Mary M. Coppock

Blockade-Born University to Stay ........................ 16

Student Participation at Berlin's Free University .......... 17
Article by Carl G. Anthon

Labvors Uniunished Tasks c..31.,.cmc xs botanic sree 21

Articie by Harvey W. Brown
Czechoslovakia a Concentration Camp,

Refugee Official Says 23:
Nation of Youth 25
Article by Wilfried Saliger
MDAP Aid to Denmark (pictorial) 27
Communique on European Unity 28
Report on Germany — Our Progress, Problems and
Olifectivesy 22.052 8s saree J ara nea ena Sere ore ns ait Ee 29
Statement by John J. McCloy
Attiiude toward Jews «<0 7056. = occa ae Oe ea 34
Declaration by Chancellor Konrad Adenauer
Hitchhiking through America:c; ¢ << <6405 Gown sn sees 35
Article by Otto Baer
Second Armored Division (pictorial) .................... 40
New Gadgets for 1952! (pictorial) .........6.....00.000 08s 42
Erksdori, Model of Cooperation ........................ 43
Article by James B. Peabody
Partnership in Sacrifice: <2. 2.2222. oes oe as 45
Address by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser
Fellowship: between Schools =... 2.2% 525 conv ecieuin os cs 47
Article by Capt. Frances C. Brand
industrial Activities Slackéen <2): 0.5. <. :@s.25. 02-2 += snes 49
Economic review by A. J. Cefaratti
Personnel Notes ..... ste bene cee e eee cece sa ees ee etree nen 52
Congressmen Tour Germany (pictorial) .................. 54
Merica’s- Halthy im BUrape: os oid saias acs sie pea he es epee 55
Address by Dr. Frederick H. Burkhardt
US*Replies' to! Czech Note: . 6-2 02s nes ei ee 58
They Rode “Freedom Train” (pictorial) .. 59
‘Calendar of Coming) Events S207 230 sias ian ee sec 60
German Editorials and Cartoons 62
In and Around Germany . 66
Ordinance No. 15 — Hunting Code for
‘Occupation ‘Personnel ss acces cs eins oc syntin nese 70
Offietal Notices i. «Se 252 et oon = ce as Sie ee eee 74
Recent “Publications 52830) ecw ers aes ae ere nee 76

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
SLUUUIITTVVVULUUUQUQ0V101 00 ELUUUUOCSAU CULT EEUU

Foreign Ministers’ Declaration
On Germany =e

At the conclusion of their meetings in Washington from Sept. 10 to 14,
Secretary of State Dean Acheson of the United States, Foreign Minister
Robert Schuman of France and Foreign Secretary Herbert Morrison of
the United Kingdom issued the following declaration. Text of their com-
munique is printed on page 28.
|
|

HE THREE FOREIGN MINISTERS declare that their governments aim

at the inclusion of a democratic Germany, on a basis of equality, in
a continental European community, which itself will form a part of a
constantly developing Atlantic community.

The three ministers recognize that the initiative taken by the French
Government concerning the creation of a European coal and steel com-
munity and a European defense community is a major step toward
European unity. They welcome the Schuman Plan as a means of strength-
ening the economy of western Europe and look forward to its early
realization. They also welcome the Paris Plan as a very important con-
tribution to the effective defense of Europe, including Germany.

The participation of Germany in the common defense should naturally
be attended by the replacement of the present Occupation Statute by a
new relationship between the three governments and the German Federal
Republic.

The Government of the United Kingdom desires to establish the closest }
possible association with the European continental community at all ;
stages in its development.

The three ministers reaffirm that this policy, which will be undertaken
in concert with the other free nations, is directed to the establishment
and the maintenance of a durable peace founded on justice and law. Their
aim is to reinforce the security and the prosperity of Europe without
changing in any way the purely defensive character of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization. They reaffirm their determination that in no circum-
stances shall the above arrangements be made use of in furtherance of
any aggressive action. +END

SUVUUTNNAQU00Q0UOUOOOUUTENTUAUUUNUCUOOEOUOETEOTTU UCU PTES TEL CD TESTE

YUUUINURUUNUUAUUUUAUOUUUUUULEULUUUULL

INFORMATION BULLETIN Se) OCTOBER 1951 —

--- Page 6 ---
Phoenix at Reichswald

By CHERRY LOU FELLNER

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

ORE THAN 1,100 YEARS AGO the forest land ad-

joining the present German-Netherlands boundary
was a favorite hunting ground of Charlemagne and it
continued to flourish as a game refuge under state and
private ownership until the late days of World War Il.
It was there that Allied airborne troops met stiff enemy
resistance, resulting in tremendous destruction.

The reconstruction period found many expellees from
Silesia, the Sudetenland, Pomerania and other areas now
in the Soviet Zone longing for land on which to continue
their interrupted life-long job of farming.

Many trees in the Reichswald (national forest) were
destroyed or were gradually dying because of imbedded
shrapnel.

The state of North Rhine-Westphalia had the wealth of
the Ruhr Valley to help fill its coffers.

These three conditions resulted in the initiation of a
project to clear for colonization 3,600 acres of forest land
near Kleve. The proposal was approved by the state
parliament in the summer of 1948 and later completed
with DM 500,000 ($119,000) in ECA funds.

Ree ANEW AS A PHOENIX from the ashes of
destruction, today trim farmhouses are scattered amid
the checkerboard grain fields and 2,000 persons are set-
tled there: two-thirds of them expellees, the others native
sons of North Rhine-Westphalia. The three communities
(as yet unnamed) will eventually have all the facilities of
small villages. The project is a classic example of pio-
neering in modern days.

The problems of planning and preparation were handled
by a land-development company, “Rheinisches Heim,"
and in September 1948 American-type bulldozers and
other heavy earth-moving equipment were set into action.
Throughout the next six months five contractors worked
at cutting the trees, pulling loose roots and leveling
ground. The colonists — all picked for their farming
ability and good character — didn’t wait for the land to
be made arable before moving onto it. Many of them
played a direct part in clearing the land and in doing
other forms of necessary manual labor. Wooden sheds
were their temporary homes.

By May of 1949 the first experimental buildings were
finished and three months later foundations were laid for
the farmhouses.

As the land was prepared for farming, seeds were plant-
ed and by the end of August approximately 1,600 acres
of grass and 540 acres of rye were sown.

HE FORMER FOREST is divided into 51 farms of 37
acres each (see diagram, next page), an area deemed

self-supporting for a family and only requiring outside

OCTOBER 1951

seasonal help. On these grain is raised and some live-
stock kept. There are 25 one-horse farms with 20 acres
and 53 vegetable firms with nine acres each. Carpenters,
the shoemaker, clergymen, professional men and others
whose principal work is something besides farming have
part-time farms, There are 84 of these, each consisting
of 3.7 acres. Finally there are 86 quarter-acre homesteads
with two-family houses on them.

In all cases the acreage is entirely within one strip of
land. There is little chance that the land will eventually
be broken down into smaller plots with an individual

Dense forestland was cleared to make way for trim farm
houses, fruit trees and garden plots (shown above) while
tradesmen, carpenters and others — mainly expellees from
areas now behind the Iron Curtain — live on smaller
acreages as pictured below. (PRD HICOG photos by Gassner)

--- Page 7 ---
farmer having a few acres beside his home and a few
more acres two miles away. In case of death of the farm
owner the entire holdings will be inherited by one person
(usually the eldest son) instead of being divided among
the survivors.

The first large-size farms were occupied in December
1949 and the part-time farms were taken over by their
owners in November 1950.

Amid the predominantly dark brick houses in the
region the cream stucco houses with their red tile roofs
look particularly ‘bright and clean. The houses on the
larger acreages are built in a “T shape: the family rooms
are in the front, the back wing serves as a barn with

straw and hay stored under the roof — a type of archi
tecture characteristic of North Holland and the adjoining ©
countryside. The house and barn are actually separated
by a kitchen where the women — who generally care for
the livestock — can prepare feed for the animals.

HE ENTIRE PROJECT cost DM 10,000,000 ($2,380,000) —

and is paying for itself. Of the total, about one-third —
was in the form .of grants-in-aid and the rest was credit 3
to be paid off in small yearly payments and at two and ¥
one-half percent interest. The farms will be paid for in
varying long-term periods which range up to a maximut
of 66 years.

GOVERNMENTAL DISTRICT: DUESSELOORF
SETTLEMENT
REICHSWALD

LEGEND

MIDDLE SIZE FARM PLOT

SMALL SIZE FARM PLOT
GARDNER'S PLOT

seme © comes 6 62.

°° 88 @

ADDITIONAL PLOT POR
EXTRA INCOME

SAND PIT
wooDds

O

23S

"= BORDER OF THE SETTLEMENTS AREA
PRODUGED BY THE OFFICE OF CULTURE DUESSELDORF

KLEVE COUNTY

INFORMATION BULLETIN

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 8 ---
Due to the urgency of the problem of finding housing
and jobs for the expellees, the project was started before
ECA funds were available for this purpose. However,
since July of 1949 DM 40,000,000 ($9,520,000) in Marshall
Plan aid has been extended to approximately 50 projects
in the Federal Republic to enlarge and speed up such
programs of refugee settlements in agriculture and land
reclamation, The counterpart funds were used as grants-
in-aid and for long-term credit at low interest rates. This
new land productivity also helps to decrease the social
unrest among the refugees.

This attempt to turn war-destroyed forest wasteland
into productive farmland has a promising future. The soil
is of the loess type, which is composed of wind-carried
sediment and is termed by agriculture men among some
of the most fertile in the world. At the present time wild
ferns are still sprouting between the rows of fodder beets
and wild flowers pop up next to the spinach, but the
second year after planting is usually “almost normal” and
the third season is considered “normal.”

The yearly gross is about DM 1,000 per hectare ($238
an acre), compared to the usual earnings throughout Ger-
many of DM 750 ($178.50 an acre) for the same acreage.
Out of this figure approximately DM 120 ($28.56 an acre)
will be needed for taxes and for payment of farm costs.
The remainder goes for the living costs and small savings
of the farmer's family. Average rainfall is abundant, and
the chance of a drought is considered very slim.

jy’ ACH SETTLEMENT HAS an advisory director to aid
4 the farmer in choice of crops to be planted, the
amount of land to be devoted to each and the most effi-
cient techniques of good farm management. The director
provides the know-how regarding proven techniques
many of them not yet commonly used in this country —
just as an agricultural extension agent does in the United
States. There is also a demonstration farm in the settle-
ment and test patches of corn and other crops can be
seen on individual farms.

To prevent soil erosion and excessive loss of moisture,
small trees have been planted as wind-breaks.

As the farms are small and must be intensively cul-
tivated, there has been a great interest in raising fruit.
In the first year 50,000 fruit trees were planted. As a
longer period of time is required before any income can
be realized from the fruit trees, a cash crop of vegetables
is always planted underneath. Farmers with smaller tracts
have extensive hothouses for greater and off-season
yields of vegetables.

In an effort to compete with Holland produce, a co-
operative cold storage plant, including marketing and sort-
ing halls, is being constructed on the edge of the project
lo permit the off-season release of quality fruit and vege-
tables. The cooperative marketing outlet will be fin-
ished in two months and a railroad spur will join a main
line to German cities.

Great emphasis is placed on cooperative enterprises,
particularly in the efficient use of modern machinery
instead of the usual heavy draft’ horses.

OCTOBER 1951

ce eset st é ~ a
Allied and German reporters visiting the Reichswald land

settlement see how cooperative plant utilizes waste wood
for manufacture of charcoal and other resinous by-products.

Some of the cows in the settlement area were among
the 2,000 and their offspring which American farmers
sent to Germany during the last two years through the
Heifer Project Committee program of the Brethren Service
Committee, an organization of US church societies.

N A RECENT TOUR 15 Allied and German corre-
spondents and photographers, accompanied by
Eugene Epstine of the Food and Agriculture Division,
HICOG, and the ECA Special Mission to Western Ger-
many; Harry Grossman of the Displaced Populations Di-
vision, HICOG; Werner Middlemann and Dr. Heinz Fied-
ler of the federal Ministry for Refugee Affairs and other
federal and state officials visited two typical farms.
The first stop was at the 37-acre farm of Wilhelm Heb-
ben and his sister, Helena Hebben. They live in a large

where intense heat creates charcoal. Expellees and others
at Reichswald benefit from the sale of products from plant.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
Pioneer farmers contributed private funds for erection of
Catholic wayside shrine on edge of forest. Protestant
chapel was constructed in another area of land settlement.

house with their two workers — more during harvest
time. Total cost of the farm was DM 60,000 ($14,280), in-
cluding the house and barn, land, roads, cost of clearing
the land, electricity, drainage sewer system, etc. One
half of the cost has been written off as a grant-in-aid and
the remainder is to be paid off by Mr. Hebben over a
30-year period.

In his barn Mr. Hebben keeps two horses, two breeding
sows of the British Cornwall type and usually between
seven and 10 milking cows. Out of his own earnings from
his first-year production, Farmer Hebben has purchased
an electric milking machine. As you walk from the barn
past the mud-encrusted wooden shoes, neatly placed in
a row, you enter the kitchen where Miss Hebben is knit-
ting a pair of socks while she keeps an eye on a sim-
mering vat of potatoes and grain to feed the pigs.

There are a living room and bedroom further front on
the first floor. On the second floor are three more bed-
rooms and a modern bath. The rooms are sparsely but
adequately furnished (all furniture comes out of the
farmers’ own pockets}. The house is immaculately clean
and along the front wal! are rows of mammoth dahlias.

The nine-acre farm of Josef Lorenz and his wife is a
place teeming with children. The Lorenz’ have 11 young-
sters of their own and are also giving a home to two
other children. Their six-bedroom house and other costs
totaled DM 15,000 ($3,570). Mr. Lorenz and his family,
expellees from the Silesia area, are obviously happy at
having been given the chance to move onto the farm in
January 1950. They have two cows and 50 chickens and
raise fruit and vegetables to sell to feed the big family.

ESPITE THE TREMENDOUS job already completed
there is even more being done. Foundations were
recently laid for a new school building as the present
four-class school is housed in the shabby wooden build-
ings originally used by the first settlers as temporary
homes. A church will be built as soon as there is enough
money for the purpose.
Instead of holding the traditional German Richtfest cele-
bration whenever a roof was completed on each house,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the settlers saved the funds and used the money to build —
a Protestant chapel in the woods and a Catholic remem- —
brance for the Twelve Apostles. An area has beén cleared
and set aside for a graveyard.

There are large piles of stumps and roots alongside the
roads joining the farms and communities. These are gradu-
ally being hauled to a cooperative plant on the out-
skirts where the wood is made into charcoal and resinous
by-products. Some of the cheaper charcoal is chucked into
sacks for private consumption in the area, the remainder
is shipped to industries.

In any and every conceivable way the settlers in this
pioneering area are trying to improve their welfare and —
thereby enable additional help to be given others in
similar situations. -++END ©

DP Program Decisions Reached

Problems connected with ending the Displaced Persons
Act by Dec. 31 were ironed out during a meeting in Frank- ~
furt of 60 representatives of US private and government
agencies with the US Displaced Persons Commission. Y

Mutual agreement was reached on such subjects as 7
questions of security, consular service, immigration and
naturalization service and transportation requirements for —
the remaining 32,000 of the 311,000 DPs authorized entry. —

Robert J. Corkery, European coordinator for the com- ©
mission, stressed that voluntary agency representatives —
in the field should emphasize to DPs the importance of
meeting their scheduled appointments for processing, ~
Persons should not expect to emigrate during the last —
60 days of the program. K

Regarding the expellee program, Mr. Corkery said, “g
am confident we have begun a cohesive program, but we
must double and triple our present visa issuance to meet
the quota established under the DP act as amended.”

Representatives attending the meeting included Dr.
Walter G. Nelson, US Public Health Service; Sidney B.
Rawitz, deputy commissioner, Immigration and Naturali- —
zation Service; Roland Elliott, World Council of Churches;
James J. Norris, National Catholic Welfare Conference; ~
Michael F. Markel, general counsel, National Lutheran ~
Council, New York, and Warren G, Fuller, International
Refugee Organization. :

Cover Photograph

“Exercise Combine” was the largest field train-
ing exercise conducted by US Armed Forces in
Germany since the end of World War II. Taking
part in the eight-day maneuver in the northern
part of the US Zone in early October were 160,000
men, including American, French and British troops.
In the US Army photograph are members of a
4th Infantry Division tank crew preparing to cross
a Main River bridge near Frankfurt under cover
of darkness to take up position for the exercise.
A pictorial feature on the maneuver will appear in
the November issue of the Information Bulletin.

OCTOBER 1951 —

--- Page 10 ---
German Scientific Research

By HELEN MecLAUGHLIN

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

VERMANY HAS CONTRIBUTED many of the world's
greatest scientists — men whose greatness lies not
only in the eminence of their scientific achievements, but
also in the notable service they have rendered to mankind.
In medical science alone a great many German names
stand out. Because of the discovery of Emil von Beh-
ring, who was born in Hansdorf in 1854, diphtheria, once
fatal to thousands every year, has become a preventable
disease; Dr. von Behring’s serum against diphtheria was
but one of his many medical discoveries. It was Robert
Koch, German bacteriologist, who found that tuberculosis
is caused by a germ, and who pointed out in 1882 that it
is linked in part with poverty and inadequate housing.
One of Dr. Koch's contemporaries, Karl Joseph Ebert, dis-
covered the cause of typhoid fever, now controlled by
adequate chlorination of water, August von Wassermann
perfected the reaction test to syphilis which has saved
the lives of countless unborn babies, and Paul Ehrlich
produced the "606" syphilis treatment. Wilhelm Konrad
Roentgen's discovery of X-rays opened new vistas in
medical therapy and surgery in addition to initiating a
renaissance in the physical sciences.

In our own day — to mention only a few — aghieve-
ments of Werner Heisenberg in theoretical physics; Otto-
Heinrich Warburg in biochemistry; Alfred W. Kuehn in
zoology, and Otto Hahn in nuclear physics and chemistry
are widely known. Germany is well represented on the
roster of Nobel Prize winners in all fields of science.

URING THE ILL-FAMED Nazi regime, the facilities of
German scientific research were perverted by a totali-
tarian government to produce the terrifying technological
developments which permitted Hitler to launch his war of

aggression, and which threatened to bring the world
under the domination.of his super police state, blatantly
committed both to the physical enslavement of peoples
and the enslavement of their minds.

What would have happened to the world's scientific
research subjected to police-state control? Leading Ger-
man scientists of Jewish heritage found out quickly
enough, and fled for their lives, Others, of so-called Aryan
blood, remained behind but refused to participate in Nazi-
directed activities, and retired from scientific pursuits
altogether.

Commenting on the applications of scientific research
to military technology during the Hitlerian era, Carl H.
Nordstrom, chief of the Scientific Research Division,
US Element, who studied in Germany before the war,
says, “After all, there is a vast difference between the
‘pure’ scientist working in his ivory tower, and the de-
velopment of his ideas or discoveries into equipment of
military value. The scientist does not make war..."

And so, it was this destructive facet of German scientific
achievement with which the four Allied Powers were con
cerned when the war was at last over, and which produced
in April 1946, Law No, 25 "to control scientific research
for the purpose of prohibiting its development and its ap-
plication to the extent to which it may be used for warlike
ends or contribute to the establishment of a war potential.”

From the very outset, US policy toward postwar
activities in the field of science in Germany was this:
scientific research and its applications in military tech-
nology should be prohibited; and controls on research
significant to war potential should be enforced. But
encouragement should be given to public and private

One of Germany's present day leading scientists is Dr. Otto-Heinrich Warburg, director of Berlin's Kaiser Wilhelm Insti-
tute, shown at the left, His contributions in the field of biochemistry include a_ scientific apparatus, pictured in
operation by technician at right, which was named in his honor,

(Photos by PRD BE-HICOG and ISD HICOG)

--- Page 11 ---
Three technical leaders carrying on the type of work once dominated by German names are: Dr. Max von Laue (left) of
Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, an outstanding German authority in physical and electro-chemistry; Dr. Helmuth Stark (center),
chief oi the Berlin Foreign Institute and chairman of the Berlin UNESCO committee, and Dr. Max Piender (right),
chairman of the test office for material which is affiliated with the Chemical and Technical Institute in Berlin,

research activities vital to the German economy and
devoted to peaceful ends.

Prohibitive and restrictive features of Law No. 25 were:

1. Dissolution of war research establishments and
destruction of buildings and facilities of a purely military
character.

2. Prohibitions on research of a military nature and on
applied research in specified critical areas, including
nuclear physics, aerodynamics, rocket propulsion, radar
systems and certain chemicals.

3. Restrictions on research bordering the critical areas
but having important peace-time applications, including
industrial explosives, radio communications, synthetic
oils and rubber, radioactivity and the utilization of
specified chemicals.

4, Reporting procedures for research projects in areas
not requiring specific authorization.

MPLEMENTATION OF THE LAW in the US Zone was

designed: (1) To develop and insure maintenance of
security measures for the control of scientific research;
(2) To formulate policy and make recommendations for
solution of specific problems dealing with German scien-
tists, scientific research and its related fields; and (3) To
execute these functions either directly or in coordination
with other interested elements of Military Government.

Interpretation of the control law in the initial stages
was relegated to each commander in his zone, and this
led to annoying inconsistencies which were alleviated in
large measure in the US Zone by formation under each Ger-
man state economic ministry of an organization paralleling
the US Control Branch. This German organization was given
the responsibility for administration and enforcement of
the law. From this beginning was evolved the Forschungs-
ueberwachungsstelle (German Research Control Organi-
zation), which proved so successful in operation that it
was applied similarly in the British and French Zones.

A milestone in the growing development of Allied-Ger-
man relations in the field of science was reached at Goet-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

tingen in June 1948 with a tripartite agreement aimed at
uniform interpretation and implementation of Law No. 25
within the western zones, and committed to a common
effort to modernize the schedules as the need arose,

Eventually, with the changeover from the Office of
Military Government in Germany (US) to the Office of
the US High Commissioner for Germany under the Depart-
ment of State, control of scientific research in the US Zone
passed from the Research Control Branch under OMGUS
to HICOG's Scientific Research Division, which functions
under the administrative control of the Military
Security Board. At the same time that personnel of the
Research Control Branch were consolidated to form the
nucleus of the Scientific Research Division, Law 25 was
superseded by Law No. 23, under which prohibitions and
restrictions in certain fields were relaxed.

URING THE ENTIRE five years since legislation to
control German scientific research was enacted, US
authorities have implemented these controls in a positive
manner — saying not “Don't do this,” but rather “Do this.”
American personnel connected with the scientific control
organization include competent scientists in various fields.
They have been in a position to enter actively into tech-
nical discussions, to make constructive suggestions and
to provide information in related scientific developments.
Immediate recognition was given to the impossibility of
effectively controlling fundamental research, which, after
all, would be tantamount to suppression of thought. But ~
because applied science has never in all military history F
played such a decisive role as during World War II, the ©
scientific research control authorities have trained their
sights particularly on the techniques and potentialities
resulting from applied research in physics, chemistry and j
biology. These applications of scientific research to mili- —
tary purposes have in fact become so terrifying that the —
very existence of civilization is threatened unless nations
develop a firm desire for peace.

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 12 ---
Recognizing this dividing line between research devoted
to military or destructive ends and that leading to valuable
peace-time developments, administrators of scientific
research control in Germany have taken great care not to
encumber useful research with pointless restrictions
which would tend only to retard economic recovery and
advancement of knowledge. Actually, research controls
placed on German science are in certain fields no more
restrictive than those applied in the United States.

Thus, recovery of German science has been the aim of
US authorities who have been charged with keeping track
of what German scientists are doing. Coupled with
concrete aids for the acceleration of this recovery, the
Scientific Research Division is constantly cementing the
confidence and cooperation between Germans and Ameri-
cans which they have nurtured from the first.

Ample testimony from leading German scientists in-
dicates that this confidence is now on a firm footing. As
one German wrote recently to a colleague in a neighbor-
ing town: “It is impossible to enumerate the numerous
efforts Americans have made to re-establish individual
ties between German and American scientists and tech-
nicians. These ties have inspired a confidence which I
believe to be unshakable — now and in the future.”

MONG THE SO-CALLED “positive” aspects of US
control of scientific research in Germany has been the
return of confiscated equipment and facilities of a non-
military nature to research institutes; re-establishment
or organization of certain technical societies, war-damaged
educational institutions, laboratories and offices; purchase
of new apparatus and equipment with ECA funds; inter-
change of technical information among German and
American scientists — by facilitating study of German
scientists in the United States, acquisition of technical
literature in the various US Information Centers, visits
to German scientific laboratories and joint scientific
conferences; recommendations for the financial support of
scientific research and publications; and support of license
applications for certain research projects which are on
the borderline of those restricted by law.
Under a recently expanded policy, efforts are being
directed toward the re-establishment of international

Technician in Berlin laboratory is working with an ultra-
microscope, an important new aid in research experiments.

Dr. Mueller operates a hand-size field electron micro-
scope, recently developed in Berlin for molecular study.

relations with Germans in the field of science. American
lecturers are regularly appearing before German uni-
versity and other scientific groups and an effort is now
being made to promote a program which will permit
research scientists to pursue work with American
scientists in the United States. These leading experts,
because of their prominence, will thus be able, upon their
return, to influence young German scientists as to
research methods, techniques, the “team” plan under
which whole crews of highly trained workers concentrate
on current research problems, and in fact upon all other
activities related to scientific study.

These “positive” functions of the Scientific Research
Division are not entirely unselfish, because potential
contributions of German science and the continuing good
will of German scientists certainly loom large in the
frame of common interests, and are of no small con-
sequence to the Western World.

HERE IS CONSIDERABLE gratification at the remark-
able strides German scientists, released at last from

the repressions of the Nazis, are making. To cite a few
examples, the hand-size field electron microscope recently
developed in Berlin may prove as important in the study
of single molecules as did the earlier German invention
of the electron microscope — now a commonplace
apparatus for study of fine particles and simple organisms.
A recent mechanical development by a Nuremberg
scientist is expected to boost the fuel efficiency of diesel
engines by 10 percent. One young woman botanist in
Frankfurt has developed a tiny species of plant with the
shortest reproductive cycle known. Uses of this plant in
studying inherited trails over several generations in a con-
veniently short time may be as revolutionary for genetics
as the rapidly reproducing fruit fly of a generation ago.
Germans and Americans share the hope that the
standards of scientific integrity and objectivity developed
in postwar Germany will be a beacon guiding future
scientific relations between these two nations and the
entire free West. From the start which has been made, the
realization of this hope seems assured. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Rural Youth Assistance home in Neubronn, Wuerttemberg-Baden, cares for teen-age boys while they learn farm life.
Building accommodates 30 youngsters who work nine hours a day for local farmers and receive an apprentice’s

monthly wage of DM 15 to DM 70. Boys are recruited by city youth or labor offices. (HICOG photos by K. Hopp)
Boys like clean, bright washroom and shower after long, Trained youth workers guide youngsters in recreation
hard day of tilling the soil. Running water and modern and sport activities, Neubronn and other homes have

plumbing fixtures are a real luxury in most rural homes. facilities to help make new project part of village life.

pees

--- Page 14 ---
Keeping Youth on Farms

By HAYNES R. MAHONEY
Press Officer, Public Relations Division, HICOG

NEW MOVEMENT to create a rewarding life for young

German farm workers has been initiated in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden and is steadily spreading to other parts of
Western Germany. Jugendhilfe Land e. V. (Rural Youth
Assistance, Inc.), with its federal headquarters in Stutt-.
gart and active state and local organizations in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, Hesse and North Rhine-Westphalia, promotes
the establishment of rural -youth homes where German
boys and girls can live while learning that farm life has
its attractions as well as its rigors.

The efforts of Jugendhilfe Land have long been needed
in Germany. German youth have drifted away from the
land for decades because of the laborious monotony of
farm life. The miserable wages, dawn-to-dark working
hours and lack of recreation turned many an apprenticed
farm worker's eyes toward the better pay and bright
lights of the city. Even in the food-scarce days of the
early postwar period, farm apprenticeships went begging
because of the repugnance of youth for farm work.

Jugendhilfe Land is not so interested in building a
“back-to-farm" movement as it is in striking at the roots
of the young rural worker's discontent. It is urging regular
working hours, better pay and educational opportunities
for apprenticed farm workers, While its beginnings are
still modest — only two homes have been opened, with
three more almost completed — it has aroused the interest
of scores of additional villages which have begun raising
funds for building homes in their own communities.

UGENDHILFE LAND ORIGINATED from the idea of

Mayor Hugo Schamann of Neubronn, a farm community
in Mergentheim County, Wuerttemberg-Baden. Concerned
by the shortage of young farm workers in his village,
while young people were wandering city streets, unable
to find work, he aroused farmers to the need for action.
They formed themselves into the first local unit of
Jugendhilfe Land, raised money from local and state

“We in HICOG,” said Mrs. Judy Russell of the
Youth and Community Activities Branch, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, “have been watching the
development of ‘Jugendhilfe Land’ with much in-
terest. We look to this organization not only
because we see in its program an opportunity for
setting up rural community centers under trained
leadership, but also because we find that the per-
sennel working with and in this organization are
playing an ever-increasing role in providing
leadership for rural community planning on an all
West-German level.”

OCTOBER 1951

11

sources, supplemented by a grant from HICOG, and rebuilt
a youth home to accommodate approximately 30 boys.

The first group of youngsters, aged 14 to 16 years, ‘
arrived from Kiel in June 1950, and other youngsters
followed during the summer. According to Mayor
Schamann's plan, each boy spends one year in Neu-
bronn, after which another boy is recruited through city-
youth or labor offices, Meanwhile village farmers agree
to take one or more boys for work and training, paying
them monthly wages ranging from DM 25 to DM 70 ($5.95
to $16.66) depending on the type of work and their ability.

The normal apprentice farm worker's salary in Wuert-
temberg-Baden is DM 15 ($3.57) monthly. Each boy pays
DM 5 ($1.19) monthly to the home, while “his farmer”
pays another DM 5. Work is from seven in the morning
until seven at night, with three hours rest during the day,
and every second Sunday ‘completely free.”

While these conditions may seem harsh to the average
city worker they are very reasonable for farm work,
where the hired hand usually starts at dawn and works
until the last barn door is closed often late at night, with
seldom a day off. Every farmer who takes a boy to work
must sign a contract agreeing to these liberal working con-

Two boys living in home wield saw and hammer to
convert its attic into recreation room. After-work activi-
ties include discussions, Classes, games, singing, dancing.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
In fall, after crops were in, boys and girls helped farm-

ers build new road through their fields. Villages in three
states are enthusiastic about “back-to-farm" movement.

ditions, because a major point of Mayor Schamann's plan
is to make farming attractice to the younger generation.

OST SIGNIFICANT, HOWEVER, is the organization's

concern for integrating these young workers into
community life. The Neubronn home is run by a trained
youth worker, who conducts a community program for
the boys, including classes in agriculture, discussion
meetings, singing, dancing and sports. In rebuilding the
home, the villagers provided a room where the entire com-
munity can join the activities of the newcomers. Today
the Jugendhilfe Land home has become a center of youth
activities in Neubronn.

The success of this venture is evidenced by the fact
that 10 of the 13 boys who finished their allotted year at
the youth home last summer have elected to stay on farms
in the Neubronn area while only three decided to go back
to city life.

The Neubronn idea attracted the attention of other
communities and eventually a state headquarters for
Jugendhilfe Land was set up in Stuttgart. Its small staff
now circulates through the country, addressing town
councils and public forums, giving advice and assisting
in formation of additional groups. Eventually the organi-
zation spread to Hesse and North Rhine-Westphalia.

According to Hans Reusch, head of the national organi-
zation, a second home at Weckelweiler near Lake Con-
stance accommodates 12 girls who are learning how to run
a farm household while working with local farm women.
Homes which will average about 40 boys each are also
under construction at Bermatungen near Lake Constance,
Ruppertshofen in Schwaebisch-Gmuend County and Ober-
aula in Siegenheim County, Hesse.

In addition approximately 20 other farm communities
have organized Jugendhilfe Land groups, many of which
have accumulated 40 to 60 percent of the means to build
their youth homes. In the farm communities, where cash

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

is a scarce item, the local groups have received donations
of land and building materials, and offers of voluntary
labor. The Jugendhilfe Land organization is now urging
state agriculture ministries, the Federal Government and
the ECA Special Mission to Western Germany to grant
necessary funds to aid construction of the new homes.

“We have no trouble in getting farm villages interested
in establishing youth homes,” Mr. Reusch reported. “In
fact, we could easily add 100 more towns which are more
than eager to start building right away, but we have to
hold them back, because there just isn't that much money
available, We simply have to go slow.”

HE JUGENDHILFE LAND organization, which is cur-

rently aided by a HICOG grant for operational ex-
penses, assists the communities in raising funds, planning
their buildings and obtaining qualified youth leaders for the
homes. The organization also takes pains to see that new
homes include facilities to make it an integral part of vil-
lage life. Meeting rooms, a library, community laundry
or a kindergarten keep villagers interested in the new
project and its young residents.

While the state and national organizations leave local
groups to their own resources in adapting their home ‘to
community conditions, they do insist upon the basic
principles of fair working conditions and a good educa-
tional program for the youngsters.

Jugendhilfe Land will never become a mass movement.,

The cost of building youth homes and the need for trained
leaders limit the number of youth who can be accom-

modated through this movement. It avoids, however, the —

failure of the old Artam League of the ‘20s and the Nazis’
forced labor movement, which settled the youth in latge
camps, artificially isolated from local community life. If
it sticks to its principles, Jugendhilfe Land will contribute
a growing group of progressive young farmers to a rural
population which has long needed new blood. -+-END

Care of livestock and other phases of farm life are learned
by city youths during one year apprenticeship. Farmers
hiring boys must agree to liberal working conditions.

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 16 ---
Friendship Camps

By MARY M. COPPOCK

International Work Camps, Brethren Service Commission, Kassel

‘YUPPLEMENTING GOVERNMENT-SPONSORED efforts
to promote friendship and understanding among the
world’s youth are a number of private programs which
are a salient factor in the West's attempt to teach amity
to young people on an international basis.

One of the most successful of these programs is the
“international work camp,” bringing youth of many na-
tions together for a several-week period during which
they join forces in a manual labor project, and at the
same time create a neutral atmosphere for group living
as a demonstration of what can be achieved on an inter-
national scale. Hundreds of young persons, including 150
Americans, participated in 130 such work camps in Europe
during the past summer; 50-odd organizations, all recog-
nized by UNESCO, were represented among them.

Since all the camps stress the importance of selecting
sites where a problem of international significance can
be observed firsthand, Western Germany had more camps
than any other country of comparable size and popula-
tion. During July and August, international groups were
amalgamated into 65 work camps in Germany; three of
the 11 organizations sponsoring the German camps are
voluntary agencies which support this program as one
phase of their relief, reconstruction and rehabilitation
work, The Mennonite Central Committee, the American
Friends Service Committee and the Brethren Service
Commission directed 12 of this year's camps.

The Brethren Service Commission set up four camps
in Germany — one in each of the three western zones
and a fourth in West Berlin, They were located in Kassel,
in the US Zone; in Voehrenbach, deep in the Black Forest
area of the French Zone; in Loccum, near Hanover, in the
British Zone, and in the Charlottenburg section of Berlin.

T KASSEL, A GROUP of 20 of the international “work-

ers” put in 40 hours a week on the building of a new
elementary school in the overcrowded Oberzwehren sub-
urb. At the nearby Mattenburg Kaserne (former army
barracks), which houses refugees and expellees, they took
part in evening discussions and other leisure-time study
of the problems which destroyed cities are contending
with as they attempt to reestablish their business economy,
provide adequate housing and rebuild public institutions,
while at the same time absorbing large numbers of ref-
ugees into their community life.

The Voehrenbach camp is one of nine international
camps in Donaueschingen county devoted to a refugee
self-help housing corporation. Groups working in that
area had an opportunity to view the village life of south-
western Germany, and were able to observe the positive
efforts of refugees to integrate themselves with the life

OCTOBER 1951

of the particular community which had become their
new home. Many large assemblies drawing from campers

Visit with the mayor of Hochheim, a small town near
Frankfurt, is a pleasant break in the work schedule of
students helping rebuild Frankfurt University. The group
includes (1.-r.) Adriani (Indonesia) from Leiden University
in the Netherlands; Cor Tiggelman (Netherlands) from
Leiden University; Francoise Deslogeres (France) from
Paris Conservatory of Music; Walther de Willebois
(Netherlands) from Leiden University; Mayor Peter Ohlig;
Kuo Yu-méi (China) from Leiden University; Loek
Schuddeboom (Netherlands) from Leiden University;
schoolteacher Hornlehnert from Hochheim; Woligang
Kettler and Heinz Tom, both from the Free University in
Berlin. (Photos by PRD HICOG and Brethren Service Commission}

--- Page 17 ---
in neighboring villages featured lectures on the life,
history and problems of this section of Germany, and
afforded a clear picture of the situation in the entire area.

The Haus der Jugend (House of Youth) in the Charlot-
tenburg borough of Berlin was the site of a work-camp
seminar for several weeks last summer. With only 10
hours a week devoted to a manual labor project — a
recreation park for Berlin children — the representatives
of many countries who met there had ample time for a
concentrated study course on the topic “Ideologies of our
Time.” West Berlin, deep in the Soviet Zone, provided a
realistic locale for such a study project, and participants
there unanimously termed the seminar as an unusually
valuable source of vital information and evaluation of
present-day ideologies.

At Loccum, 25 campers especially concerned with the
refugee problem built a Haus fuer Alle (community cen-
ter) for refugee youth awaiting job opportunities following
their arrival from the Iron Curtain countries usually
penniless and with only the clothes they wore in their
flight from Communist oppression. The completed com-
munity center will house a chapel, library, writing and
game rooms, and activities there are in charge of a Young
Men's Christian Association secretary.

BOUT ONE-FOURTH of the campers in each of the
four Brethren Service Commission camps were non-
tourist Americans between the ages of 18 and 30 who came
to Europe at their own expense especially to participate
in the international work camp effort for promoting
friendship and understanding among nations. Some were
students, others were not, but all sought to further the
camp goal of helping to solve some community problem
while demonstrating that ordinary persons the world over
can live and work peacefully together.
Both Americans and Germans served on the camp staffs;
the American leader was usually someone who had worked

Experienced German worker gives two Indonesianstudents
tips on one phase of reconstruction. Participants in the
“international work camp,’ sponsored by the Frankfurt
University Student Association and the International
Student Service, did every type of work on one of the
university's many large buildings and its student house,

oe

Blistered hands and sunburns gave evidence of the manual
labor which students did in their experiment of living and —
working with young people of different nationalities, —
Students donated between 10 and 40 hours a week of
work on some particular community building program,

4
in some phase of a relief or rehabilitation program for
at least a year, and was able to brief his countrymen who ~
came to participate in the international community effort,
Work of the campers was contributed without renumer-
ation, and although each American camper provided for
his qgwn maintenance and other expenses, campers of —
other nationalities unable to finance their work venture
often were aided by the sponsoring group. Either a spon- —
soring organization such as the Brethren Service Com- —
mission or a cooperating agency supplied living quarters, —
materials and direction for the work project, Each project ©
was one beyond the scope of a community's particular —
building program,-and the international workers were ~
never in competition with the unemployed. Church, gov-
ernment and labor officials were informed well in ad-
vance exactly what program each camp had planned,
The Community Affairs Branch of HICOG has reim-”
bursed the Brethren Service Commission for some of the
expenses incurred in connection with their camps,

T COST EACH AMERICAN participating in the ~
Brethren Service Commission work camp project last |
summer approximately $800, which included transporta-—
tion to Europe and a 20-day tour through Switzerland,
Germany, northern Italy and Austria, a dollar a day while
in camp and costs of a week's windup conference, The
tour was designed to orient the potential campers with
camp experience on an international basis and stressed
personal contacts in countries included in the tour. In
each country, at least one night was spent with a family,
and others in youth hostels and other small centers work=
ing toward international understanding. j
The young people will indeed remember Cologne ca=
thedral, the gondolas of Venice, the Swiss Alps, and beau-
tiful Vienna, but they will also be telling their friends”
about the International Friendship Center at Bueckeburg:
Germany, the ecumenical center for Protestant youth high 4

--- Page 18 ---
in the Italian Alps at Agape and a number of other places,
unknown to most European travelers, where an effort
toward international understanding is being vigorously
pursued. At the end of the tour, those going to Brethren
Service Commission camps were divided into groups as-
signed to the four camps in Germany, two in Austria and
one in Greece.

The day's schedule in each camp was adjusted to the
wishes of the group. Because campers usually wanted
free hours in the afternoon for individual contacts with
residents of the community in which they were located
or for recreation activities, they rose early to go to work
on their building project. Responsibilities of cooking and
other routine chores were rotated, which created a vary-
ing atmosphere allowing for the exchange of information
on meals, customs, family life and manners in different
countries. A menu for dinner might well include Italian
spaghetti, an Egyptian salad and Austrian apricot desert.
The European habit of second breakfast and afternoon tea
or coffee made a big hit with the Americans.

Many a German guest spending evenings at the various
camps wondered how the campers could wind up the
day's program with long hours of singing, folk dancing,

OS eee ein, ee
During the past summer 130 international work camps
were functioning in Europe, the majority being in Ger-
many. Several foreign languages were spoken. Projects
tanged from building of a new elementary school to a
community center for refugee youth awaiting employment.

OCTOBER 1951

15

Age or sex made no difference when it came to ability to
handle a shovel. Most campers rose early to work in order
to have afternoons free for recreation or other activities,
Rotation of cooking and other routine chores aided in the
exchange of customs, traditions, recipes and mannerisms.

discussions, speeches and community nights and still have
energy left for manual labor the next day.

‘LXIRSTHAND EVIDENCE of the seriousness of the ref-

ugee problem in Germany was apparent daily, One
camper who went to the refugee dispensary for treatment
of blisters on his hands found medical attendants giving
emergency first aid to an 18-year-old youth who had
attempted suicide because the farmer to whose home he
had been assigned said he was not strong enough to do
the hard work on a farm.

A second visitor was shocked to learn that another
refugee had fled to the uncertainties of life in the West
because his best friend had just been sentenced in the
Soviet Zone to a 25-year-term in prison for possessing an
American newspaper. Campers from Finland, the Near
East and India are able to amplify the problem of the
homeless by citing similar instances, and thus the refugee
problem becomes a matter of world concern rather than
a local one.

In one camp, one of the most cooperative workers was
at least 90 percent imbued with Hitler's Mein Kampt
philosophy; and undoubtedly there was a certain amount
of Communist infiltration. Campers hoped that the broad
experience these few had as part of the several camp
“families would have a salutary influence on these
youthful volunteers’ political attitudes and would eventu-
ally win them over with the others to the ideal of real
international friendship and understanding.

HE STRONG FRIENDSHIP TIES cemented among

campers certainly are an inspiration for the continu-
ance of the camp purpose of demonstrating idealism with
deeds. The individual desire for service in the present
idealistic struggle to erase the causes of war from the
minds of men by a united search for unbiased truth is
surely one of the strongest cords for unity in this uneasy
world, -- END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
4 g4/IUILUNUUUALUIALUULUOUUUUUOUUULEUUUUUO LEU GLEE OL

Blockade-Born University to Stay

HE FREE UNIVERSITY OF BERLIN, which was founded in 1948 as a living symbol of democratic

education, has been given a substantial grant by the Ford Foundation to help alleviate physical
difficulties.

The grant of $1,309,500 (DM 5,502,105) is one of the largest made by the foundation for an insti-
tution outside the United States.

During a recent visit, Paul G. Hoffman, director of the Ford Foundation, and Henry Ford II, chair-
man of the board, expressed their admiration for the achievements of the students, faculty and ad-
ministrative staff of the Free University. They were impressed by the assurances of the city and uni-
versity officials that the school, although hastily improvised during the days of the blockade, was here
to stay, and that the Germans would soon assume full responsibility for maintaining it as an independ-
ent institution.

In July the Ford Foundation approved the grant in recognition of the ‘great contribution being
made by the university, against heavy odds, to the strengthening of intellectual life—and to demo-
cratic education for responsible leadership.”

F THE AMOUNT, $1,190,500 will be used for the construction of a combined library and lecture

hall.and a students’ dining hall. The remaining money was granted for the establishment of an
extension service. :

The lack of physical facilities has been the most pressing problem of the university. The 1948
political split of the city shut off West Berlin from the well-stocked state and university libraries
located in the Eastern sector.

A "Books for Freedom" campaign is currently being conducted in the United States by CARE
(Cooperative for American Remittances to Europe), the National Conference of Christians and Jews,
and the World Brotherhood to provide reference material. In early August the first shipment of 330
new books arrived and was presented to the school. The volumes, including works on medicine,
political science, sociology and economics, were purchased according to a list of needed books pro-
vided by the Free University.

The shortage of classrooms and the dispersal of buildings constitute a severe handicap for both
students and professors. Many students, particularly those studying medicine and biological sciences,
must trek all over West Berlin to get to their classes and laboratories. An American Army-operated
movie theater has been placed at the university's disposal mornings for lectures.

Needless to say, there are no student dormitories, and hardly any social and recreational facilities
for students or faculty. The student dining hall consists of a small barracks accommodating at most
300 persons. More than 5,000 warm meals, however, are prepared daily in these inadequate quarters
and distributed by truck to the other, widely-scattered university buildings. These meals are part of
a HICOG-financed school-feeding program which provides every West Berlin student — as well as
some 5,000,000 school children in West Germany — from grade school through the university, with
a free hot meal daily. There are many students who have little
else to eat.*

* See ‘'26,865,000 Meals a Week,’' Information Bulletin, June 1950 issue.

American and German officials and educators took part in
ceremonies at the Titania Palast in Berlin Aug. 6 when pres-
entation of Ford Foundation grant of $1,309,500 was made to
Free University of Berlin. Shown, left to right, are Paul G.
Hoffman, director of the Ford Foundation, who made presenta-
tion; Prof. Hans von Kress, president of Free University, and
Dr. Robert M. Hutchins, associate director of the Ford Foundation.

(PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

--- Page 20 ---
Student

Participation
At Berlin’s:
Free University

By CARL G. ANTHON
Higher Education Adviser, Berlin Element, HICOG

HEN THE UNIVERSITY OF BERLIN, situated in the

Soviet Sector, reopened its doors in February 1946
by unilateral order of the Soviet authorities, it was plain
that this distinguished institution would soon fall victim
to the process of “democratization as understood east
of the Iron Curtain. For many months German and Allied
officials had tried to place the university under the control
of the Berlin City Government, where it logically be-
longed, but the Soviets, for obvious reasons, exercised
their veto at every level of quadripartite government to
thwart that attempt.

From the first, the Soviets encountered the undisguised
resistance of courageous students and professors to efforts
to turn the university into a Communisi school. The demo-
cratic opposition centered mainly around the student
paper, Colloquium, and the offices of the democratically
elected student government. Dismissals of professors and
expulsions of students did not silence the opposition. In
March 1947 the Soviet NKWD arrested six student lead-
ers; they have never been heard from since.

A year later, in April 1948, just a few days after three
student editors of Colloquium had been expelled from the
university, a mass meeting of the democratically-minded
students took place at Hotel Esplanade, just inside the
British Sector. Protesting against the increasing restric-
tions against academic freedom, and the repeated and
cruel interferences in student government affairs, the
students unanimously demanded the establishment of a
new, free university in West Berlin at the earliest pos-
sible moment.

Following up the students’ initiative, the Berlin City
Assembly passed a resolution on May 11, 1948, authorizing
the Magistrat (city council) to take appropriate steps to
found a Free University. Under the chairmanship of Ber-
lin's plucky mayor, Ernst Reuter, and art historian Edwin
Redslob, a 12-man preparatory committee was formed.
Two student leaders were members of this committee,
as it was fitting that the students should play an active
part in shaping the destiny of their new university.

OCTOBER 1951

Herbert Schuemann and Hans Joachim Boehm (right),
student representatives, attend conference presided over
by Prof. Hans von Kress (center). At left are Prof, Andreas
Paulsen and Dr. Edwin Redslob, noted art historian, who
serves as deputy president and administrative chief of
the university.

(PRD HICOG photos by Claude Jacoby)

Main entrance of the Free University’s administration build-
ing in the borough of Dahlem in the US Sector of Berlin.

Medical students of the first clinical semester fill large
classroom in School of Medicine to listen to a lecture.

--- Page 21 ---
Graduation of a law student is celebrated at university's
club, Buildirtg is leased by the students’ association.

T WAS HARDLY a propitious moment for setting up

an expensive university. On the very day — June 24,
1948 — that a Free University secretariat was established,
the Soviet Military Administration had stopped all rail
traffic between West Berlin and West Germany. A block-
ade, which had been creeping up for several weeks, and
which became complete by Aug. 4, threatened to paralyze
the life of the whole city. Less than a week later, the
Soviets announced they would no longer participate in
the work of the Allied Kommandatura, thus putting an
end to quadripartite rule in Berlin.

Nor was it easy to locate university buildings in a city
half destroyed and with practically nothing rebuilt.

In view of the political and economic uncertainty
created by the blockade, it seemed a miracle when, on
Nov. 10, 1948, the Free University opened for business.*
Of more than 5,000 qualified applicants only 2,200 were
admitted, 40 percent of whom were residents of the Soviet
Sector and Soviet Zone. A teaching force of some 100
professors and assistants, organized into three faculties —
medicine, law-economics and philosophy — was available.

As a result of careful screening, less than eight percent,
the lowest percentage in any German university, had been
army officers or had held office in Nazi organizations.
Approximately 25 percent of the students were women,
representing a tremendous increase over the prewar per-
centage in German universities.

A collection of 15 buildings, scattered about in the
beautiful suburb of Dahlem, was made available to the
university. Students and scientific assistants volunteered
their time to help repair and furnish the buildings. Despite
the scarcity of money, accentuated by the currency reform
of June 1948, books, tables and chairs appeared over-
night. A grant-in-aid from American Military Government
of DM 2,000,000 (at that time equal to $600,000) helped
put the university on its feet. Since that time American
authorities have financed approximately 25 percent of
the university's annual budget, which is in the neigh-
borhood of DM 8,000,000 ($1,904,000).

* See Information Bulletin, Issue No. 156, March 8, 1949.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

Messes in wooden buildings scattered over nineareas serve
5,000 meals a day. Needy students are given free meals.

Thus, through the remarkable cooperative effort of stu-
dents, professors and civic leaders, of Germans and Ameti-
cans, the Free University was launched, with the motto,
“Veritas, Justitia, Libertas" (Truth, Justice, Liberty).

Friedrich Meinecke, Germany's dean of historians, be-
came the first rector or president, but because of his ad-
vanced age, Professor Redslob acted as executive rector.

* * *

HE CONSTITUTION OF the Free University reflects

the dramatic events of the founding period. In draft-
ing it, the preparatory committee kept in mind two aims:
to give the new institution a certain measure of autonomy,
and to accord the students an effective voice in the affairs
of the university. Government control was limited by the
establishment of a board of trustees or Kuratorium. It
consists of 12 members, under the chairmanship of Berlin’s
mayor, and includes the federal minister of finance, three

Organizational Chart
Of Student Representation

Meeting of Entire Student Body

Student Parliament (“Konvent"’)

Student Executive Committee (ASTA)

Cultural Sports Press
Officer Officer Officer

Financial Social Field
Officer Officer Officer

1. The student body elects one member for each 100 students
to the Student Parliament. 2. The‘‘Konvent"' (Student Parliament)
elects the chairman and vice chairman. 3. The ‘‘Konvent"
elects the chairman and four officers of ASTA (Student
Executive Committee), The other members of ASTA are
nominated by the chairman and elected by the ‘‘Konvent."
Each ASTA officer is charged with certain responsibilities.

thringnas

opi gepatees

OCTOBER 1951

sre:

--- Page 22 ---
Announcements regarding courses, Classes, cultural events
clutter bulletin board in entrance hali of main building.

members of the City Assembly, the rector and deputy
rector, a student representative, and three outstanding
persons from public life.

Student representatives participate in all levels of the
Free University's administration — the Kuratorium, the
University Senate and in the individual faculties. The
Free University is the only university in the world where
students have such far-reaching rights and responsibili-
ties. To realize the full significance of this situation, one
should try to imagine students of an American college
or university, sitting — with full voting powers — with
the board of trustees or in faculty meetings, determining
the hiring and firing of professors.

Nor have the students abused that privilege. After all,
the main impetus for founding the university came from
the students. They know from experience the evils of
totalitarian education, and they are determined to keep
their university clear from a resurgence of political tyran-
ny of any kind or color.

The organs of student government are the Konvent or
student parliament and the student council, generally
known as AST A” (Allgemeiner Studentenausschuss). Both
of these are elected annually by the entire student body.

HE ACTIVITIES AND responsibilities of the student

council are unusually extensive, because of the spe-
cial problems obtaining in a four-sector city, surrounded
by inaccessible and hostile Soviet-controlled territory.
Various functions are assigned to the different offices of
the student council. Of special significance is the Office
for All-German Questions (Referat fuer Gesamtdeutsche
Fragen) whose job it is to screen Soviet Zone applicants
for admission to the Free University. Numerous students
— and professors — seek refuge in West Berlin as Com-
Mmunist pressure mounts at East zone universities. Even
in "neutral" fields such as philology, theology and natural
sciences, objective study is no longer possible.

Only those students who can prove that their life is
endangered by political persecution are granted official
tefugee status in West Berlin. As such they are entitled
to financial assistance and are helped in gaining admit-

OCTOBER 1951

At store owned by three students merchandise is sold at
discount. Students' social agencies get part of profits.

tance to the universities of West Berlin and western
Germany.

Through its close contacts with East zone students, the
Free University's Office for All-German Questions is in
a position to obtain valuable information on educational
developments in the Soviet Zone. They are also able to
extend assistance and advice to their oppressed fellow
students behind the Iron Curtain.

Of considerable importance is the Student Social Wel-
fare Office. It has charge of administering the stipends
or scholarships, and other social aids of more than 2,700
students — half the student body! Most of the Soviet Zone
students, who constitute more than 35 percent of the 5,800
students enrolled in the Free University in 1951, receive
a so-called currency-exchange stipend of DM 80 a month
to compensate for the low value of the East mark, which
is worth one-fifth of the West German or Deutsche mark.

Once a month the city turns over to this students’ office ©
some DM 200,000, which is paid out by six tellers to the
scholarship recipients. By virtue of the powers delegated
to him by the student parliament, the student in charge
of this office exercises considerable influence in screen-

Paul G. Hofiman (left), chairman of Ford Foundation, and
Henry Ford I] were snapped in Frankfurt en route to Berlin
for conierences which resulted in foundation's big grant.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
ing and recommending students for scholarships and other
aids, Again comparison with American university prac-
tices is invited! The administration of this huge welfare
operation involves a heavy responsibility and, on the
whole, the program has worked well.

ARIOUS OTHER STUDENT organizations conduct

programs designed to meet the social and academic
problems of students. Those who desire part-time employ-
ment register with the Heinzelmaennchen organization,
which has found odd jobs for more than 1,400 students
during the current year. Another student organization,
the nationwide Studentenwerk, operates student social
and welfare facilities, such as the students’ dining hall,
clubhouse, co-op store, health unit and loan office.

Another very important students’ responsibility, con-
nected with the admission of new students, should not
go unmentioned, To screen the great number of appli-
cants — often five times as many as can be accommo-
dated — three-member admission committees have been
set up in all university departments. Each committee
consists of one professor, one student and one represent-
ative of the public. The work of the committees is not
easy, for in one brief 15-minute interview it is necessary
to ascertain the candidate's academic qualifications, his
personality and his political history.

In the case of applicants from the Soviet Zone, where
the whole educational system has been revamped and
where academic documents can hardly be considered
reliable, such evaluation is particularly difficult. There
is always the danger that among a host of bona fide
refugees, Communist spies try to infiltrate the student body,

The most pressing problem of the Free University
continues to be the lack of physical facilities. How-
ever, the Free University plans not only to build up
its physical plant. It recognizes at the same time that
it must use its youth to full advantage and institute
progressive academic changes which will distinguish it
from the tradition-bound universities of western Germany.
A special curriculum committee is at work to draw up
an academic program designed to overcome the isolation
of the individual university departments and the exces-
sive specialization which threatens to transform univer-

US Commander Maj. Gen, Lemuel Mathewson,accompanied
by the author (center) and Dr. Redslob (right), inspects the
Free University's facilities to acquaint himself with its
current needs and plans for improvements, (US Army photo) ~

sity education into mere vocational or professional”
training. Among other things, it is planned to introduce
more general education courses and study groups which
will transcend the limits of the individual disciplines, | F

What impressed the representatives of the Ford Foun-,
dation who recently visited the Berlin institution to which —
they presented a grant of DM 5,502,125 ($1,309,500), was —
the fighting spirit which inspired ‘the students and —
teachers of this youngest university of the world. It is —
the same militant spirit which inspired Berliners in
1948-49 to defy the Soviet-imposed blockade. The stu-
dent leaders of the Free University are imbued with a
sense of mission. They are constantly on the alert against
the danger of totalitarian aggression and infiltration, and j
do their utmost to enlighten their West German col-
leagues about the meaning of this.

The Free University students are equally alert to the
danger of a revival of rightist reaction, While, for
example, nationalistic student corporations have reap-
peared everywhere in western Germany, with all their
old-fashioned trappings, including dueling, the students ~
of the Free University not only have persistentiy pre- ~
vented their re-emergence in Berlin, but are constantly Fe
combating their baleful influence in western Germany.
Similarly, they have successfully warded off any attempts
to organize reactionary political groups at the Free Uni-
versity, such as the Deutsche Partei (DP) or the Sozial-—
istische Reichspartei (SRP) of General Remer. -+END:

Chemistry Building (left), partially destroyed during the
war, is one of several such bomb-scarred structures again
in service, Below, needy students are paid subsistence:
ranging- from DM 30 to DM 100 per month depending
upon financial status. Students supervise payments.

--- Page 24 ---
Labor’s Unfinished Tasks

By HARVEY W. BROWN
Retired Director, Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG

AM LEAVING GERMANY after two years as director
I of the Office of Labor Affairs of the Office of the
United States High Commissioner for Germany. In the
lime I have spent here I have been impressed by the prog-
ress made in digging the country out of the ruins in
which it found itself when the Nazi regime collapsed
in 1945.

Progress has been made not only in the physical sense.
Germany has, I believe, also made considerable progress
in finding the way from dictatorship to a democratic com-
munity. By this I do not mean to say that democracy in
Germany is permanently established. But a sound founda-
tion has been laid and there is reasonable assurance that
the extremists both from the left and the right can be
kept in check, if not eliminated.

Having spent most of my active life in the trade union
movement, I am, of course, especially proud of the support
which the trade unions in Germany are giving to the
democratic state.

One thing must be clear to anyone who has studied the
German situation. The industrial machine has been prac-
tically rebuilt. It is necessary now to raise the living
standards of the wage earners. Nothing is more effective
in strengthening the fiber of democracy than to provide
for the average citizens standards of well-being which
are worth defending.

HAVE SAID THIS before and I want to emphasize it
again: German employers have been able to rebuild
their enterprises largely with the aid of foreign assistance
and at the expense of low wages and high prices. Now

Harvey W. Brown.
(PRD HICOG photo by Jacoby)

OCTOBER 1951

21

that they are financially able, they should not so stub-
bornly resist demands of the workers acting collectively
through their unions for an increase in real wages. As far
as I can see, the unions need not hesitate to demand the
establishment of decent living standards.

The current practice of increasing the worker's take-
home pay by letting him work overtime on a regular basis
is deplorable. With still 1,276,000 unemployed, efforts
should be made to reduce the present 48-hour work week
rather than consistently work in excess of the 48-hour
standard.

Labor and management should jointly explore the pos-
sibility of increasing productivity for the purpose, on the
one hand, of increasing the real income of the workers
and, on the other, of making available to the consumer
better goods at lower prices, Such a step will be most
effective in combating Communism and Nazism.

I, for one, will certainly recommend that any further
United States economic assistance to Germany shall go
primarily to those industries and employers who commit
themselves to share the benefits of such aid with their
employees and the consuming public. I shall do this
because in my opinion the time has come, in fact it is
overdue, where US dollars: going to Europe to assist in
rebuilding and integrating the economies of the free
countries must, to an increasing extent, be used where
they will benefit the wage earners and not a favored few.

HE GERMAN TRADE UNIONS are still not tough

enough on advocates of totalitarianism within their
ranks. In some unions considerable progress has been
made to clean out the agents of the Kremlin, especially
from positions of influence. But too many unionists, in-
cluding officers, still believe that a Communist can at the
same time also be a good trade: unionist. They should
know, of course, that every Communist is under instruc-
tions to divert the union in which he is active into a tool
of the Communist conspiracy. ~

I want to say a few words about the internal trade
union structure. To the extent to which the unions
develop an organizational structure which will permit the
rank and file members full opportunity to participate in
determining union policy and to assume responsibility
for such policies, they will strengthen the influence of
organized labor in shaping the development of Germany.
They will thereby also train the membership in their
responsibilities as citizens in their recently won demo-
cratic state.

Local union meetings are the universities of the work-
ing people. Here they learn about the issues which affect
them as workers and as citizens and here they can make
the decisions which affect these issues. Such meetings
must be held in union halls and not within the four walls

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 25 ---
of the employer's plant. An overcentralization of the
union structure will destroy this opportunity for action at
the local level.

I sincerely hope that the unions will find means of
integrating the work of the works councils and the unions
to assure a healthy climate for local union activity. As
presently legally organized the works councils seem to
me to assume functions which should be the functions of
the local unions, such as contract interpretation, grievance
handling and discussion of local working standards.

HAT DISTURBS ME as much as anything else in
present day Germany is the educational system. It
is my concept as a democrat that all children must be
given equal educational opportunities within practical
limits. This is not the case in Germany. The German
educational system still seems to provide education on
a class basis. I hope the progressive forces in Germany
will have the determination in bringing about the neces-
sary changes,
One of these changes must provide full-time schooling
beyond the eighth grade for the children of the German

workers with proper basic instruction in the social
sciences. b

An extension of the compulsory school-leaving age will,
of course, automatically solve another basic problem,
That is the practice of sending children at the tender age
of 14 years into industrial plants.

In spite of what may be said about the effectiveness of
the German system of apprenticeship training, I believe
that both from a social and economic point of view it
would be to the interest of Germany if the general school-
leaving age were extended at least two years. From my
practical experience in industry I know that a 14-year-old _
boy is not developed sufficiently, either physically o
mentally, to enter the labor force.

In conclusion let me say that I shall continue to follow
with deep interest further developments in Germany,
The progress made I shall judge by the extent to
which the worker is given a fair share of the pro-
ceeds of his industry and by the extent to which labor |
is given the opportunity to participate in shaping the
country's destiny. +END

Bremen to Get DM 4,000,000 Vocational School

The people of Bremen have received a grant of DM
1,961,241 ($466,775) from the HICOG Special Projects Fund
for construction of three new buildings of a Vocational
Education Center.

The money is made possible by the American people as
an aid to the building of modern German educational,
cultural and social institutions, The fund is not a charge
against occupation costs. Approximately 85 percent of
Bremen's young people are dependent on vocational
schools for any formal education beyond elementary
school (Volksschule) or the age of 14 years.

The HICOG grant will be matched with a similar amount
from the city of Bremen, In addition to the regular class-
rooms there will be libraries, an auditorium, cafeteria,
gymnasium and other recreational facilities.

Bremen Senate President Wilhelm Kaisen (left) smilingly
accepts HICOG Special Project Fund check for DM 1,961,241
from Rear Adm. Charles R. Jeffs, US Navy (Ret.), state
commissioner for Bremen. The city will provide additional
DM 2,000,000 to build new Vocational Education Center.

The housing of many different vocational schools in on
area will make possible inter-vocational cooperation dui
to the development of understanding among the variou:
groups. f

The educational program will include courses and —
activities designed to prepare youth to assume the respon-
sibilities of competent citizens in a democratic society. j

In presenting the check to Bremen Senate Preside
Wilhelm Kaisen, Rear Admiral Charles R. Jeffs, US state
commissioner for Bremen, said, “The plans which navel
been developed in Bremen state are of such excellence as °
to promise that this Vocational Education Center will be-
come a model for all of Germany and for those in other
countries who are making efforts to improve their pro- |
grams of vocational education. These plans should enable —
the citizens of the community to make of the school a
real community center of educational, cultural, social and
political interest.” ;

The largest grant from the HICOG Special Projects ©
Fund went to a library in West Berlin. This amount was’
second, with another DM 1,176,450 ($279,995) going for
the building of Radio Bremen.

Opposition Blocks Improvement

At a recent meeting of the city council of Kronach in
northern Bavaria near the Soviet Zone border, the only
woman member criticized the unsanitary condition of the —
lavatory in the local school building. However, her motion
to remedy the condition was voted down by a majority
of the male members who pointed out that the lavatory —
had always been dirty —had been in that condition when ~
they themselves had been youngsters.

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 26 ---
Czechoslovakia a Concentration

Camp, Refugee Official Says

OWEVER, FAMILIAR YOU may be with Czech

history and the country and people of Czechoslovakia,
you cannot imagine how desperate life in this big con-
centration camp, called Czechoslovakia, is today. Only
Mr. Vogeler* and others who suffered as he has are in a
position to understand it.”

That is how Maximilian Jiri Lom, an official of the
Czechoslovakian ministry for foreign trade and former
commercial attache of the Czechoslovakian consulate
general in New York, summed up conditions in his home
country, from which he escaped a few days before with
his wife and their little daughter. He spoke to some
30 Allied and German correspondents at a press con-
ference in Frankfurt Sept. 27. :

“It is obvious to everyone that the economic situation
is completely desperate,” Mr. Lom said. The Czech
industry, he said, is being “milked” by the Soviet Union
and satellite countries from Albania to China, in return
for little or nothing. About 60 percent of all Czech
exports today go to Soviet Russia, as against two per-
cent before the war.

“The food supply is much worse than in the worst
year of the last. war. The Communist distribution ma-
chinery has collapsed completely, with the result that
agricultural products are allowed to perish, while the big
cities receive less than their rations.”

TATISTICS ON CZECHOSLOVAK-SOVIET trade are

secret, since not even the Communist propaganda
machine can use them for its purposes, he said. The
Soviet Union sends Czechoslovakia only raw materials
required for the production of goods ordered by the So-
viet government itself or unnecessary
items such as Russian crab meat, Polish
herrings or Bulgarian tomatoes.

Mr. Lom said that recent US action
curtailing trade with China hit the
Czech economy badly. However, a
of Marshall Plan countries,
notably Great Britain and France, still
keep supplying machinery, heavy
equipment and spare parts to Czecho-
slovakia under existing trade agree-
ments. The Czechs depend heavily on
these sources, according to Mr. Lom.

number

* Robert A. Vogeler, a US citizen and an
Official of the International Telephone and
Telegraph Company in Central Europe, was
arrested on Nov. 18, 1949 by the Hungarian
Security police on charges of espionage and
sabotage. He was held by Hungarian authorities
for 17 months and was released on April 28,
1951, after protracted negotiations between the
United States and Hungarian governments.

OCTOBER 1951

Maximilian Jiri Lom.
(PRD HICOG photo)

23

Imports from countries of the Western Hemisphere
still amount to 40 percent of the total volume of Czech
foreign trade, and a number of commodities formerly
supplied by the United States are now being produced
by Great Britain and delivered to Czechoslovakia. West-
ern Germany, he said, has very little trade with Czecho-
slovakia at the present, but Sweden is an important
supplier of iron ore.

On the other hand, Mr. Lom said, Czechoslovakian
exports to the United States are still high, comprising
chiefly textiles and glassware. He discounted the impor-
tance of the smuggling of strategic commodities to
Czechoslovakia, naming Vienna and the Eastern zone of
Germany as principal smuggling places.

The economic deterioration in Czechoslovakia has been
particularly notable during the last year, which Mr. Lom
attributed to the Czech rearmament effort, which leaves
the country with insufficient consumer goods. As a
second reason he cited the complete inability of the so-
called “workers cadres” now running the Czech fac-
tories. Members of these cadres are selected primarily
according to their Communist background and loyalty,
he said, while knowledge and experience are considered
only secondary factors. Mr. Lom called the officials of
his own government department, the ministry for foreign
trade, “incompetent and unexperienced.”

ESPITE THE GREAT EASTERN rearmament effort,

Mr. Lom did not believe that the Czechs, in fact the
Soviet-dominated countries in general, are ready to
fight. He said that even Czech leaders realize that indus-
trial and technical progress in the West is greatly out-
pacing the East. Yet he warned not to
underestimate the strength of the Com-
munist bloc. Taking the iron industry
as an example, he said that though
Czechoslovakia has little iron ore of
its own, it uses almost all of it for mili-
tary purposes, regardless of consumers’
demands, and thus is able to produce
more armaments than could be ex-
pected from a country of its size.

This is one of the great hopes of
Communist leaders, according to Mr.
Lom. They figure that the West will be
unable to stand the present rapid pace
of its rearmament effort and that pro-
duction in the United States will sooner
or later collapse and give way to a
depression. Since they know that de-
mocracies cannot enforce such efforts
as they demand from their own people,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
.they are confident that economic disaster in the West is
inevitable in the long run and will help their own cause.
Meanwhile, they keep telling their people that the
United States is preparing to attack the ‘peoples’ democ-
racies," but Mr, Lom doubted that Communist Party
functionaries believe that themselves.

While the foreign trade ministry and other govern-
ment departments have no Russian advisers, the Czech
army has standardized its equipment and methods of
training according to Soviet patterns, Mr. Lom continued.
He said he had never served in any army and was not
in a position to appraise the present strength of the
Czech military forces but felt that “the army is stronger
today than it was ever before.”

N THE CULTURAL SIDE, the refugee said, he could
give only a “very gray and sad picture” of what
was once a rich tradition, “Everything has to fit into
one standard pattern — glorifying the Soviet Union,
glorifying Communism and glorifying the Czech leaders.”
Lies about the West and slandering Western countries
are the alternative to this, he said. He also confirmed
recent reports that only “loyal citizens" are allowed to
learn Western languages, and that it takes party clear-
ance to purchase an English dictionary or textbook. Mr.
Lom thought it “perfectly idle’ to talk about the Czech
‘press, adding that the Voice of America and Radio Free
Europe are the only means of obtaining factual and
true information. .

Commending the Voice of America as a source of
encouragement to all people behind the Iron Curtain,
Mr. Lom urged that everything possible should be done
to improve the Voice’s broadcast technically. Its present
wave bands are being jammed heavily, he said, while
BBC (British Broadcasting Company) and the broadcast
from Paris can be received clearly. In Mr. Lom’s opinion
this proves that the Czechoslovak government does not
have sufficient jamming equipment to prevent complete-
ly the reception of foreign broadcasts and consequently
jams only the Voice of America and Radio Free Europe
as the most dangerous ones. He said the Czechoslovak
government fears‘particularly the Czech language trans-
missions of the Voice of America, since only few Czechs
know foreign languages and therefore depend on Czech
broadcasts.

Commenting on the risk of listening to Western broad-
casts, Mr. Lom emphasized that no Czech law provides
a penalty for listening, but added that “law means abso-
lutely nothing" and that listeners still run the risk of
arrest and confinement in labor camps without a trial.
“There are always means of letting undesirable persons
disappear," he said, referring, as an example, to the
recent transfer of 77,500 government administrative
employees to “productive jobs.’ They all end up in the
coal mines of the Ostrava region, where working condi-
tions are bad.

Fear of factual information about Western countries
is so exaggerated that only government officers dealing
with relations with certain Western countries can obtain
and read newspapers from that particular area, the for-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

mer Czech official pointed out. These papers are con-
sidered classified documents and must be locked in com-
bination safes.

Though Mr. Lom said it would not be underestimating
to say that 85 percent of the Czech people are “violently
opposed” to their present regime, he discounted hopes
for a revolution. This, however, does not mean that war
is the only possible solution, he said. In the long run
the Communist system could be economically weakened,
he said, emphasizing that the time of this will depend on
Western industrial efforts and Communist failures in
satisfying the demand for the necessities of life in Czecho-
slovakia. But he believed it possible that ‘when the
economic situation gets really bad, the Soviets may
someday be inclined to trade all of Czechoslovakia in
exchange for some concessions in the economic field.

R.LOM THOUGHT it quite likely that the Czecho-

slovakian government is willing to release impris-
oned Associated Press correspondent William Oatis and
“trade him for something valuable. As such valuables
he listed permission to resume air traffic over Germany,
a particularly valuable source of “hard” currencies, and
the delivery of big orders for machinery placed by the
Czechs in the United States. These orders have almost
been paid for but cannot be delivered under recent Us
regulations restricting trade with Czechoslovakia. He
thought it unlikely, however, that the Czechs will physi-
cally hurt Mr. Oatis, though he would have to undetgo
a period of “extraordinary emotional strain.”

Mr. Lom, who is 41, was secretary of a Czech business
association until he joined the ministry of foreign trade
in 1948. Three months later he was assigned to the
Czechoslovak consulate general in New York as a com-
mercial attache, until recalled in June 1950. Having set
foot on Czech soil and lived in Prague for as little as 24:
years, he realized that he had made “the most tragic
mistake” of his life. Though he had no direct relatives,
he said that he had to return since friends had guaranteed
his loyalty. He was assigned to an American desk in the’
ministry but was soon transferred as people who have
lived in Western countries are considered dangerous.

Since he knew he had to expect arrest and assignment
to a labor camp sooner or later, he prepared his escape
very carefully, facing the risk of a 15-year jail sentence _
for attempting to leave the country without permission,
apart from possible espionage or sabotage charges that
would be connected with it. But finally the wish for
freedom was stronger, he said. Mr. Lom and his family
worked their escape from Czechoslovakia through East
Germany to Berlin.

Thanks to his perfect knowledge of German and the
“stupidity of the Volkspolizei” (‘People’s Police’), who
checked them three times on the way to Berlin, they
reached the western sector without trouble, though an
escape with a child of four meant a sizable difficulty.”

“I cannot possibly tell you how happy we are to be
free people again, Mr. Lom concluded his statement.
“I speak three languages, but no language in the world
«an express this feeling.” +END

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 28 ---
Nation of Youth

By WILFRIED SALIGER

Chief, German Editorial Section, Public Relations Division

LYING BACK ACROSS the Atlantic in the comfortable

safety of a Constellation airplane, I tried to sum-
marize the thousands of impressions I had gained of
America in the three wonderful months which had taken
me from the East Coast to the Rocky Mountains, from
New England to the cotton fields of the South.

Certainly it was not “America” as signified to most
Europeans by the New York skyline. No, it was the
people who had made that “American” impression on me.
And the more I thought about it, the more the feeling
persisted that I had just left a youth rally and was about
to enter a gathering of adult, even somewhat old, people.

I was not the only one who was struck with this idea.
Our group represented 12 countries from three continents
all around the globe, but there was unanimous agreement
that we had met a nation much younger than our own,
and that not merely in a historical sense.

A “rugged individualist," as he boasts, the American
has much more confidence in himself than the German,
or the European in general. No matter how well-to-do his
parents, an American teen-ager considers it his greatest
experience to earn by selling newspapers, running errands
or working in a factory during the summer school recess.

“That's a real job, you see,” a high school youngster in
Boston said when I asked him how he liked selling news-
papers from five to nine six evenings a week. A real
job — and to prove that he meant it, he added: “I'll be on
the other side at Park Street station next week, mister.
You can find me there at the subway exit.” At 12, he
obviously already had a firm concept of public relations.

This young boy had found the two elements which I
think are the basic components of American life: op-
portunity and competition. For his age he certainly
proved that he understood their meaning. This in itself is
already a striking difference to Europe, but it is apt to
become more marked as the boy grows up. He will pick
the business he feels offers him the best prospects. He
will not hesitate to change jobs when he realizes his
initial judgment was wrong. And he will consider it an

asset, rather than a waste of time, to have some firsthand «

experience in several lines within his area of interest.

Y CONTRAST, HOW do we stand in Europe? We have
standard patterns of training for every imaginable
trade or profession, with no maximum, but minimum, time
Tequirements for each step along the well-trodden path
that is known to every German as his Laufbahn (career).
Providing neither much risk nor much opportunity, it
leads him from apprenticeship to retirement, and once he
has started on one, he cannot change it for another with-
Out risking the suspicion that he was a failure.
Similarly, the American approach to competition is
almost inconceivable to the European. The publisher of

OCTOBER 1951

a suburban newspaper with no competition in its dis-
tribution area told us that newsprint rationing boards
during the war were made up of representatives of the
industry. But, unlike the attitude in many European
countries, that did not mean a freeze on new publications.
This publisher had seen a competitive paper spring up’ in
his town during the war, but he did not object to a fair
newsprint allocation for the new competitor, though
paper was short and all others had to cut their own quotas.

“T know it is hard to explain to foreigners," he said,
“but it simply does not work that way here. We are so
used to competition that we have to have it." And jour-
nalists in the group representing six countries shook their
heads, showing that they found it hard to believe. Here
again, I think, it is the self-confidence —an attribute
Europe has lost — which makes the American rise up and
meet competition rather than try to escape it.

Another result of this spirit is the absence of “class
consciousness.” Of course, the American worker has a
higher standard of living, and his problems, even if he is
laid off temporarily, are never as pressing, for instance,
as those of a German worker. Yet I found that a distinc-
tion between “possessing” and “non-possessing” classes

At the distribution center of the Ford Motor Co. in Denver,
Colo., the USIE librarian-journalist group posed with
company Officials: (seated, left to right) Dr. Klothilde
Harb, manager, US Information Center, Linz, Austria; Miss
Christa Duchow, secretary-librarian, Public Relations Di-
vision, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, Frankfurt, Ger-
many; Miss Hildburg Franke, librarian, US Information
Center, Hanover, Germany; Mrs. Rachel di Stefano, li-
brarian, US Information Center, Tunis, Tunisia; Mrs. Mom
Chao Kanchanachatra Suksvasti, librarian, US Information
Center, Bangkok, Thailand; Dinh-Le-Ngoan, press officer,
US Information Service, Saigon, Indo-China; Dr. Liselotte
Kupka, women's affairs editor, US Feature Service, In-
formation Services Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, Bad Nauheim, Germany; Mr. Saliger, author of
this article. Standing in front of a photograph of the Ford
plent in Detroit are officials of the distribution center and
(second from left; Ross Brown, administrative assistant
to the governor of Colorado and sponsor of the group's
tour of Denver. (Mile High photo, Denver)

--- Page 29 ---
eae
Conferring with officials of the ‘Patriot Ledger’ at
Quincy, Mass., are (sitting) Clarence Snyder, business
manager of the ‘Patriot Ledger; (standing, left to right)
C. Prescott Low, publisher of the “Patriot Ledger; Ernst
Thoma, chief, articles editor, US Feature Service, Infor-
mation Services Division, HICOG, Bad Nauheim, Ger-
many; Dr. Herbert Muehlbauer, cultural affairs editor,
“Wiener Kurier (US German-language newspaper),
Vienna, Austria; Mr. Saliger; Parangimalai Sivaprakasam,
information assistant, US Consulate, Madras, India; Dr.
Justus Brunner, chief editor, American News Service, US
High Commission for Austria, Vienna; Sarkiss Carapetian,
executive editor, Persian News Bulletin, US Embassy,
Teheran, Iran; and John M. Herbert managing editor,
“Patriot Ledger.” (Quincy, Mass., Patriot Ledger photo)

is completely foreign to him. He looks at his boss as a
man who is in a fortunate position, but he says that some
day he may be just as lucky. There is no trace of envy in
that attitude, rather again the consciousness of a challenge.

Whatever his position, the American worker feels him-
self a businessman whose first commandment is to be
efficiency-minded. The amazingly high degree of industrial
efficiency in the United States could not have been
reached through the managers alone. The workers, in fact,
the whole nation, had to join them, and they did.

When I arrived in the United States I hardly noticed
how much efficiency was the rule. But I certainly did
when I came back to Europe. The theater cashier in
the United States, who takes the money with one hand,
releases the change by push-button and the ticket by
push-pedal and gives information at the same time, has
probably never thought that every move she has to make
has been carefully calculated, and she would be surprised
to hear that in Germany a cashier needs twice as much
time to sell a ticket.

I did not see in America a single streetcar which was
operated by two men, but I know of hardly a single one
in Germany that is not. When I left New York, my hotel
bill was ready at a moment's notice. A bookkeeping
machine had kept it up to the minute throughout my stay.
In London, one day later, it took the clerk exactly 20
minutes “to make up my account" in handwriting.

NE OF THE GREAT misconceptions I had to correct
while I was in the United States, was the slight atten-
tion that Americans pay, according to European standards,
to formal school education and degrees. True, the pro-
verbial career from dishwasher to millionaire is possible
in that country, but it is not the rule. The American's

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

26

problem is to take as many degrees as possible in
minimum of time.

There again, what a difference to the rigid European |
system of education! Thousands of Americans leave col- |
lege every year after gaining their first degree to go into
business. Some of them return after a few years, many
do not. But very often men return to the campus years ©
after graduation, and after they have worked themselves
up to high positions, to take a course in a special field
they find necessary in their work. A university in America ~
is a source of knowledge upon which anybody is welcome
to draw, not a mere training institution. Obviously, this
entails much stronger ties between the university and the
community, between government and industry, and
more businesslike atmosphere on the campus.

As the American people represent the strength of:
youth, they likewise embody its free unaffectedness. Thi
American meets a stranger with a surprising amount of
natural confidence and is immediately inclined to con-
sider him an honest and trustworthy man. He makes
friends in no time. The first two weeks in the States we
Europeans were often embarrassed by the friendliness)
with which people met us and were ready to help us. Wi
soon gave up our initial prejudice that these people ha
been selected to meet visiting foreigners. Confidence
the rule in public life. 9

Newspapers merely place a stack of papers and a co
box at every street corner, and nobody would take
paper without first dropping a nickel in the box. Most
stores accept personal checks at face value. Banks or
credit corporations often grant loans against signature
only, and all that in a country where no one is required
to register with the police and carry identification. I could”
continue this list almost endlessly; it was an in-
exhaustible source of amazement to me. To the American,
itis natural, part of the public life he has helped to shape.’

He does help shape it, indeed. Whatever burdens the
United States may have to shoulder due to its present
leadership role in world affairs, I am sure millions of its
citizens will be ready and eager to bear their part am
will discharge their public functions with the same devo
tion and energy with which they pursue their professional
careers. I was the guest of several civic organizations and
I admire the idealism of these people whose only aim
seems to be a constant improvement of their public lif
To that end they spare no expense and effort.

HIS IS WHAT I MEAN when I say America is 4

nation of youth: people there push ahead, progress
is vital to them. Vigor, strength, self-confidence, ideali
all attributes we found so abundantly there, they
inherent to youth.

There has been a good deal of exchange of perso!
and experience since 1945 between the United States
Europe, particularly Germany. We have adopted Am
can technical processes and certain forms of democratl
community life and government. But that is not enough
If Germany and Europe are to witness a revival, I think
we will have to start where the boom of American success
began: with the people. I

OCTOBER

--- Page 30 ---
American-made jets arrived in Denmark recently as contributions under
the Mutual Defense Assistance Program (MDAP). Five F-84Es (two shown
on ground below) officially became part of the Danish air equipment at
a demonstration held at Kastrup Airport, Copenhagen. The Danish Color
Guards (left) take a glance skyward as the sensational jet aerobatic
team, the “Skyblazers” from Fuerstenfeldbruck (US Air Base near Munich),
performs before a crowd of 20,000.

Obviously pleased with the Danish defense cooperation, General of the
Army Dwight D. Eisenhower (lower left) made an inspection of the US-
trained Royal Danish Air Force personnel, Of the aerial stunts performed
by the “Skyblazers,"" General Eisenhower commented, “The most spec-
tacular thing I have ever seen."

American Ambassador to Denmark Mrs. Eugenie Anderson and Lt.
Gen. Lauris Norstad (lower right), commander-in-chief of Allied Air Forces
in Central Europe and of the US Air Forces in Europe, watched the
Thunderjets from the reviewing stand; they discovered between acts that
they came from the same home town: Red Wing, Minnesota. (USAFE photos)

--- Page 31 ---
FVUTTUUUUUVUCUUUUUOOUOUUUUUUUUUUOOOOUUOOOOUOOOOOOOOOUUUOOOOOOOOOOOUOOOOOLUOOULUUUUUULLUOEULULOULULLULLUULELLULLLULUELULULELUUEELLOL LLL LLELEELLEELCLOCDCCC DOC CCCCCCCCLCCLCDDDDC 0000

Communique on European Unity

The following communique was issued Sept. ‘14, 1951, by the foreign ministers of France, the United Kingdom and the
United States, The foreign ministers’ declaration on Germany, also issued on Sept. 14, is printed on page 2.

HE FOREIGN MINISTERS of France, the United Kingdom and the United States have held meetings in Washington

from Sept. 10 through Sept. 14. The three foreign ministers have met frequently in the last few years primarily
because of the special and explicit responsibilities of their governments in regard to Germany and Austria. The
meetings equally offer a convenient opportunity for the three ministers to exchange views on world developments and
informally to review problems of mutual concern to their three countries.

The foreign ministers have noted with satisfaction the results already achieved by their three countries, together
with other free nations of the world, in order to insure their common security and to safeguard the peace. They again
recorded the fundamental unity of the policies of their three governments in regard to the many and acute problems

facing them today. 2

The foreign ministers have reviewed the relationship of their countries to the German Federal Republic, and have
agreed on instructions to the Allied High Commission for negotiation of mutually acceptable agreements with the
Federal Government, the effect of which will be to transform that relationship completely.

As a result of the agreement reached by the three foreign ministers in Brussels last December, the High Commission
has) already explored with the Federal Government the way to establish relations between the three powers and the
Federal Republic on as broad a contractual basis as possible, in the light of German participation in Western defense.
The foreign ministers have now instructed the High Commission to proceed to negotiations with the Federal Govern-
ment, which will, it is hoped, culminate in early agreements between the four governments to enter into effect together
with the agreement for German participation in Western defense through the proposed European defense community,
whose forces would form part of the joint defense forces under the North Atlantic Supreme Command.

The foreign ministers have agreed on certain general principles to guide the High Commission in its negotiations
with the Federal Government. As stated in the tripartite declaration issued today the guiding principle of their policy
continues to be the integration of the Federal Republic on a basis of equality within a European community itself included
in a developing Atlantic community, Such integration would thus be inconsistent with the retention in future of an
occupation status or of the power to interfere in the Federal Republic's domestic affairs.

The ministers believe that the agreements now to be reached with the Federal Government should provide the basis
for its relationship to their countries until a peace settlement with a unified Germany becomes possible. The division
of Germany, however, prevents the conclusion of such a settlement at this time. This division and the security problem
confronting the Federal Republic obliges the Allies to retain, in the commun interest, certain special rights but only
in relation to the stationing of armed forces in Germany and the protection of the security of those forces, as well as
to questions affecting Berlin and Germany as a whole, including the eventual peace settlement and the peaceful re-
unification of Germany.

The High Commission will proceed to negotiations with the Federal Government as rapidly as possible. The ministers
hope to be able to consider at any early meeting final drafts both of the agreements to be reached by the three powers and
the Federal Republic and of the agreement'for the establishment of a European defense community including Germany.

HE THREE FOREIGN MINISTERS were unanimous in stating that in the view of their Governments there is no justi-

fication for any further delay in the conclusion of a treaty for the re-establishment of a free and independent Austria.
This has been the constant aim since the conclusion of hostilities. They will not desist in their efforts to bring the
Soviet Government to the same view and to that end they have decided to make a new and resolute effort in the
meetings of the Austrian treaty deputies to fulfill the long overdue pledge to the Austrian people.

The Italian Government has pointed out the contradiction between some provisions of the Italian peace treaty and
the present Italian position in the’ family of free nations. The ministers studied sympathetically this question which will
be the subject of further conversations between the governments.

Note was taken of the necessity further to examine in collaboration with the other members of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization the most effective use of their combined resources, taking full account of the social and economic
as well as of the military needs of their peoples.

While recognizing the gravity of the world situation, especially in the face of the continued defiance of the
United Nations by the forces of aggression in Korea, the ministers nevertheless found solid grounds for confidence
in the growing strength and unity of the free world.

The three ministers on behalf of their governments and peoples restate their fidelity to the principle contained in
the United Nations Charter that international differences must be resolved by peaceful processes and not by force or
threat of force. They therefore express the hope that the forthcoming meeting of the General Assembly of the United
Nations in Paris will afford a real opportunity for contacts and exchanges of views which the three foreign ministers
are, for their part, prepared fully to use,

THQUUUUOQUEUU OEE UOUELUAE ELUATE

INFORMATION BULLETIN 28 OCTOBER 1!

--- Page 32 ---
Report on Germany

— Our Progress, Problems and Objectives

Complete Text of Statement

By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany
to House of Representatives’
Special Subcommittee on Economic Cooperation Administration

R. CHAIRMAN, MEMBERS of the committee, gentle-

men: It is my duty, in requesting the 1952 appropria-
tion of funds for the United States civilian occupation
in Germany, to present to this committee a report on the
progress we have made, the problems we face, and the
objectives we seek to reach in that country.

We are requesting $23,963,000 to cover operations,
plus $626,000 for the alien replacement program (a total
of $24,589,000), in an area where, in my opinion, a de-
cisive test for the United States and the entire free world
is taking place.

As I shall point out later in this statement these dollar
requests are only a part of our over-all program costs
in Germany.

In general, the budget we are submitting covers three
major areas:

1. Occupation— This part of the budget represents
financial requirements for any of the activities we would
carry on in an embassy, plus all of the control functions
we still exercise as an occupation power. Included in
this activity are expenses for the operation and main-
tenance of the American segment of the Allied High
Commission.

2. Public Affairs This part of the budget covers ex-
penses for a large-scale program directed toward develop-
ing in Germany (a) democratic concepts and institutions;
(b) confidence in the United States and its policies;
(c) determination to repel the Communist threat; and
(d) participation in the defense of the free world.

3. Administration.— This part of the budget covers all
of the administrative activities which keep a large or-
ganization in operation, including budget, fiscal and man-
agement control, communications, housekeeping func-
tions, housekeeping functions such as housing, transporta-
tion, supplies and equipment which cannot be charged
directly to occupation or public affairs activities.

A volume of material has already been submitted to
you on the details of why this money is needed and how
it would be spent. Before answering your specific ques-
tions concerning various items in this budget, I should
like to state briefly the basic considerations underlying
our request.

1. The Problem.
Germany, as I stated here last year, is the critical area
of Europe. Together with Austria, it is the center of the

OCTOBER 1951

struggle between the slave world and the free. The Com-
munist threat on Germany's borders is a threat to all
nations which seek to live in freedom and in peace. It is,
therefore, vital to our interests that Germany should be
politically and economically sound, a democratic nation
in free association with the Western World.

The Soviet-Communist threat to Germany is ever pres-
ent. Behind it is a mighty military force composed of the
great Soviet Army, augmented by scores of satellite
divisions and some German paramilitary forces. This
gigantic force is supported by tanks, jets and all other
modern weapons. Emphasizing the threat is a gigantic,
insidious propaganda machine,

I repeat, the threat — the potential power to strike is
there. Only the will and the intent are obscure.

This military power on the borders of the Federal Re-
public is serious and menacing. For the present, the
Kremlin has chosen not to loose this force upon Europe.
When and if they will we do not know. But the extent

On his return from Washington Sept. 20 following partici-
pation with the British and French high commissioners
in consultations at the foreign ministers’ conference,
US High Commissioner McCloy was greeted at Rhine-
Main Air Base by Maj. Gen. George P. Hays (leit), deputy
US high commissioner, and Shepard Stone (right), director
of the Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. (PRD HICOG photo)

--- Page 33 ---
and vigor of the Soviet non-military campaign to over-
whelm the West we do know about.

The Federal Republic of Germany is now being sub-
jected, in my opinion, to the most intense barrage of
Soviet propaganda anywhere in the Western World. That
propaganda is incessant, virulent, aggressive, and back-
ed by the enormous resources of wealth and energy of
the Soviet empire.

Every day powerful transmitters in the East Zone of
Germany and in Russia pour out threats against the
Federal Republic and its leaders. Every day newspapers,
magazines, books, pamphlets, handbills, posters are
directed against the Federal Republic. Every day thou-
sands of propaganda letters are put into the mails car-
rying threats and promises to individuals in western
Germany. Police and other troops march in a menacing
attempt to stir fear among the western Germans. False
“peace” plebiscites are staged. This mighty barrage is
aimed at every person, group, institution and organiza-
tion in Germany.

In the East Zone and in the East Sector of Berlin oppo-
sition is stifled, young people are regimented in a mono-
lithic youth organization. This coming August in East
Berlin the greatest single propaganda show of all times
will take place when 1,750,000 young people* will be
forced to march and demonstrate in favor of the superi-
ority of Soviet political aims. The ultimate target of this
effort, as of all other efforts, will not be Germany, it will
be the United States. For the Kremlin knows that if it
could succeed in destroying faith in the principles and
intentions of the United States, it would win the struggle
for Germany and for Europe.

In the face of this attack we must demonstrate to Ger-
many and in Germany the strength of the free world and
the value of the free way of life. We must oppose the
massive propaganda of the Soviets with a vigorous and
sustained flow of truthful information. We must constant-
ly inform the German people and all the peoples of Europe
of American aims and policies and of the sincere deter-
mination of the United States to help defend the free
world and preserve peace.

This requires that we continue the policy we began six
years ago — to help make Germany a democratic and
reliable member of the community of free nations. It can-
not be repeated too often that only a democratic Germany
can be a reliable partner in the community of nations
now uniting to protect its freedom.

2. The Present Situation.

Much has been achieved in Germany since 1945. I do
not propose to relate here the history of the last six years.
Ample reports were made by my distinguished predeces-
‘sor, General Clay, on the first years of the occupation.
The enormous difficulties he faced and the accomplish-
ments of his administration are matters of record. I wish
only to point out that during those years, with the help
of our British and French allies and always against the
opposition of the Soviets, western Germany was trans-

* See “The Forbidden City," Information Bulletin, September 1951.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

formed from a twisted ruin to a functioning society. Nazi
institutions and tendencies were cleared away, repairs
were undertaken to permit the return to a more normal
life and local governments were reestablished.

In the latter years of military government and since
October 1949, when it was replaced by the Allied High
Commission, the character of our efforts in Germany
changed from one primarily of occupation, with super-
vision and direction of a conquered nation, to democratic
rehabilitation and defense against Soviet aggression.

Today the Federal Republic has gained a large measure
of responsibility and authority. The Allied High Commis-
sion has restricted the exercise of its powers to specific
matters covering mainly security safeguards, limited. areas
of foreign affairs, and the general right to intervene to
prevent a serious menace to our basic objectives. ,

In the economic field important advances have been
made. The volume of production index for the area of
the Federal Republic is 136 today, compared with 100 in
1936, and approximately 35 in the first half of 1947. The
gap between imports and exports is steadily decreasing.
Unemployment, greatly aggravated by the influx of
9,000,000 refugees from the East, has been reduced to less
than one and a half million. A large-scale program to re-
lieve the tremendous housing shortage is well under way.
With the continued aid of Marshall-Plan funds the Ger-
mans can lay the economic foundations which are neces-
sary for the building of a democratic society.

In the political area steady progress has also been
made. The Government of the Federal Republic has dem-
onstrated increasing understanding of the basic issues
of the day. It has come out firmly for western European
unity and for full association, upon a basis of equality,
with other nations of the free world. It has shown states-
manlike understanding in its participation in the working
out of the Schuman Plan and in its efforts to have that
plan ratified by the Federal Parliament. The Parliament
itself, though an arena of sharp debate and conflicting
interests, is on the whole made up of parties and men
pledged to democratic government. Both the Federal Gov-
ernment and the Laender or state governments display,
growing political maturity.

There are many other encouraging factors in Germany.
There are also discouraging developments. Some weeks
ago a Nazi-type party, the Socialist Reichs Party (SRP),
won a number of seats in the state elections of Lower
Saxony in the British Zone. Although 85 percent of the
vote in this election went to prodemocratic parties, it is
nevertheless discouraging that even a comparatively few
Germans still vote for men who advocate ideas that are ,
patterned after the criminal policies of Hitler. We believe
this election does not reflect the present general situation
in Germany nor is it indicative of the trend. Moreover,
the Federal Government, the important political parties
and the German press and radio have shown prompt and
healthy opposition to the SRP. It is likely that constitu:
tional measures will soon be taken by the Germans them:
selves to stifle this movement. This situation in Lower
Saxony gives the Germans a chance to show political
wisdom and democratic determination.

OCTOBER 1951,

--- Page 34 ---
A well detailed review and analysis of the cur-
rent situation in Germany, especially from the
American viewpoint, was presented by US High
Commissioner McCloy at the hearing before the
Special Subcommittee on Economic Cooperation
Administration in Washington June 25 to 27 on the
appropriation request of the Department of State
to cover the costs of US civilian occupation in
Germany.

The members of the House of Representatives
subcommittee who conducted the hearing were:
Rep. J, Vaughan Gary of Virginia, chairman; Reps.
John J. Rooney and Frederic R. Coudert, Jr., of
New York, Joe B. Bates of Kentucky and Richard
B. Wigglesworth of Massachusetts.

Appearing with Mr. McCloy as witnesses were:

Henry A. Byroade, director, Bureau of German
Affairs, Department of State.

Carlisle H. Humelsine, deputy under secretary
for administration, Department of State.

Glenn G. Wolfe,
HICOG.

Arthur A. Kimball, executive director, Bureau of
German Affairs, Department of State.

H. A. Gerhardt, special assistant to the US High
Commissioner.

Shepard Stone, director, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG.

Richard R. Brown,
Public Affairs, HICOG.

Henry J. Kellermann, director, Office of German
Public Affairs, Bureau of German Affairs, Depart-
ment of State.

Frank Miller, deputy director, Office of Economic
Affairs, HICOG.

Irving S. Schwartz, assistant executive director,
Bureau of German Affairs, Department of State.

All these officials participated in the discussions.
The full text has been published in Publication 85541
of the US Government Printing Ojfice.

director of administration,

general manager, Office of

There are other factors which tend to slow progress in
Germany. The effect of 13 years of dictatorship, and of
the total defeat is evident. Traditional patterns of think-
ing and action, apathy and disillusion still mark certain
areas of German life. As in other countries there are also
conflicting interests and emotions, and occasional in-
ability to get together for the common good, A few Ger-
Mans engage in illegal East-West trade or maintain Com-
Munist contacts in order to make money or play it safe.

I could not give you a full picture of the general situa-
tion without calling your special attention to the western
Sectors of Berlin. In this outpost of the free world, an
island surrounded by Communist totalitarian tyranny,
there are many pressing problems. Great and persistent
efforts are daily necessary to defend its freedom and im-
Prove its position. We have made substantial progress.
Unemployment has decreased and the economic outlook

OCTOBER 1951

31

is improving- But more important is the fact that the
people of West Berlin under the leadership of determined
vigorous men continue to.stand courageously for their
tights and their freedom.

This is the background against which we are project-
ing our plans and efforts to strengthen German democracy
and to help make Germany a full and equal partner
with the West.

3. The Cost.

In order to avoid any misconception about the cost
of meeting the problems we face in Germany I want to
give this committee a factual statement’on our over-all
budgets exclusive of dollar economic aid. The money to
be expended in Germany for the purposes of this appro-
priation in 1952 derives from primarily three sources:
(a) Dollar appropriation under the GOAG* budget we are
now requesting; (b) occupation costs paid from the Ger-
man economy; and (c) counterpart funds from United
States economic aid to western Germany. The total sums
are $24,600,000 in the 1952 GOAG budget; the equivalent
of $17,650,000 in Deutsche mark non-military occupation
costs and the equivalent of $35,710,000 in Deutsche mark
counterpart funds. This totals $77,960,000 in dollars and
Deutsche marks. This money is used for the following
purposes:

(a) GOAG Dollar Budget.— The $24,600,000 requested
in this appropriation cover all American salaries for per-
sonnel within the Office of the United States High Com-
missioner and Department of State supporting offices and
other expenses such as travel, transportation and program
expenses, particularly in the field of public affairs, which
cannot be met with Deutsche marks.

(b) Occupation Costs. The German economy will
provide DM 74,148,483 for certain activities, exclusive of
military obligations, essential in the occupation of western
Germany. At the exchange rate of DM 4.20 per dollar this
sum is equivalent to $17,650,000. The Deutsche mark oc-
cupation funds are used for German employee salaries,
housing rentals, care and maintenance of all real estate
by our offices, equipment, transportation, supplies and
similar items necessary in our occupational function.

(c) Counterpart Funds.— Counterpart funds are derived
from the dollar economic aid given to Germany. Under
the provisions of the ECA Act as amended, the secretary
of state with the agreement of the administrator of ECA
is authorized to use counterpart funds for United States
occupation requirements in Germany. In 1952 we plan
to use DM 150,000,000 ($35,710,000) of the counterpart
funds to finance local public affairs and administrative
expenses that cannot be charged to occupation costs.

One of our major problems arises from the fact that
we continue to have an occupation mission in Berlin.
I want to give you a few details about this and make
very clear to you the nature of our problem. The reason
I want to do this is that I can give you no assurance
that this problem will not continue and that we may
not therefore continue to incur extensive financial obli-

* Government in Occupied Areas, Germany.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
gations. During the past year a substantial amount of
economic assistance was provided to strengthen West
Berlin and to maintain it against the Communist threat.
West Berlin is still only at 50 percent of its prewar pro-
duction in contrast to the rest of Germany which is at
136 percent,

Our program of support to Berlin for the next fiscal
year amounts to DM 551,000,000, to meet what we con-
sider absolutely essential financial requirements in Berlin
for work relief, budget deficit, stockpiling and an invest-
ment program with which we hope to keep pushing Ber-
lin's production rate closer to prewar figures. This DM
551,000,000 is equivalent to $125,000,000. We have ob-
tained these funds from the counterpart Deutsche marks
of our ECA economic aid to Germany which amounted
in the past year to $382,000,000.

The point I want to make to you gentlemen is that the
counterpart of an equivalent of $125,000,000 together with
$77,900,000, which I previously described to you, brings
the total of our support to various critical activities within
Germany to an equivalent of over $200,000,000. I feel that
I must forcefully bring to your attention the fact that
while we request a dollar appropriation in this budget for
$24,500,000, we are carrying out a program of the mag-
nitude of $200,000,000. This program is financed as fol-
lows: $24,500,000 from the budget which you are now
considering; the equivalent of $18,000,000 from German
occupation costs, and the equivalent of $157,000,000 from
the counterpart derived from ECA aid.

ECA economic aid in the coming year will be very
much less than the $382,000,000 of fiscal year 1950-51.
This is entirely proper. However, I must draw to your
attention that as a consequence of this reduction of our
dollar aid to Germany there will be a reduction in the
availability of Deutsche mark counterpart funds for as-
sistance to Berlin and other essential programs in Ger-
many. We have reason to believe that the need for this
counterpart assistance to Berlin will decline in a similar
proportion. If these counterpart resources derived from
our ECA aid and occupation costs cease to be available
to us or are drastically reduced, it will be necessary for
use to make other financing arrangements in order to
discharge our responsibilities and maintain our position
in Berlin.

Our controls on the use of occupation cost funds are
very tight. We follow exactly the same budgetary ac-
counting and audit systems in the use of Deutsche marks
as we do in the use of dollars. These rigid controls were
established within a matter of weeks after the establish-
ment of the United States High Commissioner's office.

4. Our Program.

I would like to now proceed with our program for 1952.

Briefly stated, our program for 1952 has three over-all
objectives. They are:

1. To demonstrate to the German people the strength
of the West, the value of Western ideals and the necessity
and wisdom of contributing to Western defense.

2. To replace remaining occupational controls by con-
tractual arrangements with the Federal Republic followed

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

by reorganization of the Allied machinery in Germany
in order to implement the new relationship.

3. To intensify our support of the democratic forces in
Germany and step up our psychological offensive against
totalitarian groups of the extreme right or left.

It will require time to achieve our first objective. The
German people are beginning to see evidence each day
of the growing strength of the West. The determination
and courage of the United States and of other free coun-
tries in Korea made a deep impression in Germany. Ameri-
can troops and the troops of our Alliies who are moving
into Germany in increasing numbers are making a strong
impact. The Germans, however, know that greater
strength is needed if resistance to Communist aggression
is to be successful. It is our objective to convince them
that full defense of Germany requires the widest possible
participation in that defense.

As I have stated many times in Germany, the Western
Powers are neither seeking to buy German participation
in defense, nor are they trying to force it. The German
Government and people must decide for themselves if
their freedom is worthy defending. I believe that they
will decide that it is.

If Germany participates, her contribution will and must
be within the North Atlantic defense system. We oppose
the establishment of an independent German army. I
believe that an overwhelming majority of the German
people and the Government of the Federal Republic also
oppose the reestablishment of the old German army pat-
tern with its special position in the German state. They,
too, are influenced by the bitter lessons of the past.

The threat from the East has forced the question of
German participation upon Germany and the world. The
psychological and political problems involved in such
participation are complex. They cannot be solved over-
night. We must try to solve them as quickly as possible.

Achievement of our second objective will demand pains-
taking and arduous effort. Many complex problems are
involved in reaching contractual agreements for more
normal relations with the Federal Republic. We are
seeking to return almost all powers we now retain to
the German Government. There are some areas, however,
covering restitution, deconcentration of industry, the ulti-
mate right to be in Germany and to safeguard our troops
and the special position of Berlin, which require careful
negotiation. We are confident, however, that we shall
be able to settle all problems in these negotiations except
those issues which must be determined in a final peace
settlement. The possibility of a final settlement is made
remote by the intransigence and the aims of the Kremlin.
Despite all these difficulties I hope that in the coming
year we shall reach the last stage of the occupation, short
of the final peace treaty, and that Germany will become
an accepted member of the free nations of the world.

Our third objective in Germany is, I believe, the most
important. It is, as I have said, to help make Germany
a solid democratic state. Unless Germany is a healthy
democracy, defense against Communist totalitarianism in
Europe will be weak and hopes for a vigorous European
community will be frustrated. It is necessary that Ger-

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 36 ---
mans recognize that their only chance to live a decent,
normal and free life lies in the development of a strong
democratic community associated with the West. It is
necessary that they themselves recognize hostile influ-
ences of the extreme right and left and that they act
quickly to destroy them.

For this purpose we must continue to assist and advise
the Germans in their efforts to build a democratic society.
We must continue to nurture and encourage the demo-
cratic elements in the country. Particularly we must stimu-
late the youth of the country into constructive action
for the future.

For this reason the major elements in this budget, for
which we seek approval, are designed to give the German
people, particularly the youth, wider contacts with the
free world, wider educational opportunities, wider ex-
posure to the thinking of the peoples of the Atlantic
Community. This budget is to stimulate those basic in-
stitutions of democracy, the schools, the universities, the
free press, the free parliaments, the free labor unions —
in other words all those institutions that are the pillars
of a liberal, progressive, tolerant society. Important starts
have been made in this direction. They must not fail for
lack of support at this critical time.

This is the great and fundamental purpose of our public
affairs program. This program of information and edu-
cation cannot be dictated or imposed. The effectiveness
of such a program depends on friendship and understand-
ing. Its success depends not only on our efforts in Ger-
many, but also on the active cooperation of the American
people. The Congress of the United States, our schools,
universities and churches, our great labor, farm and
women's organizations, American press, radio and film
are already playing a major role in this constructive and
far-reaching effort.

I would not be frank if I did not say to you in present-
ing this program that my only fear is that it may not
be bold or imaginative enough. We are deeply conscious
of the demands now being made upon the resources of
the United States by our Korean and other commitments
and have conscientiously reflected our concern in this
budget. On the other hand, when we look at Korea, we

understand the implications of the Communist threat for
Germany. And yet in Korea the Soviet rulers have not
thrown in their own manpower or their full resources.

On the borders of the Federal Republic of Germany
the Soviet armies themselves are poised. Without even
advancing across the frontiers they are an important part
of the mightiest psychological assault the world has ever
seen. The Soviet rulers seem to believe they can win
the struggle with the free world by psychological attrition
in Germany by wearing down the moral resistance of
the German peopie and the peoples of western Europe
in a cold war. They have not succeeded, And they will
not succeed if we recognize the full danger, if we take
the necessary steps to frustrate their intentions.

It is not easy to overcome an opponent whose basic
weapon is terror and the threat of armies and air fleets,
slave labor, purges, kidnaping, all the evil devices of
oppression and dictatorship. I believe, however, that if
we pursue a wise and bold policy in Germany, if we
use our resources courageously and wisely, the Kremlin
will not gain its goal.

I hold this conviction because I believe our achieve-
ment in Germany has been large. A German Republic
is developing toward goals set by us in 1945. Moreover,
it is difficult to find in Europe a country that has been
more successful in repelling Communism than West Ger-
many. All in all, the energy, ideas and resources put into
Germany by the United States since the end of the war
are now bearing fruit.

I would like to conclude with this thought: It is vital
to the security of the United States and of the free world
that we intensify our efforts to help make Germany a
democratic, reliable partner of the West. Such a Germany
will be a guarantee against a resurgence of nationalism
and Nazism; it will help to guarantee Europe against
domination by Soviet Communism. Help for Germany is
help for Europe and for the free world.

The United States can do more to assure this positive
development in Germany than any other nation in the
world. It is in recognition of that tremendous responsi-
bility and task that I make this request to carry on our
work. +END

Berlin Work-Relief Program to Continue

West Berlin's serious unemployment difficulties will
continue to be alleviated through December under the
GARIOA work-relief program. The project is financed
by a monthly grant of DM 15,000,000 ($3,570,000) from
Government and Relief-in Occupied Areas (GARIOA)
Counterpart funds.

Temporary employment for approximately 45,000 West
Berliners is made possible through the program, which
was started in April 1950. Important reconstruction activi-
ties have included the partial financing of repair work

OCTOBER 1951

33

on private and commercial buildings, repair of public in-
stallations, street construction and rubble clearance. The
Berlin Senate supervises work-relief projects with de-
tailed plans for application of the funds worked out by
city authorities in consultation with Berlin Element,
HICOG, and the ECA Mission to Western Germany.
Within the framework of the program, originally slated
to expire Sept. 30, 1951, funds allocated for housing-repair
loans have been nearly doubled and the financing of
apprentices entering skilled trades is to be continued.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
Attitude toward Jews

Declaration of the Federal Republic of Germany as Pronounced

By Chancellor Adenauer before the Parliament in Bonn Sept. 27

ECENTLY THE WORLD has on various occasions

occupied itself with the attitude adopted by the
Federal Republic toward the Jews, Now and then
doubts have been expressed as to whether the new
state is guided by principles in respect of these
important questions which take into consideration
the terrible crimes of a past epoch and put the re-
lationship between the Jews and the German’ people
on a new and healthy basis.

The attitude of the Federal Republic toward its
Jewish citizens has been unambiguously laid down
by the Basic Law. Article 3 of the Basic Law provides
that all persons are equal before the law, and that no
one may be prejudiced or privileged because of his
sex, his descent, his race, his language, his homeland
and origin, his faith or his religious and political
opinion, Article 1 of the Basic Law further provides:

“The dignity of man is inviolable. To respect and
protect it is the duty of all state authority. The Ger-
man people therefore acknowledge inviolable and
inalienable human rights as the basis of every human
community, of peace and of justice in the world.”

These rules of law are directly applicable and im-
pose an obligation on every German citizen — and
especially on every state official — to reject any
form of racial discrimination, In the same spirit the
Federal Republic has also signed the convention for
the protection of human rights drafted by the Council
of Europe, and has pledged itself to put into practice
the legal conceptions contained therein.

IHESE RULES OF LAW can, however, become

effective only if the disposition which gave rise
to them is adopted by the whole nation. This is, there-
fore, in the first place a problem of education. The
Federal Government deems it an essential necessity
that the churches and the education administrations
of the states do all in their power within their area in
order that the spirit of humane and religious toler-
ance should not only be formally recognized but also
become a reality among the entire German people,
and especially among German youth, in respect of
their psychological attitude and actions. This is an es-
sential task incumbent upon the educational author-
ities, which, however, must be completed by the
example set by the grownups.

In order that this educational work should not be
interrupted, and in order that the internal peace of
the Federal Republic be maintained, the.Federal Re-
public has decided to oppose all those circles that are
still engaged in Jew-baiting by prosecuting them un-

relentingly. Recommendations for an amendment of
the penal code have been submitted to the Bundestag
(Federal Parliament) by reason of which propaganda
inciting racial hatred is, among others, also to be
severely punished. The Federal Government is intent

- to apply these provisions most vigorously as soon as

they come into force.

HE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, and with it the

vast majority of the German people, are conscious
of the immeasurable suffering that was brought to
bear upon the Jews in Germany and in the occupied
territories during the period of National Socialism.
The great majority of the German people abhorred
the crimes committed against the Jews and had no
part in them. During the time of National Socialism
there were Many Germans who, risking their own
lives for religious reasons, obeying the commands of
their conscience, and feeling ashamed that the good.
name of Germany should be trodden upon, were
prepared to help their Jewish compatriots. But un-
speakable crimes were perpetrated in the name of the
German people which impose upon them the obli-
gation to make moral and material amends, both as
tegards the individual damage which Jews have
suffered and as regards Jewish property for which
there are no longer individual claimants.

In this regard first steps have already been taken,
but much remains to be done. The Federal Govern- —
ment will see to it that the restitution legislation is
rapidly brought to an end and that it is justly imple-
mented. Part of the Jewish property which it was
possible to identify has been resiored. Further resti-
tutions will follow.

With regard to the extent of the reparations — a
huge problem in view of the immense destruction of
Jewish valuables by National Socialism — the limits
must be considered which are set to the German
ability to pay by the bitter necessity of having to
provide for the innumerable war victims and to care
for the refugees and expellees.

The Federal Government is prepared jointly with
representatives of Jewry and the state of Israel, which
has admitted so many homeless Jewish refugees, to
bring about a solution of the material reparation
problem in order to facilitate the way to a spiritual
purging of unheard of suffering. It is fully convinced
that the spirit of true humanity must once more be-
come alive and bear fruit. The Federal Government
considers it the foremost duty of the German people
to foster this spirit with all their power. -+-END

STUNNTUVVALVUTA TUNA EEU UTA TUUA TUE PEUU ACCA PEP EEA eee

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

--- Page 38 ---
Hitchhiking through America

By OTTO BAER
HICOG Exchange Student

N THE EARLY MORNING of June 9, 1950, I left Penn-

sylvania State College, headed westward. I had plan-
ned the journey all during the summer semester and
looked forward to it with excitement.

With little money and much luck I crossed the United
States in little more than two weeks, took pictures of
the geysers, bears and elks at Yellowstone National Park,
passed the big salt desert in Utah and Nevada, and,
equipped with diving mask and fish spear hunted gold-
fish in the Pacific. Then I crossed the continent again,
this time starting from the Mexican border to the New
England states. I talked to professors and businessmen
as well as workers and cowboys, and, on the’side, learned
to appreciate hot dogs and hamburgers but could not get
used to canned beer.

I got started through a lucky coincidence. A group of
students from my college who were going to work in the
Mountain States during the summer, took me along in
their car as far as Yellowstone. After we parted I felt
a little funny at first, being all on my own suddenly and
standing there in the growing darkness. I looked at my
few belongings, a small suitcase and a jungle hammock,
and thought over where to spend the first night as it was
too cold in the Rocky Mountains to sleep in the open air.

Looking for an unoccupied hut in a log cabin settlement
near Old Faithful, the most famous of the Yellowstone
Park geysers, I had my first adventure, when I was sud-
denly confronted with a dark, smacking something which

turned out to be a bear sitting on a garbage can and
fishing the best pieces out of the cans nearby.

In spite of the comic sight I retreated noiselessly and
was glad to soon find an unlocked and unoccupied hut.
Searching the room with a flashlight I discovered a stove,
a couple of rustic chairs and an uncovered straw bed.
A few minutes later I fell asleep, confident of my luck.

ELLOWSTONE IS A NATIONAL PARK of approxi-

mately 2,213,207 acres and a rare scenic beauty in a
primeval forest-like area, almost untouched by civiliza-
tion, 6,000 to 8,000 feet above sea level with countless
geysers, ravines and queer rock formations. Only the
highway and a few log cabins reveal man has also invaded
this remote forest area to enjoy its loveliness.

A friendly motorist took me through the park the next
day and let me admire the beauty of the many different
aspects. We passed endless primitive forests lining both
sides of the highway; saw a mother bear with her cub in
one clearing and in another buffalo and deer grazing
peacefully side by side.

We passed the Norris geyser, and I had the impression
that the valley was part of a lunar landscape of white
rock solidified only recently. Geysers gushed up every-
where, Snow white steam clouds covered the valley and
contrasted strangely with the crater lakes matted by
seaweed and shining in rainbow colors. The highlight of
the day, however, was the visit to the canyon of the

Otto Baer went to the United States in the
summer of 1949 under the US exchanges program
for a year's study at Pennsylvania State College
in State College, Pa. After completing the
course, he decided to see America, using the
most inexpensive means — thumbing his way.
His experiences were recorded in a report to the
Exchanges Staff, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.
This article is a condensed translation of the
report. Mr. Baer, shown at the right in Pinedale,
Wyo., returned to Germany where he completed
his studies and examinations at the Agricultural
University of Hohenheim near Stuttgart. He now
resides at Gut Schoenbuch on Lake Constance.
A map showing the course of his tour of the
United States is on pages 38-39.

OCTOBER 1951

35

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
Yellowstone River with its steep yellow rocks, its several
waterfalls, and its foam and fogs.

Back at the Old Faithful log cabin village I spent an-
‘other night, and early the next morning I was on the
highway again, my suitcase showing the dark blue school
insignias on the top to inform motorists that I was a
student of Pennsylvania State College.

IRST A MARRIED COUPLE took me as far as Yel-

lowstone Lake. Then an elderly gentleman going in
the direction from which I had come, turned his car
around and said he would take me to Jackson where I
could catch another ride, and then go back to Chicago.
We soon were engaged in a lively conversation on the
last war, Hitler's death and present relations between
America and Germany. After being invited for a late
lunch in Jackson I had to promise my host to visit him
in Chicago, and was then left at Jackson.

My hopes to get another ride soon from Jackson to
Salt Lake City did not come true. Finally at almost 5 p. m.
a big car stopped with a large man behind the wheel who
looked at me suspiciously.

“Where are you going?" his first question came grum-
blingly.

“Down the road."

“Hmm. First time in the state of Wyoming?"

I began to realize that I was talking to a highway po-
liceman and hesitatingly answered his next question as
to where I had come from. | told him I had come “down
from Yellowstone.” His voice then became fatherly mild.

“Sonny, have you never heard that hitchhiking is
prohibited in Wyoming?"

Of course, "Sonny" had not and was a little discouraged
after the policeman had left with a half serious warning
that “actually I should arrest you; however, this time I
will let you go. But don't ever let me. catch you again."

S THERE ARE NEITHER railroad nor bus lines in
those areas I had to try my luck again on the road
10 minutes later, especially as I had based the financial
part of my trip on the plan of hitchhiking. An hour later
a family from Colorado took me along to Pinedale, where
I rented a small room in a “motel” (a word composed of
motorist and hotel). It was almost morning when I could
go to bed after I had answered the motel owners’ ques-
tions concerning my country.
A telegram calling my hosts to Salt Lake City the next
day helped me to get there sooner than I had hoped.

Wandering up the hill to the capitol in Salt Lake City
the visitor gets a wonderful view of the Mormon capital
and the surrounding area. I stayed in the city for several
days, visited Temple Square with the huge six-towered
granite temple, and admired the old treasures of Mormon
tradition at the Temple Museum.

One night, I discussed with a Mormon bishop the Angel
Moroni and the Book of Mormon, the content of which
Moroni had engraved on golden panels by order of God

INFORMATION BULLETIN

36

and more than 1,400 years later had delivered to the
first prophet of the Mormon Church,

One of my Mormon acquaintances took me to ‘the
world's largest copper mines at Bingham, and then I pre-
pared to cross the big salt desert.

Again this German hitchhiker was standing on the
highway and after waiting for transportation for hours in
the blazing sun he accepted an invitation to climb into
a shaky sort of vehicle which once might have been a
car. The top was torn, the windows broken and the
upholstery probably had become a victim of the violently
gnawing tooth of time. The rear of the vehicle was packed
with all kinds of household equipment — plus a baby. In
the front were a man and a woman who did not seem to
have done much washing on themselves recently, and,
pressed there close against the door, was I.

ASKED MYSELF WHY on earth I had decided to get

into this wandering garbage can, particularly with the
salt desert ahead, where neither water nor anything else
but salt and sand was to be found. My fears, however,
proved unjustified. Although we wobbled along incredibly
slow the motor never broke down. Once the man poured
water into the gear housing, explaining that, although not
greasing as well as oil, it still served its purpose for a
while and was not as expensive in the first place.

By late afternoon the desert lay behind us. After pay-
ing my funny looking travel companions $1 for gasoline
I bid them farewell with best wishes for their further trip.

Hardly five minutes later I was picked up by a doctor
and his wife from Michigan who were going to San
Francisco to attend a medical conference. During the
following three days we crossed Nevada, visited the
gambling houses at Reno, but did not lose anything as
we did not gamble. We saw the little bridge from which
the recently divorced couples throw their old weddii~
rings, and then proceeded to Virginia City, the ghost town.

In the middle of the past century silver was found there,
and during the rush which followed a citv with opera
house, exclusive clubs and countless bars and gambling
houses grew out of the stone desert. Hardly any silver is
mined there today and of the former 25,000 inhabitants,
only 400 remain. Many unoccupied houses, the opera
house falling to ruins and the hangman's cellar which
still shows traces of blood (or are they paint?) are left
of Virginia City’s great past.

That night I hung up my hammock between two gnarled
fir trees on the bank of Lake Tahoe, and while the sun
disappeared behind the Sierra Nevada Mountains the
splash of the water lulled me to sleep.

N SAN FRANCISCO I lived in a hotel for a change as

the guest of my newly found friends. They actually
talked me into the invitation and even apologized for
having so little time for me because of the conference
Between a rich breakfast and an even more abundant
dinner, I went sightseeing. I visited Golden Gate Park,
strolled across the Golden Gate Bridge and inspected the

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 40 ---
Steinhart Aquarium and the De Young Museum since one
must do something for his education too.

But nothing lasts for ever, and so I had to leave my
kind hosts and San Francisco, I had expected to arrive in
Los Angeles the same day; however, I had not counted
on meeting a forester at Salinas who, when he heard I
came from Germany, invited me to stay with him for
at least one day, especially since that week Salinas was
to stage its big rodeo.

The rodeo is a cowboy festival to maintain the Wild-
West tradition, with emphasis on “wild.” First, from a
seat in an arena we watched the entrance of 900 horsemen.
Then the events started rather suddenly.

In the beginning, the cowboys had to ride for 20 sec-
onds on horses jumping and dancing wildly through the
arena. The same thing was shown a little later with
Brahma bulls. Quite a few landed in the sand and often
it seemed a miracle that even during the most dangerous
falls the tough boys remained unhurt. Sometime later
the announcer asserted that there is only one way to
knock a cowboy out and that is to cut off his head and
hide it. This, however, proved a little exaggerated as the
show continued. Three broken arms were registered in
the end, and one of the fellows had to be carried off the
field after being thrown by a bull.

LITTLE LATER some steers grown up wild on the

range were let into the arena. Pairs of cowboys each
had to get a steer between them. Then one of them threw
a lasso over the steer’s horns and the other around its
hind legs. To accomplish this it took the best pair 11 sec-
onds, Three seconds is the world record.

Then from a wooden box wild calves were let out into
the arena. The little beasts were so fast that often the
horses of the cowboys had some difficulty in catching up
with them. The calves had to be caught by lasso and all
four legs roped together.

The wildest show, however, was still to come. Again
several steers were let out of their box while at the same
time two cowboys on horseback entered through a door
nearby. As soon as they got one steer between them the
one on the right jumped off his horse, and while jumping
grabbed the steer by its horns, brought it to a stop and
threw it. Many accomplished the trick, but I just could
not understand how they did it.

A roar of laughter was caused by the last presentation,
the milking of wild cows. The cowboys had to show the
referee at least one drop of milk in a small bottle to prove
that they had really caught and milked a cow. Breath-
lessly one of them ran up to the, referee. The referee
looked at the bottle, then scanned it again but could not
find any milk. “Certainly had some in it," grumbled the
boy. “Must have evaporated in the meantime.”

HREE SHORTER TRIPS the next day took me to Los
Angeles.
Already before I arrived there I was a little prejudiced
against this fast grown city with its oil fields stretching
into the housing area. Therefore I only stayed one day.

OCTOBER 1951

37

I walked to Olvera Street, the “little Mexico” in Califor- .
nia, looked at the colorful, woven rugs, tried a wide-
brimmed sombrero and enjoyed looking at a hundred
small things offered for sale as souvenirs by dark-skin-
ned, black-haired Mexicans. In the afternoon I wandered
through the wide halls of the mausoleum (Forest Lawn),
which almost reminded me of an Arabian fairy tale be-
cause of its white pointed towers. In the evening I went
to Hollywood. However, I did not have any exciting ex-
periences.

The next morning I had to wait three hours before I
got a ride in the car of a Mr. B. I soon felt as if we had
been friends for a long time. Hardly five minutes after
he had picked me up, we were talking in that slightly
sneering or scoffing manner in which American friends
often converse, while he drove through the dark green
orange and lemon groves to San Diego.

For two weeks I was the guest of the family B. As a
businessman Mr. B. did a lot of traveling and took me
along. So I got to see southern California. Mr. B. aside
from his business always took the time to show me
something interesting, for instance, a particularly inter-
esting movie at a drive-in theater, gr an operetta per-
formance in an open-air theater on a full-moon night
under palm and eucalyptus trees.

One day we went to Lake Wood City. A series of 300
houses per day was being produced there in a conveyor
belt-like process, and in two or three months the construc-
tion of Lake Wood City was expected to be completed
with 17,000 houses and 100,000 inhabitants.

IME WAS FLYING, and when I had departed and

gone through the mountains to El Centro, I had to
think of these kind people time and again. Mr. B. had been
a soldier during the past war as well as I, but it took
only a few hours to make us real friends.

After a fast crossing of the Yuma Desert near the
Mexican border I stayed a couple of hours in Phoenix,
and reached the Grand Canyon in Arizona without dif-
ficulty. There the Colorado River has dug a huge gorge
217 miles long, four to 18 miles wide and 4,000 to 5,500
feet deep into the red rock, the impressive massiveness of
which can hardly be surpassed.

At the Grand Canyon I had already seen crowds of
Indians. However, not before I arrived at the little town
of Gallup in New Mexico did I see the type of red man
still alive in my memory from reading the Karl May
travel books.*

Clad in picturesque costumes, Indian horseback riders
trotted to meeting at the outskirts of the town. The war-
like picture was a little spoiled, though, by the iron-rim-
med eyeglasses some of the members of ‘‘Winnetou's” and
“Sitting Bull's’ race wore on their aquiline noses.

It was in Gallup, too, that I met Daddy Thiemann. With
little speed his ancient motor car came wobbling down

* Karl May, well-known German author of numerous books on
travel through various countries, wrote lively descriptions of North-
American Indian tribes using the names ‘‘Winnetou’' and “‘Sitting
Bull’ for his most outstanding Indian heroes.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
CAVIRGINIA ny xe
ey O
ENE TAHOE A CT CARSON GITY ay,

—=

ZA{SAN FRANCISCO]
SAISAN FRANCISCO},

62

———— J go N@)
ZTTOANI A

-@,
ALT LAKE

Z{GRAND CANYON} 7

ee
— M
ZFEL CENTRO} CT PHOENTX]
o—

v C

ae a,
oe IDAHO H

L{SACKSON| >
Us:

eae

|
Ly

LG,

Z{TANDER FS

ee

es 5

Da

3

a Pra

[bes momNES} yy (ehicaco}
rhs, J |
poe i & i
g iiitee ey tN \

eee

ll es

Sy isrinigy

OHIO (--——

eT LI \ ececmaniy!

YS
<[e0sTONT7]

On
<o)

E N.Y.
BUFFALO oN iG

ee

E
/ [PENNSYLVANIA| 4
STATE COLLEGE| /

X :
Le x
bk WASHINGTON \ |
y 7

fa Sol

‘Co

W.VA. SF”

Red lines trace Otto Baer's 6,000 miles of hitchhiking travel from Pennsylvania State College across the continent to San Francisco, down the West Coast to the Mexican border and then back east to Boston, Mass. Circular dots show points at. which he made stops.

the street. Daddy Thiemann emigrated from Westphalia
to the New World at the end of the last century. Both of
us were very excited as it is not every day that two
Germans meet like that in New Mexico.

While we crossed New Mexico at continuously low
speed, Daddy Thiemann, who was almost 80, told me of
his many years in the States, of much work, of homesick-
ness for his faraway uative country, and finally of his
quiet old age. Later he showed me very proudly his two-
story house, which he had built and equipped himself —
from foundation to roof. He finally took me to Amarillo in
Texas, from where I could more easily continue my trip.

N TWO BIG JUMPS I got through Texas to Oklahoma

City. There I was picked up by a large black auto-
mobile with a little gray-haired man behind the wheel,
of whom I never learned more than that his first name
was Tom. While the car raced down the highway at
100 miles an hour, he kept questioning me:

“Where are you going?”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

38

“Trying to get to New York via St. Louis and Chicago.”

“Where do you come from?”

“Pennsylvania via Yellowstone and California.”

“You seem to be a devil of a fellow. I'll help you along
a little.”

All during the 538 miles from Oklahoma City to St.
Louis, both of us endeavored to fird out which country
had done more for the progress of mankind, America or
Germany. Tom, of course, was deeply convinced that
Germany could not compete with America at all, while
I argued most forcefully that everything good had come
from Germany. In St. Louis he reached out his hand to
me for a farewell and, while starting the car, he called,
“Goodbye, old Dutchman. Take care of yourself. Only
when he had gone was I able to look at the little wad of
paper he had left in my hand. It was a $50 bill.

HE NEXT TWO DAYS Istayed with newly-won friends
in Peoria, Ill. I visited Keystone, America’s largest

wire-netting factory and the Caterpillar diesel tractor

OCTOBER 1951

plant. Next morning I called upon my friend of Chicago,
whom I had first met between Yellowstone and Jackson.

We went sightseeing by car in America’s second largest
city, visited the university, where the preliminary work
on the atom bomb had been done, the library, the world-
famous stockyards and, of course, a few parks. At night
we looked from the shore of Lake Michigan at the sil-
houette of the city, multicolored by neon lights.

That great a number of different signs and advertising
posters appears to European eyes as a symbol of the
tough competition which stands as a mighty driving force
behind the American economy. The largest advertising
sign in Chicago is 355 feet high and its light reaches far
across the city.

After traveling week after week and covering thou-
sands of miles, one gets restless; at least, 1 did. I could
not stay long anywhere, and as soon as I had seen what
I wanted to that strange restlessness came over me again
and disappeared only when started out for a new place.

OCTOBER 1951

St)

So the next day I left for Detroit, where I visited the
Ford plant. A teacher and his wife then took me through
Canada to Buffalo.

Together with a friend from Penn State, who lived in
Buffalo, I visited Niagara Falls, went swimming in the
Niagara River all afternoon, and at night looked again
from the Canadian side at the falls, which were illumi-
nated with floodlights in rainbow colors.

EW YORK, THE JOURNEY'’S end, was easily reached
from Buffalo in one day. There, too, I was lucky
enough to get a good ride quickly.

Again the rolling wheels sang the endless song of the
road and once more, completely relaxed, I could enjoy
the good feeling of traveling.

But while outside the green meadows and blue lakes
of the New England states went by, my thoughts wander-
ed back to all those friendly and helpful people whom T
as a German student in a foreign country had found, and
I was deeply grateful. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 42 ---
Tankers train at Baumholder.

hos

General Palmer tells troops their mission in NATO Army.

Second Armored Division

Schooling in engine maintenance.

Quick descent from half-track.

--- Page 43 ---
MERICA’S LATEST CONTRIBUTION to General

Dwight D. Eisenhower's Atlantic Pact Army — the
Second Armored (Hell on Wheels) Division—has given
an important “lift to the determinedly-growing effort to
provide security for western Europe against any threat
of aggression.

First armored division to join the Atlantic Pact Army, the
Second Armored is a combat-wise division, newly and
rigorously trained under a hot Texas sun for a peacetime
mission in Germany, where six years ago it helped
bring to a flaming end a world-wide aggression launched
by a slightly-different brand of totalitarianism than that
which threatens the peace of Europe today.

Men of the Second Armored are identified by the
triangular shoulder patch (shown, left) of yellow for the
cavalry, blue for the infantry and red for the artillery.
Each of the division's units has received highly-specialized
training on the 165,000-acre reservation of their Stateside
headquarters at Fort Hood, Texas, and are now continu-
ing a rigorous schedule along the banks of the Rhine.

Many troops in the Second Armored are combat
veterans who saw World War II through from North
Africa to Berlin via Sicily and England. For the wartime
“Hell on Wheels" division, it added up to three years,
three months and 10 days, and 1,702 combat miles. US
military cemeteries in Europe are dotted with hundreds
of crosses marking the graves of those who fell along the
weary, tortuous route,

When it was all over, the Second Armored had account-
ed for 94,151 prisoners of war; 3,824 vehicles, including
tanks, destroyed or captured, and 266 planes shot down,
demolished or taken intact on the ground. Records of unit
and individual heroism provide along saga of glory which
makes the division one of the nation's proudest.

In the temporary tent-city where they set up head-
quarters following their recent arrival in Germany, ad-
vance elements of ‘Hell on Wheels’ were welcomed by
General Thomas T. Handy, commanding general of the
European Command; Lt. Gen. Manton S. Eddy, command-
ing general of the US Seventh Army, and Maj. Gen, John
H. Collier, one-time division commander, whose succes-
sor is Maj. Gen. Williston B, Palmer.

During a recent tour of US installations in Germany,
General Eisenhower inspected the Second Armored. Said
he; “They look good and if they can fight as well as they
look, it is a good division.” -+END

Time out for sports.

--- Page 44 ---
Detachable carrier makes a two-seater of pram or serves as luggage rack,

iM ,
New fruit bag is a prem one New Gadgets for 1952!

attached to take care of the pits,

Electrical gadget slices top off soft-boiled breakfast egg.

A needle-threader which never fails, a boon to bachelors.

The brain-children of more than 200 inventors from
all walks of life were exhibited and demonstrated at
the second annual German Inventors and Novelty Fair ’
held in an ancient tent on a bomb-pocked lot near
the Lenbachplatz, in the heart of Munich. The gadgets
ranged from the practical to the fantastic, from the
curious to the bizarre.

Gadgets for young and old, for mothers with chil-
dren of perambulator age, for myopic bachelors, for
bashful maidens — all were there. For the small fry
there was an assortment of new toys, electrical and
otherwise. Spectators, including many buyers, num-
bered 10,000 during the two weeks of the fair. ++END

Electric toy autos directed by remote contro! delight

kiddies — and grownups, too, (PRB OLCB photos by Maske)
\ + gee
\ we
} Peete
\ ea
\ w 7

--- Page 45 ---
Erksdorf, Model of Cooperation

By JAMES B. PEABODY
US Resident Officer, Marburg, Hesse

ERMAN CITIES AND TOWNS can well look to a

tiny Hessian village as a model of achievement in
democratic living. For in Erksdorf, a little community
of 900 inhabitants, tucked away in the rolling hills of
northern Hesse about 15 miles from Marburg, there has
been developed an integrated community based on a
common cultural life and citizen responsibility which
epitomize the real meaning of the democratic way
almost to the nth degree.

Erksdorf's development of a community spirit founded
on a democratic concept began in the dismal social
disintegration immediately following the war's end. It all
started with a revamping of the school system — a
community project for an enlarged school building, and
later, the introduction of an experiment in progressive
education, Today, model Erksdorf is attracting not only
German and American educators interested in its school,
but leaders in various other fields who wish to observe
its handling of civic affairs or the operation of its com-
munity organizations. The news of Erksdorf's accom-
plishments has put the little village on the map, figura-
tively if not actually.

After the war, Erksdorf — like all its neighboring
towns — received a steady stream of refugees which
swelled the population rapidly. (Twenty-eight percent of
the people now living there are refugees.) Soon facili-
ties of the public school were so cramped that teachers
were seriously hampered in their work. However, citi-
zens got together and the problem was solved with a
minimum of expense.

With the cooperation of Mayor Heinrich Hohl, the
community council, teachers, pupils and parents, the
old school stable was transformed into a large, sunny
room, attractively furnished and decorated by the pu-

Boys at Erksdorf school (right) study bird lore as part of
nature classes. Here youngsters compare notes on bird
houses they built themselves, trade information on feath-
ered species. Girls (below) sample own cooking. Curtains,
cushions, other bright touches in annex to old building
were made by students. (Photos by Herbert Otterstaedt)

pils themselves. In the course of the renovation, two
smaller study rooms were provided, and these were
equipped with tables and benches assembled by boy
students in the school workshop. The girls sewed color-
ful cushions with attractive, bright curtains to match.

DEQUATE SPACE AND BRIGHT, cheerful surround-

ings, a recognized must" in modern teaching meth-
ods as they are practiced in the United States, be-
came an important adjunct to the successful introduc-
tion of new teaching techniques by Herbert Otterstaedt
and two of his teacher-associates, Heinz Pontow and
Emmi Buchhammer. An ardent believer in the so-called
Jenaplan for progressive education espoused by Prof.
Christian Petersen, of the University of Jena, Mr. Otter-
staedt was eager to reinterpret the new teaching
approach for the conditions of a small town.

A modest, unassuming man whose work with children
is founded on the Christian principle, this 42-year-old
teacher sparked a reform in the Erksdorf school which
has had far-reaching effect — not only upon the school
system but upon the town's adult population as well.

Instead of the traditional methods of mimesis, which
relies largely on memory and blind habit for success,
Erksdorf's teachers attempt to develop the intuitive
faculties of the child by appealing to and taking advan-
tage of his natural curiosity, his desire to excel and his
innate self-reliance. Accomplishments of the pupils
while in school and later have proved the success of
this new emphasis on the individual pupil's ability. Even
at 13 and 14, Erksdorf children, show a justifiable sense
of pride at being creative members of their community.

The onetime rigid organization of classes is dissolved
into smaller working groups who often proceed pretty

--- Page 46 ---
much on their own under a minimum of supervision. Thus,
traditional formalized courses have given way to critical
treatment of these courses through “dynamic-group”™
methods of study, practical research and construction.
The geography of Germany, for instance, is learned by
the pupils building large relief maps out of waste ma-
terials which are colored and marked to indicate not
only the topography of the country but designations of
principal industry locations, and other features related
to Germany's economy, government and culture. These
maps are so excellent that they have an important sales
value — one was sold recently for DM 250 ($59.50).

OLLECTIONS OF VARIOUS flora and fauna of the
area are made, classified and prepared artistically for
exhibition. They are eventually presented to succeeding
classes. Groups activities such as folk singing and folk
dancing are a regular part of the curriculum, and Mr.
Otterstaedt recently announced proudly that the Erksdorf
school had won the West German prize for folk dancing.
Books are being written by the pupils for inclusion in
the school library. An outstanding achievement was the
gathering of data on the history of Erksdorf by the
cooperative effort of two classes of 13- and 14-year-olds,
and the compilation of it into an exceptionally fine
volume of 300 pages, richly illustrated which pictures,
statistical graphs, maps, documents and songs (both
lyrics and music) pertaining to Erksdorf's cultural, eco-
nomic and historical background. The books will be used
by future classes as a cherished possession of the school
and amonument to the superior work which went into them.
Similar illustrated monographs on the flora and fauna
of the region, its costumes, songs, fairy tales and folk-
lore have been produced by these young scholars. This
type of creative instruction also extends to pottery
painting and manual arts of various kinds.

It was not long before the new sense of community
focused in the school began to affect the entire village.
In May 1949, an exhibition of school projects was plan-
ned to give the public a chance to see what the stu-
dents were accomplishing. The event was arranged in
connection with a special Town Culture Week under
the school’s sponsorship. It so stimulated the interest of

Folk dancing is part of curriculum at Erksdorf. The West
German prize in folk dancing went to this small school.
a

Preparation of large relief map teaches topography and
other features of country to students in model school.

the entire community that adult groups were formed and
a curriculum for adult education in all fields of cultural
and social life was set up.

Last year, a contact between the new adult education
center and the Public Affairs Division, Office of the US
State Commissioner for Hesse, was established and there
is a continuing link between Erksdorf townspeople and
American officials of Marburg county.

ORK OF THE ADULT education committee and

the local youth committee has been coordinated

into one organization together with other town groups
such as the sporting club, glee club, church and refugee
groups and the city administration itself. The regular
joint meetings of these interests unify the different ele-
ments in the community and impart a sense of common
responsibility and activity in the life of the village.
The adult education center's curriculum covers a wide
range in 11 different courses — home economics, geogra-

phy, agriculture, medicine, history, fine arts, physics, —

literature, folk dancing, music and sewing. During the
last winter semester, a total of 457 adults were enrolled
in the various classes.

Mayor Hohl, who is also Erksdorf's federal represen-
tative, has given unlimited assistance and cooperation
to the school program, and has brought it to the atten-
tion of the local school administration and the Hessian
ministry for culture and education. Independent circles
from all over Western Germany have evinced an interest
in Erksdorf during the past two years, and distinguished
visitors in the littke town are a common sight.

Although Erksdorf's methods have not been unani-
mously adopted by neighboring communities, many of
them have become influenced by achievements there, and

Erksdorfian ideas are creeping into several of them. —

Erksdorf citizens, with a pride to which they can well
lay claim, are hoping to influence not only their neigh-
bors, but many other areas if not all of Western Germany
as well. In Erksdorf, they say, democratic living has been
tried and proved to be the best.

OCTOBER 1951

+END.

erg iy.

ews

--- Page 47 ---
Partnership in Sacrifice |

Address
BENJAMIN J. BUTTENWIESER

Assistant US High Commissioner for Policy

URING ITS LONG and memorable history, the Frank-

furt Fair has played a prominent role in bringing
world buyers to Germany; and, conversely, in making
Germany's wares increasingly known throughout the
world. This process has been growing in gratifying
measure. About a year ago, in July, to be precise, Ger-
many's industrial production stood at 107 percent of such
production for 1936, Similarly, in July of 1950, Germany's
exports totaled $172,000,000 or at the rate of about
$2,000,000,000 per annum.

It is illuminating and heartening from the standpoint of
Germany's recovery to note that this figure of industrial
production stood at 132 percent in July of this year,
whereas Germany's exports in that month totaled
$315,000,000 or at the rate of about $3,800,000,000 per
annum, Another criterion of how Germany's trade situ-
ation has improved is the very significant fact that she
has built up a considerable foreign balance. As of today,
she has a credit balance in the United States of more than
$400,000,000 and her position in the European Payment
Union is steadily improving.

Neither time nor your patience permit my citing much
additional data, which would attest the improved eco-
nomic and trade situation in which Germany finds herself
today as against a year ago or as compared with any
prior period since the ending of hostilities. You have but
to look around Germany in general and Frankfurt in
particular to appreciate how very dramatic has been Ger-
many's comeback since 1945,

For this physical rebuilding and mental rehabilitation
she deserves great credit. They could not have been
achieved without the individual and collective industrious-
ness of her people; without their honest desire to recover
from the diabolic effects of the poisonous doctrines to
which they were subjected under the Nazi regime; and
without constructive leadership. Equally, however, it must
be conceded that aid from without, both material and
moral, which were made available to Germany by her
former enemies, in a size and a spirit unparalleled in
history, played an indispensable part in this recovery.

OULD THAT THIS SOUND development of Germany

could go forward in a normal, peacetime manner,
untrammeled by any threats from without or dangers
from within. With these latter, enlightened Germans can
and are coping; and successfully, too, I believe. Un-
fortunately, however, there is a grave threat to Germany
from without — the same threat as is confronting other
democratic, freedom-loving and peace-desiring nations of
the world,

OCTOBER 1951

A common defense is being built up to meet this threat.
And defense it is; for in no way is it intended to have
any of the attributes of an offensive effort. It is designed
solely to marshal the over-all defensive capabilities of the
Western World, so that their united strength will be so
powerful as to demonstrate to any aggressor the utter
futility of seeking to overwhelm it.

These nations are banded together in the common de-
fense of their ideals. Now that Germany is coming of age,
so to speak, she should — and I truly believe she desires
to— shoulder her fair portion of that common responsi-
bility. This will entail sacrifices on the part of Germany.
It will involve making available to this common defense
men and material and money. These are burdens which
will not fall any more lightly on the German people than
do they on peoples of other countries who are already
making great sacrifices for the common defense.

American men and men 8f many other of the United
Nations are in Korea facing great hardship and in all too
appalling numbers actual death in thwarting an aggressor
and defending the democratic way of life. The freedom-
loving peoples of the Western World are dedicated to
safeguarding their way of life, regardless of the tribula-
tions it entails, They are doing it willingly and without
complaint.

F SHE SHARES THAT devotion to freedom, as, I
reiterate, I am convinced she does, Germany too will
want to.dedicate herself to that same proposition. This
constitutes an ennobling process for any people. It will
translate itself into a particularly valuable exercise for
the Federal Republic at this juncture of its history, for it

Mr. Buttenwieser delivered the accompanying speech in
the Frankfurt University auditorium Sept. 2 during open-
ing ceremonies for annual Fall Fair.

(PRD HICOG photo)

--- Page 48 ---
will serve as a means of joining in a common effort a
people who have been sorely torn apart and ostracized
from the outside world through the degrading events of
the war. Thus solidified and reaccepted, they can join
other free peoples in this common and unifying task.
Sacrifice, itself, is as enriching to an entire nation as it
is to an individual. The willingness to make mutual
efforts—be they in men or in: money or in material —
unselfishly and without complaint, though austerity or
even some degree of privation is entailed, will do much
toward gaining stature for Germany in the eyes of the

world. It is this type of sacrifice and dedication that mark
the genuine attainment and true rank of a people.

I know no more eloquent or fitting manner to portray
or summarize this message that I would leave with you
today than in the words of the poetess, Sarah Williams;

Js it so, O Lord in heaven, that the highest suffer most?

That the strongest wander farthest and most hopelessly
are lost?

That the mark of rank in nature is capacity for pain.

And the anguish of the singer makes the sweetness of
the strain? -+END

Religious Affairs Returnees Hold Conclave

“The impact of religious and moral values on the life
of Germany in the light of US experiences” was the theme
of a recent conference of returned exchangees in the
field of religious affairs.

The 90 conference members, both clergymen and lay-
men, met in Frankfurt for one day to hold group discus-
sions, general sessions and a panel discussion. Evangeli-
cal, Catholic, Methodist and inter-faith interests were
represented in the meeting, sponsored by HICOG Re-
ligious Affairs Branch.

Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, assistant US high commis-
sioner for policy, told the delegates that the United States
regards German religious institutions as “bastions of
Western civilization."

After group meetings and discussions the following
resolutions and recommendations were made:

Inter-faith: More practical workshops in inter-faith re-
ligious experience in education and public affairs.

Mass media: More coordination between US and Ger-
man film producers and distributors to raise the moral
quality of commercial films. Establishment of a committee
of returnees in religious affairs to secure cooperation
from all community groups to raise the moral tone of
German life through the printed and spoken word.

Social action: Increased awarenesss and responsibility
by religious groups toward community problems as well
as to the nation and to international relations.

Women's affairs: Greater public responsibility by Ger-
man women when they are freed from domestic responsi-
bilities and additional exchange of ideas with women of
America and other countries.

Education: Retention of religious instruction in the
schools and a broad citizenship program for youth.

Youth: The present-day position of German youth was
declared to be most critical. +END

German religious leaders and church workers, exchangees returned from the United States, discuss the application of
their new information as it applies to their homeland. In picture at left, below, some of the conference leaders talk
problems over. They are, 1.-r., Dr. Franklin H. Littell, HICOG Protestant Affairs adviser; Domvikar Alexander Stein;
Bishop E. Sommer, Frankfurt, head of the German Methodist church; Dr. Hans Kallenbach, director of the Hessian Evan-
gelical Academy, Frankfurt, and Prelate Kastell, assistant to the bishop of Mainz. At right, the feminine contingent is
made up by Dr. Luise Joerissen, Munich; Mrs. Elisabeth Weber, Weinheim; Ruth Woodsmall, chief of Women's Af-
fairs Branch, HICOG; Emma Wahler, Berlin, and Mrs. Emmi Bonhoeffer, Poenitz, chairman of a cooperative relief organi-
zation, The Frankfurt conference included panels and general sessions. (PRD HICOG photos by Gassner)

INFORMATION BULLETIN 46 OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 49 ---
Fellowship

Between

Schools

By CAPT. FRANCES C. BRAND
Assistant GYA Officer, Stuttgart Military Post

EARNING FROM EACH OTHER is a constant factor in

4 German-American relations. This effort reaches down
into all levels of society and can be demonstrated by the
active program followed at the Stuttgart American School.
The 1951-52 students are no doubt looking forward to the
type of activities undertaken last year by Cecil L. Gyer,
principal of the school.

The 480 American students in the first through the ninth
grades enjoyed having German visitors from their com-
munity participate in and observe their school. Plans for
the new school year include the sponsorship by each
class of a parallel German grade, arrangements being
made by the German teachers.

Beginning with a congenial atmosphere of good fellow-
ship among the German-American staff members, the
Americans, proud of their school and the modern educa-
tional systems and teaching techniques, consider their
location in Germany an opportunity for demonstrating
American educational methods to German teachers,
parents and youngsters,

oe GATHERINGS brought those interested in the
program together and provided an opportunity to
become acquainted. With the assistance of the office of
the US State Commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden and
the US resident officers, 106 German teachers and princi-
pals visited the Stuttgart school as observers and joined
the students in a noonday meal. Twenty-eight boys and
girls between the ages of 14 and 18 also came as observers
and luncheon guests.

The visitors received a booklet written in English and
in German explaining the objectives of the American
school and the methods used to attain these goals. in

German folk dances looked intricate to American pupils
during an exchange visit. However, American youngsters
took their turn at instructing when it came to softball.

Exchange of ideas was one of many important features
of visit of English-speaking German students from Lorch
to the Stuttgart American School. (GYA photos)

cooperation with the German Youth Activities (GYA) of
the Stuttgart Military Post, information concerning Ger-
man-American youth activities was disseminated and the
names of students interested in joining or assisting were
obtained. This effort, with the help of Stuttgart American
boys and girls attending the American High School at
Heidelberg, resulted in the formation of an active Ger-
man-American Youth Club which now sponsors various
groups and projects.

The GYA arranged for buses to carry 1,000 German
students to the Constabulary-Divarty football game
played at the Neckar Stadium. A printed leaflet as well
as the loud-speaker arrangements during the play ex-
plained the rules of the game. The visitors were soon
cheering as vociferously as any of the other spectators.

When the American school basketball tournament was
in progress during the spring at Robinson Barracks,
arrangements were made for truckloads of German young-
sters to attend. Delighted with the game, they were
particularly fascinated by the antics of the cheer leaders,

In April, an army bus carried 35 ninth-grade American
students accompanied by their teachers to Neresheim in
Aalen county, where they had been invited by the Eng-
lish-speaking principal of the high school through the
resident officer. They received a warm welcome from the
principal and from all the pupils of this small town. Visits
were also made through the school and to a famous
monastery near by. A picnic was part of the outing.

In May, 51 English-speaking boys and girls from the
Lorch, Schwaebisch-Gmuend county, high school were
brought by the GYA with their principal and teachers to
visit the Stuttgart school. These students demonstrated
folk dances, sang in English, French and German and one
group presented a harmonica program. Some of the
American youngsters joined in the folk dancing while
others demonstrated basketball and baseball.

VEN FIRST-GRADERS JOINED this Good Neighbor
program. An exchange visit with a class of the same
age from the Waisenhof grammar school in Esslingen
showed the German children the proficiency with which
the little Americans spoke and sang in German, A wire

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 50 ---
recording was made of the singing and played back to
their intense delight.

Teachers took American students to visit special ex-
hibitions such as that of the Wuerttemberg glass manu-
facturers. They also were shown through factories mak-
ing motorcycles, metalware and toys, and through a
printing shop.*

* See Information Bulletin, May 1951, issue, page 38.

Surely these American children received a better under- _
standing of the Germans and the Germany of today, and ~
the Germans with whom they have had contact have the ©
opportunity of deciding for themselves what young "
Americans are like. Many German teachers are impressed
by American training methods, which they believe are
highly efficient in the development of personality and
character. +END

Foreign Tourist Travel Booming

OREIGN TOURIST TRAVEL has increased tremendous-

ly in Germany, according to reports to the German
Central Tourist Association. Seventy percent of the per-
sons visiting the health resorts in Baden-Baden were from
foreign countries and during the “Baden-Baden Grand
Week" in late August the flags of 30 nations waved over
the city. Nearly 50,000 foreign visitors registered at hotels
in Cologne between January and July, 72 percent more
than in the same period in 1950. More than 35 percent of
the overnight lodgings recorded in Munich in July had
foreign home addresses, a 34.8 percent increase over
July 1950.

A transportation show ‘Rail and Road” in Essen in
September stressed its slogan ‘Teach Them Early.” To
impress children with the importance of obeying traffic
regulations, a Punch and Judy show was presented with

The all-girl choir from Smith College of North Hampton,
Mass., took time out from a summer tour of Europe to
give a performance for Americans and Germans at the
Special Service Center in Heidelberg. At the reception
following the concert Miss Marleigh Morland of Smith
exchanged views with, left to right, Pic. Paul A. Corbeil
of Holyoke, Mass.; Werner Kaiser of Neckargemund, Ger-
many, and kilt-clad Andrew McGechen of Grange Mouth,
Scotland. (US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

48

the marionettes explaining traffic rules to the kids in an
understandable and amusing manner.

The Wagner Festival in Bayreuth, which was revived
this year for the first time since the war, will be presented
in 1952 between July 22 and Aug. 25. The Ring cycle
will be performed twice, ‘Tristan and Isolde" six times,
“Parsifal” five and ‘Die Meistersinger’ six. Reservation
books will be opened Nov. 1. j

Works of the printing and handwriting art of the early
Middle Ages are on exhibition at the Trier city library.
Among the rare treasures being displayed are the “Codex
Aureus” (The Golden Book) of about 800 A.D.; the “Codex
Egberti," an evangelic book of about 970-990; and the
“Registrum Gregorii," a collection of letters by Pope
Gregory the Great.

Eleven international automobile racing events have
been scheduled in Germany during 1952.:Subject to final
approval by the international FIA organization, the
schedule of the German Supreme National Sports Council
includes: Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Jan. 4-6; Wiesbaden,
May 22-25; Berlin, June 1; Nuerburgring, June 8; Trave-
muende, June 13-16; Baden-Baden, July 4-6; Nuerburgring,
July 27; Freiburg-Schauinsland, Aug. 3; Stuttgart, Aug. 17;
Nuerburgring, Sept. 5-7; Rheydt (North Rhine-Westphalia),
Sept. 9.

Seven six-day bicycle races have been scheduled by
the Bicycle Track Owners’ Association for the 1951-52
season: Frankfurt, Oct. 27-Nov. 2; Hanover, Nov. 9-16;
Muenster (NRW), Nov, 15-21; Berlin, Nov. 30-Dec. 6; Dort-
mund, Feb. 1-7; Berlin, Feb. 29-March 6; Munich (date
for event next spring has not yet been set).

Town Affiliation Program Progressing

Plans are underway to establish a committee in Coburg,
Bavaria, to work with a group in Garden City, New York,
interested in a town affiliation program. The committee
is made up of representatives of schools, libraries, clubs
and other organizations.

The city of Coburg, its agencies and groups have shown
considerable interest in the program. Newspapers plan to
exchange information in various fields.

Dr. Ulrich Kriesche, chairman of the local high school,
and Fritz Todtenhaupt, the Coburg police chief, have
returned from Garden City enthusiastic about Coburg’s
“sister city.”

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 51 ---
Economic Review
COTO MICTINECIEN)

Industrial Activities Slacken

By A. J. CEFARATTI

Chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Program Division
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

DVANCE REPORTS DISCLOSE that economic activity

in western Germany during August continued the
sluggish tendencies of the preceding two months. Post-
Korean speculative factors, based on the fear or hope of
rising prices, have lost much of their force, while current
expectations of stable or falling prices have retarded
demand for the time being.

Meanwhile, Western defense requirements are already
having some influence on the over-all trend of industrial
output, in that production in certain industries (building,
steel, chemicals) would certainly be lower but for de-
fense orders (including expenditures from occupation
costs). While orders booked continued to recede, coal and
raw material shortages prevented some industries from
increasing their output, and in some cases led to produc-
tion cutbacks. This occurred in industries where backlogs
of orders and unused capacity actually permit higher
levels of production than those presently reached.

Seasonal declines in production (summer vacations and
normal summer decreases in demand) only served to
aggravate the more-than-normal lull in industrial activity.

Favorable developments were evident again, however,
as employment continued to expand, and unemployment
decreases (at about the same rate as in July, but well
below the spring rate) and prices remained relatively
stable. But it was the foreign trade situation that brought
the most satisfaction. Although the balance of payments
difficulties of the year were far from resolved, the Federal
Republic's external trade was more satisfactory than at
any time since the war.

Early estimates for August indicate little change from
the level of trade reached in July when exports brought
a positive balance of trade for the fourth successive month,
and reached a postwar record of $315,000,000.* The series
of surpluses in recent EPU settlements have carried foreign
reserves to a level high enough to neutralize any short
term fluctuations that may occur. And, finally, the terms
of trade have shifted to western Germany's favor as prices
of exports continued to increase while the cost of imports,
particularly raw materials, will reflect for a certain time
the downward world market trend of the past few months.
A preliminary report for August shows the index of in-
dustrial production at 129 percent of the 1936 level — three
points below July.

Foreign Trade

July exports from the Federal Republic increased again
over June's postwar record level, reaching $315,000,000
despite drops in domestic production for the second con-
secutive month. Total imports showed a $30,000,000 rise
after the slight rise in June, and stood at $284,500,000 for
the month. Imports financed with ECA and GARIOA funds
amounted to $40,000,000; therefore’ the commercial trade
balance (excluding foreign aid) amounted to + $70,500,000.

The most noteworthy element in

area — $26,000,000 higher than in June. Total import pay-
ments from the EPU area, however, are estimated at
$150,000,000 to $155,000,000, still considerably under the
$170,000,000 import licensing figure set by the OEEC.

Imports from the dollar area decreased, although this
was in part due to decreases in ECA deliveries. Imports
financed with free dollars increased over June, conform-
ing to an upward trend which has been noticeable since
February. The import rise from participating countries,
of $20,000,000, was split almost evenly between the ster-
ling and non-sterling areas.

Although exports to the Western Hemisphere as a
whole increased by $7,000,000, exports to the United States
showed almost no change. The increase was almost en-
tirely in exports to South America, particularly to those
countries with which Germany has concluded payments
agreements. Exports to other non-participating countries
decreased by almost $3,000,000 while exports to the non-
participating sterling area increased by $1,600,000. Exports
to participating countries made up the greater part
(61 percent) of July's increase. Of this $11,000,000 in-
crease, approximately $4,700,000 went to sterling-partici-
pating and $6,200,000 to non-sterling participating coun-
tries. Exports to the EPU area reached $224,000,000. Deliv-
eries to Finland and Yugoslavia moved up to $11,400,000
while exports to the Soviet bloc remained at $5,000,000.

The import of non-agricultural commodities made up
the greatest rise in imports as agricultural commodities
have been relatively little affected by the import restric-
tions of the last several months. Of the $30,000,000 import
increase, $21,800,000 was in non-agricultural commodities.
Of the rise, approximately 22 percent was in industrial
finished goods, 34 percent in industrial raw materials, and
44 percent in semi-manufactures. ,

The greatest part (79 percent) of the July rise in exports
was accounted for by manufactured goods, while the
export of raw materials dropped by $3,000,000 and semi-
manufactures rose by $2,400,000, Further, the rise in manu-
factured goods was made up at almost equal parts of
finished products (Enderzeugnisse) and pre-manufactures
(Vorerzeugnisse). Ten percent of the total exports in-
crease was due to the $1,800,000 rise in exports of food
and agricultural products.

The Federal Republic's cumulative accounting position
with the EPU again improved by $51,000,000 at the end
of August, reducing its cumulative deficit to $151,000,000
as against the peak of $457,000,000 on Feb. 28, 1951.

Industry

The index of industrial production fell by three points
in July, reaching 132 percent of the 1936 level. This is
the second straight month in which the index has de-
clined — following the steady rise from a winter low of
127 in January to a postwar high of 139 in April and May.
The consumer goods sector of the pro-

West German July trade developments
was the rise in imports by almost
$30,000,000 over the June figure of
$255,000,000. The greatest part of the

import increase was from the EPU
——_

* DM 1,323,529,400 at the official rate of 23.8
cents to the Deutsche mark.

This review is based on con-
tributions submitted by reports
Officers in the Office of Economic
Affairs and the Office of Labor
Affairs, HICOG.

duction index dropped particularly in
July (seven percent) and has now fall-
en 16 percent below the postwar high
of 125 in November 1950. Part of the
decline in industrial production was
seasonal — summer vacations of work-
ers and some normal summertime

OCTOBER 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 52 ---
decrease in demand. However, in contrast to the long-
term up-trend since currency reform, the declines, in June
and July are probably something more than seasonal.

Industry as a whole was producing at a rate six percent
below the postwar record; in some industries the declines
from the postwar highs were far greater — shoes (down
60 percent), leather production (down 40 percent), rubber
products (down 25 percent), textiles (down 15 percent)
and flat glass (down 11 percent). Only eight industry
groups (out of a total of 31 reporting) were at postwar
record levels in July.

It was clearly apparent from the statistics that much
potential output was lost due to the continued decline
in orders. This decline in turn may be ascribed to several
factors: lack of funds, high prices, seasonal factors (es-
pecially in the consumer goods sector), and expectations
of some wholesalers that industrial prices will decline.
This wastage of productive capacity comes, paradoxically
enough, at a time when German officials have expressed
fears of the dangers of inflation and increasing consumer
purchasing power.

In addition to this loss of production from proven ca-
pacity (i.e., the postwar record levels), it is well known
that in many industries, especially outside the heavy in-
dustries, additional capacity exists which has never been
brought into production in the postwar period. When
these facts are taken in conjunction with western Ger-
many's vast manpower resources, it is clear that great
possibilities exist for combatting inflationary pressures
through actual production increases.

Coal

The Federal Government's request for a 1,000,000-ton
reduction of the third quarter export allocation was con-
sidered by the International Authority for the Ruhr (IAR)
in August but was not approved and the Council's deci-
sion of a total export of 6,200,000 tons, including the usual
Saar exchange, stands. In addition, the Council of the IAR
with the German delegation voting negatively decided
that the export allocation in the fourth quarter as well
will be 6,200,000 tons, including the Saar exchange. These
decisions have been protested vigorously by all sectors
of the German economy and Vice-Chancellor Bluecher,
head of the German delegation, has threatened to resign.

As of Aug. 15, export shipments were 100.4 percent of
the allocated quantities due and inland shipments were
running at 101 percent of the domestic allocations origi-
nally established for the third quarter. To these inland
shipments, imports and South German production are to
be added. (Imports in July were 678,906 tons, of which
332,696 tons were received from the United States.) The
original allocations planned inland shipments of 20,200,000
tons but on the basis of present increasing production
and including imports, it appears that actual availabilities
will exceed these allocation plans by approximately
3,000,000 tons.

Daily average output of hard coal in July was 376,600
tons compared with 389,000 tons in the second quarter
and 386,000 tons in the first quarter of 1951. Total July
hard coal production, which did not drop much because
of one more working day, was 9,814,275 tons compared
with 10,041,300 tons in June. Preliminary figures for
August, however, show daily hard coal output at 374,062
tons and total hard coal production of 10,119,377 tons for
the month.

Production trends in August were irregular and daily
output varied by as much as 22,000 tons per day. In the
first week, production was only 367,000 tons, but output
rose slowly and at the beginning of the fourth week
reached 380,000 tons per day. However, output fell off
to 372,000 tons at the end of August and for the first three
working days in September just topped 370,000 tons.

As of Aug. 22, the measurable loss in production was
15,628 tons per day compared to 12,715 tons per day in
July. Of this, 1,984 tons per day was due to lack of equip-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

50

ment or breakdown, 8,618 tons was due to geological
faults or disturbances, 1,499 tons to mine accidents, and
3,563 tons to unexcused absenteeism. There were in
August, no reported strikes or work stoppages.

Mine employment dropped by 553 workers in July.
There was a decrease of 1,476 face workers and an in-
crease of 1,170 of other underground workers, a net de-
crease of 306 underground workers, Surface workers de-
creased by 247 in the month. Since May 1, when the
number of workers began to decline, the industry has
suffered a net loss of 2,101 underground workers com-
posed of a decrease of 2,777 face workers and an increase
of 676 other underground workers. With the additional
loss of 140 surface workers, the total decrease in employ-
ment from May 1 through July 31 has been 2,241 workers.

This trend appeared to be changing, however, in August.
In the first three weeks of the month, there was only
a slight loss of face workers, and an increase of more
than 1,000 other underground and surface workers.

The German Coal Mining Management (DKBL) produc-
tion prize competition and special bonus plans announced
in July ran into trade union opposition in August when
the union formally called the DKBL proposals unsuitable
and refused to approve the prize plans. The union chair-
man emphasized that the miners were conscious of their
responsibilities and that the union executive group “would
take all steps which it might deem suitable to increase
production” and “furthermore, the union would consider
effective measures in order to achieve a reduction of the
coal export quota such as laid down by the IAR."

In reviewing the trend of daily and Sunday output in
August, it is clear that this position of the union is largely
responsible for the substantial drop in production. After
the union decision of Aug. 22, production fell from
380,000 tons to 372,000 tons per day and is just above
370,000 tons in the first part of September.

Steel, Power and Fuels

The order book for rolled products and semi-finished
steel rose from 8,157,204 metric tons on July 1 to 8,197,204
on Aug. 1. During July, orders were booked for 808,256
tons, representing the lowest booking for any month in
1951. Of the July bookings, however, 147,087 tons, or
18 percent, were for export in contrast to 85,561 tons or
nine percent in June.

During August heavy rains supplied excellent water
inflow to the run-of-river hydro power stations and to
storage basins so that the over-all capacity averaged
900 MW, of which 520 to 630 MW were recorded in
Bavaria. All storage lakes are filled above 95 percent of
capacity and so are in an excellent position to meet the
forthcoming autumn demand.

Approximately 100,000 tons of coal was saved by the
unusually good summer water conditions, which have
allowed an increase in coal stocks to 584,000 tons. Coal
deliveries are presently meeting allocations.

German crude oil production continues to increase ac-
cording to schedule, several new wells being completed
during the month. Gasoline and oil stock did not change
appreciably, although there was an increase in consump-
tion with which refining activities kept pace. Tetra-Ethyl-
Lead imports are being made at a satisfactory rate so
that blending operations are not being endangered as was
the case early in the summer. A check on the increased
number of vehicles in the second quarter indicates that
it was nine percent, but the bulk were motorcycles, which
explains the small gasoline consumption increase.

The approved refinery program for the coming fiscal
year calls for a total production of 5,463,600 tons, of which
1,723,200 tons will be motor gasoline and 1,478,000 tons
diesel oil. The proposed increase in refined products for
the coming year indicates that this Federal Government
program is progressing more rapidly than scheduled.

The Iranian oil situation may affect the German petro-
leum industry only indirectly by the additional demands

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 53 ---
placed on other oil fields by countries which have been
obtaining supplies from Iran. Western Germany does not
obtain supplies directly from Iran. ;

The chemicals industry suffered its fourth successive
monthly cutback in production in August. It is estimated
that production dropped seven points. An even more
serious decline was prevented by the use of US coal and
a change to other fuels. BASF-Ludwigshafen and 'Bayer-
Leverkusen together consumed 25,000 tons of fuel oils
during the month.

The firms BASF-Ludwigshafen, and Farbwerke Hoechst,
Hoechst, contracted with US firms to deliver dyestuffs
and fertilizers against US coal. The firm at Ludwigshafen
will receive 25 to 30 percent of its coal requirements from
the US, and Hoechst 35,000 tons for the months of August
and September. Even so, BASF was obliged to curtail its
production by 20 percent.

With a shortage of rock phosphate, the production of
superphosphate declined 29 percent.

Rail traffic demands remained at the same level for the
third consecutive month. Freight car demands per work-
day averaged 56,700 cars and were met satisfactorily by
the Federal Railways.

Prices, Labor and Wages

In July, the three major West German price indexes
showed very little change, and have stayed relatively
stable since April. The basic materials index rose one
point, the industrial producer index dropped one point
and the consumer index remained unchanged. The period
of rapid rise in prices stemming trom the Korean war
seems to be definitely over, and there are even some
signs of falling prices.

The decline in registered unemployment in the Federal
Republic during August, 32,700, approximated the decrease
during July (34,100) with about the same distribution
between the sexes. Total end-August unemployment of
1,259,000 roughly equaled the mid-October 1950 level and
exceeded the 1950 low (end-October) by 30,000. The un-
employment rate in the wage and salary earning labor
force dropped to 7.8 percent, the lowest end-August rate
in the past three years (August 1950, 8.7 percent; August
1949, 8.8 percent). Employment is estimated at slightly
more than 14,900,000 at end-August.

Tension between the German Trade Union Federation
(DGB) and the Federal Government was eased consider-
ably during August as high-level discussions continued
between union and government officials. A crisis had
arisen when the DGB executive committee recommended
to the DGB executive council the withdrawal of union
representatives from all government bodies on economic
policy. No action will be taken, however, until the dis-
cussions have been completed.

After conclusion by arbitration of most of the strikes
in agriculture which had dominated the earlier part of
August, the union drive for higher wages which continued
unabated was focused on the metal industry where wage
demands are general throughout the Federal Republic.
The campaign was spearheaded by a strike in Hesse
which was first limited to the southern districts but which
spread in early.September throughout the state and in-
volved 80,000 to 90,000 employees. The union apparently
has followed the strategy used in the building industry
last year of selecting a specific area for a work stoppage.
The strike, which is regarded as a “test case" by manage-
ment and union, may therefore last for some time although
efforts have been made to mediate. The union claims
that approximately 60 establishments have signed separate
wage agreements.

Agriculture

The program for testing the suitability to German agri-
culture of American farm machinery brought in by ECA
in experimental quantities, is progressing well. A large
Portion of the testing operations is taking place on farms

OCTOBER 1951

51

net result was a slight increase in the trade deficit.

in all sections of the Federal Republic. Local supervision
is being exercised by the Curatorium for Agricultural
Technology (KTL). The basic principle being followed is
to try out the machinery on one farm and utilize other
comparable farms as “control groups.” For example, on
three farms: of similar size, structure, soil and climatic con-
ditions, Farm A will use the American machinery, Farm B
will use German machinery, and Farm C will use draft
power. This phase of the program is to cover two years.

Financing is shared jointly by the ECA Special Mission
to Germany (DM 144,000 counterpart.funds) and the Ger-
man agencies (DM 36,000). German scientific and profes-
sional circles so far are favorably impressed with the
American equipment and are seriously endeavoring to
isolate those features which can be taken over success-
fully into German agricultural practice.

Basic research for the production from farm offal of
methane gas for motor fuel has been completed at Aller-
hop farm, near Fallingbostel in Lower Saxony, and a
practical installation for the production of the gas is in
operation. The gas is produced chiefly from farm manure,
but all farm vegetable waste such as straw, corn stalks,
potato vines, etc., are good raw materials for the purpose.

Western Berlin

Manufacturers’ current deliveries* during July amount-
ed to DM 191,600,000, a decline — chiefly seasonal in
nature — of DM 11,100,000 as compared to June. (Both
June and July had the same number of working days.)
The total number of hours worked declined by five per-
cent for all reporting industry groups because of the large
number of vacations. Despite this decrease, however, in-
dustrial employment increased slightly for the second
consecutive month, reaching more than 166,000 in July.

The city's index of industrial production, which is
estimated from the value of manufacturers’ current deliv-
eries, declined from 44 to 42. The producers’ goods index
declined by three points to 43, and the consumers’ goods
index by two points to 26, These decreases are largely
the result of the seasonal summer slump. .

Data on total employment for August are not yet
available, but labor developments during the first half
of the month were marked by continued small increases
both in the number of employed and in the size of the
registered labor force. Total employment (including 45,000
subsidized emergency workers) rose by about 5,000 to a
figure of more than 901,000. The increase was accounted
for by hirings in the metals processing, clothing, construc-
tion, woodworking and transportation fields, and by the
hiring of several hundred. white-collar employees. Some
2,000 new emergency workers and apprentices are also
included in the figure. An increase of 2,300 in the total
labor force was due entirely to the registration of ad-
ditional adult women and juveniles.

The number of unemployed seeking work diminished
by 2,600 to a reported figure of 289,000. The number of
unemployed (excluding subsidized workers) is now ap-
proximately 25 percent of the registered labor force.

West Berlin's negative balance in current commodity
trade** increased from DM 151,600,000 in June to
DM 154,600,000 in July, according to advance informa-
tion received from the Federal Statistical Office. The
average monthly trade deficit for the first half of the
calendar year was DM 135,000,000. As has been the case
throughout most of the year, exports to foreign countries
exceeded imports during July — DM 20,200,000 compared
with DM 9,700,000. However, shipments of goods to West
Germany declined while receipts of goods increased. The
+END

* Excluding building construction and electric power and gas pro-
duction.

** Excluding parcel post shipments. It is believed that normally
goods of a higher total value are shipped from Berlin via parcel
post than are received in this manner.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 54 ---
Personnel Notes

E&CR Division Chief Appointed

Robert G. Koopman, associate superintendent of the
Michigan Department of Public Instruction, has been
appointed chief of the Education and Cultural Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, succeeding
James M. Read, who resigned as E&CR chief on July 1
to become deputy United Nations high commissioner for
refugees. Dr. George A. Selke, deputy chief, has been
acting head of the division since that time. ‘

Mr. Koopman has been. a teacher, school administrator
and active leader in community affairs for 30 years. He
was chairman of the Youth Commission of Ann Arbor,
Mich., 1931-1935, and has served on various committees
for the improvement of education, youth welfare and
recreation programs.

Born in Michigan in 1895, he received his bachelor of
arts’ degree at Center State College, Mount Pleasant,
Mich., and his master’s degree at Columbia University
in 1926. During the ‘20s Mr. Koopman was a teacher and
superintendent of rural schools. He was associate director
of curriculum in the Michigan Department of Public In-
struction 1935-37, and later was in charge of instruction
and educational planning. He was appointed associate
superintendent of the Department of Public Instruction
in 1947. He served in the US Army from 1943 to 1945,
attaining the rank of lieutenant colonel.

Political Affairs Deputy Arrives

John Paton Davies, Jr., on his arrival from Washington
in September became a deputy director of the Office cf
Political Affairs, HICOG.

Mr. Davies, a Foreign Service career officer, came to
HICOG from the Department of State in Washington
where he had been stationed since 1947 as a member of
the Policy Planning Staff.

Born in China and educated at Yenching University in
Peiping and at Columbia University in New York, he en-
tered the Foreign Service in 1931 and served at posts in
China and in Moscow before going to Washington in 1947.

He was accompanied to Frankfurt by his wife, Patricia
Grady Davies, daughter of Henry F. Grady, who recently
resigned as US ambassador to Iran, and their four children.

Director of the Office of Political Affairs is Samuel
Reber Kenneth Dayton remains in his position as the
other deputy director.

Catholic Affairs Adviser to US

Dr. Urban H. Fleege, Catholic Affairs adviser of HICOG’s
Education and Cultural Relations Division, has resigned
his position to become national director of the Educa-
tional Institutions Division, Federal Civil Defense Ad-
ministration, in Washington, D.C.

A native of Dubuque, Iowa, Dr. Fleege was educated at
the University of Dayton and the Catholic University of

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

Dr. Urban H. Fleege.

America, Washington. He later served on the faculties of
Loretto Heights College, Denver, Colo.; Marquette Uni-
versity, Milwaukee, Wis., and the Catholic University of
America. He is a specialist in the fields of educational
psychology, educational guidance and tests and measure-
ments. He came to Germany three years ago. Dr, Fleege’s
successor has not been named.

US Commander in Berlin Has New Assistant

Cecil B. Lyon, of Hancock, N. H., and New York City,
has been appointed special assistant to Maj. Gen. Lemuel
Mathewson, US commander in Berlin.

Mr. Lyon, who joined the US Foreign Service in 1931,
is a native of Richmond, N. Y. Following graduation from
Harvard University, he served with an investment bank-
ing firm in New York City. He has served with the Foreign
Service in Havana, Hongkong, Tokyo, Peiping, Tientsin,
Santiago, and with the Department of State in Washington,
D. C. In 1948, Mr. Lyon was attached to the US Embassy
in Warsaw and went to Berlin from an assignment at the
National War College in Washington.

Berlin Official Returns to US

After five and one-half years of service in Berlin, Wil-
mer Froistad, retiring chief of the Public Health and Wel-
fare Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG, sailed Sept. 11 to
return to his home in Berkeley, Calif.

Mr. Froistad began his service as deputy chief of the
Public Welfare Branch, Office of Military Government
(US), in February 1946. In November 1947, he became chief
of the branch, which in July 1949 was combined with the
Public Health Branch. He retained this post when OMGUS
was replaced in October 1949 by the Department of State's
Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany.

Among the projects developed in Berlin during Mr.
Froistad's service were five neighborhood centers, the
Council of Social Agencies, the Central Committee for
Distribution of Foreign Relief Supplies, and the third year
social-work training program in the Hochschule fuer Poli-
tik (Political Science Institute), all with the aid of the '
Health and Welfare Branch as consulting agency, HICOG
Special Projects Fund grants for welfare projects totaled

OCTOBER 195i

--- Page 55 ---
DM 1,001,721 ($238,409.59), in distribution of which the
branch participated.

Under Mr. Froistad’s direction, the Health and Welfare
Branch also assisted CARE and CRALOG in their relief
programs involving shipment to Berlin and distribution of
8,265 tons of food, 1,421 tons of clothing and 985,130 CARE
packages.

Criminal Law Expert in Germany

Fred E. Inbau, professor of law at Northwestern Univer-
sity, Evanston, Ill., and noted authority on criminal law,
has arrived in Germany to confer with US and German
public safety officials as a consultant to the Public Safety
Division, HICOG.

In addition to conferences with American and German
public safety and court officials in the US Zone, Professor
Inbau will consult with university authorities in the
French and British Zones.

A graduate of Tulane and Northwestern universities,
Professor Inbau has published four books on police and
legal methods and problems and is at present the manag-
ing director of the Journal of Criminal Law, Criminology
and Police Science, and associate editor of the Journal of
Criminal Law and Criminology. He was formerly editor
of the American Journal of Police Science.

Before assuming his present position, Professor Inbau
was director of the Chicago Police Scientific Crime Detec-
tion Laboratory and practiced law with a Chicago firm.

Health Expert Visits OLC Hesse

Dorothy I. Nyswander, professor of public health edu-
cation at the University of California, Berkeley, is spend-
ing three months in Germany as a visiting consultant with
OLC Hesse.

Professor Nyswander, who is the author of many books
and articles on public health education in the United
States, spent the first three weeks of her stay in Germany
in the state of Hesse, where she studied public health
methods, especially the education program in that field.

French Educator in Hesse

Pierre Cotet, French educator and teacher at the Mal-
1erbe Girls’ High School in Caen, has joined OLC Hesse
as a visiting consultant to study the curriculum in ele-
mentary, secondary and vocational schools in Hesse.

Editors Survey Military Aid

Fourteen leading American editors and newsmen visited
Germany in early September on a survey of the Mutual
Defense Assistance Program in Europe. In addition to
Germany, they visited England, France, Italy, Greece and
Turkey.

The group observed French armored and engineer units
using American equipment in field operations in the
French Zone of Germany. The editors conferred with
American officials at HICOG Headquarters in Frankfurt,
EUCOM Headquarters in Heidelberg, USAFE Headquar-
ters in Wiesbaden and the US command in Berlin.

OCTOBER 1951

53

French armored division stationed near Speyer in the
French Zone is inspected by 14 visiting American news-
paper editors and correspondents in the course of a sur-
vey of MDAP aid extended by the United States to West
European countries. They are shown at Speyer escorted
by General Thomas T. Handy, EUCOM commander-in-

chief, General Navarre, commander of French Fifth
Armored Division, and other high US and French Army
officers. (US Army photo)

Members of the group included:

Wright Bryan, editor, At/anta Journal.

John H. Cline, associate editor, Washington Star.
Frank R. Ford, editor, Evansville (Ind.) Press.

Bruce Gould, editor, Ladies Home Journal.

Robert Grannis, managing editor, Brooklyn Eagle.
Martin Hayden, Washington bureau, Detroit News,
Vance Johnson, San Francisco Chronicle.

Raymond Lawrence, Oakland Tribune.

Paul Martin, Washington bureau, Gannett News Service.
Harlan Miller, Des Moines Register and Tribune.
Merrill Panitt, assistant publisher, Philadelphia Inquirer.
Gideon Seymour, executive editor, Minneapolis Star.
Richard Sherman, Harper's Magazine.

James Thrasher, associate editor, Collier's Magazine.

New ECA Official in Paris

Waldemar A. Nielsen is the new director of the Infor-
mation Division in the Economic Cooperation Administra-
tion's European headquarters in Paris, succeeding Roscoe
Drummond,

Mr. Nielsen has served as deputy director since the
organization of the ECA European information service in
1948. Before that time, he was special assistant to W.
Averell Harriman when the latter was secretary of the US
Department of Commerce.

Mr. Drummond has returned to his former post as chief
of the Washington bureau of the Christian Science Monitor
after a leave of absence of two years.

Community Recreation Consultants Here

Two visiting consultants from the United States, Char-
les F, Weckwerth and Roy O, Schlenter, began work last
month on community recreation projects in Germany

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 56 ---
Five congressmen touring Europe with their families were
welcomed at Bremerhaven Aug. 27 by Col W. Fulton
Magill, Jr. (right), BPE executive officer, and Cmdr. Harold
Braune, USNAB executive officer. L.-r., Representatives
August H. Andersen (Minn.); Antoni Sadlak (Conn.); Win-
gate H, Lucas (Texas); Henry O'Talle (lowa) and Lowell
Stockman (Ore.). (US Army photos)

Congressmen Tour Germany

Rep. Hugh D. Scott (R.-Pa.), member of the Interstate and
Foreign Commerce Committee, was welcomed to EUCOM
Headquarters by Maj. Gen. Daniel Noce, chief of staff.

Rep. O. C. Fisher (D.-Texas) chats at Rhine-Main Air Base
with Maj. Gen. Robert Harper of USAFE Headquarters staff.

sponsored by HICOG's Youth and Community Activities
Branch. Both will spend three months in Germany, Mr,
Weckwerth in Berlin and Mr. Schlenter in Bremen.

Mr. Weckwerth, 43, is director of recreation and camp-
ing at Springfield College, Springfield, Mass., holds
bachelor of science and master of education degrees from
Springfield College and a master of arts degree from
Teachers’ College, Columbia University.

Mr. Schlenter, who was born in Ludington, Mich., in
1894, is superintendent of recreation in Plainfield, N. J, He
attended King College, majoring in education, and later
studied sociology at Columbia. His field of specialization
is community organization.

Gallup Visits HICOG

George H. Gallup, director of public opinion research in
the United States, visited in Frankfurt Aug. 31 and Sept, 1
to talk with HICOG officials and German leaders in public
opinion polling. Mr. Gallup stopped in Frankfurt en route
to two international conferences on public opinion re-
search, a conference of the European Public Opinion
Institute in Amsterdam, and later a meeting of the World
Association of Public Opinion Research in London.

In Frankfurt, Mr. Gallup met with five leaders of Ger-
man public opinion institules to answer their questions on
American methods of opinion analysis, Through the assist-
ance of the HICOG exchanges program, the German ex-
perts also visited England to attend the London conference,

Changes in Hesse Resident Officers

Several personnel changes among the US resident of-
ficers in Hesse have been announced by David Rosen-
dale, chief of the Field Operations Division, OLCH.

John D, Gough, who was in Giessen for the last year,
has been transferred to Hesse state headquarters in Wies-
baden as executive officer within the Field Operations
Division. He has been replaced by James F, Green, former
resident officer of Wetzlar county, whose position was
taken over by Philip A. Damon, formerly in Waldeck
county. The new Waldeck resident officer is Robert B.
Warner, former assistant in the Hersfeld office, while
Kennedy B. Schmertz, previously assistant in the Giessen
office, is the new resident officer for Gelnhausen and
Schluechtern counties, John D. Healy, resident officer for
Dillenburg county, has recently added Biedenkopf county
to his area. -

Two officers have left the Hesse staff. William N. Tur-
pin, former resident officer in Biedenkopf county, has gone
to Munich to join the staff of the US Consulate General
and John L. Behling, Jr., former resident officer in Geln-
hausen and Schluechtern counties, has transferred to
HICOG headquarters.

Former Club Leader Dies

Mrs. Marian B. McCurdy, former president of the Ameri-
can Women's Club of Berlin, died Aug. 24 at Cape Eliza-
beth, Maine. Her husband, Prof. William E. McCurdy,
member of the law school faculty at Harvard University,
served with the Legal Division, OMGUS, in Berlin from
June 1947 to September 1949. +END:

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 57 ---
America’s Faith in Europe

Address

By DR. FREDERICK H. BURKHARDT
Deputy Director, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

IFTY YEARS AGO, the United States was pretty much

disinterested in what went on in Europe. We were
isolationists. We did not see why what happened in Eu-
rope could be of much interest to us. Now we have been
through two devastating wars. Those events have con-
vinced the American public that the United States and
Europe are inseparable in their fates and destinies.

The United States, in the meantime, has become a great
and powerful nation and has the responsibilities of such
a nation. In the present situation, it seems to a great
many people that we now are confronted with a world in
which there are two great giants facing each other — the
United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
Although these two countries are indeed very powerful,
to portray the situation as essentially that of the United
States versus the Soviet Union is an oversimplification
and leads to some very bad thinking about what we
should do from now on.

The reason that such a comparison is an oversimplifica-
tion and is likely to lead to misinterpretation of events is
that it is conducive to making European countries feel
insignificant in this struggle. It is also likely to do great
harm by playing up to the feeling of neutralism so that
these “little ones” ask why they should get mixed up in
the brawl between these two big fellows. That kind of
psychological atmosphere is likely to be engendered.

OW, THERE ARE SOME genuine and sincere people
who look at this situation and who believe that a
third force — a third power — should be built up, which
should be Europe, on
the hypothesis that

the world not as one between two great giants but as a
difference in two ways of life. The struggle is between
the way of life representing the individual, his liberty and
his dignity, and the other, with its concept of the state,
sacrificing personal freedom and the dignity of the in-
dividual.

If we must talk of giants, we must speak of one giant —
the people, the masses of the world, who are looking for
a better way of life, who have all heard of a better way
of life made possible through scientific and technical
progress. Any national power must bear this force in
mind. Of course there are localizations of power which
create tensions such as those between the United States
and the USSR.

The case of the Soviet Union is that a better life can be
achieved but only at the sacrifice of individual liberty.
The Soviet spokesmen make glowing promises of security
in exchange for the totalitarian controls of the police state.
In no case have they yet delivered on their promises,
though their achievement in the exercise of terroristic
control is the most efficient the world has seen.

The case of the United States is that this security can
be achieved through liberty. We believe that an order of
society is possible, an order based upon justice and law,
on respect for and protection of individual liberty. Our
foreign policy is to preserve peace in order to safeguard
the possibility for this human progress. In her efforts to
produce world peace, the United States has constantly
endeavored to take an international line. We are persuad-

three great giants would
be more likely to pre-
serve the peace than
two. Why this should
be so is not very clear.
In any case, the basis
of such an analysis is
the traditional “balance
of power” outlook on
international affairs. We
feel that theory is er-
roneous and would lead
to a bad situation.
Such an analysis
overlooks a significant
aspect of the present
international situation.
The United States sees
the issue confronting

Frederick H. Burkhardt.

Dr. Burkhardt, representing US High Commis-
sioner McCloy, addressed the youth of many
European nations on Sept. 1 at the International
Youth Camp on the Lorelei. Thousands of youth
from many European nations met at the 10-day
camping sessions during the summer in an effort
to gain a better understanding and mutual res-
pect among free peoples. The speech, delivered
extemporaneously, made a tremendous impres-
sion on the young campers and the Allied and
German visitors there. This article is an adap-
tation of the transcript of the recording made at

the time. (PRD HICOG photo by Jacoby)

OCTOBER 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 58 ---
ed that the task cannot be done by isolated nations but
through the cooperation of all nations. Thus we have
always given our strong support to the United Nations,
and now we support the uniting of Europe.

E HAVE BEEN ACCUSED of imperialism. If we were

imperialist, wanting to make a colony of Europe,
we would neither strengthen nor unite Europe. We would
take the classic line of dividing, weakening and con-
quering. There is no ground to believe the Communist
propaganda that the Marshall Plan is such a device. So,
it would be idiotic to believe that we would strengthen
our potential victim. We want rather to strengthen Europe
as an ally in our common way of life.

As a matter of fact, the Marshall Plan is a good example
of US policy. In June of 1947, after the terrible winter of
1946, Secretary Marshall made a speech at Harvard Uni-
versity.* He pointed out that Europe was in considerable
despair and that in this situation there was danger of
economic and social chaos. He expressed America’s will-
ingness to aid on an economic level. At the same time,
he insisted that the initiative for any economic assistance
toward recovery come from Europe itself.

Four weeks later, Great Britain and France invited the
nations of Europe to Paris to draw up pians jor economic
rehabilitation. It should be remembered that all European
nations received an invitation, including the satellite
countries and the Soviet Union. The USSR withdrew.
Some of the satellites wanted to participate. Czechoslo-
vakia was in a peculiar situation; she actually had ac-
cepted. Then her foreign minister was called to Moscow,
and later she was forced to withdraw her acceptance.

Nevertheless, 16 nations of Europe came together and
developed an imaginative, creative plan. It was totally
new in the economic history of the world. It was a Euro-
pean plan and was the basis of the Marshall aid. This
was no American plan foisted on Europe.

HE SOVIET UNION immediately began her well-
known propaganda attack about American coloniza-
tion. They claimed that participation in this plan meant
subjugation to America. This claim was not what they
really felt. What they really felt was that any country
included in that plan could not be made a Soviet colony.

When one tries to make up his mind concerning the
policy of this or that government, he should not put too
much faith in the fine words of her representatives. Check
the actions of that government with the words of her
officials.

On checking the Marshall Plan, one sees that in no
case has an attempt been made to interfere with the
economic or political structure of any nation. We are a
liberal, capitalist country, but in no case has the United
States interfered with nationalization or socialistic plan-
ning in the Marshall Plan countries. There were only
two conditions for aid: first, that general, democratic
principles be observed in the organization of the plan;

* See Information Bulletin for June 30, 1947, page 12.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

56

second, that Marshall Plan money be used to increase
the productivity of the participating countries.

Large as this Marshall aid has been, let us remember
the fact that it has represented only five percent of the
goods produced in Europe. The other 95 percent was
European, the result of the peoples’ initiative. Granted
that five percent was important as an added shoulder to
the wheel, which otherwise would have remained at a
standstill, yet we, as Americans, never have claimed that
our help was solely responsible for the reconstruction of
Europe.

S FOR A UNITED EUROPE, there are many reasons

why the United States should and does endorse such a
plan. We remember the two wars into which we have
been drawn since 1914, two wars that grew out of national
misunderstanding and hate. We feel that a united Europe
can become a concrete reality and can eliminate such
dangers in the future.

We in the United States feel that it is to our interest to
see a strong Europe because a strong Europe, economical-
ly and politically stable, means security for the world
and also for us.

In addition, there is the immediate threat of aggression.
A strong and united Europe is a crucial factor in defense
against that threat. A strong, united Europe is, in the
immediate context of existing tensions, one of the greatest
contributions toward enduring peace.

That is the real reason for the recent Soviet phony
peace campaign. They are trying now with this last effort
to lull the people of Europe to sleep, so that they will not
unite and form the basis of strength and vitality which
will, in coming years, be a nullifying and a peaceful
threat to their own power.

A strong, united, democratic and economically stable
Europe is one of the greatest threats to Soviet power
today. It will mean, without any doubt whatever, that
their power over their own people and over the satellites
will dwindle, because when the peoples of the USSR and
the satellite nations see a Europe with a high standard
of living and with freedom, too, their regime cannot last.
It cannot stand against the magnetic pull of a Europe
which has demonstrated that security can be achieved
through freedom.

UNITED EUROPE in this context is ‘a program not
only for the freedom of Europeans but for the free-
dom of all peoples in the world. Such a movement is
already too well: underway. We have the Council of
Europe, the Schuman Plan and plans for a European army.
There are already more plans, I understand — agricul-
tural Schuman plans, transportation Schuman plans.
Nothing can stop the momentum of these combinations.
The rapidity with which these programs are fulfilled,
and the wisdom with which they are fulfilled, depends
upon the young people of Europe, their understanding of
the issues and the work that they do. That is why the
International Youth Camp on the Lorelei has been one of
the most significant things in Europe this summer. To

OCTOBER 195!

--- Page 59 ---
have young people get together, get to know one another
and to discuss matters of political importance and ur-
gency is a definite and vital contribution to accelerating
this movement.

The program for a united Europe is the program which
will bring the resources of Europe to its full strength.
There has been a great deal of talk since the war of how
Europe lay devastated, torn asunder and bleeding, of
how Europe was weak, of how Europe no longer counted
in international affairs. More propaganda! The strength
of Europe is tremendous — the potential is there, the
reality is within reach. The scheme for bringing that
strength out and making her again a vital world force is
in a united Europe.

Europe's cultural strength is by no means weakened in
spite of the Communist charges of decadent civilization.
The cultural heritage and cultural values which animate
the countries participating in a united Europe are the
identical values of the United States. Americans share
the European heritage. Those values, furthermore, are
precisely the ones now in danger. That is one more
reason why we support a united Europe.

The same feeling is true for the political ideals which
animate it. They, too, are, shared by the United States.
On that basis, and once that basis is established, there
is no reason why the movement for a united Europe
should become a movement for an amalgamation of cul-
tural values or political aims. There is plenty of room
for cultural differences and varieties. In fact, those cul-

'

tural varieties ought to be encouraged within the frame-
work of a united Europe. Each nation has something to
give in that direction, and the richer the variety, the
better the life for all.

O SUMMARIZE: US POLICY in Europe and the US
policy toward united Europe is founded on the convic-
tion that the strengthening of Europe is an additional bul-
wark to the peace of the world, and therewith an added
security for Europeans and Americans alike. The United
States supports a united Europe because she can become
another great example that security can be combined
with freedom, that freedom is not the price of security.
The stronger this revitalized and united Europe is, the
more independent she is of any outside power, including
the United States, the more it is to the liking of the
United States precisely because European independence
will prove that free democratic nations can work out
their own destinies cooperatively.

We welcome a strong, unified Europe because the
ideals which animate a united Europe are the same as
the ideals of the United States. We welcome it because
this united Europe will take place in a context of the
United Nations. It should not, and I do not think it will,
become another form of isolationism, culturally, econom-
ically or politically. We must never forget that the con-
cept of international cooperation in the United Nations
as an organization must be our larger ideal. -+END

Cooperation Brings Swift Results in Augsburg

Cooperation between Germans and Americans in the
Augsburg district recently has resulted in improvements
ranging from construction of sport facilities to furnishing
a youth hostel.

In Fuessen, the local tennis club courts were not suffi-
cient for the great demand on them by soldiers, local pop-
ulation’ and tourists. The organization moreover was
without funds to improve the situation. The city adminis-
tration recognized the need and released enough ground
for five courts in an ideal area. The US Army Fuessen sub-
post supplied a bulldozer for leveling the ground and also
transportation for the hauling of cinders and.clay.

The formal opening of the courts in August marked a
year of cooperation among the Americans, the city officials
and the club. This type of working together is especially
effective since the simple granting of “help for the sake of
being helpful" has often been misunderstood or misinter-
preted by the Germans.

In Guenzburg, a field has been leveled as the first step
toward construction of a sport stadium on the north bank
of the Danube. The work was made possible through close
cooperation among the US Army Leipheim sub-post, the

OCTOBER 1951

57

Bundesbahn (state railroad system), the people of Guenz-
burg and the local HICOG resident office.

Landsberg Air Base authorities helped 35 underprivi-
leged children of Landsberg to attend a YMCA camp near
Eichstaett by furnishing bus transportation to the camp
grounds.

In Kaufbeuren, a recent monthly gathering of German
leaders and American troop commanders discussed the
control of “camp followers” who have appeared simultane-
ously with the troops. The sub-post commander declared
he intended to place ‘off limits" those guesthouses which
became “pick-up” centers. However, he added that the
ban would be removed from places which had raised their
own standards.

In an attempt to foster closer, informal relationship be-
tween the troops and townspeople the district councilman
suggested that his office would be happy to conduct tours
through the county for American service men.

Liaison efforts of the US resident office in Kaufbeuren
resulted in the loan of 20 cots from the Army sub-post to
help furnish a spacious attic as a hostel for young travelers.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 60 ---
US Replies to Czech Note

Following is the text of the US reply, delivered Oct. 1 by
the American Embassy in Prague, to the Czechoslovakian
foreign ministry's note on the Czech train on which
refugees escaped into western Germany on Sept. 11, 1951.

HE AMERICAN EMBASSY presents its compliments

to the Czechoslovakian minister of foreign affairs and
has the honor to acknowledge the ministry's note of
Sept. 20 with enclosures concerning the unscheduled de-
parture from Czechoslovakia for Germany on Sept. 11
last of a train carrying approximately 100 persons, a
number of whom have since freely indicated their desire
not to return to Czechoslovakia. In this connection the
ministry makes a number of assertions, accusations and
complaints, as well as several requests, in regard to all
of which the embassy has been directed to reply on
behalf of the American Government as follows:

The contents of the ministry's note, and of the publicity
simultaneously emanating from official sources in Prague
on the subject, seem founded on the notion that the train
in question was seized by Czechoslovakian “terrorists”
and certain foreign agents. The ministry implies that these
conjoined forces are sinister, and their purpose hostile.

The ministry's note employs this fiction apparently
with the purpose to conceal, if possible, the fact that the
direction and departure of the train from Czechoslovakia
was an unaided undertaking of certain citizens of that
country who adopted this somewhat unconventional
method of leaving the country and simultaneously indi-
cated their attitude. It is noted, moreover, that this ex-
planation does not conform with the original attempt to
intimate that defective brakes were responsible for the
entry of the train into West Germany. However much
the Czechoslovakian Government has chosen thus to
explain the occurrence or attempt thereby to keep from
the Czechoslovakian people the actual circumstances of
this departure, the United States cannot understand how the
Czechoslovakian authorities can seriously attempt to use
this fiction in a diplomatic note to a foreign government.

To declare that a “foreign agency” aided in the execu-
tion of this enterprise is not only contrary to the facts
but it underestimates the ingenuity of the Czechoslovak-
ian citizens concerned, in which connection the embassy
has been authorized to make clear that the part played
by the American Government in the episode in question
has been limited to action by US authorities in Germany
in granting political asylum.

According to such information as has come to the
knowledge of the United States Government, recent de-
partures from Czechoslovakia have been effected among
other means by such vehicles as bicycles, automobiles
and trucks, as well as a considerable assortment of air-
planes and even a glider whereof the train is merely the
latest and largest conveyance to be employed. In addi-
tion there has been a rather substantial exodus of Czecho-
slovakian citizens proceeding on foot. World opinion has
not been accustomed to hold, as the ministry apparently
attempts to do, that such persons who have sought to
leave their country in order to obtain political asylum
abroad are “terrorists and “criminals.” Based on records
of US authorities in Germany, one quality which these
Czechoslovakian citizens coming to West Germany have
in common is the desire for human freedom.

The American Government accordingly rejects the
assertion that “grave crimes” were committed in an action
involving the departure from Czechoslovakia for political
reasons, or that such activities could be considered to come
within the purview of the extradition treaty mentioned
in the ministry's note. In this connection reference is
made to the US position when the Czechoslovakian Gov-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

58

ernment asked for extradition as “criminals” and “‘ter-
rorists’ persons leaving Czechoslovakia for political
reasons by three Czechoslovakian transport planes which
landed at Erding Field near Munich on March 24, 1950.
It was explained at that time that no basis in law exists
for making or complying with such an extradition request.

Neither the Extradition Treaty of 1925 nor any other
treaties presently in force between the United States and
the Czechoslovakian Governments can be considered
applicable to the question of returning from the United
States Zone of Germany any of those now accused by the
Czechoslovakian Government. It may be noted that
Article III of the Extradition Treaty specifically excludes
its application to any crime or offense of a political
character and recognizes the right of the state receiving
an extradition request to decide whether the case is of
a political character. The United States has never recog-
nized, as is also the case with many other countries,
any obligation to extradite in the absence of a treaty.
No basis, therefore, exists for the charge of the Czecho-
slovakian Government that the United States has con-
travened any principles of international law or stipula-
tions of the Extradition Treaty.

The train in question had aboard approximately 100
persons when it reached Germany. Those who of their
own free volition expressed a desire to return numbered
79 individuals, all of whom except two were permitted
to depart from Germany within two days of their arrival,
that is, as soon as their wishes had been ascertained and
the necessary arrangements for their return, had been
completed. The remaining two were returned on Sept. 21.

While they were in United States custody all appro-
priate facilities were provided for their comfort and wel-
fare. The Czechoslovakian Government may care to note
how United States authorities carried out this obligation
of comity in comparison with the retention by Czecho-
slovakian authorities for 26 days of two Western jet pilots
in US jet planes who, on becoming lost and running out
of fuel, were obliged to land near Prague on June 8.

The train itself, which has been in the custody of
appropriate authorities, will be released at the frontier
near Asch. It will not be necessary for Czechoslovakia
to send a delegation to Germany for this purpose. It may
be pointed out in this connection that the ministry did ~
not proceed properly in attempting at the outset to ob-
tain the release of the train by sending four representa-
tives to the US Zone without official notification to the
United States Government.

Finally, note is taken of the statement in the communi-
cation under acknowledgment to the effect that Czecho-
slovakia seeks to reserve the assertion of a claim for
“full compensation for damage caused to the Czecho-
slovakian state," in reply to which the embassy is di-
rected to observe that whenever Czechoslovakia may
feel impelled further to promote this project, that govern-
ment may expect to receive a counterclaim including
various expenses incurred by the American Government
in connection with the train in Germany.

As of probable interest to appropriate Czechoslovakian
authorities, the embassy encloses the original signed
statements of seven passengers on the train, six of whom
were listed in Annex A of the ministry's note as being
“forcibly abducted... against their will and unlawfully
detained.” As the ministry will observe, no assertion
could be farther from the truth.

Since the Czechoslovakian Government has already
published its communications of Sept. 20 to the American
Government, it is requested that comparable publicity
be given by the Czechoslovakian Government to this
communication. +END

OCTOBER 195!

--- Page 61 ---
Part of the group of Czechoslovakian refugees, who were
successful in train dash for freedom, are shown in Straub-
ing. At right the engine, with huge red star on its front,
stands at a siding at Selb-Ploezberg prior to its return.

They Rode
“Freedom Train”

HEN A CZECH TRAIN with a big red star on the

engine front puffed into a Bavarian border town
near Selb on Sept. 11, it was questionable who was the
more surprised — the station master or some of the 100
persons on the train.

The unscheduled and highly-extraordinary crossing of
the Czechoslovakian-German border was a su fully
planned attempt by some of the passengers to dash for
freedom from their Communist dominated homeland.

Karel Truska, a Czech district rail station manager,
knew that at Asch, the last station within Czechoslovakia,
there was a seldom used track which led into Germany,
usually blocked with empty freight cars. On Sept. 11 he
traveled by motorcycle to Asch, found the track un-
blocked and threw a switch in the rail yard which would
head the next train across the border. Mr. Truska had
time to notify a few friends and his wife and two
children, They boarded the train at another station.

There were anxious hours for the little group. Train
engineer Jaroslav Konvalinka, who was in the plot, and

the others didn’t know until the train swung to the left
instead of to the right at Asch that the switch, which had
been tampered with four hours earlier, had not been reset.
The “Freedom Train” rolled across the border at full speed.

Once in Germany, 31 persons on the train asked for
political asylum. Another 79 expressed a ‘desire to return
to their homeland. This group spent a night and a day as
guests of Grafenwohr Military Sub-Post. All except two
of these were permitted to return to Czechoslovakia
within two days of their arrival. The remaining two were
returned on Sept. 21. +END

“Freedom Train" engineer Jaroslav Konvalinka tells Allied and German correspondents (left) how the escape was plan-
ned. Center, Miss Frances Anderson, hostess in the Straubing Special Services club, meets the youngest passenger, Pavel
Truska, just seven months old,and Mrs, Husjenna Konvalinka. Steak dinners were furnished by Grafenwohr Military Sub-

Post to train passengers who chose to return to their homes in Czechoslovakia.

(Photos by PRD HICOG, PRB OLCB and US Army)

--- Page 62 ---
Calendar of Coming Events

CURRENT (with closing dates)

Oct. 21 — Berlin: German industries ex-
position,

Oct. 21 — Bad Pyrmont (NRW): Society

for Practical Psychological Research,
meeting.
Oct 21 — Hanover (LS): Male Choral

Society, 100th anniversary concert.

Oct. 22 — Muenster (NRW): “Send” folk
festival in Cathedral Square.

Oct. 28 — Brunswick (LS): Art exposition,
H. Flesche.

Oct. 28— Mannheim (WB): ‘Le Corbusier,”
art exposition.

Oct. 30 — Aachen (NRW): Art exposition,
Engelbert Mainzer.

Oct. 31 — Bochum (NRW): Annual art ex-
position by Bochum artists,

Oct. 31 — Duisburg (NRW): ‘Industry and
Harbor," art exposition,

Oct. 31 — Munich (Bav): Exposition of new
water colors by Xaver Fuhr.

Oct. 31 — Hanover (LS): 1951 German
Federal Garden Show; exhibition of an-
cient Lower Saxony sacred art and to-
day's German sculptors.

Oct, 31 — Freiburg (SB): Upper Rhine art
exposition. «+

Oct. 31 — Landau (RP): Flower show in
Suewega Park.

Oct, 31 — Hanover (LS): Hanover artists’
. fall exposition.

Oct. 31 — Munich (Bav):
hibition.

Nov. 3 — Bremen: Bremen fair.

Nov. 4 — Munich (Bav): Art exposition,
“Old Munich Secession.”

Nov. 4 — Frankfurt (Hes): International
bicycle and motorcycle exposition,

Nov. 11 — Hanover (LS): Fall art ex-
position.

Nov. 25 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Art exposi-
tion, water colors, by Duesseldorf artists.

Nov.—Heidelberg (WB): Crafts’ trade show.

Sculpture ex-

Dec. — Hanover (LS): State museum ex-
position, European art from 1400-1800.
Dec. — Hamburg: Exposition of modern

Hamburg art.
Dec. — Munich (Bav): "The Romans in
Bavaria,"' exposition at National Museum.
Dec. 30 — Hamburg: Art exposition.

OCTOBER

Oct. 20 — Baden-Baden (SB): Association
of German Bridge Players, meeting.

Oct, 20-21: — Ludwigsburq (WB): Choral

music festival.

Oct. 20-22 — Cologne (NRW): Choral con-
cert, trolley conductors’ choral societies
from Germany and abroad.

Oct. 20-23 — Goettingen (LS): Pedagogical
congress.

Oct. 20-24 — Baden-Baden (SB): German
health resorts, convention.

Oct. 20-29 — Freiburg (SB): Fall fair.

Oct. 20-Nov. 19 — Stuttgart (WB): Swabian
art exposition.

Oct. 21 — Munich (Bav): German motor-
cycle championship.

Oct, 21 — Nussbach, Oberkirch (NB): Folk
festival and riders’ pageant.

Oct. 21 — Oberharmersbach (SB): Pageant
in native costumes.

Oct, 21 — Baden-Baden (SB): Symphony
concert; Southwest German Broadcasting
Orchestra.

Oct. 21 — M. Gladbach. (NRW): Harness
Taces,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Oct. 20 to Nov. 30, 1951

Oct. 21-22 — Hamburg: Philharmonic con-
cert; Gerhard Taschner, violin; Jos. Keil-
berth, conductor,

Oct. 21-22 — Berlin: Concert, Berlin Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; Helmut  Roloff,
piano; Otto Matzerath, conductor,

Oct. 21-22 — Brunswick (LS): Shooters’
October festival,

Oct, 21-24 — Hildesheim (LS): Fall fair.

Oct. 21-28 — Krautheim/Jagst (WB): Fall
fair.

Oct. 21-28 — Bergneustadt (NRW): Cultural
week, singers’ congress.

Oct. 21-28 — Wiesbaden (Hes): German-
French culture convention,

Oct. 21-Nov. 3 — Bremen “free market.”

Oct. 22 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-
cert; G. Solti, conductor.

Oct. 22-23 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert; Miriam Molin, piano; M. Krenek
(composer), conductor.

Oct. 22-23 Neheim-Huesten (NRW): Con-
cert; Heinz Stanske, violin.

Oct. 22-24 — Frankfurt (Hes): German Sick-
ness Insurance Companies, meeting.

Oct. 23-27 — Bonn (NRW): University
educational science, congress.

Oct. 24-28 — Osnabrueck (LS): Fall fair.

Oct. 25 — Munich (Bav): Concert, Vienna
Philharmonic Orchestra; Wilhelm Furt-
waengler, conductor.

Oct. 25 — Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert; Elly Ney, piano; Hans Weiss-
bach, conductor.

Oct. 25 — Muenster (NRW): Symphony
concert; Enrico Mainardi, cello,

Oct. 25-26 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; A. Dressel, conductor.
Oct, 25-27 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Ger-
man Society for Public and Private

Social Welfare, meeting.

Oct. 25-Nov. 11 — Hanover (LS): Art
Association's fall exposition.
Oct. 26 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert;

Robert Soetens, ‘violin; Karl Elmendorff,
conductor.

Oct. 26 — Nuremberg (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; William Primrose, viola; A.
Dressel, conductor.

Oct. 26-27 — Bonn (NRW): German Society
for Accident Insurance and Sickness-
Benefits, convention.

Oct. 26-28 — Nuremberg (Bav): Physicians’
scientific congress. :

Oct. 27— Munich (Bav): Horse and harness
races.

Oct. 27-28 — Marburg (Hes): German Trade
Union Federation, congress,

Oct. 27-Nov. 2 — Frankfurt (Hes): Six-day
bicycle races,

Oct. 27-Nov. 5 — Stuttgart (WB): Centen-
nial of the royal Wuerttémberg postal
stamp, meetings and philatelic exposition.

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberq-Baden.
‘WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern,

60

Oct, 28 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Harness
races.

Oct. 28 — Kassel (Hes): Intercity Athletic
contest, Stuttgart, Cologne and Kassel,
Oct. 28 — _ Biberach/Riss (SB): Upper
Swabian Catholic Youth, Christ the King

festival.

Oct. 28-29 — Brunswick (LS): Symphony
concert; Margot Pinter, piano; E. Bitt-
ner, conductor.

Oct. 28-30 — Euskirchen (NRW): Outdoor
folk festival.

Oct. 28-31— Ortenberg (Hes): ‘Cold Mart."

Oct. 28-Nov.°6 — Trier (RP): All Saints’
festival,

Oct. 29-30 — Mannheim (WB): Concert;
Gaspar Cassado, cello; Eugen Szenkar,
conductor.

Oct, 31 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert, Cham-
ber Music Group of Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra.

Oct. 31 — Aachen (NRW): Concert; Wolf-
gang Schneiderhan, violin.

NOVEMBER

Nov. 2-3 — Wuppertal (NRW): Stuttgart
Chamber Orchestra, concert; Karl Muen-
chinger, conductor.

Nov. 3 — Ludwigsburg (WB): Palace con-
cert; Amadeus Quartet, London.

Nov. 3 — Kassel (Hes): German amateurs’
ballroom-dancing tournament. .

Nov. 3-4 — Verden/Aller (LS): Horse show.

Nov. 3-5 — Neckargemuend (WB): St.
Katherine's Mart.

Nov. 3-11 — Worms (RP): All Saints’
festival. .

Nov. 3-Dec, 2 — Mannheim (WB): Art ex-
position, Alfred Mahlau.

Nov. 4 — Baden-Baden (SB): Symphony
concert; Southwest German Broadcasting
Orchestra.

Nov. 4 — Bremen: Piano concert, Walter
Gieseking.

Nov. 4-5 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra, concert; Antonio Janigro, cello;
Mario Rossi, Turin, conductor.

Nov. 4-5 — Hamburg: Northwest German
Broadcasting Orchestra, symphony con-
cert; W. Schneiderhan, ‘violin; H. Schmidt-
Isserstedt, conductor.

Nov. 4-5 — Winningen/Moselle (RP): St.
Martin's fair.

Nov. 4-7 Tauberbischofsheim
St. Martin's fair.

Nov. 4-11 — Rothenburg ob der Tauber
(Bav): Fall fair.
Nov. 4-14 — Kiel

housing exposition.

Nov. 4-25 — Frankfurt (Hes): Exposition
of paintings in commemoration of Oskar
Moll.

Nov. 5 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; Rudolf Krasselt, conductor,

Nov. 5 — Bremen: Concert; Vegh Quartet,
Paris.

Nov, 5-6 —
chestra, concert;
han, violin.

Nov. 5-6 — Neheim-Huesten
Piano concerts, Carl Seemann.

Nov. 6 — Schliersee and Bad Toelz (Bav):
St. Leonard rides,

Nov. 6-10 — Brunswick (LS): Festival of
modern chamber music.

Nov. 7 — Reutlingen (NB): Concert, mod-’
ern music,

(Bav):

(SH): Building and

Bremen: Philharmonic Or-
Wolfgang Schneider-

(NRW):

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 63 ---
Nov. 7-8 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert;
Rosl Schmid, piano; G. L. Jochum, con-
ductor.

Nov. 8 — Dortmund (NRW):
Bach, H-minor High Mass,
Nov. 8-9 — Ludwigsburg (WB): ‘St. Mar-

tin’s mart.

Nov. 9 — Hof (Bav): Concert; Professor
Metzmacher, cello.

Nov. 9-11 — Essen (NRW): West German
poultry show.

Nov. 9-15 — Hanover (LS): Six-day bicycle
races.

Nov. 10 — Duelken (NRW):
pageant, with fireworks.

Nov. 10 — Duesseldorf, Bonn and M. Glad-
bach (NRW): St. Martin's pageants.

Nov. 10-11 — Duesseldorf (NRW): German
Swimming Association, meeting.

Noy. 10-13 — Neustadt (RP): Folk festival;
election of Carnival Prince.

Nov. 10-Dec. 2 — Nuremberg (Bav): Art
exposition.

Nov. 11 — Giessen (Hes): Orchestral and
choral concert. .

Nov. 11— Munich (Bav); Cologne, Duessel-
dorf, Duelken (NRW); Mainz (RP): In-
auguration of Carnival season.

Nov. 11 — Heidelberg (WB); Duesseldorf
(NRW): St. Martin's pageants.

Nov. 11 — Nuremberg (Bav): Piano con-
cert, Edwin Fischer.

Nov. 11-12 — Berlin; Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra, concert; Shura Cherkassky,
piano; Leopold Ludwig, conductor.

Nov. 11-13 — Bitburg (RP): St. Martin's
folk festival.

Nov. 11-16 — Idar-Oberstein (RP): Christ-
mas fair.

Nov. 12 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-
cert; Georg Solti, soloist and conductor.

Nov. 12 — Hildesheim (LS): Piano concert,
Elly Ney.

Nov. 12-13 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert; Edwin Fischer, piano; G. Wand,
conductor.

Nov. 12-13 — Brunswick (LS): Piano con-
cert; Branka Muszlin.

Nov. 12-Dec. 2 — Cologne (NRW): Ice-
skating ballet, Maxi and Ernst Baier.

Concert;

St. Martin

Nov. 14 — Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert; Wolfgang Schneiderhan, violin;
Hans Weisbach, conductor,

Nov. 14-15 — Mosbach (WB): Baden hog
show.

Nov. 15 — Muenster (NRW): Symphony
concert; Dr, Robert Wagner, conductor.

Nov. 15-16 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Foun-
dries’ meeting.

Nov. 15-18 — Unna (NRW): St. Katherine
folk festival.

Nov. 15-20 — Muenster (NRW):
bicycle races,

Nov. 15-30 — Stuttgart (WB): Exposition
of ancient and modern painted rugs.

Nov. 15 — Mannheim (WB): Opening of
ice-skating rink,

Six-day

Nov. 16 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert;
Walter Gieseking, piano.
Nov. 17 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert;

Vegh Quartet.

Nov. 17 — Wiedenbrueck (NRW): Sculp-
tors’ and artists’ festival.

Nov. 17-18 — Wesel (NRW): Festival per-
formances by Wesel gymnastics school.

Nov. 17-Dec. 16 — Hamburg: ‘Winter-
dom,” folk festival.

Nov. 18 — Bremen: Piano concert, Edwin
Fischer.

Nov. 18 — Baden-Baden (SB): Symphony
concert, Southwest German Broadcasting
Orchestra.

Nov. 18-19 — Berlin: Concert, Berlin Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; Christian Ferras,
violin; Karl Boehm, conductor.

Nov. 18-19 — Reutlingen (NB): Concert,
Swabian Symphony Orchestra; Monique
* Haas, piano.

Nov. 18-20 — Butzbach (Hes): St. Katherine
fair, livestock show.

Nov. 19 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-
cert; A, Grumiaux, violin; M. Davisson,
conductor.

Nov. 19 — Karlruhe (WB); Symphony con-
cert; Poldi Mildner, piano; Otto Matze-
rath, conductor.

Nov. 19 — Nuremberg (Bav): Chamber.
music concert, Berlin Philharmonic Or-
chestra.

Nov. 19-20 — Mannheim (WB): Concert;
A. Busch, violin; Eugen Szenkar, con-
ductor,

Nov. 19-21 — Neheim-Huesten (NRW):
Catholic Workers’ Corporation, meeting.

Nov. 20 — Dortmund (NRW): Chamber
music .concert, Berlin Philharmonic Or-
chestra.

Nov. 20-Dec. 15 — Essen (NRW): Exposition
of French reproductions.

Nov. 21 — Bremen: Requiem, Brahms.

Nov. 21 -- Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert, Bonn City Orchestra.

Nov. 21 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert.

Nov. 21 — Hamburg: Concert, Philharmonic
Orchestra; Jos. Keilberth, conductor,

Nov. 21 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert; “The
Creation,’* Haydn.

Nov. 22-23 — Krefeld (NRW): Horse show
and auction,

Nov. 22-25 — Karlsruhe
Cyclists’ Union, meeting.

Nov. 23 — Nuremberg (Bav): Symphony
concert; Wolfgang Schneiderhan, violin.

Nov. 24-25 — Neheim-Huesten (NRW):
Concert; ‘Missa Solemnis,’’ Beethoven.

Nov. 25 — Hildesheim (LS): Concert; Re-
quiem, Max Seeboth.

Nov. 25 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
International opening slalom skiing on
Zugspitzplatt.

Nov. 25-26 — Berlin: Concert, RIAS Sym-
phony Orchestra,

Nov. 25-26 — Hamburg: Symphony concert;

(WB): German

Conrad Hansen, piano; Jos, Keilberth,
conductor.
Nov. 25-Dec. 23 — Hanover (LS): Art

crafts’ Christmas exposition.

Nov. 26-27 — Bremen: Concert, Philhar-
monic Orchestra.

Nov. 30 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert; Ger-
trud Pitzinger, alto.

Nov. 30-Dec. 2 — Kassel
small animal show.

Nov. 30-Dec, 2 — Mainz (RP): Rhineland-
Palatinate and Hesse poultry show.

Nov. 30-Dec. 3 — Oestrich (Hes): Christ-
mas fair.

Nov. 30-Dec 6 — Berlin; Six-day bicycle
races, —END

(Hes): Hesse

Richard Wagner Festival Draws 40,000 Visitors

The 75th Bayreuth Wagner Festival this summer ex-
ceeded expectations when the first postwar revival attract-

ed some 40,000 persons.

Twenty-two performances were staged during the festi-
val season from July 29 to Aug. 26 with many of the
enthusiasts attending as many as six performances (four
nights of the "Ring," and one night each of “Parsival’’ and

“‘Meistersinger’).

This postwar revival of a world famous musical attrac-
tion had the distinction of being the first time in the
history of the Bayreuth festival that patrons demanded
that the curtain be raised three times after the “Meister-

singer” performance.

According to the festival management, admission tickets
realized approximately DM 900,000 ($214,200) and were
sold to spectators from 26 countries scattered throughout
the world. The largest contingent of ticket-purchasers
other than Germans was from the United States.

OCTOBER 1951

So many automobiles and other vehicles (14,380 by
actual count) were used by the visitors that the narrow

approach streets to the main thoroughfares presented a

accidents.

major traffic problem, Despite the snarls there were no .

Funds raised to finance the festival totaled DM 1,450,000
($345,100) and originated from the Bavarian government,

the Society of Friends of Bayreuth, sale of admission

61

tickets, receipts from radio broadcasts and advertisements.
Officials estimated that actual expenses exceeded that
figure by about DM 250,000 ($59,000). The deficit is ex-
pected to be covered by the sale of a booklet — now in
preparation by the society — titled ‘World Discussion
about Bayreuth.”

Approximately 80 percent of the German press critics
favored the visual production style of the Wagner operas
introduced this year. There were 46 soloists participating
in the festival, while chorus scenes ranged upward to
280 persons — the majority of them recruited in Bayreuth.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 64 ---
SUNN EOTE TET eee (Frankfurter Rundschau, Frankfurt; Sept. 6)

German Editorials
And Cartoons

not give concurrence to what view or opinion.

German Federal Republic's 1951-52 Budget

The German Federal Cabinet approved on Aug. 24 the
1951-52 federal budget which totals DM 20,460,000,000
($4,869,480,000) (ordinary budget DM 17,260,000,000, extra-
ordinary budget DM 3,200,000,000). Revenues from luxury
taxes and super-highway (Autobahn) fees are included
in the ordinary budget, at DM 100,000,000 each, although
these taxes have not been approved yet by the federal
parliament. Defense or occupation costs amount to DM
5,870,000,000 in the ordinary budget and to DM 1,630,000,000
in the extraordinary budget. Social expenditures during
the current year amount to DM 7,700,000,000, that is,
27 percent more than in the previous year. — from Frank-
furter Neue Presse.

Unjustifiable Legends

The publication of the Tischgespraeche Hitlers (Hitler's
Table Talk) has made the Deutsches Institut fuer Ge-
schichte der nationalsozialistischen Zeit (German Research

Material for this section is compiled from press digests and ana-
lyses prepared by various divisions of HICOG and OLC offices, and
from official releases of German agencies. These compilations are
intended to inform the American readers of what the Germans are
thinking, without interpretation. The inclusion of any viewpoint does

EATTUTTUT ETO EE UE CT UNTO CON TUN OCCT OTCUO LUO O TIO TOTO OOOO TOTO OULU LOCOCO COMO COLORIOOTOM COCO TO

German Michel: “I'd like to be
mothered, too!"

Institute for the Study of the Nazi Era) in Munich sub-
ject to discussions. Die Neue Zeitung (US-sponsored daily
newspaper) published part of a review of this book which
appeared in the Bayerische Staatszeitung and which states
among other things: “The fact that the scientists advising
this institute have raised no objections against the pub-
lication of this book is a sign of very grave political
indifference... The book Tischgepraeche Hitlers... will
encourage the development of unjustifiable legends.”

Defensive Theory

“The question must be raised, what is to be done and
will happen if the parliament follows Dr. Schumacher's
advice not to ratify the Schuman Plan?” said the Frank-
furter Rundschau (Frankfurt Review), Aug. 28. (Kurt
Schumacher is leader of the Social Democratic Party.)

“If we reject the coal-steel pool, we will get into the
whirl of neutralization and thus strengthen the position

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Rheinische Post, Duesseldorf, Aug. 18)

“So glad you could come,
Mr. Gromyko!"

San Francisco Peace Conference.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Der Fortschritt, Essen, Aug. 24)

(Main-Post, Wuerzburg, Sept. 10)

San Francisco.

“Next time be more careful,
Mr. Gromykol!"

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 65 ---
(Braunschweiger Zeitung, Brunswick, Sept. 13)

The Probable Results
of the Autobahn Tax.

of the Russians in Germany. If we accept the coal-steel
pool, the West can become more active politically vis-a-
vis the East by not only demanding the integration of the
German, but also of the European East into the ‘United
States of Europe.'”

Expropriation of German Foreign Property

The West German press reacted strongly to the publi-
cation of Allied Law No. 63 in early September, stressing
the fact that the law legalizes the final liquidation of
German property abroad as well as of the heretofore
administered reparations and restitutions within Germany.
Newspapers published extracts from an official German
statement saying that the Federal Government adheres
to its concept of inviolable private property rights. Many
newspapers added to front-page news the announcement
that the South African Government would not apply
the law.

The Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg) editorially
seemed to share the Federal Government's optimism con-
cerning the liquidation of German property abroad ad-
vancing the probability of Chancellor Adenauer's being
convinced that recent various “surprising Allied meas-
ures” constitute a “last general house-cleaning which
will be succeeded by future positive Allied decisions."

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Sept. 5)

HICOG and German Foreign Assets.

German Michel: “Hey, those are
my flowers!”

OCTOBER 1951

(Berliner Anzeiger, West Berlin, Sept. 4)

“Can't you hear me? I'm
talking peace!”

(Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen, Sept. 5)

The German Refugee Problem.

“It's your baby, fathered at
Potsdam!"

(Essener Tagebiatt, Essen, Aug. 25)

KatSONG

A Dead North Korean Hen.

“Another outrageous neutrality
violation!"

Several other papers severely criticized the expropria-
tion of German foreign property. Flensburger Tageblatt
(Flensburg, S-H) considered the “speedy and decisive”
liquidation of German foreign property as unilateral
action which, from the Allied standpoint, had to be car-
ried out before “closing time.” The Badische Neueste
Nachrichten (Karlsruhe, W-B) wrote that this measure
“lacked the spirit of reconciliation," which proves, it con-
tinued, that peace is still far distant.

The Norddeutsche Zeitung (Hanover, L-S) saw in the
liquidation of German foreign property one of those ill-
conceived measures which “severely shake German con-
fidence in an early end of the unfortunate Allied post-
war policy.” Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt) claimed
that “force and shortsightedness" had dominated in the
liquidation of German foreign property.

State Control of Radio

In a press release Sept. 5. the executive committee of
the German Trade Union Federation (DGB) voiced its mis-
givings about an agreement concerning broadcasting in
southwestern Germany drawn up by the state govern-
ments of Rhineland-Palatinate, Baden and Wuerttemberg-
Hohenzollern.

“The DGB executive committee,” the statement read,
“considers the agreement on broadcasting as a first step

(Nuernberger Nachrichten, Nuremberg, Aug. 25)

Uncle Sam: “I wish I were
slender again!”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 66 ---
(Der Fortschritt, Essen, Aug. 31)
— mz

ver] =

Bhorm | —

A Hard Nut to Crack,

(Essener Tageblatt, Essen, Aug. 29)

Mossadegh's Position
...and State Bankruptcy Below.

(Hamburger Freie Presse, Hamburg, Aug. 30)

“It won't be long now!”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Rhein Zeitung, Coblenz, Aug, 25)

y

FReies

409
uw“ @e

The FDJ Returns to Paradise.

(Kasseler Post, Kassel, Sept. 8-9)

Pieck: “Sure, we're for Pan-Europe;

under this ‘pan!'"

(Die Stimme, Hamburg, Aug. 20)

Social Insecurity is a Poor Basis

for Military Security.

(Suedkurier, Constance, Aug. 25)

Education in Bavaria.

“Phooey on your modern methods.
We Bavarians stand by tradition!”

64

(Rheinische Post, Duesseldorf, Sept. 8)

German Rearmament.
Michel can't hold back indefinitely.

(Weser Kurier, Bremen, Sept. 4)

German Defense Contribution.
The helmet musn't be too large
or too heavy.

(Westfaelische Rundschau, Dortmund, Sept. 12)

“Now, Sam, don't get ideas!”

(Nuernberger Nachrichten, Nuremberg, Aug. 25)

A Tie-in Sale.

German Sovereignty
and Defense Contribution.

“Sorry, can't sell one
without t'other!"

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 67 ---
(Westdeutsches Tageblatt, Dortmund, Sept. 22)

“May I have this dance?”

to subject radio, one of the important makers of public
opinion, to the state, along the lines of the propaganda
ministry of the Third Reich.” The democratic form of
government can only subsist if press and radio can work
freely and independently as public conscience. The DGB
will oppose all attempts to undermine or limit the in-
dependence of free opinion, the statement concludes.

Communist-Devised White Book

At a press conference held in the Soviet Sector of Ber-
lin during the Communist Youth Festival, a so-called
White Book of “Anglo-American intervention policy in
West Germany and revival of German imperialism" was
introduced by the National Council of the Communist-
sponsored ‘National Front."

Taegliche Rundschau, official Soviet Army newspaper
in Berlin, said the National Council will submit this White
Book to “all governments, all parliaments and all demo-
cratic organizations on earth,” because “the revival of
German imperialism led by American trust and bank lords
concerns without any exception all nations of the world.”

The White Book proves, so the Soviet newspaper al-
leges, that West Germany is not setting up police forma-
tions but that ‘German imperialism is creating a new

(Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, Sept. 6)

LONDON

(Westfaelische Rundschau, Dortmund, Sept. 12)

“Their family is happier; they eat out of one pot.”

aggressive army to gain supremacy in Europe under
American leadership."

“This means war and therefore the problem of the
existence of the German nation is being raised," the
Rundschau concluded.

New ECA Chief

Lederecho, house organ of the Leather Union, Stuttgart,
said Sept. 7:

“Michael Harris, the chief of the ECA Special Mission
for Germany... represents a new type of American dip-
lomat. Grown up in the leather industry, he was, at the
age of 20, an official of the Wallet Makers Union. Later
he helped John L. Lewis... to found the CIO and, for
a long time, headed the Philadelphia district of that union
organization. His first ECA mission... took him to
Sweden where, in the opinion of Washington, he did
excellent work.

“Even in his diplomatic career Mr. Harris is still con-
sidered as a union representative: ironically he follows,
in his new assignment, a representative of ‘Wall Street,’
the banker Jean Cattier. This accidental occurrence re-
flects a change in the American social structure, as a
consequence of which a new type of national and inter-
national planning experts can emerge from Big Business
and the organization of the working class." +END

(Welt am Sonntag, Hamburg, Sept. 16)

Economic Minister Erhard: “Prices
are sinking fast!"

OCTOBER 1951

65

“Our chancellor is a genius at overcoming hurdles.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 68 ---
In and Around Germany

Magazine Points Up Exchanges Program

German exchangees back from visits to the United
States are now kept informed of results of the program
and activities of their fellow exchangees through a month-
ly newsletter called Kontakt.

The first issue — published by the Exchanges Staff,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG — gave the following
reports as indicating the outgrowth of travel in the United
States.

Dr. Joachim Seyppel of Berlin has published a book
“Decadence or Progress,” which deals with American so-
cial philosophy. He studied a year at Harvard University.

Karl Bindert, director of the Giessen Labor Office, or-
ganized a civic association in his town which has waged
two successful campaigns: one promoted a regulation for-
bidding doctors to transmit to employers confidential in-
formation concerning their patients, the other secured
financial support for local educational and cultural insti-
tutions. He studied local government in the United States.

Dr. Gertrud Gelderblom set up the first children’s read-
ing rooms in her Frankfurt city library system as the
result of study of library techniques in America.

Gerhard L. Weisler, 20-year-old farm youngster from
Wiesloch, Wuerttemberg-Baden, has organized 10 youth
groups in Germany similar to the 4-H clubs he saw in
the United States.

Anna Haag, Stuttgart civic leader and newspaper-
woman, drew upon her experiences with the League of
Women Voters in America to organize a campaign to
finance and build a home for young working girls* in
Bad Cannstatt, a surburb of Stuttgart.

* See ‘‘Dream-Come-True’ House,"’ Information Bulletin, September
1951 issue.

America-bound are 31 West Berliners, the largest single
group to leave this year under the HICOG Exchanges
Program. Most will stay a year under such varied pro-
grams as student teacher, social work training, urban
youth exchanges and university work. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

66

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy (left) presents
Dr. Walter Schreiber, acting mayor of Berlin, with check —
for DM 5,000,000. Money will pay for erection of American
Memoria! Library in West Berlin. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

“Boys' Town" Proving Successful
Americans residing in Germany have been asked to ©
lend support to a ‘Boys’ Town” in Hesse modeled after
the late Father Flanagan's famous home in Nebraska.
The Bishop Ferdinand Dierichs Home, located in Dotz-
heim near Wiesbaden, is caring for 76 young men, most
of them refugees from Communism. Karl Hebel, the house
father, explained that the basic precept of the home is to
provide a family and family atmosphere for the boys.
Through the efforts of the house supervisors and the
boys’ own governing council, employment has been ob-
tained for all those living in the home. 3
There is an immediate need for about DM 4,000 ($952) ‘q
to winterize the quarters and provide coal for this winter,

14 Germans among Chemists Visiting US

Visits to educational, industrial and governmental re-
search centers in 35 American cities were slated during
September and October for 14 West German chemists
and chemical engineers. They are among 300 young
chemists from 48 countries in the free world to make the
tour under joint ECA and Ford Foundation sponsorship.

The visit was set up to coincide with dates of the
International Chemical Congress in New York and Wash-
ington, Sept. 3 to 15, after which the American Chemical
Society took charge of the tour to provide the visitors
with information on American industry's research tech-
niques and developments in each scientist's particular
field. Installations in 15 states and the District of Colum-
bia were included in the itinerary.

Germany to Participate in Civil Aviation

Creation of a section of the German ministry of trans-
port to work hand in hand with the Allied High Com-"
mission’s Civil Aviation Board (CAB) has been suggested.
The action follows the policy of the High Commission
to transfer many of its responsibilities gradually to the”
Federal Government.

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 69 ---
The CAB will continue to handle general supervision
but German officials will be informed what functions are
to be transferred to them in the near future,

The High Commission has also instructed the CAB to
increase the number of Germans employed in technical
and operational positions in civil aviation. The CAB will
cooperate with the Federal Government in selecting and
training these individuals.

Prison Libraries Replenished

Rehabilitation of German prisoners through fiction, edu-
cational and vocational books is being aided by the
HICOG Prisons Divisions and US Information Centers.

Some 63,000 books were made available recently by
the Central Distribution Section of the HICOG Informa-
tion Centers Branch for penal institutions throughout
West Germany.

The Hessian prisons administration received 11,900
books and 474 pamphlets for its libraries. Approximately
90 percent of the books are in German, with the remainder
in English and French. Prisons in Wuerttemberg-Baden
also received 15,920 English and German books.

The special services provided by US Information Cen-
ters include film showings, lectures, readings, library
services and music programs. Prison authorities and in-
mates have both expressed appreciation for the programs.

Leadership Experts Coordinate Activities

Teachers from four US-assisted German leadership
training schools have been doing field work in Berlin
camps as part of a one-month training program sponsored
by HICOG.

The 33 leadership experts were from schools in Nieder-
poecking, Bavaria; Schwalbach, Hesse; Ruit, Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, and Berlin. The course included class study
as well as field work and was an attempt to coordinate
the basic methods used by the different centers.

American consultants who were in charge of the leader-
ship course included Miss Anne Stenzel, National Social
Welfare Assembly, Palo Alto, Calif.; Miss Ruby Pernell,
Council of Social Agencies, Minneapolis, Minn., and
Charles Cranford of New York City.

Study of traffic safety problems in Germany has been
recent problem of three visiting American consultants.
They are (center, front row, left to right): Howard W.
Hoyt, police chief, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Prof. Joseph L
Lingo, director of Purdue University Public Safety Insti-
tute; James L. McCraw, chief, HICOG Public Safety
Division, and John M. Gleason, police chief, Greenwich,
Conn., and a former president of the International As-
sociation of Chiefs of Police. (PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)

Completion of redecoration of Heidelberg University audi-
torium gutted by fire in 1948, was marked by ceremony
in which Col. Frank H. Skelly, assistant deputy Heidel-
berg Military Post commander, presented keys to Kurt
Schneider (center), school president. (US Army photo)

Army Rebuilds University Auditorium

The auditorium and two classrooms at Heidelberg
University have been completely redecorated at a cost
of DM 476,108 ($113,313) and returned to the school by
US Army officials.

The building was completed before the war through
the philanthropy of the late Jacob G. Schurman, US am-
bassador to Germany from 1925 to 1930, who studied at
Heidelberg before the turn of the century.

The auditorium was gutted by fire in 1948 when it was
in use as an Army theater. The auditorium seats 895 per-
sons on its main floor and balcony and has an additional
92 seats on the rostrum. New leather seats were provided
throughout. Drawings for the project were made by the
building's architect, Prof. Karl Gruber, and the work was
carried out by a German contracting firm under super-
vision of Army engineers.

Classes for the Army Education Center at the Heidel-
berg branch of the University of Maryland are held in
the building in addition to the school’s regular classes.

Czech Cows Go West

Fourteen freedom-loving Czech cows strayed across
the Iron Curtain border at Fassmannsreuth, Bavaria, re-
cently to see “how the other half lives.”

Max Mueller, a farmer who had moved from the Czech
side of the border at Friedersreuth to his new Bavarian
home in 1946, immediately recognized one of the cows
as his own. It had been confiscated by the Czech authori-
ties five years ago.

Mr. Mueller notified the police, who arranged for the
repatriation of the unlucky 13. Mr. Mueller, however, was
permitted to keep his cow. Czech authorities who received
the 13 cows acquiesced in this ruling.

The Czechs also paid Mr. Mueller DM 80 ($19) for feed-
ing the cows, according to Austin R. Martin, US resident
officer at Rehau.

Berliners See Musical “Oklahoma” on Television
The Broadway smash-hit “Oklahoma” and other cultural

attractions of the September Berlin Festival were viewed

on television home-type receivers scattered throughout

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 70 ---
West Berlin and on two theater-size screens by an estimat-
ed 60,000 persons.

Four perfomances of the American musical comedy were
televised, a concert by the RIAS symphony orchestra and
a program of songs by the Aachen Madrigal Choir. The
series of special telecasts was concluded Sept. 20 with
presentation of the Hall Johnson Choir.

The showings were sponsored jointly by HICOG and
the ECA Mission and were made possible through coop-
eration of the Radio Corporation of America, which sup-
plied technicians and equipment. The special Berlin
Festival programs followed a two-week exhibition of
American black-and-white and color television.

County Warns against Unlawful Singing

The official gazette of the Pegnitz Landrat (county ad-
ministrator) reported that the Horst Wessel and other
songs glorifying National Socialism have repeatedly been
sung during late hours.

The publication stated, “As long as this singing was
done under the influence of alcohol, the county adminis-
trator's office did not take any measures. However, it has
been found that ill-natured elements are singing these
songs intentionally in order to express their opposition
to the democratic state.”

The office warned that “rigorous measures" will be
taken in the future and that singing of the Horst Wessel
Lied (song) could be termed a misdemeanor under the so-
called Law for Liberation from National Socialism and
Militarism and under certain circumstances may also be
termed an offense under one section of Allied High Com-
mission Law No. 14 dealing with acts hostile or disrespect-
ful to the Allied Powers.

Responsibility of students toward their university and
society as a whole was chief topic of 50 students from 12
nations who participated in international seminar at Sees-
haupt, Bavaria, last summer. Steering committee included,
1.-r., lise Maechtle, Germany; Bernie Segal, USA; Carl
Sapers, USA; Lieselotte Berger, Germany; Nils Sjoeblem,
Sweden; Evelyn Elbogen, England; Le Roy Everett, USA;
Paul van Roy, Belgium; Jean Lesuisse, France, and Richard
M. Sandler (standing), USA. Meeting is yearly event
sponsored by US National Student's Association and Ger-
man and Swedish Student Associations. (PRB OLCB photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

ea =
Visit lo German Youth Activities sewing room was one
stop on itinerary of Mrs. Katherine Shouse, chairman of
the General Clay Fund, who recently inspected GYA
Centers sponsored by troop units of Berlin Military Post.
Mrs. Shouse (right) watches activities with Capt. C. H.
Jones and Cpl. Keith Ours, Berlin GY A office.(US Army photo)

Soviet Films Monopolize Leipzig Screens

Soviet films and those of her satellite countries domi-
nated movie showings during the Leipzig Trade Fair the
first week in September.

The East zone city’s 32 movie theaters presented 44
feature films from countries within the Soviet orbit during
the fair, seven German feature films and one German
documentary film.

Stuttgart Gets New Air Navigation System

Installation of modern air navigation equipment at the
Stuttgart-Echterdingen airport in September was in actu-
ality the forerunner of a system to serve air route and
commercial terminals throughout western Germany. The
system also fits into over-all European air navigation
operations such as those already in use in France, Eng-
land and Italy.

The equipment is known as the Vor or very high fre-
quency omnirange and is the first such produced in West
Germany since the end of the war. The International
Civil Aviation Organization recommends Vor as a basic
radio short-range air navigational aid. More than 370 sta-
tions are already in operation in the United States.

The Vor produces definite courses for aircraft to follow
from start to destination without reference to ground
points. The use of a very high frequency radio band
makes the system free from atmospheric disturbances.

Equipment for the West German air navigation aids
program was produced for HICOG's Civil Aviation Divi-
sion by a German firm in Stuttgart.

Large Expellee Group Emigrates

More than 500 expellees from Iron Curtain countries
sailed from Bremerhaven Sept. 21 for new homes in the
United States in the largest mass emigration of this type
since inauguration of the program. These expellees, chiefly

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 71 ---
farmers, were sponsored by US citizens and are going
largely in family groups to 20 different states.

Robert J. Corkery, European coordinator for the US
Displaced Persons Commission, said, “With the expellee
program now in full operation, approximately 4,000 to
5,000 ethnic German refugees will be visaed monthly.”

Exchanges Program Helps 5,400

Departure of 350 students and young specialists to study
in America during September brought to 5,402 the number
of Germans to benefit from the exchanges program since
its start in 1948,

The latest group included 181 university students and
161 trainees, some of whom will study agriculture in
American colleges and later work with county farm and
home demonstration agents in the American agricultural
extension system. All will work and study in the United
States for one year.

The program was designed to foster international good
will and to orient Germans in democratic procedures in
almost every phase of public life. Participants include
Germans of varied ranks and professions, with a goodly
number of teen-aged youths.

This year 2,500 persons are scheduled to go for ex-
change visits ranging from one month to one year. A
similar number will be sent during 1952, ‘

Refugee Women Given Vacations

Vacations for Hessian refugee women, who normally
have no chance for a rest or change of surroundings, is a
new project of the welfare committee of the Office of
the State Commissioner for Hesse.

Committee members personally visited refugee families
at Fort Biehler Camp near Wiesbaden and other nearby
localities and selected 10 women. The women — most of
them young mothers — spent 14 days at Kloster Alten-
berg, the vacation home of the Evangelical Hilfswerk
(Evangelical Relief Agency) near Wetzlar, with all ex-
penses paid.

Mrs. Gerda von Klinski, German representative of Welfare
Committee, Office of the State Commissioner for Hesse,
hands over money to first group of refugee women, living
near Wiesbaden, to be given free vacations. (PRB OLCH photo)

OCTOBER 1951

69

Combat forces of Western Europe were recently bolstered
by arrival of additional ‘Flying Boxcars." Eight planes
(above) have reinforced 433rd Troop Carrier Wing, a reserve
air unit from Ohio. Col, Harry W. Hopp (at microphone),
unit's commanding officer, welcomes new arrivals along
with, 1.-r., Maj. Gen. Truman H, Landon, Maj. Gen. Dean
C. Strother, Col. Clyde K. Rich, Col. A. C, Strickland and
Lt. Col. N. S. Orwat. (PRD HICOG photos by Gassner)

EUCOM Sets New Rotation Plan

A new rotation plan based upon the number of US
Army replacements from the United States will be
initiated about Nov. 1, according to European Command
Headquarters in Heidelberg.

The program is designed to shorten the length of over-
seas tours of duty until rotation can be maintained on a
normal three-year tour basis sometime after June 1952.
The present rotation system is based on four years of
overseas duty for servicemen.

Men slated to return to the United States in January,
February and March of 1952 will depart during December
1951, with the speed-up extending through the succeeding
months.

Students Promote Exchange

German students at two Hessian universities are taking
off on their own tour of foreign schools in an attempt
to foster European unity and to pave the way for a future
exchange of students.

About 10 students, representing the major faculties of
the universities at Marburg and Giessen, are visiting edu-
cational institutions in Holland, Belgium, France, Italy,
Switzerland and possibly Spain during October. Each
student will be prepared to discuss the curriculum offered
in Germany.

The group will be accompanied by Kennedy B. Schmertz,
US resident officer for Gelnhausen and Schluechtern
counties, who will help provide transportation, +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 72 ---
Ordinance No. 15

Hunting Code for Occupation Personnel*

Whereas, it is desirable to eliminate as
far as possible the restrictions imposed by
United States High Commissioner Ordi-
nances No. 5 and No. 6 on the rights of
German nationals to hunt in the United
States Zone, and

Whereas, officials of the Government of
the Federal Republic and representatives
of German public and private hunting inter-
ests chosen by that government have ac-
knowledged a continuing need for a reas-
onabie sacrifice on the part of German
hunters to make available hunting oppor-
tunities for the recreation of Occupation
Personnel, and

Whereas, such officials and representa-
tives have agreed with the Office of the
United States High Commissioner and the
European Command on a hunting plan for
Occupation Personne! in the United States
Zone,

The United States High Commissioner
enacts as follows:

Article 1
Definitions

As used in this ordinance and in any
regulation issued hereunder, the following
terms shall have the respective meaning
hereinafter set forth:

(a) The term ‘‘United States Zone’’ means
the states of Bavaria, Bremen, Hesse and
Wuerttemberg-Baden.

(b) The term “‘Resident Officer’ means a
United States resident officer or other
competent representative of the United
States High Commissioner.

(c) The term ‘State (Land) Commissioner”
means a United States state commissioner
or other competent representative of the
United States High Commissioner.

(a) The term ‘Occupation Personnel’’
means:

(1) all persons who are accompanying
or serving with the civil or military authori-
ties or the Armed Forces of the United
States of America in Germany and the de-
pendents of all persons who are members of
or are accompanying or serving with such
authorities or forces, provided however
that this term shall mot include any per-
son whose ordinary residence is in the
territory of the Federal Republic of Ger-
many or the western sectors of Berlin, and
provided further that for the purpose of
this definition a person shall not be deemed
to have his ordinary residence in such
territories if he is a person or a dependent
of a person whose domicile is outside such
territories and whose presence in such
territories arises solely by reason of em-
ployment, service in a military or civilian
capacity, or association with the authorities
or forces mentioned above;

(2) members of the Armed Forces men-
tioned above whenever this ordinance or
any regulation issued hereunder confers
a benefit, right, or privilege on Occupation
Personnel or confers a power on a resident
officer to suspend or revoke a hunting
license issued pursuant to Article 7; and

* This is an informational text as all German
terms are translated in the American equivalent,
The official text is printed in the Official
Gazette of the Allied High Commission, An-
nexes of this ordinance are not reproduced here.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(3) any other person designated by the
United States High Commissioner or the
Commander-in-Chief, European Command.

(c) The term “hunting year" means the
period from Sept. 1, 1951, through March
31, 1952, and thereafter the period from
April 1 through March 31. .

(f) The term “big game’ means any
cloven-hoofed animal, the capercaillie (the
largest European grouse) and the black

grouse.

(g) The term ‘small game" means any
wild animal or bird other than one within
the term ‘‘big game.

(h) The term “drive hunt’ means any
hunt in which an animal or bird is driven
from its place of concealment by means of
a driver, beater or dog.

(k)* The term ‘‘still hunt’
hunt other than a ‘drive hun

(m) The term ‘‘bag limit‘ means the
number of pieces of game which may be
taken by any one person within a designat-
ed period.

means any

(n) The term ‘‘take’’ means shoot or
kill.
(o) The term “'bird-shot ammunition”

means ammunition of which the diameter
of the pellet does not exceed three and
three-quarters millimeters (the size of No.2
shot).

Article 2

Occupation Personnel May Hunt
In Accordance
With this Ordinance or German Law

Any person within the category of Oc-
cupation Personnel may engage in hunting
in the United States Zone in accordance
with the provisions of this ordinance, or,
in so far as the German law relating to
hunting is not inconsistent with this ordi-
nance, in according with such German law.
However, any hunting license issued pur-
suant to Article 7 shall be recognized ac-
cording to its terms as a valid hunting
license for the purposes of any provision
of German law.

Article 3
Game Plan for Big Game (Except Wild Boar)

1. The minister president of each state
(except Bremen) shall annually cause a
census of big game (except wild boar) to
be taken and a game plan based upon the
information derived from such census to be
prepared for the state. The game plan shall
specify the number of such game, identi-
fied as to species and sex, which are sur-
plus and may be taken during the next
hunting year in each hunting district es-
tablished under German law. The game
plan shall be submitted to the state com-
missioner and shall be subject to his ap-
proval, or modification pursuant to Para-
graph 2 of this article.

2, Each state commissioner may, when-
ever in his opinion the interests of sound
game management would thereby be serv-
ed, authorize the minister president to
establish a game plan for each hunting
district in the state which may authorize
the taking of a lesser number of game in

J

* Text carries no paragraphs for
and “L."

70

any such district than did the game plan
established in accordance with the pro-
visions of Paragraph 1 of this article. The
state commissioner may also, if he con-
cludes that the interests of sound game
management would not thereby be preju-
diced, modify the game plan for any
hunting district in the state, as established
by the minister president pursuant to
Paragraph 1, so as any person within the
category of Occupation Personnel shall be
entitled to retain without payment caper-
caillie cock (Auerhahn) and_blackcock
(Birkhahn) and the trophy, the heart and
the liver, and one-half (by weight) the re-
mainder of any cloven-hoofed animal (ex-
cept wild boar) taken by him in a public
hunting district; he shall deliver the other
half of a cloven-hoofed animal (except wild
boar) to the guide of the hunting party,
provided however that he may pay the
market price of and retain any portion of
such half.
Article 4
Hunting for Wild Boar

Any person within the category of Oc-
cupation Personnel shall be entitled to hunt
wild. boar in any hunting district and to
retain without payment any animal taken.

Article 5
Hunting for Small Game

1, Any person within the category of
Occupation Personnel shall be entitled to
hunt:

(a) small game in any hunting district
in any county (Kreis), or part thereof, dur-
ing the periods for which such county, or
part thereof, is open to such hunting by
Occupation Personnel in accordance with
the plan established by regulation issued
under this ordinance and to retain without
payment small game taken within the ap-
plicable bag limit established by regula-
tion issued under this ordinance; and .

(b) wild ducks and geese in any areas
within 325 feet (100 meters) of the banks
of the main channels of the Rhine, the
Main, the Neckar, the Eder, the Weser, the
Rednitz, the Pegnitz, and the Danube
(Donau) rivers or, from a boat, in back-
waters of such rivers where such waters
are navigable by commercial traffic and to
retain without payment any such birds
taken within the applicable bag limit
established by regulation issued under this
ordinance.

2. Any person within the category of
Occupation Personnel engaging in hunting
by virtue of this article shall, upon request
of the person, or the authorized represen-
tative of a person, entitled under German
law to exercise hunting rights in the hunt-
ing district in which the hunting takes
place, permit the latter to accompany him.

Article 6
Other Hunting Rules

1. No person within the category of oe
cupation Personnel shall:

(a) take or retain any piece of game or
portion thereof except as provided by
Articles 3, 4 and 5;

(b) take any piece of game

(i) in excess of the applicable bag limit

CCTOBER 1951

--- Page 73 ---
established by regulation issued under this
ordinance;

(ii) other than one for which a hunting
season is established by regulation issued
under this ordinance;

(iii) at any time other than in the appli-
cable hunting season established by regu-
lation issued under this ordinance;

(iv) for which a hunting permit is re-
quired by Paragraph 2 (g) (i) of this article
which is in excess of the amount authoriz-
ed in the hunting permit or which is ofa
species or sex other than the species and
sex specified in such hunting permit;

(c) participate

(i) in a drive -hunt which takes place’

during the period from April 1 through
June 30 of any year and in which unleash-
ed dogs are used;

(ii) in a drive hunt for male deer, unless
a resident officer gives specific authoriza-
tion therefor for the purpose of removing
excess male deer;

(d) sell or barter any piece of game, or
any portion thereof, or interest therein,
obtained through hunting.

2. No person within the category of Oc-
cupation Personnel shall engage in hunting:

(a) unless he is covered by hunting lia-
bility insurance in the minimum amounts
of 150,000 Deutsche marks, or the equiva-
lent in United States dollars ($35,700),
for personal injuries and 15,000 Deutsche
marks, or the equivalent in United States
dollars ($3,570), for property damage;

(b) for game, or any species or variety
thereof in any area in which the state
commissioner has prohibited such hunting
by the posting of signs accompanied by
public notice thereof;

(c) with

(i) firearms and ammunition other than
hand-operated rifles and shotguns, semi-
automatic shotguns and sporting ammu-
nition;

(ii) full jacketed, armor-piercing or trac-
er ammunition;

(iii) a firearm which is not duly register-
ed in accordance with regulations issued
by the United States military authorities;

(d) by means of traps, snares, baits,
lights, or poison;

(e) except for wild boar, between one
hour after sunset and one hour before
sunrise;

(f) within

(i) 1,625 feet (500 meters) of any build-
ing or installation under the control of the
United States Armed Forces;

(ii) 325 feet (100 meters) of any inhabit-
ed area or within a cemetery;

(iii) about two miles (three kilometers)
of a boundary of the United States Zone,
the opposite side of which is under guard
by military personnel of any United Nation
or border patrol;

(g) any big game, unless

(i) a hunting permit has been issued to
such person pursuant to Article 8; and

(ii) such person is accompanied by a
guide;

(h) any small game with a rifle or other
than bird-shot ammunition;

(k) if he is under 16 years of age.

3. Any person within the category of
Occupation Personnel who engages in hunt-
ing shall:

(a) possess and carry on his person a
valid hunting license, for big or small game
as may be appropriate, and a document
establishing his identity;

(b) on demand, exhibit such license and
document to any United States or German
law enforcement official or to a person,

OCTOBER 1951

or the authorized representative of a per-
son, who is entitled under German law to
exercise hunting rights in the hunting
district in which the hunting takes place;

(c) permit the guide of a hunting party
of which such person is a member to take
his hunting license so that the guide may
comply with the provisions of Article 9,
Paragraph 2 (a) and (e).

4. The provisions of Paragraphs 1, 2 (d),
(f) (ii), (g), (h) and 3 of this article shall
not be applicable to any person within the
category of Occupation Personnel who is
hunting in accordance with the German law
relating to hunting.

5. A person entitled under German law
to exercise hunting rights, or his author-
ized. representative, shall be identified for
the purposes of this ordinance if he ex-
hibits a document issued to him by a
resident officer in the form appended to
this ordinance as Annex A (not repro-
duced).

6. Possession of any piece of game, or
portion thereof, in excess of the applicable
bag limit or at any time other than within
the applicable hunting season shall be
presumptive evidence of a violation of the
applicable provisions of Paragraph 1 (b) of
this article.

Article 7
Hunting Licenses

1, There shall be two types of hunting
licenses, each valid for a period of one
hunting year: a license to hunt big game,
to be in the form appended to this ordi-
nance as Annex B (not reproduced); and
a license to hunt small game, to be in the
form appended to this ordinance as Annex
C (not reproduced). A license may be is-
sued by a resident officer to any person
within the category of Occupation Person-
nel upon application and presentation of
(a) a receipt evidencing payment to the
Deutsche Post of 10 dollars ($10), in the
case of a big game license, or of five dol-
lars ($5), in the case of a small game license,
and (b) acceptable evidence that the appli-
cant is covered by insurance in the
amounts and of the type required by Para-
graph 2 (a) of Article 6. The funds collect-
ed by the Deutsche Post shall, in accord-
ance with instructions to be issued by the
United States High Commissioner, be given
to the states in the United States Zone. The
funds collected in payment for big game
licenses shall be used to aid in game con-
servation or to pay for game taken by
Occupation Personnel. The funds collected
in payment for small game licenses shall
be used to pay for game taken by Occu-
pation Personnel in private hunting dis-
tricts. and in public hunting districts in
which the exercise of hunting rights is
leased to a natural person or an entity
other than the Federal Republic.

2. The United States High Commissioner
or his authorized representative may, for
the use of persons within the category of
Occupation Personnel by virtue of Para-
graph (d) (3) of Article 1, issue, with or
without fee, hunting licenses in the form
appended to this ordinance as Annexes B
or C or transferable hunting licenses in the
name of the United States High Commis-
sioner or the Commander-in-Chief, Euro-
pean Command. Where any such person
engages in hunting while escorted by an
agent ‘of the United States High Commis-
sioner or the Commander-in-Chief, Euro-
pean Command, such agent shall comply
with the provisions of Paragraph 3 of Ar-
ticle 6 for the designee.

71

Article 8
Hunting Permits

1, A resident officer shall issue a hunt-
ing permit authorizing the taking of speci-
fied big game, in the form appended to this
ordinance as Annex D (not reproduced),
to any person within the category of
Occupation Personnel in accordance with
the following provisions:

(a) An application must be submitted to
the resident officer at least 24 hours prior
to the commencement of the hunt for which
application is made. In the event that more
than one application is received for a hunt-
ing permit to hunt in the same hunting
district at the same time, the application
first received by the resident officer shall
have precedence. -

(b) No hunting permit shall be issued
which would permit more than one hunting
party to hunt in the same hunting district
at the same time or authorize the taking
of big game (except wild boar) in excess
of the hunting quotas reserved to Occu-
pation Personnel by regulation issued pur-
suant to this ordinance.

(c) The resident officer, in issuing the
hunting permit shall insert therein the in-
formation indicated by Paragraphs 2 and 3
of Section I, Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 (a)
of Section II, and Section III thereof, shall
designate in Paragraph 2 (a) of Section I
thereof the applicant therefor as a leader
of the hunting party, shall insert elsewhere
in such Paragraph 2 the names of the other
members, if any, of the hunting party,
which names the applicant shall furnish,
and shall obtain from the applicant the in-
formation required for the completion of
Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Section II of the
hunting permit. Such hunting permit shall
authorize hunting only in the area within
the responsibility of the resident officer
who issued it.

2. Any person within the category of
Occupation Personnel may also file an ap-
plication for a hunting permit with any
Special Services officer of the United States
Armed Forces, who may issue a hunting
permit to any such person on behalf of a
resident officer upon the receipt of authori-
zation therefor. Such authorization shall
be given only if the resident officer would
have issued the hunting permit requested
by the application if it had been filed with
him.

Article 9

Duties of Leaders and Guides
Of Hunting Parties

1, Any person designated as the leader
of a hunting party in a hunting permit
issued pursuant to this ordinance:

(a) shall carry on his person while hunt-
ing the hunting permit which has been
issued for the hunt;

(b) shall, on demand, exhibit the hunting
permit to any United States or German law
enforcement official, to a person, or the
authorized representative of a person, who
is entitled under German law to exercise
hunting rights in the hunting district in
which the hunting takes place, or to the
guide of the hunting party;

(c} shall, at the conclusion of the hunt,
report to the resident officer by whom or
on whose behalf the hunting permit was
issued any act by any member of the hunt-
ing party or by any guide thereof which in
his opinion constitutes a violation of any
hunting legislation applicable to such
member;

(d) shall, at the conclusion of the hunt,
insert in Paragraph 5(b) of Section II of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 74 ---
hunting permit issued for the hunt the cor-
rect intormation required by such para-
graph and execute the certificate required
by Paragraph 1 of Section IV of such hunt-
ing permit; and

(e) shall request a guide of the hunting
party to execute the certificate set forth in
Paragraph 2 of Section IV of the hunting
permit issued for the hunt, and thereafter
deliver such executed hunting permit to
such guide;

(f) may authorize any guide of such hunt-
ing party to participate in a drive or still
hunt for the purpose of taking wounded
game in order to prevent its escape; and

(g) may designate, from the area in
which hunting has been authorized in the
hunting permit issued for the hunt, a por-
tion thereof as the only area in which the
hunting party engage in hunting.

2. Any person designated as a guide of a
hunting party in a hunting permit issued
pursuant to Article 8 shall:

(a) prior to the commencement of the
hunt, inspect the hunting permit and the
hunting licenses of the members of the
hunting party and determine whether or
not the total bag limits remaining to the
members are in excess of the game which
the hunting permit authorizes to be taken;

(b) notify the leader of the hunting party
whenever in his opinion any member of the
hunting party is hunting outside the area
assigned in the hunting permit or in any
area in which hunting is. prohibited or is
unsafe;

(c) report to the leader of the hunting
party and to the resident officer by whom
or on whose behalf the permit was issued
any act by any member of the hunting
party which in his opinion constitutes a
violation of any hunting legislation appli-
cable to such member;

(d) at the conclusion of a hunt, execute
the certificate required by Paragraph 2 of
Section IV of the hunting permit issued for
the hunt, when requested to do so by the
leader of the hunting party if in his opinion
the information set forth by the leader of
the hunting party in Paragraph 5(b) of Sec-
tion II of the hunting permit is complete
and accurate, and thereafter deliver such
executed hunting permit to the resident of-
ficer by whom or on whose behalf it was
issued; and

(e) at the conclusion of a hunt, detach
from the hunting license of each member of
the hunting party the tab or tabs appropri-
ate for the game taken by such member.

Article 10
Guides, Drivers and Beaters

The appropriate Forestry Office or such
state official as the state commissioner may
designate shall, upon request of the resident
officer, obtain a guide for a hunting party
for big game and assist the leader of the
party to obtain the number of drivers and
beaters which said leader may request.
Guides, drivers and beaters shall be entitled
to fair compensation for their services from
the leader. Such compensation shall be
fixed by the state commissioner in consul-
tation with the minister president.

Article 11
Powers of United States Law Enforcement
Officials
Any United States law enforcement offi-
cial shall, without prejudice to his other
powers or authority, have the following
powers:

(a) to search without a search warrant

any boat or vehicle of any kind, any box,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

locker, crate, game bag, package or any
container of any nature and the contents of
any building other than a dwelling when-
ever he has cause to believe that this
ordinance has been or is being violated and
to use such force as may be necessary for
the purpose of examination and search;

(b) to arrest without warrant any person
within the category of Occupation Person-
nel committing an offense against the pro-
visions of this ordinance in their presence,
provided such person is taken without
delay before a person authorized pursuant
to United States High Commissioner Law
No. 20, “United States Court and Court of
Appeals of the Allied High Commission for

Germany,” to act as a committing magis-
trate.
Article 12 ‘
Penalties

1. Violation by any person within the
category of Occupation Personnel of any
of the provisions of this ordinance shall be
punishable by imprisonment not exceeding
six (6) months, or by fine not exceeding
five hundred dollars ($500) in United States
military payment certificates, or by both
such imprisonment and fine.

2. If a person within the category of
Occupation Personnel is convicted of a
violation of this ordinance, or in appro-
priate cases, of a violation of a circular or
order of the United States military authori-
ties based on this ordinance, the resident
officer who issued a hunting license to such
person may upon the recommendation of
the court suspend such license for a definite
or indefinite period of time or revoke such
license. A person whose hunting license is
so suspended or revoked may obtain rein-
statement of a suspended license or a new
license only from, or with the approval of,
the resident officer by whom the license
was suspended or revoked, or a successor
in office of such resident officer.

Article 13
Legislation Affected

1. In the event of an inconsistency be-
tween this ordinance and any other legis-
lation the ordinance shall prevail to the
extent of such inconsistency.

2. United States High Commissioner Ordi-
nance No. 5, as amended by Ordinance
No. 11, “Hunting Code for Occupation Per-
sonnel,” and all regulations issued there-
under and United States High Commissioner
Ordinance No. 6, as amended by Ordinances
No, 12 and No. 14, “‘Hunting Code for Other
Than Occupation Personnel,’ are hereby
repealed.

Article 14
Applicability and Effective Date

This ordinance and, unless expressly
provided therein to the contrarv, any regu-
lation issued hereunder are applicable with-
in the states of Bavaria, Bremen, Hesse and
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden. This ordinance shall
become effective on Sept. 1, 1951.

* OK OK

Regulation No. 1

The United States High Commissioner
issues the following regulation:
Article 1
Quotas of Big Game (except Wild Boar)

The hunting quotas of big game (except
wild boar) which shall be reserved to Occu-
pation Personnel pursuant to Article 3 of
Ordinance No. 15 shall be as follows:

72

(a) eighty percent of the red deer, roe
deer (except roe buck during the 1951-52
hunting year) and chamois authorized to
be taken by the game plan for public hunt-
ing districts with respect in which the exer-
cise of hunting rights is not leased to a
natural person or an entity other than the
Federal Republic;

(b) seventy percent of the red deer, roe
deer (except roe buck during the 1951-52
hunting year) and chamois authorized to be
taken by the game plan for other public
hunting districts;

(c) none of the big game authorized to be
taken by the game plan for private huntina
districts.

Article 2
Bag Limits

1. Bag limits shall be as follows:

(1) Blackcock (Birkhahn): Not more than
one in any one season.

(2) Capercaillie Cock (Auerhahn): Not
more than one in any one season.

(3) Chamois: Not more than one in any
one season.

(4) Curlew, Ducks, Geese, Partridge, Mer-
gansers, Ringdove, Snipes, Woodcock: Not
more than sjx birds (irrespective of species
or variety) in any one day.

(5) Hare: Not more than one in any one
day.
(6) Hybrid Grouse Cock (Rackelhahn):
Not more than one in any one season.

(7) Red Deer:

(a) Stag: Not more than one in any one
season,

(b) Hind and Calves: Not more than two
in any one season.

(8) Roe Deer:

(a) Bucks: Not more than one in any one
season.

(b) Does and Fawns: Not more than two
in any one season.

(9) All other game: Unlimited.

2. If any guide authorized by the leader
of a hunting party to participate i a drive
or still hunt for the purpose of taking
wounded game in order to prevent its
escape takes such game, it shall be charged
against the bag limit of the member of the
hunting party who wounded it. If necessary,
the leader shall determine which member
wounded the game.

Article 3
Hunting Seasons

1. Hunting seasons in the states of Ba-
varia, Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden shall
be as follows: (Key: A — same in all three
states; B— Bavaria; C— Hesse; D— Wuert-
temberg-Baden)

(1) Badger: (A) — July 1-Jan. 15.

(2) Bald Coot: (A) — all year.

(3) Blackbord: (B) — June 15-Sept. 30; (D,
— all year.

(4) Blackcock (Birkhahn): (B) — April 10
to May 31; (C) — April 16-June 15; (D) —
April 1-May 15. (

(5) Boar: (A) — all year.

(6) Buzzard: (B) and (D) — Sept.1 to
March 31.

(7) Capercaillie Cock (Auerhahn): (B) —
April 10-May 15; (C) — Aprii 1-May 31;
(D) — April 1-May 15.

(8) Chamois: (B) — Nov. 1-Nov. 30; (D) —
Aug. 1-Nov. 30.

(9) Curlew: (B) — Sept. 1-Jan. 31; (D) —
Sept. 1-April 15.

(10) Ducks (except Eider, Rufous Crested
and Sheldrake): (B) and (D) — Aug. 1 to
Jan. 31; (C) Aug. 1-Dec. 31.

(11) Fox: (A) — all year.

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 75 ---
(12) Geese: (B) — Aug. 1-March 15; (C) and
(D) — Aug. 1-March 31.

(13) Goshawk: (A) — all year.

(14) Great Crested Grebe: (A) — all year.

(15) Hare: (B) — Oct. 16-Dec. 31; (C) and
(D) — Oct. 1-Jan. 15.

(16) Heron: (B) and (D) — all year; (C) —
Aug. 1-March 31.

(17) Hybrid Grouse Cock (Rackelhahn):
(B) — April 10-May 15; (C) — April 16 to
June 15; (D) — April 1-May 15.

(18) Marsh Harrier: (D) — all year.

(19) Mergansers: (B) — Oct. 1-March 31;
(C) and (D) — Aug. 1-March 31.

(20) Osprey: (D) — all year.

(21) Partridge: (C) — Aug. 25-Nov. 30;
(D) — Sept. 1-Nov. 30.

(22) Polecat: (A) — all year

(23) Rabbit: (A) — all year.

(24): Reed Deer:

(a) Stag — five years of age or older:
(B) — Sept. 1-Oct. 15; (C) and (D) — Aug. 1
to Jan. 31.

(b) Other Stag: (B) — Sept. 1-Dec. 31; (C)
and (D) — Aug. 1-Jan. 31.

(c) Yearling and Barren Hind: (B) —
Aug. 1-Dec. 31; (C) and (D) — Sept. 16 to
Jan. 31,

(d) Other Hind and Calves: (B) — Sept. 16
to Dec. 31; (C) and (D) — Sept. 16-Jan. 31.

(25) Ringdove: (B) — July 1-April 10; (C)
— Aug. 1-April 15; (D) — July 1-April 15.

(26) Roe Deer:

(a) Bucks (A) — June 1-Aug. 15.

(b) Does and Fawns: (B) and (D) —Sept. 16
to Dec. 31; (C) — Sept. 16-Jan. 31.

(27) Rough-legged Buzzard: (B) — Sept. 1
to March 31.

(28) Snipes: (B) — Sept. 1-Jan. 31; (C) —
Aug. 1-Feb. 28; (D) — Sept. 1-April 15,

(29) Sparrow Hawk: (A) — all year.

(30) Weasels: (B) and (D) — all year.

(31) Woodcock: (A) — Sept. 1-April 15.

2. Hunting seasons in the state of Bremen
shall be as follows:

(Game)

(1) Ducks (except Eider,

(Season)

Rufous Crested and
Sheldrake) :— July 16-Jan. 31.
(2) Geese:— Sept. 1-Feb. 28.

3. The appropriate state commissioner
may, in consultation with the minister pres-
ident, establish hunting seasons in the
state, in addition to those set forth in Para-
graph 1, as follows:

(1) Ducks (except Eider, Rufous Crested
and Sheldrake) :—

Season: Dec. 31-Jan. 31,

Area: Hesse or any county thereof.

(2) Osprey:—

Season: All year.

Area: Bavaria or any county thereof.

(3) Partridge:—

Season: Sept. 1-Oct. 15.

Area: Bavaria or any county thereof.

Article 4
General Provisions
1. In any case in which the name of an
animal or bird in the singular contains no
descriptive or qualifying adjective, the name
designates the common species or variety.
2. All dates specified in this regulation
are inclusive.
Article 5
Effective Date
This regulation shall become effective on
Sept. 1, 1951. .
kK Ok

Regulation No.2
Details as to each county in US Zone,
see Official Gazette of Allied High Com-
mission. +END

Status of Reparations, Restitution and External Assets
Clarified by High Commission Law

The Allied High Commission announced
Sept. 5 the enactment of a law clarifying
the status of German assets abroad which
have been or are being subject to meas-
ures of liquidation in the countries where
they are located, and of reparations taken
out of Germany and of property restituted
abroad since the end of the war. The
title to the foreign assets covered by the
new law had been taken from the German
owners by Control Council Law No. 5
in 1945, That law prohibited the former
German owner from asserting any right
or making any claim to any such property.

A study of the new law will show that
it does not impose any new or additional
burdens upon Germany, nor does it take
any new measures directed against Ger-
man property or jeopardizing Germany's
emerging sovereignty. It merely brings
the legal status of the property up to date
in line with the actual situation, and,
indeed, removes inconsistencies, some of
which up to now operated to Germany's
disadvantage. Thus, in the countries which
it covers, the new law will not apply, as
Control Council Law 5 did, to German
property that is not vested or liquidated
by these countries, nor to Reichsmark
securities issued in Germany.

It leaves open the question of future
treatment of these foreign assets. The
Allied High Commission has advised the
Federal Government that, as soon as the
new law is enacted, Allied and German
experts may meet together to examine
this problem and to make an expert: report
thereon.

International agreements entered into
by the governments of 19 countries at war

OCTOBER 1951

_with

with Germany and Allied agreements
certain neutral countries (‘‘safe
haven" accords) were an effort to avoid
the unworkable schemes established for
the payment of reparations after the first
World War by substituting, for repara-
tions out of current production, the appli-
cation to reparation accounts of excess
industrial equipment and of German ex-
ternal assets. Reparations rendered by
Germany under the present agreement
compensate ,the Allies for only a very
small part of the damage actually suffered
by them.

This new law reflects the fact that in
accordance with international agreements
arising out of the war, German property
located in foreign countries was, under
the law of these countries, taken away
from the German owner for the purpose
of applying the proceeds of liquidation to
the payment of German reparations, The
law thus gives binding effect in Germany
and on German citizens to transfers effected
by other countries under their own laws
with respect to German property within

. their jurisdiction. As regards reparations

and restitution removals from Germany,
the law extinguishes title of the former
owner to such property. In consequence,
it precludes any action in German courts
challenging the validity of such transfers,
deliveries or liquidations,

The law in no sense provides for new
expropriation, vesting or seizure. It does

. hot affect the question as to whether and

to what extent the individual owner,
‘whose property was taken and applied to
fulfill German obligations, may have a
claim for compensation against the Fed-
eral Government, .

73

Furthermore, the Allied High Commis-
sion law. is applicable only to property
located in a foreign country prior to the
effective date of the law. In the principal
countries which have made provision for
the transfer and liquidation of German
property, earlier dates have in fact been
adopted. In any event, the law specifically
excludes any property brought into or
acquired in a foreign country since the
end of the war in the course of authorized
foreign trade, and will free title to such
other assets which any foreign country,
for one reason or another, does not vest
and liquidate.

It is noteworthy that the new legis-
lation specifically exempts German-issued
securities, expressed in  Reichsmarks,
which may be located abroad. Thus, there
will be no legal barrier in the Federal
Republic to prevent the German owner
from asserting his title to such securities
under the Wertpapierbereinigungsgesetz or
otherwise, nor to prevent the Federal Gov-
emment from taking any _ legislative’
action which it considers appropriate with
regard to these securities.

The law will not be applicable to those
countries in which, under the respective
peace treaties, German property has been
assigned to the USSR (i. e., property in
Bulgaria, Finland, Hungary, Poland and
Rumania), nor to certain other countries
in or with which measures for disposing
of German assets in accordance with
treaty obligations have not been finally
determined (i. e., Austria, Portugal, Switz-
erland, Trieste and Turkey). Control
Council Law No, 5 will continue for the
present to apply to assets located in these
countries. -++-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 76 ---
Official Communiques

Meeting of Deputy Commissioners

The acting Allied High Commissioners,
General J. Ganeval (France), Mr. J. G.
Ward (United Kingdom), and Maj. Gen.
George P. Hays (United States), met at
French headquarters in Berlin Sept. 6 with
the Berlin commandants, Mr. de Noblet
(representing General Carolet, France),
Maj. Gen, G. K, Bourne (United Kingdom)
and Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson (United
States).

Later, they were joined by a delegation
from the Federal and Berlin Governments,
consisting of Prof, Ludwig Erhard, federal
minister of economics; Prof. Ernst Reuter,
mayor of Berlin; Dr. H. Vockel, Federal
Republic representative in Berlin; Dr. Ernst,
Berlin representative to the Federal Gov-
ernment, and Dr, Kaumann, chief of the
Trustee Office for Interzonal Trade.

The meeting examined the situation with
regard to the arbitrary restrictions on
traffic to and from West Berlin, It was
affirmed that the latest of these, the tax
recently imposed by Soviet Zone author-
ities on West German and West Berlin
motor vehicles, is discriminatory, exorbitant
and an infringement on the right guaranteed
by international agreement of free access
to Berlin.

The Allied and German authorities
further considered the necessary measures
to be taken promptly.

The acting high commissioners were to
meet again the following day to consider
outstanding items on their agenda.

HICOM Meeting of Sept. 27

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion held a short business session (75th
meeting) at the Petersberg Sept. 27.

Present were: Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet,
French High Commissioner (chairman);
Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom
High Commissioner; and Mr. John J. Mc-
Cloy, United States High Commissioner.

The Council is scheduled to meet again
on Thursday, Oct. 4,

Official Statements

Interzonal Trade Agreement Signed

An Allied High Commission spokesman
made the following statement upon the
signature of the interzonal trade agreement
announced by the Federal Government on
Sept. 20, 1951:

The Western Allied and German authori-
ties alike have always desired the con-
clusion of a satisfactory trade agreement,
which would be of economic benefit to both
areas. However, restrictions imposed by
the Soviet Zone authorities on West Ber-
lin's commerce with the West created con-
ditions in which it was impossible for any
trade agreement to be effective. Under
those conditions, Western signature of the
proposed new agreement was naturally
withheld.

However, in the course of recent dis-
cussions, the Eastern representatives have
indicated that the restrictions would be
lifted with the signature of the agreement.
Accordingly, with this understanding, the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Western representatives have signed the
agreement.

Of course, should obstacles to trade and
traffic reappear in the future, the trade
agreement will be suspended.

US Rejects Czech Note

The US Embassy at Prague has rejected
as unsatisfactory a note from the Czecho-
slovak Foreign Ministry concerning
border incident near Hohenberg, Bavaria,
on July 3, in which a German customs
policeman was killed.

In their note the Czechs acknowledged
that their frontier guards were in the vi-
cinity of the killing at the time of the
killing, but alleged that the Czech frontier
guards had fired their weapons at a man
attempting to cross the Czech border.

The latest US note, dated Aug. 31,
charged that the report furnished by the
Czechoslovak Foreign Ministry ‘appears
clearly designed to protect guilty persons
rather than clarify the facts."

According to the US Embassy's note,
complete and detailed investigation on the
part of the German authorities and the
American military authorities leaves no
doubt whatsoever that the shot which killed
the German customs policeman was fired
from the Czech side of the border from a
weapon of the type known to be used by
Czech frontier guards and resulted in the
death of this official while he was clearly
within German territory. These investi-
gations also established conclusively that
no firearms were used by the German
border officials and that the shot that
killed the German customs official wds
deliberately fired and under no circum-
stances could have been a wild bullet, the
note stated.

“The Embassy again requests that a
thorough investigation of this violation be
made," the note said. “It expects to be
informed thereof and of steps that the
Czech Government is taking to punish
those guilty and to prevent similar crimes
in the future.’

The US Embassy had originally protested
and demanded an investigation of the
border incident in a note to the Czecho-
slovak Foreign Office on July 17. (See
Information Bulletin, August 1951, page 71.)

Reorganization of German Iron
And Steel Industries

The Combined Steel Group, in implemen-
tation of the plan agreed between the Al-
lied High Commission and the Federal
Government, issued further ozders, ef-
fective Oct. 1, 1951, transferring certain
iron and steel assets from their present
concern owners to a new unit company.
With the new orders issued Sept. 20, a
total of 10 iron and steel unit companies
have so far been created out of the 24 unit
companies agreed upon between the Allied
High Commission and the Federal Govern-
ment.

1, Assets from:

Geisweider Eisenwerke A.G., Geisweid,
a subsidiary of: Vereinigte Stahlwerke

.G., in liquidation, and Kloeckner Werke
in liquidation.

74

Harkort-Eicken, Edelstahlwerke G.m.b.H.,
Hagen,
a subsidiary of: Hoesch A.G,, i. 1.

Friedrich Thomee A.G., Werdohl/W.

a subsidiary of: Vereinigte Stahlwerke
AG, il

Stahlwerke Brueninghaus A.G.
also a subsidiary of: Vereinigte Stahl-
werke A,G,, i. 1.
will be transferred as of Oct 1, to a
newly formed company, the Steel Unit
Company.

Stahlwerke Suedwestfalen A.G.

This new company will be constituted
on Sept. 21.

2. The order issued Sept. 20 also pre-
scribed that a part of the assets of Stahl-
werke Brueninghaus A.G., which are relat-
ed to the processing industry, will be
transferred as of Oct. 1 to the newly form-
ed Brueninghaus G.m.b.H., which will be
a subsidiary of Suedwestfalen.

3. Furthermore, the shares of the com-
mercial company, Friedrich Thomee Han-
delsgesellschaft G.m.b.H., will be, for the
time being, transferred to the Stahlwerke
Suedwestfalen A.G,

Prior to the Sept. 20 action, six unit,
companies had thus far been created out
of the assets of Vereinigte Stahlwerke and
one each out of the assets of Mannesmann
Roehrenwerke, Otto Wolff and Gutehoff-
nungshuette.

The new unit company, employing more
than 5,000 persons, will be one of the
largest producers of high quality steel in
the Federal Republic, The main emphasis
is upon structural steel, both plain carbon
and alloyed. Pig iron capacity at Geisweid
is well balanced to the steel capacity of
the new company, and rolling and forging
capacity in the various plants are also
mutually complementary.

The annual production capacity of the
two larger constituent companies is sum-
marized below: :
Huettenwerk Stahlwerk

Geisweid Hagen
tons tons
Pig iron and ferro alloys 53,000 =
Martin open hearth steel 88,000 50,000
Electric steel 22,000 7,000
Total steel : 110,000 57,000
Hotrolledbarsandshapes 34,000 —
Wire rods. 2 2... 20,000
Plates and universals . 14,000 _
Sheets .. 1... 20,000 —
Forgings p 1,200 6,000

Turnover in 1949-50 was DM 45,900,000
($10,769,200) and DM 17,400,000 ($4,141,200)
for Geisweid and Hagen, respectively. On
Sept. 30, 1950, there were 2,398 workers
employed at Geisweid and 1,132 at Hagen.

The new unit company will also include
the Friedrich Thomee A.G., Werdohl and
Stahlwerke Brueninghaus A.G., Werdohl
(both segregated from the Vereinigte Stahl- -
werke), These works are concerned with
the further processing of steel, and the
former has a capacity of about 2,000 tons
hot rolled bars and shapes, 20,000 tons
wire red and 24,000 tons of hoops and
strip, while the latter is capable of pro-
ducing about 58,000 tons of hot rolled bars
and shapes. Turnover and employment
figures corresponding to those of the main
works were DM 18,200,000 ($4,331,600) and-
DM _ 34,900,000 ($8,306,200) and 411 and

1,415, respectively.

Trading in LG, Farben Debentures

The Tripartite I1.G, Farben Control Group
of the Allied High Commission announced
Sept. 21 that a general license will be is-

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 77 ---
sued under Articles 3 and 9 of Allied High
Commission Law No. 35 to permit trading
in debentures of I.G, Farbenindustrie A.G.
and certain’ limited transactions in ].G.
Farben shares. The general license, the
first to be issued under Law 35, will be
published in a forthcoming issue of the
Official Gazette.

The general license will permit free trad-
ing in 1G, Farbenindustrie debentures by
exempting debentures from the prohibition
contained in Article 3 of AHC Law No. 35,

In connection with the shares of LG.
Farbenindustrie A.G., the general license
will permit certain transactions of a tech-
nical nature related to banking:

1. The deposit of share certificates of
1G. Farbenindustrie A.G. with licensed
banking institutions within the German
Federal Republic and the western sectors
of Berlin, and the transfer of such shares
from one banking institution to another.

2. The exchange of damaged share certi-
ficates against new ones.

3. The exchange of dividend counterfoils
against dividend coupons Nos. 21-30, and
certain facilities for the circulation of
securities in connection with the procedure
laid down in the law concerning the settle-
ment of securities (Wertpapierbereinigungs-
gesetz).

The license will also permit completion
of the exchange of the debentures of I.G.
Farbenindustrie A.G. against shares of the
same company, which began in 1941. In
connection with this exchange, the Deut-
sche Laenderbank A.G., as agent of the
1G. Farbenindustrie A.G., established
Reichsmark-blocked accounts for rest
balances and a share deposit for those
debenture creditors who indicated, on
time, their intention to take advantage of
the exchange offer but who, because of

the state of war, were unable to present

their debentures for exchange.

These share deposits and blocked ac-
counts will become available to creditors
against presentation of the debentures and
in conformity with the conversion and
foreign currency legislation in force in the
Federal Republic.

The I.G, Farben Control Group also an-
nounced that, in cases where communities
of heirs wish to distribute I.G, Farben-
industrie shares to the individual heirs,
the group will issue individual licenses on
application to its secretariat at Mainzer-
landstr. 28, Frankfurt.

It is stressed that the actual sale of
shares of I.G, Farbenindustrie A.G., and in
general all transactions for the transfer of
ownership of these securities continue to
be prohibited under Law No, 35.

The US High Commissioner for Germany
has repealed US Military Government Law
No. 55 which prohibited transactions in
iG, Farben shares and bonds in the US
Zone. This action was taken to avoid
conflict with the general license and does
not affect the continuing validity of AHC
Law No. 35.

Relaxation of Controls on German
Industry Given Legal Effect

By Law No. 61

Amending AHC Law No. 24

In order to give legal effect to the re-
laxations contained in the agreement con-
cerning industrial controls concluded by
the high commissioners on behalf of their
governments on April 3, 1951, the Allied
High Commission has approved a number
of amendments to AHC Law No. 24 (law
on control of certain articles, products,

OCTOBER 1951

installations and equipment) and has
simplified and reduced the number of the
regulations under that law, The amend-
ments removed many of the prohibitions
and limitations on German industry and
thus reflect the continuing desire of the
three governments to facilitate German
industrial progress and the modernization
of production.

Copies of the amending Law No. 61 and
of the implementing regulations have been
sent to the federal chancellor, The text of
the law together with the implementing
regulations will shortly be published in the
Official Gazette.

The agreement concerning industrial con-
trols replaced the Prohibited and Limited
Industries agreement signed by the Mili-
tary Governors in Washington in April
1949, and implemented by Law 24. (See
Information Bulletin May 1951, page 64.)

Among the important relaxations of con-
trol covered by the new law are:
Shipbuilding and Shipyard Facilities

Ships of any size and speed and in any
quantity may now be freely constructed
within the authorized shipbuilding capacity
or may be freely acquired from abroad,
except that ships with military features
may not be built or acquired without Mili-
tary Security Board authorization. War-
damaged shipyard equipment and facilities
may be replaced with MSB approval.

Steel

The. new trequlations incorporate into
Allied High Commission legislation the
foreign ministers’ New York agreement to
allow crude steel to be produced beyond
the annual quota of 11,100,000 tons where
this will facilitate the common defense effort.
Radio and Related Devices for Normal
Commercial Use

Such items (e.g., radio transmitting equip-
ment, cryptographic machines and devices,
radio navigational aids and underwater
locating equipment) may be manufactured
and imported withhout authorization.
Chemicals and Light Metals

All controls are removed from the chlo-
rine, synthetic ammonia, styrene and alu-
minum industries. Aluminum and magne-
sium powders and butadiene are released
from control. Primary magnesium may be
produced under MSB license.

Optical Instruments

All optical instruments not specifically
mentioned in the schedule to the law are
now free of controls,

Electronic Tubes

The regulations list the types, manufac-
ture of which is freely permitted. Ten
categories which may be imported under
MSB license are also described, Licenses
for manufacture of these types will not be
granted at the present time.

Other Items

Searchlights, survey and cartographic in-
struments and equipment, engineering tools
are released from control. The amendments
also further liberalize the controls over
machine tools, non-precision ball and roller
bearings, synthetic petrol, oil and lubricants,
and synthetic rubber.

Departure for United States

The following statement was issued by
US High Commissioner John J. McCloy
Prior to his departure for the United
States Sept. 4 for consultations in Wash-
ington.

I hope and believe that the meeting of
the foreign ministers will mark an impor-
tant step forward in working out the new

75

relationship between the Western Allies
and the Bundesrepublik (Federal Republic).

Obviously, I do not know what decisions
will be made in Washington. As I see it,
the foreign ministers, basing their deci-
sions on the report the high commissioners
have made to them, will probably give us a
field in which to complete negotiations on
the new status with the Federal Republic.
In other words, we will come back to
Germany to sit down with Bonn officials
and work out final drafts. This is prefer-
able to a procedure in which we would
come back with a finished draft of our own.

I hope that then the Federal Republic
and the high commissioners can work out
an instrument or instruments to be dis-
cussed and perhaps formalized in a
meeting of foreign ministers at which,
I would hope, Chancellor Adenauer would
Participate. -

The new relationship between Germany
and the free world will be of utmost
importance despite the fact that the
Federal Republic and the Western Allies
agree that the Soviet occupation of the
East zone makes a final peace treaty
impossible at the present time.

In working out these agreements we
shall not throw overboard the things we
have done in the past six years. We seek
the establishment of a free and independent
German state, but not at the cost of prin-
ciples and undertakings that are basic to
a democratic future for Germany. National-
istic utterances and intermittent outbursts
of petty criticism of the Allies and their
policies will not constitute a solution for
Germany's problems.

Germany has the greatest opportunity
and greatest responsibility in her history
to help create a new pattern of inter-
national relationships. Germany's great
economic and political recovery since 1945
gives her a strong base on which to build
her future, The statesmanlike voices that
tise from time to time in der Bundesrepublik
support my belief that the new German
state will meet its great responsibilities.

Labor Day Statement

The following statement was _ issued
Sept. 1 by US High Commissioner John J.
McCloy on the occasion of Labor Day
Sept. 3.

On the occasion of Labor Day, which
the people of the United States celebrate
in recognition of the worth and dignity
ot labor, I wish to extend the greetings
and best wfshes of the American people
to the workers and people of Germany.

The last year has shown the determina-
tion of the free world to resist armed
aggression in Korea or elsewhere, The
sacrifices of the free peoples will have
the salutary effect of discouraging and
deterring aggressive designs on other
parts of the world.

The American people have repeatedly
shown their will for peace and their sup-
port of the United Nations. The words
Marshall Plan and Point Four are symbols
of American support of common efforts
to carry through economic reconstruction.

Our aim is a community of free nations
which will resolve its differences peace-
fully and on the basis of justice. Insucha
community the German people will take its
place on the basis of democratic equality.

This year we must increase our efforts
to provide for the common defense, to
raise productivity to new heights, to
increase the well-being and standard
of living of all sections of the population

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 78 ---
and to help in the development of back-
ward areas.

The progress and gains and the very
existence of free labor are threatened by
the spread of forced labor and _totali-
tarianism, American labor understands this
and for that reason is contributing in full
measure to the defense efforts of the West.

Official Announcements

Closing of Border Crossings

US authorities have been officially
informed by Soviet transportation officials
that effective Sept. 25, 1951, the crossing
points at Sonneberg, Probstzelle and Gut-
enfuerst between the US and Soviet Zones
will be closed. In substitution for these
points a new crossing point will be
established at Juchoe, two miles south of
Gefell, effective Sept. 20.

The new crossing point can be reached
by using Highway No. 2 north through
Hof-Gefell to Oberoschitz where a junction
with the Nuremberg-Berlin Autobahn is
made. Traffic between Berlin and the
Federal Republic will therefore no longer
be able to travel over the Hof-Dresden
Autobahn to Berlin. The reasons given by
the Soviet authorities for diverting traffic
now using the crossing points which are
to be closed is the necessity for repair
work on roads and bridges.

US authorities at the present time are
studying the impact on_ transportation
which may develop due to closing of the
three crossing points in question.

British authorities have had no informa-
tion as to the closing of any crossing
points between Berlin and the British Zone.—
from BE-HICOG announcement, Sept. 19.

Leave Limit Information

Department of the Army civilian em-
ployees in the European Command will
continue to accumulate 26 days of an-
nual leave a year, according to official
information from the Department of the
Army. The provision of the Independent
Offices Appropriations Act, 1952, which
limits accrual of annual leave by certain
employees of the US Government to 20
days a year, and requires use of the
leave prior to June 30 of the year fol-
lowing that in which earned, does not ap-
ply to such employees whose permanent
duty station is outside the continental
limits of the United States—from EUCOM
announcement Sept. 12.

New Laws in Accident Cases

Additional protection to persons injured
in traffic accidents involving private motor
vehicles owned by members of the US
Forces in Germany, both civilian and mil-
itary, is afforded by two laws enacted by
the United States High Commissioner, the
Office of General Counsel, HICOG, has an-
nounced.

A spokesman for the General Counsel
explained: ‘‘The new regulations should
be of particular interest to German citizens,
who, in the past, have occasionally had
difficulties in asserting claims for damages."

The laws are Nos. 22 and 23. They be-
came effective in the US Zone early in
August when they were published in the
Allied High Commission Official Gazette.
They have also been published in the Of-
ficial Gazette of the Allied Kommandatura
in Berlin and have gone into effect there.

Entitled “Third party rights relating to
compulsory motor vehicle insurance,’ Law

INFORMATION BULLETIN

No. 22 provides that an injured party filing
a claim against a member of the US Forces
as a result of an accident shall be protected
by the insurance regardless of any defense
the company may have in relation to the
policyholder. Thus, the insurance company
cannot refuse payment on the ground that
the car owner has failed to report the
accident to the company. Now Law No. 22
is modeled after the German law govern-
ing this matter.

Law No. 23 is entitled ‘Jurisdiction of
the United States Court and the United
States Court of Appeals of the Allied High
Commission in Germany over former mem-
bers of the Allied Forces in motor vehicle
accident cases.” In the past, injured parties
have sometimes found it virtually impos-
sible to sue a member of the US Forces for
damages after his departure from the US
area of control or after his separation
from service.

The new law provides that such indi-
viduals remain, for purposes of accident
claims, under the jurisdiction of the US
courts in Germany if process is served
upon them within six months after the law
comes into effect or after their separation
or departure, whichever is later. The law
details the procedure for service of process
upon such individuals.

Extension in DP Act

Robert J. Corkery, European coordinator
of the Displaced Persons Commission, an-
nounced recently that the extension of the
Displaced Persons Act provides for a year's
extension to those sections of the law
affecting European orphans and displaced
orphans.

Under the provisions of the extension
legislation sponsors may submit assurances
to the Commission for both categories of
orphans until June 30, 1952, The bill as
amended does not increase the number
of orphans eligible for admission to the
United States, although it does provide for
the issuance of visas until June 30, 1952.

Recent Publications

Listed below are official publications re-
ceived in the editorial office of the Infor-
mation Bulletin during September. Request
for these publications should be addressed
to the originating agency.

Official Gazette, No. 63, Allied High Com-
mission for Germany (Bonn-Petersberg),
Aug, 29, 1951. Contains official texts of
legislation adopted by or under authori-
ty of the Allied High Commission, Pages
1046-1100,

Auszuege aus Presseartikeln (Excerpts from
Press Articles), No, 101, Bank Deutscher
Laender, Frankfurt/M., Aug. 29, 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 290,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Aug. 31,
1951. Covers German newspapers and
other publications dated up to Aug. 31.

Focus of Berlin Editorial Opinion, Public
Relations Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG
(Berlin), Sept. 1951. Digest of Berlin
press editorials for week ending Sept. 1.

Auszuege aus Presseartikeln (Excerpts from
Press Articles), No. 105, Bank Deutscher
Laender, Frankfurt/M., Sept. 7, 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 64, Allied High Com-
mission for Germany (Bonn-Petersberg),
Sept. 5, 1951. Contains official texts of
legislation adopted by or under authori-

76

ty of the Allied High Commission. Pages
1102-1131.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 291, Press
and Publications Branch, Information Serv-
ices Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), Sept. 7, 1951. Covers
German newspapers and other publi-
cations dated up to Sept. 7.

Focus of Berlin Editorial Opinion, Public
Relations Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG
(Berlin), Sept, 10, 1951. Digest of Berlin
press editorials for week ending Sept. 8.

HEUTE (Today, semi-monthly German lan-
guage picture magazine), No. 145, Infor-
mation Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Munich), Sept. 12, 1951.
Price: 50 pfennigs.

Buecher-Vorschau (Book Preview), No. 57,
Information Centers Branch, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Sept.
13, 1951. Lists American books to be dis-
tributed to US Information Centers in
Germany,

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 292, Press
and Publications Branch, Information Serv-
ices Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), Sept. 14, 1951. Covers
German newspapers and other publi-
cations dated up to Sept. 14.

INDEX to the Official Gazette, Allied High
Commission for Germany (Bonn-Peters-
berg), September 1951. Gives official
index of all. legislation published in
HICOM's Official Gazette of Nos. 1-58
(Sept. 21, 1949 to June 30, 1951).

Official Gazette, No, 65, Allied High Com-
mission for Germany (Bonn-Petersberg),
Sept. 19, 1951, Contains official texts of
legislation adopted by’ or under authority
of the Allied High Commission, pages
1135-1168,

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 293, Press
and Publications Branch, Information
Services Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Sept. 21, 1951.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Sept. 21.

EUCOM Iniormation Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 41,
Armed Forces Information and Education
Division, EUCOM (Frankfurt), Sept. 23,
1951. Contains article ‘Why We Ma-
neuver.'’ Distributed to US Armed Forces
in Germany.

Information Bulletin for September, Special
Publications Branch, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
(Frankfurt), Sept 25, 1951. Contains 25
articles and pictorial features and other in-
formation on US operations in Germany.

Buecher-Vorschau (Book Preview), No. 58,
Information Centers Branch, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Sept.27,
1951. Lists American books to be dis-
tributed to US Information Centers in
Germany.

HEUTE (Today, semi-monthly German-
Janguage picture magazine), No. 146, Ins
formation Services Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG (Munich), Sept. 26,
1951, Price: 50 pfennigs.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No, 294,
Press and Publications Branch, Infor-
mation Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Sept. 28,
1951. Covers German newspapers and
other publications dated up to Sept. 28.

EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 42,
Armed Forces Information and Education
Division, EUCOM (Frankfurt), Sept. 30,
1951. Contains article ‘‘Spain and Portu-
gal."’ Distributed to US Armed Forces in
Germany, +END

OCTOBER 1951

--- Page 79 ---
WACs

In

Bivouac

Sgt. Iva E. Messner, complete with
mess kit, blanket roll and helmet,
climbs truck to reach bivouac site.
Sgt. Anna M, Corry is next in line.

Chow looks good to Pfc. M. Harris
as Pfc. Elizabeth L. Fisher adds
milk to the coffee and Sgt. Mary
L. Fowler dishes out meat and spuds.

a

Sound off, one-two-three-four — WACs hit the road with full field gear as
members of Company H, Frankfurt Military Post, hike to site of their yearly
overnight bivouac. Lectures were given at their destination. (US Army photos)

ae i ie oS See

Weighted down with full field packs and helmets, khaki-clad members of
the WAC (Women's Army Corps) Detachment, Company H, oi the Frank-
furt Military Post boarded Army trucks on a bright September afternoon
and set out for a wooded area on the South Frankiurt-Rhine-Main road for
an overnight bivouac,

At the camp site, the WACs pitched and camouflaged tents, dug ditches,
set up their kitchen area and otherwise prepared for an all-night encamp-
ment. Preliminaries completed, the company listened to an hour-long lec-
ture by two of their officers before the call to chow, of which they partook
in sitting, standing and tree-leaning positions. Another lecture, this time
by the FMP chaplain, followed,

Songs and other musical entertainment around a roaring campfire were
interrupted for a time by a light and sound demonstration calculated to
increase the WACs' ability to measure the distance between the point of
the light, or sound, and their position. During the night, unit patrols
guarded the camp area.

Reveille sounded bright and early, and the WACs tumbled out of sleep-
ing gear, had breakfast and then broke camp, none the worse for their
yearly “roughing-it’ assignment. +END

Day's walking and work over, Cpl. Sophia E. Greene lends guitar accompaniment °
to campfire songiest. After night in the woods, WACs break camp, rolling up
blankets and folding camouflaged tents before hiking back to waiting trucks.

--- Page 80 ---
TUNE IN... TUNE IN...
WHEREVER you are

The VOICE of AMERICA

opens your window on the world

Write for THE VOICE OF AMERICA's il-

lustrated bi-monthly Program
Schedule — in French, Germon,
Nalian, Spanish, Portuguese, Ar-
abic, Persis Greek, Turkish,
For East and World editions.
This Schedule, published exclu-
sively for the overseas audience,
will be sent upon written re-
quest. Specify language edition
‘ond address your communication
to The Voice of America, New
York 19, N. Y., U.S.A.

BROADCASTING daily programs in

Albenion, Arabic, Armenian, Azerbaijani, Bulgarian, German, Czech &
Slovak, Estonian, Finnish, Georgian, Greek, Hebrew, Hungarian, Latvian,
Lithuanian, Persion, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Tator, Turkish,
Rumanian, Turkestani, Yugoslav, Ukrainian, Italian, French, English, Chi-
nese, Korean, Thai, Malay, Burmese, Hindi, Indonesian, Vietnamese,
Jopanese, Urdu. . .. More language services will be added in the future. . . -

offering news and backgrounds to the news from our own
bureaux and radio correspondents in Washington .. . the
United Nations . . . New York . . . the Far East... the Near
East . . . Europe and Latin America . . . and world capitals.
For up-to-the-minute commentaries on world events...

For an intimate sound-picture of American life and cul-
ture—music, art, literature and science—

Listen to the select programs on
The Voice of America

Reprint of advertisement in the 1951-1952 edition of

“The World Radio Handbook for Listeners
published in Copenhagen, Denmark