--- Page 2 ---
ITHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF _
H COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

--- Page 3 ---
HOUSANDS OF BUSINESSMEN from many nations

converged upon the Hessian city of Frankfurt during
the second week of March to visit its famed annual Spring
Fair. More than 3,500 firms, representing the industries
of 27 countries located on five continents, were collected
in the 180,000 square yards of Frankfurt's recently greatly
enlarged fair grounds.

Visitors at the opening day ceremonies heard US
Assistant High Commissioner Chauncey Parker urge
German business leaders to work for a sounder German
economy through a greater volume of exports.

A popular exhibit of the fair was the European Re-~
covery Program display (top) consisting of 35 elements,
including illuminated panels and models, large photo-
montages, picture displays with special lighting effects and
section devoted to Frankfurt's role in European recovery.

One of the 16 large heated halls housing many of the
toreign exhibits is shown at leit, center.

Another popular feature of the weeklong event was ~
presented by a US organization, American Market Stores ~
(below, left), which inaugurated a new gift service
specializing in radios constructed to receive “Voice of
America” shortwave broadcasts and available for distri- —
bution behind ‘the Iron Curtain. Below is a view of the
Frankfurt fair grounds. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

lca :
lo Gok, mee eS tale

Ley > Hae
Diense roy

--- Page 4 ---
Information

TABLE OF CONTENTS

April 1951
e The Schuman Plan and Germany ........................ 3
lle Article by Sidney H. Willner
SGOWEIDGMOINOE | ic PO nt tte es Yar ite ee 5
‘ Article by Vaughn Smartt
Woodert-Road-fo Salety> ¢ cote: se <a a 9

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the

Pictorial feature by Harald Guenther

US High Commissioner for Germany New.trends tin ‘Education |’. 32 c25 es basso il
for the dissemination of authoritative Survey by Haynes R. Mahoney
information concerning the policies, oe
regulations, instructions, operations Vigil on the Border Dinisieises smite «seis eraMal Toe RAG aise Ee 15)
and activities of the Allied occupation Article by Maj. Warren E. Crane
in Germany. SWorld's“Worst; cuedter: 24 ssi.08 tte el Se ee 19
Editorial Staff: Article by Wiliried Saliger
Acting Editor ........ Aileen S. Miles Women| in SQ GIIAN Ys ttn as) fiche Seay a ASA 23
Assistant Editor Alfred L. Meyer Article by Hertha Gotthelf
Editorial Writer .. ee Waguer, Returns' to Bayreuth: $3700 12 3, Ae 25
Editorial Writer ...... Maurice E. Lee Article by Mildred A. Smith
Editorial Offices: World's Children Pledge Friendship (pictorial)............ 28
Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7 Rehabilitation for Emigration ............................ 29
Frankfurt, Germany Article by Archie S. Lang
Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994 175,000 Enter ECA Contest (pictorial) .................... 32
° BERPsProvidling Montes i345 as ee Oe ee ewe 33
The Information Bulletin is prepared Article by William T. Neel
and published by the Special Publica- Germ: a dies National ‘Severcianty. ...:
tions Branch, Public Relations Division, eA SIS EY Rh LEE #0
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is Y :
printed by the Publishing Operations Reich May Be Sued, Court Rules .....:.................. 40
Branch, Information Services Division, The German’ Viewpoint: 3.50522 5. ss0ce5.- ooh esee ee end AL

at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-

Article by Heinrich von Brentano

Cornerstone ‘of a ‘Better Burope: <2. 205i kk So ek 43
Address by Andre Francois-Poncet

Invitation:tova New-Conscience: 2... 6.0. eds ote 45
Article by Maurice E. Lee

quiries, manuscripts and distribution New Markets for Meat (pictorial) 48
should be addressed to: Road to Recovery Seen in Berlin 50
Editor 5 :
ifn formation BHweta: Heonomic Mewlew 250 '5.5.'s0 ecco anes eee ay pate Oe Si
Public Relations Division Third ECA Investment Program Begins .................. ats)
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
APO 757-A, U. S. Army Occupation Log 56
German mailing address is: Calendar of Coming Events 61
Editor
REoriatiGnteciees A Summary of Schuman Plan Treaty .................... 63
lic Relations Division Revision: ot Occupation: Statute. 2. singe sakes 65
ICOG Hochh. Fi
Frankfur/M, Germany Otticial Notices). <2. o Se cs nee ee mea 69
ee ae Communiques as 69
Correspondence concerning inquiries 4
and distribution in the United States Laws snd ’Regulation! oo
Should be addressed to: Statements 70
71

Division of Public Liaison
Office of Public Affairs = = = == [/_~—s Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents ...... 72
Department of State :
Washington 25, D.C.

e OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
Cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
Of the Information Bulletin as the
Source will be appreciated.

--- Page 5 ---
FLVTPNUNUUNUUNUUUUUOUUUUOOUNUUUOOUUNUUOUULNOUUOUUOUUONUUUUUOUOUUUUUOUUOUUIUUUUOUUOUUUUCOUUUUUUUU CTU CUUCNUUNOUUU UNO UUUUU UNTO CNOUOOOUO TT 2

Chronicle of Events
Leading to the Initialling of =

The Schuman Plan Draft Treaty

May 9, 1950 — General outline of Schuman Plan announced by French Govern-
ment.

May 12, 1950—Schuman Plan discussed by Foreign Ministers’ meeting in London.

May 13, 1950 — Chancellor Adenauer in newspaper interview describes Schu-
man Plan as a decisive step in re-inclusion of Germany in circle of
Western nations.

May 16, 1950 — West German Federal Cabinet unanimously approves prin-
ciples of French proposal.

May 16, 1950 — Former French Premier Paul Reynaud discusses Schuman Plan
with Chancellor Adenauer, Economics Minister Dr. Ludwig Erhard, Vice-
Chancellor Franz Bluecher and Finance Minister Fritz Schaeffer in confer-
ence at Bonn.

May 18, 1950 — President Truman issues statement approving Schuman Plan.

May 21, 1950 — Foreign Minister Schuman in newspaper interview lays down
“essential principles” of Plan.

May 23, 1950 — M. Jean Monnet outlines fundamental objectives of Plan to
Allied High Commission. AHC grants formal permission to French to enter
into direct negotiations with the Federal Republic.

May 26, 1950 — Robert M. Hanes, chief of the ECA Mission to Western Ger-
many, gives ECA concurrence to Plan.

June 5, 1950 — FDJ, Communist youth organization, announces in Berlin plans =
for holding a youth rally in Western Germany to protest Schuman Plan. 2

June 9, 1950 — International Authority of the Ruhr endorses Schuman Plan. =

June 17, 1950 — Dr. Walter Hallstein, professor of international law at the Uni- 2
versity of Frankfurt, appointed head of German delegation to negotiate zi
Draft Treaty with French. :

June 19, 1950 — Communist labor leaders of France and Eastern Germany
announce joint decision reached in Berlin conference to sabotage Schu- =
man Plan. =

June 20, 1950 — Six-power conference on Schuman Plan opens in Paris. -

June 27, 1950 — Following preliminary exchange of views, French experts
prepare working paper to facilitate drafting of treaty.

January-February, 1951 — US High Commissioner John J. McCloy and
HICOG legal officials hold series of conferences with French and German
authorities in hope of reaching agreement.

March 19, 1951 — Agreement reached on Schuman Plan and Draft Treaty
initialed by representatives of six participating countries. + END

UUUVUAUUAUOVNEQOUODEEUUOASEODEEY UE EREOUT DU ETEN EET PETC UTEP PETERS eee

ErriVUINVONNUUOIOUOUUUUNUOUUUDUUUUUNUUUUUUIOUUUULIOUUULONOUUUUUOUOMUUTOUULUDO TUONO COOOL UUULUDUOCLUULCONUU LUT UCU COOUUUULLUO OO ULLOOCUUU LODO

INFORMATION BULLETIN y) APRIL 1

--- Page 6 ---
The Schuman Plan and Germany

By SIDNEY H. WILLNER

Chief, Decartelization and Deconcentration Division, Office of General Counsel, HICOG

S WESTERN EUROPE ON ITS WAY TO UNION and salvation of itself and perhaps of all civili-

zation?

The answer to that question may well be the hinge on which the door of freedom can be
slammed shut or opened wide to the asprirations of man everywhere. The historic decision is up to
the parliaments of six Western European nations to make in their consideration of the Schuman Plan.

By ratifying the plan to pool continental Europe's steel and coal industries, the six parliaments
can give an affirmative answer and usher in an era of greater prosperity and increased security.
By rejecting the Plan, they will be inviting recurrence of disastrous events which were the
outgrowth of hostile economic systems that made the Rhine the dividing line of Europe.

Final legislative approval of the 50-year industrial treaty would be a long step toward European
political and economic federation and consequently toward peace.

Representatives of West Germany, France, Belgium, Holland, Luxembourg and Italy approved
the Schuman Plan on March 19 after nine arduous months of negotiating. In its finally accepted
form, the Treaty carefully safeguards the legitimate interest of all countries concerned and imposes
no sacrifice that is not more than compensated for by economic gains which are certain to accrue,

to say nothing of the political and military advantages which the Treaty offers.

HE PLAN HAS FOR ITS PURPOSE the creation of a

free market in coal and steel so that every user of
these products in the signatory countries can obtain a fair
share of the supply. It is also intended to bring about a
constant expansion of production and consumption to the
benefit of the general public of the participating countries
by broadening the market and by fostering industrial
expansion,

From the point of view of the German worker, the
benefits of the Plan are evident. The Plan contemplates
the progressive closing down of uneconomic mines in other
countries. This will cause the market for Ruhr coal to
expand, providing greater and more stable employment for
its members. With the breaking down of artificial barriers,
the German steel industry will be able to reap the full
benefits of the productive efficiency which has always
been its boast, again to the benefit of its workers in terms
of levels and stability in employment. At the same time
German industry will be put to its mettle since enterprises
inthe other countries will also try to increase their efficiency.

This healthy natural competition will operate to the
benefit of all persons in all of the member countries, since
it will tend to lower prices for steel and for the countless
Products using steel. This in turn will lead to an increased
Consumer demand for these products which will increase
Productive output, thus increasing employment in the
basic industries. This kind of ascending spiral is not
Merely an idealistic hope or dream. Its practicability has
been demonstrated in those countries where it has been
Permitted to operate as the Plan will permit it to operate
in Western Europe.

APRIL 1951

The average citizen in each of the six countries has
a major stake in making the Plan work. For example, if
he is a carpenter, it should provide him with cheaper
nails for his work and cheaper coal for heating his
furnace at home. This lowering of cost will not be done
by any legerdemain of state control or state subsidy.
Instead, the Plan will eliminate tariffs on raw materials
flowing from one country to the other. It will eliminate
wasteful practices and uneconomic producers while at
the same time, by insuring competition, it will guarantee
that these savings are passed on to the consumer.

ESIDES INCREASING PRODUCTION and lowering

prices, it is hoped that the Plan by sweeping away
trade rivalries and tariff barriers, may be the first step
toward realizing the dream of a United States of Europe.
In addition, since coal and
steel are essential in the wag-
ing of modern war, many
people feel that the creation
of a supra-national communi-
ty for those products will in
and of itself make an intra-
European war unthinkable.

It is almost axiomatic that
the prosperity of any country
depends upon the prosperity
and steady production of its
coal and steel industries. By

Sidney H. Willner.
(Photo by Schoenborn, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 7 ---
insuring steady production in these industries, with a fair
chance at the market guaranteed each company, the Treaty*
should lead to a steadier industrial economy, with an
elimination of the disastrous depressions that so often
have wrecked these nations in the past.

The Treaty is quite long but essentially simple in its
operation.

The coal, as in the past, will be owned by the mine,
and the steel by the mill. It will be up to these produc-
ers to merchandise their products as best they can.
They can contract to sell their coal to whom they please
and at the prices resulting from the interplay of supply
and demand.

The Treaty will, however, prevent these producers
from agreeing with their competitors to fix prices or to
divide the markets among themselves. Also, it will pre-
vent a producer from discriminating among his customers
or giving one an advantage not enjoyed by the others.

HE TREATY PROVIDES many definite advantages

for the producers. For instance, in 1949, France
imported more than 20,000,000 tons of coal and coke,
approximately one-third of which came from Germany.
At the same time, France exported approximately
10,000,000 tons of iron ore, the major part to countries
signing the Plan. The. Plan provides for the elimination
of all tariffs and customs on shipments of coal and iron
among members of the pool, thus providing the members
with cheaper raw materials.

This free flow of raw material through the various
countries should lead to a gradual relaxation of other
trade barriers, and the creation of a common market of
the 150,000,000 inhabitants of the countries involved.

The Plan will be administered by a High Authority
consisting of six or more members designated by the
various countries. These members will not be responsible
to any one country, but to the pool as a whole.

The High Authority will be financed by a levy on the
producers, not to exceed one percent of the value of the
coal and steel produced. With this money, and borrowed
funds where needed, the High Authority will have power
to finance new enterprises either directly, or by guaran-
teeing the risk taken by private capital.

It should be pointed out that the Treaty prohibits the
practice of countries’ subsidizing uneconomic mines and
mills, as many have done in the past. This practice of
giving subsidies has conferred on a particular country
an unfair advantage over competitors in other countries.
At the same time, the Treaty provides that the High
Authority shall, where need be, use its funds to buy out
and to close down uneconomic enterprises, where neces-
sary for the good of the entire industry.

In times of emergency, when there is either too much
or too little production, the High Authority can establish
maximum and minimum prices, and, if need be, quotas
of production for the various mines and mills.

* For summary of Schuman Plan Treaty, see page 63.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HILE THE HIGH AUTHORITY is vested with broad

powers, strong democratic safeguards are provided
for the protection of the member countries as well as
their producers, workers and consumers.

The High Authority will be assisted by a Consultative
Committee, selected by the Council of Ministers, to
represent enterprises, workers and consumers. The High
Authority can obtain the advice of this committee on all
matters of general significance. After consulting this
committee, the High Authority can order any company
to increase the pay of its workers, or otherwise to im-
prove their working conditions, if this is necessary to
equalize the working conditions with those of other
companies. However, in most cases, the rights of labor
and bargaining for salaries, remains strictly a private
matter, subject to negotiation between the company
concerned and its employees.

The legislatures of the signatory countries will appoint
members of an assembly, which will annually review the
work of the High Authority. In the event two-thirds of
the assembly censures the work of the High Authority,
the High Authority will have to resign.

A Council of Ministers composed of a cabinet member
from each of the participating governments will serve
as a liaison body between the Authority and the various
governments. The Council can request the High Authority
to study any problem, and in matters seriously affecting
the economy of the countries involved, the consent of
the Council must be obtained before the High Authority
can act.

As a last safeguard to prevent any undue infringe-
ment on the rights of any country or company, the Treaty
provides for establishing a Court of Justice of seven
members. This Court will have jurisdiction to hear
appeals of the Council of Ministers, the signatory States,
of producers and any other persons affected by decisions
of the High Authority if they violate the Treaty or
represent abuse of discretion or were made without power.

HE PURPOSE OF THE TREATY is to protect and
encourage a free expanding market in the basic
industries. It does this by insuring that, for example, a
steel mill in Belgium can buy iron ore from France and
coal from Germany on the same basis as citizens of
these countries and without having to pay ruinous tariffs.
At the same time, the Treaty goes to great length to
provide that this steel mill owner will have the right to
sell his products to anyone he pleases in any of the
signatory countries with his: customers enjoying the
same freedom from having to pay tariffs.

In short, the Treaty seeks to create a single market
of 150,000,000 people, much as that which exists in the
United States where the steel mill at Gary, Indiana, buys
iron ore from Minnesota and coal from Pennsylvania
and ships its products to Michigan — all without the
expense or interference of unwieldy and hampering
tariffs and without a selfish concentrated control over
the economic life of various countries by conspiracy
entered into by private persons for their selfish
benefit. -+-END

APRIL 1951

--- Page 8 ---
“Gewerbefretheit”

By VAUGHN SMARTT
Staff Writer, Public Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs

SK THE AVERAGE AMERICAN in Germany what he
thinks about Gewerbefreiheit and you'll likely as
not get the answer, “Huh, what's that?" While Gewerbe-
freiheit is a strange word to Americans, there is a faintly
familiar ring about it, something like, “I know your face
but I can't think of your name just now.”
Gewerbetreiheit is the German word which means
freedom of the individual to engage in a trade, business
or profession. It embodies the same ideas which are
inherent in the American belief in the “freedom of op-
portunity." It means that everyone has the opportunity
to devote his abilities, skill and knowledge to those
economic endeavors in which he considers himself best
qualified and that he should only be subject to the
supremacy of the consumers.

To be a little more specific: A system under which
you may rent a store on a main street to operate a shoe
repair shop whenever you feel that such a venture might
be profitable means Gewerbefreiheit; whether or not you
have to register such a store with the municipal authori-
ties is irrelevant. The German version of “licensing”
means a system under which you have to apply for a
license before opening such a store and where this
license is only granted to you if you pass an examina-
tion before a panel appointed by your potential competi-
tors, if you prove the economic need for a new store
and if you obtain the approval of a great number of
licensing authorities, chambers, and governmental as
well as non-governmental agencies.

NLY IN THE US ZONE of Germany is the individual

free to engage in any trade he wishes except in those
where in the interest of public health, safety or welfare
(dentists, architects, lawyers, etc.) certain professional
standards of competence must be established through
examinations, In the other zones, however, the restric-
tive licensing policies developed by the medieval guilds
and revived during the Third Reich, are still in effect
and a Bill concerning a Code of Manual Trades presently
pending in the Bundestag (Lower House of Parliament)
even threatens to re-establish in the US Zone the com-
pulsory licensing system for handicraft.

From the time of the Middle Ages, the right of the
individual to operate independently in any field of pro-
fessional and economic endeavor was conditioned upon
his approval by guilds which exercised ironclad control
in almost every field. They determined the standards
for admittance to a trade, who might not be admitted,
and who should be expelled. Further, every individual
Was compelled by law to be a member of the guild
governing his trade.

APRIL 1951

Even today, the opening of a retail store outside the US
Zone, and hundreds of the most simple occupations like
shoe cleaning, distribution of newspapers, chicken hatch-
ing, etc., require licenses which are only being granted
if the applicant is able to prove the economic need for
his activities as well as his professional competence.

Opposition to the rule of the guilds in Germany was
initiated by the transition from medieval methods of
production to industrial methods which started in the
second half of the 18th century. Freiherr vom Stein in
1810 caused the enactment of legislation in Prussia which
deprived the guilds of some of their most oppressive
prerogatives. In 1869 Emperor Wilhelm I completely
stripped the guilds of their powers and by establishing
the principle of Gewerbefreiheit initiated Germany's Gol-
den Age which lasted for 40 years during which Ger-
many reached the highest cultural and economic level
of its entire history.

HIS PRINCIPLE WAS REPUDIATED by National

Socialist legislation in 1935 which restored to the
guilds their former powers. By such legislation, the Nazis
were able to achieve regimentation of substantial seg-
ments of the German economy. Licensing in virtually
all occupations was required and licensing authorities
were delegated almost unlimited discretion to determine
who might practice a trade. The result was virtual sup-
pression of the freedom of the individual to select his
occupation. The dominant purpose of such licensing was

Ludwig Kuehn, proprietor of a large garage in Frankfurt,
employs 120 workers and believes that “Gewerbefreiheit"
spells progress. Says Herr Kuehn: “ Amanwho knows some-
thing should be preferred over one who has a doctor's title
but is not worth anything."

(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 9 ---
Herr Horn, manager of a Frankfurt interior decorating
firm, is a refugee. His views: “The German who knows his
business should have every freedom. Anyone who has
learned a trade should be free to practice it where he will."

to restrict the right of newcomers to enter an occupation
in order to protect those already engaged in it. Proponents
of the licensing system maintain it serves to improve
the quality of work performed by the licensed groups.
History, however, has proved that there is no greater
stimulation to improvement of goods and services than
vigorous competition and no more effective narcotic
for the inventive genius than the assurance that people
may practice their trades without fear of being surpassed
by competitors of greater skill and enterprise. -

It is contended that the gullible public must be pro-
tected from blunderers and chiselers and that the German
consumers are too poor to afford losses which might be
inflicted upon them by incompetent artisans who did not
prove their competence by passing an examination. Public
reaction, however, indicates that the consumers in the
US Zone are by no means concerned about such losses,
They feel capable to choose for themselves the shops
which they wish to patronize, remembering very well
the small group of “protected masters’ who kept them
waiting for months until they deigned to do some repair
work and then overcharged them,

It is also argued Germany cannot afford the losses of
capital and raw materials incurred by “inexperienced”
newcomers, but from the American point of view the in-
visible losses caused by suppression of the entrepreneur
spirit are much greater than those due to business failures.

HEN THE OCCUPATION STARTED, the Americans
were not immediately concerned with these licens-
ing regulations nor with the effect which they had upon

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the German workman. However, as the German economy :
pulled itself out of the ruins and struggled back on its ~
feet, the Americans began to realize the restrictive —

qualities of these regulations.

Refugees, displaced persons and expellees swarmed into
the US Zone from the Eastern areas. Great numbers of
these as well as local entrepreneurs and businessmen
whose enterprises were destroyed during the war or
closed down by the Nazis, were denied licenses to enter
trades or business on the vague but legally permissible

. grounds that such applicants had “insufficient capital,”

were not “personally responsible” or that “there was
no economic need for their activities."

The Military Governor began to receive complaints
through the Resident Officers in counties throughout the
US Zone and the need for abolishing licensing became
apparent. Hundreds of letters were received by US
officials complaining of the obstacles put in the way of
those who wished to open a new shop, One letter from a
small town in Bavaria pointed up the problem succinctly,

"It is evident," the refugee wrote, “that the craftsmen,
the chambers of handicrafts and guilds object to free-
dom of licensing, for they do not want any new com-
petition and wish to maintain their nepotism as long as
possible. Particularly, in a small town, where all people
are relatives or kinsfolk, it has been almost impossible
up to the present time to establish a business or an
enterprise. If you were lucky enough to get the license
from the municipal and other authorities, which oc-
curred only in rare cases, the chamber of handicrafts
or the handicrafters guild ruined you completely by not
alloting you any raw material.

“Up to now the Gewerbeamt (Trade Board) in the

Landratsamt (County Councillor's Office) has been a

little king, for it rested with him to grant you the
license or not and naturally it mattered whether he
liked your face or not. Is it any wonder that corruption
is in full bloom in these offices?"

HE MILITARY GOVERNOR ACTED promptly. In
June 1948, the first directive was issued abolishing
licensing except for reasons of public health, safety

or welfare. Even in these categories, the directive stipu- —

lated that such licenses should be issued by a govern-

mental agency rather than a board made up of prospec- —
tive competitors of the applicant. Also the directive laid F
down the policy that licenses were not to be refused for —
reasons of lack of available materials or supplies, the

financial condition or individual responsibility of the

applicant, or the economic need for the business which —

he proposed to establish. There followed other directives

which went more into detail and were intended to —

clarify specific problems which arose.

The stimulating effect of these directives upon the
German economy was soon shown and could be measur=
ed in concrete terms. Of all the applications for licenses

filed in the US Zone during the period from the end of

the war until June 1948, when the first licensing direc-

tive was issued, 35 percent were denied. Most of these
denials were based on “findings by local licensing”

APRIL 1951 S

--- Page 10 ---
boards that there was no economic necessity for the type
of business which the applicant proposed to start. In
Bavaria, the percentage of denials for this reason in the
field of handicrafts amounted to 70 percent.

While these figures, which were admitted by Ger-
man licensing authorities, are correct from a statistical
point of view, they do not tell the whole story. In-
numerable applications for licenses were neither denied
nor granted but shuffled from one licensing board, guild,
agency or chamber to another and kept in abeyance
for years until the frustrated applicants gave up. These
figures also failed to take into account those potential
applicants who knew of the dire fate of their fellow-
sufferers, did not wish to kowtow before the licensing
authorities and therefore never filed an application.

HE STIMULATING EFFECT of the US directive upon
T the German economy can only be measured by com-
paring the number of businesses established during identi-
cal periods before and after the liberation from licensing.

A US-conducted survey in 1950 showed that more than
158,000 (approximately 250 percent) more new businesses
were established in the US Zone in 1949, the first full

calendar year that the US licensing policy was in effect,
than in 1948, when German restrictive legislation con-
trolled. In Bavaria, alone, the number of new enterprises

established in June 1949, was 18,030, as compared with
843 new businesses established during the same month
of 1948 before the licensing program became effective.

Further statistics which proved to US authorities they

were on the right track were published by the state
governments of Bremen and Hesse, During 1948, the
number of new businesses opened in Bremen averaged
370 a month, but in January, February and March of
1949, the state government reported the following figures
on the establishment of new businesses: January, 1,309;

February, 1,060, and March, 795. These businesses were
mainly in the field’ of small retail dealers, including
grocers and handicrafts.

Albin Abel, Frankfurt tailor, says: "I am opposed to
‘Gewerbefreiheit.' It has been introduced by the Americans,
who have a different view of the matter. Germany is short
of raw materials, and a high percentage of so-called free
tradesmen do not use the raw materials economically.”

Gretel Bartscher works in Frankfurt grocery store whose
establishment was made possible by ‘Gewerbefreiheit."
She states: “I vest high hopes in freedom to engage in
business. Those who know their business have a chance to
get ahead. Now, nobody can say ‘I never had a chance.’

In Hesse, the statistics were possibly even more con-
vincing. In the first three months of 1948, a total of
5,240 new businesses were established against 20,703 new
businesses during the same period of 1949.

ICOG AUTHORITIES ARE by now firmly convinced

that the great bulk of the German people are with
HICOG in this struggle to establish this basic principle
of democracy not only in the US Zone but throughout
all states of the Federal Republic. All those who long
for economic independence and cannot achieve it be-
cause of restrictive licensing regulations are behind
the Americans, They include not only expellees, DP's
and outsiders but also experienced businessmen, artisans
and other professionals who either wish to change their
profession or who for some reason or another had been
deprived of their enterprise under the Nazis.

Lawyers, university professors, students and many
groups of intellectuals whose material interests are not
directly involved but who want a free hand left to
unknown men who will be the entrepreneurs of tomor-
row are among the most ardent supporters of Gewerbe-
freiheit. The county Resident Officers, who are probably
best able to appraise German public opinion, believe that
the American licensing programshas the support of more
than 70 percent of the West German population.

Gewerbetreiheit has been widely discussed in the Ger-
man press but for the most part HICOG policy has been
endorsed by the liberal and progressive elements of the
press. Recently one of Frankfurt’s leading newspapers,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Hans Rosen runs a small Frankfurt cosmetics store and
holds: “Freedom to engage in business is welcomed in Ger-
many only if the businessman has a basic knowledge of the
industry.1 am not in favor of an untrained German being al-
Jowed to starta business just because he finds itattractive.”

the Frankfurter Rundschau, referred in an editorial to
“the American-inspired freedom of licensing which most
Germans like so well.”

The Frankfurter Rundschau's column devoted to letters
to the editor has been filled with the debate over this
policy. Whenever some minor guild official attempts to
defend the old licensing system, he is promptly answer-
ed by someone who has been discriminated against.
Some of the letters are surprisingly flattering and grati-
fying to the US in its position as an occupation power.
One such correspondent wrote that “people eager to
work have been frustrated by the semi-official trade
associations.’ He referred to the American directive as
“a revolutionary action of the Occupying Power," and
expressed the hope that ‘the Americans will liberate
the German people from its own bureaucrats.”

Some of the letters which Gen. Lucius D. Clay, former
US military governor, received were almost embarassing.
One enthusiastic youth wrote General Clay, “by estab-
lishing complete freedom of licensing — the first demo-
cratic action in Germany — you will never be forgotten
as a hero who opened the gates leading to freedom
for free development of all people in Germany at all
times. Long live freedom."

HILE HICOG OFFICIALS REMAIN convinced that
the rank and file of the German people are on the
US side in this struggle, they realize there is substantial
opposition from the handicraft guilds, the chambers of
manual trades and the entrenched trade associations,
which, being highly organized, exert great influence over

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the Bundestag members. Those who support HICOG
policy, not representing any organized groups, cannot
bring the same pressure to bear on politicians.

Last summer the Allied High Commission approved
a Statement of Principles concerning the desirability of
Gewerbefreiheit and earnestly recommended these to
the attention of the ministers-president of the states
who were invited to adopt them as a guide in legislat-
ing on this subject. An identical invitation was extended
to the federal chancellor.

This Statement of Principles sets out that the right of’
a person to engage in any trade, business or profession
may be regulated by legislation only to the extent neces-
sary to protect public health, safety or welfare; that an
examination should not be required as a condition of
obtaining permission to engage in any trade, business
or profession except where such an examination is ne-
cessary to maintain professional and technical standards
of competence in the interest of public health, safety or
welfare; and that such examinations should be conducted
under adequate legal safeguards to prevent the use of
such examination to exclude a candidate from any trade,
business or profession.

N SPITE OF THIS Statement of Principles, a “Draft

Law Concerning the Code of Manual Trade” was
introduced in the Bundestag on Oct. 26, 1950, which
embodies many of the principles the Occupation Authori-
ties have sought to discourage. While the bill no longer
attempts to condition the right to practice a handicraft
on the proof of necessity, it provides that, with a few
exemptions, only persons who have passed the master's
examination should -be permitted to exercise a trade.
For all practical purposes these examinations are to be
conducted under the supervision of the Chambers of
Manual Trades.

Two thirds of the members of the Chambers of Manual
Trades, however, are elected by the established crafts-
men. Hence, should this bill become law, each newcomer
would be forced to convince his potential competitors
of his competence. This might be no easier task than to
convince them of the “economic necessity” for the
establishment of a new competing enterprise.

The draft law was passed on the first reading the
same day it was introduced, but since then it has lain
dormant in the Bundestag and no attempt has yet been
made to pass it on second and third readings. The draft
law has strong support from the entire Bundestag, in-
cluding both coalition parties and the SPD (Social Demo-
cratic Party). Many of those to whom the law will ulti-
mately apply are either ignorant of it and in any case
inarticulate. Furthermore, the chief impact of such a law
will be on those who are not yet committed to a career
in the handicraft trades.

On the other hand, there are definite indications that
public opinion is awakening to the significance of this
piece of legislation and there is still a fair chance that —
the voice of the German masses, so often confused,
poorly organized and usually divided, will be heard at —
Bonn. , -+END

APRIL 1951

--- Page 12 ---
No, it's not a'"Dodgem" track at some amusement park but
atraffic education course for children staged in Bremen and
financed by HICOG grant-in-aid. Week-long program re-
sulted from increasing accidents among children, (Kull photos)

Eleven-year-old boy in traffic cop's white cap and gloves
(above) directs “Sunday drivers” at main cross-roads.
Below, camera startles motorists and cyclists.(Schmidt photo)

Wooden Road to Safety

By HARALD GUENTHER
Staff Reporter, Public Relations Branch, OLC Bremen

HERE ARE TRAFFIC SNARLS in Bremen and traffic cops are

shouting themselves hoarse — but it’s part of an educational
safety campaign for the city’s youngsters. It all began last
January when Bremen police authorities conducted a week-long
traffic education game in the city's sports hall.

Bremen police officials had become seriously worried over
the rising traffic accident rate during 1950 — 12 children killed,
228 injured. Moreover, children had caused 216 accidents.

US officials also viewed the statistics with alarm. At the
beginning of the year, C. Perry Oakes, chief, Political Affairs
Division, OLC Bremen, presented to the Bremen police chief a
DM 2,500 ($595) check, as first installment of a DM 5,000 ($1,190)
grant-in-aid for traffic education.

Bremen police immediately went to work. They purchased
educational facilities and equipment to help popularize the idea
of traffic safety, individual responsibility and regard for the
welfare of others in Bremen’s crowded streets.

The first installment of the grant financed a daily performance
of a traffic education game in the sports hall which was hailed
with enthusiasm by Bremen’s children. In it was constructed a
life-size street surrounded by a white fence. This area, equip-
ped with traffic signs and intersection lights, was exposed to
the heavy traffic of tiny cars, bicycles, tricycles, scooters and
youthful pedestrians.

While an 11-year-old boy wearing white gloves and hat was
put in charge of the main crossroads, a real Bremen traffic
policeman directed the whole game via an overhead loud-
speaker system. The young drivers demonstrated every situa-
tion likely to occur in normal traffic and explained the correct
behavior to the audience in a lively game of questions and answers.

Between formal programs, youngsters were permitted to ride
or drive the vehicles, carefully observing the traffic rules they
had just seen demonstrated. The huge hall was filled to capacity
and the number of performances planned had to be tripled.

“School classes came in the morning and little boys and girls
from all parts of the city came in the afternoon,” the police
officer in charge explained, while putting a curly-headed six-
year-old aboard a tricycle. “One dragged the other one along,
but when they left they had learned how to behave in the street.”

By the end of the week 13,000 Bremen children had partici-
pated in the program and learned to “‘play safe’ against the
permanence of death. + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Top, left, Borchshoehe is one
of five modern Bremen schools
called for under reform plans.

Top, right, Peissenberg, Bavaria,
youngsters enjoy snack consist-
ing of hot chocolate and a roll.

Left, teacher trainees and guest
students do gymnastics outdoors
at Jugenheim Teachers College.

Below, left, puppet show at
Peissenberg delights kiddies
and helps them learn to count,

Below, trainees at Jugenheim
watch kindergarten tots do
“hand painting — free style.”

(Photos by Claude Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 14 ---
New Trends in Education

By HAYNES R. MAHONEY
Staff Writer, Public Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs

HE SUBJECT OF DISCUSSION was “European
Union" and it took little prompting from the youth-
ful teacher to spark a vigorous exchange of ideas among
his eighth-grade students. In other wings of the futuristic,
wide-windowed building, there were classes in the func-
tions of the state government, the trade union and harbor
operations. It was the social studies period in Bremen's
modern, progressive Habenhausen elementary school.

In a shabby stone building within sight of the Bavarian
Alps, students shuffled their feet on the black-tarred
floor as they listened to the teacher drone through the
history of the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71. A detail-
ed blackboard diagram of the Battle of Sedan (which
would have been more suitable for a class in military
tactics) was used to illustrate the lesson. A faded picture
of Bismarck and an old print depicting the French sur-
render hung on the dingy walls.

The two educational extremes illustrate the point of
departure and highest achievement of intense efforts by
liberal German educators and US officials to bring about
a democratic reform ofthe German school system. After
hundreds of workshops and training courses, the ex-
change of dozens of American experts and nearly 1,000
German educators and young teachers between the US
and German school systems and the expenditure of more
than $4,000,000 and DM _ 31,000,000 (approximately
$7,378,000) in American funds during the past two years,
schools like that at Habenhausen are still rare. But the
antiquated methods and nationalistic content illustrated
in the Bavarian history class are being modified under
the impact of new ideas.

N A ONE-ROOM SCHOOL, less than 15 miles away,

a young man teaches 50 children, representing all
elementary grades from the first through the eighth. The
regimented rows of benches (on which earlier genera-
tions sat like little soldiers) have been rearranged to
permit the youngsters to work together in small groups,
while a class constitution, drafted by the pupils, is posted
on the back wall. A question box, to encourage in-
quisitive minds, hangs from the teacher's desk. In spite
of the overcrowded cluttered room an easy relationship

of mutual confidence and respect exists between teacher
and pupil.

In such an atmosphere the children learn by working
together, asking questions and discussing the subject of
study, thereby sharpening the critical faculties so neces-
Sary to alert citizens of a democracy. It is the substitu-
tion of these new methods for the old system of memoriz-
ing facts and figures that educators call “inner school
Teform."

APRIL 1951

Weimar Republic efforts to introduce the liberal teach-
ing methods were later halted by the Nazis who dis-
missed progressive teachers, closed experimental schools
and forced Germany into “educational stagnation.’ Since
1945, liberal educators actively supported by American
officials have had new opportunities for introducing new
methods. How well they have succeeded is difficult to
measure. All education ministries in the US Zone and
many in other parts of Western Germany have officially
advocated liberal classroom techniques but in the last
analysis progress depends on the understanding and
initiative of the teachers.

Modern equipment and facilities, boasted by the Haben-
hausen school, stimulated democratic teaching methods.
However, the achievements of the Bavarian village
teacher belie the protests of many teachers and officials
that the “terrible school conditions” proscribe progress.
All teacher colleges include the new teaching methods,
although it will be some time before their graduates gain
appreciable influence on the school system, HICOG's
14 Education Service Centers conduct in-service teacher
training, as do many German organizations, such as the
Bavarian State Foundation for Education Reconstruction
which last year sent its members lecturing to 25,000
teachers throughout the state.

OWEVER, YOU CAN STILL go through class after
H class of autocratic instruction before finding a ses-
sion like that in a high-school English class in Wies-
baden, where a student was leading an objective dis-
cussion on current affairs. The number of progressive
teachers is growing, but they are still a minority.

Habenhausen Elementary School is one of Bremen's three
model schools — modern, spacious, airy, well-equipped
institutions completed since passage of Bremen School
Reform Law in 1949. War left intact only 20 percent of
Bremen's classroom space, destroyed one-third of schools.
Five more up-to-date institutions are under construction.

--- Page 15 ---
ity
‘wey

unsegie cones

ph WIP BAUER EI

| AMBISERHETT

Display shows covers of new school books written under
direction of Bremen's textbook workshop of teachers and
educators. To date 45 social studies have been published.

Student government has become a valuable adjunct
to democratic teaching methods. In most of the US Zone,
it has been officially authorized in principle though not
always implemented in practice. In Bremen, each school
has a student council comprised of two representatives
of each class, which attacks such pressing pupil's prob-
lems as abolition of home work on weekends, organiza-
tion of a school newspaper, or launching a fund raising
campaign.

Recently the student leaders from all secondary schools
in Stuttgart met with representatives of teachers and
officials to discuss their complaint that a ministry
decree encouraging student councils had been followed
by very little practical aid. Judging by the lively dis-
cussion, this situation is due for a change.

However, democratic classwork and student govern-
ment will hardly turn out young citizens for democracy
if the curriculum is limited to the “three R's,” academic
language training and a nationalistic version of history
and geography. Today, all state education ministries in
the US Zone have authorized broadened curricula to
include training in the functions of government and the
citizen’s rights and duties in democratic society — sub-
jects which were banned by the Nazi regime and little
known before 1933. Even where education officials were
indifferent to the social studies concepts, unofficial
education organizations have taken up the struggle to
introduce them.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

S AN EXAMPLE, the State Foundation for Education

Reconstruction, at Kempfenhausen, Bavaria, con-
centrated two years of committee work by scores of
teachers, and constant pressure on the Education Ministry,
to create and introduce a new curriculum in all state
elementary schools. Today the plan has been adopted
on a trial basis.

It provides for integrated subject matter to give
youngsters a comprehensive picture of society and the
world they live in, as well as the inclusion of social
studies problems in teaching all subjects. Thus a class in
modern history or Eastern European geography should
also include a discussion of the refugee problem. In fact,
the Kempfenhausen educators are especially anxious
that teachers face this burning Bavarian issue in an ob-
jective way to promote good will and understanding in
the schools where many classes have a majority of
refugee children.

The new curriculum concepts are clearly demonstrated
by the Hesse’s new history book for the fifth and sixth
grades, “Mankind in the Changing World" (Der Mensch
im Wandel der Zeiten) which James Morgan Read, chief
of HICOG's Education and Cultural Relations Division,
calls “as good a history textbook as I have seen in any
country.” Instead of a chronology of dates and dynasties,
it tells how the average man lived through the politico-
social evolution of history from Charlemagne to the
United Nations.

Some chapter headings: "From the Farmers’ World"
(medieval life); ‘Powerful Princes and Free Men" (the
30 Years’ War); ‘Men Want Freedom" (the American
Revolution and Napoleon); “New Science and Tech-
nology” (the Industrial Revolution); "A Labor Leader
Becomes President” (the Weimar Republic); and "The
Destroying Fire" (the Second World War).

Not only objectivity, but the struggle for human rights
is a basic theme of the two-volume book, which was
prepared by a committee of the State School Advisory
Commission.

NFORTUNATELY, FEW GOOD TEXTBOOKS on the
sensitive social science subjects have been produced
in the US Zone. Out of 1,700 revised or newly written
books published since 1945, only a few deal with
history, geography and civics, Notable among them is
an objective history used in Wuerttemberg-Baden high
schools, an 11-volume series similar in content and out-
look to the Hesse book, which is standard in Berlin
schools, and a series of 50 social studies pamphlets pro-
duced by a Bremen education group.

The shortage of textbooks is due primarily to financial
restrictions and not a little to the traditional German
reliance on the “personality of the teacher" rather than
the printed page to convey knowledge. Even many liberal
educators fail to grasp the importance of an objective
text, used as a basis, though not a bible, for instructing
children — particularly in the new and unfamiliar social
studies fields.

APRIL 1951

--- Page 16 ---
The work of HICOG's Education Service Centers, the
exchange of German and American textbook specialists
and even direct HICOG support in the form of grants of
book paper and materials have had substantial influence
on this situation.

The value of reformed content and method of German
education, however, would be diminished without reorgan-
ization of the school system to insure educational
equality for all children. Under the traditional European
two-track system, strongly entrenched in Germany, the
wealthier children received 12 years of elementary and
high school education, while 90 percent of the youngsters
had only 10 or 11 years of full and part-time training in the
inferior elementary-vocational school track. This education-
al disadvantage limited the chances of the workman's child
to gain a position of leadership or influence in society.

Hey! AMERICAN AND GERMAN efforts to stimulate
the development of a unified system, providing equal
elementary and secondary education for all children,
have run squarely into unyielding tradition and class
privilege. Some encouraging developments have occur-
red in Bremen, under the stimulus of a progressive
senator for schools and education, Christian Paulmann,
as well as in Berlin. The Bremen school law provides for
six years’ common elementary school training for all
children (as opposed to the traditional four), liberal op-
portunity for any qualified child (regardless of social or
economic background) to enter high school and an im-
proved vocational training program.

In Hesse, an equally progressive school law, developed
by the State School Advisory Commission, under di-
rection of Heinrich W, Haupt, has a good chance of
passing the state legislature this year.

In Bavaria and Wuerttemberg-Baden proposed school
reform legislation has been snarled up by ministerial
opposition for two years, although a common curriculum
for the first six years has been introduced in the latter
state in recognition of the need for equalized educational
opportunity,

The establishment of free tuition and textbooks in
principle, though not always in practice, has been an
important step in enabling poorer children to get second-
ary education. This fundamental democratic right to free
public education has been under attack from many
quarters, however. In Wuerttemberg-Baden tuition is
only 50 percent free in secondary schools, while Bavaria
recently reimposed a fee of DM 5 ($1.19) per month.

CORES OF OTHER PROBLEMS involved in the democ-

ratization of German education are the objects of
intense reform efforts. Teacher training is being im-
proved through the inclusion of instruction in modern
teaching techniques, and the gradual elevation of teacher
institutes to college level schools. The parent-teacher
movement to apply the citizens’ influence on school af-
fairs, is slowly growing. Scientific educational research
has been revived in Germany by HICOG's Education
Service Centers and many German agencies.

APRIL 1951

Teacher shows Habenhausen girls glass slide during biol-
ogy class. Student is studying specimen under microscope.

Rural boys at Percha school near Starnberg Lake, Bavaria,
turn in savings, which postal bank officials will collect.

Boys and girls of little Percha institution sing religious
songs with teacher providing accompaniment on violin.

--- Page 17 ---
Dragging at every forward step, however, is the prob-
lem of school finances.

“Whenever there is need for economy, the first place
the state governments make their cut seems to be in the
school budget,’ said Dr. Read. ‘Germany needs a united
movement of teachers and citizens to demand more
money and better education for the children.” :

Even in Bremen, where three school buildings as mod-
ern as any to be found in the United States are under
construction, and five more are planned, “education gets
only 12 percent of the state budget,” said Wilhelm Berg-
er, of the State School Board. “In New York State, 24
percent of the budget is appropriated for schools. We
need twice as much as we are getting.”

A special school tax is now under consideration in
Bremen. In other states, however, the budgets are much
less than the Bremen outlay, with little hope for substan-
tial increases in sight.

ERHAPS THE HEALTHIEST SIGNS in German educa-

tion are the numerous independent organizations
working against considerable odds fer a thorough-going
school reform. Organizations like the Bavarian Kempfen-
hausen Foundation, the Hessian State Advisory Com-
mission, the Education Research Center at Wiesbaden
and the German Society for Education are reaching a
broad area of teachers and parents in marshalling support
for democratic evolution of education.

The recent amalgamation of all Bavarian teachers’
organizations into one statewide association under prog-
ressive leadership is particularly encouraging. Many of
these agencies are partially supported by HICOG funds,
but most give every indication of remaining as per-
manent, vital forces in the German education world.

The problems they face are formidable and success
will be achieved only through a long and difficult period
of evolution.

Payne Templeton, chief of the Education and Cultural
Relations Branch, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, warns
against “the usual American impatience in expecting the

Weserbahn Trade School, Bremen's largest vocational
institution, offers apprentices and other students a variety
of courses. Here teacher demonstrates to would-be waiters
how to serve table of eight. Survey reveals average age
of teachers now is 40, as compared with 55 before war.

Three classes at Heilbronn school study conversational
English with local Resident Officer's wife as teacher.

German school system to make a complete turnabout
within a relatively short period of time.’ He added:
“Those of us who have been at this work for some
time have grown to be careful in our evaluation of Ger-
man education. We recognize that the German school
system is not the creation of a group of living persons
but rather the product of centuries of habit and practice.
And we are ready to admit that the traditional German
school has its own solid virtues, though these may not
always lie in the direction of democratic education...
“We Americans cannot subscribe to the idea that the
present schools in Germany are the last word in school
evolution. We do not hesitate to assert that some funda-
mental reforms are necessary. German educators, govern-
ment officials and interested laymen should face up to this
fact and with courage proceed to think and act in the in-
terest of an improved system of schools which will serve
more effectively as a vehicle of true democracy.” +-END

German, US Universities to Be Affiliated

A program of student affiliations between American
and West German universities, which will lead even-
tually to exchanges of students and student papers,
establishment of scholarships, transatlantic round-table
radio programs, and joint activity by university organi-
zations, is currenly being arranged by the World
Student Service Fund.

As a result, affiliations have been developed between
Heidelberg und Yale Universities; Mainz and Howard
Universities; Tuebingen and Princeton and Fiske Uni-
versities; Free University of Berlin with the American
universities of Swarthmore and Columbia; Frankfurt and
Chicago Universities; Marburg and Duke Universities;
and Erlangen and Goettingen and Cornell Universities.

Affiliations have also been established between tech-
nical schools, such as the Stuttgart Technical College and
Georgia Technical Institute, and Hanover Technical Col-
lege and Rensselaer Polytechnical Institute of Troy, N. Y.

APRIL 1951

--- Page 18 ---
Vigil
On
The
Border

By MAJ. WARREN E. CRANE

Rxecutive Officer, 7751st MP Customs Unit

LONG THE INTERNATIONAL BORDERS of
A Germany's US Zone, a force of gleaming white
vehicles carries the officers and men of the 775lst
Military Police Customs Unit, first and only group
of its kind in the US Armed Forces.

It was just two years ago that the 10 officers and
110 enlisted men in the 775Ist joined Germany's
3,000 customs officials in a border vigil aimed at

crippling what had become the world's largest
smuggling operation.
The West German government, and the 46,000,000

persons living under its rule, had become the targets for
border-running which reached an estimated $500,000,000
each year —a blow below the belt to the Federal Republic's
treasury and to the victimized industries.

it was and is the mission of the MP unit to bolster
German customs enforcement, simultaneously to super-

vise border checks on Allied personnel along the 24
highway, rail, air and water points authorized to them
as entry-exit lanes, and protect US interest in the move-

ment of strategic materials to Eastern ‘‘satellite" nations.
In the first two years of their operation, the Americans

teamed up with Germans to hit at rackets involving
illegal currency exchanges, diversion of gift parcels, the
importation of so-called luxury goods and placed a
restraining hand on the arm of those who would permit
passage of items detrimental to the peace of the world.

HEIR JOB IS FAR FROM DONE. It represents a con-

tinuing fight against forces which are irreparably
damaging the German economy and the Allied defense
effort.

But their record of achievement shows they have made
headway.

Under the aegis of the Army customs team, all US and
Allied personnel have been brought under EUCOM and
HICOG customs regulations, the import of black market
items through APO channels has been substantially
curbed, the operation of international smuggling rings

APRIL 1951

15

<r nOrOmaNT A a .

Even at 10,000 feet above sea level, about as great a
height as a soldier can attempt duty without flight pay,
Customs Unit MP may be found on patrol — as here on
Zugspitze close to Austrian frontier. (US Army photos)

has been here and there retarded, and the German ex-
port licensing authority has been made to realize that
although authority is theirs, the US and her allies con-
tinue to keep a watchful eye on their activity.

The unit was formed at the suggestion of Gen. Lucius
D. Clay, then commander-in-chief of all US Forces in
occupied Germany. Aware that the prestige and interest
of the Allies was suffering from the smuggling activities
of a handful of people, the General had also received an
appeal from German officials to put a halt to the multi-
million dollar business of border running. General Clay
estimated that the flow of contraband goods and cur-
rencies over Germany's boundaries was draining as much
as $200,000,000 a year from German industrial production
in addition to depriving the Allies of machinery, equipment
and vital stores.

General Clay was determined this heyday should end.

T THAT TIME THERE WERE almost no controls
along the borders which would prevent violations;
German customs officials were not authorized to halt
occupation personnel, so Allied cars sped unchecked
across the border points.
Against this background, Allied High Commission laws
and EUCOM circulars were published, establishing high-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
s

PASSAU ~NURNBERG — FRANKFURT/M

LES wos OOSTENDE (Lone

MP and West German customs official check passengers
on Oriental Express at Passau after it had left Soviet
Zone of Austria on its way to various West Europe cities.

way and rail crossing points for Allied personnel, laying
down import and export restrictions for them, and creat-
ing the first MP customs unit in history.

The job of organizing the unit fell to Brig. Gen. Norman
Schwarzkopf of New Jersey State Police fame, then
deputy provost marshal for EUCOM, and to Lt. Col.
McDonald Rigdon, a veteran of 21 years’ law enforce-
ment. High standards were erected for the men who as-
sumed the unique patrol task. ‘This organization has top
priority," the General explained, “and we did every-
thing possible to insure getting the cream of the crop in
EUCOM.” Twenty percent of the crew originally selected
were turned back. The final outfit is made up almost
entirely of seasoned combat veterans.

The first selectees and all subsequent replacements
have been sent through intensive training courses at the
EUCOM Military Police School at Oberammergau. Every
three months, refresher courses are held for MP’s on the
job. There, veteran and fledgling hear of new develop-
ments in smuggling and of methods conceived to combat
them. They are instructed in HICOG, EUCOM and Ger-
man customs laws and regulations.

O COL. GEORGE B. BUELL, a former commandant
of the US Army’s Military Police School, it seemed
when he assumed command of the unit in October 1949
that the customs patrol needed an internal link to strength-
en its preventive and detection work. A group of the
Criminal Investigation Division agents was organized at
the direction of Maj. Gen. John L. McKee, EUCOM pro-
vost marshal, and assigned to the customs investigative
work. Today these agents of the CiD, commanded by
Lt. Col. Carl Grimsley, and the uniformed MP’s work
hand in glove to smash international smuggling rackets
and stop the unlicensed movement of warlike stores.
As a tule, four men each are assigned to the rail,
highway, air and water crossing points authorized by

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Schedule A of HICOG Law 43. They do their work at
stations where the US Zone borders coincide with the
international borders of Austria and Czechoslovakia, at
Bremerhaven, and at airports in Stuttgart, Frankfurt,
Munich, Bremen and Nuremberg.

The Customs Unit, with its MP uniforms of white leg-
gings, helmets and lanyards (plus a distinctive Customs
Unit brassard), was given the job of supervising German
inspection of occupation personnel and their baggage
and observing the manner in which the Germans con-
ducted their own affairs.

The unit was empowered to hold or to arrest violators
and to haul them into Military Government (now HICOG)
courts, which have the authority to impose penalties of
up to two years’ imprisonment or $2,000 fine, or both,
and to seize and hold, pending clearance, any material
the movement of which it deemed improper.

HE PLACING OF US occupation personnel under Ger-

man customs control was considered one of the most
significant forward steps in the occupation. It was the
first instance where German officials were granted juris-
diction over any members of the Allied Forces. “It was
a critical test of the Germans’ capacity to manage their
own affairs," said one Customs Group official. “Frankly,
we held our breath, but it went off without a hitch.”

The MP customs men were charged with guiding this
transfer as smoothly and effectively as possible. Their
presence at the customs control points had a_ twin
effect: they protected Americans from overzealous Ger-
man guards, and conversely gave the Germans the back- |
bone to haul in the violators.

Secondary duty of the pioneer outfit was — and is —
to patrol the international borders to observe the man-
ner in which German customs officials conduct their
business. Keeping up with developments all along the
border and not just at US crossing points is part of the
job. At least one member of the 775ist performs his
winter border patrol on skis.

Through their vigilance, the khaki-clad border detec-
tives have succeeded in paring Allied smuggling opera-
tions to what the Army estimates is an “irreducible

Customs Unit MP during patrol quizzes fisherman at
Bremerhaven on any unusual activities along waterfront.

--- Page 20 ---
minimum," and have denied exit to quantities of vital goods
which otherwise would have been allowed to go.

But the far more substantial task, of licking the Eu-
rope-wide smuggling operation across German borders,
will not be so easily accomplished. European smuggling
is tightly organized, extensively financed and expertly
manned, with a network of informants and receiving
points which extends throughout the continent.

OOPERATION OF THE MP UNIT has none the less

greatly tightened the German customs net in helping
to detect and hold smugglers of all nationalities. Many
of the unit's most profitable strikes have come when
persons disguised as Allied soldiers, transporting goods
in US-registered automobiles or trucks, have undergone
MP scrutiny.

One month's haul nets everything from US green-
backs to black powder, airplane parts, contraband
sunglasses, precision instruments, combat vehicles, tool-
making machinery, huge lathes, radar sets, etc.

Such a haul might be considered typical, but the
methods used to detect the contraband are often as
varied as they are ingenious.

The discovery of an increasing number of cars with
secret compartments led to internal checkups by the
Customs Unit investigative squads, and subsequent dis-
covery of a highly refined racket. The cars were, ap-
parently, being operated out of the Munich and Salzburg
areas as part of an illegal auto-rental business. Foreign
businessmen and tourists were renting or borrowing
American vehicles from irresponsible owners, thus gain-
ing access to US gasoline and oil supplies otherwise not
available,

In return for rental of these cars, many were expect-
ed to make trips across the international borders into
Czechoslovakia or Austria, carrying back and forth a
steady flow of black market goods. Ringleaders of the
racket had devised means of constructing ingenious gas-
tank, fender and false-top compartments.

T KIEFERSFELDEN HIGHWAY crossing point, a
A customs trooper was solicitously inspecting an over-
heated motor — and found 40 cartons of cigarettes stuffed
between the grill and the radiator.

At Scharnitz, an MP took a skeptical look at the fat
man who was about to drive his car across the Austrian
border into Germany. A body check took all the stuff-
ing out of him — 150 high-grade silk scarves.

At the German-Austrian border, a jeep using only
front-wheel drive caught the interest of a Customs Unit
GI, who subsequently discovered a cigarette-filled se-
cret compartment where the rear-drive shaft should
have been.

Often the smugglers operate behind a blind, victimiz-
ing some organization or individual. For example, 200
tons of coffee addressed to the International Refugee
Organization were shipped into the US Zone from Switz-
erland. IRO reported not having ordered iit; investigators
tracked the order back through Switzerland to Brazil.

APRIL 1951

17.

Permanent
fantry near Eisenstein is viewed by border patrol and
accompanying German customs official and interpreter.

roadblock erected by Czechoslovakian in-

By checking signatures on bills of lading, the agents
traced the men who intended to pick up the consign-
ment, posing as IRO representatives.

At Waidhaus, official gateway to Czechoslovakia,
MP's double-checked a shipping document and ordered
the opening of a large box tagged machine’ tools, en
route to Prague from Amsterdam. They found a ship-
ment of military aircraft parts, stolen from an RAF
warehouse in England.

Also at Waidhaus, MP's checked a load of “books”
going to Prague. The “books” were found to actually be
US Army training manuals, regulations and similar papers
which they immediately turned over to Intelligence.

Three railroad cars jammed with illegal exports bound
for the Middle East almost passed the Austrian-German
border disguised as household goods. Alert MP’s ordered
crates opened and stood back to inventory the motor-
cycles, factory machinery, welding equipment, bobbypins,
sewing needles and a dental chair.

HE MP’S GREW SO PROFICIENT they even discover-
ed rolls of dollars in illegal greenbacks concealed in
toothpaste tubes.

Their latest interest is in the movement of surgical
instruments and hospital supplies going by aircraft to
private firms in the British Crown Colony of Hongkong.

But while the Customs Unit was perfecting its tech-
nique at the border, it became apparent that the flow of
black market items into the zone via APO must be
stopped.

At the end of May 1949, US Zone customs officials
struck at this last stronghold of occupation black market
operations, They recommended modification and amend-
ment of the rules to keep Allied occupation members
from importing commercial quantities of coffee, fats,
cocoa and other critical items through the Army Post
Office and by air freight shipments.

The drive against misuse of the APO’s was concen-
trated in amendments to Circular 68, to “positively
prohibit’ the use of APO facilities for import in com-
mercial quantities of any black market goods.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Checkpoints on Eastern border are pointed out by Col.
George B. Buell, unit commander, to Maj. Warren E. Crane,
operations and executive officer and author of article.

N FEBRUARY 1951, the Customs Unit received informa-

tion that gold was entering US-occupied Germany
disguised in cans as meat. Agents immediately laid traps
in every means of entry and discovered the gold coming
in at the Bremen APO. A surveillance team was placed
in position and the addressee was arrested when he arrived
to claim his packages. In this way, approximately $50,000
worth of 24-carat gold was confiscated.

The operation at Rhine-Main airport is typical of
those in the interior of the US Zone, A six-man Customs
Unit team — with one or two MP's on duty constantly
— works together to supervise the customs activities.
Passenger baggage and currency, both incoming and
outgoing, and the freight carried by commercial airlines
must undergo a check by German customs authorities
MP's keep a watchful eye on the entire procedure al-
though their complete jurisdiction extends only to per-
sons belonging to the occupation, (Such may be of any
nationality, but sponsored by or associated with the
Allied occupation of Germany.)

Non-occupation personnel traveling on commercial
airplanes (military planes are an Air Force responsibility)
must submit to currency control besides undergoing a
baggage check. Both are conducted by Germans.

Inspection of freight is a much bigger operation. Each of
the airlines has its separate storage layouts and customs
officials must examine them all. In-transit consignments
(destined for further shipment) may not be opened, but
all Frankfurt freight needs customs approval. All goods
are checked against the strategic materials list and must
be properly documented.

OR EFFECTIVE ZONE-WIDE control, the Customs
Unit operates on a three-region basis. The Munich
1egion covers the southern half of the US Zone in Ger-
many. The Frankfurt region is responsible for the northern
half of the zone and for the US Sector of Berlin. The
Bremen Enclave region maintains its headquarters in the
dock area of Bremerhaven Port of Embarkation.
In Bremerhaven, customs MP's maintain an extensive
lookout over the waterfront. To the signal tower over-
looking the Weser River comes information by telephone,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

telegraph and teletype about river shipping, providing the
maritime lifestream for the US Occupation Forces.

Small boats are an ever-present problem for customs
law enforcement in that area, As the continual move-
ment of fishing boats, tugs, barges and other small craft
provides contact with large ships, customs-running traf-
fic is always prevalent. Ever-watchful customs men
make frequent patrols with occasional stops to scan
river traffic with binoculars.

Moreover, like census takers, the customs men gather
information from fishermen and commercial shippers who
have an opportunity to observe waterfront activity while
on the job.

Customs agents uncovered in August 1949 the biggest
smuggling operation ever detected in Bremerhaven when
they impounded an entire ship loaded with contraband
machinery and vehicles.

USTOMS UNIT MEN no longer check the “controlled

movements” which carry the vast number of occu-
pation personnel entering and leaving the theater from
this port. The Customs Unit headquarters is located in
the HICOG Headquarters Building in Frankfurt, to assure
close liaison with HICOG’s East-West Trade Group and
the External Financial Relations Branch.

The East-West Trade Group, of which Val Gaertner
is chief, transmits to the Customs Unit headquarters its
controls desired on East-West trade and the Customs
Unit records all shipments of “restricted materials”
across the border and forwards this information to the
State Department through the East-West Trade Group.
The External Financial Relations Branch handles all
matter of liaison with German customs officials.

The MP customs men have shouldered the challenging
task of intercepting the illegal outflow of Germany's
economic lifestream. They know, that the huge losses
of customs levies and state taxes incurred by smuggling,
damage the recovery of Germany's industry and de-
plete the federal treasury; they know that the American
taxpayer is pouring dollars into the occupation to help
effect this recovery.

Meanwhile the swing in emphasis from smuggled
commercial goods to more important western precision —
made tools and raw materials in great demand in the
East has made the Cusioms Unit an even more valuable
organization in America’s effort toward a more secure
and peaceful Europe. -+ END

This mammoth rolling grooving lathe was on its way to
Eastern war effort when 7751st MP Customs Unit halted
contraband shipment at West German rai] checkpoint.

--- Page 22 ---
“World’s Worst Theater”

By WILFRIED SALIGER

Chief, German Editorial Section, Public Relations Division

VER SEEN A THEATER that publicly boasts it’s the
E world’s worst? Well, believe it or not, one such
actually exists and, what's more, is doing very well, month
in and month out. And if you reside in Frankfurt, chances
are that you unwittingly have passed it many a time.

It is not a big theater. Near St. Paul’s Church, in the
heart of Hesse’s largest city, you enter what was once
the gateway to a patrician house. Following a series of
gaily-colored posters which point the way, you soon find
yourself in a windowless, somewhat damp, but neatly-
whitewashed basement. That is the auditorium — and at
the same time the stage—of "The World's Worst Theater.”
In German it is called Die Schmiere, the colloquial term
applied to the once numerous third-rate touring com-
panies or road shows which did the small towns.

Staffed by a group of five who do their own writing,

composing and staging, and with virtually no equipment
or costumes except perhaps some old fancy clothes, Die
Schmiere is typical of the modern German political
cabaret. Typical, that is, in so far as these pocket-size
theaters can be classified at all, for there are approxi-

mately as many types as there are cabarets in the country.

In all their barbed witticisms, pointed puns and often
risque parodies, these political cabarets have only one
thing in common: the principle that all is grist for their
mills. They ridicule everything and everybody, including
themselves. That is their business. Characteristically, their
headline their programs "Shouldn't that be prohibited?” or
"For heaven's sake, don’t avoid a quarrel!" They label

theirs the “theater for people and fools” and describe
themselves as “poisonous mushrooms,” “hornets” or, even
more deprecatingly, “an admirably poor cabaret.”

NNY AND A LITTLE SENSELESS though that may
em, the cabarets serve a very definite purpose.

F.

Germans are known the world over as very stern and
businesslike people who take even the most trivial and
silliest things seriously and thus sometimes unfortunately
fail to see the border which separates good sense from
nonsense. Recognizing this tendency, the cabarets un-
failingly make it their business to magnify the wrongs
of the day in pictures so drastic that even the sternest

and most pompous cannot fail to recognize their own
follies and laugh about them.

“We show you a negative and you develop your own
Pictures of it," one cabaret prefaces its program. There
are lots of such negatives! For half a century now their
contemporaries have been indefatigable in supplying the
cabarets with new and ever more worthwhile material
for derision.

In early political cabaret times the stiff-necked, heel-
clicking army officer was their pet victim and they rode

APRIL 1951

19

him until his death in the revolution of 1918. He was
succeeded by the “bourgeois” citizen, whose wing collar
and derby hat were favorite targets. Then came the
“class-conscious” labor leader, a man who takes off his
rings, wristwatch and tie before he goes to a party rally.
And throughout its 50 years, of course, the political
cabaret has caricatured the deathless German civil serv-
ant (Beamte), invariably portrayed as an elderly, bald-
headed semi-intellectual, with pincenez of 1900 vintage
and shabby clothes, a harmless, backward character so
devoted to duty that he fines himself when he discovers
that he has been a day late in paying his income tax!

ITLER'S RISE TO POWER brought the cabarets a
wealth of new material. Not only could they dig up
the old Prussian officer jokes again, but Hitler's own
party offered characters even better suited to cabaret
purposes. For understandable reasons these jokes were
not made public during the Nazi regime. Deprived of their
best themes, the cabarets lingered on in suspended anima-
tion until 1945, when the Occupation Powers lifted the
ban on criticism of the government.
They were not very grateful, however, and struck right
back, mocking the new rulers, too — or at least those who
were democratic enough to take it. The Russians and

As part of German contribution to Western defense, this
takeoff suggests curvaceous “Lili Marlene," long ideal
of German soldiers, be sent to boost the troops’ morale.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Anything goes in way of props. Here general of World
War I vintage, in Imperial helmet, is shown with high
officer of ‘European Army," reporting “Nothing new!”

their East German satellites, of course, had their own
ideas about these political cabarets. An ordinance pro-
mulgated by the Socialist Unity Party (SED) told all actors
that it is their foremost duty “to employ their art as a
means of explaining to all Germans the criminal role of
the Anglo-American warmongers, to ridicule saboteurs,
and to promote optimistic vitality among the working
classes."

The West German cabarets are hampered by no such
regulations. They pick their victims freely and the gov-
ernments, German and Allied, are their favorite targets.
Foremost ranks what the German man-in-the-street
briefly and all-inclusively refers to as "Bonn," comprising
everybody in the government from the Chief Executive
down to the little bureaucrats, including last but not
least the Bundestag, West Germany's lower house of
parliament.

Once they showed on the stage an innocent pedestrian
who entered the restaurant of Bonn's parliament build-

RIAS, American-sponsored Berlin station, puts on politica]
cabaret program twice a month, features stellar talent.
At piano is Guenther Neumann, producer of two film hits.

Berlin's “‘Greifi am Zoo" razzes FDJ, Communist youth
organization, by staging “‘mass demonstration’ with
snappy slogans and chants in front of “Red Ox Inn,”

ing and found Germany's top politicians busily talking
shop. So he called a waiter and asked him why the rep-
resentatives did not hold their discussions in the plen-
ary hall.

“They never do there,” the waiter replied.

“Why not?”

“Well, can you talk while you're sleeping?”

EITHER HAVE THEY let the US Congress get by un-

scathed. When the 1950 Security Act was passed they
staged a scene showing a German at a US consulate,
worried because he could not get a visa on account of
his Nazi record. Promptly a fellow-countryman offered
him this solution: “It's very, very easy; just tell them
you were working on atomic energy and they'll take you
there free of charge. And if you have any trouble get-
ting back, tell them you are a Communist, and you'll
find yourself right back where you came from."

Orson Welles is a popular target; ‘‘Mausefalle” program
shows actor (right) performing the cardsharper's trick
Welles did on stage in his performance of “Faust.”

--- Page 24 ---
ie Schmiere," self-proclaimed “world's worst theater,”
offers advice for 1951: ‘‘Humans, let's become human!"
Manager writes, produces and appears in all programs.

To Germans, the typical American traveler is a young
man in sloppy, gay-colored clothes, straw hat and
window-sized horn-rimmed glasses, with a notebook
in one hand and a camera in the other, to record his
memories, Such a character, for instance, they portrayed
standing in front of Goethe's (rebuilt) birthplace in Frank-
furt, wondering why this building showed no bomb
damage in the midst of heaps of rubble. ‘Naturally!"
said his American companion, “That's proof we've al-
ways shown respect for culture!"

Then there is the gag on the souvenir hunters who
were enticed by the doorman of this historic building
into buying odd bits of wood he insisted were chips
from Goethe's bombed-out desk!

HE CRADLE OF THE POLITICAL CABARET is not
Germany, but France. To be precise, it was the
famous Latin Quarter of Paris, the Bohemia where stu-

“Mr. Typical American Tourist,’ complete with chewing
gum, sunglasses and sticker-covered suitcase, is demand-
ing a ticket for 'Oberammerragout" (Oberammergau).

Auditorium of ‘Die Schmiere” holds only 60 seats, often
must accommodate 100, Typical audience laughs heartily
as artists direct humorous shafts at its contemporaries.

dents, artists, poets and composers have their home. A
French barkeeper first got the idea of utilizing the idle
talents of his usually penniless customers to attract a
more solvent public. Working as they were for a meager
board, the Bohemians struck back and vented all their
sarcasm on the arrogant, caste-ridden society of 1880 for
which they had to perform. But the French had a sound
sense of humor and the newly-born political cabaret
prospered.

Ernst von Wolzogen, a German actor and stage man-
ager who visited Paris in 1900 found the idea inspiring.
Returning to Germany he borrowed some 10,000 marks
and went to work. Just 50 years ago, on Jan. 18, 1901,
the curtain went up for the first performance of his
Berlin cabaret, called Ueberbrett}, Ten days later Wol-
zogen paid off his debts in hard cash, The cabaret
was a hit, But success brings imitators and soon dozens
of plagiarists were frantically trying to snatch away

East-West quarrels will destroy world, program warns —
and shows Ivan kidnaping Miss Germany while Allies
(with United Kingdom in kilts) disconcertedly look on.

--- Page 25 ---
Political cabaret raises laughs by portraying “European
Army” recruit who brings along his wife and attorney

to tell him what not to do. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

some of his business. So exactly did they copy Wolzogen
that one published a ‘want ad” in a Berlin paper, asking
for ‘a baronet able to write some poetry." The result
was that the attraction of the new theater wore off
rapidly. Within one year Ueberbrett] was dead, and so
were most of its imitators.

It seems that the fate of this mother of German caba-
rets set a kind of precedent. Since they require only
limited means and facilities, innumerable rivals appear-
ed during the succeeding half century, mushroomed to
fame and then disappeared again overnight, either for
financial reasons, because their good actors and writers
were looking for something better, or simply because
they in time ran out of ideas. A lapse of years saw new
targets for mockery and satire develop, and eventually
a new cabaret sprang up.

OWEVER, SOME, SUCH as Berlin’s Katakombe or

Hamburg’s Bronzekeller became permanent institu-
tions and are an accepted part of cultural life in those
cities. Business was quite prosperous until Hitler's ban
struck the cabarets a near-mortal blow and their activities
remained at a virtual standstill until 1945.

Today Berlin features a number of political cabarets
again, particularly as the East-West struggle over the
former capital offers a most fertile field. In West Germany,
notably Hamburg, Duesseldorf, Frankfurt and Stuttgart,
they have returned to life, drawing strong public ac-
claim. All are rather new. Kommoedchen in Duesseldorf,
with a record of four years, already claims to be a veteran.

Their staffs are mostly young, intelligent and resource-
ful, and come from all walks of life. One noted West
German cabaret team has four male members, of whom

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

one was a salesman, another a doctor and the third a
mechanic, while the fourth had been a student before
financial straits forced him to earn a living. Few caba-
rets have a regular stage and auditorium. Most perform
in restaurants, nightclubs or improvised rooms, even
basements.

Critics — and there is no lack of them — have main- —
tained that the much-discussed “crisis” of the German
theater has also spread to the political cabarets. Some feel
that they lack ideas, that their jokes about Bonn and the
occupation are a bore, but judging by the upsurging atten-
dance figures the public does not think so. To the caba-
rets’ delight, the all too serious have even argued that
in such dangerous times they should leave out delicate
issues, such as Germany's participation in Western de-
fense, because they might weaken the democratic position,
Such advice merely adds to the cabarets’ programs, And
yet other critics have held that actually the cabaret is
dead. The real cabaret was more literary, they say, in-
dicating that they consider the present ones just a degener-
ated circus.

However, the cabarets do not care. As individual enter-
prises they may — and probably will — disappear, but
others will take their place. As an institution they are
invincible, always bobbing up again like corks —or the
proverbial bad penny. They have done so for 50 years,
and most probably will still be doing so 50 years hence
to mock those critics of today who have pronounced
them “dead.” +END

Tourism in Germany Soars

Foreign tourists in Germany last summer numbered
712,000 as compared to 179,101 in the summer of 1949.
German Central Tourist Association figures covering the ~
period from April 1 to Sept. 20, also showed that ©
overnight lodgings taken by foreigners rose from 420,711
in 1949 to 1,549,000 in 1950. :

Americans, with registrations of 133,386, or 19 percent
of the total, and 295,039 overnight lodgings, headed the
group of foreign guests to the land of the Rhine and the
Alps. This total is 29 percent above the 1949 figures,

The British were second in 1950 with 15.1 percent
while the Swiss were third with 8.9 percent.

The total number of German and foreign registrations”
for the 1950 period of survey was 7,164,000, of which
9.9 percent were by foreigners. Overnight lodgings
totaled 28,875,000, with 5.9 percent made up by foreigners.

Air Passenger Traffic Increasing

Civilian air traffic at US Zone airfields increased by 123
percent during 1950, with more than 382,000 passengers —
utilizing its six civilian airports.

The air terminals in Berlin, Bremen, Rhine-Main (Frank- _
furt), Munich, Nuremberg and Stuttgart serviced 171,000 ~
air travelers in 1949. Rhine-Main led the list last year ©
with 200,000 travelers. The Frankfurt port also processed ~
more than 60 percent of the air cargo, which totaled almost! 3
1,500,000,000 pounds. a

APRIL 1951

--- Page 26 ---
Luise Albertz (left), first woman mayor of a large German town, is one of the six women members of the SPD's executive
committee and chairman of the Bundestag's committee on petitions; Herta Gotthelf (center), author of this article, is also
an outstanding member of the SPD executive while Louise Schroeder (right), Berlin's acting mayor in 1947-48, is
now its official representative in Bonn— convincing evidence that women are active in German public life. And, Frau
Gotthelf stresses, there are relatively and numerically more women in the Bundestag than in either Britain's House of
Commons or the United States Congress. Of 402 members, 31 are women. (Photos by E. Teriet and Franz Blaha)

Women in Germany

By HERTA GOTTHELF

Executive Member of the Social Democratic Party

T WOULD BE DIFFICULT to really get “under the skin" side interests, But among those millions of others I do not
of a foreign country even after a visit of some length. think there is less interest in public affairs and in the state
Yet, through various journeys, long and short, into other of the world than in their counterparts in other countries.
European countries, my conviction has been strengthened As my experience comes mostly from work with these
that the average German woman is not more “unpolitical” women in particular, Ishall relate something of their organi-
than the average woman anywhere else. zations and their participation in the life of their country.
Of course, in Germany, as in all other countries, it would
not be simple to say who really is the “average woman.” N THE BUNDESTAG (Lower House of Parliament), there
Is it the working woman who, after long and difficult hours are relatively and even numerically, more women mem-
at the office, has to face equally long hours of housework? bers than in either the House of Commons or the US Con-
Is it the expellee woman who for years has tried desper- gress (31 out of 402).
ately against heavy odds to give some semblance of home It is true there are not as yet as many women in respon-
to the emergency quarters in which millions of persons sible administrative posts in Germany as there are in the
are still living? Or is it the smart young office worker who United States or Great Britain, but wherever a suitable
seemingly has nothing in her pretty head but clothes and woman can be found for a higher administrative post there
dancing? are very seldom real difficulties to place her. More
Is it one of the thousands of lonely intellectual women probable as a cause for the lack of women in such posts
who is bitterly and aggressively of the opinion that all the is the fact that under the Nazi regime, only dyed-in-the-
ills of the world would be righted if only women and not wool party adherents were able to complete their studies.
men held the reins? Or is it one of that tribe of still well- As a result there are not many qualified persons to draw
to-do middle-class women whose disinterest in the suf- from who do not have a politically tainted past.
ferings of others and the fate of their own country could If it comes to participation in town, district and village
not be shaken by war or postwar miseries? councils, the proportion of women to men is about equal
Judging from the utterances of foreigners in Germany to that in other countries. Above all, these women are
—be they short-term visitors from abroad or residents of doing genuinely good work in-all the committees and
Many years’ standing—one is tempted to believe. that wherever they are called upon,
only the last two categories come to their notice. Before Louise Schroeder became acting mayor of Berlin
It is true, especially among intellectual women and among from May 1947 to December 1948, Luise Albertz of Ober-
middle-class wives, one does not meet too often with out- hausen in the Rhineland was the only woman mayor of

APRIL 1951 23 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
a large German town and she is now a member of the
Bundestag and chairman of the influential parliamentary
committee dealing with petitions.

Millions of women today are the sole support of their
families, since so many husbands died in the war, or are
still missing or are prisoners, or came home so disabled
that they are now added burdens economically on their
wives. Millions of unmarried women have dependent rela-
tives to look after — most of them persons bombed out of
their homes or refugees from East Germany. None of these
women have much spare time and it is a real sacrifice to
them to attend a meeting of any sort.

This does not mean, however, that they are one and all
uninterested .in what transpires about them. All the elec-
tions show that women are just as interested in election
issues as men. In election meetings, provided the subject
appeals to them, the attendance of women is very high.

N THE LARGE POLITICAL PARTIES women take an

active part, and not, as might be supposed, a back seat.
In the 10-person executive of the Christian Democratic
Union is one woman, Dr.Helene Weber. In the Social
Democratic Party executive, there are six women out of
30 members — Luise Albertz, Lisa Albrecht, Herta Gott-
helf, Anni Krahnstoever, Louise Schroeder and Elisabeth
Selbert. The Center Party is led by the very able Helene
Wessel. The Freie Deutsche Partei (Free German Party)
does not have a woman in its executive. Leading women
in the FDP, however, are Margarete Huetter and Maria Ik.
Margot Kalinke of the Deutsche Partei is a feared if not
exactly beloved debater in the Bundestag. The Commu-
nists are not very attractive to women. Still, in their young
member of the Bundestag, Grete Thiele, they have a very
able representative.

A special provision for the training of women has been
included in the program of the CDU, the SPD and the KPD
(Communist Party). The CDU draws its main strength
among women from the Catholic organizations, which are
very active and very cleverly led. The KPD tries to attract
women through so-called “above-party’’ organizations

Dr. George N. Shuster (right), US state commissioner for
Bavaria, distributes entry blanks for contest sponsored by
Freedoms Foundation for youngsters between 12 and 18
who were offered cash prizes for best essays on ‘The Free
Way of Life." Looking on is John A. Biggs, education
director of Freedoms Foundation. (PRB OLCB photo by Maske)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

such as the Demokratischer Frauenbund (Communist-run—
Democratic Women's League), peace-committees and so
forth. They also use infiltration tactics into the non-politi-
cal women's organizations. The SPD has a special central
women's department with women's groups in all cities and
towns and wherever possible in county districts. Women
are represented in all policy-making bodies of the party,

Apart from these political women's groups there are
more than 800,000 women organized in trade unions and,
like trade union women everywhere, they are a particu-
larly well-informed, active and self-confident body of
women. Most of the great industrial unions have their
own women's departments and a central woman secretary,
The same holds true for the DGB (German Trade Union
Federation) «and all district and local trades councils.

Outstanding among these trade union women are Liesel
Kipp-Kaule, the woman secretary of the textile workers’
union, and Clare Doehring, who defeated Dr. Theodor
Heuss (now president of the Federal Republic) in his own
constituency in Stuttgart in the 1949 Bundestag elections —
in which she stood as an SPD candidate.

Another organization with a large and _still-growing
membership of women is the German Cooperative Society,
This society has a central women's department and
women's groups in all parts of western Germany and Berlin.

Predominantly run by women and having large woman
memberships are the great welfare organizations: the Prot-
estant “Innere Mission,” the Catholic Caritas, the Ar
beiterwohlfahrt (Workers Welfare Organization), the Red
Cross and the Wohlfahrisverband (Welfare Association).

ESIDES THESE MORE OR LESS politically-interested _
organizations, there are housewives’ groups, county
women's organizations, groups of professional women
and groups of the old pre-1933 German equivalent to the
suffragette movement of other countries. &
These groups of the old middle-class women’s move-
ment are today the only remnant of the past in which ©
one can hear the strong language of feminism. Women
of the political-interest groups, trade unions, cooperatives —
and the like, believe that in Germany today it is vital ”
that men and women work side by side for the recon-—
struction of the country. They think that the so-called”
“women's problems” are problems of the highest political —
order and can be solved only on a political level. In conse- ~
quence, German women who want to further the struggle
for full equality are not in favor of special nonpolitical or
so-called “above party” women's clubs and organizations. _
For example, they know that the question of “the pay
for the job” or the alteration of the reactionary German
marriage legislation can not be solved by women all being |
“good girls together” but solely by their active participa- ’
tion in the life of political parties. d
Institutions may be different in other countries, but all
German institutions are not necessarily bad or liable
change simply because they grew up in Germany, After
all, this nation has had a strong humanistic and liber
tradition apart from the 12 years of Nazi rule and from
the reactionary trends in the 1870-1918 Reich of 2
Hohenzollern Kaisers. +E

APRIL

--- Page 28 ---
Wagner Returns to Bayreuth

By MILDRED A. SMITH

N AMERICAN NEWSPAPERMAN stood dejectedly
A\ outside Wagner's new Festival Playhouse in 1876
bemoaning the fact that he had been sent all the way
from New York to Bavaria to cover the first Bayreuth
Festival and was unable to get a coveted ticket to the final
rehearsals.

Just then two men slipped out the front door. One, mop-
ping his brow in the terrific heat, murmured: “One must
be a regular Wagnerite to stand more of that!"

The correspondent immediately offered to buy one of
their tickets.

“Where's the best beer in Bayreuth?’ came the reply.

‘Angermann’'s."

“Take the ticket.”

The correspondent did not know what was implied
until some days later when, having sat through the four-
opera “Ring of the Nibelung” cycle, he sat down, ex-
hausted, to write his story: “We are finally relieved of
gods and other supernatural beings, whose ultimate con-
flagration in Valhalla is now heard of with unmixed satis-
faction.”

That week a Berlin critic also said something derogatory
about the Ring, whereupon a Wagner defender hit him
with a beer mug and broke his nose.

HOUGH THE CONTROVERSY now is limited to con-

versation among music enthusiasts and articles in
musical publications, pro- and anti-Wagnerites are staging
battles today over the musical, aesthetic, moral or meta-
physical values of the famed composer's music-dramas
about mythical gnomes, and gods, symbols of wealth,
power, love and greed.

Wagner's status, as he continues to provide sport for his
enemies and delight for the faithful, is best described by
a report on this year's Bayreuth Festival, an annual event
featuring Wagner's works which is being revived in 1951
after a lapse of 12 years. This year's celebration, begin-
ning July 29, marks the 75th anniversary of the world
famous music festival.

Ninety percent of the tickets for the 75th anniversary
festival were sold by the last day of March, four extra
days have been added to the original 24-day schedule,
and reservations have been requested for 1952. A com-
Parable rush for tickets has never been experienced by
festival officials.

Between 25,000 and 30,000 visitors will make up the
Various audiences seeing two complete Ring cycles, an
pening program of Beethoven's “Ninth Symphony” con-
ducted by Wilhelm Furtwaengler, and six performances
each of Wagner's Parsifal and Die Meistersinger. Con-
ductors for the Wagner works will be alternately Hans
Knappertsbusch and Herbert Karajan.

APRIL 1951

N A COUNTRY which under the slogan ‘Music in Ger-

many” this year is staging some 20 major and minor
musical celebrations, the Wagner festival towers above
all in international importance, The casts as well as the
audience will represent many countries, in keeping with
Wagner's original desire to have the best to be had.
Astrid Varnay of New York's Metropolitan Opera will sing
Bruennhilde, chief of those wild Valkyr maidens whose
steeds charge through the air. She and other foreign guests
will join singers from all of Germany's leading opera
houses and the Vienna State Opera.

When rehearsals get under way, the town will not be
unlike a description Norwegian composer Edvard Grieg
wrote in 1876, the year of the first Bayreuth Festival: "As
I sit here, I hear Wagner's motifs being hummed, sung,
yodeled, bellowed from the garden.” Another writer said,
“Here some soprano declaimed at the top of her voice,
there a tenor's voice floated down from his room, across
the street a bass practiced."

Tourists from the world over have been coming to Bayreuth
for the Wagner festival since its inception in 1876. This
year's festival, the first in 12 years, is practically sold out.
US and British tourists were heavy buyers, (Renner photo)

--- Page 29 ---
The spirit and the forces behind the forthcoming 75th
Bayreuth Festival are shown above. Portrait and piano of
Richard Wagner provide an appropriate setting for study
of one of the famed composer's scores by (I. to r.) Hans
Knappertsbusch, who will conduct first “Ring” cycle and
“Parsifal; Wolfgang Wagner, grandson of composer and
Festival business director; Herbert von Karajan, who will
conduct the second “Ring” series and “Der Meistersinger,”
and Wieland Wagner, composer's grandson and director
of Festival's artistic and stage management, who painted
study in oils at right. (Schodl photo)

Grieg was only one of the illustrious musicians drawn
that first year to the tempestuous musical event which
introduced a new art form decreeing that.singers and
orchestra be a submissive ensemble to the music-drama’s
theme. In one week, the little town also played host to
Liszt (Wagner's father-in-law), Saint-Saens, Cui, Rubin-
stein, Gounod ... and another cultured man of music serv-
ing as a newspaper correspondent. He wrote:

“... The little town received and sheltered all the guests,
but it couldn't possibly feed them. Thus, on the very first
day of my arrival, I learned what struggle for bread
meant. There are few hotels in Bayreuth, and most people
stay in private homes. The existing dining-rooms in the
hotels can't possibly hold all the hungry guests. Each piece
of bread, each glass of beer has to be fought for and is
obtained only after a terrific struggle, many tricks, and
an iron patience...The most chaotic disorder always
reigns at the table...The tired waiters don't pay the
slightest attention to your most legitimate requests.

“...I met a lady, the wife of one of the most important
people in Russia, who during her whole stay didn’t have
dinner once. Coffee was her only food... During the whole
first series of the Wagner tetralogy, food was every one’s
primary interest, with artistic concerns considerably
behind. There was much more talk about steaks, chops
and fried potatoes than about Wagner's music."

The correspondent was Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky.

MERICAN CORRESPONDENTS, TOO, were preoc-
cupied with problems of food and lodging. One re-
ported that hotel prices more than tripled during the 18
festival days. Private families renting rooms followed suit.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

American tourists this year will not face the same circum-
stances as their 150 predecessors from America in 1876,
Rates will not be increased — the maximum bed price in
the best hotels will be DM 8 ($1.90) per night, while rooms
are to be had in homes for as little as 3.50 marks (less
than 85 cents) per night. Similar reasonable rates for
meals have been published.

Transportation facilities provide as striking a contrast,
Most people arrived at the Festival Playhouse on foot in
1876 as “there were only seven hacks, and almost none
could be procured in the neighboring towns.” The 1951
prospectus lists numerous bus routes and taxi services for
the guests staying in town and those who must be
housed in outlying districts.

In 1876 the town had “‘spruced up." ‘The mental excite-
ment and its consequent interference with the course of
habit reached its climax when all the peasant folk of the
town appeared with shoes, stockings and washed faces,”
Another chronicler reported: “There has been an eruption
of firs. Great branches are stuck in the ground, festoons
cover the fronts of the houses and line the pavements,
Wreaths with paper flowers are stuck on doorways.”

HE 1951 “SPRUCING UP” has of necessity taken

another turn. An air raid during the last two weeks
of the war caused serious damage to the center of the
city. Wagner's home was partially destroyed. Furniture
and souvenirs had been removed before the bombing,
however, and will be replaced when funds are available to
restore the old villa.

Money this year is being used to insure lodgings for
visitors. This is no small task for a community which lost
one-third of its dwellings and has a population, swelled
by refugees, of 61,000, a 50 percent increase over prewar.
Funds have also been allocated to replace props, all of
which were destroyed, for the festival performances. Only
Siegfried’s dragon came through battered but unbowed.

Prewar funds in the festival foundation shrank to the
equivalent of $1,500 at the time of currency reform. To
finance the undertaking this year the Bavarian Govern
ment has supplied a subsidy of DM 200,000 ($47,600), but
most funds have been made available by an organization

A frequently visited spot during the Bayreuth Festival is
the simple unmarked grave in which the celebrated com-
poser was buried in 1883. (Renner photo)

E
;
é
‘

--- Page 30 ---
the opera house Richard Wagner had built for his
series of four operas, first performed in this Bay-
reuth landmark in 1876 and scheduled to be repeated again
this year — its 75th festival — before capacity audiences.
(German Tourist Association photo)

formed to assist in reopening the festival, the Society of
the Friends of Bayreuth. From members all over the
world — particularly in France, England and the United
States — DM 500,000 ($119,000) was forthcoming.

The German Federal Railway has contributed DM 150,000
($35,700) toward modernization of the railway station for
efficient handling of tourist traffic.

EW PEOPLE REALIZE upon entering the Festival

Playhouse that it has the highest stage in the world.
Its height is 165 feet, but the spectator sees neither the 33
feet above the stage nor the 43 feet below it which allow
for transformation scenes.

Hitler (fired by the enthusiasm of British conductor Sir
Thomas Beecham) planned to present Edward VIII with
a complete Bayreuth production in London for his coro-
nation, an offer which had to be declined when it was
realized that the roof of London's Covent Garden Opera
House would have to be lifted to get the Bayreuth stage
Settings in.

The orchestra pit is made so the conductor can not be
seen, and is built half underneath the stage to lessen the
volume of heavy instruments in Wagner's augumented

orchestras. Seats rise in tiers like an amphitheater and
“are constructed so that all face the stage. No galleries
or boxes are on the sides, a revolutionary idea in Wagner's
day. Acoustics are said to be perfect. To maintain this
Original structure plan, the house's original 1,300 seats
have been increased only to 1,800.

Story has it that the hilltop site for the Festival Play-
house was chosen because of Wagner's love for the spot.
It had impressed him when, as a young conductor, he had
hiked through the surrounding hills. About 46 miles from
Nuremberg, Bayreuth already was a cultural center with

AFRIL 1951

27

a famous baroque theater and the little city’s inhabitants
warmly welcomed the idea of the annual festival.

HIS YEAR THE NEW SETS for Parsifal and the four

Ring operas will be designed by Wieland Wagner,
a grandson of the great composer. The productions will
also be under the direction of the young Wagner.

In staging the scenes musically described by his grand-
father, who demands no less than fire and flood in his
final scene of Goetterdaemmerung, he will have once
again overcome problems tripping directors and designers
since they first attempted staging Wagner's dramas in
their regular-sized theaters.

In the first act of Das Rheingold, for example, the Rhine
maidens now swim about in the depths of the river
suspended by wires, each maiden’s movements usually
controlled by four men. In 1876, the underwater damsels
had to endure huge iron frames around their middles.
The frames were connected with a wagon backstage. Men
hidden by rocks pushed the wagon about.

Then there is the Gnome Alberich, who is alternately
visible and invisible as he takes on and off his helmet.
For this, Wagner startled the audience by releasing steam
from a row of jets in front of the footlights.

The “Wagner Zoo” also has taken its toll in headaches,
The Ring alone requires a bear, dragon, ravens and horses.
And tame theater horses have an unfortunate reputation
of wanting to eat scenery instead of jumping with Bruenn-
hildes on their backs into burning funeral pyres.

T IS UNDERSTANDABLE that in 1876 no theater of

the day could approach Bayreuth in stagecraft. Un-
doubtedly to Wagner's initiative the theater owes many
modern developments of stage machinery.

“Anyone who believes in art and in a civilizing force,
any believer in an artistic endeavor outside of its utili-
tarian purposes, must experience a feeling of delight in
Bayreuth at the sight of the enormous artistic undertak-
ing which achieved success, and which reached the im-
portance of a historic epoch because of its colossal size
and the strength of the interest it awoke," the composer
Tchaikovsky, turned correspondent, wrote at the close
of Wagner's first tetralogy performance.

“From the point of view of a materialistic benefit to
mankind, the Bayreuth Festival has, of course, no mean-
ings; but from the point of view of artistic ideals, it is
destined one way or another to have enormous historic
significance... in any case, what happened in Bayreuth
will be well remembered by our grandchildren and our
great-grandchildren.” +END

Blind to “See“ Movies

Regular performances of specially-selected movies will
be held for blind persons in West Berlin as the result
of the enthusiastic response of 400 blind to an initial
experimental showing of the Austrian film “Singing Angel",
which features continous singing by the Vienna Boys Choir.
The experiment was sponsored by the Motion Picture
Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG and the producers of the
film. Future showings are to be held once or twice a month

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
World’s
Children
Pledge
Friendship

Children from 15 nations rallied together recently in Berlin
and let it be known that despite the troubles of the world,
friendship between nations can and does exist. The oc-
casion was a presentation emony in which 15 Brownies
of Scout Troop No. 43, s red by the Parent-Teacher

ilitary Post, received the

and Scouts. The organization w
and already has members in 32 countries.

Having the program indoors, howev

the ceremony of the traditional campfire and songfest.
In it German Boy and Girl Scouts (above) were featured.
Upper left, Madame Kewal Singh, wife of Indian diplomat
and representing India, presents Laurie Allen with her
symbol of friendship while Sylvia Menghini (lower left)
gets her pin from a Scotsman, a smiling member of thé
Jong-renowned British fighting unit, the kilted Black Watch
Regiment, now stationed in Berlin. (US Army photos)

APRIL 1951

--- Page 32 ---
Rehabilitation for Emigration

By ARCHIE S. LANG
Chief, Displaced Populations Branch, OLC Bavaria

WO VOCATIONAL TRAINING schools — one of

which doubles as a rehabilitation center—have been
helping the International Refugee Organization to speed
emigration of displaced persons to the new homes they
desire.

These institutions are the IRO-sponsored Vocational
Training School at Ingolstadt and the combined Voca-
tional School-Rehabilitation Center at Neuburg-Donau,
both in Bavaria. Both were established with one aim in
mind: to help displaced persons develop marketable
skills which will make easier their search for jobs in
foreign countries.

At Ingolstadt, the unskilled are learning the funda-
mentals of such trades as dressmaking, tailoring, welding,
typing, auto repair, bricklaying, draughting, carpentry
and plumbing. Coupled with such instruction at Neuburg-
Donau are physical therapy treatment for amputees, the
blind and persons suffering from tuberculosis.

At the time these schools were conceived, the Interna-
tional Refugee Organization made exhaustive studies of
the labor needs of countries accepting immigrants. Cours-
es were then established. based on this information. How-
ever, in the planning, scope and technique were strongly
influenced by experiments with intensified training for
war industry which the United States instituted during
World War II. Every effort was made to eliminate extrane-
ous instruction, so that within the shortest possible time
a student would be qualified to do finished work in the
professional world. The students were not to become
highly-skilled workers but competent, general tradesmen.

The Vocational Training school at Ingolstadt was
established March 15, 1948, in a badly-damaged military
Kaserne (barracks) which for some time had served as a
DP transient camp. Extensive repair was necessary to
make the kaserne usable as a school but by no means all
of the buildings were reconstructed. Today at least one-
third of the area surrounding the school buildings is
filled with the hulks of wartime destruction.

IKE INGOLSTADT, the Neuburg center was established
in a former military Kaserne, which had served a
hitch as a camp for transient DP’s. Prior to its opening
as a school, on Aug. 6, 1949, however, it had served as a
hospital for the tubercular. The problems of repairing and
tefurbishing this installation, which had hardly been
scathed by bombs, took second place to the problem of
persuading prospective trainees that they would not con-
tract tuberculosis by living and working there.
Admission to the schools is achieved through applica-
tion at IRO offices. Persons naturally can be taken only
on a space-available basis; they are further required to
take certain aptitude tests to determine their eligibility.

APRIL 1951

29

The courses—17 of them—are divided into units of
three months each at Ingolstadt, and a similar program
is Offered at Neuburg.

The Neuburg center was founded with the special aim
of broadening the immigration possibilities for that group
of displaced persons termed “hard core’’—a group which
includes persons badly handicapped by age, illness, blind-
ness and amputation. Originally planned to serve arm
and leg amputees, the center geared its program to —
muscle retraining, corrective fitting of artificial limbs, and
vocational therapy. It has since expanded its service to
include a program for blind persons, and to therapy
(physical and vocational) for rheumatics and cardiacs.
Most services are still directed toward needs of amputees.

HE VOCATIONAL ASPECT of the center includes

some 21 courses, five of which are exclusively for
the blind. The combination of vocational and rehabilita-
tive schooling at the center was effected for definite pur-
poses. Not only was it more practical to house the two
under one roof, but it was felt that if disabled persons
trained in conjunction with the non-disabled, they would
have a far better opportunity realistically to assess their
productive records.

The International Refugee Organization proposes to
continue the center at Neuburg for an indeterminate
period, largely dependent on the funds available.

The vocational training school at Ingolstadt, on the
other hand, has been offered as a gift to the Bavarian
government, provided the school will continue to operate
under substantially the same program. This proposed gift
involves the transfer of approximately $200,000 worth of
machinery and equipment, and sufficient supplies to
guarantee operation for a three-months’ course for the
500-capacity student body.

At present Ifgolstadt offers a 13-week program of in-
struction, 40 hours a week, minimizing theory and stress-
ing practice. In setting up the instruction schedule it
was recognized that much of the theory traditionally in-
cluded in vocational training has little if any value in the
initial stages; in any case, it was an almost insurmount-
able obstacle to attempt teaching theory to persons who
spoke a melange of five or six languages.

HE APTITUDE TESTS which each entering student

was obliged to undergo were designed to cut down
the margin of error —and wasted effort — that might re-
sult from enrollment in an unsuitable course. The exami-
nations held during and upon completion of the course
yield ratings from “very good" to “‘poor;" it is possible
for a student who is failing to change his course and
perhaps benefit thereby. (Continued on page 31)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Double amputees test new limbs with,
without walking aids at Rehabilitation
Center and Vocational Training School
for disabled and blind Displaced
Persons established by the Interna-
tional Refugee Organization (IRO) in
Bavaria. There are approximately 200
disabled among 400 DP’s at center.

Rehabilitating Disabled and Blind DP’s

Amputees undergo training while awaiting artificial limbs. Blind inmates learn to make household brushes by hand.

;

--- Page 34 ---
Disabled DP is put through course of exercises designed
to restore use of limbs, Instructor supervises workouts.

Since the school’s opening, approximately 3,000 students
have received training. These include Poles, Russians,
Ukrainians, Czechs, Yugoslavs, Hungarians and persons
of other nationalities. Courses are taught in German but
most instructors are multilingual. Of the 128 employees
at Ingolstadt, 62 are members of the teaching staff.

Included in the roster of courses-offered at the center
are those for auto electricians, auto mechanics, brick-
layers, draftsmen, electro-installers, carpenters, ma-
chinists, locksmiths, tinsmiths, plumbers, painter-glaziers,
radio-servicers, seamstresses, shoe repairmen, tailors,
welders and typists.

Supplementing these basic courses, advanced training
is given to the most accomplished students. Advanced
courses include those for plasterers, machine designers,
electromechanics, cabinetmakers, machinists, radio me-
chanics, dressmakers, shoemakers, tailors and welders.

T HE INTERNATIONAL REFUGEE Organization has fore-
seen that some thousands of its former charges must
remain in Germany after its phase-out and has estimated

Pair of disabled inmates relax over game of chess aiter
classroom studies at IRO's Vocational Training School.

that one of their most pressing needs will be employment
within the German economy. Many of these residual
DP’s have no skill or they require retraining. Despite
its closure, planned for September 1951, IRO still feels
responsibility for these persons and is endeavoring to
make long-term provision for them.

It is for these reasons that IRO has offered the school
to the Bavarian State Government. The gift, however,
will not be limited in its future service to displaced
persons, but is to be made available to Germans — per-
haps as many as 250 out of the 500 persons the school
accommodates. (Interestingly enough, the center con-
stantly receives calls from Germans — natives and refu-
gees — asking for admission.)

In February an agreement was reached assigning
responsibility for the school to the Bavarian Ministry
of the Interior. Work preliminary to the transfer was
scheduled to take place last month and the first
classes under German supervision will begin in April,
perpetuating the work toward recovery instituted by the
IRO at Ingolstadt three years ago. -+END

Blind DP (left) operating weaving machine is one of many learning a new trade to facilitate either their emigration or
integration into the'German economy. Below, extreme right, Mrs. Raymonde Bruguiere, supervisor of the IRO center, and,
l-r., Birger Berg, HICOG resident officer at Ingolstadt; Archie S. Lang, chief, Displaced Populations Branch, OLCB, and
author of this article, ond Josef Wartha, manager of vocational school, and a Neuburg reporter. (PRB OLCB photos by Maske)

--- Page 35 ---
175,000 Enter
ECA Contest

Nearly 175,000 West German school chil-
dren took time off recently to put into
painting their impressions and hopes con-
cerning Marshall Plan aid to their home-
land. Left, some of the 200 entries (in the
six to 11 year group) which withstood
the many eliminations and came before_
the judging panel (upper left) including
Jean Cattier (left, seated), chief, ECA
Mission for Western Germany, and direc-
tor, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
and Franz Bluecher (right, seated), Vice
Chancellor and ERP Minister for Federal
Republic. One of 12 winning paintings
chosen according to age groups is dis-
played by Minister Bluecher (above). This
and the other winning entries will be sent
to Paris, where they will compete with
selections from the other ECA nations in
the all-European finals. The winners
are to receive cash and other prizes.

APRIL 1951

--- Page 36 ---
Twelve families will find a home upon completion of this housing development in Sandhausen, near Heidelberg. ERP aid

will come from over-all contribution of DM 750,000 ($178,500) being used in various projects in area.

(US Amy photos)

By WILLIAM T. NEEL
US Resident Officer, Heidelberg, Wuerttemberg-Baden

HIS PROJECT IS SUPPORTED with Marshall Plan

Funds,” says the sign on one of the apartment blocks
built in the Heidelberg suburb of Weiblingen by a local,
non-profit, cooperative housing company.

To 45 families, this sign spells more than a mere eco-
nomic fact. It spells low-cost housing in a location where
husbands, sons and daughters no longer need travel hours
to reach the plant, farm or office where they are employed.
A long period of misery, beginning in Hitler's concentra-
tion camps, in a crowded battlefield hospital or in an evacu-
ation camp in an Iron Curtain country — and including
years on the waiting lists of housing offices—has reached
its end for many with the completion of the new ERP-sup-
ported apartment blocks.

Emil Wohlfahrt is a technician with the Rhein Chemie
A.G., producers of chemicals, in Mannheim. He, his wife
and their teen-age daughter moved into one of the new
three-room apartments at 5 Hermann Treiber Strasse in
Heidelberg-Weiblingen on Feb. 15, 1951. Before they moved
into the new ERP-aided apartment block, mother and
daughter lived with the parents of Emil Wohlfahrt in a
little town in Tauberbischofsheim County, near the Ba-

APRIL 1951

33

varian border. Father Wohlfahrt was only able to join
them over the weekend.

Up to 1945, the Wohlfahrt family lived in Insterburg, East
Prussia. When the Red Army conquered East Prussia in
1945, the Wohlfahrts fled to the wife’s parents in Berlin.
The badly-damaged, overcrowded former German capital
did not offer much opportunity of gainful employment to
father Wohlfahrt. He left Berlin for his native Lauda in
Tauberbischofsheim County and found a job with his
present employer. A move of the firm to Mannheim made
it necessary for him to rent a furnished room in Heidel-
berg. The railroad trip from Lauda to Mannheim and back
would have required six hours per day.

OW THE FAMILY IS REUNITED. They pay DM 49
($11.66) per month for their new three-room apart-
ment, a sum which appears incredibly low to the average
German city dweller. It takes father 30 minutes to reach
his plant by bicycle. Leaving his home at 7:30 in the morn-
ing, he is back at 6 p.m. The Wohlfahrts enjoy their being
together in a nicely furnished apartment after having
shared their rooms with in-laws for almost five years.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
This uncompleted apartment house is to become home for
24 families. Project is being aided by a Marshall Plan con-
tribution of DM 52,000 ($12,376), part of a DM 750,000 ERP
allocation to help construct 286 family units in the area.

And they are aware that their apartment was partly
financed by ERP funds. ‘‘We know that this apartment
block was built with Marshall Plan money," said Frau
Wohlfahrt. “That's why we did not have to pay Baukosten-
zuschuss (a certain amount of money which the tenant
must contribute to the construction cost, a well-established
post-currency reform practice in Germany).

Weiblingen is only one of 22 developments in the city
and the county of Heidelberg, an area with a population
of more than 240,000, ERP counterpart funds, usually allo-
cated as a first mortgage in addition to German public
and private funds and the owner's financial and labor re-
sources, made possible the construction of 286 family
dwelling units in this section of the US Zone state of
Wuerttemberg-Baden,

Most of the new housing is built by non-profit, cooper-
ative housing construction associations, but individual
expellee builders also benefit from ERP housing program
funds, The total ERP funds allocated to the Heidelberg
area amount to DM 750,000 ($178,500), a sum which con-
stitutes a significant contribution to the over-all develop-
ment of housing construction in a district which has al-
ways been notorious for its disproportionately high rate
of unemployment.

Marshall Plan funds thus achieve a double purpose. In
addition to the increase in German labor productivity by
giving workers decent homes near the plant, counterpart
fund loans create new jobs, strengthening the purchasing
power of people taken off the dole.

OUNTY RESIDENT OFFICERS have been charged

with the responsibility of checking the use of ERP
housing funds on the local level. This responsibility entails
numerous conferences and discussions with bank officials,
tenants, housing officials, building contractors, construc-
tion workers and community administrators. These discus-
sions provide the Resident Officer with a detailed picture

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

of the various aspects of the program. The best impression
of the impact of the ERP Housing Program is gained
through on-the-spot visits.

On the slopes of the fog-bound Odenwald mountains
near Eberbach, a bricklayer looks up from his work.
“Certainly,” he remarks, “this is an ERP-supported hous-
ing project. The first three houses in this row were built
with Marshall Plan funds.'' He knows where the money
comes from even though the project fails to show the
usual sign. The Resident Officer jots down on his note
pad: “Reminder to disbursing bank and owner — put up
sign on Eberbach project.”

The bricklayer is an expellee who works in a lumber
processing plant in the nearby city of Eberbach. For more
than four years, he and his family have lived crammed in
the attic of a farmhouse in a small moutain village with a
battered bicycle serving as ‘his only means of transporta-
tion to the plant. Now he uses his annual leave to supply
as much manual labor as possible to his future home in
order to keep the total cost as low as possible.

The loan from Marshall Plan counterpart funds will be
the first mortgage on the house, ownership of which will
be transferred from the cooperative housing construction
association to the tenants two years after completion. As
this article is being printed, the family is moving into its
new home. Father will be able to come home for lunch
and will no longer have to push his old bike over the steep
Odenwald mountain paths,

Ownership of a home means integration into the com-
munity. The bricklayer’s family ceases to be the unwel-
come guests of a small farmer and the children will again
come to learn the meaning of the word “Home.”

HE ITINERARY OF the Resident Officer's inspection

trips to ERP housing projects in the county of Heidel-
berg covers 12 cities and towns. It is not always easy to
reach the new developments. Frequently the communities
have been unable to build streets fit for passenger cars.
One of the HICOG drivers used to crack: “Just follow the
mud. The deeper it gets, the nearer the project." Once a
gravel truck stuck in the mud barred the road for a
whole hour.

Spot checks are made everywhere to discover cases of
non-compliance with ERP Housing Program regulations.
Whenever such violations are found, notes are taken, re-
sulting in discrepancy letters to banks, owners and con-
struction associations. Failure to display signs, ineligibility,
of tenants, and complaints as to excessive rates of interest
are the most important matters requiring corrective action.
The discrepancies are pointed out to the German partners
in the program.

The appreciation of the objectives of the Marshall Plan
Housing Program on the German part, however, is demon-

strated by the cooperative spirit in which corrective action —

is taken in most of the cases. And, whether implied or ex-
pressly stated, German workers, public officials, bank
executives, architects, contractors and newspapermen
agree on one thing: “The ERP Housing Program is a won-
derful scheme and we would love to see it continued.”

APRIL 1951

--- Page 38 ---
The strict departmentalization system of German news-
papers places all news of ERP, including the ERP Housing
Program, on the-commercial and financial page. Unfortu-
nately, only bankers, business executives and college econ-
omists read the business page. As the Resident Officer
was convinced the people of the Heidelberg area should
see what ERP housing funds have accomplished in their
communities, a press tour to all ERP housing projects was
conducted last December. It resulted in extensive and
favorable publicity. Series of pictures and articles on the
ERP Housing Program in the Heidelberg area appeared in
all local papers.

Some of the headlines proclaimed: ‘‘Three-Quarter Mil-
lion Deutsche Marks ($178,500) for Housing,’ “Here We
Build with Marshall Plan Money," “ERP Funds Promote
Housing Construction." Total press coverage amounted to
almost 2,000 words and 13 photos. All papers used the op-
portunity to cite some of the ERP Housing Program regula-
tions, especially those regarding the eligibility of tenants,
and added some explanations of ERP terminology, e.g.,
counterpart funds.

ITH THIS PUBLICITY, the role of the Resident Of-
ficer in the implementation of: the Marshall Plan
Housing Program was bound to catch the attention of the
public. Very soon, letters started coming in by the dozen.
And “Dear Sir: I respectfully request your assistance in
obtaining an ERP loan..." or “Is there any possibility of
getting a second mortgage from ERP funds?" became some
of the typical inquiries directed to the Resident Officer.
One county community requested the Resident Officer
to assist in the procurement of water supply equipment
for an ERP-supported housing development when delivery
of the equipment was delayed by the current shortage of
non-ferrous metals. Municipal officials made inquiries as
to the possibility of exemptions from the eligibility rules
of ERP Housing Program regulations. Replies were sent
out advising German would-be builders to address their
requests for ERP loans to German banks, informing hous-
ing officials that no exemptions from eligibility rules must

This house is part of a project for 20 expellee families
being built by the Aid Work Program of the German
Evangelical Church. ERP helped with DM 31,500 ($7,497).

PJ ‘

US Resident Officer William T. Neel, author of the ac-
companying article, discusses the financing of a two-
family house in Bammental, near Heidelberg, with oc-
cupant, Mrs. Herzog. More than half of the total cost,
DM 7,000 ($1,666), was covered by ERP aid. D. G. Moeller
(center), reorientation specialist in Mr. Neel's office takes
part in discussion, one of many such personal contacts in
the crowded daily routine of the county Resident Officer.

be made, and furnishing advice and guidance to others.
ERP housing reports and correspondence on ERP housing
now fill two bulging files in the Heidelberg RO's office,
The ERP Housing Program has not only provided 286
families in the Heidelberg area with homes, it has not only
increased the productivity of workers employed in indus-
try, agriculture and export trade, it has not only created
new jobs for construction workers —it has also fulfilled
an important social task. It has given numerous families
a feeling of belonging and it has aided the integration of
Germany's “new citizens" in German community life. This
is one more step toward the ultimate objective, “A better
Germany in a better Europe.” -+- END

Hessian Union Strength Up 17 Percent

Almost 70,000 Hessians joined trade unions during
1950, bringing the total of organized workers in Hesse
to more than 506,000.

The new trade union membership represents 36.2 per-
cent of the entire Hessian labor force, unemployed in-
cluded, compared to a percentage of 32.3 in 1949.

Approximately 387,000 of the Hessian trade union
members are laborers, while the remaining 119,000 have
been recruited from white-collar workers. Women ag-
gregate almost 17 percent.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
: a ao)

Chancellor Konrad Adenauer receives newly-accredited
Iranian correspondent Sepehr Zabeeh (right) in his office
at the Palais Schaumburg in Bonn. Fritz von Twardowski,
director of the Federal press department, is seen in center.

Allied High Commission is snapped at one of its weekly meetingvat the !
three High Commissioners is flanked by his deputies and other advisers
Commissioner; center (in horn-rimmed glasses), Mr. John J. Me€loy, Unit
Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Commissioner.

tersberg, near Bonn, seat of the Commission. Each of the
4t extreme left, M. Andre Francois-Poncet, French High
States High Commissioner; and, at extreme right, Sir
Front cover and photos on these pages by Claude Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Germany Approaches National Sovereignty

ISTORIANS, SEVEREST EDITORS in the world,

probably will be able one day to take a certain half-
dozen meaty documents and boil them down to 50 words,
telling in textbooks how the Federal Republic stood
among the nations in the critical spring of 1951.

These half-dozen texts are available today and their
eye-filling titles are familiar to persons connected with
the occupation, Allies and Germans alike.

Of all the documents blueprinting the political nature
of the occupation of Germany, the six most currently
mentioned are the Federal Basic Law (Grundgesetz), the
Occupation Statute, the Petersberg Protocol, the New
York Agreement of September 1950, the decisions of the
Brussels Conference and the First Instrument of Revision
of the Occupation Statute. (These six documents refer
primarily to the politico-legal aspects of the occupation.
There are similarly important economic aspects dealt
with in the Prohibited and Limited Industries Agreement,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

By RICHARD A. YAHRAES

Chief, Public Relations Branch, Petersberg-Bonn

various Allied High Commission laws for centrol of Ger=
man industries, ECA agreements and the like.)

And another phrase is heard. One speaks of the coming
months during which occupied and occupiers may express
their relatioriship in a new form called “contractual
arrangements.”

ODAY'S ALLIED OFFICIALS and German leaders,

unlike tomorow's historians, cannot yet reduce the
relationship of their respective countries to a 50-word
paragraph. In the spring of 1951 the Allied-German tie
has become a cable.of many strands, interwoven with
guarantees and assurances, privileges and obligations
applying to both sides.

Yet six documents, viewed together, tell a great deal
about the status of Western Germany in regard to the
Western Allies, six springs after surrender. The six map
“How we got here and where we go next” — as well a8

any papers can ever map the progressive relationship of
peoples.

The story of the first document, the Basic Law, is
already almost a part of the history books: the story of
how popular elections in 11 German states gave birth in
September 1949 to the Federal Republic, with its Basic
Law of some 146 articles — a document corresponding to
a constitution and complete with a bill of rights.

Along with the Basic Law came into being the second
and much shorter document, the nine articles of the
Allied Occupation Statute, which charted and limited the
field of Western Allied activities in Germany.

LSO REPORTED AROUND the world was the third of
the basic six papers, the Petersberg Protocol, of
November 1949. The Protocol, signed by the Federal
Chancellor and the Allied High Commissioners, affirmed
the intention of the Federal Government to conduct its

PRIL 1951

Closeups (above) show Mr. McCloy at meeting, between
Maj. Gen. George P. Hays (right), US Deputy High Com-
missioner, and Col. H. Alan Gerhardt, Special Assistant;
and (below) Mr. McCloy at his desk in Frankfurt.

--- Page 40 ---
The three Allied High Commissioners get together at the
Petersberg to discuss new problems. Left to right, M.
Francois-Poncet, Mr. McCloy and Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick.

affairs in accordance with the principles of freedom,
tolerance and humanity and to liberalize its structure of
government and to exclude authoritarianism.

In turn the Occupation Authorities granted specific
concessions to the German self-government, with respect
to dismantling and foreign representation, and undertook
to speed Germany's return to the community of free
nations, .

The fourth and sixth of the documents which chart a
“Bird's-eye View" of Western Germany's status in the
spring of 1951 are the “New York Agreement" of Sep-
tember 1950 and the ‘First Instrument of Revision of the
Occupation Statute’’ promulgated in March 1951, They
are parent and child.

If the family connection of the New York Agteement
(which authorized the Revised Occupation Statute) and
the Instrument of Revision (which actually revised it) is
sometimes overlooked, that is because of the arrival on
the scene, between times, of the document which in our

list stood as number five: the significant decisions in
regard to Germany which were recorded by the 'Brus-
sels Agreement" of December 1950.

HE ORIGINAL OCCUPATION STATUTE contains

the well-known sentence providing for its own
revision in 12 to 18 months, Carrying out this written
pledge, the Foreign Ministers in New York last September
agreed to certain modifications of the occupation: among
them, giving the Federal Republic the right to conduct its
own foreign affairs and permitting both federal and state
legislatures to pass laws without submitting them for
prior review,

Since important financial and economic controls were
to be lifted by the planned new revision of the Occupa-
tion Statute, the Federal Republic was asked to give two
assurances:

1, That it accept responsibility (in principle, but not
necessarily requiring repayment of the full amount) re-
garding the prewar external debts of the Reich and
economic aid which has helped keep Germany going
since the surrender,

2, That it would continue to make available its fair
share of certain materials which are in short supply
among all the Western nations.

HE SAME DAY ON WHICH the Federal Government

submitted the two "assurances" — March 6, 1951 —
the Allies put into effect the First Instrument of Revision
of the Occupation Statute. Along with this basic document
(our blueprint number six) were published subsidiary
papers — one of them a program for still further relaxa-
tion of occupation controls, This new liberalization will
take place (for example, in decartelization) after certain
Allied programs have been completed or German pro-
grams begun,

Five of our six “basic blueprints’ — the Basic Law,
Occupation Statute, Petersberg Protocol, New York
Agreement and First Instrument of Revision — are seen

Studies of Dr. Konrad Adenauer, Chancellor of the Federal Republic, who has concurrently assumed the duties of
Foreign Minister under the relaxations of Allied contro] which have enabled Western Germany to set up its postwar

Ministry of Foreign Afiairs.

(Photos by Claude Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 41 ---
to chart a planned course in the Western occupation of
Germany. These five documents together trace a rising
curve in German self-government.

The other of our six guides — the Brussels Agreement
— took cognizance of the fact that an emergency had
arisen which bound the Western nations together for
their common defense.

At New York the Foreign Ministers had taken note of
the rising sentiment in Germany and elsewhere in favor
of German participation. in an integrated force for the
defense of freedom. At Brussels it was definitely agreed
that the Federal Republic should be authorized to par-
ticipate in the common defense.

T WOULD HAVE BEEN difficult to predict at the time
I of Germany's surrender that Eastern Europe would in
a few years be turned into an armed camp or that South
Korea would become the victim of Communist aggression.
Recognition of the danger from the East required that
the Western Allies face realistically the problem not
only of security from Germany but of Germany's role
in the common security of the West.

Among other world figures, responsible West German
spokesmen were among the first to warn of peril to the
free nations of Western Europe. Last fall the Federal
Government asked for a “security guarantee.” It came,
in a pledge that an attack on Western Germany or on
West Berlin would be regarded as an attack on the three
Western Allies.

When, following the decision of the Western Foreign
Ministers at Brussels to invite Germany to participate
in the Common defense, the High Commissioners began
discussions with the Federal Government, it was
emphasized that there were no faits accomplis as to the
nature of Germany's self-defense. The Germans were free
to discuss ways and means and to make counterproposals.

Since Brussels, informal talks have been going on at
the Petersberg between German and Allied security ex-
perts. These conferences are not seeking final decisions
about men and guns and ships but aim merely to arrive
at agreed recommendations. Preliminary agreements
when reached are to be reviewed by the Federal Govern-
ment and the three Allied Governments.

BR" ORE THE BRUSSELS MEETING the Federal Chan-
cellor had asked that the occupation regime be
modified to a contractual arrangement between the
Allies and the Germans. Immediately after the decisions
at Brussels, the High Commissioners gave the reply of
their Governments: the Occupying Powers were prepared
to consider appropriate changes in the nature of the
“Occupation regime corresponding to the role of Germany
as a participant in the Western defense system. It was
intended that the new relationship should be placed to
an increasing degree on a contractual basis.

What is the relationship to be between the new defense
Tole and the new political status of the Federal Republic,
both foreseen as a result of the Brussels decisions?

APRIL 1951

39

Map of Germany in High Commissioner McCloy's Frank-
furt office plays part during discussion of fresh problems.

The best answer probably is that the two new rela-
tionships of the Allies with the West Germans — the role
in defense and the changed political framework — are
to be seen as a unit. Nations which are partners in their
common defense normally are partners in their political
and legal relationships. The new development marks a
shift in emphasis from occupation for the purpose of
control to partnership for the purpose of security. --END

Hessian Border Officials Warned
On Dangers of Communist Propaganda

Approximately 30 local officials, representing all walks
of German life in the Hessian county of Eschwege, on
the border of the Soviet Zone, have been warned on the
dangers of Communist propaganda by Hesse State Com-
missioner James R. Newman.

Telling the leaders of Eschwege that he did not envy
them their problems “here, where the Eastern world stops
and the Western world begins,’ Dr. Newman urged the
population to keep calm even when Soviet tools create
incidents and “Communist agents dump their vicious
propaganda on this side.”

Calling the attempts to spread Red lies among the youth
the most disturbing of all problems, Dr. Newman said
that since 1946, when he crossed the Russian zone border
on a visit to Soviet-occupied Thuringia and learned that
Buchenwald was being used for “Germans who dared
oppose the Communist regime,’ he was aware of the
Soviet menace to peace and freedom.

Dr. Newman, however, assured his audience that despite
their living on the fringe of the Iron Curtain, ‘a coura-
geous determination plus American assistance will win
the Cold War now going on here and... you will be able
to reunite yourselves with your brothers across the bor-
der into a strong, peace-loving, anti-Communist nation.”

Dr. Newman was on a tour of all Hessian counties
bordering the Eastern frontier.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 42 ---
Reich May Be Sued, Court Rules

SIGNIFICANT DECISION of the US Court of Resti-

tutions Appeals in a recent case holds for the first
time that the German nation never ceased to: exist
despite the unconditional surrender and the Four Power
occupation, and that a judgment may be obtained against
the German Reich for restitution claims.

The decision was handed down in a case involving a
restitution claim for the recovery of a mortgage on
certain Frankfurt real estate formerly owned by Jews
and confiscated by the Nazi regime during the war years.
The original Jewish owners of the mortgage sought not
only the return of the mortgage, but also a judgment for
the interest on the mortgage accrued during the period
of its confiscation by the German Reich.

In holding the German Reich liable for this claim, the
court did not specify the legal successor to the Third
Reich of Hitler's regime as to liability for its debts, since
this question was not raised. Nevertheless, the decision
is considered of the greatest importance as a substantial
proportion of the restitution claims, running into millions
of Deutsche marks, involves the confiscation by the Nazis
in the name of the German Reich of bank accounts, mort-
gages and other cash assets formerly held by persecutees.

The original claim was filed by Mrs. Martha Kaufman
of Scotland and her two children, Mrs, Margot W. Gold-
smith and Dr. Erich G- Kaufman, It sought the recovery of
a mortgage executed in 1913 for 50,000 gold marks on

The only international court in the world concerned with
private claims meets in Wiesbaden for lunch with leading
Allied and German officials. L.-r., Francis E. Sheehan,
deputy US state commissioner for Hesse; Maj. Gen. Robert
W. Douglass, Jr., special assistant to commander-in-chief,
USAFE; Antoin Veil, Office of French Observer, Hesse;
Stanley Gaines (standing), chief, Legal Affairs Branch,
Hesse; Judge Robert Schmelck, French member of the
international] tribunal; Col. W. S. Dolan (standing), USAFE
staff judge advocate; Judge Marc J. Robinson, US member
of court; Judge D. N. O'Sullivan, British member of court;
F, K. Neumann (standing), chief, Public Affairs Division,
OLCH; Dr. James R. Newman, US state commissioner for
Hesse; Judge DeWitt White (standing), presiding judge,
HICOG Courts for Hesse; Dr. George August Zinn,
minister-president of Hesse, and Brigadier Cecil H. V.
Cox, British observer for Hesse. (USAFE photo)

property located at 57 Kaiserstrasse in downtown Frank-
furt. In 1923, the value of the mortgage was reduced to
12,500 gold marks. The claim was filed by Dr. Kaufman,
a New York City attorney.

The Restitution Chamber held that the mortgage was
the property of Mrs. Kaufman and her two children, but
dismissed all other claims. The case was appealed by
Dr. Kaufman. The Court of Restitutions Appeals not only
confirmed the decision of the Restitution Chamber in
ordering the return of the mortgage, but also ordered
the case back to the Restitution Chamber to determine
the total sum of money which the German Reich had
received from interest payments on the mortgage, in-
cluding the interest on Mrs. Kaufman's confiscated bank
account. A judgment for this amount will be entered
against the German Reich. The value of the judgment
has not been determined, but is estimated at RM 2,500.

HE OPINION OF THE COURT, written by Justice Fred

J. Cohn, president of the Appeals Court, held that
“when the Kaiserreich ended by the defeat of Germany in
1918, the German state continued to exist and the people of
Germany, in whom the sovereignty rests, formed the Wei-
mar Republic and under its constitution elected the officials
who were to exercise sovereignty for the nation. In 1933
Hitler and his Nazi cohorts by maneuvers took over the
power to exercise sovereignty for the German people.
The German Reich continued. The unconditional sur-
render of the remainder of the Nazi hierarchy did not
deliver the sovereignty of Germany permanently to the
victorious Allies, rather the Allies cast out what might
be termed the usurpers of German sovereignty..."

“It is a mistaken idea," the opinion continued, “to say
that the German nation disappeared. We should not con-
fuse the designation of the type of government extant —
with the existence of the state itself. The Kaiserreich
merely denoted the type of government which the Ger-
man nation had during that regime, so the Weimar Re-
public and even so the Third Reich..."

The court, composed of Justice F. J. Cohn, Justice
Justin W. Harding and Judge Peter J. Flanagan, noted
that these successive German governments did not re- ©
pudiate the internal debts of its predecessors.

The Hessian minister of finance accepted service in
the lawsuit as the representative of the German Reich,
but the court held that no judgment could be given
against the state of Hesse in as much as it was merely
the fiscal agent of the Reich. -+END

|
:
|
q

New Youth Center at Mosbach :

A new youth home, made possible by grants-in-aid
from HICOG, GYA and German sources has been open:
ed in Mosbach, Wuerttemberg-Baden. The new quarters”
include a library, auditorium and other facilities for all”
the youth of the community.

--- Page 43 ---
The
German
e e
Viewpoint
By HEINRICH von BRENTANO
OR TWO WEEKS during the month of February 1951,

five other members of the German Bundestag (Lower
House) and I visited the United States as the guests of

the US Department of State. The purpose of the trip was
to give some of the German Bundestag members an
opportunity to discuss the over-all political situation

with representatives of public opinion in the United
States, with particular reference to the difficult problems
affecting the Federal Republic of Germany.

Two weeks are a very short period of time. However,
the assistance given us by the State Department enabled
us to establish contacts which will be of vital importance
in the development of mutual understanding between
the two nations.

We all had opportunities to talk with leading officials
of the State Department and the Department's German
3ureau, with officials of other departments dealing with

yerman and European affairs, with members of the
Senate and the House of Representatives, with rep-
resentatives of the big trade unions and with many
other personalities in public life.

We were impressed by the open-mindedness and
frankness, indispensable for mutual understanding, with
which these discussions were held. I believe that these
contacts were valuable and will bear fruit. I wish that
such talks could continue.

I \VAS CONVINCED from the beginning that the lack
of direct personal contact between Americans and
Germans has been the cause of many fateful misunder-
standings, and this conviction deepened from day to
day as our talks progressed. Since 1933, the Germans
have been isolated from the rest of the

Secretary of State Dean Acheson meets in Washington
with six members of the Federal Republic's “Bundestag”
recently in the United States for a two-week visit. L. to r.,
Erich Ollenhauer, deputy chairman, Social Democratic
Party; Hans Muehlenfeld, leader of German Party's caucus
in Bundestag; Herman Puender, CDU member; Mr. Ache-
son; August Euler, member, National Executive, Free Demo-
cratic Party and leader of his party in Bundestag; Heinrich
von Brentano, house leader of Christian Democratic Union
and author of accompanying article; and Gerhard Luet-
kens, national secretary of the Social Democratic Party.

I considered it, therefore, our principal duty to point
out in our discussions Germany's complex situation,
which is sometimes incomprehensible to outsiders. It is
always hard to explain to others that Germany is in a
more difficult and serious situation than its neighboring
countries and peoples in Europe.

I do not mean to avoid the charge that Germany, itself,
is primarily responsible because of its own acts for the
situation in which we find ourselves today. I merely want
to point out that while it is well to keep this in mind in
analyzing the developments of the last decades, it is of
no help for the building of our common future.

T IS OBVIOUSLY IMPOSSIBLE to repeat all those
points I made in my talks to explain the German
situation, but I think it is necessary to give an over-all
picture of my conversations. I tried-to explain that the
entire sociological structure of the Ger-

world; at first this isolation was volun-
tary and later enforced.

The situation has not been improved
by the events of recent years. The

generous and valuable HICOG Ex-
changes program has given many Ger-
mans an opportunity to look at their tion Bulletin.”
troubles and problems from a different

an In most cases, however, these
Germans have followed their personal
interests and wishes, and either have
not spoken or could not speak as re-
presentatives of the new Germany.

This report on his visit to the
United States was written by Dr.
von Brentano, member of the Fed-
eral “Bundestag” and leader of the
Christian Democratic Union in
Hesse, especially for the “Informa-
The opinions ex-
pressed are Dr. von Brentano's and
do not necessarily represent those
of the Office of the US High Com-
missioner. The report is carried by
the official HICOG magazine as a
matter of public interest.

man people has changed. The enormous
loss of life during the war years, es-
pecially among the middle-aged groups,
resulted in a population structure which
has the form of an hour-glass. The in-
flux of nearly 10,000,000 refugees into
the already overpopulated areas of Wes-
tern Germany has, in addition, caused
social and economic changes which can
hardly be understood by outsiders.
These millions of refugees have
lost their homeland and their roots
of existence. Perhaps never before in

APRIL 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 44 ---
ES

German parliamentary leaders talk over labor problems
with American Federation of Labor chiefs during recent
US visit of six Bundestag members. L.-r., Matthew Woll,
vice president, American Federation of Labor; Erich Ollen-
hauer, deputy chairman, Social Democratic Party; William
Green, president, American Federation of Labor, and Hein-
‘rich von Brentano, leader of Christian Democratic Union

history has a nation had such a difficult problem as this
to solve, as these people must be given new incentives
for existence. The situation in the densely-populated
area of the Federal Republic has been further complicat-
ed by the unparalleled housing shortage and the lack of
jobs, both caused by enormous war damage and the
latter still aggravated by continued dismantling.

The restrictions on manufacturing and the prohibited
industries resulting from the lost war are causing greater
hardships. The industrial capacity of Eastern Germany,
including the Silesian coal mines and the valuable pro-
cessing industries in central Germany, have been lost
to us as well as the surplus agricultural production of
Pomerania, Mecklenburg and Saxony. In addition to all
these things the collapse of the German financial system
led to the loss of all capital reserves. The primary task
in Germany today is the reconstruction of the completely
disorganized national life and the re-establishment of the
faith of the German people in their future.

VEN THE BEST FRIENDS and most considerate

advisers of Germany cannot evaluate as thoroughly
as the Germans themselves the disastrous effects which
this situation has had on the material, social, economic
and biological life of Germany. An intimate knowledge
of the facts and their inter-relations is not sufficient.

The postwar political development in Germany has
produced other problems which cause permanent tension
among the German people. The establishment of four
Occupation Zones inevitably led to a different type of
development in each zone, since the political and eco-
nomic ideas of the various military governments did not
coincide in all points.

The Soviet-occupied zone of Germany has been politi-
cally and economically separated for years now. This
tearing apart of integral parts is all the more depressing
since it is well known in Western Germany that a new
system of terror is relentlessly and cruelly seeking to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

oppress Eastern Germany politically and economically
and is persecuting intellectually its 18,000,000 inhabitants.

It was therefore our duty to obtain a better under-
standing for the legitimate German demand for re-
establishment of German unity and recognition that Ger-
many cannot achieve this unity by its own strength.
And particularly in view of the pending Four-Power
Conference it was our duty to voice emphatically the
demand that no decisions should be made on Germany
without German participation.

HE FEDERAL REPUBLIC'S own political development

was also the subject of numerous discussions. After
the Basic Law was adopted, approximately 48,000,000
Germans of the three Western Occupation Zones were
enabled once again to elect a parliament and a govern-
ment in accordance with the principles of a free democ-
racy. This election took place under the Occupation Statute,

All the German visitors stressed the fact that the
reasons which led to the enactment of the Occupation
Statute no longer exist. We did not want to be misunder-
stood and we did not want the Americans to think that
we were raising questions of prestige or making use of
international tensions, which would be especially danger-
ous and tragic for the German people.

It was rather our desire to build up a real democracy
which induced us to emphasize that the prerequisite for
a sound and firm democracy is freedom of action within
a self-chosen order. That such an order should be able
to act with authority is generally conceded. Every
statute which is imposed by foreign authorities upon this
democratic order is therefore contrary to the idea of
self-determination. Because of this, dangerous miscon-
ceptions now exist among the German people which
prevent political consolidation. The question of who is
really responsible and who holds the supreme authority
requires a clear answer in any democracy. That is why I
considered the request to strengthen German democracy
and its responsible organs a legitimate request. I hope
that this request was not misinterpreted.

WAS VERY GRATIFIED to find so much sympathy

and understanding for our problems in the United
States. It was our intention to impress upon the repre-
sentatives of public opinion in the US that the German
people are conscious of their commor responsibility
with the West and are conscious of their obligations,
in view of the common threat to liberty and the basic
rights of men. However, one should realize that the
experiences of the past have forced new considerations

on the German people. One should understand that the ~

enormous misery which the last war brought upon Ger-
many has resulted in a tremendous fear of a new wal,
and one should also realize that no other nation in the
world wants a long period of peace so much as Germany.
It was also our duty to explain that while Germany
longs for peace, we do not seek peace at any price. Ger-
many does not think of choosing peace at a price which
would cost her her freedom. That would mean suicide
(Continued on page 64)

APRIL 1951

r

--- Page 45 ---
Cornerstone of a Better Future

Address
By ANDRE FRANCOIS-PONCET

French High Commissioner for Germany

E ARE ALL SITTING at the loom

of time, and as the shuttle runs

back and forth between our hands,

some of us do not recognize the sense
of the fabric being woven.

An example is the appearance of the

idea on which the Robert Schuman

Plan is based. The plan purports to

This address, delivered in Ger-
man by M. Francois-Poncet, was
broadcast over the Bavarian Radio
on March 14 as part of a series of
weekly speeches titled
Firsthand," which is bringing lead-
ing Allied and German officials
to the microphone.

HAT IS THE SIGNIFICANCE of

this development? What are its
motives? The motive is the recognition
that the face of the western part of
the continent has to be remodeled,
that the traditional nationalism must
be overcome, must yield to a more
effective and more vigorous inter-

“Politics

establish a unified European market
for the producers of two basic raw
materials, coal and iron. Solidarity of interest is to replace
the former fierce competition. Cooperation and a sense
of solidarity are to be developed in a field in which every
one of the six countries concerned worked independently
and exclusively for its own benefit. The idea of national
economic individuality is to be replaced by one of a supra-
national interest.

In connection with, and following, the Robert Schuman
Plan, similar initiatives were taken in other fields. At
the moment efforts are being made to co-ordinate the
interests of German and French agriculture, Negotiations
on agricultural cooperation between the two countries

have been going on for some time. A “green pool,” a

pool of agriculture, is to be set up, and its establishment
would entail an adjustment of production conditions and
prices for grain, fruit, vegetables, wine and many other
items. The exchange of these commodities, their export
and import, would be co-ordinated.

Recently the responsible managers of the German and
French railroads met to consider their common problems.
Also the European Union for the Standardization of
Electric Energy Production and Transmittal convened,
and the special significance of this meeting is that de-
legates were sent not only by the countries participating
in the coal and iron pool, but also by Switzerland and
Austria, Previously agreements on electric energy distri-
bution were made only between two countries, but this
time eight countries participated.

On Feb. 15, a conference was opened in Paris to con-
sider ways and means of establishing a European army.
This army will. consist of contingents from various
nations: Germany, France, Italy, Belgium, the Nether-
lands and Luxembourg. All contingents will have the
Same structure, the same armaments, the same uniforms
and their officers will be trained at the same schools.
If there is need, they will be integrated in bigger units,
under one commander-in-chief, General Eisenhower, and
under a joint staff which is to be organized. All nations
Contributing to the international force will be duly re-
Presented in this staff.

APRIL 1951

43

national organization. Both the Schu-
man Plan and the Pleven Plan provide
for international political bodies to control and direct
these new organizations.

Certainly this European idea is not new. Our ancestors
had envisaged it, but for the first time-an effort has been
made to realize it. This is a historical event, a milestone
which no historian will be able to overlook. And maybe
the future will consider it of greater importance than all
the wars from which our present conditions result,

Perhaps some people will laugh and say: the efforts
are nice, but where is the success? Who can be sure to-
day that these efforts will prevail? Are they all not
utopian? I would reply that there has never been any
progress that was not previously considered utopian.
Were those who tried to implement great revolutionary
ideas not ridiculed as utopians?

Indeed, there are two kinds of people: some believe
only in what they know, and are unable to imagine that
tomorrow might be different from today and yesterday.
Others think of the future, work for it and wish that
tomorrow should not be the same as today and yester-
day, that it should be better.

Even if the adverse came true, and the plans now be-
ing discussed could not be implemented for some time,
because they were too audacious or too progressive for
present day conditions, this would not change the fact
that for the first time serious attempts were made in that
direction. The ideas being disseminated now have been
firmly implanted in the minds of the people and they
have become part of the thinking of statesmen and
nations.

Of course, I do not mean to minimize existing difficul-
ties and obstacles. It is quite possible that great efforts and
toilsome negotiations will be required to attain full success.
But one thing is certain: a true revolution is forthcoming,
and we may be proud to have witnessed its birth.

HE IDEA OF EUROPEAN UNITY was greatly stimu-
T lated two years ago when the Council of Europe
met in Strasbourg. Of course, there was no want of critics
who called the Strasbourg meetings insignificant and a
mockery, because the Council of Europe has only ad-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 46 ---
visory functions. To me that is not the point, however.
The point is that four years after the end of the most
horrible war, a parliament of parliaments convened in a
_ town whose mere mention previously aroused nationalist
,resentments and memories of war.

The Council of Europe has already a permanent sec-
retariat in Strasbourg, and regular meetings are being
held. Yet, it has neither legislative nor executive func-
tions. But it can disseminate new ideas, which is certainly
not unimportant. The day will come when the Strasbourg
Council of Europe, in some other form, will have legis-
lative and executive powers.

The unity of Europe has become an inevitable neces-
sity for economic, technical, moral and military reasons.
The latest technical developments, overcoming, as they
are, time and distance, require appropriate adjustments.
Notwithstanding the different languages of the European
nations, they are all part of the Western cultural sphere,
built on Christendom and humanism.

Our civilization is characterized by a full conscious-
ness of its social, obligations, yet it will never sacrifice
its respect for the individual, It appreciates the sub-
stantial role the individual has been assigned, because
it realizes that all great inventions have been the crea-

Tiny member of Kelsterbach Refugee Camp is fitted with
a pair of shoes by Mrs. James J. Roberts, Jr., president
of Wiesbaden Air Base Welfare Group. Members of organ-
ization visited camp with large quantity of used cloth-
ing and other gifts following an appeal to members of
the USAFE Headquarters Air Base. (USAFE photo)

tions of individuals, or a number of individuals, usually
members of different nations, who worked jointly or
independently toward the same goal. E

HE CIVILIZATION COMMON to the Western na-—
tions is today threatened by a philosophy of life
which oppresses the individual and thinks only in terms ~
of total collectiveness. Please rest assured that our dele- z
gates to the Paris conference, and to the quadripartite ~
conference that may follow it, will not lose sight of this 4
danger, Indeed, Soviet Russia has greatly contributed to ~
making the Western Democracies fully aware of their —
solidarity, and to their attempts to give this solidarity a 4
concrete form.
The Western Democracies are prepared and willing to 4
live in peace with Soviet Russia. They are basically :
peaceful, and it is for that reason that they have not —
refused a meeting with Soviet Russia to investigate ways —
and means of relaxing the present tension in Europe and ~
the world. They will not surrender Germany for the sake
of peace, however, They are ready to support general
free elections in Germany and the restoration of Ger-
man unity, provided, however, that these elections are
really free in every respect, and that the German state ©
eventually resulting from these elections is guaranteed
to be equally free and will not become an easy prey for
Communist propaganda and expansion.

Until such time as it becomes evident whether and_
how far Soviet Russia not only talks of peace — while ~
at the same time it increases its armored divisions and
arms the Bereitschaften (People’s Police) — but honestly”
wishes peace, we shall feel obliged to defend Germany _
and ourselves against this danger, especially in view of ©
the experiences we have had in. Korea. Standing by it-
self, no nation is able to meet this task. Effective de-
fense requires the integration of all Western nations,
requires a complete harmony of their resources, idea :
and efforts.

That implies that we must overcome all outdated preju-™
dice and nationalist resentments. ;

HE SOLIDARITY OF WESTERN EUROPE absolutelt

demands a revision of existing relationships betwee!
Germany and France. There will be German-French ¢o-"
operation, or there will be no United Europe. German
French cooperation is the cornerstone of a better futur
Despite resentments and inhibitions on both sides
despite all the unfortunate daily quarrels, the best mind
of both nations must indefatigably work toward this ¢
operation.

I would like therefore to address this heartfelt appt
to all open-minded people, who have confidence in
future and do not despair:

Join us in the conviction that realizing the idea of
united Europe is the best way out of our present dangersy
and at the same time serves the highest interests
mankind. -+ EN

--- Page 47 ---
Three little girls hopefully study a poster display at recent
UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cul-
tural Organization) exhibition in Munich. This and other
similar UNESCO programs throughout Germany have been
warmly received by various segments of German public.
International agency plans three institutes in Germany
which will go into operation in the near future and will
stress fields of youth work, social sciences and education.

APRIL 1951

A5

Invitation
To a New

Conscience

By MAURICE E. LEE

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

ARIS' HOTEL MAJESTIC — where only a few years

ago the voice of the Nazi High Command directed
the occupation of France —in sharp contrast this summer
will hear the voice of a democratic German Federal
Republic seeking membership in the family of peaceful
nations,

For the listening delegates of the 59 member states
of the United Nations’ Educational, Scientific and Cul-
tural Organization (UNESCO) meeting at the head-
quarters of its secretariat for its annual general con-
ference, it will be the climax to their attempt to give
Germany a new conscience.

This attempt was born in the form of a resolution at
Mexico City in 1947. It was nurtured in the three years
that followed at general conferences in Beirut, Paris
and Florence, It achieved maturity last November when
the German committee for UNESCO activities was form-
ed in anticipation of the day when Germany would
become a member State.

UNESCO opened its first office in Germany at Stutt-
gart in 1948, A year later offices were also functioning
at Mainz in the French Zone and at Duesseldorf in the
British Zone. Doing its share to bring Germany into the
orbit of peace-loving nations also afforded UNESCO an
opportunity to demonstrate its effectiveness at
tributing to understanding among peoples.

con-

HESE EARLY UNESCO OFFICES in Germany had
three main functions: to establish liaison between
UNESCO and the Allied authorities; to establish and
maintain contact with appropriate official circles, private
groups and individuals within Germany and to act as
UNESCO information centers for their respective zones.
The aims and purposes of UNESCO are channeled to
the German people through the media of press, radio,
exhibitions and lectures.

Important activities continue to be the exchange and
distribution of publications, the gathering of material
for UNESCO's exchange of persons program and the
inclusion of Germany in UNESCO's worldwide endeavor
to improve textbooks and other teaching material. An
exchange center for publications at Bad Godesberg, near
Bonn, handles direct book exchanges between West
German libraries and UNESCO member states.

UNESCO's repeated attempts to extend its activities
to the Eastern zone have met with little success. And

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 48 ---
often Eastern member nations of the international body
have voiced objections in policy meetings about the
work in the German field. But German field activities
have managed to carry on at a progressive rate.

Inadequate personnel and a limited budget (the Ger-
man program is receiving approximately $144,000 out
of UNESCO's 1951 budget of $8,150,000) have been the
main obstacles in UNESCO's effort to integrate Germany
into its rightful place in the UNESCO family. This was
brought out by Allied officials at the general conference
in Florence last June when it was stated that German
authorities had enthusiastically received the limited act-
ivities of UNESCO and were now eager to cooperate
with an expanded program.

P TO THAT TIME, Dr. John W. Thompson, in charge
U of UNESCO's work in Germany, had been traveling
about extensively, getting in touch with those Germans
he felt could take over the UNESCO work on a local
level. These persons would become Germany's national
committee when Germany is elected a member state.
Many meetings resulted in the formation of the com-
. mittee of 60 members which, until Germany assumes
membership in the international organization, will work
under the title of the German- Committee for UNESCO
Activities.

With a promise of DM 80,000 ($19,000) from the Fed-
eral Government, this group of individuals, prominent
in Germany's educational, scientific and cultural life,
met and wrote their constitution. At the same meeting
on Nov. 7, 1950, officers were elected. Prof. Walter Erbe,
president of the University of Tuebingen, was chosen as
chairman. Dr. Dolf Sternberger, Heidelberg journalist,
became first vice-president. Dr. Karl Erdmann, lecturer
in history at the University of Cologne, was named secre-
tary general.

Cologne was selected as the committee’s home and
Wiesbaden as the headquarters for the international
segment of UNESCO, the other field offices having been
dissolved. By dividing themselves into seven groups,

Large crowds viewed the UNESCO displays in Munich,
studied maps and read text of preamble to UNESCO Con-
stitution suspended from the ceiling of exhibition hall.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

46

the committee will be able to carry its work into all —
phases of German life — from the church to the trade
union — from the school to the home.

HE STAGE THUS WAS SET by last December for
the Federal Republic's formal application for mem-

bership in UNESCO. In a letter accompanying the appli-
cation, Federal Chancellor Konrad Adenauer stated that
the UNESCO program “has awakened the greatest in-
terest and sincere willingness for cooperation among the
members of the Federal Government and state ministries
for cultural matters. The Federal Government feels that
the time has now come to consider full German co-
operation in the endeavors of UNESCO through the
Federal Republic's official joining of the organization."

While the national committee awaits its fate in June,
it confines itself mainly to planning for its future. It
also is aiding current UNESCO projects such as prepa-
ration and production of revised textbooks, a socio-
logical survey on the attitudes of youth toward authority,
studies in the problems of and experiments in dealing with
war-handicapped children, a book-coupon program en-
abling purchase of member nation books without cur-
rency difficulties, international copyright recognition
studies and an extensive survey of problems and bar-
riers to a better understanding between youth of other
nations and those of Germany. i

However, UNESCO bases its hopes for success in
Germany on three international institutes now in various
stages of planning. Estimated to cost nearly $100,000 in
the first two years of their operation, the Institute for —
Youth Activities, the Institute for the Social Sciences”
and the Institute for Pedagogy will be large-scale prac-
tical operations of what UNESCO has been talking about
since its inception. The three organizations will be gov-
erned by a board of prominent international experts.

HE YOUTH INSTITUTE will be perhaps the most —

important and most active of the three organiza-
tions. It will support those agencies within Germany
which develop in youth a sense and spirit of responsi-
bility toward the international community. German
youth will be encouraged to participate in UNESCO's
coming mobilization of the world’s young people in the
service of peace and international cooperation prin-
cipally by the Institute's aid to employment, vocational
training and recreation.

The study of the United Nations’ Universal Declara:
tion of Human Rights and the organization of interna:
tional seminars within the country will be stressed.

The Institute for International Activities in the field
of social sciences will aim at studying some of the mai
problems of contemporary German life. A major aspect
of its work will be the adaptation of new social science
techniques to the needs of the German situation and ag 4
development of teaching and training activities.

The Pedagogical Institute will encourage and _ aii
scholars in examining educational systems and_ will
advance studies and surveys to bring about revisions in
the system. The Institute's work will not be limited to”
the universities but will also concern itself with edu-

--- Page 49 ---
cation in the home and the labor field. UNESCO hopes,
through it, to give experts the opportunity to observe
countries analyzing their own systems, questioning their
worthiness and changing them to suit their own needs,

HILE UNESCO's PRESENT PROJECTS are dwarfed
by the immense cultural affairs programs being
carried on by the Occupying Powers, all concerned are
aware that the day is coming when UNESCO will have
to assume a greater portion of the work. At the National
Conference on Occupied Countries held in Washington
last December, 175 private US agencies adopted a resolu-
lion stating American relations with occupied areas
should be designed to assist the nationals of those
countries in broadening their participation in internation-
al agencies, particularly UNESCO.

Donations of small countries like Lebanon and Switzer-
land, amounting to $5,000 and $10,000 respectively, to
further the efforts of UNESCO in Germany, too, sym-
bolize the hopes of the world in an organization like
UNESCO toward its goal — a better tomorrow.

The success of UNESCO's efforts in Germany depends
mainly upon the German people. While their leaders,

championed by those of other nations, speak their cause
in Paris, community UNESCO groups such as those in
Berlin, Munich, the towns of the Rhineland and else-

where will be taking the word of UNESCO directly to
the front door of Mr. German Public.

The man-in-the-street —the farmer, industrialist, mill-
worker, housewife, student — by listening, thinking and

This scene of a UNESCO general conference in home
of General Secretariat in Paris will be repeated this sum-
mer, when Germany's application for membership in
UNESCO family will come before its 59 member states.

acting in terms of universal brotherhood can put life and
meaning into the words uttered by UNESCO Director-
General Jaime Torres Bodet: “UNESCO is the conscience
of the world,’ — and, in doing so, can bring to Germany
new life — and to the world, new hope. +END

Good Neighbors

A Good Neighbor Committee, sparked by both Amer-
icans and Germans, has been organized in Munich to

help refugees who are willing to help themselves.
Mrs. George N. Shuster, wife of the US state commis-
sioner for Bavaria, has announced a six-point assistance

program adopted by the committee for its refugee aid
project:
To make personal contacts with individual refugee fam-
ilies in cases where official assistance seems inadequate;
To improve the economic condition of the refugee by
encouraging families and individuals to help themselves
with a view to becoming self-supporting;

Munich's Mayor Wimmer hands Mrs. Shuster DM 2,000
check to further Good Neighbors’ aid program. (OLCB photo)

Aid Munich Needy

To improve kindergarten establishments with furniture,
toys, occupational toys, sanitary equipment, wall pic-
tures and flooring materials;

To improve the lot of the aged and disabled;

To arrange programs including festivals, educational and
health consultations and film showings especially for
youngsters, and to improve recreational opportunities; and

To promote the cultural interests of the refugees.

Aid committees, each comprising a German, an Ameri-
can and a refugee, are being set up in each of approx-
imately 25 refugee camps in the Munich area. Their
recommendations will guide the Good Neighbor Com-
mittee in its efforts to assist the camps. Aid committees
will be set up later to investigate the needs of other
groups and individuals.

The assistance plan, designed to help co-ordinate wel-
fare activities in the area, was suggested by Mrs. Shuster
and was overwhelmingly approved by representative
German and American groups and individuals, including
German welfare and religious organizations, labor and
management representatives,

Impetus to the committee's fund-raising efforts to
enable it to carry out its objectives was given with the
presentation to the committee of a check for DM 2,000
($476) by Munich’s Mayor Thomas Wimmer.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 50 ---
CORNED BEEF
—

nw

Canned meats (left) once were import-
ant source of dollars to Germans.
Below, pigs are paralyzed by electric
prongs before slaughter at meat-proces-
sing plantin Herten, state of Westphalia,

FXHE MEAT SPECIALTIES of West
Germany, once important dollar-
earners and a delight to American
dinner-tables before the war, may soon
be available again in the United States,
Germany's Food and Meat Laws are
now undergoing study in the US De-
partment of Agriculture, Washington,
D.C., for sanitation, health and quality
standards, to see if German meat
specialties are admissible in Ameri-
can markets.

Once the studies have been com-
pleted, a committee, consisting of re-
presentatives of HICOG, the West
German government and the domestic
food-processing industry, will conduct
inspections of about 10 percent of the
export food-processing plants. If the
committee report is favorable, the US
Department of Agriculture will doubt-
less grant clearance for export of
meat specialties to America.

In prewar years, Germany annually
exported approximately 20,000 tons,
valued at $15,000,000, of meat special-
ties to the United States. An important
dollar-earner, these specialties con-
sist mainly of specially-cured hams
from Bavaria and Schleswig-Holstein,
smoked meats and various types of
wurst (sausage).

It was emphasized by HICOG Ex-
port Trade Promotion officials that
such high-priced meats earn far more
in foreign exchange credits for Western
Germany than the slight loss they
create in the country’s meat stocks.
In addition, such meats are in abun-
dant supply in Germany at present,
and are generally priced out of reach
of the average West German con-
sumer.

George W. Foster, special trade ad-
viser on food marketing problems for
Marshall Plan countries, will be avail-
able to advise manufacturers and ex-
porters on what food products will
find a ready market in the United
States and what producers must do
to comply with US food and drug
regulations. Mr. Foster will also sug-
gest means of increasing the sales
volume of specialty items currently
being exported in limited volume.

Indicative of the interest in selling
food to the dollar markets are in-
quiries from West German and other
Western European countries concern-
ing the International Food Exposition,
to be held in Chicago from June 9 to

MARCH 1951

--- Page 51 ---
June 15, 1951, The National Association of Retail Grocers
of the United States, which has arranged the exposition,
has invited all Marshall Plan countries to participate.

ale foreign participation in the fair,
the United States Congress has passed Public Law 705,
which permits arti mported for exhibition at the fair to
enter duty free. +END

lo encourage ful

A 24 percent solution is injected into veins of hams to
ate meat thoroughly before pickling and canning.

‘
te

Prior to sealing, meat in each can is checked for correct

weight. Five grams are added to guaranteed correct weight.

Youthful apprentice displays old standby
traditional “wurst.

Germany's
(Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 52 ---
Road to Recovery Seen in Berlin

YEAR OF MARSHALL PLAN aid to Berlin has

brought nearly DM 400,000,000 ($95,200,000) worth
of economic assistance to the city and has made possible
“a successful year on the road to recovery.”

These funds were allocated prior to a recent announce-
ment that an additional DM 335,000,000 ($79,730,000)
from ECA and GARIOA (Government and Relief in Oc-
cupied Areas) counterpart funds would shortly be made
available for long-term investment in Berlin. Moreover,
the amount is in addition to the continuing DM 20,000,000
($4,760,000) monthly allocation to finance an emergency
work project,

According to a survey by the Economic Affairs Divi-
sion, Berlin Element, HICOG, the past year's flow of
capital into Berlin, coupled with other outside aid and
the will of the population to recovery, in 12 months
has brought the city from a state of ‘economic dis‘nte-
gration... to the point where it can be called a going
concern, with all indices of economic and financial activity
showing favorable trends."

During the past year, West Berlin's exports to foreign
countries have almost quadrupled, Industrial production
has more than doubled since the lifting of the blockade.
Full-time private employment increased in 1950 ‘by
approximately 28,500 persons. Thirty thousand housing
units, an entire power plant and several giant utilities
plants have been completely repaired or rebuilt.

URING THE 12 MONTHS ending in February 1951,

approximately DM 200,000,000 ($47,600,000) in ECA
counterpart funds has been invested in West Berlin in long-
term capital investments. An additional DM 200,000,000
was contributed from counterpart funds to finance a
continuing works project program,

The survey recalled that in February 1950 — when the
first Marshall Plan investment program was launched in
Berlin — “the city’s economic disintegration was pro-
ceeding at a rate perhaps never previously experienced
by a civilized community.”

_ The situation had been caused, the survey said, by
four factors: the loss of 60 percent of Berlin's industrial
equipment, largely due to Soviet dismantling; the loss
of its former role as political and administrative capital
of Germany; the loss of Berlin's normal trading markets
in the East, cut off by the economic and political Iron
Curtain; and the heavy economic blows caused by the
1i-month Soviet economic siege of the city from June
1948 to May 1949,

Seventy-four percent of ECA funds was spent in the
industrial field, including DM 58,000,000 ($13,804,000)
lent to BEWAG's (Berlin's electric power system) ‘Power
Plant West,"* stripped for reparations by the Soviets in
1945 and, following its re-equipping, now capable of pro-
ducing 105,000,000 kilowatt hours, GASAG's (city-owned

* See “Lights for Free Berlin,‘ January 1951 issue, Information
Bulletin.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

50

municipal gas utility company) allocation of DM 2,500,000
($595,000) made possible the re-equipping and modern-
izing of six major gas-generating plants, and permitted
an increase of more than 13 percent in the monthly
volume of gas consumed in West Berlin.

The value of exports from West Berlin increased
from DM 3,900,000 ($928,200) per month in January 1950,
before Marshall Plan aid began, to DM _ 15,200,000
(33,617,600) by November 1950. The mass purchasing
power of West Berliners increased from DM 562,000,000
($133,756,000) during the first quarter to approximately
DM _ 606,000,000 ($144,228,000) during the last quarter
of 1950.

Under the emergency work project program, nearly
50,000 unemployed Berliners were put to work on a
variety of projects to help restore the city economically
and physically. Schools, hospitals, libraries, transporta-
tion facilities and a score of other types of municipal
structures were restored. Public parks and athletic fields
were cleared of debris; streets and bridges were repaired.

The HICOG survey of last year's progress answered
in the affirmative the question, ‘Can Berlin Become
Self-Supporting?" It pointed out that in the summer of
1949 following the blockade, West Berlin's. industrial
deliveries totaled about 20 percent of the 1936 level. By
December 1950, the figure had been raised to 44 percent.

N CONCLUSION THE SURVEY warned: “If a con-
tinued expansion of output in West Berlin's industries
is to be achieved, not only must a sufficient flow of
investment credits be available, but, equally important,
a steady and increasing outside demand sufficient to
achieve and sustain substantially higher levels of output
than those prevailing at present will be necessary. This
assumes too that adequate supplies of raw materials will
be forthcoming.

“If all these elements can be successfully ‘blended
together, as seems probable in view of the new world
situation, an increasing awareness of the political and
economic importance of Berlin as a demonstration of the
vitality of the Western way of life and an actual need
for all goods Berlin can produce — then Berlin, only too
recently regarded as an insoluble problem, may be consid-
ered genuinely on its way to economic recovery.” +END

Officials Tour Bavarian Industries

A one-day informative tour of the northeastern area of
Bavaria was made recently by US Assistant High Com-
missioner Benjamin J. Buttenwieser and Luther H. Hod-
ges, chief of HICOG's Industry Division. The trip included
visits to leather, textile and porcelain industries in the
area, including those at Selb, which is the center of
world-famous Bavarian porcelain and china factories.

A roundtable discussion of various problems, including
the refugee and coal situations, took place with officials
in Selb.

APRIL 1951

--- Page 53 ---
Economic Review

This monthly review of the German Federal Republic's
current economic picture, based on the latest figures
and trends available when this section of the Infor-
mation Bulletin went to press, was prepared by the
Analytical Reports Branch of the Program Review
Division of the Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG.

N FEBRUARY, A SUBSTANTIAL DECLINE in un-

employment and an increase in the daily rate of coal
production indicated that the economy of Western Ger-
many was beginning to revive from its mid-winter slump.
Economic policy also reached a turning point with the
Federal Government's decision to suspend trade liberali-
zation in order to curb the mounting deficit with the
European Payments Union. The issuance of licenses for
quota imports was also suspended and the Bank Deutscher
Lacnder initiated a stringent program for the reduction of
(short-term) debt.

Industrial production in January registered another
decline (2.4 percent), largely as a result of seasonal
factors, coal and power shortages, and the beginning of
certain raw material shortages. Employment during Feb-
ruary rose mainly because of revived building activity.
Labor continued to push its claims for wage increases
comparable to the rise in the cost of living, and to press
for co-determination, extending its demand to the chemi-
cal industry and railways, as well as iron, steel and coal.

Foreign Trade

West German exports and imports decreased in Janu-
ary. Exports of $217,500,000 represented a decline of
$23,700,000 from December to reach the. lowest level since
last October. The export decline carried added significance
as the first-monthly decline since April 1950. Imports of
$295,400,000 in January were $19,400,000 less than in
December. The most important developments by area were:

USA.— Exports of $14,400,000 and imports of $39,200,000
were both slightly below December figures.

Other Westérn Hemisphere.— Trade was maintained
at a high level as exports ($23,200,000) were only $500,000
less, while imports ($25,500,000) were $500,000 higher than
in the previous month.

Marshall Plan Countries.— Most of the decline in both
exports and imports in January was in trade with the
Marshall Plan countries. Although January exports to
sterling participants ($15,900,000) were greater than in
December, those to non-sterling participants declined to
$126,100,000, the lowest amount since September 1950. Im-
ports from both sterling ($31,700,000) and non-sterling
($142,600,000) participants declined, and the total for im-
ports from Marshall Plan countries ($ 174,300,000) was also
the lowest since September.

Sterling Countries outside Marshall Plan— Exports
($10,900,000) declined $2,400,000, but imports (mostly raw
materials) continued to rise, reaching $23,800,000 in
January,

Eastern Europe.— Exports ($7,600,000) to and imports
($10,300,000) from the Soviet Bloc countries fell off, while
exports to Yugoslavia ($7,800,000) were almost triple the
figure for December. ,

Commoditywise, food and agriculture exports
($14,300,000) were almost double the December total, but
the finished goods component, the key item in West Ger-
Man exports, declined by $24,300,000 to $145,800,000. On
the import side, all major commodity groups shared
equally in the decline.

Reasons for the adverse foreign trade developments in
January were seasonal — there were less working days,
for workers took long vacations at New Year; there were
the normal post-Christmas slump, and the usual cold
Weather impediments to trade. Although the January

APRIL 1951

Si

decline in exports followed the December drop in German
production, it is too early to assess the degree to which
raw material shortages, international and domestic, were
responsible for this development.

Dollar export figures to the United States and Canada
in December disclose that of the total of $15,700,000 ex-
ported to the US, five commodity groups (pig iron,
$1,600,000; steel pipes and tubes, $1,500,000; sheet iron,
$1,000,000; ferrous scrap, $1,000,000 and fine mechanics
and optical goods, $800,000) accounted for $5,900,000 or
almost 40 percent of the total.

Of the December exports to Canada, three commodity
groups (ironware, $323,000; fine mechanics and optical
goods, $103,000; and cutlery and hardware, $50,000) made
up $476,000 or one-half of the $872,000 total.

Comparison with a year ago reveals that, for the major
items, as the level of West German production and trade
has risen, emphasis in exports to the US has shifted away
from scarce non-ferrous metals and semi-manufactured
goods toward iron and steel mill products. Exceptions to
this development are ferrous scrap, the export of which
is a postwar phenomenon and of which about 30 percent
of the total export to all countries went to the US in
December, -.and fine mechanics and optical goods, a
traditional German export to the US and Canada.

West German Foreign Commodity Trade
January 1951
(Thousand Dollars)

Categories Imports Exports
Food and Agriculture . 112,363 14,263
Industry... . 183,048 203,275
Raw Materials . 104,437 22,965
Semitinished Goods 41,110 34,494
Finished Goods . 37,501 145,816
Total 295,411 217,538
Area
Total Non-Participating Countries . 121,146 75,150
USA... ee ee 39,189 14378
Canada Lo 1,197 1,010
Latin America. © 0... ee 24,309 22,204
Non-participating Sterling Countries . 23,830 10,910
Soviet Bloc (incl. China). . . . . 10,340 7,619
Yugoslavia and Finland . 4,203 9,417
Other Countries . 18,078 9,612
Participating Countries . 174,264 141,941
Non-Sterling : 142,590 126,059
Sterling . 31,674 15,882
Unspecified an 1 447
Total 295,411 217,538

Import Surplus: January $77,873,000.

Foreign Payments Position

On Feb. 22, the German government announced tem-
porary suspension of trade liberalization in an attempt to
stem the mounting deficit with the European Payments
Union (EPU). During the month the deficit swelled by
approximately $58,000,000 as against $42,000,000 in Janu-
ary. This peak deficit occurred in a month when it
was expected that Western Germany's payments would
begin to break even. The total cumulative deficit has
now reached $457,000,000. The rate of licensing for
likeralized imports continued at the high level reached
during the second half of January and the value of tend-
ers issued in February by the German Import Advisory
Committee for non-liberalized imports were almost double
the January figure. Although the rate of licensing in-
creased with the dropping of the deposit requirement
from 50 percent to 25 percent, the main impetus was the
continuation of excessive demand for imported goods, due

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 54 ---
to the lack of stringent credit restrictions and a virtual
discontinuance of savings. As a result of these develop-
ments, the German government decided on Feb. 22 to
suspend temporarily issuance of liberalized licenses, At
a special meeting on Feb. 23, the EPU Managing Board
accepted Germany's suspension of liberalization and re-
quested the Federal Government to submit its program
of measures to counteract the developments which led
to the suspension. On Feb. 27, the suspension of licensing
was extended to the quota items imported from EPU
countries, and the issuance of foreign exchange allocation
certificates was suspended.

Industrial Production

In January, industrial activity slackened further, still
beset by persisting coal and power shortages and seasonal
factors. Shortage of raw materials, an additional handi-
cap, is beginning to make itself felt. Bottlenecks in the
supply of power and raw materials are not only restrict-
ing output, but also preventing expansion of employment
in many manufacturing establishments. On the other
hand, however, orders received remained well above the
value of current sales, although a three percent drop was
recorded for December.

The federal index of industrial production (excluding
building, stimulants and food processing) declined three
points (2.4 percent) from the December figure to 126 of
the 1936 level. The decreasing trend in production during
the last two months has followed generally that of a year
ago when industrial activity fell abruptly in December,
slightly less in January and began increasing in February.
This year, however, the rate of change is sharper. The
usual holiday and seasonal factors affecting this decline
were augmented during 1950 by coal, power and raw
material shortages, the last of which is now beginning to
restrict output by industrial users of non-ferrous metals,
rubber, rayon, wool and sulphate.

As the winter passes, indications are that the trend
of production should level off in February and improve
in the coming months. Of the 30 industry groups for which
data are available, 21 showed decreases in production
during January, while nine showed increases.

Index of Industrial Production

1936 = 100
1950 1951
Total All Industries Nov. Dec. Jan.
(incl. electricity and gas 1/) 135 1129 126
(excl. electricity and gas 1/) 132 125 122
Investment goods (total) 136 1129 123
Raw materials 106 Tr 94 91
Finished products . . 155 1150 143
General production goods
(incl. electricity and gas) 142 1140 139
(excl. electricity and gas) 131 127 126
Consumer goods . 125 ri17 116
1/ = Excl. food processing, stimulants and building.
t = Revised.
Production of Major Commodities
Unit of 1950 1951
Commodity Measure 1/ Nov.1/ Dec. 1/ Jan. p/
Hard coal (gross mined) . thous. t 10,022 9,585, 10,138
Crude petroleum. . . ft 97,793 103,050 102,176
Cement . . . thous. t 1,010 735 599
Bricks (total) . re 1,000 411,691 319,109 247,790
Pigiron. . . et 864,296 766,149 801,003
Steel ingots . . t 1,080,868 929,952 1,011,968
Rolled steel finished products . t 792,755 675,795 745,097
Farm tractors (total) 2/ . » pieces 5,221 5,197 5,670
Office machines . t 622 552 613
Passenger cars (incl. chassis) pieces 22,916 20,613 23,028
Cameras (total). pieces 202,838 139,948 178,055
Sulphuric acid (incl. oleum) t-SOs 108,313 114,078 110,779
Calcium carbide . t 40,024 44,724 37,737
Soap (total) . to t 8,618 6,784 11,779
Newsprint. . rn: 14,564 13,173 13,641
Auto and truck’ tires’ . pieces 331,743 289,033 283,591
Shoes (total) + 1,000 pairs 9,409 7,431 7,209

1/ = All tons are metric tons.

xcluding accessories, parts and spare parts.
evised.

p = Preliminary,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

Coal

The fuel shortage js still a serious handicap to the
expansion of output and has been reported as cause for
cutting production and employment in some industries.
(See Industrial Production above.) During February, how-
ever, a favorable upward trend began in hard coal out-
put. With 24 working days in February, daily average
production reached a record level of 384,164 tons. This
brought production for the month to 9,445,803 tons, with
only 258,632 tons reported as extra shift production.
Factors believed contributing to the increase in the rate
of production are: approximately 1,000 additional miners,
‘a decrease in the number of shifts lost and a decline in
the absenteeism rate,

Germany's coal export quota for the second quarter of
1951 was fixed at 6,200,000 tons by the Council of the
International Authority for the Ruhr at its Feb. 16 meet-
ing. Two assumptions underlying this quota were that
900,000 tons would be exported to the Saar in exchange
for equivalent imports from that area, and that 200,000
tons of coal would be imported from the US during the
quarter.

Despite the short month, aluminum production in Feb-
ruary remained at 3,500 tons, and was expected to reach
4,000 tons in March. With sufficient water supply, alumin-
um smelters increased production. The zinc, lead and
copper smelters, with sufficient supplies of raw materials
and coal, have been able to maintain production. A seri-
ous contraction was expected in April, however, when
present difficulties in obtaining raw materials and ship-
ping space were expected to come to a climax.

The Federal Republic law for the control of raw ma-
terials is not yet in force, and until a tighter control on
the end-use of scarce materials is introduced, increasing
difficulties in obtaining US export licenses must be ex-
pected.

Production in the chemical industry continues to drop,
restricted by the shortage of coal and raw materials.
Manufacturers’ stocks of coal are down by one to four
days’ supply, with some firms operating intermittently,
depending upon coal deliveries. Some coal has been
purchased from the US with free dollars, urea traded for
French coal, and soda traded for Belgian coal. The pro-
duction index for the chemical industry has been drop-
ping steadily from the high of 138 in November to an
expected 110 or lower in February. As a result, the
chemical industry is cutting employment and producing
less for export.

Other than coal, the main shortages are sulphur and
chlorine. The allocation of only 36.8 percent of the Ger-
man requirements of US sulphur will seriously affect the
production of carbondisulphide for textiles and sulphur
available as insecticide for the vineyards. An Allied
working party is investigating Germany's need for addi-
tional chlorine capacity.

Mild weather with heavy rains increased hydroelectric
power available during February, so that the shortage
of power was not as acute as in January. Coal allocations
continued to be insufficient, and coal stocks remained at
only 13 days’ supply — below a safe point for this season
of the year. As a consequence, power restrictions imposed
in January were continued through February, but were
reduced tho a certain extent in some Laender (states)
where the supply of hydroelectricity increased. Despite
these restrictions, power consumption in February was
19 percent higher than in February of last year. Fifty
MW new capacity, financed by ECA counterpart funds,
was placed in service during the month.

Cold weather in February reduced crude oil production
below the January level. Refinery output also showed a
reduction during the month, resulting from fuel shortage
and refinery repairs. Stocks of gasoline showed no
essential change. February consumption, increasing 10,000
tons over January, was estimated at 105,000 tons, and re-

APRIL 1951

--- Page 55 ---
ceipts from domestic and foreign sources were estimated
at 174,000 tons. Stocks were expected to increase consider-
ably by March 1. Diesel oil stocks, however, do not in-
dicate this favorable development. By Feb. 1, stocks
decreased by 31,000 tons, and decreased further during
the month. February consumption, 7,000 tons less than
in January, was estimated at 115,000 tons, and receipts
were estimated at only 75,000 tons.

Transportation and Communication

Traffic demands on the Bundesbahn remained at a com-
paratively high level in February, averaging 59,000 cars
per workday. At the same time, the number of service-
able cars dropped to 251,000 cars (253,000 in January;
262,300 in December; and November high 264,500). Work-
shops cannot keep abreast of the increasing number of
unserviceable cars. This development was fully foreseen
in the fall of 1950 when the Bundesbahn, to meet heavy
harvest traffic demands, deferred all repairs on running
equipment. By so doing, it kept more than 260,000 cars
in traffic. As a consequence, the Bundesbahn could not
meet February demands in full — a fact causing par-
ticular concern, since traffic demands for any European
railway are usually lighter for February than for any
other month of the year.

The Bundesbahn and the Federal Government are aware
that both new cars and ‘a stepped-up freight car repair
program are requisites. The major difficulty still facing
the Bundesbahn is the immediate need for new capital to
finance a freight car construction program and the con-
tinued rehabilitation of war damages, since such pro-
grams cannot be financed out of profits from current Bun-
desbahn operations.

The month of February saw a combined effort of the
three Allied Powers, in conjunction with the Federal
Ministry for Posts and Telecommunications, to standard-
ize and make uniform all procedures for the procurement
and payment of communications facilities and services
rendered the Allied Forces by the Deutsche Post, This
involves major changes in the procedures currently being
followed by each of the three authorities with relation
to the ordering of long distance circuits, local service
and equipment, and modification of accounting and bill-
ing procedures.

The primary objective of this entire program is to bring
current procedures in line with the over-all policy sur-
rounding the inauguration of the national budget prin-
ciple. When completed it will permit each of the three
Allied authorities to procure its own services directly
from the Deutsche Post, regardless of location and to
reimburse the Deutsche Post from its own budget.

During January the Bundespost continued to make
Progress on its telecommunications plant construction
program. Six new manual and two automatic central
office exchanges were brought into operation, and work
was completed on extensions to five manual and 20 auto-
matic exchanges plus extensions to seven long distance
trunk exchanges. These new facilities will relieve, to
some extent, the present shortage of telecommunication
facilities in the Federal Republic.

Labor

The labor market situation as of mid-February 1951
was exceptionally good. Employment was higher than
ever before at this time of year. This also applied to the
building trades, which had slumped badly in December
and early January.

Employment statistics reflect fundamentally favorable
business conditions. With substantial orders on hand,
employers are not discharging workers when temporary
Shortages of coal and raw materials retard production.
Public employment exchange officials believe that if the
Federal Government allows the speculative maldistribution
of raw materials and half-fabricates to grow more serious.
employment will soar to new heights before June.

APRIL 1951

53

Registered unemployment declined in February by al-
most 160,000, thus bringing the total decrease since the
turning point in mid-January to approximately 250,000.
At the end of February, unemployment stood at 1,663,000,
or about 27,000 less than at the close of 1950. Com-
parisons with the early part of 1950 reveal the recent
unemployment development has actually been a very
favorable one. At the end of February 1950, unemploy-
ment was still hovering around the 2,000,000 mark, and
was 425,000 higher than in December 1949. It was not
until the end of May 1950 that unemployment was re-
duced to 1,668,300 — the end of February 1951 is already
5,000 below this figure.

Furthermore, the unemployment rate is now significant-
ly lower than in February 1950, when dependent employ-
ment was approximately 1,000,000 less than the present
level. In February 1951, the rate of unemployment in
terms of the wage and salary-earning labor force was
10.5 percent as against 13.1 percent last year.

Seasonal factors, which were primarily responsible for
rising unemployment between the end of October 1950
and mid-January 1951, also account largely for the recent
reversal in trend, The major part of the decline in un-
employment has come in outdoor occupations such as
building and construction, including public works proj-
ects, and in agriculture.

Significantly, however, there has also been a drop in
unemployment in manufacturing, also due mainly to
seasonal factors, and in commerce and transportation.
Among the manufacturing industries which would probably
show higher employment for February are stones and
earths, metal working industries, including those related
to the building trade, woodworking, clothing, food pro-
cessing and leather. Employment in other branches of
manufacturing is undergoing little change.

With much less fanfare than in the latter half of 1950,
a new wage drive of considerable proportions is under-
way. Pay boosts were obtained in February by approxi-
mately 775,000 industrial workers, and negotiations are
proceeding for employees in public administration and
services. Notification of termination of collective agree-
ments, effective in March or April, has been given in the
building, textile and clothing, and the shoe industries in
the federal area. The Woodworking Union is reportedly
considering similar action.

The unions present the rise in consumer prices during
recent months as their reason for demanding wage in-
creases. The official consumer price index rose by 2.6
percent between October and January, and consumer
prices continued to increase in February.

Commodity Price Indexes

In January, the three major price indexes all rose
sharply. The basic materials price index showed the
sharpest rise since September — an increase of 11 points
(4.8 percent) to a new high of 240 percent of the 1938
level. The industrial component of the basic materials
price index (up 14 points — 5.3 percent — to 279) is now
30 percent above the level of a year ago, with practically
all of that rise occurring since the beginning of the Korean
War. The agricultural component (up only six points —
5.4 percent — to 182) is eight percent above the index of
a year ago, with the entire rise occurring in the last seven
months.

The index of industrial producers prices (up 11 points
— 5.6 percent — to 206 in January) has risen by 13 per-
cent during the past year; the largest gains noted were in
textiles and clothing (up 30 percent), and iron, steel and
non-ferrous metals (up 27 percent).

The index of consumer prices for January 1951 (up
three points to 154 percent of 1938) stands at almost the
same level as a year ago, having declined almost con-
tinuously during the first nine months of the year before
beginning a steady rise in September 1950.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 56 ---
Consumer Price Index (Bizonal Area 1/)

1938 = 100
(Wage/salary earner's family of four, with one child under 14)

1950 1951
Dec. Jan. Feb.
Total . 151 154 156
Food . 155 157 159
Stimulants 215 275 275
Clothing 192 197 203
ent... 103 103 103
Heat and light |... 119 121 122
Cleaning and hygiene. . . 149 151 154
Education and entertainmen 142 143 145
Household goods : 165 i71 177
133 148 151

Traveling rn
1/ = The Consumer Price Index is not yet available on a Trizonal basis.

Index of Industrial Producers Prices
Bizonal Area

1938 = 100
1950 1951
Nov. Dec. Jan.
Total 189 195 206
Basic Materials Price Index
1938 = 100
1950 1951
Nov. Dec. Jan.p/
“Food . 177 176 182
Industry to. 256 265 279
Total 224 229 240

p/ = Preliminary.

Finance
The DM 186,000,000 increase in short term bank credit
. outstanding in January, was considerably less than the
prior month's expansion of DM 250,000,000. Direct Central
Bank credits outstanding totaled DM 1,311,000,000 in
January, a significant drop below the December total
of DM 1,580,000,000.

The following restrictive measures were introduced
by the Bank Deutscher Laender on Jan, 31, 1951, in an
attempt to improve the foreign payments situation and to
redress the position of certain banks which had over-
extended their credit operations. The immediate aim of
these measures is to curtail the volume of bank credit
outstanding:

(1) Short term business credits not to exceed capital
and reserves more than 30 times;

(2) Current account and acceptance credits not to ex-
ceed 70 percent of deposits, capital and reserves;

(3) Acceptance credits not to exceed capital and re-
serves by more than seven times (in certain instances,
three times); and 5

(4) Liquid assets (cash on hand and on deposit with
the Central Bank and Post, checks, bills of exchange and
treasury bills) not to fall below 20 percent of deposits
and acceptances.

It is too early to ascertain how these restrictions will
affect the development of commercial bank credit and
the money supply.

A decrease in January of DM 410,000,000 (estimated)
in the volume of money was noted over December's re-
vised totals. This compares with a DM 68,000,000 revised
monthly increase in November and a DM 524,000,000
revised monthly increase in December. The January level
of excess reserves expressed as a percentage of legal
reserves amounts to three percent as compared with De-
cember's revised level of 4.8 percent.

Food and Agriculture

A greater than usual amount of snowfall and rain during
the winter months has resulted in an increasing amount
of soil moisture, which insures the starting of early
spring crops. Precipitation and temperatures during Feb-
ruary were about normal. No particular damage to fall-
sown crops, or to root crops remaining in storage, was
reported.

Indications at present point toward a satisfactory crop
year in 1951. Some field work was underway during

INFORMATION BULLETIN

54

February and full spring operations were expected to
start early in March.

During February, the number of cases of foot and
mouth disease increased. The disease has not reached
critical proportions, however, and vaccine supplies’ are
sufficient to keep it under control.

All shipments from the Federal Republic, under the
US program for expedited aid to Yugoslavia by shipping
German-milled flour and replacing this with equivalent
quantities of wheat, were completed early in February.

The two principal items of federal legislation concerned
seeds and butter. The Ministry for Food, Agriculture and
Forestry issued an ordinance prohibiting the sale, in com-
mercial quantities, of other than certified agricultural
and vegetable seeds. The certifying agencies are the
state authorities; basic conditions for certification are
fixed by the federal minister. Under an ordinance of the
minister of economics, maximum butter prices per 100 kg
for the different grades, in lots of 25 kg or over, are fixed
as follows: if delivered by dairies and wholesalers, DM
498-550; if delivered by retailers, DM 512-564. Allied High
Commission decision on both ordinances is pending.

Berlin

Seasonal declines in industry normally recurring in
January remained very mild this year and in the latter
half of the month were more than compensated by im-
pressive upward trends in iron, steel and malleable
castings, in the output of non-ferrous metal foundries, as
well as in clothing. Employment, following a decline of
more than 8,300 in the first half of January, increased by
3,300 in the second half of the month, and by almost
1,900 in the first half of February. This favorable reversal
of the usual seasonal employment trend occurred one
month earlier this year than in 1950.

Reports of the Berlin Central Bank indicate that the
city’s balance of payments position continued to weaken
in February. In the past, counterpart funds releases and
Federal Republic assistance were usually sufficient to
cover this deficit. From time to time, however, small
deficits in the city’s balance of payments exceeded the
external aid to Berlin and were financed by borrowings
of the Berlin Central Bank from the Bank Deutscher Laen-
der. About eight percent of the 1950 gap in the payments
balance was covered by these credits.

In February, however, it became necessary to borrow
substantial additional funds from the Bank Deutscher
Laender, although actual transfers to Berlin under the
various headings of external assistance were somewhat
higher during February than in the previous month
{DM 65,000,000 against DM 62,000,000 in January). The
Berlin Central Bank's indebtedness to the Bank Deutscher
Laender on Feb. 28 amounted to DM 126,700,000 and was
DM 29,500,000 higher than on the last day of January.

It was found that a number of firms whose business
activities were concentrated in Western Germany, ob:
tained an unduly large portion of their credit require-
ments from Berlin banks through their Berlin branches or
head offices. As a consequence, on Feb. 9, 1951, the re-
discount rate was raised from four to six percent, thereby
adjusting the Berlin rate to the West German level. It is
expected that this will be an important factor in improv-
ing Berlin's balance of payments situation, ~ --END

Raw Cotton for West Germany

Approximately 190,000 bales of raw cotton are going
to German mills under a Marshall Plan purchase approved
recently. Reporting procurement figures for the final
month of 1950, the ECA said the cotton authorization for
Germany represented about 23 percent of the December
total. The figure for the month was $190,300,000, including
$44,100,000 for the German cotton purchase. Deliveries
were to have been completed last month.

APRIL. 1951

--- Page 57 ---
Third ECA Investment Program Begins

ETAILS OF THE THIRD MAJOR Marshall Plan Coun-

terpart Investment Program totaling DM 1,350,000,000
($321,000,000) have been announced by Jean Cattier,
chief, ECA Special Mission to Western Germany in a
meeting with Franz Bluecher, vice-chancellor and ERP
minister for Western Germany. The program as outlined
was approved by the ECA Special Mission in Frankfurt
and the ECA organizations in Washington and Paris.

Of the total, DM 890,000,000 ($211,820,000) has been
approved for distribution to the West German economy
and DM 135,000,000 ($23,130,000) for West Berlin. The
remaining DM 325,000,000 ($77,350,000) is to be held in
reserve for breaking key-production bottlenecks.

The breakdown for West Germany and West Berlin is
as follows:

West Germany West Berlin

(in million DM)

Agriculture .........5 110 Electric energy .... 19
Refugee settlement ... 25 Export industries .. 80.255
Electric power........ 275 Commerce, trade and
Coal mining.......... 80 handicraft ...... 13.38
Iron and steel ........ 75 Housing
Export industries .. 50 Research .
Coastal shipbuilding.. 85 Reserve
BOWS is bus aigrasredeavers 180 Total: 135
Industrial research .. 10

Total: 890

IIE FUNDS FOR COAL MINING are to be used in

expansion and modernization while the funds allo-
cated to electric power are for completing vital projects
now underway throughout West Germany.

In the total of DM 180,000,000 ($42,840,000) allocated
to housing, the sum of DM 45,000,000 ($10,710,000) is for
Ruhr miners’ housing. In addition, substantial sums, as
agreed between ECA and Federal Republic representa-
tives, will be provided from German Government and
other German sources. “In this connection,” Mr. Cattier
said, ‘the ECA Mission intends to undertake a study in
cooperation with Federal Government officials of the
needs and possible sources of funds to further augment
the miners’ housing program.”

The agricultural sector includes grants-in-aid totaling
DM 90,000,000 ($21,420,000) for crop and livestock prod-
ucts, reclamation, mechanization, plant protection, ex-
tension and research. In addition, loans of DM 20,000,000
($4,760,000) were approved for agricultural marketing.
The DM 25,000,000 ($5,950,000) for the refugee program
will be administered in connection with resettlement of
refugees in agriculture.

Mr. Cattier stated that “the implementation of this third
Program is conditioned on the use of DM 200,000,000
($47,600,000) from GARIOA counterpart funds for invest-
ment in West Berlin and on the availability of sufficient
funds in the ECA Special Account." The amount for West
Berlin from GARIOA is in addition to that of ECA.

APRIL 1951

5S

William C. Foster, administrator of the Marshall Plan,
was a recent visitor to Germany, where he conferred with
Allied and West German officials. The ERP chief also

attended meetings in Paris. (PRD HICOG phot»)

HE ENTIRE PROGRAM is expected to have an inte-

gral connection with facilitation of West German pro-
duction of goods needed in the defense effort, Mr. Cattier
said. “In meeting this objective funds will only be re-
leased to specific firms or projects (a) which contribute
to maximizing the defense effort; (b) which do not par-
ticipate in trade in strategic commodities with Eastern
Europe and (c) which will provide a maximum expansion
of new activity rather than for repayment of credits."

In explaining the operation of the program, Mr. Cattier
said: “The actual release of funds in the various sectors
will take place on the basis of agreements reached be-
tween representatives of the Federal Government and the
ECA Mission.

“Upon repayment of loans from ECA counterpart funds,
such funds shall become a revolving source of capital for
financing projects and programs in furtherance of the
productive capacity of Western Germany within the
framework of Western defense and European recovery."

Productivity Plan Book Distributed

The Marshall Plan's 13-point program for increasing
industrial productivity has been introduced on a large
scale with the distribution throughout the Federal Repub-
lic of approximately 50,000 copies of a productivity book.

Entitled “The 13 Tools of the Marshall Plan Productivity
Program” and published in the German language, the
book was distributed by the German Productivity Center
(Rationalization Board of Trustees of the German Economy
or the RKW), working closely with the ECA Special Mis-
sion in Frankfurt. With the relief phase of the Marshall
Plan completed in Germany some months ago, the major
task is to see that manpower, production facilities and
managerial skills are used to maximum capacity.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 58 ---
Occupation Log

Reorientation Progressing in Bavaria

Attendance at Bavarian reorientation projects have
continued to increase, gaining 26.6 percent in February
over the previous month.

At the same time, the number of individual projects
also rose. There were 19,170 meetings in February, an
increase of 3,572 over January.

During February, a total of 1,594,194 persons attended
19,170 forums, town meetings, discussion groups, film
showings and similar events in Bavaria. This was an
increase of 334,360, or 26.6 percent, over January, when
1,259,834 persons participated in 15,598 different reorien-
tation activities.

Last August, 527,003 persons attended 5,678 meetings,
less than a third of the number reported in February.

Exporters Study American Markets

Northwest German exporters were recently shown that
cashing in on the US market is not as difficult as many
seem to believe. This was done through the media of
lectures, discussions and motion pictures at a four-day
meeting in Bremen's US Information Center.

German businessmen of the area, interested in in-
creasing trade with the US, heard ECA business experts
explain the relationship of European markets to those in
America. Resumption of Germany's prewar delicatessen
exports (See “New Markets for Meat," pages 48-49) was
also discussed along with customs and tariff problems.

Adenauer Becomes Foreign Minister
Chancellor Konrad Adenauer has concurrently assum-
ed the post of Foreign Minister of the Federal Republic,

uae F
It may have been March but it didn't change the Christ-
mas spirit that prevailed for 10 children of the Wuerfel
Children's Home in Berlin. Occasion was belated arrival
of a crate of Christmas gifts delayed enroute from the
Loup City, Neb., 4-H Club. (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert}

INFORMATION BULLETIN

56

Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner
for Germany, meets members of Wuerttemberg-Baden's
press during a recent conference of Women's Affairs
advisers in the state held at Stuttgart. (Schwarz photo)

until a permanent officer is chosen. Dr. Adenauer was
nominated to the position by the Cabinet. His nomination
was approved by President Theodor Heuss March 15,

IRO Installations Returned

A total of 844 installations in Germany, including
former German army barracks and camps, apartment
blocks, hotels and hospitals, has been handed back to
Occupation Authorities since July 1947 by the Inter-
national Refugee Organization (IRO) which used them
to house displaced persons.

In the three western zones of Germany, in July 1947,
the IRO had under its supervision 902 installations of
all types which housed 620,000 refugees and displaced
persons. As of Feb. 1, 1951, only 58 groups of buildings
were being used by IRO to house 114,000 refugees.

In the intervening 43 months, IRO officials said, the
UN organization has assisted more than 630,000 DP’s to
emigrate to new homes in countries all over the world.
Another 47,000 left to return to their countries of origin,

Visual Aid Program Tops Record

More than 360,000 visitors during February set a new
monthly attendance peak for Hesse’s visual aid program.

The Hessian visitors saw almost 4,000 individual film
showings, two-thirds of them followed by discussions. In
addition, more than 15,000 Hessians attended 230 dis-
plays of lantern slides and other visual presentations.

Two hundred and twenty-five copies of 22 new Ger-
man titles received during February took the total of
films available for the program in Hesse, to 171 titles
with 1,835 copies. In addition, there are 75 copies of
44 films with English titles.

Historic Cathedral Stone Sent to US
Historic Berlin Cathedral has contributed a 10-pound
stone to be built into a new Gothic chapel being erected

APRIL 1951

--- Page 59 ---
at Michigan State College at East Lansing, Mich., in
memory of nearly 400 former students who lost their
lives in World War Il.

Stones from St. Paul's Cathedral and Westminster
Abbey in London have already been received by college
officials, and will be set into the narthex of the chapel
along with the stone from Berlin. Efforts are being made
to obtain similar contributions “representing the culture
of Europe” from other famous European edifices.

Partially destroyed during the war, Berlin's Cathedral,
the history of which dates back to 1465, is located in the
Lustgarten, in East Berlin. Much of the damage has been
repaired and restoration of the remainder is in progress.

Sporting Guns to Military Weapons

Manufacturers of sporting guns in the Soviet Zone of
Germany have been instructed to begin production of
spare parts and components for military weapons, accord-
ing to a RIAS (Radio in the American Sector) broadcast.

The report added that the manufacture of all sporting
weapons in the Soviet Zone has been discontinued. Among
companies immediately affected are the Simon, Fortuna,
Thaelmann and Merkel firms, all located at Suhl, in
Thuringia, which have been allocated contracts for the
production of parts and components for military weapons.

It is believed, the report said, that the large stock of
sporting weapons in. the Soviet Zone — reportedly
approximately 30,000 guns — is to be sold to Western
Germany to obtain Deutsche mark credits.

CARE Shipment Still Missing

CARE (Cooperative for American Remittances to
Europe) textile packages valued at $4,500 shipped from
the United States for distribution to Berlin needy, are
still missing after their seizure in February by Soviet
control authorities at the barge check-point at Witten-
berg, in the Soviet Zone.

Eight Bavarians prepare to depart for America under
HICOG Exchange Program. They will study various aspects
of public life including civic education, religious institu-
tions, union activities, Red Cross facilities and social ser-
vices. Front row, I.-r., Hildegard Bischoff, Hoi/Saale; Anne-

marie Herold, Munich; Helene Fichte, Coburg. Back row,
Alired Roedl, Ansbach; Wolfgang Zorn, Augsburg; Luise
Joerissen, Munich; Lotte Branz, Munich and Franz Wiesner,
Munich,

(Photo by Schoenborn, PRD HICOG)

EUCOM's Jewish Chaplains meet in Synagogue Center
at Heidelberg to discuss arrangements for observance of
Passover (April 20). L.-r., Lt. Col. Philip Pincus, head-
quarters, USAFE; Capt. Morris E. Mathews, Frankfurt
Military Post; Gen. Jean Eichiski, headquarters, French
Zone; Lt. Col. Henry Tavel, Chaplain's Division, head-
quarters, EUCOM; Capt. Herman Dicker, headquarters,
US Forces in Austria, and Capt. Hersh Livazer, Munich
Military Post. (US Army photo)

The Berlin-bound shipment, comprising 35 crates of
textile goods, was confiscated Feb. 14. Soviet authorities,
in a letter to the CARE office in Berlin, admitted they
are holding the consignment.

Explanations given for the seizure were “improper
documentation” and the fact that the goods were enroute
from the US, instead of Hamburg, as stated on the bills
of lading.

Another CARE shipment of approximately 1,000 pounds
of textiles was seized by the Soviets last October, and
to date has not been returned.

Unemployed Get Double Treat

Unemployed residents of Rothenburg, Hesse, accustom-
ed to waiting many long hours for their semi-weekly
relief checks are now finding the waiting time enjoyable.

Thanks to the ingenuity of US Resident Officer R. J.
Wilson, the hundreds of persons who come to the county
capital twice every week for their money, now view
the newest motion pictures of the US film program. The
Wilson-inaugurated film program, which continues until
the last person has received his money, will probably
be extended to other areas of Hesse.

Dependents Visit Cotton Mill

The third in a series of visits to German installations
by students of the Stuttgart Military Post Dependents
School took place when 30 pupils visited the Otto
Heinrich & Son cotton mill in Wendlingen, near Stuttgart.

The project was conceived through the cooperation of
the OLCW-B Labor Affairs Division and the Stuttgart
Parent-Teacher Association to better acquaint the pu-
pils of the school with the German economic situation
and, in particular, to give them a chance to examine the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 60 ---
Winners of the 12th Air Force German Youth Activities
(GYA) ‘Meistersinger” contest are congratulated by Col.
Arnold L. Smith, personnel services chief, 12th Air Force.
The winners, 1.-r., Annelie Wass, Hedwig Obst and Paul
Otto, will represent the air organization at the zonewide

finals to be held in Nuremberg. (USAFE photo)
apprentice training system for German youth. The suc-
cess of the previous two visits, the first to Maschinen-
fabrik Esslingen and the second to the NSU Werke in
Neckarsulm, resulted in the invitation to Wendlingen.

US Home Furnishings Shown in Stuttgart

The world premiere of a new exhibition of American
home furnishings, ‘‘Design for Use, USA," containing
more than 500 examples of modern American design,
was held in Stuttgart’s State Trade Museum March 21.

The show, first of its type ever to tour Europe, was
sent to Stuttgart at the request of the museum and was
prepared by the Museum of Modern Art, New York City,
at the invitation of the US Department of State and the
Economic Cooperation Administration.

Most of the articles on display are not available in
Germany. The American motive in presenting the ex-
hibition is to show German manufacturers and exporters
the kind of products that are in demand in the United
States. The exhibition is part of a Europe-wide Marshall
Plan campaign to help European firms increase their ex-
ports and thus help their countries close their “dollar gap.”

After its first German exhibition in Stuttgart, the ex-
hibition will tour Europe, showing in Milan at the Trien-
nale, in London during the Festival of Britain, and in
Paris and Zurich before returning to Germany.

Information Center Sponsors Tours

Study tours to other European countries are to become
a new feature of the activities of the Frankfurt US In-
formation Center, To give its visitors the opportunity to
become directly acquainted with the culture of other
countries, the Frankfurt center, in conjunction with the
US resident officer of Hesse’s largest city, will provide
inexpensive trips to various parts of Western Europe.

The program got underway early in March with a
one-week trip to Paris for members of local youth

INFORMATION BULLETIN

groups. A second trip to Paris and one to Spain are
scheduled later this year.

100,000 Easterners See US Movies

Special US Information Center performances of movies
for Eastern Germans have drawn audiences totaling
more than 100,000 persons since the program was in-
augurated one year ago.

Begun March 15, 1950, the continuing program features
newsreels as well as documentaries, some of them full-
length. A large proportion of the films shown deal with
life in the United States.

Center officials also announced that residents of East
Berlin and the Soviet Zone have received 150,000 copies
of Western-licensed newspapers under a project, also
inaugurated March 15, 1950, for making such papers
available to visitors from Eastern Germany.

Camp Victims’ Welfare before UN

Suggestions to aid victims of the ‘'scientific'' experi-
ments in Nazi concentration camps have been placed
before the United Nations’ Economic and Social Council
meeting in Santiago, Chile.

The proposals are part of a report submitted to the
council for action by UN Secretary General Trygve Lie.
Recommendations include that new legislation be enacted
to satisfy the legitimate claims of the victims: of such
experiments, making both the East and West German
central governments liable for compensation. Payments
provided by such legislation would not be subject to
foreign exchange regulations and would be transferable.

Secretary General Lie noted that the Federal Republic
had admitted a moral obligation to such victims and had
expressed its willingness to render aid to survivors.

The perplexities and complexities of life in Berlin are illus-
trated by sign in vicinity of Communist-controlled Radio
Berlin, in British Sector, which warns strangers that the
Western sponsored NWDR (Northwest German Radio) and
RIAS (Radio in American Sector) are in other areas of the
city. Eastern Germany residents have disappeared after
entering Communist operated station in mistaken belief they
were visiting RIAS or NWDR. (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

f

ACHTUNG
Dis Mt Sellinet Sede
NWOR rosnnesey na

BIAS wurstines sno

:
;
E

5

--- Page 61 ---
Dr. William H. Dankers (right), OLC Bavaria Food,
Agriculture and Forestry chief, receives Meissner figurine
as going-away gift from Bavarian state government. The
gift, in appreciation of services rendered, was presented
by Bavarian Minister of Agriculture Dr. Alois Schloegl
(left) in presence of US State Commissioner for Bavaria
George M. Shuster. Dr. Dankers will return to his former
teaching duties at University of Minnesota's Agriculture
Extension Division. (PRB OLCB photo)

Potsdamers Resist Korea Fund
Tumultuous scenes occurred in Potsdam when workers

were ordered to more than triple their financial con-
tributions to the so-called “Korea Aid Fund” sponsored
by the East German Communist government.

A report in Die Neue Zeitung, the US German news-
paper in Berlin, said the uproar broke out at a meeting
of the Brandenburg state government after workers were
told their contributions to the “Korea Aid Fund” would

henceforth be 3.5 percent of their income instead of
one percent,
Several employees complained that it was time to put

an end to such practices in as much as the “Korea Aid
Fund” was contrary to the policy of the World Peace
Council. When a spokesman tried to explain that a
Communist victory in Korea will bring about world peace,

vehement shouting ended the meeting ahead of schedule.

Cheese Helps Needy Children

More than 104,000 pounds of cheese, joint gift of the
Pestalozzi Foundation of America and the United States
Government, has arrived in Munich for distribution to
needy Bavarian children.

Child Guidance Extending in Hesse

Modern child guidance practices, so familiar to Ameri-
can parents, have taken firm roots in Hesse.

The two first Hessian child guidance clinics, established
at Kassel and Marburg approximately two years ago
with American financial help and guidance, have proved
So successful that the Hessian government intends to
extend the service throughout the state. For that purpose,
the Hessian government has organized a “board of direc-
tors for child guidance,” consisting of high-ranking

APRIL 1951

representatives of the various ministries and prominent
Hessian medical personnel. Establishment of two more
clinics, at Frankfurt and Darmstadt, is planned as the
next step in the development of the program.

Mathewson Makes First Official Tour

Paying his first official visit to Berlin's US Sector
boroughs since his appointment as the US commander of
Berlin Feb. 1, Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson recently
met with Tempelhof Mayor Hermann Fischer. Also on
the General's itinerary were visits to the 12,000 seat
Friedrich Ebert Stadium, which has been rebuilt with
a grant from ECA funds, the 850 bed Wenckebach
Municipal Hospital and a Tempelhof youth installation.

Pieces on Peace Fill East Press

Pious protestations of peace now fill pages of East
Berlin's Communist-controlled press as Red _ propa-
gandists seek to sell the world on the pacific motives
of the Soviets and their satellites.

A HICOG Berlin Element Public Affairs survey shows
that during a recent seven day period the word “peace”
appeared nearly 500 times on the front page of Taeg-
liche Rundschau, official Soviet German-language news-
paper. The other nine East Berlin dailies dutifully follow-
ed suit, carrying peace references almost as frequently.

In its page-one coverage of the World Peace Council
meeting in Berlin's Soviet Sector and of other events it
found interesting during the period, the Rundschau em-

It's questionable where more paint is being applied: on

walls or on dungarees of young volunteer workers mak-
ing last minute preparations for recent opening of a new

Neighborhood Home in Zehlendorf, Berlin, However,
their efforts produced an attractive and much needed
center which was partly financed by grant of DM 160,000
from HICOG Special Projects Fund. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 62 ---
Officials presiding at recent “Peace Bridge” dedication
ceremonies in Frankfurt are escorted to southern bank of
Main River by traditional chimmey sweep, symbol of good
luck. The new span is largest of its type in Western Ger-
many. Next to sweep are US State Commissioner for Hesse
James R. Newman, Hesse Minister-President Georg August
Zinn and Frankiurt’s Mayor Walter Kolb, (PRB OLCH photo)

ployed the term "peace" in a wide variety of contexts
and connections. Among the most frequent were: peace,
peace-loving, peace pact, peace appeal, peace dove,
peace powers, world peace, will to maintain peace, peace
greetings, peacetime industry, peace phrases, peace
policy and World Peace Council. The last-listed alone
appeared in 134 front page references.

Germany Again Wins Tourism Prize

The German Central Tourist Association has been
awarded the King Fuad Bronze Medal as third prize
in the annual world’s tourist travel promotion litera-
ture and poster contest established in 1932 by the late
King of Egypt.

The association's predecessor, the German Railroad's
Central Tourist Office, won the first prize in 1934 for
its poster advertising the Oberammergau Passion Play.
The 1950 award resulted from the selection by the
international jury of the Goethe Year prospectus. The
booklet commemorated the 200th anniversary of the
poet's death and dealt with his travel experiences.

East Berlin Police Desertions Mount

Another 103 ‘People's Policemen” deserted the Com-
munist German paramilitary force and sought sanctuary
in West Berlin during February. This was nearly three
times as many desertions as during December 1950 and
reflects a steadily increasing volume of flights.

The latest defections bring to 706 the number of East
German soldier-policemen who have fled to West Berlin
over a nine-month period.

During February 123 Communist propagandists and agi-
tators were arrested in Western Berlin.

Bremen Labor Receives Books

Bremen's labor unions are receiving more books
HICOG donations toward replenishment of union libraries
confiscated and destroyed by the Nazis. The German

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Trade Union Federation (DGB) has received 50 more
volumes on international, political, economic and social
affairs in addition to the 82 books sent last year. Another
trade union in the same area, the German Employee's
Union (DGB) also received 50 similar volumes.

March of Dimes Nets $370,000

Contributions to the 1951 European Command March
of Dimes totaled $373,723, exceeding last year's donations
by more than $69,000.

Military Academy Founding Celebrated

The founding of the US Military Academy at West
Point, N. Y., on March 16, 1802 was celebrated 149 years
later throughout Europe by alumni members of the
famed institution. Among them were approximately 300
graduates now on duty at US military posts in Frank-
furt, Heidelberg and Wiesbaden who attended a cele-
bration in Heidelberg's European Command Casino.

Peace Bridge Opened in Frankfurt

The newest and largest street bridge in Western Ger-
many, crossing the Main river in the heart of Frank-
furt, has been completed. The structure, built in the
record time of one year at an approximate cost of
DM 4,000,000 ($952,000), has been christened the ‘Peace
Bridge.” Its predecessor, the former Wilhelmsbruecke,
was destroyed by retreating German troops during the
last weeks of the war.

With a span of 1,000 feet, nearly 100 feet wide and
containing 1,115 tons of structural steel, the bridge is
the last of five Frankfurt bridges, linking the city with
suburbs on its southern bank, to be rebuilt.

The opening ceremony on March 1 was attended by
US State Commissioner for Hesse James R. Newman
and Hesse Minister President Dr. Georg-August Zinn.
Frankfurt Mayor Walter Kolb cut a ribbon to formally
open the bridge to traffic. +END

Lt. Josephine J. Stong the first member of US Women's
Air Force in Europe to be recalled to active duty as an
officer, receives her bars as a second lieutenant. Discharged
one day as a staff sergeant and placed on a commissioned
status the next, Lieutenant Stong is pictured at the bar
pinning cermony presided over by Lt. Gen. Lauris Norstad
(left), commanding officer, USAFE, and Maj. Gen. Truman
H. Landon (right), deputy commanding officer, USAFE.

--- Page 63 ---
Calendar of Coming Events

CURRENT

April-May — Munich (Bav): National Mu-
seum Exhibition of ‘Roman Treasures
from the Straubing finds."

April-October — Landau (RP): Flower show
in SUWEGA gardens.

April 29-30 — Brunswick (LS): Symphony
concert; Ros] Schmid, piano.

APRIL

April 21-23 — Weinheim
festival.

April 22 — Cologne (NRW): Concert, ‘‘Music
of Our Time.”

April 22— Recklinghausen (NRW): Con-
cert; Monique Haas, piano.

April 22—Uelzen (LS): German cross-
country running championships.

April 22 — Berlin: Automobile Grand Prize.

April 22-23 — Hamburg: Philharmonic con-
cert; G. Cassado, cello; F. Rieger, con-
ductor. . 7

April 23 — Coblenz (RP): Rhenish Philhar-
monic concert; O. Winkler, conductor.

April 23 — Kassel (Hes): Symphony concert;
W. Schneiderhan, violin.

April 23 — Nuremberg (Bav): Piano concert,
Erik Then Bergh.

April 23 — Wuerzburg (Bav): Concert,
Wuerzburg Philharmonic Orchestra.

(Hes): Blossom

April 23-24— Bremen: Concert, Haydn,
“Creation.”
April 23-24 — Bochum (NRW): Shake-

spearean. performances.

April 23-26 — Bremen: International history
of science congress.

April 24—Luebeck (SH): Symphony con-
cert; G. Cassado, cello.

April 24— Nuremberg (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; A. Grumiaux, violin.

April 24-May 9— Rosenheim
Southeastern Fair.

April 25— Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; W. Schneiderhan, violin;
H. Meissner, conductor.

April 25-26— Aachen (NRW): Symphony
concert; H. Stanske, violin.

April 25-May 6 — Passau (Bav): Spring fair.

April 26 — Stuttgart (WB): Zurich Chamber
Orchestra concert; Paul Sacher, con-
ductor.

April 26 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; W. Schneiderhan, violin; H. Meiss-
ner, conductor.

April 26— Muenster (NRW): Concert; J.
Martzy, violin.

April 7 — Munich (Bav): Haydn, ‘’Crea-
tion;"* E. Jochum, conductor.

April 27 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert; W.
Schneiderhan, violin; F. Fehringer, tenor;
O. Schmidtgen, conductor.

April 27-May 6 — Friedrichshafen
Lake Constance International Fair.

April 28 — Stuttgart (WB): Book and Periodi-
cal Publishers’ Association, convention
and exhibition.

April 28 — Mainz (RP): Symphony concert;
W. Schneiderhan, violin; K. M. Zwissler,
conductor.

April 28-May 6 — Landau (RP): Spring fair.

April 28-May 12 — Schwarz-Rheindorf, near
Bonn (NRW): 800th anniversary, Twin
Churches.

April 29 — Hanover (LS): Eilenriede auto
racing.

(Bav): 3rd

(SB):

APRIL 1951

April 21 to June 15, 1951

April 29-30 — Stuttgart (WB): Symphony
concert; G. Cassado, cello; F. Leitner,
conductor.

April 29-30 — Hamburg: Symphony conceit;
North West German Radio orchestra;
Monique Haas, piano; H. Schmidt-Isser-
stedt, conductor.

April 29-30 — Frankfurt (Hes): International
auto races in conjunction with Frankfurt
fair.

April 29-May 1 — Mannheim (WB): Horse
mart, -

April 29-May 2 — Throughout Hartz Moun-
tains (LS): Walpurgis festivals.

April 29-May 2 — Uffenheim (Bav): Wal-
purgis mart; expositions; riding and
driving tournament.

April 29-May 8 — Hanover (LS): 1951 Ger-
man Industries technical Fair.

April 29-May 14 — Mannheim (WB): May
mart and exhibition of agricultural ma-
chinery and equipment.

April 30 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Piano con-
cert, Alfred Cortot.

April 30 — Frankfurt (Hes): Symphony con-
cert; B. Vondenhoff, conductor.

April 30 — Oberwesel/Rhine (NRW): Night
of Witches — election of ‘1951 Wine
Queen.”

April 30-May 1 — Cologne (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; S. Borries, violin; K.
Boehm, conductor.

April — Flensburg (SH): Spring fair.

April — Cologne (NRW): Collective art
exposition, Josef Scharl, New York.

April — Kiel (SH): Motorcycle-racing.

MAY

May 1-3 — Dieburg (Hes): Dieburg triangle
motor-racing.

May 1-3 — Wiesbaden (Hes): International
automobile races.

May 1-11 — Bonn (NRW): Concerts, Beet-
hoven festival.

May 2— Wuppertal (NRW): Piano concert,
Alfred Cortot.

May 2 — Remscheid (NRW): Concert.

May 2-3— Duisburg (NRW): Concert; Mo-
nique Haas, piano; G. L. Jochum, con-
ductor.

May 2-5 — Stuttgart (WB): 2nd German
tourist travel congress.

May 3 — Aachen (NRW): Second presen-
tation of international Karl prize.

May 3 — Hamburg: German Homeopaths
Central Association, conference.

May 3-4 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Symphony
concert; H. Schmidt-Isserstedt, conductor.

May 3-5 — Goslar (LS): German Rotary
Club, congress.

May 3-6 — Mannheim (WB): ‘‘Baden Postal
Stamp Centenary,” philatelic exposition.

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
‘WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

61

May 4 — Wiesbaden (Hes): State Orchestra
Symphony concert; Alfred Cortot, piano;
L. Kaufmann, conductor.

May 5-6 — Goettingen (LS): Concert; G.
Solti, conductor.

May 5-6 — Munich (Bav): Riem track auto
races.

May 6 — Mainz (RP): Palace concert.

May 6 — Darmstadt (Hes): Symphony con-
cert; Chr. Purrmann, piano.

May 6 — Frankfurt (Hes): Rowing regatta.

May 6—Cologne (NRW): International
long-distance bicycle races ‘‘Round about
Cologne.”

May 6—Berchtesgaden (Bav): Giant slalom
on Blaueis glacier.

May 6 — Bruchsal (WB): Summer Day pro-
cession.

May 6-7 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Concert;
Elly Ney, piano.

May 6-7 — Dortmund (NRW): Symphony
concert.

May 6-7— Hamburg: Philharmonic concert;
Rosl Schmid, piano; J. Keilberth, con-
ductor.

May 6-26 — Heidelberg (WB): Collective
art exposition, C. Westphal-Poecking.
May 6-June 3 — Stuttgart (WB): Sports

meeting.

May 7 — Hamburg: Overseas Day.

May 7 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony con-
cert; Tibor Varga. violin.

May 7 — Hanover (LS): Symphony concert;
G. Taschner, violin; Joh. Schueler, con-
ductor.

May 7 — Gelsenkirchen (NRW): Symphony
concert; A. Navarro, cello.

May 8 — Duesseldorf (NRW):
Handel, “Messiah.”

May 8 — Freiburg/Black Forest (SB): Sym-
phony concert; F. Wuehrer, piano.

May 8 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Piano con-
cert, Alfred Cortot.

May 8-11 — Munich (Bav): Auto races; Ger-
man Automobile Club (ADAC).

May 9 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Handel,
“Messiah;'' G. H. Meissner, conductor.
May 9-10 — Bremen: Symphony concert;
A. Lueder, piano; H. Schnackenburg, con-

luctor.

May 9-10 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; G. Taschner, violin.

May 10 — Bochum (NRW): Handel, ‘‘Mes-
siah;"’ G. H. Meissner, conductor.

May 10 — Bamberg (Bav): Symphony con-
cert; G. Puchelt, piano; J. Keilberth, con-
ductor.

May 10-11 — Berlin: Concert, Berlin Phil-
harmonic concert; Wilhelm Furtwaeng-
ler, conductor.

May 10-31 — Essen (NRW): Ruhr District
art exposition.

May 12 — Coblenz (RP): Reopening of Cob-
lenz “Wine Village.”

May 12-14 — Neustadt (RP): International
light athletics meeting.

May 12-14 — Constance (SB): International
Free Economy Union, meeting.

May 12-14 — Schwaebisch-Hall (WB): Open-
air plays.

May 12-14 —.Constance (SB): International
costume festival, with Austrian, Swiss
and French groups participating.

May 12-14 — Leichlingen (NRW): Marks-
men's and folk festival; shooting.

May 12-14 — Hildesheim (LS): 70th anni-
versary, ‘‘Schubert-Bund” male chorus.

Concert;

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 64 ---
May 12-14 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW):
International roller-skaters’ hockey tour-
nament.

May 13 — Baden-Baden (SB): Symphony
concert; Monique Haas, piano; Hans Ros-
baud, conductor.

May 13 — Koetzting (Bay): Whitsuntide
ride; election of ‘‘Whitsuntide Bride and
Groom.”

May 13 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
Final slalom on Zugspitzplatt. ,

May 13 — Tettnang (WB): Upper Swabian
motorcycle-racing.

May 13-14 — Trier (RP): Catholic German
Women-Teachers’ Society, meeting.

May 13-14 — Bergisch-Gladbach (NRW):
Marksmen’s outdoor festival.

May 13-14 — Kiedrich (RP): Spring festival
in ‘Wine Village.”

May 13-14 — Partenstein (Bav): Homeland
festival; openair performances of histori-
cal play, ‘In the Shadow of the Oaks."

May 13-14 — Schwaebisch-Hall (WB): Tradi-
tional Saltboilers’ Dance; openair plays.

May 13-14 — Bad Sooden-Allendorf (Hes):
Historic “Fountain Festival.”

May 13-14 — Vaihingen/Enz (WB): May
Day celebrations; traditional plays; cos-
tume pageant.

May13-14 — Engers/Rhine (RP): Rhenish
singing contest. 7

May 13-15 — Cochem/Moselle (RP): Festi-
val, Cochem Pentecost Kermis.

May 13-15 — Rothenburg ob der Tauber
(Bav): Jubilee festival plays, 700th an-
niversary of ‘‘Master Draught of Rothen-
burg; 40th anniversary of ‘‘Shepherds’
Dance;"* 30th anniversary of Hans Sachs
plays.

May 14 — Bentheim (NRW): Openair per-
formances beginning with Schiller's ‘‘The
Maid of Orleans.”

May 14 — Unterhausen, near Reutlingen
(WB): Nebelhoehle (Cave of the Mists)
festival.

May 14 — Hockenheim (WB): International
motorcycle and automobile races.

May 14-15 — Berlin: Concert, RIAS Sym-
phony Orchestra; Alfred Cortot, piano;
Ferenc Fricsay, conductor.

May 14-17 — Schwaebisch-Hall (WB): Pro-
fessional Association of German Women
Social Workers, annual meeting.

May 15 — Frankfurt (Hes): Waeldchestag,
outdoor folk festival.

Beginning of May — Marburg (Hes): 8th
Marburg kayak slalom.

Middle of May — Wuppertal (NRW): "‘Re-
construction and Progress,"’ exhibition.
May 15-20 — Flensburg (SH): Evangelical

Week.

May 17 — Munich (Bav): Musical Academy
concert; Alfred Cortot, piano; G. Solti,
conductor.

May 18 — Kassel (Hes): Symphony concert;
H. Stranske, violin; C. Schuricht, con-
ductor.

May 18 — Krefeld (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; Christ] Goltz, soprano.

May 18— Wiesbaden (Hes): Symphony con-

cert; G. Pitzinger and H. Melchert,
soloists.

May 18-20 — Ludwigsburg (WB): Inter-
national horse show.

May 18-22 — Duesseldorf (NRW): 106th

Lower Rhenish music festival, “Music of
Our Time;"" orchestras and choirs from
Aachen, Cologne, Duesseldorf and Wup-
pertal.

May 19 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW):
Symphony concert; Christ] Gcltz, soprano.

May 19-20 — Stuttgart (WB): Light athletics
sports festival.

May 20 — Feldberg/Taunus (Hes): Feldberg
motor-racing.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

May 20 — Biberach (WB): Upper Swabian
horse show.

May 20-21 — Berlin: Philharmonic concert;
Emest Ansermet, Geneva, conductor.

May 20-21 — Hamburg: Northwest German
Radio symphony concert; A. Troester,
cello; H. Schmidt-Isserstedt, conductor.

May 20-23 — Goslar (LS): International
Society of Ladies’ Hairdressers, congress.

May 21 — Karlsruhe (WB): Symphony con-
cert; Tibor Varga, violin.

May 21 — Luebeck (SH): Symphony con-
cert; H. Roloff, piano; G. E. Lessing, con-
ductor.

May 21-22 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert.

May 22 — Munich (Bav): Musica Viva con-
cert; Nikita Magalow, Geneva, piano;
Igor Markevitch, conductor.

May 22-24 — Hamburg: Sunday School
conference.

May 23-24 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; H. M. Theopold. piano.

May 24 — Oberhausen (NRW): Symphony
concert; H. Roloff, piano.

May 24-28 — Trier (RP): Federation of Ger-
man Architects’ congress.

May 25-28 — Goslar (LS): Lower Saxonian
Cooperative Association, meeting.

May 25-June 10 — Duesseldorf (NRW):
“DRUPA," international printing and
paper show.

May 26 — Mainz (RP): Symphony concert;
L. Hoelscher, cello; K. M. Zwissler, con-
ductor.

May 26-27— Stuttgart (WB): Rowing regatta.

May 27 — Essen (NRW): Concert.

May 27 — Ziegenhain (Upper Hesse): His-
toric outdoor folk festival.

May 27 — Aachen (NRW): Auto racing.

May 27-28 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra concert; G. Herzog, piano; Artur
Rodzinsky, conductor.

May 27-June 3 — Hamburg: Agricultural
Week; dairy experts’ congress.

May 29-30 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Paper
and cardboard products industries asso-
ciation, meeting.

May 30-31 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert;
Haydn, ‘‘Creation;"’ G. L. Jochum, con-
ductor.

May 30-June 1 — Nuremberg (Bav): ‘Ger-
man Gas and Water Experts’ Society,
annual meeting.

May 31 — Bochum (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; H. Roloff, piano.

End of May — Munich (Bav):
movie plays.

End of May — Heidelberg (WB): Horse
show.

May — Duisburg (NRW): Lower Rhenish
University Week. _

May — Kiel (SH): International meeting
of historians; meeting of Society for
Traffic Improvement.

May — Wiesbaden (Hes): International
1951 May festival plays; guest perfor-
mances by European opera companies at
State Opera.

May — Karlsruhe (WB): Summer Day pro-
cession.

May — Berlin: 700th anniversary of bor-
rough of Wedding (French Sector).

May — Sasbach/Baden (WB): 1,200th an-
niversary.

May — Wuppertal (NRW): 100th anniver-
sary of Wuppertal Chess Club.

May-August — Trier (RP): Flower show.

May-September — Prien (Bav): Exposition
of paintings on Herren and Frauen (men's
and women's) isles.

May-October — Hanover (LS): 1951 Ger-
man Horticultural Show.

Festival

62

JUNE

June 1— Wiesbaden (Hes.): Richard Strauss
concert; C. Krauss, conductor.

June 1-17 — Munich (Bav): German handi-
crafts fair.

Beginning of June — Muenster (NRW):
German librarians’ congress,

Beginning of June — Krefeld (NRW): In-
ternational dog show.

Beginning of June—Solingen- (NRW): Great-
er Solingen’s Singers Club, choral week.

June 2 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): German
professional dancing championships.

June 2-3 — Goettingen (LS): Concert; E.
Mainardi, soloist and conductor.

June 2-3 — Mannheim (WB): 75th anni-
versary, German Red Cross.

June 2-4 — Biberach-Riss (WB):
Adolf festival.

June 2-4 — Zell/Moselle (RP): Wine-growers’
outdoor festival.

June 2-4 — Krefeld (NRW): 100th anni-
versary, Krefeld Liederkranz (singers’
circle).

June 2-4 — Goslar (LS): Northwest German
Stenographers’ Association, meeting.

June 2-24 — Augsburg (Bav): “Sports and
Health” exposition.

June 3 — Mainz (RP): Palace concert.

June 3 — Adenau/ Eifel Mountains (RP):
International auto-racing on Nuerburg-
Ring.

June 3-4 — Osnabrueck (NRW): Concert;
Tibor Varga, violin.

June 3-4— Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic con-
cert; G. Solti, soloist and conductor.

June 3-4 — Boppard/Rhine (RP): Orgel-
borns, historical outdoor folk festival.

June 3-7 — Verden/Aller (LS): Dedication
of Verden Cathedral.

June 5-8 — Baden-Baden (SB): Automobile
Industry Association, meeting.

June 5-9— Travemuende (SH): International
amateurs’ automobile trials.
June 6-17 — Berlin: International film

festival.

June 7 — Oberhausen (NRW): W. Trenk-
ner, “Requiem; 50th anniversary of the
City Music Club.

June 8 — Munich (Bav): Musica Viva con-
cert; S. Vegh, soloist; Jan Koetsier, con-
ductor.

June 9 — Stuttgart (WB): Concertgebouw
Orchestra, Amsterdam, concert; Raphael
Kubeli, conductor.

June 9-11 — Niederlahnstein (RP): Straw-
berry festival.

June 9-11 — Oestrich/Rhine (NRW): 70th
anniversary, choral singing contests.

June 9-17— Weener-Ems (LS): 1,000th anni-
versary.

June 10 — Karlsruhe (WB): Auto races.

June 10-11 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony
Orchestra concert; E. Jochum, conductor.

June 10-12 — Laubach (Hes): Farm youth
contests, pageants. : .

June 11 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; Joh. Schueler, conductor.

June 11-12 — Cologne (NRW): Chamber
concert. .

June 11-19 — Cologne (NRW): Richard
Strauss festival performances; C. Krauss,
R. Kraus, G. Wand and E. Szenkar, con-
ductors.

June 14 — Bochum (NRW):
concert.

June 14 — Munich (Bav): Choral concert;
Richard Holm, tenor; G. Solti, conductor.

June 14-15 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; L. Hoelscher, cello; H.
Hollreiser, conductor.

June 15-17 — Verden/Aller (LS): Horse
show.

Middle of June — Wuerzburg (Bav): Mozart
festival. -+END

Gustav

Symphony

APRIL 1951

--- Page 65 ---
A Summary of the Essential Provisions
Of the Schuman Plan Treaty
Constituting a European Coal and Steel Community

The draft of the Schuman Plan Treaty
worked out by the conference of the six
countries which adhered to the French
proposal of May 9, 1950 (Germany, Bel-
gium, France, Holland, Italy and Luxem-
bourg) is in the form of a document with
95 articles.

In addition, a draft Convention concern-
ing the transition period contains the
measures necessary to place in effect the
institutions and to permit the progressive
adaptation of the producers to the new con-
ditions of the single market.

By this Treaty there is constituted a Eu-
ropean coal and steel Community, based
on a single market, on common objectives
and on common institutions.

I.— Institutions

A. The High Authority.

The High Authority is composed of a
limited number of members, chosen on the
basis of individual competence. It is not to
have any tie or obligation to any of the
member States in particular, but only to
the Community as a whole. The six
countries will grant to this High Authority
the powers which they hold concerning
prices, productions and investment in the
field of coal and steel. The High Authority
will exercise these powers within the
framework of the economic and social pro-
visions of the treaty.

B. The Consultative Committee.

The High Authority is assisted by a Con-
sultative Committee composed of represen-
tatives of the producers, the workers and
the consumers in equal numbers. It may
consult this committee at any time that it
deems useful, and must do.so before taking
any measure which is enforceable within
the six countries.

C. The Common Assembly.

A Common Assembly, named by the
Parliaments of the six countries and chosen
among their membership, will meet once a
year. To it will be referred a report of
the High Authority, on which it shall take
a vote. A vote of censure by a majority
of two-thirds of the members present and
voting, constituting an absolute majority
of the members of the Assembly, will re-
quire the collective resignation of the High
Authority and its replacement.

D. Council.

It has appeared necessary to provide co-
ordination between the High Authority,
which acts within the pooled area of coal
and steel, and the Governments which act
in the other sectors of the economy. A
Council composed of Ministers designated
especially for this purpose will ensure this
coordination. This Council will not in any
sense supervise the High Authority. How-
ever, those of the decisions of the High
Authority which have important repercus-
sions on the general economy can only be
taken with the concurrence of the Council.

E. The Court of Justice.

In Order to give both the Governments
and the enterprises the guarantee that the

APRIL 1951

As Released in Paris in March

High Authority can not exercise its powers
arbitrarily, a Court of Justice is provided,
composed of seven judges designated for
six years by agreement among the member
States. All of the interested parties — the
States, the Council and the enterprises — will
agree to take appeals based on all of the
means generally invoked before adminis-
trative courts (lack of jurisdiction, abuse
of powers, violation of treaties). In order,
however, not to create the risk of confusion
of powers between the High Authority
and the Court, the latter may not examine
the High Authority's judgment concern-
ing the economic situation, on which its
decisions may have been based.

Ii.— Role of the Institutions

A. To see that the single market is re-
gularly supplied with coal and steel, tak-
ing account of the needs of third countries.

B. To assure to all consumers in com-
parable positions within the single market
an equal access to the sources of pro-
duction.

C. To see to the establishment of the
lowest possible prices and to the mainte-
nance of conditions which will encourage
the enterprises to develop and improve
their production potential and to promote
a rational policy for the exploitation of
natural resources, avoiding their exhaus-
tion.

D. To promote the improvement of the
living and working conditions of the labor
forces in each of the industries under the
jurisdiction of the Community in such a
way as to make possible their equalization
in an upward direction.

The Community is to accomplish its mis-
sion with limited’ direct intervention and
with a minimal administrative machine, in
close cooperation with the interested par-
ties.

To this end:

A. It enlightens and facilitates the action
of the interested parties by gathering and
publishing information and by organizing
consultations;

B. It places financial means at the dis-
posal of the enterprises; and

C. It insures the conditions of a normal

competition and exercises direct action on

production and on the market only when
circumstances make it absolutely neces-
sary, explaining in each case the reasons.
for its action.

IlIl.— Economic and Social
Provisions

The creation of a single market means
that coal and steel will move freely. Pro-
duction will no longer belong to a given
country, but will instead be accessible on
an equal basis to all of the members of the
Community. In normal periods, this ob-
jective can be reached through the oper-
ation of the market. In case of general
shortage, the participating countries agree
to allocate their resources among them-

63

selves, taking account not of the origin of
production but only of needs. It is the task
of the Council, acting by unanimous vote,
to allocate among the six countries these
common resources; failing such unanimity,
the decision rests with the High Authority.

A. Conditions of Supply for the Con-
sumer.

The High Authority will see that all dis-
criminatory practices (particularly double
prices) are forbidden and will be able by
means of fines and daily penalty payments
to force the producers who contravene
this prohibition to respect it. Thus, the
consumers of coal and steel in the dif-
ferent countries will have access to the
raw materials at the lowest possible prices
and under conditions which differ only on
account of the varying costs of transpor-
tation resulting from their geographic posi-
tion.

B. Rational Distribution of Production.

This will be obtained:

(1) through the free movement of coal
and steel resulting from the elimination of
tariff barriers, of quantitative restrictions
and of agreements to divide markets;

(2) through the prohibition on subsidies
or assistance by States which would im-
pede competition;

(3) through the prohibition of unfair trade
practices based on abnormally low wages
or on purely temporary or local price cut-
ting engaged in with a view to acquiring
a monopoly; and

(4) the elimination of restrictive agree-
ments among producers, i. e., of cartels
which through production quotas allocate
orders among the enterprises and which
fix the level of prices with a view to pro-
tecting the most expensive product to the
detriment of the consumer.

C. Modernization of Production and Im-
provement of Quality.

The High Authority may contribute very
effectively to the modernization of produc-
tion. It will benefit from a special position
of access to international means of financ-
ing, until it is agreed to issue loans on
the national markets. A levy is also pro-
vided on total coal and steel production,
limited in principle to one percent of the
value of such productions. (As the turn-
over of the Community is of the order of
$4,000,000,000 annually, one percent repre-
sents around $40,000,000.)

The fund constituted by this levy will
be used to cover the administrative ex-
penses of the High Authority as well as
the expenses which might arise from a
guarantee given by the High Authority to
loans contracted by the enterprises, and
especially to cover readaptation expenses.

D. Improvement of the Condition of the
Workers. ,

The standard of living of the workers
will be protected by provisions

(a) forbidding the practice of abnormally
low prices based on abnormally low wages
and 7

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 66 ---
(b) preventing enterprises from having
recourse to wage cuts rather than to mo-
dernization as a means of surmounting
their difficulties.

In this respect, because the improvement
of productivity requires, in the view of
the drafters of the Plan, that technical
progress should not be hindered, a readap-
tation fund has been provided which will
operate with its own funds. It will serve
both to make loans to industries which
need to transform themselves and to con-
tribute to the reemployment of workers by
the payment of temporary allowances and
reinstallation expenditures, and the financ-
ing of technical retraining.

E. Cartels and Concentrations.

The provisions included in the draft
treaty on cartels and concentrations are
designed essentially to prevent price fix-
ing and the control of production and tech-
nical development by agreements among
producers. The provisions against indu-
strial concentrations are designed to pre-
vent the same results from being obtained
either by the growth of a single enterprise
to a point from which it could control an
important part of the market, or by a verti-
cal integration which would make possible

do not exclude all concentration oper-
ations, but only those which by creating
situations contrary to the basic principles
of the Community, cannot be approved by
the High Authority.

IV.— Transitional Measures Provided
by the Annexed Convention

As soon as the mechanisms have been
established which will make it possible to
assure under the control of the High Au-
thority, the smooth transition between the
present economies and the final situation
which the Schuman Plan proposes, and
subject to the necessary exceptions con-
cerning Belgian coal and Italian steel,
quantitative restrictions and customs du-
ties will be automatically abolished among
the six countries.

As concerns the relations of the Com-
munity with other countries, notably Great
Britain, the High Authority will be charged
with carrying on negotiations in the name
of the six countries on the basis of instruc-
tions issued by the Council of Ministers
acting unanimously.

A limitation is also foreseen for shifts in
coal production during the transition peri-
od. As concerns steel, temporary measures

progressively to the single market. As is
known, the most difficuit case to settle in
this connection has been that of the Bel-
gian coal mines, whose prices were 50
percent higher than those of the Ruhr. A
perequation mechaniam fed half by sub-
sidies from the Belgian government and
half by contributions from the most favor-
ed producers of coal (Germany, Holland)
will make it possible to reduce this dis-
crepancy and to contribute to the harmon-
ization of the economic conditions exist-
ing in Belgium with those of neighboring
countries.

When the single market enters into force
for coal, discrimination in transport rates
based on the place of origin or destination
of one of the products in question must be
abolished. The establishment within the
Community of direct international tariffs
will come about by agreement among the
governments, or, in the absence of such
agreement, on a recommendation by the
High Authority within two and one-half
years at the latest from its creation.

Finally, during the transition period, the
action of the High Authority should in
particular be exercised through assistance
to enterprises and to the workers within

discriminatory practices. These provisions

will permit steel mills to adapt themselves

the framework of readaptation. + END

(Continued from page 42)
The German Viewpoint

rather than death. The world, therefore, should no longer
doubt that the German people have made a clear de-
cision and that no one in Germany — except for some
fools, dreamers and foreign agents — dreams of repudiat-
ing this decision. The direct danger and the experiences
which the Germans had before 1945 and perhaps an even
greater motive, which is the knowledge of conditions
existing across the present Eastern borders, are the
reasons why Germany, in spite of its present misery and
despair, has rejected Bolshevism in a more complete
manner than any other European nation.

All of our arguments were fully understood, but, of
course, were sometimes disputed. Perhaps the most im-
portant result of our discussions was that the psycho-
logical and political factors were completely understood by
both sides. No one who is trained to recognize factors
which determine public opinion in their own country can
overlook the existence of such factors in other countries. I
therefore felt that it was the mutual desire to reach an
understanding which made these discussions so valuable.

OME OF THE MISUNDERSTANDINGS may be due

to the fact that the American nation is younger and
more vigorous than the European nations. Their political
institutions are less burdened with tradition, and their
political decisions with fewer reservations. Having in
mind his own political history, the average American
finds it difficult to understand why Europe does not
unite or cooperate, when the political prerequisites for
this integration seem to exist. Looking at the map of
Europe must be rather disturbing to the realistic view of
the American. On the other hand, the value of these

INFORMATION BULLETIN

64

differences and the manner in which they have con-
tributed to the development of Europe was recognized.

I welcomed these discussions because I believed they
helped remove the prejudices which the European,
burdened with tradition and proud of his culture and
history, has against the American; just as they served
to remove the prejudices of the young and independent
American, who, full of energy, looks with equal pride
on the forms of life which he has developed and which
he wants the European to adopt. Discussions of this
kind will teach nations to learn from one another and
to recognize their mutual obligations.

The strongest impression which I brought home from
this two weeks’ trip was the following:

It is surprising and remarkable to see the natural self-
discipline of the American citizen and the way he
supports the national efforts of his country. We in Ger-
many should, I think, understand how freely and whole-
heartedly the Americans submit to a democratic order
which they acknowledge and which they support even
though they do not always agree completely with the
forms under which it is presented. The great love which
the American citizen feels for his country is admirable.
This gives him the right to look into the future with
confidence. +END

32,000 Volunteer Miners Recruited
Recruiting of US-Zone workers for the Ruhr coal mines
is ‘continuing at an average of between 300 and 600 volun-
teers monthly. Since March 1947, when the first US-Zone
volunteer was accepted for the German coal pits, almost
32,000 volunteers have been processed through the Hoechst
Assembly Center near Frankfurt.

APRIL 1951

--- Page 67 ---
Allied Communique on Revision of the Occupation Statute
and Implementation of the New York Agreements

Important measures which arise from the
decisions taken by the Foreign Ministers at
their September 1950 meeting in New York
were published March 6. These measures
mark animportantstepinthe development of
normal relations between the Governments
of France, Great Britain and the United
States and ‘the Government of the Federal
Republic. Further measures to this end
should result from the decisions, taken by
the Foreign Ministers in Brussels in Decem-
ber 1950, to proceed in negotiations with
representatives of the Federal Republic
toward the establishment of contractual
relations in connection with the association
of Germany in the common defense effort
of the West.

The following are the most important of
the measures announced March 6.

In order to accelerate the integration of
the Federal Republic in the communily of
free nations, the Allied High Commission
has approved the immediate establishment
of a Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs
and has authorized the Federal Govern-
ment to enter into direct diplomatic rela-
tions with friendly nations and to exchange
diplomatic representatives with them.
Foreign diplomatic and consular represen-
tatives on Federal territory will normally
be accredited to the Federal Republic.

The High'Commissioners have promulgat-
ed a First Instrument of Revision of the
Occupation Statute in which certain reserv-
ed powers are given up or are reduced.
For example, the powers of the High Com-
mission in the field of internal action under.
Paragraph 2 (h) of the Statute are given up,
while powers in respect of foreign trade
and exchange are considerably reduced.
Furthermore, Federal and Land (state)
legislation will no longer be subject to
prior review by the Allied High Com-
mission before coming into force.

In furtherance of the reestablishment of
the German public and private credit in
the world an agreement has been reached
between the Federal Government and the
governments of the three Occupyirg Powers
by which the former confirms its responsi-
bility for the prewar external debts of the
German Reich and acknowledges the debts
arising out of the assistance furnished to
Germany by the Allied Governments since
May 8, 1945, This agreement will in due
course be laid before the Bundestag (Lower
House of Parliament) for ratification, The
three powers have in return indicated that
the debt settlement will be a negotiated
one in which the interested parties, both
debtor and creditor as well as the govern-
ments concerned, including the Federal
Government, will take part. It is also
agreed that in establishing the amount and
manner of payment of the German external
debts consideration will be given to the
General situation of the Federal Republic,
in particular its capacity to pay and its
territorial limitations.

In order to make an essential contribution
to international cooperation, the Federal
Government has also given a written
undertaking to the Allied High Com-
mission that it is prepared to cooperate
in the equitable apportionment of mate-
tials, products and services which are in
short supply or required for the common
defense.

APRIL 1951

Finally, the High Commissioners have
announced their program for giving up
Occupation Statute controls regarding
respect for the Constitutions, decarteli-
zation and deconcentration, and displaced
persons and refugees, as soon as certain
specified conditions have been fulfilled.

First Instrument of Revision
Of the Occupation Statute

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission hereby promulgates the following
modifications of the Occupation Statute
which, except as modified by this instru-
ment, continues in force:

I. In Paragraph 2(b), after the words
“non-discrimination in trade matters," in-
sert the following:

“to the extent required for the pur-
poses of Paragraph (g) (2) below:

Il. Paragraph 2 (c) is amended to read
as follows:

“(c) foreign affairs, including inter-
national agreements made by or on
behalf of Germany; but the powers
reserved in this field will be exercised
so as to permit the Federal Republic
to conduct relations with foreign coun-
tries to the full extent compatible with
the requirements of security, other
reserved powers, and obligations of
the Occupying Powers relating to
Germany.”

Ill, Paragraph 2(g) is amended to read
as follows:

“(g) control over foreign trade and
exchange to the extent necessary:

(1) to meet the needs of security;

(2) to insure the observance by the
Federal Republic of principles of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade, until the Federal Republic has
become a party to the Agreement and
assumed the obligations thereunder;

(3) to insure the observance by the
Federal Republic of the principles and
practices of the International Mone-
tary Fund Agreement and to control
its exchange rate, until the Federal
Republic has become a member of the
Fund and assumed satisfactory obli-
gations thereunder with respect to
its exchange rate;

(4) to provide for orderly settlement
of claims against Germany.

IV. Paragraph 2(h) is deleted.

V. Paragraph 5 is amended to read as
follows:

“(a) Any amendment of the Basic Law
will require the express approval of
the Occupation Authorities before be-
coming effective. Any agreement
made’ between the Federal Republic
and a foreign government will be-
come effective 21 days after its of-
ficial receipt by the Occupation Author-
ities but will be subject to repeal
or annulment by them.

“(b) The Occupation Authorities
will not disapprove any agreement
between the Federal Republic and a
friendly country or repeal or annul
legislation unless in their opinion it
is inconsistent with the provisions of
the Occupation Statute as revised or

65

with legislation or other measures of
the Occupation Authorities, or con-
stitutes a grave threat. to the basic
purposes of the occupation."
VI. Paragraph 7 is amended to read as
follows:

“(a) In so far as it is based upon
reserved powers, occupation legis-
lation will remain in force until re-

pealed or amended by the Occu-
pation Authorities,
“(b) All other occupation legis-

lation will remain in force until re-
pealed by the Occupation Authorities
at the request of the appropriate Ger-
man authorities, or repealed or amend-
ed by the German authorities upon
authorization by the Occupation Autho-
rities."*

VII. This Instrument shall become ef-

fective March 7, 1951.

Decision No. 10

Program for the Revision
Of Occupation Controls

In implementation of the decisions taken
by the Foreign Ministers of the United
States, the. United Kingdom and France
at their New York meeting on Sept. 18,
1950, the Council of the Allied High
Commission, having this day promulgated
the ‘First Instrument of Revision of the
Occupation Statute,” has decided to adopt
the following program for further relax-
ation of controls under the Occupation
Statute:

1. The powers reserved by Para-
graph 2(b) relating to deconcentration
will be exercised only to insure comple-
tion of Allied programs relating to the
steel, coal and motion picture industries,
I. G, Farben and the Grossbanken and
actions which, as of Dec. 31, 1950, were
called for under laws adopted by the
Allied High Commission or have been
initiated through legal process taken under
existing laws. Upon completion of such
programs and actions these powers will
be relinquished.

2. (a) The powers reserved by Para-
graph 2 (b) relating to decartelization will
be relinquished upon the enactment by
the Federal Republic of legislation satis-
factory to the Occupation Authorities, in-
cluding provisions to prevent new concen-
trations of economic power.

(b) The powers reserved by Paragraph
2(d) relating to displaced persons and
the admission of refugees will be relin-
quished as soon as commitments and
other action satisfactory to the Occu-
pation Authorities have been taken by
the Federal Government with respect to
the admission, care and protection of dis-
placed persons and refugees, including
safeguarding their civil rights, assuring
the continued and effective operation of
international and Allied agencies establish-
ed for their care and resettlement, and com-
pensating victims of Nazi persecution.

(c) The powers reserved by Paragraph
2 (f) relating to respect for the Basic Law
and the Land Constitutions will be relin-
quished as soon as the Federal Republic
has established a judicial authority deem-
ed by the Occupation Authorities to be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 68 ---
capable of effectively upholding the civil
rights of the individual as defined in the
Basic Law.

3. The Occupation Authorities will retain
the powers necessary to insure that the
Federal Government carries out commit-
ments undertaken and legislation enacted
pursuant to Paragraph 2 above and that
the essential features of such legislation
are maintained.

4, The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission will issue further instruments of
revision of the Occupation Statute from
time to time as the conditions prescribed
by this decision for the relinquishment of
powers are fulfilled.

5. This decision shall become effective
on March 7, 1951.

Decision No. 11

Competence of the Federal Government
In the Field of Foreign Affairs

In exercise of the powers reserved by
Paragraph 2(c) of the Occupation Statute
as amended by the First Instrument of
Revision, the Council of the Allied High
Commission decides as follows:

Article I

The Federal Government is hereby
authorized to establish a Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and shall have exclusive
responsibility for the choice of the per-
sonnel of its diplomatic, consular and
trade missions.

Article II

The Federal Government may conduct
relations with foreign countries subject to
the provisions of this Decision,

Article III

1, The establishment of diplomatic or
consular relations or trade missions shall
be subject to the prior approval of the
Allied High Commission.

2. The Federal Government may, how-
ever, establish without such approval
diplomatic missions in those countries,
other than the United States of America,
France and the United Kingdom, in which
prior to the effective date of this decision
it has been authorized to establish consular
offices.

3. No prior approval will be required
for the establishment of consular offices
or trade missions in those countries with
which the Federal Government has diplo-
matic or consular relations.

Article TV

The Federal Government is hereby
authorized to appoint official agents in the
capitals of the United States of America,
France and the United Kingdom.

Article V

The accreditation and status of foreign
missions in the territory of the Federal
Republic will be governed by the following
provisions,

{i) Diplomatic missions and consular of-
fices established in the territory of the Fed-
eral Republic will normally be accredited
to and recognized by the Federal Republic.
In exceptional circumstances they may be
accredited to or recognized by the Allied
High Cominission. In no case will there be
a dual accreditation of missions to the
Allied High Commission and to the Federal
Republic or the issue of exequaturs to con-
suls by both the Federal Government and
the Allied High Commission.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(ii) The accreditation of foreign missions
to the Federal Government shall be notified
to the Allied High Commission and they
will thereafter have access to it in all mat-
ters relating to the fields reserved to the
Occupation Authorities,

Article VI

The Federal and Land Governments shall
keep the Allied High Commission informed
of any international negotiations. The Al-
lied High Commission may intervene in
negotiations relating to the fields reserved
to the Occupation Authorities.

Article VII

The Federal Government shall furnish to
the Allied High Commission all appropriate
information regarding action taken pursu-
ant to the provisions of this decision.

Article VIII

This decision shall become effective on
March 7, 1951,

Letter on Financial Responsibilities
Of the Federal Government

The following is the text of a letter from
the Allied High Commission to the Federal
Chancellor concerning financial respon-
sibilities of the Federal Government.

Oct 23, 1950.

I have the honor to refer to the com-
munique issued by the Foreign Ministers
in New York in which they indicated that
the Federal Government would be expected
to undertake certain commitments conson-
ant with the new responsibilities which
the Governments of the three Occupying
Powers contemplated would be conierred
upon the Federal Republic. The three
Governments hold that, at the moment
when the Federal Government assumes
responsibility for the conduct of its foreign
relations, the status of the obligations
resting upon it in its relations with foreign
countries should be clarified. The three
Governments regard the Federal Govern-
ment as the only German Government
which can speak for Germany and represent
the German people in international affairs
pending the reunification of Germany.
They consider, therefore, that pending a
final peace settlement, and without prej-
udice to its terms, the Federal Govern-
ment is the only government entitled to
assume the rights and fulfil the obligations
of the former German Reich.

The High Commission has communi-
cated to the Federal Government separa-
tely the decisions which have been taken
by the Foreign Ministers concerning the
clarification of the status of treaties to
which the German Reich was a party. The
question of the obligations of the Reich
also involves the external debt of the
Reich. The three Governments consider
that the Federal Government should in
consonance with what has been said above,
assume responsibility for the prewar ex-
ternal debt of the Reich. They recognize
that, in the determination of the manner
in which and the extent to which the
Federal Government is to fulfil the obliga-
tions arising from this assumption, account
must be taken of the general situation of
the Federal Republic, including, in particu-
lar, the effect of the limitations on its
territorial jurisdiction.

The determination of the financial re-
sponsibilities of the Federal Government
necessarily also involves the obligations
resulting from the economic assistance

66

which has been furnished by the Occupy-
ing Powers to Germany. As the Federal
Government is aware, the Occupying
Powers have, at considerable cost to the
peoples of their own countries, extended
substantial economic assistance to Germany
since the termination of hostilities, with
a view to insuring the well-being of the
German people and assisting them in the
rehabilitation of their economic life. In
due course the Occupying Powers will call
for a settlement of the obligations arising
from this assistance. They will consider
in the settlement of these obligations the
ability of the Federal Government to pay
and other relevant factors. Meanwhile,
they consider that the Federal Government
should acknowledge its debt in respect of
the expenditures which they have in-
curred and that it should recognize the
prior status of these obligations over other
claims.

It is the intention of the three Govern-
ments to proceed as promptly as possible
with the development of a settlement plan
which will assure fair and equitable treat-
ment of the interests affected and remove
as far as practicable obstacles to normal
economic relations between the Federal
Republic and other countries. These ar-
rangements would necessarily be pro-
visional and subject to revision when
Germany is reunited and a final peace
settlement becomes possible. The three
Governments are agreed that the plan
should provide for the orderly settlement
of the claims against Germany, the total
effect of which should not dislocate the
German economy through undesirable
effects on the internal financial situation,
nor unduly drain existing or potential Ger-
man foreign exchange resources. It should
also avoid adding appreciably to the finan-
cial burden of any Occupying Power. .

The three Governments have instructed
the Intergovernmental Study Group on Ger-
many in London to prepare a plan for
handling claims in accordance with the
above principles and to recommend ar-
rangements for the appropriate participa-
tion of other interested Governments and
the debtors and creditors, including the
Federal Government. The Federal Govern-
ment will in due course be informed of the
results of these studies.

Although there are numerous problems
to which it has not yet been possible to
give consideration, the three Governments
are in agreement that the settlement plan
should include, in particular, those cate-
gories of claims whose settlement would
best achieve the objective of normalizing
the economic and financial relations of the
Federal Republic with other countries. In
their view the plan must therefore neces-
sarily deal with the prewar external debt
as well as with the claims in respect of
postwar economic assistance which enjoy .
a priority status over all other claims. The
plan should also provide for the settlement
of certain claims in connection with social
insurance operations and with the con-
version into Deutsche marks of Reichs-
marks brought back from Germany by
repatriated prisoners of war and deportees,
if these claims have not been disposed of
before the establishment of the plan.

In addition to the foregoing matters,
other questions may arise in the detailed
working out of the settlement arrange- _
ments. For example, it may be necessary
to give consideration to certain prewar
debts owed to the residents of foreign
countries which may not be strictly clas-
sifiable as external in character.

APRIL 1951

--- Page 69 ---
The three Governments recognize that a
settlement plan of the scope envisaged can
be put into effect only through some modi-
fication of the priority of their claims in
respect of postwar economic assistance.
Accordingly, the three Governments have
agreed that, provided a settlement plan is
worked out in accordance with the prin-
ciples outlined in the preceding paragraphs
and provided further that agreed procedures
and controls are established that will
govern this settlement plan and all pay-
ments made under it. they will modify the
priority of their claims in respect of post-
war economic assistance to the extent
necessary to permit the fulfilment of such
an agreed plan. This qualified modification
of the priority of claims in respect of post-
war economic assistance will not preclude
the continued fulfilment of the obligations
which the Federal Government has already
incurred under existing agreements con-
cerning such claims

The three Governments feel certain that
the Federal Government shares their view
as to the desirability of restoring Ger-
many’s credit and of providing for an
orderly settlement of German debts which
will ensure fair treatment to all concerned,
taking full account of Germany's economic
problems. They feel equally certain that
the Federal Government will share their
belief that such a settlement will contribute
to the restoration of normal relations be-
tween Germany and other countries.

The three Governments would appre-
ciate receiving a formal assurance from
the Federal Government that it regards
itself as responsible for the prewar
external debt of the German Reich and
that it recognizes its debt with respect to
the expenditures incurred by the Occu-
pying Powers for economic assistance to
the Federal Republic and affirms the
priority of the claims arising from such
assistance over other claims against Ger-
many. They would also appreciate receiv-
ing assurances of the cooperation of the
Federal Government in working out and
implementing a settlement plan as out-
lined above.

In order to give formal effect to these
undertakings and assurances and to the
undertakings and assurances offered by
the Governments of the three Occupying
Powers, I have to propose that an agree-
ment should be concluded by an exchange
of notes between the Allied High Com-
mission and the Federal Government. It
is the intention of the High Commission
to proceed with the modification of the
Controls in the Occupation Statute on the
lines agreed by the three Foreign Minis-
ters as soon as this exchange of notes is
completed and the assurance in respect of
Cooperation in an equitable apportionment
Of materials and products in short supply
Tequired for common defense, on which a
separate letter is today being sent to
you, has been received. However, it is
the understanding of the three Govern-
ments that the exchange of notes on debt
obligations will be submitted to the Fed-
eral legislature for approval and I have
to request you to confirm that this will
© done at the appropriate time.

Federal Chancellor's Reply

The following is the German Federal
Republic's reply to the Allied High Com-
mission letter of Oct. 23, 1950.

APRIL 1951

Bonn, March 6, 1951.
In reply to your letter of Oct. 23, 1950 —
AGSEC(50)2339 — I have the honor to in-
form you as follows:

1

The Federal Republic hereby confirms
that it is liable for the prewar external
debt of the German Reich, including those
debts of other corporate bodies sub-
sequently to be declared liabilities of the
Reich, as well as for interest and other
charges on securities of the Government
of Austria to the extent that such interest
and charges became due after March 12,
1938 and before May 8, 1945.

The Federal Government understands
that in the determination of the manner
in which and the extent to which the
Federal Republic will fulfil this liability,
account will be taken of the general
situation of the Federal Republic including,
in particular, the effects of the limitations
on its territorial jurisdiction and its
capacity to pay.

I

The Federal Government acknowledges
hereby in principle the debt arising from
the economic assistance furnished to Ger-
many since May 8, 1945, to the extent
to which liability for such debt has not
previously been acknowledged in the
Agreement on Economic Cooperation con-
cluded on Dec. 15, 1949 between the
Federal Republic and the United States of

-America, or for which the Federal Republic

has not already taken over responsibility
under Article 133 of the Basic Law. The
Federal Government is ready to accord the
obligations arising from the economic assist-
ance priority over all other foreign claims
against Germany or German nationals.

The Federal Government regards it as
appropriate to regulate any questions
connected with the recognition and settle-
ment of these debts by bilateral agree-
ments with the Governments of the coun-
tries which have rendered economic
assistance, patterned on the agreement
concluded with the United States of
America on Dec. 15, 1949. The Federal
Government takes for granted that these
agreements will contain an_ arbitration
clause for cases of dispute. The Federal
Government is prepared at once to enter
into negotiations for the conclusion of
such agreements with the Governments
concerned.

IIL.

The Federal Government hereby expres-
ses its desire to resume payments on the
German external debt. It understands
that there is agreement between it and
the Governments of France, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland and the United States of America
on the followin:

It is in the interest of the reestab-
lishment of normal economic relations
between the Federal Republic and
other countries to work out as soon as
possible a settlement plan which will
govern the settlement of public and
private claims against Germany and
German nationals.

Interested, governments including the
Federal Republic, creditors and debt-
ors shall participate in working out
this plan.

The settlement plan shall in par-
ticular deal with those claims, the
settlement of which would achieve
the objective of normalizing the eco-

67

nomic and financial relations of the
Federal Republic with other countries.
It will take into account the general
economic position of the Federal Re-
public, notably the increase of its
burdens and the reduction in its eco-
nomic wealth. The general effect of
this plan shall neither dislocate the
German economy through undesirable
effects oa the internal financial situa-
tion nor unduly drain existing or
potential German foreign-exchange re-
sources, It shall also not add appre-
ciably to the financial burden of any
Occupation Power.

The governments concerned may
obtain expert opinions on all questions
arising out of the negotiations on the
settlement plan and on the capacity
to pay.

The result of the negotiations shall
be set forth in agreements. It is agreed
that the plan will be provisional in
nature and subject to revision as soon
as Germany is reunited and a. final
peace settlement becomes possible.

Letter to Federal Chancellor
On Debt Assurances

The following is the Allied High Com-
mission's acknowledgment of the Federal
Chancellor's letter on debt assurances,

March 6, 1951.

In reply to your letter of March 6, 1951,
on the subject of German indebtedness we
have the honor, on behalf of the Govern-
ments of France, the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the
United States of America, to acknowledge
the undertakings of the Federal Govern-
ment in regard to the responsibility of the
Federal Republic for the prewar external
debts of the German Reich and for the debt
arising out of the economic assistance fur-
nished to Germany by the three Govern-
ments since May 8, 1945.

With regard to the priority accorded to
the obligations .arising from the postwar
economic assistance we are authorized to
state that the three Governments would not
propose to exercise this priority in such a
way as to restrict settlement of foreign-held
claims arising out of trade subsequent to
May 8, 1945, essential to the economic re-
covery of the Federal Republic.

With regard to the question of an arbitra-
tion clause in agreements covering the
debts for postwar economic assistance, the
three Governments will be prepared, when
negotiating such agreement, to consider
whether it would be useful to include an
arbitration clause to deal with any matters
which might be appropriately settled by
such a procedure.

We further have the honor on behalf of the
three Governments to confirm the under-
standings of the Federal Government as set
forth in the second paragraph of Article I
and in Article III of your Excellency's letter.
They are now engaged in preparing pro-
posals for the working out of settlement
arrangements; these w.l] provide for the par-
ticipation of foreign creditors, German deb-
tors, and interested Governments including
the Federal Government. The proposals will
be designed to arrive at an orderly over-all
settlement of prewar claims against Ger-
many and German debtors and of the debt
arising out of the postwar economic as-
sistance, which would be fair and equitable

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 70 ---
to all the interests affected, including those
of the Federal Government. It is the inten-
tion that the resulting settlement should be
embodied in a multilateral agreement; any
bilateral agreements that may be
sidered to be necessary would be concluded
within the framework of the settlement
plan. As soon as their proposals are ready
the three Governments will communicate
them to the Federal Government and to
other interested Governments and will dis-
cuss with them these proposals and the pro-
cedure to be adopted for dealing with the
subject,

We have the honor to state that our three
Governments regard your Excellency’s let-
ter under reference and this letter as plac-
ing on record an agreement between the
Governments of France, the United King-
dom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
and the United States of America, on the
one hand and the Government of the Fed-
eral Repuplic on the other, concerning the
questions of German indebtedness covered
in these letters. These letters are prepared
in English, French and German, each text
being equally authentic.

Letter on Equitable Apportionment
Of Materials for Defense

Text of letter from Allied High Com-
mission to the Federal Chancellor concern-
ing the equitable apportionment of ma-
terials for defense.

October 23, 1950.

You. will recall that the Foreign
Ministers, in their communique on Ger-
many, issued in New York on Sept. 19,
1950, after referring to their willingness
to amend the Occupation Statute, stated
that ‘the Federal Republic will be expect-
ed to undertake certain commitments and
other actions consonant with its new
responsibilities.”

In view of the fact that the amendments
to the Occupation Statute now under
active consideration will transfer to the
Federal Government certain reserved pow-
ers, the exercise of which may become
necessary in the interest of the defense
effort of the Western Nations, the Allied
High Commission hereby requests the Fed-
eral Government formally to give an
assurance that it will cooperate with the
Western Powers in the equitable appor-
tionment of materials, products and
services which are or may be in short
supply or required for the common defense,

At the present time it is not possible to
determine in detail the areas where short-
ages can be expected, the organizations
which will be designated to cope with
these shortages, or the specific measures
which the Federal Government might find
it necessary to take in the discharge of
its obligations, It can be stated, however,
that now and in the immediate future the
Federal Government is expected to main-
tain conditions under which Western
orders may be freely placed within the
area of the Federal Republic and under
which deliveries against these orders will
be made in the normal course of events,
and not to increase unduly the internal
consumption of these goods at the expense
of exports. It can also be anticipated that,
with the prospective increase in the
defense effort of the Western Powers, the
Federal Government will be expected to
lend support to industries © producing
critical items in short supply and to
institute measures designed to assure, at

INFORMATION BULLETIN

con-.

fair prices, supplies of finished goods,
raw materials and services for Western
defense requirements in an equitable pro-
portion to the Federal Republic's internal
requirements for consumption and invest-
ment and in preference to the import de-
mands of countries outside the Western
defense effort.

Federal Chancellor's Reply

The following is the text of a letter from
the Federal Chancellor to the Allied High
Commission giving assurance on equitabie
apportionment of materials.

I have received your letter AGSEC(50)
2340 of Oct. 23, 1950, and as requested I
hereby confirm that the Federal Govern-
ment will cooperate in the equitable ap-
portionment of materials, products and
services which are or may be in short
supply or required for the common defense.

In the spirit of this cooperation the
Federal Republic is in particular prepared

(a) not to impose export restrictions on
Western orders placed in the area of the
Federal Republic for the above items,
detrimental to the equitable apportion-
ment of said items.

(b) to take measures to prevent internal
consumption of said items from unduly
increasing at the expense of exports of
said items and to lend support to industries
producing the above items;

(c) when the situation requires, to in-
stitute measures designed to insure, at
reasonable and non-discriminatory prices,
supplies of the above items for Western
defense requirements in an equitable pro-
portion to the Federal Republic's internal
requirements for consumption and invest-
ment and with the appropriate degree of
priority over the import demands of coun-
tries outside of Western defense effort.

* *” *

Modification of Berlin Controls

The following is the text of the letter sent
by the three Allied Commandants to the
Berlin Magistrat (City Council) announcing
the First Instrument of Revision of the
Statement of Principles of May 14, 1949,
following decision of the Allied High Com-
mission to further relax controls in the
Federal Republic and Western Berlin.

To: Regierender Buergermeister;
President of the House of Represen-
tatives;
President of the High Court of Appeals.

1. As a result of a conference of the For-
eign Ministers of France, the United States
and the United Kingdom in New York in
September 1950, the Council of the Allied
High Commission has promulgated onMarch6
a First Instrument of Revision of the Statute
of Occupation which increases the comnet-
ence of the Federal authorities in various
fields. The Foreign Ministers have also ex-
pressed the wish that Berlin should enjoy
the same advantages, taking into account
its particular position. In accordance with
this decision the Allied Kommandatura is
promulgating today the First Instrument
of Revision of the Statement of Principles
of May 14, 1949, a copy of which is attached
herewith. This document reduces: the re-
served powers in a certain number of
fields.

2. We wish at the same time to inform you
of our intention to effect further relaxation
of controls as soon as circumstances per-
mit. We fully appreciate that the achieve-
ment of our common objectives will depend

68

in the future, as it has in the past, on
effective cooperation between the Allied
authorities and the Berlin Government.

General de Brigade P. L CaRoLet
for France
Maj. Gen. G. K Bourne
for Great Britain
Maj. Gen. L. MATHEWSON
for USA

First Instrument of Revision of the
Statement of Principles of May 14, 1949

The Allied Kommandatura hereby pro-
mulgates the following modifications of the
Statement of Principles of May 14, 1949,
which, except as modified by this Instru-
ment, continues in force: .

I. Paragraph 1 is amended to read as fol-
lows:

“1, Berlin shall have, subject only to the
limitations set out in this Statement, full
legislative and executive and judicial
powers in accordance with the Berlin Con-
stitution of 1950 as approved by the Allied
Kommandatura on August 29, 1950."

Il. The words ‘“‘non-discrimination in
trade matters’ are deleted from Para-
graph 2 (b).

IIL. Paragraphs 2 (c), 2 (f), 2 (g) and 2 (j)
are amended to read as follows:

“(c) Relations with authorities abroad,
but this power will be exercised so as to
permit the Berlin authorities to assure the
representation of Berlin interests in this
field by suitable arrangements;"

“(f) Respect for the Berlin Constitution
of 1950 as approved by the Allied Kom-
mandatura on Aug. 29, 1950;

“(g) Control over external trade and ex-
change and over trade between Berlin and
the Western Zones of Germany; and con-
trol over monetary and fiscal policies in
so far only as these policies seriously af-
fect Berlin's need for external assistance;”

“(j) Authority over Berlin police to the
extent necessary to ensure the security of
Berlin.”

IV. Paragraphs 2 (h), 2 (k), 2 (I) and 2 (m)
are deleted.

V. In Paragraph 4, the word ‘Berlin’ is
substituted for “Greater Berlin.”

VI. Paragraph 5 is amended to read as
follows:

“5. Any amendment of the Berlin Con-
stitution or any new Constitution of Berlin
will require the express approval of the
Allied Kommandatura before becoming ef-
fective. All other legislation will be effec-
tive without review by the Allied Kom-
mandatura, but will be subject to repeal
or annulment by it. The Allied Kommanda-
tura will not repeal or annul legislation
unless, in its opinion, it is inconsistent with
the provisions of this Statement of Prin-
ciples as revised, or with legislation or
other measures of the Occupation Authori-
ties, or unless it constitutes a grave threat
to the basic purposes of the occupation.”

VII. Paragraph 7 is amended to read as
follows:

“7, All occupation legislation will remain
in force until repealed or amended by the
Allied Kommandatura or the Sector Com-
mandant concerned. In so far as legis-
lation of the Allied Kommandatura or the.
sector commandants is not based on the
reserved powers, it will be repealed at the
request of the appropriate Berlin au-
thorities.”

VIII. This Instrument shall become ef-
fective on March 8, 1951, +END

APRIL 1951

--- Page 71 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of March 1

The 56th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg March 1, 1951. Present were
Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French High
Commissioner (chairman); Sir Ivone Kirk-
patrick, United Kingdom High Commissio-
ner; and Mr. John J. McCloy, United Sta-
tes High Commissioner.

The Council:

(1) Considered progress made toward
implementation of the agreement of For-
eign Ministers at New York in Septem-
ber 1950.

(2) In this connection, noted that Allied
and German experts would meet later in
the day at the Petersberg, to discuss finali-
zation of texts which will permit the taking
effect of the instrument of revision of the
Occupation Statute and related documents.

(3) Agreed to hold its next meeting on
March 8, 1951.

HICOM Meeting of March 8

The 57th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg March 8, 1951. Present. were
Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French High
Commissioner (chairman); Sir Ivone Kirk-
patrick, United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner, and Mr. John J. McCloy, United
States High Commissioner.

The Council:

(1) Considered the occupation costs bud-
get for the fiscal year 1951-1952, and in
particular that portion of the budget
related to the needs in Germany of con-
siderably increased Allied defense forces.
The budget was referred to the finance
advisers for final review.

(2) Affirmed the complete lack of foun-
dation in a newspaper report that the
federal chancellor has been requested by
the High Commission to delay the dis-
cussion in the Bundestag (Lower House of
Parliament) scheduled March 9, No such
suggestion has ever been made.

(3) Agreed to hold its next meeting on
Thursday, March 15, at the Petersberg.

HICOM Meeting of March 15

The 58th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission. was held at the
Petersberg March 15, 1951. Present were
Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French High
Commissioner (chairman); Sir Ivone Kirk-
Patrick, United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner, and Mr. John J. McCloy, United
States High Commissioner.

The Council:

(1) Noted the action of its chairman in
Teplying to the federal chancellor's letter
to the High Commission concerning the
Bundestag resolution of March 9, 1951, on
all-German elections, prerequisites for en-
suring such elections, and the reunification
of Germany. The high commissioners have
already transmitted to their governments
the documents sent to them by the federal
chancellor, The high commissioners have
Tecommended that their governments give
these proposals their most earnest con-
sideration.

APRIL 1951

(2) Signed a law providing a uniform
traffic and highway code applicable to
Allied Forces in all three zones. This law,
which will be published in the Official
Gazette of the High Commission, provides
that, with certain exceptions, the German
highway code shall apply to the Allied
Forces. It further provides. that Allied
vehicles should not be subjected to German
legislation regarding size, technical require-
ments, registration and driving licenses,
and that registration and driving licenses
in one zone of the federal territory should
be recognized in the other two zones. Each
high commissioner shail prescribe the
amount of insurance necessary to cover
those risks which may arise from the
operation in the territory of the Federal
Republic of motor vehicles which are priva-
tely owned by Allied nationals under his
jurisdiction.

(3) Noted that in accordance with its
instructions the state commissioner of North
Rhine-Westphalia had been directed to con-
vey to the minister-president the High
Commission's concern that a responsible
member of the state government should
have made unsubstantiated charges involv-
ing members of the Allied Forces. On
Feb 28, the minister for economics of Land
North Rhine-Westphalia made a statement
in the Landtag (state house of representati-
ves) alleging that an extensive black market
existed in coal supplied to the Allied
Forces in Germany for their own require-
ments. The Occupation Authorities are
determined to take all possible steps to
suppress black market dealings in Ger-
many, and to this end have recently pro-
mulgated Allied High Commission Law
No. 40, which renders such transactions by
members of the Allied Forces liable to
severe penalties. They will vigorously
follow up any evidence of malpractices
which may be adduced. Accordingly the
Council of the Allied High Commission
at its meeting on March 1 took cognizance
of Dr, Straeter’s statement and instructed
the state commissioner of North Rhine-
Westphalia to ensure that the allegations
made were immediately put to the proof
and to take disciplinary action against
offenders in all cases where the charge
was substantiated. The minister has, how-
ever, admitted in a letter addressed, on
March 10, to the state commissioner that
he is at the moment unable to adduce
concrete evidence in any single instance
in justification of his remarks before the
Landtag.

(4) Agreed to hold its next meeting on
March 29, 1951, at the Petersberg.

Laws and Regulations

Regulation No. 4
(Liquidation of Coal
Industry Enterprises)
Under Law No. 27
(Reorganization of German Coal
and Iron and Steel Industries)

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion issues the following Regulation:

69

Article 1

The following companies listed in Sche-
dule A of Law No. 27 are hereby placed
in liquidation as of March 1, 1951:

No. 10 — _ Kohlenhandelsgesellschaft
“Glueckauf" Abt. Beck & Co.

No. 11 — Deutsche Kohlenhandelsgesell-
schaft Lueders, Meentzen & Co.

No. 12 — Kohlenkontor Weyhenmeyer
& Co,

No. 13 — Kohlenwertstoff A.G.

Article 2

The legal representatives (Vorstand,
persoenlich haftende Gesellschafter or their
equivalent) of each of the companies
enumerated in Article 1 who have been
appointed by or whose appointments have
been approved by the Combined Coal
Control Group (hereinafter referred to as
the ‘’Group’) or any other competent
Allied authority, are hereby initially
appointed as liquidators of the company.

Article 3

1, The legal representatives (Vorstand,
persoenlich haftende Gesellschafter or their
equivalent) of the companies enumerated
in Article 1 shall file a notice of dissolu-
tion of the enterprise with the court hav-
ing jurisdiction under German Law for
entry in the Commercial Register (Han-
delsregister). Each such notice of dissolu-
tion shall be filed om or before Feb. 28,
1951, and shall become effective on
March 1, 1951.

2. The legal representatives of each of
such companies shall file with the afore-
mentioned Court, for entry in the Com-
mercial Register (Handelsregister), a notice
setting forth the names of the liquidators
appointed. Each such notice shall be filed
on or before Feb. 28, 1951, and shall be-
come effective on March 1, 1951.

Article 4

1. Within 90 days following the effective
date of this Regulation, any authorities and
bodies having any interest in such com-
panies may recommend to the Group per-
sons to serve as liquidators in lieu of or
in addition to those initially appointed.

2. The Group may appoint liquidators
and may remove persons serving as such.

Article 5
Liquidators shall be under the sole direc-
tion end supervision of the Group and
shall be responsible to it.

Article 6

1, A liquidator may only delegate his
functions with the authorization of the
Group.

2. A liquidator shall receive as compen-
sation for his services the amount which
he received as basic compensation in his
former capacity in the company, except as
may be otherwise directed by the Group.
Where liquidators are appointed in lieu of
or in addition to those initially appointed,
compensation shall be as directed by the
Group.

Article 7

The liquidators shall so conduct the
affairs of the company as to achieve an
orderly liquidation which will suitably
protect the interests of creditors, share-
holders and other owners. For this pur-
pose:

(a) The liquidators shall make recom-
mendations to the Group for the disposal
of assets on being advised by the Group
that such assets are not required for reor-
ganization plans pursuant to Articles 3
and 4 of the Law. The liquidators shall

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 72 ---
thereupon make such disposal of such
assets as may be authorized or directed
by the Group:

(b) Pending the consummation of reor-
ganization plans pursuant to Articles 3
and 4 of the Law or the disposal of assets
not subject to inclusion in such plans, the
liquidators shall carry on current business
with respect to the assets subject to such
plans or disposal unless otherwise ordered
by the Group;

(c) The Group will instruct the liquida-
tors which of their acts and transactions
require the prior authorization of the
Group. Pending the issuance of such in-
structions, all transactions not in the
ordinary course of business require the
prior authorization of the Group;

(d) Where a company is unable to meet
its obligations as they mature or where it
appears that the assets of a company are
less than its liabilities, the liquidators shall
promptly advise the Group and shall take
such action as may be authorized or
directed by it;

(e) The liquidators may consult with and
inform the owners of the company in all
matters which may be of interest to them.
The liquidators shall promptly forward to
the Group any recommendations received
from such owners.

Article 8

1, The liquidators shall submit to the
Group proposals for the treatment of
claimants under Article 5 of the Law.

2. The liquidators may consult with any
claimant or with any association or com-
mittee of claimants, They shall render all
reasonable assistance to claimants and may
cooperate with them in the preparation and
presentation of proposals for the treatment
of their claims and interests.

Article 9

The liquidators shall prepare and submit
to the Group such balance sheets, accounts
and reports, including reports by German
public accountants, and in such form as
may be directed by the Group.

Article 10

The liquidation shall be terminated and
liquidators discharged pursuant to orders
of the Group.

Article 11

Provisions of German Law with respect
to liquidation of companies not incon-
sistent with Allied High Commission legis-
lation shall apply except as otherwise
decided by the Group.

Article 12

This regulation shall apply to current
liquidation proceedings in respect of the
enterprises listed or described in Schedule
B of Law No. 27.

Article 13

This Regulation shall become effective
on the date of its publication.

Done at
Bonn, Petersberg, Feb. 14, 1951.

Regulation No. 12 (Revised)
(Aviation)
Under Law No. 24

(Control of Certain Articles, Products,
Installations and Equipment)

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion issues the following Regulation:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Scope
Article 1

This regulation relates to the controls
on civil aeronautical activities.

Definitions
Article 2

For the purpose of the Law and this
Regulation:

(a) ‘Aircraft’ includes aircraft of all
types, heavier or lighter than air and with
or without means of propulsion, but ex-
cluding meteorological balloons, and bal-
loons having no military value.

(b) ‘‘Airport’' includes any airdrome,
airfield or seaplane base.

(c) “Use” includes the operation, repair,
maintenance, charter and control of flight
of aircraft.

(d) ‘‘War materials’' as used in Groups
VI and IX of Schedule A to the Law in-
clude the articles and products listed in
Group V (A) of that schedule,

Acquisition, Construction
and Operation of Airports
Article 3

The Civil Aviation Board may authorize
the acquisition, construction or operation
of an airport. An authorization granted
pursuant to this provision, shall, subject
to any condition or limitation contained
therein, extend to the carrying on of all
activities incidental to the operation of an
airport, except those activities relating to

(a) aircraft maintenance;

(b) aids to air navigation and to landing
of aircraft, other than approach lighting
and visual aids;

(c) air traffic control service and aero-
nautical telecommunications service as de-
fined by the International Civil Aviation
Organization.

Employment of Germans
Article 4

1. German nationals employed by the
Occupation Authorities or by non-German
nationals or organizations authorized to
furnish commercial air service in the ter-
ritory of the Federal Republic may perform
ground activities under such conditions
and to such extent as may be approved
by the Civil Aviation Board.

2 The Commander-in-Chief of any Air
Force forming part of the Occupation For-
ces: determines on his own responsibility
the activities in which German nationals
may be employed by forces under his
command.

Chartering of Aircraft
Article 5

The chartering of aircraft shall be sub-
ject to a license issued by the Civil Avia-
tion Board to the owner or operator of
such aircraft for each flight or series of
flights.

Activities of Non-Germans
Article 6

Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Law, non-German nationals may engage in
aeronautical activities in the territory of
the Federal Republic if authorized to do
so by the Civil Aviation Board.

Repeal
Article 7

1. Regulation No. 12 (Aviation) under
Law No. 24, as published in No. 32 of the
Official Gazette of the Allied High Com-
mission, page 576, is hereby repealed.

70

2. This repeal shall be without prejudice
to the continued ownership of airports
within Article 4 of the repealed Regulation.
Done at
Bonn, Petersberg, Jan. 23, 1951.

Official Statements

Occupation Costs Budget for 1951-52

The Allied High Commission, in trans-
mitting to the Federal Government the
Budget for Occupation Costs and Manda-
tory Expenditures for the fiscal year
1951-52, sent the following letter to the
federal chancellor on March 16, 1951:

1, The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission has now drawn up the estimates of
expenditures to be charged to the Federal
Budget under Occupation Costs and Man-
datory Expenditures for the financial year
April 1, 1951 to March 31, 1952.

2. A summary of the estimates is given
in the table below (in DM Million).* Details
are being dispatched to you under separate
cover.

UK us Fr.

Zone Zone Zone Total
Occupation Costs 1,543 2,100 1,065 4,708
Mandatory Expen-

ditures

ClassI. . . . 116 96 37-249
Class II (except

new coastruc-

tion)... 10 10 2 2
Total . . . . . 1,669 2,206 1,104 4,979
New Construction 421 768 427 ‘1,616
Grand Total {in

DM Million) . . 2,090 2,974 1,531 6,595

You will see from the above summary
that of the total estimated expenditure of
DM 6,600,000,000 for the fiscal year 1951-52,
DM 1,600,000,000 represents non-recurrent
extraordinary expenditure on building due
to the increase of Allied strengths in
Germany.

3, The total budgetary increase over last
year of DM 1,132,000,000 is the direct result
of the decisions made in New York last
September by the three Foreign Ministers
by which the Governments of the United
States, France and the United Kingdom
guaranteed the security of the Federal
Republic and of Western Berlin, This guar-
antee was given at your express request.
It is being implemented by increasing
Allied strengths in Germany to a consid-
erable degree in conformity with the
wish expressed by the Federal Govern-
ment. Allied reinforcements have already
arrived and the process of reinforcement
will be greatly accelerated in the near
future, ‘

4, Thus, it is requested that the financial
‘effort which the Federal Republic is being
asked to make represents in large measure
its contribution to the defense of its own
territory. It is a contribution only, since
the major part of the expenditure on the
Occupation Forces, such as pay, rations
and armament, remains a charge on bud-
gets of the Allied Governments themselves.

5. In determining the requirements of the
Allied Forces, the High Commission has
taken carefully into account the economic
and social position of Western Germany
and has endeavored to limit to the absolute
minimum the effort being demanded of it.

* To reach dollar equivalent, calculate _
Deutsche mark at the official rate of 23.8 cents,
i. e., DM 1,000 equals $238.

APRIL 1951

--- Page 73 ---
In this respect it is emphasized that the
main part of the increase for 1951-52 of
DM 1,132,000,000 over the current fiscal
year, consists of DM 750,000,000 additional
expenditure on new installations and an
increase in transport and communications
costs amounting to DM 210,000,000. The
normal working and maintenance expenses
have not, therefore, varied very much,
even though they allow for a considerable
increase in troop strengths. This shows
that important reductions in expenditure
have already been put into effect, and the
three high commissioners will continue
their efforts along these lines.

6. The extraordinary expenditure of DM
1,600,000,000 for new construction is largely
the result of a desire to restrict requi-
sitioning as much as possible. In so doing,
the High Commission feels it is giving
satisfaction to the repeated requests of the
Federal Government and of public opinion,
Furthermore, this construction being carried
out for the Allied Forces will eventually
revert to the German economy and will be
available to satisfy the needs of the German
people and the administration.

7. The contribution of DM 6,600,000,000
which Germany is being asked to make
represents no more than 6.3 percent of the
gross national product for 1951 as estimated
by the federal authorities. Even taking
Germany's peculiar situation into account,
the financial effort involved is less than
that which is being made by the other
Western nations for the defense of Europe.
This contribution can not, therefore, be
considered excessive and, in accepting the
corresponding obligations, the Federal Re-
public will demonstrate its desire to join
in the defense of peace and liberty, both of
which are essential to its economic and
social reconstruction.

Order to Abrasives Industry

The Decartelization and Industrial De-
concentration Group (DIDEG) of the Allied
High Commission has issued a final ‘cease
and desist’* order against the two trade
associations, the Fachverband Schleifmittel
Industrie and the Verein Deutscher Schleif-
mittelwerke, forbidding them from engag-
ing in price-fixing and other specific
trade-restraining activities.

The order is designed to promote com-
petition in the abrasives industry, with
attendant benefits to consumers.

Last summer, the two trade associations,
which dominate the German abrasives
industry, and five individuals pleaded guilty
to criminal charges of having violated US
Military Government Law No. 56 (Decartel-
ization Law) and paid fines assessed by
the court.

In connection with this action, DIDEG
issued an order to the trade associations
requiring them to ‘‘show cause’ why they
should not be required to cease their price-
fixing and other trade-restraining activ-
ities. The ‘‘cease and desist’ order, issued
by DIDEG without hearing, after agree-
ment with attorneys for the two trade as-
sociations, is the conclusion of the “show
Cause” proceedings.

Holding that the associations’ activities
constituted a violation of the decarteliza-
tion laws, DIDEG specifically ordered the
two trade groups to refrain from fixing or
agreeing upon prices to be charged and
from collecting or disseminating informa-
tion on prices, or circulating any type of
Price list. The order directs abrasives manu-
facturers to sell their products at prices to

APRIL 1951

be determined independently by each manu-
facturer.

In the case of abrasives other than
ceated abrasives, DIDEG allowed 36 months
as the maximum time limit within which
manufacturers must independently establish
and calculate prices for each separate
article. DIDEG further ordered the associ-
ations to stop urging or inducing manufac-
turers to sell at a particular price or under
particular terms or conditions.

In addition, the order enjoins the Verein
Deutscher Schleifmittelwerke not to cal-
culate rebates based on the total amount
of purchases from two or more manu-
facturers. The associations are also order-
ed to refrain from negotiating any non-
governmental agreements with foreign
manufacturers concerning prices, terri-
tories and quotas.

US Attitude on Four-Power Meet

US High Commissioner for Germany
John J. McCloy, questioned on newspaper
reports dealing with the US attitude to the
proposed Four-Power Conference, issued
the following statement:

“Certain reports which have appeared
in Germany and which allegedly reflect
the American stand on issues related to the
proposed conference of Foreign Ministers
and the preparatory Four-Power talks now
under way in Paris are entirely speculative
and largely inaccurate. Obviously any
reliable information on these subjects will
be issued or made available either in Paris
or Washington.”

Magdeburg Incidents Protested

The following letter from Maj. Gen.
George P. Hays, US deputy high commis-
sioner for Germany, to I. Semichastnov,
deputy chairman of the Soviet Control
Commission in Germany, was delivered
March 21. General Hays protested several
incidents at Magdeburg when anti-Ameri-
can demonstrations were carried on by
Germans against passengers riding on the
US military trains to or from Berlin.

During the period March 1 to March 14,
1951, there have been six instances in which
the military train of the American Occu-
pation Forces passing through Soviet occu-
pied territory en route to or from Berlin
was subjected to attacks by German nation-
als residing in the Soviet Zone,

At 2200 hours March 1, 1951, DUS (Ger-
man-US) passenger train No. 610, during
the scheduled stop at Magdeburg, was
approached by a group of 15 German
children and two German adults, singing
anti-American songs and throwing propa-
ganda leaflets aboard the train. A Rus-
sian captain was observed to have been
directing the group prior to the demon-
stration; the demonstration itself, however,
was conducted by the two adult Germans.
This incident was reported to a Russian
lieutenant at Marienborn by the United
States train commander.

At 2200 hours March 8, 1951, DUS pas-
senger train No. 610, during a scheduled
halt at Magdeburg, was approached by 25
German youths singing anti-American songs
and throwing propaganda leaflets.

At 0342 hours March 9, 1951, a DUS pas-
senger train was departing from scheduled
halt at Marienborn from Berlin. A single
bullet, approximately 30 caliber in size,
penetrated the door of a coach, ricocheting
into the personnel compartment. The coach
when fired upon was adjacent to Russian

71

occupied barracks and the shot came from
the same side of tracks upon which bar-
tacks are located.

At 2200 hours March 12, 1951, DUS pas-
senger train No. 610, during the scheduled
stop at Magdeburg, was approached by 75
Germans singing anti-American songs,
throwing propaganda leaflets and pasting
15 anti-American posters ‘upon the train.
There were 15 armed Russian soldiers at
the site of the demonstration who made
no attempt to restrain the demonstrators.

At 2200 hours March 13, 1951 DUS pas-
senger train No. 610, during the scheduled
stop at Magdeburg was approached by 15
German children, age 10 to 15 years, sing-
ing anti-American songs and fasting four
large posters on the sides of the coaches.

On behalf of the United States Occupa-
tion Forces in Germany, I protest these
disorderly and unlawful offenses directed
against US personnel, which occurred in
the area of Germany under the control of
the Soviet Occupation Forces.

It is requested that you take action to
punish the persons guilty of these offenses
and to prevent the recurrence of such
offenses in the future.

HICOG Requests Freeze on STEG

The following statement was made March
16 by Glenn G. Wolfe, director of the
Office of Administration, HICOG, in refer-
ence to the freeze on STEG, the German
state corporation established to dispose of
surplus US army equipment:

“The Office of the US High Commis-
sioner has been requested to arrange with
German authorities for the freezing of all
property of US origin now in the custody
of STEG, the German state corporation,
until an inventory is taken and there is a
screening of items usable for defense. In
accordance with this request the US High
Commission is requesting the appropriate
German Government authorities to impose
such a freeze immediately. A team from
the US Department of Army will conduct
the screening of defense goods.

“Last September, at the request of the
US High Commissioner, there was a freeze
of STEG's automotive equipment and spare
parts, At that time, all STEG items were
screened for all items of possible use to
the European Command, and following this
screening and satisfaction of EUCOM’s
requirements, the freeze was lifted.

“Since STEG is a German state cor-
poration, any order for the freeze must
emanate from the German Government.”

Official Announcements

French-American Troop Exchanges

In furtherance of the agreement of the
Council of Foreign Ministers in September
1950, which authorized the stationing of
Allied occupation troops in Western Ger-
many without regard to zonal boundaries,
and in accordance with an agreement by
the French and US High Commissioners,
the stationing of some US troops in the
French Zone, and of some French troops in
the US Zone is now being put into effect.

This action is to improve Allied disposi-
tions, and is in accord with their common
objectives and the harmony of their opera-
tions. No changes in the zonal boundaries
have been nor will be affected through the
agreement, nor will there be any change in
the existing relationship between occu-
pying troops and local German authorities.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 74 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

The Free Press of the Suppressed Nations,
Association of the Free Press of Central
and Eastern Europe, Baltic and Balkan
States in Germany, August 1950,

Bulletin der Internationalen Vereinigung
fuer soziale Sicherheit (Bulletin of the
International Union for Social Security),
Vol. III, No. 8-9, General Secretariat of
IVSS-IAA, Geneva, August-September, 1950.

A Program to Foster Citizen Participa-
tion in Government and Politics in Ger-
many, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG,
Jan. 15, 1951.

Soviet Zone Constitution and Electoral
Law, Office of Executive Secretary, HICOG,
Feb. 1, 1951.

Tenth Report to Congress of the Econo-
mic Cooperation Administration for the
Quarter Ended Sept. 30, 1950, The White
House (Washington), Feb. 6, 1951.

HEUTE (in German), No. 130, POB, ISD,
HICOG (Munich), Feb. 14, 1951.

Thailand, Land of the Free, EUCOM In-
formation Bulletin, Vol. 6, No.7, I&E Of-
fice, EUCOM, Feb. 18, 1951.

‘What Makes A Man Courageous? EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 8, I&E Of-
fice, EUCOM, Feb. 18, 1951.

Report on Employment and Unemploy-
ment, Federal Republic of Germany and
Western Berlin, Mid-February 1951, Office
of Labor Affairs, HICOG, Feb. 23, 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 263,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Feb. 23, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 8, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, Feb. 23,
1951.

Official Gazette, No. 48, Allied Secreta-
riat, HICOM, Feb. 23, 1951.

Getting Along with Our Allies, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 9, I&E Of-
fice, EUCOM, Feb. 25, 1951.

HEUTE (in German), No. 131, POB, ISD,
HICOG (Munich), Feb. 28, 1951.

The Erding Journal, Newsmagazine of the
85th Air Depot Wing, USAFE, Vol. 2, No. 5,
February 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 9, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, March 2,
1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 264,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), March 2, 1951.

Is The United States Self-Sustaining?
EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol.6, No. 10,
I&E Office, EUCOM, March 4, 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 49, Allied Secre-
tariat, HICOM, March 6, 1951.

Copies of publications etc. listed

in the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 265,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), March 9, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 10, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, March 9,
1951.

What is a Police State? EUCOM Infor-
mation Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 11, I&E Office,
EUCOM, March 11, 1951.

Uniform Code of Military Justice, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 12, I&E
Office, EUCOM, March 11, 1951,

HEUTE (in German), No. 132, POB, ISD,
HICOG (Munich), March 14, 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 266,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), March 16, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 11, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, March
16, 1951,

The Fighting Man, EUCOM Information
Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 13, IZE Office, EUCOM,
March 18, 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 267,
ISD, HICOG (Bad Nauheim), March 23, 1951.

Der Monat (in German), Vol. 3, No. 30,
POB, ISD, HICOG (Munich), March 1951.

Daily Press Review, Nos. 35-53, ISD
HICOG (Bad Nauheim), Feb, 21-March 20,
1951.

Information Bulletin, March 1951, PRD,
HICOG, March 30, 1951. +END

In other words, where French troops are
stationed in the US Zone, any problems
affecting the Germans will be handled
through the American authorities, and
vice versa.

The first step under the agreement was
taken over the weekend of March 3-4 when
advance elements of certain French con-
tingents arrived in the Wetzlar area. Other
areas in the US Zone where French troops
are expected to be stationed in the near
future are: Marburg, Fritzlar, Giessen,
Pforzheim and Karlsruhe; United States
forces will be stationed in Mainz, Worms,
Idar, Oberstein, Bingen, Kaiserslautern and
Baumholder, and other localities in the
French Zone.

In some instances the new troops will be
in addition to those already there and in
other instances they will replace them.
Negotiations concerning the shifting of
troops will be conducted between US and
French military officials. The transfer will
not affect the German administrations nor
US or French High Commission organiza-
tions in the areas concerned. — from
EUCOM announcement.

Netherlands Import Regulations

The Netherlands Government has au-
thorized the following extensions to the
regulations applicable to American and
British military and civilian personnel
stationed in Germany and Austria and to
their families living with them. They may
in general carry the following without
payment of import duty and without pro-
duction of a written import license:

a. Clothes, whether new or used;

b. 1, Eau de Cologne in bottles, whether
sealed or opened, containing no more than
half-a-liter;

INFORMATION BULLETIN

2. Toilet waters of every description,
-g., lotions in bottles, whether sealed or
opened, containing no more than half-a-
liter;

3. Perfume in bottles, whether sealed or
opened, containing no more than 25 grams;

c. Small presents and other articles not
mentioned above brought by the traveler
for relatives or friends, provided the value
does not exceed 25 guilders;

d. Holiday souvenirs (i.e., all non-com-
mercial goods) purchased or acquired by
the traveler when traveling abroad, provid-
ed the value does not exceed 200 guilders.

Further, they may import free of duty
the food .and drink rations allocated for
the number of days they will remain in the
Netherlands (as proven by their leave-pass
or movement order), including sweets and
a bottle of wine or spirits, whether sealed
or not, as well as 200 cigarettes, 50 cigars,
100 cheroots, or 250 grams of tobacco, for
a stay of less than three days; for a stay
of more than three days, 60 cigarettes or an
equivalent quantity of cigars or tobacco
per day are allowed.—from HICOG Daily
Bulletin.

Border Point at Schaffhausen Closed

Schaffhausen is no longer an authorized
crossing point from the French Zone of
Germany into Switzerland for European
Command military personnel. Basel now
remains as the only authorized crossing
point for such personnel.—from EUCOM
announcement,

Inspection of Private Vehicles

Motor vehicles registered in the European
Command and owned privately by individ-
uals or agencies are scheduled for mechan-

72

ical safety inspection and re-registration
between April 2 and April 30, 1951.

All privately owned automobiles, motor-
cycles, motor scooters and trailers with
license plates bearing the letters A, C, AM,
CM, AT and CT, must pass safety inspec-
tion before new registration papers and
plates can be obtained,

Application for registration or re-registra-
tion of vehicles must be made by owners
in person, or by a representative with
power of attorney, at local offices of the
registrar of motor vehicles. Owners who
are not permanently stationed in the Euro-
pean Command cannot register their ve-
hicles here.

Safety inspection stickers will not be
required this year but no vehicle will be
registered unless a certificate is submitted,
indicating that the vehicle has passed the
inspection. EUCOM Provost Marshal offi-
cials stated that the vehicle safety in-
spection will be suspended if it fails to
meet prescribed standards of mechanical
safety,

When applying for registration or re-
registration of a vehicle in EUCOM, the
owner:or his authorized agent must present
the inspection certificate, satisfactory proof
of ownership and current insurance policy
in the amount required by EUCOM, issued
by a company which is authorized and
licensed to sell insurance in this command.

Dependents of military personnel who
own a vehicle must also present a letter
ot identification from their sponsor, while
civilians and their dependents need a letter
of identification from the civilian sponsor's
personnel officer, verifying employment
status with the Occupation Authorities or
authorized agencies in Germany.—from
EUCOM announcement.

APRIL 1951

--- Page 75 ---
At Home on the Sea

ANY JOBLESS GERMAN SEAMEN and
others who have not found the life of the
landlubber to their taste have taken refuge
with US Navy Labor Service Units. Sailors
like Hein (top, left), who served with a German
minesweeper in the English Channel, are aid-
ing Uncle Sam by performing the necessary
duties of the US Navy in Germany and thereby
relieving US gobs for more important tasks.
The storekeeper on ships is one of these
posts and under the supervision of a US chief
petty officer (center, left) this member is learn-
ing the latest techniques in better service.
Food (below, left) is a big booster in bringing
the men back to the ships while instruction in
marine engineering (below) provides men with
the necessary technical training for a seafaring
man.
Unit members (top) ready minesweeping
paravanes for launching under watchful eyes
of a Navy CPO. (US Navy photos)

--- Page 76 ---
i aaa ee a
' '