--- Page 2 ---
IS ISSUE.

The Forbidden City “J Hate Communism” - : SEPTEMBER
Train of Europe 1951

Evangelieal Bridge
‘Dre: 1-Come-True House Search for Looted Art

--- Page 3 ---
Glistening new information center in Mannheim, US inspired and fi-
nanced, finds its third location since 1946. Spacious, comfortable library
gives reader choice from 17,000 volumes. (PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

Visitor in Tirolean leather shorts reads an-—
nouncements and programs in entrance hall.

Left, new center exhibits paintings by contemporary American artists in France. Right, present at opening were, l.-r., Maj.
Gen. Charles P. Gross, US state commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden; Mrs. Patricia van Delden, chief, Information
Centers Branch, HICOG; Mrs. Naomi Huber, director of the new center; and Mannheim Mayor Hermann Heimeriehall

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany,

Editorial Staff:

Editoryecee uc escccins H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer
Jean Kinnaird Helen McLaughlin

Cherry Lou Fellner Liselotte Goldbeck

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994
e

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled’ by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters puts
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

German mailing address is:
Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
HICOG Hochhaus

Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison
Office of Public Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
‘cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
September 195]

New Consulate General in Hamburg (pictorial) ............ 2

The Forbidden City ... 3
Article by Haynes R. Mahoney

US High Commissioner Interviewed by FDJ Youth ........ 6

“i Hate Communism’ 2-2 a apo ee ae se 9
Interview by Henry A. Goodman

Hesse's Elder Statesman Views Life in America .......... 12
Article by Alfred W. Gourge

Evangelical Bridge ... 13
Article by James C. Flint

Law. Books for Universities “225 /.5 sc.sic.cao- accuses eee 16

Mutial Understanding 2, 00. ns yen hase apna poo te 17
Article by William J. Hoffman

German-Jewish Relations ~ .2.. 2.0. ..08 006s. eicieaeeens 19
Interview with President Theodor Heuss

Education: in* Cifizenship 2... <<... pes geo oon PN eee 21
Article by Walter Galling

1,449,647) See “Train.of Europe’! 05/005. oss sec emcee ae
*EVic Comes: fo Germany. (aie, «cic oinsdiaie'< lola a galt oh 25
Berliners Acclaim 1936 Olympic Star . 27

Famed Lorelei Beckons Youth to Peace and Unity 29
Pictorial article on International Youth Camp

Tokens<ot Pruenuship a .cc cide eh = sha aoe yee 35

Search for Looted (Art. <2..%<5 <<5.6 2265 sic ds e's sataiseie Nees aise 37
Article by Ardelia R. Hall

Dream-Come-True House .... 43
Article by Helen McLaughlin

Marshall Plan and the Germans ...................00005 46
Address by Anna Haag

Homes forcBetler- Diving 23s s:<¢4 = tac nice alent scenes tee tee 49
Article on American building exhibit

Calendar of Coming Events = ..:2 222-222 oe ae 53

POrSOnMelSNOLES oo sors ww gwen o 9 oO tw cena <a nto ag ogee 55

In and Around Germany 58

Today's Coal Situation .. 63
Statement by Benjamin R. Buttenwieser

ERG Hagicale Right: 6220 <a ccleors ten seen aie sw lerrouroneiee a 65
Article on neo-Nazi elements

Employment at All-Time High .....-- 22.25.5600 02 0500+ te 69
Economic review by Jack Stone

German Newsmen Tour Army Bases (pictorial) . 72

Germany, in) World Delense) 4.5.2.7 26. ease ca ohn ees 73
Address by John J. McCloy

Reply to Friendship Resolution ............--.-....eseeee 76

Germiait Cartoons Coe oe wc. rre slant alee nies oie ae recent 79

Freedom to Meet 8i
Address by James R. Newman

New Hunting Code for Americans .....................- 82

Washington Reports 425 22st ee eet ese 83

Officials NOUCeS -5 fae es One once nea oeaina sean 85

Recent Publications: cons sg eas a een selene ee 88

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Remodeled at cost of DM 1,000,000, handsome consular building in Germany's largest port is one of the United States’
most beautiful installations abroad. It was opened Aug. 24 by Consul General Robert T. Cowan in presence of more

than 1,100 American, Allied and German guests, including city, state and federal officials.

(Hugo Schmidt photos)

HE IMPOSING NEW US Consulate General building

in Hamburg, Germany's largest port, was opened
Aug. 24 with an “open house’ ceremony attended by
1,100 guests, including American, Allied and German offi-
cials and businessmen.

The handsome new structure, which has been likened
architecturally to the White House in Washington, is one
of the most beautiful of US installations abroad. Purchased
last year by the Department of State, it was rebuilt and
remodeled at a cost of DM 1,000,000 ($238,000). It is set
in vast grounds facing Hamburg’s famed Alstersee (Alster
Lake), and houses 70 offices accommodating 200 employ-
ees, including the US State Observer's staff.

For the opening, an informal affair without speeches
or dedication ceremony, there was music by the Bremer-

Glenn G. Wolfe, director of HICOG‘s
Office of Administration, shown at leit
with Mrs. Wolfe welcoming Hamburg
Mayor and Mrs. Max Brauer, wa
given major share of credit for the fine
new project. Center, Consul General
greets former Mayor and Mrs. Rudolf
P. Petersen. Right, partial view of the
numerous Official and civilian guests
who attended the informal opening.

haven Military Post band, and also a guard of honor of 20
sailors, also from Bremerhaven. The event received wide
coverage in the German press.

Hamburg’s Consul General* Robert T. Cowan gives the
lion's share of credit for the splendid new project to Glenn
G. Wolfe, director of HICOG's Office of Administration,
who worked tirelessly to overcome obstacles and to “plow
through the myriad of details connected with an under-
taking of this kind.”

Mr. Cowan, a career diplomat, has been consul general
at the Elbe River port since June 8, 1949. Previously he
served at Casablanca, North Africa; Zurich, Switzerland;
French Somaliland; Aden, Arabia; Port Said, Egypt;
Nantes, Le Havre, Lille and Lyons, France; Yarmouth, Eng-
land; San Luis Potosi and Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. +END

--- Page 6 ---
By HAYNES R. MAHONEY
Press Officer, Public Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

IHE GREATEST ATTRACTION of the Communists’

spectacular “World Youth Festival” held in Eastern
Berlin in August, seemed to be Western Berlin. That was
the impression given by hundreds of thousands of young
participants who slipped through the loose Vopo (Soviet-
Zone police) net to visit the forbidden sectors of the
“island city."

They could be seen by the scores staring hungrily into
foodshops; marveling at shoes, clothing, radios and lux-
ury displays in store windows; grouped around sleek,
modern automobiles; wandering aimlessly through the
neon-glitter of Kurfuerstendamm, Berlin's ragged equiva-
lent of New York's Fifth Avenue. They crowded a
score of motion-picture houses which charged them a
nominal fee of one East mark (about five cents); jammed
the US Information Center for continuous showings of
US documentary films, swelled the daily attendance at
several Marshall Plan exhibits almost to capacity.

RIAS, the American-operated radio station, ran con-
tinuous programs from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily, presenting
recorded music and cabaret shows, lectures and discus-
sions for the thousands of East youth who jammed the
studios. A German Red Cross feeding station served an
average of 30,000 meals a day to East Z
German youngsters. West Berlin's youth
centers sometimes accommodated up to
100,000 in one day.

West Berliners did not stand on their
heads to compete with the Communists’
mammoth demonstration, but it was ob-
vious that they were pleased to have
these gawking visitors and to show off
their hustling city of freedom.

LTHOUGH MOST OF the Easterners

changed their blue uniforms of the
Communist German Youth (FDJ) for civil-
ian clothes before sneaking into the
West Sectors, they were easily identifi-
able. Drab, shabby clothes, hard, cracked
shoes and an unkempt appearance set
them apart from even most of Berlin's
poor, The twanging voices of Saxony and
Thuringia and the harsh dialect of Silesia
also marked them from Berliners.

If the sincerity of these young fugitives
from the Communist festival could be
granted, most of them had come to Berlin
with the intention of visiting the Western
Sectors of the city. Obviously many of
the youth questioned by western observ-
ers were anxious to give the “right

SEPTEMBER 1951

answers” out of gratitude for free meals and movies.
However, the unanimity and spontaneity of the remarks
of scores of youth indicated a basic truth to their claim
that they “had heard about the wonders of the West’
through RIAS* or from relatives who lived across the
Iron-Curtain boundary, and that they were anxious to
see this other world for themselves.

Most insisted that “nearly everybody” in the Soviet
Zone “listened to RIAS and the Northwest German Radio”
even though it was dangerous.

“We came to the Youth Festival because it provided
us a cheap way to visit West Berlin,’ said a 23-year-old
engineering student from Thuringia, while his six friends
nodded assent. He pointed out that they were given round-
trip transportation for 16 East marks (about 80 cents)
apiece and provided with free billets in the East Berlin
festival camps.

“We spend all day in the West Sectors and only return
to East Berlin to sleep at night,’ he said. “So far we have
been to none of the events of the World Youth Festival.

* See “'RIAS, the Truth Crusader” in the Information Bulletin,
December 1950,

What has the West to show? Curious Eastern youth wait before Titania
Palast to see special movies arranged for tens of thousands who escaped
to West Berlin from the Communist rally.

(PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

--- Page 7 ---
In free Berlin, Communist youth could see American films
for one East mark (about five cents) — adults paid two.
Current exchange rate is five East marks for one West mark.

They are all politics, anyway. Even the sports events
start with a political speech and end in the same way.”
The student also reported that an added “inducement”
for attending the festival was the threat of not being
allowed to take their school exams if they didn't. This
was also the reason why they had joined the FDJ, he said.

IAS OFFICIALS INTERVIEWING scores of the youth

who had just arrived in West Berlin reported that
many had come of sheer boredom. Due to the disorgani-
zation of the Communist festival, they were wandering
aimlessly about the streets of the East Sector, when East
Berlin citizens had slyly informed them of interesting
sights to be seen in the West Sectors.

The disorganization of the Communist rally was a
unanimous complaint of FDJers visiting the West. A
group of a dozen teen-agers in a West Berlin youth center
eagerly described their unhappy experiences:

‘We are jammed into barracks, schools, factories, any
place where there is space, and sometimes so crowded
that you cannot walk across the room,” said one, adding
that they sleep on straw on the floor. Sanitary facilities
were poor. ‘There is only one wash trough for 1,600 boys
and girls where I stay,” said another. There were con-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

flicting reports about the food, some claiming that they
did not get enough others stating that it was adequate
but not very good. The food apparently consisted mainly
of bread, cheese and sausage, issued to them once or
twice a day. ;
This group, too, said that they spent all of the \past
seven days in West Berlin, only returning to sleep at
night because FDJ officials checked them in and out of
their billets. Very few of them had attended any of the
major sports events, political rallies or theatrical presen-
tations of the festival. ‘We can't get tickets,’ said. one,
“Out of my group of 50 boys, only three got tickets to the
major events. This is about average in all groups."

S TO THE NUMBER who were tasting the forbidden

fruit of Western freedom, the visitors made extrava-
gant claims, ranging all the way from 25 to 75 percent
of the total number of festival participants. ‘All of my
group, including our leader, comes to the West Sector
every day," said several.

On Sunday, Aug. 12, day of the festival's gigantic
parades, very few of this group had got to the West
Sectors. “We were awakened at 3:30 in the morning to
march in the parade and didn’t finish until nearly 2 p.m,,”
said a teen-aged apprenticed worker from Saxony. ‘Most
of the time we just stood and waited, without anything
to eat or drink. At five o'clock in the afternoon we had
to march again, and didn't finish until 1 a.m. Monday.”

A high-school boy from Silesia said that early Sunday
morning some Vopos had brought them a huge portrait
of Stalin to carry. “At first I refused, but the Vopos said
I would be arrested if I didn’t help carry it.”

“We all had to march in the parade, but I don't think
more than 15 percent really believed in it,” chimed in
another teen-ager. “We cheered and clapped, but only
because there were Communists watching us."

The observations of this group were generally echoed
by Eastern youngsters questioned in other parts of the city.

OR THESE YOUNG CAPTIVES of the Iron Curtain,

West Berlin seemed to hold the combined attraction
of a forbidden territory and a fascinating fair. Practically
all of them expressed their admiration for the seemingly
healthy economy as compared to the drab existence in
Eastern Germany. They were astounded at the quantity
and quality and the low prices of the goods they saw,
as compared to the astronomically high prices of similar
items in the East Zone ‘“HOs" (Handelsorganisation of
state-operated sales stores), the only place where unra-
tioned goods can be bought in the Communist areas.

“The Communists told us that all the fine foods and
goods that we saw in West Berlin were only for a few
wealthy people, and that most of the people couldn't
afford them," said one student. “But we have seen dif-
ferently. Even your workers are better dressed and get
more to eat than the people in our zone.”

All the youth commented on the hospitality of West

Berliners, Initially some complained that the people ’

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 8 ---
treated them coldly — as if all Eastern youth were Com-
munists. But these complaints were seldom heard after
the first few days — especially after Berlin's Mayor Ernst
Reuter called on all Berliners to “greet these people
from the East warmly” and “show them true human
kindness."

“The people here are friendly — even the policemen,”
said one youth. Some reported that West Berliners had
given them money, while a few had been invited to
homes. Four young boys, who decided to test the Western
concept of democracy, mustered their courage and knocked
at Mayor Reuter's door one afternoon. They were invited
in for coffee and cake.

Another group of FDJers picked at random from the
Funkturm (radio tower) "chow lines,” had lunch with US
High Commissioner and Mrs. John J. McCloy during one
of their-visits to Berlin. The High Commissioner as well
as many other Allied and German leaders spoke to groups
of Eastern German youth at RIAS and at special rallies
held for them in the Western Sectors.

HE POLITICAL DIFFERENCES between East and West

also were not lost on the youngsters. Mayor Reuter
tells of a group of youngsters who gathered around his
car one evening while he was shopping in a bookstore.
When the chauffeur told them that it was the mayor's
car they were amazed.

“How is it possible that the mayor of Berlin drives
through the streets without a police escort!" they said.
“In our city, the mayor would never dare drive without
police guards,"

Most of the youth questioned talked of the freedom
of West Berlin. “You can say and read what you want...
you don't have to worry about who you are talking to...

Hundreds of thousands of Communist youth in their blue
uniforms read this emblem of the free world. (Photo by ECA)

SEPTEMBER 1951

Schoeneberg youth home in West Berlin daily fed 1,800
FDJers who “came to see.” Their faces have been covered
to avoid possible retaliation by the Communist authorities.

there are no secret police here... you can read every
opinion in the newspapers..." were typical comments,

At the US Information Center and in the West Berlin
youth centers, libraries and reading rooms were crowded
with youth reading western newspapers and books,
Stacks of anti-Communist literature disappeared rapidly
at the Information Center. The director ordered his librari-
an to warn the Eastern youngsters not to be seen with
this material in the Eastern Sector.

But even in free Berlin, the long arm of Communist
control reached out for the wanderers. Infiltrating FDJ
agents attempted to identify comrades who roamed the
West Sectors. Officials at one youth center reported they
had caught six young men attempting to photograph
their fellows for identification purposes. While the Com-
munists attempted to tighten their net around the East
Sector border by increasing police controls, the young-
sters continued to stream across, riding inconspicuously
in the subway or walking through the ruins, *

The full effects of this peaceful invasion of West Berlin
will probably never be known. Whether the festival turned
out to be a greater success for the West than for the
Communists, as some observers claim, is a difficult judg-
ment to make, in view of the gigantic mass of young
people that the Communists were able to marshal for
their regimented two-week program. But there were
rumors of wholesale replacements in the hierarchy of
the FDJ, because of the uncontrollable defection of the
youth to West Berlin.

Obviously, the youth festival proved that the Com-
munists’ grip on East German youth is not yet complete
by any means; that they easily escaped their Red masters
for a few days’ “hooky,” and that they came to the West
with open minds, willing to listen and to learn, The great
majority of those who visited the West will return to
their homes with grave doubts if not outright rejection
of glib Communist talk of “peace,” “democracy” and
“Stalin's great friendship for Germany.'/Continued on page 6)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
US High Commissioner
Interviewed by FDJ Youth

a ARE EXCERPTS from a discussion held at
RIAS Friday, Aug. 17 by US High Commissioner. Mc-
Cloy and a group of youth belonging to the Communist
German Youth (FDJ). In the RIAS studio with Mr. McCloy
was Dr. Peter Nellen, a CDU member of the German
federal parliament, who helped the RIAS staff in handling
the influx of FDJ members. Mr. McCloy answered all
questions put to him by the FDJ audience.

Mr. McCloy: Yesterday I was on Lorelei Rock, where
2,000 youths of the Western world are meeting, in an
atmosphere of complete freedom. There were no parades,
no giant pictures of leading statesmen to spoil the mood
of the youths. When I told the group that I would be in
Berlin today and asked them whether I should take a
message for the youth of the East Zone, a girl replied
quite simply: ‘Please bring them cordial greetings from
us.’ This was simple, but came from her heart. I now
pass that message on to you.

Ido not want to make a long speech before you. Indeed,
I think youngsters ought to be guaranteed protection
against the speeches of problems. So I suggest a free ex-
change of thoughts under the American "catch-as-catch-
can" system. I cannot promise that I will answer all
questions, but I will try. Before going on I would like to
express my pleasure at seeing you face to face, and to
“catch the breath of the East” through you.

Since I will hardly have the opportunity to come and
see you — although I very often go into the East Sector
of Berlin, but no farther — I am glad to see you here in
somewhat smaller numbers, I will endeavor to answer
your questions. There is hardly a better place where
East and West can meet and shake hands. In contrast to
former times, Berlin has become a symbol of freedom to
the United States, and we are reminded of that also by
the Freedom Bell.* This is all I have to say as an intro-
duction.

* Presented by the National Committee for a Free Europe, sponsors

of the Crusade for Freedom. See ‘‘Freedom Bell Tolls Message of Hope
and Faith,’ Information Bulletin, November 1950,

Information Center library was filled by young and old
from East who scanned papers for word of free world.

“Courage” might well have been written in West Berliners’
messages carried to Eastern Germany by small balloons,

FDJ Question: Is there any chance of learning some-
thing about those of our people who are missing in the
East?

Mr. McCloy: It is difficult to untertake an effective
campaign in this respect. We try with all our means to
influence the Russians, but so far we have not succeeded
in obtaining essential information on the names, places
and reasons for the arrest of these missing persons. We
endeavor to exert pressure on the Soviets before the
forum of the United Nations to force them to announce
the names and release the arrested.

FDJ Question: How can unity be achieved with peace-
ful means? What are your thoughts about that?

Mr. McCloy: It is hard to settle on a definite formula
and date. We must take hope from the past and look
hopefully into the future. Dictatorships have never sur-
vived when they annexed too many alien territories
whose people are opposed to dictatorship. The day will
come when the flood will subside. With your heartfelt
efforts an steadfastness, with our means and by pressure
exerted on the Soviets, we will fight for freedom and free
information in your territories too.

I would like to advise you and ask you to preserve
your faith since this is the best ally against all pressure
from outside. Some day — I cannot give you the exact
date — this pressure will be overcome as a result of
your faith.

Dr. Nellen: The Federal Government and its officials
share your opinion, Mr. High Commissioner. We, too,
are convinced that the Soviets have undertaken too
much and that their borders, moved too far to the west,
are untenable in the long run. We are also convinced
that the spirit of resistance will grow in the satellite
countries. The Kremlin's satellite governments in the
East bloc countries are ruling against the interests of
their countries, so that over a long period of time ex-
plosions are unavoidable. Over there, a terror regime
governs against the will and desires of the people. We
must strive to succeed without war. We must demon-

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 10 ---
strate that we are ready at any time to meet with the
Soviets at a round table. The entire free world is backing
us and we will fight until we have reached our goal. But
we certainly cannot name a date.

FDJ Question: What about the remilitarization of
Western Germany?

Mr. McCloy: On this I must first give you some back-
ground information. After 1945, the Allies agreed to root
out militarism. Yet after the Western Powers had dis-
armed it appeared that an equilibrium between East and
West had still to be achieved. There was a preponderance
of military strength in the East that resulted in political
pressure and aggression. This aggression culminated in
the Korean conflict where the Soviets resorted to force.

In this phase the Western Allies gave Western Ger-
many and West Berlin certain guarantees and declared
that any attack on Western Gérmany and West Berlin
would be identical with an attack on the Western Powers
themselves, A parallel can be drawn between Korea and
Germany since Germany — just like Korea — consists
of two halves and we are concerned about that. As a
counter-measure to the pressure from the East, western
Europe and the Atlantic countries found themselves
compelled to form a defense system that would check
the Soviets.

Now, the question arises whether or not Germany shall
participate in these efforts. An effective defense contri-
bution would be desirable not only from the German and
from a practical point of view but also from the moral
one, for it is impossible effectively to defend Germany
with foreign forces exclusively. I should like to empha-
size that it is not the intention of the United States to
force Germany to make contributions. The question of
German defense contributions can be decided only by
the German people themselves. We would agree to a

Burned-out shell of large building in Soviet Sector p!as-
tered over with propaganda slogans, flags and bunting is
a "HO" store — one of the chain of state-controlled shops
where East Germans can supplement their all too meager
tations if they are able to meet the premium prices charged.

SEPTEMBER 1951

Price-winning posters in ERP-sponsored contest, displayed
at US Information Center, attracted crowds from the East.

possible German defense contribution only within the
framework of international froces. We do not want by any
means the revival of German nationalism and militarism.

It is clear that to date there has been no West Ger-
man rearmament. In so far as the armed forces in
western Germany have been reinforced, they have been
reinforced by Western Allied forces and this reinforce-
ment was considerable. But this is all one might term
“remilitarization.” The American defense potential will
certainly be increased by our endeavors. That has nothing
to do with military advantages. It will be a defense con-
tribution for the free world to protect freedom and
democracy, to restore the military balance.

Only under those circumstances will it be possible to
conduct free negotiations without duress, without the
fear now imposed upon so many peoples.

Dr. Nellen: Can you imagine that Chuikow (General
Vasili I. Chuikov, chairman of the Soviet Control Com-
mission in Germany) would sit with you at one table
just like the American High Commissioner, Mr. McCloy?
Can you imagine that he would conduct such a dis-
cussion on political matters of the highest importance,
without the most thorough-going preparations?

FDJ: No, never, no.

Dr. Nellen: What is happening here is a demonstration
of our freedom of opinion and our freedom of speech. It
was the American High Commissioner who a few months
ago — late in the summer of 1950 — said exactly the
same thing he repeated here today: namely, the problem
of a German defense contribution within a European
army depends solely upon a decision of the freely elected
Bundestag (lower house of parliament). The balance of
power must be restored. It is not tolerable that one side
maintain an overwhelming military superiority.

FDJ Question: What is the living standard of the
worker in the United States and in England? I have never
been abroad but I have been told the living standard is
pretty bad.

Mr. McCloy: There is no paradise over there but the
living standard of the worker in the United States and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
Communist youth with a legal or employment problem are
invited by West Berlin sign to drop in and talk it over.

in England is extremely high... What is decisive is what
the worker gets on payday. In my former post as presi-
dent of the World Bank, I gained an impression of
other foreign countries — with the exception of Soviet
Russia. I found that the level is everywhere lower than
in the United States. The Soviets hate the capitalist
system but the fact remains that this system permits the
highest standard of living.

In West Germany productive capacity has again risen
relatively high and despite the terrible losses of the war
great reserves have been built up again. If you take
West Germany alone it is astonishing to learn that
industry has reached 138 percent of 1936 capacity. This
is due a great deal to the diligence and industry of the
German worker but Marshall aid has also made sub-
stantial contribution. Marshall aid has been offered to
the Soviet Union and to the satellites as well, but the
Soviet Union did not accept and prevented the satellites
from accepting.

EDJ Question: What does the free world think of the
problem of expellees?

Mr. McCloy: We know the problem created by the
10,000,000 expellees. In addition, we have to deal with
the war losses suffered by many of them. The refugee
and expellee problems are among the most burning
problems in West Germany. It is our highest duty to
solve them and I am sure they will be solved. But we
are not planning any military action to regain the terri-

tories lost in the East. The development of the general _

situation will bring us nearer to the solution of these
problems.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Dr. Nellen: The Federal Government and the Bundes-
tag have repeatedly stated that they will not recognize
the Oder-Neisse line and that they will not agree to this
robbery. Only a handful of Communists refuse to share
our opinion, but we remain firm. The Oder-Neisse line
can never be a final border for us.

FDJ Question: What is your position regarding the
Kemritz case?

Mr. McCloy: A week ago I referred at length to this
case during a press conference. The case will be cleared
up. There is more to it than appears on first glance,
Under no circumstances do we approve of kidnapings
and abductions.

FDJ Question: What do you think of general conscrip-
tion? Is it provided for by the Basic Law in Bonn?

Dr. Nellen: No. It could not be in the Basic Law because
when the Federal Republic was created no one thought
of militarization or rearmament in Germany. So no para-
graphs deal with this problem.

FDJ Question: Why did the Americans hand over to
the Russians fhe territories they had originally occupied;
for instance, Thuringia?

Mr. McCloy: I have heard this question frequently. This
step as it appears today has been a mistake. However,
in those days, we were allies of the Russians and we did
not have any reason to believe that the Russians would
not fulfill their obligations.

Mr. McCloy (in conclusion); I am tremendously im- —
pressed by you all and by the spirit which brought you
over here. I wish I could give you a real message of
hope. I think I can. In the darkest days of the war, from
England's point of view, Mr. Churchill recalled an old
English poem which ended, “Behold the West is bright.”
The West is still bright and it is still prepared to do all
in its power for those who are seeking the light.

I wish I could tell you just when this whole thing will
fall apart but you can be quite sure that the Statue of
Liberty which stands in New York harbor is still bright.
We will do everything we can, according to our strength,
to preserve freedom throughout the world and freedom
throughout Germany — all Germany, not just western
Germany. Whatever form it takes or when it will express
itself in results, I wish I could tell but I cannot. -+-END ~

45,000 Given Jobs under Aid Plan

One thousand unemployed West Berlin youths have
been given work-training jobs under the GARIOA-fi-
nanced emergency relief program, They are in addition to
44,390 others currently employed under the plan. The
youths are paid at standard apprentice rates and receive
instruction preparing them for employment in industry —
as skilled workers.

The program, financed by DM 15,000,000 ($3,570,000) —
monthly from Deutsche-mark counterpart funds, is aimed —
at strengthening the “island city’s'’ economy and speed-
ing rebuilding as well as relieving unemployment.

SEPTEMBER 1951 ~

--- Page 12 ---
Hailed as an “enslaved American Negro” by Communist youths attending the Soviet-sponsored World Youth Festival in
East Berlin, LeRoy Everett rejected their invitation to remain in the “free” East and told them that he hated Communism.
Asked to make a souvenir entry in their autograph books, the 26-year-old American who has been attending the Free

University of Berlin on a one-month scholarship shows the message he wrote.

(PRB BE-HICOG photos by Schubert)

“T Hate Communism”

Interview

By HENRY A. GOODMAN
Staff Writer, Public Relations Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG

} AILED BY COMMUNIST YOUTHS as an “enslaved
American Negro, LeRoy Everett of Kansas City,
Kan., wrote “I hate Communism" in the autograph books
of young people attending the recent Soviet-sponsored
World Youth Festival in East Berlin.

On a visit to the East Sector of Berlin on Aug. 18,
Everett was shocked by conditions he saw there. Brother-

ly greetings were enthusiastically extended him by Red ,

youngsters who urged him to remain behind the Iron
Curtain and enjoy a life of “freedom” such as an Ameri-
can Negro “could never know."

When he refused these hearty invitations, Mr. Everett
was pressed by his new Soviet Zone acquaintances at
least to sign their autograph books, in which they were
collecting mementoes from other “peace-fighters” at the
massive Communist propaganda conclave.

SEPTEMBER 1951

He obliged by writing, in English: “As an American
Negro, I hate Communism. LeRoy Everett.” He believes
many of the youngsters are due for a shock when they
eventually find some English-speaking person to trans-
late his firm message.

“Before my present trip to Europe, I had no liking for
Communism,” the veteran of three years in the US
Armmy said. “I knew little of it firsthand, but it seemed
foreign to everything I had ever believed. Now, after
having a glimpse behind the Iron Curtain, I think it is
a new form of Hitlerism," he asserted.

R. EVERETT SPENT THREE DAYS talking with
members of the Communists’ Freie Deutsche Jugend
(Free German Youth or FDJ) from the East Zone of
Germany. They had come to visit RIAS, the American-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
LeRoy Everett discusses his experiences among Com-
munist youth with two of his German friends at the Free
University, leit, Bernd Benndorff and, right, Dieter Schmidt.
He expressed disgust with massive posters and flags.

sponsored radio station in West Berlin, which is ardently
listened to by more than 90 percent of Soviet residents,
who find it their only contact with the free world.

“T must have talked with more than 2,000 kids,’ Mr.
Everett stated. He had been invited to do this work, and
gladly accepted, after East German youngsters seemed
anxious to talk with him when he went to RIAS for a
look around.

“They were amazed to see an American Negro," he
explained. ‘I had to answer hundreds of questions about
the Negro problem in the United States. I told them
there was certainly a problem but explained that it was
definitely not what the Communists had told them. I
described all the things we are doing to solve the
problem. They had been given the impression that all
Negroes in America were Communists, They also thought
Negroes could not go to school and certainly could not
get a university degree.

“IT had a hard time convincing some of them that I
held a degree and soon hoped to earn another. These
youngsters believed that all Negroes were jesters and
comedians, or singers and jazz musicians. They had never
heard of such people as Dr. Ralph Bunche or William
H. Hastie, former governor of the Virgin Islands. The
kids even wanted to know how the seven white members
of the delegation I have been traveling with treated me.
I had to laugh at that one because I've simply been one
of the delegation and we all treated each other as well
as we knew how.

“Some of the youngsters really amazed me. They were
certain I was a slave who had been given clothing, fed
until healthy, paid a great sum of money and sent to
Germany to propagandize for the United States,” he said.

R. EVERETT IS THE ONLY SON of Mr. and Mrs.
Virgil W. Everett, 617 Freeman Avenue, Kansas City,
Kans. In May he received his bachelor of arts degree
from Kansas State Teachers’ College at Pittsburg, and
intends to go on for the master of arts, and later, the
doctor of philosophy degrees. He plans to become an

INFORMATION BULLETIN

educational administrator either at the secondary school
or college level. In the Army he was a sergeant major
and served two years overseas in England, France,
Belgium, Germany and the Philippines.

He was selected this spring from among several hun- |
dred applicants to join a group of eight delegates repre-
senting the US National Students’ Association in a tour
of Europe sponsored by HICOG and the Rockefeller
Foundation. He cut his tour short, however, as he had
seen most of Europe during and immediately after the
war, to accept a one-month scholarship at the Free Uni-
versity of Berlin, where he was to remain until Sept. 15.
He spent three weeks at the International Student Semi-
nar in Seeshaupt, Bavaria, and several weeks touring
German universities, which he finds have registered re-
markable recoveries since the war. He attended many
international student conferences during his trip.

Mr. Everett has been chided by American friends for
giving away his clothes to refugees from Communism.

“I met one kid from Poland who had escaped from the
festival and refused to go back home," he said. ‘The
boy had exactly one ragged shirt, one worn-out pair
of pants, a pair of cardboard shoes, and nothing else — no
underwear, no socks, no coat, nothing! I gave him some
pants and other things. My gosh, I can get new ones. My
friends think I'll go home with no clothes except the
ones I'm wearing. They tell me there is no end to giving
things to refugees, but if I have something and can get
more and they don’t have anything, I can’t stand not
giving the refugees what I can spare," he said.

Student Everett snapped as he ends a visit to the Soviet
Sector. In background is the Brandenburg Gate, which,
like the sign at right, designates the East-West border.

--- Page 14 ---
SKED HOW HE HAD ACQUIRED his strong dislike

for Communism, Mr. Everett became extremely ar-
ticulate on the subject. With an intense expression on his
face he said;

“A month ago I was in Berlin and took a tour to the
East Sector. There I saw the mammoth Russian military
cemetery, but I also saw the faces of the people living
in East Berlin. I began to think seriously about this
question of Communism, which I had never before con-
sidered very much.

“I could see nothing in it but exploitation and could
see no way in which the people of East Berlin are being
helped. I think Communism—and I have talked with
many persons who have experienced Communist rulers —
limits the individual. Instead of being able to go as far
as one wishes and make as much of oneself as possible,
one seems to be hemmed in and restricted at every turn.
Although I don't like the treatment of the Negro in the
United States, I don't think Communism is any solution.

“After comparing the faces of the children in the East
Sector with those in West Berlin, it was obvious to me
that the people of the East are far from happy. For three
weeks I discussed the problem with ‘various German
university students who have fled from the East Zone to
the Free University here in Berlin because in the East
they could not study anything but Communism. I have
become thoroughly disgusted with Communism and its
works,

“IT saw a document with the names of 250 students and
professors who have vanished in the East Zone because
of their opposition to Communism. I think this is another
Hitlerism coming into being. Since my return to Berlin,
I have learned that an additional 44 students and pro-
fessors have disappeared within the last month. This is
by no means any indication to me that the Russians are
interested at all in democracy, or that they would treat
the Negroes — or anyone else — decently when they
don't treat the German people — or any others whom
they control — in a democratic way.

S REGARDS MY TRIP to the East Sector during the
festival, I was disgusted to see massive posters and
flags and all the other propaganda material there when
I found children walking around with one pair of shoes,
one pair of pants and one shirt that were totally inade-
quate. The pants and shirts were of the worst material,
poorly put together, and the shoes cardboard. All the
money, not to mention simply the thousands of yards of
cloth in banners, that had been put into this so-called
festival, could have gone into clothing, food and other
essentials for the children and young people there.
“Instead of building homes for the people, the Commu-
nists seem to be building cinemas and other structures
for propaganda uses to impress Communism on the minds
of the people. They don’t seem to have begun to clear
up the ruins of war in the East Sector, except where they
have removed rubble for the festival centers.
“I spoke with several persons at the festival and in the
East Sector. A student from Leipzig University in the

SEPTEMBER 1951

11

Conditions in Berlin's East Sector are shocking, says the
visiting American, shown viewing some uncleared war
ruins in Soviet-controlled. section of the quartered city.

Soviet Zone told how students were pushed and pressed
to conform to what the Russians want lest they or some
of their relatives ‘disappear.’ A woman begged me to
send her just a little coffee, as she’d had none since the
Russian occupation began, Two Catholic priests told me
that their parishioners need clothing terribly, especially
the children.

“One said that he wished milk could be sent in, but if
it came in large packages it would be intercepted and
taken by the Russians. He said small packages, if they
came to one family infrequently, got through from the
West, but large or frequent gift packages were confis-
cated, or at the very least the better part of the contents
removed before the recipients got them. Shoes, he said,
are practically unheard of now because they are out of
reach of the average worker in the Soviet Zone.

LTHOUGH THE STATEMENT I signed in the auto-

graph books may appear a little foolish,’ he said,
“there was not time nor space for any more. It was the
only way I could express my opinion in the manner
which offered itself.

“I believe the Communists will promote this ‘friend-
ship’ (the slogan of the festival) as long as they can and
then, when they get what they want, the Negro and
everyone else will suffer, regardless of color,’ Mr. Everett
concluded. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Hesse’s Elder Statesman

Views Life in America

By ALFRED W. GOURGE
Staff Writer, Public Relations Branch, OLC Hesse

IHE AMERICAN SYSTEM of social insurance is a practical one,
with practicality in all walks of life being one of the most eye-
catching faces of American life for the European visitor.”

That was the observation of Christian Stock, minister president of
Hesse from 1946 to 1950, upon his return recently from a two-and-a-
half-month visit to America at the invitation of the US Government.

Mr. Stock was particularly interested in political and social research
work. He commented: “While we in Germany — although we-lay
claim to founding the whole social insurance system — have made
almost no progress with it in the last 25 years, the Americans have
kept abreast of the times in their social insurance. From the stand-
point of any employed person, the American system is more generous

Christian Stock.
(PRD HICOG photo by Claude Jacoby)

and healthier than the German.” He found that private
welfare work plays a far greater role in the United States
than in Germany. “It is a matter of course in America
that everybody with a large income makes his regular
contributions to the welfare organizations.”

HE GREATEST IMPRESSION received was what he

called the smooth and effective functioning of the
American government and the relationship between
government and people.

“Ours is a hollow government in comparison," Mr. Stock
said. “It looks like a government and makes noise like a
government, but in truth is merely an operating system.”

The Social Democrat deputy in the Hessian legislature
praised the American standard of living which enables
the average citizen to own a car, to be the best-dressed
and best-fed national in the world and even to travel in
other parts of the world occasionally.

Although Americans theoretically like to take life easy,
Mr. Stock said, he admired the industriousness of the
people, “I have seen practically no loafing and idleness.
Even people who are so well-off that they don't have to
work for a living do something just to make themselves
useful in some way,” he said.

Mr. Stock noted “an atmosphere of genuine good neigh-
borship” everywhere and felt there was a complete lack
of conceit and arrogance among the people. “Titles don't
mean a thing to Americans," he said, “while in Germany
every little public servant proudly uses his office title
as often as possible, and even feels offended when not
addressed by it, although he may earn less money than

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

a worker, Nobody is less respected in the United States
for doing an ordinary kind of work or for changing from
brain worker to manual laborer.”

HE 67-YEAR-OLD HESSIAN elder statesman, a native
of Darmstadt, near Frankfurt, made his across-the-
continent tour by train and car with stops in Washington,

Baltimore, Los Angeles, Buffalo, Detroit, Chicago, Denver, ~

Salt Lake City, Reno, San Francisco and New York, where ~
he was a guest of General Lucius D, Clay, former US
military governor for Germany. He was given a free
hand in choosing his itinerary and was accompanied only
by an interpreter, Almost half of the time was spent in
Washington and Baltimore, where Mr. Stock did research
work.

The remainder of the period he traveled, made inspec-
tions and general studies of the American way of life 4
and went sightseeing. He visited the Ford automobile x
works in Detroit, conferred with the governor of Michigan, ,
lived with farmers in the country, was an honorary guest ¥
at a session of the San Francisco city council and spoke ;
before the Bureau of Old Age and Security Insurance in a
Baltimore, Visits to Niagara Falls and some of the United a
States’ finest national parks rounded out Mr. Stock’
75-day itinerary.

When asked whether he had brought any negative
impressions back to Germany, the ardent Social Democrat
pursed his lips to a “No,” then changed his mind and ~
sighed, “Just one — that I did not have this opportunity ~
to view America 30 years earlier.” +-END —

SEPTEMBER 1951 |

--- Page 16 ---
Evangelical Bridge

By JAMES C. FLINT
Religious Affairs Adviser, Berlin Element, HICOG

HE THEME “WE ARE STILL BROTHERS" drew

together tens of thousands of Germans from the
Soviet Zone and the Federal Republic at the German
Evangelical Church Congress in Berlin July 11-15. Others
came from many countries of the world. More than a
quarter of a million attended.

Of that number, an estimated 100,000 sat in the rain at
Berlin's great Olympic Stadium, while another 100,000 sat
in the adjoining meadow for the Congress’ closing ses-
sion. Millions more heard the radio broadcasts throughout
western Germany. RIAS, US-sponsored station in Berlin,
beamed the speeches to other millions in eastern Germany.

The character of the Church-Congress statements forced
Soviet German stations to renege on their promises to
carry this program as a live broadcast. Hours later, they
aired recordings, but not before they had passed through
a political filter. Even the closing prayer, offered by
Bishop Otto Dibelius, head of the German Protestant
Church, had to undergo cutting. The minions who speak
for the god in Moscow were constrained to excise words
spoken to God in Heaven:

“We pray especially for our imprisoned brothers, and
for our imprisoned sisters, here in our homeland and out-
side in the wider world. Let them not despair in their
need and in their cruel loneliness.”

HE EVANGELICAL CHURCH CONGRESS, a Protes-

tant layman's activity which began during the Nazi
times in Germany, was designed originally to bridge the
gap between clergy and laity; but it found itself standing
as a bulwark of the church against the
encroachments of the Nazi state. When
pastors were imprisoned, lay leadership
carried on.

Leader of the Church Congress movement
from the beginning has been Dr. Reinhold
von Thadden-Trieglaff. He is familiar with
hardship and persecution. A former land-
owner in Pomerania,* he has seen his pro-
perty sequestrated since the war by the
Communist regime there. In 1944, his sister
was murdered by the Gestapo for com-
plicity in the attempt on Hitler's life. Three
of his five sons were killed in the war.
During the early Nazi days when the state
was entering upon its period of persecution
of the church, Mr. von Thadden knew the
rigors of “protective custody.”

For his outstanding work in the German
branch of the World Christian Student

* Prewar Prussian state now divided between the

Soviet Zone state of Mecklenburg and the German
territory now under Polish administration.

SEPTEMBER 1951

Bishop Otto Dibelius, head of
German Protestant Church,
was among speakers at big
congress whose prayers were
excised before being broad-
cast by the Communists’ East-

Berlin Radio. (Uekerus photo)

Movement, he had received international attention, In
1934 he was invited as German lay delegate to the World
Council of Churches meeting in Oxford, England.

- Of all his international honors, none is more prized by
him than the tribute paid him by the city of Loewen,
Belgium. During World War II he served as German field
commander of that occupied city. In quiet, unobserved
ways he saved the lives of countless Belgians condemned
by the Gestapo. At the war's end he received public rec-
ognition by Loewen’'s citizens for the help he had given.

Throughout his life his one aim has been to strengthen
the laymen'’s activity of the church to which he is devoted.

Such a strong and active laity is in keeping with Protes-
tant tradition. Luther's concept of “the priesthood of all
believers" demands it. This third postwar Church Con-
gress was a high point in the laymen's movement in the
church history of the country of Martin Luther. The words
of President von Thadden set the tone: “The layman is
the practical interpreter of the church's gospel at that
point where God and the world come together. The lay-
man has to endure the tension between the commands of
God and the laws of the administration, between the ethic
of the Sermon on the Mount and the demands of politics."

HE PARTICIPANTS AT THIS Church Congress were
mostly lay persons — farmers from Brandenburg,
students from Bavaria, youth from Thuringia, miners from
the Ruhr, workers from Saxony, teachers from Schleswig-
Holstein, lawyers from North Rhine-Westphalia. For the
most part, they listened; but they also had a chance to speak.

What they said described the tension
they felt between the commands of God
and the laws of the state. A young student
from the Eastern zone said: “I must con-
tinually lie; I must.sell my soul. Pray for
me!"

The mother of a political prisoner in the
East pleaded for proper spiritual care for
those in jails or concentration camps. A
doctor from the East voiced his earnest
plea for help from the West. He said, “The
few doctors we have here are so over-
burdened that patients can scarcely be
cared for.”

Whether they spoke or listened, all were
trying to relate the Gospel as they knew it
to the word as they saw it. Religion for
them must be a seven-day-a-week affair.
The theme of their discussions showed the
scope of their thinking: ‘We are brothers
— in the church — in the home — in our
work — among people.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
The choice of Berlin as a meeting place was deliberate.
Hanover and Essen had been congress sites in 1949 and
1950. Stuttgart had been agreed upon for 1951. That would
have meant meeting with but a handful of East Germans.
Of more than 200,000 persons who attended in 1950, only
300 had come from the Soviet Zone. Great Protestant
strength lies in eastern Germany, behind the Iron Curtain.
People there felt cut off from their brothers in the West.
There was but one spot in all Germany where full-sized
delegations from East and West could come together.
Stuttgart would willingly postpone being host for a year,
if Berlin would assume the role. The former German
capital said, “We accept the responsibility.”

HE JULY GATHERING of the Church Congress was

the largest free meeting of East and West Germans
since the war. A significant event in itself, it was also an
event of such magnitude that its political and propaganda
potential could not be overlooked. Both East and West
sensed it.

An immediate effort was begun to capitalize on this un-
usual opportunity. The East saw in it a full-throated in-
strument to be added to the orchestra it was already tun-
ing up for the Soviet symphony of peace and unity. To
them there was obvious harmony between the Church
Congress’ theme ‘We are still brothers’ and the Com-
munists’ musical ditty ‘‘All Germans at one table.” Then
too, they felt Pastor Martin Niemoeller and Dr. Gustav
Heinemann would be good baton-wielders when it came
time to play the song against Western defense efforts.

Thus they gave unexpected aid to the Church Congress.
Eastern authorities did everything possible to facilitate
arrangements for this big meeting — with a purpose.
Camps of the Communist German Youth (FDJ), already
prepared for the then approaching Communist World
Youth Festival, were put at the disposal of Church
Congress guests. Meeting halls were quickly made avail-
able. Money was appropriated. State funds were released
to rebuild historic churches, which, it was carefully
pointed out, had been destroyed by American bombs.

Too much could not be done. Border restrictions were
eased. Interzonal passes were not required. At border
crossing points, presentation of delegates’ cards for the
Berlin Church Congress had more magic than a Soviet
visa. Endless customs inspections were waived. Members
of the FDJ entered the special trains from the West and
displayed their best manners, assuring all Westerners of
their hope that all peace-loving youth would come to
Berlin again in August for the Youth Festival.

Berlin Vopos (Soviet-Zone policemen) were alerted to
unstinted kindness. The ultimate in friendliness was reg-
istered one midnight, when a handful of Congress
delegates missed the last inner-Berlin train from an East-
sector station. Resigned to the long walk back to the west
sectors, where they were being housed, they were told
by the woman elevated-railway dispatcher to wait long
enough for her to telephone. Seconds later she returned
to announce proudly that two special trains would soon
be on the way to take the late ones home. Two trains
were necessary because destinations lay on different lines.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

Facilities and work of HICOG-sponsored Education Serv-
ice Center in borough of Zehlendorf, Berlin, are explained —

to Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commis-  ~

sioner, by Dr. Christopher B. Barnett, of Berlin's Education
and Cultural Relations Branch. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

O ONE QUITE BELIEVED possible the oft-reiterated —
statement of the Congress leadership that this affair
was to be a religious and not a political gathering. No — ;
one quite believed that the Church Congress would not
offer much material quickly adaptable for political and
propaganda ends. Hardly credulous was the opening
statement of Congress President von Thadden, delivered —
in a Soviet Sector church in the presence of high officials
of the eastern government: “It must be stated with all
clarity: with those who wish to impute this or that po-
litical meaning to our intentions, we have nothing to do.”
When it was all over, the Church Congress amazed
propagandists and politicians alike. It had been an event —
of religious importance. It offered the Eislers* of the —
East and the commentators of the West a minimum of —
material capable of exploitation. It talked of man and ~
God, not political systems; it talked of the welfare of
mankind, not economic systems; it talked of the judgment
of God, not the laws of men; it talked of the grace of
God, not the benefactions of states. 3
Yet, it was an event of great political significance. As —
reported in a summarizing press interview, its leader —
said, “Even if the Church Congress was no political event, —
but rather a demonstration of the Protestant lay move-
ment, none the less the fact that it took place in Berlin
and went off smoothly is in itself a political factor of the 4
highest significance.” Continuing, he said: “A half mil- —
lion people have met at that juncture between East and
West, between Christianity and materialism, coming from
both sides, and at a moment in which the world finds it- ~
self in unheard of tension. Common problems of life have ©
been discussed in all openness, and that surely could not ~

* Refers to workers in the East-Zone information office of Gerhart —
Eisler,

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 18 ---
fail to have made its impression on political observers of
both sides.”

To the East, the church and its people had said: You
cannot break us, you cannot intimidate us, you cannot
use us. To the West, it said: The contrast between East
and West is not the simple contrast between black and
white. Then it further said: The needs of men East and
West are the same; attachment to things spiritual by
which all life is enriched and by which all things temporal
and political are finally judged.

HE TASK OF CARING FOR more than 100,000 guests

was, for Berlin, no easy problem. Frequent appeals
to Berlin citizens to make private quarters available
brought good results. The Berlin population were generous
hosts. Mass quarters were none the less needed. In East
and West Berlin people slept in schools, in community
centers, in church houses, in any available place. They
brought their own blankets and slept on straw.

Official action supported the hospitality program. The
East sector authorities turned over for Congress use the
mass quarters later to. house the Communist festival
youth. Berlin Military Post lent tents. All West Berlin
youth organizations cooperated in making their facilities
available to the church youth. Catholic youth, Socialist
youth, trade union youth, the Pfadfinders (boy scouts)
willingly abstained from using the Berlin tent camps, that
they might be at the disposal of the Evangelical youth.
Americans opened their own homes to international guests
and to guests from East and West Germany.

Currency conversion caused problems and also made
friends. East zoners who wanted a glass of lemonade in
West Berlin found someone to put up the Deutsche marks,
and usually the someone was a benefactor they had never
seen before.

Feeding the crowd was not without its difficulties. Each
day more than 100,000 persons were fed in four different
feeding stations — three in West Berlin and one in East.
On the final day, at Olympic Stadium, 85,000 were fed at
one time. Beans with meat constituted the main course of
this great picnic — 1,300 barrels full, each of more than
50 quarts, disappeared in short order. When it was over,
there was less to be gathered up than in the Biblical tale
of the feeding of the multitudes. Local parishes, with
budgets already strained, provided free breakfasts to un-
numbered guests. Thirty-five tons of food came as the gift
of foreign churches.

City transportation facilities were throughly loaded.
Berlin's being a vast city meant that some persons had to
travel as many as 20 miles each day by bus, streetcar or
subway to get from their quarters to the meetings and
back. In and out of the subway station near the west
sectors’ Funkturm (radio tower) people streamed like ants.
Over all the activity and bustle and work hung the per-
vading atmosphere of good fellowship.

T= EVENT HAD THE gaiety of a big country fair.
For many it was the year’s grand excursion. The
Tailroads had given reduced rates. They ran special
trains. Here was a trip to the big city. Cares of day-to-

SEPTEMBER 1951

15

day existence could be laid aside. For the Easterner, the
pressures of life under a dictatorial government could be
forgotten for five days. He could meet freely with old
friends, talk openly, pour out troubles and live for a few
days without fear.

Both Easterner and Westerner alike could feel that for
at least a few too-brief hours he was breaking through the
Iron Curtain. There was tremendous emotional satis-
faction in that awareness. The inward yearning for a
proper nationalism within internationalism was, at one
and the same time, fed during the Church Congress. The
national unity of the German church was strenghtened
but related to the world-wide task of the church.

Most sought out of all the international guests were
those from India and Africa. The public speech given by
Pastor Christian Baeta of the Gold Coast attracted ex-
ceptionally favorable comment. Prominent among the
speakers at the closing session was Dr. Visser ‘tHoof,
general secretary of the World Council of Churches with
headquarters in Geneva. To the Easterner, so long cut off
from international contacts, except of the spurious type
fostered by Soviet propaganda for political profit, this
touch of the great world outside was stimulating.

The benefits of the Church Congress were, however, far
greater than the superficial ones of a good time and a
sense of satisfaction at temporarily piercing the Iron
Curtain. Churchmen of the East received new assurance.
They know now that they are not isolated from their bro-
thers in the West, both in West Germany and in the entire
Western world. The churchmen of the West received new
awareness of the needs of their brothers in the East and a
new sense of the importance of unity in crucial times.

HE CHURCH CONGRESS was likewise a demonstra-

tion of the inner unity of the church. As Soviet
tactics are aimed at splitting the church, this recognition
of the church's inner unity is of great political im-
portance. The Russians have issued frequent calls for
“progressive pastors’ to take leading positions in the
National Front. The Soviet authorities have tried to dis-
credit the established leadership of the church. The
Church Congress was a convincing demonstration of
loyalty to the accepted leadership of the church on the
part of the man in the pew.

It was a resounding repudiation of that handful of
pastors ‘fronting’ for the Soviet purpose. On the few
occasions when these hirelings tried, in public sessions,
to express their point of view, the measure of mass dis-
approval was tremendous.

The Church Congress was also a source of inner re-
freshment for all who participated in it. This was partic-
ularly important for the Eastern participant. Subjected
daily to the drone of Soviet propaganda, for his own
protection he needs to find inward sources of resistance.
The speeches, discussions, services of worship, the Bible
study, the celebration of Holy Communion — all com-
bined to nourish his neglected spirit. The Church-Con-
gress guest, returning from the stimulation of Berlin to
the isolation of the Eastern zone, went back with a new
assurance and an increased confidence. +END-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Law Books for Universities

LTHOUGH HE HAD RECEIVED a master's degree in

law from Bucknell University in Pennsylvania, Karl
Wilhelm Geck returned to Germany last spring with a
sense of disappointment.

As an exchange student in the United States, he had
earned one degree and had begun a doctoral thesis on
"The Delegation of Legislative Authority and its Exercise
in the United States." When his year of exchange work
was over, he had to return to Frankfurt University, and
since he had not had time in America to assemble enough
material for his doctor's thesis, he feared he would not
find what he needed in Germany.

“While I had a great deal of material,” Karl explained
recently, “I was worried because Frankfurt University
didn't have the books I would need to do the complete
job I felt was necessary.”

Since his return in April, however, Karl has spent at
least every other day at the law library, completing re-
search for his dissertation. To his surprise, and delight, he
found that the university had acquired an American law
library of more than 1,600 volumes, all the latest editions.

HE LIBRARY OF AMERICAN volumes, one of nine

recently presented to German universities, was a gift
from the Special Projects Fund of US High Commissioner
John J. McCloy. It contains the US Reports, the Federal
Reporter System, the Northeastern Reporter, the Ameri-
can Law Reports, several sets of state statutes, law dic-
tionaries, works on American jurisprudence, leading text-
books and other reference materials.

For the first time Frankfurt and several of the other
recipient universities have adequate library facilities in
American law.

Karl pointed out that his work as an assistant in a
course on constitutional law would be very difficult with-
out the set of US Supreme Court decisions. The professor
in charge of the course has also studied in the United
States, and both believe their students should be familiar
with American constitutional law.

‘One of Karl's friends finds the volumes on evidence
indispensable for his dissertation on comparative systems
of evidence. The decisions of the US federal. courts in
anti-trust cases, a matter of special interest to Germans
today, enable the German students to study the law of
a country experienced in such matters, says Karl. Without
the library, the students would have no reference works
for courses in American law being taught this summer
by three visiting American professors. Karl believes that
the Supreme Court decisions on questions of international
law are invaluable at a time when the United States is
so important in world affairs, and he is glad his university
at last has a complete set of these vital rulings.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

N ADDITION TO THE Frankfurt University presenta-

tion, McCloy Fund Libraries — as the universities
call them — have also been given to the Free University
of Berlin, and the Universities of Heidelberg, Kiel, Frei-
burg, Bonn, Tuebingen, Goettingen and Munich. Each li-
brary is valued at approximately $8,000.

In accepting the library, presented to the University
of Bonn July 1 by Dr. Gerhart Husserl of HICOG, the ~
dean of the law school said: “The American taxpayer's —
money has opened for us the door to a comparative study
of law which is all the more important because it shows
us a new world after years of isolation.”

Dr. Husserl, one-time member of the law faculty at
Bonn, explained in his presentation of the library that
American law in its documentation is based very largely
on court decisions. That, he said, is why the greater
part of this library consists of case reports and why
only a few textbooks and monographs have been included.
He suggested that the library might be used with profit
not only for juridical work of law graduates working to-
ward their doctors’ degrees, but also in courses and semi-
nars in the fields of comparative and international law.

The dean of Heidelberg's law faculty, thanking Mr,
McCloy for the library, wrote: “This fine gift constitutes
a magnificent supplement and extremely valuable addi-
tion to our department's library. The department, enabled
by this gift effectively to extend and intensify the educa-
tion of its students in American law... recognizes this
task as a high honor and responsibility.”

Commenting upon the libraries presented to the nine
universities, Dr. Husserl said: “Germany is now, after
years of dictatorship, evolving its own type of democratic
government. What could be of more assistance to the
Germans in their endeavors than the legal records of our
great American democracy? While we do not expect them
to copy our laws and decisions, we feel that they will be
assisted along the path of liberty through the study of ©
American legal problems and their solutions. These solu-
tions have both protected and expanded liberty through= ~
out American history.’ +END &

Kar] Geck (seated, right) and other students dt Frankfurt ~
University use book from HICOG Special Projects Fund —
library to settle a discussion. Behind them is section of the ©
US law library, recent gift to university. (PRD HICOG photo) —

Hidihilii
reanetatadl itt RELA
ae Hitititity

Feeseeeenl
q

--- Page 20 ---
Mutual Understanding

By WILLIAM J. HOFFMAN
US Resident Officer, Obertaunus and Usingen, Hesse

‘YERMANS AND AMERICANS living in Oberursel, a
town of 19,000 located at the foot of the famous Feld-
berg in the Taunus Mountains, took a long step toward
mutual understanding during a week-long program early
in August.

The idea for promoting better cooperation and under-
standing between Germans and Americans living in the
area came from the Oberursel German youth organization
Jugendring and its leader, Guenther Reimann, who pre-
sented it to the US resident office. American officials
were enthusiastic from the start, and immediately began
a series of planning sessions, in cooperation with Mr.
Reimann and other German civic leaders, to provide the
kind of program which would best bring German and
American young people and their parents closer together.

Full support of the Office of the US State Commissioner
for Hesse was promised by Dr. James R. Newman, in-
cluding financial assistance from its Youth Activities
Branch. The Frankfurt Military Post promised to furnish
its band for a concert; military units at Oberursel arranged
to turn over use of the Enlisted Men's Club to the German
Youth organization for two nights during the week's pro-
gram, the American Youth Activities camp located in
Oberursel set about arrangements for joint events at the
camp in which both German and American youngsters
would participate.

Mrs, John J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commis-
sioner, said she would help with a women’s activities
program, and from the German element came promises
of support from the mayor, city council and several
other prominent citizens of Oberursel.

LTHOUGH THERE WAS SOME misgiving about the

success of the venture, principally because American
requisitioning of the beautiful Oberursel swimming pool
and other properties had caused some strain, supporters
of the idea went ahead with an ambitious program which
would include everyone. The week's activities were
finally scheduled to include an opening concert by the
314th Army Band for Sunday evening, Aug. 5; a speaking
program Monday; a youth meeting on Tuesday; a tea and
discussion meeting for German and American women
and joint activities for young people Wednesday; a
special film showing and discussion for youth Friday,
and a German-American ball on Saturday.

The band concert in Oberursel Park, which was attend-
ed by approximately 1,500, did much to dispel any fears
about the rest of the program. Germans and Americans
were enthusiastic about the performance, and a sugges-
tion was made that similar concerts be held every Sunday.

A total of 350 persons heard Dr. Newman and Willy
Viehweg, ministerial director of the Hessian ministry for
church affairs and education, speak on the general theme

SEPTEMBER 1951

17

of “Youth, the Hope of the Nations for Peace, Freedom
and Understanding’ Monday evening. In addition to
German and American residents of Oberursel, the audience
included American military, HICOG and OLCH represent-
atives, members of the Bonn federal government, the state
legislature and other German officials.

Two hundred youths gathered in the auditorium of
Oberursel academy the following evening to hear Rue-
diger Proske, federal chairman of the European Youth
organization, speak on the subject “Is Europe a Satellite
of America?" and to participate in the lively general dis-
cussion which followed the youth leader's address.

HAT HAVING FUN TOGETHER is the shortest route

to friendship among children was proved by the Wed-
nesday afternoon activities at the American Youth Activi-
ties (AYA) camp, where 50 German boys between the ages
of 10 and 12 were welcomed by 70 American boys of the
same age. After a welcome speech given in German by
one of the American youngsters, the visitors were taken
on a tour of the camp and shown its various facilities, and
then came a series of boxing matches, with prizes. As a
special attraction, Radio Frankfurt broadcast one of the

Speaking against a backdrop of American and German
flags, Dr. James R. Newman, US state commissioner for
Hesse, opens “German-American Understanding Week’
at Oberursel, near Frankfurt. Seated, 1.-r., Gunther Rei-
mann, chairman of Oberursel youth organization which
initiated the program; Willy Viehweg, ministerial di-
rector of Hessian ministry for church affairs and educa-
tion; William J. Hoffman, US resident officer and author
of this article, and Mayor Heinrich Kappus. Standing be-
side Dr. Newman is interpreter. (PRB OLCH photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
matches between a German and an American boy. Next
came ice cream and cookies all around and a bubble-gum
hunt. Although most of the German children were unfamil-
iar with bubble gum und knew nothing of its potentialities,
they learned quickly under the expert supervision of the
Americans.

Everyone then moved out to the archery range, where
the only safe place was well behind the firing line.
Although the program was supposed to end at five
o'clock, the German boys were invited to stay for dinner,
and after persuading their teacher to dispense with their
homework, they stayed.on into the evening for a Walt
Disney movie.

Two hundred German women met with American
women Wednesday afternoon for tea and a discussion
period, Mrs. McCloy was there, and she and the other
Americans had a busy afternoon chatting and answering
questions.

On Friday evening, 100 German and American young
people met at the German youth center for a special film
showing and discussion, and the resident officer present-
ed copies of Das America Buch fuer die Jugend* to the
youth organization for its library.

The week's activities were climaxed on Saturday with
a German-American ball attended by 400, and the Mutual
Understanding Week ended on a note of friendliness
which augurs well for future relationships.

HE GENERAL REACTION among Oberursel citizens

— even those who initially had felt misgivings —
was that the program had been a definite success and
that it had done much to show that cooperation and
understanding among peoples can be developed once a
common ground is established.

A number of letters have since come to the resident
office from both German and American students and youth
organizations expressing interest in the development
of similar programs in the future. Only recently the AYA

* See ‘'The America Book" in Information Bulletin, July 1951 issue.

Dorothea Fuertwangler, beauty prize winner, chats at big
German-American ball with US Resident Officer Hofiman.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Ruediger Proske, director of European Youth organization,
addresses meeting at Oberursel center. (Photos by Gerstner)

camp invited a young German soccer team from Luebeck
visiting at Bad Homburg to spend an afternoon at the
camp, and as a result of the women’s meeting, a German
woman included American boys on the guest list for her
son's birthday party.

Although there are many Germans and Americans who
believe that a program such as the one staged at Ober-
ursel, which featured music, discussion and fun as the
media for understanding, does not accomplish as much
as more direct joint activities do, those who participated

in the Oberursel attempt at achieving friendliness are

convinced that their initial effort was at least a splendid
step forward. They are ready now, they think, for what
others call a direct approach. -++END

Question and answer period was feature of women’s tea. ~

Mrs. John J. McCloy answered this little girl's query.

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 22 ---
German-Jewish Relations

R. PRESIDENT, IT IS only natural that people
M abroad who are concerned with the future of Ger-
many should show particular interest in the mentality
of German youth.

I think that in this respect a certain distinction has
to be made between young people in eastern and
western Germany. During the Nazi regime, when young
people were forcibly molded into a pattern of prescribed
conduct and thought, they frequently adopted an attitude
of cynical eagerness to fall into line. It has not been
an easy task to overcome this attitude in the postwar
period.

The symptoms of skeptical reserve frequently met with
among the German youth of today should also be ex-
plained in this way. Most important of all, the absence
makes itself felt of an intermediate age group, between
the youngsters and the older generation, an age group
which would exercise a stabilizing influence and act as
a connecting link between the two, in public life parti-
cularly. It looks as if the war, together with political,
religious or racial persecutions, had eliminated this age
group. At least it has not proved itself noticeably in
any walk of public life.

Moreover, our young people lack opportunities to
speak their minds. While in the East zone the totali-
tarian ideology of Nazi days has simply been taken over
under a different name by the new regime, Western
Germany is striving for a truly new way of life. Its
youth is tired of the luster of empty words, of the
monotonous repetition of ready-made slogans. Nor does
it want any school proctors. It seeks a new style of life
which will be neither pedantic nor bombastic.

In the East zone young people are subjected to the
impact of the mass. The creation of a

give a completely distorted and thereby dangerously
misleading picture of reality?

You are perfectly correct. Germany has not yet evolved
the journalistic style of current-events reporting in vogue
elsewhere. What is being published in this line can only
be termed a cheap attempt at dressing our national trag-
edy in the sensational cloak of commercialized trash.

HE RENASCENCE OF A COUNTRY must neces-

sarily go hand in hand with a moral act of redemp-
tion from the past. In the case of Germany it is of
course the Jewish question which plays a prominent
part at this juncture. I am acquainted with more than
one positive statement which you, Mr. President, have
made in connection with this problem. Considering that
your roots are in the circle who shared the outlook of
Naumann’s “Hilfe,"* how do you envisage the moral side
of the question regarding Germany and the Jews?

This question has always stirred me profoundly. It
touches upon the larger problem which not only must
be solved on the basis of general moral considerations,
but which will not die down, if only because all over
the world live Jews of German origin whose diverse
ties with the country of their birth have not been sever-
ed. True, I have always opposed the idea of collective
guilt because I consider it to be an over-simplification
of the real facts, an inversion of the Nazi attitude to
the Jews. At a meeting of the Society for Christian-
Jewish Cooperation in Wiesbaden,** I defined this Nazi
attitude as holding that ‘the mere fact of being born a
Jew already implies the element of guilt.”

But I admit that the feeling of collective shame,
which has its origin in the Hitler period, does in fact

exist for us. Hitler had highhandedly

new and democratic type of comrade-
ship is the touchstone of the problem.
At the present moment it is not yet
possible to ascertain to what extent
this can be achieved by reviving the
old German tradition of youth rallies,
sports and athletics, reviving it in a
progressive manner which would pro-
vide a happy balance of patriotism and
cosmopolitanism.

Do you believe this German youth
lo be susceptible to Nazi influences?

No. But it is not prepared to play
the role of a lost generation, and this
attitude is quite understandable.

But how about the outside influ-
ences young people are being exposed
lo at present? For instance, is it nol
most unfortunate that a number of
picture magazines should publish ver-
sions of the recent German past which

Prof. Theodor Heuss, president of
the Federal Republic of Germany,
political scientist, author and life-
long liberal, granted an interview
in July to his old friend Manfred
George, now editor-in-chief of the
New York German-language refu-
gee weekly “Aufbau” and a well-
known Berlin journalist prior to
the Hitler regime. Following are
excerpts from the interview, as
approved by Professor Heuss and
carried by “Aufbau; “Die. Neue
Zeitung,” theUS-sponsored German-
language newspaper, on July 18; and
by Germany's sole German-Jewish
weekly, the “Allgemeine Wochen-
zeitung” in Duesseldori, on July 20.
Translation from the German is by
Paul Freedman,
Branch, Office of the Executive
Secretary, HICOG.

Policy Reports

forced us into a community of fate. In
consequence all of us bore the name
of Germans, in common with him and
his henchmen. We are also aware that
our conscience must remain burdened
forever with a characteristic peculiar
to the German brand of anti-Semitism
and which has caused misery beyond
words, namely, the impersonal cruelty
of its methodical and painstaking effi-
ciency.

And how do you think that the ten-
sion between Germans and Jews,
which these happenings have had in
their wake, can be removed?

By realizing that we must stop the
blanket group evaluation of human

* Theodor Heuss was, at the turn of the
century, a disciple and aide of Friedrich Nau-
mann, famed liberal who published the periodi-
cal “Die Hilfe.**

** See ‘Courage to Love’ in Information
Bulletin, January 1950.

SEPTEMBER 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 23 ---
Michael Cardinal Faulhaber, Archbishop of Munich, was
guest of honor at Juncheon reception at home of Dr. George
N. Shuster (leit), US state commissioner for Bavaria, to
mark anniversary of Catholic prelate’s Advent Seminars
in 1933, in which he rebuked Nazis for anti-Semitism. With
the Cardinal and Dr. Shuster is Dr. Hans Ehard, Bavarian

minister-president (PRB OLCB photo)
beings. Be he a Frenchman, a Jew or a German — the
designation has no bearing on the quality of the indi-
vidual, on the man. In the relationship of one human
being with another, we must revert to unprejudiced regard
for the other's human values. This applies to all nations.
I would like to call it ‘the moral courage to love.” Love,
of course, always implies a moral act of courage. Hatred
is born of the weariness of the heart; it is but a cheap and
easy form of self-indulgence. Only with the courageous
moral act of love can we advance to a better world.

S YOU ARE AWARE, Mr. President, all over the

world great numbers of people are very concerned
over many a symptom of so-called neo-Nazism. As an
example, let us mention the desecration of Jewish
cemeteries ...

I have stressed repeatedly that every instance of such
desecration means another lost round for Germany in her
struggle for recognition among the other nations...
Almost two years ago I gave this question my par-
ticular attention. Careful surveys were made and I think
I have reason to believe that my suggestion for the
municipalities to take care of the Jewish graveyards has
been adopted. Fortunately, one hears bad news of this
sort less frequently today.

All the same, it is a pity that, apart from some indi-
vidual pronouncements, the government has omitted so
far to define its attitude to the Jewish question in the
form of an official statement, although this procedure
should have been adopted long ago as a matter of course.
Why has it not been done?

I know that the absence of such a declaration has been
subject to comment. Perhaps the government should have
been more emphatic in stressing its views on German
responsibility in the Jewish question. But I can assure
that the government, as well as the political parties, are
deeply conscious of the enormous injustice meted out to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the Jews and that the old Nazi ideas about Jews, as for
instance the absurd notion of their ‘destructive influence
on German culture,” do not thrive any longer among the
majority of the people either.

HAT WAYS AND MEANS would you suggest for
W an exchange of views between Germans and Jews?
Unfortunately, we have not succeeded in finding an
official Jewish spokesman as a conversational partner so
far. When we were proposing to establish a special office
dealing with Jewish problems of all types, the plan was
turned down by Jewish quarters on the ground that such
a course would recall too many painful memories of
the past.

Private relations of friendly understanding between
Germans and Jews have never been severed, but I am
quite aware that in the sphere going beyond such private
relations, any course which might be taken in this deli-
cate matter will have to be approached with great circum-
spection. At any rate, we are willing to have an exchange
of views and discussions regarding all pending questions,
with the Jews in Germany as well as with the state of
Israel.

On the Jewish side, it is true, we fail to find a certain
degree of unity among the representatives of the Jews as
a whole. This renders very difficult all down-to-earth steps
leading to a rapprochement. It does not, however, affect
free discussion and closer ties in the religious sphere.

Too long have the German people been kept in the dark
about the inner correlation between Christianity and
Judaism. It will take some time, but all the same I am
convinced that, in this respect, too, the moral act of love
between individual human beings will be the safest bridge
over the gulf between two groups who have become es-
tranged by the dreadful years that lie behind us. -+-END

Walter T. Shirley (left), commissioner of the department
of commerce, New York City, presents friendship scroll
to Mayor Ernst Reuter as representative of free Berlin.
Mr. Shirley represented New York Mayor Vincent Impel-
literi at informal ceremony in Berlin. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

--- Page 24 ---
Education in Citizenship

By WALTER GALLING
US Resident Officer, Schwaebisch Gmuend, Wuerttemberg-Baden

HE GERMAN COUNTERPART of Jeffersonian democ-

racy is establishing itself today in Wuerttemberg-
Baden. Historically, the independence of the individual
has become confused to the German mind, allowing little
opportunity for self-expression in politics.

“If you as citizens of this country come to a decision
and express your will,” said Konrad Burkhardt, county
administrator of Schwaebisch Gmuend, “then there is no
question but that your elected government must adhere
to your decision. They are your servants, not you theirs.”

Strongly against the time-honored German tradition of
imposing all authority in and accepting all orders from
the authorities of the state, he has at every occasion
during town meetings throughout the county, expounded
the theory that the state is no independent organ but
originates from the people and is responsible to them.

Cooperation and understanding from the German au-
thorities are the fundamentals on which the US resident
officer must base his work. The initiative displayed by
Mr. Burkhardt for furthering democratic ideals set in
motion a technique for guidance in citizenship which the
county administrator had previously been unable by
himself to put into practice.

Although the device of the town meeting and other
civic action were excellent ways through which the indi-
vidual could participate in local government, these means
nevertheless did not reach their full objectives, in Mr.
Burkhardt's opinion, because of the failure of the ordinary
villager to understand what his political rights are and
how his local and state -governments operate.

R. BURKHARDT HAS OFTEN emphasized this need:
“The majority of the population are still in opposi-
tion to the local government, seeing it as an unfriendly

organization doing everything according to its own will. ,

To them, the statement in the Basic Law and the federal
constitution that ‘All state authority emanates from the
people’ is seemingly a worthless phrase.

“A large proportion of the population would like to do
its share and is aware of the importance of the responsi-
bility, but does not know what to do with the power. The
people do not see the extent of their tasks; they do not
realize their rights and duties; they feel helpless toward
the experts and specialists of the administration and
government. This, it appears, is the main reason for the
general distrust of the state.

“It is necessary to change this distrust and establish
a new relationship between the citizen and the Federal
Government. An understanding of political rights is one
of the basic principles for a healthy development of a
political life."

The county administrator proposed an experiment to
develop this understanding which might be tried in every

SEPTEMBER 1951

21

township of the county. A series of evening lecture
courses were held on the basic elements of civics and
the citizen's responsibilities.

With the assistance and cooperation of the resident of-
ficer, the series was established, divided into a spring
and a fall session. The first course, given last spring, con-
cerned the Federal Government, its organization and laws
for a background of local township government. The panel
of 26 lecturers, consisting of representatives from Mr.
Burkhardt's office and several local mayors, added con-
siderable impetus and interest to the experiment.

'OR A PERIOD OF SIX WEEKS, one evening lecture

each week was held in each of the 36 townships. The
result was an enthusiastic response in almost every com-
munity. Attendance at the lectures, which were free and
open to all, varied but in general between 20 and 30
community council members, forum committee members
and interested citizens participated.

The curriculum for the first session was as follows:

First evening: Introduction with definition of the mean-
ing, object and aim of the course with short survey of
topics to be discussed. The concept, organization and
construction of the present-day state and what position
the Federal Republic holds among other types of govern-
ments. ,

Second evening: A review of the development of the
German township and a discussion of the Basic Law,
upon which the town is established.

Third evening: The township and the responsibilities
of citizenship.

Fourth evening: The community councilor, his respon-
sibilities and legal obligations.

Fifth evening: The mayor, his responsibilities and
legal obligations.

Sixth evening: The finances of the community, a re-
view of the course emphasizing the individual's co-
responsibility for the administration of his township.

The objective of this course was to form a nucleus of
trained public leaders who could stimulate a continuing
interest in community government. Lectures were usually
conducted in a tavern, Open discussions followed and
many questions were asked. The speakers found a ready
and responsive audience as well as a noteworthy interest
in the material covered. Several isolated villages have
since asked that a similar course be given in their area.

HE OUTLINE FOR THE second session, scheduled for
October, will cover the following:
First evening: A review of the first course on the state.
A discussion of the territorial basis and historial develop-
ment of the county.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
Mrs. Anna Rosenberg, assistant secretary of defense for
manpower and personnel, was welcomed to Germany
Aug. 6 when she landed at Rhine-Main Air Base. She
was honored with a joint Army-Navy-Air Force review.
L.-r., front row, are Mrs. Rosenberg, General Thomas
T. Handy, EUCOM commander-in-chief, Lt. Gen. Manton
S, Eddy, commanding general, Seventh Army, and Maj.
Gen. Truman S, Landon, USAFE deputy commander and
chief of staff, At extreme left is Brig. Gen. Collins, execu-
tive officer to Mrs. Rosenberg. (US Army photos)

Mrs. Rosenberg Inspects Bases

Here to check morale of and facilities for US troops, Mrs.
Rosenberg chats with men of 2nd Armored Division.

During visits to newly-arrived elements of Fourth Infan-
try Division and 2nd Armored Division, Mrs. Rosenberg in-
spected barracks, messhalls and kitchens in several cities.
Below, she is shown in Heidelberg .with, 1.-r., Maj. Gen.
John E, Dahlquist, commanding general, V Corps; General
Eddy; Lt. Col. James B. Goodwin and Maj. Ralph Weaver.

Second evening: The county, its constitutional organs,
legislation and administration; tasks of the higher authori-
ties and aspects of self-administration.

Third evening: Historical development of Wuerttem-
berg-Baden and an analysis of its constitution.

Fourth evening: A continuation of the study of the
constitution, the legislative processes and the administra-
tive bodies.

Fifth evening: The Federal Republic, a survey of the
historical development, basic law, civil rights, organiza-
tion, legislation, finances and the relations with foreign
governments both in normal times and in times of oc-
cupation,

Sixth evening: The citizen in the township and state.

NEW COURSE for 1952 has been proposed by Mr,
A Burkhardt, to follow the first two series. After having
acquired the necessary background on the organization
of the state and federal governments, discussions can
then center on specific problems, which will give an
opportunity to demonstrate concrete action.

Surprisingly enough, in many counties councilmen are
often elected to office without knowing specifically the
laws that establish their office, what their local rights
are and what.laws they are to administer. Conversely,
worthwhile community action or citizen initiative must
come from a knowledge of the government under which
the citizen is living and the rights to which he is entitled,

The experiment in citizenship has proved both helpful
and significant in overcoming the general need for in-
formation on aspects of German government and on the
processes of a democratic society. As this knowledge
becomes available and understood, democracy begins to
flourish.

Two-Thirds of East Zone Listeners
Favor “Voice of America” Broadeasts
Almost two-thirds of the radio listeners in Germany's

Soviet Zone hear the Voice of America broadcast at least —

twice a week compared with a following of only 20 per-
cent for the comparable Commiunist-sponsored program, —

A recent opinion survey by the Reactions Analysis Staff

disclosed that 21 percent of those interviewed listened —

to VOA daily over RIAS or West German radio stations —
and 76 percent had heard the thrice-daily program “re-
cently." Only one-fifth had listened “recently” to Radio.
Leipzig's ‘Truth about America."

RIAS' daily 15-minute “Berlin Speaks to the Zone” was
rated most interesting by 31 percent of the Germans and
another 12 percent preferred news, commentaries and~
political matters. Leipzig's ‘Truth about America’ inter-|
ested six percent because it offered a comparison of the —
Communist and American views, five percent were inter-_
ested or amused by “‘all the lies’ and two percent found
the “truth” the East zone station's program offered as —
its most interesting aspect. a

SEPTEMBER 1951

+END’

--- Page 26 ---
1,442,647
See
"Train

Of

Europe”

Long queues were a daily sight outside Berlin's Radio Tower fair
grounds as 781,231 persons, including large numbers from the Soviet Sector
and Soviet Zone, thronged to see the""Trainof Europe." (PRB BE-HICOG photos)

HE “TRAIN OF EUROPE,” which depicts the need for European cooperation under the Mar-
shall Plan, topped a successful showing in 16 major West German cities by attracting record
crowds in Berlin. The total number of persons who saw the train in Germany was 1,442,647, in-
cluding 781,231 who visited the exhibit in Berlin between July 25 and Aug. 17. The train was
then prepared for movement to the Scandinavian countries.
The train is sponsored by the Organization for European Economic Cooperation, the Economic Co-
operation Administration and the Bonn government. Continental in nature, the exhibits were con-

One millionth visitor to view the displays in the “Train
of Europe” was presented with an eight-tube radio set.

structed in Paris with materials from several
European nations, the workers represented 12
different countries and the present crew mem-
bers come from five nations. The old German
railroad cars were rebuilt in Germany.

The five silver and blue exhibition cars were set up
on 200 yards of specially-laid track outside Berlin's Funk-
turm (radio tower) fair grounds. As many as 12,000 visi-
tors could be accommodated daily for the interior ex-
hibits; others were able to see films, platform puppet
shows and photomural displays on the exterior,

URING THE FORMAL inaugural ceremonies, repre-

sentatives of the Berlin city government and of the
Allied staffs in Berlin, leading civic figures and city resi-
dents heard Howard P. Jones, director of Berlin Element
and ECA representative, point out that "Berlin itself is
probably the best exhibition of the Marshall Plan in
existence.”

He explained; “As most of you know, ECA has been
putting money into Berlin at an average rate of DM
40,000,000 ($9,520,000) a month since a year ago last
spring. The results of this investment may be seen on
all sides — in the revival of industry (industrial produc-
tion having more than doubled in the last year), in the
physical appearance of the city, in the standard of living
of the people of Berlin and in the increase of employment."

Another speaker at the ceremonies, Ray W. Smith, chief
of Berlin Element’s Economic Affairs Division, emphasized

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
—

O ® Ol :
USAMA NARBUT DR AEN VE

SE

»Ptlma, der EUROPA-Zug!” — ,,Aber ein bifichen
mehr Geschwindigkelt konat’ er schon vertragen!” +

who

“Marvellous this train about European unification!"
“What a pity it isn't going faster!"

that the train, on its journey through western Europe,
serves as a symbol of the close association and continu-
ing cooperation among the countries of the free world.

Mr. Smith added that the. transformation of Berlin from
a rubble heap 106 miles behind the Iron Curtain into an
ordered, functioning economic society — made possible
through the Marshall Plan — is of particular benefit to
the youth now coming of age since the economic recon-
struction opens up opportunities for industrial careers.

THER EXHIBITS WERE STAGED concurrently with

the Train of Europe” showing in Berlin. The 300 win-
ning paintings of the ECA children’s art competition, held
in March and April, were on display in the George C.
Marshall House. The contest — with its theme “How the
Free Peoples Together Build a Better World” — attracted
700,000 entries from Germany, France, Italy, Trieste,
Austria, Holland, Belgium and Ireland. Winners were
selected by an international jury composed of art pro-
fessors, painters and museum curators.

During the display a “jury” of 10 Berlin youngsters,
ranging in age from 10 to 14, picked out the art works
they considered the best.

This marked the last time that the drawings and paint-
ings would be displayed as a single collection. It is now
being broken down into five smaller collections to be
exhibited during 1951 and 1952 in all European countries
participating in the Marshall Plan.‘

Also of special interest to children was a model train
exhibit showing the development of the modern rail
system in the United States and the degree of American
workmanship and ingenuity.

The Lionel Railroad Company, large manufacturer of
model railways in the United States, made all the equip-
ment for the HICOG-sponsored display. Included were
six complete trains running on nearly 400 feet of track.
The trains were directed, exactly as in a full-scale oper-
ating system, from a central switch tower.

The seven persons required to direct operations of the
model railroad system were all members of the Model
Railroad Club of Berlin, which also installed the equip-
ment upon its arrival in the “island city.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

Soviet soldier to German bystander: “Hey, you, where i.
the special compartment for the Occupation Forces?"

ANOTHER MARSHALL PLAN EXHIBIT in the pavilion
opposite the Gedaechtniskirche (Memorial Church)
continued to attract record-breaking crowds with total
attendance by the Sept. 3 closing date held certain to pass —
the 1,000,000 mark. The exhibit showed the accomplish-
ments of the Marshall Plan in West Germany and Berlin ~
and what still remains to be done. 3

The showing opened July 20 and since that time more _
than 750,000 persons have seen the attractions, including
free open-air movies, a model of the Atlantic ocean show:
ing miniature ships plying the trade routes, linking the —
United States with western European countries, and illus-
trated graphs and charts.

Highpoint of the exhibit has been the premiere of a ;
new ECA film contrasting East and West Germany. Dur-
ing the first two weeks it was shown in Berlin, approxi-
mately 350,000 persons saw the movie either at the pavil-
ion or at one of three television showings. Soviet Zone
residents were particularly enthusiastic about the picture,

BT aoe

f

Pavilion holding Marshall Plan Exhibit, set up near Me:
morial Church in Berlin after touring western Germany,
drew record crowds. Attendance topped 1,000,000 mark.

SEPTEMBER 1951 ~

--- Page 28 ---
MARSHALLPLAN
TUR STARKUNE DER
FRELEN WELT

ones, director of Berlin Element of

IG, inaugurated first color telecasts to be
made in Germany, Aug. 13 to 26. Sponsored by
ECA, color TV shows were produced by CBS
and on by vast throngs of West Ber-
liners and East Zoners at “'Funkturm" (right).

TV Comes to Berlin

Germany also got its first look at black-and-
white television through demonstrations staged
by RCA at the Schoeneberg municipal park,
Berlin, and seen on 100 receiving sets placed
in shopwindows throughout the western

s and on two giant 15-by-20 foot screens.

During the first two days of the Communist-sponsored
Youth Festival in the Eastern sector of Berlin, some
20,000 members of the Communist German Youth daily
slipped into West Berlin to visit the special exhibit. The
youths proved to be a well-behaved audience, particularly
interested in operation of the Marshall Plan and West
German political institutions. Pamphlets were available
at the exhibition and many FDJ youths took copies with
them back to the Soviet Zone at personal risk.

* * *
N ORE THAN 1,500,000 PERSONS saw evidence of
American progress in television during a special
two-week TV exhibit held in Berlin.

Dr. Peter Goldmark (right), inventor of CBS's color tele-
vision, supervised production for CBS telecasts in Berlin.

The exhibition was sponsored by ECA in collaboration
with the Office of the US High Commissioner for Ger-
many. The Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) planned
the colored TV demonstration, only recently approved
by the US Federal Communications Commission for com-
mercial use. The Radio Corporation of America (RCA)
produced the black and white showings.

The exhibit officially got underway Aug. 13 when Presi-
dent Harry S. Truman sent a message of greeting. His
statement said: ‘This television exhibition has been ar-
ranged by the Economic Cooperation Administration and
is presented by the American television industry to show
how free men can work together for peace and prosperity.

Operator tests the color camera in studio prior to giving
Berlin its first glimpse of that marvel of today — video!

--- Page 29 ---
West Berliners reinforced by uncounted thousands of Soviet Sector and Soviet Zone residents combined with repre-
sentative turnouts of American, British and French occupation personnel to pack Berlin's Olympic Stadium Aug. 22 to
see an exhibition basketball game between the Harlem Globetrotters and the Boston Whirlwinds. Between halves the
capacity crowd gave a tremendous ovation to Jesse Owens, four-time gold medal winner at the Olympic Games held
there in 1936. The “world’s fastest human” was Officially welcomed by Deputy Mayor Walther Schreiber, delivered a brief
speech and then took a one-lap trot around the track on which he set new world records 15 years ago. (US Army photo)

Television is a remarkable technical achievement, but it
would be wasted if it did not help us understand each
other as well as help us to strive for a better world."

The cameras televised a wide range of live talent
shows and sport events. Nightly audiences of more than
100,000 viewed the shows at two production stages, on
two 15-by-20-foot outdoor screens — two of the four such
screens in existence — and on 100 home-type receivers
placed throughout West Berlin in store windows and other
spots where people could gather.

CBS and RCA donated the use of $500,000 worth of
equipment and the services of 36 television technicians
and experts for the demonstration. Dr. Peter Goldmark,
inventor of the CBS color television system, and Richard
Hooper, RCA promotion manager, were in charge of
the production units sent by the two companies.

EARLY 200 MANUFACTURERS, designers and tech-
nical employees of Berlin radio firms and leading
electrical manufacturing firms, along with dealers, serv-
ice, maintenance and sales employees of Berlin distribu-
tors paid daily study visits to the demonstrations for
explanation of the technical principles involved.
One of these visitors was Dr. Kurt Wagenfuhr, director
of television studios at the Universities of Hamburg and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

Muenster, who took part in initial television experiments

in Germany 15 years ago. From 1940 to 1944 he taught

television and broadcasting in Berlin and Leipzig.

After his daily five hours before the receiving sets, ~
screens and TV stages, Dr. Wagenfuhr said, “I'm delighted
at the opportunity to see the CBS color system in opera-
tion. The colors are very good and I'm astonished at the
progress that has been made in color television since I ~
last saw it in Germany, during our experimental days
before the war.”

Germany's postwar television debut will be made at
the Berlin Industries Fair Oct. 5 to 20, according to Dr.
Wagenfuhr. A transmitter in the fair grounds is expected
to operate daily from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. without interrup-
tion, with programs originating from both Berlin and Ham-
burg. The 15 firms now manufacturing television sets will
display them for the first time at the fair. There will be
numerous models with the price tags reading from DM
1,000 to DM 1,500 ($238 to $357). The German expert ©
estimated that at least 5,000 sets will be completed by ~
then, and that in November or December the Hamburg- P
Berlin transmitters will have expanded regular TV broad-
casting to six evenings a week, two hours each evening.

“We hope that in four years we will have 2,000,000 sets
in operation,” he said.

SEPTEMBER 1951 7

--- Page 30 ---
German youths were also given an opportunity during
the exhibit to take part in the technical operations. One
evening Horst Schweder and Peter Hoffmann handled the
two sensitive television cameras and Juergen Knorr was
stage director. The 18-year-olds received their camera
instruction from American technicians after hovering
around the TV stage and control, and watching the
assembly of the telecasting equipment.

* * *

Berliners Acclaim

1936 Olympic Games Star
By DWIGHT SCHEAR

(Adapted by permission from the “Stars and Stripes,”
daily newspaper published by the US Army in Europe.)

if ERLINERS GAVE A THUNDEROUS ovation to Jesse

Owens as the United States ex-Olympic star returned
for the first time to the scene of his 1936 Olympic Games
triumphs Aug. 13 between halves of a Harlem Globetrot-
ter-Boston Whirlwind exhibition game in Berlin's Olympic
Stadium.

A US Air Force helicopter set Owens down on the
stadium field where, 15 years ago this month, he staged
the greatest Olympic Games performance in history, win-
ning four first-place gold medals and setting three Olym-
pic records which still stand today.

Later, the huge crowd broke into prolonged cheers as
the one-time sprint king doffed his old Ohio State Uni-
versity warmup suit and circled the 400-meter Olympic
oval, wearing his white Olympic Games uniform.

“It is a wonderful feeling to stand here once more,”
Owens said as he again set foot on the track where he
established himself as the world’s fastest human being
to the rage and frustration of his Nazi hosts.

An international incident was touched off there in 1936
when Hitler failed to invite Owens to his box to con-
gratulate him, as he had done other champions. Owens’
victories had not squared with Hitler racial theories.

DDRESSING THE CROWD, Owens recalled “the fine

German sportsmen with whom I competed here. They
had spirit and determination to win,” he said, “and I would
like to say to you people here in Germany that you must
have the same spirit and determination today to live as
a free people in a free world.

“I know," he said, “how the people of West Berlin
have been standing up against Communism and I just
want to tell them that I and millions of other people
are with them.

“Hitler stood right up there in the box. But I believe
the real spirit of Germany, a great nation, was exempli-
fied down here on the field by the athletes.

“Words often fail on occasions like this. But I remember
the good things that happened here. I remember the fight-
ing spirit and sportsmanship shown by German athletes
on this field, especially by Lutz Long of Germany, the
man I managed to beat in the broad jump on my last jump.

SEPTEMBER 1951

27

Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson, US commander of Berlin,
chats with Jesse Owens at scene of the 1936 Olympic
Games star's greatest triumphs. Standing between them
is Dave Zinkoff of Philadelphia, Pa., regular announcer

for the Harlem Globetrotters. (US Army photo)

“There's the broad jump pit," he said. It was there,
on a hot, cloudy August day, 15 years ago, that Owens
brought 120,000 people to their feet by defeating Ger-
many’s broad jump champion in a thrilling contest.

Both Owens and Long smashed all records then going
in their six leaps. Owens’ last leap, the one that still
stands, was 26 feet 5-1/16 inches. Long beat him but the
last jump was disqualified because the German champion
fouled the line with his toe.

“Long was a real sportsman. He rushed up and threw
his arms around me. The appiause was tremendous,”
Owens recalled. “I met Long's son, now nine years old,
in Hamburg (the day before). Long was killed in the
war and his widow brought the boy to see me. I told him
I hoped he would grow up to be a real champion like
his dad.

“T want to say to the young people here to be like
those athletes. I want to say to all of you to stand fast
with us and let us all work together to stay free and God
Almighty will help us in our struggle. That is what the
United States stands for and I know you are with us.
God bless you all.”

HEN JESSE HAD FINISHED, the acting mayor of
Berlin, Walther Schreiber, came up to congratulate
him. Said Mr. Schreiber into the microphone:

“Hitler would not shake your hand. I give you both
hands.”

The crowd roared.

Owens later mounted the steps, leading past the bowl
where the Olympic flame burned and to the honor rolls
where the names of the Olympic winners are chiseled
into the granite blocks.

The outdoor exhibition was staged, through the cooper-
ation of HICOG and the Air Force, in addition to the
Globetrotters’ regular schedule, as a special tribute to the
people of West Berlin. Admission was free. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Discussion group takes up political questions and prob-
Jems in the shade of an oak tree overhanging the Rhine.

Beach at St. Goar was a very popular spot visited daily
by the boys and girls at International Youth Camp. In
background are village of St. Goarshausen and Katz castle.

Deputy French High Commissioner Armand Berard (left)
and Dr, Hermann Ehle

Posters illustrating major points of United Nations’ Dec-
Jaration of Human Rights, in special tent, drew many.

Neighboring towns were visited by groups attending camp.
French youth are shown before tiny Boppard's city hall.

--- Page 32 ---
Famed Lorelei Beckons Youth
To Peace and Unity

- ORELEI ROCK, A STONY CRAG high above the

_4 fabled Rhine, is famed in song and story as the home
of a legendary blonde siren whose dulcet voice and
golden hair lured many a Germanic boatman to his doom
on the jagged rocks beneath her.

In this summer of 1951, Lorelei Rock and its surround-
ing green plateau, one of the most beautiful spots on the
Rhine, had a new allure — one almost as intangible and
out of reach today as the beckoning charms of the mythical
Lorelei who sang to passing sailors in a fairy-tale long-
ago. But the sound was just as sweet. It was a summons
to Europe's youth to join hands there in a search for the
peace and unity of their troubled continent.

An estimated 10,000 answered the call. Upon their firm
acceptance of, and belief in, an alluring dream held by
free men everywhere can well depend much of the reality
of a future Europe united in a common cause — the cause
of Freedom and Peace.

During the six-week camping period from July 20 to
Sept. 6, the youth came and went every 10 days in con-
tingents of approximately 2,000, by bus and private car,
in government vehicles and supply trucks, by bicycle and
on foot, in groups and pairs and singly. Clouds of dust
whirled above the yellow dirt road lined with the flags
of a dozen nationalities as traffic moved in and out of
the tent city. Above the confusion and the traffic noise
rose the incessant babel of hundreds of young voices
shouting to one another — in German, French, English,
Dutch, Italian, Finnish, Norwegian, Swedish, Spanish,
Hindustani and even Chinese.

)YS SHOULDERING FIELD PACKS and girls lugging
suitcases converged on 600 US-Army tents and 10
permanent log houses on the camp site for the start of
an experience unique to all of them — mingling and play-
ing and talking with the youth of other nations, listening
to Free Europe's leaders tell them that in their spiritual
union and in the practical, treaty-bound union of the
countries they represented lies the chief hope not only
for peace but also for survival.

Less than 300 miles to the east, deep in the Soviet Zone,
thousands of other young people, held in the unrelenting
grasp of a power which has created the Iron Curtain as
a symbol of slavery; assembled in quartered Berlin to
strut and sing and shout slogans about.peace amid the
same, well-remembered trappings of another totalitarian
regime which 12 years ago brought the world to war.

Contrary to the “command performance” of the Com-
Munist Youth Festival in Berlin, Lorelei campers sought
oul the "Meeting of European Youth" simply because they
wanted to, All of them paid their own way, although

SEPTEMBER 1951

they were given reduced railway fares. Many had just
turned 16; there were some as old as 25.

One-third of the campers were girls. The majority
— 61 percent — were Germans; the French delegation was
next in numbers with 19 percent, and from England came
12 percent. The remainder represented Italy, Belgium, Hol-
land, the Scandinavian countries and a half dozen others.
There were also a few Americans.

The encampment was the first large-scale cooperative
effort of this type attempted by the German federal gov-

German choir participated in the opening rites at vast
International Youth Camp held at Lorelei Rock from July 22

to Sept. 6, 1951. (PRD HICOG photos by Claude Jacoby)

Below, section of audience at opening of International ©
Youth Camp sponsored by the German Federal Govern-
ment with the cooperation of the Allied High Commission.

--- Page 33 ---
At left is fabled Lorelei, to which many youth cycled from
all parts of Germany and several European countries.

Large white tent (rear) held American library, much fre-
quented spot. Most tents were lent by the US Army.

On reverse side of entrance arch was admonition “Think
of Europe” — for the benefit of departing participants.

ernment and the Allied High Commission. It was de-
signed to bring together the youth of Free Europe for
amass rejection of totalitarianism and a manifestation
on behalf of unity and peace.

HE IDEA ORIGINATED at a tripartite meeting of

HICOM Youth and Community Activities officials,
It was organized by members of the National Committee
of German Youth Organizations (Bundesjugendring) in
cooperation with Youth Activities representatives of the
US, French and British High Commissioners and of the
Union of European Youth, and financed by the German
Federal Republic with assistance from the Allied High
Commission. The camp director was the leader of the
Catholic Youth Organization in Rhineland-Palatinate.

In his welcoming address at the opening, Josef Rom-
merskirchen, chairman of the German Federal Youth As-
sociation, appealed to the young campers to attempt to
achieve the kind of mutual understanding which helps

to remove national borders and the age-old jealousies ~

and hatreds which have previously been a barrier to
European union, “Although we are young,” he said, “it is
up to us to help build the large, common house based on

freedom of mind and conscience, justice, mutual respect —

and recognition of true fraternity.

“Because we have tasted the bitter fruit of chauvinism
and nationalism, we are demanding that Europe be the

larger, freedom- and life-preserving unit... the foundation —

for freedom and peace. We must not wait until others
build this house, which may then perhaps not be ours,
Therefore, we have first to remove the borders between
ourselves, borders which are hindering the growth of
Europe. A European conscience must in these times re-
place national egoism — in thinking and in action."

Diversion came in many forms. Here semi-professional
French dancers demonstrate various types of folk dances.

SEPTEMBER 1951

i ee

--- Page 34 ---
R. HERMANN EHLERS, president of the German

federal parliament, brought the good wishes of the
Bonn government to the international gathering, first ot
its kind held in western Germany. He urged the young
delegates to forget the bitterness engendered by the wars
of 1871, 1914, 1939 and 1945, and to look forward to a
halcyon time of real mutual faith and understanding. De-
claring that a common cultural life has sustained the West
for thousands of years, he warned “we will not stop in
front of an iron curtain; we want to include all those who
think and feel as we do, and...we know that at the
Elbe and the Oder people do think as we do.”

Armand Berard, French deputy high commissioner, crys-
tallized the hope of Europe's adult leaders for a union
of the free countries of the continent in these few words:
“You are an example of the Europe of tomorrow, of the
European solidarity which has nothing in common with
the regimented Communist mass meetings in the East.”

Three main themes related to Europe's present and
future were developed during the session. “Youth is Call-
ing Europe” marked the official opening ceremony July
22; “Youth is Building Europe” was the theme of the huge
camp demonstration Aug. 18-19, and “Youth is Living
Europe" was the topic for the closing program Sept. 2.

Discussion groups; forums featuring prominent guest
speakers from various nations; political workshops under
expert supervision designed to emphasize the contribution
of youth to European union and western democracy;
music, dancing and games produced a varied program.
It included: (1) the young citizen in the state; (2) work
and life; (3) ways of European cooperation; (4) amateur
theatricals, puppet shows and introduction of play tech-
niques; (5) music, singing, folk dancing; (6) importance
of press and radio today; (7) films and photography; and
(8) sports and games.

Old and young participated in political discussions, in
which as many as dozen nations often were represented.

SEPTEMBER 1951

Boys and girls staging informal march to neighboring town
along Rhine were preceded by European Union flags.

French boy scouts get together to stage singing session
during lull. Accompaniment was provided on mouthorgan,

Youngsters from Marseille, France, returning from visit
to Boppard, enliven their hike with songs and capers.

--- Page 35 ---
JosephRommerskirchen, chairman of German national youth
organization, delivered welcoming speech at dedication.

On the cultural side, choirs, orchestras, interpretive and
‘pallet dance groups and stage performers — professional
as well as amateur — presented programs characteristic
of their particular nation’s music and interpretive art.

HE CAMPERS LIVED in four tent villages named in

honor of threé men and a woman noted for their love
of peace and freedom: Count Folke Bernadotte, the Ge-
schwister (Brother and Sister) Scholl, Frederico Garcia
Lorca and Emmanuel Mounier. (Count Bernadotte, presi-
dent of the Swedish Red Cross and first United Nations
mediator in Palestine, was murdered by a terrorist during
truce negotiations in 1948; the Scholls, Hans and Sophie,
were German students at the University of Munich who
were executed by the Gestapo because they opposed
Hitler's totalitarianism; Frederico Garcia Lorca, Spanish
poet, was murdered by Fascists in 1936, and Emmanuel
Mounier was a French socialist political writer bitterly
opposed to dictatorships, who died in 1950.)

Head of each village was an elected mayor who was
in charge of showing newcomers to their lodgings, turn-
ing out the lights and acting in a general supervisory
capacity. Several boys volunteered as camp guards for
night duty, and there were 22 adult policemen, members
of the German police force in civilian clothes, who kept
technical equipment and the large installations under
surveillance,

In addition to the US-Army tents donated for the use
of the young Europeans, there were 10 mess-halls, work-
shops, exhibition tents and a tent chapel supplied by the
British and French occupation forces. The Youth and Com-
munity Activities Branch, HICOG, also provided trained
personnel and a large tent as the central gathering place
equipped with a portable US Information Center library;
a record player and numerous records of classical as well
as modern American dance music; loudspeaker and movie
projector.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

The central tent had a wooden floor and a stage and
was especially suitable in rainy weather for large meet-
ings, discussion groups, amateur theatricals, folk dancing ~
and movies. Several displays on stands and on the tent's ~
walls depicted youth activities in the United States and
other phases of American life. ;

HE CAMP HAD ITS OWN post office, four trunk —

telephone lines and 30 camp extensions, a travel and
currency-exchange bureau and even its own newspaper
—a weekly with a deep, black-lettered “Camp” as its
masthead. A water supply system financed by the state
of Rhineland-Palatinate and costing DM ‘40,000 ($9,520)
provided plenty of fresh water; there was a dispensary
with trained medical staff; an international youth library ©
held more than 1,000 volumes printed in several jan-
guages; and there were also a canteen, photo laboratary
and sports field among other facilities.

Each 10-day period was opened with an introductory ~
session to acquaint newcomers with their surroundings ~
and with the camp's purpose. Choral singing and dancing ~
around the camp fire and speeches by young people who >
were concluding their stay featured the end of each ~
session. 4

One day of each period was devoted to a trip to one —
of the Rhine cities nearby, where campers received a_
warm welcome. Usually there was a public meeting in
these localities, at which leaders of the political work-
shops spoke on the principles and problems of European:
union,

Because the Lorelei was planned principally to bring
Western Europe's youth together in a political as well as
social and cultural union, their was considerable emphasis”
on the political workshops and discussions outlining the
principles of a democratic state, the problems of — and-
within — the trade unions, and European institutions al
ready in existence to promote an international European
federation. :

Although some of these daily workshops were not too
well-attended, principally because many of the youn
people, having a full, exciting holiday for the first

St. Goarshausen, tiny Rhine town nearest the Lorelei, w Ss
toused from summer torpor by thousands of visitol

SEPTEMBER 1991

--- Page 36 ---
Among countless picturesque charac-
ters at camp were these Italian scouts.

Pretty Bodil Foldrup, Norwegian music
student, was visitor to Americanlibrary.

British girls skip supper in regular din-
ing tent to enjoy their meal outdoors.

SEPTEMBER 1951

in their lives, were too busy with other
phases of the camp program, they
turned out virtually en masse for the
Aug. 18-19 rally. Held midway in the
camping period, the two-day rally
drew more than 6,000 to the camp
amphitheater to hear speeches by
German government officials, repre-
sentatives of the French and British
High Commissioners, camp leaders
and youth delegates themselves.

O ONE HAD URGED attendance at

the rally, and yet no one wanted
to miss it — a clear indication that
despite their seeming preoccupation
with a good time, the boys and girls
were indeed interested in political
trends of today and political planning
for the future.

Speaking for the Federal Republic,
Vice Chancellor Franz Bluecher told
his young listeners that he is a firm
believer in a united Europe and pointed
out the “high responsibility which is
imposed on us who are allowed to
think." Declaring that “we must also
look at things as they are," the vice
chancellor said, “we do not want to
hate any nation, but we reject tyrants
who suppress the freedom of opinion
and the freedom of action of the
individual.”

French High Commissioner Andre
Francois-Poncet explained that “the
European idea means...a complete
renewal which must include the eco-
nomic, moral and social as well as the
military and political fields.’ He re-
minded the young Europeans that they
were the ones who would steer such a
union in the future, and that there
was much for them to do now. Declar-
ing that although he did not under-
estimate the German-French wariness
of one another, Mr. Francois-Poncet
said he believed it could be removed
with a determination to achieve mu-
tual understanding:

“It is possible if we do not stay in
the past... we should rather listen to
the voice arising from the Rhine river,
which tells us that we both, French and
Germans, owe to this large river that
humanistic and Christian culture which
we have in common...”

Maj. Gen. C. J. G. Dalton, speaking
for the British High Commissioner, told
his young audience that “Europe itself
is only a part of a greater world which

33

‘A 5 %

Norwegian girls snapped in front of
bulletin board are students from Paris.

Four attractive visitors from Stras-
bourg leave camp for swim in Rhine.

Translator-interpreter (center) was kept
busy by delegates at political talks.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
Physical instructor, member of camp
staff, details day's activities to girls.

Competitive games such as this wheel-
borrow race were a regular feature.

Free Berlin was represented at camp
by delegation including these boys.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

includes also the Commonwealth and
South America.” He added that “on
the lovely Lorelei rock European
understanding begins.”

FORMER PRESIDENT of the Swiss

Federation, Pilet Golaz, began his
rally talk by saying “the most impor-
tant thing of all to me is that I am
permitted, here in the Free West, to
tell you what I want to. He declared
that the Swiss is watching European
developments with great interest.

Referringto the unification of Europe,
he said “the small countries also want
to keep their lives and their souls. It is
not easy to achieve the goal of a union
giving equal consideration to all, but
we have done it, and we have three
nationalities, three languages and dif-
ferences of religion, yet we are living
pretty well. Why can't Europe do this?
It can, if you — the young ones —
want it so.”

Greetings from Christian youth the
world over were brought to the Lore-
lei by Walter Kilpatrick, secretary of
the World Federation of the Young
Men's Christian Association, who en-
couraged the campers to maintain
their optimism. ‘Not the immediate
result of this camp is the important
thing, but what will follow. Not the
big rally, not the flags are essential
here, but what is going on in your
heads and in your hearts — that’s what
counts. Peace cannot be preserved
through posters of propaganda catch-
words; peace begins in our hearts.”

The campers were enthusiastic about
their experiences, the new friends
they made and what they learned
about each country’s language, cul-
ture, music, art, education and myriads
of other things. Although most of them
admit to political immaturity, they
were equally enthusiastic about the
need for nurturing political under-
standing and eventually arriving at a
strong political union dedicated to
freedom.

“We must convey,” said Hans W.
Kannengiesser of the Europa-Union,
“our sound knowledge of political
facts to others, be it within the family,
youth organization, school or else-
where in our democratic society;
otherwise the Lorelei camp will be in-
effective and unavailing.” -++END

34

Group of British boys and girls chat
on beach after pleasant dip in Rhine,

Tug-o'-war between national and inteI-
national groups was another diversion.

German youth play basketball. At rear
is unofficial flag of European Union.

SEPTEMBER 1951 —

--- Page 38 ---
Tokens

Of Friendship

NE GERMAN TEMPORARILY gave up smoking and

another in the East gave up his holiday in order to
show Kansas flood victims Germany's appreciation for
help received from the United States.

“We should-not take all support from foreign countries
as a matter of course, but should gratefully help others
wherever we can,” wrote the person from the East who
could only sign with a number. His letter continued, ‘We
Eastern zone people set all our hopes on the US, which
is fighting also for our freedom, thus saving us from com-
plete despair."

The five: marks from the Easterner's holiday fund were
forwarded to Kansas, as were two marks from Paul J.
Dahmen, “a poor devil" in Bavaria who in writing to US
High Commissioner John J. McCloy hoped that many
more Germans, “indebted to your people for so much
help’ would feel and act similarly.

These two small but earnest contributions and the Ger-
man Federal Government's gift of 19 pumps, flown to
Kansas by the US Air Force, showed, as Mayor Clark
E. Tucker of Kansas City expressed it: ''This is truly an
amazing gesture of international good neighborliness and
demonstrates in ultimate fashion how reciprocity among
nations can make for peace, understanding and good will."

LTHOUGH MAYOR TUCKER and the American Red
Cross expressed appreciation for the offer of the 19
pumps, they declined the offer because by Aug. 6 the
flood situation in Kansas City had been brought under
control, Three days later Governor Edward F. Arn notified
Mr. McCloy the pumps could be used in small Kansas
towns where public buildings and farmhouses were flooded.
“The presentation of these pumps by the Federal Re.
public of Germany is a mark of the same spirit of hu-
manity and generosity which has prompted a number of
Germans to send me out of their small savings contri-
butions for the relief of those who have suffered from

Germany's gift of 19 pumps were flown from Rhine-Main
Air Base to flood-stricken Kansas. F. L. Mayer, chief, HICOG
Industry Division, and Hans Georg Sachs of German ERP
Ministry watch loading. (PRD HICOG photo)

the floods," Mr. McCloy remarked, and further stated
that the pumps could be usefully employed elsewhere in
the United States where flood conditions might develop.
The governor's remarks when the airlift to Kansas set
down the 19 German pumps were widely publicized in
the Kansas press and over radio and TV networks.
Pumping quickly started in Topeka, Lawrence, Salina
and Florence, Kan, Governor Arn recognized the imme-
diate value of the pumps and conveyed to the people of
Germany the following message: “We in Kansas, we in
America, feel a close bond of kinship among the peoples
of the free world as all of us unite to protect our freedom
from any aggressor. The US has been and is trying to help
the nations of western Europe to build strength for the free
world, This is a mutual undertaking. The gift of these
pumps indicates clearly that our efforts are coming back
to us in the spirit in which they are exerted.” He con-
cluded by saying that “this gift of the German people
through ECA is received as a token of the shared friend-
ship in which it is offered." -+-END

From Germany to Kansas, pumps with a displacement capacity of 300-700 gallons a minute were rushed to deluged

Topeka. Governor Edward F. Arn accepts pumps on arri

val. The event was broadcast and televised.

(USAFE photos)

--- Page 39 ---
Among missing art treasures which still are the object
of continuing search more than six years after the end
of World War I] are these painti depicting scenes from
the life of St. John the Baptist. Painted by Hans Suess ©
von Kulmbach (1480-1522), St. John's Altarpiece was re=
moved from the Church of St. Florian in Cracow, Poland. ~

INFORMATION BULLETIN SEPTEMBER 1951 =

--- Page 40 ---
Search for Looted Art

By ARDELIA R. HALL

Arts and Monuments Officer, Division of Overseas Information Centers
US Department of State

Te DISPERSAL OF WORKS OF
ART and cultural treasures is one
of the chief hazards of war, second
only to the irreparable loss through
damage and destruction, to which
such property is exposed. All valuable
collections in every country in time

This article is
Department of
Aug. 27, 1951.
with the article

reprinted from the
State Bulletin of
Photographs used
were furnished by
the Division of Publications, Depart-
ment of State, Washington, D. C.

for Germany (OMGUS). Under United
States Government policies, they have
been held in safe custody until they
could be restored to their rightful
owners in all the war areas of Europe.
These policies have become, as the
late Chief Justice Harlan F, Stone

of war are, of necessity, transferred
from cities to isolated places of greater safety. Works
of art in the most vulnerable of buildings, the modern
glass-roofed museum, obviously must be removed from
danger. It is, in fact, due to the precautionary measures
that were taken and the storage in safe shelters that the
large proportion of movable objects in Europe survived
World War II unharmed.

It was the fixed monuments of architecture and art that
suffered the greatest loss and damage. The need for the
evacuation of museums, libraries and archives was an-
ticipated by most institutions and by the International
Museums Office of the League of Nations. During the
1930's this office had prepared and sponsored conser-
vation measures that would be required in such an
emergency.

The wholesale confiscations of all types of cultural
materials by official Nazi organizations in the countries
which they occupied in Europe brought about the transfer
of an immense amount of valuable properties to Germany.
The scope of their plunder of cultural property in western
and eastern Europe is given in the Nazi decrees and
orders published in the volumes on Nazi conspiracy and
aggression.*

Many public collections of Austria and Germany and
the greater proportion of Nazi loot were sent for numer-
ous reasons to the areas which came under United States
Government control. Now, after six years, it is probable
that all important war repositories have been found, The
tragic losses of a few storage places through bombard-
ment or fire, as in Berlin, have been ascertained. It would
appear that only deliberately well-hidden caches may
still remain to be uncovered.

N THE AMERICAN ZONE of Germany more than 1,800
repositories in mines, castles, churches,, monasteries
and remote villages were discovered. The objects were
taken under United States Government control and trans-
ferred from the emergency shelters to central collecting
Points established by the Office of Military Government

* International Military Tribunal, Nuremberg, Germany, Office of
US Chief of Counsel for the Prosecution of Axis Criminality, Nazi
Conspiracy and Aggression (Washington, US Government Printing
Office, 1946, eight volumes), Volume 1, Chapter 14, ‘The Plunder
of Art Treasures,"*

SEPTEMBER 1951

predicted. “The proclamation to the
world, friends and enemies, of our practical concern in
protecting these symbols of civilization from injury and
spoliation."

The cultural restitution program in the American zone
of Germany has been carried forward by American
officers who are art experts in the Monuments, Fine Arts
and Archives Section of OMGUS and under the Office
of the US High Commissioner for Germany (HICOG), The

Portrait of Victoire Louise of France,
daughter of King Louis XV.
By unknown 18th century artist.
Collection of Prince Felix of Luxembourg.

--- Page 41 ---
first restitution took place when the Altarpiece of the
Mystic Lamb by the Van Eyck brothers was returned
to Belgium in August 1945; since then, there has been a
constant flow of works of art and other objects of cul-
tural importance back to the countries from which they
had been removed.

More than 1,000,000 art objects and 4,000,000 books
have been recovered, identified and restored from the
American zone. Some of the priceless treasures returned
under the American program included the Vienna col-
lections, the crown jewels of the Holy Roman emperors,
and Charlemagne’s Book of the Gospel — to Austria; the
Veit Stoss Altarpiece of Cracow — to Poland; Michel-
angelo’s Madonna and Child of Bruges — to Belgium; the
stained glass of Strasbourg Cathedral and the Rothschild
collections — to France; the treasures of the Budapest
National Museum — to Hungary; and a collection of an-
tique gold objects from the Naples Museum — to Italy.

The ownership of the hundreds of thousands of objects
was identified through official records, inventories and
documents relating to the Nazi seizures and varied art
transactions, which had been assembled by the Office of
the United States Chief of Counsel for the Prosecution
of Axis Criminality of the International Military Tribunal,
Nuremberg, by the Art Looting Investigation Unit of the
Office of Strategic Services, and by OMGUS.

ANY WORKS OF ART, however, have not been

recovered, Some are known to have been scattered
and lost through the innumerable perils of war, others
have disappeared without a trace. Among the thousands
of objects and books still missing are many famous
masterpieces.

Four paintings from the Uffizi Gallery in Florence have
never been found since they were evacuated during
the war. They are a Lorenzo di Credi Self-Portrait, the
Bronzino Deposition and the small pictures by Antonio
del Pollaiulo of Hercules and the Hydra, and Hercules
and Antaeus,

The Raphael Portrait of a Young Man belonging to the
Museum of Princess Czartorski in Cracow and four panels
of the St. John’s Altarpiece from the Church of St. Florian,
Cracow, disappeared following their removal to Germany
in 1944 by the notorious Nazi governor general of Poland.

Twenty-eight paintings which were stolen from the
villa in Italy of H.R.H. Prince Felix of Luxembourg have
never been traced. They include a Madonna and Child
by Cima da Conegliano and a Portrait of Victoire Louise,
daughter of Louis XV, by an unknown artist.

Among the paintings still missing from private col-
lections in France are the Rembrandt Head of an Old
Man and the Van Dyck Portrait of Paul Pontius from
the Schloss collection, a Fragonard Shepherdess from the
collection of Georges Wildenstein, and a Monet painting
of the Seine from the collection of M. Saloman Flavian.

RELIMINARY LISTS OF missing works of art of cul-
tural importance have been prepared, just as have
claims for the restitution of cultural property, by the
government of the country from which the objects were

INFORMATION BULLETIN

removed during the war. The lists are transmitted to —
other governments through diplomatic channels. The
United States does not receive claims from individuals
except under limited conditions. The Monuments, Fine
Arts and Archives officers of OMGUS have listed unof-
ficially objects missing from collections and museums
in Austria and Germany, These preliminary and unofficial
lists will need to be revised and periodically brought up
to date.

The British Government publications on Losses and
Survivals in the War in Italy, Greece, Malta, and the
British Zones of Austria and Germany deal mainly with
war damage to historic architecture, but they also include ~
information not presently available elsewhere on certain
losses of movable objects in those countries.

The French Government has published several volumes
of missing paintings and sculpture, archives and rare
books, objects of art, and antiques. A volume on Paint- ~
ings, Tapestries and Sculpture was received by the
Department of State for distribution to museums and art
dealers in the United States.

An index of cultural losses in Poland during the Ger-

man occupation from 1939 to 1944 has been published in

English by the Polish Government. It contains historical
facts about the collections of churches, libraries, archives ©
and museums and information, as known in 1944, on
damage, destruction and looting. An illustrated volume
on the foreign paintings missing from Polish collections —
has also been printed in English and received for dis-
tribution in the United States.

The circulation of the publications on missing works
of art helps protect American interests against the danger
of purchasing stolen property. This information has been
welcomed by American institutions and American dealers.

Madonna and Child.
By Cima da Conegliano (1459-1517).
Collection of Prince Felix of Luxembourg.

--- Page 42 ---
HE NEED FOR INTERNATIONAL cooperation to pre-

vent the transfer of looted objects from one country
to another was recognized in the inter-Allied agreements
and by the international conferences during the war.
Practical measures for a continuing recovery program
were set forth in the Statement of Policy for the Control
of Looted Articles of July 8, 1946. (See Appendix 1 at the
end of this article.) All European countries have been
invited to participate in the program. It is, of course, an
undeniable fact that works of art lost through the Nazi
depredations of European countries, which shocked the
civilized world, will never be saleable.

This recovery program, which has been developed in
conformity with international agreements and carried
forward by governmental agencies with the cooperation
of learned institutions and responsible citizens, makes
possible the eventual recovery of irreplaceable cultural
objects. It honors the rightful ownership, which has been
the basis of Allied policies. It provides for an appropriate
continuation of the cultural restitution programs. For the
first time in history, restitution may be expected to con-
tinue for as long as works of art known to have been
plundered during a war continue to be rediscovered.

The introduction of looted objects into the United
States is, furthermore, contrary to the general policy of
the US Government. The State-War-Navy Coordinating
Committee approved on Jan. 28, 1947, a policy for the
“Return of Looted Objects of Art to Countries of Origin,”
in which it was stated that it is “the responsibility and
desire of this government to return to their countries
of origin those cultural objects which have been wrong-
fully taken and brought to the United States during and
after the war.”

The United States Government as early as 1945 under-
took to return to the rightful owners any looted objects
should they appear in this country. A circular letter was
issued by the American Commission for the Protection
and Salvage of Artistic and Historic Monuments in War
Areas. The Department of State in 1950 circulated a
second letter to American universities, museums, libraries,
art dealers and booksellers, asking for their continued
cooperation in the recovery of dispersed cultural proper-
ty. This letter was reprinted by the American Feder-
ation of Arts in the Magazine of Art, Vol. XLIV, No. 2
(February 1951), and by the College Art Association of
America in the College Art Journal, Vol. X, No. 2 (Winter
1950). (See Appendix 2.) In this endeavor the Department
of State has received the generous support of American
institutions and American citizens.

O* THE RECEIPT OF information concerning an object
in the United States suspected of having been looted,
the Department ascertains all available facts as to its
former ownership and the circumstances of its loss during
the war. In certain cases the ownership is readily de-
termined. With important works of art, for example, the
identity of the objects and the ownership are often recog-
nized by the authorities who bring them to the attention
of the Department.

SEPTEMBER 1951

Self-Portrait or Portrait of a Young Man.
By Lorenzo di Credi (1456-1537).
Uffizi Gallery, Florence, Italy.

If the Department is informed that the holder of such
an object is willing to surrender it, the Department will
request its transfer to Washington for return to the claim-
ant government, otherwise the case is referred to the
appropriate agency of the government for further action.
The Treasury Department, the Department of Justice and
the Department of the Army cooperate with the Depart-
ment of State in the recovery program.

The restitution procedures of the Department conform
with those of US Military Government regulations. When
an identified, looted cultural. object is recovered, it is
teleased by the Secretary of State to the authorized repre-
sentative of the claimant nation against a receipt. The
claimant government is responsible for the return of the
object to the individual owner.

Of the objects of artistic importance thus far recovered
in the United States and returned to Europe, the greater
portion have been from public or state collections. They
include the Mainz Psalter of 1457 from the State Library
of Saxony (now in the Gutenberg Museum of Mainz); an
ivory diptych of the 14th century carved with scenes of
the Passion from the Kassel Museum; a group of Rajput
and Mughal miniatures of the 16th and 17th centuries
from the Berlin State Library; a tapestry from the Kunst-
historisches Museum in Vienna; four tapestries from the
Bavarian National Museum; two famous bronze panels
of the 13th century from the doors of the Benevento Ca-
thedral in Italy; an engraving of the Knight, Death and
the Devil by Duerer from the Teutonic National Museum
in Nuremberg; two paintings by van Poelenburg and van
Brekelenkam from the Lazienki Palace Museum in War-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
saw, where they have been placed on exhibition; several
early manuscripts from England, and a Monet painting,
La Peniches sur la Seine, which had been confiscated by
the Nazis from a member of the Rothschild family in Paris.

on OE

US Seeks to Replace Cultural Property
Displaced during World War II

NUMBER OF PROBLEMS involving important co!-

lections dispersed during World WarII have been
the subject of a series of inquiries to the Department of
State from the former American Monuments, Fine Arts
and Archives officers who recovered the collections and
took the initial steps to safeguard them. Most of the prob-
lems which are still outstanding await final determination
because inter-Allied agreement is required for their settle-
ment.

The collection of the Kassel Museum in Germany re-
mains under quadripartite control in Austria and is stored
in the Kunsthistorisches: Museum in Vienna. The United
States Government will continue to press for the return

STIMU Oe

Hercules and the Hydra.

By Antonio del Pollaiulo (1429-1498).
Uffizi Gallery, Florence, Italy.

TUCSON

INFORMATION BULLETIN

of this important state collection to its original ownership —
in Kassel, Germany.

The German-owned art libraries in Italy, which were
recovered in war repositories by American authorities”
and returned in 1946 to Italy from Austria and Germany
by General E. E. Hume and General Lucius D. Clay, under |
Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives procedures, have
been held under tripartite control. The libraries were
placed in the temporary custody of the International Union
of Institutes of Archeology, History, and History of Art,

A protocol, which alleged that the libraries were eco-
nomic assets and should be transferred to the Italian Gov-
ernment, on the condition that the Italian Government
grant the International Union a perpetual or 99-year lease
to the libraries, was published in the College Art Journal, —
Vol. VIII, No. 3 (1949). This arrangement was not ap-
proved by the Department of State and does not represent
the policies of the United States Government. :

The libraries are regarded by the US Government as
cultural property to be excluded from German external
assets and to be returned to their rightful owners. Until

Hercules and Antaeus.

TUTTLE EEE TOLO LOLOL LOPOPOLO POLED)

SEPTEMBER 1951 ©

--- Page 44 ---
their final disposition is determined under tripartite agree-
ment, the United States Government is making ‘every
effort to keep the libraries open for use.

The Crown of St. Stephen of Hungary, which was sur-
rendered to the US authorities for safekeeping, is being
held in trust by the US Government. It continues to be
treated as property of a special status. The Government
does not regard the present juncture as opportune or
appropriate for taking action regarding its disposition

) ESTITUTION IN KIND or the replacement of cultural
I property of unique character was given considera-
tion by the Allied Control Council in Berlin in 1946 and
early in 1947, A quadripartite agreement for the imple-
mentation of such a policy, however, was never con~-
cluded. American policy in the 1947 directive to the
Commander-in-Chief of the United States Forces of Oc-
cupation (JCS 1779, July 11, 1947) prohibited replacement
of cultural property from Germany's cultural heritage.

Article 17 of this directive reads: ... You will not con-
sent to any extensive program for replacement of looted
or displaced property which has been destroyed or cannot
be located whenever such replacement can be accom-
plished only at the expense of... the cultural heritage of
the German people.

A special resolution opposing the use of works of art
as replacement or reparations material was unanimously
approved by the American Commission for the Protection
and Salvage of Artistic and Historic Monuments in War
Areas at its final meeting on June 20, 1946. It was recom-
mended that "cultural objects belonging to any country
or individual should not be considered or involved in
reparations settlements growing out of World War II.”

With regard to the general obligations under inter-
national law, a recognition of the inviolability of cultural
property as contained in Article 56 of the annex of the
Hague Convention (IV) of 1907 is regarded as: obligatory
upon this and other signatory governments, The United
Kingdom and France have ratified the Hague Convention
(IV) of 1907 and the USSR recognized the Czarist signature
to this convention on Nov. 25, 1941.

The US Government has an additional international
commitment under the treaty between the United States
of America and other American republics, entitled “'Pro-
tection of Artistic and Scientific Institutions and Historic
Monuments,” signed at Washington on April 15, 1935, and
ratified on the advice of the US Senate by the President
on July 10, 1935. This treaty was concluded to the end
that “the treasures of culture be respected and protected
in time of war and in peace.”

Article II reads: ‘The neutrality of, and protection and
respect due to, the monuments and institutions, mentioned
in the preceding article, shall be recognized in the entire
expanse of territories subject to the sovereignty of each
of the signatory and acceding states, without discrimina-
tion as to the state allegiance of said monuments and
institutions. The respective governments agree to adopt
the measures of internal legislation necessary to insure
Said protection and respect.”

SEPTEMBER 1951

Al

Portrait of a Young Man.
By Raphael.
(Wood panel, 75 by 59 centimeters.)
Czartoryski Museum, Cracow, Poland.

The policy of the US Government is one of respect for
artistic and historic property of all nations. It has been
consistently upheld in all US Government directives, mili-
tary government laws and regulations of World War II
and fully demonstrated in the magnitude of the accom-
plishments in the US Zone of Germany, where more than
700,000 works of art and over 4,000,000 books have already
been recovered and returned to despoiled nations. It is
the desire and intent of the US Government that, when
the final settlement is reached, all cultural property dis-
located by the war will be restored to the rightful owners.

* * *
Appendix 1

Statement of Policy with Respect to the Control
Oi Looted Articles, Paris, July 8, 1946

OLLOWING IS THE TEXT of an agreement concluded

July 8, 1946, among the United States, the United King-
dom and France with respect to the control of looted
articles:

The governments of the United States, the United King-
dom and France have agreed to recognize the usefulness
of a common demarche to be made to the neutrals recom-
mending that certain measures be taken by them with a
view to discovering in their territory cultural property
looted by the enemy in countries formerly occupied by

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
it and to control such property and prohibit its exporta-
tion abroad (this relates to articles including books, manu-
scripts, and documents of an artistic, historical, archae-
ological, scientific, pedagogic or religious character).

With this in view they agree to request the govern-
ments of the liberated countries to furnish the govern-
ments of neutral countries, as soon as possible, lists of
spoliated articles which have not as yet been restituted
through the recuperation operations now being made in
Germany and Austria (it being understood that, if neces-
sary, these lists might be completed by means of additions
thereto and that as recuperated objects are received, noti-
fication will be given of their deletion).

The three governments will recommend to the govern-
ments of the liberated countries that they exchange their
respective lists and send copies to the governments of
the United States and the United Kingdom and all other
governments which the countries interested in this pro-
cedure may consider useful.

The three governments will invite the neutral govern-
ments to seek out immediately looted articles in their

territory and instruct the national customs authorities to -

prohibit the export of any article which may be presumed
to have been looted. The governments of the liberated
countries will submit as soon as possible to the neutral
countries lists of art objects looted within their territory
for the purpose of assisting the investigations undertaken
by the neutral countries.

The customs authorities of the neutral countries should
refer doubtful cases to their governments, which will make
every effort to identify the articles and to verify the
good faith of proposed transactions making use of local
art experts, police and information services. If any doubts
still remain, the neutral governments will submit such
cases with details and photographs of the articles in
question for the examination of the three governments.

Furthermore, the lists should be circulated to art deal-
ers, museum authorities and specialized people who will
be under the same obligation of vigilance as the customs
authorities and compelled to refer suspicious cases to the

central administrations. The governments of the neutral
countries shall furthermore alert their public opinion with
regard to their interest in looted articles by means of
the press and all other kinds of publicity, requesting that
all suspicious cases be notified to the police and other
governmental services.

The governments of the United States, Great Britain
and France underline the usefulness which the application
of the above indicated measures represent for the liberated :
countries as well as for themselves and that they are —
desirous of having the neutral countries adopt them,
Each government undertakes to effect all appropriate |
measures and will request the governments of the liber-
ated countries to do likewise. :

* * *
Appendix 2

To Universities, Museums, Libraries,
Art Dealers and Booksellers

It is the responsibility and desire of the Government
of the United States to recover and return to owner na:
tions those cultural objects, including works of art, ar-
chival material and books, looted, stolen or improperly
dispersed from public and private collections in war
areas and brought to the United States during and fol-
lowing. World War II.

This responsibility has been shared by American insti-
tutions and American citizens. The response of museums,
libraries and dealers to a circular letter from the Ameri-
can Commission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic
and Historic Monuments in War Areas requesting infor-
mation about objects without a clear title has led to
the recovery by this government of a number of items 0 ;
artistic and historic importance. The continued vigilance
of American institutions and individuals in identifying
cultural objects improperly dispersed during World War Il
is needed.

Your cooperation in notifying the Secretary of Stat
Washington 25, D. C., concerning such objects which ma
come to your attention will be appreciated. +E

treasures include:

procedure of restitution, Nov. 3, 1945.

Bibliography of Art Restitution
Articles published in the Information Bulletin dealing with the restitution of German-looted art

Back from the Salt Mines, description of early discoveries of looted art treasures, their care and

Germany Makes Restitution, article prepared by Property Division, Office of Economic Affairs,
HICOG, on returning German-looted property to rightful owners, June 1950.

Mainz Psalter Returned, account of finding and returning treasure, June 1950, with subsequent
Mainz Exhibiting Treasured Psalter, August 1950.

Operation “Lost and Found,” review by Thomas A. Falco of restitution operations, July 1, 1946.

Recovery and Protection of Art Treasures, instruction on procedure for MG officers, Aug. 4, 1945.

Restitution Program Reviewed, review of return of cultural objects, Oct. 28, 1946.

Restitution, review in Information Bulletin’s MG series, March 3, 1947.

Silver Train to Hungary, description of restitution of discovered looted treasures, May 26, 1947.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 46 ---
Beautiful modern GHEE built with joint German- eriedn contributions totaling DM 560,000 ($133,280), is the
combined Anna Haag Home for girls (left) and community youth center (right). Inset, Mrs. Haag. (PRB OLC W-B photos)

Dream-Come-lTrue House

By HELEN MeLAUGHLIN

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

ACK IN THE TURBULENT early years after the end of World War II, a German mother of three grown girls
B viewed with increasing sorrow and alarm the oft-repeated tragedy of the homeless girl. In her own city of Stuttgart,
as elsewhere in Germany, she saw countless girls, many barely in their teens, roaming dark streets at night, sleeping
in parks or bombed-out buildings, stealing or turning to illicit ways for even momentary warmth and shelter.

Why not build a home for girls in Stuttgart? It seemed an impossible, fantastic dream. There was so much else to be
done firsi. But the more she thought about it, theemore she became convinced that such a home could and must be built.
She took her idea to a handful of American friends. They listened, and a dream began the long process of coming true.

* * * * *
T WAS A HOT weekday in Stuttgart in July 1951 structure stood, its pinkish walls glistening in the sun.
and a casual visitor to the Wuerttemberg-Baden capital Inside, the visitors overflowed a huge auditorium and
have wondered where all the people were going waited for the program to begin.
dressed in their Sunday best. But Stuttgarters knew — At last, a slight, graying woman of 63, torn between
everyone who possibly could was bound for the borough laughter and tears, stood amid the cool greenness of the
of Bad Cannstatt for the dedication of the dream-come- decorated stage to open the dedication program of the
true of Mrs. Anna Haag, onetime member of the Wuert- new Anna Haag Home for German girls and its adjoining
temberg-Baden state legislature, writer and lecturer. community youth center. The tears which stood in the
The crowd toiled in a steady stream up a steep incline dancing blue eyes of Mrs. Haag and which repeatedly
toa clearing of freshly-turned earth where a sprawling crept into her voice were tears of joy.

SEPTEMBER 1951 43 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
In spacious reception room are group of the first girls
admitted. Center, seated, is house mother, Mrs. Lilo Adam.

Dedication of the new building, constructed by joint
German-American contributions and named for the woman
whose energy and courage had helped carry it to comple-
tion, was a momentous occasion. Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife
of the US High Commissioner, was among those present
to pay tribute to Mrs. Haag and her co-workers. Other
dignitaries on the speaking program were Maj. Gen.
Charles P. Gross, US state commissioner for Wuerttem-
berg-Baden; Dr. Arnulf Klett, mayor of Stuttgart; Dr. Elisa-
beth Schmitt, representing the Wuerttemberg-Baden
ministry of culture; Karl Stroele, state ministrial adviser;
Josef Hirn, deputy mayor of Stuttgart, and Hermann
Bannhart, mayor of Bad Cannstatt.

Details of the early struggle to raise money were re-
counted by Mrs. Stuart L. Hannon, wife of the chief of
the Public Affairs Division, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden,
who was one of the American women who helped to
pioneer the project; sessions with the women regarding
plans for the building were described by Architect Hans
Herkommer, and contributions by the youth of Stuttgart
were outlined by two representatives of the City Youth
Committee, Susi Arnold and Toni Furtner.

ATER THERE WERE an inspection of the new project
and refreshments in the gleaming white and yellow
milk bar. Some 500 men, women and even a few children
wound up and down its stairs, into the youth center's
lovely reception room, the hobby room and the third-floor
library, the Girls’ Home's bedrooms, kitchens and baths,

Roommates enjoying a pleasant evening snack in their
room are Ursula Wrank (left), 19, and Maria Rudolf, 21.

Residents in another corner of the living room enjoy chess,
checkers, card games. Ever-present kibitzers are there, too.

and finally out onto the sunwashed roof, All their faces
reflected pride and pleasure in a community achievement
which is one of the most outstanding in postwar Germany.

The beautiful, modern structure, built on a Bad Cann-
statt knoll overlooking the towering greenery of Stutt-
gart’s seven hills and its spires and smokestacks beneath,
cost DM 560,000 ($133,280). It will house 85 girls from 14
to 24 years in age — refugees from several countries, girls
from the rural districts who are serving as apprentices in
Stuttgart industries, shops and trades, trainees for teach-
ing in kindergarten schools and young workers who have
no other home.

In the youth center wing, young people of the area can
spend their leisure hours in the basement hobby room
and snack bar, in the auditorium, where movies, plays
and concerts will be held; in the great reception room,
with its polished wood floor for dancing or games, and
in the secluded quiet of the well-equipped library. The
roof-top sun deck can also be used for summer dancing
parties or for lounging and reading on summer. afternoons,

Bedrooms in the Girls’ Home are equipped for one, two
or three occupants, the girls paying 40 Deutsche marks
($9.52) a month for a single room; 30 marks ($7.14) each
for a double, and 25 marks ($5.95) each for a three-bed
room. All of the rooms are brightly papered in various
designs, and the colorful bedspreads and matching cur-
tains, tables and tiny stools and broad expanse of window
provide an attractive place to live.

Listening to radio are, left to right, Lola Sigle, 19, In-
grid Steinbach, 19, Elise Manz, 24, and Brigitte Hahn, 21.

--- Page 48 ---
Rosemarie Unger of Breslau, 21, and Leonie Litterer of
Heidelberg, 19, make light work of housekeeping duties.

Furnishings for several rooms have already been pro-
vided by Stuttgart and Bad Cannstatt business firms, In
each corridor of the three-floor Girls’ Home wing is a
small reception alcove where the residents may receive
guests. One of them has a beautiful combination radio
and record-player, the gift of the German-American
Women's Club of Stuttgart.

Because of the great number of applications, girls select-
ed for residence in the home are chosen by a special
committee, which is required to allot a certain amount of
space for refugees and apprentices. Although the problem
of homeless girls is not so serious now as it was when
Mrs, Haag first broached her idea, it still exists and the
influx of refugees keeps it at a serious level despite the
rapidity with which the Wuerttemberg-Baden capital city
has rebuilt its war-damaged homes and institutions.

FTER THE CROWD HAD GONE, Mrs. Haag sat on

the broad stone steps of the youth center entrance,
her bouquet beginning to wilt in the sun, and talked
animatedly of the manner in which the project was
started and told of the vast amount of work which went
into it. She spoke with glowing praise of the splendid
cooperation which American residents of the community,
especially the women, had given throughout the long
months of planning and fund-raising, and of the value of
their persistent moral courage in the face of seemingly
insurmountable obstacles. F

Brigitte Knirsch, 23, refugee from Silesia, and Doris Mel-
Jer, 19, who fled East Prussia, do their weekly pressing.

Renate Knipping of Osnabrueck, 19, and Hertha Knuep-
fel, 23, once of Tientsin, China, enjoy cooking supper.

At one of the initial meetings of German and American
women to discuss launching of the project, Mrs. Haag
said, Miss Margaret Blewett, HICOG Women’s Affairs
officer for Wuerttemberg-Baden, suggested that perhaps
US funds might be contributed to the venture. When city
authorities were approached for a grant, they openly
discounted the possibility of a HICOG contribution. “We
will match whatever you get from the Americans,”
they said.

Smilingly, Mrs. Haag recalled the moment when city
officials were shown the HICOG check for DM 170,000
($40,460). “They were slightly taken aback, to say the
least," she laughed, “but they kept their promise and
matched the American check, that gave us a wonderful
total of 340,000 marks ($80,920)."" The City of Stuttgart
also donated the site for the project, but cost of upkeep
is borne by Bad Cannstatt.

Dozens of campaigns of various kinds were carried on
to raise additional money, chiefly through the enterprise
of the Arbeitsgemeinschaft Stuitgarter Frauen (Working
Association of Stuttgart Women) with the assistance of
American women of the community. There were benefits
and sales and door-to-door soliciting, and soon the fund
began snowballing into a more and more impressive
figure. “We begged and begged and begged,” said Mrs.
Haag, “and finally, last March, we had enough so that
ground for the building could be broken."

During the dedication ceremonies, Mrs. Haag was
presented a check for an additional DM 1,000 ($238)

Bothild Bredau, 18, of Riga, and Marianne Schroeder, 19,
of East Prussia, are among refugees in Anna Haag Home.

--- Page 49 ---
Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner,
and Mrs. Haag, right foreground, chat during a lull in the
dedication program. At left, Miss Margaret Blewett, Wom-
en's Affairs officer, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, and Stutt-
gart Mayor and Mrs. Arnulf Klett exchange pleasantries.

from the Wuerttemberg-Baden state government. The
firm of Daimler-Benz also contributed DM 500 ($119) at
the dedication, Deputy Mayor Hirn made an appeal to
the press to raise an additional DM 40,000 ($9,520), which
he said the City of Stuttgart would match, to provide
additional furnishings,

Mrs. Haag is president of the Frauen Bauen (Women
Build) organization which administers the home, and
Mrs, Eugen Grinninger is manager. A man and his wife
look after the youth center, and the Girls’ Home has a
resident house mother,

The charming little woman for whom the Girls’ Home
is named has for years been interested in youth and
social welfare problems, and as writer for a number of
German publications, is indefatigable in an attempt to
put her ideas about postwar social reforms into effect.

From February to May 1949, she was in the United
States under the HICOG Exchangees Program, and in June
of this year went to Wilton Park, England, for a short
course of study under HICOG sponsorship.

She has served as a member of the Wuerttemberg-
Baden state legislature and has been a forceful advocate
of better German-American relations. Before scores of
German gatherings, she has delivered an address calling
for greater appreciation among the Germans for benefits
they had received from Marshall Plan assistance. A digest
of the address, translated from the German, is printed
below.

Mrs. Haag is a native of Stuttgart, where she was born
in 1888, although she lived for a number of years with
her professor husband in Bucharest, Rumania. Professor
Haag died last spring following a long illness.

Of her own part in the Girls’ Home and Youth Center
project, she says, modestly: ‘‘What I did would have been
nothing without the help of my diligent American and
German companions, and the wonderful assistance of
the McCloy (HICOG Special Projects) Fund and the City
of Stuttgart. So many have put so much into this work,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

46

I know that all of us feel, as I do, that our reward has

come not only from the sight of this beautiful building

but in the warmth we have in our hearts from helping

others,” -+END
* * *

Marshall Plan
And the Germans

Condensed Text of Address
By ANNA HAAG

NYWHERE ON EARTH you can find people with a

negative attitude toward life. Here in Germany you
find them, too. In the art of politics especially, the pes-
simists maintain that the development of humanity be-
comes obscure. According to their opinion it is absurd to
say that human beings are gifted with ‘common sense.”
They think that people can only be called “intelligent.”
They admit that intelligence is something quite precious,
but only once in a while, and never can it reach in the
ranks of human values that which is called common
sense.

Surely these pessimists are right in this placing of
values. They also are right when they say that intelli-
gence without common sense might have a negative, even
destructive, effect. But are they right in affirming that
nowhere on earth can developments be observed which
are proofs of human intelligence combined with common
sense? Are there nowhere men who watch political rela-
tions with such a superior view or who are courageous
enough to take unusual and sometimes uncomfortable
paths that might lead to a worthy goal?

Let's look at what we call the Marshall Plan. Is that
not a new path never before trod until these years of the
20th century? I speak of “The Marshall Plan and the

F:

Mrs. Haag beams as Karl Stroele, a Wuerttemberg-Baden
state official, presents DM 1,000 check for new home. —

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 50 ---
Germans” and by it I mean any citizen
of western Germany, be it child, man or
woman. The Marshall Plan has opened an
entirely new way of relations between a
rich, powerful and independent nation with
nations entangled in poverty. In short,
each American citizen pays a considerable
sum of taxes to help Europe's poverty-
stricken nations out of their distress.

The fact that a rich nation is making
financial sacrifices to help poor nations
get on their feet again is in itself some-
thing entirely new in the history of poli-
tics. Consider the fact that even Ger-
many — the enemy of yesterday — is
included in the list of nations receiving
Marshall Plan support. We have to con-
fess not only great wisdom was needed
to think up such a plan but also an im-
mense confidence is shown through the
understanding of the nation making the
sacrifice. The American people have
proved this broad-mindedness, and they
have demonstrated that there is actually an art of politics
and that it is quite possible to match intelligence with
common sense,

Blewett

J \EWING THE FACT that the Marshall Plan has en-

tered its last phase and is to be terminated in a year,

it is interesting and instructive for all of us as to look

back as well as ahead. We should remember — so much

has been forgotten in the meantime — the way our world

looked before Mr, Marshall's generous plan had been
approved by the American people.

Wasn't it as in a fairy tale, when goods and money
began to flow into our country, stricken as it was by
poverty and distress. Remember — once upon a time —
all of us, without exception, had been hypnotized by
thinking of fat, shoe soles, meat, bread, eggs, flour, shoe
laces, needles and so forth. These were the things upon
which our thoughts dwelled. Our conversations had no
other thought, and constantly we had a guilty conscience.

Maybe we had been able to acquire illegally a piece
of sausage or to barter something, without having been
caught by the eye of the law. A piece of soap for a hand-
ful of nails, a copybook for our boy for some of that
precious shoe polish. Perpetually we stood with one foot
in prison, and the only slogan was: “Don't let yourself
get caught!"

Our imagination was more than poor. There was noth-
ing else in our conversations than “How can we survive
this time of painful shortages?" ‘What are we going to
talk about afterwards?" was often asked. Then, as though
a magic wand was waved — thanks to the Marshall Plan
and subsequent currency reform — all of a sudden the
showcases were being filled again. Step by step ration-
ing became a thing of the past. All of a sudden we could
put as much butter on our slice of bread as we wanted.

SEPTEMBER 1951

47

Crowd of more than 500 attended formal opening of combined Anna Haag
Home for German girls and youth center in Bad Cannstatt, suburb of Stutt-
gart, Mrs. Haag, wearing corsage, is fifth from left. Mrs. McCloy and Miss
are on her right, and Mrs.
Gross, US state commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden, are on her left.

Charles P. Gross and General

It became difficult to recognize our friends because their
wrinkled cheeks — and other parts of their bodies — had
filled out again.

HAT AN OVERWHELMING EXPERIENCE it was to

see the chimneys of the factories smoke again, the
machines put out goods, More and more persons found
a place to work and were able to buy bread with what
they earned. How exciting to watch reconstruction every-
where, how the immense heaps of rubble were finally
cleared away, which had been lying as sad memorials
of “great times.’ Shopping centers and entertainment
places appeared like mushrooms and — though far from
sufficient — the building of houses started.

Considering the past and the present, millions of my
countrymen are honestly grateful to the citizens of
America for this change. From the chaos that reigned in
Germany then, we scarcely had dared to expect anything
from the future: that word seemed to be crossed out in
our imagination as well as out of our vocabulary.

But there are others in our nation to whom I want to
turn my words. They make it a principle to forget things.
Remembering that time full of distress before the Marshall
Plan they contend: “The German people are just efficient;
if they would only let us work, we would get out of the
muddle within a short time!”

No doubt, many persons in Germany are efficient and
industrious and economical. But did we not possess those
virtues before Mr. Marshall thought of his plan? Between
1945 and 1948 — we certainly were “efficient,” “indus-
trious” and “economical,” too. We did not only possess
all those virtues at that time but were also possessed by
them. The first three years after the war convincingly
demonstrated that being efficient, industrious and eco-
nomical without anything in your hands does not help
much.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Motherly care and guidance are provided by Frau Adam,
the “house mother,” shown reading book to, left ‘to
tight, teen-agers Uta Gall, 15; Maria Rudolf, 19; Erika
Becht, 19; Brigitte Seifert, 19, and Hildegard Steinbach, 17.

It is ridiculous for intelligent people to maintain that
without the Marshall Plan and its “patronization’’ we
would be farther ahead in our economic recovery. Such
talk cannot be taken seriously, but somehow it shows
that intelligence and common sense are two entirely
different things and that not every man can claim spiritual
honesty. To all spiritually honest Europeans (among whom
we Germans also want to belong) the material success
of the Marshall Plan is plainly evident.

HOULD THE MARSHALL PLAN be viewed, however,

only from the material aspect? Is the important point
of the Marshall Plan only that we can dress and feed
ourselves again?

No doubt this material value is of the highest impor-
tance. The gradual starvation of our people had reached
a degree which was opening the door to both physical
and psychical epidemics. And who can check epidemics?
But this material success, including our being saved from
death of starvation, is not the only important thing.

Of greater significance for the future is the fact that
the left-wing radicals because of the betterment of our
social conditions are losing more and more ground. Is
this development not a proof that the idea of Communism
can be ‘extinguished by peaceful measures if the free
nations have enough time to solve the social problems
of Europe and of the “underdeveloped areas" of other
continents in the spirit of the Marshall Plan?

INFORMATION BULLETIN

48

I have not yet finished listing the very encouraging
effects given impetus by the Marshall Plan. Who can
deny the fact that this plan has cleared the way for an
intensive inter-European trade? The sudden circulation
of goods within Europe mitigated the lack of dollars as
an instrument of payment. Innumerable goods previously
bought with dollars can now through an inter-European
clearing system be procured under barter agreements,

It has become evident how much the European countries
depend on each other, and the first steps toward a united
Europe have been made. This vital inter-European trade
now beginning and the resulting increase of wealth proves

irrefutably that the time of mutual hostility within our —

small continent belongs to the past, that the customs
barriers of the frontiers must be torn down and that all!
the nations of Europe, who have been continually making
war with each other, will be better off the more the
economy of each neighboring nation prospers.

ILLIONS OF PERSONS throughout the world con-
sider the Marshall Plan to be the blessing and proof
that despite all pessimists there is still common sense
on earth. If it reigns it can do miracles, because, freed

from hate and paltry egoism, it aims at the true happi- —

ness of humanity.

Counter arguments claim that the people who drew up
the Marshall Plan are selfish and that the whole thing
is part of American egoism. These people, it is argued,
knew fully well that a sound and wealthy Europe would
be in time a good purchaser of American goods; that a
socially healthy structure of our continent would form
an effective bulwark against the sinister ideals of Bolshe-
vist Communism; and that an economically strong Europe
would be a helpful ally in the event of a struggle for
freedom and security.

What can be said against these arguments?

Answer: Let us be grateful for such an “egoism,” one
that does not take but gives. If only such egoists could
be found in greater numbers.

Youngest of the girls who have found a home away from ©
home in the new Stuttgart institution is Erna Staiger, —
just 14 years old, who hails from Augsburg, in Bavaria. —

SEPTEMBER 1951 y

+END %

--- Page 52 ---
Homes
For

Better
Living

rP\HE BEAUTY, COMPACTNESS and efficiency of a

modern American kitchen drew such praise as
“prima... schoen... wunderbar" (tops... beautiful ...
wonderful) from German visitors to the great international
housing exhibition in Hanover this summer.

The American section, housed in part of one of the nine
large exhibition halls, attracted 250,000 of the professional
architects and casual sightseers to the Constructa ex-
hibition at Hanover fair grounds during the six-week
period of July 3 to Aug. 12. But their attention rested
longest on the kitchen model rather than the examples
of the symmetric grace and shining glass walls depicting
a modern skyscraper. :

The labor-saving devices, which American housewives
have taken pretty much for granted in recent years, caus-
ed German and other European women to watch the magic
of an automatic washing-machine and dishwasher in
operation in wonderment of American streamlining of
household chores. Some voices were even tinged a little
bit with envy as they compared the gleaming, efficiently-
arranged kitchen with their own. Many German women
are still cooking and washing in big, 19th century kitch-
ens and taking countless unnecessary steps every day.

Dozens of offers to purchase the kitchen outright were
made to Americans in charge of the exhibit, and a num-
ber of utility companies asked to use it for demonstration
purposes. A large German electrical concern evinced a
desire to obtain American patents for the manufacture
and sale of the equipment in Germany.

THER POPULAR EXHIBITS in the American section,
covering a floor space of approximately 16,000 square
feet, was a typical European Recovery Plan (ERP) apart-
ment on the same scale and with the same floor plan as
that of an actual unit which has been financed with
Marshall Plan funds.
The US exhibition also ineluded the following indi-
vidual displays:
American architecture since 1947, prepared by the
American Institute of Architects (117 panels).
City planning in the USA, prepared by Prof. Hugo
Leipziger-Pearce, dean of the school of architecture,
University of Texas (60 panels).

SEPTEMBER 1951

A typical ERP apartment, part of the American show, serv-
ed as example of low-cost housing design at Constructa
exhibition in Hanover. (Photos by Ernest A. Schollmann)

Domestic architecture of the San Francisco Bay region,
prepared by the San Francisco Museum of Arts (36 panels).

A motion picture theater with a seating capacity of 60
to show documentaries on American architecture, city
planning and home economics.

The first American bookmobile to arrive in Germany,
displaying books, magazines and pamphlets on architec-
ture, city planning and home economics. This material
was supplied by the US Information Center in Hanover.

The individual panels of the three architectural exhibits
were mounted on stands of various designs and colors,
and their attractiveness was enhanced by large photo
murals and greenery.

HARING THIS HALL with the United States were the

exhibits of Austria, France, Spain, Norway, Switzer-
land, the Netherlands, Belgium and Japan. The entire ex-
hibition of Constructa, first international exhibition since
1931 on architecture, regional and city planning, low-cost
housing, building materials and machinery, occupied more
than 1,600,000 square feet. In addition to displays in the

Bird's-eye view of boy's bedroom with ample shelves for
his books and toys; pane] holds current-interest trophies.

--- Page 53 ---
nine halls there were open-air exhibits ranging from one-
family houses to many types of building machinery.

The American exhibit panels showed recent archi-
tectural styles in houses, apartments,* public buildings,
churches and schools as follows:

Houses: — Climate control house, Washington, D. C.;
country house, Norristown, Pa.; guest house, New York
City; vacation house, Reading, Conn.; desert house, the
Arizona desert; glass house, Miami, Fla.

Low-cost houses: -—- AIA-award house, San Diego,
Calif.; minimum house, Carmel, Calif.

Apartments: — Apartment Helix, New York City;
Crestview apartments, Washington, D. C.

Hotels: — Caribe Hilton Hotel, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

Universities: — Trinity University, San Antonio, Tex.;

science and pharmacy buildings, Drake University, Des
Moines, Iowa; Florida Southern College, Lakeland, Fla.

Schools: — Neighborhood Church School, Pasadena,
Calif; Arundel School, San Carlos, Calif.

Hospitals: — Community Hospital, Hobbs, N. M.; Me-
morial Hospital, Paso Robles, Calif.

Medical institutions: — Maimonides Health Center, San
Francisco, Calif, : '

Office buildings: — Honolulu Oil Company offices,
Midland, Tex.; Unilever Tower, New York City.
Commercial buildings: — Shopping center, Palm

Springs, Calif.; Morris gift shop, San Francisco, Calif.;
Henry's drive-in restaurant, Glendale, Calif.; Herman
Miller showroom, Los Angeles, Calif; Shopping center
project, Ventura, Calif.

Industrial buildings: — Nylon Throwing Mill, Winston
Salem, N. C.; Johnson Wax laboratory tower, Racine,
Wis.; Hortonspheres, Louisiana butyl storage plant; Coca
Cola bottling plant, Houston, Texas,

Transportation: — Monterey Peninsula airport terminal
building, Monterey Peninsula, Calif.; Yakima airport
terminal building, Yakima, Wash.

Typical American kitchen has washing-machine, dryer,
dishwasher, refrigerator, cupboard and storage space.

“Prima, schoen, wunderbar," visitors exclaimed of Ameri-
can kitchen. Most visited of exhibits, many wanted to buy it.

Churches: — Zion Lutheran Church, Portland, Ore.;
Christ Church, Minneapolis, Minn.
Recreation: — Music tent for the Goethe Festival,

Aspen, Colo.; drive-in theater, Erie, Pa.; municipal amphi-
theater, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Public Works: — Port of New York Authority airplane
hangars, Idlewild, N. Y.; Willow Run expressway,
Detroit, Mich.; livestok judging pavilion, Raleigh, N. C.

Government buildings: — The United Nations Secre-
tariat, New York City.

Civic centers: — Richmond Civic Center, Richmond,
Calif.

City planning: — Lake Meadows neighborhood rede-
velopment, Chicago, Ill.

Housing projects: — Federal Housing Administration
rental project, Baltimore, Md.

Housing developments: — Low-cost subdivision, San
Francisco, Calif; Hollin Hills development, Alexandria,
Va.

Interior decoration: — Herman Miller furniture.

Motels: — Contentment House Motel, Desert Hot
Springs, Calif.

NLIKE THE OTHER FOREIGN displays which were
planned and designed for the Constructa, the US
section consisted of separate exhibitions which happened
to be in preparation at the time when American participa-
tion was requested by the Constructa administration. In
charge of the US exhibit was Edgar Breitenbach, cultural
institutions officer with HICOG's Information Centers
Branch, Education and Cultural Relations Division, and ~
James W. Butler, chief, Housing Section, Office of Eco.
nomic Affairs, Ernest A. Schlohmann, formerly of the
Visual Presentation Branch, HICOG, was specially as
signed to the project by the Office of Public Affairs.
ECA bore most of the expense for setting up the exhibi-
tion. The HICOG budget of DM 25,000 ($5,950) was mod:
erate not only in comparison with some of the other
foreign countries but also in terms of what was achieved. ©
A graduate student of architecture of the Institute of
Technology in Hanover, trained for the purpose by Prof.
Walter Bogner of Harvard University’s School of Design, —
Department of Architecture, acted as professional guid

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 54 ---
for the architectural exhibits. A German staff member
of the Food and Agriculture Division, Office of Economic
Affairs, HICOG, who recently returned from a visit to
the United States under the Exchanges Program, demon-
strated the equipment of the model kitchen and gave
lectures illustrated by color slides on the kitchen, its
layout and labor-saving devices.

The film program included the following titles: Mrs.
Goodwin's Kitchen; College for Home Economics; Step-
Saving Kitchen; Built with Steel; Houses in Jigtime;
Metropolis; Cleveland; Los Angeles; TVA; The Heart of
Philadelphia; A Roof over Your Head (German film); Why
Be Afraid of the Library? and Library on Wheels. The
public was given an opportunity to select the films in
which they were most interested, and favorite choices
were Mrs, Goodwin's Kitchen and TVA (Tennessee Valley
Authority).

The ERP apartment was under the supervision of a
representative of the Soziale Wohnungswerk (Low-Cost
Housing Association), who explained how the Marshall
Plan works in the field of housing.

The bookmobile was supervised by members of the
US Information Center library who explained its features
and discussed its future use in the US Information Centers
program. Pamphlets containing general information on
America and city planning, on Marshall Plan housing
projects and the forthcoming Marshall Plan competition
and on the US Information Centers program were dis-
tributed to the public by various exhibit attendants.

ISTINGUISHED VISITORS included several members
of the German Federal Republic, the director gen-
eral of the Spanish ministry of construction, the secretary
of Japan's ministry of construction, an Austrian govern-

Visitors saw American developments in city planning,
housing, hotels, university, school and public buildings.

ERP panels, below, showed many foreign visitors the direct
benefits of Marshall Plan and effect on better living.

iba

Movies attracted many of the 250,000 visitors as well as
US displays ‘of related arts, machinery and equipment.

ment official and the chief architect of the city planning
commission in Amsterdam, Holland.

More than 70 German newspapers and trade magazines
carried articles about the American section, There were
two radio interviews by the Radio Munich and the North-
west German Radio networks. The kitchen was featured
in a newsreel shown throughout western Germany. The
majority of the press notices dealt specifically with the
model kitchen, with the ERP apartment ranking second
in interest. .

Because Germans are inclined to admire America’s
technical achievements while ignoring their moral impli-
cations, special care was taken to play down the mere
technical gadget approach and strongly emphasize the

--- Page 55 ---
Building industry depicted progress in induStrial design,
public works, architectural treatment in airport facilities.

human values embodied in architecture, These values
constituted the main theme of all the US programs at
Constructa, whether they were demonstrations, guided
tours or films.

The collection of postwar architecture which comprised
the major part of the US exhibit was organized by the
American Institute of Architects in cooperation with the
Department of State. The panels were designed and
executed by individual architectural offices, however, as
a contribution to international professional relations.

S AMERICA IS LIKE many countries rather than one,
her diverse climates — ranging from the extreme
cold of the north to the semi-tropical warmth of the
south — have had a strong influence on the nation’s
architecture. The result is a great diversity of archi-
tectural expression quite different from that found in
countries with a more unified climate, topography and
cultural background. Showing these different building
types was one of the main purposes of the exhibit.
An attempt was made to show that the European ap-
proach, based on the 20th century technologies which
established precision of form and detail, has strongly

American Constructa exhibit filled 16,000 square feet in
one of the nine large halls at recent professional show.

influenced American architecture. But the New World
architects also show an impatience with set rules and a—
tendency toward innovation which have produced ex- 4
perimental designs.

The goal of most modern architects is to combine
imagination with technological advances, and to solve
local problems of climate and terrain, therefore, no nas
tional style has been developed in America, This absence
of guiding rules, exemplified in the Constructa exhibit,
showed that architectural design in America is not easy, ~
but despite mistakes, there comes a live architecture and 3
a growing one. ;

The Austrian government representative to the exhibit, —
in a press conference, used the phrase “ex occidente
humanitas” (from the West comes humaneness) when ~
referring to the US section. Or, as a German reviewer for —
Die Neue Zeitung, HICOG-sponsored newspaper, subse-
quently put it: “The only architecture shown at the Con- ~
structa, which is really free in the full meaning of the ~
word, is the architecture of the United States." -++END

Seminars Aid Industrial Management ~

A new plan of technical assistance was launched in 7
West Germany last month when five American indus- —
trialists and educators held a two-week series of inter-_
national management seminars in Baden-Baden. Partici- 7
pating in the round-table discussions were nearly 130 Ger —
man industrialists and 25 representatives from France,
Austria, Turkey and Switzerland, who attended as ob- q
servers. 4

The seminars were the result of a request by the ECA ©
Special Mission to Western Germany to the US National 3
Management Council to administer an industrial manage-
ment program in Europe to complement the visits of pro- —
ductivity teams to the United States. j

The Americans were selected for their knowledge and /
understanding of the principles of American productivity
and management functions. They included Henry Nunn,
founder of Nunn-Bush Shoe Co.; Edwin A. Boyan, pro- >
fessor of advanced production management at Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology; Henry E. Niles, secretary
and president of the Baltimore Life Insurance Co.; Eugene”
Burgess, vice president in charge of industrial relations —
for General Mills, Inc., and a former US government eco- ~
nomics adviser, and William Martin Shepherd, vice presi- ~
dent of the Arkansas Power and Light Co.

400 More Properties Derequisitioned
During the first six months of 1951 more than 400-
pieces of property, previously utilized by the United”
States Forces in the American zone of Germany, were
returned to German civic private control. The 16 major
types of properties included hotels, a hospital, apart
ment blocks, swimming pools. and tennis courts. a
The action represents an attempt by the US Forces to
reduce to the fullest extent possible the amount of Ger
man property retained and to restore excessive holdings”
to normal occupancy. 4

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 56 ---
Calendar of Coming Events

CURRENT (with closing dates)

Sept. 21 — Duesseldorf (NRW): German

Society for Urology, convention.

Sept. 22 — Berlin: German Union of Em-
ployees (White Collar Workers), congress.

Sept. 23 — Essen (NRW): ‘Rail and Road,”
North Rhine-Westphalia transportation
exposition.

Cornelimuenster, near Aachen

“Corneli Octavo," religious

festival.

Sept. 24 — Mainz (RP): “In the Realm of
Script,‘ exposition of 2,000 years of de-
velopment.

Sept. 25 — Frankfurt (Hes): Book fair.

Sept. 30 —Berlin: 1951 international festival.

Sept. 30 — Berlin: German art exposition.

Sept. 30 — Stuttgart (WB): “Color” ex-
position.

End of September — Trier (RP): Wine-grow-
ing exposition.

End of September — Lahr (SB): Dahlia Show.

End of September — Borkum (North Sea is-
land): Concerts, every Monday.

Oct. 7 — Munich (Bav): 1951 art exhibition
at Haus der Kunst,

Oct. 14 — Hamburg: Exposition of modern
color-graphic arts.

Oct. 15 — Fuerth (Bav): ‘Foliage and Blos-
soms,” gardening show.

Oct. 31 — Hanover (LS): 1951 German
Federal Garden Show; exhibition of an-
cient Lower Saxony sacred art and to-
day's German sculptors.

Oct. 31 — Freiburg (SB): Upper Rhine art
exposition,

Qct. — Landau (RP): Flower show in Sue-
wega Park,

Oct. — Hanover (LS): Hanover artists’ fall
exposition.

Oct. — Munich (Bav): Sculpture exhibition.

Sept. 1-Nov. 4 — Munich (Bav): Art expo-
sition, ‘Old Munich Secession."

December — Hanover (LS): State museum
exposition, European art from 1400-1800.

SEPTEMBER

Sept. 20 — Bad Kissingen (Bav): Concert;
Helge Roswaenge, tenor,

Sept. 20-22 — Bremen: Society of Harbor
Construction, 20th general meeting.

Sept. 21-22 — Cologne (NRW): Society for
Comparative Jurisprudence, meeting.

Sept. 21-22 — Wuppertal (NRW): Danzig
and Breslau Technical Colleges Society,
convention, |

Sept. 21-23 — Passau (Bav): German Rowing
Societies, 1951 convention.

Sept. 21-Oct. 1 — Frankfurt (Hes): Associa-
tion of Hotel and Restaurant Trades; an-
nual show, cookery exposition.

Sept. 22 — Munich (Bav): Horse races.

Sept. 22-Oct. 7 — Munich (Bav): October
festival; brewers’ exposition.

Sept. 23 — Frankfurt (Hes): Association of
German Bookdealers, meeting.

Sept. 23 — Schotten (Hes): Round-about-
Schotten international race for racing
cars (Formula 3) and sporting cars.

Sept. 23 Munich (Bav): Dortmund (NRW):
Horse races,

SEPTEMBER 1951

Sept. 20 to Oct. 31,1951

Sept. 23 — M. Gladbach (NRW): Harness
races.

Sept. 23 — Baden-Baden (SB): Symphony
concert; Southwest German Broadcasting
Orchestra.

Sept. 23 — Biberach/Riss (WB): Concert;
baroque and classical church music.

Sept. 23-24 — Hamburg: Bestowal of the
Hansa City’s Bach Prize upon Paul Hinde-
mith. Philharmonic concerts; Carl See-
mann, piano; J. Keilberth, conductor.

Sept. 24 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-
cert; Jan Dahmen, violin; P. van Kem-
pen, conductor,

Sept. 26 — Dortmund (NRW): Horse races.

Sept. 26-28 — Munich (Bav): German brew-
ers’ convention; exposition.

Sept. 26-30 — Baden-Baden (SB): Roent-
genologists’ convention.

Sept. 26-30 — Stuttgart (WB): German So-
ciety of Neurologists and Psychiatrists,
convention.

Sept. 28-Oct. 7 — Offenburg (NB): 850th
anniversary. Ortenau autumn fair.

Sept. 29 — Munich (Bav): Horse races.

Sept. 29-Oct. 6 — Hersbruck (Bav): County
fair and festival.

Sept. 29-Oct. 27 — Darmstadt (Hes): Fall art
exposition, New Darmstadt Secession;
graphics, water colors, plastic art.

Sept. 30-Oct. 1 — Weinsberg (Bav): ‘‘Wei-
bertreu” autumn festival.

Sept. 30-Oct. 3 — Koenigswinter (NRW):
Vintners’ festival and autumn folk festival.

Sept. 30-Oct. 14 — Karlsruhe (WB): “Autumn
Days," musical and literary events.

OCTOBER

Oct. 1 — Bonn (NRW):
Society. .

Oct, 1-2 — Bremen: Concert, Philharmonic
Orchestra.

Oct. 1-3 — Munich (Bav): Scientists’ meet-
ing in conjunction with breweries’ ex-
position.

Oct. 1-7 — Brunswick (LS): Industrial ex-
position and flower, fruit and animal
shows.

Oct. 3 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Horse races.

Oct. 3-6 — Bad Neuenahr (RP): German
health resorts day.

Oct, 4 — Celle (LS): Stallion parade.

Oct. 4 — Muenster (NRW): Symphony
concert; P. Baumgartner, piano; Dr. Rob-
ert Wagner, conductor.

Oct. 4 — Bochum (NRW): Concert; Clara
Ebers, soprano.

Concert, Bach

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse,
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden,
SH — Schleswig-Holstein,
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
‘WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

53

Oct. 4-5 — Bad Duerkheim (RP): Associa-
tion of German Iron Industry, meeting.
Oct. 4-5 — Munich (Bav): Central As-
sociation of German Breweries, meet-

ing.

Oct. 4-6 — Bonn (NRW): Association of
Common Housing Enterprises, meeting.

Oct. 5 — Dortmund (NRW): International
Free Academy for Cancer Research, con-
gress.

Oct. 5-7 — Berlin: Academy for Medical
Advancement, special cancer conference.

Oct. 5-7 — Luebeck (SH): Technical con-
vention. .

Oct. 5-7 — Essen (NRW): World Youth's
, Friendship League, congress.

Oct. 5-7 — Kassel (Hes): Chamber music
and choral concerts.

Early October — Baden-Baden (SB): Ger-
man Poplar Society, meeting.

Oct. 5-8 — Baden-Baden (SB): Central As-
sociation of Cleaners and Dyers, meeting.

Oct. 6 — Munich (Bav): Horse races.

Oct. 6 — Ludwigsburg (WB): Palace con-
cert; Ludwig Hoelscher, cello.

Oct. 6 — Bremen: Guest concert, Munich
Philharmonic Orchestra; Fritz Rieger,
conductor.

Oct. 6-7 — Stuttgart (WB): International
dog show.

Oct. 6-7 —Goslar (LS): Brunswick Lutheran
Church, youth meeting.

Oct. 6-7 — Donaueschingen (SB): Chamber
music and symphony concert.

Oct. 6-7 — Boppard (RP): Wine festival.

Oct. 6-7 — Munich (Bav): German physi-
cians’ congress.

Oct. 6-8 — Unkel-Scheuren (RP): Wine
harvest festival.

Oct. 6-14 — Neustadt/Weinstrasse (RP):
Wine harvest festival; election of Wine
Queen and christening of new vintage.

Oct. 6-14 — Cologne (NRW): Anuga, food
and food products exposition.

Oct. 6-14 — Dortmund (NRW): West Ger-
man inventors’ novelties, fair.

Oct. 6-21 — Berlin: German industries ex-
position.

Oct. 7 — Iphofen (Bav): Wine festival,
pageant.

Oct. 7 — Munich (Bav); Cologne (NRW):
Horse races.

Oct. 7 — M. Gladbach (NRW): Harness
races.

Oct. 7 — Solingen (NRW):
bicycle (track) races.

Oct. 7 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert; Georg
Ludwig Jochum, conductor.

Oct. 7-8 — Berlin: Concert, RIAS Sym-
phony Orchestra; Gioconda de Vito,
violin; Ferenc Fricsay, conductor.

Oct. 7-8 — Baden-Baden (SB):
tournament.

Oct. 7-8 — Hamburg: Philharmonic concert;
Wilhelm Kempff, piano; Jos. Keilberth,
conductor.

Oct. 7-10 — Berlin: German Society for
Organizational Management, Association
of German Graduate Business Men, con-
vention.

Amateurs’

Bridge

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 57 ---
Oct. 7-11 — Hamburg: German Fat Re-
search Society, meeting.

Oct. 7-11 — Stuttgart (WB): German Geo-
physicists’ Society, meeting.

Oct. 7-31 — Bochum (NRW): Annual art
exposition by Bochum artists.

Oct, 8 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum concert;
E. Mainardi, cello; B. Vondenhoff, con-
ductor,

Oct. 8 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony con-
cert, Northwest German Broadcasting
Orchestra; Igor Stravinsky, conductor.

Oct. 8 — Hanover (LS): Symphony concert;
Conrad Hansen, piano; Johannes Schuel-
er, conductor.

Oct. 8 — Bremen:
Quartet.

Oct. 8-9 — Munich (Bav): Association of
Donors to German Science, meeting.

Oct. 8-10 — Bonn (NRW): Agricultural
colleges, convention.

Oct. 8-14 Wuppertal (NRW): Youth week.

Oct. 9 — Bad Pyrmont (NRW): Concert,
Robert Schumann Conservatory, Duessel-
dorf.

Oct. 9-13 — Lindau (Lake Constance):
Transport insurance companies, conven-
tion.

Oct. 10 — Baden-Baden (SB): Symphony
concert; Southwest German Broadcast-
ing Orchestra.

Oct. 10 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): Horse
races.

Oct. 10-11 — Duisburg (NRW): Symphony
concert; Ruggiero Ricci, violin; G. L.
Jochum, conductor. .

Oct. 11 — Bochum (NRW): Chamber music
concert.

Oct. 11-12 — Goslar (LS): DER German
Travel Bureau, annual convention.

Oct. 11-13 — Bad Neuenahr (NRW): Ger-
man Rubber Association, meeting.

Oct. 12 — Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert; Hans Weissbach, conductor.
Oct. 12-14 — Stuttgart (WB): German tail-
ors’ convention; Wuerttemberg clothing

fair.

Oct. 12-14 — Bochum (NRW): Union of
West German Young Men, meeting.

Oct. 12-14 — Bad Pyrmont (NRW): Asso-
ciation of German Women Physicians,
convention.

Oct. 13-14 — Bremen: Concert.

Oct. 13-15 — Leichlingen (NRW): Fruit
mart and outdoor folk festival.

Oct. 13-16 — Hamburg: International ecu-
menical congress for children’s divine
service and Sunday schools.

Concert, Koeckert

Oct. 14 — Iphofen (Bav): Vintage festival,
pageant.

Oct. 14— Munich (Bav): Motorcycle cham-
pionship races.

Oct. 14 — Munich (Bav); Frankfurt (Hes);
Hanover (LS); Dortmund (NRW): Horse
races.

Oct. 14 — Cologne (NRW): Bicycle stayer

. and sprinter races.

Oct. 14-15 — Hamburg: Symphony concert,
Northwest German Broadcasting Orches-
tra; William Primrose, viola; H. Schmidt-
Isserstedt, conductor.

Oct. 14-15 — Berlin: Concert, Philharmonic
Orchestra; Heinz Stanske, violin; Carl
Schuricht, conductor.

Oct. 15 — Cologne (NRW): Inauguration of
Cologne-Muelheim suspension bridge.
Oct. 15-16 — Bremen: Philharmonic concerts.
Oct. 15-17 — Berlin: Low-temperatures

research congress.

Oct. 16-19 — Cologne (NRW): Union of
German Engineers, meeting.

Oct. 17 — Darmstadt (Hes): German Acad-
emy for Language and Literature, be-
stowal of the George Buechner literary
prize.

Oct. 17 — Dortmund (NRW): Horse races.

Oct. 17-24 — Baden-Baden (SB): Rheumat-
ism research convention.

Oct. 18 — Wuppertal (NRW): Piano con-
cert; Monique de la Bruchollerie.

Oct. 18— Bochum (NRW): Concert; Gaspar
Cassado, cello.

Oct. 18-19 — Bad Neuenahr (RP): Associ-
ation of Material Printers, meeting.

Oct. 18-20 — Goettingen (LS): German
public law instructors, meeting.

Oct. 18-22 —Muenster (NRW): “Send” folk
festival at Cathedral Square.

Oct. 19-21 — Bad Pyrmont (NRW): Society
for Practical Psychological Research,
meeting.

Oct. 19-21 — Hanover (LS): Male Chorus
Society, 100th anniversary concert.

Oct. 20 — Baden-Baden (SB): Association
of German Bridge Players, meeting.

Oct. 20-21 — Munich (Bav): Horse races.

Oct. 20-21 — Ludwigsburg (WB): Choral
music festival.

Oct. 20-22 — Cologne (NRW): Choral con-
cert, trolley conductors’ choral societies
from Germany and abroad.

Oct. 20-24 — Baden-Baden (SB): German
health resorts, convention.

Oct. 20-Nov. 19 — Stuttgart (WB): Swabian
art exposition.

Oct. 21 — Baden-Baden (SB): Symphony
concert; Southwest German Broadcast-
ing Orchestra.

Oct. 21 — M. Gladbach (NRW): Harness
races.

Oct. 21-22 — Hamburg: Philharmonic con-
cert; Gerhard Taschner, violin; Jos. Keil-
berth, conductor.

Oct. 21-22 — Berlin: Concert, Berlin Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; Helmut  Roloff,
piano; Otto Matzerath, conductor.

Oct. 21-28 — Wiesbaden (Hes): German-'
French culture convention.

Oct. 21-Nov. 3 — Bremen ‘‘free market."

Oct. 22 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-
cert; G. Solti, conductor.

Oct. 22-23 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert; Miriam Molin, piano; M. Krenek
(composer), conductor.

Oct. 24 — Krefeld (NRW): Horse races.

Oct. 25 — Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert; Elly Ney, piano; Hans Weiss-
bach, conductor.

Oct. 25 — Muenster (NRW): Symphony
concert; Enrico Mainardi, cello.

Oct. 26 — Nuremberg (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; William Primrose, viola; A. Dres-
sel, conductor.

Oct. 26-27 — Bonn (NRW): German Society
for Accident Insurance and Sickness-
Benefits, convention,

Oct, 26-28 — Nuremberg (Bav): Physicians’
scientific congress.

Oct. 27-Nov. 5 — Stuttgart (WB): Centen-
nial of the royal Wuerttemberg postal
stamp, meetings and philatelic exposition.

Oct. 27-Dec. 30 — Hamburg: Art exposition. .

Oct. 28 — Munich (Bav); Frankfurt (Hes);
Hanover (LS); Krefeld (NRW): Horse
races,

Oct. 28-31 — Ortenberg (Hes): “Cold Mart.”

Oct. 28-Nov. 4 — Frankfurt (Hes.): Inter-
national bicycle and motorcycle exposi-
tion; six-day bicycle races.

Oct.31— Duisburg (NRW): Concert, Cham- _
ber Music Union of Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra,

October — Stuttgart (WB): International
Society for Catholic Church Music, meet-
ing. .

October — Fuerth
handicrafts shows.

October — Essen (NRW): Art exposition, ,
Otto Dix.

October — Konstanz (Lake Constance): Ex- “
position of 16th-18th century drawings.
October — Neviges (NRW): Religious pil-

grimages. -++-END

(Bav): Industry and ©

Famous Paintings Ordered Returned

Two famous German paintings, which were bought
before the war by an art dealer for Hitler's Linz collec-
tion, have been ordered returned to a Munich woman.

The US Court of Restitution Appeals, in a decision in
July, held that Mrs. Paula Picard, widow of a well-known
Jewish physician who committed suicide in a Gestapo
office in 1942, was entitled to recover both of the pic-
tures as her husband had been forced to sell them. Mrs.
Picard identified the paintings as Spitzwog’s Gnomen-
hoehle and a portrait of Field Marshall Count von

Moltke by von Lenbach.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The Spitzwog work is in the HICOG-run Central col-
lecting Point at Wiesbaden and the German woman may
reacquire it by payment of DM 1,000 ($238) to the Ba-
varian state government.

The restitution chamber in Munich has been asked to
determine if a von Moltke portrait also at Wiesbaden is
the one which formerly belonged to Dr. Picard. In the
event it is, the painting is to be returned to Mrs. Picard
upon payment of DM 1,500 ($357). The case was heard
by Justices Fred J. Cohn, president of the court, H.

Lloyd Ericsson and Peter J, Flanagan.

54

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 58 ---
Personnel Notes

Ruhr Authority Head Retires

The retirement of Charles A. Livengood, veteran US
Foreign Service officer who for the past year served
with the rank of minister as US representative to the
International Authority for the Ruhr, was announced
Aug. 17. His duties have been assumed by Don E. Wilson,
alternate US representative to the IAR.

Mr. Livengood retired Aug. 31 after 30 years of service,
having reached the age at which retirement of career
ministers of the Foreign Service is mandatory under law.

Born in 1886 in Dayton, Wash., he began his govern-
ment service in 1921; and has held various diplomatic
posts in Italy, Spain, Cuba, Colombia and Jamaica. During
1949 and 1950, prior to his appointment to the Inter-
national Authority for the Ruhr, he was a member of
the Department of State's International Science Policy
Survey Group.

Mr. Wilson has served as alternate US representative
to IAR for the past year. From 1946 to 1948, he was in
key posts with the US Office of Military Government,
and during 1949 and early 1950, he served with ECA,
Paris. During that period he also was representative of
the US delegation on the Coal Allocations Working Party,
Economic Commission for Europe, in Geneva.

New Chief for Historical Division

Dr. Roger H. Wells has arrived in Frankfurt to succeed
Dr. Harold Zink as chief of the Historical Division, Of-
fice of the Executive Secretary, HICOG. Dr. Zink returned
Sept. 14 to the United States, where he is professor of
political science at Ohio State University. He had been
chief of the Historical Division since June 1950.

Dr. Wells is on leave of absence from Bryn Mawr Col-
lege, where he is chairman of the political science de-
partment. He has been a member of the faculty there
since 1923,

Dr. Wells served with US Military Government
(OMGUS) first as consultant and later as deputy director
of the Civil Administration Division. He was also in
Germany in 1927-28 on a Guggenheim Fellowship. As
vice president of the Governmental Affairs Institute,
Washington, D.C., a private agency, he assisted the De-
partments of State and Defense with their German, Aus-
trian and Japanese exchange programs.

Labor Affairs Director Resigns

Harvey W. Brown, director of the Office of Labor Af-
fairs since August 1949, has resigned his post to return
to the United States for retirement from public life. His
Tesignation became effective Aug. 31.

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy commended
Mr. Brown for his able direction of the Office of Labor

SEPTEMBER 1951

55

Affairs since the inception of HICOG. “It is with regret
that I accept Mr. Brown's resignation," Mr. McCloy said.
“He is one of the original HICOG office directors who
organized and. developed the Office of Labor Affairs
into the effective unit that it is today. During his tenure
of office, the West German trade unions have grown
steadily in strength and economic influence. HICOG's ex-
cellent relations with this potent democratic force has been
due in large part to Mr. Brown's close cooperation with
and understanding of the German labor movement. His

.departure will create a serious loss to our organization."

An active member of the American labor movement
for 45 years, Mr. Brown was born in the township of
Wayne, Pa., in 1883. He was elected business represen-
tative for the International Association of Machinists for
the Anthracite Coal Region in 1911, and rose in 1938
to its presidency, a post he held until joining HICOG.
He has also been a vice president and member of the
executive council of the American Federation of Labor,
director of the Union Label Life Insurance Company, and
director of the Americans for Democratic Action.

Mr. and Mrs. Brown have not decided where they
will live in the United States.

Education Consultant in Hesse .

Myra Woodruff, associate supervisor of the New York
State Education Department's Bureau of Parent Education
and Child Development, has arrived in Wiesbaden to
serve as a visiting consultant to OLC Hesse. She will
assist in the development of education for home and
family life.

Miss Woodruff holds degrees from Oberlin (Ohio) Col-
lege, and Teachers College, Columbia University. Winner
of a Laura Spellman Rockefeller Fellowship for research
in methods of family life, Miss Woodruff is a former
associate professor of child development and director of
the Nutsery School of the Drexel (Pa.) Institute. She has
also been state supervisor of parent education and nur-
sery schools for Pennsylvania.

Specialist Completing Bremen Study

Dr. Arno J. Jewett, a specialist in the field of cur-
ticulum and development of materials of instruction, is
completing late this month a two-month assignment as a
HICOG special consultant in Bremen.

Dr. Jewett, who received his doctor of philosophy
degree from the University of Minnesota, is an associate
professor at the University of Texas, and editor of the
Texas Journal of Secondary Education. During the aca-
demic year 1950-51, he taught as a visiting professor in
English at the graduate school of Teacher's College, Co-
lumbia University, in New York City.

Dr. Jewett came to Germany in July on his second visit
to Bremen. The first time, in 1949, he stayed for three
and one half months in Germany and made a curriculum
survey of many secondary schools in the US Zone. On his
present visit he is working with Bremen state educators

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
on the improvement of materials and methods of instruc-
tion in the elementary and secondary schools, particu-
larly in the fields of social studies and English.

PTA Vice President Speaks in Berlin

Mrs. N. P. Leonard, vice president of the National
Congress of Parents and Teachers in the United States,
spoke to an audience of West Berlin parents and teachers
on the relationships between the school and the home
during a recent visit to the “island city.”

Mrs. Leonard visited Berlin en route to the United
States from a conference on ‘Free and Compulsory Edu-
cation” held in Geneva, Switzerland. A discussion period
followed her talk.

The National Congress of Parents and Teachers is a
federation which includes among its member organizations
several thousand parent-teacher associations located in
all parts of the US. Its national office is in Chicago.

Economic Affairs Official Leaves

A.M. Hillhouse, a public-finance and occupation-costs
official of the Office of Economic Affairs and the ECA
Special Mission, left Frank-
furt in August to return to
Washington, D.C., for re-
assignment.

The Occupation Costs
Branch, of which Mr. Hill-
house was chief since
the formation of HICOG,
has been transferred to
HICOG's Office of Admin-
istration. His responsibili-
ties with public finance
matters have been trans-
ferred to another branch
within the Finance Divi-
sion.

Mr. Hillhouse, who is
from Cincinnati, Ohio,
came to Germany in Octo-
ber 1947, and was first assigned to Berlin with the Finance
Division of the Office of Military Government. He later
became chief of the Public Finance Branch, Bipartite
Control Office in Frankfurt and served as chairman of
the working party that wrote the tripartite agreement on
occupation costs in 1949. With the Aliied High Com-
mission, he was US member of the tripartite subcom-
mittee on occupation costs and the public-finance sub-
committee. Before the war, Mr. Hillhouse was professor
of economics at the University of Cincinnati.

A, M. Hillhouse.
(PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)

Former OMGB Director Visits Munich

Maj. Gen. Walter J. Muller, director of Military Govern-
ment for Bavaria from 1945 to 1947, described as remark-
able the economic progress made by the Bavarian people
in the past four years during a recent visit in Munich.
General Muller expressed surprise at the changes in the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

56

appearance of the Bavarian capital and at the extent o
building activity. x

Now serving as logistics and administrative officer fo
Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers, the headquarter,
of the Atlantic Pact nations in Paris, General Muller
in Bavaria to check the readiness and fitness of US unit:

Berlin Pastor Called to Active Duty

The Rev. John H. Deutschlaender, of Cleveland, Ohi
who served for 30 months as head of the Berlin bran
of the Lutheran World Relief organization, has returnet
to active military duty as a chaplain with the US
Force with the rank of major.

During his stay in Berlin, Major Deutschlaender ma
tained close contact with churches and religious orga
zations throughout the western sectors and through tho
groups effected distribution of thousands of tons of re
goods. As Berlin-area representative of the Departms
of Service to Refugees, Lutheran World Federation,
also supervised efforts to secure sponsorship for refugee
and displaced persons desirous of emigrating to the Unite
States, Canada and Australia.

A former resident of Johnstown, Pa., Major Deut:
laender was pastor of the Memorial Lutheran Church
Cleveland before going to Berlin. During the war
served for several years as a US Army chaplain.

Prominent Americans on Missions Here

Two prominent Americans, one a leading penologi!
and the other a professor of zoology, are currently if
Germany on HICOG exchange missions. They are Richare
A. McGee, director of the Department of Corrections i
California and one of America’s outstanding authoriti
on penology, and Dr. Paul Weiss, professor of zoology
and director of the Divisional Biology Program at the
University of Chicago.

Mr. McGee, head of one of the most progressive prisol
systems in the world, is consulting with prison direct
in West Germany and Berlin to exchange information
experience in this field.

Dr. Weiss is representing the National Academy
Science during his visit, which is intended to strength
contacts between US and German science. He is

scientific activities.

American Educator in Munich

The first American educational official to visit postwé
Germany as the guest of a German educational or
zation spent several days in Munich recently. He is Joht
M. Lemley, president of the Pennsylvania State Educatio
Association, who came to Munich at the invitation of tht
Bavarian Teachers Association. ‘

Mr. Lemley conferred with American as well as Baval
ian educational officials. Before his Munich visit,

ing Professions at Malta.

SEPTEMBER

--- Page 60 ---
Information Center Head Resigns

John F. Toedtman, director of Bremen’s US Information
Center for the ‘past three
years, resigned his position
Aug. 15 and has returned
to the United States to be-
come director of public re-
lations for an industrial
organization.

Mr. Toedtman  supervi-
sed the building of the In-
formation Center in Bre-
men, first in the Kunsthalle,
later at 19 Contrescarpe,
and last October opened
the new center in the
Glocke building. He also
supervised the opening of
the first US Information
Centers in Bremerhaven
and Hamburg. His first post
in Bremen was as chief of the Housing Branch of Military
Government.

John F. Toedtman.
(PRD HICOG photo)

Exchangees Get Top Briefing

John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner for Germany,
Dr. Walter Hallstein, state secretary for foreign affairs of
the German Federal Republic, and Dr. James R. Newman,
US state commissioner for Hesse, addressed approximately
180 Hessian unversity students and young trainees slated
to spend a year of study at American universities and
colleges under the HICOG cultural exchange program
at an orientation conference in Wiesbaden's US Informa-
tion Center Aug. 1 and 2

Dr. Hallstein, who is considered the most competent
German expert on the Schuman Plan, discussed this sub-
ject with the young Hessians. During the conference, the
students were also given a complete survey over the
most important aspects of American life and current
world problems by Dr. Newman and his staff.

Outstanding American, French and German lecturers
also spoke at the two-day orientation meeting.

Baruch Tours West Europe

Bernard M. Baruch, unofficial adviser of presidents and
frequently referred to as a US “elder statesman," visited in
Frankfurt and Berlin in July. He conferred with US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy and members of the High
Commissioner's staff at HICOG headquarters and attended
the airlift memorial ceremony in Berlin. Mr. Baruch was
On a tour of Western Europe.

In response to inquiries as to his mission in Europe,
Said: My only mission is that of a private American
Citizen, deeply interested in our soldiers and civilians,
who are trying to bring about a peace and security in
which the whole world can share equally with us.”

Brannan Ends German Tour
US Secretary of Agriculture Charles F, Brannan spent
five days in Germany in late July to acquaint himself at

SEPTEMBER 1951

57

first hand with some of West Germany's food and agri-
cultural problems. He also met with German government
and HICOG food and agriculture officials in Bonn, Munich
and Frankfurt.

Mr. Brannan’s tour of West European countries included
England, France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg,
Yugoslavia and Austria. He returned to Paris at the end of
July for an international food and agriculture conference.

Accompanying the secretary was Stanley Andrews,
former top official of Military Government food and
agriculture in Germany, now director of the Office of For-
eign Agricultural Relations, Department of Agriculture.

Americans 100 Percent with Berlin

“The men in the street in America is not behind Ber-
lin's man in the street; he is 100 percent with him,”
Ulrich Charles Urton, former HICOG Public Safety di-
rector in Berlin, reported following his return from a
three-month tour of the United States.

Mr. Urton traveled extensively throughout the eastern
states, making a number of lectures and addresses as
well as numerous radio and television appearances. He
found a high interest in Berlin's problems in all groups
with whom he spoke. i

“I found a strong determination everywhere to do
everything necessary to preserve freedom and liberty,
and to prevent the spread of those forces advocating
oppression and totalitarianism,” he ‘said.

Two New Law Consultants in Hesse

Two Americans experts have recently arrived in Ger-
many to serve as consultants for a period of three months,
OLC Hesse officials announced. They are Lindon J. Mur-
phy, outstanding American expert in the field of sanitary
engineering, and Dr. Elmer S. Holbeck, deputy super-
intendent of schools at Passaic, N.J.

Mr. Murphy, who is the author of numerous books,
booklets and articles, is in charge of graduate and under-
graduate instruction in sanitary engineering at the Uni-
versity of Missouri. He will study the water und sewage
systems in Hesse and other US Zone states.

Dr. Holbeck is remaining in Hesse for the three-month
period to study elementary and secondary school ad-
ministration and will be a visiting consultant to OLC
Hesse in education matters.

Swedish Army Women Visit EUCOM

Two members of the Swedish Women's Army were
conducted on a tour of European Command installations
to study the work of the American Women’s Army Corps
in Germany last month. They are Mrs. Ingrid Helm, chief
of the Swedish Women's Army Motor Corps, and her
deputy, Mrs. Lena Bratt.

Lt. Col. Irene O. Galloway, Women's Army Corps staff
adviser at EUCOM headquarters, welcomed the Swedish
visitors at Heidelberg and conducted them on the tour.
Upon completion of their visit to EUCOM bases and in-
stallations, the two women proceeded to the headquarters
of the British Army of the Rhine. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
In and Around Germany

256,426 DPs Resettled in US

Displaced persons have been warned that unless they
adhere strictly to their processing schedule, some of those
eligible for visas will be forced to remain’in Germany
after the Dec. 31, 1951 termination date of the DP act.

Up until Aug. 1 the US Displaced Persons Commission
had resettled 256,426 individuals in America and an addi-
tional 12,000 DPs had been issued visas and were await-
ing transportation.

More than 75,000 applications were on file with the
commission July 31, the registration deadline. Of that
number only 35,000 can be granted visas under provisions
of the DP act.

Robert J. Corkery, European coordinator for the com-
mission, said that more than 4,000 persons have completed
the necessary processing steps and could be issued visas
immediately if they would report to the appropriate re-
settlement centers in Munich, Ludwigsburg, Hamburg,
Salzburg, Rastatt and Naples.

A great number of other cases are pending which
require positive action on the part of the applicant, pro-
claiming his desire either to emigrate to the United States
or to remain in Germany.

New Laws Protect Accident Victims

Additional protection to persons injured in traffic acci-
dents involving private motor vehicles owned by both
civilian and military US personnel in Germany, is af-
forded by two new laws put into effect during August.

Law No. 22 provides that an injured party, filing a
claim against a member of the US Forces as a result of
an accident, shall be protected by the insurance even
though the car owner failed to report the accident to
the company.

Law No. 23 provides that members of the US Forces
remain, for purposes of accident claims, under jurisdiction
of the US courts in Germany even though the individual
has departed from the US area of control or has been
separated from service.

65 Dependents Schools Reopen

Fall term classes started Sept. 6 in 65 schools through-
out Germany and France for American students. Regis-
tration of all pupils — kindergarten, elementary and high
school — took place Aug. 15 and 16.

Tuition is required in Germany for pupils when the
head of the family is not employed by a United States
government agency. In France, American schools are
operated for Department of Defense personnel only.

Crop Returns Amazing, Expert Says

Crop returns from small farms in the German Federal
Republic are amazing, in the opinion of Everett Mitchell,
veteran American farm radio commentator, who stopped

INFORMATION BULLETIN

58

Everett Mitchell (left) of the well-known US “Farm an
Home Hour” interviewed by Edward Piehl (right), agri
culture radio commentator for Hesse. (PRD HICOG photo)

over in West Germany for four days during a six-week
tour of Europe.

Mr. Mitchell explained that he was visiting Germany
to gather information on farming so he could correct er
roneous impressions of German agriculture in the Unit
States. He has been director for 22 years of the “Farm
and Home Hour", nationally known American broadcast.

“There is less waste on German farms than
America,” he declared, “and I am particularly struck
the neatness of all farms, the small, large and medi
sized.”

As factors which make farming more difficult in Ger-
many, Mr. Mitchell pointed to the methods of st
farming and keeping cattle in farm villages instead of
taking them to pasture lands. The commentator said
“It is my hope that German farmers will be able somehow
to get their land together in one piece so that some of the
load will be taken off the farmer's back."

During his brief stay in the country Mr. Mitchell to
over responsibility of educating a 20-year-old Sudet
expellee now living in Giessen. .

Citizenship Training Courses for Women

German women already active in public affairs fiel
are currently receiving instruction on ways to furth
stimulate and enhance interest in civic education.

The series of citizenship training courses, held
Speyer, in the French Zone, from Aug. 6 to-Sept. 22, we
under the auspices of the Women’s Affairs Branch, HICO!
in conjunction with the Women’s Affairs representativt
of the British and French High Commissioners.

Women attending the four 10-day courses were fro
the German trade union federations, ministry of the
terior, city officials and others active in education a
women’s organizations.

The courses were supervised by Miss Alma Luc!
Vassar College, who is in Germany as a specialist
the HICOG exchanges program. Each included lectu
study groups and discussion meetings dealing with n@
tional problems of immediate interest to women, Emphasis
was placed on what the individual woman could do in het

SEPTEMBER 195!

--- Page 62 ---
own community. The techniques used by other European
and American women were discussed on such subjects
as women's property rights, wage scales, women’s influ-
ence on public education, formation of parent-teacher
groups and women's place in the East-West struggle.

Four Jailed for Possessing Uranium-Oxide

Prison sentences have been meted out by the 2nd US
Judicial District Court-in Berlin to four German nationals
for possessing and conspiring to sell an unknown quan-
tity of uranium-oxide. The action was in violation of
Allied Kommandatura Law 13.

Those convicted in July included Dr. Friedrich W.
Frackmann, Franz Marciniak, Walter Raddatz and Richard
Sarrach. All pleaded not guilty. The sentences ranged
from two to three years but were partially suspended.

District Attorney Irvin Robbins charged that the four -

were in possession of one kilogram (2.2 pounds) of
uranium-oxide, which was used as a sample to attract
prospective customers, Mr. Robbins said that each of the
Germans was aware that a further unknown quantity of
the material was available for sale.

Bremen Makes Restitution Settlement

The State of Bremen concluded a bulk settlement of
restitution claims filed by the Jewish Restitution on Suc-
cessor Organization. Under terms of the agreement, all
claims for heirless Jewish property in the tiny US-Zone
state were turned over to the local German government
for DM 1,750,000 ($416,500).

The agreement was approved by unanimous vote of the
parliament, senate and restitution committee. A similar
settlement was concluded last February in the State of
Hesse, where the recovery was DM 25,000,000 ($5,950,000).

Funds received by the Jewish Restitution Successor Or-
ganization, a New York charitable corporation appointed
by Military Government, must be used for relief and
rehabilitation of survivors of Nazi persecution.

Hesse Plans 123 New Youth Centers

A total of DM 377,368 ($89,814) has been made availa-
ble for the establishment of rural youth centers in small
Hessian communities. In addition to DM 121,790 ($28,986)

Blood bank donor Annemarie Massmann was one of the
68 German employees in Berlin Element who contributed
blood to Red Cross program.

(PRB BE-HICOG photo)

allocated by OLC Hesse, various communities and county
authorities, youth organizations, sports clubs and other
private groups have contributed DM 255,578 ($60,828).
With the money, 123 youth centers will be established
in isolated rural communities of less than 1,000 popula-
tion. The American contribution, approximately DM 1,000
($238) for each center, will be used primarily for the
interior furnishings, and German groups’ will provide
rooms, rent, heat, light and other basic facilities.

Berlin Occupation Costs Below Estimates

The final appropriations for last year's (1950-1951) oc-
cupation costs and mandatory expenditures for Berlin
showed a reduction of more than DM 13,500,000 ($3,213,000)
from original estimates.

The first budget for the period was DM 190,437,000
($47,124,000), but a strict control of expenditures and
economies effected by the Allied authorities in Berlin
reduced the amount sent by the Allied Kommandatura
to the Berlin Senate. Estimates for occupation costs and
mandatory expenditures for fiscal year 1951 total DM
168,370,630 ($40,072,000).

25 to Serve Internship in US “

Twenty-five young doctors or graduate medical stu-
dents from western Germany and West Berlin are being
sent to the United States to work as interns in New
Jersey hospitals. gs

‘Walter Wehner of Heidelberg was the first to leave
during August under this unusual intern exchange pro-
gram. He was followed by Heinz-Otto Silbersiepe, Berlin
graduate medical student, who will serve a 15-month
internship in the General Hospital of Atlantic City.

The program has been arranged and financed volun-
tarily by the hospitals through a special committee
headed by Dr. Hilton Read, Atlantic City physician,
who proposed the idea after a trip to Germany last spring.

ECA Provides $15,000,000 for Wheat

The Federal Republic of Germany was authorized
$15,000,000 from Marshall Plan funds during July for the
purchase of approximately 220,460 tons of US wheat.
Delivery was slated for August and September.

A special resolution passed by the US Congress made
the funds available to ECA to allow the continuation of
wheat shipments to grain-short Germany, The money is
an advance from the Marshall Plan allotment for Ger-
many. The entire amount for the 1951-52 fiscal year is
to be decided later.

Hesse Studying Sewerage Problems

Hesse’s water and sewerage system, badly damaged
during the war, is currently undergoing extensive study
by Hessian officials with a view toward possible repair
and modernization.

Seventy copies of a newly-translated American text
entitled, “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
and Sewage," have been distributed to state public health

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
authorities. Another 130 free copies are available for
distribution in other states. The book was made avail-
able upon the recommendation of Dr. Jack McKee of
the California Institute of Technology, who studied con-
ditions in Hesse last year as a visiting consultant.

Dr. Charles Benning, Public Health and Welfare chief,
Office of the US State Commissioner for Hesse, stated in
a recent report that the gieatest deficiency in the German
water and sewage system is the lack of standard methods.

HICOG Reducing US, German Staffs

Termination notices will have been sent to 200 HICOG
employees by the end of September as part of a reduction
in force plan, which will result in an immediate annual
savings of approximately DM 1,000,000 ($238,000) in oc-
cupation costs. The action was initiated last spring in
anticipation of reduced personnel requirements under US-
German contractual agreements.

HICOG personnel authorizations, including both US
and German, will have been trimmed from 10 to 25 per-
cent when the reductions are completed. The percentages
vary in county, state and headquarters personnel.

The over-all saving is actually greater because by
decréasing functions during the last half year approxi-
mately 600 positions, which became vacant as a result
of normal turnover, were not filled.

The first cut was ordered by administration officials
last May and an effort was made to issue dismissal notices
gradually to avoid any abrupt change. Personnel require-
ments will continue to be analyzed in view of changing
political relationships with the Federal Government.

Bavaria Refugee Situation Improves

“Compared with 1948, the refugee problem in Bavaria
has made encouraging progress,” Dr. Jane Perry Clark
Carry, visiting consultant and refugee expert of the US
Department of State, said recently.

“Three years ago, when I was here last, the living con-
ditions of the refugees were most miserable,” Dr. Carry
said. “Now the situation has improved considerably. New
dwellings and housing projects have been built and are
being planned. They will gradually enable the refugees
to move from those miserable camps.”

Dr. Carry also declared that due to a great number of
marriages between Bavarians and “newcomers” there is
also a “beginning of a change in the relations between
the native population and the refugees.”

Organization of Bavarian Teachers Hailed

The proposed organization of the Bavarian Teachers
Association under a constitution has been lauded by a
visiting American educational consultant as an outstand-
ing achievement in the German education field.

R. Clair Moser, director of research for the Pennsyl-
vania State Education Association, said, “I am very much
impressed with the progress made in the past year by
the Bavarian Teachers Association toward the unification
of the 35,000 teachers in the state of Bavaria.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

60

Experts discuss public safety with HICOG officials.
L.-r., Joel B. White, Jr., HICOG Public Safety officer; ~~
Dr. Harry Soderman, director, National Institute of Tech-
nical Police of Sweden and adviser to German govern-
ment; John M. Gleason, chief of police, Greenwich, Conn; —
Ulrich C. Urton, acting chief, Public Safety Division,
HICOG; Joseph L, Lingo, director, Department of Police
Administration and Traffic Safety Institute, Purdue Uni-
versity, Lafayette, Ind.; Joseph E. Raffaeli, HICOG Public
Safety officer. (PRD HICOG photo by Gassner) —

“To achieve real and lasting progress,” he added, ©
“Bavarian teachers realize they must get together and ~
organize.”

Mr. Moser also pointed to the 20 teachers serving in —
the Bavarian state legislature as indicative of the interest —
teachers are taking in political and legislative affairs.

US Dental Technique Under Study

A method of reducing tooth decay by some 40 percent
through chemical fluoride with drinking water was out-
lined recently for students and professors at the Dental
School of Berlin's Free University.

Already in use in more than 20 major cities in the
United States, the new technique was described by mem-
bers of a visiting team of four American dentists who gave
a series of lecture-demonstrations at the Free University.
West Berlin dental students, lecturers and private practi-
tioners attended the five-day course. c=

The American dentists visited West Berlin in July as
part of a two-month tour sponsored :jointly by the Uni-
tarian Service Committee and the US Department of Stal
During the tour, the team also visited dental schools al
several major universities in western Germany.

Vocational-School Experts Confer

A program of citizenship training for German children
in vocational schools was the chief topic at a recent fiv
day conference of American and European vocationa
school experts held in Maulbronn, Wuerttemberg-Baden.
The 30 delegates represented England, France, Holland,
Norway, Switzerland and all states in western German

--- Page 64 ---
The discussions brought out that the same basic prob-
lems exist in all the represented countries. However, the
solutions for German children are termed most urgent
and require special attention; partly because more than
90 percent of the German population receive their final
training in vocational schools.

Paroles Save Hesse DM 500,000

Application of a parole system for German prisoners
sentenced by US courts has brought about a saving of
approximately DM 500,000 ($119,000) for Hesse. Since
the system was inaugurated at the start of 1950, the sen-
tences of 425 prisoners have been shortened because of
good behavior. .

The state penitentiaries were recently inspected by
Richard A. McGee, director of the California state depart-
ment of correction. His impression was that most of the
German prisons, constructed to permit complete isolation
of convicts, are a hindrance to modern penology. Mr.
McGee felt, however, that the German prison system is,
at the present time, in a process of redevelopment.

3,500 Crowd Information Center in Day

A new one-day attendance record for the US Informa-
tion Center in Schoeneberg borough of Berlin, was set
Aug. 7 when 3,518 persons passed through the doors. In-
cluded in the crowd were 1,800 visitors from East Berlin
and East Germany, many of them delegates to the Com-
munist-sponsored World Youth Festival. The Center was
opened in June 1949.

New 20,000-Watt Transmitter For RIAS

A new 20,000-watt transmitter, which will enable RIAS
(US-sponsored radio-station in Berlin) to send short-wave
broadcasts throughout most of Europe and a number of
Soviet satellite countries, was dedicated last month.

Speakers at the informal dedication ceremonies in-
cluded Shepard Stone, director of the Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG; Fred G. Taylor, director of RIAS; Prof.

German members (left kneeling and rear standing) of
Tempelhof Babe Ruth Juniors and American players
(right foreground, kneeling) of Berlin Dependents’ Schoo!
Bulldogs, opponents in diamond battle, receive gift base-
balls from Dr. Christopher B. Garnett (center) of HICOG
Berlin Element Education and Cultural Relations Branch,
after appeal for required number of balls. The American
team won, 12-11, (PRB HICOG-BE photo)

“Books for Freedom" campaign delivered 330 new books
to Free University of Berlin. Examining the books are
Donald A. Ostrander (second from left), Berlin representa-
tive of CARE (Cooperative for American Remittances to
Europe), who made the presentation to Prof. Hans von
Kress (fourth from left), rector of the university. Drive
was sponsored by CARE, the National Conference of
Christians and Jews, and the World Brotherhood Organi-
zation. (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

Ernst Reuter, mayor of Berlin; and Alfred Poesnicker,
chief engineer for RIAS.

The new short-wave facilities will make it possible for
RIAS to bring programs from the Western world to a
greatly expanded audience, including Eastern Europeans.

AFL Executive Revisits Germany

William C. Doherty, president of the National Associa-
tion of Letter Carriers (AFL) and vice president of the
executive council of the American Federation of Labor,
visited western Germany and Berlin recently. He was
last in Berlin in 1946 on invitation of the US Govern-
ment and was able to renew acquaintances with trade
union officials and government leaders in labor fields.

During his stay in Europe, Mr. Doherty conferred with
postal union authorities in Rome, Berne and Frankfurt
and attended conventions in Milan and Stockholm.

Guidance Workshop For Educators

A five-week guidance workshop, with German, Ameri-
can and West European educators participating, opened
July 15 at the Weilburg Teachers College, in Hesse, Near-
ly 150 educators and guests attended the opening session.

Every state in Germany is represented at the workshop
through the 69 German educators taking part. They come
from universities, teachers’ colleges, secondary schools,
elementary schools, ministries of education and special
fields such as psychology and vocational education.

In addition to the German educators, experts from Den-
mark, England, France, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland
represent West European countries, and there are six
American educators taking part. Director of the HICOG-
sponsored workshop is Dr. Joseph Roemer of the Educa-
tion Branch, Education and Cultural Relations Division.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
Dr. James R. Newman, US state commissioner for Hesse,
presents certificates to six Hesse resident officers, selected
for the permanent US Foreign Service staff. L.-r., J. R.
Starkey, resident officer stationed in Gross-Getau; Ben-
jamin R. Moser, Wiesbaden; Francis E. Sheehan, deputy
state commissioner for Hesse; Dr. Newman; W. N. Tur-
pin, Biedenkopf; C. S. Coon, Buedingen; R. C. Shaw,

Frankfurt; and Jonathan Dean, Limburg. (PRB OLCH photo)
Film Program Popular in Augsburg

The increased popularity of the HICOG film program
was evident in a recent attendance report for the Augs-
burg district made by the Office of the US State Com-
missioner for Bavaria.

An over-all increase of 54 percent in the audience was
noted in the first six months of 1951 compared with the
similar period of 1950, The number. of film showings
jumped 79 percent.

Donauwoerth Student-Aid Drive Gains

Progress in a campaign to obtain a free noon meal for
needy students of Donauwoerth, Bavaria, is reported by
the Women's Affairs advisory committee for that county.

School directors compiled lists of children needing
assistance which were matched with a list of 52 prospec-
tive hosts, who received letters requesting them to donate
free meals to the students on weekdays.

Wiesbaden Museum Derequisitioned

The Wiesbaden city museum, under American requisi-
tion since 1945, was returned to the city July 27 by Dr.
James R. Newman, US state commissioner for Hesse, and
Col. Allen W. Reed, Wiesbaden Military Post commander.
Accepting the key to the historic museum was Hans H.
Redlhammer, mayor of Wiesbaden.

In turning over custodianship of the property to the
mayor, Dr. Newman said, ‘Four years ago, I promised
you that no troops would be quartered in this building.
That promise has been kept, with the help of the Wies-
baden Military Post, especially with that of Colonel
Reed." Both officials reasserted their desire to derequisi-
tion all American-held property as soon as possible.

The museum, which housed the Wiesbaden Collecting
Point for art treasures, has featured many famous art ex-
hibitions which have always been open to the public. It
was the first museum in postwar Germany to exhibit
the masterpieces found in salt mines by American

INFORMATION BULLETIN

troops and the Rembrandt collection. The art collecting —

point has been under the directorship of Thomas J. Howe,
famed American expert who is a HICOG fine arts adviser.

Citizen Participation Seminars Planned

Greater citizen participation in governmental affairs
and how to make such participation more effective will

be the theme of a series of 10 succesive seminar groups —

to be held near Wiesbaden during the next six months,

During the nine-day meetings, selected young leaders —
and other persons who have evinced definite potentiali- —

ties in civic and governmental affairs, will discuss basic
political and civic issues, German, other European and
American specialists will assist in the program.

Community Named after George Marshall

A small settlement near Friedberg in Hesse has paid

tribute to the founder of the Marshall Plan by naming
its new community, built with the aid of ECA funds, “The
George C. Marshall Siedlung." The 43-house village ac-
commodates 86 families.

Escort Service Safeguards Kiddies

The Women's Affairs committee in Koenigsbrunn has
established an “escort service" for children attending
the local kindergarten. Many working parents have made
arrangements with the committee to have their children
escorted to and from home by older youngsters.

The plan was deemed necessary due to the geographic
nature of Koenigsbrunn. The village is one of the longest
in Bavaria with most houses situated on either side of
a busy highway.

Gift Parcels Continue

During the three months of April, May and June, 750,000
gift parcels were sent to residents of Germany, according
to the Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG.

Americans are sending approximately 250,000 gift par-
cels monthly to Germany. About 25 percent of these are

forwarded for delivery to residents in the Soviet Zone ~

while 75 percent are delivered by the German postal sys-
tem within the Federal Republic.

Since 1946, more than 45,000,000 US gift parcels have
been delivered to Germany. +END

First of 20,000 copies of German-language illustrated
volume of American history being loaded for distribution
to schools throughout western sectors of Berlin. Books
(PRB BE-HICOG photo}

were donated by HICOG.

--- Page 66 ---
Today’s Coal Situation

Statement

By BENJAMIN J. BUTTENWIESER

Assistant US High Commissioner for Policy

ECENTLY THERE HAS BEEN great criticism in Ger-

many of the coal export quota set for Germany by
the International Authority of the Ruhr (IAR). The moti-
vation for this criticism seems to derive from the fear
that the average German will not have enough coal to
heat his home next winter; in other words, the fear that
the people of Germany will be cold.

This statement is designed to present the facts in the
coal situation as clearly as possible and to show the Ger-
man public that their apprehension of a coal shortage
is not based on fact.

The impression has been created that the coal export
quota which has been fixed represents a sort of tribute
exacted from Germany. Actually it represents the best
judgment of the IAR as to the amount of coal which Ger-
many can export. This judgment is predicated on careful
evaluation of the effect of such export on the German
economy and, conversely, the effect on the economics of
the countries to which this coal is shipped if they do not
receive it. Obviously, with the present vastly increased
industrial production required in various western Euro-
pean countries, incident to the mutual defense effort, a
serious coal shortage has developed, even after the im-
port of higher-priced American coal. As a result, many
of Germany's western neighbors who possess little or no
coal, have had to curtail certain of their industrial pro-
duction, notably steel.

The German export quota for the third and fourth
quarters of 1951 has been fixed at 6,200,000 tons each. It is
inveighed against as being an intolerable burden upon the
Federal Republic, since it does not leave Germany with
sufficient coal to meet her domestic requirements. It has
been further submitted that because of this export quota,
Germany will be forced to import coal from the United
States at a higher price than she receives for her export
coal.

On the face of it, this would appear to be economi-
cally incongruous and indefensible. However, it is sug-
gested that a clear presentation of the facts of this situa-
tion will demonstrate that Germany's situation is not by
any means as intolerable as it has been portrayed. Ger-
many’s coal resources are unique in western Europe. By
sharing them with the other countries engaged in the
Western defense effort, she is only contributing to the
over-all economy what so many other nations are doing
in ways commensurate with their

countries with which she has no trade agreements
governing coal, totals 6,750,000 tons. Surely this must
represent Germany's own judgment of what she ought to
be able to export. It should be noted, however, that this
is 550,000 tons more than the quota fixed by the IAR. In-
cluded in the latter category of countries which would
expect deliveries of coal from Germany, even though
their trade agreements do not cover it, are such long-
standing and valued customers of Germany as Austria,
Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The situation
for the last quarter for 1951 is approximately the same.

Even after the export of 6,200,000 tons of coal in each
of the fiscal quarters under discussion, it is estimated that
the Federal Republic will still have available for domestic
consumption 24,300,000 tons in the third quarter and
25,900,000 tons in the fourth quarter. It should be added
that these latter figures include a contemplated import
of 2,400,000 tons from the United States in the third quar-
ter and 3,000,000 tons for the fourth quarter. The amount
of US coal that Germany must import is only a fraction
of the total amount of coal required by the European
defense economy. Under the present program other coun-
tries producing for defense will also require American coal.

In 1936, when the territory comprising the present Fed-
eral Republic produced 116,159,100 tons of coal, it ex-
ported 31,378,000 tons. As against this, in 1951, when it
is estimated that Germany will have produced a total of
120,000,000 tons, she is. only being asked by the Ruhr
authority to export 24,862,000 tons.

While various arguments may be adduced as to Western
Germany's requiring more coal now than in 1936, it is
none the less highly significant that in 1936 when she pro-
duced 3,841,000 tons less than in 1951, she exported of her
untrammeled free will 6,516,000 tons more than in 1951.

HE PRICE FOR EXPORT COAL will, on the average,

be about $14.07 per ton as compared with a domestic
sales price of about $10.65 per ton. The cost of the coal
imported from the United States will be about $23 per
ton. This difference when viewed in the absolute is sub-
stantial. What should not be overlooked, however, is that
this increased cost of import coal plays little, if any, role
in this entire situation. Practically all of this import coal
is used either directly or indirectly for industrial produc-
tion, an important portion of which is iron and steel.
Much of the iron and steel resulting

economic capacities. The coal which
Germany contemplates delivering
under her trade agreements during
the third quarter of 1951, plus the
amounts she customarily delivers to

This article is the text of a state-
ment on the coal situation in Ger-
many released in Bonn by Mr.
Buttenwieser on Aug 30, 1951.

from this imported US coal is im-
mediately sold for export on what is
almost a barter basis or better still, is
exported in the form of fabricated
products. The profit on such exports

SEPTEMBER 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
and the differential between the domestic price for
German steel and the export price is enormous. For
instance, a standard steel item like hot rolled bars is
being purchased by American buyers at $135 per
metric ton, f.o.b. northern German ports, as against
a German domestic price for the same product of
$63 per ton and a price for this product in the United
States of $75 per ton. Inasmuch as it requires about 1.3
tons of coal for each ton of the above noted steel, it is
obvious that buying 1.3 tons of coal at $23 per ton, versus
the export price of roughly $14 per ton represents an
increased cost of about $11.70 per ton of steel. As against
that, however, the profit on selling said one ton of steel
for export represents a gain of $72 per ton over the
domestic price.

It requires no great financial acumen to appreciate that
it is good business to pay $11.70 in order to make a
profit of $72. As indicated above, the profit on products
fabricated from such steel is even greater.

Even after the export of the 12,400,000 tons of coal
required in the last six months of 1951, it is estimated
‘that Germany will still have had available for domestic
use 96,134,000 tons. This is approximately 10 percent more
than: western Germany had available for her domestic
use in 1936. The simple fact is that whatever shortage of
coal there may be in Germany after the export of the
quota set by the IAR is due primarily to the very sizable
increase in Germany's industrial production, in the fore-
. front of which is steel. Much of this increased production
of steel goes for export from which Germany derives
vitally necessary foreign exchange. So, too; does she from
her many other exportable products in whose production
coal plays such a decisive part.

These exports have grown enormously and are now
running at the rate of $3,500,000,000 per year. It is out of
this vast amount of foreign sales—a sizable part of
which is in dollars — that Germany buys, and can afford
to buy, raw materials, including coal.

BVIOUSLY, WHEN GERMANY'S current industrial

production is at the rate of about 132 percent of 1936,
her requirements for coal grow commensurately. To meet
this situation, it is necessary to mine more coal. Just as
Germany requires more coal for her increased industrial
production, so too does the rest of the world, particularly
Europe, whose chief source of coal is the Ruhr. The best
panacea for a shortage of coal is increased production.
Toward such increase, Germany should bend every effort,
as are other western European countries. In this connec-
tion the following table should prove illuminating. It
shows coal production for Germany and her Western coal
producing neighbors in 1936 as compared with their esti-
mated production for 1951 on a tonnage and on a per-

centage basis: (Estimated) Percentage

1936 (tons) 1951 (tons) 1951 of 1936
Saar 12,000,000 16,000,000 133
France . . 45,600,000 53,000,000 116
Belgium... . . 27,600,000 29,000,000 105 .
German Republic . . 117,000,000 120,000,000 103
Netherlands 13,200,000 12,000,000 91

Other countries make available to Germany raw ma-
terial or finished products at a sacrifice in that they ex-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

64

port to Germany not merely surplus goods, but materials.
and manufactured goods which they could well use in
their own domestic economies; this is particularly true of
the United States. There are many instances which could
be cited to substantiate this fact. However, since steelisa
product which forms such a basic common denominator
of standard price and quality, it is a practically non-con-
tentious medium to use as an example.

The United States is a substantial exporter of steel to
the free nations of western Europe. It exports steel in
varying forms. Average prices cannot be calculated, and,
even if calculated, they would be misleading, as averages
so often are. However, the example cited above of ex-
porting rolled bars at $75 per ton and importing them at
$135 per ton is a typical and not a rare instance. :

HUS, THE PICTURE which has been portrayed of Ger-
many's being discriminated against by the IAR in
being forced to export coal and, in turn, to buy it at a
higher price than it receives, does not constitute a fair
reflection of situations that similarly prevail in many
other countries. If other countries were to follow the
thesis of fulfilling their own domestic requirements first
out of their own domestic resources and exporting only
what they could comfortably spare, it is reasonable to
say that Germany, lacking as she does most raw materials,
would indeed be in a very unsatisfactory condition today.
So far as the United States is concerned, one could go
a step further and say that if the American people had
taken any such attitude toward Germany, especially in -
the years immediately subsequent to May 1945, the Ger-
man people would have literally starved to death.

One final conclusion can be drawn from the considera-
tion of the foregoing plus one last comparison. In 1950,
Germany had 84,216,000 tons available for her domestic
requirements. It is estimated that for 1951 she will have
96,134,000 tons available. If there is an equitable distribu-
tion between German industry and the German consumer,
there should be enough coal to keep people warm next
winter. That this distribution is made equitably is the
responsibility of the Federal Republic. +END

16 Hospitals Given Radium by US

The first shipment of a planned donation of 2,027.5 mil-
ligrams (31.28 grams) of radium to be distributed among
16 West German research institutes, clinics and hospitals
has arrived from the United States. The radium, worth
$49,474, was purchased through the HICOG Special Pro-
jects Fund as a gift to the German people.

The newly arrived tiny capsules in 100-pound lead con-
tainers were sent to the Strahlen Institute of the Women’s
Clinic, Erlangen University hospital, where the radium
will be used for cancer research and treatment. Subse-
quent shipments will be distributed by the Max Planck
Biophysics Institute in Frankfurt according to changing
needs in different areas.

Radium is very scarce in West Germany as the only
source of production, the uranium mines of the Erzgebirge
mountain range, is in the Soviet Zone.

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 68 ---
~The Radical Right

HE PHILOSOPHY AND TACTICS of the Socialist

Reich Party (SRP) are in many respects indistinguish-
able from those of the Nazi Party before 1933. The party's
espousal of totalitarian ideas is at times open, on other
occasions thinly veiled. Meetings are replete with mili-
tary music, strong-arm squads, insignia and emotional
ultra-nationalistic appeals strongly reminiscent of the
Nazi regime. SRP speakers have revived the “stab in the
back" legend to explain the defeat of the Third Reich.
They tend to castigate as traitors all Germans who
opposed Hitler.

The goals of the SRP do not differ materially from those
of other parties of the extremist right. It favors a strong,
centralized German government, the immediate evacu-
ation of occupation troops, the conclusion of a peace
treaty, the immediate restoration of complete German
sovereignty and the creation of Europe as a “Third Force”
between East and West.

Since the Communist line for West German consumption
is baited with such “Third Force” lures, the relationship
of Communism to the SRP merits special attention, Not
only did SRP delegates rub shoulders with Communists
and Communist stooges at various neutralist conferences,
such as the so-called German Congress which assembled
at Frankfurt in March 1951, but other symptoms of un-
common affinity may be noted. Thus the Communists and
their (German) youth auxiliaries, who had at one time
been wont to break up SRP meetings, no longer inter-
fered with them during the Lower Saxony election cam-
paign. Even Communist hecklers stayed away from SRP
rallies.

Another indication of Communist benevolence toward
the SRP was the reaction of the Red press in East and
West Germany to its electoral victory, which one would
have expected to be grist for their mills. In spite of its ob-
vious propaganda appeal as an argument to buttress their
thesis that western Germany is on the high road to Fas-
cism, Communist editors all but ignored the SRP showing.

OICING THE VIEW of many competent German ob-
servers, Federal Chancellor Konrad Adenauer stated
on June 18 that close connections existed between certain
radicals of the right and the Communists, with both
groups deriving financial support from the same source.
Although Lower Saxony has been handicapped in post-
war years by special economic problems, by substantial
unemployment in certain regions and by a disproportion-
ately heavy concentration of refugees, an analysis of the
election results tends to indicate that these factors are
not primarily responsible for the SRP upsurge.

The SRP did not have its greatest gains in those areas
with high rates of unemployment; nor does it appear that
Tefugees furnished a major contribution to the SRP, for
the refugee party, Bloc of Expellees and Victims ‘of In-
Justice (BHE), despite certain organizational difficulties,

SEPTEMBER 1951

65

The first significant emergence in western Ger-
many of neo-Nazi ideology since the crushing of
Nazism in World War II was the polling by the
Socialist Reich Party (SRP) of 367,000 (11 percent)
of the vote in the legislative election May 6 in the
north-central German state of Lower Saxony. Sixteen
SRP candidates were elected to the 158-seat state
legislature. The following article, excerpted from the
Seventh Quarterly Report on Germany just issued
by the Office of the US High Commissioner for Ger-
many for the period of April 1 to June 30, presents
an analysis of the radical-right political status in the
Federal Republic of Germany. In the Soviet Zone,
former Nazis and sympathizers have been permitted
to regroup under certain Communist “cleansing” into
the so-called National Front, but there is no open
evidence of any connection between it and the SRP.

showed considerable strength at the polls. In fact, the SRP
garnered most of its votes in those areas which are mainly
conservative and rural and often in the same areas where
the NSDAP (Nazi Party) formerly had been strongest.

While it is almost axiomatic that serious economic
reverses in any nation would increase radicalism, it does
not appear that the economic plight of the areas in which
thé SRP fared well is sufficiently severe to be labeled
the prime cause for that party’s successes. Rather, it
seems that the causes are to a great extent intangible
and psychological.

In a state which has been traditionally more nation-
alistic than most of the others in western Germany, the
SRP was able to sway those segments of society which
had remained the most unregenerate believers in the
past Nazi regime. This it accomplished by hard work and
demagogic electioneering both in the rural areas and in
those towns which had been most susceptible to Nazi-
influence. There is no reason, however, to believe that
the gains of the SRP herald the immediate creation on a
federal basis of a large ultra-nationalist organization
which could compete with the major democratic parties.

In addition to its strongholds in Lower Saxony, the SRP
has a few small local organizations scattered through
Schleswig-Holstein, northern Hesse, North Rhine-West-
phalia, a section of Rhineland-Palatinate and in Wuert-
temberg-Baden. Roughly in the order listed here, these
areas seem to offer the best chances for SRP development,
but even in these states the party has a long way to go
before attaining real political influence.

The remainder of the Federal Republic appears to pro-
vide even less fertile ground. Nor does it appear that the
SRP will be capable of promoting a merger of all the other
diverse parties and groups of the extreme right. All pre-

* vious efforts in the direction of unity have foundered in

the earliest stages. The desire to be the Fuehrer (the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
leader) is strong among the leaders of these parties and
is not conducive to complete amalgamation.

N GENERAL THE MAJOR political parties (the Social

Democrats and the two’ major middle-class parties,
the Christian Democrats and the Free Democrats) continue
to oppose the views of the SRP and other extremist par-
ties. For a variety of reasons, however, the political
leaders of the moderate parties feel called upon from time
to time to exhibit nationalistic’ tendencies themselves.
The desire to come to power, or to retain power, the
steadily reviving national consciousness and the desire
not to permit the radical nationalists to pose as the sole
representatives of German patriotism — all play a role in
accounting for such manifestations, particularly during
election campaigns.

These factors are, to some extent, natural and to be
expected. They need not be a matter of grave concern
unless nationalism is carried to the point where it actually
redounds to the disadvantage of those parties themselves
and of Allied objectives. By and large the type of nation-
alism manifested by the moderate parties need not be,
and indeed should not be, confused with the brand of
nationalistic radicalism preached by the extremists.

None the less, that there is a certain potential danger
from the extreme right cannot be denied. Certain elements
among the youth, the refugees and the unemployed,
among ex-soldiers and former Nazis, are potentially
amenable to nationalist appeals in many instances be-
cause they are politically homeless and desirous of a new
faith, Many among them regard themselves as having
come down in the world and desire the opportunity to
regain their former positions or comparable privileges.

Most of the refugees are adherents not of the extreme
rightist groups but of either the established democratic
parties or their own special interest party, the BHE. The
principal leaders of the refugee party are moderates for
the most part, with the exception of a few who are
rightist radicals, although still less extreme than SRP
figures, As a generally malcontent group with irredentist
leanings, however, the ultimate possibility that they may
succumb to a combination of ultranationalist appeals and
economic panaceas will continue to exist for some time

Fence now protects from vandalism Red Army memorial
tank erected along Autobahn in US Sector of Berlin.
Irate West Berliners smeared sides with slogans and
even set it afire. US Commandant ordered fence after
USSR ignored suggestion for removal to Soviet Zone.

American, German and French officials dedicate plaque
commemorating American aid in reconstruction of swim-
ming pool in Luebars, French Sector of Berlin. Present
were, l.-r., Adolf Duennebacke, mayor of Reinickendorf
borough; Charles Corcelle, French liaison officer; Dr,
Dietrich Blos, Public Health office; Mrs. Helen B. Nixon,
HICOG Youth and Community Activities adviser; Wil-
mer M. Froistad, chief, Public Health and Welfare
Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG, and Adolf Hilt, commu- —
nity Affairs assistant. (PRB BE-HICOG photos by Marczallek)

i
4
;
B

and, in turn, will depend in a large measure upon the ~
solution of economic and other problems facing the ~
Federal Republic.

HUS FAR IN POSTWAR Germany the former Nazis
have never been a solid bloc which could be utilized

and organized by a single political party. Although all
extreme rightist parties are undoubtedly influenced by
the persistence of Nazi ideas, National Socialism as a
system has been destroyed and survives only in frag-
ments and among die-hard groups. Millions of former
Nazi party members have found their way into some sort ~
of relationship with the present democratic regime.
Any consideration of ex-Nazis as a potential source of —
support for the radical right must take into account the ©
fact that there are several varieties of former NSDAP ~
members. A relatively small group remains completely ~
incorrigible, embittered and Nazi by conviction. This —
group may be expected to affiliate itself more and more ~
openly with parties of the extreme right. Many of the ~
worst among them are still barred by law from the high ~
posts of leadership or from government positions. ”
Occasionally a Nazi of this general breed may be 9
found in one of the more respectable parties, but he is ©
likely to encounter difficulties should he openly promote —
anti-democratic policies. This was the case with Wolf
gang Hedler,* federal lower house deputy, who was eX-—
pelled from the German Party after public speeches im ©
which he made anti-Semitic remarks and charged that all ”
who opposed Hitler should be considered traitors. a
A considerably larger group of former Nazis are those |
who, because of their professional ability and technical
qualifications, have resumed their position in the middle

* See ‘The Hedler Case" in the Information Bulletin, April 1950 issue. —

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 70 ---
or upper strata of German political and economic life.
As a whole, these people are not overly interested in
politics but are mainly concerned with their. careers.
Many were of use to the Nazi Party because of their
skills, while others joined the party for opportunist
reasons, Their greatest political defect is not that they
would tend to join an extreme rightist party, but that
many of them might have little compunction about work-
ing for such a party should it come to power.

TU .INALLY, THERE ARE a host of nominal or small-fry

former party members. Most of these have resumed
their normal pursuits and are to be found in all of the
conservative parties, including even a few in the Social
Democratic Party (SPD). The moderate parties make no
distinction between them and non-NSDAP members and,
indeed, no such distinction has ever really been drawn
in postwar German society.

To the extent that this group might be attracted to
rightist parties, the appeal would spring from the strongly
voiced idea that “little Nazis" suffered unduly from the
denazification processes which they regarded as unjust
mass punishment. On the whole, however, there does not
seem to be any valid evidence that this group, because
of past political affiliations, provides an immediately
fertile field for extremist cultivation.

A large number of ex-officers of the German army, i.e.,
primarily the professionals who have lost their social
standing and prominence in German official life, consti-
tute still another dissatisfied group. The majority of those
who sought the armed forces as a career are not organ-
ized. A minority constitute the core of several veterans’
organizations which have come to the fore during the
last year.

The initial impetus for their creation sprang from a
desire to acquire pensions and preferential entrance into
the German civil service but their aims now include many
quasi-political demands bearing upon the past and future
treatment of the ex-military and their desire to acquire
influence over the course of affairs of state.

There are radical rightist leaders among these organi-
zations and extremely nationdlistic statements are not

On visit in Berlin to discuss problems with trade union
leaders, William C. Doherty, president of the National
Association of Letter Carriers, talks with Hans Franz, first
(PRB BE-HICOG photo)

chairman of Postal Union of Berlin.

SEPTEMBER 1951

67

Senate Foreign Relations Committee arrives at Rhine-
Main Air Base on inspection tour of Western Europe's
military and economic progress. First row, 1.-r., Senator
Theodore F. Green (D.-R.I.) temporary chairman; General
Thomas T Handy, commander-in-chief, European Com-
mand; Assistant US High Commissioner Chauncey Park-
er; Maj. Gen. Truman Landon, USAFE chief of staff;
second row, Senators Alexander Wiley (R.-Wis.); Brien
McMahon (D.-Conn.); H. Alexander Smith (R.-N. J.); Guy
M. Gillette (D.-lowa); Owen Brewster (R.-Maine); and
Jack McFall, assistant secretary of state for Congres-
sional Relations. Hidden from view are Senators John
J. Sparkman (D.-Ala.) and Bourke B. Hickenlooper (R.-
Iowa). (PRD HICOG photo by Claude Jacoby}

uncommon. To date, the organizations themselves have
not pledged open support to any particular extremist
party, but such action in the future cannot be regarded
as improbable. The bulk of the veterans, however, may
be considered politically uncommitted.

O A CERTAIN EXTENT, many of Germany's youth

may be vulnerable to extreme rightist influence.
There are many young people who lack traditional af-
filiations and steadfast convictions. Some are cynical and
many are politically apathetic. The danger of youth
adrift is underlined by the regimentation of Soviet Zone
youth into a single totalitarian entity. The danger in the
Federal Republic is not yet acute, but it is a potential
danger which demands greater efforts to engender con-
cepts which offer hope, a faith in democracy and the pros-
pect of energetic action toward new and worthy goals.

The future of the ultranationalist parties in Germany
will depend, of course, upon a great many factors other
than the degree to which various groups may be po-
tentially susceptible to a radical appeal. In this regard,
the approach of the Federal Government to the many
problems facing it is basic, as are the arrangements which
will identify the national idea with the concept of a Ger-
man role in an integrated Europe, permitting the fulfill-
ment of national aspirations through a common destiny
with the West.

Of pertinence to any immediate growth of the radical
right will be the attitude of the moderate parties and the
Federal Government toward the problem exemplified by
the SRP. Genuine concern arose among the democratic
parties when it became apparent that the SRP was making
inroads upon the electorate in Lower Saxony. Federal
authorities began to consider various measures which
might be inaugurated to thwart radicalism.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
Heretofore, the problem had not been considered urgent
by the Federal Government, as extreme rightist parties
had always been badly defeated at the polls. While the
SRP upsurge in Lower Saxony has not resulted in giving
that party a share in the governmental responsibility
within that state, and while it appears that the SRP
achievements do not herald any general advance of the
ultranationalist cause in the foreseeable future, it does
pose a challenge which cannot safely be ignored by those
in places of power and responsibility.

HE MAJOR PARTIES, notwithstanding occasional

flirtations with radical elements at the local level,
appear to be well aware of the situation. When it became
apparent that the SRP was making headway in the Lower
Saxony election campaign, rightist radicalism was re-
peatedly denounced by government and party officials
in press conferences and before sessions of the federal
parliament: On several occasions, ‘speeches attacking the
SRP and defending democracy were delivered before the
parliament and drew applause from the entire house. The
federal cabinet seriously considered ways and means of
banning the SRP prior to the election; but the conclusion
was reached that the executive did not possess the legal
authority to ban a political party.

However, on May 4 the cabinet outlawed the para-
military organizations of the SRP. The Reichsfront, which
provided strong-arm squads for political rallies and had
storm-trooper aspects, was specifically disbanded. This
action was based primarily upon Article 9, Paragraph 2,
of the federal constitution, which provides: “Associations,
the objects or activities of which conflict with the crimi-
nal laws or which are directed against the constitutional
order or the concept of international understanding, are
prohibited.” :

Leaders of the Federal Government also announced on
May 4 that the government intends to bring a suit in the
constitutional court in an effort to outlaw the SRP. Arti-
cle 21, Paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the German
Federal Republic provides for such a step, stating: ‘Par-
ties which, according to their aims and the conduct of
their members, seek to impair or abolish the libertarian
democratic basic order or to jeopardize the existence of
the Federal Republic of Germany, are unconstitutional.
The Federal Constitutional Court decides on the question
of unconstitutionality.”

HE CONSTITUTIONAL COURT is not yet in oper-

ation but the final step in its establishment, the selec-
tion of the judges, is expected to be completed shortly.
Spokesmen for the Federal Government have indicated
that the case of the SRP will be the first one presented to
the court.

In addition to this contemplated action on the part of
the Federal Government, authorities of the various states
have conferred on the problem. Two of the states, Hesse
and Rhineland-Palatinate, have taken action to forbid
SRP leaders to make public speeches in those areas. Other
states are apt to take similar measures should they en-
counter serious attempts at SRP organization.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

After a year's study in US high schools, 22 West-Berlin
teen-agers return home. (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Marczallek)

The major organs of the German press have also ex.
hibited, in general, a keen awareness of the implications —
of rightist radicalism as posed by the SRP. They have ~
given the problem extensive coverage and most editorials
agree that the SRP has Nazi characteristics which cause’
it to constitute a danger to German democracy. Man
papers have warned that counter-measures are called for
and that the Federal Republic should not follow the ~
laissez-faire course of the Weimar Republic. d

HE OCCUPATION POWERS still retain adequate ~
authority to meet any emergency which might en- —
danger the basic purposes of the occupation. At present q
they hold reserve powers under the Occupation Statute
pertaining to “protection, prestige and security of Allied —
Forces..." as well as “...the right, acting under instruc-
tions of their governments, to resume, in whole or in part —
the exercise of full authority if they consider that to do 3
so is essential to security or to preserve democratic
government in Germany..." It is not contemplated that it 7
will be necessary to exercise this authority.
In any case, the United States does not intend to permit —
any radical rightist force to seize power in Germany. —
American policy remains steadfastly opposed to the re- —
vival of National Socialism or its principles, as well as
to the recrudescence of ultranationalism from any quarte’
A responsible, determined attitude has been displayed b
the democratic parties and the Federal Government to
ward the SRP, and the outcome of the action by the
constitutional court will be awaited with interest. ‘
It will be a major responsibility of the German people
and of their governments, in the months and years tog
come, to insure against the revival of Nazism or other
expressions of radical nationalism by taking all possibl
measures to remove legitimate causes of social and eco 4
nomic unrest. It is equally incumbent upon every Germ
citizen to assist in creating an enlightened public opiniol
and to make clear to misinformed and misguided elemen'
that a policy of intransigent nationalism not only will
to solve Germany's problems but may lead to fresh
asters. The road to the future must lead forward to a ne
Germany dedicated to freedom ina united Europe. +E

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 72 ---
Economic Review

Employment at All-Time High

By JACK STONE
Deputy Chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Program Division
Office of. Economic Affairs, HICOG

Dues JULY INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION again fell off, as it had in June, declining to 132 percent of the
1936 level, seven points (five percent) below the postwar high of 139 reached in both April and May. Nor-
mal summer influences were a factor in the decline; lack of coal was a brake on the expansion of heavy in-
dustry; lack of funds and high prices restricted activity to lower levels than had been expected earlier; the
speculative factors which had pushed economic activity up so sharply after Korea seemed to be losing part
of their force. Demand for industrial production tapered off somewhat, and in the consumer goods area had
dropped decidedly. Retail sales were rather slow and, in the face of buyer resistance, prices were easing for
the first time since the Korean war began.

In other ways, the economy at midyear showed a very favorable picture — with exports at a record of
$315,000,000* in July ($31,000,000 more than imports), with employment at an all-time high of $14,800,000 at the
end of July, and with harvest prospects giving full promise of another bumper year.

* * * * *

XPORTS FROM WESTERN GERMANY in June in- against May's $97,000,000. Imports from non-sterling OEEC
Hq creased to $297,000,000, the highest level since the countries rose to $86,000,000 in June from $76,000,000 in
war, and preliminary figures for July show an even May. Imports from sterling OEEC countries showed a
higher total — $315,000,000. Imports rose slightly — to decline from $21,000,000 in May to $17,000,000 in June.
$255,000,000 in June and to $284,000,000 (preliminary Imports from the Western Hemisphere fell from the figure
figure) in July — still below the record levels of last fall of $98,000,000 to $92,000,000; June imports from the United
and winter. July was the fourth month in a row in which States fell from $61,000,000 in May to $54,000,000. Im-
exports exceeded imports in value. This trade surplus ports from the non-participating sterling area fell from
amounted to $18,000,000 in April, $23,000,000 in May, $27,600,000 to $24,700,000.
$42,000,000 in June, and $31,000,000 (preliminary figure) Industrial raw material imports continued to decline —
in July. Foreign aid imports (financed by ECA and by eight percent in May and by four percent in June.
GARIOA) totaled $45,000,000 in June, and the trade The Federal Republic's position with the EPU was again
surplus excluding foreign aid exceeded $87,000,000. bettered by a July accounting surplus of $71,000,000, re-
A breakdown of the $297,000,000 total exports for June ducing the cumulative deficit to $202,000,000.
by area shows exports to the Western Hemisphere, in- The German federal authorities are initiating additional
cluding the United States, remaining stable. Exports to measures to tighten existing controls in the free ports.
the Western Hemisphere as a whole were $55,000,000 in These include appointment of a federal commissar for free
June as against $57,000,000 in May; exports to the United ports to be located in Hamburg, increase of customs per-
States were $21,000,000 in June as against $22,000,000 in sonnel at the free port boundaries, and extension of con-
May. The increase in total exports was due mostly to the trol powers to be exercised by federal customs officials.
recovery of exports to non-sterling OEEC countries, which
rose to $165,000,000 after a considerable dip in May. Ex- Industry
ports to sterling-participating countries (UK, Ireland and Industrial production has continued to drop from the
Iceland) also increased slightly over May to $26,500,000. peak reached in April 1951. The federal index of indus-
Exports to the non-OEEC sterling area increased from trial production (excluding food processing, stimulants
the May figure of $14,000,000 to a postwar peak of and building) declined to 135 percent of the 1936 level in
$16,000,000. Exports to Finland and Yugoslavia rose from June as against 139 in May and April. Preliminary data
$9,100,000 in May to $10,200,000 in June. Deliveries to indicate a further decline in July. The largest June pro-
the Soviet bloc, after reaching their lowest point in May duction declines were in shoes (down 19 percent), saw
for any month since July 1949, rose again to approximate- mills and woodworking (down 13 percent), leather pro-
ly $5,000,000. . duction (down eight percent), vehicles (down eight per-
The June export increase was almost entirely in finished cent), ceramics (down seven percent), optical and pre-
products, which amounted to $224,000,000 (75 percent of cision instruments (down seven percent), miscellaneous
total exports). metal goods (down seven percent) and chemicals (down
Total imports for June were $255,000,000, up slightly five percent).
from the $250,000,000 recorded in May. Restrictions on Although the production index went down in June, 14
licensing of purchases from the Euro- : of the industry groups making up the
pean Payments Union (EPU) area were . index showed increases — the largest
continued, and imports from the OEEC This review is based on con- being aluminum production (up 11 per-
Participating countries remained rela- tributions submitted by reports cent), oil production (four percent),
tively low — $104,000,000 in June as officers in the Office of Economic crude oil (three percent), non-ferrous
—_——. Affairs and the Office of Labor ore mining, machinery, hollow glass
* DM 1,323,529,400 at the official rate of 23,8 Affairs, HICOG. and paper production, all up three
cents to the Deutsche mark. percent. The down trend in production

SEPTEMBER 1951 69 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
since April, while in certain industries traceable to the
coal shortage, is in larger measure due to a general easing
of demand, especially in consumer goods industries.

The International Authority for the Ruhr (IAR) decision
setting the second quarter 1951 export allocation at
6,200,000 tons and the resulting Federal Republic domestic
allocation plan of only approximately 20,000,000 tons
brought forth a storm of protest and criticism from the
German government, trade unions, industry and press.

Now, at the end of the second quarter, it can be seen
that the Federal Government's estimates were far too
pessimistic and that even with an export quota of 6,200,000
tons, more than 23,700,000 tons were made available dur-
ing the quarter to the domestic economy, an amount
which according to the Federal Government's estimates
could have been available only if exports had not ex-
ceeded 2,900,000 tons.

Daily average output of hard coal was 389,000 metric
tons for the quarter (including extra shift production on
normal work days of 5,800 tons), and total gross clean
production of hard coal was 29,437,000 tons. Net merchant-
able production of all solid fuels except raw brown coal
was 27,568,000 tons. Imports were 2,200,000 and total
availabilities 29,774,000 tons. Of that quantity, 6,089,000
tons were exported. Therefore, 23,685,000 tons remained
for domestic requirements, 3,700,000 tons more than plan-
ned in the original domestic allocation plan.

Western Germany's exports of 6,089,189 tons of solid
fuels represented 98.2 percent of the 6,200,000 tons allo-
cated for the quarter. The importing countries had placed
orders for 6,133,842 tons, and so exports totaled 99.3 per-
cent of orders placed.

Daily average hard-coal production in June was 382,145
tons and dropped to 376,588 tons in July. Inland deliveries
exceeded consumption in the second quarter and coal
stocks increased substantially. Because of decreased out-
put thus far in the third quarter coal stocks were begin-
ning to show a decline in early August.

The coal-mining labor situation deteriorated further in
June as the mines lost 1,177 workers. In the first three
weeks in July, there was a further net loss of 1,000 work-
ers. Absenteeism which rose from 15.7 percent in May
to 17.1 percent in June and has exceeded 18 percent in
the first two weeks in July, can be primarily attributed
to tariff leaves. Output per manshift for underground
workers in June was 1,467 tons — a rise of four percent
during the past year and the highest monthly figure since
the war, but still only 69 percent of the 1936 average.

The DKBL (German Coal Mining Management), alarmed
at the drop in daily production, has announced an incen-
tive plan to increase output by means of a prize com-
petition and special bonuses totaling DM 1,500,000 for the
period Aug. 1 through Oct. 31. The target is to attain a
minimum output of 393,800 tons per day through concen-
tration of coal-producing operations at a smaller number
of working points, thus leading to better utilization of
machines and equipment and an improved proportion of
productive shifts.

The economic ministry has established an allocation
plan for 400,000 tons of US coal imports to be purchased
with free dollars in the third quarter. The chemical in-
dustry will receive 100,000 tons, stones and earths 100,000,
iron and steel processing 42,000, non-ferrous metals 40,000,
pulp and paper 30,000 and textiles 30,000 tons. The balance
is to be divided among other industries. It is uncertain
how much additional US coal will be imported against
processing contracts. Originally, the Federal Government
had planned imports of 1,000,000 tons for processing con-
tracts, but at OEEC meetings in June, implied that it
intended to import more than 2,000,000 tons in the third
quarter. Because of shipping shortages and the late date,
it is doubtful that the Federal Government can step up
processing contracts deliveries to’ this level.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

70

Steel and Railways

The following table contains aggregate statistics for
production during the first half of 1951, final figures for
each month of the second quarter 1951, and preliminary
July production figures:

1951 Production Thousand Metric Tons

Jan.-June April May June July
PigIron . . 5,031.1 866.5 920.0 944.8 918.1
Daily Average . . 28.9 29.7 31.5 29.6
Working Days . . 30 31 30 31
Crude Steel 6442.4 1,121.3 1,121.3 1,187.4 1,156.9
Daily Average . 44.8 46.7 45.7 44.5

Working Days |; 25 24 26 26

Hot Rolled Products 4,483.3 784.2 744.0 813.4 801.3
Daily Average . 31.4 31.0 31.3 30.8
Working Days . . 25 24 26 26

. ’

In addition to short supplies of coal (which have caused
cutbacks in production), shortages of sulphur, phosphorus,
casein, kogasin, phenol, potassium permanganate and
bichromate continue to be felt. During 1951, the chemical
industry will probably ship 9,500 tons of naphthalene to
the United States. Although this important raw material
for defense production is in short supply in Germany as
well as in the United States, the chemical industry has
agreed to curtail its use of naphthalene and ship 25 per-
cent of its production to the United States. Also of im-
portance to US defense efforts is the recently completed
barter deal of 25,000 tons of German benzol for 62,000 tons
of 90 octane gasoline to be delivered by early fall.

The rail traffic situation in July showed no significant\
change compared with June. Daily freight car demands
were 57,000 cars, 99.5 percent of which the Bundesbahn
(state railroad system) met with a park of 248,000 cars.
Traffic demands were three percent higher than last year,
with 80 percent of the increase due to larger coal traffic.
July is the fifth consecutive month in which the avail-
able 19 train paths to Berlin have been fully utilized daily.

The Bundesbahn law on the reorganization of the fed-
eral railways was accepted in final reading by the Bundes-
tag (lower house of parliament) on July 6, 1951, but was
subsequently rejected by the Bundesrat (upper house).
The Bundesrat holds that control by the Federal Govern-
ment over Bundesbahn operations would be too extensive
and that of the railway board of directors would be too
restricted. The SPD (Social Democratic Party) and the
unions are also demanding that labor have 50 percent
representation on the railroad board of directors instead
of the 25 percent provided by the present draft law.

Prices

The index of basic-materials prices in June remained
at the May level (245 percent of 1938) but was up 24 per-
cent over the same month last year. The industrial com-
ponent declined by 1.1 percent to 278 percent of 1938.
Sharpest declines in individual prices were reported for
domestic wool (down 22 percent) and imported wool
(down 16 percent), and largest increases were in copper
(up nine percent), sulphuric acid (up five percent), lime
(up four percent) and domestic flax (up three percent).
The agricultural component rose by 2.6 percent from 191
to 196 percent of the 1938 level.

The index of industrial producer prices declined during
June by 0.5 percent from 223 to 222 percent of 1938. The
index of consumer prices rose during June by 1.3 percent
from 165 to 167 percent of the 1938 level. The increase
in food (2.9 percent) is mainly due to the seasonal rise
in prices of fruits and vegetables (up 13 percent) and
potatoes (up nine percent). Clothing prices showed the
first decrease (0.2 percent) in almost a year.

Finance

Short term commercial credits to the private sector of
the economy increased in June by DM 278,000,000 com-
pared with an increase of only DM 25,000,000 in May.
The reasons for this expansion are to be found in the

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 74 ---
extensive use of export credits which are exempted from
the general restrictions on short term credits and in the
growth of import cash deposits by some DM 92,000,000
which apparently are financed almost automatically by
additional credit extensions. Medium and long term credits
continued their increase and rose by DM 313,000,000 as
compared with DM 220,000,000 in May.

A direct estimate of the federal and states’ receipts and
expenditures is not yet available for June. The movements
of indebtedness, cash balances and coinage credits indi-
cate that the federal cash deficit was DM 176,000,000 com-
pared with DM 128,000,000 in May, and DM 184,000,000
in April. Estimates indicate that the states’ surplus for
the month was approximately DM 175,000,000 — and there-
fore the public budget had no net effect on the money
supply in private hands.

The combined effect of all public agencies on the money
supply was to withdraw funds from private circulation.

During July a German delegation met in London with
the Tripartite Commission on German debts and certain
creditor representatives for preliminary discussions on
the settlement of the German prewar debts. Further meet-
ing is scheduled for late fall.

The federal law of accession to GATT (the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) was passed by the
Bundestag early in July. The Federal Government was
scheduled to sign the protocol of accession in New York
on Sept. 1. The tariff concessions granted at Torquay will
become effective Oct. 1.

Labor

Although employment in the Federal Republic at the
end of July stood at a record level and total unemploy-
ment as well as the unemployment rate were significantly
lower than a year ago, the current labor-market trend
offers little promise of repeating the employment gains
of the summer of 1950. On the one hand, the estimated
number of wage and salary earners, which has been
climbing steadily to ever new heights, is approximately
825,000 higher than in July 1950. Furthermore, registered
unemployment of 1,292,000 is somewhat less than in mid-
September 1950, while the proportion of jobless in the
estimated wage and salary-earning labor force, eight per-
cent, is close to the 1950 low of 7.9 percent attained last
October.

On the other hand, the monthly decline of 34,000 in
unemployment during July was the lowest reduction since
the seasonal turning point in January and only two-fifths
of the decrease in July 1950. Most (30,000) of the July
drop came during the latter half of the month, but this
development does not point per se to a favorable change
in trend, since unemployment normally tends to improve
more in the latter half of a month.

Main factors behind the present course continue to be

the steadily decreasing employment increment derived
from new building activity and the failure of the consumer
goods industries to recover from the setback in demand
which has stopped them from extending employment dur-
ing the first half year of 1951.

During July, the major employment increases appear
to have come in trade and commerce, due partly to hir-
ings for the summer clearance sales; the capital goods
industries; building and construction, and from agri-
culture, where additional labor is being hired for the
harvest season.

A crisis in relations between the DGB and the Federal
Government has been eased at least temporarily by
mutual willingness to discuss outstanding differences and
expressions of desire for cooperation on both sides.

The uninterrupted wage drive which the DGB president
teportedly attributed to the union demand for a more
equitable distribution of national income rather than to
higher consumer goods prices, extended during July to
the metal industry in most states and to agriculture ‘in
general. Negotiations were still proceeding in the metal

SEPTEMBER 1951

71

industry, where the union has requested pay boosts vary-
ing from nine to 15 percent. A more serious situation
developed in agriculture at the height of the summer
harvest. In the first week of August, strikes had begun
in three states (with the one in Bavaria being halted as
the dispute went to arbitration). Arbitration awards grant-
eda “harvest supplement" in four other states, and similar
settlements are expected elsewhere.

Agriculture

Prevailing warm, sunny weather in July — much need-
ed because of the cool, wet spring — gave promise of a
bumper grain crop for the third straight year. The federal
ministry for food, agriculture and forestry forecasts a
harvest of 5,700,000 metric tons of bread grains (1949-50:
5,950,000 tons; 1950-51: 5,800,000 tons) and 4,500,000 tons
fodder grains (1949-50: 4,270,000; 1950-51: 4,400,000 tons).

Harvesting of all types of grains was in progress in
August. In many areas, ripening of the normally later
summer grains (principally fodder grains) has coincided
with that of winter wheat and rye, which were delayed '
by both late seeding and the cool spring. In some areas,
harvesting was impeded by the flattening caused by
thunderstorms in June. The stand of growth of root crops
is good. Early potato yields were high. Harvest prospects
for fruits, vegetables and grapes are also good. The first
cutting of hay (clover, alfalfa, meadow grass) is reported
to have been very large, although of poor quality. The
development of the second growth is promising.

As of June 30, approximately 117,000 hectares of agri-
cultural land in Western Germany had been turned over
to settlement associations. This represents an increase
of 52,000 hectares (more than 80 percent) over the status
as of June 30, 1949 the last date for which comprehensive
data for the federal area were assembled. The total area
so far turned over to settlement associations is only a
small part (16 percent) of the 730,000 hectares potentially
available.

Not all of the new land is actually in the hands of
settlers, since considerable time must be allowed for the
construction of essential buildings and for land-improve-
ment measures such as drainage, roads, clearing and
reclamation. It is probable, however, that all of this land
will actually be turned over to settlers and under culti-
vation by July 1952. Figures on the number of farm units
involved are not yet available, but approximately 10,000
units, including full-time and part-time farms, seem to
be a reasonable estimate.

Berlin

West Berlin's index of industrial production (excluding
food and stimulants, building industry, and electric power
and gas production), which is estimated from the value
of manufacturers’ current deliveries, remained at 44 per-
cent of the 1936 level in June, the figure recorded for
May. The index remained constant chiefly because two
factors tended to offset each other. The index for the
clothing industry declined from 59 to 40 for seasonal
reasons. (The seasonal peak occurred in April when
delivery values reached 85 percent of the 1936 level.)
On the other hand, the index for the electrical industry
rose by six points to 64 percent of 1936. Of 10 other major
groups comprising the index, five showed increases of
from one to six points; four groups showed decreases
of between one and four points; and one group, optical
and precision instruments, remained the sante.

Registered industrial employment increased from 161,700
to 164,000, with more than half of this gain accounted for
by hirings in the electrical field. The number of clothing
workers remained constant, probably due to the fact that
during periods of high seasonal activity clothing manu-
macturers normally employ a substantial number of home
workers. Data on these workers are not reflected in in-
dustry employment figures reported by the Berlin Statis-
tical Office. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
Twenty-two German newspaper editors and radio correspondents touring US Army installations for four days visit the
big Mannheim Ordnance Depot, where they were welcomed by Lt. Col. W. F. Partin (center), its commanding officer.

Map of attack area is explained
so newsmen can follow exercise.

set. ‘ ta,
Fast 75-mm. recoilless rifle is
demonstrated for the visitors.

Conveyer belt system at Mann-
heim ordnance depot is studied.

German Newsmen Tour Army Bases

A four-day tour of US Army installations in Germany made late in July
by 22 German newspaper editors and radio commentators enabled the
German press to evaluate the modern American military equipment and
methods employed at the ordnance depot at Mannheim, the large training
area at Grafenwoehr and the tank training center in Vilseck. The tour was
sponsored by the Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany in
cooperation with the European Command of the US Army.

The first such inspection since the end of World War II was arranged
for the benefit of correspondents of the leading newspapers and principal
radio networks in the US, British and French Zones. As most of the news-
men had German army training of one kind or another, they were enabled
to evaluate, in the light of their own experience, present-day American
military weapons, training and techniques and review what they saw and
learned for the newspaper-reading public and radio listeners throughout
the- German Federal Republic. +END

At Vilseck Tank Training Center, correspondents view new four-ton truck,
engine of which will function even when submerged. (Photos by Jacoby and US Army)

72 SEPTEMBER 195t

--- Page 76 ---
Germany in World Defense

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

Following is a digest of the transcript of the talk
given by US High Commissioner McCloy at the Third
Resident Officers’ Conference in Frankfurt July 16. A
summary of the conference activities was published in
the Information Bulletin, August 1951 issue.

HAVE RETURNED RECENTLY from a trip to the

United States where I testified before, what seemed
to me, innumerable committees; more particularly, the
House and the Senate Appropriations Committee in
respect of our budget, and also before the Senate For-
eign Affairs Committee and the Senate East-West Trade
Committee. While I was there I had the opportunity of
speaking to many leading members of the executive
branch of the United States and the legislative mem-
bers of the government in the Senate and the House,
both Republicans and Democrats.

I arrived in the country just after the reactions at-
tending the recall of General MacArthur, and I teft just
as the proposals for a cease-fire in Korea had been
received and just as Congress was about to consider
the President's vast proposal for foreign defense aid. I
think you may be interested somewhat in my impres-
sions of the situation at home and the attitudes of our
leaders; as far as I can, in a very brief period, I'll try
to convey them to you. ,

Basically, the world situation facing us today is about
the same as it was at our last meeting, nine months ago.
Little has happened to make the world look much
brighter than it was last October. The ultimate purposes
of the Soviet Union have clearly not changed. All around
the world in the satellite countries, in Indo-China, Ma-
laya, Tibet, Iran, Iraq, Yugoslavia, there remain power-
ful signs of unrelenting pressure and constant scheming
to achieve totalitarian aims.

Nothing on the horizon would give any reasonable
basis for looking forward to an early surcease of strain,
or the ending of the need for rapid build-up of our
strength to counter the still heavy preponderance of the
Soviet forces. To be sure, the Soviets have sharply step-
ped up their emphasis upon peace in their propaganda.
But by peace, they apparently mean a condition by
which their own aims could not be successfully opposed.
They are plainly concerned over the stimulus that Korean
aggression has given to the defense measures of the West.
The United States has become the main butt of their
hypocritical attacks, but their objective is to create and
exploit disagreements, conflicts of policy, confusion of
opinion wherever they can be found in the free world.

To this end the Soviets; and those working with the
Soviets, have made proposals designed to give the
appearance of a desire to seek peaceful settlements of

SEPTEMBER 1951

73

burning issues, but when reasonable and concrete steps
are to be taken, they appear to draw away, as was evi-
denced at the recent meeting at Paris. I can't comment
on the negotiations in Korea, which I see by the morn-
ing’s paper have been resumed; but there does appear
to be an aroma of distrust about them which, together
with the undoubted build-up of forces in northern Korea,
does carry an ominous note.

In short there is no evidence that though the Soviet
or the Communist tactics may shift, there is any
abandonment of their fundamental policy of seeking to
find areas where new pressures may be applied and
new strains may be induced. Germany remains today,
as it has for the last few years, the main objective, or
at least the main intermediate objective, of their policy.

N THE FACE OF the Soviet menace, the country at

home seems to be convinced that the inescapable task
is to build up our nation's defense and to strengthen
the ability of all free nations, who show a will to
defend themselves, against Communist aggression. There
is, of course, criticism of policy and programs, but none
of it seems to me to cast any doubt on the determina-
tion of the people or of the government to get on with
the work in hand. There is much informed talk about
the new equipment, new aircraft, tanks and some amaz-
ing developments in the field of atomic energy; a deep
sense of shock over the way things have gone in Asia,
and much uneasiness over the situation in Iran.

But the hearings on the MacArthur recall seem to
have had a very interesting and somewhat sobering
effect on the people as a whole. Originally prompted
by the criticism, by many people, of General Mac-
Arthur's recall, or at least the manner of it, the investi-
gation has turned, as you know, into a rather complete
analysis of our Far Eastern policy. The testimony that
has evolved was frank, most detailed, and the questions
were often very penetrating. But, in the end, I gathered
the impression that the responsible leaders who testified
held their own, if they did not increase their stature,
in their appearance before the committee.

This emphasis upon Asia apparently led some Euro-
peans to fear that Europe might be overlooked or neg-
lected, but this,.I think, is clearly a mistaken view. The
threat to Europe, and the importance of helping Europe
meet the threat, are fully recognized by all with whom
I talked. The most immediate concern was with Euro-
pean security and the measures needed to strengthen it.
This is recognized as a problem not only of the present
emergency but of the long term and requires not only mil-
itary strength but economic strength and social stability.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 77 ---
Viewing it in this light, there is a widespread con-
viction in the United States that Europe cannot long
play a decisive role as a mere series of independent
states. They see every state in Europe, including Ger-
many, heavily dependent upon outside help in order to
maintain its economy. They see on every side emphatic
assertions by each country of its inability to defend
themselves without outside aid. Yet they see that
together these countries represent enormous strength in
material resources, manpower and cultural development.

T MAY BE OVERSIMPLIFICATION, but the conclu-

sion for the thinking people in the United States is
that Europe must find some way, some pattern or for-
mula by which its strength can be constituted in effec-
tive unification. The American people recognize that
the difficulties along this route are very great, but
they see no alternative. I think they are influenced not
only by the limitations of the individual states but by
the fact that this is the trend of the times.

With the vast areas of the East drawn together, they
see the necessity of marshaling the great resources
and energies of Europe, to enable Europe to maintain
adequate defense without undermining its living stand-
ards and its great social fabric. In Europe, as elsewhere
in the world today, it is useless to seek protection in
a national shell when bombers will shortly be built to
encompass the world with about the ease that they
have only recently been crossing the Atlantic.

While I was home I had the privilege to attend the

Harvard commencement exercises, and to hear a num- *

ber of speeches, There was one by Thornton Wilder. I
wish I could do justice to it. It was a speech, very
eloquent, somewhat explosive and very poignantly ex-
pressed; so I can't really do it justice by trying to re-
peat it here. His theme was the necessity of facing all
problems on a world basis. He emphasized the fact that
there were no longer any areas in which one could
find refuge.

America's famed Juilliard String Quartet was among out-
standing international musical attractions at Berlin Festi-
val now drawing to a close.

(Photo by Hackett, New York)

He even, to the great shock and consternation of the
class of 1900, indicated that there was no longer any.
New England; no longer, as he puts it, any psychic
nest to which one could withdraw; and it seemed. to
me that he hit the nail on the head in expressing the
concept which this year's graduating class ought to
take with them as they went into the world.

OW THIS ATTITUDE, I think, explains why in the

United States the Schuman Plan has been so widely
hailed. The attitude toward it is almost universally
favorable or enthusiastic. Economically, it is viewed as
the first radical attack on the splitting up of Europe by
boundaries, tariffs, cartels and other barriers and restric-
tions against the most efficient use and development of
industry and the economic resources and talents in
Europe. Its concept of a common market for coal and
steel is considered as a forerunner of similar steps for
other commodities and services,

Even more, perhaps, the support for the plan comes
from its political implications. The fact that the six
nations have undertaken to surrender some part of their
sovereignty to European institutions charged with foster-
ing the common interest is looked upon by many as the
first step toward European federation, Finally the plan

is considered as a fundamental step in creating peaceful —

Franco-German relations by the joint recognition of
their joint interests in the large European community.

For all these reasons, the United States and _ its
people are keenly watching the actions toward ratifica-
tion as a sort of test of whether the European countries
are yet prepared to work together in creating a progres-
sive European community which will advance the in-
terests of all and overcome the cleavages of the con-
flicts of the past.

For similar reasons, there is great interest in the
United States in the proposal for a European defense
structure, now under discussion in Paris. This too, if it
can be created on a sound and effective basis, would be
a tremendous further stride on the road to European
unity and Franco-German rapprochement.

An army with a genuinely European, rather than
national, outlook, under the control of European agen-
cies, would cause many of the doubts which confront us
about rearming of the Germans to disappear. Aside from
the purely military aspects, such a system would greatly
facilitate the mobilizing and use of the available resour-
ces of Europe for its defense. With such agencies, the
task of organizing defense production efficiently should
be much easier than it could possibly be under any
system of separate national character. Consequently,
the necessary defense could be obtained with less cost
and less effect on the standards of living of the Euro-
pean countries.

In view of the necessity of protecting themselves from
internal unrest as well as external attack, this element
of cost is a matter of very important consideration. It
is, of course, true that any such organization, if it is to
be created, must be fully efficient, flexible and capable
of fitting into the NATO organization.

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 78 ---
OW THIS GENERAL FRAMEWORK of views is a

setting for the attitude toward Germany. Those to
whom I've talked at home fully recognized that Ger-
many was the major target of Soviet aggressive policy.
For that reason the members of the Appropriations
Committee, with whom we discussed our expenditures
of both dollar, and this time, counterpart funds, were
greatly interested in the programs to improve community
life in Germany, especially for the youth, and seemed
to support our programs in this field to the full.

The fact that so much of our budget was now directed
to what one might call the spiritual and the social
rebuilding of Germany rather than to the commercial
and economic rehabilitation of the country was, I should
say, generally applauded; but running through all the
questions, all the questioning and all the comments,
were the thoughts of the Senators as to what we were
really accomplishing in Germany.

How realistic is the new German state? Can we expect
that it will take a respectable and helpful part in the
maintenance of Western civilization and the preserva-
tion of its liberties?

What is the real attitude of the Germans toward mili-
tary participation and defense of the West?

Is it true, as we so frequently hear, that German
nationalism is on the rise?

What real significance was there in the recent ex-
pression of neo-Nazism in Lower Saxony?

Will there emerge from the new state a liberal, demo-
cratic, tolerant nation, or do we have to endure once more
from Germany some new political aberration that will mark
her fundamental unreliability, as a world partner?

F THESE QUESTIONS could be answered favorably,
there would be utmost good will available for Ger-

many. I found that the leading figures engaged in for-
mulating our foreign policy were quite prepared to
relinquish to Germany wide authority and powers,
very wide indeed, if convinced that the trends in Ger-
many were solidly developing in the right direction.
The feeling was general that if we could not be satis-
fied as to these trends we ought to maintain our con-
trols even though it would mark to some extent the
failure of our efforts. But every hope was cast in favor
of relinquishment.

I think our leaders are convinced that there is no
realistic defense of Western Europe, including West
Germany, without some form of German participation.
This is as much, I think, a matter of propriety as it is
a matter of physical power. They recognize that if Ger-
many does participate, her political status should be
substantially changed, and she should be given an honor-
able and self-respecting role in any defense system.
There is a very clear-cut determination to permit such
participation only within a larger organization and only
if based on a true democratic support.

The fear of Germany's going off on a military ven-
ture of her own, in the light of past experiences, has
not completely died out, even though it may appear un-

SEPTEMBER 1951

75

Heiko Goebel of Klein-Heubach, near Miltenberg, Bavaria,
snaps photo of Mrs. McCloy as the wife of the US High
Commissioner emerges from building where she attended

German women's meeting. (Photo by Willi Klein, Munich)
realistic at the moment. I would not say that anyone
has drawn a deadline in the matter, but there is a
general sense of urgency to restore the balance of
strength in the world, and that whatever it is necessary to
do to bring that about we should be doing now and not
later. Time is growing short to make these decisions, but
again the recognition is complete that it is a decision
which the Germans must make for themselves. It cannot
be induced or dictated from the outside. -+END

2,500 Participants in Youth Forum
Cast 98 Percent Vote for United Europe

Participants in a recent youth forum in Regen disproved
any criticism of political apathy when 98 percent of the
2,500 participants voted for a united Europe. The vote
was taken after a series of lectures and discussions.

Delegates included representatives of youth organiza-
tions in the United States, France, Greece, Finland and
Norway as well as various parts of Germany.

The discussions brought out that the seeming indiffer-
ence of young people today toward political affairs ap-
parently stems from different ideas of politics as opposed
to the older political philosophy. The participants agreed
that in the political work in communities, state or federal
governments, the attainment of a common goal is hindered
by the ambitions of political parties.

The forum in the small Bavarian town went almost
unnoticed by the organized political parties. However,
German daily newspapers called the meeting “a remark-
able result.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 79 ---
Reply to Friendship Resolution

HE GOVERNMENT OF the Soviet Union has replied
to the’ resolution of the United States Congress
declaring the friendship of our people for the Soviet
peoples and our deep desire to achieve world peace.*
“The Soviet Government withheld this resolution from
the people of the Soviet Union for more than a month —
although, of course, some of them heard it over the Voice
of America. Now the Soviet Government has finally
released the resolution through Soviet newspapers and
over the Soviet radio.”

Thus declared President Truman in a statement to the
press in Washington Aug. 9 which was made upon
receipt of a letter from Nikolai Shvernik, president of the
Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, USSR. President Truman
hoped for a further change in Soviet policies:

“I am glad that they did this, as millions of Soviet
citizens can now hear and read for themselves the reso-
lution of friendship enacted by the representatives of the
American people.

“Mr. Shvernik’s reply, naturally, was released in our
country as soon as it was received, since in a free country
there is no reason or desire to withhold such information
from the people.

“I noted with special interest the statement in Mr.
Shvernik’s letter that the Soviet Government places no
barriers in the path of the intercourse of the Soviet people
with the people of other countries. This has not been true
in the past — witness the rigid prohibitions laid down
by the Soviet Government against people from the Soviet
Union traveling abroad and people from other countries
traveling in the Soviet Union, the rigid restrictions
imposed by the Soviet Government on the reading of
books and magazines and newspapers from outside the
Soviet Union by Soviet people, the large scale and costly
effort by the Soviet Government .to ‘jam’ the radio
broadcasts of the Voice of America and other free radios,
the prevention by the Soviet Government of Russian
wives of citizens of other countries from leaving the
Soviet Union and many other barriers preventing travel
and communication between the Soviet Union and other
countries. I will be particularly interested to see whether
the Soviet Government means what it says, and now
intends to change these policies.”

N AUG. 7 THE DEPARTMENT of State made public
the text of Mr. Shvernik’s letter dated Aug. 6 to
’ President Truman:

“I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
communication of July 7, 1951, and of the enclosed reso-
lution of the Congress of the United States of America
and to transmit to you a resolution of the Presidium of
the Supreme Soviet of the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics.

* See
August 1951.

“Declaration of Friendship’ in Information Bulletin,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

76

“This resolution expresses the feelings of sincere
friendship of the peoples of the Soviet Union toward the
peoples of the whole world — it speaks of the fact that
the Soviet people is unified in its attempts to establish
a stable peace and to eliminate the threat of a new war.

“The Soviet people has no basis for doubting that the
American people also do not want war.

“However, the Soviet people know well that there exist
in some states forces which are striving to unleash a new
world war, in which the circles in question see the source
of their own enrichment.

“The peoples of the Soviet Union believe that there
will be no war if the peoples take into their own hands
preservation of peace and defend it to the end, unmasking
the attempts of those forces which have interests in war
and which are trying to draw the people into another war.

“I share your opinion that a desire for peace and
brotherhood exists in the hearts of a majority of people.
Therefore, governments which, not with words but with
deeds, are striving to support peace must encourage by
every means the peaceful strivings of their people.

“The Soviet Government assists in every way the
unification of the efforts of the Soviet people, fighting
for peace with the efforts of the peoples of other coun-
tries. It hospitably teceives communications of peace from
any country and by every means contributes to the inter-
course of the Soviet people with the peoples of other
countries, placing no barriers in the path.

HERE IS NO DOUBT that friendship between peoples

which is mentioned in your communication presup-
poses the development of political, economic and cultural
relations and connections between peoples on a basis of
equal rights. There is also no doubt that a most important
step on this road must be the elimination of any discrimi-
nation with regard to the Soviet Union ori the part of
the American authorities.

“The duty of all peace-loving peoples consists in
steadfastly carrying on a policy of war prevention and
preservation of peace, of not permitting arms races, of
attaining limitation of armaments and the prohibition of
atomic weapons with the establishment of inspection
over the implementation of such a prohibition, and of
cooperating in the conclusion of a five-power pact for
the strengthening of peace.

“The conclusion of such a pact would have an
exceptionally important significance in the improvement
of Soviet-American relations and the strengthening of
peace among peoples. Such a pact would raise the
confidence of all peoples in the preservation of peace
and, moreover, would permit the possibility of limiting
armaments, of lightening the burden of military expendi-
tures, which lie with all their heaviness on the peoples’
shoulders. -

“In implementing the indicated measures the American
people will always find full cooperation on the part of

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 80 ---
the Soviet people, who unalterably defend the cause of
peace.

“T hope that the text of the resolution of the Presidium
of the Supreme Soviet of the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics will be brought to the attention of the American
people.

“I take this occasion to request you to transmit to the
American peaple my greeting and good wishes from the
people of the Soviet Union.”

THE PRESIDIUM RESOLUTION accompanying Mr.

Shvernik's letter was in contrast to the US resolution
of friendship for all peoples in that it resorted to the
usual Soviet charges against the United States.

The Soviet resolution asks for a five-power pact which
would include the United States, the USSR, the United
Kingdom, France and China (Communist China). ~

The Soviet resolution has a renewal of “peace” pro-
posals along the line that twice has been rejected by the
General Assembly of the United Nations.

The resolution charges 11 alleged discriminations by
the United States against the Soviet Union during the
past three years, most of them trivial. They included
charges that “gangs of hooligans’* with the connivance
of the police, have been gathering before the building of
the USSR Mission at the United Nations in New York
and have interfered with the normal work of the mission
and have threatened the personal security of its members,
and that the crew of two Soviet fishing boats were
forbidden to go ashore in the Virgin Islands.

In the opening paragraphs the Soviet resolution de-
clares that, since the formation of the Soviet Union in
1917, “the foreign policy of the Soviet Union has re-
mained unchanged, being directed toward the strengthen-
ing of peace and friendly relations among peoples.”

Later the resolution states that the Soviet Union has
“no aggressive plans and does not threaten any country
or any peoples.”

Another contrast between the two resolutions was that
the Soviet document was adopted apparently in secrecy
by the Presidium of the USSR. No information that it was
being debated was carried in the Soviet press or radio.
The US resolution, on the other hand, was debated
publicly in both houses of the US Congress, and many
newspaper and radio accounts about it appeared both be-
fore and after it was adopted by an overwhelming vote.

HE SOVIET GOVERNMENT can show its will for

peace “not merely in words but by deeds” by join-
ing in carrying out UN programs for peace, according
to Secretary of State Dean Acheson. The secretary's com-
ment of Aug. 8 was made specifically in relation to a
“five-power pact” called for in the Soviet Union's resolu-
tion in response to the American one.

“Why only five powers to make peace? We already
have a peace pact, not only among five powers but
among 60 nations, in the United Nations Charter.”

The secretary called on the Soviet Union to join “with-
out reservation” in carrying out programs outlined in
three United Nations resolutions. These are:

SEPTEMBER 1951

77

The “Essentials of Peace” resolution, adopted by the
General Assembly on Dec. 1, 1949. This includes among
the basic requirements for international cooperation ab-
staining from fomenting civil strife in other countries;
more conciliation of disputes and fewer Security Coun-
cil vetoes; universal control of atomic energy; an inter-
national effort to raise world living standards, and op-
portunity for free expression of political opposition in
all countries.

The “Uniting for Peace” resolution, adopted Nov. 3,
1950, authorizing the General Assembly to give immediate
consideration to conditions threatening peace if the Se-
curity Council fails to exercise its responsibility of lack
of unanimity; establishing a “Peace Observation Com-
mission,” and laying the basis for UN armed forces.

The “Peace through Deeds” resolution, adopted Nov. 17,
1950, calling on UN members to take united action to
meet aggression wherever it arises.

“The door is wide open,” Mr. Acheson said, “to the
Soviet Union to participate with the free world in making
these resolutions effective.”

Secretary Acheson expressed approval of the Soviet
action in making public to the Russian people the text
of the US Congressional resolution expressing American
friendship for them and an accompanying letter from
President Truman. Mr. Acheson added that he hoped this
may be the first of many actions “to permit the peoples
of the Soviet Union to catch up with the facts of the
world situation." The Iron Curtain, he said, remains a
basic obstacle to the attainment of peace and should not
only be pierced by an occasional ray of truth but should
cease to exist “for the realization of the general hope for
a peaceful and secure world.”

N A MESSAGE TO the Congress Aug. 20, transmitting

the Soviet communication and resolution, President
Truman stated:

“If the government of the Soviet Union wants to make
progress toward peace, it can stop flouting the authority

At recent opening of French Cultural Center, Nuremberg,
are, ].-r., John Riedl, chief of Education Branch, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, HICOG; Rene Zimmer-
mann, French head of new center, and Dr. Martin Acker-
mann, director of US Education Service Center, Nuremberg.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 81 ---
Huge steel structure for new ‘‘Kaufhof" department store
in Karl's Square, Munich, will give the Bavarian capital
a seven-story shopping center this fall. It is currently

Munich's largest new building project. (PRB OLCB photo)
of the United Nations; it can cease supporting armed
aggression in defiance of the verdict of the United Na-
tions; it can make constructive contributions toward
establishing peace with Germany, Austria and Japan;
it can refrain from employing force to maintain in other
countries regimes which do not command the support of
their people; it can cease supporting subversive move-
ments in other countries; it can cease its distortion of
the motives and actions of other peoples and govern-
ments; it can stop violating fundamental human rights
and liberties, and it can join in good faith in the earnest
effort to find means for reducing armaments and control-
ling atomic energy in the interests of peace.

“Such acts would do far more than words to show
that the Soviet Union really wants peace.”

HIS CONGRESS HAS fired a shot heard around the

world,” said Senator Brien McMahon, one of the
sponsors of the US resolution in addressing the Congress
Aug. 21, “in fact, our aim was so good we fired it right
through the Iron Curtain.

“The US Congress has broken the Iron Curtain by
the simple device of insisting upon its moral right to
talk to the Russian people.

“T am delighted to learn from President Truman's mes-
sage that our government is going to keep on insisting
upon its right to talk to the Russian people. I hope we
never give up until the Iron Curtain is either abandoned
or completely discredited.

“It is my firm belief that the United States should insist
that from this time forwafd, all its negotiations with re-
presentatives of the Soviet Government must be reported
in full by the Soviet press and radio. If that government
refuses this perfectly honest request, then we have a right
to assume that it is not negotiating in good faith.

“Mr. President, for 30 years the Communist Interna-
tional has carried on a continued campaign of propaganda
to blacken and defame the good name of the United States
and other peace-loving governments. This campaign has
been worldwide. But it has reached intensity in the Soviet

INFORMATION BULLETIN

78

press. The resolution of friendship, passed by the Con-
gress, was the biggest hole blasted in the Iron Curtain
since it was first established more than 30 years ago,
You may be sure that millions of good people in Russia
read the resolution and believed it.

“The resolution of friendship for the Russian people
passed by this Congress was widely published in the Sov-
iet press and radio. The Soviet Government took the
action, not because it wanted to, not because it welcomed
this effort by the Congress to avoid the most hideous war
in history, but because failure to print would have ex-
posed its phony peace offensive for all the world to see,

ELIEVE ME, LIKE MILLIONS of my fellow Americans,

I would welcome a genuine peace offensive by the
Soviet Government. The American system of liberty and
free enterprise will survive and outlast Communism in
any fair peacetime test. But it will always be skeptical,
suspicious and fearful of Soviet peace gestures until that
government tears down the Iron Curtain and permits us
to talk to the Russian people. Why keep the Iron Curtain
unless that government has something to hide — unless
it is afraid of the Soviet people?

“Even the Kremlin's system will not be sufficient to
mobilize the Russian people against us if they but know
the facts. The Soviet Government will not be able to
make a mockery of international treaties and obligations
once the Russian people know the treaty commitments
made by the Soviet Government.

“Now the Soviet leaders say they want peace. Repen-
tance is good for the soul. I'll be happy to believe this
latest Soviet line just as soon as they take one action—rip
away the Iron Curtain. We will gladly talk peace just as
soon as we know our words are getting through to the
Russian people.” +END

75 Percent Favor Participation
In Western Defense, Berlin Poll Shows

Opposition to German participation in an Atlantic Pact
army apparently is gradually diminishing. From March
until July the Reactions Analysis Staff of the Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, conducted four surveys of 800
persons in wesiern Germany and 200 in western Berlin.

The question asked in each survey was: “Several West
European nations and America some time ago signed a
defense pact, the so-called Atlantic Pact. Suppose Ger-
many would join the Atlantic Pact and be asked in con-
nection with it to participate in a general army for the
defense of Europe, would you then be for or-against such
participation in a defense army?"

The first survey in March showed 40 percent of those
questioned opposed to participation. In the last survey
the figure was 33 percent. In West Berlin 75 percent
favored participation. Only 19 percent were opposed.

West Germans in the first survey were 48 percent in
favor of participation. In the last survey this figure was
46 percent. The percentage of those opposed to partici-
pation dropped seven percent, while the percentage of
those who had no opinion rose from 12 to 21 percent.

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 82 ---
ATUL Le COUPEE EEOC UEC CeCe CeO md (Frele Presse, Coburg, Aug. 8)

German Cartoons

This section is compiled from translations prepared by the

Press and Publications Branch, Information Services Division,

HICOG, of cartoons in the German press. Publication of these

German cartoons is intended to inform the American readers

of what the Germans are thinking, without interpretation. The

inclusion of any viewpoint does not give concurrence to that
view or opinion.

TLE eee FDJ Youths and West Berlin.
Hot Dogs versus Propaganda.

(Die Deutsche Woche, Munich, Aug. 4) (Der Fortschritt, Essen, Aug. 3)
(Essener Tageblatt, Essen, July 26)

.<

Franco's Redemption.

US and Spain.

(Nordsee Zeitung, Bremerhaven, Aug. 10) France and Britai,
“That old reprobate!"

Communist Youth Rally.
“Welcome to Berlin!”

{Muenchener Allgemeine, Munich, Aug. 11) (Westfaelische Nachrichten, Muenster, Aug. 9)

Adenauer in Switzerland.
“A fine vacation!”

(Duesseldorfer Nachrichten, Duesseldorf, Aug. 11) Russian Peace Proposal.
ELIT Josefa Loreleiska sings her si
. Sela SL is her siren song.
German Resistance Movement, 1951. 9 i g

(Westfaelische Rundschau, Dortmund, July 30)
(Luebecker Nachrichten, Luebeck, Aug. 5)

US Rearms.
Truman: A plane in the hand is better Two Men in a Boat.
than a peace bird in the bush. Labor Unions and Industry. The Peace Angel's Difficult Feat.-

SEPTEMBER 1951 79 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 83 ---
(Rheinische Zeitung, Cologne, Aug. 4) (Der Fortschritt, Essen, Aug. 10) (Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, July 21)

“Why don't you quit, Joe?
You're checkmated!”

Persian Oil.
Harriman the Lion Tamer.

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, July 25)

Morrison's reflection

in the Pravda's mirror.
{Braunschweiger Zeitung, Brunswick, July 20)

(Fuldaer Volkszeitung, Fulda, Aug. 9)

g ebeus
hautnes-
5 Kostew
4 .
; ‘
= \ European Defense Rearmament. Little Income can't keep up

“Speed it up, folks, and show a little with his big sister and brother,
Politics in the Near East. more interest!” Living Costs and Taxes.
(Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Munich, Aug. 12) {Kasseler Zeitung, Kassel, July 26)

World Peace Duel. 1945. 1951.
Truman and Stalin. “We don't want “We need the
Germans; they're Germans because
militarists!" they're militarists!”

(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, Aug. 4)

(Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen, July 28)

Communist Youth Rally.
Twenty thousand peace doves to be
freed in East Berlin.

“A square meal, at last!" German Contingent for European Defense.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 80 SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 84 ---
To

Address
By JAMES R. NEWMAN

US State Commissioner for Hesse

T IS MOST FITTING and particularly gratifying to me
L that you young people, representing the freedom-loving
peoples of this world, are gathered here this week trying

to make an earnest effort to unite Europe and preserve

that freedom you hold dear above everything else.

Last week we witnessed in the Eastern sector of Berlin
another type of gathering of youth. Those young people
were not meeting to unite Europe or preserve freedom.
Vhey were not even meeting freely. Most of them were
unfortunate young men and women; unfortunate because
they live in a section of Germany that is oppressed and
degraded by Communist masters seeking to enslave
them and the youth of the entire world; unfortunate be-
cause they were forced to attend the propaganda dem-
onstrations of the Communists, who viciously ordered
the young people to attend or suffer the consequences.

You young people meeting here were not forced to
come here. You were not ordered to attend. You were
not dressed in fancy uniforms and made to parade and
sing and march in a militaristic manner. You were not
made part of a vicious, unscrupulous lie, part of a propa-
ganda machine trying to trap the entire world. You
came here freely, as free men and women, to discuss
your part in the unification of a free Europe. You came
here because you want to keep Europe free and live in
peace with your fellow men throughout the world.

WANT TO PAY SPECIAL tribute to those of you whose
homes are locked behind the Iron Curtain. Mr. Lu-
boeansky* tells me that’ there is a delegation of young
citizens of Czechoslovakia here, representing the free
youth of that country. By fleeing from

European Youth Week drew delegations from 15 Western
democracies and also a group of special representatives
from Czechoslovakia. Held at Fritzlar, the convention was
addressed by US State Commissioner for Hesse James R.
Newman and attended by other OLCH representatives and

British and French state observers. (PRB OLCH photo)
Communists from ravaging other lands as they have
yours.

Your faith in the cause of freedom and democracy
shall not be in vain, and I know that the day is not far
off when the good people of Czechoslovakia will release
themselves from the yoke and bondages of the Com-
munist crushers and emerge once more to the democracy
they love so well. The day is coming when the liberty-
loving peoples of Czechoslovakia can hold up their
heads once more as members of the European union of
free nations.

For it is only through European union that Europe
can regain her complete stability and face the progres-
sive future with confidence and pride. In a political and
economic union of Europe, there is such a strength and
unity of purpose that no oppressor will dare to infringe
upon the rights of united Europe. In such a political and
economic integration, there will be peace, prosperity and
happiness for all of Europe.

AM MOST GRATEFUL that you, the youth who will in-
herit the world in the next few years, that you, the
youth of the free West, have selected Fritzlar as your meet-
ing place. Germany is a critical area of Europe, and Fritz-
lar is located within the shadow of the Iron Curtain, The
Communist threat to Germany is a

your homes and leaving them to the
degrading oppressions of the Com-
munist jailers of Czechoslovakia, you
have manifested your courage. By at-
tending this meeting of international
youth, you are demonstrating your
desire to work side-by-side with the
youth of free Europe to prevent the

* Earl Luboeansky, US resident officer for
Fritzlar.

This article is the text of an
address given by Dr. Newman
Aug. 17 before a youth conven-
tion which met at Fritzlar, Hesse.
Approximately 200 delegates re- and economically joined to her
presenting 15 Western European
democracies, Algeria and the Unit-
ed States attended. A special dele-
gation from Czechoslovakia went
—— to the meeting, which had as its
title “European Youth Week."

threat to all nations and peoples who
are trying to live in freedom and
peace. It is, thus, imperative to all our
interests that Germany be politically

Western democratic neighbors — a
democratic nation in free association
with the Western world.

In the face of the Communist propa-
ganda machine, the German republic
and her Western neighbors must de-

SEPTEMBER 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 85 ---
monstrate the strength of the free world and the value of
the free way of life. Together, we must oppose the mas-
sive propaganda machine of the Communists. We can
do this only through unity and truth. It has been said,
“Thou shall know the truth and the truth shall make
thee free." That is our mission today, to give the world
the truth, and let the truth light the way of the future.
Only the truth, as exemplified through a full and free
association of Western Europeans, can combat the lie
of the Communist propaganda factory.

The Federal Republic, particularly, must prove that it
is ready to step into its role as a complete, equal and
full partner of a united Europe. Only a democratic Ger-
many can be a reliable partner of this community of
nations now uniting to protect its own future.

OU, THE YOUTH of Germany, must reject completely
and forever such neo-Nazi manifestations as the SRP.
You, the youth of Germany, must demonstrate that you

have not inherited any of the ideology of 13 years of
dictatorship. You, the youth of Germany, must show
that you scorn those few people who are currying favor
with the Communists and Nazis still existing in Germany.
By joining with the youth of the other Western democ-
racies, you have shown that you are ready and willing
to come into the European union as equal partners,
to join this grand organization of the freedom-loving
peoples of the West.

When this meeting is ended, you delegates have
another task. Do not stop with this meeting and think
of it only as a pleasant vacation. Carry the message of
democracy, of freedom, of European union wherever you
go. Call more meetings. Call them everywhere in your
country where you can raise your voices, and through
your efforts your great and noble ideal will be realized.
European union is a young idea. It is the thinking of
youth. You, the youth, can make European union come
into being. God bless you in your efforts. +END

New Hunting Code for Americans

NEW HUNTING CODE, effective Sept. 1, 1951, sets

the bag limits, seasons and conditions under which
Americans may hunt in the US Zone of Germany. The
new code was drafted after many months of conferences
among HICOG and EUCOM representatives and repre-
sentatives of the German federal and state governments
and German hunting organizations. Each agreed the code
represents a reasonable compromise and offers a sound
basis for real fellowship between the Germans and
Americans in the field of hunting.

The new code aims at bringing into agreement basic
requirements of the American soldier in the field of sport
with German concepts of hunting and property rights. It
cannot, under the circumstances, fully comply with all
desires of German interested parties. It must, at the same
time, seriously limit the freedom in hunting to which
American hunters have been accustomed but it does give
them access to a reasonable amount of shooting.

The Germans think of game as basically private prop-
erty. Under the German hunting law, the right to hunt in
any hunting district is held by an individual or associa-
tion and no one else can shoot game in this district without
the agreement of the owner of the hunting rights. The
game being his “cash crop," the owner is entitled to
demand payment for the game taken.

On the other hand, Americans think of game as bas-
ically public property and when hunting on posted land
with the owner's permission, or on unposted land, he is
entitled to retain all the game he kills within the pre-
scribed bag limit without payment to anyone.

In recognition of the German concept of property rights,
the new code entitles Americans to hunt “big game"
only on public lands, The Germans, on their part, recog-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

82

nizing the necessity of granting some access to private
land for small game hunting by Americans, proposed the
plan, incorporated in the code, which gives Americans
certain limited access to private land for small game
hunting. In such instances, the code permits the owner
of the hunting rights to accompany the American hunter.

On the question of payment, the new code prescribes
a comparatively high license fee for the American hunter.
The revenue from these fees, at least in the case of small
game, will be used to compensate the owner of the hunting
rights for the game which the hunter kills. The license fee
for hunting big game (any cloven-hooved animal, the
capercaillie* and the black grouse) is $10 while the
license fee for hunting small game (any wild animal or
bird other than big game) is $5. Formerly there was a
uniform hunting license fee of $3 for all types of game.

The new code permits Americans to hunt either under
its provisions or in accordance with German law, i. e., by
invitation or by other private arrangement with the Ger-
man holder of the hunting rights. Their HICOG licenses
are valid for hunting under German law.

Americans are not required to pay for the game they
kill, except in the case of deer and chamois, when they
may retain the trophy and one-half the animal without
payment but must pay the market price for any of the
remaining half of the animal they wish to retain.

Hunting licenses have been issued beginning Aug. 29
by the US resident officers to Americans possessing a
receipt evidencing payment to the Deutsche Post of the
proper fee and presenting evidence that he is covered by
sufficient hunting insurance. (Text of this law will appear
in the October issue of the Information Bulletin.)

* Largest European grouse.

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 86 ---
Washington Report

Artists from 24 Countries to Vi8it US

The third annual international arts program of the
Institute of International Education will bring young
professional artists from 24 European, Latin American,
African and Asian countries to the United States next
January.

The foreign artists will spend three months in the
United States, during which they will exchange infor-
mation and opinions with American artists with the aim
of contributing to closer cultural understanding.

The project is financed by a joint grant of the Rocke-
feller Foundation and the Ford Foundation.

Artists in the fields of architecture, painting, sculpture,
literature, music, choreography, directing and scientific
design will participate in the . program, according to
Kenneth Holland, president of the institute.

Competition for the awards will be concluded with the
cooperation of the United States embassies in each of the
24 countries. Candidates will be judged by a committee
of American artists on their capability for advanced and
independent work, their ability to reflect the culture of
their country and their faculty to interpret for their
countrymen impressions of life and art in the United States.

Awards will be given outstanding professional artists
from each of the following countries: Argentina, Brazil,
Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Haiti,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liberia,
New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, South Africa,
Turkey and Uruguay.

The award covers round-trip transportation, mainte-
nance for the 12-week period and travel within the United
States, All the artists will be in New York City for two
weeks, There, they will confer with American artists. The
remaining weeks of the program will be devoted to work
on an individual basis, in many cases involving travel.

Farm Information Specialists in US

Methods of improving and increasing the flow of
agricultural information to German and Scandinavian
farmers are under consideration by a group of information

American participants in recent Berlin seminar on Educa-
tion and Child Care join with German colleagues in art
study project. Americans shown are Dr. Hyman Lippman
(tight), director of Amherst Welfare and Child Guidance
Clinic, St. Paul, Minn., and Fritz Mayer (rear center,
seated), director of Bellefair National Child Care Services,
Cleveland, Ohio.

(PRB HICOG-BE photo)

specialists from those countries who were sent recently
to the United States under the auspices of the Economic
Cooperation Administration.

The nine man team has conferred with representatives
of the US Department of Agriculture and of farm agencies
in Washington in mid-August, and plans to study the
information work of state-owned universities, and the
programs of radio stations, magazines and other media
which carry news of interest to rural groups.

Commenting upon the wide range of media which
disseminate the results of agricultural research and other
technical information to American farmers, the visiting
team said that if German and Scandinavian farmers
received as much information as farmers in the United
States, it would go a long way toward increasing agri-
cultural productivity and in improving social and eco-
nomic conditions.

The group also concluded that more farm news in the
newspapers and on the radio would lead to much-needed
understanding of agricultural problems by the general
public.

The key to the problem, the group said, is a centralized

‘information service such as they found in the US Depart-

ment of Agriculture and in the agricultural colleges of
state universities. The Danish team members pointed out
that it is better to have authoritative technical information
coming from one source rather than opinions from a dozen
or more separate organizations.

The German members of the team are Franz Winter of
Northwest German Radio and Miss Hilde Weber, Institute
for Agrarian Policy and Market Research.

Soviet Claim for 13 Ships Rejected

Soviet claims to 13 small German merchant vessels have
been rejected by the United States in view of the prior
need of the German economy for the craft.

In a note delivered to the Soviet charge d'affaires, US
Secretary of State Acheson said the contention that the
Soviet Government is “legally entitled" to the vessels
recommended for allocation is erroneous.

The 13 craft represent about 7,500 tons out of the total
of 1,260,000 tons of German merchant shipping distributed
since the end of the war.

Text of the US note follows:

“The Secretary of State presents his compliments to
the charge d'affaires ad interim of the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and refers to previous communications
with respect to the report and recommendations of Dec. 4,
1947 of the Tripartite Merchant Marine Commission
(TMMC) in regard to the distribution of the German
merchant fleet.

“The Soviet Government is informed that the Govern-
ment of the United States has decided not to approve the
above mentioned report. The Tripartite Commission con-
stituted a committee of experts who were authorized
solely to make ‘recommendations’ to their governments.
The respective governments were under no obligation
to approve these recommendations. The contention of the
Soviet Embassy that the Soviet Government is ‘legally

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 87 ---
entitled’ or ‘has the legal right’ to the vessels recom-
mended for allocation to the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics in this report is therefore erroneous."

State Department Press Officer McDermott, in reference
to the rejection of the Soviet claim, asserted that Russia,
in all probability, what with salvage operations, has ob-
tained more than its share of tonnage of the German fleet.

Mr. McDermott said the Soviet claim, besides being
legally indefensible is unjustifiable for a number of reasons.

“In the first place," Mr. McDermott said, “the final
allocation of the German merchant marine among the
three Occupying Powers (United Kingdom, USSR and US)
was to be preceded by an agreement on the requirements
of the German economy, that is, that such vessels as the
German economy would require in its civil pursuits was
recognized as a prior claim on the vessels available for
distribution.”

Mr. McDermott continued: “The Soviet Government,
however, by breaking up the Allied Control Authority
for Germany makes any quadripartite decisions as to the
needs of the German economy impossible. It seems highly
probable that, far from having been unjustifidbly dealt
with in the distribution of the German merchant marine,
the USSR has already obtained more than its rightful share.

“It was originally agreed — and both the Tripartite Mer-
chant Marine Commission reports were based on this
understanding — that each of the three Occupying Powers
would share equally in the distribution of this German
merchant fleet. If the tonnage retained in Germany is
excluded from the total, the USSR has already received
more than one-third of the total metal tonnage covered
by the second TMMC report."

After the postwar distribution of 1,200,000 tons of
shipping advised in the first TMMC report, the commission
remained in being to conduct a further census of shipping,
including ships which had been captured in actual fight-
ing and some not earlier accounted for.

The second set of recommendations made by the TMMC
concerned approximately 60,000 tons of shipping under
the formula of equal distribution. Experts pointed out that
Soviet Russia would receive about 20,000 tons. The Soviet
Union, however, already had taken over more than 10,000

tons, the remainder not definitely allocated. At the time

the second recommendation of the TMMC was drawn,
most of this remainder, estimated at about 7,500 tons, had
been put into operation for the support of the German
economy.

State Department experts pointed out that the United
States felt that these ships should be continued in use
for the benefit of the German economy.

Free Europe University Organized

The Free Europe University in Exile for youthful refu-
gees from Iron Curtain countries will open this fall near
Strasbourg, France, under the auspices of the National
Committee for a Free Europe, Inc., a private American
organization.

“The purpose of the new university," the committee
announced from its headquarters in New York, “is to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

84

offer Iron Curtain exiles of university age now in Europe
opportunity to continue in the universities of France and
elsewhere the studies which have been interrupted by
the Communist invasion of their homes, and at the same
tinfe to receive special instruction in the language, history
and problems of theic own countries.”

The new university will maintain a study center near
Strasbourg to be known as “Free Europe College.’ The
college will not be a part of Strasbourg University, but
its students will reside there and will be admitted to
courses there on the same basis as French students.

Operational and financial control of the university will
be handled in New York. A five-year provisional charter
has been granted by the New York State Board of Regents,
which has announced that no degrees would be awarded.

The National Committee for a Free Europe, Inc., will
provide scholarships and grants-in-aid to applicants
selected by a board of American and French educators,
meeting at a registration office in Paris.

Men and women under 30 years of age from Albania,
Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia,
Lithuania, Poland and Rumania will be eligible for
admittance. They will be judged on the basis of “academic
ability, character and capacity for leadership in a free
society," according to the National Committee. Men and
women from Yugoslavia also will be eligible.

Commenting upon the establishment of the new uni-
versity, Charles D. Jackson, president of the National
Committee, said: “The Iron Curtain countries have
repeatedly been submerged by one or another foreign
power and have steadily emerged once more. There is
no reason to believe the present domination by the
Kremlin is permanent.

“When liberated, those countries will have urgent
need of their own young men, well-educated and equipped
for leadership in a free world. The Free Europe University
can offer them education and equipment for the part they
can play in rebuilding a peaceful world, and in main-
taining their own national culture and traditions.”

DeWitt C. Poole, educator and diplomat, has been
named president of the university. Although the center
at Strasbourg is the only one definitely established so
far, the sponsors are holding discussions ‘with some of
the other leading European universities with the hope
of working out similar arrangements, it was stated.

Germany Joins Sulphur Committee

The Sulphur Committee of the International Materials
Conference now has 13 members, with the acceptance
of invitations to membership by India and the Federal
Republic of Germany. The conference has been meeting.
in Washington for several months to work out ways to
increase production of strategic materials in short supply
and to guarantee their equitable distribution.

The German representative had not been nominated
at the time of the announcement. July 23. Germany
is also a member of the committees on cotton and cotton
linters, manganese-nickel-cobalt, copper-zinc-lead, tung-
sten-molybdenum, wool, and pulp paper. -+-END

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 88 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Aug. 2

The 7ist meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Aug. 2. Present were Mr. John
J. McCloy, United States High Commis-
sioner (chairman); Mr. Armand Berard,
French Deputy High Commissioner, act-
ing for Mr, Andre Francois-Poncet; and Sir
Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High
Commissioner.

The meeting was also attended by Maj.
Gen. G. K. Bourne, British commandant in
Berlin.

The. Council:

1, In a review of the Berlin trade situa-
tion noted with approval that commercial
air services from the western sectors of
Berlin to the Federal Republic have been
expanded in order to move from Berlin
goods the shipment of which have been
delayed by the refusal of the Soviet Con-
trol Commission to countersign the consign-
ment notes. (See ‘Statements.")

2, Scheduled a meeting at the Peters-
berg on Aug. 16,

HICOM Meeting of Aug. 9

The 72nd meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Aug. 9. Present were Mr. John
J. McCloy, United States High Commis-
sioner (chairman), Mr. Armand Berard,
French Deputy High Commissioner, act-
ing for Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, and Sir
Ivone Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High
Commissioner.

The Council:

1, Considered a report prepared by Al-
lied experts on the first phase of the dis-
cussions between representatives of the
Allied High Commission and of the Federal
Government on the proposed new relation-
ship between the Allied Powers and the
Federal Republic. The High Commission's
report will now be forwarded to govern-
ments.

2. Agreed to hold its
Aug. 16 at the Petersberg.

* * *
First Phase of Contractual Talks

The first phase of the discussions which
began May 10 between representatives of
the Allied High Commission and of the
Federal Government was completed Aug. 3.
These discussions were held with the pur-
pose of exploring the new basis of the
relationship between the Federal Govern-
ment and the Allies, which will be neces-
sary in conjunction with German partici-
pation in western European defense, and
which will replace the present Occupation
Statute. A pause will now take place in
order to permit the delegations to report
to their governments.

The discussions were held in a friendly
atmosphere and have enabled the dele-
gations to clarify their views on all prob-
lems involved. The series of meetings
surveyed the whole range of issues con-
nected with the establishment of a con-
tractual relationship. It has been found that
a number of Allied powers can be relin-
quished on the entry into force of con-
tractual agreements without being replaced
by special provisions. It has also been
Possible to identify many other matters

next meeting

SEPTEMBER 1951

which can be regulated by contractual
provisions. The contractual relations can
be established in a limited number of
agreements.

The positions of the Allied and German
delegations in many fields proved to have
much in common. Where the discussions
brought to light differences of opinion,
this preliminary work will facilitate agree-
ment at a later stage and shorten the
negotiations which are expected to take
place after the governments have consider-
ed the reports now being submitted to
them.

HICOM Meeting of Aug. 16

The 73rd meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Aug. 16. Present were Mr. John
J. McCloy, United States High Commission-
er (chairman); Mr. Armand Berard, French
Deputy High Commissioner, acting for Mr.
Andre Francois-Poncet, and Sir Ivone Kirk-
patrick, United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner.

The Council approved three laws, to be
published in a forthcoming issue of the
Official Gazette of the High Commission:

1. A law amending AHC Law No. 34
(Application of land reform legislation to
non-German nationals). Under the terms
of this amendment, the period granted to
non-German nationals to dispose of those
parts of property in Germany which are
in excess of the area permitted by Ger-
man land reform legislation is extended
from Aug. 24, 1951, to Dec. 31, 1951, which
date will be the final deadline for dis-
position of such property.

2. A law repealing certain provisions
of US-UK Military Government Laws
No. 64 (Provisional revision of tax legis-
lation) referring to inheritance taxation.
Because German tax matters. no longer
fall within the reserved fields, the Bund-
estag (lower house of parliament) and
Bundesrat (upper house) have passed
legislation dealing with inheritance taxa-
tion. Under the provisions of Paragraph 7
(b) of the Occupation Statute (revised) the
Federal Government had asked that US-
UK Military Government Laws No. 64 be
repealed because they were inconsistent
with the federal legislation.

3. A law depriving of effect in. the
territory of the Federal Republic Allied
Control Order No. 3 (Registration of the
population of employable age, registration
of unemployed and their placement at
work), The Federal Government in asking
that the Control Council order be invalidat-
ed, noted that the subject of the order
is no longer within reserved fields and
that certain of its provisions were . in-
consistent with pending federal legislation.

The Council scheduled its next meeting
for Aug. 23 at the Petersberg.

HICOM Meeting of Aug. 30

The 74th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Aug. 30. Present were Mr. John
J. McCloy, United States High Commis-
sioner (chairman), Mr. Andre Francois-
Poncet, French High Commissioner, and
Lt. Gen. Sir Gordon Macready, represent-

85

ing the United Kingdom High Commis-
sioner. :

The meeting was attended by Mr. W.
Averell Harriman, special ambassadorial
representative of the United States Presi-

-dent, who is visiting Germany informally

for informative discussions with the United
States High Comissioner.

The Council:

1, Approved the form of a law to clarify
the legal status in the Federal Republic of
former German-owned external assets
which have been covered by Central
Council Law No. 5 and which have been
or are being liquidated under the laws of
various foreign nations in the course of
reparation programs. It was decided that
the chairman high commissioner would
have a further meeting with the federal
chancellor before the law is promulgated.

2. Considered the implications of recent
changes made by the federal legislature to
the German criminal code in connection
with the protection of the state. In view
of the community of interest between the
Federal Government and the Allied authori-
ties on this matter and because of the
official functions of the Occupation Authori-
ties, the Council approved a High Com-
mission law providing that federal or state
legislation shall have no application to
information which is supplied to the
governments or Occupation Authorities of
the United States, France or the United
Kingdom, nor to the establishment or
maintenance of relations with these govern-
ments or authorities.

3. Decided to hold their next meeting
in Berlin on Sept. 6.

Laws and Regulations

Ordinance No. 11

Fishing Code For Occupation Personnel

The United States High Commissioner

enacts as follows:
Article 1

1, Any person within the category of
Occupation Personnel who engages in fish-
ing shall: .

(a) possess and carry on his person a
valid fishing license and a document estab-
lishing his identity;

(b) on demand, exhibit such license and
document to any United States or German
law enforcement official or to the person
who holds the fishing rights pertaining to
the waters in which the fishing takes place;

(c) return to the waters in which the
fishing takes place any fish taken there-
from if the length of the fish is less than
the applicable minimum length established
by regulation issued under this ordinance.

2. No person within the category of Oc-
cupation Personnel shall:

(a) fish in any waters which have been
reserved by the minister president of the
state as a fish hatchery and in which the
minister president of the state or any
agency designated by him has, with the
approval of the appropriate United States
state commissioner, prohibited fishing by
the posting of signs in the manner herein-
after indicated;

(b) take fish by shooting or by using any
explosive, net, snare or poison, or by
means of any electrical device;

(c) take any fish in excess of the ap-
plicable creel limit established by regula-
tion issued under this ordinance;

(d) take any fish with respect to which
a fishing season is established by regula-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 89 ---
tion issued under this ordinance at any
time other than in such season;

(e) sell or barter any fish taken.

3. Any sign posted pursuant to Para-
graph 2 (a) of this article shall specify the
waters in which fishing is prohibited and
shall contain a statement to the effect that

(a) the prohibition set forth in the sign
is applicable to persons within the cate-
gory of Occupation Personnel and

(b) such prohibition has been approved
by the appropriate state commissioner.

Article 2

Any United States county resident officer
shall issue a fishing license valid for a
period of one fishing year, in the form ap-
pended to this ordinance as Annex A (text
not included) to any person within the
category of Occupation Personnel, upon
application and presentation of a receipt
evidencing payment to the Deutsche Post
(German postal system) of five dollars
($5.00) in United States Military Payment
Certificates for such license. The funds so
collected by the Deutsche Post shall be
given, in accordance with instructions to
be issued by the United States High Com-
missioner, to the states in the United States
Zone of Occupation and shall be used for
the purpose of replenishing the supply of
fish in waters in the United States Zone of
Occupation in which Occupation Personnel
may engage in fishing.

Article 3

As used in this ordinance and in any
regulation issued hereunder the following
terms shall have the respective meaning
hereinafter set forth:

1. The term ‘United States Zone of Oc-
cupation’’ means the states of Bavaria,
Bremen, Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden.

2. The term ‘Occupation Personnel’'
means all persons who are accompanying
or serving with any of the following and
the dependents of all persons who are
members of or accompanying or serving
any of the following:

(a) the authorities, civil or military, in
Germany, of the French Republic, the Unit-
ed States of America or the United King-
dom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland;

(b) the Armed Forces of the French Re-
public, the United States of America or the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland; provided, however, that
this term shall not include any person
whose ordinary residence is in the ‘‘West-
ern Area.” For the purpose of this defini-
tion a person shall not be deemed to have
his ordinary residence in the ‘Western
Area" if he -is a person or a dependent of
a person whose domicile is outside the
“Western Area‘? and whose presence in
the “Western Area” arises solely by reason
of employment, service in a military or
civilian capacity or association with the
authorities or Armed Forces mentioned
in (a) and (b) above.

3. The term ‘Western Area’ means the
areas of Germany under the control of the
French Republic, the United States of
America and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland.

4, The term “fishing year means the
period commencing with the effective date
of this ordinance and ending March 31,

1952, and thereafter the period from
April 1 through March 31.
5. The term “creel limit'' means the

amount of fish which may be taken by
any one person in any one day.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Article 4

The term “Occupation Personnel’ shall
in the following instances be deemed to
include, in addition to the persons speci-
fied in Article 3, Paragraph 2, members of
the Armed Forces mentioned in Subpara-
graph (b) of such paragraph and article:

(a) whenever this ordinance or any reg-
ulation issued hereunder confers a bene-
fit, right or privilege on Occupation
Personnel;

(b) as such term is used in this ordi-
nance in Article 6, Paragraph 2; provided,
however, that nothing in this ordinance or
in any regulation issued hereunder shall
be construed to extend the jurisdiction of
the United States Court of the Allied High
Commission for Germany to any person not
otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of
such court.

Article 5

1. Any person within the category of
Occupation Personnel may engage in fish-
ing, subject to the provisions of this ordi-
nance, in any waters in the United States
Zone of Occupation. Except as may be
specifically provided in this ordinance or
in any regulation issued hereunder, no
provisions of German law relating to fish-
ing shall be applicable to any person with-
in the, category of Occupation Personnel.

2..Any person within the category of
Occupation Personnel may retain any fish
which he has lawfully taken.

Article 6

1. Violation by any person within the
category of Occupation Personnel of any
of the provisions of this ordinance shall
be punishable by imprisonment not ex-
ceeding six (6) months, or by fine not ex-

ceeding the equivalent in Occupation
Scrip of five hundred dollars ($500), or
by both such imprisonment and fine.

2. If a person within the category of
Occupation Personnel is convicted of a
violation of this ordinance, or in appro-
priate cases, of a violation of a circular or
order of the United States military author-,
ities based on this ordinance, the United
States county resident officer, or his suc-
cessor, who issued a fishing license to such
person may upon the recommendation of
the court suspend such license for a defi-
nite or indefinite period of time or re-
voke such license. A person whose fish-
ing license is so suspended or revoked may
obtain reinstatement of a suspended license
or a new license only from, or with the
approval of, the United States county
resident officer, or his successor, by whom
the license was suspended or revoked.

Article 7 :

1. Any provisions of United States High
Commissioner Ordinance No. 5, ‘Hunting
and Fishing Code for Occupation Person-
nel," or of any regulation issued there-
under which relate to fishing are hereby
repealed.

2. In the event of an inconsistency be-
tween this ordinance and any other legis-
lation, this ordinance shall prevail to the .
extent of such inconsistency.

Article 8

This ordinance and, unless expressly
provided therein to the contrary, any
regulation issued hereunder are appli-
cable within the states of Bavaria, Bremen,
Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden. This ordi-
nance shall become effective on July 15,
1951.

Regulation No. 1
Under United States High Commissioner Ordinance No. 11
(Fishing Code for Occupation Personnel)
The United States High Commissioner issues the following regulation:

Article 1
Fishing seasons and creel limits and minimum length limits for fish taken are hereby

established as follows:
A. FOR BAVARIA:
(1) Fish
(a) Bream

(b) Brook Trout
(c) Brown Trout

(2) Season
All year
Mar. 1-Sept. 30
Mar. 1-Sept. 30

(a) Eel All year

(e) Frauennerfling All year

(f) Grayling May 1-Feb. 28
(g) Huchen May 1-Feb. 15
(h) Ide All year

(i) Like Trout Jan. 1-Sept. 30
(j) Mullet June 16-Apr. 30
(k) Nase . All year

(I) Pike Apr. 16-Feb. 15
(m) Pike P. May 1-Mar. 15

(n) Rainbow Trout
(0) Renken (except
Kilch and Dwarf

May 1-Sept. 30

Marena) Jan, 1-Oct. 15)
(p) Salmon Jan. 1-Oct. 15,
(q) Sea Trout Jan. 1-Oct. 15
B. FOR HESSE:
(1) Fish (2) Season
(a) Barbel_.. Jan. 1-Dec. 31
(b) Brown Trout Jan, 1-Sept. 30
(c) Carp July 1-Apr. 30
(a) Crayfish May 1-Sept. 30
(e) Eel . Jan, 1-Dec. 31
(f) Grayling May 1-Feb. 28
(g) Perch Jan 1-Dec. 31

(h) Pike

May 1-Jan. 31
(i) Pike Perch

June 1-Mar, 31

(j) Rainbow Trout ....... May 1-Feb. 28
(k) Salmon Jan. 1-Oct. 31
(1) Tench July 1-Apr. 30

86

(3) Minimum Length (4) Creel Limit

13 inches None
8 inches 15 fish or 10 Ibs,
10 inches 15 fish or 10 Ibs.
16 inches None
12 inches None
14 inches None
26 inches None
12 inches None
24 inches None
15 inches None
12 inches None
18 inches None
20 inches None
10 inches 15 fish or 10 lbs.
11 inches None
24 inches None
12 inches None

(3) Minimum Length (4) Creel Limit

10 inches None
8 inches 10 fish or 7 lbs.
7 inches None
3 inches None
14 inches None
8 inches 10 fish or 7 Ibs.
6 inches None
11 inches 5 fish or 10 Ibs,
14 inches 5 fish or 8 lbs.
8 inches 10 fish or 7 Ibs.
20 inches None
7 inches None

SEPTEMBER 1951"

--- Page 90 ---
C. FOR WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN:

(1) Fish (2) Season (3) Minimum Length (4) Creel Limit
(a) Barbel July 1-Apr. 30 10 inches None
(b) Bream July 1-Apr. 30 10 inches None
(c) Brook Trout Jan, 1—Oct. 31 12 inches None
(a) Brown Trout . Jan. 11-Oct. 9 8 inches None
(e) Carp . July 1-Apr. 30 12 inches None
(f) Char Jan, 1—Oct. 31 10 inches None
(g) Crayfish June 1-Oct. 31 None None
(h) Eel All year 14 inches None
(i) Grayling May 1-Feb. 28 10 inches None
(j) Lake Trout Jan, 1-Sept. 30 12 inches None
(k) Perch, June 1-Mar. 31 None None
(I) Pike All year 14 inches None
(m) Pike Perch June 1-Mar. 31 14 inches None
(n) Rainbow Trout May 1-Feb. 28 8 inches None
(o) Salmon . Dec. 25-Nov, 10 20 inches None
(p) Tench July 1-Apr. 30 8 inches None
(q) Trout Perch July 1-Apr. 30 10 inches None
Article 2
All dates specified in this regulation are inclusive.
Article 3

This regulation shall become effective on July 15, 1951.

Official Statements

Berlin Trade Statement

In view of the statements which have
recently appeared in the German press on
the situation which has arisen in connec-
tion with the export of goods from Berlin,
the High Commissioners of the three
Western zones feel that it would be helpful
if their attitude to this problem was made
clear to the public.

It has been the customary and accepted
practice since Feb. 23, 1948, for consign-
ment notes (Warenbegleitscheine) cover-
ing exports from western Berlin of certain
specifically designated commodities to be
submitted to the Soviet Control Commis-
sion for counter-stamping. This procedure
grew out of the desirability of facilitating
the passage of goods in question through
the Soviet Zone customs and check posts.
The acceptance of this procedure conveyed
no rights to the Soviet Control Commission
of control over shipments from West
Berlin.

Until the middle of May of this year the
procedure operated satisfactorily. The
Soviet Control Commission then introduced
a demand that consignment notes sub-
mitted to them for counter-stamping and
covering exports from western Berlin
should be accompanied by a certificate
detailing the origin of the raw materials
consumed in the manufacture of the ex-
ports covered by the consignment notes.
The refusal at its discretion of the Soviet
Control Commission to counter-stamp con-
signment notes unaccompanied by certifi-
cates of origin means that in practice
the bulk of the goods in question cannot be
shipped, and at present shipments valued
at more than DM 70,000,000 ($16,660,000)
are held up in West Berlin warehouses.
This new demand for certificates of origin
by the Soviet Control Commission is the
direct cause of the present difficulties.

The High Commissioners cannot admit
the right of the Soviet Control Commission
to assume such an arbitrary control over
the shipment of goods from western Ber-
lin. The fact that a number of small firms
were persuaded to accede to the Soviet
demand does not affect this principle.

The High Commissioners have every
desire to solve the present difficulties and
they reiterate their willingness to take all
appropriate measures within their respec-

SEPTEMBER 1951

tive sectors and to cooperate with the
Soviet Control Commission to prevent ille-
gal trade which appears to be the motive
underlying the Soviet action. It was with
this object in mind that their experts were
authorized to meet with the Soviet experts
to discuss appopriate measures to assure
this objective. While the present new re-
strictions on the legal trade of western
Berlin remain in force the High Commis-
sioners cannot be expected to permit con-
tinuation of these discussions nor to ap-
prove the signature of a new interzonal
trade agreement.

A return to the practice prior to May
of this year whereby consignment notes
submitted to the Soviet Control Com-
mission were counter-stamped and return-
ed to the West Berlin Senate without
delay, would be accepted by the High Com-
missioners as evidence of the Soviet will-
ingness to cooperate with them in this
matter. It would also enable the High Com-
missioners to permit the prompt signature
of the Interzonal Trade Agreement and to
authorize their experts to attend further
meetings with the representatives of the
Soviet Control Commission to discuss the
problem of eliminating illegal trade.

The present new restrictions imposed by
the Soviet Control Commission have
serious implications for the West Berlin
economy and this is a situation in which
the High Commissioners cannot acquiesce.
They must therefore reserve the right to
take such steps as may be necessary to
ensure that the free movement of West
Berlin's legitimate trade is restored.

Share Ownership and Schedule “C”
Companies

Following on the decision of the execu-
tive committee of the German Federation
of Trade Unions (DGB) to propose the
withdrawal of the trade-union represen-
tatives from all joint organizations concern-
ed with the discussion of economic prob-
lems, the Federal Government published
July 25 a communique giving a reply to the
various matters of which the trade unions
had made criticism. In the replies deal-
ing with certain matters resulting from
the operation of Law 27, the Federal Gov-
ernment’s communique refers to the part
played by the Allied High Commission.

87

The following makes clear the Allied High
Commission's position.

1. Schedule ‘'C’* Coal Companies

The Allied High Commission addressed
a letter on May 17 to the federal chancel-
lor in which the views of the Federal Gov-
ernment were requested on the necessity
of including any such Schedule ‘'C’' com-
panies.in the reorganization plan for’ the
German coal industry. The Federal Govern-
ment replied to this letter on June 10. In
this reply the Federal Government pointed
out that the larger companies listed on Sched-
ule 'C’' were prepared to participate volun-
tarily in reorganization if released from
Law 27 and the government considered
it advisable to exploit all possibilities of
voluntary reorganization to the full. It was
also stated that the Federal: Government
had legal misgivings regarding a com-
pulsory inclusion of the Schedule “'C”
companies under the terms of Law 27 and
that such an inclusion was not necessary
to promote the recovery of the German
economy since it was very possible to
promote such recovery by resorting to
other methods.

In its letter of July 11 the Allied High
Commission acknowledged receipt of the
views of the Federal Government on this
problem and stated that as the High Com-
mission wished to exercise no greater
controls than are necessary over the Ger-
man economy, and in the light of the
opinions expressed in the Federal Govern-
ment's letter of June 10, the High Com-
mission had determined to decontrol from
Law 27 the Schedule “‘C’' coal companies
remaining thereunder. .

2. The Distribution of Shares in the
Law 27 Reorganizations

The Allied High Commission advised the
federal chancellor in its letter of May 24
of its decision to distribute the shares of
the new companies to be formed in the
course of the reorganization of the coal
and steel industries under Law 27 to private
persons as and when the new companies
are created. It was made clear that the
distribution would be carried out in such
a way so as to assure the claimants affect-
ed by the reorganization measures of just
and appropriate compensation, to avoid the
reconstitution of excessive concentrations
of economic power, and to exclude those
persons deemed to be disqualified under
the provisions of Law 27. The Allied High
Commission undertook in its letter to give
the Federal Government prior notice of
each such proposed distribution.

In this letter of June 10 the federal chan-
cellor acknowledged receipt of the High
Commission's letter and noted the decision
to distribute shares as indicated above.
He also requested that the Federal Gov-
ernment should be provided with concrete
information on the plannend method of distri-
bution, its practical implication and the
handling of any exceptions.

The main purpose of the Allied High
Commission in these matters has been to
disperse excessive concentrations of eco-
nomic power in the coal and steel indus-
tries and no steps which it has taken will
prevent any change in the relationship
between the owners and labor which the
federal authorities may later wish to
effect.

Reply to Chancellor's Letter on Saar

The Allied High Commission replied
Aug. 3 to the federal chancellor's letter

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 91 ---
on the present status of the Saar, sent to
the High Commission on May 29. Text of
the High Commission's reply follows:

In your letter of May 29 you drew the
attention of the three governments re-
presented on the Allied High Commission
to the situation in the Saar and offered
certain views on the political and legal
foundation of the present status of the
Saar.

Having taken note of these views, the
governments of the United Kingdom,
France and the United States have instruct-
ed the High Commission to reply as follows:

“The common position of the three gov-
ernments represented on the Allied High
Commission with regard to the present
status of the Saar has been repeatedly and
publicly made clear since the Moscow ses-
sion of the Council of Foreign Ministers
in April 1947.

The protocol signed in Berlin on Feb. 20,
1948, by British, French and American
experts was concerned solely with com-
pleting the technical arrangements result-
ing from the economic attachment of the
Saar to France. This technical agreement
was a direct consequence of the position
adopted by the three governments with
regard to the political and economic status
of the Saar.

The present status of the Saar is not in
contradiction with the declaration of the
Allies of June 5, 1945, in which the refer-
ence to “Germany within her frontiers as
they were on Dec. 31, 1937,'' was intended
only to define the area which was to be
divided into zones for occupation purposes.
It is recalfed in this connection that the
jurisdiction of the Federal Republic does
not extend beyond its territorial limits.

The three governments reaffirm their
view that the final status of the Saar re-
mains to be determined by the peace treaty
or by an analogous treaty.

The three governments naturally support
the development of democratic institutions
and respect for individual liberties in the
Saar. Finally, they express their firm hope
that all precautions will be taken to
prevent the Saar problem from becoming
a serious element of controversy and thus
endangering the common objective of a
close and lasting political and economic
association of European nations, an objec-
tive which the three governments know is
fully shared by the government of the
Federal Republic."

Letter to W-B Legislature

Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, US state
commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden,
sent Aug. 8 the following letter to Wilhelm
Keil, president of the state legislature:

“Your letter of Aug. 3 protesting opin-
ions held and expressed by me to those
Germans interested in my views, is ac-
knowledged.

The conviction of the state legislature
that the very haste and unanimity of its
action can only reflect the full support
of the people, the contradictory fear that
criticism of it must lead to a loss of respect
for it by the public, and the belief that
democratic orientation must come pre-
dominantly through party leadership rather
than be threatened by non-partisan in-
fluence, presented by you therein, are. all
noted.

The criticism in the legislature of the
press for questioning the need and wisdom
of changing the Radio Law as wholly selfish

INFORMATION BULLETIN

and un-German, the attack upon the re-
porter who queried me, as disloyal and
unworthy, the designation of non-partisans
as ‘gesinnungslose Schwadroneure’ evi-
dence pressure to silence rather than free-
dom to discuss. One senses and fears an
attempt to throttle the press and a deter-
mination to dominate the radio. That any-
thing so hostile to the public interest has
wide, let alone, unanimous, support of the
people, can hardly be believed.

May I not again recommend the bright
light of public discussion as a democratic
force, as opposed to the technique of the
Blitzgesetz?"’

Recent Publications

Listed below are official publications re-
ceived at the editorial office of the Infor-
mation Bulletin during August, Request for
these publications should be addressed,
through official channels, to the originat-
ing office.

Rating Official’s Guide, Personnel Division,

Office of Administration, HICOG (Frank-

furt), June 1951. Limited circulation.

Your Printing Plant and Its Services, Oper-
ating Facilities Division, Office of Ad-
ministration, HICOG (Frankfurt), June
1951. Limited circulation.

Employee Relations and Services Branch,
Personnel Division, Office of Administra-
tion (HICOG), July 1951. Limited circu-
lation.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 284,
Press & Publications Branch, Information
Services Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), July 20, 1951.
Covers newspapers and other publica-
tions dated up to July 20.

Cumulative Index of Legislation, Office of
General Counsel, HICOG (Frankfurt),
July 20, 1951. Index of legislation of the
Control Council for Germany (ACA),
Office of the Military Government of
Germany, US (OMGUS), Allied High
Commission (HICOM), and Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
(HICOG),

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 285,
Press & Publications Branch, Information
Services Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), July 27, 1951.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to July 27.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 286,
Press & Publications Branch, Information
Services Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Aug. 3, 1951.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Aug. 3.

EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 35,
Armed Forces Information and Education
Division, EUCOM (Frankfurt), Aug. 5,
1951. Contains article ‘‘The Panama Ca-
nal.’ Distributed to US Armed Forces in
Germany.

Hand of Friendship, Special Publications
Branch, Public Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, Aug. 9, 1951.
Reprint of article from Information Bul-
Jetin, July 1951.

Promoting German Trade, Special Publi-
cations Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG (Frank-
furt), Aug. 9, 1951. Reprint of article
from Information Bulletin, July 1951.

88

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 287,
Press & Publications Branch, Information
Services Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Aug. 10, 1951.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Aug. 10.

EUCOM Iniormation Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 36,
Armed Forces Information and Education
Division, EUCOM (Frankfurt), Aug. 12,
1951. Contains article ‘The Soviet Sol-
dier."" Distributed to US Armed Forces
in Germany.

HEUTE (Today, semi-monthly German-
language picture magazine), No. 143, In-
formation Services Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG (Munich), Aug. 15,
1951, Price: 50 pfennigs.

Der Monat (The Month, monthly German-
language magazine), No. 35, Information
Services Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Berlin), August 1951. Price:
DM 1.

Buechervorschau (book preview), Informa-
tion Centers Branch, Education and Cul-
tural Affairs Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), August 1951.
Lists American books to be distributed
among US Information Centers in Ger-
many. ’

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 288,
Press & Publications Branch, Information
Services Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Aug. 17, 1951.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Aug. 17.

EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 37,
Armed Forces Information and Education
Division, EUCOM (Frankfurt), Aug. 19,
1951. Contains article ‘Scandinavia To-
day." Distributed to US Armed Forces
in Germany.

Report on Germany, 7th Quarterly, Policy
Reports Secretary, Office of Executive
Secretary, HICOG (Frankfurt), Aug. 21,
1951. Covers April 1 to June 30.

Information Bulletin for August, Special
Publications Branch, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
(Frankfurt). Contains articles and pic-
torial features on US operations in Ger-

+ many. .

Official Gazette, No. 62, Allied High Com-
mission for Germany (Bonn-Petersberg),
Aug. 22, 1951. Contains official texts of
legislation adopted by or under authority
of the Allied High Commission. Pages
1034-1043,

US Policy in Europe, Special Publications
Branch, Public Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt),
Aug. 23, 1951. Reprint from the Infor-
mation Bulletin, June 1951,

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 289,
Press & Publications Branch, Information
Services Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Aug. 24, 1951.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Aug. 24.

EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 38,
Armed Forces Information and Education
Division, EUCOM (Frankfurt), Aug. 26,
1951. Contains article ‘How Strong is the
Soviet Union." Distributed to US Armed
Forces in Germany.

HEUTE (Today, semi-monthly German-
language picture magazine), No. 144, In-
formation Services Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG (Munich), Aug. 29,
1951. Price: 50 pfennigs. +END

SEPTEMBER 1951

--- Page 92 ---
a bo
First five stateless enlistees report to Sonthofen depot. (US Army photos)

shed shoes for combat boots. Right, learn fine points of bunk-making.

—

--- Page 93 ---
Demonstrating a pyramid as part of their morning calisthenics are part of group
of 70 EUCOM boy scouts who attended seventh International Boy Scout Jamboree

at Bad Ischl, Austria, Aug. 3 to 13. More than 14,000 boys from 46 countries
participated in the mammoth youth get-together.

(US Army photo)