--- Page 2 ---
Who’s Who in Bonn
louse of Neighbors Status of Universities 1951
US Policy in Europe Porcelain, Old and New

--- Page 3 ---
A colorful dash of North Africa has been added to the
city of Wetzlar, in the US Zone state of Hesse, with
the arrival of the French Army's crack Fifth Moroccan
Regiment from Mainz, in the French Zone. The transfer
was one result of the decision of the Council of Foreign
Ministers in September 1950 to station Allied troops
in Germany without regard to zonal boundaries, to
improve defense positions and harmonize operations.
A detachment of the Moroccan regiment (top) is played
into Wetzlar by the French Third Infantry Band (center),
preceded by its traditional mascot, a ram. Left, Maj.
Gen. Pau] Cherriere, commanding officer, French Sec-
ond, Army Corps, is welcomed at an international
reception by US State Commissioner for Hesse James
R. Newman. (Photos by US Army and W. Rudolph)

--- Page 4 ---
: e
f rm ati TABLE OF CONTENTS
nh 0 on June 1951
e Gocéthe House Restored? 2530 Oy te emir ere aed 3
Bulletin Article by Robert P. Ball
Touting the Borden’. i253 ae ee oe eee i
e

Article by W. J. Caldwell
The Information Bulletin is the Armed Forces Day Celebrated (pictorial) ................ 12

monthly magazine of the Office of the Soviets Obstruction (20.72 cote ates ee eae 14

US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative Statement by Henry A. Byroade

information concerning the policies, US Policy. in Burope (2 son so ans oa er ee 15
regulations, instructions, operations Address by Samuel Reber
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany. House Of ANeig MBG rs 2585 212 Ga ga Wile We ge ir eceios 4 casera 20
Editorial Statt: Article by Margaret Day Anthon

Editor .............. H. Warner Waid Bonn Project to be Ready by Fall ........................ 24
Sage eon ee Present Status of Universities .......................00055 25
Staff Writer g.7.<-.0- Maurice E. Lee Address by Dr. James M. Read

Refugee Glassmakers oi" cic; ee ata ae oo eee hia Fe 27

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7 Porcelain, Old and New .. 29
Frankfurt, Germany Article by George W. Ware
Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994 Who's Who in the Federal Cabinet ........................ 36
e Chart: Organization of Federal Government
The Information Bulletin is prepared Building Strength against Communism .................. 43
and pope a oe Tepe oa Study of Russian subversion tactics
i 4 ic Relations Division, : i r i
eS ‘Affairs, HICOG. It is Eisenhower Inspects West Zone Defenses (pictorial) ...... 48
printed by the Publishing Operations Action Planned against Trade Violators 50
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich. A Lesson to be Learned 51
Distribution is handled by the Mail Article by Mary Merchant
and Message Center, Communications German, US Press Look at Schuman Plan ................ 53

Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt. Outpuf, Exporis Set Retords 223.040. ca 2s ee 55

Economic review by A. J. Cefaratti

Roundup of editorial opinion

Correspondence dealing with in-

quiries, manuscripts and distribution Personmel Noles sas ene ONG (coat cde Ae ee 58
should be addressed to: .
Editor Alternative to “Pre-Medieval Barbarism” ................ 60
Information Bulletin r
PALE oae ee German - Cartoonstie aie 05 22s See ee a ee 61
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG Calendar of Coming Events <2: 3.2.72 sks a sss 63
APO 757-A, U. S. Army Washi R
German mailing’ address is: ‘ashington Reporter.) cca ecient Ciaicloinie Gary Aa 65
Editor in. and -Around:;Germanyc isle gon cine ies ft ee ones 68
Information Bulletin 2 at .
Public Relations Division Official "Notices = nuertins eee ee a tiie Ses a ene UN 70
HICOG Hochhaus Communiques ... 70
Frankfurt/M, Germany Laws said: Reqiulationsac te ai5 ..46 od. Ate eiet 70
Correspondence concerning inquiries SEI Lod fh pinta Saget fle = 90 Se ee NOG 71
and distribution in the United States i
ANNHOURCEMCNES See oe) se nes a ee 71

should be addressed to:
Division of Public Liaison Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents ......... Sane
Office of Public Affairs
Department of State

Washington 25, D.C. OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

e
Reprint of any article, unless spe- OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

cifically noted, is permitted. Mention PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated. FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Beautiful broad staircase has been reconstructed with in-
finite care and patience by master artisans in Frankfurt's
tribute to its most famous son, Germany's greatest poet.

Left, Goethe's old home, now the Goethe Museum in
Frankiurt's Grosser Hirschgraben, as it looked before it
was bombed out. This and other prewar photos in this
article were taken in 1907 by Molzahn-Altheim of Frank-
jurt-on-the-Main. Present day photos furnished by Claude
Jacoby, photographer of Public Relations Division, HICOG,

Everything in the newly-rebuilt Goethe House is just as
it was in the poet's youth. Photos below (left, prewar;
right, today) show one of the drawing rooms where guests
were entertained. Note fidelity of reconstruction work:
each and every picture is back in its accustomed place,

:

--- Page 6 ---
JoHANN WoLrGANG von GOETHE
Crayon by Johann Heinrich Lips, 1791.

Goethe
WH
i

House
Restored

By ROBERT P. BALL
Press Officer, Public Relations Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

K

rere
w|
ae

| ase STONE CHERUBS in the small baroque garden
| seemed surprised to see so many gentlemen in for-
mal black suits, for the occasion was as cheerful as the
May sunshine. Some of Johann Wolfgang Goethe’s most
distinguished admirers were meeting to take official
notice of a fact which Frankfurt residents had noted with
Satisfaction for weeks: The Goethe House, resurrected
with love and money, was standing again.

To be sure, it stood alone. The high gothic houses on
the other side of the Grosser Hirschgraben, which once
threw long shadows across Goethe's birthplace, had not
yet been resurrected from the flames of the Hitler war.
Grass was growing on the rubble.

But the poet's house, a harmony of pink sandstone, tan
plaster and grey slate — graceful as a sonnet — rose out

Se Front cover photo of bust of Johann Woligang von Goethe by
Claude Jacoby, PRD, HICOG.

JUNE 1951

Banners. wave and policemen salute (above) as honor
guests, high German and Allied officials, enter newly
rebuilt Goethe House in Frankfurt for dedication ceremony
early last month. Below, left to right, Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick,
British High Commissioner; Professor Ernst Beutler,
member of the board of directors of the Free German
Goethe House Society, Frankfurt; Andre Francois-Poncet,
French High Commissioner; Federal President Theodor
Heuss; John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner, and Frank-
fjurt's Mayor Walter Kolb. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD, HICOG)

--- Page 7 ---
of the ruins like the hope of free men for a new Germany.
The spirit of Frankfurt’s most famous son, bombed out
like so many of his countrymen, once more had a place
to lay his head.

At the dedication ceremony in the sunlit music room
the speakers struck Goethe chords. Johann Georg Hart-
mann, who had pushed the restoration project through
the Frankfurt City Council and spearheaded the gathering
of funds for the work, could report with pleasure a job
well done and invoke Goethe's hope of peace and under-
standing in the world. Underlining Frankfurt's paternal
pride in Goethe, Mayor Walter Kolb picked up the
Goethian sense of cultural heritage. For President Theo-
dor Heuss of the Federal Republic Goethe's insistence
on intellectual freedom was of top importance. He point-
ed out that the Frankfurt Goethe House has a double task
so long as the Goethe House in Weimar is surrounded
by a regime of un-Goethian compulsion.

Speaking for the Allied high commissioners, John J.
McCloy, US High Commissioner for Germany, noted that
Goethe was international in spirit and, as a private
citizen, interested in the political life of his country —
two qualities which Germans of today could well emulate.

Outside, beyond the range of Goethe words and Haydn
music, the curious residents of Frankfurt peered up at

A corner of the large kitchen in the old Goethe home,
a spacious room with copper pots, pans and other uten-
sils gleaming on the walls — an agreeable spot in
winter when it was the best-heated room in the house

At this desk the young Goethe wrote his famous works,
“Werther,” “Goetz von Berlichingen” and the first draft
of his drama, ‘Faust.’ The silhouettes on the wall are
souvenirs of the poet's student years in Leipzig, Saxony.

the many-windowed facade of the new-old house with
the golden monogram of Goethe's father, Johann Casper,
over the door. From the wrought-iron cage windows of
the ground floor scarlet geraniums nodded back.

* * *

T WAS THE SECOND TIME that the house, so appro-

priately named “The Three Lyres," had been rebuilt.
In 1755, when the poet was only six years old, his father
had it completely renovated. Today it is known that to
save the overhanging upper stories that he loved he
evaded the city building code, reporting the complete
rebuilding as a simple repair.

Aside from the overhanging facade, the house differed
little from the houses of other well-to-do Frankfurt citi-
zens. If the ceilings were a shade too low for the taste
of the time, the fine broad staircase retrieved the lost
elegance.

It was a comfortable house in which the lawyer's son
grew up, studying with his father and with his tutors,
browsing in the fine library and in his father’s collections.
The living room on the ground floor adjoined the kitchen,
agreeable in the winter months when the kitchen was
the best-heated room in the house, and on the way out
to the tiny garden one could catch a glimpse of the cop-
per pots and pans gleaming on the kitchen walls.

On the second floor, clustered around the stately hall,
were the fine drawing rooms, warmed against winter
chill by great tile stoves; in the west wing, the music
room where Goethe’s mother played the harpsichord to
father Goethe's flute.

The third floor held the studios for housing the art ob-
jects and flora which Johann Casper Goethe so assidu-

JUNE 1951

--- Page 8 ---
ously collected, and the family bedrooms, while on the
fourth floor, up under the roof, was the heart of the
house, the study where — at the old inlaid, ink-spattered
desk — Goethe wrote the first draft of “Faust,”
“Werther,” the book that made him famous, and “Goetz
von Berlichingen.”

The sunny rooms, the fine craftsman’s work of the
furniture, the broad staircase of the house all radiate
well-being and leisure. It was a pleasant, cultivated life
in the lawyer's household on the Grosser Hirschgraben.

Goethe lived in the house until he was 26. Some years
later, in 1796, his aged mother sold the house, and part
of the furnishings were dispersed. But because Goethe was
already famous, all the belongings of the house — the
chairs, the clock, the backgammon board — were care-
fully preserved by their new owners and their children,
so that when the house was made a museum in the
middle of the last century, it was possible to find every
single object and return it to its place in the house, just
as it had been in Goethe's youth.

T THE OUTBREAK of World War II all the furnishings

were removed from the house and dispersed in 12
safe storage places in the country around Frankfurt.
Samples of all wallpaper and woodwork were taken and
placed together with detailed plans and drawings of the
house, outside and in, a precaution taken with all his-
toric buildings in Germany. Students at the Frankfurt
School of Applied Art helped with drawings of door
latches and other small components. When the empty
shell of the house went up in smoke in the last years
of the war, the soul of the house was safe.

Nevertheless, it took determination to rebuild it. While
the war still raged, a Frankfurt construction firm made a
gift of Reichsmarks 300,000 for the work, but progress in
the hunger-wracked first years was slow. By 1947, how-
ever, the rubble had been cleared and the foundation
repaired, In that same year the Frankfurt Hochstift so-
ciety, administrators of the property, won City Council
approval to continue the work, and with private con-
tributions and enthusiasm the work was continued.

With currency reform the reconstruction took an up-
swing. More gifts flowed in, one of the largest being
DM 150,000 donated by Mr. John J. McCloy from the
HICOG Special Projects Fund. A Goethe stamp for the
Goethe year 1949, the 200th anniversary of his birth,
brought a rich harvest. Money and encouragement came
from Thomas Mann, Hermann Hesse, Albert Schweizer,
Fritz von Unruh and others. Thornton Wilder gave all
his German royalties.

Under the supervision of architect Theodore Kellner,
the plans and drawings became stone and plaster. Be-
cause only perfect restoration was good enough, masons
had to be found who could cut and set stones, roofers
who could fit slate shingles exactly as it was done in
the 18th century.

JUNE 1951

By early spring of this year all problems had been
solved; the house was finished, and the furnishings could
be brought back out of storage, none the worse for their
extended hibernation. The men who had worked so long
and so hard for the restoration could throw open the
doors to present and future generations of Goethe friends.

For the restorers, special admirers of the greatest Ger-
man poet, the task had had an inner justification. When
Goethe, as a lad of six, had helped lay the cornerstone
of the house, he had said, “I wish that this stone may be
preserved unchanged until the end of the world.”

* * x

EXT OF MR. McCLOY'S SPEECH, translated from
German, follows:

It is an honor to participate in this occasion. In behalf
of the Allied High Commission, I thank you for this
opportunity to do homage to the genius of Goethe. In
this building we have an instance not only of reconstruc-
tion but also of rededication to what is finest in the
spiritual heritage of Germany.

Ladies and gentleman, I hope that you will read in the
words which I am expressing today on behalf of my two
colleagues as well as on my own, the sentiments which
our three countries and with them all the civilized nations
of the world harbor toward one of the greatest sons of Ger-
many. We see in this citizen of the former free German
Reichsstadt (imperial city), Frankfurt-on-the-Main, a man
whose life and whose works bear the mark of genuine
Germanism. We appreciate in him that he has given to
the German language a brilliance, a fullness, a richness
and a purity as no one before him — all which still ra-
diates to the present day. We salute in him, moreover,

Sunny and spacious drawing room on the second floor,
warmed against winter chill by great ornate tile stove.

--- Page 9 ---
a universal genius which belongs not only to his own
country but to the entire world.

Like his fatherland, humanity can be proud of him as
one of the most perfect and, as he described himself,
universal figures — as one of those rare and most pre-
cious flowers, which actually constitute a justification of
mankind. He consciously addressed not only the Ger-
man people but all of mankind. For that we tender him
our admiration and our devotion,

I do not propose to say much more about Goethe. There
are others here who are far better qualified to talk about
him. I should, however, like to say a few words about
the meaning which Goethe has for the world today.

N THESE DAYS OF CHALLENGE to free men and free

institutions we have great need of our best minds and
finest talents. I think it is appropriate to remember that
Goethe, the man of letters and of science, was not above
entering the arena of practical political administration.
He wrestled with the problems of balancing a budget,
passing on plans for building bridges and roads, running
a school system, reconstructing old copper mines, super-
vising the theater and building factories.

Nor was this active participation merely a hobby. It
stemmed from the deepest conviction of the man who
characterized the highest human developments as being
helpful and kind, who found that the answer to the cen-
tral problem of existence lay in the dedication of the
individual to working unselfishly for the good of the com-
munity.

In these days when there is need to rise above narrow
nationalism it is also good to remember Goethe's cos-
mopolitanism and his internationalism. You all know how
he valued the contributions to world culture of all races
and all thinkers and condemned those who could only
see literature and life through national prejudices.
Without surrendering his loyalty to the German part of
his heritage, he described the highest degree of culture
as that in which one “feels the weal or woe of neighbor-
ing people as if it had happened to one's own." To see,

~ and to feel, what is common to us all, Goethe would say,
marks the highest man.

Second THE NEED FOR SOLUTIONS which transcend

nationalism is clear. Our success in working out such
solutions — whether in the Schuman Plan, a united
Europe or in western defense — depends on how clearly
we see, and pay attention to, the common elements of
humanity which lie deeper than national boundaries and
cultures,

These are times when the issues of freedom and the
individual are again at stake. It would be superfluous
to elaborate on Goethe's dedication to these ideals. Let
us remember, however, that Goethe put freedom on the
same plane as life itself. For that reason totalitarians, in
his own country or elsewhere, have never ‘been able to
evoke his name successfully.

Nowadays we hear much talk of a Vertrauenskrise
(lack of confidence) and that disillusionment and cynicism

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Black and white photography cannot capture the copper
gleam of cake and pudding forms hanging in the kitchen,

are widespread. Therefore, to have an event such as this
for this house, rebuilt from ruins, is a triumph of faith
and belief. I hope this occasion will serve as a reminder,
particularly to the young people of Germany, that there
are values and ideals in which we can believe and upon
which we can build a strong, human and free world.
May all of those who seek the unification of Europe
and who from far and near will make pilgrimages to this
building, achieve in his spirit a universal form of think-
ing and acting, remembering his promise and prophecy:
“A new day beckons us to new shores.” -+END

Gibney Preparing Labor Union Film

Sheridan Gibney, prominent Hollywood screen writer,
has been in Germany preparing a documentary film on
German trade unions. The film will be the first of a series
designed to acquaint foreign countries with the develop-
ment of free trade unionism in Germany.

The documentary will deal in part with the development
of UGO (now Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund) in Berlin as
a free trade union federation which separated from the
Communist-controlled FDGB.

Mr. Gibney was formerly president of the US Screen
Writers’ Guild and won an "Oscar" award for his script-
ing of the “Life of Louis Pasteur.’ He also wrote the
screenplays of “Our Hearts Were Young and Gay" and
“Anthony Adverse.”

Beckmann Etchings Displayed

A small memorial showing of early etchings of Max
Beckmann, German-American artist who died in New
York last December, were exhibited recently at Frank-
furt's US Information Center.

Mr. Beckmann, who was born in Leipzig Feb. 12, 1884,
was considered one of Germany's outstanding exponents
of expressionistic art. During the past 10 years he taught
fine arts in St. Louis and at the Brooklyn Art Museum.

JUNE 1951

--- Page 10 ---
The Public Relations Division, HICOG, conducted 26 press, radio, magazine and newsreel correspondents,
having a combined audience in Europe and North America of more than 200,000,000 persons, on a tour in
May of Bavaria’s northern and eastern borders overl6oking the Soviet Zone of Germany, Czechoslovakia
and Austria. The tour enabled them to observe firsthand how people live and.work within the shadows
of the Iron Curtain... to see how they are facing the threat of ideologies which would stifle human free-
dom... and to observe the efforts of the US resident officer to introduce democracy and restore faith
and confidence among a people who live in a region where West meets East.

Touring the Border

By W. J. CALDWELL
Chief, Public Relations Branch, OLC Bavaria

HE SLEEPY BAVARIAN HAMLET of Moedlareuth
typifies the results of the Communist doctrine of
divide... and utter confusion.

There, as in many other communities lying astride the
Iron Curtain which wraps snake-like around miles of
Bavaria’s twisting northern and eastern frontiers, the
demarcation line between East and West lies flush in the
center of town.

Citizens of Moedlareuth tell you that having the home
town split in two with a forbidden wall to keep lifelong
neighbors and friends apart is no joke. One man living
on the Bavarian side of town hadn't visited his brother,
a resident of the Soviet half of the town, for more than
18 months despite the fact they live only a stone’s throw
apart. Countless others experience similar family splits.
But many, with a sly wink, admit that Russian vigilance
has not prevented an occasional ‘‘sneak’’ journey across
the border.

“A community of two nations," grunted one leathery-
faced native as he leaned on his cane on the Bavarian
side of town.

“Yah," sighed a peasant woman as she snatched up an
unwary child of three toddling in the direction of the
unpainted fence which marked the zonal dividing line,
“two nations side by side — but so distant.”

OEDLAREUTH WAS A TYPICAL German farming
community situated party in the county of Hof, in
the extreme northeast corner of Bavaria, until that fateful
day when the Russians put up the fence in the middle of
the village. The half which the Soviets claimed lies in
adjacent Thuringia. That original barrier, which follows the
course of a small stream which forms the state border, was
later made more impenetrable by the Soviets. They dug a
trench parallel to the fence and then added another
wooden fence as a triple deterrent to East-West relations.
Reinforcement of the Iron Curtain at that point followed
Swiftly on the heels of two Curtain-defying incidents.
A young Bavarian, on the day of his wedding, wanted
to celebrate the nuptial occasion by publicy flaunting the
Soviets, He brazenly drove his car across Moedlareuth’s

(Photographs illustrating this article were furnished by Claude Jacoby,
PRD, HICOG, photographer; Gerald Waller, photographer for “Stars and
Stripes," and Arthur Settel, chief, Public Relations Division, HICOG.)

JUNE 1951

main street, smashing the fence to a splintered loop, and
then driving triumphantly back through another section
of the wavering Curtain to western safety.

The second Iron Curtain-busting incident which prompted
the three-layer border barrier involved a trucking com-
pany whose owner decided it was healthier to go west.
Mobilizing his fleet of trucks and tractors, he convoyed
the rumbling exodus across town, through the hapless
wooden barrier, to a safe haven on the Bavarian side.

Moedlareuth as a whole comprises approximately 210
natives and some 50 houses, many dating back centuries.
The Bavarian side of town was left without a school, a
store, a post office and a community well by the Soviet's
decision to partition the community. Fortunately, one
enterprising woman on the Bavarian side of town had,
with true womanly intuition, opened a tiny shop in her
home which served bottled beer. Her foresight saved the
Bavarian side from a complete drought.

ILLIAM G. KEEN of Chattanooga, Tenn., US resident

officer of county Hof, said the Soviet-inspired divi-
sion had created quite a problem for the hamlet's Ba-
varian citizens.

“In normal times," 38-year-old Keen drawled, “the kids
on the Bavarian side of town merely crossed the road into
Thuringia and in a matter of minutes were in school. The
school is now barred to them so they have to walk two
miles to the nearest Bavarian school at Toepen. There
was also the mail problem. At first the Bavarian residents

Looking over US Zone-Soviet Zone barrier at Moedlareuth
are (1.-r.) Jerome Caminada, London Times; Richard O'Mal-
ley, Associated Press; Ed Haaker, NBC; Allen Dreyfuss,
ABC, and Jack Henry, Reuters.

(Photo by Settel)

--- Page 11 ---
Interviews along the border: two American correspond-
ents talk with a German farm woman on a road in Bavaria
while her work cows nibble grass in the Soviet Zone.

Correspondents watch an East Zone police car speed past
the barricade in Moedlareuth. Below, two Bavarian border
guards chat with a farmer whose house at left is in Soviet
Zone and barn at right is in Bavaria. (Photos by Jacoby)

were able to walk to the Soviet border and have their
mail handed to them over the fence. But the Russians —
stopped that, so now mail has to be routed to them from
Toepen, the closest Bavarian village having a post office."
The likable resident officer said the community's water
well posed one of the greatest problems. The more daring —
Bavarians have sneaked across the border at night for
their pail of water. But it's risky. One hapless woman,
wife of a Bavarian border policeman, was apprehended by —
Soviet Zone so-called "People’s Police’ as she was kneel- ;
ing by the forbidden well. Her captors drove her six miles
to Soviet headquarters, where she was thoroughly grilled,
She later was released but had to walk back. The Bavarian
side of town now is building its own well to avoid the
tisk of more serious consequences befalling its citizens.

T WAS MID-AFTERNOON when we drove into Moedla-
reuth and the streets on both sides of the frontier were

deserted except for two "People’s Police” guarding the
Soviet side of the barrier. Our arrival attracted natives
from both sides of town. On the Soviet side, a score of
men, women and children gathered near the barrier. They
waved and exchanged pleasantries, seeming not to mind
the two rifle-toting ‘People’s Police.’ Shortly after we
reached the town, the two “People’s Police” hurried to a
field telephone and minutes later more than a dozen
“People's Police’ reinforcements arrived from various
directions. They clustered in a group 200 feet from where
we stood.

A chicken pecked its way across the churned up border
and just as nonchalantly returned over the “no man's"
strip. Citizens on the Soviet side watched with envy.

We had been at the border about an hour when a warn-
ing whisper was hissed among the Eastern onlookers that
“the Russians are coming." Frantic mothers on the eastern
side of the border grabbed their offspring and together
with their menfolk fled into their houses. Within seconds
the Soviet part of Moedlareuth was deserted except for
the gaping ‘People’s Police." On the Bavarian side of
town, the citizens remained unperturbed. They smiled,
joked and seemed to say, ‘Gosh, ain't freedom wonderful.”

A cloud of dust rose from the nearby hill where the
Russian soldiers reportedly were on guard. The dust
cloud moved rapidly closer and then from it emerged a
battered German-army “jeep” of World War II vintage.
The lumbering vehicle, manned by two uniformed
“People's Police,” rumbled over the dirt road toward us
and then about 25 feet away it followed the road which
runs parallel to the zonal boundary. The vehicle skidded
to a stop by the group of ‘People’s Police,” but nothing
more happened. The border guards continued to stare at
us until we finally departed.*

|| [eavaenpeeapeties IS JUST ONE of many towns strad-

dling the zonal border which have been halved by
the Soviets’ zonal policy. At towns lying partly in Ba-
varia and partly in Czechoslovakia, Communist officials
have created a barren no-man's buffer corridor by de-

* Ten minutes after the correspondents departed, a detail of ap-
proximately 50 armed Russian soldiers arrived at the border town but
there was no incident.

JUNE 1951

--- Page 12 ---
Along the Bavaria-Soviet
Zone border: (above) Party
of American, Allied and Ger-
man correspondents and es-
cort officials at Neustadt in-
terzonal barrier, viewing the
Soviet checkpoint down the
toad, (Left) Claude Jacoby,
Public Relations Division staff
photographer, taking photo
at top. (Right) Telephoto
view of the Soviet check-
point, (Photos, top by Jacoby;
left by Settel; right by Waller)

molishing houses on their side of the frontier. The un-
fortunate occupants were obliged to find shelter elsewhere.

Resident Officer Keen pointed to border police statistics
to show how ineffective the Communist zonal policy is.
The illegal border traffic is one-sided all along the Iron
Curtain frontier, with many times more Easterners seek-
ing to enter the western zones of Germany.

“The Easterners," the resident officer pointed out, “risk

death, slave labor or other primitive forms of punish-
ment to escape to the West. Many of them bring stories
which would make your hair curl. Still others, with

families in the East whom they don’t dare desert through
fear of Soviet reprisals, slip across the border merely to

visit relatives and friends, to get a square meal or to
purchase other necessities of life unavailable or beyond
reach of their pocketbooks in the Soviet Zone.”

Mr. Keen was quick to admit that the people living in
the Hof area, as in other border counties, have their prob-
lems — mainly housing, unemployment, a steady influx
of refugees, the flight of industry westward, the acquire-
ment of needed raw materials for the border area’s mani-
fold industries, and new markets for the finished goods.

“Being human," he said, “many of the citizens com-
plain — some probably too much. But on the whole the
people seem thankful they are free and have been given

the opportunity, mainly through American financial aid, to
better their living conditions. The Marshall Plan was a big
factor in restoring self-confidence. It helped show them
democracy is not just talk, but cooperative action.”

HILE MANY BAVARIANS complain of the drain on
their economy from the refugees, some are well
aware of the contributions these refugees have made in
bringing new industries to their area. The Neuerer porce-
lain factory in Hof is a good example. This world-famous

JUNE 1951

concern, one of many border factories visited by the
correspondents, formerly was located in Czechoslovakia,
It moved west and in addition to providing employment
for hundreds of Hof workers, it is now earning much-
needed dollars for the West German economy by export-
ing the bulk of its products to the United States.

The correspondents visited three Bavarian border areas
—- Hof, Coburg and Passau — and in each there was one
postwar problem most frequently voiced. Creation of the
Iron Curtain along the border had caused a major trade
dislocation, since in normal times the bulk of commercial
relations these areas had were with the East. Coal and
other raw materials had been obtained cheaply from
nearby Czechoslovakia and other countries now behind
the Iron Curtain. And the finished products formerly were
marketed in the East.

Today, except for authorized crossing-points, roads and
railroad lines connecting Bavaria with her eastern markets
have been blocked off at the border. Consequently, manu-
facturers have had to turn west — getting coal from the
more distant Ruhr and seeking markets in far-off western
European countries and the United States.

ANS PETER THOMSEN of Madison, Wis., resident

officer in the counties of Coburg and Neustadt since
last August, said this problem is especially acute in Co-
burg, which jets peninsula-like into the Soviet Zone. The
county is rimmed by the Iron Curtain on the west, north
and east, forcing traffic to follow a 90-degree route be-
tween Coburg and western Europe.

It greatly increases the operating costs of Coburg's
manufacturers, making it difficult for the area's businesses,
which comprise small industrial enterprises producing
mainly toys, ceramics, chinaware, furniture, electric
cables and Christmas tree ornaments, and 5,000 small

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 13 ---
Eugen Bruecker, sales head of Coburg’s Hummel figurine
factory, shows newsmen a whisky container with legend,

“Thirst is worse than homesickness." (Photo by Jacoby)
farms, to compete on the world’s free markets. This is
one reason why unemployment in the Coburg area is
higher than the over-all Bavarian average. Generally
speaking, the people living on Bavaria’s borders facing
Communist-dominated lands are trying to make the best
of their lot. Roads linking them with the west are being
repaired and new ones built, and housing slowly but re-
solutely is being provided in most areas to accommodate
workers seeking employment in old and new industries.

In some border communities which in prewar days
attracted tourists from far and wide, the local officials
have been more reluctant about marring their beautiful
landscape with smoke and soot-erupting factories. Passau,
which faces Austria and where William J. Garlock of
Bloomfield, N.J., serves as resident officer, has launched
a large power project as an economy aid. However, many
of Passau’s leading citizens still frown on industries which
they fear would deter future tourist trade when life there
once more becomes normal.

Av ALONG THE BORDER, the problem of training
youth for democratic living was heard. The Com-
munist-dominated youth movement (FDJ) in the Soviet
Zone of Germany, freely financed by the Communist
Party, is making a determined effort to convert Bavarian
youth to their cause. The highly-regimented FDJers have
made surprisingly few inroads on Bavarian youth, how-
ever, despite the impetus a movement of their kind
normally.receives when substandard economic conditions
and widespread unemployment exist.

The anti-Communist youth movement in the border
areas generally has received less financial support from
local government officials, but their unregimented organi-
zation has grown—a growth which many observers
attribute in part to the proximity of Communism itself.
The Bavarian youth, like their elders, don't have to be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

told about the evils of a Communist state. Stories re-
counted by refugees of life under Red rule has been con-
vincing proof for most of the youth that while conditions ~
in their own Bavarian communities may be bad, their life —
still is a paradise to that in the East.

HICOG, through its resident officers, and US Military
authorities are working hand in glove with Bavarian
officials to maximize work and play opportunities for ;
Bavarian youth. In Coburg, for instance, a youth home
was established in the summer of 1950 through the joint
efforts and cooperation of local Bavarian authorities,
HICOG and the US Army.

The Hof area, as part of its energetic youth program,
has completed plans for an international youth forum and
camp on the border— one of many such activities plan-
ned this summer to promote greater understanding with
other nations and to provide, for the benefit of the East
zone, an example of unregimented youth activity.

HE US RESIDENT OFFICER — the American Govern-

ment's so-called “grass-roots ambassador''— deserves
much of the credit for introducing the western brand of
democracy to a people who, geographically, are exposed
to Eastern influences.

Only a person who has never taken the trouble to
observe the resident officer in action can doubt the vital
role he is playing in postwar Germany. His job is a round-
the-clock one, with endless conferences, meetings and
discussions with local officials and citizenry representing
all facets of community life.

Sandwiched in to his never-ending schedule of activities
are the many problems the resident officer is expected to
solve —a controversy stemming from a hunting incident
involving a member of the Allied governments stationed
in Germany, liaison between American and German
officials on a project affecting the interests of both
nations, engineering HICOG's exchanges program at the
county level, answering questions or providing informa-
tion in defense of Western democratic concepts and
principles. These are just a few of the jobs which daily
demand of the resident officer Solomon-like judgment,
wisdom and discretion.

Traditional rivalry between city and county govern-
ment officials in Coburg —a rivalry which existed long
before 1920 when Coburg, the ancestral home of the
Dukes of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, ceased its historic role
as a duchy and was incorporated into the Bavarian
state — had retarded community cooperation. This con-
dition was further heightened by the fact that the Coburg
area politically leans toward two extremes—right and left.

Resident Officer Thomsen sensed this rivalry shortly
after he took up his post there. He investigated, analyzed
the situation, consulted the more open-minded comi-
munity leaders, and then took some positive steps. Mr.
Thomsen intensified HICOG's educational program by
organizing youth forums and discussion groups. In the
field of adult education he induced the adult people's
school (Volkshochschule) to institute a series of lectures,
conducted by elected city and county officials of the
area, on local civic affairs, explaining that “this develop-

JUNE 1951

--- Page 14 ---
ment is significant if you will bear in mind the traditional
philosophy of the government official — namely, to gov-
ern.’ Mr. Thomsen said of the lectures: “Slowly but surely,
the concept of the public official as a public servant, re-
sponsible to the citizens of his community, is taking root."

R. THOMSEN SUCCEEDED in getting the citizens

interested in problems pertaining to their particular
fields, but bringing them together to tackle problems on
a community-wide basis was another thing. Public of-
ficials were reluctant to look at the over-all welfare of
the community. Coburg city officials, the majority mem-
bers of the Free Democratic Party (FDP), and Coburg
county officials, predominantly Social Democrats (SPD),
were at odds for reasons primarily of political dogma,

The resident officer finally solved that problem by
hitting upon the community planning council idea.

“Citizens not only have a right to determine by whom
they should be governed,” Mr. Thomsen argued, “but how
their schools and parks should look, how their hospitals
and streets should be built. In other words, they have the
right to help plan their community.”

The attitude of officialdom toward community planning
in its earlier stages was succinctly expressed by Coburg's
mayor, Dr. Walter Langer, who told Mr. Thomsen: “'It is
easy for you Americans to plan because you have the
dollars.’’ Retorted Mr. Thomsen: “No, Dr. Langer, we have

dollars because we have planned.”
The resident officer was determined to show political
diehards that community-wide planning was not a matter

of dollars but common sense, His first success was among
the area's educators and scholars, who, at his suggestion,
formed a city planning group late in 1950. The group
attracted interested citizens from both the city and county,
including some government officials who, while they still
suspiciously eyed community planning, were sufficiently
politically-minded to heed the views of their constituents.

The planning committee grew, and both county and city
government heads began taking an active role. However,
at the beginning community planning was limited to city
or county — never the two jointly.

William J. (“Jack”) Caldwell,
author of this article, has been
in Germany since shortly after
the war. A wartime correspon-
dent for “Stars and Stripes,“ he
joined the Public Information
Office, OMGUS, in Berlin in
March 1946, advancing to news
chief. When the Department of
State took over the occupation
responsibility in October 1949,
he was transferred to Munich as
chief of the Public Relations
Branch, OLC Bavaria. At the end
of May, he, with his wife and
daughter, left for Washington
to take a new post with the
Office of International Press and
Publications, Department of State.
A resident of Buffalo, N.Y.,
he was a reporter before the
war for the “Courier-Express.”

NE 1951

11

Coburg city planning commission holds session with cor-
respondents and escort officials as observers. Standing is
Hans Anweiler, (SPD), city councilor, listening to a ques-

tion put by one of the visitors. (Photo by Jacoby)

ITY AND COUNTY OFFICIALS, sitting with local

citizens on the planning committee, at first glared at
each other. Then they began wrangling. Mr. Thomsen
was encouraged when he noticed they were beginning to
agree occasionally on minor problems affecting either city
or county. The big turning point came early this year
when the two rival political camps decided to meet to
discuss problems common to both city and county. That
history-making meeting was held late last January when
city and county officials, along with government repre~
sentatives from Munich and Bonn, sat down at one table
with an eye on their common community problems.

Mr. Thomsen had reason to be proud of an accomplish-
ment for which he was mainly responsible.

Duplicating the truce declared by city and county
officials of Coburg, Bavarian citizens along the border are
meeting and solving many of their problems. And in seek-
ing to better their own way of life, they are not turning
their back on their less fortunate fellow countrymen who
live across the zonal border in the Soviet Zone,

At virtually every village and hamlet we visited we
were asked by Bavarians: “Do you realize that the Ger-
mans living in the East also are waiting to be liberated
by you Americans?"

More than once we were told that “whenever the
Americans withdraw their troops from a border point, it
causes even greater concern among the eastern Germans
than among the Bavarians. The eastern Germans feel
safer knowing the American soldiers are nearby.”

And many Bavarians relayed this message they said
they had received from relatives and friends in the Soviet
Zone; ‘Please remind the Americans that most of us are
Communists by force — not of our own free will." --END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Combined color guard (left), drawn from Army, Navy and
Air Force, marched in parade of ‘Defenders of Freedom”
in Berlin, Above, thousands lined downtown streets in
Frankfurt to see big Army show. (US Army photos)

Armed Forces Day Celebrated

Jet fighter formations (left) roared low over Frankfurt
while Army ambulances drove along in parade. Below, top
US officials in Germany on reviewing stand in Berlin:
(l.-r.) Col. Louis P. Leone, deputy commander, BMP; US
High Commissioner John J. McCloy; General Thomas T.
Handy, EUCOM C.-in-C.; Lt. Gen. Lauris Norstadt, C, G.,
US Air Forces in Europe; Lt. Gen. Manton S. Eddy, C. G.,
Seventh Army; Rear Adm. Carl F. Holden, commander,
US Naval Forces, Germany; Maj. Gen. Dean C. Strother,
C. G., 12th Air Force; Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson, US
Commander of Berlin; Col. Maurice W. Daniel, C. O., BMP.

--- Page 16 ---
ey

Naval detachment from Bremerhaven participated in
Berlin event which drew tens of thousands of Germans.

of Company D, 7888 Special Troops, marched in
review at Heidelberg, European Command headquarters.

Below, 759th Military Police Horse Platoon, only such
unil in US Armed Forces today, paraded at Tempelhot.

JUNE 1951

Over-all view of Tempelhof Airfield, in heart of Berlin,
as Army, Navy and Air Force combined to mark second
Armed Forces Day. Distinguished gathering included
highest US and Allied officials, City Council dignitaries.

Standing in back of jeep, Mr. McCloy and General Handy
salute the colors in impressive ceremonies in Berlin.

Below, ‘‘Man-of-War’ rumbles past reviewing stand as
Nuremberg Military Post turned out in regimental com-
bat team strength for parade in historic walled city.

--- Page 17 ---
SHUI UUUTSUU Ua »

Soviet Obstruction

The following is the text of a statement made by Henry A. Byrodde, director of the Bureau of German
Affairs, Department of State, on April 29 over the television network of the National Broadcasting Company
and reprinted from the Department of State Bulletin.

I WANT TO TALK TO YOU about one of the major problems our government faces today. After continuous
effort over a period of years to reach agreement with the USSR on Germany, our government — in con-
Junction with the French and British —concluded reluctantly in 1949 that progress could no longer be
delayed because of Soviet obstruction. We, therefore, gave authority to the western Germans to establish
~ a democratic form of government in western Germany.

Attempts at obstruction by the Soviet Union followed, including the blockade on the City of Berlin. You
ali know the gallant story of the airlift to Berlin. Thwarted in this, the Soviets requested a meeting of the
four foreign ministers in a final effort to block the formation of the German government. We met with
them in good faith, but Molotov soon made it very clear that there could be no agreement on Germany
except one which would place all Germany at the mercy of the Soviet Union.

I give you this history because of its similarity to what is happening today.

The tactics, military preparations and hostile propaganda of the Soviet Union—resulting in open
aggression by forces in their orbit last June — have reluctantly caused free nations to look to their own
defense. In the Atlantic area, the 12 nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization made a far-reaching
decision to establish a common force and further agreed that western Germany, should she so elect, would
have the right and opportunity to join and so participate in her own defense. This was many, many months
after Soviet representatives had established military forces — so-called police forces — in East Germany.

The Soviet Union has attacked this defensive plan, now with veiled threats, now with mocking “peace
offensives."’ They also asked for a Big Four meeting to discuss German demilitarization.

We have no desire to avoid such a meeting, since one must always cling to the hope that a basic agree-
ment can be possible. But this time we wanted the assurance of an agenda, not simply weeks of futile
discussions by the foreign ministers on procedures and on what to talk about.

For this purpose, the deputies of the foreign ministers have now been in session in Paris more than
eight weeks. z

TT TTT LUTTTTTTTLLTTTTLLTTTDL LLL

WANT TO CUT THROUGH confused interplay of agenda wording and tell you why what is going on at
Paris is much more important to us than a play on words.

Gromyko, the Soviet representative, has maintained that the question of western German participation
in her own defense is the principal cause of tension in Europe. This is clearly nonsense since the question
of German participation in defense would not arise except for the aggressive Soviet behavior, coupled with
their large military forces, in eastern Germany and the satellites. To accept their contention would lead to
the conclusion that the acts and policies of the West were the primary cause of tensions in Europe.

The Western deputies have also indicated that existing levels of armaments and armed forces and means
for international control of armaments should be a subject for Four-Power consideration. When we and our
Western Allies disarmed upon the end of the last war, Russia maintained —in some instances even in-
creased — her military strength. It is the threat of these Red armies — partly outside Russian borders and
far in excess of the needs of any state for its own self-protection — that is the real cause of tension in Europe
today. In the face of this situation, the Soviet representative desires agenda wording which would commit
us to a policy of reduction in armed strength of the Four Powers — and this prior to any consideration of the
present unbalance and prior to any agreement on a form of international inspection and control. This is an
old and familiar Soviet proposition. It, too, forms no basis for honest discussions.

These are some of the differences at Paris. Soviet propaganda, Soviet double talk, Soviet insistence that
white is black and black is white, denies what you and I know to be true. It would seem that the original
goal of the Soviet representatives — that is, to prevent western Germany from accepting a defense role with
the West—has now been broadened into an attack upon the whole defensive effort of the West. It is
important that we all understand what is behind their efforts to confuse and control. +END

SUVUUVUVEUUIUEUUUVUGUU LUPE 4

INFORMATION BULLETIN 14 JUNE 1951 —

--- Page 18 ---
US Policy in Europe

By SAMUEL REBER
Director, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG

It is true there exists today a world
organization which was not present
in 1914 and which tempers to some
extent the strains and tensions be-
tween these two blocs. But the very

yet depend upon the relaxation of
these tensions before a breaking point
is reached.

The experiences of two world wars
and the rapid advance of technology

Ministry in

BOUT A HALF CENTURY ago 3 :
Theodore Roosevelt remarked one ae ae ey + an
' 1 tio address on “United States Policy in
pot ee a aaa he ates Europe, with Special Reference to
that the United States must assume 5a
ae Germany“ which was given by
the role and responsibility of a world Samuel Reber, director of the Office
power. What he meant was not Well- | of Political Affairs, HICOG, before
macht (world power) as understood by the Gesellschaft fuer Auslands-
some in those days but cooperation kunde (Society for the Study of
on a world-wide basis of equal part- Foreign Countries) in the great hall
nership. of the Economics
Today the world situation is an in- Munich on May 7, 1951.
teresting commentary on Roosevelt's

statement. The United States finds itself deeply in-
volved in world affairs, in the problems and doings
of many peoples at many points on the globe. This
involvement, often undertaken reluctantly, has nothing
in common with colonial or imperialist aspiration. It has
come about because our nation, in its own interests, has
found that these interests have become inextricably inter-
woven with those of other peoples.

There has developed a realization of the solidarity, the
identity of interest of all peoples who aspire to peace, to
security and to freedom. It is this identification of
American destiny with the fate of other peoples that
gives meaning to our foreign policy and its objectives
today.

Let me be more specific. The United States has taken
a foremost position in the endeavors of the United Nations
to establish the institutions of an international life based
on law and order. It is fighting in Korea against an un-
provoked act of aggression which threatens the existence
of all free peoples. It has taken the initiative in setting
up an organization for the common security of the North
Atlantic nations. It is involved in a vast program of eco-
nomic assistance to needy nations and undeveloped areas.

N THESE DAYS it is difficult to look back to the time
when Mr, Roosevelt made his statement and when the
world seemed quiet and secure. Peace in those days, as
we now realize, was maintained only by a precarious
equilibrium among the six or seven major European
powers or by their occasional cooperation in the concert

of Europe. The United States lived its own life apart from
the turmoils of European politics.

Since 1914, however, the world situation has undergone
a profound change. Today, in consequence of two global
wars, in the place of the former concert of European
powers, are two groups confronting each other over an
exhausted Europe and a confused Asia, one the associated
free nations of the West and the other the Soviet Union
and its satellites. These two dominate the world picture.

JUNE 1951

have resulted in a revolution in
the methods of warfare unmatched even by the intro-
duction of gunpowder in the 15th century. The enormous
complexity and cost of modern armaments have made it
almost prohibitive for small nations to rely on their own
resources for defense. Only great industrial powers work-
ing in concert can shoulder the burden of national defense
without courting bankruptcy. This fact has required a
pooling of national resources on the part of states seeking
even the minimum of security against aggression. The
advance of science has reduced war as an instrument of
national policy to a sheer absurdity.

In this new world the United States found its old luxury
of isolationism completely outmoded. No longer could it
hold the world at arm’s length, resting secure in its
aloofness. Distances have shrunk or been obliterated.
Oceans are no longer barriers or Maginot Lines of defense.

Germany needs Europe just as Europe needs Germany,
warned Mr. Reber in his Munich address on US policy in
Europe. Germany can not remain aloof, under any cir-
cumstances, he added, saying failure to integrate Ger-
many with Europe would only mean its eventual absorp-
tion into the Soviet orbit and its subservience to the
dictates of a foreign oppressor. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

survival of the United Nations may’

--- Page 19 ---
May Day saw an estimated 600,000 West Berliners gath-
er at the Platz der Republik, near the burned out Reichs-
tag building, for an impressive demonstration of soli-
darity with the West. Unity and freedom were keynote.

HILE METHODS OF DIPLOMACY have altered, the

basic objectives of United States policy are never-
theless as they have always been—peace, freedom,
security. But we now recognize that these are capable of
realization only through cooperation with other like-
minded nations, not through neutrality, not through isola-
tion. The crisis demands that America throw its whole
strength and its vast resources into the endeavors, to-
gether with other freedom-loving peoples, to create order
based on law, backed by force applied through common
consent.

This is the key to what we are trying to do on a global
scale today. Faced by the economic dislocation and
poverty brought on by the last war, and the menace of
totalitarian aggression throughout large areas of the
world, the United States is endeavoring to improve the
standards of life, to expand the area of democratic free-
doms and to create situations of strength as barriers to
Communist encroachment. This is the meaning of our
policies since 1945 as exemplified by the Marshall Plan,
our efforts to strengthen the United Nations, our support
of its action in Korea, the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation, and our programs of financial and military
assistance.

It is my purpose today to deal specifically with Ameri-
can policy as applied in one area of critical importance —
Europe. I can sketch it only in broadcast outline, with
special emphasis upon the significance of Germany
within that area.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

Europe, with its large and industrious population and
its highly developed resources, was once the continent

from which more than half the world was ruled. We no
longer think of it, however, as the theater on which half

a dozen great states maneuver for position and power, —

but shaken and weakened by two great wars it has

nevertheless not lost its importance.
The Soviet intention is clear—to bring the entire

continent or as much of it as possible within the orbit of —

Communist power.

The purpose of the United States is equally clear, It is _

to restore a war-ravaged continent to health and strength,

to bind up the wounds of its peoples, to aid in strengthen- —
ing their faith in the reality of democratic freedoms. We _

wish to see Europe a bulwark of democratic force and a
bastion of peace. We hope, along with all good Europeans,
that its ancient hatreds and traditional antagonism will
be submerged in a unity which will transcend frontiers
and join its peoples in one indissoluble community.

N THE HEART and in the heart of Europe is Germany,

Not in the sense that the pan-Germans or the Nazis

meant it and tried to realize it, but because of the sheer

facts of geography, manpower and resources. We are _

here today because we were forced to fight a war against
a Germany that challenged Europe and the free nations
of the world. Yet we are not here with vindictive intent,
We are here because there is a job to be done that is of
crucial significance for the consolidation of a free Europe
and for a peaceful world.

There can be no consolidation of Europe without Ger-
many. It is clear that either of two possible developments
would be disastrous. Either Germany's absorption into the
Soviet sphere or its emergence once again as a chau-
vinistic aggressive military power would be fatal to our
hopes for a peaceful Europe. Our objective must be the
building of a democratic Germany as an integral part of
the united community of free Europe.

Our policy, broadly viewed, is then to make Europe
an area of strength, stability and freedom. First priority
has necessarily been given to the economic reconstruc-
tion of a continent, including of course Great Britain,
whose very means of existence were fearfully disrupted
by war. Europe's great potential of productive capacities
and technical skills must be restored to their fullest
utilization for peace,

That, because of the all too obvious threat, some of
this capacity must now be diverted to military purposes
must not obscure the fact that our purpose is not war
but the prevention of war. And we believe that living
standards can and must be maintained and improved.
While all must share in the privations and sacrifices of
the present hour I do not believe that Europe is faced
with a grim choice between guns or butter.

HE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SOUND economic struc-
ture is essential not only to military strength but to
political stability. It is not necessary for me to do more
than refer to the ECA and other programs of assistance
which have achieved a miracle of economic rebirth in

JUNE 1951

%

--- Page 20 ---
Europe. This was not mere philanthropy. It was calculated
yealism. We have recognized the necessity of overcoming
the mass starvation and unrest upon which Communism
thrives, and of creating the conditions essential for a
democratic life. Too many Europeans have come to
associate democracy with governmental impotence and
economic sickness. We are determined to do all within
our power to associate democracy with economic health
and political competence.

Germany has shared in this economic revival and
indeed has contributed to it. Only recently, the third
anniversary of ECA assistance was marked by the attain-
ment of a level of production far surpassing that of the
most prosperous prewar years. It is true there exist
serious unemployment and grave economic problems
which challenge the statesmanship of the Federal Republic
to the utmost. But the progress achieved gives promise
that these obstacles will be overcome as have even more
serious ones in the past. The apathy of the postwar years
is melting before these signs of progress.

Mr. McCloy stated about a year ago, however, that we
are not here exclusively to feed the German people and
promote economic recovery. Our main purpose, he
emphasized, is to help the German people establish a
political democracy in which they can live as free men
and enjoy the benefits of their freedom. Now I should
like to project this idea to the whole of Europe.

UR AMERICAN TRADITION, it might be said, is one
( of unqualified democracy. We believe in democracy;
as the noblest idea that ever swelled a human heart with
pride we have built our national life upon it. But we are
not cultural imperialists, We do not seek to impose the
pattern of our institutions upon the peoples of Europe.
Although we believe that every people must work out its
own political salvation, we are also convinced the demo-
cratic ideal is large enough to embrace cultural diversity
and in fact encourages it.

We believe, nevertheless, that the peace of Europe will
never be secure until the governments respond to the
will of their peoples and safeguard those basic human
freedoms which are universally recognized as the founda-
tion of civilized life. The United States accordingly has
used its influence and its means to foster the growth of
democratic institutions and ideas throughout Europe.

It has repeatedly protested against the subversion of
democracy and the denial of human rights by the Com-
munist-controlled governments of Eastern Europe.

It has countered the Communist offensive against Eu-
rope with a strategy of freedom which seeks to enlarge the
international community of free peoples and to bulwark
that community against its enemies both within and without.

It is a cardinal purpose of our policy that Germany
should be enabled to establish its democratic life upon a
lasting basis. For Germany we feel a special responsibility
because it was here that a perverted regime arose which
almost destroyed Europe. Our policy has been, in associa-
tion with our Allies and with Germans of good will, to
root out every vestige of that regime and of the force
which created it.

JUNE 1951

17.

Small section of tremendous turnout, estimated at 600,000,
is shown in this photo of May Day observance in Berlin.
West Berliners of all ages and every stratum converged
on island city’s vast Platz der Republik, near Soviet Sector
boundary, in significant display of Western solidarity.

Our policy in Germany is not, however, only to curb
the forces of evil. We have striven consistently to vitalize
the positive forces of German democracy. Democratic
state and local governments have been established anda
Federal Government created whose powers only recently
have been enlarged. We are moving toward the goal of
full equality and partnership for Germany in the Western
community. We have devoted large resources and efforts
to the endeavor to give positive assistance and encourage-
ment to democratic elements within Germany and to
enable them to build a truly democratic society.

OW I WISH TO SPEAK FRANKLY of the great danger

in which Europe — and all free nations — stand today,
Europe is in peril today from the menace of international
Communism bolstered by the armies of the Soviet Union
and its satellites. That peril America recognizes and
shares. We in America have scrapped the concept of
national defense in the narrower sense. Recent Congres-
sional action to approve the sending of new divisions to
Europe is clear evidence of this. Our government and
our people have acknowledged that freedom is indivisible,
that there can be only joint defense and that an attack
on one is an attack on all. We have acted in Korea. We
have acted in Europe where, as yet, the Communist forces
have utilized only the paraphernalia of indirect aggres-
sion — of intimidation, pressure, and subversion and con-
quest by default.

In Europe we are well on the way to creating a struc-
ture of security through the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation, which will ultimately command greater resources
than any potential enemy or group of enemies. Western
Europe, together with America, has the most advanced
science, the greatest industrial production and the largest
pool of skilled manpower in the world. There is needed
only a strong spirit and a determined will to mobilize
these resources for effective defense.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
There are some who argue that the United States
wishes to use Europe as a buffer to ward off an attack on
itself. They reason that defensive measures will provoke
attack and that then the most that can be hoped for is the
ultimate liberation of a Europe of blackened ruins and
devastated industries.

To this I would reply that our primary purpose is not
to repel an aggressor once he has attacked but to prevent
that attack before it has got underway. The North Atlantic
system envisages building such defensive power that no
aggressor will dare risk war against it. Our vast reserve
power must provide concrete proof that no war could be
won. And even today we possess formidable weapons which
could strike through the air at the centers of aggression.

E HAVE MADE CLEAR that Germany is to be in-

vited to share the responsibilities and the protection
afforded by the North Atlantic security system. The
Federal Republic and Berlin have been given assurances
that they will be defended in the event of attack. Ger-
many will have an opportunity to make its contribution
but there will be no new Wehrmacht, no new German
General Staff. On the other hand, we are not looking for
mercenaries. Whatever contribution in the way of armed
units the Germans make, and it is theirs to decide, will
be merged in the collective security force on the same
basis as the military contingents of the other European
nations and will be subject to international control.

I have emphasized the true character of our common
defense effort because I realize that in many countries
of Europe today there are those who advocate neutrality
in the present crisis. This mood of ‘neutralism," which
is merely an expression of defeatism and nihilism, is due
in large measure, I believe, to the feeling that war is
probably inevitable and that Europe cannot be defended.
The neutralists hold that the existing world tension is
due solely to the antagonism between America and
Russia which would make Europe a battleground in their
struggle for mastery. Hence they maintain Europeans
should stand aloof and avoid commitments to either power.

When we look at the realities it becomes apparent that
such thinking is blind and dangerous. It is obvious and
significant, that the Communists throughout the West
seek to foment neutrality sentiment. The reason is clear.
However the Soviets may utilize neutralism as a con-
{using and paralyzing tactic, for them it is only a station
on the direct road to Communist domination. For nothing
is more clear today than the Kremlin's determination to
expand the Soviet system over all Europe and add a
series of new satellite states to its vast empire. The
vacuum created by neutrality constitutes a tempting in-
vitation for conquest.

EUTRALITY FOR EUROPE is today tantamount to

unconditional surrender. It would mean renunciation
of the possibility of defense and removal of the chief
barrier to Communist imperialism. For Europeans, the
decision to act in the common security involves great
sacrifices but the minimum of risk. To preserve freedom
men must be prepared to fight for it.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

Neutralism is an expression of impotence and a lack
of faith in the future which does not correspond to the
realities of today. Europe, viewed collectively, is an
aggregate of peoples and cultures adding up to immense
potential strength. That it has survived at all is a tribute -
to the enduring greatness of its peoples. The strength of
the free peoples of Europe can be enormously augmented
if only they unite. The concept of a European Federation,
which was conceived in the wake of World War I by
such men as Briand and Stresemann, emerges from the
last conflict an achievable reality. That such unity, long
dreamed of, is today on the point of realization is clearly
foreshadowed by the recent signature of the Schuman
Plan. The ‘cornerstone of European Federation,” it was
called by Chancellor Adenauer.

A long step in the direction of European unity was
taken when the representatives of six European powers
signed the Schuman Plan. That Plan will create economic
unity in the two industries which are basic to all others,
coal and steel. It will create in Europe the condition
which, more than natural resources, has enabled the
United States to lead the world in steel production: an
enormous single market, free of artificial restrictions and
barriers to efficient production.

Let us hope that it may be the prototype of unity in
other fields; that the increased production which it will
make possible in the coal and steel industries will be
expanded to others; and that Europe will have a single
market for, and greatly increased supplies of, all sorts of
consumer goods, which is to say a high and rising
standard of living.

OST IMPORTANT OF ALL, let us hope and work

for the ideal which animates the Schuman Plan; the
building of a structure of political unity on this economic
foundation. Always before Europe has attempted to build
unity wrong end first — by trying to create political unity
with no foundation of common economic interests, Worse
yet, it has often attempted to do so by bloody wars of
conquest. The Schuman Plan represents the first attempt
to create the solid basis of economic unity without which
political unity can be only an artificial and sickly growth.
We heartily welcome the initiative taken in the formation
of the Council of Europe and Germany's admission as a
full member.

We Americans hope that Europeans will get together.
Our nation was built upon the principle of federation,
and we too have had many conflicting interests to recon-
cile. We believe that in these critical times it is more
than ever imperative that the peoples of Europe should
submerge their differences and establish a firm and abid-
ing union. Only such a union can mobilize the immense
resources of material and moral strength necessary to
establish a counterweight to Soviet power.

This union, I believe, must be threefold. It must over-
come the economic barriers which have stifled trade and
production, depressed living standards and exacerbated
national animosities. It must establish effective political
machinery to restrain nationalistic forces and safeguard
the common interest. And it must create a new loyalty

JUNE 1951

--- Page 22 ---
Standard-bearer at Berlin May Day rally stands below
West German Trade Union (DGB) display bearing slogan

“Peace in freedom.” (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)
which will inspire the common men and women of Europe,
and above all its youth, to new hope and a dedicated
purpose to create a new community.

The United States believes that a new European com-
munity is the best insurance of peace and of prosperity.
It will mean new strength based upon the united power
of free peoples. And this new Europe, we feel, can not
exist as a “third force’ in a world still menaced by the
threat of totalitarian aggression. It must add its strength
to that of other free peoples everywhere in their common
endeavor to create that power under law which alone
can establish and maintain a lasting peace.

THIN THIS UNITED EUROPE it is imperative that
Germany take its part. This is true for several
reasons. Only through the inclusion of Germany in the
European community can her neighbors be assured that
a revived and strengthened Germany will never be in a
position to seek military or political domination over
other peoples. Moreover, the great human and material
tesources of Germany are necessary to the new Europe.

A united Europe without Germany is inconceivable.
Bul Germany needs Europe just as Europe needs Ger-
many. And Germany can not remain aloof, under any
circumstances. Failure to integrate Germany with Europe
would only mean its eventual absorption into the Soviet
orbit and its subservience to the dictates of a foreign
oppressor.

The Germans themselves, I am confident, are over-
whelmingly in favor of integration with Europe. This has
been indicated by much recent evidence, including an

JUNE 1951

19

opinion poll in this city (Munich) on the question of
European federation. But there is a related problem of
which I must speak. It is the problem of German unification.

The United States favors the reunification of Germany
under a democratic regime. It has striven consistently
toward this goal since Potsdam. The world well knows
who has thwarted the aspirations of Germans everywhere
for unity. The Soviets have disrupted Germany, as they
have disrupted Europe, with the clear intent to extend
totalitarian Communism over all areas which they can
control by force or intimidation. The Western Powers
have united 70 percent of the German people under a
democratic government which is rapidly evolving toward
full independence and equal partnership in the associa-
tion of free nations. They have repeatedly asserted their
desire for a restoration of German unity on the basis of
free elections and full assurances of democratic proce-
dures and human rights.

The stumbling block to unity today is the determina-
tion of the Kremlin and its puppet regime in the East zone
to accept unity only on terms which would expose all
Germany to the threat of Communist domination. Such
terms both the Bonn Government and the Allies have re-
jected. But we shall not renounce our purpose of bringing
the Federal Republic within the community of free Europe.
And we shall press with renewed vigor for an ultimate
solution of the German problem which will join the long-
suffering courageous people of East Germany with their
brethren of the West and reunite them with the free world.

TRUST THAT MY SURVEY of United States policy in

Europe today has shown that our young nation of the
West has confidence in the enduring vitality of Europe.
We do not share the Communist belief that the ancient
civilization of Europe has run its course, that it is in-
fected with decay and ready to fall an easy prey to
onslaught from the East. It is Communism itself that is a
throwback to ancient tyranny, and it is Europe that has
nurtured and preserved the abiding values of human and
Christian culture upon which we must build.

The United States does not despair of an ultimate and
peaceful resolution of world tensions. It is prepared to
do its part to bring this about, as the long and tedious
deliberations in Paris attest. The overriding purpose of
our government, let me assert again, is not war but the
prevention of war. War is most likely to come to Europe
if the Kremlin is convinced that Europe is a “soft’’ area
whose conquest can be achieved. War is not likely as
long as the united resources and energies of free Europe
and the will of its people to defend their liberties present
so formidable an obstacle to conquest that no aspirant
to world domination will venture upon an undertaking
whose end result can be only his own ruin and that of
his nation.

In the forging of this new Europe based on respect for
the dignity of the individual in a society of free men and
women, Germany has an important role to play, a role
which, however, involves responsibilities as well as
rights. It is for Germany to say whether it will fulfill this
mission, for itself, for Europe and for the world.” +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
House

Of
Neighbors

By MARGARET DAY ANTHON

HE WIND FLAPPED the stained cardboard loose

from the windowframes, letting in spasmodic light
to add to what seeped through cracks in the tin-
covered roof. Gradually, on that summer day in 1947,
the details of the attic that was to house the YWCA
neighborhood house became discernible. Heaps of broken
tiles, smashed furniture, soggy mattresses, broken china
and plumbing fixtures lay about on the floor. The house-
finding committee of the newly-formed board of directors
appraised the advantages this building could offer: it
had a roof, and walls, such as they were, and there were
only a few missing steps in the stairway.

The American liaison office for the borough of Neu-
koelln had scouted every vacant building in the borough,
but none could boast such a combination of luxuries!

What was required to make it livable — materials
and workers — would have to be found. As word got
around in the neighborhood that there would be a new
youth club in this building, groups of young people
came knocking on the broken door to ask permission to
join. The only price of admission was willingness to set
to work to put the space into shape for club meetings.

Temporary quarters were arranged in a basement
room in the same building which could be used on Sun-
days and Mondays. By the end of the second week, 50
boys and girls had joined up and started work on the
materials available: scrap wood and broken furniture
given by the American military, and old X-ray plates
donated by the US army hospital. All through that winter
of 1947-8 groups met all day on Sunday and after their
school or work on Mondays, repairing furniture and
cleaning the X-ray plates which gradually replaced the
dismal makeshift cardboard windowpanes.

MERICAN FRIENDS OFTEN VISITED, and while
everyone scraped the black slime from the X-ray
plates, they discussed the questions about which the
German young people had such insatiable curiosity:
education and politics and family life in America. Oc-
casionally British, Danish or Swedish friends were in-

It's sunny but cold outside and this liltle girl (above)
knows that inside is the warmth of friendship and hospi-
tality that has made the Neukoelln Center one of the out-
standing neighborhood houses in Western Berlin. Since
1947 this YWCA-sponsored institution has served the com-
munity, the name of which it bears, by providing clothing
(left), food and recreation. (Photos by Hannes Rosenberg)

JUNE 1951

--- Page 24 ---
Youthful members of the Neukoelln house played a major
part in bringing about its inception. A Youth Council works
in conjunction with Adult Council and the two play an
active role in the self-governing procedure used in the
center. The contrast in ages that profit from and work for
the project are shown in these photos of children (right),
leaving after games and elderly members (below) dining.

vited to speak, or one of the group read aloud to the
rest, and always there were games or folk dancing or
singing to leaven the earnestness.

Fun was a rare luxury in those days, and one seldom
heard laughter in the streets of Berlin. The serious-faced
young German students would break off an evening of
work and sober discussion to play even simple games
with the abandon and glee of children.

The first group of elderly neighbors — four little old
ladies — came in one evening to ask if this was where
they could get a cup of coffee from the Americans.
When they learned that there was no coffee, but that
the mayor of Neukoelln was to speak that evening, they
reluctantly stayed and listened with interest to his
history of how Neukoelln had grown from the village of

Rixdorf to become one of the largest boroughs of Berlin,
with a population of nearly 200,000 — as great as the
city of Hanover.

The four women returned on other evenings to watch
the groups at work and help where they could. They
enjoyed being around young people, and the group liked
them so well that they staged a special Christmas party
for elderly people in the neighborhood.

Co ™ SLOWLY, THE CENTER began to take
the shape which had been projected by the board
of directors, This board, consisting of 11 German men
and women from various walks of life, chosen for their
interest in neighborhood work, came together first in
August 1947, They helped and advised the German
YWCA staff, and the representative sent by the YWCA
of the United States, on all plans and drafted a state-
ment of purpose and constitution for the new neighbor-
hood house.

The first plans for the center had been laid in 1946,
when the German YWCA had asked the YWCA of the
United States to assist in rebuilding the work in Ger-
many which since 1933 had been carried on within and
in spite of the strict limitations imposed by the Nazis.

As one of three projects of assistance, it was decided
to set up a demonstration service center in Berlin to
experiment with new methods of group and community
work, A grant from Church World Service to the YWCA
financed the start of the project. It was not to be a
transplanted American pattern, but was to be adapted
to the peculiar sociological conditions and the needs of
the community and developed along modest lines that
could be continued by the German YWCA as soon as
financial support from abroad was no longer possible.

Neukoelln was chosen as the most likely borough in
the US Sector of Berlin because it had the greatest density
of population, the highest proportion of youth, and more
than its share of delinquency, crime and broken homes.

JUNE 1951

--- Page 25 ---
Old US Army x-ray plates were scraped during early days
of the YWCA Neighborhood. House to provide window-
panes for the original temporary wooden structure, Mrs.
Anthon (left), author of article, is assisting in operation.

The board of directors laid out the task of the neigh-
borhood house along the lines of centers already estab-
lished by the American Friends Service Committee in
Germany, in the tradition of the settlement movement
stemming from London's Toynbee Hall, founded in 1884,
Until the Nazis forced its closing, Berlin had had an in-
fluential settlement, founded in 1911, and affiliated with
the international settlement movement. The idea of
neighborhood work of this kind was therefore not new.
The workers and members of the earlier settlement in
Berlin who came forward to help in Neukoelln under-
stood how to work democratically, and have been a real
influence in the development of the work there.

HREE MAIN PURPOSES for the neighborhood house

were laid out by the board of directors in Neu-
koelln. First, it was to provide a meeting place where
people of all nationalities, walks of life and ages could
develop the habit and practice of self-government. When
one has really tasted active participation in planning
and carrying out projects of his own choosing, the
sheeplike obedience to the commands of a leader have
little appeal to him. The neighborhood is the seed-bed
of practical citizenship, and the job of the neighborhood
house is to draw out and cultivate good citizenship —
neighborliness and fair play.

Youth should not be singled out for special attention
and privileges, as in the Fascist and Communist pro-
grams. All members participate according to their in-
terest, and share responsibility according to their com-
petence. Through responsibility they develop the in-
dependence of spirit which is fundamental to democracy.

The process of learning self-government is slow and
painful. At first in Neukoelln, groups were unwilling to
take any initiative in planning. They trusted their adult
leaders unquestioningly, and shrank back from making
decisions themselves. It was sometimes necessary for
leaders to fail deliberately in carrying out plans, in
order to persuade groups that they could do better
themselves. The first youth groups met regularly for
nearly a year before they could be brought to the point
of electing officers. The groups trusted their own elected

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

officers so reluctantly that at first they were chosen for a
term of only a month. This was healthy, since these officers _

often understood their jobs as being “‘little dictators."
Adult leaders needed to work intensively with each
elected officer to interpret to him how to draw out
group decisions, instead of directing affairs single-
handedly. At the same time, it was often necessary to
encourage members to rebel against dictatorial methods
of club officers, to make them realize that the rights
and opinions of all members must be carefully considered,

HE YOUTH COUNCIL, on which all of the 30-odd
clubs whose members range between the ages of
13 and 25 are represented, and the Adult Council, on
which the four mothers’ groups and the Heimkehrer (re-
turned prisoners of war) are represented, help to decide

all important as well as lesser questions of policy, gov- ~

ernment and program in the center. They assist in plan-
ning all “open evenings'’— concerts, lectures, movies
and parties for the neighborhood. Last year youth groups
earned expenses for 30 members to take a two-week
jaunt around the Bodensee (Lake Constance) and plan a
similar project this year.

The principal project of the Youth and Adult Councils
last year was the laying out of plans for the new
center building to be constructed on an adjoining lot
and financed by a grant from the HICOG Special Projects
Fund. The Youth Council itself planned and carried out
the ceremonies for laying the cornerstone of the new
building on Dec. 9, 1950. As a special honor to Maj.
Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, former US commander of Berlin,
who represented US High Commissioner John J. McCloy,
the Council inducted him as an honorary member.

The second purpose of the neighborhood house is the

development of a creative social ethic which applies as 3

well to nations as to neighborhoods. To replace the ag-
gressive and ruthless philosophy, the suspicion, fear and
hatred fostered by National Socialism, the center is work-
ing toward the “City. of Friends” of Walt Whitman,
where everyone belongs and shoulders his share.

No medals were ever given for the volunteer workers
at the neighborhood house because the work itself re-
paid richly in companionship and some sense of ac-
complishment, and because nearly everyone who comes
is a volunteer worker in one way or another.

N THE EARLY DAYS, when the center needed a bath-

tub and no bathtub could be bought, a search was
made- for some tub suspended from a ruined building
which might be rescued and used. Finally the Army
scrap disposal yards yielded up a giant bathtub said to
weigh half a ton. The jubilation at finding it was
somewhat dampened by the question of how to get it
up to the attic of the center. The five boys who had vol+
unteered to bring it home were no match for its weight.

A quick call for help was sent up and down the street.
Five sturdy neighbors dropped their work and spent the
next four hours inching the mammoth tub up the narrow
stairway to its destination. They were rewarded at the
top with a cup of hot chocolate and the promise of 4

JUNE 1951

:

--- Page 26 ---
bath as soon as the tub was in opera-
tion.

Subsequent crises have been met by
equally willing volunteers. The readi-
ness of neighbors to help build the
center was matched by that of the
Army, US occupation officials and
members of the American community
in Berlin whose moral and material
assistance brought into actuality the
neighborhood's desire for a meeting
place. One of the persistent worries of

Carl Anthon,
officer,

YWCA.

Margaret Day Anthon, wife of
Higher Education,
Berlin Element, HICOG,
came to Germany in 1947 as one
of two representatives of the Young
Women's Christian Association of
America. Following three months
as consultant in Youth Activities
with Military Government in Wuert-
temberg-Baden, she was assigned
to Berlin to work with the German

‘ neighbors, to learn as well as to teach.
For three summers now in Neukoelln,
foreign students and workers have
taken part with German youth in
international work camp groups at the
neighborhood house. These groups re-
built and repaired substantial portiohs
of the building, swapped ideas on
politics, religion and philosophy, as
‘well as recipes and housekeeping
methods, songs and dances. In their
day-to-day life in Berlin, marketing, ©

the Neukoelln housewives was how to
clothe their families. One mother painstakingly un-
ravelled 13 pairs of old rayon stockings collected from
relatives, in order to knit her child a pair of socks, work-
ing by the dim candlelight which must serve the whole
family on long winter evenings!

The mothers’ club of the new neighborhood house
then decided to help each other by putting old clothing
in shape to be used by such families as most needed it.
Appeals for gifts of clothing from the United States were
met by generous bales of discarded “old look” garments.
With these, the mothers’ club set up a thrift shop, and
invited at first 100 of the neediest families in the neigh-
borhood to come and select one garment each. In return,
families were asked to help with the work of the center
in any way they could, with time or with money.

Fathers and young men came in to wash windows or
help repair furniture. Mothers and young girls volunteer-
ed to put more garments in shape, or to help with house-
work in the center. As more gifts of clothing steadily
poured in from America, the volume of work done by
the thrift shop increased, so that 30 women volunteers
were needed to help with the distribution, and the funds
donated provided a substantial portion of the budget.

The thrift shop policy was decided democratically by
the women's club members who also shared in determin-
ing how the funds were to be used. When, in the spring
of 1949, the work was moved into new and larger quarters
in a barracks allocated by US Occupation Authorities, the
thrift shop earnings were used to provide central heating
to replace 10 old smoky, time-consuming coal stoves.

HE THIRD PRINCIPLE of the neighborhood house is

what Canon Barnett, the founder of Toynbee Hall,
described as “education by permeation.” Instead of lay-
ing down precepts, it seeks to provide a climate where
people of various backgrounds, interests and capabilities
may come to know and understand each other as they
live and work together. Neighborhood houses are not
missions established by one class to do good for another,
or to win converts to a cause. They are intended rather to
provide the yeast for leavening community life, to help
individuals to help themselves and become more effective
members of society.

In the Quaker and Mennonite neighborhood houses in
Germany, men and women from the United States, Eng-
land and the Scandinavian countries have volunteered
to live in the neighborhood for a year or longer as

JUNE 1951

23

attending lectures, visiting families,
they shared so many ideas and questions that it was
hard to get time for sleep. What they contributed to
each other was even more important than the work they
turned out. The friendships formed during the work
camps have been continued through correspondence and
have helped in no small measure to strengthen the ties
of sympathy and understanding from country to country.

HE DAILY PROBLEMS FACED by the Neukoelin
neighborhood house since its early days have
gradually changed. No longer are three groups huddled
together in one small room to share the luxuries of heat
and candlelight. No longer, when the telephone rings,
does it have to be taken to pieces. and laid out on the
stove to dry, and quickly screwed together again before
communication is established, as was necessary before
there was glass in the windows. With prospect of larger
permanent quarters on its present site, the neighborhood
house building will no longer require such a large propor-
tion of the woodwork shop's time just to keep it in repair.
However, its long-range problems of how to provide strong
democratic leadership in its neighborhood, and of how to
secure independent financial support, still exist.
Democratic self-government requires the most intelli-
gent skillful leaders it can get—leaders who will live
and work and play with their groups, and try to help
thern find the best solutions to their needs and problems.
The problem of financial support for neighborhood
houses in Germany requires development of the tradition
of private subsidy, since these centers function best
when they can act independently of sectarian or po-
litical control. Business and industrial leaders must be
interested to help support the work in neighborhoods,
and gifts and subscriptions from private sources must
be obtained, since even the most industrious work by
members cannot bring in sufficient to support more than
a small percentage of the operating cost of the center.
The 12 new neighborhood houses founded in Germany
since the end of the war—six in Berlin and six in
Western Germany — have all been started with financial
assistance from abroad. The broad and enthusiastic inter-
est they have awakened point up the value of what
they can accomplish. The International Federation of Set-
tlements, and other international groups to which these
neighborhood houses are affiliated, offer sturdy moral
support, but financial support must eventually rest on the
German communities where they are located. | +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Framework for first roof over HICOG's
big new housing project went up (left)
in April. Typical of 6,000 workers on
job is carpenter in traditional costume.

Bonn Project to be Ready by Fall

The HICOG building project in Bonn will be completed on schedule and ready for occupancy by Sept. 1, according
to Office of Administration officials. In addition to office space to accommodate approximately 1,500 employees, no less
than 458 housing units for American personnel are under construction. With their completion early this fall, the Office of
the US High Commissioner for Germany will be removed from Frankfurt to Bonn, the federal capital.

HICOG's new headquarters building will be in Bonn while the quarters for its American staff will be located in Bad
Godesberg, on a site looking out over the Rhine River. These structures are being built with GARIOA counterpart funds
and constitute the largest such construction undertaking abroad yet financed by the American Government.

Bonn, a boom town since its selection as the site of the West German capital two years ago, and Bad Godesberg, an
attractive nearby resort on the same bank of the Rhine, have experienced considerable economic benefit from the
vast project, which provides employment for more than 6,000 workers and which, when completed, will see more
than 500 US and approximately 1,000 German employees transferred to the area. A total of 746 housing units for the
German personnel due to be shifted to the new headquarters in Bonn also are under construction in the area.

Since ground-breaking ceremonies in February
work on the task of providing both quarters
and office space for HICOG at its new head-
quarters has been proceeding at high speed.
Office of Administration officials say all will
be ready for occupancy by Sept. 1, the original
target date. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 28 ---
Present Status of Universities

By DR. JAMES M. READ
Chief, Education and Cultural Relations Division, HICOG

HE QUESTION RAISED by the title of my remarks

is a broad one and in the short time which I have
available I can only discuss some of its major aspects.
At the very outset I would like to say that I do not speak
only as an American official. Having studied six se-
mesters at German universities, having enjoyed my student
days as none other, having formed at that time many last-
ing friendships, I think I can lay claim to being a real
friend and well-wisher of the German university. And so
I return to the question: What is the real status of Ger-
man higher education at the present time?

I am sorry to say that the picture is not at all bright.
I will not speak of some of the most obvious difficulties
of the universities, especially the intolerably large ratio
of students to professors. Adequate teaching in “semin-
ars" of one to 200 students is a manifest absurdity. Nor
will I speak of the need for new buildings and libraries
and classrooms and scientific apparatus, many of which,
destroyed in the war, are still not replaced. These are
defects which are well recognized. All that is needed to
remedy them is the mobilization of public opinion.

I prefer to speak of more basic problems, problems
which are all the more difficult to solve because their
basis is not material; money alone will not solve them.
I refer to three basic failings in the contemporary aca-
demic scene in Germany:

(1) The conservative attitude of the faculties;

(2) the lack of contact with the public; and

(3) the absence of general education.

HE TRUTH OF THE MATTER is that the German uni-

versity, after rising to world pre-eminence in the
19th century, received setbacks in the 20th century
from which it has not yet recovered. The story of what
happened in the Nazi times is well known. The life-breath
of intellectual effort, freedom, was taken from higher
learning in Germany; the result was the spiritual impover-
ishment of Germany and the corresponding enrichment
of other countries, as academic refugees found asylum
in them. My country was one of the chief beneficiaries.
Hence comes the following situation: whereas in my
youth every American physician yearned to be able to
point to a year of graduate study in Vienna or Berlin,
such a thought would today not enter the young -physi-
cian’s head. And that is not just because of a lack of
room and apparatus in those universities today.

remained instead so attached to the traditions of the past
that the stream of time began to leave them behind.
The easiest road to follow is obviously the old one;
but this does not solve our present cultural problems.
I am not saying that universities should become instru-
ments of the state; they should preserve their indepen-
dence and academic freedom. But I am deploring the fact
that there is so little attempt on the part of the universi-
ties to apply their methods and organized knowledge to
the solution of the most pressing political and social
problems of our times.

Why are there so few committees at work binding the
universities together and asking themselves, their col-
leagues, their students, and the public what their role in
modern society should be?

Why are there not within the universities working
groups applying themselves to the problems of the ob-
jectives and purpose of a modern unversity, the respon-
sibility of the university for the guidance of students, the
problem of the relation of the university to the public?

No doubt the faculty is overworked, and can find little
time for such self-examination. If professors protest that
under present conditions of an overloaded program, they.
cannot afford to spend time on these problems, I can
only reply that they cannot afford not to spend the time.
What business or social agency, to say nothing of a
research or educational institution, can fulfill its task as
long as it fails to take internal inventory?

HIS LEADS TO MY SECOND general criticism, that

there is not enough contact between public and
university. It may be recalled that three years ago the
university scene was surveyed by an Anglo-German
Kommission von Professoren, Angehoerigen der Gewerk-
schaften, Genossenschaften, Kirchen und der Verwaltung.*
The result of their labors was the Gutachten zur Hoch-
schulreform (report on University Reform). This document
was full of new ideas and proposals for an improvement
of the whole university system, formulated in 95 recom-
mendations.

If you ask today what has happened to the Gutachten
the answer is usually that it has gone to sleep, or else
that it has died. In academic circles one finds a kind of
conspiracy of silence on the subject, almost as if the
matter were not quite a fit subject for conversation. I can
raise the question all the more properly because I cannot
be accused of pressing an American proposal for reform.

But Hitler was not the only reason
for the present state of higher learning
in Germany. Even before him a decline
had set in due largely to the fact that
the universities took little notice of
what was going on around them, but

This address on the contemporary
German university scene was given
by Dr. Read over Radio Stuttgart
on May 7, 1951. He spoke in German.

The commission contained no Ameri-
cans; we had nothing to do with it.

If however the foreign influence is
considered to have been too strong

* Commission of professors, trade unions,

JUNE 1951

associations, churches and administrations.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
(although only one Englishman was on the commission
together with 11 German), then why is not an exclusively
German commission set up to assess the situation? Ameri-
can higher education certainly derived great benefits
from the work of the President's Commission on Higher
Education which issued its report in 1949.

NE OF THE BASIC SUGGESTIONS advanced in the

Gutachten was the series of recommendations de-
signed to bridge the gulf between university and the
public. The gulf is large at the present time; the academic
island is surrounded by an oversized protective moat and
the drawbridges do not come down. Learning is with-
drawn into cloisters as it was during the middle ages, a
process which the earliest universities served to combat
from their very birth in the 13th century.

Academic freedom is an admirable part of our cultural
heritage, but in a democracy the professors and scholars
must have contact with the intelligent and sensitive
leaders of the community. The Gutachten suggested the
establishment of a university council and a board of
trustees. If such councils were established, with real
powers, they might indeed encroach on some of the
duties of the overworked Kulturministers (cultural
ministers) as well as on the complete autonomy of the
faculties. But the interests of the public would be better
preserved, to the benefit of all.

Such representation from the public would probably
insist that something be done about one of the most
serious charges of all that is leveled at the German Hoch-
schulen, that of over-specialization. And here I arrive at
my third conclusion: the need for more general educa-
tion. The basic idea of a liberal education, designed to
bring to full self-development the really free man, has
been lost sight of. The universities are producing only
the specialist, the Fachmann, And this is at a time when
as in no other the well-rounded, civic-minded citizen and
scholar is needed.

I do not want to leave the impression that I consider
this an exclusively German problem. It is European, and
American. But a counter-move has set in with us and
made the introduction of the studium generale (general
studies) in one form or another a matter of general con-
cern affecting almost all of our institutions of higher
learning. One of the most notable products of this trend
was the report of a committee of scholars set up by
Harvard University, entitled General Education in a Free
Society, which has been translated into German under
the title Allgemeinbildung in einem freien Volk (General
Education for Free People). You can get a copy of this
at any US Information Center. I recommend it highly.

ELATED TO THIS LACK of general education is also
the underdevelopment of the social sciences in
general at the German universities. Sociology, anthro-
pology, political science have been neglected fields of
research and teaching. A proper studium generale is dif-
ficult to achieve as long as these all-important branches
of study in human relations are neglected.
And so we have these three problems: The attitude of
the faculties, the contact with the public,the need for

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

general education. They are obviously interrelated. It
there were a more direct relationship to the community
around them the faculties would be forced to be more
aware of the demands of modern times, and they would
certainly answer the needs of the community for more
general education.

I hasten to add that I am not ignorant of certain begin-
nings in these directions. At several universities advisory
councils have been established, for instance, in Freiburg
and Hamburg. At the Technical University of Karlsruhe
a broadened senate is to take over the functions of such
a council. Several universities have set aside one day
as a dius academicus (day of learning) for general lectuz-
ers. Several of the universities have also now set up
chairs of political and social science. Heidelberg has now
entered into arrangements with certain schools of adult
education whereby the professors do not appear only to
hold a lecture and then disappear as rapidly as possible,
but where they devote a whole evening to discussion with
the students.

In Tuebingen the Leibniz College has been founded,
a wonderful attempt to combine the studium generale
with student community life. May these examples and
beginnings be increased soon and successfully. Then we
would not have to be disturbed at the threatened return
of medieval social forms like the fighting fraternities at
the German universities or the obscuration that comes
from blind allegiance to tradition. The cycle of 150 years
ago where cultural and scientific leadership of the world
was assumed by the German Hochschulen might be
repeated. +END

Bavaria Receives Two IRO Hospitals

The International Refugee Organization (IRO) has
turned over to German administration two IRO sana-
toriums for tubercular refugees at Gauting and Amberg
in Bavaria. Included in the transfer is a DM 2,000,000
($476,000) grant to convert Gauting into one of Europe's
largest tuberculosis hospitals.

The United Nations-sponsored agency's announcement
stated that the agreement will assure adult IRO refugees
the same hospital care which the agency has furnished
to more than 10,000 tubercular DP’s in the US Zone of
Germany during the past four years

Under the program to be operated by the Bavarian
state insurance administration (LVA), Gauting’s bed
capacity will be increased from 850 to 1,150. The former
German Army hospital, leased by LVA for 50 years, will
receive sufficient funds from the Bavarian Ministry of
Finance to cover operating costs and give patients such
sick grants as are accorded in German institutions.

The agreement also provides that refugee doctors pre-
sently employed at Gauting will be retained and that at
least two percent of the staff's physicians shall be IRO
refugees as long as they are available. In the adminis-
trative service, DP's will be offered 10 percent of the
posts and in auxiliary services, at least 25 percent. Ad-
missions will be limited to eligible refugees until their
number falls. below 80 percent of the hospital's capacity,
at which time other patients may receive treatment.

JUNE 1951

--- Page 30 ---
Woman employee of Schott Glass Works, formerly in Jena
but now in Zwiesel, Bavaria, examines newly-made lenses.

Rob] Hugo, 67, veteran Schott employee, enjoys a typical
lunch. Bottle holds wine. Beside bread is sliced sausage.

Refugee Glassmakers

OR HISTORIANS, Jena may be the place where
F Napoleon won a battle. For camera fans, it was al-
ways the place where the lenses came from — the Zeiss
and the Leica; Presumably lenses are still made there,
but not for Western optics. Whether the new ones are
as good as the old, perhaps only the Soviet Army knows.

It seems fairly doubtful, because it takes sand and skill
to make fine glass, and only the sand is left in Jena. The
glassmakers of Jena became one of the first postwar
refugee industries: Zeiss set up shop in Heidenheim,

Wuerttemberg-Baden, and Schott in Zwiesel, Bavaria, both
in the US Zone. Parts of the organizations moved out as
the Red Army moved in; others followed later, evading
barbed-wire barriers and sharpshooting Soviet Zone bor-
der patrols.

They took what they could — what they could carry
in their pockets and on their backs. Directors brought
important papers, the workers small tools and large
know-how. Of the 780 workers employed in the new

Left, glass blowers at work. Girl,
17, wraps lens blanks (below) for
storage pending shipment. Right,
big clay pots for melting glass sand
are used only once, then discarded.

Schott factory in Zwiesel, 75 percent are Jena veterans.
Marshall Plan aid of Deutsche marks 800,000 ($190,400)
helped Schott retool and provide jobs for the glassmakers
who chose freedom.

To Americans, the wages of freedom would seem low
—average hourly wage of approximately 40 cents for
top-skilled workers. The glassmakers, 90 percent union-
organized, agree with Marshall Plan statisticians who
calculate that, with luck, a worker with family can just
live on the wages for a 48-hour week.

Schott directors, harassed by the high cost of reviving
— of rebuilding a shattered distribution setup as well as
replacing lost machines— appreciate the workers’ patience.
They promise the better life when productivity increases,
but point out that the prices of even the best lenses in
the world must remain competitive. Meanwhile, ERP. of-
ficials who hold the key to the counterpart-fund cash
box are keeping West Germany's refugee glass industry
under the lens. +END

--- Page 31 ---
Nymphenburg. ‘‘Columbine” from Ital-
ian Comedy, by F. A. Bustelli. About
1760.

(Courtesy, Schlossmuseum, Berlin)

Vienna. The Hunter, after J. J. Nied
meyer. About 1760.

(Courtesy, Schlossmuseum, Berlin),

Fuerstenberg. ‘Potpourri’ vase. About ce
1760. (Courtesy, Schlossmuseum, Berlin) sate

Hoechst. Boy and girl playing, by J. P.
Melchior. About 1775,

Ansbach. Masked teapot, rococo style
(Courtesy, author) About 1765. (Courtesy, Adolf Bayer, Ansbat
INFORMATION BULLETIN

28 JUNE 1

--- Page 32 ---
Meissen. Flower bowl after Sulkowsky model, 1735-1737. (Courtesy, G. Ryland Scott, Memphis, Tenn.)

Porcelain, Old and New

By GEORGE W. WARE

Chief, Vocational Education Section, Education and Cultural Relations Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

ORCELAIN, THE MAGIC WORD that puts a gleam of

acquisition in the eyes of almost every American in
Germany, was accidentally discovered at Meissen in 1709
by Johann Friedrich Boettcher, a young alchemist who
was seeking a method to produce gold for his avaricious
master, King August the Strong of Saxony.

Prior to Boettcher’s accidental discovery, the secret of
making porcelain, known to the Chinese almost 1,000
years earlier and perfected by them in the 15th and 16th
centuries, had eluded the western artisans despite re-
peated attempts to solve this mystery.

Since his discovery, Germany has become the home of
the European true or hard-paste porcelain industry and
today German porcelain is universally admired and col-
lected by persons of all races and circumstances. It ap-
pears in countless forms—from great chandeliers to
miniature buttons, from magnificent table services to
humble ashtrays, from life-size statues to small, artistic
figurines. The development of porcelain has captured the
fancy of nobles and commoners throughout the centuries.

terial upon which the master modelers and decorators could
exploit their talents for the benefit of the noble and rich.

ING AUGUST THE STRONG was an ardent lover of
porcelain and like many other rulers of that day he

had almost bankrupted his kingdom through the acquisi-
tion of Oriental porcelain (china). Boettcher’s discovery
at Meissen resulted in the establishment of the royal
Meissen factory, which he managed until his death in 1719,
Now, with his own factory, the king seized the op-
portunity to enhance his prestige and replenish his treas-
ury. He determined to keep his prize a secret and every
precaution was taken to prevent the secret from falling
into the hands of others interested in opening competitive
factories. The Meissen employees were sworn to “secrecy
to the death," and deaf and dumb workers are reputed to
have been employed and held in virtual confinement to
prevent the secret from escaping the walls of the factory.
Threats, bribery, alcohol, seduction and other devices
were used to obtain the magic formula. Although con-

There had been a long search
throughout the western world for food
and liquid containers which were low
heat conductors, easy to clean, nonpo-
rous and free from the taint imparted
to food by earthenware and metal ves-
sels. Porcelain satisfied all these re-
quirements. Thereis little wonder, there-
fore, that porcelain was hailed with
great enthusiasm in western Europe. It
was referred to as “white gold" and
was considered a semi-precious ma-

In addition to his HICOG duties,
George W. Ware, author of the ac-
companying article, is a porcelain
collector and authority. In his spare
time he has prepared a 250-page
illustrated book on “German and
Austrian Porcelain,” the first com-
plete text on this subject written
by an American, which will be
published in both German and
English later this summer.

stant vigilance was maintained, the
secret escaped and Samuel Stoelzel,
a former Meissen workman, founded
a factory at Vienna in 1718, A number
of other factories were established in
Germany and neighboring countries
during the middle of the century with
the aid of porcelain artisans who sold
the secrets.

Porcelain production soon became
the vogue, and every prince aspired
to own a factory. As porcelain was

JUNE 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
Meissen. Spirited steed, by P. Scheurich. Modern.
(Courtesy, Staatliche Porzellan-Manufaktur, Meissen)

primarily produced for the nobility and their rich friends,
no expense. was spared in making the finest products.
Each factory employed the ablest modelers and deco-
rators in order to excel, and this accounts for the excep-
tionally fine quality of early porcelain, which is so
ardently collected today. The best specimens rank with
classical paintings and sculptures as a collector's joy.

ACH OF THE EIGHT MAJOR 18th century German

factories, which will be described briefly in the order
of their establishment, employed outstanding artists and
strove to excel, with the result that each made its artistic
contributions. Generally, the best period of the factories
was during their first 30 to 50 years of operation, par-
ticularly during the rococo period, which offered a style
of modeling and decorating particularly adapted to porce-
lain. The finest procelain was being made in Germany
about the time George Washington was surveying the
wilds of America, and almost a half century before Na-
poleon’s armies marched across Europe.

The artistic quality of porcelain began to decline to-
ward the end of the 18th century when the factories
began competing on a commercial basis, and the former
high standards have never again been equaled. Con-
sequently, connoisseurs are interested in pieces made
during the best periods of the factories and spend much
time and money to obtain them.

The porcelain factory at Meissen, now in the Soviet
Zone of Germany, was Europe's first and is still the most
important of the old German porcelain factories. It has
operated continuously as a royal or state factory since
its establishment in 1710. It has had its glorious days and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

its periods of depression and decline, but it richly de- ~

serves its international fame for outstanding productions
over a long and interesting period.

The best period of Meissen extended from 1720 to 3

1760. After Boettcher's death, August the Strong secured
the services of a number of leading artists, including
Johann G. Hoeroldt, who proved to be the most re-
nowned porcelain painter of all time. He and his asso-
ciates are famous for their paintings of oriental char-
acters, chinoiseries and flowers, and later the beautiful
baroque and rococo decorations of court scenes, land-
scapes and harbors. In 1731, Johann J. Kaendler was
engaged as chief modeler, was soon acknowledged as a
master and became the inspiration of many porcelain
artists throughout Europe.

It was not until Kaendler’s genius was joined with
that of Hoeroldt that Meissen porcelain attained its
maximum variety, grace and beauty and reached the
peak of its fame around 1750. These two great artists
enjoyed a long and successful career together and the
period from 1731 to the beginning of the Seven Years
War in 1756 is known as the Hoeroldt-Kaendler period.
This was the golden age of Meissen and its creations’
included a large variety of figurines, dinner services,
candelabra, desk sets, animals, birds and vases of all kinds,

HERE HAS ALWAYS BEEN considerable confusion,

especially among Americans, as to the difference
between Meissen and Dresden porcelain. Since the Meis-
sen factory is only 14 miles from Dresden, Meissen
porcelain is frequently thought of as Dresden and vice
versa, but there is a definite distinction. Porcelain is not
manufactured in Dresden, though several factories are
located nearby. Enormous quantities of white porcelain
are bought by Dresden firms only for decorating, mark-
ing and resale thoughout the world as “Dresden china.”

eee ee

Meissen. Crinoline group, by J. J. Kaendler. About 1740. ~

(Courtesy, Museum fuer Kunst und Gewerbe, Hamburg)

JUNE 1951

--- Page 34 ---
Berlin. Part of tea service. About 1770.
(Courtesy, Louvre Museum, Paris)

Few of the Dresden decorating establishments have
produced artistic porcelain, but all enjoy the prestige of
their location. The word “Dresden,” therefore, is a
generic term which applies to any piece of porcelain
painted in the city or its environs. On the other hand,
there is only one Meissen factory. Meissen set the
European pattern of hard-paste porcelain and left the
print of its influence on the factories which followed.

The second hard-paste porcelain factory, which is con-
sidered a German enterprise, was founded at Vienna in
1718 by Claudius du Paquier. It was operated as a pri-
vate concern until 1744, when it was taken over by the
Austrian state. Under John J. Niedermeyer, chief modeler
from 1747 to 1784, it produced a variety of graceful
figurines and groups, including shepherds, lovers, hawk-
ers, hunters, musicians and all manner of allegorical
and Biblical characters, primarily in rococo style, clean
and fresh, with pale brown, violet and yellow pre-
dominating.

Konrad Sorgenthal, who directed the factory from 1784
to 1805, is responsible for the characteristic richly deco-
rated dinner and tea services, vases and plates inspired
by Greek, Roman and Egyptian models in neo-classical
style. The artistic production of Vienna declined in the
19th century and the institution closed its doors in 1864
after operating for almost a century and a half.

ITH ROYAL PATRONAGE, the third German porce-
lain factory was established at Hoechst, now a
suburb of Frankfurt, in 1746. Its best period of artistic
production was from 1767 to 1779, when the modeling of
the great young sculptor, Johann P. Melchior, received
Popular acclaim. Melchior’s figurines and groups were
warm, animated and often sentimental. They included
Teligious subjects, children, pastoral and harvest scenes
and mythological characters supported on grassy mound
or moss-covered rock bases.
The early figures were painted in pink, blue and
Spotted patterns, while the later productions were in
darker colors, Like the other old factories, Hoechst pro-

JUNE 1951

duced tableware and other useful articles, but they were
overshadowed by the fine figures of Melchior. After
50 years of operation the factory closed in 1796,

The Nymphenburg factory was founded in Munich in
1747 under the protection of the Bavarian Elector, Maxi-
milian III. This establishment is particularly famous for
the figurines and groups modeled by Franz Anton Bustelli
between 1754 and 1763, His best known works include
characters from the Italian comedy, coquettish ladies in
crinoline and native costumes, gay gentlemen, busts of
leading personalities, children and groups of peasants
and Asiatic peoples. The figurines are supported by
characteristically flat thin bases which rise in flowing
curves to support the whole delicately balanced com-
position in a fashion never achieved by other modelers.

This factory has operated to the present date in the
Nymphenburg palace grounds in Munich. Unquestionably
one of Germany's outstanding enterprises, Nymphenburg
is the leading porcelain factory in the US Zone.

The Fuerstenberg factory was founded in the castle of
Fuerstenberg near Hanover in 1747 by Karl I, Duke of
Brunswick, primarily to satisfy the vanity of the duke,
who was envious of the other royal porcelain establish-
ments. Among its modelers, Johann S. Feylner (1753-1770)

Nymphenburg. Richly-decorated coffee pot. About 1765.

(Courtesy, Museum fuer Kunst und Gewerbe, Hamburg)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
is best known, but his productions do
not compare with those of Meissen’s
Kaendler, Nymphenburg’s Bustelli and
Hoechst's Melchior. Fuerstenberg is
primarily known for its vases and
useful porcelain produced in rococo
or neo-classical fashion between 1760
and 1790. The factory passed into
private ownership in 1876 and is still
operating with a favorable reputation.

ITH THE SUPPORT of Prussian

King Frederick the Great, a
merchant named Wegely operated a
porcelain factory in Berlin from 1751
to 1757. His efforts failed and another
factory was opened by Gotzkowsky
in 1761. Frederick's chief ambition was
to make Berlin porcelain equal to or
better than Meissen, so when Gotz-
kowsky ran into financial difficulties,
Frederick bought the factory in 1763
and continued it as a royal enterprise. It is now known
as Berlin or KPM (Koenigliche Porzellan Manufaktur).

1735.

Cabinet with miscellaneous collection
of German porcelain.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Meissen. Cup and saucer, with Oriental figures, after J. G. Hoeroldt. About

(Courtesy, the author)

Although Frederick was successful in his wars and
was able to force Meissen and other artists to work in
his ‘factory, he never achieved superlative quality. The
figurines modeled by the brothers Friedrich E. and Wil-
helm C, Meyer (1761-1785) are interesting and attractive,
but Berlin's greatest fame is associated with its useful
wares, especially dinner services. The factory has oper- —
ated continuously to date, but since the Berlin plant was ~
practically destroyed during World War II, its principal ;
production is now carried on at Selb in Bavaria. ‘

The Frankenthal factory was established in the town —
of that name near Mannheim in 1755 by Paul A. Han- ~
nong with the permission of Elector Karl Theodor, who ~
bought the enterprise in 1762. The factory, which closed
in 1799 after operating for only 44 years, is best known
for its figurines and groups modeled by Johann W. Lanz ~
(1755-1761), Johann F, Lueck (1758-1764) and Karl G. —
Lueck (1760-1775). Most of its pieces, both figurines and 4
useful wares, were excellently modeled and decorated
in rococo style. Its best items are eagerly sought by
collectors.

Ludwigsburg, the last of the eight major German fac-
tories, was founded in 1750 in Ludwigsburg, 12 miles
north of Stuttgart, by Karl Eugen, the luxury-loving Duke
of Wuerttemberg. It had no real excuse for existence
except to increase the magnificence of the duke. Al
though its production does not compare with that of
Meissen, Nymphenburg, Frankenthal or Hoechst, miscel-
laneous items designed by Gottlieb Riedel (1759-1779)
and the figures of Johann C. W. Beyer (1760-1767) are
extremely interesting and attractive. Quality and prod-
uction declined after the death of the duke in 1793 and
the factory closed in 1824.

As the factories of Hoechst and Frankenthal operated for
only a short time and closed before 1800, and Ludwigs-
burg soon thereafter, original items from these establish-
ments are necessarily antiques. However, old models of
these factories as well as Vienna and some of the enteI-

JUNE 1951

--- Page 36 ---
prises which are still operating, particularly Meissen, are
frequently copied and similarly marked by modern fac-
tories. With experience it is possible to distinguish the
comparatively poor copies from the genuine masterpieces.

All of the old major factories, as well as most of the
minor ones, bear the names of the cities in which they
were established, and many of the trade marks are sym-
bolic of their home cities or their royal patrons.

N ADDITION TO THE EIGHT major factories, at least
I 20 minor or small factories were established in Ger-
man provinces during the latter half of the 18th century.
These included Ansbach (1758-1860), Kelsterbach (1761-
1802), Ottweiler (1763-1775), Fulda (1765-1790), Kassel
(1766-1788) and Gutenbrunn (1767-1775), of which Ans-
bach and Fulda are the most outstanding.

During this period a number of commercial factories
were also established in the forests of Thuringia, where
there was an abundance of raw materials and fuel. The
principal ones are Gotha (1757), Kloster Veilsdorf (1760),
Volkstedt-Rudolstadt (1760), Wallendorf (1764), Limbach
(1772), Ilmenau (1777), Gera (1779) and Rauenstein (1783),
all of which are reported as operating to the present date.

Some of these smaller factories were started by princes,
but a majority were established as private commercial
enterprises producing wares which could be sold at a
profit in competition with other factories. Because of
commercial emphasis and the fact that most of the minor

Meissen. Lady resting from reading, by J. J. Kaendler.
About 1740. (Courtesy, Staatliche Porzellansammlung, Dresden)

JUNE 1951

33

Meissen. Part of tea service, by Loewenfinck. About 1735.
(Courtesy, Victoria and Albert Museum, London)

factories opened after the general art of procelain had
fallen into decline, no great artistic contribution was
made by them. For the greater part, they followed the
production methods and styles of the older factories;
however, some turned out original high quality products.

Germany and Austria and their former territories have
a large number of porcelain factories which originated
in the 19th and 20th centuries, some of which have an
international reputation for the manufacture of good
quality utilitarian and decorative items. Although little
artistic or historical importance can be attached to prod-
ucts of the more modern establishments, amateurs and
collectors and especially dealers are usually interested
in the role they have played in satisfying popular de-
mand and stimulating general interest in porcelain.

Most of the approximately 200 porcelain factories in
Germany established in the 19th and 20th centuries are
concentrated near the source of raw materials in the
central part of Germany, primarily in North Bavaria,
Thuringia, Saxony and Silesia. The products of these
factories, some of which were established more than
100 years ago, appear in abundance in many of the
antique shops of Germany and other countries. Amateurs
will be impressed with the choicest pieces.

The best products of the well-known factories of Sitzen-
dorf, Rosenthal, Schumann, Hutschenreuther and Hein-
rich, for example, are attractive and tempting. In addi-
tion, some of the leading decorative establishments of
Dresden and manufacturers of Altwasser, Passau, Plauen,
Potschappel, Rudolstadt, Selb and other cities have pro-
duced utilitarian and decorative porcelain of good quality.

Despite’ the attractive appearance of many of these
pieces, they lack the painstaking workmanship of the
master modelers and decorators of the 18th century and
have limited appeal to connoisseurs. Some of the famous
old factories, including Meissen and Nymphenburg, are
still operating and producing large quantities of porce-
lain in great variety for domestic use and export.

* * x

Suggestions for the Amateur

NYONE INTERESTED in collecting porcelain should
realize that this has been the hobby of countless
people in many parts of the world for more than two
centuries. It is not restricted to persons of wealth, the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
aesthetically trained or the sophisticated. However,
almost anyone who develops an interest in porcelain
and has good taste, a good eye, and is willing to do a
Teasonable amount of studying, consulting and observing,
should soon be able to make creditable selections.

At the same time he will begin to realize that porce-
jain, which is only one segment of the whole field of
ceramics, is so extensive in itself that it is desirable, if
not necessary, to concentrate his studies on one par-
ticuldr aspect of this broad field. For example, some
may desire to collect teapots of all shapes, sources and
ages; others only figurines, while some may .collect

almost anything of a certain factory or mark, a specific

period, or a definite style, color or composition. The
opportunities for collecting porcelain are almost un-
limited in Germany.

There is no direct or sure method for the average
person to follow in achieving expert proficiency in a
short time; but like all other hobbies, there are some
basic criteria and practices which will be found helpful.
The beginner should observe the following:

1, Acquire standard books, magazines and catalogs on
the general subjects and add more specialized ones as
interest and taste develop.

2. Study the photographs of famous pieces as it is im-
possible to see all of the originals. Glossy pictures of
artistic porcelain can be purchased from museums or
photographic agencies and most public libraries have
books on porcelain containing illustrations.

3. Visit shops, exhibits, auctions, museums and private
collections and learn to distinguish the good from the
bad. The habit of close critical observation must be
developed.

4. Study the porcelain factory marks. Although they
are often an unreliable clue to identification, a working
knowledge of them is necessary.

5. Buy a few representative authentic pieces from un-
questionable sources and use them as a basis for com-
parison with the items sought.

6. Cultivate an acquaintance or friendship with persons
who are interested and experienced in porcelain — col-
lectors, dealers, exhibitors and, if possible, ceramic
specialists in museums. They are usually willing to ad-
vise and some may take pride in actually assisting.

Table set in German fashion. Modern.
(Courtesy, Staatliche Porzellan-Manufaktur, Meissen)

a Trade Marks of Old ((8th Century) Factorie

MEISSEN (DRESDEN) 1710 TO DATE

HOCHST 1746 -96 TNYMPHENGURG 1747 TO oe r

acre

1755-90 __(wirnesseo on ewan) _1765-

FORSTENBERG oe one IBERLIN KPM 1751 TO DATE

TEMS

er

Modean MARS, 753-1837, nar 4

yy70-75 1770-80 <a =
VOLKSTEDT - RUDOLSTADT. 1760 TO.

Y 8 * 8 a
IKLOSTER VEIUSDORF: red pee FULDA 1763-80 Breeches Tero]
“ “7

Soy. ¥ amar fa |

[ered 1777 TO] GERA 1779 TO DATE RAUENSTEIN uae ra 7eisel
Bp * ” 0

7 DATE E
b.| S\G © & R R-n | Ge
Trade marks of Germany's old or 18th century factories
are three-fifths their normal size. They are arranged
chronologically. Most of them are blue under the glaze,
but some are in other colors. A few of them are impressed,

HE OBSERVATION OF AT LEAST six factors will
be found helpful in judging the quality and authen.
ticity of a piece of porcelain. ¥
1. The factory mark, usually appearing on the bottom
of the piece, is a good clue but not a guarantee of the
origin. Marks are generally reliable but some pieces are
falsely marked, others are copies, while some have no
mark at all. The principal trade marks — shown in th
accompanying charts — may be helpful.

2. The body or paste of the material reveals its textu: e
degree of whiteness, translucency and general physical
quality. A good piece is fine-grained, uniform in colo:
and reasonably free from defects. However, early Meissel
and Vienna, and perhaps some other porcelains, have
green tone, are irregular in texture and transluceay
and often possess light spots (called “moons” or “tares’]
when viewed by transmitted light.

JUNE 1!

--- Page 38 ---
cae Trade Marks of 19th & 20th Century Factories A

ALTWASSER

ORESDEN
&

Dresden]

BOCK- BUSCHBAD 5
WALLENDORF | A

5 &| oS ee

or DONATH 6 60

> |
Da:

woursonn

‘

7 : B DRESDEN z
” "
wir KP adn a
presnan | Dresden Dresden | dresden. :
aunts runes nnsce A sme Dees prom Dresden} wwe seo
EISENBERG |FREIENWALOAU|6RAEFENRODA|GRAEFETHAL |GROSS-___ [HUTTEN- TUMENAU
* H 7 - BREITENBACH | STEINACH 2
2
AS DKF BxKS Vv
east scam | pone | -¢ somenee | “pros soe: cranny | gausona re
KONIGSzELT | KOLMAR | LETTIN, | LICHTE LIMBACH (472s [MARKREDWITZ]
3 Es Pan bax « Z, a 2
g as ms jg 2 We
Al 3° OR Bt) apart
(AR peg eS "| eV)
x MEISSEN @ | NEUHAUS ye ;VOLKSTEDTD [PLANKEN= Ve
4] as
{ iY 7 { GIS ge OU Hs Bavaria

recent EANST_TEXCHERT KisteR 4¢o.

we eeu

Ww) sowemozs soot Plave

7 VES

pis ae

RAUENSTEN | RUDOLSTADT| SAARGEMUND|

BAVARIA

nenaicn

HEIBE. INEY 3 Eee \ 6 SELB
KPM® x Se? ees
sp TAS sec | Baa)
A.&.CoSELB 6 ISITZENDORF] & SUHL Soa ue TISCHENREUM]

Sates

KER

Ss:

voisr

SELB Bwana

KRAUTAEM,

BX 3 eae

AKER MAN

Ae

VOLKSTEDT CRUDOLSTADT) ezy WALDENBURG WALLENDORF
kev Sage 5
fr i Vee | a
% WPM
coxtar K.P.LM. scsistes

be wADSINGER
Trade marks of 50 of better known of later or 19th and
20th century factories are arranged alphabetically by
location. These charts are not to be reproduced: they are
the property of the author, who has applied for copyright.

3. The glaze should be scrutinized for transparency,
thickness and reflective luster. Turn the piece over and
around in all directions to determine the reflections.

4. The form and contour of the item are also an im-
portant factor in determining the age and artistic value
of a piece. Many old porcelain pieces have been copied
in recent years, but an old form with a characteristic
decoration of the same period, further associated with
an old factory mark, makes a combination of factors
which practically guarantees antiquity.

5. The decoration is a decisive factor in determining
the age and quality of the piece. The pattern design,
subject of the painting, combination of colors and degree
of gilding affect the beauty and value of the piece and
in considerable measure determine the age.

6. The mismatched and restored pieces must he care-
fully checked. It is important to see that the parts of an
item and the pieces of a set match in quality of material,
in form and in decoration.

JUNE 1951

Things Not to Do
1. Don’t buy anything for your permanent collection
which is distasteful, since you have to live with it and
beauty is the first criterion of every good collector,
2. Don't purchase an article simply because it has the
mark of a good factory. Inferior porcelain is still bad
tegardless of the mark. |
3. Don’t acquire old pieces for the sake of theii
as antiquity adds little to the worth of an article
it has historical or artistic value.
4. Don't buy pieces which are materially damaged or
poorly mended just because they are reasonably priced.

age,
less

The repair bill may increase the cost to that of a per-
fect piece.
5. Don't buy pieces under poor light conditions unless

willing to be deceived. Bright daylight is preferred.

6. Don't rush or buy when in doubt. The dealer will
usually reserve the piece for a short time whilé you
are making your final decision.

HE AMATEUR COLLECTOR should make a round of

visits to all antique shops periodically. Good pieces
come and go and one never knows where or when he
will run across ‘a treasure. When dealers become familiar
with your interest and taste they may be very helpful
in locating and setting aside items which they piuere
will interest you.

It is only fair to warn the novice that good oles of
old porcelain from favorite factories command | com-
paratively high prices. This is particularly true of fig-
urines, which are often sold for large sums. One should
realize, however, that old, artistic porcelain is| very
scarce and becoming even more so. As time goes on, it
may be expected to increase in value. Thus, good quality
antique porcelain bought at a fair price is considered a
good investment. jeND

|

Fulda. Food warmer with pastoral decoration. About 1775.
(Courtesy, Museum fuer Kunst und Gewerbe, Hamburg)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
Rosert Lenr.

WitHeE”o Nigias.

Hans LUKASCHEK.

Chancellor Konrad Adenauer
ONRAD ADENAUER, FEDERAL CHANCELLOR and
Minister for Foreign Affairs, head of the Christian
Democratic Union (CDU) and Schuman Plan signer, cele-
brated his 75th birthday this year, is twice-widower, has
six children.

With 145 seats in the Bundestag (lower house of parlia-
ment), Dr. Adenauer’s CDU is the largest party, while his
government, a three-party non-socialist coalition, controls
209 of 410 seats in the Bundestag. Despite this narrow
margin of control (about the same as the Labor majority
in Britain's parliament), the government has never been
in danger.

Before Hitler removed him from office, Dr. Adenauer
was mayor of Cologne for 16 years. He was arrested
twice during the SS period.

The Chancellor's son Paul was recently ordained to the
priesthood. About socialism, garden-loving Catholic Dr.
Adenauer says, “It is much more important to give the
worker a home and garden by means of sound housing
policy than it is to socialize.”

The veteran statesman starts his work-filled day at five
in the moming. After breakfast, Schumachér arrives to
drive him to the office. Chancellor Adenauer's chauffeur
is named Schumacher.

Says SPD chief Schumacher (his principal antagonist in
the Bundestag): ‘‘There’s only one Adenauer!”

CHANCELLOR AND FOREIGN

Who’s Who in th

Vice-Chancellor Franz Bluecher

Franz Bluecher, Vice-Chancellor and Minister for ERP
Affairs, handles the German side of all problems in con-
nection with Marshall Plan aid.

Mr. Bluecher had early ambitions to become a politi-
cal writer, ended by becoming an actor instead of an ob-
server of the political scene, after way stations in sales
work and finance. During the Hitler period he worked
first as an expert on the financing of long-term building
projects and public utilities, later as director of a re-
gional bank.

Political activity began in 1945 for Mr. Bluecher, when
he helped found the Free Democratic Party (FDP), now
a junior partner in the three-party coalition. In the elec-
tions to the federal legislature in August 1949, Bluecher
lost the race in his district. Like FDP colleagues Dehler
and Wildermuth, and the German Party's Seebohm, he
owes his seat in the legislature and subsequent Cabinet
post to the proportional representation clause in the Ger-
man voting law.

What Mr. Bluecher sees in the FDP, which takes a
moderate, anti-socialist line without the religious flavor
of the Christian Democrats, is perhaps contained in a

Vice-CHANCELLOR AND ER

ss

--- Page 40 ---
comment he once made about the fate of the Weimar Re-
public. He deplored the lack there of an “orderly, state-
preserving, patriotic middle group” which would have
checked the Nazis.

Minister of the Interior Robert Lehr

Robert Lehr, Christian Democrat (CDU) Minister of the
Interior, is the oldest member of the Cabinet in years but
the youngest in point of service, having replaced Gustav
Heinemann in October of last year after Mr. Heinemann’s
disagreement, with Dr. Adenauer over German contribu-
tion to Western defense.

Mr.Lehr lost his job as mayor of Duesseldorf in the
Brownshirt year of 1933, rose after the war through the
zonal council, state government and parliamentary coun-
cil to the CDU bench in the Bundestag. Now Police Ex-
pert Lehr is responsible for security measures to protect
the Federal Republic against anti-democratic forces shoot-
ing from left and right. In his spare time he is president of
the Society for the Protection of German Forests.

Lupwic ErHarp.

Minister Lehr would like to see more official interest
in West German youth, as an antidote to Soviet Zone
FDJ "Free German Youth" siren songs. Budgeter Schaef-
fer has approved in the neighborhood of DM 13,500,000
(approximately $3,200,000) for Mr. Lehr’s program of trade-

finistER KONRAD ADENAUER. learning assistance, hostels and democratic education.
e
» Fk eaera apin
/
Minister FRANZ BLUECHER. Mr. Lehr was asked: How large a federal police force

do you think you need to combat dangerous elements
within the state?

He replied: Italy, which like the Federal Republic has
about 48,000,000 inhabitants, has a well-equipped mobile
police force of 160,000 men. In view of the dangerous
geographical situation of the Federal Republic, a mobile
police at least as large as the old Prussian Schutzpolizei
(protection police — 90,000 men) would be necessary.

Asked about.co-ordination of the state police under
the direction of the Republic, Mr. Lehr said: Under Ar-
ticle 91 of the Basic Law, the occasion for police inter-
vention arises only in emergencies. No preliminary ex-
ecutive measures to make such intervention efficient are
allowed under the constitution. The administrative agree-
ments between the Republic and the states concerning
structure and action of the state police have not proved
to be a sufficient measure to prepare interventions. This
can only be accomplished by a revision of the constitu-
tion and the organization of a Federal Police. A two-
thirds majority of the Bundestag (lower house) and the
Bundesrat (upper house) is needed for such a change.

* Photos by Claude Jacoby, PRD HICOG; Schafgans, Bonn; Sandau,
Bonn, and Fritz Brieke Soehne, Frankiurt.

Fritz SCHAEFFER.

ANTON StorcH.

--- Page 41 ---
Organization of German Federal Government

Federal President
Theodor Heuss (FDP)
Duration of Office, five years. Appoints Federal Ministers
upon the proposal of the Chancellor

FEDERAL
CHANCELLERY

Federal Chancellor
and Foreign Minister

l

Konrad Adenaver (CDU) BUNDESTAG (Lower House}

BUNDESRAT (Upper House)

PRESS AND.
INFORMATION OFFICE.

|
State Secreicvy
for Internal Affairs

Vice Chancellor
Franz Bluecher (FDP)

President — Hermann Ehlers (CDU)
Contains 402 members elected by the people of the Federal
Republic for four-year term, Eight Berlin representatives attend
‘as members without voting rights. The Bundestag maybe dis-
solved by the Federal President on proposal of the Federal

President — Hans Ehard {CSU)
Participates in Federal legislation with limited veto power. No
fixed term. Members appointed and recalled ot will by the
governments of the 11 Laender (States) of the Federal Republic.

Chancellor within 21 days after it has refused a vote of con- Contains 43 delegates from State Governments with block
Fritz Twardowsky Otto Lenz fidence in the Chancellor, unless it elects a new Chancellor. ee ee ;
° Bavaria, North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony have
Present composition five votes each,
CDUICSU + + M42 seats MES To - + 10 seots Hesse, Rhineland-Pfalz, Schleswig-Holstein and Wuerttem-
State Secretary Hay 800 occ oe ou ens berg-Baden have four votes each,
for Foreign Affairs pe. : V7 seats BHEandDG ... Sseats Baden, Bremen, Hamburg and Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern
Walter Hallstein KPD . 15 seats Independent ... 3 seats have three votes each.
BP... 13 seats SSW... eee 1 seat Four representatives of Berlin attend without voting rights.
OFFICE FOR
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
Herbert Blankenhorn
! : | m INSTITUTIONAL
LIAISON OFFICE TO THE CONSULAR PERSONNELAND = PROTOCOL FEDERAL CONSTITUTIOI
ALLIED HIGH COMMISSION DEPT. ‘ORG. DEPT. DEPT. COurRT
Herbert Dittmann Theo Kordt —-WilhelmHacs_ +H. v. Herwarth
MINISTRIES
T U T U T q T ° T T T T T i
EUROPEAN INTERIOR JUSTICE FINANCE ECONOMICS FooD LABOR TRANSPORT POSTS AND HOUSING REFUGEES QUESTIONS QUESTIONS
RECOVERY Robert Lehr Thomas Dehler Fritz Schaeffer Ludwig Erhard Wilhelm Niklas Anton Storch Hans Christoph TELECOMMU- — Eberhard Wildermuth Hans Lukaschek INVOLVING INVOLVING
PROGRAM. (CDU) (FDP) (CSU) «cbU) (CSU) (CDU) Seebohm NICATIONS (FDP) {CDU) THE BUNDESRAT ALL GERMANY
Franz Bluecher (OP) Hans Schuberth Heinrich Hellwege Jakob Kaiser
(FDP) (csuy (DP) (CDU)
HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE RECONSTRUCTION LOAN CORPORATION BANK OF THE GERMAN STATES
(Appointed by Federal Minister of Justice and Chairman, Board of Directors— Otto Schniewind Chairman, Board of Directo rl Bernard
Committee for Electing Judges) i" rman President, Board of Managers — Wilhelm Vocke
President — Hermann Weinkauf Deputy Chairman—Hermann J. Abs ‘Deputy President—Wilhelm Koenneker
STATE PARLIAMENTS ,
U i T T T T T T } U J T
BAVARIA BREMEN HESSE WUERTTEMBERG- HAMBURG LOWER SAXONY NORTH RHINE- SCHLESWIG- RHINELAND- BADEN WUERTTEMBERG- BERLIN
U.S. ZONE U.S. ZONE U.S. ZONE BADEN BR. ZONE BR. ZONE WESTPHALIA HOLSTEIN PEALZ FR. ZONE HOHENZOLLERN * Sends observers
Hans Ehard Wilhelm Kaisen Georg August Zinn U.S. ZONE Max Braver Hinrich Kopf BR. ZONE BR. ZONE FR. ZONE Leo Wohleb FR. ZONE to both Houses
(csu) (SPD) isPB} Reinhold Maier (SPD) (SPD) Korl Arnold (CDU)
(DvP) (CDU)

Walter Bartram
(COU)

Reproduced from Quarterly Report of Control Commission for Germany, British Element (March 31, 1951).

Peter Altmaier Gebhard Mueller
(CDU) (CDU)

--- Page 42 ---
Minister of Economics Ludwig Erhard

Ludwig Erhard, (CDU), Minister of Economics and
champion of free enterprise, is the probably most con-
troversial figure in the Cabinet.

Thrown out of his post as professor in Nuremberg’s
Economic Research Institute in 1942 for refusing to join
Hitler's Labor Front, Mr. Erhard was Third Reich friend of
anti-Hitler conspirator Goerdeler, postwar friend of Gen.
Lucius D. Clay.

When scalp-hunting critics go on the warpath, Mr. Er-
hard points to West German recovery to higher produc-
tion than prewar, but he admits that the new problem of
breaking the basic-industry bottleneck causes him sleep-
less nights.

Three and one half billion Deutsche marks ($833,000,000)
must be found for investment in obselete, inadequate coal,
steel and electrical power facilities if all West Germany's
machines are to keep running full-time. Minister Erhard's
plan — compulsory savings stamps to be sold with non-
essential purchases — had to be pocketed. Finance Minis-
ter Schaeffer's new extra sales tax on non-essentials left
no more room,

Arch-enemy of government regulation, Mr. Erhard once
described government interference in business as “com-
mitting suicide to cure a cold." He does not deny that
the Federal Republic has a bad over-consumption cold at
present. His prescription: ‘Shortages will be met by re-
strictions in the use of scarce materials. These measures
are not contrary to the principles of a free economy,”
Mr. Erhard added. “In fact, they are especially designed
to preserve its operation.”

Western Germany, importing half its food and one-third
of its raw materials, had trouble with its trade balance
even before Korea. Now, with world prices rising, the
Erhard cold-cure must meet an exacting test.

To the question, what measures may be taken to limit
consumption in the Federal Republic, Mr. Erhard said: “In
no case will past methods, that is, rationing, be employed.
We can control consumption better by controlling pro-
duction at the source.”

Finance Minister Fritz Schaeffer

Fritz Schaeffer, who holds the federal purse strings as
Finance Minister, is one of four Cabinet members from
Bavaria, where the name Christian Social Union (CSU)
was found to be more appealing than Christian Demo-
cratic Union (CDU).

Lawyer Schaeffer has had a stormy political past. As
head of the Bavarian People’s Party and minister of fi-
nance, he stepped out in 1933 when the Nazis stepped in.
In 1945 the US Military Government named him Minister-
President of Bavaria, only to remove him in September of
the same year. An injunction of the Military Government
against engaging in political activity was lifted in 1948,
after a court had cleared Mr. Schaeffer of collaboration
with the Nazis.

Germans know Minister Schaeffer as the man behind
the taxes. His newest: a special extra sales tax on non-
essentials. What products will be hit and how much are
still a secret. To prevent hoarding, Mr. Schaeffer will
keep it a surprise.

Asked what he considers the most important responsi-
bilities of finance policy, Minister Schaeffer said: “We
must use the greater part of our revenue for social serv-
ices and relief, in order to prevent unrest which would
play into the hands of the Communists. It is difficult in
a period of constantly rising obligations to maintain a
balanced budget. Nevertheless, I consider a balanced
budget my duty. It is my determination to maintain a poli-
cy of financial stability that will guarantee sound money.”

Food Minister Wilhelm Niklas

Wilhelm Niklas, (CSU), Minister of Food, is a Bavarian
Catholic, a former practicing veterinarian and a trout
fisherman. Shunted out of the Stock and Dairy Section of
the Bavarian Agriculture Ministry in 1933, Mr. Niklas
came back into public life in 1945 as CSU charter member.

Mr. Niklas won a Bundestag seat May 27, 1951, when he
polled 42 percent of the votes in a by-election in Donau-
woerth, Bavaria, held to fill the vacancy left by the death
of Deputy Martin Loibl, also a Christian Democrat.

In maneuvering German agriculture out of the Third
Reich's “hot house” of guaranteed prices into the rough
and tumble of world commodity markets, Minister Niklas
must hold his own against irate, price-conscious house-

. wives and irate, price-conscious farmers. He admits

that German agriculture must earn DM _ 1,000,000,000
($238,000,000) a year more to pull farmers out of debt but
realizes that would drive food prices too high.

Government trade pacts caused Mr. Niklas trouble
with his farmers last autumn, when the contract-bound
Republic had to import Yugoslavian fruit while the Ger-
man fruit harvest rotted on the trees.

Until recently German farmers only received two-thirds
of the world price for grain. Mr. Niklas is not anxious to

<

BHE/DG = Bund der Heimatvertriebenen und Entrechteten
(Refugee Party)
Deutsche Gemeinschaft (German Community Party)
BP = Bayern Partei (Bavarian Party)
CDU == Christlich-Demokratische Union
(Christian Democratic Union)

CSU = Christlich-Soziale Union (Christian Social Union)

DP Deutsche Partei (German Parfy)

DRP Deutsche Roichspartel (German Reich Party)

DVP = Demokratische Volkspartei (Democratic People's Party)

Political Parties in Western Germany

FDP = Freie Demokratische Partei (Free Democratic Party)
KPD = Kommunistische Partei Deutschlands
(Communist Party of Germany)
SPD = Sozialdemokratische Partei_ Deutschlands
(Social Democratic Party of Germany)
SSW = = Sued-Schleswigsche Waehlervereinigung

(South Schleswig Voters Association)
WAV - = Wirtschaftliche Aufbau Vereinigung

(Economic Reconstruction Association)
Z = Zentrumspartei (Center Party)

JUNI
INE 1951 39

- INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
HernricH HELLWEGE.

encourage grain-growing: he sees German agricultural
future in dairy products and eggs. Says he: "The farmer
must fertilize his brain as well as his field.”

Asked if there is any chance of unifying small, un-
economic strip farms into larger units, Minister Niklas
said: “At present we have no right to do any more than
recommend such action to the people involved.”

Labor Minister Anton Storch

Anton Storch, (CDU), Minister of Labor, sits between the
unions and management on labor problems, including the
currently controversial question of co-determination (Mil-
bestimmungsrecht),

Carpenter Storch got his start early in Catholic trade
union work, advancing through the woodworkers’ union
to important posts in the combined trade union movement.
Under the Nazis and their “Labor Front," Mr. Storch had
to shift to selling insurance, but in 1945 he returned to his
old work, helping to reorganize the union administration.

Local and state politics had no charm for former air raid
warden Storch in the first years after the war. His success-
ful ‘campaign as CDU Bundestag candidate from Osna-
brueck, in Lower Saxony, was his first venture into the
political arena. Little more than a month later Chancellor
Adenauer named,the long-time labor leader to the labor
post in the first Bonn cabinet.

Refugee Affairs Minister Hans Lukaschek

Hans Lukaschek, Minister for Refugee Affairs and co-
founder of the CDU, is himself a refugee from the territory
beyond the Oder-Neisse. Kicked out of office as Upper
Silesian president by the Nazis, Breslau lawyer Lukaschek
kept alive, joined anti-Nazi conspirators.

Arrested after the unsuccessful July 20 coup in 1944
and confined in Concentration Camp Ravensbrueck, he
moved after liberation to Cologne, where he helped ad-
minister the Soforthilfe (Immediate Assistance Fund) for
refugees. As a refugee in a non-refugee party, Mr. Luka-
schek has a hard row to hoe between his economy-minded

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Hans SCHUBERTH.

40

Hans SEEBOHM.

West German CDU colleagues and the loud demands of
penniless refugees.

Question: What about emigration as a means of easing
the refugee problem in the Federal Republic?

Answer: “Emigration on a large scale can only be
carried out if the costs of travel are guaranteed and as-
surances provided that the emigrants will not meet with
disaster or be unable to make a living in their new
country. However, I feel that money spent to enable
German refugees to start a new life here in the Federal
Republic brings in better returns in every way than the
same amount spent on emigration.

“Plans exist for settling in France German peasant
families which have lived for generations in southeast
Europe. The government is favorably disposed toward
this, since much experience can be gained on the general
possibilities of emigration.

“However, a more urgent task is to do everything possi-
ble to integrate the expellees in West Germany."

Housing Minister Eberhard Wildermuth

Eberhard Wildermuth, (FDP), Minister for Housing and
Reconstruction, was a specialist in low-cost housing in
the Weimar Republic. His cabinet job? To get a low-cost
roof over the heads of thousands of victims of Hitler's
war, the bombed-out families and refugees.

Last year former infantry officer Wildermuth helped
German builders reach a world record: 7.5 dwellings per
1,000 inhabitants. This year he hopes to get the last families
out of unhealthy temporary shelter in damp cellars and
flimsy barracks. In order to get them out faster, Mr. Wil+
dermuth plans 100,000 half-price, easily built, two and
three room apartment projects, which currently carry the
unappealing name of ‘austerity apartments." It is rumot-
ed that Minister Wildermuth will pay DM 100 ($23.80)
cash for a better name.

Asked if currently rising building costs and shortages
of materials are endangering the housing program, Min-
ister Wildermuth said: “These difficulties, both result-
ing from the coal shortage, raise problems for us. I hope,
however, that we can build 350,000 houses again this

JUNE 1951

--- Page 44 ---
Tuomas DEHLER.

year. Judging from the first quarter construction figures,
I believe we can,”

He was asked: Are there possibilities of economies in
standardization of dwellings or of building elements?

Mr. Wildermuth said: “Houses and dwellings of stand-
ard type have limited use in Germany because of climatic
differences and differences in habits. No savings have
resulted from such experiments, On the other hand, we
lay great value on standardizing building elements and
are making considerable headway in this field.”

Justice Minister Thomas Dehler

Thomas Dehler, (FDP), Minister of Justice and — pri-
vately — a great friend of dogs, has the task of restoring
popular confidence in the German judicial and legal
system, undermined by years of misuse and abuse under
the Nazis.

A member of the Democratic Party in the Weimar
Republic, dog-lover Dehler was put in a forced labor camp
by the Nazis, emerged to enter active politics in 1945 as
US Military Government-sponsored Landrat (state rep-
resentative).

Now Free Democrat Dehler is charged with building
legal barriers against attacks on the young Republic from
anti-democratic forces on the right and on the left. Ex-
cerpt from his proposed protection bill: ‘Malicious rumor-
mongering or slander, of a nature to render more difficult
the proper duties of public officials, shall be punished
with imprisonment of not less than 30 days (for malicious
tumor-mongering) or not less than 90 days (for slander).”

Transport Minister Hans Seebohm

Hans Christoph Seebohm, Minister of Transport and
one of the two members of the German Party (DP) in the
Cabinet, is a Sudeten German: he and his family were
evicted by the Czechs after the war.

Under the Nazi government, mining engineer Seebohm
directed the operations of important coal mines. Since
the war, he has been active in employers’ organizations.

JUNE 1951

EBERHARD WILDERMUTH.

Al

Jaxon Kaiser.

Refugee Seebohm likes to be viewed as a champion of
refugee interests, in particular the right to return to the
Sudeten homeland.

Other objectives: rights of former officers and soldiers,
self-regulation of industry. According to an official hand-
out, his work has been particularly characterized by “his
efforts toward renovation of the German Empire.”

When asked what he considered the most pressing
problem in his field, Minister Seebohm said: ‘The recon-
struction of a German merchant marine is of greatest
economic importance for us — not simply a matter of
prestige. We need cargo ships in order to conserve the
foreign exchange that we must now pay for shipping costs.

“The size and speed of these ships would depend on
the purpose and expected area of operation: therefore, it
is difficult to lay any definite limit. However, we would
not exceed the optimal size and speed of merchant ships.”

All-German Affairs Minister Jakob Kaiser

Jakob Kaiser, (CDU), Minister for All-German Affairs,
has been a favorite target for Communist abuse since
1947, when the Soviet Military Government ousted him
as zonal CDU chief in favor of the obedient Dertinger.

In the Cabinet of the Federal Republic, his portfolio is
the bridge between the Republic and the millions of un-
happy Germans in the Soviet Zone, This keeps the left-
wing CDU man, former bookbinder and Christian trade
union leader working nights, leaves him little time for
favorite pastimes — theater and reading history.

Persecution is nothing new to him. As a July 20 bomb-
ing man, he hid for months while the Nazis sought him.

Asked what is the first step in achieving real, free Ger-
man unity, Minister Kaiser said: ‘The first step is not
the formation of a Constituent Assembly (as demanded
by Grotewohl, East zone prime minister, with equal rep-
resentation for East and West Germany, despite popu-
lation more than three times as large in the West), but the
carrying out of free elections for a National Assembly in
all Germany. This Assembly must then be responsible for

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
taking all further steps. Only thus can a unity be achieved
that expresses the true desires of all Germans.

“Whoever really desires a free — and not just a Com-
munist — unity, must give these free elections top pri-
ority. We hope that the four Occupying Powers can agree
about this. We believe such an agreement is the necessary
prerequisite for all efforts and negotiations for carrying
out these free elections.”

Coordination Minister Heinrich Hellwege

Heinrich Hellwege, Minister for Coordination with the
Bundesrat (upper house) and, at 43, the youngest member
of the Cabinet, is a German Party (DP) colleague of Trans-
port Minister Seebohm and alleged anti-Semite Wolfgang
Hedler.

Before 1933 Mr. Hellwege was a member of the German-
Hanoverian Party, which, at one time, at least, had the
goal of re-establishing an independent state of Hanover.
Hitler showed little interest in an independent Hanover,
and young Hellwege went back to running his father's
grocery business. In the last war he served as an enlisted

man with the air force ground crew. Says Mr. Hellwege:
“The German people will not refuse a contribution to
Western defense.”

Since the war, Minister Hellwege has kept looking
beyond the borders of Hanover, sees the German people
“rededicating itself to its historic role of preserving and.
defending Europe.”

Postal Minister Hans Schuberth

Hans Schuberth, Minister of Postal Affairs, lost his left
leg in the first World War. Starting out as an engineer,
he went into postal work via the technical branch. Under
the Nazis he was shunted to less responsible posts.

After the war, the Bavarian government showed itself
more appreciative of Mr. Schuberth’s abilities than the
Nazis had been, put him in charge of Bavaria’s postal
system, which was his springboard to the top postal job
in the Republic.

Minister Schuberth is one of only two Cabinet ministers
who do not hold a seat in the Bundestag. The other:
Refugee Minister Lukaschek. +END

US Information Centers Grow in Popularity

The German public is becoming increasingly interested
in the activities of the US Information Centers, according
to a survey conducted by the Reactions Analysis Staff
of the Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. Approximately
three-fourths of the US Zone adult population, an increase
of 12 percent over last year, are familiar with the centers,
the survey revealed.

The report also emphasized that attendance at the
centers is steadily improving. About 11 percent of the
population of the US Zone, or nearly 1,500,000 persons,
have visited an information center or reading room, a
10-fold increase over two years ago.

The survey indicates that a more than proportional
share of influential, opinion-forming persons use the cen-
ters, and that center officials have succeeded in reaching
a large share of elements, traditionally hard to interest,
low income and low education groups as well.

A breakdown of the survey indicates that US Informa-
tion Centers are best known in Hesse (80 percent of the
population); better known among men than women;
better known among young people than old. The age
group under 20 uses the centers more extensively than
any other. Among occupational groups, professional
people are best represented among center visitors, with
farmers showing the poorest attendance record.

Facts of the survey were borne out in a particular
instance recently at Marburg, Hesse, where the US In-
formation Center has obviously become an integral part
in the study facilities of the local university students.

In a letter to the office of the US High Commissioner,
the student council of the old Philip's University protested
against any contemplated reduction of the center's

INFORMATION BULLETIN

42

facilities and activities, in line with an expected over-all
cut in the center's budget. “With its excellent library
facilities and the many other programs, especially lectures
by foreign guest professors, the Marburg US Information
Center has become an essential factor in the life and
work of the students,” the letter pointed out.

“We Marburg students would regret very much if
these, for us so important possibilities of an intellectual
orientation, were cut down.”

During the term's first session, held several weeks ago,
the students’ council had already unanimously agreed and
declared that a reduction of the center's activities and
facilities would mean a considerable loss for the students.

First Center Has Fifth Birthday

The Frankfurt US Information Center, established in
1946 as the first in Germany, celebrated its fifth anniver-
sary in May. One of 144 such centers throughout the
world, the Frankfurt institution during its development
has acquired a library of approximately 30,000 volumes,
a periodical library with 1,000 current subscriptions and
a selection of 150 films and 800 records.

Its activities, ranging from lectures, concerts, film
showings, exhibitions and discussions, to a children’s
theater and language classes, are designed to present an
objective picture of the American way of life, its political,
social and cultural institutions and to serve as a demo-
cratic community center based on international concepts.
The Frankfurt center along with the other 143 is sup-
ported by US congressional appropriations and is, in fact,
a gift of the American taxpayer to the community.

JUNE 1951

--- Page 46 ---
A pocket-sized brochure, “Confuse and Control," recently issued by the US Department of State, describes
Soviet efforts to reduce the German people to a helpless confusion of distrust and divided purpose. Through
example and detailed analysis, presented against the background of US policies and programs in Germany, the
brochure gives the story of Soviet subversion tactics, their successes and their failures in a crucial year of the
occupation. The account opens with an estimate of Soviet intentions and of the importance of Germany to the
USSR and to the free world. It proceeds with a discussion of the two Germanys of today, an estimate of the
influence of Communism in Western Germany and an examination of the current Communist Party line. The
concluding chapter, entitled “Building Strength against Communism," is reprinted in full here.

Building Strength

Against Communism

In the hundred-odd pages of the brochure, “Con-
fuse and Control," are described the attempts of
the Soviets to entice the young people of Eastern
Germany into the Communist Party by the methods
Hitler used more than a decade ago to convert the
youth of his day to Nazism.

The pamphlet describes the Communist spring
festival in Berlin in May 1950 when half a million
young Germans were brought to the former capital
for a jamboree that was to rise to a climax of a
riotous march through western Berlin. Through the
precautions taken by the people and officials of
West Berlin, the Soviet plans for a riot were block-
ed. Instead, some thousands of the young visitors
who wandered into western Berlin were welcomed
by the people of those sectors who took them into
their homes and to their entertainments, and offset
some of their Communist teachings with considera-
ble success.

“Confuse and Control” pays tribute to the citi-
zens of both East and West Berlin for the cou-
rageous way in which they are resisting Soviet
pressures. With a spirit characteristic of most of
the peoples who stand closely under the guns of
the Kremlin, Berliners are showing a fortitude and
toughness of mind that are defeating the Soviet
confusion tactics.

As this account indicates, Germans who are not
in daily contact with Soviet rule are likely to be
more susceptible to these confusion tactics, but the
strenuous efforts of the Allied authorities in West-
ern Germany have had a marked success in defeat-
ing Soviet plans and in building up the democratic
patterns that are establishing confidence and a
clear goal for the German people.

“Confuse and Control” gives an extensive pic-
torial coverage of its topics with maps, cartoons
and photographs.

The brochure, “Confuse and Control,” is on sale
by the Superintendent of Documents, US Govern-
ment Printing Office, Washington 25, D.C. The
Price is 30 cents. — Excerpt from Department of
State Bulletin.

JUNE 1951

43

HE CENTER OF ALLIED RESISTANCE to Com-

munism in Germany is in the field of the spirit; all
the economic and military moves have to be planned
with due respect for the progress of the German spirit.
Economic recovery cannot succeed if Germans have no
heart to work or if Communist agents can needle them
to strike for mere disorder instead of for the natural
purpose of getting better pay and working conditions.
German help in the military defense of the West can-
not succeed if the German people do not care whether
or not the Communists take them over.

Success depends. on developing a spirit of courage,
hope and love of democratic liberty, in a people who
have only recently been crushed by defeat and disil-
lusioned by the collapse of Hitler's insane dream. That
is why one of the langest sections of the US High Com-
missioners office in Germany is the section that handles
information and education. That is why the policies of the
whole organization are planned, as far as possible, with
a view to building the institutions and the spirit of
democracy.

In the long run the best policy in any country is to set
up conditions that will make the people practically im-
mune to Soviet propaganda and subversion. The same
healthy conditions will also make the Germans want
to avoid a revival of Nazism. If we can make Germany
strongly democratic, the fact that Communists cannot be
kept out, and that the Soviet radio still blares over the
ether, will not be important.

The best reason for building healthis that health is good in
itself, not merely to escape disease. Our main job, therefore,
is positive and constructive; defense against Communism
is only one of many benefits that will come with success.

N THE SHORT RUN, we also have to do some nega-

tive or merely sanitary work in cleaning up Soviet lies
and efforts at sabotage. But most of the Soviet propa-
ganda is well understood by the Germans themselves.
The free newspapers in the western zones make the neces-
sary comments without having to be told what to say.

Negative propaganda against the Communists consists
largely of satire, which is always dangerous to a dic-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
tatorship. RIAS, the powerful American radio voice in
West Berlin, is an island of disconcerting information
behind the Iron Curtain. RIAS is one of the most powerful
stations in Central Europe and on the air 20'/2 hours a
day. It blankets~the entire Communist-controlled area
of Germany and is widely listened to by the East Ger-
mans in spite of heavy penalties imposed on those who
are caught.

Locally, the West Berliners need no instruction in the
art of ridicule which they turn loose at every oppor-
tunity across the line into the Soviet Sector, where it
is taken up by thousands of anti-Communist East Ber-
liners. These operations do not reduce the size of the
Red Army or of the militarized police force of East Ger-
many, but they contribute vastly to raising the hope
and courage of Western Germans. They seriously under-
mine the morale and loyalty of the East German police,
and even of the Red Army officers.

The Fighting Group Against Inhumanity, with head-
quarters in West Berlin, is one of several independent
organizations operating in East Germany to undermine
the Soviet influence. The Fighting Group reports on the
fate of East Germans who are spirited away by the
secret police and broadcasts the names of informers, for
the protection of East Germans who are still outside the
slave camps. The effect of this work embarrasses the
Soviet authorities in the East and helps to keep the
West Germans alive to the more ghastly features of
life under Communist rule. These organizations are
native products, not set up by the Allied Occupation,
and are therefore all the more potent against the Soviets.

HE POSITIVE SIDE of Allied work for democracy

consists of a wide range of information and training
and the constant use of influence to stimulate democratic
practices.

The directive of the US High Commissioner lays
down the line of what results we want to work for:

We want to increase respect for individual dignity
and rights, respect for the opinions of others and ‘of
minorities, freedom of thought and speech, and liberal
social attitudes in general.

We want to promote representative and responsible
self-government, justice based on a free search for truth,
personal responsibility for public affairs and recognition
that officials are servants, not masters of the public.

We want legal and social rights for all, regardless of
race, sex or creed.

We want increased respect for international peace and
cooperation, and for the idea of German culture as an
integral part of Western civilization.

Our representatives, of course, have to recognize that
no one can make a foreign population follow any such
list of rules merely by posting them on the wall and
preaching about how desirable they are. All people have
their own habits and prejudices, including a natural dis-
like of being told by foreigners how to be good and
happy. We try to create conditions that will influence the
people to make up their own minds out of their own
experience, and in their own time.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

One such condition is an improved supply of truthful]
information, which is spread by radio, by a US daily
newspaper, and by magazines and moving pictures.

The Germans are given truthful news, both good and
bad. They_have had long experience of doctored news
under Mr. Goebbels. They are quite well able to recognize
dishonest reporting and to appreciate the truth. The So-
viets may gain an advantage by pegging a big lie to a
small scrap of truth, since their chief end is to make
trouble, But the Western authorities want to build real
understanding. We can afford the slow process of estab-
lishing a reputation for sticking to the truth.

UCH OF THE EDUCATIONAL MATERIAL for the
adult population is made up of magazines, books
and documentary movies that describe life in the free
countries and offer technical information on industry and
agriculture. A large part of what we aim to do is merely
to bring the Germans back into touch with Wester civili-
zation after the long Nazi blackout. We want them to
feel familiar with Western ways, some of which they may’
want to copy, and all of which they need to understand.
In the German school system, our first job was largely
negative, to clear away the rubbish. Nazi textbooks had
to be scrapped as soon as possible, a slow job, since new
school texts had to, be written and printed. Teachers who
were incurable Nazis had to be screened out.

The state ministers of education were persuaded to
set up committees of German educators to revise the
schoolbooks. We helped by supplying new source ma-
terials, which of course were lacking in Germany after
12 years of Nazi rule. The new books began coming off
the press in quantity in 1950.

In 1948, many of the German leaders in the American
zone organized forums on the purposes of education, and
these were highly successful. Hundreds of meetings were
held, with Germans presiding. American educational ex-
perts were usually present to make suggestions. Large
numbers of private citizens attended these meetings, and
the discussions were free and wide-ranging, much like
similar discussions in the United States. The forums
themselves were a good lesson in democracy.

The second stage, in which the Americans acted as
tutors for Germans willing to cooperate but unfamiliar
with the methods of democratic action, has been drawing
to a close, The third stage, of cultural cooperation on an
equal basis with Germans managing their own affairs, is
now established in most of the lines of democratic ac-
tivity. From here on, the Germans, like any other demo-
cratic people, must learn by making their own mistakes.

HE REFORM OF THEIR SCHOOL system in only one
instance of the three stages of progress that have
characterized most of our relations with the Germans.
There are many other encouraging developments, such as
the growth of parent-teacher associations, civil-liberties
groups, women's organizations, and town-hall meetings.
The school reforms that we wanted to see in Germany
could not have been imposed by force, since nothing is
easier to sabotage than a school system which the teach-

JUNE 1951

--- Page 48 ---
ers do not accept. The Soviets have a temporary ad-
vantage in their zone, since their crude type of schooling
can be imposed by force, to the extent that they can
find loyal Communists to put in as teachers. The teacher
of a Communist school need not be a good teacher, and
everything is in the book. But the Soviet schools are
still open to sabotage, and they suffer from the fact that
parents usually do their best to counteract the teaching.
Our method is slower, but progress when it comes is, we
hope, more likely to be real.

One of the most effective kinds of educational work is
the exchange program, which brings Germans to the
United States to study. We are bringing not only
secondary-school and college students, but also men
who are already in position to influence the présent
course of government and business. As many Americans
know, groups of German civil servants, members of the
legislature, lawyers and businessmen are constantly in
this country. Their trips are managed so as to bring
them in touch with American experts and leaders, who
can answer some of their questions.

It is not expected that Germans will adopt every method
they observe in the United States, but the exchange pro-
gram is effective in relaxing prejudices and stimulating

_ideas that the visitors can use at home. This program is
far more effective for Germany, or any other country, than
mere lectures by Americans on how the foreigner ought
to behave. Each country has to digest what it finds in
other countries and turn it into a native form before any
lessons learned from outsiders can be useful.

N GOVERNMENT, THE ALLIED POLICY has been to

let the Germans operate the forms of democracy as
well as they can, superintended by the Allied high com-
missioners to see that they do not try anything that will
be dangerous to the Occupying Powers. Where it seemed
advisable they have sometimes been nudged in the
direction of democratic processes.

The Germans in the western zones were started off at
first in local governments, then the state or Laender
governments were set up, and finally the Federal Gov-
ernment. The state and local governments were at first
appointed in the summer of 1945, Political parties were
authorized im November 1945, and by early 1946 elec-
tions were held, first in villages, then in cities and
counties, and finally in states.

These elections have given a chance for practice in
democratic methods and for learning by experience and
mistakes, It is a slow process. The machinery creaks and
often is taken over by a strong leader, as sometimes
happens. in well-established democracies. But the Ameri-
can observers are encouraged when some humble citizen
tises in meeting and criticizes the government. When he
finds he is not rushed off to a concentration camp, others
are encouraged to start having free opinions of their own.

General Clay introduced the custom of press confer-
ences, which have had a good educational effect. German
hewspapermen, after seeing how American representa-
tives of the press did not hesitate to ask searching
questions, plucked up courage to question American and

JUNE 1951

45

German officials. The German press soon began to adopt
a healthy habit of condemning officials who refuse to
submit to questioning. This is a new and potent feature
of German life and presents a strong contrast to Com-
munist practices.

The Federal Government is farther removed from
village meetings than the local governments and is
perhaps more likely to forget that it is the servant of
the voter. As might be expected, the Federal Govern-
ment quickly got into troubles like those sometimes
found in older democratic countries, one crisis growing
out of accusations of bribery and another out of charges
of arbitrary usurpation of power. The educational effect
of these crises should not be overlooked,

HE MAIN PURPOSE of our attemps to educate or
influence the Germans is not to get perfect actions
from the officials, but to get the people to the point
where they can run a democracy on their own. No
country can run a democracy with no mistakes at all,
but we hope to get a German nation that runs reasonably
well and is responsible enough to join the society of free
nations. Books and discussions by Americans are valuable.
But we cannot expect to teach the Germans democracy
out of books alone, or by having them hear Americans
lecture on how to avoid graft and how to keep the chief
executive from acting like a dictator. What little any
democratic country knows about solving these problems
must be learned by experience, as we can testify after
nearly 1,000 years of experience in England and America.
The charges that certain business interests had bribed
legislators to vote for locating the Federal Government
at Bonn set off a nationwide argument. The newspapers
made it clear that bribery is not safe in present-day Ger-
many, as it was for the insiders of Hitler's government.
The Germans also had a chance to note the unholy joy of
the Soviet propaganda artists, who pounded day after day
on the corruption of the hated West German government.
No democracy can be guaranteed against graft, but this
sort of experience has a tendency to give the people a
healthy sense of keeping an eye on their officials.

In the same way, the resignation of a cabinet member
who accused Chancellor Adenauer of usurping power was
of educational value to the Germans of all parties. One
of the toughest prok:z:ms in German democracy is the old
habit of authority and submission to authority. This
cabinet crisis has given the citizens a chance to see their
chancellor accused of taking too much authority, of dis-
regarding his cabinet and of by-passing the legislature.
Dr. Adenauer felt called upon to reply in a radio speech,
in which he did not, like Hitler, call the legislature “the
greatest babbling institution of all time.’ On the contrary,
the head of the state denied that he was taking arbitrary
power and assured the people that he would respect the
constitutional rights of the legislature.

Accusations and denials of this kind are common in
democratic countries and are a healthy sign. In Germany
the whole question was aired in the newspapers while the
Soviet radio howled as if arbitrary power were some-
thing the happy Communist countries never have to fear.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
The most important point is not who was right or who
was lying, but that the German people had a good exer-
cise in talking against authoritarian methods in govern-
ment. We could never by preaching cure the conservative
Germans of their traditional love of authority. But if they
are ever cured of the theory that arbitrary authority is
the best way of government, it will be by talking them-
selves out of it in the course of political controversy.

HE AMERICAN POLICY in German controversies,

especially between officials and the people, has been
to refuse to settle anything by giving orders. Instead, we
encourage the parties to fight it out. By such fights the
people get the idea that they are responsible for making
their officials toe the line, or else electing new ones. The
officials gradually learn: that they are public servants.

There have been a number of cases where officials
arbitrarily made decisions that roused criticism among
the people. When representatives of the people asked the
Americans to overrule a bad decision, they were told to
get up meetings and muster the opposition. Sometimes
the official decided to back down, In a few cases he had
to be pushed a bit by the Americans. Sometimes he was

* put out of office in the next election.

The fact that the Occupying Powers have the final
authority on many questions is itself an advantage in
training the Germans to handle their own affairs. The old
German habit of expecting the rulers to settle all questions
is undermined when they look to the Powers for a de-
cision and are told instead that it is for the people to
decide. It is especially important that the people decide
political disputes that do not involve any official mis-
conduct. There have been gratifying signs of public
epinion being mobilized for normal political controversy.
A great advance was the action of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization in deciding to negotiate with the
German government on the subject of rearmament, in-
stead of simply giving orders.

The habits of authority and submission are still strong
in Germany. The political parties are strongly centralized
and strictly disciplined. But it is usually true that political
parties in a parliamentary system are more tightly
organized than in the American system, because of the
chance that the government may be overthrown by losing
a vote of confidence. The Americans who have worked
in Germany recently believe that, among the middle and
working classes, the habits of authority are melting away,
as the people begin to feel more confidence in the practi-
cal stability of democratic forms of government.

ERMAN PROGRESS IN DEMOCRACY has to depend

on the two middle-ground elements in German po-
litical life, which together make up at present a majority
of the voters. These are the socialists and the conserva-
tives, roughly equivalent to the workers and the business
and professional classes. Allied anti-Communist policy
is reinforced by the hold of the socialists on labor and
the hold of a liberal, pro-Western brand of conservatism
on the middle class, In understanding these elements, we
Americans are hampered by our own long-distance views

INFORMATION BULLETIN

of both parties, on one hand the American dislike of
socialism, and, on the other, our well-founded belief that —
the German business and professional classes were loyal
supporters of aggression under both the Kaiser and the
Fuehrer,

The Germans and the Soviets are well aware that the _
Socialist Party is the solid enemy of Communism. It is
socialism that holds the workers away from the Com-
munist Party. For its continued success, the Socialist
Party, with the labor unions, must be able to deliver at
least the two main requirements of labor, steadily in- —
creasing employment and rising wages. These require-
ments may call for larger public-works expenditures, —
especially for housing, and more rapid expansion of
industry by either private or public investment. Pressure
on some industries that are slow. to raise wages may be
necessary, but the normal use of strikes may be preferable
to government decrees for this purpose.

Prejudice on our side cannot safely be allowed to inter-
fere with developments that are necessary to keep the
workers safely in the socialist camp. In Germany there.
is nowhere else for them to be except in some revo-
lutionary movement, Nazi or Communist.

ANY GERMANS MAKE a distinction between those

whom they call ‘decent people" and “Nazi swine.”
Under Hitler control, practically everyone who earned
his living had to collaborate in some way with the Nazis.
Some enjoyed it, others did not. Some went out of their
way to act like wild beasts; others did their jobs quietly
and kept their heads down.

Most of the “decent people” are capable of becoming
permanently “Western” in their politics. Even the most
violent anti-Nazis believe that success will depend on
bringing into camp the conservatives who have, to be
sure, a past history of cooperating with aggressors, but
who are not hopelessly anti-Western. For, if we insist on
regarding all who went along with Hitler as permanent
enemies, only a minority of the German electorate can be
our friends; and large numbers of conservatives, once

Smiles were broad as Governing Mayor Ernst Reuter of
Berlin turned first spadeful of earth at ground-breaking
ceremonies for new US housing project in borough of
Dahlem, in US Sector. German and American officials
attended, including Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson (right),
US commander. Four buildings, each of 12 apartments,
are to be built. First units are scheduled to be ready for
occupancy Oct. 1, 1951. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

--- Page 50 ---
J

alienated, are capable of allying themselves with the
Communists, as they did in 1939.

The present moderate-conservative majority, led by
Chancellor Adenauer, is prepared to work reasonably
with the free nations of Western Europe. But its hold on
the middle-class voters may depend on certain political
attitudes that the Occupying Powers do not like. Its
economic policies are often too conservative to meet the
necessities of rapid recovery. A successful policy will
depend on encouraging the conservative party to relax
the outworn attitudes that would block recovery, full
employment and defense, while helping so far as possible
to strengthen the hold of decent conservatism in the
middle class as against a revival of Nazism.

It is clear that the Allied objective in Germany, to bring
{he German people and their government into firm
alliance with Western Europe, can be gained only by
starting from the political and economic features that are
now there. We cannot and should not try to make the
Germans into Americans nor even into the exact: kinds
of Germans that we should prefer to see. But there are
elements in German life that, if allowed to flourish, will

~ bring Germany into the Western family. Communist propa-

ganda is aimed at weakening these more or less pro-
Western elements, and, wherever possible, at arousing
Allied prejudice and irritation against them. Here, as
everywhere, our success depends on playing our own
game with realism, and not being led into thoughtless
actions that help our enemies.

HE ECONOMIC RECOVERY of Germany has, of
course, been a strong factor in strengthening the
country against Nazi and Communist temptations. The
Marshall Plan has supplied materials to get industry
going again and to give agriculture a start with ma-
chinery, animals, seed and fertilizer. Production by 1950
was a little above prewar, though that is not enough to
give the people a decent standard of living because of the
large number of refugees to be supported. But the ma-
jority of Germans can now eat regularly, and that is a
great help to morale and a blow to Communist agitators.
Much more progress is needed along the line of giving
full employment and letting those who are on relief start
earning a living, but conditions are better than might
have been expected.

All the usual problems of a free business system, from
wage rates to monopoly, are found in Western Germany,
and the best answers are not always clear. Monopoly, in
particular, is not regarded by Europeans with the dis-
favor that it finds under American antitrust laws, and
attempts to reduce cartels and monopoly practices have
only a limited success. But the effect of operating business
concerns and labor unions, free of the control of a dic-
tator, is educational, at least in the sense of getting the
Germans used to the Western way of industrial life.

NE POINT THAT MAY be helpful in counteracting
Soviet propaganda for a reunited Germany is the
appeal of a united Europe. American policy favors
European union on the ground that we have found union

JUNE 1951

47

to be strength, We have hopes that a strong Europe can
stand on its own feet in both business and defense without
constant subsidy from America. But the main question in
Europe is whether European union has an emotional
appeal as our Union had for us when we emerged, poor
but victorious, out of the American Revolution. Nations
and federal unions are not born unless the people feel
the drive of a high adventure to overcome the many
small selfish interests that always stand in the way of
united action.

Many Western Germans, especially young Germans,
as they grow used to the hopelessness of a united Ger-
many with the Soviets standing in the way, are beginning
to see in Western Europe a national ideal in which they
could take pride cf membership and play a respected part.
Their broken piece of Germany seems too small for them.
The Soviet offer of German union is tainted by knowledge
that such a union as the Soviets would allow would be a
slave state. They had once believed Europe could be united
under German control, but, for the present at least, this
dream has been knocked out of them with bombs. Now they
appear to be dreaming of belonging to a United Europe big
enough to be economically sound and militarily strong.

If we can encourage this dream, we may hope that the

idealistic side of the German soul may line itself up with
civilization at last, instead of returning to the dreams of
world conquest that have driven it insane in the past.
- The Soviets on their side play strongly on the idealistic
themes of Communist ‘‘democracy” and freedom from
capitalist oppression. In theory, and in the years when
the Soviet revolution was engaged in overthrowing the
tyranny of the Czars, this doctrine appealed to many
idealists in Western Europe. But the gilt is off the romance
of Communism, now that the real nature of Soviet tyranny
is clear, and those who are close to the Iron Curtain know
best of all how Communist “democracy” looks to its vic-
tims. In a contest for the hearts of the Germans, Hitler is
very dead, the Soviets have a disgusting odor, and it is
up to the Western Allies to set up a new union of free
nations that will win their allegiance.

NCE MARRIED TO WESTERN EUROPE, Germany

will of course find the usual questions coming up.
Who is going to dominate whom? What interests must
give way to hold the union together? How can conflicting
standards of value be reconciled? These inevitable
problems are no reason for despair. The United States
has had them all and still has them; they are standard ©
political questions in any free country.

Our policy in Europe includes such persuasion as we
can bring to bear to convince all parties that union is
worth the price. That is the main line in our present
efforts to help the Germans build a healthy democracy
at home and a friendly relationship with their free neigh-
bors.

The job is a long and complicated one, but there are
encouraging signs of prégress. If the general health of -
Germany can be strengthened, the danger of a return of
Nazism, or of serious effects from Communist influence,
will gradually disappear. -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Eisenhower Inspects

HE DETERMINATION of the Allies to defend their
outposts of freedom in Western Europe was re-
emphasized when the supreme commander of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, General of the Army Dwight
D. Eisenhower, paid a visit to military installations in
the US, British and French Zones of Germany recently.
The four day tour began at Rhine-Main Air Base, near
Frankfurt, where the five-star general was greeted by US
High Commissioner John J. McCloy (photos, leit and mov-
ing clockwise). In the British Zone General Eisenhower
inspected a Royal Air Force honor guard at Guetersloh
Airport. During his swing through the French Zone a
group of engineers of the bridgebuilding school in the
Coblenz area demonstrated ability to rapidly throw a
pontoon bridge across the Mosel River.
A highlight of the US Zone tour found the NATO chief
with Seventh Army Commander Lt. Gen. Manton S, Eddy

--- Page 52 ---
West Zone Defenses

and EUCOM Commander-in-Chief Gen. Thomas T. Handy
witnessing directed machine gun fire from medium tanks
near Augsburg. Another tank exercise calling for the aid
of engineers provided interest at Sennelager, a British
training center, where General Eisenhower saw a river
assault exercise by the heavy armored vehicles.

America’s anti-tank weapon, the bazooka, had its use-
fulness displayed by members of a US cavalry regiment,
while the firepower of another weapon, the 105 mm
howitzer, was shown by French artillerymen during an
iniantry maneuver near Mayen, in the French Zone.

The importance of air power was illustrated throughout
the tour, particularly at the US Air Force's Neubiberg
Air Base, in Bavaria, where the supreme commander and
Brig. Gen, Thomas C. Darcy, deputy commander, 12th Air
Force, Advanced Echelon, witnessed an impressive review
and inspected F-84 jet fighters. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 53 ---
Action Planned against Trade Violators

S HIGH COMMISSIONER JOHN J. McCLOY has re-

commended to the US Government that shipment of
certain strategic commodities from the United States be
prohibited to any company or person in Western Ger-
many who “may be engaged in transactions of this na-
ture” with the Soviet orbit. 1

The proposed ban, prepared after lengthy consideration
by HICOG and US governmental departments in Wash-
ington, would not affect US food shipments to Germany.

This action followed an announcement by Federal
Chancellor Konrad Adenauer that steps would be taken
to combat illegal exports and deny scarce raw materials
to violators. In a letter to Chancellor Adenauer, Mr.
McCloy advised him of the recommendation to Wash-
ington. His letter to the chancellor follows.

“IT was gratified to learn of your statement, dated April
28, 1951, in which you referred to the objectionable
situation prevailing within the Federal Republic in the
matter of illegal exports of strategic commodities to the
East. I noted particularly the expression of your firm
intent to take effective steps in combating such illegal
trade and denying scarce raw materials to violators, as
one of the steps to be employed.

As you know, the Government of the United States is
profoundly concerned with this problem and is endeavor-
ing to find an adequate solution to it in Germany, as well
as in other parts of the Western world. Mr. Cattier, chief
of the ECA Special Mission to Western Germany, has
informed your government that no ECA counterpart
funds will be approved for investment in any company

which engages in illegal trade with the East. Recently,
General Handy and I agreed to extend operations of the
US Customs Unit to the interzonal border of the US
Zone, as well as the international border, where it had
previously been stationed. Further, as you know, mem-
bers of my staff in recent weeks have had numerous
discussions with representatives of your government, in
reference to various aspects of illegal East-West trade.
Information received by my staff confirms the serious
state of affairs in this field.

In order to supplement measures which have recently
been taken or announced, I would like to ask you to
institute all measures necessary to prevent any alloca-
tion of ECA dollars, or commodity imports for ECA dol-
lars, to any person or company which engages in illegal
trade with the Soviet orbit.

I would further like to advise you that I am recom-
mending to my government to prohibit certain exports
from the US to any companies or persons in Western
Germany who, according to information coming to our
attention, may be engaged in transactions of this nature.

Your offer of cooperation in this matter reflects your
appreciation of the scope and significance of this problem
and a determination to find an appropriate solution to it.
This attitude is indeed gratifying, and I would like to ask
you to instruct competent members of your government
to meet with appropriate members of my staff, in order
to arrive at mutually satisfactory arrangements on pro-
cedures and administration in this field in accordance
with the objectives outlined in the foregoing paragraphs.”

US Forces’ Derequisitions Exceed 7,000

ORE THAN 7,000 PIECES of property in the US Zone
of Germany formerly used by US Forces, have been
returned to the control of German authorities.

Each of the items, ranging from hotels to sports fields
and from hospitals to huge apartment blocks, has re-
varted to German jurisdiction through the US Army's
and Air Force's efforts — resulting from a vigorous cam-
paign which became effective Jan. 1, 1948 — to reduce
to the fullest extent possible the amount of German
property holdings under control of US Forces.

All these derequisitions of property have been made
as a result of consolidations and other studied economy
measures on the part of EUCOM. Particularly worthy of
attention is the fact that these were accomplished for
the purpose of reducing demands on the German economy
to the very minimum, despite the fact that they were
carried out during a period when the dependent and
troop strength of the command increased materially.

Despite this personnel increase EUCOM has not re-
quisitioned any family housing in the past year. It is not
expected that there will be any change in this practice.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

50

The property items were returned between Dec. 31,
1947, and Dec. 31, 1950, with more than 4,100 private
homes representing the largest single type of return or
derequisitioning. Included in the property restored to
the Germans were 216 barracks, 45 schools, 25 hospitals,
858 apartments, 191 hotels, 104 warehouses, 50 factories cf
all sizes, 191 office buildings, an airport and a post office.

Under the EUCOM property consolidation program,
a special section is charged with responsibility for periodic
review of all requisitioned property. Property lists are
checked, in conjunction with troop consolidation efforts,
and facility centralization act.on such as construction of
shopping centers — in ord:r that every square foot of
German-owned real estate space can be returned to normal
control if it is possible to do so.

At present, property control officials at EUCOM head-
quarters are continuing surveys of requisitioned German
property with a view toward relinquishing control of
certain items, through constant examination of holdings,
and approving release of those which are not essential
to US Forces’ requirements.

JUNE 1951

--- Page 54 ---
American and German second- and third-graders sit in alternate seats at Frankfurt's American Elementary School
and get along famously. A few songs break the ice at each visit, with the Americans' German teacher serving as

mistress of ceremonies. Something new? No, indeed — the, American kiddies have been playing host to their Ger-
man counterparts since the dependent's school was opened in 1946. One highly unusual feature is that during these

classroom. get-togethers, whispering actually is encouraged. (PRD HICOG photos by Schoenborn)

A Lesson to Be Learned

By MARY MERCHANT

Principal, Frankfurt American Elementary School

HAT WEARING BLUE JEANS instead of Tirolean with them; for, thanks to first-rate instruction in German,
jackets and saddle shoes instead of pigtails is no the American second- and third-graders have no trouble
barrier to friendship and mutual understanding is a in striking up — and maintaining — conversations with
discovery American and German schoolchildren are their guests.
making every few weeks in Frankfurt’s American depend- With little children leading them, German teachers
ent’s school. and student teachers invited to windowshop have
Since 1946, when the Frankfurt American Elementary found the way to understanding with their Ameri-
School opened its doors, American grade-school young- can counterparts surprisingly easy, while American
sters have been playing host to like-aged German chil- teachers and pupils returning the periodical visits
dren, showing them their swings, their picture books and have come to appreciate the numerous difficulties
their enthusiasm, and chatting and singing right along besetting the German primary schools.

JUNE 1951 51 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
Side by side German and American youngsters scan
illustrated books and discuss contents in fluent German.

HEN THE CHILDREN

arrive, a welcoming
committee elected by the
American class meets them
at the door, where a blond
American tot does the honors
with a welcoming speech in
German that astonishes the
German teachers. The Ger-
man children are pleased but
not astonished. As far as
they are concerned it is per-
fectly natural for everybody
to speak German. What
surprises them are the bright,
cheery classrooms, the col-
orful posters, the comfort-
able desks, It looks as if
school could be fun.

In the classroom, American and German youngsters sit
in alternate seats (whispering is encouraged on these
mornings), and while American and German teachers go
into a huddle, the Americans’ German language teacher
takes over as mistress of ceremonies.

A few songs break the thin ice, and soon Americans
and Germans are in friendly competition to answer the
teacher's questions. Miss Schniederkotter, who is almost
always addressed as ‘Miss Ilse’ both by her colleagues
and her pupils, carefully selects the questions so that
both groups can shine equally.

At recess, American insistence begins to break down
German shyness, and by the time the little. Germans

INFORMATION BULLETIN

German visitor plays a German tune on boltle xylophone
while equally young American hostess holds musical score.

have been guided through the library, had the behavior
chart explained to them, and been shown how to play

the bottle xylophone, it is no longer easy to distinguish

the guests from the hosts.

Meanwhile, the visiting teachers and student teachers
are seeing that the American school methods about which
they have heard so much really work in practice.

HILE SOME OF THE GERMAN teachers are enthu-

siastic about the new ideas developed in shop talk
with their American counterparts, many of them put the
main emphasis on their problems — overcrowding (usual-
ly more than 40 children in a primary class), bombed out
schools and lack of trained teachers; lack of facilities and
money for new books, teaching aids and art supplies.

At present, German youngsters can go to grade school
only three hours a day; the school has to run a morning
and an afternoon shifts. Every German grade school
pupil carries his Rucksack (knapsack) or school bag,
a symbol of the fact that he has to carry his books
home every day to work over with his mother the
material his teacher has no
time to teach him,

Meanwhile, the German
boys and girls, for once
without their knapsacks, get
along famously with their
new American friends.
Some over-patriotic Germans
might shiver to see young
Germany admiring American
blue jeans; unthinking Ameri-
cans, in turn, could object
to young America becoming
so interested in “foreigners.”
But men of good will the
world over would smile to
see it, would wish the whole
world could act like second-
graders, -++END

‘Miss Ilse,’ more formally Miss Schniederkotter, explains
behavior chart to puzzled visitor, Rainer Stephan (right).

i

--- Page 56 ---
German, US Press

Look at Schuman Plan

HE REACTION of the German
press to the Federal Republic's
participation in the Schuman Plan*
was a mixed one, with the hopeful and
optimistic hailing the coal and steel
merger as the greatest step thus far
toward a united, federated Western
Europe. However, this optimism was
dampened by the condemnatory edi-
torial voices of a number of elements.
Bavaria’s Passauer Neue Presse saw
the single market idea as the end of
the long standing animosity between
France and Germany, bringing the
European countries together in com-
mon destiny. In the opinion of the
East-West border city paper, the eco-
nomic union therefore is “a real peace
treaty which provides the prerequi-
sites for the unity of Europe and the
foundation for a Western defense

The parliaments of six European
nations — France, Western Ger-
many, Italy, the Netherlands, Bel-
gium and Luxembourg — are being
called upon to ratify the Schuman
Plan and thus make its concepts
law. Since May 9, 1950 — when
Robert Schuman, the French foreign
minister, announced France's pro-
posals for pooling the coal and
steel industries of France and Ger-
many, together with those of other
interested European governments
— and April 18, 1951, when the
Schuman Plan Treaty was signed
by the foreign ministers of the par-
ticipating countries, the world press
has taken varied stands on its mer-
its. In these columns is a cross-
section of press comment in West-
ern Germany and the United States.

The Offenbach Post declared Europe

will receive an entirely new face should

_it succeed in fulfilling the political and
economic promises of the Plan.

The Bremen Weser-Kurier thought
Dr. Adenauer's optimism justified and
that the refusal of the member nations’
parliaments to ratify the Plan would
constitute a catastrophe.

ERLIN'S DER TAG HELD that

whatever sacrifices and risks the
Plan may call for, the prospect of
strengthening Europe makes them well
worth accepting. However, two other
of the island city’s papers. Der Tele-
graph and DerTagesspiegel, expressed
concern that the agreement on the
Schuman Plan may have been bought
with concessions affecting the Saar
and Eastern Germany.

union against the East."

Frankfurt’s Allgemeine Zeitung wrote that ‘the idea of
a United Europe had passed from a state of idealistic hope
to urgent necessity forced upon us by political and eco-
nomic developments. From this point of view," said the
paper, “the Schuman Plan must be considered the. first
practical step in the economic field to bring about union
and uniformity in Europe.’ The Allgemeine declared that
the time for narrow-minded interests had gone and no
single national state but the whole of Europe was at stake.

NOTHER HESSIAN PAPER, the Frankfurter Rund-

schau, sanctioned the signing of the Plan by Chancel-
lor Adenauer only as an economic basis on which the
“European Council in Strasbourg can develop from a
debating club into’ an effective political instrument...”
However, the paper warned that “whether April 18, 1951
(date of signature) will be celebrated in the future as the
birthday of the United States of Europe, will depend not
only on the Plan's ratification by the parliaments of the
member states in six months’ time, but on the practical
economic operation of the steel and coal union." It will
be years, the paper said, before “the plan can be in full
operation. But, as Jean Monnet said, ‘to overcome the ob-
structing frontiers in Europe, it is necessary now to put
heart and mind to realization of this plan.’"

The Munich Sueddeutsche Zeitung emphasized that
German diplomats had exerted considerable influence on
the forging of European unity, indicating that Chancellor
Adenauer was now in a better position to deal with his
political opposition than was previously the case.

JUNE 1951

53

The dissenters included Dortmund’s
Westfaelische Rundschau, which blamed Dr. Adenauer for
having signed the agreement against the will of the ma-
jority of the West German population and with the inten-
tion of creating a fait accompli which it would be difficult
to change later by means of parliamentary procedure.

It was joined by the Social Democratic Party (SPD) ad-
vocate, Hannoversche Presse, which wrote that the ‘will
for political and. economic stabilization in Europe as in-
tended by the Schuman Plan depends in no small measure
on the moral capacity of France...on the honesty of
France — and, foremost, on its willingness to abandon a
policy: which is governed by the spirit of exaggerated fear.”

Duesseldorf's Rhine Echo stressed the great responsi-
bility the Germans had taken on their shoulders by making
sacrifices for the conclusion of this union and expressed
the hope that the eventual peace treaty and the Schuman
Plan will bring about social security for the working
people of the Rhine-Ruhr area, because “with social ten-
sion and unrest in this mining district, all fine European
planning will be worthless.”

HE EDITORIAL COLUMNS of America’s leading news-
papers were outspoken in their approval of the Plan
and the action of the six member governments. Typical
of this trend of opinion was The New York Times, which
called the Schuman Plan ‘’a functional approach to Euro-
pean unification on the economic level.”
“This is a promising method,” continued The Times,
“of overcoming the difficulties that have bogged down

* For a detailed review of the Schuman Plan, see Information Bulletin,
April 1951 issue.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
the political approach represented by the innocuous
Council of Europe... it undertakes to do for Europe on a
step-by-step basis what the Zollverein* did for the uni-
fication of Germany in the last century... it has a far
better chance of success than previous efforts toward that
end, because it establishes what amounts to a federal
constitution, delegating to the new supra-national authori-
ties some of the sovereign powers of the participating
governments, and yet avoiding the curse plaguing most
international organizations of this kind — namely, the
‘rule of unanimity’ involving the right of any one nation
to veto action.” .

One immediately important effect of this achievement,
The Times said, is its tendency to end the ancient feud
between France and Germany, and to fuse their essential
interests to unite them in a common destiny. ‘In that
sense it represents a real peace treaty which meets the
first condition for European unification and establishes
the basis for a German contribution to Western defense
“that should now be taken in hand."

HE WASHINGTON POST paid tribute to the out-

standing statesmanship which had brought the Schu-
man Plan before the parliaments of the member states
when it said, “the signature of the six-power Schuman
Plan brings another step nearer to fruition the greatest
single act of statesmanship in postwar Europe.” The Post
emphasized the part American diplomacy played in the
proceedings, singling out US High Commissioner for Ger-
many John J. McCloy and David Bruce, American am-
bassador to France, who, it said, deserve praise for their
belief in the enterprise and for their persistence.

“We hope the rest of the sailing — ratification and
political arrangements — will be smooth going.” And,
emphasized the Post, ‘‘we are sure that when the Schuman
Plan actually swings into operation, other forms of unity
will follow, and that one of these days there will be a
European army and a European citizenship."

The Christian Science Monitor, on the other hand,
sounded a note of caution to over-optimistic readers by
pointing out that the historical pact “is as yet only a
proposal...for, involving as it does, the most delicate
balancings of trade advantages, labor conditions and
political factors, it is sure to meet stiff opposition in some
of the parliaments where it must be ratified.”

Yet, continued the Monitor, ‘whether ratification can
be assumed or not, whether Great Britain comes eventu-
ally to take a more favorable interest, whether the ques-
tion of cartels is solved or removed to another sphere,
whether economic cooperation leads to greater political
unity or to political friction, an important step has been
taken and an important meeting of minds achieved."

N INCREASE IN THE PRODUCTION potential of
Western Europe, in the opinion of the Providence
Journal, ‘will be the principal immediate gain when the

*The German Customs Union (Zollverein) evolved from the doing
away by Prussian officialism in 1818 with the complicated tariff system
within Prussia, and gradually through material benefits attached other
German states to the Prussian system.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

54

(Deutsche Zeitung und Wirtschaft,
Stuttgart, May 5)

Franco-German Agrarian Union.
“Darling, don't you think we'd better
see how this baby (the Schuman Plan)

turns out first?"

Schuman Plan goes into effect." But, said the Rhode Is-
land paper, “there are other, more far-reaching possi-
bilities. Successful industrial union may very conceivably
pave the way for extension of the principle of supra-
national authority to other economic spheres and finally
even to the political. Then the goal of a united Europe
may at long last be brought within grasp, and under
circumstances more promising of success than any pre-
viously achieyed.”

The Philadelphia Bulletin said “the establishment of a
sound system, it is hoped, will smooth the path for the
dream of European political federation. It is certainly
along these lines that Europe has its best chance to renew
itself and defy the threat of Communism.”

Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt in her daily column declared
the Schuman Plan ‘may prove to be one of the greatest
turning points in history...it forms a foundation in Eu-
rope for the political community which has begun to grow
and function through the Council of Europe... As this
economic basis becomes solid in Europe the chance of
future wars gradually will be eliminated, and there is
hope that in time a federation of Europe, as strong as the
federation of the United States, will bring greater pros-
perity and security to all peoples."

The possible forging of Europe into an economic unit
as substantially initiated by the Schuman Plan, in the
opinion of the San Francisco Chronicle, “could be a
cardinal instrument in projecting peace and human digni-
ty into centuries of the future. For a truly democratic
federated Europe linked with the United States of America
would comprise an axis capable of waging peace success-
fully around the world." +END

JUNE 1951

--- Page 58 ---
Output, Exports Set Records

By A. J. CEFARATTI

Chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Program Division
° Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

ATEST REPORTS OF WESTERN GERMANY'S economic efforts indicate considerable in-

dustrial expansion despite continuing shortages. Industrial output figures for April recorded

sizable gains in production with the index (excluding building, stimulants and food processing)
climbing four points to 139 percent of 1936, a new postwar record. .

Total exports in April reached a postwar peak of $275,000,000,* surpassing imports (by
$15,000,000) for the first time since the war. Basic materials prices dropped 0.4 percent in April
while industrial producer prices and consumer prices rose 1.8 percent and 1.5 percent respectively.
Employment, well above last year's level, continued to gain, but at a slower rate.

a a a

N MARCH AND APRIL, the Western German economy man basic material industries; on the necessity of ex-

continued the spring upward trend, but at a pace port promotion, and on the urgency for stabilization of
somewhat slower than the earlier pronounced rises re- prices and wages. By the end of April, however, the
corded in March. The March industrial production index exact methods to achieve these aims had not been
rose three points, April labor market developments al- defined clearly enough to consider drafting of a final
ready compared with June 1950, and the April increase program by the government.

in exports and decrease in imports brought the first
positive balance of trade ($19,000,000) of the postwar
era. The consumer price index, however, rose by three
percent in March and another 1.5 percent in April, and
raw material shortages were frequently reported in
many industries. EPU trade again showed a surplus, but

future policy to be adopted by the OEEC in regard to 5 .
the German balance of payments has as yet not been Western Germany's exports during the first quarter,
determined. including the Soviet Zone, reached $714,600,000, thus
Although the revision of the Prohibited and Limited only slightly exceeding the preceding quarter and
Industries Agreement (PLI) was anticipated and was doubling the first quarter of 1950. Imports, however,
well received by industry, present and potential raw decreased by 5.2 percent from $941,300,000 in the last
material shortages loomed to offset immediate industrial quarter of 1950 to $892,800,000 in the first quarter of
expansion and resumption of hitherto restricted production. 1951 ($616,300,000 first quarter of 1950). Apparently —
Coal, steel sheets, metal scrap, non-ferrous metals and Western Gérmany’s restrictions on imports from the
sulphur head the list of materials reported in short EPU area have not yet affected the import total. There
supply and affecting many industries, including iron and were sufficient import licenses issued prior to the im-
steel, electrical appliances, mechanical engineering, ve- position of restrictions in February which remained avail-
hicle production, fine mechanics and optics. able for use through March. . aan
The Schuman Plan was formally signed in April, but Ona country of payments basis, the trade deficit with
must be ratified within six months by the parliaments of the EPU area in January-March 1951 was $113,200,000,
each participating country before becoming effective. compared with $170,300,000 in the previous quarter. This
The Allied High Commission gave official non-dis- substantial amelioration was mostly ‘produced by the
approval of the Schuman Plan later in that month. ene a uo the OEE od founies pot
T . jati: : ster. ing ani non-sterling, and a decline 0: imports from
conceeR trade and tariff negotiations ——— the non-sterling OEEC countries from $489,200,000 in the
was to have been made in May. Germany's accession fourth quarter of 1950 to $448,300,000 in January-

to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) Rarchizon

A A A 5 Trade with the Soviet bloc was characterized by

might di hi
ye tbe ee ee aaeainay en decreasing exports ($27,400,000 fourth quarter of 1950
quay . a to $20,100,000 first quarter of 1951) and sharply reduced

members had been unwilling to negotiate tariff conces- A
sions on products. of rene Germany a imports ($32,500,000 fourth quarter of 1950 to $22,600,000
A Ae 5 A 5 A first quarter of 1951). The same trend in an even more
ee principally in the chemical Se Reis Thy drastic fashion was noted in trade with the Soviet Zone
herself 1 icipate i \gotiations. A paar _
Of oe Och car a fo Majors reasons for the sharp cut in interzonal trade in
recent months have been the termination of the Frankfurt

meet the problems of Western Germany's economy, all + + +
are in unanimous agreement on the necessity for finding Agreement, the increasing efforts of the Federal Republic

immediate and adequate investment funds for the Ger- * At official rate of 23.8 cents to the Deutsche mark, DM 1,155,462,000.

Foreign Trade

The major trade developments in the first quarter of
1951 were the maintenance of total exports at a high
level, the sharp decline from the previous quarter in the
trade deficit with the EPU countries, and the drastic
curtailment of trade with the Soviet bloc.

JUNE 1951 55 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
and East zone officials to scrutinize shipments to the
other area, and retaliatory measures taken by the two
trading partners.

Industry

The index of industrial production during March (ex-
cluding building, stimulants and food processing) rose
by three points (up 1.7 percent) to 135 of the 1936 level,
thus equaling the postwar high reached in November
1950. The per capita rate of production rose to ap-
proximately 108 percent of 1936 (about 91 percent of
1938). Industrial demand continued on the upgrade as
the value of orders received by manufacturers rose
seven percent in February, and sales increased nine
percent. Total orders received in February averaged 22
percent higher than current sales, with investment goods
orders averaging 135 percent of sales, production goods
121 percent and consumer goods 109 percent. Orders
booked for investment goods reached a new postwar
high in February of 237 percent of the 1949 monthly
average.

Monthly coal production for April continued at a high
level — with daily average output at 394,481 metric tons
and total production at 10,019,861 tons, including 157,845
tons produced in five Sunday shifts. Factors believed
largely responsible for this sustained rate of production
are interim agreements for extra shift pay and increased
employment since Jan. 1 by 5,500 underground workers
(1,700 face workers) and 4,000 surface workers. During
the first half of April, 1,231 underground and 4,268 sur-
face workers were added to the mine books. There has
been only little improvement in output per manshift during
the last year, as it stood at 1.40 metric tons in March
1950; 1.46 tons in February 1951; 1.45 tons in March
1951, and remained approximately the same in April.

Second quarter of 1951 consumption and deliveries of
coal should about balance (estimated by US Element of
Combined Coal Control Group — Federal Government's
original allocations program estimated at 2,000,000 tons
less), assuming that 22,000,000 tons are available and
that industrial production will continue at its present
rate. The danger lies in the low stockpile position of
the economy and there was little hope of improving this
position substantially in the second quarter. During the
winter months (October 1950 to April 1951) industrial
and public utility coal stocks decreased by some
2,000,000 tons. The present stock positions are better
thah anticipated one month ago, but are, nevertheless, at
very low levels. On April 1, the railways had a seven
days surplus on hand, power plants 12 days, gas plants
seven days, iron and steel seven days, and other in-
dustry 11 days.

Restrictions, Limitations Removed

On April 3, 1951, the Allied High Commissioners
signed the Agreement on Industrial Controls to replace
the Prohibited and Limited Industries Agreement (PLI)
of April 1949, and thereby facilitated the production in
Germany of items and materials for the common defense
of the West. Under the new agreement, the limitations
and restrictions hitherto in force concerning the size
and speed or tonnage of merchant ships built or other-
wise acquired by Germany, primary aluminum, synthetic
ammonia, chlorine, styrene and certain types of ma-
chine tools are removed. In addition, the High Commis-
sion will authorize production of crude steel outside the
limit of 11,100,000 tons per annum where such production

INFORMATION BULLETIN

56

will help provide steel for the common defense effort.
The prohibition on the production of synthetic oil and
rubber is removed and the restrictions upon the capacity
of these and of the ball and roller bearing industries
are now modified. Control is retained, but in a modified
form, over the production of electronic valves.

It is the desire of the Allied High Commission to
promote technological progress and modernization of
production which will tend to reduce costs and promote
economies in raw materials, power and fuel. Con-
sequently, in those few industries where a limitation of
capacity is maintained, the High Commission will
authorize the substitution of more efficient equipment,
the rearrangement of machinery and the introduction of
new processes or other technical changes which may in-
volve a minor increase in the capacity of factory or
equipment.

In authorizing the rehabilitation of plants (including
the installation of new equipment) and the utilization
of new processes for the production of synthetic rubber
and synthetic oil from coal and coke, the High Com-
mission will grant licenses only to the extent that solid
fuel exports are not affected. Nevertheless, the applica-
tion outstanding for the use of the Ruhr area plants at
Bergkamen, Viktor, Scholven and Ruhroel will be granted
promptly. :

While a license is no longer required to manufacture
certain machine tools listed under the PLI agreement,
the High Commission does require that a system of de-
claration of manufacture by the producer (indicating
the intended destination of each machine) and of re-
porting quantities of such machines in Germany shall
be effected.

It is much too early to report on the effects of the
new agreement even though the affected industries had
anticipated certain revisions.

In Bavaria and in the upper Rhine district, melting
snow in the Alps and heavy rains provided water for
an all-time record hydroelectric power production. This
increased hydro production has enabled the chemical
industry in Bavaria to continue to operate without
restriction, and has provided power for present re-
quirements of the aluminum industry. Also in Bavaria,
the first unit in the lowest step of the Schluchsee project
of Waldshut, which was completed recently with coun-

-terpart funds, will add 35,000,000 KWH yearly to the

available storage capacity in Western Germany.

An estimated 2,750,000,000 KWH of electricity were
used during the month, or 31 percent more than in April
1950 — a record increase in consumption. Gas consump-
tion also increased.

Low stocks and short falls in coal deliveries are still
a matter of considerable concern to the power com-
panies. Since consumption of both electricity and gas is
well above expectations, there is an immediate need
for additional facilities and stocking of coal to meet
next winter's demand.

Labor

The estimated number of employed wage and salary
earners in the Federal Republic increased by 150,000 to
about 14,400,000 at the end of April 1951, thus equaling
the October 1950 postwar peak. Employment in non-
manufacturing service establishments, in manufacturing,
and in mining achieved a new peacetime high sparked
primarily by the producer goods industries. Building
activity, the principal factor in the April employment

JUNE 1951

--- Page 60 ---
increase, was accelerated particularly in the three major
agricultural-refugee states. By the end of March, these
states had still not recovered much of their loss in
building employment. Already in April estimated em-
ployment in building and construction had almost reached
the June 1950 level. Employment also rose in trade and
commerce and in agriculture. 7

Registered unemployment in the Federal Republic has
shown a steady downward movement since mid-January,
with a sharp drop of 120,000 during April reducing the
total to 1,446,000. In terms of the wage and salary earn-
ing labor force, unemployment dropped to 9.1 percent
from 9.9 percent in March 1951.

An amended version of the Federal Government bill
concerning labor participation (co-determination) in the
management of the mining industry and the severed
iron and steel-producing companies was enacted in April
by the Federal Parliament. Passage of the measure was
hailed “as a great success on the road toward social
harmony” by the executive council of the Western Ger-
man Trade Union Federation (DGB).

Organized labor continued the general wage drive as
new collective agreements were negotiated without any
major work stoppages. Approximately 1,000,000 building
trades workers in the Federal Republic (excluding Ba-
varia, which is subject to a special agreement) were
granted a pay increase of 9.5 percent effective April 25
with another boost of 3.5 percent due on July 15. The
wage dispute was settled by arbitration, as has been
customary in this industry since 1949.

Wage increases were also obtained in the Wuerttem-
berg-Baden metal industry, for Bremen shipyard workers,
in the entire clothing industry, for farm labor in several
states and in the Bavarian woodworking and the Hesse
chemicals industries. The Mining Union announced that
it will seek a 14 percent pay raise for wage earners and
salaried employees in the hard coal mining industry.
The current pay agreement expired on April 30.

Prices

During March the three major price indexes continued
to rise, and at a more accelerated rate than in February.
Even more spectacular was the increase of the three
indexes during the first quarter of 1951, an increase which
was greater for each index than during the last quarter
of 1950 and, except for the basic materials price index,
greater also than during the third quarter of 1950.

In March the index of industrial producer prices rose
by 2.8 percent to 218 percent of 1938. The index of basic
materials prices increased by 2.4 percent to 251 percent
of 1938; the agricultural component rose by 1.6 percent
and the industrial component by 6.3 percent. The index
of consumer prices, which climbed by three percent to
reach 161 percent of 1938— the largest month-to-month
gain since October 1948 — showed the highest jumps in
food (up 5.1 percent); household goods (up 3.1 percent)
and clothing (up 2.7 percent). Consumer prices are stili
rising although at a slower pace, and a one percent rise
was expected in the April index.

Food and Agriculture

Since the new Federal measures to increase the bread-
grain supply have been in effect only a short time, it
is difficult to estimate any immediate results. Preliminary
information indicates, however, that measures taken to
encourage domestic deliveries and continue US ship-
ments will achieve favorable results. Although bread

JUNE 1951

57

rationing will not be necessary, the year end (June: 30,
1951) stocks of breadgrains will be substantially below
last year's stock level. During April, the Federal Govern-
ment took additional steps to conserve grain supplies,
and is also considering new legislation to force increased
farm deliveries which would prevent the use of bread-
grains as fodder and prohibit the creation of large farm
stocks for speculation.

During April, the edible fats and oils supply position
continued to deteriorate. Stocks had fallen, and largely
as a result of the EPU payment crisis, trade-agreement
imports in March declined from the monthly average of
approximately 50,000 tons to 29,000 tons. To stretch
available stocks, the oil and margarine industries agreed
to make a substantial cut in production in April by
19,000 metric tons, and a reduction in May of 10,000
metric tons was planned. The Bank Deutscher Laender
agreed to release by the end of April $25,000,000 for
food purchases, $12,000,000 of which will be used in an
“emergency program" for purchasing edible oils, mainly
low-priced whale and fish oil from Norway.

Despite these measures, however, by June 30, 1951
stocks may be dangerously low —probably no higher
than 40,000 tons. To reduce consumption somewhat and
to enable importers to purchase higher-priced fats and
oils from various trade agreement sources, the Federal
Government is considering an immediate increase in the.
price of margarine.

Berlin

The value of deliveries of West Berlin industry (ex-
cluding construction and energy production) reached
DM 208,500,000 ($49,623,000) in March, a post-blockade
record. February total delivery value amounted to
DM 186,000,000 ($44,268,000). The electrical, machinery
and clothing industry branches registered the largest
gains. A part of the increase was probably due to price
rises. No reliable general price index exists for the city,
but a new cost of living index (1938 = 100) increased
from 154.1 in February to 158.1 in March. This may give
some indication of general price trends.

The index of industrial production (1936 = 100; ex-
cludes construction, energy production, and food and
stimulants) reached a new postwar record level as it
rose from 46 to 50, the producers goods section from
45 to 49, and the consumer goods section from 50 to 56.
These averages, based on deliveries, rather than physical
output, have not been corrected for recent price increases.

Receipts of iron, steel and non-ferrous metal products,
timber, paper and cardboard, and certain other categories
of industrial raw materials continue to lag behind re-
quirements. Although specific instances of shortages af-
fecting plant output have been reported, the general
situation appears to be no worse than in Western
Germany.

Employment showed little net change during the first
half of April, Unsubsidized employment increased by
approximately 2,000 from March 31 to April 15. However,
5,000 fewer persons were given work under the GARIOA
work relief program. As a result, total reported employ-
ment stood at 882,000, a decrease of just under 3,000 as
compared with the end of March. The registered labor
force also increased somewhat, so that total unemploy-
ment rose by approximately 6,500 during the first half
of the month, Data on industrial employment are not yet
available for April, but a slight increase was reported
during March. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
Personnel Notes

Cattier Resigns; Harris to Succeed

Jean Cattier has resigned as chief of the ECA Special
Mission to Western Germany and director of the HICOG
Office of Economic Affairs, positions which he has held
since last October. He will
be succeeded about July 1
by Michael S. Harris, pres-
ently chief of the ECA
Special Mission to Sweden.

In replying to Mr. Cat-
tier's letter of resignation,
US High Commissioner
John J. McCloy wrote:
“There are few, if any, who
have made a greater con-
tribution than you have to
the development of the
German economy and fi-
nancial structure.”

Mr. Cattier, a New York
investment banker, plans
to return to private life.

In announcing the ap-
pointment of Mr. Harris, Ambassador Milton Katz, US
special representative in Europe, said the new ECA chief
in Western Germany “has gained intimate knowledge
of Europe's economic prob-
lems during his two years
as ECA Mission chief in
Sweden and his prior ex-
perience as the first labor
adviser to the ECA Mis-
sion in France.”

Prior to World War Il
the 34-year-old appointee
served as district director
and member of the Inter-
national Executive Board,
United Steelworkers of
America. From 1943 to 1944,
Mr. Harris was president
of the Philadelphia Con-
gress of Industrial Organ-
izations’ (CIO) Industrial
Union Council, a position
to which he returned following war service in the Pa-
cific. He also has served as a member of the Regional
War Labor Board and Advisory Committee, War Man-
power Commission, Philadelphia region; as a member of
the advisory committee to the Coordinator of Inter-
American Affairs, and as consultant to the War Produc-
tion Board.

Michael S. Harris.
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Jean Cattier.
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

58

Lt. Gen Lucian K. Truscott, Jr., (US Army, relired).
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

General Truscott Joins HICOG

Lt. Gen. Lucian K. Truscott, Jr., (US Army, retired),
has joined the staff of HICOG as coordinator and advisor
for military security, defense organization and public
safety.

General Truscott, born in Chatfield, Tex., in 1895, was
commanding general of the Third Army, in the US Zone
of Germany in 1945 and 1946. Before that he was com-
manding general, Third Infantry Division, in North Africa,
Sicily and Italy in 1943-44, and commanding general,
Fifth Army, in Italy in 1944-45.

Egan, Kaghan Assume New Posts

The appointments of W. J. Convery Egan as chief of the
Public Affairs Division, Berlin Element, HICOG, and of
Theodore Kaghan as chief of Information Services Divi-
sion, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, have been an-
nounced.

Mr. Egan joined HICOG as deputy chief of Information
Services Division in November 1949 and was appointed
chief of ISD in February 1950. A native of Trenton, N. J.,
Mr. Egan was a newspaper reporter and editor for
several years before joining the Department of State in
1942. He has been a public affairs officer with the Foreign
Service in South America; assistant chief in charge of
Film Operations, International Motion Picture Division,
and deputy director of the Office of International Infor-
mation, State Department.

Mr. Kaghan came to HICOG as deputy chief of ISD in
February 1950, after serving as news operations officer
of the Information Services Branch in Austria, editor of
the US German language newspaper Wiener Kurier, and

JUNE 1951

--- Page 62 ---
press officer at the US Forces in Austria (USFA) head-
quarters. During the war he was chief of the Basic News
Division, Office of War Information. Mr. Kaghan is a
graduate of the University of Michigan.

Judge Sedillo Going to State Department

Juan Sedillo, associate justice of the US. Court of
Appeals in Germany has been appointed to a post in the
Office of Legal Adviser, Department of State, in Wash-
ington, D.C.

After service on General Eisenhower's wartime head-
quarters staff in London and with the First and Third
Armies, Judge Sedillo was named chief legal officer for
Military Government in Wuerttemberg-Baden and later
joined the US court system in Germany.

New East-West Trade Chief Arrives

Alexander F, Kiefer, recently appointed chief of the
East-West Trade Group, Office of Economic Affairs,
HICOG, has arrived in
Frankfurt to assume his
new position, succeeding
Valentine A. Gaertner, who
had resigned.

Mr. Kiefer, since 1946,
has been an economist with
the Department of State in
Washington, where he has
had extensive experience
with German questions in
the Department's Office of
German Economic Affairs.
He also has been on the
staffs of the Department
of Commerce and the Fed-

_ eral Communications Com-
mission,

Alexander F. Kiefer.
(Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

The trade specialist was
born in Munich and went to the United States in 1927,
becoming a citizen in 1932. He is a graduate of Columbia
University, where he specialized in international rela-
tions, law and economics.

Margaret Carter Weds in Berlin

Margaret R. T. Carter, chief of the Division of Public
Liaison, Department of State, Washington, D.C., and
George Allen Morgan, director of Eastern Element of
HICOG, Berlin Element, were married by the Rev. Arthur
R. Siebens at the American Church in Berlin on May 19.

Mrs, Carter is a graduate of the University of Arizona
and has served in the State Department since 1945.

Mr. Morgan was born in Murfreesboro, Tenn., and is a
graduate of Emory and Harvard universities. He joined
the Foreign Service in 1947, and served as first secretary
of the American Embassy in Moscow from 1948 until his
assignment to Berlin in May 1950.

JUNE 1951

59

Army Decorates HICOG Official

For his part in the Berlin airlift, Norman L, Smith, depu-
ty chief, Agricultural Production and Extension Branch,
Food and Agriculture Division, HICOG, has been awarded
the Department of the Army's Commendation for Meri-
torious Civilian Service Overseas. Jean Cattier, retiring
chief of the ECA Special Mission to Germany and direc-
tor of the HICOG Office of Economic Affairs, made the
presentation on behalf of Lt. Gen. Clarence R. Huebner,
who was acting commander-in-chief of EUCOM when
the award action was initiated.

Mr. Smith's citation reads: “For meritorious perform-
ance of duty from Oct. 1, 1948, to July 1, 1949, as as-
sistant to the chief of Food Rationing and Distribution
Section of Food, Agriculture and Forestry Group, Bi-
partite Control Office. He assisted in establishing and
implementing new procedures for assuring an uninter-
rupted flow of large tonnages of food for shipment by
airlift to Berlin. He contributed greatly to the efficient
operalion of the airlift in meeting Berlin's critical food
needs, and brought great credit to himself and the United
States Government.”

Trade Practices Chief Transfers

John J. Barron has resigned as chief of the Trade
Practices Branch, Decartelization and Deconcentration
Division, Office of the General Counsel, HICOG, to take
a post with the Appeals Board, National Production
Authority, in Washington.

Mr. Barron joined HICOG in October 1949 after having
served with Military Government since 1946. He is a
native of St. Paul, Minn., and holds degrees from Colum-
bia University and Detroit University Law School.

Refugee Specialist Reassigned

Six years of work on refugee problems in Germany
came to an end recently for George Weisz, deputy chief,
Displaced Populations Division, Office of Political Af-
fairs, HICOG, when he returned to Washington for reas-
signment.

During the early days of Military Government, Mr.
Weisz worked on plans for the demobilization of the
Germany army. He subsequently negotiated with the
Czechoslovakian and Hungarian governments for the
humane and orderly resettlement of Germans remaining
in those countries in 1945 and 1946. The New York
University graduate later became chief of the Refugee
Branch of Military Government.

Police Official Joins OLCH

Fred E. Rademaker, a former lieutenant in the Los An-
geles Police Department has joined the Public Safety
Branch, OLC Hesse, as deputy chief. The new official, a
veteran of 22 years of police work in California, will be
responsible for the training of German police units in
democratic police procedures and philosophy. Mr. Rade-
maker is a veteran of World War I and has attended the
University of California. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
Alternative to “Pre-Medieval Barbarism”

The following dissertation on the trade-union suppor!
of the underlying idea of the Schuman Plan was written
by Otto Stolz, assistant chief editor of “Welt der Arbeit’
(World of Labor), journal of the German Federation of
Trade Unions (DGB), in its May 11 issue and distributed
by the DGB press bureau.

N THE COURSE OF HISTORY, there are situations

which compel those who maintain a claim to signifi-
cant participation in the direction of events to make deci-
sions. The economic and political realities resulting from
the second World War, which no one today can ignore,
has led all understanding and far-thinking persons in
Europe to the conclusion that the fall of the continent
and the impoverishment of countless millions of persons
as well as reversion to a condition of pre-medieval bar-
barism can be prevented only if nations which have be-
come distant from one another and which had been
hostile due partly to historical developments can be
united. This demand for a united Europe acquires dra-
matic impressiveness in view of the prevented enslave-
ment, prevented with many sacrifices, of the continent
by Fascism and Nazism and the overshadowing threat at
this time by Bolshevism.

Between this goal and its achievement, however, there
is a long road whose greatest possible shortening has be-
come vital to all those who call themselves Europeans. All
previous efforts to establish this unity by political means
alone have collapsed against the economic reality. An-
other question naturally is that politically an atmosphere
must be created which is the main condition for coopera-
tion in all fields. In other words, this means the recogni-
tion of political equality.

In any case, cooperation and unity in the economic
sphere must precede the political. This compelling idea
gave rise to the idea of the Schuman Plan. Because the
German trade unions recognized the historic significance,
in the true sense of the word, of this plan for future
development, they have endorsed the basic idea and have
participated in its further development. Their efforts were
always directed toward providing a firm and stable foun-
dation for this first step toward European cooperation.
For they have always clearly understood that the Schu-
man Plan alone cannot be a solution to European eco-
nomic and political problems and that it represents only
a stage to further measures. It is important, precisely for
this reason, that those prerequisites be created for Ger-
many, without whose participation any European unifica-
tion would be incomplete, which would do justice to the
greatness of the idea as well as to the risks which are
undoubtedly connected with it.

T CANNOT BE IGNORED that occupation law is a

serious obstacle to an all-European development in
that the basic condition for European cooperation,
namely, the equality of all participants, is violated. Euro-
pean economic cooperation can be effective only if the
German economy is freed from all those restrictions im-
posed upon it by the Occupation Powers. Above all, this
includes those in the field of steel production and the still
uneffected reorganization of the iron and steel-producing
industry under Allied Law No. 27 which should be carried
out in the spirit expressed in the articles of the Schu-
aman Plan. This also includes a regulation for coal market-
ing which is important not only for Germany but for all
countries participating in the Schuman Plan, and con-
cerning which far-reaching agreement was achieved in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Paris between German and French representatives. Those
who believed it necessary to oppose this agreement on
the basis of occupation law have done the Schuman Plan
an ill service.

The Schuman Plan cannot and will not be more than
a first step. Because this is the case, it can be judged
only with a view to the main trend of future develop-
ments, Naturally, European economic unity has not been
established by an agreement among six states or nations
on a common economy in an important field. But after
so much fruitless talk which led innumerable persons to
despair of European unity ever becoming a reality, the
Schuman Plan represents a practical beginning which is
psychologically so very important.

There can be no doubt that the Schuman Plan in its pres-
ent form has defects. All participants recognized without
reservation that some important provisions could still be
improved substantially at the last hour due to the partici-
pation of the German trade union representatives. The
German trade unions entered into the question of the
Schuman Plan with a sense of responsibility arising from
their duty to safeguard peace in Europe and to raise the
living standard of the working man in Germany to that
level which has already been achieved often outside of
Europe. For that is the serious economic background of
the Schuman Plan: Even in 1900, an American worker
produced in one hour as much as his European colleague.
Productivity in Europe and America were then equal.
Today, however, productivity in America is three to four
times higher than in Europe. The consequences of two
ruinous wars-have thrown Europe back. More productiv-
ity, however, means a higher standard of living. Both
can no longer be achieved under national economies in
Europe. There can no longer be any doubt on this point
after the experiences of the last decades.

HE GERMAN WORKERS have correctly posed the

anxious question as to whether for them the Schu-
man Plan might have, as an immediate consequence, un-
employment and misery. Undoubtedly, risks are con-
nected with this great economic plan. To reduce them to
a minimum has been the constant effort of the German ©
trade unions, as is expressed in the resolution of the
executive council. The equally serious and important
question, however, arises as to what is to happen if the
effort for European economic cooperation fails. In- that
event, even the power of the German trade unions would
be insufficient to protect employed persons in Germany
from the deepest suffering.

Ratification of the Schuman Plan is the responsibility
of the parliaments of the participating countries. They
will have to determine whether the sacrifices which the
Schuman Plan represents for all participants stand in
proper relation to the prospects which it will open up in
accordance with the basic idea of its creators.

Europe has reached a historic point in its development.
If chaos and misery are to be prevented, it is necessary
that, in all countries, prejudices be given up, that easy
egotistical successes presented by the political power
position be renounced, that the reconstruction of a new
Europe is begun resolutely, that its bloody and tragic
past is forgotten, and that all thoughts and actions are
directed to the future. If it is not pervaded by this spirit,
then the Schuman Plan will also be nothing more than
another vain effort to prevent the evil which threatens
us all. +END

JUNE 1951.

--- Page 64 ---
&

TITLE TCCO LORE CLAD OR ORE

i

TUMEUR LLCO OU (Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, May 9)

German Cartoons

This section is compiled from translations prepared by the

Press and Publications Branch, Information Services Divi-

sion, HICOG, of cartoons in the German press. Publica-

tion of these German cartoons is intended to inform the

American readers of what the Germans are thinking, with-

out interpretation. The inclusion of any viewpoint does
not give concurrence to that view or opinion.

THUD EEE EEE Ee

41 oo “The old hand-me-down
(Occupation Statute)
really doesn’t fit any more!”

TITTLE EEUU CEEOL ULL LEDC Cee

(Kasseler Zeitung, Kassel, April 23)

(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, April 24)

Paris agenda conference.
The old records play on.

Adenauer vs. Schumacher.
Two men ina boat.

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, April 25) (Rheinische Zeitung, Cologne, May 8)

G

Danger from left and right.

Adenauer to Minister Lehr: “Better shoot
Angel of Peace: ‘Please take it easy, boys!" . him before the antlers grow too big.”

JUNE 1951 61 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
(Westdeutsches Tageblatt, Dortmund, May 8) (Main-Post, Wuerzburg, April 27) (Rhein-Zeitung, Coblenz, May 2)

Acceptance into the Council
of Europe.
“Attaboy, Connie — another me oe

step ahead!” .
a “We're married now.

Why don't you scram?”

Rhineland-Palatinate sweeps out

(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, May 7)
the splinter parties.

(Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen,
May 1) (Kasseler Zeitung, Kassel, April 27)

Reents
RADIKALE

Radicals of both left
and right.
.From the outside (foreign countries),
one can see only the shadows.

(Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, April 26) Arms vs. free dentures
and spectacles. At the German newsreel.
“To be or not to be, “Will he have to be denazified,
that is the question!" too, Daddy?"

“Plebiscite against Remilitarization”

rey East Zone Comment West Zone Comment
In three years: 200 new millionaires
(Westdeutsche Rundschau,

and 10,000,000 under-privileged.
Pp g' (Taegliche Rundschau, East Berlin, May 11) unpertan May 8)
&

(Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, April 28)

Hitler's victims rise
from their graves. Truman, Eisenhower and Adenauer.” “As it really is...!
Socialist Reichs Party: ‘Nazism had
its good side!" SUUDSEOSEDEUSOBEDED: eueeel

“The proper weapon against the warmongers

{Sanceannengeneacounen

INFORMATION BULLETIN 62 JUNE 1951

--- Page 66 ---
Calendar of Coming Events

CURRENT (with closing dates)

July 1 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW): 1951 festi-
val youth plays.

July 1 — Frankfurt (Hes): International So-
ciety for Modern Music, international
festival.

July 29— Recklinghausen (NRW): Ruhr
festival plays. .

July 31 — Bochum (NRW): Mining Museum,
art and mining exposition.

End of July — Cologne (NRW): Exposition
of portraits and modern paintings,

End of July—Bremen: Art exposition,
Eugene Delacroix.

End of July — Darmstadt (Hes): Exposition
of modern French graphic art.

End of July — Feuchtwangen (Bav): Openair
plays in Romanesque Cloister.

Aug. 12 — Cologne (NRW): Health exposi-
tion.

Aug. 18 — Marburg (Hes): Marburg festival
plays; openair plays on Schlossberg.

End of August — Kassel (Hes): Wilhelms-
hoehe festival plays, Kassel State Thea-
ter.

End of August — Munich (Bav): Art ex-
position (Meistermann, Fritz Winter, Ma-
tisse and M. Beckmann).

End of August — Cologne (NRW): Art ex-
position: Stephan Lochner; French graph-
ics art from Manet to Picasso,

End of August —Kempten (Bav): Openair
plays at Burghalde.

End of August — Hanover (LS): Art ex-
position, German expressionism.

Sept. 5 — Isle of Mainau/Lake Constance
(SB): Serenade in palace court.

Sept. 10 — Augsburg (Bav): Openair opera
and operette performances at Red Gate.

Sept. 24— Mainz (RP): “In the Realm of
Script," exposition of 2,000 years of de-
velopment.

Sept. 30 — Billerbeck (NRW): Openair play.

Sept. 30— Schliersee (Bav): Native play
performances.

Sept. 30 — Berlin: 1951 German art exposi-
tion.

End of September — Prien (Bav): Art ex-
position on Herren and Frauen Islands.
End of September — Borkum (North Sea Is-

land): Concerts, every Monday.

End of September — Burg/Wupper (NRW):
Openair festival plays at castle.

End of September — Reutlingen (WB): Nat-
ural Theater, openair plays.

Oct. 15 — Fuerth (Bav): ‘Foliage and Blos-
soms,"’ gardening show.

Oct. 31 — Hanover (LS): 1951 German
Federal Garden Show; exhibition of an-
cient Lower Saxony sacred art and to-
day's German sculptors.

Oct. 31 — Freiburg (SB): Upper Rhine art
exposition.

JUNE

June 16-July 29 — Recklinghausen (NRW):
Exposition of European artists of 1900.

June 18-30 — Wuppertal (NRW): West Ger-
man Theater Association and Theater
Society, North Rhine-Westphalian meet-
ing; 30th anniversary of people's theater.

June 20-30 — Goettingen (LS): 1951 Handel
festival.

June 20-30 — Bad Neuenahr (RP): German
Shakespearean Society; North-Rhine-
Westphalian Shakespearean week.

JUNE 1951

June 25 to July 31,1951

June 20-July 1 — Dinslaken (NRW): Native
exposition week; openair plays.

June 22-July 1 — Frankfurt (Hes): Interna-
tional Society for Modern Music; 25th
international music festival.

June 23-25 — Kueps/Upper Franconia (Bav):
800th anniversary.

June 23-25 — Fuerth/Odenwald (WB): St.
John's fair; pageants; Handel concert.
June 23-25 —Leichlingen (NRW): Straw-

berry festival.

June 23-30 — Wuerzburg
festival.

June 23-July 1 — Mainz (RP): Gutenberg
Week, exposition.

June 23-July 1—Kitzingen (Bav): 1,200th
anniversary.

June 23-July 1— Wesermuende (LS): Sail-
ing regattas.

June 23-July 10 — Darmstadt (Hes): Inter-
national modern music holiday courses.
June 23-Aug. 18— Marburg (Hes): 1951

festival plays.

June 24-25— Wuppertal (NRW): Centen-
nial of Shoemaker’s Guild.

June 24-28 — Frankfurt (Hes): Association
of Sewing Machine Trades, meeting and
exposition.

June 24-28—Aschaffenburg (Bav): St. John’s
Fair.

June 24-28— Bayreuth (Bav): Franconian
festival week.

June 24-30 — Berlin: Industrial exposition
of fire-brigade equipment.

June 24-30— Wilhelmshaven (LS): Acad-
emy for Medical Education, convention.

June 24-July 1 — Lauda/Baden (WB): 600th
anniversary.

June 24-July 1 — Hamburg: Derby Week.

June 30-July 2— Harxheim (RP): Vintners’
festival.

June 30-July 2— Hoexter (NRW): Outdoor
folk festival.

June 30-July 8— Darmstadt (Hes): ‘‘Old
Darmstadt" exposition.

June 24-Aug. 4— Aachen (NRW): Exposi-
tion of sacred art.

June 24-Sept. 16 — Hessen (NRW): Openair
Westphalian native plays.

June 25-26 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert; Elly Ney, piano; G. Wand, con-
ductor.

June 26—Bad Salzuflen (Hes):
Peter Anders, tenor.

June 27 — Biberach/Riss (WB): Upper Swa-
bian tennis tournament.

June 27-28 — Brunswick (LS):
Committee, convention.

June 28—Bad Kissingen (Bav): Concert;
Peter Anders, tenor.

June 28 — Heidelberg (WB): Serenades in
Palace court.

(Bav): Mozart

Concert;

Liturgical

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
‘WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

63

June 28-30—Goslar (LS): Athletic youth
camp, district of Brunswick.

June 28-July 1— Vlotho (NRW): 110th
anniversary of singers’ union,

June 28-July 3-—- Frankfurt (Hes): Inter-
national Socialists’ congress.

June 28-July 1— Bad Wimpfen (WB): Val-
ley mart, outdoor folk festival.

June 28-July 2— Muenster (NRW): Send
auf dem Domplatz, outdoor folk festival.

June 29— Huefingen/Black Forest (WB):
Church festival; costume pageant.

June 29 — St. Peter (SB): St. Peter and Paul
Mart; costume pageant.

June’ 29-July 1 — Zell/Moselle (RP): St.
Peter and Paul outdoor folk festival,

June 29-July 1— Beratzhausen (RP): Out-
door folk festival.

June 29-July 1— Wuppertal (NRW): Horse
show with tests; riding, jumping an driv-
ing tournament.

June 29-July 2— Augsburg (Bav): German
goldsmiths’ 1951 convention; exposition
until end of July.

June 29-July 4— Pirmasens (RP): ‘Shoe
and Leather,’ industrial exhibition.

June 29-July 10 — Kaiserslautern (RP): 'Pa-
latinate,-Land and Labour,”’ annual show.

June 29-July 12— Aachen (NRW): ‘The
Joiner in the Border Country,"' exposition.

June 30— Goettingen (LS): Numismatolo-
gist’s meeting.

June 30— Heidelberg (WB): Sacred music
by Danish students. u
June 30 — Essen (NRW): Lower Rhine light

athletic and boxing championships.

June 30-July 1— Cologne (NRW): Federal
meeting of Association of German Sub-
sidiary Schools.

June 30-July 1 — Krefeld (NRW): North
Rhine men's tailors’ meeting and expo- |
sition.

June 30-July 1 — Luebeck (SH): Schleswig-
Holstein Football Association, meeting.

June 30-July 2— Melsungen (Hes): County
animal show.

June 30-July 1 — Herrsching (Bav): County
singing festival; Regensburg Domspaizen
(Boys’ choir).

June 30-July 1— Edenkoben (RP): 10th an-
niversary, Athletic Union.

June 30-July 1— Frankfurt (Hes): Rowing
regatta.

June 30-July 1— Marburg (Hes): German
kayak, slalom and canoe championships.

June 30-July 1— Flensburg (SH): Sailing
regattas on Foerde.

June 30-July 1— Coburg (Bav): Riding and
driving tournament.

June 30-July 1—Trier (RP): German-French
riding tournament.

June 30-July 1— Gladbach (NRW): Roller-
skatingand roller-skating hockey matches.

June 30-July 1 — Cologne (NRW): National
handball tournament.

June 30-July 1— Reit im Winkl (Bav):
Native costume festival with show of
Bavaria and Tirolian costumes.

June 30-July 1 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Meeting
of Karlsbad natives; Kurgarten party.
June 30-July 1—Klotten/Moselle (RP):

Wine blossom festival; wine mart.

June 30-July 2— Cologne (NRW): North-
west German Association for Medical
Assistance, congress.

June 30-July 2— Lahr/Black Forest (WB):
Musical Union, 80th anniversary.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
June 30-July 2 — Gelnhausen (Hes): County
athletic festival.

June 30-July 2 — Darmstadt (Hes): Outdoor
folk festival.

June 30-July 3 — Solingen (NRW): Outdoor
folk festival.

June 30-July 4— Frankfurt (Hes): Federal
trade show; water, ship and port con-
struction.

June 30-July 7 — Essen-Steele (NRW): Mil-
lennial of Steele.

June 30-July 8 — Bad Soden/Taunus (Hes):
250th anniversary of medicinal fountain.

June 30-July 8 — Tailfingen (WB): ‘““Manu-
facturing Swabia,’ special crafts show
“From Thread to Final Product.’'

June 30-July 9—Bergneustadt (NRW):
650th anniversary; industrial and trade
show.

June 30-July 9 — Kaiserslautern (RP): 675th
anniversary.

June 30-July 10— Borkum (North Sea Is-
land): Federal ping-pong tournament.
June 30-July 15— Augsburg (Bav): Aquar-

ium and terrarium exhibition.

June 30-Aug. 15 — Wunsiedel (Bav): Luisen-
burg festival plays.

End of June—Reutlingen (WB): Association
of Wuerttemberg-Baden Barrel-Makers,
meeting.

JULY

July 1—Stuttgart (WB): Concert, RIAS
Symphony Orchestra; Ferenc Fricsay, con-
ductor.

July 1— Bruehl, near Bonn (NRW): Cham-
ber concert in Augustenburg Palace.

July 1 — Andernach/Rhine (RP): Baker's
boys’ festival.

July 1 — Berlin-Ruhleben: German Harness
Derby.

July 1—Berlin: International automobile
racing on Avus (Grand Prize of Berlin).

July 1-2— Bonn (NRW): First university
summer course.

July 1-8 — Neustadt/Weinstrasse (RP): Folk
festival.

July 1-8—Hildesheim (LS): Rose festival
week.

July 1-15—Munich (Bav): Festival operetta
performances in Gaertner Theater.

July 1-31— Munich (Bav): Festival opera
performances, Bavarian State Theater.

July 1-Sept, 16 — Coblenz (RP): ‘1,001
Nights,” openair operetta performances
on Rhine.

July 2-4— Darmstadt (Hes): International
Twelve Tone Congress, during interna-
tional holiday course of modern music,

July 2-8—Biberach/Riss (WB): Biberach
outdoor folk, youth and native festivals.

July 3-Aug. 12 — Hanover (LS): “Con-
structa," international building exhibition.

July 4-5 — Heidelberg (WB): Openair play
in palace court.

July 5-Aug. 26 — Munich (Bav): Society for
Original Etchings, jubilee exhibition.

July 6-7 — Hanover (LS): German Academy
for City Construction and State Planning,
convention.

July 6-8 — Bad Godesberg (NRW): Riding,
jumping and driving tournament.

July 7-8 — Heidelberg (WB): Openair plays
in palace court.

July 7-8— St. Goarshausen (RP): Lorelei
festival.

July 7-8 — Berlin and Essen (NRW): Row-
ing regattas.

July 7-9 — Mainz (RP): Association of Shoe-
makers; meeting and trade exposition.
July 7-9— Frankfurt (Hes): Millennial of
Fishers’ Guild, outdoor folk festival on

the Main.

July 7-9 — Geisenheim (RP): Linden Festival.

July 7-10 — Darmstadt (Hes): Music of the
young generation.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

July 7-15 — Frankfurt (Hes): Southwest
German hunting exposition.

July 7-16 — Landstuhl/Palatinate (RP): Mil-
Jennial.

July 7-21— Hamburg: International Mis-
sions’ meeting (first ecumenical meeting).

July 7-22 — Wuerzburg (Bav): Outdoor folk
festival.

July 7-22— Aachen (NRW): Grand holy pil-
grimage.

July 8— Constance/Lake Constance (SB):
International rowing regatta.

July 8 — Oberwesel (RP): Millennial of
Schoenburg.

July 9-10— Hanover (LS): German Asso-
ciation for Housing, meeting.

July 10 — Heidelberg (WB): Openair play
in palace court.

July 10-14 — Lindau/Lake Constance (SB):
European meeting of Nobel Prize winners.

July 11-12— Hanover (LS): Union of Ger-
man Architects, convention,

July 11-15— Berlin: German Evangelical
Church 1951 meeting.

July 12 — Hanover (LS): Concrete makers’
meeting.

July 12— Heidelberg (WB): Openair play
in palace court.

July 12-25 — Hanover (LS): Holiday course
for foreign veterinary surgeons and
students of Veterinary College.

July 13-17 — Krefeld (NRW): German Home-
stead Agency, convention.

July 13-17 — Herbede/Ruhr (NRW): 1,100th
anniversary.

July 13-18 —Dinkelsbiihl (Bav):
play and pageant.

July 13-Oct. 7 — Munich (Bav): 1951 art ex-
hibition at Haus der Kunst.

July 14-15 — Heidelberg (WB):
play in palace court.

July 14-15— Rothenburg ob der Tauber
(Bav): Hans Sachs plays; also annual
“Master Draught’’ wine festival.

July 14-15— Munich (Bav): International
motorcycle-racing on sand track.

July 14-15 — Hamburg: Rowing regatta.

July 14-15 — Krefeld (NRW): West German
light athletic championships.

July 14-15 — Berlin: Light Athletic champi-
onships.

July 14-16 — St. Goar (RP): Folk festival at
Rheinfels castle.

July 14-18—M.Gladbach (NRW): Riding,
jumping and driving tournament.

July 14-22— Oberndorf/Neckar (WB): 700th
anniversary.

July 14-Aug. 12— Essen (NWR): Sporting
exhibition.

July 15— Schotten (Hes): Motorcycle rac-
ing.

July 15-17 — Ravensburg (WB): Folk festi-
val and pageant.

July 15-22 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Outdoor
folk festival.

July 15-22 — Schleswig (SH): Sailing week.

July 16 — Kiel (SH): Dog show; greyhound
racing.

July 17 — Bruehl, near Bonn (NRW): Cham-
ber concert in Augustenburg Palace.

July 17 — Heidelberg (WB): Openair play
in palace court.

July 18-27—Bad Boll (WB): First Euro-
pean Ecumenical laymen's meeting.

July 19— Heidelberg (WB): Openair play
in palace court.

July 19-21— Baden-Baden (SB): Associa-
tion of Flower Importers and Wholesalers,
convention.

July 19-23— Hanover (LS): Water sports
on Masch Lake.

July 20-21 — Munich (Bav): Bavarian sur-
geons' meeting. -

July 20-Aug..11— Kiel (SH): International
holiday courses at university.

Festival

Openair

64

July 21— Cologne (NRW): West German
Pathologists, convention.

July 21-22 — Heidelberg
plays in palace court.

July 21-22 — Oberwesel (RP): German light
athletic youth championships.

July 21-22—-Mainz (RP): International
rowing regatta.

July 21-23 —Schwaebisch-Gmuend (WB):
600th anniversary, Parler Cathedral.

July 21-29 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Association
of German Amateur Photographers, expo-
sition,

July 21-Aug. 8— Hanover (LS): Interna-
tional bicycle race for professionals,
start and winning post at Hanover,

July 22 — Heidelberg (WB): Openair per-
formance in palace court.

July 22— Urach (WB): Historical shepherds’
Tun; costume show,

July 22 — Recklinghausen (NRW): German
motorcycle-and-sidecar championships,

(WB): Openair:

July 22—Stuttgart (WB): International
athletic festival,
July 22-25— Heidelberg (WB): Openair

plays in palace court.

July 22-29— Erbach (Hes): Eulbach Mart,
outdoor folk festival.

July 22-Aug. 26 — Mittenwald (Bav): Expo-
sition of ancient and modern string in-
struments.

July 24-Aug. 3— Hanover (LS): Lutheran
World Federation, convention.

July 25-Aug. 7— Aachen (NRW): Inter-
national holiday course at Technical Col-
lege.

July 26— Aachen
missions’ congress. -

July 26-29— Munich (Bav): German lock-
smiths, meeting,

July 28-29 — Berlin: German bicycle cham-
pionships, on track.

July 28-29— Duesseldorf (NRW): German
light athletic championships,

(NRW): International

July 28-31— Heidelberg (WB): Openair
plays in place court.
July 28-31— Wesel (NRW): Traditional

citizens’ outdoor festival.

July 28-Aug. 3— Mittenwald (Bav): Asso-
ciation of International and German Vio-
lin Makers, meeting.

July 28-Aug. 4—Constance/Lake Constance
(SB): International Esperanto week.

July 28-Aug. 5 — Coburg (Bav): Traditional
shooting and outdoor folk festival,

July 28-Aug. 18 — Erlangen (Bav): Erlangen
University's international students’ tour
of North Bavaria.

July 29 — Adenaw/Eifel (RP): Auto racing;
grand prize for world championship.
July 29 — Frankfurt (Hes): German bicycle

championships.

July 29-Aug. 4— Constance (SB): Inter-
national Lake Constance sailing-week.
July 29-Aug. 4—Dueren (NRW): 450th
anniversary of assignment of St. Ann's

relics from Mainz to Dueren.

July 29-Aug. 6— Altoetting (Bav): 1,200th
anniversary of pilgrimage.

July 29-Aug. 11 — Goslar (LS): Internation-
al meeting of Luther Academy.

July 29-Aug, 12 — Bonn (NRW): Inter-
national holiday courses at university.
July 30-31— Hamburg: German 1951 sen-

iors’ boxing championships.

July 30-Aug. 1 — Aachen (NRW): Technical
College, European rail vehicle meeting.
July 30-Aug, 3— Hanover (LS): Union of
German Engineers (VDI), convention.
July 30-Aug. 3— Marburg (Hes): German

Society for Psychology, congress,

July 30-Aug. 19— Munich (Bav): Interna-
tional holiday courses at Munich College.

July 31— Heidelberg (WB): Openair play
in palace court. +END

JUNE 1951

--- Page 68 ---
Washington Report

Co-Determination

In a article in its April 30 issue, the New Republic
pointed out that the German labor movement would soon
begin testing an interesting new variant of socialism,
“co-determination” — an ingenious middle-ground be-
tween free enterprise and nationalization.

Essentially, the article continued, adoption of “co-
determination” means that Germany is developing a
middle position in Europe, between British socialism and
the free enterprise of France. This is definitely in line
with American objectives, although the National Asso-
ciation of Manufacturers had warned Germans that such
a policy would “discourage American investment."

But the Germans are betting on encouraging German
democracy,

Preparation for Tomorrow

A pamphlet, “Preparation for Tomorrow: A German
Boy's Year in America,” issued recently by the US De-
partment of State, tells the story of a 17-year-old German
youth's year in America under the Department's exchange
program for German boys and girls of secondary school
age. This illustrated pamphlet describes Ernst Taucher's
family background, how the opportunity to go to the
United States came to him, his journey, his introduction
to American life in an Indiana farming community, his
experiences as a member of a hospitable midwestern
family, as a student in the high school, and as sharer
in the everyday life of a small town. Finally, it describes
the conflicting emotions with which Ernst uproots himself
from his new life and returns to Germany.

Ernst's experiences, special and extraordinary as they
seemed to him, are common to the 576 German youngsters
who have had or are now having a chance to learn what
democracy is by living with it for a year under American
conditions.*

The exchange program for Germany's teen-age boys
and girls, as conducted by the State Department's Office
of Educational Exchange with the cooperation of various
religious and civic organizations, is designed to give some
of Germany's most promising young people practical
training in democratic procedures and living. Ernst speaks
of his American experience as “the most wonderful year
of my life." The Department and the increasing number
of Americans who have come to know the young visitors
from Germany take the position that the teen-ager ex-
change program is a sensible and typically American
way of helping Germany to develop sound leadership.

This publication is on sale by the Superintendent of
Documents, US Government Printing Office, Washington

_ * For similar shorter accounts, see recent issues of the Informa-
tion Bulletin, especially “America is Different’’ (Sept. 1950), “‘The
Exchangees Say‘* (Oct. 1950), ‘Young Farmers Return’* (May 1951).

JUNE 1951

25, D.C. “Preparation for Tomorrow: A German Boy's
Year in America” sells for 25 cents. — from Department
of State Bulletin.

Revival of Nazism

The Philadelphia Inquirer, in an editorial May 8, com-
mented that “the problem of reviving Nazism has become
a pressing one that can no longer be dismissed as in-
substantial” in commenting on the recent election results
in Austria and Lower Saxony. The editorial said in part:

“A bright feature of the two elections was the con-
tinued poor showing of the Communists who polled only
five percent of the vote in Austria and less than two
percent in Lower Saxony.

“But there is little comfort to be gained from a decline
of the extreme left if it is accompanied by corresponding
upsurges in the extreme right. Many Austrian and Ger-
man voters no doubt expressed their dissatisfaction with
present regimes by going farther right. But the hard core
of Nazism remains in both countries and any signs of
its expansion are disquieting and bear careful watching.”

Radio Free Europe Inaugurated

The inauguration May 1 of the new station of Radio
Free Europe near Munich, beaming its powerful voice
directly toward the Czechoslovak people, brought editori-
al praise from American newspapers which pointed out
that this station was made possible by the voluntary con-
tributions of the American people.

Saying “The Communist rulers of Czechoslovakia, who
have troubles enough already, aren't going to like the
new radio program that 16,000,000 Americans are going
to give the Czech people as a present,’ the Denver Post
concluded:

“Denver and Colorado people contributed generously
to this enterprise. They may now take satisfaction from
the knowledge that their dimes and dollars are working
for freedom, by drowning Communism’s big lies with

the clear voice of truth.” (Continued on next page)

Officers and enlisted personnel of the Women's Army
Corps are shown on arrival at Bremerhaven, ready to de-
bark for assignment to posts in the US Zone, (US Amy photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
The Dallas (Texas) Morning News said in part: “The
Czechs have been in turn betrayed alike to Hitler and
Stalin. But there is no question that the torch of freedom
still burns. It must be kept alive to preserve the young
generation against the intellectual darkness of Soviet
propaganda, The Voice of Free Europe, financed by
America-wide contributions to the Crusade of Freedom,
will serve the purpose, bringing enlightenment and hope
to the nation whose heart has never faltered.”

Optical Illusion

The Washington Star, in an editorial April 25, said:

Nothing seems to be going smoothly in countries on
this side of the Iron Curtain. Our newspapers are full of
stories about how we are all pretty much up in the air,
or bogged down, or at sixes and sevens, or plagued with
violent controversy, or in general bewitched and bewil-
dered by stresses and strains of the severest kind.

By way of contrast, we hear very little about trouble
on the other side of the Iron Curtain. Relatively speaking
— since our headlines are concentrated on the headaches
of the United States and the rest of the free world — the
Soviet Union and its satellites seem to be blessed with
order and serenity. The press and radio of the Cominform

ae ail

Tempelhof's Municipal Hospital 1s visited by US Com-
mander Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson on a tour of Berlin
borough hospitals. Dr. Gerhard Bierling of hospital staff
shows General Mathewson technique of preserving or-
ganisms for research. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

66

countries are not full of stories about how those coun-—

tries are all pretty much up in the air, or bogged down, —

or at sixes and sevens, etc., etc. So one gets the impres-

sion that everything is going rather smoothly over there,”

But one ought to be wary of impressions. Appearances ~
are often deceiving. What looks like order and serenity
in the Soviet world may really be an optical illusion. As 7
a matter of fact, we can be 100 percent certain that it is ~
an optical illusion. In this connection, leaving aside such ©
factors as the silencing terror of the police state, a point ~
to be remembered is that the prime function of the ©

Cominform press and radio is to suppress the truth and

distort reality into the exact opposite of itself. Hence, ©
since that press and radio have little to say about trouble ~

behind the Iron Curtain, we have good reason to believe
that there is plenty of it there.

Actually, of course, even though our own free press
and radio are not allowed to look at what is happening
in the Soviet world, and even though they may give the
impression that only our own world has headaches,
enough is leaking out from behind the Iron Curtain to
leave no room for doubt that Stalin and his stooges are
having anything but smooth sailing. The fact can be
virtually documented, for example, that Red China is
feeling a lot of internal strain as a result of its criminal
aggression in Korea. Further, the evidence is plentiful
that the East European satellites are experiencing more
than a few troubles in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion and that the masses of their population are reacting
surlily to steadily declining living standards.

As for the Soviet Union itself, there are numerous
indications that it has many tribulations of its own, includ-
ing worry about the loyalty of the oppressed satellite
peoples in the event of war. Today's troubles are not

confined exclusively to the free world. If the men of the

Kremlin lifted the Iron Curtain, the chances are that we
would see an immense amount of confusion, mess and
turmoil. The facade of order is one thing; the reality
another. Let us not be fooled by an optical illusion.

Return to the Elbe

The New York Times, in an editorial April 26, said:

Six years ago (April 25, .1945) two events occurred
which most of us believed at the time would change
the history of the world. On the day of the opening of
the San Francisco conference that produced the Charter
of the United Nations, the vanguards of the American
and Soviet armies met on the banks of the Elbe River...
The soldiers who made the first contact swore to do
everything in their power to prevent such things from

happening again. The meeting by the broken bridge on ~

the battlefield and the great assembly of the nations
on the other side of the globe were animated by the
same determination to make an end of war forever.
One of the American GI's in the little group at the
Elbe, Joseph Polowsky, now a taxi driver in Chicago,
has been working for six years to induce the United
Nations to celebrate the anniversary by reaffirming the
spirit of the oath the soldiers took that day. They have

JUNE 1951

3

%

oa

--- Page 70 ---
Judge Claudio Delitala, HICOG magistrate at Starnberg,
member and past commander of American Legion Post
No. 15 in St. Louis, Mo., and Hugh Hinchcliffe, legal
adviser for the International Refugee Organization in US
Zone, teamed recently to present toys to displaced-
person children at IRO's Children’s Village at Bad Aib-
ling, Bavaria, Total of 12,000 pounds of toys was given
IRO from American Legion's ‘Tide of Toys.” (IRO photo)

been tragic years, in which the dream of San Francisco
has faded into a dimming hope that the great power
that threatens war again will realize at some point that
its own security depends on cooperation for peace. But
Joe Polowsky has never given up the dream. From year
to year he keeps prodding congressmen, UN delegates,
editors, all who will listen to his story, to remember
the purpose for which the war was fought and the inter-
national organization established.

So far he has not been able to appeal to the right
people. But this year an attempt has been made to carry
the message of the Elbe to the Russians. At the in-
vitation of the Friends of Fighters for Russian Freedom,
the American Legion and other veterans’ organizations
joined in broadcasting a reminder of the day to their
former comrades-in-arms of the Soviet Army. Through
the Voice of America they reaffirmed the principles that
inspired Americans to fight for the liberation of Europe
and declared their solidarity with the people in Russia
who yearn for freedom. That the number of these rebels
is not inconsiderable, and that they hear the words ad-
dressed to them over the air waves, is attested by
thousands of refugees who risk their lives to escape
from Soviet tyranny.

It is gratifying to know that at last, through the Free
Europe committee, Senator McMahon's resolution in the
Senate, and other means, a serious effort is being made
to encourage resistance behind the Iron Curtain and
aid the fugitives who are able to break through. A dis-
patch from Frankfurt yesterday reported a change in
American official policy toward the escapees. High Com-
missioner McCloy announced that political refugees will
not be sent back, and that a new organization will be
set up to help them find a place for themselves in the
free world.

The practical recognition that the Elbe is not a
dividing line, in the sense that we have friends and

JUNE 1951

potential allies in East Europe as well as in the West,
is long overdue. The fury of the Soviet campaign is not
only proof that it is not easy to work up hate of the
United States among the Russian people; it is a clear
challenge to a full and more effective use of the weapons
of political warfare.

Claims under Berlin General Claims Law

The Department of State wishes to direct the attention
of United States residents to the recent promulgation by
the Berlin City Assembly of legislation known as the
Berlin General Claims Law. The coming into force of
this legislation provides a means whereby certain clas-
ses of persons, who suffered monetary and other los-
ses in Berlin during the Nazi regime, may receive in-
demnification for losses falling outside the scope of
restitution legislation previously enacted in Berlin. The
registry agency is the Entschaedigungsamt, Fehrbelliner
Platz 1, Wilmersdorf (borough), Berlin, Germany. Claims
based on this legislation must be filed with that reg-
istry agency by Jan, 10, 1952.

The Berlin General Claims Law provides that persons
who during the period from Jan. 30, 1933, to May 8,
1945, were persecuted because of political conviction
or for racial, religious or ideological grounds and thereby
suffered damage to life and limb, health, liberty, pos-
sessions, property or economic advancement shall be
entitled to restitution according to its provisions.

For the city of Berlin to be liable as restitutor,
claimants must have had their legitimate domicile or
usual residence in Berlin on Jan. 1, 1947, or have been
assigned to Berlin as a refugee, or, having had such
domicile or residence, have died, emigrated, have been
deported or have been expelled prior to that date.

Persons desiring further information concerning the
Berlin General Claims Law should address their inquiries,
including requests for copies of the law, to the Ent-
schaedigungsamt in Berlin. — from Department of State
Bulletin, May 7. +END

A recent informal visit to Berlin brought Assistant US High
Commissioner for Operations Chauncey Parker (third from
left) to Berlin's US Information Center. With Mr. Parker in
Children’s Reading Room are (I. to r.) US Commander of
Berlin Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson, Mrs. Parker and
Center director Chris Legge. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

--- Page 71 ---
In and Around Germany

Customs Unit Patrols Zonal Border

The duties of EUCOM's 7751 MP Customs Unit have
been extended to the US-Soviet interzonal border and
Western Berlin. Previously the organization serviced
only the American zone’s international borders.

The new step was taken to achieve a uniformity of
customs control among the western zones of Germany. It
was emphasized that Customs Unit personnel have the
mission of assisting the West German Government's and
West Berlin's customs control. Their main function is to
observe and report border customs activities. Since
April 15, 1949, the Customs Unit has been posted along
the US Zone's international boundaries, at the five inter-
national airfields in the US Zone, and the ports of Bremen
and Bremerhaven. Approximately 50 officers and men of
the Customs Unit now are on duty along the 228 mile
US Zone-Soviet Zone border and at the checkpoints in the
US Sector of Berlin.

US High Commissioner John J. McCloy requested
General Thomas T. Handy, EUCOM commander-in-chief,
who concurred, that Customs Unit personnel be placed
on the US Zone-Soviet Zone border at the earliest possible
date. The action in Berlin followed soon after, at the re-
quest of US Commander in Berlin Maj. Gen, Lemuel
Mathewson.

The duties of the Customs Unit on the interzonal and
sector boundaries will be the same as those on the inter-
national border, namely, to give assistance to the German
government customs control, to guard against shipments
of illegal goods, and to report on matters relative to
deficiencies of customs enforcement and to documentation
and identity of shipments.

New US resident officers are welcomed to duty in Hesse
by State Commissioner James R. Newman upon arrival
from Washington, where they underwent special training.
L.-r., James D. McCalmont, Chicago, Ill.; Kennedy B.
Schmertz, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Dr. Newman; Alan H. Dodds,
Washington, D. C.; Robert B. Warner, Homer, Mich.;
David Rosendale, OLCH Field Operations Division chief,

and Arvin M. Kramish, Denver, Colo. (PRB OLCH photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

i! a
The four winners of the Freedoms Foundation's essay
contest on the “Free Way of Life’ board plane at Rhine-
Main Airport near Frankfurt for their prize — a 60 day
tour of the United States. Thousands of youth in West
Germany along with others from Berlin and East Germany
(the latter receiving special prizes) participated in the
contest. L.-r., Christa Wilmanns, 16, of Wehrda, Hesse;
Brigitte Spiegelhauer, 16, Coburg, Bavaria; Juergen Moeh-
ler, 18, Herborn, Hesse; and Helmut Weber, 17, Roth,
Bavaria. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Former Hesse President Goes to US

Christian Stock, former minister-president of Hesse,
has left for the United States where he will study political
and legislative work for a period of three months under
the HICOG Exchanges program.

The former executive chief of Hesse is a Social Demo-
cratic Party deputy in the Hessian legislature. He was
elected to the post of minister-president late in 1946 and
remained in the position until January 1951.

Aluminum Plant to Be Retained

The aluminum producing equipment of the Vereinigte
Aluminium Werke A. G. in Toeging, Bavaria, scheduled
for delivery to the United States as reparations, will be
retained in Germany following a decision of the Allied
High Commission.

Under the recently revised agreement on industrial
controls, there are no longer any restrictions on the
production and capacity of the aluminum industry in the
Federal Republic.

The Toeging plant comprises three production units,
one of which, Hall III, had been scheduled for disman-
tling under a tripartite agreement of April 1949. Actual
dismantling operations were started early in 1950 and
were completed with the exception of certain electrical
equipment. The planned removals would have resulted
in a reduction in potential output from 40,000 to 29,000
metric tons,

Hall III, which has not been in operation since the end
of the war due to the insufficient supply of electrical
power, had an original estimated inventory value of
DM 1,500,000 (more than $350,000).

ECA Warns Berlin Exporters
A serious warning that ECA aid may be withheld from

companies engaged in illicit trade with Communist areas

JUNE 1951

--- Page 72 ---
has been made by Howard P. Jones, acting director of
HICOG Berlin Element and ECA representative in Berlin.
[he warning followed increasing reports of smuggling
by West Berlin industry of basic raw materials and com-
modities which support the Communist war potential.

Mr. Jones pointed out that delivery from the West of
items that assist Communist areas to build war potential
or make available similar materials to Soviet satellites has
always been inconsistent with Western policy.

The ECA representative quoted from Section 117 (d)
of the ECA Act under which aid is granted to Berlin:

“The ECA administrator is directed to refuse delivery
to participating countries of commodities which go into
the production of any commodity for delivery to any
non-participating European country, which commodity
would be refused licenses to those countries by the
United States in the interests of national security.”

He pointed out that a recent amendment to the ECA
Act provides for withholding aid to any country which
trades with Russia or any of its satellite countries, in-
cluding Communist China and North Korea, when it is
deemed to be contrary to US security interests.

Mr. Jones added: “I have every confidence that both
the Berlin city administration and all reputable individu-
als and firms will cooperate in effecting the spirit of
these principles in carrying out trade with other areas
and in meticulously observing the laws and regulations
relating to control of foreign exchange and the movement
of property.”

Building Exhibition to Open July 3

The largest international building exhibition in Ger-
many since the war, to be held in Hanover July 3-Aug. 12,
will present a comprehensive picture of modern building
and planning, basic principles and methods of reconstruc-
tion, and building trade methods and products.

The exhibit, known as “Constructa," has been organized
by a committee representing the building trades, building
research and architectural associations, women’s organi-
zations and the German Fair and Exhibition Co.

The new ECA-supported pamphlet, “How to Eat Correctly,
Cheaply and Well” (held by instructor Ingrid Irmer) is
textbook for this cooking class of Berlin housewives at
Kreuzberg Neighborhood Center. Approximately 600,000
copies have been published and are being distributed by
the city's food and nutrition centers and social welfare
offices. It establishes a two week menu based on six
essential food groups, at cost per person per day of slightly
more than DM 1 (25 cents). (PRB BE-HICOG-photo}

Two members of the American women's panel which has
been touring Western Germany and Berlin, Mrs. Walter
Rose (left) of the American Federation of Labor (AFL) and
Mrs. Marie C. Mengersen, Congress of Industrial Organi-
zations (CIO), talk over German factory and labor con-
ditions with a refugee laborer ata spinning mill in Reut-
lingen, near Stuttgart. The two are part of an 11 member
panel, representing the leading women's organizations in
America, which came to Germany at invitation of the
Department of State. A detailed account of the panel's
six-week survey will appear in the July issue of the
Iniormation Bulletin. (Photo by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

Special displays will feature model farmhouses with
stables, barns and auxiliary buildings and farm worker's
cottages; 20 small houses suitable for additions; pre-
fabricated houses’ and a model “neighborhood” settlement
on the outskirts of a town.

Women will be especially interested in a section show-
ing new types of houses, business women's apartments,
kitchens, laundries and general household equipment.

One of nine halls and part of the open air space will
be devotéd to foreign countries and displaying achieve-
ments in solving problems connected with town and
country planning, housing and building techniques. The
American exhibit, sponsored by ‘Economic Cooperation
Administration and the Department of State, will include
a 70-seat movie theater to present films provided by the
New York Museum of Modern Art and the Housing and
Home Finance Agency; a book mobile with typical US
Information Center libraries, and a unit kitchen.

In connection with the exhibit, several congresses will
be held, including those of the German organizations for
city, national and regional planning, July 6-7; for housing
affairs, July 9-10; architects, July 11-12; concrete in-
dustry, July 12; stone and earth industry, middle of July;
contractors, July 10-12, and engineers, July 30-Aug, 3.

More “People's Police” Flee to West

Another 127 East German ‘People’s Police’’ ended their
military service under the Communists during April by
escaping to sanctuary in Werst Berlin. This is the highest
monthly total of such escapes on record and makes an
aggregate of 944 such desertions since June 1, 1950. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of May 9

The 62nd meeting the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg May 9. Present were John J.
McCloy, US High Commissioner (chair-
man); Andre Francois-Poncet, French high
commissioner, and Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick,
United Kingdom high commissioner.

After a short business session, the Coun-
cil adjourned.

The next meeting of the Council will
be held on May 17, 1951, at the Petersberg,
Bonn.

HICOM Meeting of May 17

The 63rd meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg May 17. Present were John J.
McCloy, United States High Commissioner
(chairman); Andre Francois-Poncet, French
high commissioner, and Sir Ivone Kirk-
patrick, United Kingdom high commissioner.

The Council considered pending business
and adjourned, after tentatively scheduling
its next meeting for May 24, 1951, at the
Petersberg, Bonn.

HICOM Meeting of May 31

The 64th meeting of the Council of the
Allied .High Commission was held at US
headquarters in Berlin May 31. Present
were Mr. John J. McCloy, United States
High Commissioner (chairman); Mr. Andre
Francois-Ponnet, French high commis-
sioner; and Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United
Kingdom high commissioner.

The high commissioners took the oppor-
tunity of their visit to hear firsthand from
the Berlin commandants about political
and economic developments in Berlin.

In addition, the Council:

(1) Affirmed the support of the Allied
High Commission for the 1951 Berlin festi-
val, which is to be held from Sept. 5 to
30. A varied program of dramatics, music,
other cultural activities .and sports has
been planned for the festival. Famous

* artists from Germany, France, the United
States, the United Kingdom and other
countries will participate.

(2) Paid tribute to the valuable services
rendered by the officials and staff ‘of the
Bizonal High Court at Cologne, the func-
tions of which are being terminated. Let-
ters of congratulation have been dispatched
from the Council to the president of the
court, Dr. Herbert Ruscheweyh, and to its
solicitor general, Dr. Hans Quambusch.

(3) Signed a law bringing up to date in
legislation of the Occupation Authorities
the definition of the term ‘United Na-
tions." The law takes account of the
emergence of new states which became
independent after May 8, 1945, and of ter-
ritorial entities which formerly were ad-
ministered or controlled by one of the
original United Nations listed in previous
legislation. This previous defining légis-
lation (SHAEF Law No. 3 and US Military
Government Law No. 3) is repealed by
the law signed today.

(4) Signed a law broadening the defini-
tion of “United Nations nationals" to
conform with the law mentioned in (3)

JUNE 1951

above, in regard to legislation concerning
monetary reform (conversion laws).

(5) Noted that a recent letter from the
federal chancellor on the subject of the
Saar has been transmitted to governments.

(6) Scheduled its next meeting for
June 14, 1951, at the Petersberg, Bonn.

Laws and Regulations

Law No. 53

Amending Law No, 22*

(Control of Materials, Facilities and
Equipment Relating to Atomic Energy)
The Council of the Allied High Commis-

sion enacts as follows:
Article 1

Paragraph 2 of Article 1 and Paragraph 1
of Article 2 of Law No. 22 are hereby
amended by adding after the words ‘‘in
this Law’' the words ‘‘or in any Regulation
made thereunder.”

Article 2

Paragraphs 1 d, f and m of Article 2
of Law No. 22 are hereby amended to
read as follows:

“d. artificial graphite containing 99.5 per-
cent or more of carbon, and products
fabricated from such graphite;"

“f. rare earth metals, compounds, mix-
tures and products;

“m (i) vacuum diffusion pumps having
a diameter, measured inside the barrel at
inlet jet, of five inches (127 mm) or more;

(ii) mechanical vacuum pumps capable
of vacuum of one mm. of mercury or better,
and with a theoretical displacement of
22 cu. ft./min. (565 lit./min.) or more;"'
Done at
Bonn, Petersberg, April 26, 1951.

* See Information Bulletin for April 1950,
page 67.

Regulation No. 1
Under Law No. 22
(As Amended by Law No. 53)
(Control of Materials, Facilities and
Equipment Relating to Atomic Energy)
The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion issues the following regulation:

Article 1

The activities indicated with respect to
each of the items set forth in the schedule*
thereto are hereby authorized subject to
the limitations and conditions set forth in
the said schedule.

Article 2

Where, by the terms of the said schedule,
an activity is authorized subject to the
declaration of an article, a declaration
shall be submitted in sextuplicate to the
minister president of the state in which the
article is located.

Every such declaration shall contain the
following particulars:

Name and address of persons having
custody;

* For Schedule see Issue No. 54 of the Allied
High Commission Gazette for May 9, 1951.

70

Date and place of acquisition, location,
description, quantity and intended use of
the article. .

The minister president shall forthwith
transmit to the Military Security Board
four copies of each declaration submitted
to him.

Done at
Bonn, Petersberg, April 28, 1951.

Regulation No. 6

(Formation of Iron and Steel Unit
Companies)

Under Law No. 27

(Reorganization of German Coal and Iron
and Steel Industries)

Having, by letter dated March 27, 1951,
accepted the proposals concerning the
implementation of Law No. 27 set forth
by the Federal Republic of Germany in a
letter dated March 14, 1951, the Council
of the Allied High Commission, in partial
implementation of Law No. 27 and on the
basis of said letters, issues the following
regulation:

Article 1

1. From the assets owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the enterprises
listed or described in the schedules of
Law No. 27, the Combined Steel Group:

(a) shall cause to be established 24 iron
and steel unit companies as generally de-
scribed in the appendix to this regulation*;

(b) may cause to be established ad-
ditional iron and steel unit companies;

(c) shall cause the transfer to the unit
companies established pursuant to this
regulation of additional assets as may
appear necessary or appropriate.

2. The Combined Steel Group may cause
title to any of the assets allocated to a
unit company to be transferred to a sub-
sidiary of the unit company.

Article 2

The Combined Steel Group is hereby
authorized to issue appropriate orders and
take all other action of whatever nature
necessary to carry out the provisions of
this regulation.

Article 3

In establishing unit companies the Com-
bined Steel Group may, to the extent it
deems necessary or appropriate, use one
or more existing companies or may cause
the formation of new companies and may
authorize the use or formation of subsidiary
companies.

Article 4

The Combined Steel Group may, where
it deems it appropriate, provide for the
transfer of assets to unit companies not-
withstanding the existence of any restric-
tion on the transferabilitiy of such assets.

Article 5

Except as may be otherwise provided
by the Combined Steel Group:

(1) unit companies shall assume all rights
and duties arising out of contracts or
other legal transactions which have been
entered into in connection with the opera-
tion of the transferred assets;

(2) upon the assumption of any con-
tractual duty or other liability by a unit
company, the former obligor or debtor shall
thereby be released from any obligation
with respect to any such contractual duty
or liability.

*See Allied High Commission Gazette for
May 9, 1951.

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 74 ---
Article 6
For the purposes of Paragraph 1 of Ar-
ticle 7 of the law the term “taxes and other
duties” shall include all taxes, duties, fees
or costs which would otherwise be payable
in respect of the transactions covered by
that paragraph and this regulation.

Article 7

This regulation shall become effective
on the day of its publication.

Done at
Bonn, Petersberg, May 2, 1951.

Regulation No. 7
(Trustees of Iron and Steel Unit Companies)
Under Law No. 27

(Reorganization of German Coal and Iron
and Steel Industries)

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion issues the following regulation:

Article 1

1. The designation and any dismissal of
trustees pursuant to Paragraph 4 of Ar-
ticle 4 of the Law shall be effected by a
letter from the Combined Steel Group and
shall be forthwith notified to the unit com-
panies concerned.

2. A unit company shall, at the request
of any interested person, furnish the names
and addresses of the trustees of its shares.

3. The trustees shall hold the shares
allotted to them and exercise their func-
tions in accordance with the provisions
of this regulation and of any other regu-
lation of the Allied High Commission and
of any order or instruction which may be
issued by the Combined Steel Group.

Article 2

1, The trustees shall in respect of the
shares held by them exercise all rights of
a shareholder in a German corporation,
subject to the express authorization or
direction of the Combined Steel Group.

2. All of the shares of any unit com-
pany shall be held jointly by the trustees,
who shall act jointly in the exercise of
their functions, except as may be other-
wise directed by the Combined Steel Group.

3. The trustees shall promptly submit to
the Combined Steel Group their recommen-
dations as to the action they deem appro-
priate on any matter coming to their atten-
tion in their capacity as shareholders and
may submit at any time recommendations
as to the exercise of their functions.

Article 3

1. The trustees shall make appropriate
provision for the safeguarding of the shares
which they hold.

2. The trustees shall not in any manner,
except as may be authorized or directed
by the Combined Steel Group, alienate or
encumber the shares issued to them.

3. No tax or duty shall be levied upon
the transfer to or from trustees or the
holding by trustees of the shares issued by
the unit companies.

4. Each unit company shall compensate
the trustees of its shares as directed by
the Combined Steel Group, and shall pay
all reasonable expenses incurred by the
trustees in the exercise of their functions.

Article 4

1. The trustees shall transfer the shares
held by them to such persons and at such
time as the Combined Steel Group shall
by order direct.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

2. The trusteeships shall be terminated
and trustees discharged pursuant to orders
of the Combined Steel Group.

Article 5

This regulation shall become effective on
the date of its publication.
Done at
Bonn, Petersberg, May 2, 1951.

Official Statements

Talks on Contractual Arrangements

Representatives of the High Commis-
sion met May 10 with representatives of
the Federal Government at the Petersberg,
Bonn, These conversations are the begin-
ning of a series of exploratory discus-
sions which will provide the basis for
recommendations to be made to the
governments with a view to the con-
clusion of contractual arrangements en-
visaged by the decisions of the foreign
ministers in Brussels.

Arrangements resulting from the deci-
sion of the Brussels Conference, particu-
larly as regard a German contribution to
Western defense, will create a new situa-
tion between the Allies and the Federal
Republic, In considering this new situa-
tion and their desire to take a new step
toward normalization of their relations
with the Federal Government, the three
governments are ready to place their
relations on as broad a contractual basis
as possible. The arrangements to be
concluded will extend progressively to all
aspects of Allied relations with the Fed-
eral. Republic, with the exception of the
problems which will have to be reserved
to the peace settlement.

The first meeting of the Allied and
German experts permitted an initial. ex-
change of views. These conversations are
expected to extend over a considerable
period.

Jurisdiction in I.G. Farben Cases

The Tripartite I.G. Farben Control Group
has called attention to the decision of the
Allied High Commission in December
1950, granting permission, under the terms
of Article 2 of AHC Law No. 13, for Ger-
man courts to exercise jurisdiction, with
certain exceptions, in cases concerning
claims by or against I.G, Farben units.

Under this decision, it was pointed out,
German courts are permitted to hear and
decide the following categories of cases
on their merits:

(a) Cases initiated by I.G. Farben units.

(b) Actions against controlled under-
takings as defendants in actions for a de-
claratory judgment establishing liability
excepting:

(1) Cases where the basis of the claims
is merely a matter of non-payment of a
recognized claim as a result of measures
providing for an orderly liquidation pro-
cedure, such as the freezing of pre-seizure
debts.

(2) Cases in which the claim attacks the
authority or decision of any Allied body.

US Protects Political Refugees

In reply to a query from a newspaper
correspondent relative to US policy on
persons from Soviet-orbit countries seeking

71

asylum, US High Commissioner John J.
McCloy made the following statement:

“It is in accord with the best democratic
tradition to endeavor to protect and assist
those fleeing from persecution. That is the
policy of the Government of the United
States. In practical terms this policy means
today, among other things, that US autho-
rities here (in Germany) and in other
areas under American control will not
return political refugees to Soviet-orbit
countries where their freedom or even lives
would be in jeopardy.”

Official Announcements

Career Foreign Service Expanded

The Department of State announced April
16 a program designed to improve the per-
sonnel program of the Department and the
unified Foreign Service of the United States.
In the furtherance of that program, the De-
partment announced May 2 a program for
substantial expansion of the career Foreign
Service officer category to meet the in-
creased needs for such officers in the con-
duct of foreign affairs.

To achieve this objective, lateral entry
to the intermediate and upper grades of the
career service will be thrown open for a
period of three years to qualified noncareer
officers' of the Department of State, the
Foreign Service Staff Corps and the Foreign
Service Reserve without restriction as to
number. (The term “‘lateral entry'’ is ap-
plied to the entry into the career Foreign
Service of noncareer officers of the Depart-
ment, the Foreign Service Staff Corps and
the Foreign Service Reserve at approxi-
mately the.same salary or grade level as
that currently held by such noncareer
personnel.) All qualified officers in the non-
career service are being urged to make
application for entry into the career service
under this program.

At the same time, a systematic and in-
tensive campaign is being inaugurated in
colleges and universities throughout the
country to increase the number and quality
of young men and women seeking appoint-
ment at the entrance level as Foreign Serv-
ice Officer, Class 6. This drive is being in-
augurated in order that the base of the
service may be expanded to keep pace with
increases in the middle and upper grades.

Selection, in all cases, will be on the basis
of examinations conducted by the Board of
Examiners for-the Foreign Service.

Those eligible for consideration for the
career Foreign Service officer category
under the expansion program are:

1. All personnel of the Department of
State, the Staff Corps and the Foreign Serv-
ice Reserve, including personnel of the
Economic Cooperation Administration ap-
pointed under the provisions of the Eco-
nomic Cooperation Act of 1948.

2. Applicants must be American citizens
of at least 10 years,

3. Married applicants must be married to
American citizens.

4. Applicants must have rendered at least
three years of continuous service in posi-
tions of responsibility in the Department of
State or Foreign Service or have been
employed by the Economic Cooperation
Administration following appointment un-
der the provisions of the Economic Coopera-
tion Act of 1948 and have achieved an
efficiency rating of Very Good or Excellent
(or their equivalent) for each of those
years.

5. Applicants under the age of 31 must
have rendered four years continuous serv-

JUNE 1951

--- Page 75 ---
Regulations, Directives, Publications, Documents

Thirty-Second Report for the Public
Advisory Board, ECA (Washington), Feb.
28, 1951.

Realites Allemandes (Facts of Germany),
No. 26-27, High Commission of the French
Republic in Germany, February-March, 1951.

Works Councils in Germany, Visiting
Experts Series No. 18, Office of Labor
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), March 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 52, Allied Secretariat,
HICOM, April 2, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 14, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, April 6,
1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 15, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, April
13, 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 53, Allied Secretariat,
HICOM, April 18, 1951,

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 16, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, April
20, 1951.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 271,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), April 20, 1951.

Conservation is Everybody's Job, EUCOM
Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 19, I&E
Office, EUCOM, April 22, 1951.

HEUTE (in German), No. 135, POB ISD
HICOG (Munich), April 25, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 17, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, April
27, 1951.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 272,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), April 27, 1951.

The British Commonwealth of Nations,
EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No.
20, I&E Office, EUCOM, April 29, 1951.

Buecher-Vorschau (Preview of New Books
— in German), No. 50, Central Distribution
Section (Frankfurt), April 1951.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 273,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), May 4, 1951.

Spotlight, Official Weekly of EUCOM
Special Activities, Vol. VI, No. 18, PIO
EUCOM Special Activities Division, May 4,
1951.

The Schuman Plan (brochure), Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, May 4, 1951.

How Our Foreign Policy is Made,
EUCOM Information Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 21,
1&E Office, EUCOM, May 6, 1951.

Official Gazette, No. 54, Allied Secretariat,
HICOM, May 9, 1951.

Copies of publications etc. listed

in the Information Bulletin may be

obtained by writing directly to the
originating headquarters

HEUTE (in German), No. 136, POB ISL
HICOG (Munich), May 9, 1951.

The Resident Officer (brochure), Special
Publications Branch, PRD, HICOG, May 11,
1951,

Defenders of Freedom, EUCOM Informa-
tion Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 22, I&E Office,
EUCOM, May 13, 1951.

Weekly Publications Analysis, No. 274,
ISD HICOG (Bad Nauheim), May 11, 1951,

Daily Press Review, Nos. 68-88, ISD
HICOG (Bad Nauheim), April 12-May 15,
1951,

Information Bulletin, May 1951, Special
Publications Branch, PRD, HICOG, May
23, 1951.

The Erding Journal, Vol. 2, No. 7, 85th
Air Depot Wing (Erding), May 1951. .

Der Monat (in German), Vol. 3, No. 32,
POB ISD HICOG (Munich), May 1951.

6th Quarterly Report on Germany, Jan. 1-
March 31, 1951, HICOG, May 24, 1951. »

Germany, Report of the British High Com-
missioner, Quarter January-March 1951,
No. 2, Control Commission for Germany
(BE), May 1951.

Buecher-Vorschau (Preview of New
Books — in German), No. 51, Central Distri-
bution Section (Frankfurt), May 1951.

The Voice of America, Department of
State, May-June, 1951. +END

ice and have achieved Very Good or Excel-
lent efficiency ratings for those years.

6, All applicants must be under the age
of 52 as of July 1, 1951.

Any employee of the Department, the
Staff or the Reserve who does not meet
these qualifications on July 1, 1951, but
who expects to meet them on or before
Jan. 1, 1954, will be permitted to submit
an application for designation for examina-
tion. A deadline of Nov. 1, 1951, has been
established for the receipt of applications.
Applicants wishing to be examined during
the present calendar year, however, must
submit applications not later than June 29,
1951.—from Department of State Bulletin,
May 14.

Applicants for Regular Foreign Service

The State Department's Personnel Examin-
ing Panel has indicated that it will not
consider applicants over 46 years of age
presently occupying positions FSS-3 and
below. It will consider personnel up through
the age of 50 only if such employees are
presently occupying FSS-1 or -2 positions.
Personnel failing to meet these age require-
ments cannot be considered by the panel for
a regular Foreign Service Staff Corps ap-
pointment.—from HICOG Daily Bulletin
No. 198.

Statutory Leave

Time limitations on statutory leave travel
are being revised in accordance with recent
instructions from the Department of State:

(1) Statutory leave travel authorizations
are valid for an indefinite period and an
employee is therefore not required by law
to commence or terminate his travel by

JUNE 1951

any given date. The time during which an
employee takes leave, remains subject, of
course, to the convenience of the organiza-
tion. However, if the employee or a member
of his family has not commenced travel by
the end of the fiscal year (June 30) in which
the authorization was issued, the authoriza-
tion should be returned to the Transporta-
tion Branch, Operating Facilities Divi-
sion, HICOG, for reissuance and- extension.

(2) Members of an employee's family may
commence travel on or after the effective
date of the authorization but not later than
one year after the date on which the em-
ployee himself has completed his travel
pursuant to the authorization. (If family
members precede an employee, the travel
costs must still be paid by the employee,
subject to later reimbursement after he
commences travel.)

(3) There is no given date by which the
family members must complete their travel
under a statutory leave authorization.—from
HICOG Daily Bulletin No, 195.

Administrative instruction L-1 provides
that eligible employees may be authorized
from 30 to 60 days of statutory leave in the
United States. The principle underlying
statutory leave is that, in order properly to
represent the United States abroad, a For-
eign Service employee should periodically
spend a certain minimum period of time in
the United States. To that end, the Govern-
ment has established a liberal annual leave
accrual policy for the Foreign Service, as
well as undertaking to pay the travel and
subsistence expenses involved in statutory
leave.

Any employee who takes less than the
minimum period of 30 days’ leave in the
United States, unless officially directed in
writing by the State Department or by
HICOG to return to his post prior to that

72

time, shall therefore be regarded as not
having traveled in accordance with the
terms of his travel authorization. He may ac-
cordingly be held personally liable for all
travel and subsistence expenses incurred.
—from HICOG Daily Bulletin No, 199.

D-Mark Per Diem within Germany

The attention of all HICOG American
and local employees is invited to Admini-
strative Instructions, Chapter T 6—Travel,
effective May 1, 1951. It is requested that
both HICOG American and local employees
carefully study those portions referring to
D-Mark reimbursement for travel solely
within Germany in order to facilitate prompt
payment of travel vouchers. In particular,
the following points should be observed:

(1) Both HICOG American and local em-
ployees claiming DM 25 per day shall
vertify on the voucher as to the availability
or non-availability of US or Allied gov-
ernmental hotel and messing facilities.

(2) The “Recommended for Approval’
space on Foreign Service Form No. 286,
“Public Voucher for Reimbursement of
Travel and Other Expenses” shall bear the
typewritten name and official title of the
approving officers designated in Section
1-9 of the basic instructions.

(3) The approving officers designated in
Section 1-9 apply to local employees as
well as American employees.

(4) All per diem vouchers should be trans-
mitted for payment with two (2) copies of
the travel order and an original and four
(4) copies of Foreign Service Form No. 286.

(5) Per diem vouchers should be trans-
mitted for payment not later than thirty
(30) days following the completion of travel.
—from HICOG Daily Bulletin No, 204.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 76 ---
100,000th DP Sails for Canada

Sixteen-year-old Leons Ziemanis, whose heritage should have been
a farm in Latvia, sailed recently from Bremerhaven aboard the Inter-
national Refugee Organization (IRO) motorship Nelly as the 100,000th
Displaced Person to emigrate to Canada. With Leons went his father,
50-year-old Pauls Ziemanis, (No, 99,998), his 43-year-old mother Nora
(No. 99,999) and the three younger Ziemanis children (Nos. 100,001 to
100,103), shown above at right.

Since IRO commenced operations in 1947, approximately 40,000 DP’s
have emigrated to Canada under the close relatives’ nomination scheme
and 50,000 have gone under various labor schemes. The remaining
10,000 were dependents. With departure of the Ziemanis family for
Canada, the number of DP’s IRO has helped settle in other parts of
the world was brought close to the 1,000,000 mark.

IRO and Canadian Immigration Mission officials combined to make
the occasion a festive one, with the smiling Leons being made the
recipient of bon-voyage gifts and flowers. Speeches were made
felicitating the family, the speakers including Tom Gray (top), IRO
director for the Bremen area. As the stream of DP emigrants (left)
started to board the Nelly, the band of the 15th/19th Royal King’s
Hussars (below, left) played. Below, right, the Ziemanis family lines
the ship's top deck to wave farewell. (Photos by PIO, IRO)

--- Page 77 ---
Tanks of 14th Armored Cavalry
rumble past historic royal palace in
Wuerzburg as Seventh Army, First
Division and Constabulary units
joined with station complement
troops to observe the second Armed
Forces Day. (US Army photo)