--- Page 2 ---
International Conference
i _ Of Young Women

(See pa:

ECEIVED |
NOV 30 1951
VIG, UBRARY

UNIV. V

rate

‘ “Gliieck auf!” Friendly Revolution of Heftrich NOVEMBER
_ . Bridge for Dieburg Mannheim Plans for Tomorrow

1951
- outh Rebuff Communists Common Problems, Common Front oe

--- Page 3 ---
Mannheim
GY

In

A Center

German Hands

Assistant High Commissioner Parker
(above) termed GYA centers symbols
of the spirit of cooperation. Below,
Irma Sternheimer, 28-year-old Mann-
heim resident, receives gold watch and
certificate from Lt. Col. Everett T. Ren-
iker for outstanding service in making
center popular with German youth.

oe SpE

German Youth Activities (GYA) center in the Mannheim borough of
Rheinau has been turned over to city control, by HICOG end EUCOM,
which will continue support. All property, furniture and equipment of the
center were presented to the Germans, (PRD HICOG photos by Gassner)

\ SMALL, PLAIN BUT Mannheim suburb
[ of Rheir

Representatives of
1945, th Army of
the center's k
The transfer
center's bud
funds and ¢
Po:

was the site

been, since
o turn over
Mannheim.
nt, the
nterpart
lilitary

Commis-
ral Thomas
istance in

of consul

EUCOM

result

any th es pro m
In his ad

ations, who

nt US high commissior

coopera
The
Armed F
provide a
afford,

need an

mean in the United $
tion amid the diversi

the US
economic hardship to
nities could not
in filling that

onsibility

which community
such centers
of coopera-

Germany

‘A com
regarded as

munity ce! should be
For it will

Ives, learn to

tk
are th

choose their

s of race,
is one

that
4. Recog-
indicated
en door
r there.”
will be
ed donated
Heidelberg
of the
+END

nition of the fac
willingness

GYA nce to th
salvage and nc
x more I ne youth
i EUCOM sponsored

GYA

ay participat

loyee:

toa

NOVEMBER 1951

ae

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

EditOfmacce ene eeu. H. Warner Waid

Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer

Jean Kinnaird Helen McLaughlin

Cherry Lou Fellner Liselotte Goldbeck
e

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 545-6-7
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: 8228, 8906, 8990, 8994

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
at 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
APO 757-A, US Army

German mailing address is:
Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
HICOG Hochhaus
Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison
Office of Public Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
November 1951

‘Coal: Productivity yoo e28 6 ss seek Sta ane a Seay a 2

Statement by Michael Harris

“Gluck Aull. Siew vokes antes nee oe oc aa emer 3
Article by John J. Slocum

Common Problems — Common Front ...................... 7
Article by Helen McLaughlin

Berlin Youth Rebuff Bavarian Communists ............. eee)
Article by Francis C. Lindaman

Guarding Human Rights Today .......................... 16
Address by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser

Detense of Common Freedom oo. 3. 217 i ee eee Ly
Address by John J. McCloy

Berlin's Cultural-Pestival >. 3-222 =2 oe ie a ate 20
Article by William H. Conlan

‘Bavaria’s Law Ebrarye sco. : sae es oe ae NS 25

‘West Greets West O72 5..2:. 22 react Sacaeaoe rene ees 27

Mannheim Plans for Tomorrow 29
Article by Dorothea Lensch

Young Citizens Hold Forum §.~..2 2.2. ots a A 32

Health and’ Human Relations ©. ~.-.)..2. 04.0.) occ0 sce cs see eis 33
Article by Dr. Muriel W. Brown and Donata Helmrich-
Hardt

A: Bridge for, Diebirg.: 5) fic 2 eee get athe ee ee eer 35
Article by Werner E. Schroeder

“Exercise Combine’ (pictorial) oso 55255 23s aeons cee 37

Selling Freedom: 2 i's5-ciod eh: iso aes see a yee Se Al
Address by Henry Ford II

Free Radio is.a Blessing)..'0 55... <j.wnwcai eam eee se wane 44
Address by Rear Adm. Charles R. Jeffs

The Friendly Revolution of Heftrich ...................... 45
Article by Fred Welty

Director of Berlin Element Retires ......................4. 48

Personnel Notes oii. -ce ts eases ee cue See aoe 49

Proposal for Free Election 51
Statement by Dr. Konrad Adenauer

In and Around Germany...... 53

Calendar of Coming Events ae pes!

Germans, Americans Hold “Good Neighbor Week” (pictorial) 60

Production Slump Buds... es eons ost Sas ee ae 62
Economic review by A. J. Cefaratti

Washington Report 925.5 2 ise 0 varies oe nn ose ee Se ea 65

US Press Views Germany ...................... pies 67

German Editorials and Cartoons ..................-....055 70

Official Notices i215). oo au oe a ake cons creme merc aateny cents 74

Recent Publications. 354 2.02 ac ssi aaa eee Note le 76

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
© SUL Coal Productivity ‘iinet :

Statement*

- By MICHAEL HARRIS

Chief, ECA Special Mission to Western Germany

HE TOTAL COAL DEFICIT for western Europe in 1952 has been estimated to range from a minimum

of 30,000,000 tons to a maximum of 50,000,000 tons. This deficit can be partly made up by imports from
the United States but will require an expenditure of from $600,000,000 to $1,000,000,000. There is no limitation
of available US coal, but there is a limitation on the amount of shipping and port facilities required to ship
the coal from the United States to the various European ports.

The net effect on Europe of importing US coal is a loss of vitally needed dollar exchange which should
be used for other commodities. About one-half of the total cost involved in imports from the United
States is represented by shipping costs. In the case of Germany, approximately $75,000,000 will be spent
for importing American coal during the second half of 1951.

Even with United States imports there will, nevertheless, exist a shortage of coal for industrial
production and household heating purposes. Consequently, industrial production will be limited in direct
proportion to the shortage of coal supplies and will adversely affect employment and industrial expansion.

Because the deficit of, coal is so apparent, a great deal of attention has been centered upon how that
deficit is to be shared. This, I believe, to be a mistake, because no matter how a deficit is divided, the
requirements of none of the sharers are met. It is much more important, I believe, to expend our energies
and resources on efforts to eliminate the deficit and create a sufficient supply.

HILE THIS PROBLEM affects all western European countries (we seem too often to forget that there

is a serious shortage of coal in the other western European countries as well as in Germany), Germany

is in a position to do a great deal to improve her own situation. The steps taken by the Federal Government

to organize a Coal Production Committee consisting of representatives of labor, management and the govern-

ment to devise ways and means of increasing the production of coal are a long step in the right direction.

We are confident that this committee, which is meeting simultaneously with this press conference, will

in the course of time contribute much to reducing the existing shortage. We are convinced that the solution

of this problem can and will be achieved by this committee. Suggestions have already been advanced by

management, labor and the government which amply demonstrate that the parties involved have the will
and capacity to devise an effective program for an ample production increase,

We in the E Mission shall be happy to assist in any way we can. Counterpart funds amounting to
DM: 531,000,000 ($126,378,000) have already been invested in the mining industry. We had previously
programmed DM 45,600,000 ($10,610,000) for Ruhr miners’ housing and early this week agreed with the
government to provide an additional amount of at least DM 100,000,000 ($23,800,000) for miners’ housing.

We are confident that German labor and management have all the technical skills and managerial
ability required to effectuate a remarkable improvement in production. If they so request, we shall be happy
to provide special assistance in the form of technical assistance teams, etc., if they are deemed advisable, in
order to meet certain specific problems.

HAVE MADE THESE positive statements about the ability of German management and labor because

we have made a thoroughgoing analysis of a number of proposals advanced by the agencies participating
in the committee and are convinced that the proper combination of the proposals already made are sufficient
to cope with the present situation. These specific proposals demonstrate what the world has always
known — German industrial technique is among the foremost.

I sincerely hope that the public at large appreciates the importance and the work which this committee
has undertaken. In some way or other, it will affect directly or indirectly the well-being of every German,
because it will spell the difference between an adequate and an inadequate supply of coal for household
heating purposes, an expansion of industrial production with a consequent de-
crease in unemployment, and in general an improvement in Germany's over-all
economic status.

In this productivity drive, as well as productivity drives in other fields, one of
the features should be a sharing by the miners, management and the public at large
of the benefits that result from increased productivity. The public will benefit by an
increased supply of coal. The management and miners should benefit through some
agreed upon method of sharing the savings resulting from a production increase in
proportion to their contribution toward the production increase. Several suggestions
have already been made toward this end and we hope very much that the participants
will agree upon a formula which will result in just rewards for all. --END

Michael Harris.
(PRD HICOG photo)

* This statement was delivered by Mr. Harris in opening a press conference he held in Frankfurt Oct 5.

UUNUQONQNOMOOOCSSOOGROOUTTONOU TEA

I

FMT MTP af

NOVEMBER 1951 —

--- Page 6 ---
“Gliict auf!”

By JOHN J. SLOCUM
Chief, ECA and Economics Branch, Public Relations Division, HICOG

JN THE GERMAN MINERS’ greeting “Gltick auf!” is a
reminder of the hazardous profession that they follow.
A free translation of the greeting would be “May luck
bring you out!” When one sees the conditions under
which these miners work, one knows that luck must be
added to all their skills and the safety precautions.

Through some whim of nature, thousands of years ago,
the coal seams in the Ruhr were tipped from the hori-
zontal position in which they were formed and in many
places tilted at an angle of 35 degress or more. These
seams vary from two to seven feet in thickness, averag-
ing almost a foot thinner than those in the American
soft-coal mines.

Picture then, a crew of German miners, half a mile
underground, on a smooth rock slope, perhaps 300 feet
long; picture each miner lying on his side in a crevasse
too narrow to permit him to sit up and so steep that at
all times he must hold onto a timber that both supports
the roof and gives him a brace, Picture also this miner
working eight hours a day at soft, crumbling coal with a
pneumatic hammer, his work lighted only by a small
flash lamp and the coal tumbling away above and below
him as it is dislodged by the other 11 miners working
with him on the same face.

In addition to the hazard of having the tiny crack in
which he works, half a mile underground, seal itself by
the great weight of the rock above him, he is in some
danger from the falling coal of his fellow-hewers. The
coal slides, or is conveyed, away from the face and is
fed into waiting cars in a tunnel below. These 12 hewers
in'a single steep-seam coal face of a great mine, which
may have sometimes as many as 20 faces working
simultaneously, mine, man for man, about seven to
10. tons of coal a day. Still other miners keep the coal
moving to the shaft, install new timber supports and do
necessary maintenance and repair work.

HIS COAL, GERMANY’S greatest natural resource,

‘is produced at the rate of approximately 1,000,000
tons every three days by 310,000 miners in the Ruhr and
surrounding areas. The total annual production runs
about 120,000,000 metric or long tons a year. Of this
Germany is today committed to export about 21,000,000
tons plus about 1,000,000 tons of brown-coal briquettes.
Although Germany has always been one of the prin-
cipal exporters of coal in Europe, from the tone of the
German press it would seem that this export quota is
the nation's lifeblood flowing away. To a certain extent
it is, but Germany's richness in coal must be shared
with the other nations of Europe in the deadly race of
Western defense against the build-up of aggressive

NOVEMBER 1951

might by the Soviet Union and her satellites. On this
coal depend not only the industry of Germany but also
the steel production and the production of other defense
material by her West Europe neighbors.

When you clear away all the supervisory boards,
international authorities, industrial selling agencies,
engineering and administrative staff and a host of lesser
techniques, the coal production depends upon the thin,
sinewy, half-naked men hammering away with only the
whites of their eyes and-the pink of their lips to show
that they are not made of coal — the miners underground!

XPERTS, BOTH MARSHALL PLAN and German,
have said that the solution to Germany's coal
shortage lies in greater productivity, and recently when
representatives of HICOG's Office of Economic Affairs
and the ECA Special Mission to Western Germany went
to see what this productivity entailed, the mine they
chose to visit, located about halfway between Essen and
Muelheim, bore the incredible name of Rosenblumendelle,
or “The Vale of Rose Blooms.” This mine, one of three
of the Muelheim Bergwerke Verein (MGV) — which in
turn is one of three Ruhr mine groups owned by Hugo
Stinnes Industries, Inc. of New York City — is typical of
a middle-sized mine in the Ruhr.
The MBV produces 3,800 tons of coal daily and has a
present target of 4,100 tons and a 1953 target of 4,600

Conservation of Coal

The Office of the US High Commissioner for
Germany and Headquarters, European Command,
issued the following joint statement calling on all
American occupation personnel to help conserve
coal this winter:

Since the end of the war, there has been a
serious coal shortage in western Germany, as well
as the other countries of western Europe. With
mounting defense production, the need for con-
serving coal is particularly critical this winter.

The German Federal Government has called on
all Germans to reduce coal consumption and the
use of electricity, which is produced largely with
coal, by at least 10 percent below last winter. All
Americans in Germany should assist in this cam-
paign all they can by observing the following
points:

1. Turn off all lights and electric appliances, ex-
cept for essential use.

2. Don't overheat homes or working quarters.

3. Assure the cooperation in coal conservation
of all members of household and office staffs.

INFORMATION BULLETIN,

--- Page 7 ---
tons. The managing director, Hans Ulrich Mueller,
blames the present production rate on bad geological
conditions, high absenteeism—miners sick or on
vacation — and the universal problem of the Ruhr, the

lack of miner's housing.

The mine area extends about five miles east and west,
and about four miles north and south, with three main
shafts and cross tunnels at three levels, 1,275 feet, 1,830
feet and 2,490 feet in depth respectively. Rosenblumen-
delle has produced coal for approximately 90 years. The
quality it produces is a low-grade anthracite with a high
amount of fine coal and dust which unless pressed into
briquettes, is good only for industrial purposes.

Coal seam comes under camerd lens to show miner's dyna-
mile wired for explosion, afterwards hewers can pick at
face to provide more coal for German homes and industry.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

N REFERENCE TO the problems of mining, Director

Mueller wryly commented, “In addition to the fact
that most of our coal seams run at angles of more than
35 degrees, they are often fractured and broken in such
a way that many hours are wasted in removing loose
rock in the middle of a mining operation. I would say
that when we are mining a good straight seam with no
obstructions and the man-tonnage a day is high, our
directors say we have good miners. Or you might say,
given an intelligent coal seam, you have an intelligent
manager.”

On the subject of miners’ housing, Director Mueller
was emphatic: “Until we have better housing — we lost
more than 75 percent from bombing during the war — our
turnover rate will prevent our miners from producing
at their maximum capacity. Also we lost a great many
of our miners in the most productive age-group, that is,
between 21 and 35 years of age, during the war. Being
strong men accustomed to hard manual labor, they were
put into pioneer battalions where casualties were ex-
tremely high.

“We have older men, skilled miners past their peak,
who know no other life and don’t move away. But these
men with their families, often numbering five or six, are
living in a small room with inadequate cooking and
washing facilities.

“The young men who come to work for us often leave
for other jobs that don't pay as well. We pay the aver-
age man 15 marks a day, which mounts up to about 375
marks a month.* His pay is higher than in any other
industry and even then young men leave us because they
can't so much as get married, living conditions are so
crowded.”

The coal industry has been one of the greatest recipi-
ents of Marshall-Plan aid in Germany. In all about DM
531,000,000 ($126,378,000) of counterpart funds has gone
into coal mining and miners’ housing. A program of
DM_ 150,000,000 ($35,700,000), including DM 45,000,000
($10,710,000) of Marshall-Plan funds, is already under
construction and recently, as part of the productivity
drive for more coal, the ECA Mission has designated at
least another DM 100,000,000 ($23,800,000) for additional
housing. This sum plus the amount gained from a special
two-mark tax per ton of coal and from special appropri-
ations by the Federal Government and private agencies
will result in 46,000 new housing units being erected in 1952.

IRECTOR MUELLER AND THREE of his associates
took the HICOG-ECA group down into the mine.
This procedure was not so simple as it sounded. It in-
volved a complete change of clothing until everyone re-
sembled a miner with a plastic leather-covered helmet,
thick white cloth shirt, trousers, vest and outer coat,
heavy shoes of Gl-issue type, a flashlight around the
neck on a leather strap and a stick with a pick-like
head resembling a miniature ice-ax.
Thus clad, but unmistakably not miners, who are @
wiry, slight and oft-times hollow-cheeked breed, the

* Contract hewers average DM 435. A mark has an official value
of 23.8 cents.

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 8 ---
group entered an elevator at the main shaft and were
precipitated at the uncomfortable speed of 23 feet a
second to the depth of 1,830 feet, where they emerged
in a brightly lighted whitewashed brick tunnel that was
almost up to the standards of some of the less inviting
areas of the New York subway system.

This illusion was quickly dispelled, however, when
the group was bundled into small steel coal-cars, two
men to a car, with a canvas sling at each end as a seat.
The process of getting into the cars from a low bench
was not without difficulty as the roof was low and from
it was suspended a live high-tension wire directly over
the cars. *

Then followed a ride of nearly 20 minutes along a
narrow dark tunnel illuminated only by the flashlights
of the party and an occasional electric light at inter-
sections where other tunnels branched off, and tracks
could be seen disappearing into the darkness. Finally the
train of cars came to a halt. The party dismounted and
were told they should remove their coats as the tem-
perature would be increasingly warm.

This was followed by another descent in an elevator
down a “blind shaft'’ to a level where the temperature
was distinctly warmer (in the vicinity of 85 degrees
Fahrenheit) and the air distinctly staler than in the long
tunnel above.

IROM THIS POINT ON, the party walked down a

tunnel in a frightening state of disrepair (a worked
out coal seam), for the supporting timbers were often
cracked, broken and reinforced and the steel supporting
beams in many places showed signs of buckling. The
taller members of the group were repeatedly thankful
for the protection of their plastic miners’ helmets as
there were many projecting logs and pieces of scrap
metal jutted from the ceiling overhead.

Only occasionally in perhaps 15 minutes’ walk did
the supports diminish to the degree that the solid rock
could be seen. The walk took them by a number of
sealed up headings or excavations high in the right
wall, and it was evident that the lower half of the left
wall was composed of back-fill, the refuse replaced after
coal has been mined.

Eventually they reached a small hole in the lower left
wall, the working area of “Geitling No. 2, as this seam
was called. One by one, the members of the group
squatted down and lowered themselves through the open-
ing to find themselves in an unreal, topsy-turvy world
with everything at a 45 degree angle. If it had not been
for the frequent roof supports, they would have slid to
the bottom of the excavation some 300 feet below. As
it was, locomotion consisted of a crab-like movement
sideways.

A few feet into the heading, they came to the work-
ing face of the coal which glistened black and crumbling
in contrast with the surrounding rock. Here a ghostly
miner loomed up and with a friendly “Glick auf!”
passed on his way.

The miners in the vein at this time were not “hewers,”
as the men who actually mine the coal are called, but

NOVEMBER 1951

By-products of coal mines are briquettes. Miner aperating
this machine watches process, which is mixture of coal

dust and coal tar binder. (Photos by A. C. Byers)
a skeleton crew whose sole job was to move supports
and take care of the back-fill. The declivity in the vein
was so steep and the positions at which the departed
hewers had left their compressed-air hammers so close
that it was difficult to conceive of their working together
without endangering one another with the falling coal.

Halfway down, members of the group had a chance
to try a compressed-air hammer on the coal vein for
themselves. The sensation is completely unlike that of
holding a steam or compressed-air drill on hard stone.
It more resembled the greater pressure of a throbbing
knife on a large cheese that crumbled easily. It was
expldined that the slow settling of the roof compressed
and fractured the coal at the face.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
HE PARTY THAT EMERGED from the seam into the
tunnel at its foot little resembled the party that
had entered above. They were streaked with coal and
their clothes showed hardly a patch of pure white. They
stopped long enough at the head of the bottom tunnel
to examine a mechanical monster that transferred the
coal, or rock, from the ground to the waiting trucks,
but as one American mining engineer pointed out, this
piece of equipment was far more primitive than others
now available in the United States, or to a limited extent,
in Germany — such modern machines that mechanically
mine in a day as much coal as a dozen or more men.
It is anticipated that many more of these devices,
developed in Germany to meet the special conditions
of the Ruhr mines, will be put into operation within a
year and will in time help to increase coal production.
From the end of the lower tunnel, the group proceeded
back, paralleling their early walk, but in this case the
tunnel was in far better repair and filled with cars car-
rying coal from the face. On reaching the blind shaft
they ascended to the 1,830-foot level where they mounted

the train and returned over the tracks on which they .

had come. Branching off, however, before the main shaft
was reached, they stopped and descended by another
blind shaft to the 2,490-foot level. This is the deepest
working level of this mine.

At this depth the pressure is so great that the floor
has been pushed up into the tunnel and the walls and
roof have been specially reinforced. Even so, constant
repairs are necessary to prevent cave-ins. The temper-
ature is somewhat higher than at the upper level and it
is illustrative of the kind of conditions which will be
met when, in the continual search for more coal, the
mines are pushed to the presently-assumed ultimate
operating level of 3,940 feet.

T IS ANTICIPATED that down to this level of 3,940

feet the coal fields of the Ruhr have in reserve
approximately 34,000,000,000 tons of mineable coal or,
at the present rate of mining, about 300 years’ supply.
To guarantee this production would require the solution
of great technical problems, of great ideas and pressure.

After a short walk the party entered the main ele-
vator and was whisked to the surface. They emerged
into the light of day with a certain amount of relief,
looking like an entirely different group that had gone
down in the mine as everyone was smeared with coal

dust. From the mine shaft, they proceeded to the bri- *

quette-manufacturing plant and there an incident occur-
red which made a lasting impression on all of them.

Briquettes are manufactured by the compression of
coal dust with a coal tar binder under a certain amount
of heat into pellets about two inches across. Outside this
plant, several men were shoveling tar from a freight
car into a chute, Someone commented that their hands
were gloved and faces covered with a thick cold cream.

“Oh,” said the director, “we find that the men who
are not so protected develop skin cancer.”

This comment led to another discussion of the physi-
cal hazards of coal mining. The German director of the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Stinnes properties, Heinz P. Kemper, explained the chief
diseases from which the miners suffer are rheumatism,
occasioned by working lightly clothed in a hot, damp
atmosphere through which coal air was periodically circu-
lated, and silicosis, a lung ailment caused by fine rock
dust freed from dirty coal or during tunneling through
rock to the coal.

It is small wonder that under these conditions a miner
is often past his prime at 35 and that the few old, ex-
perienced miners are a hardy brood.

(O SUMMARIZE THE IMPRESSIONS gained from

visiting this mine, it seems surprising that there is
only one shift in three during which miners are actually
hewing coal on the face and that the other two shifts
are spent in cleaning up, in back-filling and insuring
against possible cave-in, It further seems difficult to
understand why there is not greater use of mechanical
aids to mining such as those existing in American
mines. However, it must be admitted that conditions in
most American mines are much more favorable for the
use of large-scale mechanical methods.

The basic reason given by mine management for the
relatively low productivity of coal in the Ruhr today is
the inadequate housing facilities plus the problem of
absenteeism, shorthandedness and the general need for
the revision of the capital structure of the mines,

There is, however, another consideration. While the
HICOG-ECA party sat comfortably drinking coffee in
the guests’ dressing room of the mine administration
building, the talk turned to the political convictions of
the miners. From 10 to 15 percent of the miners in
Rosenblumendelle are Communists, Director Mueller
said. This was hard to believe in view of the high
morale and the friendliness with which the workers and
the managerial personnel greeted one another. The
percentage of Communists on the elected works council
is much higher, some years as high as 60 percent.

A few minutes later, the matter of wages came up
and again the members of the managerial staff present
pointed with pride to the fact that the pay of the
hewers is in the neighborhood of DM 435 a month.

As high as this pay is, there is still an enormous dif-
ference between it and the pay on the managerial,
technical level. Also, there is between the miners and
the people in the professional class an insurmountable
gulf that exists not only through tradition but through
educational opportunity and is not one that can be
bridged as it is in America by equal opportunity for
schooling. A miner's child unless he leaves the Ruhr —
and there is the same clannishness among miners as is
found in any dangerous occupation — has little alter-
native but to grow up a miner like his father.

In these days of rapidly expanding horizons and
changing political views, this is not enough. Perhaps
the ultimate answer to the problem of productivity,
after the various mechanical and industrial and incen-

tive methods have been applied, is to give the Ruhr -

coal miner — who spends his working life underground —

— the sense that he has a place in the sun. +END

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 10 ---
Common

Problems —
Common
Front

By HELEN MeLAUGHLIN

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

HE FIVE WOMEN LINGERED over their late after-

noon coffee, the shining dark hair of the Italian
radio commentator and the ash blonde of the Swedish
lawyer a startling contrast even in the growing dusk.
The others were a Belgian Red Cross official, a Nether-
lands housewife and a German doctor.

Framed in the mountain hotel's broad dining-room
window before which they sat were the Alps, their peaks
wreathed in late September mist. Below was the pic-
turesque German village of Hindelang, a stone's throw
from the Austrian border, where they had come the day
before as delegates to an international women's conference.

The Swedish lawyer was reporting a conversation she
had overhead earlier that day. “Two Hindelang women
were talking outside the Hotel Sonne'this morning about
“she began, “and, like the character
in ‘The Beggar's Opera’ one said, ‘Ohne genug zu essen,
und ohne genug zu trinken, ist die ganze Demokratie
quatsch."” (‘Without enough to eat, and without enough
to drink, democracy is nonsense.') Delighted laughter
rippled around the table. "All the same,’ interposed the
3elgian, an attractive young woman in blue uniform,
we had better not forget in our democratic countries
just how important it is to give proper attention to social
problems. A hungry person is not interested in the
ideology of those who offer him bread."

“International” tables and fragments of talk like this
were commonplace in Hindelang’s three mountain ho-
tels the Alpenhof, the Luitpoldbad and the Inge-
burg —and in the village’s Hotel Sonne during the last
week in September, when more than 200 women from 13

our meeting there,

Top photo, quaint old church in village of Hindelang draws
group of conierees seeking relaxation after busy sessions.

Center, young women pause to smile for photographer
before entering conference hall. (Photo by Willner, Berlin)

Bottom, Mrs. John J. McCloy (leit), wife of the US High
Commissioner for Germany, congratulates Dame Caroline
‘aslett of London for her address at conference. Dame
Caroline is member of British Electricity Authority. Ruth
F, Woodsmall, chief of HICOG’s Women’s Affairs Branch,
is in center. (PRD HICOG photos by Claude Jacoby)

OVEMBER 1951

--- Page 11 ---
countries of western Europe met there with US represent-
atives to consider their common problems and civic
responsibilities in the troubled world of 1951. From their
interchange of ideas, it is hoped, will come a common
front for the maintenance of a living, vital democracy
among Western nations.

HE FIVE-DAY CONFERENCE brought together young

women between the ages of 25 and 35 from Austria,
Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Great
Britain, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Sweden
and Switzerland. It was sponsored by HICOG's Women’s
Affairs Branch to afford women of this important age
group the opportunity to understand the broader national
and international problems which as citizens in demo-
cratic nations they must help to solve, and to give them
the experience of working with women of other nations
on the solution of these problems.

The conference theme was “Women in Public Life —
Their Opportunities and Responsibilities." The program,
developed through speeches, panel discussions and
workshops, was planned by a committee of young women
from western Germany with the assistance of Women’s
Affairs advisers in the various German states.

Following general sessions in the morning and eve-
ning, the delegates divided into seven discussion groups
studying woman's role in public life, covering these
phases of the conference theme: cooperation of women
to affect the work of legislators; groundwork for the
election and appointment of able candidates in public
office; improvement of opportunities for professional
training and advancement; attempts to mold public
opinion through press, radio and films; efforts to shape
educational and cultural programs in the community;
ways of dealing with social problems in daily life, and
adaption of family life to present conditions.

Those attending the conference from outside Germany
were selected through US embassies with the aid of
leading women in each country, and the German dele-
gates were chosen by local and regional planning com-
mittees. The conferees represented a cross-section of
married and unmarried women from business and pro-
fessions, industry and rural employment, religious, social
welfare and political fields. They differed in dozens of
ways — in appearance, language, background, education,
position, training and personality. But they had one thing
in common — the knowledge that today, with the world
divided, the democratic ideal they believe in imposes
grave responsibilities, and a determination to find ways
to use the potent force they represent in meeting those
responsibilities.

There were dozens of housewives like Mevr. H. C.
Diekse-Bresters of Zeist, Netherlands, the mother of five
children who still finds time to serve as a member of
the Emigration Committee of the Netherlands Women's
Committee; professional women like Lizzi Moesgaard,
barrister of the court.of appeals in Copenhagen, Den-
mark; Anita Calabi of Milan, Italy, who conducts a radio
program over La Voce dell'Italia; Mrs. Maj-Britt Baehre-
notz, who edits the Swedish ‘’Folket i Bild,’ or Dr. Mag-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

dalene Rueppell, physician and surgeon from Ham-
burg; young women in their early twenties such as
Marie Jeanne Lommel-Goullon, a farm worker from
Luxembourg, and Magda Bogenrieder, a textile worker
from Aachen; others invading fields formerly dominated
by men, like Margarethe Boeck, an agricultural engineer
from Vienna, Austria. Teachers, social welfare workers,
government workers, religious leaders also gave a
diversified character to discussions.

ANGUAGE DIFFERENCES WERE no barrier. Ear-
phones — more than 200 of them — were hooked up
in Hindelang’s Hotel Sonne, where all general sessions
were held, and translations were made simultaneously
in German, French and English. At. smaller discussion
meetings and workshops, the groups compromised on a
language familiar to everyone, but in most cases, either
German or English was spoken in these confabs.

Thousands of lofty words reaffirming the moral value
of the democratic way, or pointing — realistically and
hardheadedly — to the need for preserving it if the free
world is to survive, came to the ears of the young
women through the medium of the earphones.

One evening, for instance, it was the sari-gowned Miss
Parimal Das of Calcutta, India, who is now with
UNESCO's Department of Education in Paris, quoting in
English from the poet-philosopher Rabindranath Tagore:
“Where the mind is without fear and the head is held
high; where knowledge is free; where the world has
not been broken up into fragments by narrow domestic
walls ... into that heaven of freedom, my Father, let my
country awake.”

The next morning, it might be Dr. Dorothy Fosdick
of Washington, D.C., only woman member of the Policy
Planning Staff of the US Department of State, saying:
“We have been proclaiming the demands and hazards

Conference hall was crowded for all sessions. Dr. Shuster
is speaking here at opening. He gave his talk in German.

--- Page 12 ---
of political life today. Enough of that!
The time has come to proclaim our
faith that we can meet these demands,
and overcome these hazards."

The schedule was an intensive one,
allowing little time out except for the
afternoon coffee hour or a_ brief
mountain walk. General sessions were
held each morning and evening in
the Hotel Sonne, and in the afternoon
the women divided into groups for
their workshop analysis of what should
be woman's role in public life today
in a variety of spheres. On one even-
ing during the five-day conference,
the delegates were entertained at the
Haus Ingeburg, more than 6,000 feet
above sea level, by Bavarian dancers
and yodelers in native costume, and
an eight-year-old child pianist, daugh-
ter of music-teacher parents from
neighboring Sonthofen.

GALAXY OF PROMINENT speak-

ers, besides Miss Das and Dr. Fos-
dick, were on the program. They
included Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US High
Commissioner for Germany, who was chairman at the
opening session; Dr, George N. Shuster, US state com-
missioner for Bavaria; Dame Caroline Haslett of London,
member of the British Electricity Authority; Mme. Marie-
Helene Lafaucheux, vice president of the Assembly of
the French Union; Dr. Erna Scheffler, member of the
Federal Constitutional Court of Germany; Frau Anna
Haag, German author and lecturer; Anna-Liisa Sysi-
harju of, Finland, professor of educational psychology
in the College of Home Economics, Helsinki; Dr. Liesel
Beckmann, professor of Business Economics at the Uni-
versity of Munich; Dr. Ursula Michel, executive assistant
for the Continental Rubber Company, Hanover, Ger-
many; Mevr. Diekse-Bresters, the Netherlands; Frau
Charlotte Starick, executive secretary of the Women’s
Groups of the Berlin Trade Unions; Frau Lieselotte Nold
of the Bavarian Mothers’. Service of the Evangelical
Church; Frau Antje Lemke, director of the Women's
Service Bureau of the Women’s Affairs Branch of the
Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany.

In a brief talk at the opening session Sunday evening,
Sept. 23, Mrs. McCloy urged the young women to insure
the value of their new-found impact on the community
by setting themselves the task “of becoming well-inform-
ed, of always learning the facts and examining both sides
of a problem before criticizing or taking action.’ Mrs.
McCloy warned that “the times are too serious to in-
dulge in misinformation or in unilateral thinking, and
too many hazards exist on every side which could
readily lead to disaster in the absence of clear, ob-
jective thinking.”

The wife of the US High Commissioner reminded her
listeners that “it requires courage to understand and

NOVEMBER 1951

Participants in the international conference gather on verandah of mountain
hotel, Bavarian Alps and beautiful countryside form a delightful backdrop.

defend the points of view and interest of nations other
than our own, and to oppose any violation of individual
rights, wherever and whenever they are infringed."

Dr. Shuster echoed this thought. “There is only one
great danger,” he said, “that our world could be split
because of petty, selfish interests ... The politically-
minded citizen of today must stand with all his energy
for a good cause, but he must continuously be con-
scious of the well-being of all." Women can play an
important role in the removal of barriers between nations,
he declared.

Dr. Shuster urged the conference delegates to remain
alert to every threat to freedom, and to keep fully
informed about world happenings. Women of the West
must be willing to shoulder a heavy share of the burden
Free Europe now carries in its determination to remain
free, he emphasized.

AME CAROLINE HASLETT brought to the conference’
the story of her own personal success in Great
Britain's industrial sphere, and in a charming, humorous
vein reminded the young women that with the equality
they have achieved with men in the competitive world,
has come “a responsibility to make a full contribution
to public administration and all forms of public service
which try to ensure that modern scientific advances are
directed to the betterment of the individual lives of men
and women in their search for happiness in living and
satisfaction in their daily job.”
Dame Caroline, who attended a similar conference for
women in an older age group at Bad Reichenhall* last

* See “‘Women's Responsibility’ in Information Bulletin, No-
vember 1950,

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

--- Page 13 ---
year, said later in an interview, “I go to many confer-
ences, but I know of none where there has been such a
worthwhile feeling as this one, and I think all of us will
go back to our countries inspired to influence a wider
sphere. You know, I saw a woman from Norway sitting
with a German and Italian, whose countries were Nor-
way’s enemies not so long ago, and I said to myself ‘by
Jove, we talk about the difficulty of the United Nations
functioning, but here it is right here in a special form."

A penetrating analysis of the ills of today’s world,
which she described as “mortally sick with fear,’ was
contained in a talk by Miss Das, the onetime dean of
women in Calcutta’s Scottish Church College and holder
of a doctor of philosophy degree from Columbia Uni-
versity in New York City.

Miss Das declared that ‘the road of understanding and
cooperation is the only road for us today — the road to
one world or none." Placing the blame for women's
ineffectiveness in political life squarely upon their own
shoulders, Miss Das said, “It is women's ignorance and
indifference that are largely responsible for their not
being the power they might be the world over, a power
for goodness and mercy and love and justice.”

Often it is the women who choose to put up the bar-
riers which are the symbols of fear, believing that by
doing so they can ensure the safety of their families,
she went on. "It is often they who will not make an
effort to know anything about the world outside their
narrowly-confined homes; they choose to keep away, to
be, aloof and indifferent rather than participate because
there are dangers in participation." In these troublous
times, she concluded, “we are either pulling each other
up to a better and higher destiny, or dragging each
other down to destruction."

ARNING THAT NIHILISM today can only mean
disaster, Dr. Fosdick reflected the realistic think-
ing of the US Government in the present world crisis
when she called attention to the fact that although
America is building its military strength, the nation's
objective is not war but peace, “Our objective is an

Mrs. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner, opened
conference, With her at speaker's table are, I.-r., Dr.
George N. Shuster, US state commissioner for Bavaria;
Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, US state commissioner for
Wuerttemberg-Baden, and Alois Haub, mayor of Hindelang.

ec: Re
Miss Parimal Das (seated, center), in bright Indian sari,
chats with group which includes Dr, Dorothy Fosdick
(extreme right), only woman member of Policy Planning
Staff of the US Department of State, and Frau Anna Haag
(left), of Stuttgart, author and lecturer, (Photo by Willner)

affirmative one,’ she said, ‘to work for the conditions
of peace with all those who join us. In Europe, we are
all concerned to see develop a genuine community,
strong in its own defense and loyal to the central con-
victions to which Western man has hitherto pledged
allegiance."

Dr. Fosdick urged the conference delegates to re-
member, however, that "if we are to succeed in making
the Western community so precious, so valuable, so full
of promise that we will all feel our first obligation is to
defend it, we must improve the quality and performance
of our national and local political life and give concrete
evidence of its promise."

Realism in facing facts is an important requirement
for effectiveness in politics, she said, Reasonableness in
dealing with solutions to problems, an ability to be
experimental and teachable are qualities demanded of
those who prepare themselves for political action in the
West European community today, she declared. Her
“let's get-going-and-do-something” talk won resound-
ing applause.

RIVATELY AND PUBLICLY, German women at the

conference were of the unanimous opinion that the
opportunity to talk with women from other nations had
pulled them out of the miasma of sentimentality regard-
ing their postwar ills and made them realize that other
women, the world over, have problems like theirs,

Said Frau Erika Libal, a Mannheim lawyer who
teaches political science and legal problems in a school
for social workers, ''We have not found new ways or
absolutely sure remedies for all problems here, but we
have seen that other countries have the same problems,
that the situation of other women is similar to our own
and that all of us are trying to find solutions in the
same way. One doesn't feel so lost knowing this: one
has the conviction that all of us will stand together in
finding roads to cooperation.”

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 14 ---
The political sagacity. of many older German women
who were active in political circles before Hitler cut
them off from participation in public affairs, was a
distinct contribution to the conference talks. Frau Anna-
dore Leber, publisher and politically-active Berliner who
was forced to watch her husband's execution by the
Nazis, was there, as were Frau Emmi Beckman, past
president of the German Association of University
Women, and for approximately 50 years an active public
figure, and Frau Anna Haag, onetime member of the
state legislature for Wuerttemberg-Baden and ardent
supporter of United States policy; Frau Dorothea Kar-
sten, adviser on women's affairs to the Bonn govern-
ment; and Frau Thea Nolte Baenische, who holds an
executive administrative position with the state govern-
ment in Lower Saxony.

No resolutions were adopted at the conference; no
proposals were put forth as having conference endorse-
ment. The five-day session merely explored ways in
which the woman as an individual can influence public
life, and thus be a force for the maintenance of a strong,
workable democracy in the bloc of free nations. The
findings of the workshop studies, however, had all the
flavor of decision, even though they did not bear a
formal stamp of decision.

ERE ARE A FEW of the pertinent results of the
seven workshops:

Group I — Women's cooperation in legislation.

Dr. Ingeborg Becker, consultant in the German federal
Ministry of Justice, outlined a wide scope of legislative
work for women as prepared by her workshop, citing
methods of women's political activity in various coun-
tries as revealed by conference participants from these
countries, The group agreed, she said, that there must
be a more proportionate participation of men and women
in public life, deciding that only if all problems of pub-
lic life are regarded with the eyes of both men and
women can full understanding be reached, thus guaran-
teeing solution of problems that will satisfy all.

Delegates heard simultaneous translations of principal
speeches in French, German and English via earphones.

Correspondent checks names of four delegates after group
posed for pictures. They are, ].-r., Margaret Cornell, Halls-
worth, England; Dr. Helen Gmuer, Zurich, Switzerland;
Simone Vercamer, Brussels, Belgium, and Gretha den
Hertog, Antwerp, Belgium. (Unless otherwise credited, all pho-
tos for this article by Claude Jacoby, staff photographer, PRD HICOG.,}

Group If— Women in administration.

Since there were only German women participating
in this workshop, the subject was studied entirely from
the German point of view. Dr. Maria-Eugenie Oehme,
lecturer and executive secretary of the Berlin Communi-
ty Council, reported that the group worked out two
suggestions to be submitted by women's groups to the
Women's Affairs department of the federal Ministry of
the Interior, and to the federal Ministry of Labor:

“That in the interest of an efficient new generation of
female civil servants to carry out a more intensive
vocational guidance for women for the training and
opportunities in middle and upper civil servant's, careers,
it is requested that the federal Ministry of Labor speed
up the establishment of the federal Labor Office and
simultaneously supply the connected vocational agencies
with the necessary prerequisites in the form of inform-
ative material and qualified vocational guides for these
career fields” ... and “that the Women's Affairs depart-
ment of the federal Ministry of the Interior start in-
vestigations of the integration of a new generation of
female civil servants and submit the results to the
proper authorities and simultaneously call their atten-
tion to the fact that according to Article 3, Paragraph 2
of the German Basic Law, women are to be given equal
opportunities in being admitted as trainees.”

Group III — Professional training and possibilities of
advancement for women.

The advisability of giving boys training in household
work against the time when they may be useful as hus-
bands of working wives — a practice now in vogue in Nor-
way — was among conclusions of this group. Frau Char-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
Conferees often split up into small groups like this one.

Counterclockwise, in picture, are Mrs. Helen Nixon,
Women's Affairs adviser, Berlin; Joanna Brink, The
Hague, general secretary of the Dutch Association of
Country Women; Anita Calabi, Milan, Italy, radio com-
mentator; Helen McLaughlin, author of this article; Miss
Woodsmall, and Frau Emmi Beckman, Hamburg, veteran
president of the German Association of University
Women. (Photo by Scholl, Bad Oberdorf)

lotte Steinbruegge, medical technician at the Hanover
Veterinary College, reporting on their discussions, said
they had covered the subjects of professional preparation,
professional training and, superficially, advancement pos-
sibilities for women in commercial, household, agricul-
tural, social and educational, technical, handicraft, crea-
tive and academic professions. The group was unani-
mously agreed that there should be equality in training
for both young men and women.

Group IV— Molding of public opinion through press,
radio and films.

To win women as attentive and critical newspaper
readers is the main problem as far as the press is con-
cerned, according to Frau Olga Amann, Munich journalist,
who reported for this workshop. The group decided that
not enough effort is made by the German press to explain
political developments to the reader, that there are not
enough feature articles and pictures. Close contact be-
tween women's organizations and the press is a “must”
if women are to project their influence in this field, it
was decided.

In radio and television, women can be a similar force
for the forming of a true, democratic public opinion by
making practical proposals regarding programs related
to economic, political and other public questions, Educa-
tion and cultural film programs for women can be pro-
moted through film clubs, and cooperation of women's
organizations in choosing good films for children and
young people is an important requisite for the motion
picture control.

Group V— Women's cooperation in education and
cultural affairs. :

This workshop directed its studies along the lines of
civic education and education toward international under-
standing and cooperation. Frau Elfriede Oberbeckmann,
headmistress of an elementary school in Stadthagen, Ger-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

many, summarized conclusions by her group, which she
reported embraced family education, youth work, and
adult education as bearing strongly on training for civic
responsibility.

Cooperation with international women's organizations,

_reorganization of teaching history and geography in

schools with use of UNESCO textbooks, establishment of
UNESCO clubs in all countries, and the international
exchange program, were underscored as necessary steps
to education for international understanding.

Group VI— Social problems of daily life.

Effect of the war on social problems, especially in
heavily damaged areas of western Europe, consumed much
of the time this group devoted to its discussion, it was
reported by Dr. Rueppell. In Germany, it was pointed out,
the Federal Government is attempting to solve many of
its social problems, and there women can serve effectively
in administration of these social aid programs.

The group decided, Dr. Rueppell said, that the exchange
of experiences with women of other countries had been
of invaluable assistance to the German women in the
workshop.

Group VII — Adapting
ditions.

A women's organization, which “represents the interests
of the family, of the wife and mother on the highest level”
is the best medium by which the woman as an individual
can influence community affairs, national and _ inter-
national, according to a report on this workshop's dis-
cussions outlined by Dr. Christal von Mertens, interpreter
and art historian from Kiel, Germany. The group also
agreed that women’s organizations must cooperate more
closely, coordinating their interests in order to make
their influence felt.

family life to present con-

Ways of strengthening family life were gone into, as
were discussions of technical inventions which make
housework easier and participation of father and son in
household tasks.

STANDING DEMONSTRATION of appreciation by

the young western European women for the HICOG-
sponsored opportunity to meet with one another and with
US women wound up the conference on the evening of
the fifth day, Sept. 27. Speakers from Belgium, Finland,
Germany, Italy and Norway expressed their gratitude
in formal speeches addressed directly to Miss Ruth F,
Woodsmall, chief, Women's Affairs Branch, HICOG,
declaring that “because of this opportunity to establish
friendship ties with women of other nations in discussion
of our common problems, we are returning to our homes
with renewed hope for the future.”

In her reply, Miss Woodsmall said she believed that
the Hindelang “experience in international understanding”
would open up a new chapter in which the young women
of western Europe and the US “will move forward to-
gether with more confidence and with a new sense of
common purpose.” +END

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 16 ---
Berlin Youth
Rebuff

Bavarian Reds

By FRANCIS C. LINDAMAN
Chief, District Il, Field Division, OLC Bavaria

IHE DAY WEST BERLIN is lost, your end will not

be far off," the earnest young man told 500 youth
assembled in the large courtroom of Regensburg’s new
city hall.

The speaker was Erich Weber, one of nine young men
and women flown from Berlin to talk with youth groups
throughout northeastern Bavaria. Every time a local
Communist youth (FDJ) asked one of their loaded ques-
tions or made a typical Communist attack on Western
war mongering and capitalistic imperialism,” Weber
or one of his colleagues defended the Free World with
oratorical skill and logic.

This group had served as one of the committees as-
signed to the 48 youth homes in West Berlin during the
mammoth Communist Youth Festival in August. They
welcomed the FDJ members who ventured across the
border into the western sectors and tried to convince
their visitors that they would not be served poisoned
food or be pressed into the French Foreign Legion, as
Soviet Zone propaganda had warned.

Harold Kidder, US resident officer at Regen, was an
observer during the final days of the festival and was
impressed by the way the committee succeeded in con-
vincing their Communist visitors that West Berlin was
truly a stronghold of freedom. Mr. Kidder requested that
the group be invited to visit his county.

TS IDEA WAS CARRIED further and the committee
was invited to spend two weeks touring Lower Ba-
varia-Upper Palatinate districts, the ultra-conservative
Bavarian Forest area of the American zone which fringes
for almost 100 miles on the Czechoslovakian border. With
the help of the Youth Activities Section, Berlin Element,
and the Youth and Community Activities Branch, OLC Ba-
varia, arrangements were made for them to be flown to
Bavaria Sept. 18.

Included in the group were: Weber, a law student at the
University of Jena in the Soviet Zone until he was expelled
in 1948 for criticizing the Communists’ Social Unity Party
(SED), presently a free-lance journalist in Berlin and
member of the Free Democratic Party (FDP).

Liselotte Abendroth, representative of the Berlin Trade
Union Federation (DGB) and member of Socialist Demo-
cratic Party (SPD).

Walter Schumann, student at Hochschule fuer Bildende
Kunst (College for Art).

NOVEMBER 1951

13

The author welcomes Berlin youth committee consisting of
two girls and seven young men as they arrived by plane
in Bavaria for a vacation-tour along the Czech border.

Ingeborg Fuchs, welfare worker and member of the
Christian Democratic Union (CDU).

Heinrich Linke, youth representative of Berlin Trade
Union Federation.

Michael Gromnica, student at Berlin's Hochschule fuer
Politik (College for Politics), member of Europa-Union
and of Socialist Youth in Berlin,

Edgar Schulze, district committee chairman of the Ger-
man Young Democrats (FDP youth organization) in Ber-
lin- Wilmersdorf.

Guenther Weiss, student youth worker.

Edgar Bettermann, youth worker with SPD.

HE BERLIN YOUTHS were obviously considered
such a threat by the local Communists (KPD) in the
Bavarian Forest area that the Reds followed them from
one meeting to another and even brought in some of
their leading functionaries from other counties to the
communities where the committee was scheduled to
appear. However, the presence of the Communists with
their stereotyped questions, blatant harangues and prac-
ticed gesticulations merely served to stimulate the wit
and enthusiasm of the young Berliners, whose replies
evoked thunderous applause, loud ‘“‘bravos” and excited
stamping of feet* from the rest of the audience.
Handed a humiliating defeat in Regensburg, the Com-
munists followed the youths to Straubing where, even

* A German traditional expression of strong approval.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Absurd statements along standard party propaganda lines
made by a Communist speaker draw the Germany equiva-
lent of the razzberry at big youth meeting in Regensburg.

with their number augmented, they were again made to
appear ridiculous before an audience of several hundred.
After that in county after county—Eggenfelden, Pfarr-
kirchen, Neumarkt, Weiden, Tirschenreuth, Regen and
most of the other 30 counties where meetings were
held—the Communists, FDJ'ers, and fellow travelers
were on hand to do their best in counteracting the in-
fluence of the Berliners. Only in Kelheim, were the Com-
munists organized a whispering campaign and picketed
the assembly hall, did the anti-democratic forces enjoy
a ‘Pyrrhic victory.”

Thomas F. Hoctor, resident officer of Vohenstrauss,
reported that in Neudorf, a town which straddles the
Bavarian-Czechoslovakian border, the FDJ tried to argue
with the Berliners, “but the Berliners were so intelligent,
well-informed and skillful that they quickly dominated
the argument and had the audience on their side.”

In rural Pfarrkirchen, where people are traditionally
lethargic about political questions, 1,100 persons turned
out for the two first meetings with the Berliners. Resi-
dent Officer Terence F. Catherman reported:

“Erich Weber gave a 45 minute speech concerning
the World Youth Festival, the Western social centers,
general conditions in the Soviet Zone, the attitude of the
Western youth and methods to be used in combating
Communism. This excellent talk, made doubly effective
by a combination of humor, logic and drama, was inter-
rupted several times by a loud and long applause. The
enthusiasm was overwhelming to one accustomed to the
general apathy of the youth in this area. A lively and
interesting two-hour discussion period followed.”

ERE ARE A FEW of the most typical questions and
answers aired during the meeting.
Q. On what basis do the youth of the Soviet Zone
want unification?
A, They want the Bonn Basic Law as the constitution
for the future Germany.
Q. Why is the youth of the Soviet Zone so unified?

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A. A continuous barrage of propaganda from all media
with no opportunity to compare this to the truth gradu-
ally wears down the most critical mind. There is no op-
portunity to join other organizations, but there are plenty
of penalties for not joining the FDJ.

Q. What is the difference between the Nazi and Soviet
regimes?

A. The Nazis were comparative beginners in the busi-
ness of terror. Not everyone realized what was really
happening in Germany, but every person in the Soviet
Zone feels daily the oppressive weight of the Soviet
terror. Also, the Nazis were at least Germans, while the
ideal in the Soviet Zone is now the Sovietmensch (typi-
cally Soviet), and everyone must now strive to achieve
the perfection of this new ideal man. (This was followed
by a detailed account of some of the noxious personal
habits of members of the Russian occupation force.)

Q. Why were the Western visitors to the festival
often punished by Western authorities? (An order for a
fine of DM 22 — $5.24 — was shown by the questioner.)

A. This fine was for an illegal border-crossing. Due to
Russian insistence, interzonal permits still have to be
issued, despite repeated Allied efforts to eliminate all
travel restrictions between the zones. The fine was for
a technicality and had nothing to do with the festival.

Q. What other mass organizations exist in the Soviet
Zone besides the SED and FDJ?

A. FDGB (Communist trade-union organization), Kultur-
bund zur demokratischen Erneuerung Deutschlands (Cul-
tural Association for the Democratic Revival of Ger-
many), VVN (federation of persons persecuted under the
Nazi regime), Demokratischer Frauenbund (Communist
women's league), Bund zur Foerderung deutsch-sowjet-
ischer Freundschaft (federation for promotion of German-
Soviet friendship).

Q. Why are there so many unemployed in the Western
Zones and none in the Soviet Zone?

A. This is merely a matter of terminology. In the
Soviet Zone there are no “unemployed,” but plenty of
what are euphemistically called Arbeitsuchende (persons
looking for jobs). They have no right to relief or wel-
fare and receive only one mark (Soviet-Zone mark, equal
to about five cents) per day. They lose this pittance if
they refuse any job offered by the Labor Office and are

Local Communist leader (center) in Regensburg argues with
members of Berlin youth committee and local youth —
but was soon put to complete rout. (PRB OLCB photos by Maske)

--- Page 18 ---
also subject to arrest and shipment to the uranium
mines at Aue.

Q. Were there visitors from Western countries at the
festival?

A. Yes, a few, but they were seldom seen.

Q. Who paid for the meals that the FDJ received in
the western sector?

A. The Federal Government, the Berlin Senate, the
Allied commandants, German and foreign private agencies,
as well as individual citizens of Berlin.

Q. How were the participants at the festival accom-
modated?

A. Visitors from foreign countries were put up in
separate hotels, to avoid too much contact, and received
up to 50 marks per day,* free transportation and free
tickets for all major events; the West German FDJ stayed
in private homes; most of the Soviet Zone FDJ were
crowded into halls, gymnasiums and tent camps where
thousands slept on straw.

Q. Who paid you to come here?

A. Nobody, unfortunately. Who pays the members of
the FDJ and KPD?"

N NEUMARKT the resident officer, John Kormann,

summed up the Berliners’ appearance as follows:

“The youth center auditorium, with a capacity of 300,
was filled and many persons were standing. Following
a short introductory speech by the chairman of the county
youth federation, the forum began in earnest. The KPD
and FDJ, although negligible in number in Neumarkt,
came well prepared; they had known of the event through
good press publicity for three days in advance. A few
FDJ personalities from Regensburg were also recognized
in the audience.

“It was noticeable from the very outset that the Berlin
youth had a story to tell which would play upon the
heartstrings of the crowd. The first speaker, after only
a few minutes, was having visible success. He told tales
of miserable conditions recounted to him by Eastern FDJ
members, of the Volkspolizei (Soviet Zone ‘people's
police"), of the typhus bacilli Eastern youth were told
they would be infected with if they visited the West, and
of the poisoning each FDJ'er expected when crossing
the sector boundary.

“The Communists could not afford to allow the speaker
to continue in this vein, so, led by Herr Schneider, the
only KPD member in the city council, they attempted to
obtain the floor. A very lively verbal encounter ensued,
with each side trying to shout the other down. Most
vehement of all was Mayor Betz of Neumarkt, who
would spring to his feet crying. ‘Return to your Eastern
paradise; we don't want you here!’ Time and again Mr.
Betz, in a fury, shouted from the audience.

“It was not long, however, before the Berlin group suc-
ceeded in making the Communists appear ridiculous.
When finally one rather impressive FDJ’er denied the
poor housing and feeding conditions at the festival, he
was asked directly where he was quartered in Berlin;

* East zone marks equal to approximately $2.50.

NOVEMBER 1951

15

Liselotte Abendroth discusses Communists’ Berlin youth
rally with Bavarian youngsters at meeting in Regensburg's
new city hall. In foreground at left are two teen-age FDJ'ers.

the Communist city councilor sprang to his feet and
admonished the youth not to answer, amid roars of
laughter from the crowd.

“At the close of the meeting, the seven young visitors
were the guests of the chairman of the community plan-
ning board and the mayor. It is doubtful whether any
other means would have been as effective in making
not only the youth of Neumarkt, but the entire population
cognizant of the great danger confronting western Ger-
many from the East. Many a Neumarkter has since given
serious consideration to statements made during the visit,
a visit which will not be so quickly forgotten.”

PEAKING OF THE EAST ZONE youth who came to

the western sectors during the festival, one of the
Berliners said, ‘They represented the best part of German
youth, those who are willing to fight for their own con-
victions of democracy in a world where they are never
allowed to speak openly — something which you here in
the West take for granted. These young people have to
stand up for their democratic beliefs day after day against
a continuous barrage of vicious propaganda.

“The people of the East zone are easy to distinguish
from Western Germans, for their eyes are dull. They
must fulfill their delivery quotas and play the Hennecke
activist. The Soviets do everything possible to change
the individual to nothing but a mere number and these
individuals — this we must never forget — are Germans.”

Paying tribute to two Americans whom the people of
Berlin consider heroes, one youth said: ‘For each Berliner
it will always be a moral obligation and a real privilege
to remember two Americans who brought us the Airlift,
General Clay and General Howley.* When either of these
gentlemen comes to Berlin he is no longer an American
general but our friend. We do not talk about ‘Occupation
Forces’ in West Berlin — only East Berlin suffers that mis-
fortune — but of our friends who faced the blockade under
the same conditions as ourselves and to whom we are
eternally indebted that Berlin did not starve." +END

* General Lucius D. Clay was US Military Governor in Germany
and Brig. Gen. Frank L. Howley was US commandant in Berlin during

the Soviet blockade of the city and the Allied Airlift to feed 2,250,000
Berliners in 1948-49.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
| Guarding Human Rights Today

Address

By BENJAMIN J. BUTTENWIESER
Assistant US High Commissioner for Policy

HIS GATHERING OF LEADERS interested in the

promotion of those truths which are identified with
a better way of life deserves the highest commendation.
This particular meeting in Limburg calls to mind two
outstanding contributions which have recently been
made by Germans in the field of human rights — one
national in scope and the other international.

This old city is today host to an intergroup study and
discussion of basic values which man has come to recog-
nize as human rights. Last February a small group of
German scholars and leaders, meeting in Wiesbaden,
agreed on a series of conferences to be held throughout
Hesse on the “Impact of Moral Values in the Field of
Human Rights." This modest beginning has led to a
series of such meetings, of which this session is the
fourteenth. You are to be congratulated on the leader-
ship and the interest you are showing in this valuable
contribution to human understanding.

A second significant emphasis is also associated with
Limburg. Here, six months ago, in this political and
ecclesiastical center, was held an international assembly
of representatives from many European countries, includ-
ing Germany, to evaluate and resolve on issues related
to human rights. Of fundamental importance were the reso-
lutions adopted supporting the stability and the protection
of family life. So, Germans, in a local way and with the
peoples of other nations, are concerning themselves with
those rights which are essential to the welfare of society.

OOKING OVER YOUR PROGRAM and discussing it
with some of the conference members warrant my
making a few observations on the significance of the
rights of man as viewed in the history of Europe. May
I recall the names of but two of the many figures well
known to every student of human rights: the 13th
century Thomas Aquinas and Robert Bellarmine of the
16th century. The works of these distinguished critics
reveal principles basic to democratic thinking. Aquinas
is renowned for his many sage pronouncements, not the
least of which was that “Nature made all men equal in
liberty, though not in their natural perfections.”
Again, Aquinas, referring to the

“Let government remember that it presides over men
who are of the same nature as those who govern.”

These fundamental principles, and many equally pro-
found and challenging, were in the minds of our ancestors,
who preceded the Western culture of today in Europe and
elsewhere in the world. It is well to recall the contri-
butions of history, but it is of greater consequence to
interpret them and to translate them into the practical
responsibilities of our own day. Let us use this wisdom
of the past for the benefit of our fellow men, especially
in these parlous present times when the rights and dignity
of man are being so malevolently challenged in all too
many parts of the world.

HIS BRINGS ME to another major consideration,

namely, the emphasis on responsibility along with the
recognition of a right. In our examination of the impact
of rights in our lives, we must be ever aware of the
obligation to protect and to support them, even, if neces-
sary, at great personal sacrifice and in the subordination
of other less important values.

Such rights as respect for the dignity of the individual
man, his right to freedom of thought, speech and religion,
the stability of family life and economic freedom, with
all their manifold implications, the right of democratic
self-government and the right to share human rights with
other peoples; all these, and countless others, are not to
be looked upon as the exclusive possessions of any one
man or group of men. Moreover, there must be the spirit
and the courage to defend and to extend these rights so
that our way of life, the Western way of life, will be
ensured.

In closing these all too brief remarks on so far-reaching
and vitally important a subject, may I reiterate that it is
well to remember that human rights do not owe their
origin to any government or to any institution or to any
man. They are endowed in man by God and they are
manifested in the external natural law. But they do owe
their continued existence and development to the alert
and never faltering protection afforded to them by man,
by government and by institutions. That attitude and that

doctrine spell success and happiness

rights of people, declared that "...the
making of a law belongs to the whole
people... anda government estab-
lished without the consent of the
people is unjust and can be deposed
by them.” Bellarmine emphasized that
“All men are equal, not in wisdom or
grace, but in the essence and nature
of mankind; and further he warned,

This article is the text of an ad-
dress given before a one-day con-
ference on human rights, held at
Limburg on Oct. 17, which was at-
tended by 65 representatives of
church, educational, civic, political
and labor groups. The meeting was
sponsored by the Religious Affairs
Branch, OLC Hesse.

for all peoples, even as default in
such attitude spells failure and doom
for all that we hold dear.

To you, the members of this confer-
ence, may IJ venture the hope that your
consideration of human rights may be -
the basis of a vigorous and enlightened
zeal for the continuous application of
these values in your daily lives. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 20 ---
Defense of Common Freedom,

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

HE PARAMOUNT ISSUE before the world today is

the preservation of peace with freedom. This is a
crucial period. We are faced again, a few years after the
close of the most destructive war in history, with the
menace of a powerful police state. We have seen one
country after another, neighbors of this state, absorbed
by means of a widespread secret police system into a dull,
single party community where divergence is the arch
crime. Fortunately, at the other side of the world there is
another state, a free state, prepared to resist the encroach-
ments and the doctrine of totalitarianism.

Between these two well-defined forces are the British
Isles and Europe. In this area lie many nations which have
been important sources of the technical development, the
culture and the political liberty of our civilization. Yester-
day these nations were torn by wars and bitterness. Today
they are coming together to defend their common freedom.
Defense, and not aggression, is the sole purpose of their
united action. These free nations will never undertake a
military adventure. They are uniting solely to preserve
the peace.

Before long the free nations of Europe will have
developed a strong political, economic and military
defense system, Until maximum defense power is achieved,
however, Europe will be compelled to look across the
Atlantic for additional aid and support. In the final
analysis, therefore, the relationship between the American
continent and Europe will determine the grave issue of
peace and freedom.

TIS IN REGARD TO the relationship between these two

great areas that I wish to say a few words with
particular emphasis upon the attitude of the United States
toward Germany.

I will not dwell upon the revolutionary aspect of Ameri-
can policy which has resulted in many commitments in
Europe — commitments that would have been utterly in-
conceivable only a few years ago. I think it is well to
examine, however, the motivation for these commitments
and for the further proposals, particularly regarding Ger-
many, which are now current.

After the war it became apparent that though the total
resources of the European nations were tremendous and
their total potentialities very great, no single country
was able alone to protect its own boundaries against
possible aggression. Moreover, individual national econo-
mies had been so jarred by the shocks of war that help
had to be forthcoming from abroad if fatal ills were to be
avoided.

At the same time the enormous military power of Soviet
Russia remained mobilized. In the shadow of this threat

NOVEMBER 1951

17

came the coup d'etat in Czechoslovakia, the suppression
of Poland, of Hungary, and of other nations. These events
created a paralyzing sense of fear of the strength and
intentions of the monolithic Soviet system.

CTION IN THE FREE WORLD was imperative. The

United States put forward the Marshall Plan — one of
the great concepts of modern times — in order to give the
nations of Europe a chance to collect their political, eco-
nomic and financial forces. The Marshall Plan was de-
signed to provide to these nations the missing margin
between their own economic capacities and resources and
their minimum needs. All European countries were invited
to participate in the plan. Certain of the satellites deeply
desired to join, but their participation was forbidden by
the Soviet rulers.

The Marshall Plan gave the nations of Europe a start.
They themselves organized the OEEC (Organization for
European Economic Cooperation). A strong advance was
thereby made on the road to European economic unity.

In addition to economic unity the need was great for an
integration of the defense forces of the West. The United
States joined in creating the defensive alliance of the
Atlantic Community, known as the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization. During this period many Europeans who be-
lieved integration was necessary if Europe were to survive
carried on their efforts under the symbol of Strasbourg.

N JUNE 1950, the Communists attacked in Korea. Here
! was bald proof that the Communists were prepared to
use their military strength to grab off further territory.
Europe shuddered anew. The problem of defense of the
free peoples became immediate and urgent. Again there
was evidence of the pressing need for a great cooperative
endeavor for the sake of preserving freedom. The problem
of how to achieve a European community was no longer
an exercise in Utopianism; it became a practical and con-
crete task to assure that freedom would survive.

The European community is not yet fully achieved.
Nationalistic urges and cynicism are large barriers in its
way. But we should not underestimate the great progress
that has been made. France has given support to far-
reaching proposals for European strength in the form of
the Schuman Plan on the economic side and of the Euro-
pean Defense Force on the military side. If the great coal
and steel resources of Europe are unified, the continent
will have a firm industrial base. If common defense is
added, Europe will become a strong community.

The United Kingdom, traditionally reluctant about any
continental grouping, has now recognized the need for a
European community. The United States is wholehearted-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
ly behind the concept of a united, free Europe. It has not
only declared its support of the Atlantic and European
community but it has also stationed forces within the
European area and provided a large part of the means by
which a through-going defense system can be erected.

All in all things are moving in the right direction, even
if slower than we would wish. And with each step forward
in the direction of a strong European community, there
is a growing sense of security in the free world.

WOULD LIKE NOW to talk about Germany's role and

the policy of the United States regarding Germany.

It is against this background of developing European
and Atlantic integration that the future status and role of
Germany must be viewed. For Germany the threat of Com-
munist aggression is not merely a theoretical consider-
ation. Already Communist dictatorship is encamped upon
German soil. Under the protection of Soviet arms an alien
economic and political system has been forced upon
18,000,000 Germans in the Soviet Zone.

In the West, under the leadership of men they have
freely chosen to represent them and in cooperation with
the Western Allies, the German people have progressively
constructed a system of democratic government. They

have given the world an amazing exhibition of physical —
and political rehabilitation. The Federal Republic has de-
veloped a government with leaders of wide vision and
a parliament capable of serious consideration of serious
issues, The criticisms cast at the Allied Powers by politi-
cal leaders in and out of parliament are evidences of the
independence of the government — even though at times,

if I may say so, the practice is a bit overdone,

The time has now come for the Federal Republic to
achieve equal status with the other free nations of Europe.
With the exception of certain rights which we must main-
tain in connection with our troops in Germany and with
the exposed position of the Federal Republic and of Berlin
vis-a-vis Soviet Russia, we are prepared to relinquish
remaining occupational controls.

An essential factor in the new arrangements is the
proposal to include the Federal Republic in the defense
system of the European community. It would be of little
service to the German people if they were set adrift with-
out power to help defend themselves against the threat
from the East. Consequently we propose, in connection
with the liquidation of the occupation status of the Feder-
al Republic, a defense contribution on a basis of equal
partnership within the European Defense Force.

TTT LTT TUTHIUL LULL LIUUULULOLUOLDLOL OULU LULU LLUOG UO LLCCLULOO LLC LLOGLE CCGG LUG LPOGUULLoEUUCLEULOGEULOGGAPLOGGULUGALLOCOECCGEPOCGAOOCGEALECGALUCGA LOO LC DL Lp

The arrival of the S.S. America at
Bremerhaven Nov. 3, marking the
inauguration of postwar first-class
passenger service to Germany by
the United States Lines, was de-
scribed by Mr. McCloy in the in-
troductory remarks to his major
policy address at the dinner meet-
ing that evening of the Bremer-
haven Chapter of the National De-
fense Transportation Association,
as “a striking symbol of the res-
toration of normal peacetime rela-
tions between the United States and

Germany — a relationship which
we are seeking to solidify in our
current negotiations with the lead-
ers of the new German state in
Bonn.”

“The S.S. America is a com-
mercial vessel, built to carry people
on peaceful missions throughout
the world,” the US High Commis-
sioner continued. “In that role we
greeted her entrance into this har-
bor today. The America, however,
was once a troop ship. This thought
reminds us that it is our task to
insure that she keeps her present
character — and that her reconver-
sion becomes forever unnecessary.

“To do this will require a world
community dedicated to the peace-
ful exchange of ideas as well as of
people and goods. And just as this
ship requires an international com-
munity in which to prosper, so the
future of this port depends upon a
world in which the seas are broad
highways of commerce rather than
areas of conflict. War may bring
temporary activity to the ports of
the world, but in the end port cities
usually suffer more than others, as
the people of Bremerhaven and
Bremen have learned so tragically.
“Whether or not we shall have

a peaceful world will depend upon
the solution of many grave prob-
lems which now plague us in our
international relations. Even more
iundamentally it will depend upon
the number of individual men and
women who can see beyond their
own borders and beyond their
own personal interests in choosing
their governments.

“To the people of Bremerhaven
and Bremen—I except the mis-
guided minority which would ap-
parently once more set Germany
upon a totally ruinous course —
an international outlook should be
as natural as breathing for it is
vital to their life. Their life interest
makes them internationalists, and
the people of this community have
instinctively chosen for high office
aman with the broad outlook of
Senate President Wilhelm Kaisen.
I wish there were more like him.”

The major portion of Mr. Mc-
Cloy's policy address is printed in
the article on these pages. The
photograph, made by Claude Ja-
coby of the Public Relations Divi-
sion, HICOG, shows the S.S. Amer-
ica, tied up at its dock in Bremer-
haven, being admired by German
customs officials. +END

STITH LULLULLULULLLLLLLLULLELLLLLLOLULLLCLLOLLUOCOULLUOOOULLUGLOLELULOLOGLOOLUOLOGOOLULULLLOOPLLOOLGELLLLUOLOULUOGEEUPULOLOELUUREGOeEULLUOOGAOUULLUOCGLELUPOOCGLOLLULOUOHOPLUOOOGEOLULUOOAOOULUOUOMITULUOOOUOA LUO ODD

INFORMATION BULLETIN 18 NOVEMBER 1951 ;

--- Page 22 ---
T IS APPARENT that a German contribution to the de- ,

fense of Germany's own freedoms would help protect
the freedom of Europe and more remotely the freedoms
of the United States. This fact is not a reflection upon the
value of the proposal or upon the motives of those who
make it. The German people and others would make a
serious mistake if they failed to appreciate the idealism
which enters into much of United States policy in regard
to Germany and to Europe.

Whether or not Germany accepts the plans for a Euro-
pean Defense Force, it is obvious, I hope, that we intend
to defend our own freedoms. The measures we now con-
template are not based on the desire for a few German
divisions lined up with the West rather than with the East.
The aim of United States policy in this country, an aim
shared, I know, by Britain and France, is to help Germany
to provide itself with a protective shield to assure its
continued democratic development. The Federal Republic
is not in a position to forge this shield by itself.

The United States welcomes the full association of Ger-
many with the Western European countries. Among the
deeper reasons for our support is the belief that such
association will help the development of a democratic
Germany and that this association will be a guarantee
for peace.

In connection with the first point it is apparent that
despite strong democratic developments in the past six
years there are certain disquieting signs in Germany. The
small neo-Fascist groups that have emerged are evidence
that some Germans still subscribe to the barbaric princi-
ples of National Socialism. Here and there posts are held
by former Nazis who were not merely followers but
beneficiaries of the Nazi system. Some former officers are
talking in the spirit of obsolete militarism. Certain of-
ficials and party leaders are trying to gain support by
cheap attacks on the Allies. In some universities and
schools and in other institutions old influences are being
brought to bear to suppress new and progressive ideas.

N SPITE OF THESE DEVELOPMENTS the time has
come for the German people to assume the responsi-
bility for their own future. The German people alone are
in a position to generate a truly democratic spirit in this
country. Nobody can do that for them. It is our belief,
however, that democratic institutions in Germany will be
nurtured by German integration in the European com-
munity.

One of the real benefits to be derived from the Euro-
pean community would be the association with consti-
tutional and democratic governments, with long-estab-
lished democratic institutions and traditions. Such
association, and the countless individual contacts that
such association would bring with it, would undoubtedly
strengthen the democratic processes within Germany itself.

Association with the European community would also,
as I have said, be a guarantee for peace. It would destroy
the misgivings of many Germans and of others who under-
standably fear that German rearmament may take a false
direction. It is fantastic to suppose that the European De-

NOVEMBER 1951

19

fense Community would permit, or that the other NATO
countries would support, any aggressive venture.

It is significant to observe that both the Communists
and the neo-Nazis oppose the European Defgnse Force
and Western integration. The former oppose ‘it because
it places a roadblock against further Communist aggres-
sion in Europe; the latter because it does not permit of
irresponsible military adventure. I submit those are two
good reasons for its adoption rather than its rejection —
particularly from the point of view of the German citizen
who desires to live in freedom and in peace.

[7 ME NOW SUMMARIZE, as I see them, the main
points of United States policy regarding Germany.

1, The United States believes that Germany is entitled
to the opportunity to govern itself in freedom. Therefore,
the occupation status should now be terminated and the
Allied troops in Germany be regarded as defense troops.

2. The United States believes that in the present world
situation Germany cannot be set adrift without protection
against aggression. It is therefore necessary for the
Western Powers to help defend Germany and for the Ger-
mans to contribute to their own defense.

3. The United States, which is already a strong sup-
porter of the Atlantic community, believes that the best
way of achieving security for Germany will be through
the European Defense Force built into the defense system
of the Atlantic community.

4, The United States believes that in going forward with
European integration we must use every means to achieve
the unification of Germany on the basis of genuinely free
elections.

ERMANS IN THE SOVIET ZONE must be permitted
to join their countrymen in the Federal Republic in
electing representatives of their own choosing to develop
an all-German constitution and government. This will
not be easy to accomplish in the face of Communist
resistance to genuine elections. But I believe that the
integration of the Federal Republic into the Western com-
munity as a full partner will hasten the day of German
reunification, for behind the justifiable desire of the
German people for unification will stand the unity of pur-
pose and peaceful determination of the entire free world,
Already. this purpose and determination have forced
Soviet Zone authorities to talk about all-German elections
after refusing for more than a year to answer Western
proposals to this end. But deeds rather than words are
needed, We will not relent in our purpose to bring about
Germany unity in freedom. .

I said that I thought this was a crucial period. I pro-
foundly believe it. The time has come when we must move
away from the cynicisms and suspicions which pervade so
much of the thinking of this tortured continent and move
toward positive accomplishment. ‘

A narrow approach to our problems can only lead to
disaster. What we now need is an act of faith on all sides.
If we continue to move forward, we shall soon be living
in a solid European and Atlantic community in which
peace and freedom will be assured. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
BERLIN’S

FESTIVAL

By WILLIAM H. CONLAN

HE BERLIN FESTIVAL, 1951 was among the outstanding
international cultural events in Europe this year. The world’s
entertainment spotlight during September was on West Berlin
and there was good reason why with such number one hit
attractions as Oklahoma!" with Celeste Holm as Ado Annie,
Judith Anderson in “Medea,” the Hall Johnson Choir, Astrid
Varnay, the Old Vic Company and the Comedie Francaise. :
The billboards also enticed culture lovers to Eliot's “The
Cocktail Party," presented by Gustaf Gruendgens and_ his
Duesseldorf troupe; the German adaptation of “The Consul;”
Ljuba Welitsch of Vienna in her well-known interpretation of
“Salome; Zuckmayer's “Song in the Furnace; mimic Marcel
Marceau and his Paris group; American pantomimist Angna
Enters; art photography and antique glass exhibits, and a host
of other events.

Left, top to bottom, spectator views ancient and early medieval
glasswore from Ray Winfield Smith collection. Actress Judith
Anderson was smash hit in “Medea” production, Collection of
American art shownin Schoeneberg borough attracts Germans as
well as Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson, US commander of Berlin

The Juilliard String Quartet drew loud rounds of applause.
The earnest musicians are (l.-r.) Robert Mann, violin; Rapl.ael
Hillyer, viola; Arthur Winograd, cello, and Robert Koff, violin.

--- Page 24 ---
a . =

om

Musical comedy “Oklahoma!” showed American theater at its best. Right, cast members Henry Austin, Warren Schmoll,

Patricia Johnson, Judy Rawlins and stage manager Dave Weinstein study poster on advertising kiosk in free Berlin,

Any one of these top attractions alone would make
headlines when opening in a foreign capital, but when you
have such top attractions from six different nations run-
ning in one single month in West Berlin, it’s sensational.

Although the Berliners are fairly used to sensation by
now, they have never reacted quite as delightfully and
enthusiastically as they did during ‘the Berlin Festival
of Sept, 5-30. It was quite a thrill to witness the re-
ception the first American production

the early morning edition with the review sharing the
headlines. All the Berlin papers soon joined in to shower
Gian-Carlo Menotti and Inge Borkh with praise. The Ber-
lin Festival was off to a good start which didn’t let up
during the whole month of September.

ETROPOLITAN OPERA SOPRANO Astrid Varnay,
arriving in Berlin after a very successful per-
formance during the Wagner festival in

received, It was the Berlin Staedtische
Oper (Municipal Opera) presentation of
Gian-Carlo Menotti's opera, ‘The Con-
sul.’ Swiss soprano Inge Borkh liter-
ally stopped the show when the Berlin
audience resounded in applause after
the scene in the consulate in which
Miss Borkh dramatized the plight of
the wife of a fugitive resistance leader.

For two full minutes after the final
curtain, the house was silent, absorbed
by the dramatic ending. Then all bed-
lam broke loose in thunderous ap-
proval. One Berlin newspaper stopped
the presses to rush out a review in

William H. (Bill) Conlan is in
charge of issuing travel orders
and assigning staff cars at the Ber-
lin Element of HICOG, but in his
free time he likes to pursue his
personal avocation of reviewing
theatrical performances. His State-
side interest was quite professional,
for he was a regular contributor to
“Variety,” leading magazine of the
entertainment field. In this article,
he has drawn on his experience to
weigh the reactions of the German
people to the American contribu-
tions to the Berlin Festival 1951.

Bayreuth, opened the following night
at the Staedtische Oper in “Tristan
and Isolde." The Berlin critics also had
orchids for Miss Varnay. Der Abend
called her “a new star in the skies
of world opera.” Der Kurier was just
as enthusiastic, stating that ‘there was
nothing to be compared with Astrid
Varnay as Isolde.’ Der Tag described
Miss Varnay. as “simply overwhelm-
ing." These reviews and many others
made it two hits in a row for the
American cultural contribution.

The second appearance of Astrid
Varnay was in Wagner's “Die Wal-

Left, Dr. Hall Johnson rehearses his famous choir for two concerts during Festival. Right, Federal President Theodor
Heuss extends hand in praise to Wilhelm Furtwaengler, conductor of Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, whose rendition

eg

of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony opened Festival at Schiller Theater.

(Photos by PRD HICOG and PRB BE-HICOG)

--- Page 25 ---
kuere” with Ferenc Fricsay conducting. Once again the
Berlin audience reaction was terrific with the critics just
as enthusiastic as they were for “Tristan and Isolde.”
Everyone agreed it was, indeed, great opera in a great city.

The Berlin newspaper Montags Echo called the score
for all the press in the quartered city in describing the
performance of the Juilliard String Quartet as “one of
the most outstanding and impressive performances of
the whole festival." The famed quartet introduced a
new interpretation of quartet music in Berlin. The Ber-
liners heard an entirely different presentation of Mozart,
Beethoven and Schoeneberg. It was feared that just as
music by Stravinsky or Shostakovich took time to gain
public approval, so would it take time for the Juilliard
music to gain approval by the Berliners. But that wasn't
the case, The Berliner Anzeiger said, “This was quartet
art at its best!”

HE REPUTATION OF Richard Rodgers and Oscar

Hammerstein II has become universally famous since
a show called ‘‘Away We Go” opened in Boston in 1943.
Boston is considered by most producers the best Stateside
city for a pre-Broadway tryout for new shows. The Boston
critics are above average and very helpful to producers
who are anxious about a Broadway opening. Many a good
bit of advice has been passed along by Boston papers.

“Away We Go” was a musical based on a story by
Lynn Riggs called “Green Grow the Lilacs." The marquee
over the theater advertised two new stars, Celeste Holm
and Alfred Drake, The Boston papers had a lot of nice
things to say about the two new stars and the new Rod-
gers and Hammerstein musical. But they also had a few
suggestions to make. One was that the title wasn’t ap-
propriate. A word to the wise apparently was sufficient
as away went “Away We Go" to New York with a new
title atop the billing, "Oklahoma!" Away went “Okla-
homa!" to establish new records on Broadway, on the
road and in London over a period of six years. In 1951,
“Oklahoma!” added another chapter to its already
fabulous history. The time was September, the place,
Berlin. The occasion was the Berlin Festival.

On Sunday, Sept. 9, two Constellations landed at
Tempelhof airfield with Celeste Holm, Patricia Johnson,
Ridge Bond, Jerry Mann, Mary Marlo and Walter
Donahue and 60 other members of the “Oklahoma!” com-
pany. For the next two weeks these wonderful people
were the toast of Berlin.

“Oklahoma!” was slated for performances in two Ber-
lin theaters, Titania Palast in the American sector, and
the Corso Theater in the French Sector close to the
Russian border. All went well for the musical at the
former theater, There were some critics who weren't as
enthusiastic as expected but the majority of them had
a lot of nice things to say for “Oklahoma!” The big
question, however, was how would the audience react
out in the French Sector where more than 1,000 Germans
from the East zone were expected to attend every per-
formance.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

“Oklahoma!” star Celeste Holm is interviewed at RIAS
(US-sponsored radio station in Berlin) by Hyman B. Char-
niak, deputy chief of HICOG’s Public Relations Division,

N OPENING NIGHT at the Corso Theater all fears

were dispelled. Never before in the history of
“Oklahoma!” had such a terrific reception been received.
There's no doubt about it, “Oklahoma!” was socko with
the Russian-dominated Germans. They wouldn't stop
cheering. Even after numerous curtain calls and the
house lights having been turned on, they continued to
cheer. Celeste Holm revealed that they had been in-
structed to limit the number of curtain calls for ‘'Okla-
homa!"

“But how could we?" she said. “With such a tremendous
ovation going on for minutes after the house lights had been
turned on, I couldn't ignore it and return to my dressing
room!" So Celeste came out from behind the curtain and
responded to the cheers, Celeste Holm became one of
America’s greatest ambassadors of good will on the
stage at the Corso Theater that night, dear to the hearts
of her East German audience.

The “Oklahoma!” impact on the East Germans was too
much for the Communists. Up until the appearance of
Celeste Holm and company at the Corso Theater, the
Eastern press had a policy of ignoring the Berlin Festival.
But they soon realized that the East Germans weren't
ignoring “Oklahoma!”

To counteract the tremendous publicity “Oklahoma!”
was getting by word of mouth in the East zone, the
Communist paper, Berliner Zeitung broke s‘lence and
recognized the Berlin Festival by reviewing ‘Okla-
homa!" They called Celeste Holm and company “ambas-
sadors of American imperialism and warned the East
German that Rodgers and Hammerstein were not for
them. That was all that was needed to prove the suc-
cess of “Oklahoma!” in Berlin.

ERHAPS THE MOST’ controversial number during the

festival was Judith Anderson's “Medea.'’ Without any
question, Miss Anderson is one of the most dynamic
and fascinating actresses in the world tody. “Medea”
is the modern adaption by Robinson Jeffers of the an-
cient Greek tragedy by Euripides. The mixture of Judith
Anderson and ancient Greek tragedy resulted in an

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 26 ---
explosion in Berlin. To understand how the Berliners
reacted, here are samples of the critics’ reviews ranging
from good to critical.

Der Abend: “Judith Anderson is a tragedienne of
fascinating power. She is a temple dancer, a somnam-
bulist while acting her own perversion...thus she ap-
proaches the border between classic tragedy and modern
drama. It was a great play which the audience accepted
with long applause.”

Nacht-Depesche: ‘This modern version of ‘Medea’ has
become an overwhelming success in the USA but it ap-
pears somewhat exaggerated to us; it reminds us of a
second-rate moving picture... yet in spite of this it is
interesting. Judith Anderson is a first-class actress, no
doubt; her ‘Medea’ is full of passion, is brutal, is a beast,
This guest performance gave us a valuable picture of
American theatrical art.”

Berlin critic Friedrich Luft, referring to “Medea” in the
American-published German language paper Die Neue
Zeitung, remarked that it was interesting to compare
American theater with the European stage. He drew the
conclusion that “It is a view of the development which
they (the Americans) still have to go through.”

Unfortunately, “Medea” ran at the Hebbel Theater,
which has a seating capacity of only 600. Although the
theater is situated close to the Russian sector, only a
small percentage of the total capacity (3,000) for the
entire run were East Germans. Actually the bulk of the
audience for each performance consisted of Americans.
It was unfortunate that more Berliners couldn't have
seen her “Medea.”

HE OLD STANDARDS always drew the raves of the
Berlin critics and also the audience. Franz Lehar's
“Land of Smiles" (with the top lyric “Yours is My
Heart Alone’) had the SRO sign out for every per-
formance at the Theater am Nollendorfplatz. The produc-
tion was good for Europe but the staging and the scenery
alone would keep it out of a first-run Broadway house.
One of the highlights of the “Oklahoma!” run in Ber-
lin was the televising of the musical by Radio Cor-
poration of America. RCA put on a demonstration in
Berlin in August when an estimated 1,000,000 Berliners
turned out to watch the video screens which had been
set up all over the city. At the request of Maj. Gen.
Lemuel Mathewson, US commander, Berlin, RCA agreed
to remain over in Berlin for the purpose of televising
“Oklahoma!”

Jerry Whyte, Rodgers and Hammerstein production
chief, and Peter Davis and Lemuel Ayers of the Theater
Guild took a trip around Berlin during the video per-
formance for an on-the-spot observation of German
reaction. At Potsdamer Strasse, just 400 yards from the
Soviet Sector, 5,000 Berliners stood watching “Okla-
homa!" Mr. Whyte mingled with the audience and later
commented that it was truly remarkable and wished that
Messrs. Rodgers and Hammerstein could be there to see
it and enjoy it as much as he had. Peter Davis, likewise
thrilled by the demonstration, added that it was one of
the most fantastic developments in the history of “Okla-
homa!"

NOVEMBER 1951

23

Permission to televise the famed musical had to be
obtained from the composers, the Theater Guild and
Equity, the actor's union. In view of the fact that Rodgers
and Hammerstein had never before granted permission
for the televising of one of their musicals, the video ap-
pearance in Berlin was actually a world premiere for
“Oklahoma!”

RCA proved that television cameras could be operated
in a legitimate theater during a regular performance
without disturbing the audience. Naturally, the RCA
technicians would have preferred to use mobile cameras
to move in for close-ups, but they did one swell job with
the two cameras stationed permanently in the orchestra
and the balcony at Titania Palast.

HERE WAS PLENTY of proof that the Berliners

liked the Hall Johnson Choir, number one being
that they were such a hit that they already been ten-
tatively booked for a return engagement in Berlin next
winter by ANTA (American National Theater Academy).
They will appear in George Gershwin’s ‘Porgy and Bess,”
which, will run in London.

The critics threw many a bouquet at the Hall John-
son Choir with such lyrics as “beautiful voices, full of
rythmic culture’ (Neue Zeitung); “This is no routine
singing. It comes from the heart, simultaneously being
genuine music. Bright and cheerful” (Berliner Anzeiger);
“Those tones had a new exciting effect’ (Telegraf).

RCA televised the Hall Johnson Choir for the final
video performance of the festival. More than 20,000
Berliners stood outside for two hours in the cold
evening to watch it.

The Nacht-Depesche had special words of praise for
the Shakespearian drama ‘Othello. This full-length
production by Michael Langham had not yet been on
the boards at the Old Vic Theater in London. Of Doug-
las Campbell's interpretation of the Moorish nobleman,
the critic said, “This Othello, a wounded animal, roars
out his sorrow like a child, with wide, very dramatic
gestures.’ Irene Worth's fascinating Desdemona and
Paul Rogers’ cold yet witty Iago drew laudable comment.

HE COCKTAIL PARTY," presented at the Schiller
Theater was termed by Der Tag “an immensely
prudent treatise, in dialogue, on human relations and the
illusions people entertain toward life and themselves.”
The reviewer added that the strange mixture served
in this play — Eliot Extra Dry, a drop of irony, bitterness
distilled from ripe knowledge, and the ingred‘ent from
a strong creed—leaves the viewer clear-headed, sober
and pensive.

Zuckmayer's “Song in the Furnace” was solid, real-
istic theater with emphasis on symbolism. Der Tages-
spiegel reported: ‘There was some applause after the
first part and stronger applause at the end, thanks to
Zuckmayer's thrilling play, to Heinrich Koch's intensive
direction and to the cast’s action— which in the course
of the evening became more and more exact. This was the
first contribution by a Berlin theater which did justice to
the concept of the Festival weeks. (Continued on page 57)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Early manuscripts shown at Bavarian Law Library included
those shown here. The one above, “Digests of the Corpus
Juris Civilis,” 14th century Italian manuscript, right page
shows Emperor Justinian with attendants, inside columns
are text of statutes, outside ones comments. Digests
include 50 volumes of monographs by classical jurists.

“Schwabenspiegel," 14th century manuscript, medieval
law book written by an Augsburg monk on the basis of
the “Sachsenspiegel’' about 1275. Commonly used in Ba-
varia, Swabia and Switzerland as a standard legal work.

Dee
ne!
Fro ale a men was ‘Lota aber con terre Deere dus
wwenne bi wert fatie serge. irk cum goer er hat ale get rete,
Dewarses ene fan waerda: Bar gar.fUrter akg B Dem fetyter
aft ot fibent werk. ante wars date faret. pnd exer be leben
man mek fret carne gent anuiey chee Peee) atter tegen,
hart. ob ber fiver herfigit ie srevgen fret vena veer
bet rele mevge geyaien ob rit Tes hare fetgtees ad
“Ee ctaunge-habent aoe wor here. ven den legen:
fret fiver mat dem fivene her «recat habent tt gerenge’
Keeuire meee server aioe, Dor indn vend ietgenreig ver
foto frntte ietyrareheng darter otter WOR ane yee
pete wa teen p noel pam cboned
att Adar. Dev arter q amon gue aad A,
eer derate an. precise vp tes uycu
pe bealgy ou erfonfe «ert ze leyenond geleuhe sey
gu Dawud. Dev feette anita. ge prerene.wudelt ter aunt 37 4
EVod cn feche werit pewet Tae va »
ware dag waren er natter-Deruke fot Be
fi Rana wart emer syTee ait ge.
chu Be gepocer.von Canit’” gases vib tev aeidert

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“Lex Romana _ Visigothorum," sixth-seventh ‘century

manuscript, code enacted by Alaric II, King of Visigoths,
for Romans living in West Goths’ empire at beginning of
sixth century. Document is known as ‘“‘Breviarium Alarici.”

rh hye
by

od por
gs Ul toes desayred tied A

Tribe laws of the Sallans, the Ripuarians, and the Alemans,
ninth century manuscript. “Lex Salicia,” code of the Salian
Franks, dates back to 508-11. One provision excludes
females from inheriting real property. “Lex Ripuria," law
of Ripuarian Franks, is traced to the Merovinger area and
“Lex Alamanorum,” eighth century, tribe law of Alemans.

MEH De pagrmt
fom De eats entice.

B ehibens § yn
piss rat ae

“Lex Bajuvarorum,” 12th century manuscript, deals prima-
tily with position of Church. This Bavarian tribe law goes
back to 741-44 and is based on laws of Visigoths' King Euric.

NOVEMBER 1951

24

--- Page 28 ---
Bavaria’s
Law

Library

AVARIA'S LAW LIBRARY celebrated its first an-

niversary recently in a ceremony in which Dr. Ge-
orge N. Shuster, US state commissioner for Bavaria, Dr.
Josef Mueller, minister of justice of Bavaria, Dr. Anton
Konrad, president of the Supreme Court of Bavaria, and
Chief Justice William Clark of the US courts of Allied
High Commission, Court of Appeals, participated.

When Leo M. Goodman, chief presiding district judge
for Bavaria, assumed his new position in Munich in
October 1948, he found the judges of the US Courts of
the Allied High Commission for Germany in Bavaria
with only 18 law books, all of little research value. The
indispensable law books and material which are
required for the correct and reliable application of the
laws which form the basis of decision were missing.

aetna te be py make pt mae Se

ran fan mb he nf Re he ce
fb Baer fe go da ae eth ot be
+5 a ate me ee shi ee pe ph ms Pap

pres

Mn pte bination dae Po BR em 5 a ny

Sarpeepiovenpomerem tp ney ta le et a pe te

Sem the ee tee yy
a ent

Pert) eee) us d

‘Statutum in Favorem Principum” (above), 13th century
manuscript, statute signed by Emperor Frederic II, May 1,
1231, and was issued as result of conflict with local princi-
palities. It enabled the secular princes to strengthen
sovereignty. (PRB OLCB photos by Maske)

Golden Bull of Charles IV, 14th century manuscript (right).
This document with impressive seal was issued by King
Charles IV in 1356 and sets forth the basic regulations
for the election of the German king and the position of the
electors. It was in force until 1806 and is considered as one
of the most important constitutional laws of old Reich.

NOVEMBER 1951

25

At the first anniversary celebration of opening of law
library, Judge Leo M. Goodman (right) shows shelves
now filled with recently acquired books to, 1.-r., Josef
Mueller, Bavarian minister of justice, Chief Justice Wil-
liam Clark, US Courts of Allied High Commission, and
George N. Shuster, US state commissioner for Bavaria,

Judge Goodman tackled the task confronting him. He
started to build a law library. At that time only limited
funds were available for buying the most-needed Ameri-
can law books and research material. Consequently, the
direct and simple method, of ordering, paying for and
registering them in the library, was not possible. Hence
another course had to be taken — either to acquire the

made penne Cand
prs hare | .
ca ik penn en nd aya
Se
eat a Eons See a
cept quan Th ans Sram Syne sores
Es come oft Tre ig rt fy pe
aT repre ernment Mle ae
Ga Sy mend pete ines Wire aye
ape fupien poulgnas ac ens Girone Juramuente FB Cusee ye Be
frosblenfore fay 2 uicwute pies conphruciemns poeftane Relebrnt
ec SAAS

iad

tenets

reed

pple few Us
fscroves fe so Caurarem Poon nfo

er separ slaps =
wai suaffan® Speenreany
ares e: ie a4 ee iia aps oe
Stoel sd zo payer sefory Castell
Ligg vabent in Eases Corny freee pape
pens

pasa As
mS $9 alone” vm quis conffa apices
by

raw Swanaglee

BP Frain por Webbie ‘manne fee parton avn renena|

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
books by donations or by loans. Numerous letters were
written to US universities explaining the dearth of
materials. The Bavarian National Library in Munich,
which contained a large collection of the decisions of
the United States Supreme Court, was also contacted.

MERICAN UNIVERSITIES, including the Universities

of Pennsylvania, Columbia, Harvard, City College of
New York, St. John’s and North Carolina, sent second
copies of urgently needed law books including American
Jurisprudence, Corpus Juris, Encyclopedia of Law and
Procedure, Restatement of the Law. The Bavarian Nation-
al Library put approximately 300 volumes of its collec-
tion on American decisions at the disposal of Judge
Goodman, and the New York Public Library and the
Practicing Law Institute of New York also made a num-
ber of valuable contributions.

The most urgent needs of the judges and lawyers of
the Bavarian occupation courts were thus satisfied. In
the meantime a small number of books and commen-
taries on German law were purchased from funds pro-
vided by the US Military Government for Bavaria. These
books were placed in two rooms of the US District Court
in Munich:

This success of putting dependable material at the dis-
posal of his judges did not satisfy Judge Goodman
completely. He made the library available not only to
the judges and prosecutors of the American courts but
also to the law students at the University of Munich, to
Referendare (law graduates) and Assessoren (applicants
on probation for the higher law service), who, as candi-
dates for a doctor's degree, were interested in Anglo-
American law.

HE PUBLIC INTEREST in the library, which at that

time was still not comprehensive, aided Judge Good-
man in his resolve to extend the library beyond the original
purpose of serving only judges and lawyers of the court.
The new aim was to make it a source for instruction as
well, which paralleled the information program of the
Occupation Authorities. This further goal, then, was to
develop the library in that direction and to organize it
as an intellectual center for the training of Bavarian
lawyers and specifically for law students.

The original two rooms soon became too small. The
library was moved into a larger room with two small
reading rooms annexed. A librarian was employed. Later
a quiet room in which students of Anglo-American law
could devote themselves to concentrated study was
established. Through loans, purchases and gifts, the
library collected 2,700 volumes.

The official opening of the library was held last year,
at which time Judge Goodman dedicated it to public use
in the presence of American and German dignitaries.

The library is open on weekdays from 8.30 a.m. to
5.30 pm: Approximately 30 to 40 persons visit the
library daily; most of them are assessors, law graduates
and law students of the University of Munich and other
universities. To date the library has had a total of 5,000
visitors. The number of its contributors and sponsors,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

“Grosser Brandbrief, 14th century manuscript. An agree-
ment between the king and the representatives of the
Church, nobility and the municipalities for the preservation
of the public peace. This document, in beautiful and even
script and with its many seals, is dated 1374. The ancient
pact is significant because it is an impressive example
of the co-operation among the king, the people and the
Church in a particularly troubled period of the Middle Ages.

both private and public, in Germany and in the United
States, has continued to increase. Its 5,000 volumes
represent the largest library in Bavaria, if not in all of
Germany, on Anglo-American and international law

N EXHIBITION OF GERMAN history of law was

instituted at that time. The Bavarian National Li-
brary, the Bavarian National Archives and the Bavarian
National Museum made available original priceless docu-
ments, scripts, books and pictures which illustrated the
development of German law from the early Middle
Ages up to modern times.

Among these were the Lex Romana Visigothorum (the
so-called Codex Alarici) of the 6th century; an Emanci-
pation Decree by Charlemagne of the year 777; the Lex
Salica; the Lex Bajuvarorum; the Code of Old Saxon

Laws; the Statutum In Favorem Principum by Emperor q

Frederick II; the Ottonic Bond; the Golden Bull by King
Charles IV; the Grosser Brandbrief of the year 1374; the
Ancient Code of Swabia and many other memorable
documents. Also on display were Duerer's “Prodigal

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 30 ---
Son,” “Sol Justitiae," works by Jaques Callot, Ulrich
Tengler, Brant and Pieter Breughel the Elder which gave
evidence of the old customs that were applied in setting

up laws. ,

These memorabilia gave insight to the problems of
securing peace within the community in the period of
the Middle Ages, as such problems are debated again
today within the large international community.

Exhibits were also presented on the continental Ger-
man law in its feudal development as conditioned by
tribal customs and on the Anglo-American law on which
the Constitution of the United States with its strong pro-

International Law, including

Conflict of Laws . . . . . . . 230 volumes.
Criminal Lawand Procedure . . . . 159 volumes.
Occupation Law (- 05%) oo aie ns 378 volumes.
Civil Law and Procedure . 387 volumes,
Foreign Law sss 2. ein oi ts ee 208 Volumes,
Research Aids including Encyclope-

dias, Digests, Decisions and Reports 1,061 volumes.
GermanLaw ...... +... . . 801-volumes.
History, Politics. . . . . .. . . 380 volumes.
Economics, Education, etc.. . . 387 volumes.
MMisceHaneous 23.20 21 241 volumes.

tection of the individual, human rights and human dignity

was based.

At present the library consists of the following depart-

ments:
Public Law

. 206 volumes.

With the opening of the library another small stone
had been added to the mosaic depicting friendship be-
tween the representatives of the Occupation Authorities
and the people of the state of Bavaria, +END

West
Greets
West

HE WEST MET WEST when Ger-
man exchange groups. visited
Santa Rosa, Calif., during the summer.
Through a formal resolution (re-
produced at right), Santa Rosa’s c'ty
council urged that private and govern-
ment sources combine their efforts to
broaden their understanding of Ger-
man and international relations by
continuing exchange of visits between
Germany, other countries and the
United States,

German labor, press, industry, church
and women leaders, including govern-
ment officials from Karlsruhe, Luebeck
and Giessen, spent three months in the
United States. Warmly received by
Santa Rosa, they observed the council
meetings and activ'ties of civic groups;
they saw and studied the democratic
impact on city government and local
affairs.

The resolution represents opinion
that the HICOG Exchanges Staff has
received both from German and US
participants: “Surprised to find our
own ignorance of the problems that
exist... (the HICOG exchanges) pro-
gram has developed an appreciation
and understanding of the need for
tolerance and cooperation between
nations.” +END

NOVEMBER 1951

OFFICE OF THE CITY MANAGER
CITY HALL, SANTA ROSA, CALIFORNIA
TELEPHONE SANTA ROSA 8700

SAM B. HOOD
city manacce

RESOLUTION NO. 3567

WHEREAS, the City of Santa Rosa, California, has been host to
three groups of German citizens participating in the educational program to show
influential German citizens how our democracy functions with particular stress
on citizen participation, and

WHEREAS, this program is a test program sponsored by the
Governmental Affairs Institute and the United States State Department, and

WHEREAS, the people of our community believe the program tre-
mendously successful in promoting international understanding not only on the
part of the German citizens but on our own part as well, and

WHEREAS, we were astonished to learn the details of the problems
of these Eurepean people and surprised to find our own ignorance of the problems
that exist, and

WHEREAS, we believe this program has developed an appreciation
and understanding of the need for tolerance and cooperation between nations, and
that the visit of these German citizens produced more effective results in our
community than all of the reading of books and papers for years could have
accomplished, and

WHEREAS, this City Council believes the program should be con-
tinued in other communities and possibly with citizens from other countries as
well as an exchange of visitors from our country.

NOW, THEREFORE, this Council does herewith go on record as
recommending to the United States State Department that they continue this program
in other communities in the United States organized along the lines of the same
plan used in the City of Santa Rosa, California

We suggest this may be the seed that will sow the understanding
needed to bring about peace and sound economic conditions throughout the world.

IN COUNCIL DULY PASSED THIS 28th day of __ august 1951.
AYES: (4) Mayor Pro Tem McCluskey, Councilmen Bishop, Daw and von Tillow

NOES: None
ABSENT: (1) Mayor Kushins

ATTEST:

ity Cler 5 Sad

27. INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Mannheim's water tower stands as symbol in beautiful park. (Photos by K. Hopp for Communities Activities Branch, E & CRD, HICOG}

Kiddies (above) play on barren lot — they live too far Occupants of youth hostel have a new home. Low, un-
from model playground (below) which offers inspiration attractive building (above) has been replaced by modern
for recreation department to build more community parks. one (below) which is well-designed has ample facilities.

--- Page 32 ---
Mannheim Plans for Tomorrow

By DOROTHEA LENSCH
Visiting Consultant, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden

J ET'S LOOK AT MANNHEIM today.
We see Mannheim’'s plans for the
future. Tomorrow this southern Ger-
man city hopes to build further on
its new-found community spirit and
to develop its pattern for neigh-
borhood living.
Much has already been accomplish-

on recreation,

Dorothea Lensch, author of this
article, is director of recreation for
the city of Portland, Oregon, but
recently assisted OLC Wuerttem-
berg-Baden as visiting consultant
youth and com-
munity activities.

Erlenhof, an area without easy
access to other facilities, needed a
community center (familiarly known
to Americans as a park community
center). City-owned Jand provided an
ideal location for erecting a demon-
stration project to include a_ social
center, a gymnasium, sport fields and

ed, Community centers, youth centers

and playgrounds give the city a new postwar look. Dr.
Hermann Heimerich, mayor of Mannheim, alert to the
value of widespread citizen education as a basis for
real progress in redevelopment of the city, gave Iead-
ership in crystallizing public interest end understanding.

Factors to be reckoned with in city planning are: a
population of 245,000; 76 percent of the city destroyed;
three out of every four homes demolished; 33 percent
of the school children left with only one parent; 2,000
persons (including an estimated 600 children) housed in
bunkers and, finally, extremely high tubercular and birth
rates —all resulting from the evils of the past era.

The greatest problem to overcome is congestion. The
Mannheim citizenry has a definite a‘m, which is to open
up the crowded center of the city to sun and air, to give
greater freedom of movement for both persons and
vehicles and, in the process, to restore the smaller
neighborhood pattern in the outskirts, which now receive
the major impact of population increases.

HY SHOULD MANNHEIM aim at this pattern?

Because the administrator knew that for normal
wholesome living, people must have a share in com-
munity life and association. A human-scale participation
rekindles a sense of individual dignity and significance
and also inspires social responsibility. Lives based on
the anonymity of the urban mass create human, social
and political problems which would continue to plague
Mannheim and engender anti-social mass emotions.

Redesigning demolished areas gives an opportunity
for improvement and, when feasible, a spacious neigh-
borhood environment has been attempted. It is not to
physical planning only that thought has been directed.
Only a few large cities can match the extensive approach
of Mannheim to a city-wide plan of youth service and
recreation opportunities for all its neighborhoods.

Few can show a comprehensive picture of their
suburbs, but Mannheim’'s districts — Rheinau, Innenstadt,
Neckarau, Lindenhof—have statistics on total population,
number of school children between ages of six and 14,
of those between 14 and 20, the number of houses, family
units, and persons living in temporary quarters, and the
distribution of parks, play areas and youth centers.

NOVEMBER 1951

playground. City funds available
amounted to DM 150,000 ($35,700), so assistance was
needed. The city negotiated with the US State Commis-
sioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden for aid from the HICOG
Special Projects Fund to carry out its plans.

A grant of DM 125,000 ($29,750) from HICOG will
enable them to start work on a main building with rooms
for social activity, club groups, a small multiple-purpose
room for kindergarten activities, table tennis and other
diversions. Work on the outdoor area will go forward
rapidly to complete this new type of recreational facility.

N THE HEART OF MANNHEIM a heavily populated

section surrounded by bunkers created another sore
spot. The city had land on which were three badly-bat-
tered and unused barracks. In the course of non-occupancy,
the heating equipment, every piece of iron pipe, ceiling
materials and even the flooring had been snatched away
by ‘those doubtless in need. To the youth of this section,
the very thought of ownership meant hope and a
challenge.

They accepted the drab barracks from the city fathers
and immediately set about reconditioning the dilapidated
structure. Girls, boys and even the tiny tots came with
nails, hammers and bits of material to repair the buildings,

Children enjoy teeter-totter and other playground equip-
ment as officials inspect their park. L.-r., Lt. Col. Everett
I. Reniker, GYA representative, North Baden; Erdmute
Falkenburg, head of city youth office; Hermann Heimerich,
mayor; Hugh Mair, senior resident officer, Mannheim.

es ew

--- Page 33 ---
Youth now have a place to read, play table games, work
puzzles or stand by and kibitz. Redecorated Friedrichs-
park youth center (above) was transformed from badly
batlered barracks (below). Renovation resulted from
Mannheim’s youth desire to have a place of their own for
recreation and play, an ambition which was realized when
they pitched in with amateur carpentering andredecorating.

Windows are now in, shutters painted a brilliant green,
the main room has a ceiling, walls are covered with white
calcimine and the windows are curtained.

After so much effort, the youngsters could not risk
exposing their new home to vandalism, so boys and girls
take turns sleeping in one of the rooms. The German
Youth Activities (GYA) assisted in securing materials for
the remaining rooms.

In another densely populated city district, the small
YMCA barracks center is changing appearances. The sur-
rounding half block was formerly owned by the Protestant

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

Church, but a 15-year lease for use by neighborhood
youth was granted after the boys had cleared the site of
the rubble.

Authorities of the juvenile court, working with the
director of the YMCA, make it possible for young men
who are=released and who have no housing to stay
temporarily in the basement bunk room until arrange-
ments can be made for work or housing.

In another part of Mannheim a workers welfare ap-
prenticesh'p home, on city-owned land, and a youth hostel
have been financed by the city. Funds to complete the
buildings also provide for winter-month _ recreation
facilities under the direction of the community center.

T RHEINAU, THE GYA had established a neighbor-

hood center, but in keeping with the policy of gradually
turning over GYA facilities to the German municipalities,
it became a part of the Mannheim administration on
Oct. 1 in a formal dedication ceremony.* This “pilot”
project established the method of transfer between the
German city and American authorities.

Playgrounds are always a vital part of the neighborhood
plan and ideally should be related to the centers. Mann-
heim’s 25 playgrounds, located to serve the areas of
greatest concentration, have not yet been fully equipped.
The majority have merely a sandbox and grass areas.
One of the newer and better equipped sites is demonstrat-
ing of what great value space and equipment are. Teeters,
swings, sandboxes, hard-surface play areas and grass plots
offer extended play facilities to the children and ane of
considerable help to the mothers. In the space of 15
minutes, 126 children were counted romping about the
enclosure. Traffic hums by, but the children go on with
their business of getting acquainted.

Within the limits of the city’s jurisdiction are 53 sta-
diums. Of these 23 have been assigned to organized sports
clubs. The conditions of the areas vary — some are land-
scaped and have small buildings, others are relatively
barren with a sandy surface. City planning, nevertheless,
will attempt to preserve these open sites and to develop
their potential use.

Three major landscape parks lend beauty to the other-
wise drab appearance of the city during the reconstruction
stage. Hundreds of acres in grass, flower beds, with ponds
and fountains and pathways beckon the city-dweller. In-
numerable small, green spots and masses of flowers
conceal scars of destruction in the approaches to the city
and through the city itself.

The schools too have been utilized in each district.
Organized youth groups have been given access to school
gyms and classrooms for both play and meetings.

ITH ALL THESE IMPROVEMENTS in mind, the muni-
cipal government is constantly planning for proper
administration and coordination. Much is going on; much
is projected — the construction of the Erlenhof demon-

% See ‘‘Mannheim GYA Center in German Hands,’ inside front

cover, this issue,

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 34 ---
BUREAU OF SOCIAL WELFARE

PROPOSED MANNHEIM DEPARTMENT OF RECREATION

MAYOR

BUREAU OF CULTURE AND SCHOOLS

PARK DEPARTMENT

HEALTH || YOUTH WELFARE | | WELFARE SPORTS
DIRECTOR OF RECREATION
CENTERS PLAYGROUNDS PARK FACILITIES SCHOOL WELFARE

stration center, the acceptance of the Rheinau “pilot'
project and the continued cooperation with private or
semi-private agencies.

Mannheim looked at itself and decided that the time
had come to establish a department of recreation. The
administration must include three divisions that have a
major role in and are concerned with youth problems.
The organization will be as follows: the Bureau of Social
Welfare, under the direction of Adolf Scheel; the Bureau
of Culture and Schools, under Hans Werner Langer; and
the Park Department, under Josef Bussjaeger. Erdmute
Falkenberg will be in charge of youth welfare activities.

A director will be responsible for coordinating the pro-
grams and facilities of the centers, playgrounds, schools
and the park and welfare activities. His responsibility,
moreover, will be to select, train and assign staff; to direct
the expenditure of funds; to prepare budgets; to arrange
proper maintenance and operation of areas; to interpret

recreation to committees; to arrange for publicity; to keep
in touch with other city officials and groups concerned
with youth; to participate in city organizations and activi-
ties in which youth has a vital interest; and to organize
and work with neighborhood and youth councils.

The director will be assisted by an advisory committee
made up of representatives of the welfare and park depart-
ments, the city youth committee, industry, press, schools,
the courts, the city planning division, US Information
Center, three women and the US resident officer.

What will this program cost? The city’s budget is well
over DM 1,000,000 ($238,000). Each of the governmental
divisions has funds that are directly and indirectly related
to the problem, but no single department could absorb the
cost of the new plans, The Department of Finance has
analyzed Mannheim's requirements and has set aside addi-
tional monies for this new city-wide program which may
well serve as a model for other German cities. -+END

Before and after pictures below show unattractive and uncomfortable barracks (left) which have been redone. Student
(right) has received benefits of Mannheim's facelifting projects, now has cheerful, well-Jighted inspiring place to study.

--- Page 35 ---
Young Citizens

Hold Forum

“Why are trolley rates being increased?"

“How much would a new opera building cost?”

“Why doesn't Hesse give more financial support
to students?”

“What do you intend to do about rising prices?”

RANKFURT'S POLITICIANS, from federal parlia-

ment representatives to delegates of the city as-
sembly, had to reveal their hands. They were pinned
down by a neoteric, but highly important, group of
voters: those who had just completed their 21st year of
age and would go to the polls for the first time early
next year.

Realizing the wide gap between Germany's present
political leadership and her youth, the Frankfurt Seminar
for Political Affairs, a non-profit civic group, invited all
young citizens who had just come of voting age to a
common birthday celebration with their country’s po-
litical leaders. It was not a formal affair, nor anything
like a political meeting.

In the great Palm Garden hall, which the US Army had
released for the day, tables were set up as for an after-
noon dance, and over a cup of tea or glass of beer the
young voters tried to find out what the various political
parties had to offer.

N A BRIEF ADDRESS Frankfurt’s Mayor Walter Kolb

told his audience that political life is by no means the
wicked, corrupt business as which it is often decried. By
contrast, he said, it requires honesty and decency, and a
politician is more likely to earn hatred, bitterness and
defamation than gratitude and honors. But he made it
clear to the young people that much of this bitterness

Mayor Kolb discusses current problems with group of
youth at their unique coming-of-voting-age celebration.

Young voters and government Officials listen to address

by Frankfurt's Mayor Kolb, (PRD HICOG photos by Gassner)
could be taken out of politics if leaders and voters would
maintain close contact and try to understand each other.

Referring to the example of Abraham Lincoln who, the
mayor said, faced a similar situation in the wake of a
great war, he stressed that “malice toward none, charity
for all, firmness in the right as God gives us to see the
right are now more essential in this war-shattered coun-
try than ever before.

The chairman of the city council, Hermann Schaub,
followed with an impromptu lecture on the manifold
functions of the city government, “which tends you from
the cradle to the grave.’ The eyes of many in the audience
widened as he told them of never-ending toilsome public
work in numerous fields of everyday life, of which they
had never thought. And when he threw the meeting open
to a free discussion, he touched off a stream of questions
such as the ‘‘town fathers’ had not expected.

UBJECTS SUCH AS TROLLEY FARES and opera build-

ing were hot, but relatively easy, issues. In one corner
a young law student proudly applied his knowledge in an
argument with a federal parliament representative about
compulsory military service and the German constitution,
while at the next table a state delegate argued with a
group of farmhands who were determined to quit the
country and emigrate to South Africa. A woman rep-

resentative talked eloquently to young women about”

public life being “the same as the family life you hope for,
only on a larger scale." The city treasurer got out his
budget and showed the young citizens he really did not
have a penny to waste.

Complaints came to light, too, and many political
leaders were busy taking down notes and addresses. For
more than three hours the big hall hummed with activity.

Only one city councilor complained that “they did not
stick me with questions."’ She has charge of — the regis-
trar’s offices in the city. “But don’t let that worry you,”
consoled the mayor. “They will be your customers sooner
or later." -+-END

NOVEMBER 1951

4

--- Page 36 ---
Health and Human Relations

— Review of Results of International Conference —

By DR. MURIEL W. BROWN

and

DONATA HELMRICH-HARDT

LANS FOR A MENTAL HEALTH movement in Ger-

many were initiated at the International Conference
on Health and Human Relations, held at Hiddesen, near
Detmold, North Rhine-Westphalia, the first in
August,

Conference members felt that the best way to start a
dynamic mental health movement in Germany would be
to organize, in communities, small working groups of lay
and professional persons. These groups have two func-
tions:

week

1. To study local mental problems and ways of solving
them.

2. To study new books, pamphlets and other materials
dealing with human growth and development and human
relations.

A committee of six German members was selected by
the conference to organize a steering committee which,
in turn, is to draft the plans for the mental health move-
ment and to give leadership to its development.

The conference brought together 39 leaders from nine
countries, representing 16 professions, to discuss some of
the problems of human relationship which seem to be
interfering with international understanding in many

At the Detmold conference, Dr. John R. Rees (right), director, World
defines one of the mental

Federation of Mental Health, London,

health problems confronting present-day Germany. Workshops such
as that below studied mental health and its relation to education,
industrial society and psychological tension in the Federal Republic.
Experts worked on program objectives.

NOVEMBER 1951

(Photos by J. W. Funke, Frankfurt)

33

parts of the world today. Its joint sponsors were the
World Federation for Mental Health and the Josiah W.
Macy, Jr., Foundation of New York.

HIS HIDDESEN CONFERENCE was the third in a

series under the same auspices, all with a similar
focus. The first of the previous meetings took place at
Princeton, New Jersey, in June 1950; the second at Wil-
liamsburg, Virginia, in December of the same year. The
sessions at Hiddesen were arranged at the request of a
German committee, some of whose members had attended
the earlier meetings in the United States.

The theme of the Hiddesen conference, as of those
preceding it, was “Health and Human Relations," health
here being defined, in the sense of the World Health
Organization, as total health — complete physical, mental,
social and emotional well-being. Every effort was made
to develop a working situation in which participants could
freely explore problems relating to the general theme
which were of immediate concern to them.

Questions for discussion were proposed in advance of
the conference by those expecting to attend. Matters of
common interest were considered in plenary sessions.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
Dr. Frank Fremont-Smith (left), medical director of the Josiah Macy, Jr., Foundation of New York City, pauses
during discussion to consider a question raised during week-long meeting on health and human relations. In photo
at right, Dr. Werner Villinger (left) and Dr. H. C. Rumcke (right), professors of psychiatry at the Universities of Mar-
burg and Utrecht, respectively, continue their professional talks with other conference members over luncheon table.

Four working groups dealt with specific problems classi-
fied by the conference under the four following headings:

(1) Mental health and education;
(2) Mental health in an industrial society;
(3) Psychological tensions in postwar Germany, and

(4) Development of a mental health movement in
Germany.

It soon became evident that the sponsors had been
successful in carrying out their intention of making this
conference a truly German experience. The German
participants seemed to sense, at once, that here, indeed,
the needs of their country, of their own peopie, would be
discussed and remedies sought in a spirit of genuine
friendship and understanding, without condescension or
pressure. They felt that they were cooperating with
colleagues from abroad, with friends working in an
attitude they could share, with people who were not
trying to help and admonish them at the same time.

N THE COURSE of the conference, it became clear that

the members could come to final agreement on the
ultimate goals for education and human relations, in spite
of widely different angles of approach. They could also
agree, to a great extent, on the means to be adopted to
reach these goals.

When language differences had been clarified and the
meanings of divergent formulations analyzed, it
found that all four of the groups had accepted the same
values as basic in these two areas. This being true, the
conference had no real difficulty in wording, coordinating
and approving final recommendations.

Members of the conference were unanimous in their
conviction that there is a great need for a mental health
movement in Germany, that such a movement could do

was

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

much to ease existing tensions in the relations between
groups and individuals in the German population. It was
deemed of major importance that all groups, organizations
and individuals working with human beings — teachers,
doctors, lawyers, social workers, parents, employers who
train young workers —all should be given a deeper in-
sight into, and a wider knowledge of, the basic principles
of mental health and be trained to apply them to the
work they are doing in their special fields.

In the atmosphere of friendliness and mutual respect
which developed, members of the conference had unique
opportunities to study the group process intimately, as
participant-observers; to follow the steps in the resolution
of inter-cultural conflicts; to learn to accept: differences
of opinion and feeling which, at first, seemed insurmount-
able; to realize how much the different professions need
each other, and need lay people, in their work today.

T IS LIKELY THAT many of the procedures in group

problem-solving used in this conference will be tried,
this winter, in many different places, under many different
circumstances. One point emphasized many times in the
course of group discussions has tremendous potentiality
for easing tensions when people who differ in race,
religion, nationality, economic status or cultural back-
ground come together to work together: the cooperative
determination and definition of problems is an absolutely
essential first step in successful cooperative problem-
solving.

Perhaps the most significant evaluation of this con-
ference was made by a young German participant who
said, ‘For us, the great value was to experience such
personal communication, and such good will; to get such
a strong sense of common thinking, common feeling and
common striving.” +END

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 38 ---
A Bridge
For Dieburg

By WERNER E. SCHROEDER
Staff Writer of the US Resident Office, Dieburg, Hesse

OR A LONG TIME the farmers of the small village of
Harreshausen, inhabited by approximately 600 and
located not far from the Bavarian border in the north-
eastern corner of Dieburg county in Hesse, had had reason
to contemplate how unpleasant can be the quirks of fate.
The older ones among them still remember a far better,
happier time. That was many, many years ago, when
their meadows were the best in the vicinity and had the
most succulent grass.

But all this was long before those days when the little
Gersprenz river, which flows past the village on its way
to the Main river, was directed into a new bed which
unfortunately was much deeper and caused the soil to dry
out, Meadows withered and fields were parched for water;
the soil virtually cried for what it once had in abundance.
The former thriving cattle-breeding industry had to give
way to a more comprehensive agriculture which, of
course, required an extensive irrigation system.

Later the Gersprenz river once more became a stum-
bling block for the Harreshausen farmers, When the
government's agricultural consolidation program was car-
ried out, the farmers found their fields on both sides of
the river, which had only two bridges. One was in the
village and the other far away at the outskirts of the
district. Thus a farmer, to reach his property on the other
side of the river, had ‘to make a detour of one and one-
half miles with his horse and carriage at least once a day.

IME IS MONEY —and even more so in farming. A
new bridge had to be built, if possible midway be-
tween the other two, But how could this wish be realized,
when the village's finances were just sufficient to provide

Completed bridge, built by US Army engineers for farm-
ers of Harreshausen. Materials were supplied by village,
and willing Gls got some practice in bridge-building.

for its absolutely necessary expenditures — when the vil-
lage council could not approve a new bridge because
there was not even enough money for the many much
more important problems that had to be solved?

Years passed and nothing changed the situation of the
farmers, Not until one day last summer when a farmer
by the name of Heinrich Funk had a brilliant idea, one
for which his fellow farmers still pat him on the back,

What was Mr, Funk's idea? What had made him aban-
don his reserve and do something that others perhaps
could have done too?

Mr. Funk is a shrewd, cool calculator. He considered
everything very carefully. First of all, he knew, the dis-
trict had a resident officer who was known for his eager-
ness to cooperate with worthwhile projects. Then, there
were several American troop units stationed in the
nearest larger town, whose officers would surely be just
as willing to help, Mr. Funk mused.

IRST MR. FUNK HAD a talk with Harreshausen's
Mayor Hartmann, who is also quick to do every-
thing possible to realize a project he finds to be good. The

Evolution of plans for Dieburg county bridge took only few days after Farmer Funk (extreme left) presented his idea
to Harreshausen Mayor Hartman, In center, Mayor Hartman wins support of E, C. Pancoast, US resident officer at Die-
burg, and, at right, Lt. Leon Wilburn, plans in hand, reports that work will commence as soon as materials are ready.

--- Page 39 ---
mayor wrote a long letter to the Dieburg resident officer,
Edwin C. Pancoast, giving a full account of the farmers’
situation. "Help us—we hope for your understanding
and your readiness to give us a hand.”

Mr. Pancoast had both and he immediately went to see
Col. Leon Albin, commanding officer of an engineers unit.
Colonel Albin did not say much, but his okay was all that
was needed. A young lieutenant, Leroy Henderson, sat
down and worked out a plan for the new bridge, 52'/2 feet
long and 13 feet wide, with a capacity of five tons.

In the meantime, the Harreshausen mayor conferred
with the village council] and reached full agreement: the
bridge must be built. The village would provide timber
and nails, and with the help’of American engineer troops
the long-wanted bridge would be built.

Some time passed before the construction could be
started. The timber had to be cut, transported to a sawmill,
and then transported back to the construction site. In a
matter of weeks everything was ready, and one day every-
where in the village one could hear: “The troops wil!
arrive tomorrow.’ They came — Colonel Albin’s engi-
neers — Company C, 547th Engineer Combat Battalion,
Darmstadt — under Lt. Leon Wilburn. They all worked
hard under the brilliant sun of a bright and hot September
day, one of the nicest days of the year, joining the bridge
piece by piece, driving the long nails into the thick wood
with their heavy hammers.

Before afternoon of the next day, the bridge was com-
pleted. In honor of the Negro American engineers, the
happy farmers named it “Ebony Bridge.”

IHERE MAY BE A LOT of things which seem to disturb

German-American relations today. The farmers of
Harreshausen, however, will not be too much interested in
them. They know from actual experience that one can
count upon the good will of the American civil admin-
istration and the United States Army, if the need for help
arises,

They have learned that with even as brief and little a
word as “Okay” not only are good ideas recognized, but
even bridges can be built — bridges between individuals
and nations that are a visible sign on the path to under-
standing, just like the little Ebony Bridge across the
Gersprenz near Harreshausen, somewhere in Hesse.

The GIs in turn were unanimous in their evaluation
of the bridge-building project as a good job, from every
angle. First of all, they welcomed the opportunity to get
some .practical experience in this type of work and,
secondly, they were impressed with the importance of
their contribution to the remote farming community. Said
one: “It makes you feel pretty good, doing something
like this. Boy, these people are so pleased, you'd think
we'd given ‘em a million dollars.” +END

Pictures at right tell story of building of Dieburg county
bridge which grateful farmers in the area have named
“Ebony Bridge’ in honor of the American engineers who
built it. Top, Lt. Wilburn displays plans to Mr. Pancoast at
spot chosen for bridge. Photos, center, show Gls hard at
work with audience of children, Below, farmer drives
across completed bridge. (Photos by Schroeder)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 40 ---
Paratroopers drop from ‘Flying Boxcar" Infantrymen cross Main River under cover
over Aschaffenburg. of smoke and tanks.

General Dwight D. Eisenhower, supreme commander, SHAPE,
“Enemy” propaganda questions infantry sergeant on exercise. Half-track driver
leaflet claims unit is ? cleans submachine guns
surrounded. during rest.

--- Page 41 ---
oe 6 “ Aggressor" rocket launching.team

ee ee some ready to fire. ,

Sailors unlimber guns of patrol boat “Aggressor” platoon leaders plan next
at Schierstein. tactical move.

Antiaircraft gunners scan sky for enemy planes. Preparation to throw pontoon bridge across river.

--- Page 42 ---
Gen. Sir John Harding, CG, Lt. Col. Arthur Ginter, Col. E. Palaidhimopoulos, Col. J. H..Couzy,
British Army of Rhine. Luxembourg, Greece, Netherlands,

Col. Hans Thomann Brig. Gen, Gerardo Caballero Major Abed Hassan
and Col, Peter Burckhardt, Switzerland. and Col. Jesus Crijalba de Lecea, Spain. and Lt. Col. Said Houbly, Syria.

Maj. Gen. Michel Marchau Col. de Oliveira Maj. Gen. T. K. Thygessen
and Maj. Gen. George L. Beernaerts, Belgium. and Brigaderro Vilardebo, Portugal. and Maj. Gen. V. Bjerre Garrd, Denmark.

Maj. Gen. Ramieri Cupino, Maj. Gen. Raidar Holterman, Brig. George Kitching, Lt. Gen. Sukru Kanatli,
Italy. Norway. Canada. Turkey

--- Page 43 ---
John G. Ward, deputy British high commis- General Alphonse Juin, commander- General J. Lawton Collins, US Army chief
sioner, inspects M-1 rifle. Looking on are in-chief, Allied Land Forces, Central of staff (right), discusses exercise with
Maj. Gen. George P. Hays, deputy US high Europe, SHAPE, and General Thomas private as Lt. Gen. Manton S. Eddy, com-

sioner, and C. W. Thayer, HICOG. T. Handy, commander-in-chief, EUCOM. manding general, Seventh Army, listens.

Cleaning tank guns. repairs.

In defense position. Mapping next move.

Bridging the Main.

Comforting air “evacuee.” Camouflage. Time out for chow.

--- Page 44 ---
Selling Freedom

Address

By HENRY FORD IT
President, Ford Motor Company

HAVE RECENTLY RETURNED to this country from

Europe. There I visited a front line. That front line is
in Berlin, on the boundary line of a divided capital in a
divided nation. Along that boundary line is being waged
an endless battle of slogans, of product comparisons, of
brand names, with the competitors using every technique
in the advertising and propaganda book. .

For instance, did you ever hear of a propaganda sewing
circle? Well, they have plenty of them in Germany. Here
is how they work. Groups of West German women gather
to sew and knit. They meet in border towns along the East-
West boundary line and invite women from the Russian
zone of Germany ‘to join them. And while this interzonal
mending is going on, the Western housewives are telling
their Red-dominated friends about the freedoms they enjoy.

I guess, in your business (as salesmen), that’s what
would be called word-of-mouth or testimonial advertising.
And — just as in your business — it works. When it works,
it irritates the competition. In fact, we were told by au-
thorities that they have actually sent raiding parties into
the western zone, under cover of night, to break up these
sewing circles. Many German women may have paid with
their lives for taking part in a democratic sewing bee.

INCE MY LAST VISIT to Berlin and Germany in 1948,
great progress has‘ been made in every area of the
western section. Even the difference between the appear-
ance of the people of East and West Berlin is apparent to
the casual tourist. In the Russian sector, depressed people
stumble along through dusty and devastated areas with
heads down. Occasionally, you see a bicycle, rarely an
automobile.
In the free sector are still shortages of food, housing,
educational facilities, professional serv-

obviously escapes the master-minds of the Russian
propagandists. ‘

There, then, in Berlin these opposing forces face each
other at close quarters. They form the battlefront of the
cold war we read about in our newspapers. And in such
an atmosphere of constant and rising tension, even minor
occurrences can have far-reaching effects, for good or bad,
upon the future of all of us.

For Berlin, I felt — as I walked its streets and talked
to its people — is today the crossroads of the world, the
point where East*meets West against a backdrop of terror
and tension, And I came away with a feeling that this is
the place where the future course of world events is being
formed. Berlin is the dramatic proving ground for cold-
war strategy and theory.

N THE AMERICAN ZONE, we are represented by a

corps of this country’s most qualified men under the
direction of a distinguished leader, US High Commis-
sioner John J, McCloy.

His wife, Ellen McCloy — who speaks German fluently
and uses this ability to great advantage as the wife of the
top official in the US Zone — is one of the most charming
and energetic women we met in Europe. It is she, inci-
dentally, who is credited with creating the interzonal
sewing bees I mentioned a few moments ago.

I have no doubt that across the boundary the Russian
counterparts to Commissioner McCloy are also experts in
their own way, chosen for their tested ability to prosecute
relentless warfare with the most effective political, eco-
nomic and propaganda weapons their leaders can provide
for them.

I left Berlin with the big issue quite clear in my own

mind. Peace is our goal — but we can-

ices and vital machines and materials.
But there is hope and pride in the eyes
of the people — and more than an oc-
casional smile on their faces. They
seem to be going some place.

Perhaps the most startling difference
between the free and slave sectors of
the divided capital hits you as you pass
from west to east through the Branden-
burg Gate, entrance to the Russian
zone. There before you, rising four
stories high in shining marble, a new
Red embassy stands in solitary glory
amid uncleared rubble, dust and dirt.
The sharp symbolism of this struc-
ture — government first, people last —

This article is the text of an ad-
dress given by Mr. Ford on Sept. 11
in New York City before the
Naticnal Sales Executives and the
Sales Executives Club of New
York on the occasion of receiving
the first annual joint award by
those organizations for “Out-
standing Top Executive Sales-
manship.” Mr. Ford recently made
a tour of Germany and also visited
the Free University of Berlin,
which has received a Ford Foun-
dation grant of
5,502,105). The
marks have been omitted.

$1,309,500 (DM
introductory re-

notaccept a peace which fails to include
strict guarantees of individual freedom.

Any attempt to purchase this peace
by appeasement — or any abandon-
ment of moral principles in exchange
for short-range gains — will never
work. It is ironically true that only
by building our own military and
economic strength and the strength
of other nations dedicated to human
freedom can we hope to win the only
kind of peace worth anything.

AUL HOFFMAN HAS spelled out
the way in which Americans can
discharge the grave responsibilities

NOVEMBER 1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
that go with our quest for a just peace. Testifying on for-
eign, economic and military aid before a Congressional
committee, he made three major points: First, the develop-
ment of Allied military strength to neutralize aggressive
plans by Russia; second, the necessity of continuing eco-
nomic as well as military aid for friendly nations; third,
an attitude of “unpartisanship” in support of American
foreign policy.

This makes sense to me.

It seems to me that these three points form the logical
triangular base for any pyramid of peace we hope to build.
But by no means do I believe that large or small expendi-
tures in Europe — or anywhere else — give us the right to
force our particular type of political thinking upon people
who may be living under entirely different circumstances
and in different environments than ours. It seems to me
that as long as we keep the goal of our campaign focused
on the idea that freedom of the individual is the corner-
stone of peace, it makes little difference how groups of
individuals may decide to govern themsélves,

And so, as I took a quick look at what was happening
in Europe, questions like these kept asking for answers:
“Are these front-line fighters in today’s crusade for a free
world getting the help they need and can use from us?
Are we in the home office providing them with all they
must have to do the job?”

HAVE LEARNED since my return to this country that

our gross national output is now on an annual basis of
more then $329,000,000,000 — highest in the nation’s
history. In the fiscal year ended June 30, we spent some
$2,800,000,000 for ECA programs abroad.

In other words, overseas economic aid alone was last
year running at less than one percent of gross national
product, One percent of gross sales has never seemed to
me too much to pay to keep a business going and growing.

I was reminded a short time ago that England, in 1813,
spent one-fifth of its national income to beat Napoleon on
the Continent. Most of this amount, raised from the re-
sources of less than 14,000,000 people, was used to subsi-
dize any nation in Europe that would actively cooperate
to beat back the Napoleonic threat.

That money, it has since been agreed, was well spent.
For it was the combined efforts of the Grand Alliance —
Russians, Prussians, Austrians, Swedes, Spaniards, Italians,
Portuguese — and not those of the English alone, that led
a would-be dictator to Waterloo.

History does not, of course, often repeat itself. It does,
however, seem to maintain a certain continuity. With this
in mind, I think it is encouraging to recall that having
finally won what in the second decade of the 19th century
appeared to be a costly peace, England went on to its most
prosperous and peaceful era — the Victorian Age.

HERE IS STILL ANOTHER area in which we must
work to avert war and gain permanent peace. We
know about freedom. We know from experience what
freedom can do for people. Our national income has

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A2

:

Paul G. Hoffman, chairman of the Ford Foundation, Mayor
Ernst Reuter of Berlin and Henry Ford II, president of the
Ford Motor Company, are shown conferring during the
two Americans’ visit to the former German capital last
summer. The Ford Foundation representatives also met
with officials of the Free University of Berlin to study
ways and means by which the Ford Foundation could con-
tribute to the financial support of the university, the only,
institute of free, objective learning behind the Iron
Curtain today. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

increased 13 to 14 times in the last 50 years. The purchas-
ing power of an hour's wages has nearly trebled, and the
average worker's hours of labor have been cut a third in
the same period. We know we have the best product. It
deserves the best we have in sales and advertising efforts.
As Paul Hoffman — another great salesman — has put it,
“The Big Truth, backed by big deeds, overwhelms the
Big Lie.”

In this connection, I had an opportunity while in Ger-
many to learn about the great job being done by Radio
Free Europe, the broadcasting station established by Ameri-
can funds, run under American technical direction, con-
structed at Munich by volunteer German labor and operat-
ed by a Czechoslovakian staff. Over this station — one of
the most powerful in the world — messages of hope and
freedom are beamed 11/2 hours out of every 24 into
enslaved Czechoslovakia.

Let me give you an example of the effectiveness of this
work.

Russian-controlled Czechoslovakian newspapers are
smuggled out of the country and reach Radio Free Europe
offices a few hours after publication. A Czech commen-
tator — a refugee from behind the Iron Curtain whose
name and voice are known to his listening countrymen —
reads item after item from the newspaper, ‘That is what
your paper, edited by the Russians, tells you,” he says.
“Now listen to the truth." And he gives them facts to
combat the “Big Lie.”

Another example: Only a short time after the body of a
patriotic and much-beloved Czechoslovakian priest is,

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 46 ---
found outside the precincts of his native town, Radio Free
Europe is on the air with the news of his murder and the
name of his assassin.

T IS EASY TO UNDERSTAND why every effort —

largely unsuccessful — is made by the Russians to jam
these brutally telling broadcasts that are daily finding and
creating new holes in the fabric of the Iron Curtain. Just
how much these broadcasts hurt is perhaps best measured
by the offer we now understand has been made by the
Reds in Czechoslovakia to release William Oatis, provided
the Radio Free Europe operation is discontinued.

From what I learned about Radio Free Europe, two
things impressed me more, perhaps, than others.

First, in the station's studios and control rooms at
Munich, Czechs, Germans and Americans are working
efficiently and effectively together. Inspired by a common
urge, a common goal, they are really united — all eco-
nomic, cultural, racial, political and language barriers to
such unity have vanished. This Munich battalion of fight-
ers against Communism has learned and is applying the
lessons of cooperation all Western allies must learn and
apply if we are to keep the cold war cold and win the
peace without bloodshed. .

Second, I could not help but be impressed with the great
job of work small private groups of able Americans can
do in such an effort. Radio Free Europe, for instance, owes
at least an important part of its success to three top men in
their professions who have left the comparative comfort,
ease and security of their homes and jobs here in the
United States to work for peace on the cold-war front.
Such men — and most of you know them — as C. D.
Jackson, a former Time-Life vice president, who is today
president of the National Committee for a Free Europe, the
organization responsible for the establishment of Radio
Free Europe; and Robert Lang, formerly a public-relations
man with General Foods here in New York, who is today
director of Radio Free Europe; and Barry Mahool, origi+
nally in radio at Baltimore and later with the American
Heritage Foundation, who is Mr. Lang's deputy director.

Such privately financed and privately directed Ameri-
can task forces as these — small in personnel, big in abili-
ty — can and are accomplishing much on the cold war's
front line. But they need and deserve all the help we, here
at home, can give them, Let me take a moment or two to
tell you something about that.

HE FUNDS FOR THE WORK of Radio Free Europe —

which, incidentally, has no connection with the Voice
of America — were raised last year by a group of private
citizens in this country through a Crusade for Freedom
appeal that reached some 16,000,000 Americans. This year,
the “Freedom Crusade” is compaigning to raise approxi-
mately $3,500 000. The money will be used to construct at
least two more powerful radio transmitters under the
Radio Free Europe operation and to provide facilities for a
Radio Free Asia to start as soon as possible a similar pro-
gram for freedom in the Far East.

NOVEMBER 195i

43

Here is an opportunity for every one of us, personally,
to take a hand in the job that needs to be done. Watch
for the campaign. Step in and give it your best profes-
sional boost. Your efforts can help to bring true a prophe-
cy made by a great American 125 years ago.

At that time, the citizens of Washington were preparing
to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of
Independence. Thomas Jefferson, its author, was invited
as guest of honor: He was too ill to do so, Instead, he
wrote:

May the Declaration of Independence be to the world
what I believe it will be — to some parts sooner, to
others later, but finally to all — the signal of arousing
men to burst the chains under which ignorance and super-
stition have persuaded them to bind themselves,

That is from the last letter Jefferson ever wrote. A few
days after writing it, he died. But when its prophecy does
come true — “to some parts sooner, to others later, but
finally to all’ — history will record America, not Moscow,
as the home of the world revolution that eventually level-
ed the barriers between men and brought freedom and
peace to mankind.

T WILL BE A LONG, slow and tiring process. Its cost

will be high. But it is a process that must prevail.

I believe that we are today winning the cold war's fight
for freedom — in Berlin, in Germany, in Europe. If the tide
is turning, one reason is because Comrade Stalin is making
at least one bad mistake that no good sales manager — in
a campaign with all the world looking on and listening
in — should ever make. He is trying to sell two conflicting
ideas at one and the same time: A righteous desire for
universal peace wrapped up in a constant threat to wage
world war.

But our efforts, I believe, eventually must meet with
success — for we have nothing to sell but freedom and
nothing to gain but peace. --END

Co-Determination Boards Named

Two “unit companies,” recently established under the
Allied High Commission regulations for breaking up the
steel-industry combines, have boards of directors chosen
in accordance with the federal co-determination law for
German iron, steel and coal industries. Each board has
five shareholder representatives, five labor members and
an “eleventh man" acceptable to both.

The board for the Stahlwerke Suedwestfalen A.G.,
including two large steel-rolling establishments employ-
ing 6,000 persons, was formed Sept. 21. Dr. Karl Neu-
hoffer, director of the Brown, Boveri Co., was unani-
mously named the ‘eleventh man." Dr. Heinrich Potthoff,
a labor member, was named chairman, and Dr. Hermann
Schiermeyer, shareholder representative, vice chairman.

The Deutsche Edelstahlwerke A.G., encompassing five
former high-grade steel companies, formed its board
Sept. 28 with Rudolf Petersen, industrialist and former
mayor of Hamburg, as the “eleventh man." Dr. Heinz
Gehm, an employee representative, was named chairman.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
Free Radio is a Blessing

Address
By REAR ADMIRAL CHARLES R. JEFFS, US NAVY (RET.)

US State Commissioner for Bremen

NCE AGAIN WE GATHER to celebrate another mile-
stone in the brief but outstanding career of Radio
Bremen, It is now almost one year since many of us
here met at the dedication of the new studio which was
financially made possible through the combined efforts
of the Bremen population and a substantial gift from
the American people to the people of Bremen. These
efforts and gifts were made in the interest of free and
independent dissemination of news, information and
entertainment in the public service. A further result of
these contributions we see here before us today— the
new, more powerful medium wave transmitter that will
increase Radio Bremen’s area of coverage greatly.
Radio Bremen has come a long way in its unique po-
sition as a newly created independent station entirely
built since the end of the war. In late 1945 the first
American who arrived in Bremen to set up a German
radio station, found no studios, equipment or personnel
on hand. From a villa of improvised studios and a 1,000-
watt US Army mobile transmitter, Radio Bremen has
grown to become an impressive monument dedicated to
free and independent broadcasting.

ADIO RREMEN PRIMARILY owes its independent

existence to its efforts in hecoming a true com-
munity station. The emphasis at Radio Bremen, as all
its listeners know, has always been closely tied with
the needs and interest of the Bremen community. The
wisdom of this policy has been amply confirmed by the
attachment that the population of the state of Bremen
expresses for its own station and also by the enthusi-
astic support for the station in surrounding areas.

I sometimes wonder if we people in the free world
fully realize the privilege we have in receiving the ob-
jective public services of a free and independent radio
station such as Radio Bremen.

As a frequent reminder of this blessing, this impres-
sive antenna tower might well serve all of us not only
as a symbol of free speech in the state of Bremen but
also as a challenge to us, that as citizens of democratic
republics, we are individually entrusted with the preser-
vation of this sacred right. Rising forth in a field not
many miles from a land where free radio stations no
longer exist, this steel monument should be a constant
reminder to all of us that privileges as free citizens
will not long endure in a land where the right of a
man to say what he thinks is denied him.

E ARE ALL FAMILIAR with the fundamental con-
cept that within an area of free and responsible

government the unmolested flow of truthful information

INFORMATION BULLETIN

and varied opinions to the citizenry must be paramount.
When this is the case, an informational media, as a
public trust, performs a public service. In turn the
recipients discharge their duty as good and useful citi-
zens, by taking the initiative in absorbing this informa-
tion, carefully arriving at a conclusion and taking the
necessary action.

Freedom cannot exist if independence is surrendered
or reciprocal responsibilities of information media and
citizenry are supplanted by irresponsibility pr authori-
tarianism on the part of the media, apathy or fear on
the part of the populace,

Radio Bremen in the past has shouldered its responsi-
bilities through many public service features such as
nonpartisan political commentaries, schools of the air,
trade union programs, employer association broadcasts,
forum programs, etc. Bremen citizens have responded

- with active interest and support. This is a healthy sign

at a time when political extremism still looms on the
German horizon. May Radio Bremeg continue in this
spirit of endeavor toward enhancing Bremen’s rightful
place in the world family of free communities. -++-END

Main tower of Radio Bremen's new directional antenna for
the station's medium wave transmitter was dedicated
Oct. 15 at a ceremony at which Admiral Jeffs delivered the
address published here.

(PRB OLC Bremen photo by Schmidt)

--- Page 48 ---
The Friendly Revolution
Of Heftrich

By FRED WELTY
Press Officer, Public Relations Division, HICOG

DOLF STEINMETZ LOOKED at the visiting newsmen
with astonishment. They were in his Heftrich barn-

yard asking him questions, and when he spoke, his
words were recorded in 15 notebooks. But the thing
that astonished Mr. Steinmetz, a grizzled man with
50 years’ farmwork behind him, was that his fields —
which are little different from others in West Germany
— might become some part of world news, These well-
dressed visitors came from Frankfurt to interview him
as part of an ECA press tour. Some of them appeared
to be American, some British, others German, and some
he couldn't identify. Their questions were direct but
friendly.

“How big is your farm?” one asked.

“T own 220 pieces of land," Mr, Steinmetz answered.

“Must be a big ranch. How many acres does it add
up to?"

“Thirty acres. They're scattered in every direction
from Heftrich.”

“How far do you travel to reach those fields?"

“Three hundred miles. It is that far to make a round
trip from the village to each of my holdings. A third to
one-half of my working day is spent walking from one
fieid to the next one. Three of us till the soil: myself,
my daughter and her husband. He is a refugee from the
East zone and a hard worker.”

HE MIRACLE IS, you three have reached all that
land and were able to plant one thing or another
on all those tiny parcels,” said the surveyor from Wies-
baden's land consolidation office, who
accompanied the newsmen. He had sur-
veyed the area surrounding Heftrich which
is being consolidated this fall, after four
years’ work, "There are 117 other farm-
owners in Heftrich with the same problem.
Combined, they own some 10,000 plots of
ground in the 1,400 acres encircling Heft-
rich. Consolidation is changing the entire
land pattern and overcoming the results
ef centuries of fathers subdividing their
land among their sons.”
“How much land will you have after
consolidation, Mr. Steinmetz?”

Strip-farming requires long miles of travel
to as many as 200 plots of ground. Con-
solidation projects in new program will
permit modern methods, larger crops.

NOVEMBER 1951

“Tt still adds up to 30 acres, but there will be only 11
pieces of land. I'll be able to put machinery to use. I'm
enlarging my barn to take care of the bigger crops I
expect. I may be able to buy a tractor later, but in the
meantime I can rent one from the local farm cooperative
for a few weeks out of the year.”

“But will you still have to hike 300 miles?”

“Twelve miles will bring me, round trip, to all my land.”

The surveyor added: “And Mr. Steinmetz will be able
to get home from his fields before 11 at night, as I so
often see him doing. He will have time after 50 years to
acquaint himself with his town and his neighbors. He'll
also have leisure for reading some of the farm and
European editions of your newspapers.”

“I may start out by reading some of the stories you're
going to write about Heftrich,’ Mr. Steinmetz replied,
smiling.

“Thank you, Mr. Steinmetz.”

IHE NEWSMEN LEFT the barnyard and walked
through the cobblestone streets of the farming village.
They saw the walls of Heftrich coming down. This
forgotten village has been locked within walls since
the 12th century. The world by-passed it continuously
until 800 years later, when wandering refugees settled
there. These refugees, people who were shoved out of
Iron Curtain areas,often with only the clothes on their
backs, plus some who gladly volunteered the journey,
make up one-fourth of the town's 1,000 population,

--- Page 49 ---
Mr, Welty (left), author of this article, and visiting press
representatives take noles on remarks by Farmer Steinmetz.

They appear to be integrated into the farm community.
Most households have a refugee or two under their roofs.
They cannot be readily distinguished from other villagers,
some of whose ancestors date back as far as 800 years.

The rule at Heftrich is not how far back one’s ancestors
go but rather "How well can you work on the farms?’
and the refugees here are measuring up to this standard.
The village had reached an end point where it had to
expand. This expansion is taking place and the refugees,
together with the native inhabitants, are being favorably
affected by the disappearing walls and land consolidation.

Space gained from consolidation is being utilized to
build a row of modern houses along with other major
improvements. The fashionable new suburb in this case
will be occupied by refugee families and as they marry
into the native group (as did a refugee to Mr. Steinmetz’
daughter) the integration will be more complete.

OW THAT PROGRESS is in the air, the town is

building some new fixtures — its first swimming pool,
community house with public showers, and a soccer field.
The farmers soon will have time for these facilities and,
although they will still be early risers, the new field
arrangement will let the farmers sleep a couple hours
later in the morning.

To gain a better picture of the scattered farming system,
the correspondents walked to a knoll at the edge of town.
Spreading before them at every point of the compass
were a maze of tiny holdings, The rolling hills, in a
remote corner of the Taunus range, an hour's drive north
of Frankfurt between Koenigstein and Idstein, resembled
a patchwork quilt of strange shapes and colors. There
were circles, triangles and every other geometric design.
Some strips were no larger than a kitchen. The largest
looked smaller than a soccer field. It was impossible
to count them all,

“This is the pattern for almost half West Germany's
arable land,” the ECA briefing officer said. “The scattered
farming system is the biggest bottleneck to bringing
efficiency to farming and thus to increasing national food
output.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“Obviously German agriculture has been shackled by
an inefficient system. Mechanization has been impossible
for the most part. Large areas of land have been devoted
to grass, oats and other crops for draft animals. It is no
wonder that West Germany imports 40 percent of its food
requirements. Nor is it surprising that 60 percent of Ger-
many’s agricultural work is done by women, All hands
are needed when so many scattered fields must be tilled.”

HINGS ARE CHANGING in rural Germany, however.

The need for land consolidation is more clearly seen
than ever before. About 800 consolidation projects are
now under way in all parts of West Germany. The need
for this reform was seen early, and the ECA Special Mis-
sion has given considerable encouragement as well as
financial assistance to a good share of these projects.
Marshall Plan counterpart funds to the equivalent of
$3,200,000 have been allotted to consolidation. In addition
to the current projects, this sum is being used in part to
defray a central training and refresher course for engi-
neers and surveyors to speed up consolidation work.

Switzerland, Holland and Denmark are advanced in this
agrarian change. The ECA Mission has sent teams of
Germans to these countries to study their projects. Also,
two American experts are in Germany to carry out an
ECA technical-assistance study of land consolidation, Re-
quested by the West German government, they will
report their findings and recommendations to the federal
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Forestry, an agency
which is facing up to the seriousness of the problem.

“Consolidation is an expensive process," stated the
briefing officer. In the case of Heftrich it is costing

Hillside scene near Heftrich shows scattered land strips

niesiginintipeinnamintt pio

--- Page 50 ---
$72,000 to consolidate 1,400 acres. But this figure is ex-
ceptionally high. Medieval walls had to be penetrated
and complete new road and drainage systems built, which
amounted to nine-tenths of the cost. The other tenth was
for surveying and other administrative expenses.

“But the Heftrich farmers are paying two-thirds of the
cost themselves. The other third comes from the Hessian
state government, of which $7,200 is from ECA counter-
part funds. The Marshall Plan's part was only one-tenth of
the total, but we feel this one-tenth offer went a long way
toward stimulating investment of the other nine-tenths.”

HE ECA MISSION SUPPORT centers especially in

farm areas where consolidation consists of arunda-
tion, or simply combining fields and strips not needing
new road and drainage systems. The cost is slight, the
surveying time is brief and the payoff in more abundant
food comes sooner.

Later, when the group walked among the fields and
noted women and children cutting wheat and barley with
hand scythes, after the fashion of bygone centuries, one
of the group asked: “Besides eliminating back-breaking
farm practices such as this, what will consolidation mean
to the average West German consumer?”

Lower prices and abundant supplies will be two results,
it was explained. Farmers will have more food to take
to urban markets at lower unit costs. In time of uncer-
tainty and trouble, there will be a lot more security and
stability in knowing that the country is less dependent
on outside areas for food. In addition it is hoped that
imported food can be priced lower, because it will not
be necessary to protect domestic farmers by imposing
high tariffs.

ichwork being rationalized in larger holdings with ECA aid.

Jong hours of walking daily.

Widely separated pieces of land like those shown here mean
(PRD HICOG photos by Gassner)

“How much will national consolidation eventually cost?"
“Present estimates are that it will cost West Germany
at least DM 1,000,000,000 ($238,000,000). This is the big-
gest drawback since the money must be in long-term
credits at low interest rates.” As is known, long-term
investment credit for agriculture is practically nonexistent.

0 YOU HAVE ANY SPECIFIC estimates of gains
resulting from consolidation?”

“Gains resulting from consolidation would repay the
investment within three to five years,” it was explained.
An example will point this up. With consolidation, the
way will be open to mechanization. Conservative estimates
show that 400,000 draft horses could be eliminated from
West German farms. Each draft horse requires 2.4 acres
of productive land for its year’s supply of fodder. On the
resultant 960,000 acres that would be freed, wheat might
then be planted. Average yields, at current world wheat
prices, would result in approximately another 800,000
metric tons, or $80,000,000, of wheat from German farms
each year. This production, of course, would be a direct
contribution to national well-being and prosperity.

“In addition, the elimination of excess paths and roads
on a national scale would bring nearly 500,000 acres into
the fold for productive use. These two advantages com-
bined would have the same effect as expanding the size
of the country’s farm area by 10 to 15 percent.”

“But where will the tractors come from to replace all
those draft animals?”

“Mechanization will be a process of many years, not
a matter of one or two years, yet it does not need to
be extended over too long a period. One tractor normally
replaces about four draft horses. Initially, as is the case
for many West German farm communities, tractors can
be had through the farm cooperatives. As returns come
in from land consolidation, it will be possible, on an
increasing scale, for farmers to buy tractors on an indi-
vidual and cooperative basis.”

Glancing’ back to the ancient town of Heftrich at the
end of the day's tour, the newsmen felt they had seen
an impasse of centuries broken. ++END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
Director of Berlin Element Retires

OWARD P. JONES, RETIRING as director of Berlin

Element, HICOG, turned over his duties as chief
ECA representative in Berlin to Ray W. Smith, director
of the Berlin Element Economic Affairs Division.

In a farewell talk Oct. 11 during a meeting of the
Berlin Advisory Committee, Mr. Jones formally trans-
ferred to Mr. Smith the post of Berlin representative of
the Economic Cooperation Administration. Mr. Smith
assumes the post of ECA representative there in addition
to his duties as director of the Economic Affairs Division.

Also present at the ECA Advisory Committee session
were Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson, US commander in
Berlin; Prof. Ernst Reuter, governing mayor of Berlin;
Dr. Paul Hertz, Berlin senator for Marshall Plan aid; Dr.
Heinrich Vockel, Federal Government representative in
Berlin, and officials of Berlin Element, the Berlin Senate,
trade-union and other organizations, and business leaders.

Mr. Jones had been chief ECA representative in Berlin
for more than a year and one half. He was appointed
director of Berlin Element in July, replacing Edward
Page, Jr. Mr, Jones relinquishes his posts in Berlin on
being transferred to another Foreign Service post.

The Berlin ECA Advisory Committee was formed in
January 1950 to draw up a long-term capital investment
program for Berlin and to serve in an advisory capacity
to the US commander. The committee includes represent-
atives of industrial, financial, labor and. other groups.

Mayor Ernst Reuter (right) of Berlin presents: gift photo
album to Howard P. Jones on his retirement as director
of Berlin Element. In center is Dr. Paul Hertz, Berlin
senator for Marshall Plan aid. (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

INFQRMATION BULLETIN

URING THE CEREMONY, Mr. Jones reviewed Ber-
lin's industrial and trade conditions, saying in part:
“The ECA committee has played a significant role in
the rehabilitation of Berlin. Including representatives of
all areas of Berlin's economic life — industry, trade, labor
and finance — the committee was able to unite Berliners
and to lead the way in common effort toward the pre-
determined goal. No clique and no party held control
in the development of the ECA program for Berlin. If
the committee has achieved its aim, it is because of you
gentlemen. That indicates a decisive assumption of per-
sonal responsibility. I am proud of the work performed
by this committee and am convinced that it will continue
to exist and to carry forward the task which you have,
thus far undertaken so effectively.

We have made great strides since January 1950, when
the ECA committee held its first meeting. At that time
increasing unemployment and a production index of less
than 20 percent of the prewar level presented us with
a problem described by many as insoluble. Without the
efforts made by you and others like you, it would
actually have been beyond solution. Cooperation and a
sense of common purpose, in generous measure, were
necessary to achieve the successes which actually were
realized. Berlin still has a long road ahead of her, but
it does not appear so great if we remember the great
distance we already have behind us.

I would like to bring up once again what many of
you have already heard me say: that Berlin with con-
tinuing Marshall Plan aid — and it will be continued —
has a unique opportunity to turn misfortune into success.

The world knows that Berlin has delivered its goods
in the past, and that it will continue to do so in the
future. The ‘little airlift’ set up recently is a token of
our support in this direction.

HE DESTRUCTION AND DISMANTLING of Berlin's

industrial plant necessitated replacement of these
facilities with the most modern machinery available.
This means, too, that Berlin without doubt will be in a
position to compete on the world’s markets.

I want particularly to ask you all to take advantage
of the steadily increasing demand on the world's markets,
You should not hesitate to expand your plant facilities,
with the aim of preparing to utilize all future possibilities.
World markets will be open to Berlin-made goods.

Market scarcities in the fields of production in which

Berlin specializes — machine tools, radio and electrical
apparatus, precision instruments and the optical and
clothing industries — are already beginning to develop.

And we will be able to help. I see the day coming when
I will receive a report from Berlin which states that the
city can again support itself, can again stand on its own
two feet in an economic sense. And that day is not as
far off as some would have us believe.” + END

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 52 ---
Personnel Notes

Cecil B. Lyon Heads Berlin Element

Howard P. Jones, director of Berlin Element, HICOG,
left Oct. 18 for the United States after resigning to accept
a new Foreign Service
post in Formosa. He has
been succeeded by Cecil
B. Lyon, who was pre-
viously special assistant
to Maj. Gen. Lemuel
Mathewson, US com-
mander in Berlin.

Mr. Lyon, a member of
the US Foreign Service,
served in 1948 at the US
Embassy in Warsaw, Po-
land, He has also held
posts in Havana, Cuba;
Hongkong; Tokyo; Peip-
ing, and Tientsin, China,
and Santiago, Chile. He
arrived in Berlin last
August, receiving his appointment as special assistant to
General Mathewson following a tour of duty at the
National War College in Washington. He is from Hancock,
N.H., and New. York City.

Cecil B. Lyon.

New Chief for Industry Division

F, L, Mayer has been appointed chief of the Industry
Division, Office of Economic Affairs, to succeed Luther
Hodges, who resigned recently and returned to the United
States.

Mr. Mayer came to Germany in June 1945, with the
US Group Control Council, and was formerly in Berlin as
chief of the Industry Division of the Military Security
Board. He has been deputy chief of the Industry Division
of the Office of Economic Affairs in Frankfurt for the
past year and, following Mr. Hodges’ resignation, was
acting chief. His home town is Young America, Minn.

IRO Chief Resigns

The resignation of Philip E. Ryan, chief of mission for
the US Zone of Germany, International Refugee Organi-
zation, since August 1948, became effective early in
November. The IRO is scheduled to cease operation on
Dec. 31, 1951.

In connection with Mr. Ryan's departure, US High Com-
missioner John J. McCloy stated: “In the three years of
its existence, the International Refugee Organization has
done the world a tremendous service. Its organization in
the US Zone alone helped nearly half a million unfortu-
nate people find new lives and new hope.”

As chief of the IRO Mission in Germany, Mr. Ryan
has played an essential role in this great humanitarian

NOVEMBER 1951

49

undertaking, and it has been due largely to his devotion
and leadership that it has been so successfully carried
out. In this operation there has necessarily been the
closest cooperation between IRO and the High Commis-
sion, and I know that I speak not only for myself, but for
all the other HICOG officials with whom he has dealt, in
saying that Mr. Ryan has done an outstanding job.”

Assistant for Deputy High Commissioner

Lt. Col. John C. Dalrymple has been designated as the
military assistant to Maj.°Gen. George P. Hays, deputy
US high commissioner. He will advise General Hays
regarding the US Army European Command's interest and
viewpoint at meetings of the Allied Security Committee
and will also keep informed on all matters under negoti-
ation by HICOG or HICOM in which the European Com-
mand has an interest.
New ECA Representative in Berlin

Ray W. Smith, director of the Berlin Element Economic
Affairs Division, has taken over the position of chief ECA
representative in Berlin succeeding Howard P. Jones, who
retired as director of the HICOGBerlin Element in October.

The Berlin ECA Advisory Committee was formed in
January 1950 to draw up a long-term capital investment
program for Berlin and to serve in an advisory capacity
to the US Commander there. The group includes a broad
representation of industrial, financial, labor and other
groups in Berlin. Chairman of the committee is Dr. Paul
Hertz, Berlin senator for Marshall Plan aid.

Appointments in Berlin

Appointments of Dr. Charles B. Robson, of Chapel Hill,
N.C., as deputy chief of the Berlin Element Public Affairs
Division, and Dr. Christopher B, Garnett as chief of the
Berlin Element Education and Cultural Relations Branch,
have been announced.

A member of the faculty of the University of North
Carolina for more than 25 years, Dr, Robson joined the US
Foreign Service in June of this year. He arrived in Berlin
in July, serving as deputy chief of the Public Affairs
Division in an advisory capacity with the Education and
Cultural Relations Branch.

Dr. Garnett had been acting chief of the Berlin Element
E&CR Branch since January 1951. He was deputy chief of
the branch in Berlin under Military Government from
July 1948 to September 1949, and was appointed head of
the Berlin Element Community Activities Section, ExCR
Branch, when the Office of the US High Commissioner
replaced Military Government in Germany in September
1949. He is a former dean of the Liberal Arts College of
George Washington University in Washington, D.C., and
served as administrative officer with the UNRRA Mis-
sion in Shanghai, China. His home is in Washington, D. C.

Newcomers to Public Affairs

Among recent personnel changes in the Office of Public
Affairs are Mary H. Sanders, assistant deputy chief of
the Education and Cultural Relations Division; Philip D.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
Dr. Robert G. Koopman is the new chief of HICOG's
Education and Cultural Relations Division succeeding
Dr. James M. Read. A teacher, school] administrator and
active leader in community affairs for 30 years, he has
been associate superintendent of the Michigan Depart-
ment of Public Instruction since 1947, His home is in

Lansing, Mich. (PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)
McMains, administrative officer, and Nicholas E.Conduras,
publications officer of the Information Centers Branch;
Eire Stevens, reports assistant, Office of Director; and
Richard H. Baxter, analyst on the Reactions Analysis Staff.

Hesse Branch Chief Resigns

H. A. (Tony) Rhoades, Public Relations Branch chief
for OLC Hesse with headquarters in Wiesbaden, has
resigned his position to assume a post with an American
concern in Frankfurt.

Mr. Rhoades, an occupation veteran, became public
information officer for the Office of Military Government,
Hesse, in 1945, following his release from the army, in
which he served during the war as an infantry officer.
He is native of Brooklyn, N.Y.

Ed Edwin, for the last two years a US resident officer
in Ruedesheim, Hesse, has been appointed to Mr. Rhoades’
former post. Mr. Edwin was assistant public information
officer for Hesse Military Government for one year and
before that time was with the American Forces Network
news staff for nearly three years. His home town is Great
Falls, Montana.

New Youth Adviser in Hesse

William N. Goodall, of Pomona, Calif., has been appoint-
ed a Youth Activities adviser for OLC Hesse, it was
announced recently by Dr. James R. Newman, US state
commissioner for Hesse.

Mr. Goodall, a noted musician as well as youth activi-
ties specialist, studied at the New England Conservatory
of Music, Juilliard School of Music, Damrosch Music
School of Washington University (St. Louis) and Columbia

INFORMATION BULLETIN.

50

University. He served as the director of private youth
clubs in St. Louis, a boys’ camp in Maine, the head of a
club for American Boys in Paris, France, recreational
specialist of the National Park Service and director of
the St. Louis Servicemen’s Center. During the war, he
served with the American Red Cross in the US and Italy.

As a Youth Activities advisor in Germany, Mr. Goodall
will help in the democratic development of German
youngsters, paying particular attention to local youth
organizations,

Air Secretary at Fuerstenfeldbruck

Thomas K, Finletter, United States Secretary for Air,
inspected the 36th Fighter-Bomber Wing at Fuerstenfeld-
bruck Air Base Oct. 18. The visit was part of an extended
inspection tour by the secretary. An air show featuring
the famous Skyblazers was presented for Mr. Finletter
and his party.

Congressmen Visit Berlin

US Congressional representatives Fred L. Crawford (R.,
Mich.) and Munroe Redden (D., N.C.) paid a one-day visit
to Berlin Oct. 10. The two representatives, members of the
House Committee on Internal and Insular Affairs, met
with US officials during their Berlin stay. Accompanying
them was Erwin Silverman, chief counsel of the Office
of Territories, US Department of the Interior. From Berlin,
the group proceeded to Rome. ‘

Italian Educator in Hesse

Dr. Margherita Fasolo, well-known Italian education
expert, spent two weeks in Hesse during October as a
visiting consultant with Education Branch officials, OLC
Hesse.

Dr. Fasolo is professor of pedagogy at the Gino Cappori
teacher training institute in Florence, assistant professor
of pedagogy at the University of Florence, and director
of the Florence delegation of training centers for pro-
gressive educational methods. In Hesse, she studied the
curricula in elementary, secondary and vocational schools.

Educational Consultant in Bremen

A three-month study of the trade and industry branch of
Bremen vocational education was undertaken recently by
George F. Weber of South Bend, Ind., who is in Bremen
as a special HICOG consultant for the Education and Cul-
tural Relations Branch. Mr. Weber will also visit local
enterprises and work with German educators on ways
and means for improving vocational education for in-
dustrial apprentices.

Mr. Weber, who is director of a large vocational school
in South Bend, conducted a previous study in Germany
during the summer of 1950. At that time, he devoted his
efforts mainly to studies in vocational guidance, with
special emphasis on labor office-grade school relations.
Prior to his arrival in Bremen, he made a tour of the Brit-
ish, French and US Zones of Germany to inspect more
than 50 schools and other public institutions which were
constructed with the aid of HICOG Special Projects
Fund grants. f +END

NOVEMBER 1951

as mS

--- Page 54 ---
Proposal for Free Election

Translation of Statement

By DR. KONRAD ADENAUER

Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany
before the Bundestag (Federal Assembly) at Bonn Sept. 27

Principal Western Proposals
For Free All-German Election °

Feb. 28, 1950-— High Commissioner McCloy proposed
all-German elections for a constitutional convention. _

March 22, 1950— Chancellor Adenauer on behalf of
the Federal Republic made a similar proposal and out-
lined the conditions necessary for such an election.

May 14, 1950— The United States, French and British
foreign ministers, meeting in London, welcomed and en-
dorsed Chancellor Adenauer's resolution of March 22,
and set forth specific conditions for unification.

May 26, 1950 — The Uniled States, French and British
high commissioners in Germany sent identical letters to
the Soviet commissioner, General Chuikov, proposing
the joint drafting of an election law for all-German
elections.

July 3, 1950— High Commissioner McCloy again de-
clared himself for free democratic elections in all Germany.

Sept. 14, 1950—A resolution was passed by the Ger-
man Federal Parliament calling for free elections in all
of Germany.

Sept. 19, 1950— The foreign ministers of the United
States, France and the United Kingdom issued a com-
munique at New York restating their desire to see Ger-
many unified and referring to previous Allied proposals
for all-German elections.

Oct. 1, 1950— Chancellor Adenauer wrote the three
Western high commissioners endorsing the Federal Par-
liament’s resolution of Sept. 14.

Oct. 10, 1950— The United States, French and British
high commissioners again wrote to Soviet General
Chuikov referring to their unanswered letters of May 26,
and calling attention to the West German proposals as
representing the desire of the German people for unity.

Oct. 25, 1950 — Secretary of State Acheson in a state-
ment referred to repeated proposals for free elections in
all Germany and renewed America's strong support for
such elections as the necessary prelude to a peace treaty.

Jan. 15, 1951 — Chancellor Adenauer once more stated
the Federal Republic's position in favor of free, general,
equal and secret elections.

Jan. 21, 1951 German Social Democratic leader, Dr.
Kurt Schumacher, supported Chancellor Adenauer‘s dec-
laration and said that only by bringing the freedom of
the West to the German East would Germany be unified.

March 5, 1951 — The United States, French and British
deputies at the Paris Four-Power Conference proposed
that the “re-establishment of German unity” be one of
the problems to be discussed at any meeting of the four
foreign ministers.

March 9, 1951— Chancellor Adenauer and the German
Federal Parliament once more demanded free all-German
elections, under conditions fully safeguarding individual
liberties in the Soviet Zone.

NOVEMBER 1951

51

HE SUPREME AIM of the policy of the Federal Gov-
ernment is and remains that of re-establishing Ger-
man unity in a free and united Europe. This unity should
be based on the free decision of the entire German people.
The Federal Government, therefore, repeatedly pro-
posed that free, general, equal, secret and direct elections
for a constituent national assembly should take place in
the whole of Germany. This proposal was last made by
the government in its declaration of March 9, 1951. At the
same time the Federal Government defined the indispen-
sable prerequisites for the carrying out of free elections.
The Soviet Occupation Power did not send a reply to
any of these proposals submitted by the Federal Govern-
ment. The Soviet Zone authorities rejected these proposals.
Mr. Grotewohl* has now made statements in the Volks-
kammer on Sept. 15 which seem to come nearer to the
proposals submitted by the Federal Government. The
Federal Government has carefully examined these state-
ments, The Senate and the Chamber of Deputies of Berlin
immediately proposed free elections for the whole of
Berlin which, unfortunately, were rejected.

Mr. Grotewohl continues to insist on consultations con-
cerning all-German elections. What do consultations
with Communists mean? From many bitter experiences the
world knows that when representatives of Communism
talk of consultations they mean either dictation or endless
delays. It would be a different matter if we had to deal
with freely elected representatives of the people of the
Soviet Zone. We could at once find agreement with them.

N ORDER NOT TO LEAVE any stone unturned, the

Federal Government will submit an election procedure
for free all-German elections. This election procedure will
in its essential points embody the following principles:

1, The electoral area shall constitute one single con-
stituency; each party shall submit a list of candidates for
the entire electoral area. >

2. Freedom of political activity for preparing and car-
rying out the election shall be guaranteed.

3. All restrictions on passenger traffic between the oc-
cupation zones, including Greater Berlin, shall be repealed
not later than three months prior to the elections.

4, Absolute personal freedom shall be guaranteed
throughout the entire electoral area to each duly nominat-
ed candidate for a seat in the National Assembly pend‘ng
its convention. The candidate shall neither be arrested,
detained, nor proceeded against in the courts, nor sub-
jected to disciplinary action, dismissed from his service

* Otto Grotewohl, premier in the Soviet-Zone regime, in which
the “Volkskammer" occupies the place of a parliamentary body.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
or employment, nor be otherwise called to account or
hindered in his freedom of movement. He must be granted
the necessary leave from employment to prepare for the
election.

5. Prior to, during and after the election, no one may be
arrested, detained, proceeded against in the courts, sub-
jected to disciplinary action, dismissed from service or
employment, nor otherwise called to account because of
his political attitude.

6. Public meetings of parties, which have duly sub-
mitted a list of candidates, and of their candidates, shall
be permitted unrestrictedly and shall be placed under
official protection.

7. The distribution of newspapers, periodicals and other
printed matter, which are published in any German state,
and the reception of broadcasts must not be impaired in
the entire electoral area.

8. The secrecy of the election shall be guaranteed.

9. Ballots and their envelopes shall be the same for all
persons entitled to vote and must not bear any marks by
which the voter may be identified. The marking of the
ballot by the voter shall take place ina part of the polling
station which cannot be observed by any other persons.
The voter shall enclose his ballot in an envelops and put
it into the ballot box in front of the polling committee.

10. Renunciation of these provisions is inadmissible.
Any infringement shall invalidate the entire election of
the polling district concerned.

11, The votes shall be counted in public by the polling
committee consisting of the representatives of the dif-
ferent parties.

12. Preparation and carrying out of the election shal)
be under international protection and international super-
vision.

13. In all parts of the electoral area protection shall be
uniformly entrusted to international supervisory bodies.
The German authorities shall comply with the directions
of these supervisory bodies.

14. The supervisory bodies shall safeguard the rights
and liberties of the population resulting from these pro-
visions. Every German has the right to appeal to the super-
visory bodies.

FTER THIS ELECTION PROCEDURE shall have been

passed by the German Assembly (Bundestag) and
Council (Bundesrat), the Federal Government will trans-
mit it to the United Nations, the four Occupation Pewers
and the authorities of the Soviet Zone in order to cbtain
their views. In so doing, it will propose that the inter-
national supervisory bodies be composed of representa-
tives of neutral powers.

Really free elections, however, are possible only if the
prerequisites for the free expression of the will of the
people are fulfilled in fact in the Soviet Zone. So far the
over-all situation in the Soviet Zone is far removed from
that state of freedom. The hundreds of refugees who daily
cross the zonal border to the West, leaving all they have
behind them, seeking refuge in the Federal Republic, are
shocking proof of the state of lawlessness and lack of
freedom in the Soviet Zone. These people are driven by
harassing insecurity, the fear of the People’s Police, of
the concentration camps and of forced labor.

The Federal Republic feels it to be its duty to do every-
thing in order to establish clarity and certainty in this
field. This can only be done in the face of world public
opinion by having a neutral international commission
under the supervision of the United Nations examine, in
the Soviet Zone and in the territory of the Federal Re-
public, to what extent the existing circumstances permit
the holding of free elections, The Federal Government
will at once apply for such an international investigation
with respect to the territory of the Federal Republic. It is
a matter for the Soviet Zone authorities to do the same.

The joining together of the territories of the Soviet Zone
and of the Federal Republic will be the first step toward
Germany's reunification. This is of vital importance for
the German people and for world peace. --END

Aliens Start Army Training

Forty-five alien enlistees in the US Army sailed Oct. 3
from Bremerhaven for the United States (see back cover),
where they will receive their basic training. Enlisted
under a recent Act of Congress whereby certain aliens
can be accepted in the Regular Army, these 45 represent
the first contingent sent to the United States to undergo
training. Under current plans, a flow of approximately
50 a month is planned.

The enlistees started to draw their pay of $75 per
month (equivalent to DM 315) on the day they entered the
service. Increases in pay will follow as promotions are
received in accordance with the usual US Army practice.

This initial group includes representatives from Czecho-
slovakia, U.S.S.R., Hungary, the Ukraine, Poland, Latvia,
Estonia and Rumania as well as stateless persons, and
are the first alien volunteers to be accepted in the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

52

expanding US military effort.
“Stateless Europeans Enlist’
September 1951.)

Although 2,500 applicants can be accepted under
present law, new legislation has been enacted to authorize
enlistment of an additional 10,000 aliens. More than 3,400
applications have been received to date. Many of those
who applied, however, were ineligible for enlistment
because they were presently married. Others were in-
eligible because they were not nationals of countries from
which enlistments are authorized.

Countries whose nationals are not eligible for enlist-
ment are those countries which are signatories to the
North Atlantic Treaty or countries participating in the
European Recovery Program. German nationals are not
eligible for enlistment.

(See pictorial feature
in Information Bulletin,

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 56 ---
In and Around Germany

Nearly 1,000,000 DPs Resettled

In 50 months of operations, the International Refugee
Organization has resettled 976,109 displaced persons in
new homes and repatriated another 72,584.

The IRO preliminary statistical report for August dis-
closed that the UN specialized agency has transported a
monthly average of almost 21,000 refugees to more than
80 countries and territories throughout the world. This
figure does not include the thousands of non-IRO emi-
grants transported by the organization on behalf of
member governments, on a reimbursable basis.

The resettlement total for August, 10,765, was slightly
higher than the figure for the preceding month. Movement
to the United States, however, climbed more than 1,500
above July's total to reach 7,775. The United States and
Canada together accounted for more than 90 percent of
the August movement.

The IRO reported an active caseload of 131,566 DPs at
the start of September, the vast majority of whom were
located in Germany, Austria, France and Italy. More
than 1,580,000 refugees have received some form of assist-
ance from the UN agency since it was established in
July 1947,

German-American Industrial Leaders Meet

A firsthand exchange of management techniques be-
tween American and European industrial leaders will be
made possible during a conference to be held in New
York City starting Dec. 3. The ECA Special Mission to
Western Germany is sponsoring the attendance of 48
prominent German industrialists among the more than
200 European management executives who will make
the trip.

The program will start with a two-week tour of indus-
trial plants. The first International Conference of Manu-
facturers and the International Management Productivity
Mission will have as their purpose the development of
techniques for improved methods of production to in-
crease total output and to make goods available at a
lower price.

Stuttgart Youth Center Started

A forward step in youth and community activities was
brought about recently with ground-breaking ceremonies
for a recreation center at Sillenbuch in Stuttgart. The
project will be financed by DM 72,000 ($17,136) from
the HICOG Special Projects Fund and a similar amount
from German sources.

Harvey M. Coverley, acting US state commissioner for
Wuerttemberg-Baden, termed the occasion “a milestone
in the forward struggle of the German people. The
ceremony was also attended by Mayor Arnulf Klett of
Stuttgart and Mayor Paul Grunberg of Sillenbuch.

NOVEMBER 1951

Immunizations for Munich Children

Wider use of immunization vaccines in Germany — a
country formerly foremost in the fight against communi-
cable diseases — is being furthered in Munich.

The Office of the US State Commissioner for Bavaria
has made available, free of charge, a quantity of Ameri-
can preparations for protection against diphtheria, whoop-
ing cough and tetanus. In 1950 Bavaria had 6,470 cases
of diphtheria with 252 deaths, and 212 deaths resulting
from whooping cough.

The Bavarian State Health Department and the Munich
City Health Department have agreed to immunize pro-
cedures at the three largest Munich children's hospitals:
the University Children’s Hospital, the Children’s Poly-
clinic and the Schwabing Children's Hospital.

With parents’ consent, shots will be given infants from
six to nine months of age. A booster shot will follow
one and a half years later, with a third inoculation when
the child enters school.

Labor Leader Dead

Fritz Tarnow, secretary-general of the former Bizonal
Trade Union Council, which was the highest union organi-
zation in the US and British Zones before the establish-
ment of the German Trade Union Federation (DGB) in
December 1949, died Oct. 23 in Bad Orb, Hesse. He was
71 years old.

Joining the German Woodworking Union at the age
of 19, he held union positions, was secretary of the Wood-
working International Bureau in 1929 and a SPD Reichstag
deputy until the Nazi Labor Front took over the trade
unions in 1933. He lived in exile in Czechoslovakia, Eng-
land, Denmark and Sweden until he returned after the
war in 1946.

US Law Books Given High Courts

An American law library of approximately 1,600
volumes was presented to the Federal High Court and
the Federal Constitutional Court, Oct. 8 in Karlsruhe.
The American law books are part of the general law

Two Czechoslovakian officials (second and third from left)
sign US Army receipt for the “Freedom Train,’ which
carried 34 Czechs across the Czechoslovakian-Bavarian
border to freedom Sept. 11. Eleven of the 34 escapees
sailed for Canada Oct. 16. The ‘Freedom Train" was re-
turned Oct. 11, one month after its Hight. (US Army photo)

"i

--- Page 57 ---
— Ss

Erich Federmann, bomb disposal expert, looks over crater
after he successfully detonated a 1,000-pound British bomb,
dropped in Nuremberg during the war. Crew standing by
placed peat bales and straw over bomb — only a few
window panes were broken. Inset at left shows the nose
of the long-buried missile. (US Army photo)

library serving both courts which is located in the build-
ing housing the Federal High Court.

Eli W. Debevoise, general counsel, HICOG, officially
presented the law books to. Dr. Hermann Weinkauff,
president of the Federal High Court, and Dr. Hermann
Hoepker-Aschoff, president of the Constitutional Court.

The American law library, purchased through the
HICOG Special Projects Fund at a cost of about $8,000,
contains a complete set of the decisions of the US Supreme
Court, the reports of the lower federal courts, the North-
eastern Reporter, American Law Reports Annotated, as
well as several sets of state statutes, law dictionaries,
American jurisprudence, leading text books and other
reference materials.

Gerhart Husserl, who is in charge of cultural exchange
activities for the Office of General Counsel, said that
the law library should be of particular interest to the two
high German tribunals, since many of the volumes deal
with problems of constitutional law, protection of the
rights of the individual, social legislation and inter-
national law.

Nine similar sets of law books have been presented to
West German universities and the Free University of
Berlin during the past year. (See “Law Books for Univer-
sities in Information Bulletin, September 1951.)

Equal Education Urged

The assurance of equal educational opportunity for all
is up to the state, in the opinion of Dr. James R. Newman,
US state commissioner for Hesse. Dr. Newman spoke
recently before 43 teachers from northern Hesse who
were guests of the Hessian Ministry of Culture.

“The future rests with the youth,” the commissioner
said. "The teachers must insure the growth of the youth
in a democratic environment.”

Trade Union Youth Helped
As an aid in the development of trade union youth, the

Office of the US State Commissioner for Wuerttemberg-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

54

Baden has presented the state trade union youth secre-
tary Otto Wallenmaier a check for DM 12,000 ($2,856) as
the first installment of a grant-in-aid for the Karl Kloss
Jugendheim.

The success of the operation of the Jugendheim in the
last year has shown that German youth quickly respond
to training which, even in a small measure, acquaints
them with their trade union and with the world in which
they live, commented Newton S. Friedman, chief of
OLCW-B Labor Affairs Division.

The method of instruction, one of self-participation,
also demonstrates to the young workers that they them-
selves can take part in the various activities, both organi-
zational and public, which surround them.

Under the program for this year it is hoped to broaden
the outlook of the participants by bringing in students
from other areas.

Army Troops Aid Needy Family

The deep feeling of community responsibility by Ameri-
cans was demonstrated recently to German residents of
the Bavarian village of Pfaffenhofen.

A US Army truck accidentally struck and killed one
of the village men. Upon hearing that the victim left a
widow and four children in relatively needy circum-
stances, officers and men of the 8608th Administrative
Area Unit, as well as the German employees, took up
a collection.

Capt. William J. Jenkins, commanding officer of the
unit, turned over the fund of DM 1,713 ($407) to William
E. Schaufele, Jr., US resident officer for Pfaffenhofen,
who delivered the money to the widow.

Kulmbach Honors HICOG Men
The “Golden: Book,” which records names for ever-
lasting commemoration in the city of Kulmbach, north

Walter Jaroschwitz (leit), head of Berlin youth depart-
ment, receives from Anton Schmitz, head of Berlin build-
ing and housing department, key which opens door to
new West Berlin Youth Center in the Tiergarten area of
free Berlin. Charles F. Weckworth, visiting HICOG con-
sultant on community affairs and youth activities, is in
center. HICOG Special Projects Fund gave aid in amount
of DM 104,600 ($24,894). (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 58 ---
Mayor Georg Hagen looks on as US State Commissioner
for Bavaria George N. Shuster (upper photo) and Resident
Officer Adolph Dubs sign Kulmbach's “Golden Book," an
honor voted the two HICOG officials by Kulmbach’s City
Council for “unforgettable service to the youth of our city.”

of Nuremberg, has two new additions: Dr. George N.
Shuster, US state commissioner for Bavaria, and US Resi-
dent Officer Adolph Dubs, The honor was conferred by the
Kulmbach City Council in recognition of their ‘“unforget-
table service to the youth of our city.”

More than 400 citizens of the area attended the cere-
mony Sept. 29, at which time Dr. Shuster and Mr. Dubs
entered their names. Mayor Georg Hagen expressed the
community's appreciation for the humane program started
by the American people soon after the war's end to aid
the Germans: the school children food program, the send-
ing of CARE packages, the delivery of food on long-term
credit, the Marshall Plan and the individual gifts.

The mayor pointed out that the HICOG Special Projects
Fund offers further proof of the farsightedness with which
the people of the United States are seeking to solve the
problems of Germany.

A grant of DM 402,000 ($95,676) from the HICOG fund
was recently made for construction of a model elementary
school in Kulmbach-Mangersreuth.

Farm Youth Groups Aided

Establishment and furtherance. of farm youth organi-
zations in Bavaria similar to the 4-H clubs in America
is being pushed by the Youth and Community Activities
Branch, Office of the US State Commissioner for Bavaria.

NOVEMBER 1951

Harold C. Patrick, youth adviser, turned over DM 20,000
($4,760) to the Bavarian Ministry of Agriculture on Sept. 25.
The money will be spread throughout 30 to 40 counties
in Bavaria to stimulate interest in the program.

In some cases the money will be channeled through
“winter schools" — training groups set up in most parts
of Bavaria which enable farm youths to learn skills and
techniques during the light work months. In other locali-
ties the HICOG grant will be used to purchase feed, poultry
or livestock through which the youngsters may learn the
care of farm animals by actual practice.

East Prussian Farms Neglected

The Berliner Anzeiger carried a DPA (German news
agency) dispatch Sept. 10 saying it had been revealed by
refugees from East Prussia that large areas of the once
very fertile East Prussian soil were no longer being culti-
vated by farmers. No reconstruction has taken place in the
city of Koenigsberg itself, while only the harbor of Pillau
has been rebuilt by the Soviets for strategic purposes.

According to the dispatch, most Germans were deported
or went to Lithuania in 1945, 1947 and 1948, the refugees
said, The few remaining Germans work as farmhands
on the last Soviet government farms. They have no
privileges whatsoever because they can neither obtain
Soviet citizenship nor correspond with Germany, let
alone visit Germany.

Tower Denotes Munich-Cincinnati Unity

Voluntary contributions of German and American resi-
dents of Munich and citizens of its ‘sister city,’ Cincinnati,
made possible reconstruction of the tower of Der Alte
Peter (Old Peter), Munich's oldest church and a traditional
symbol of the Bavarian capital city. The 89-foot tower and
building of the centuries-old parish church were badly
damaged in wartime air raids.

A Richtfest (festival denoting completion of the roof)
was held recently by 82-year-old Michael Cardinal Faul-
haber, Catholic archbishop of Munich and_ Freising, in

Secretary of the Navy Dan Kimball on an inspection tour
of Europe, recently reviewed Army, Navy and Air Force
honor guard at Heidelberg after 19-gun salute. In the
front row, I.-r., are Secretary Kimball, General Thomas
T. Handy, commander-in-chief, European Command; John
S. Graham, assistant secretary of the Treasury; Rear Adm.
Carl F. Holden, commander, US Naval Forces in Germany;
Maj. Gen. Charles E. Hart, commanding general, artillery,
Seventh Army, and Col. Clyde K. Rich, chief of staff,
12th Air Force. (US Army photo)

--- Page 59 ---
the presence of Dr. George N. Shuster, US state commis-
sioner for Bavaria; Thomas Wimmer, mayor of Munich;
George H. Godfrey, senior US resident officer for Munich,
and others.

An “affiliation committee” of the Cincinnati city council
— which is trying to intensify the good relations between
the two cities — turned over a gift of $50,000 to Munich
city officials during the festival to aid in interior decora-
tion of the church.

After the dedication ceremonies a congratulatory mes-
sage by Mayor Albert D. Cash of Cincinnati was trans-
mitted by short wave.

During a recent plenary session of the Munich city
council, Mrs. Kat Seyfferth, the first council member to
visit Cincinnati, reported on her three-month study trip
to the United States. She especially noted that there are
only nine members on the city council for Cincinnati,
which has a population of 500,000 whereas Munich, with
its 830,000 inhabitants, has 50 councilmen.

“Die Neue Zeitung” Editions Consolidated |

The Munich and Frankfurt editions of Die Neue Zeitung,
US-published German-language daily newspaper, were
merged Oct. 1 into a single edition published in Frankfurt.
The consolidated edition continues to be published by
the Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany with
Hans Wallenberg as editor-in-chief.

The staff members of the former Frankfurt and Munich
editorial offices have been consolidated in the Frankfurt
office. Continuing in Munich are a news bureau for Bavaria
and the paper's cultural-features and literature staff.

The Frankfurt edition covers the entire area of the Ger-
man Federal Republic. Not affected by the consolidation
is the Berlin edition of Die Neue Zeitung which continues
asaseparate unit, :

Variety Marks Information Programs

Valuable community centers instead of one-sided propa-
ganda institutions is a feeling that continues to be empha-
sized at US Information Centers in western Germany.

The program for the Frankfurt “America House” during
a recent week featured a different national on the plat-
form every night with lectures ranging from political,
economic and religious issues to classical and modern
musical recitals and discussions. Lectures were from Eng-
land, Switzerland, Ireland, the United States and Germany.

100 GYA Centers to Continue

Continuance of more than 100 GYA centers in the US
Zone has been assured under a recent funding program.
The centers will continue to receive complete US Armed
Forces’ support and assistance as in the past.

Several centers from which Armed Forces’ financial
support was withdrawn June 30, may still be eligible for
assistance from the US Armed Forces and HICOG. The
communities in which such centers are situated must
assure their retention as community projects, supported
and administered by the community. Local US resident

INFORMATION BULLETIN

56

HICOG Fiscal Services branch chiefs met at Bremen
recently to discuss financial structure of field offices,
Seated at conference table, counter-clockwise, are Fletcher
D. Mitchell, Jr., chief, Fiscal Services Division; Wallace
B. McNett, deputy chief; A. J. Warnecki, Stuttgart; J. C.
O'Connell, Munich; J. A. Angetti, Berlin; G. R. Jennings,
Bremen; H. Goldstein, disbursing officer, Munich; Allan
Chase, Frankfurt; W. J. Monticone, assistant to chiet,
Fiscal Services Division. (Photo by F. W. Meier, Bremen)

officers or HICOG representatives will negotiate with
community leaders or groups and with GYA officers in
arranging the turnover of such centers to German control.

Augsburg Gets 4-H Club

Interest in the part of youth in farming practices has
been aroused in Augsburg county through the organiza-
tion of a 4-H Club program. Miss Maria Lenk, home eco-
nomics teacher at the Augsburg County Agricultural
School, set up the club.

The first rural-youth competition in Augsburg, aided
by the Bavarian ministry of agriculture and the US resi-
dent office, was held Aug. 22. Ten weeks earlier, 11 girls
about 16 years of age volunteered to raise four ducks
each — supplied them free of charge — following sug-
gestions made by the office for agricultuse and their
schoolteacher. The first prize was awarded to the girl
whose ducks were the heaviest and who showed the
greatest care for her fowls. A new competition for pre-
served fruit is underway.

Agricultural Problems Discussed

The agricultural problems of 32 nations, including Ger-
many, were discussed during a recent conference on the
world land-tenure problem at the University of Wis-
consin. Three West German delegates attended the meet-
ing. They were: Siegfried Palmer of the federal Ministry
of Food, Agriculture and Forestry, Bonn; Otto Schiller,
professor of national agricultural policy, Hohenheim
Agriculture College, Stuttgart, and Lothar Richter, student.

The three will spend some time in Wisconsin farm
homes to become acquainted with American agricultural
methods. A bus trip from Wisconsin to Washington, D.C.,
with frequent stops at farms en route was also slated.

The conference, sponsored jointly by ECA, the US De- ©
partment of State and the US Department of Agriculture,
was planned to cover all phases of agriculture improve- ~
ments, land consolidation, establishment of machinery
stations, availability of farm credits, farm taxation and ~
farm management. +END

NOVEMBER 1951 ~

--- Page 60 ---
(Cpntinued from page 23)

Berlin’s Cultural Festival

The author's desire to show the resemblance be-
tween the German and French characters distinctly led
him to use epic length in the exposition. The news-
paper noted that only in the second part were words
and actions so closely linked that a true dramatic
atmosphere existed.

Another of the special foreign events during the festival
was the appearance of the flame-haired actress and singer
Ljuba Welitsch in “Salome."’ Die Neue Zeitung said of her
performance, “It could be shocking if it were not per-
formed with the utmost artistic sensibility.’ The critic
sang out praise of the Viennese opera star and her inter-
pretation as “the fulfillment of this role,” ‘stylized
hysteria which sometimes even takes cynical forms,’
“Welitsch’s high artistic intelligence employs an un-
usually rich vocal palette... the result is phenomenal and
convincing.”

In summing up, the German newspaper said, “One
cannot unveil the nerve-torn, gen‘al-morbid spirit of
Wilde’s drama and of Strauss’ music more relentlessly

than did Heinz Tietjen in his new staging of ‘Salome.”’

OR THE NON-VOCAL ENTHUSIASTS Marcel Mar-

ceau, Paris mimic, won the cheers ofall who saw
his show at the Tribuene Theater. Der Tagesspiegel said,
“Here is a man who simply must be acclaimed as a
genius. He has the ability to express the unconscious
and the subconscious of surface occurrences merely
through movements of his body, performed in such a
way as to draw great admiration."

The “black magic’ of Marceau's skill enabled him
to struggle against the wind, to walk up sta‘rs and to
pull a rope, although the wind, stairs and rope were
all invisible. Together with his troupe of six men and
three women Marceau offered three mimic scenes.

The program notes for this cultural event stated: The
art of mimic is very difficult. The art of psychic expres-
sion through bodily movement, the world of dolls, masks
and puppets is opened to us by Marcel Marceau.” The
critic for the Berliner Anzeiger found the French panto-
mimes “a rate pleasure’ and went on to describe the
scenes as “a world of exact grace, stylized and yet
real in the sense of true art, making reality visible
behind everyday occurrences.”

Berliners during the Festival weeks also got their
first look at a complete show of American art from
1720 to present day. The 65 works hung at the Schoene-
berg City Hall “followed no general line: reckless real-
ism hung next to moon-struck romanticism; some
materialistic works were seen together with abstract
ones," according to the British-licensed newspaper Tele-
graf.

Another paper Der Tagesspiegel, in the US Sector,
called the exhibit ‘‘a surprise and “quite a novelty.”
The critic added, “creative American art is known to
us only through a few accidental examples and some
books, also limited in number.”

NOVEMBER 1951

57

Berliners these days are telling the story of the
two ladies coming from a performance of the “Cock-
tail Party” in the Schiller Theater.

“Rather obscure, the whole thing, isn't it?’ one of
them says.

“Oh, I don‘t think so at all," the other replies.
“Whoever knows religious philosophy, has read the
medieval mystics, has an idea of scholastics, and has
studied the Chinese philosophers should have no
trouble in understanding it.

“Only,” the same lady continues, meditatively,
“I am not quite sure what Eliot meant when he had
Celia say ‘good evening’ in the second act."

Der Tagesspiegel noted, “In contrast to our view,
American art will not recognize modern tendencies as
such, as they are guided by powerful groups, but will
accept only what is true.”

Another art attraction was an exhibit at the US In-
formation Center of work by America’s top photogra-
phers. Der Tag said of this showing, “Most of them
have a remarkably good eye for the nature of things.
They search in everyday life for their camera tangents,
discover the attractiveness of little things.”

So September passed in Berlin and with it the Berlin
Festival. There are no misgivings, only fond memories.
The “Oklahoma!” people went back to Boston but the
Berliners are still singing ‘People Will Say We're in
Love.” +END

German-American Committee Drafts
Elaborate Christmas Plans in Freising

A plan for a “Day of Pleasure” for all children of the
city and county of Freising, Bavaria, has been worked
out on the initiative of Chester S. Wright, US resident
officer for Freising.

A German-American committee was formed to provide
funds so that every child of the county can be invited to
a Christmas movie-show and be given a Christmas parcel;
This action will be carried out regardless of the social
background of the children. All youth of the county of a
certain age group will be invited to these events, which
will take place at Freising, Moosburg and Nandlstadt
simultaneously.

The committee consists of 18 members, including Mr.
Wright; Col. Alfred A. Blanco, commanding officer of
the US troops stationed there; the mayors of Freising,
Moosburg and Nandlstadt, and representatives of the
community administrations, schools, trade unions, women's
clubs, farmer's organizations, sports clubs and welfare
bodies.

Mr. Wright announced that the profits from a match
between the Freising boxing club and a team from Erding
Air Base was turned over to the committee. The Christ-
mas drive will also receive substantial assistance from.
Rotary Clubs in the United States and from American
military units stationed in Freising County.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
Calendar of Coming Events

Nov. 20, 1951, to Jan. 15, 1952

CURRENT (with closing dates)

Nov. 25 — Frankfurt (Hes): Exposition of
paintings commemorating Oskar Moll.
Nov. 25 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Art exposi-

tion, water colors, by Duesseldorf artists.
Nov. 30 — Heidelberg (WB): Crafts’ show.
Dec. 1 — Heidelberg (WB): Association
of German Private Schools, meeting.
Dec, 2 — Cologne (NRW): .UNESCO ex-
position; colored reproductions by old
and modern masters.
Dec. 2 — Cologne (NRW): Ice-skating
exhibition, Maxi and Einst Baier,
Dec. 2— Nuremberg (Bav): Art exposition.
Dec. 15 — Essen (NRW): Art exposition.
Dec. 16 — Hamburg: Winterdom, festival.
Dec. 30 — Hamburg: Art exposition.
Dec. 31 —- Munich (Bav): American In-
dustrial Design Exhibit at America House.
Dec. — Hanover (LS): State museum ex-
position, European art from 1400 to 1800.
Dec. — Munich (Bav): ‘The Romans in
Bavaria,” exposition at National Museum,
Jan. 6 — Neuss (NRW): Christmas art ex-
position by Neuss artists.

NOVEMBER

Nov, 20 — Dortmund (NRW): Chamber
music, Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra.
Nov. 20-Dec. 15 — Essen (NRW): Exposition

of French reproductions.
Nov. 21 — Cologne (NRW):
concert, Bonn City Orchestra.
Nov. 21 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert.
Nov. 21 — Hamburg: Concert, Philharmonic
Orchestra; Jos. Keilberth, conductor.
Nov, 21 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert; ‘The
Creation,’ Haydn.
Nov. 21 — Repentance Day (German holi-

Symphony

day).
Nov, 22-23 — Krefeld (NRW): Horse show.
Nov. 22-25 — Karlsruhe (WB): German

Cyclists’ Union, meeting.

Nov. 23 — Nuremberg (Bav): Symphony
concert; Wolfgang Schneiderhan, violin.

Nov, 23-Dec. 15 — Essen (NRW): British
movie exposition.

Nov, 24-25 — Neheim-Huesten (NRW):
Concert; “Missa Solemnis,'’ Beethoven.
Nov. 25 — Hildesheim (LS): Concert; Re-

quiem, Max Seeboth.

Nov, 25-26 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra.

Nov. 25-26 — Hamburg: Symphony concert;
Conrad Hansen, piano; Jos. Keilberth,
conductor.

Nov, 25-Dec. 23 — Hanover (LS): Art
crafts’ Christmas exposition.

Nov. 26-27 — Bremen: Concert, Philhar-
monic Orchestra,

Nov. 30 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert; Ger-.

trud Pitzinger, alto.

Nov. 30-Dec, 2 — Kassel
small animal show.

Nov. 30-Dec, 2 — Mainz (RP): Rhineland-
Palatinate and Hesse poultry show.

Nov. 30-Dec. 6 — Berlin: Six-day bicycle
races,

DECEMBER

Dec, 1 — Ludwigsburg (WB): Palace con-
cert; Hans Hotter, baritone.

Dec. 1-9 — Neustadt (RP): Christmas ex-
position.

(Hes): Hesse

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Dec, 1-16 — Heidelberg (WB): Christmas
art exposition.

Dec. 1-17 — Munich (Bav): Exhibition,
Modern American Paintings, at America
House.

Dec. 2 — Baden-Baden (SB): Concert, South-
west German Broadcasting Orchestra.
Dec, 2 — Ludwigsburg (WB): Samson, ora-

torio by Handel.

Dec, 2 — Landshut (Bav): Concert, Loewen-
guth Quartet,

Dec. 2 — Remscheid (NRW):
Haydn, ‘The Creation.”

Dec. 2 — Wesel (NRW): Concert; Bach,
Christmas oratorio.

Dec. 2 — Aachen (NRW): Concert; Adrian
Aeschbacher, piano and Prof. Freund,
violin,

Dec. 2-3 — Berlin: Concert, Berlin Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; Gertrud Pitzinger,
alto; Jos. Keilberth, conductor.

Dec. 2-6 — Aschaffenburg (Bav): St. An-
drew’'s fair,

Dec. 2-9 — Ulm (WB): Winter fair.

Dec. 2-12 — Essen (NRW): Christmas fair.

Concert;

Dec. 2-23 — Frankfurt (Hes): Art-crafts’
Christmas fair.
Dec. 2-30 — Mannheim (WB): Christmas

exposition by Mannheim artists.

Dec, 2-31 — Aachen (NRW): Exposition by
Aachen artists.

Dec, 2-31 — Marburg (Hes): Christmas ex-
position by Marburg artists,

Dec. 3 —- Heidelberg (WB): Symphony con-
cert: Christine Burrmann, piano.

Dec. 3 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; Eugen Papst, conductor.

Dec. 3 — Bonn (NRW): Concert; Heinz
Stanske, violin; Otto Volkmann, con-
ductor,

Dec, 3 — Nuremberg (Bav): Trio concert;
Edwin Fischer, piano; Wolfgang Schneid-
erhan, violin; Enrico Mainardi, cello.

Dec. 3 — Coblenz (RP): Concert; Christian
Ferras, violin; Otto Winkler, conductor.

Dec. 3 — Darmstadt (Hes): Symphony con-
cert; Paul Tortelier, cello.

Dec, 3 — Flensburg (SH): Symphony con-
cert; Heinrich Steiner, conductor,

Dec. 3-4 — Mannheim (WB): Academy con-
cert; Arthur Grumiaux, violin; Eugen
Szenkar, conductor.

Dec. 8-15 — Heidelberg (WB): Working
Committee on Social Plant Management
“Master Course, congress.

Dec. 4 — Weinheim/Bergstr. (WB): Con-
cert; Pasquier trio.

Dec, 4-5 — Neheim-Huesten (NRW): Con-
cert; Vienna trio; Magda Rusy, piano.
Dec. 5 — Muehlheim/Ruhr (NRW): Con-

cert; Vasa Prihoda, violin,

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH —- Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

58

Dec, 5 — Bremen: Concert; Christian Fer-
ras, violin.

Dec. 6 — Heidelberg (WB): Concert; Elly
Ney, piano; Ludwig Hoelscher, cello.
Dec. 6 — Cologne (NRW): Concert; Trio:

E, Fischer, W. Schneiderhan, E, Mainardi,

Dec. 6 — Oberhausen (NRW): Concert;
Herman Krabbers (Amsterdam), violin,

Dec. 6 — Krefeld (NRW): Concert; Loewen-
guth Quartet.

Dec. 6-7 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert;
Mass in C minor by Mozart.

Dec. 6-9 — Hamburg: Northwest German
congress of German surgeons.

Dec, 7 —- Kassel (Hes): Symphony concert,

Dec. 7 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert;
Trio: E, Fischer, W. Schneiderhan and
E. Mainardi.

Dec. 7 — Viersen (NRW): Concert, Bam-
berg Symphony Orchestra; Clem. Krauss
(Vienna), conductor.

Dec, 7 — Hof (Bav): Concert; Vasa Prihoda,
violin.

Dec. 8 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Trio concert;
Edwin Fischer, piano; W. Schneiderhan,
violin; E. Mainardi, cello,

Dec, 8 — M.Gladbach (NRW): Symphony
concert,

Dec, 8-10 —
poultry show.

Dec. 8-23 — Giessen (Hes): Christmas fair.

Dec. 8-30 — Nuremberg (Bav): Professional
Association of Sculptors, exposition.

Dec. 9 — Baden-Baden (SB): Concert,
Southwest GermanBroadcasting Orchestra.

Dec. 9 — Krefeld (NRW): Singers’ Union's
125th anniversary; Bruckner, ‘Te Deum".

Dec. 9 — Siegen (NRW): Concert, Bam-
berg Symphony Orchestra.

Dec. 9-10 — Berlin: Concert, RIAS Sym-
phony Orchestra; Ferenc Fricsay, con-
ductor,

Dec. 9-10 — Reutlingen (WB): Concert; G.
Schulz-Fuerstenberg, cello.

Dec. 9-10 — Hamburg: Concert, Philhar-
monic Orchestra; Jos. Keilberth, conductor.
Dec. 9-10 — Lauterbach (Hes): Art and trade ,

exposition.

Dec. 9-15 — Wilhelmshaven (LS): Training
course for vocational school teachers.

Dec. 9-23 — Hanover (LS): Christmas fair.

Dec. 9-24 — Kassel (Hes); Bonn (NWR):
Christmas fairs.

Dec, 9-24 — Dortmund (NRW): Exposition
of lead figurines and prints.

Dec. 9-Jan. 2 — Essen (NRW): Exposition
by Essen artists.

Dec, 10 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-
cert; Gerhard Taschner, violin; I. Do-
brown, conductor. :

Dec. 10 — Karlsruhe (WB): Symphony con-
cert; H. Stanske, violin; Otto Matzerath,
conductor,

Dec. 10 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; Joachim Wallbaum, piano; Johan-
nes Schueler, conductor.

Dec, 10 — Luebeck (SH): Concert; Paul
Tortelier, cello; G. E, Lessing, conductor.

Dec, 10-11—Bremen: PhilharmonicOrchestra.

Dec, 12 — Cologne, Duesseldorf, Pader-
born (NRW): Concerts.

Dec. 12-13 — Duisburg (NRW): Symphony
concert; Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, soprano;
G. L. Jochum, conductor.

Hamburg: North German

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 62 ---
Dec. 13 — Muenster (NRW): Symphony

concert; Vasa Prihoda, violin; Dr. R.
Wagner, conductor.

Dec, 14 — Bremen: Concert, Loewenguth
Quartet,

Dec. 14 — Wuppertal (NRW): Oratorio
concert.

Dec. 14 — Kaiserslautern (RP): Concert;

E, Baltzer, conductor.

Dec. 14 — Wiesbaden (Hes):
bor Varga, violin.

Dec, 14-16 — Stuttgart (WB): Wuerttem-
berg-Baden poultry-breeders’ exposition.

Dec, 15 — Viersen (NRW): Concert, Trieste
Trio.

Dec. 15-23 — Stuttgart-Weinheim (WB):
Christmas fair.

Dec, 16 — Muelheim/Ruhr (NRW):
races,

Dec. 16 — Tuebingen (NB): Concert; Bach,
Christmas Oratorio.

Dec, 16 — Essen (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; Gustav Koenig, conductor.

Dec. 16 — Murnau (Bav): Opening ski-
jumping.

Dec. 16-17 — Berlin: Concert, Berlin Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; Stefan Askenase,
piano; Karl Boehm, conductor.

Concert; Ti-

Horse

Dec, 16-17 — Hamburg: Northwest German _

Broadcasting Orchestra; H. Schmidt-Isser-
stedt, conductor.

Dec. 16-23 — Bad Wimpfen (WB): St.
Katherine's Christmas fair.
Dec, 16-24 — Hildesheim (LS):

fair,

Dec. 17 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; Northwest German Broadcasting
Orchestra; Jos. Keilberth, conductor.

Dec, 17-18 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony

Christmas

concert; Maurits Frank, cello; Guenter
Wand, conductor.

Dec, 17-18 — Brunswick (LS): Christian
Ferras, violin.

Dec, 19 — Reutlingen (WB): Concert,

modern music.

Dec. 20 — Hildesheim (LS): Concert; Bach,
Christmas Oratorio.

Dec, 23 — Wallgau (Bav):
jumping.

Dec. 24 — Biberach/Riss (WB): Santa Claus
festival.

Dec, 25 — Schliersee, Mittenwald, Berch-
tesgaden (Bav); Herrenalb (WB): Christ-
mas ski-jumping.

Dec, 25-26 — St. Andreasberg, Hahnenklee-
Bockswiese (LS): Jubilee ski-running and
jumping; ice hockey.

Dec, 26 — Berlin: Philharmonic Orchestra.

Dec. 26 — Gersfeld/Rhoen (Hes); Braun-
lage (LS); Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Bay-
risch Zell (Bav): Ski-jumping.

Dec, 26 — Daun, Pruem/Eifel Mountains
(NRW); Daaden (NRW); Morbach and
Reinsfeld/Hunsrueck (RP): Ski-running
and slalom,

Opening ski-

Dec, 26-Jan. 1 — Muenster (NRW): Six-
day bicycle races.
Dec. 28 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Symphony

concert,

Dec, 30 — Braunlage (LS); Adenau/Eifel
Mountains (NRW), Hohe Acht; Grafenau
(Bav); Berchtesgaden (Bav): Ski-running.

Dec. 30 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Symphony
concert,

Dec. 30 — Viersen (NRW): Concert; Haydn,
“The Creation."

Dec, 30-Jan. 1 — Usseln (NRW):
dorf Ski Club's skiing contests,

Dec. 31 —- Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra; Ferenc Fricsay, conductor,

Dec, 31 — Bamberg (Bav): Concert, Bam-
berg Symphony Orchestra; Jos. Keilberth,
conductor.

Duessel-

NOVEMBER 1951

Dec. 31 — Aachen (NRW):
festival in cathedral.
Dec, 31 — Oberammergau (Bav): Ski-jump-

End of year

ing.
. Dec, 31 — St. Andreasberg (LS): Night ski-

jumping,

JANUARY

Jan. 1 — Berlin: New Year's concert; Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; A. Rother, conductor.

Jan. 1 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
New Year's jumping on the Great Olym-
pia. Ski climbing contest, Wank route.

Jan, 1 — Haselbach (Rhoen) (Hes): Kreuz-
berg downhill run. Opening jump.

Jan. 1 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Ice hockey:
Berchtesgaden vs. Munich. New Year's
jumping.

Jan. 1 — Rottach/Egern (Bav):
race for the Alois Hoess cup.

Jan. 1 — Neustadt (Black Forest) (WB):
New Year's ski jumping. Downhill run
from High Ridge.

Jan. 1 — Braunlage (Harz) (LS):
Year's jump run.

Jan, 1 — Hahnenklee-Bockswiese (LS): Ice
hockey games; North German two-man
bobsled championship,

Jan. 1 — Habichtswald (Kassel) (Hes): New
Year's jumping, Max ‘Hoefer jump.

Jan. 1 — Mannheim (WB): New Year's
celebration of the Carnival Societies, Boat
procession on the Rhine.

Jan, 4 — Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert; Cristine Purrmann, piano; Hans
Weissbach, conductor.

Jan. 5 — Darmstadt (Hes): Concert; Adolf
Busch Quartet.

Jan. 5-6 — Dortmund (NRW): Indoor sports
festival, Olympic Games candidates.

Jan. 5-6 — Urspringen (Hes): Junior ski
day, downhill, long distance and slalom.

Jan, 5-6 — Mittenwald (Bav): Werdenfels
ski championships, Nordic combination.

Jan. 5-6 — Kreuth (Bav): Ski contests, Nor-
dic combination.

Jan. 6 — Tuebingen (WB): Christmas Ora-
torio; H. Schutz, conductor.

Jan. 6 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
International winter auto races.

Jan. 6 — Daaden (Eifel) (RP): Westerwald
district, ski championships.

Jan. 6 — Adenau (Eifel) (RP): Eifel district
ski championships.

Jan. 6 — Murbach (NRW): Mosel-Huns-
rueck district ski championships.

Jan. 6 — Feldberg (Black Forest) (SB):
District junior championships, Nordic
combination; Gessner memorial slalom.

Jan. 6 — Hundseck (SB): Ski jumping for
Baden-Baden casino challenge trophy.

Jan. 6 — Baiersbronn (Bav): Ski cham-
pionships; Alpine combination.

Jan. 6 — Gersfeld (Rhoen) (Hes): Rhoen
ski championships, Nordic combination.

Jan. 6 — Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Bav):
Slalom on the Horn.

Jan. 6 — Habichtswald (Bav): District ski
championships.

Jan. 6 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Special
slalom from Hornkopf. Vienna ice revue.

Jan, 6 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW): Elec-
tion of Carnival Prince.

Downhill

New

Jan. 6 — Pottenstein (Bav): ‘Light Festi-
val,'' procession, bonfires,
Jan. 6-7 — Berlin: Concert; Philharmonic

orchestra; Geza Anda, piano; G. Solti,
conductor.

Jan. 6-7 — Hamburg: Philharmonic con-
cert; Shura Cherkassky, piano; Jos. Keil-
berth, conductor.

Jan. 6-7 — Brunswick (LS): Symphony con-
cert; Albert Bittner, conductor.

Jan. 6-10 — Stuttgart (WB): “DOB” (Wo-
men's outer garment industry), sales fair.

59

Jan. 6-13 — Nuremberg (Bav): Contem-
porary opera week; Johannes Schueler,
conductor.

Jan. 7 — Hanover (LS): Symphony concert;
Paul Tortelier, cello; Johannes Schueler,
conductor.

Jan. 7 — Darmstadt
concert.

Jan. 7 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony con-
cert; Helmut Roloff, piano.

Jan. 7 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; Paul Sacher, conductor.

Jan. 7-8 — Bremen: Philharmonic concert;
Hoffmann, violin; Abromeit, cello,

Jan. 7-8 — Cologne (NRW): C. Monte-

. verdi's opera: Vespro della beata Vergine.

Jan. 7-9 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert;
Adolf Busch Quartet.

Jan. 8 — Solingen (NRW): Concert; Paul
Richartz, violin; Ludwig Hoelscher, cello;
W. Saam, conductor.

Jan. 9 — Reutlingen (Bav): Concert; cham-
ber music.

Jan. 9 — Muehlheim/Ruhr (NRW): Concert;
Branka Musulin, piano; Gustav Koenig,
conductor.

Jan, 9-10 — Duisburg (NRW): Symphony
concert; Dr. R. Wagner, conductor.

Jan, 10 — Muenster (NRW): Symphony con-
cert; Dr. R. Wagner, conductor.

Jan, 10 — Munich (Bav): Academy concert;
Hans Knappertsbusch, conductor.

Jan. 10 — Hildesheim (Hes): Concert;
chamber music.

Jan. 11 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert Shura
Cherkassky, piano; O. Schmidtgen, con-
ductor.

Jan. 11 — Nuremberg (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; Helmut Roloff, piano.

Jan. 11 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; Thomas Magyar, piano; Dr. H.
Thierfelder, conductor.

Jan. 11 — Bremen: Concert; Adolf Busch
Quartet.

Jan, 11 — Freiburg (SB): Concert Tibor
Varga, violin; Carl Seemann, piano.

Jan. 11 — Krefeld (NRW): Concert; Michele
Auclaire, violin; R. Hubertus, conductor.

Jan. 11 — Kaiserslautern (RP): Concert;
Guy Fallot, cello; K. Rucht, conductor.

Jan. 12 — Bonn (NRW): Carnival events.

Jan. 12-13 — Oberammergau (Bav): Wer-
denfels ski championships, Alpine com-
bination.

Jan, 12-13 — Bayrisch Zell (Bav): Oberland
ski championships; Nordic combination.

Jan. 13 — Cologne (NRW): Coronation of
Carnival Prince and Princess.

Jan. 13 — Rothenburg (Bav): Ski long run.
Jan. 13 — Freiburg (Bav): Eugen Winter-
halter ski endurance race (25 miles).
Jan, 13 — Braunlage (LS): Ski relay race.
Jan. 13-14 — Hamburg: First bestowal of

Lichtwark prize for plastic arts.

Jan. 13 — Frankfurt (Hes): 33rd national
poultry show.

Jan. 13-14 — Berlin; RIAS Symphony Or-
chestra, Ferenc Fricsay, conductor.

Jan, 14 — Reutlingen (Bav): Symphony
Orchestra; Tibor Varga, violin,

Jan. 14 — Wuppertal (NRW): Bamberg
symphony orchestra; Gerhard Taschner,
violin; Jos. Keilberth, conductor.

Jan. 14 — Karlsruhe (WB): Symphony con-
cert; Conrad Hansen, piano; Walter Zorn,
conductor.

Jan, 14 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-
cert; Johanna Martzy, piano; Jean Four:
net, conductor.

Jan, 14 — Viersen (NRW): Symphony. con- |
cert; Guenther Wand, conductor.

Jan. 14-15 — Mannheim (WB): Academy
concert; Eugen Szenkar, conductor.

Jan. 15 — Bremen: Concert; Adolf Busch
Quartet. + END

(Hes): Symphony

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
Dimpled Claire Swan, president of the Munich Junior
Women’s Club, was among a group of girls who modeled
smart American fashions at the big Sport and Fashion Show
which was a highlight of Munich's Good Neighbor Week.

An outstanding feature of the closing carnival was the
traditional leap over the St. John's bonfire by several
couples who, clad in typical Bavarian and other native
costumes, braved the flames to thrill a large audience.

One of week's most exciting sports events was relay race
in which world champion Herbert Klein (left, in cap) took
on teams representing Munich City Council (represented
at right by Dr. Hildegard Bruecher) and the Munich press.

Germans, Americans Stag

“GOOD NEIGHBOR COMMITTEE,” composed of both
American and German women, has been making great
strides in Munich with its aim of aiding refugees and
other needy persons who are willing to help themselves.
Under its chairman, Mrs. George N. Shuster, wife of
the US state commissioner for Bavaria, the new organi-
zation has distributed sewing machines in refugee camps,
helped find apprenticeships for young refugees, sent
children to summer camps, given overworked needy
mothers vacations, and aided old people and university
students. The committee does not compete with existing
organizations but channels work through them when-
ever possible.

To raise funds for its projects a ‘Good Neighbor Week”
was officially proclaimed in Munich last summer by
Mayor Thomas Wimmer and Deputy Mayor Walther von
Miller. The City of Munich, the US Army, Office of the
US State Commissioner for Bavaria, refugee associations,

George H. Godfrey, senior resident officer for Munich area,
with indispensable cigar firmly between his teeth, did the
honors al highly-successful Bingo evening in Munich's tar-
famed Hofbraeuhaus which did much to help raise funds.

--- Page 64 ---
Munich Military Post did its bit more than
willingly and, among other contributions, .
staged an exhibition baseball game at the city’s
big Stadium between two picked Army teams

sig “Good Neighbor Week”

the refugee secretariat of the Bavarian Ministry of the
Interior, and private firms all lent a helping hand.

The week was opened with a benefit tea given by Mrs.
Shuster at her home which brought contributions of
more than DM 2,000 76). A “Bingo” evening for Ger-
mans and Americans in the “Festhalle of the famed
Hofbraeuhaus followed with Herman Frankel, US resident
officer for Dachau, serving as master of ceremonies.

Special features were a concert by the Munich Phil-
harmonic orchestra and a sports and fashion show. Mem-
bers of the American Junior Women’s Club of Munich
modeled US summer fashions and the leading fashion
houses of Munich held a showing of bathing suits and
summer fashions, There was a water ballet, jumping ex-
hibitions and swimming events featuring world champion
Herbert Klein. Final event of the week was a “St. John's
Bonfire” at the exhibition park, where refugee groups
gave song recitals and folk dances. +END

Herman Frankel, US resident officer for Dachau, in role
of master of ceremonies al Bingo evening, praises woolen
sports shirt which was among the merchandise prizes. His
fluent German made game eusy lor newcomers to learn

to all Good Neighbor Week events.

Opening event was a beneiit tea by Mrs. George N. Shuster (center),
wife of the US state commissioner for Bavaria, who, with German
and American guests, is shown releasing balloons with free tickets
(PRB OLCB photos by Maske)

~ ? ’
-, ott G
Among the German groups which participated in the

week's final event, a “St. John's Bonfire," were these
members of refugee choir from Siebenbuergen in Rumania.

Waitresses employed at the large beer ‘Keller’ took time
oul to try hand at Bingo. Here three of them are shown
intently watching their cards after smiling colleague at
right had “clicked” by winning two first prizes in a row.

a

--- Page 65 ---
Economic Review

Production Slump Ends

By A. J. CEFARATTI
Chief, Analytical Reports Branch, Program Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG

HE SLACKENING OF INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT from the record level of this spring ended abruptly in Sep-

tember when the index of industrial production increased six points to 135 percent of the 1936 level. From
the postwar high of 139 percent reached in April and May the index has shown a downward trend through the
summer months, primarily due to a sharp cut in consumer goods output. The September rise, however, is a
general one, with increased output in investment goods, and especially in consumer goods.

Total foreign trade in September reached a new postwar high, but showed a deficit trade balance
— $50,000,000* — for the first time since March. Imports totaled $375,000,000, with a record monthly increase
of $88,000,000 — accounted for by increased imports of wheat and cotton, and the use of outstanding licenses for
imports of finished goods from OEEC countries before the effective date of the new tariff on Oct. 1, 1951.

* * x * *

ETARDED DEMAND, AN INFLU- . . to $287,000,000. Of these, $36,000,000
ENTIAL FACTOR in the more This review is based on con- | were financed through ERP or GARIOA
than seasonal drop of economic acti- tributions submitted by reports | funds, resulting in a positive commer-
vity noted during the past few months, officers in the Office of Economic cial balance of $63,000,000.
appeared to have reached its low Affairs and the Office of Labor Despite one more working day than
point in August. While the value of Affairs, HICOG. in July, August exports showed a two
tetail sales during the last two months percent decrease from the previous
remained higher than a year ago, the month—mainly the result of a drop in
volume of sales was significantly lower — even though deliveries of finished goods. This break in the hitherto
total employment had increased approximately 500,000 steady upward movement of exports may be, in part, a
in the interim. The volume of: industrial orders placed reflection of production bottlenecks in Germany as the
in August increased slightly over the July low point but export decreases are principally in those categories which
continued low with orders for investment and production have been the mainstays of export expansion, and which,
goods back to pre-Korean levels and orders for consumer at the same time, are most severely affected by internal
goods well below the level of June 1950. shortages.

The slump in the volume of industrial orders began in Total imports in August increased only slightly, although
March of this year and in August orders for consumer some differences were noted within the geographic and
goods (compared with February high point) were off by commodity trade patterns. Imports from the EPU area in
47 percent, for “investment goods" down 29 percent and August — $174,000,000 (c.i.f.) — attained for the first time
for “production goods" down seven percent. This con- a figure approaching the $170,000,000 (f.0.b.) monthly
traction of demand from the abnormally high buying level set by the OEEC. Imports from the dollar area re-
levels reached in the eight months after the outbreak of mained almost unchanged, although foreign aid financed
the Korean war has played an important part (along with imports dropped. The difference was made up by further
shortages of raw materials and seasonal influences) in the increases in free dollar imports. —
decline in the actual volume of industrial production since The Federal Republic's cumulative European Payment
the record levels reached in April and May. Union (EPU) accounting position improved by $45,000,000

Advance indications for September, however, promised at the end of September, reducing its cumulative deficit
some increase in industrial output with the index of to $106,000,000. .

industrial production for North Rhine-Westphalia up
three points. With employment and payrolls at record
levels, an increase in sales and production of consumer
goods was expected during that month, Meanwhile, re-
ports of bumper crops, expectations of record exports,
stable consumer goods prices, and increased employment
were further heartening developments.

Industry
The steady drop in hard coal production noted through
the summer months continued during September, and
plans for increased production have been proposed by
both the mining union and management groups. More
than half of the loss in daily output in the third quarter
was due to the decrease in extra shift production.
Foreign Trade Total hard coal production in September of 9,343,000
7 F metric tons (MT) for the 25 working days registered a
Federal Republic exports in August totaled. $314,000,000, daily average of 372,672, dropping below the daily average
a drop of $6,000,000 from the record level reached in July.
. . for August (374,062) and July (376,588). There are some
(The July export figure, first reported as $315,000,000 has . that th 1 has b hed he P
been revised upward by $5,000,000 as a result of ‘the ret- signs tha’ le seasonal low has been reached as the daily
fone A fein A output for the first week in September averaged less than
roactive increase in the price.of export coal. According A
eas f i" 370,000 tons, but increased to 378,000 for the last week.
to the Federal Statistical Office, export figures for May . A .
The measurable loss of production continued to in-

and June also will be revised at the end of the year.) Im- F
. 5 Fi crease in August and September 1951 (ist quarter: 6,030
ports in August increased only slightly, from $285,000,000 tons; 2nd quarter: 8,463; July: 12,715; August: 14,909; and

* DM 119,000,000 at official rate of 23,8 cents to the Deutsche Mark. for 20 working days in September: 16,619.)

INFORMATION BULLETIN 62 NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 66 ---
For the first time since April, employment in the mines
has increased. Of the 1,277 workers added in August, 1,153
were employed underground (including 639 face workers)
and 124 on the surface. Preliminary reports for September
show another slight increase.

More than half of the loss in daily hard coal output in
the third quarter was due to the decrease in extra shift
production. This extra shift output accounted for 17,000
tons per day in the first quarter, 11,000 tons per day in
the second quarter, 3,000 tons per day in July and only
2,000 tons per day in August. The decreased extra shift
production is more than seasonal. It is due also to the
temporary ban on working extra shifts imposed by the state
economics ministry of North Rhine-Westphalia in July.

In the first two weeks of September extra shift output
both on normal workdays and on Sundays increased
slightly, and the DKBL still hopes to realize its original
forecasts of 10,000 to 15,000 tons per day in extra shift
output in the fourth quarter. Total absenteeism showed
another large increase in’August standing at 19.2 percent
compared to 18.1 percent in July.

Meetings of representatives of the Federal Government,
the miners’ union and coal management groups were held
in September to discuss measures to increase coal output.
Vice-Chancellor Bluecher stated that an increase in
output of hard coal to 410,000 tons per day is technically
possible if there is improvement of certain psychological
and political factors. He emphasized the need for better
housing for miners, improvement of other social con-
ditions and for maintaining stable consumers’ prices.

The DKBL reported that negotiations to establish a
profit sharing system (Erfolgsanteilsystem) have begun,
whereby the miners would benefit through savings
brought about by increased efficiency. Studies are being
made of the levels of operating costs related to increased
efficiencies and the methods to interest miners in the plan.

Steel and Chemicals

Total August production of both pig iron and steel
exceeded July levels and compared very favorably to the
June peaks. September production showed a decline
because of fewer working days, but the September daily
average of 45,400 tons crude steel and 31,100 tons pig
iron increased over the preceding two months.

The order book for rolled products and semi-finished
steel on Aug. 1 was 8,729,872 MT, of which 856,434 tons
were export bookings, little change from July.

August aluminum production of 8,112 tons was main-
tained at nearly the record high level of the previous
month. Production of other principal non-ferrous metals
also remained near previous month levels. The nickel
production from Petsamo ores at the Norddeutsche Raf-
finerie, Hamburg, had to be stopped due to lack of coke.
It is hoped this production can be resumed soon, because
nickel together with electrolytic copper are the main
short supply items in the non-ferrous metals.

The control ordinance of May 4, 1951, for the distri-
bution and use of non-ferrous metals is now showing
some effects; as the supply of metals in general has eased
considerably. Still in very tight supply, however, are
nickel and electrolytic copper, with pure aluminum,
copper and zinc somewhat easier, and resmelted alu-
minum — and particularly brass — in abundant supply.

The August production index for the chemical industry
at 137 percent of the 1936 level was up 1.3 percent after
a seven point drop in July. Following the production
index high of 147 percent in April, this is the first change
in the declining production trend in four months.

The ‘coal allocation for the chemical industry for Sep-
tember has been 150,000 tons of hard coal or 41.8 percent
of normal requirements, as compared with 50 percent in
the previous month. The chemical industry continues to
make up its shortage on coal by barter deals and. free

NOVEMBER 1951

63

dollar purchases while the increasing use of other fuels
such as sludge and fuel oil persists.

Restrictions in production of certain chemicals were
relaxed by the Allied High Commission in April. The
chlorine production increased from 20,320 tons in April to
23,800 tons in September, and a further 30—40 percent
production increase is expected by the end of this year
when the necessary equipment is delivered. Synthetic
rubber production was to be started in October or Novem-
ber at a rate of 600 tons per month.

At present, the phosphate industry operates at 75 per-
cent of its capacity. The four firms which ceased pro-
duction in July and August due to lack of rock phosphate
were able to resume operation with the arrival of North
African and Florida imports.

There is no indication of a change for the better in the
shortages of metallurgical coke and of scrap. The
improved August production of pig iron and steel over
July and the third quarter gain over the second quarter,
contrary to earlier German predictions, appears to be due
to increased utilization of US coal.

The question of scrap exports has been resolved by the
United States and the United Kingdom with the Federal
Government. The troublesome problem, however, con-
tinues to be scrap availability which, in turn, depends
on increased collections. Scrap stocks on hand in the
iron and steel industry on July 31 amounted to 314,500
MT as compared to 335,400 on June 30, 1951.

While detailed data are not available, the recent Federal
Republic and Soviet Zone trade agreement will be of
assistance in supplying raw materials to the consumer
industries in both Western Germany and Western Berlin.

Traffic Developments and Electricity

During the first half of September, traffic demands on
the railways remained at the August level. They started
to increase sharply around Sept. 15, and daily car
loadings reached the 1951 record figure of 63,100. This
is only 1,000 cars below the postwar peak of October
1950, so a new record will probably be set this year.

Although freight car shortages began to develop, about
97 percent of total demands still could be met. The Bundes-
bahn intends to order, build and put to work about 10,000
freight train cars during the next year. This program
will fill about the only remaining gap in orders in German
heavy industry.

Power consumption for the month of September was
estimated at 2,995,000,000 kilowatt hours, which is 18.7
percent,more than consumed in September 1950.

The coal situation for the power utilities has improved
slightly, but in view of the increased demand for power,
these stocks are considered insufficient. As the tentative
allocation for the fourth quarter is exactly the allocation
for the same quarter of last year, increased demands for
power were not considered in making this allocation. If
additional coal isnot forthcoming, it will be necessary to
apply restrictions totaling about 65,000,000 kWh per week
during the winter months. This question is still under
consideration in Bonn, however, and there is considerable
pressure to increase the fourth quarter coal allocation for
the power industry.

Finance

Although the Bank Deutscher Laender authorities did
not change their restrictive credit policy, short-term
commercial credits to the private sector of the economy
continued to rise in July, increasing by DM 246,000,000
compared with DM 278,000,000 increase in June. The
reasons for this expansion are believed to be still the
same as in the previous month: the extensive use of
export credits which are exempted from the general
restrictions on short-term credits and the growth of
import cash deposits by some DM 73,000,000, which
apparently are financed to a large extent by additional

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
short-term credits. Medium and long-term credits to the
private sector also continued their increase of the previous
months, rising by DM 261,000,000, as compared to a
DM 313,000,000 increase in June. .

Cash figures or direct estimates of the federal an
Laender (states) receipts and expenditures are not yet
available for the month of July. However, the movements
of indebtedness, coinage credits and cash balances indicate
that the federal cash deficit was DM 252,000,000 compared
to DM 176,000,000 in June.

The foreign account once more was the cause of a net
release of funds during the month. The commercial
balance of payments reflected in the accounts of the
Bank Deutscher Laender showed a surplus of DM
328,000,000, but payments to counterpart funds by import-
ers amounted to DM 168,000,000. Moreover, cash deposits
made by applicants for import licenses in accordance with
the 25 percent import license deposit requirement in-
creased by DM 73,000,000. The combination of these three
elements led to the net release of funds on foreign account
by about DM 87,000,000.

Labor

Registered unemployment has continued to decline,
but since June the downward trend has slackened as
employment increases in the outdoor occupations have
gradually contracted. The September unemployment
figure of 1,234,979 registered the smallest monthly
decline (—24,332) since the seasonal turning point in
January 1951, but approximates the 1950 low point of
1,230,000 in October. The rate of unemployment to the
total wage and salary earning labor force stood at 7.7
percent as compared with 8.2 percent on Sept. 30, 1950.

Employment reached a new postwar high of 14,884,522
at the end of September, which is a quarterly increase of
164,000 as compared with the 450,000 increase for the third
quarter of 1950. In addition, the total labor force appears
to have increased only 73,000 — by far the smallest
quarterly increase since currency reform — but may
indicate normalization of labor force growth.

The upward employment trend in trade and commerce
was resumed after a temporary slackening in July when
the unemployment data reflected the end-quarter-dismiss-
als of salaried employees in June.

Management-union acceptance of a mediation proposal
ended the four-week-oid work stoppage in the Hesse
metal industry, the longest and largest strike in postwar
Germany. The walkout, which was marked by consid-
erable bitterness on both sides and which had been
considered a test of strength by union and employers,
transcended in importance the confines of Hesse. The
union had announced that any gains achieved in this
strike would be used to fulfill wage demands in the
metal industry in other areas. Shortly thereafter, 700,000
metal workers in North Rhine-Westphalia achieved wage
increases in an award which cannot be terminated be-
fore Sept. 30, 1952, probably the longest-period wage
agreement in West Germany.

Food and Agriculture

During September, the availability of all foods in the
Federal Republic was sufficient to meet requirements
and maintain satisfactory reserves. In the case of bread
grains, beginning stocks rose above expectations.

The supply of sugar also remains satistac ory, even
though it is estimated that September beginning stocks
declined to approximately 100,000 MT and will further
decline to about 44,000 MT by the end of the mon‘h.
Imports, however, are arriving regularly, and sugar from
the new crop became available in October.

The action taken by the Federal Ministry in May and
June with respect to increasing imports of fats and oils
had a very important effect on their supply position
during September. As a result of increased imports,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

64

stocks reported as of the beginning of September totaled
approximately 115,000 MT.

Preliminary official grain production estimates indicate
a bumper crop of 11000,000 MT. This is about eight per-
cent above the very good crops of the two preceding
years {about 10,200,000 MT each). Bread grain produc-
tion is estimated at 6,100,000 (up about five percent over
last year) and feed grain at 4,900,000 MT (up 15 percent).
The biggest production increase was in wheat — more
than 30u,000 MT, mainly reflecting increased yields. Rye
production dropped 38,000 MT (good yields but reduced
area), This year's excellent grain yields are due mainly
to the favorable weather conditions plus increased use
of fertilizer and good seed.

Total oilseed production is estimated at about 86,500
MT (preliminary), compared to 83,751 in 1950. Total pro-
duction of potatoes is expected to be 24,000,000 to
25,000,000 MT, about 3,000,000 under last year's bumper
crop. Sugar beet area is up some 16 percent over 1950
and total sugar production is forecast at about 960,000
MT white sugar, compared wi'h 915,000 MT last year..
Wine is expected to be 75 percent of last_year's bump-
er production of 3,237,000 hectoliters.* In contrast, an
excellent hop crop of 12,000 MT (compared to 9,500 MT
in 1950) is expected.

Berlin

The total value of industrial deliveries** in West Ber-
lin was DM 212,800,000 for August, according to prelim-
inary data furnished by the Senate's Statistical Office.
In July, with one lees working day than August, deliv-
eries totaled DM 191,600,000. The city’s index of indus-
trial production, which is estimated from the value of
Manutacturers’ current deliveries rose trom 41 percent
of 1936 levels to 42 percent. The number of hours
worked in industry was 23,400,000 — approximately the
same daily rate as in July. The total of hours worked
was reduced in both months by vacations.

Registered industrial employment in August amounted
to approximately 168,000 — with a relalively small gain
as compared with the previous month. However, these
statistics do not include a large number of subcontrac-
tors and home workers employed on a seasonal! basis by
clothing manufac‘urers. In view of the high level of
activity in the clothing industry, it is estimated that be-
tween 15,000 and 20,000 home workers are now employed.

Total registered employment (including self-employed
and family helpers) in all sectors of the economy
amounted to 906,000 as of the middle of September. This
total figure also includes some 45,000 workers employed
under the GARIOA Work Relief Program. Registered -
unemployment was approximately 282000, or 24 percent
of the labor force. The most important development dur-~
ing the first half of September was the elimination from
the registered labor force of several thousand persons
who, for a number cf reasons, are mo longer willing or
abie to work and are not actively seeking emp!vyment.

It is believed that the rescreening of the labor rolls
now being carried out by the Berlin Labor Office will
result in the elimination of perhaps 40,000 persons whose
continued registration is artificially inflating the un-~
employment rolls.

Concurrently with cost rises, the volume of total activity
has fallen off substantially, and it is likely that the
building season which ended last month will prove to have
been the poorest since the biockade. Employment: of
building workers on both public and private construction
projects has fallen off sharply—the total was 52,000 in
Juiy 1951, as against 65,000 in July 1950. On private
building projects alone, the decline in employment has
been 23 percent as compared with July 1950. +END

* At 3.78 liters to the gallon, approximately 85,635,000 gallons.
** Excluding building and electric power and gas production.

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 68 ---
Washington Report

US Training for Europeans

The US Economic Cooperation Administration, begin-
ning in January 1952, will take hundreds of skilled and
semi-skilled working men from 17 Marshall Plan countries
to the United States for a year's training.

The men, 20 to 33 years old, will work in American
industry, increasing their technical skills and gaining the
American concept of industrial productivity and labor
relations. They also will attend college classes and learn
firsthand what “our country and people are like,” ECA
said in an announcement Oct. 1 in Washington.

The proposal recently was outlined to the Marshall Plan
countries and ‘has met with a most enthusiastic recep-
tion," ECA reported. “Already a number of countries
have set up their own selection committees, leading
toward the nomination of their young citizens who will
be the candidates for this program.”

The new program will begin in January with the
arrival of the first 400 workers, selected from among more
than 2,000 candidates now being listed. The initial group,
an experimental nucleus for larger numbers to follow,
will be enrolled in 20 colleges of the more than 60 offer-
ing to cooperate in the project. The program may eventu-
ally bring 2,000 workers a year to the United States.

A busy schedule will confront the young Europeans,
most of whom will be placed in American industry in
full-time day jobs similar to the jobs they have been
holding in their own countries, and will be enrolled in
night classes at colleges. Some will take night jobs,
attending college classes in the daytime.

“Once they arrive at the colleges and are placed in
jobs, they will pay their own fees, living expenses, and
even the usual American taxes, from their earnings," the
statement said. ‘Their own countries and ECA are to
share the transportation and incidental costs.”

The largest number of participants is expected to come
from western Germany, France and Italy, which have
been asked to elect 400 candidates each. Austria and
England will choose 200 candidates each; Norway, the
Netherlands, Denmark, Belgium, Turkey and Greece,
100 each; Sweden, Ireland, Portugal and Yugoslavia,
50 each; Trieste 20 and Iceland 10.

VOA Broadcasts from Munich

The Voice of America is now broadcasting in the Polish
language from studios in Munich.

The Department of State announced that the new pro-
gram, the first of a series of foreign language broad-
casts which will originate in European studios, started
Oct. 1. The broadcasts are designed to cut down the
time lag involved in news programs originating from
New York and will make available a firsthand defector
and refugee interviews.

NOVEMBER 1951

65

In addition to the defector interviews, the department
said, the new Polish language program consists of eastern
European news and special features and commentary,
supplementing the: Voice of America standard Polish
language program from New York.

The new programs are broadcast at 6:30 p.m. and
12:30 a.m. on the medium wave 251 meter band.

AFL International Relations

The American Federation of Labor emphasizes that it
is the “responsibility of organized labor throughout the
world to provide the dynamic faith” in tha cause of free-
dom and democracy.

“Otherwise, the forces of Communist totalitarianism
or some other brand or amalgam of despotism, will sub-
vert democracy from within and, under Soviet direction,
crush it from without,” says a statement adopted Sept. 24
at the AFL 70th convention in San Francisco. In approv-
ing the report of its international labor relations com-
mittee, AFL also called for conclusion of the international
treaties delayed by the Soviet Union, the promotion of
social reforms and unrelenting opposition to Communist
subversion and usurption of legitimate government.

The AFL statement said that the “Soviet brand of
dictatorship over the Russian people has become the
gravest threat to human liberty and world peace.” The
statement added:

“The first desire of American labor and the American
people is world peace, Our paramount duty is to promote
and preserve peace, to strengthen the forces af peace
and to create the conditions which will assure enduring
peace...

“In our unswerving quest for this great goal, we must
always keep in mind that peace and freedom are in-
divisible. Peace and strength are inseparable.”

The AFL, with a membership of 8,000,000 trade union-
ists, adopted a series of proposals ‘toward preserving
and promoting international peace and freedom, further-
ing social justice, and fostering national independence
and individual freedom.”

Among the proposals approved by the labor organiza-
tion were:

“In line with our policy pursued in the signing of a
peace treaty with Japan, our government should do
everything in its power to have the democracies sign
with the German Federal Republic a treaty guaranteeing
its unconditional sovereignty and complete national in-
dependence. This is the first prerequisite for drawing
the German people into the community of free nations
and into the Schuman Plan and the Atlantic alliance
(North Atlantic Treaty Organization), where it can assume
its rightful responsibilities in the defense of western
Europe and enjoy the benefits of collective security and
peace.

“In accordance with the democratic aims of our na-
tion's foreign policy and in order to prevent the resur-
gence of any neo-Nazi and other reactionary militarist
forces and to assure a healthy German democracy, dedi-
cated to peace, our government should lend far greater
encouragement to and support of the genuine democratic

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 69 ---
forces in Germany — particularly the organized labor
movement, whose spearhead is the 6,000,000-strong Ger-
man federation of labor affiliated with the ICFTU (Inter-
national Confederation of Free Trade Unions) and a sworn
enemy of all totalitarian ideologies and movements.”
Importance of European Defense

General Dwight D. Eisenhower believes that the future
of civilization is at stake in the defense of western
Europe.

“T believe that failure to recognize the threat here would
be a terrific error," General Eisenhower was quoted as
having said in Paris. The remarks of the North Atlantic
Treaty forces’ commander in Europe were made to mem-
bers of the US Senate Foreign Relations committee and
made available to the public Aug. 28 in Washington.
The nine-man subcommittee of the Senate was carrying
out a survey in the various European capitals in con-
nection with the mutual security program legislation
pending in the US Congress.

General Eisenhower told the senators that “this area,
if it is going to be defended, has to defend itself in the
long run.” He added: “This in spite of the fact that in
some of the more technical things, air and navy, we
might have to stay here for a long time. But in the mean-
time, the purpose is to give the people the umbrella
under which they can start building this thing; the con-
fidence that the United States is here with them; that
there is something behind that; that it is not just mere
empty suggestion.”

In discussing the efforts of NATO partners, General
Eisenhower said, “You will find that every single country
has gone to the limit, almost, in raising its military budget,
in lengthening tours of military service, in doing many
things to bring themselves along in line with what their
anticipated strength is to be, and as rapidly as possible...
The American troops that are now in Germany, and the
British troops that are now in Germany are among the
most splendidly trained troops that I have ever seen in
my life. They are fit, and they can take good care of
themselves in so far as their strength will permit them.
They are well led, they have experienced commanders,
and they are themselves very fine."

European Medical and Health Programs

The fifth world health assembly in May 1952 will be
given suggested European medical and health programs
estimated to cost more than $1,000,000.

The recommendations for sponsorship by the World
Health Organization in 1953 were prepared at a recently
concluded first session of WHO's European regional com-
mittee in Geneva. The recommended programs for 20
European coun‘ries are along lines of similar programs
prepared by WHO regional committees for the Americas,
Africa and southeast Asia.

Next meeting of the regional committee will be in
Portugal in September 1952. The 16 countries attending were
Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Portu-
gal, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom and Yugoslavia.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

aoe
Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson, US commander, Berlin, and
Mayor Ernst Reuter cut tape to open new international
airport at Tempelhof Airdrome, (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

Report on Germany

Reporting a luncheon meeting of the Women’s National
Press Club of Oct. 2, the Washington Star quoted from a
talk by Mrs, Esther Van Wagoner Tufty, head of her own
Washington news bureau, on her impressions during a
six-week tour in Germany.

Mrs. Tufty, press representative with a State Depart-
ment sponsored (but not financed) tour by American
women through Germany, stressed that “Germany has
become the key country as far as defense of Europe—and
the United States and the entire free world—is concerned.”

“When the chips are down,” she predicted, “the Ger-
mans will side with the Americans.

“It is sardonic that the two former enemies of the
United States—Japan and Germany—now are our most im-
portant friends. It speaks well for the Occupation Forces
and personalities that we can be on working relation
with these countries. They do not love us — how can they,
walking about their bombed cities? But even the Ger-
mans must have friends.

“And they prefer us to the Russians, French and British,
in about that order,” she said.

Mrs. Tufty reported she found a variety of answers to
her questioning of a variety of German people on rearm-
ament. Some seemed eager to “make a great show of
strength by sticking together.’ Other answers were of the
Germans being "too tired.’ One farm woman lamented
that to rearm was “sad, but necessary.”

But all said they would choose the American side to
the Russian, she said. +END

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 70 ---
US Press Views Germany

Louder, Please

The day has passed for talking softly while carrying
a big stick. The cold war demands that the Voice of
America talk loud even if it doesn't talk big.

The first two of 10 superpowered antennas which will
give the Voice a power gain of 200 times its present
strength go into operation this month. When all 10 are
completed they will enable the Voice to reach millions
of hearers who cannot now receive the broadcasts be-
cause of weakness of signal or Soviet jamming.

A reader has asked this newspaper why it is neces-
sary to have both the official Voice of America and
the radio activities of the privately sponsored Crusade
for Freedom. Is there not a wasteful overlapping of
effort? he asks. The answer is no.

Free from all questions of official policy or diplomatic
consideration, Radio Free Europe (radio arm of the Cru-
sade for Freedom) is able to carry on the hardest-hitting
sort of campaign in its broadcasts to Iron Curtain
countries. It attacks, warns, names agents of the secret
police, invites civil disobedience.

In the very nature of things, the Voice of America
cannot perform these same functions. It concentrates
instead on presenting the positive message of democracy
and freedom. It tries to avoid antagonizing hearers by
talking big, by mere boasting of American power, while
it endeavors to present to the world the true picture of
American life, ideals and motives.

This less bellicose activity may, after all, be charac-
terized as “talking softly." Yet it is a vital weapon in the
mental and moral arsenal of democracy. America can
well afford to raise its Voice higher on behalf of the
positive truths for which it stands. — From Christian
Science Monitor, Oct. 4.
Calling a Red Bluff

The Communists have opened a counter-campaign
against the integration of West Germany .with the
Western nations as outlined at Washington and Ottawa.
Instead, they have proposed the reunification of West

and East Germany, something which, of course, always-

has been immensely popular with all Germans. Happily,
the Bonn government has met this propaganda head-on
by drawing up 14 points under which it would be glad
to agree to a vote on the issue in both Germanys.

The 14 points would insure a truly free election. They
provide safeguards for adequate campaigning in person,
by radio and through the press on both sides of the
dividing line. They insist on secrecy of the ballots and
an impartial count. They guarantee voters and candi-
dates against intimidation and reprisal. They would give
East Germany a chance to repudiate its Red bosses.

NOVEMBER 1951

67

In short, they are conditions most unlikely to be
accepted by the Russian puppet, Premier Otto Grote-
wohl of East Germany. But if the Communists do not
accept them, it will be well nigh impossible for them
to convince any reasonable German that the Western
Powers and not the Russians stand in the way of unifi-.
cation.

Chancellor Adenauer was at first inclined to ignore
the Reds’ unification campaign, but changed his attitude
under pressure from members of his own coalition as
well as the Social Democratic opposition. And it is well
that he did so. Otherwise the Communists would have
had a free field for propaganda against Bonn and the
West. This might have been very effective, especially
among the refugees from Iron Curtain Germany. Now
the Red bluff has been called.

Either the Communists must consent to a fair test or
their insincerity stands exposed.—-From St. Louis Post
Dispatch, Oct. 2.

For Defense, All Must Contribute

When General Eisenhower said the other day that
building up the military power of Western Europe will
contribute nothing to the permanent security of Europe
unless accompanied by the beginnings of European con-
federation, he was speaking not from his knowledge of
the theory of the case, but from his experience with
the hard facts.

His own headquarters, SHAPE, in coming to grips with
the problem of strengthening NATO defenses, has per-
force recognized this essential truth.

Currently, one of its main projects is the forming ‘of
the Army of Europe. This is a unique undertaking. It
contemplates that soldiers from France, Germany, Bel-
gium, Italy, Luxembourg and perhaps Holland will be
formed into one army, wear the same uniform, undergo
similar training and have a common equipment.

One of the initial. objects of this plan, when it was
put forward by the member states, was to make it pos-
sible for France and Germany to work together...

A main question currently is how such an army can
be formed, financed, supplied and controlled.

No one wishes to see the old German general staff
brought back into being. But the Germans certainly will
not yield their units to management by some other
nation.

The logical compromise
ment of a new political
contributing to the Army
purpose of administering
problems related to it.

appears to be the establish-
mechanism, in which states
of Europe will join, for the
the army and all economic

To that mechanism, each state will necessarily yield
some of its own sovereignty, since it will have to con-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 71 ---
cede control over a large portion of its nationals to
the governing body.

For these reasons, the embryonic Army of Europe may
indeed mark the beginning of a far-reaching political
reform. The main hurdles are still to be surmounted,
but at least the signs are hopeful. — From Detroit News,
Sept. 4.

Festival of Youth
The good news from West Berlin should not be al-
lowed to obscure the challenge from East Berlin.

It is fine that so many young Communists attending
the World Festival of Youth should be slipping across
the line to see for themselves the higher standard of
living in the western sector. The comparison can only
be damaging to Soviet propaganda. Yet no-one should
imagine for a moment that ice-cream sodas and whip-
ped-cream cake are the answer to Communism's bid to
youth. .

It is true that many of the young sight-seers show
themselves far from satisfied with conditions behind
the Iron Curtain. There are doubts, complaints, ques-
tions, simmering opposition. Yet among hundreds of thou-
sands of youthful delegates to the festival there are
almost overwhelming tides of enthusiasm for a common
goal, there is shining-eyed idealism and ardor for peace
— none the less real because it is duped and perverted
to terrible ends by hardheaded cynics. ‘

The West will make a tragic mistake if it does not
recognize that Communism is reaching out to world
youth not merely by whipping up hatred but by ap-
pealing to the sense of good — and particularly of
brotherhood. As young people from all over the world,
black, white, brown, yellow, march side by side in East
Berlin or stand at huge rallies with hands linked, singing
a ‘song of the youth of the world” set to an old Rus-
sian folk tune, the West, which holds out an ice-cream
soda as a lure, is oddly enough put in the position of
seeming to be the “materialist.”

This is all wrong. The “brotherhood” of the Commu-
nist can lead only to the faceless uniformity of the ant
colony. What men have lived and sacrificed and fought
for through long centuries in the West — the priceless
rights of individual conscience — are tossed aside as
of no moment. An almost boundless ignorance confuses
its own good will with the arbitrary will of a brutal
earthly ruler.

It is all illustrated by the young delegate who is re-
ported as having said that he felt a deep guilt in slip-
ping over to West Berlin for a visit since that was
“not the sort of activity the party wants." Here is a
totally different order of thinking from the individualistic
democracy of the West, How is it to be countered?

Not by the selfish individualism that asks on every
occasion, ‘What's in it for me?“ Not by the 19th-century
liberalism which treated the individual as though he
were an isolated center of experience without inherent
responsibilities to his fellow man. Not by the 20th-cen-
tury cult of material ease and pleasure. Not by the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

68

nationalism and racism which deny the universality of
good and the equal rights of one’s fellow beings.

These are the limiting factors of Western democracy,
the handles which the West gives to Communist propa-
ganda. But behind them are the stupendous, incalculable
achievements of a society in which the leaven of free-
dom is at work. The right of dissent — of what might
be called the Protestant spirit — is written into institu-
tions based on the recognition of man's individual dig-
nity as the Son of God. And today the necessity for
cooperation — for a true universalism — is pointing
the way toward institutions based on a recognition of
man, genetically and collectively considered, as the
Son of God. :

Here, and here alone, is the motive power of democ-
Tacy's appeal to the best in men everywhere. Let the
West hold out its ice-cream sodas — but let it above all
hold out a hope for the realization of true brotherhood.
— From Christian Science Monitor, Aug. 14.

Make It Worth While

The American people must stand with General Lucius
D. Clay in his refusal to be blackmailed by the Czech
government into shutting down Radio Free Europe in
exchange for the freedom of Associated Press corres-
pondent William Oatis.

Because the people of this country abhor imprison-
ment of anyone on false charges, because freedom of
the press and speech is so dear to us, any decision
which leaves Mr. Oatis in this bitter predicament is a
hard one to make. Yet, to bow before the demands of
the Communists would be to admit to them that strong-
arm tactics against us will be successful.

During the centuries many brave men have given up
their freedom and even their lives in the name of lib-
erty. It seems that it is the bitter fate of Mr. Oatis
that he must remain in a Communist jail so that the
free world can continue to spread the word of freedom
behind the Iron Curtain. The attempted extortion by the
Czechs shows that the voice of freedom must be hurt-
ing in the blackness of Red Europe.

But, if Mr. Oatis must pay that price, this privilege that
he has bought for us so dearly must be exploited to
the fullest extent. That decision means that every Ameri-
can must dig into his pockets to support the Crusade for
Freedom, which in turn supports Radio Free Europe. To -
ignore the drive for funds now being waged is to say
cynically to Mr. Oatis, “We have decided that you shall
give your life — or a portion of it — but don't expect
us to give any cash."—From Fort Worth Star-Telegraph,
Sept. 27.

They Found Hope in the Air

When the members of the Senate Subcommittee on
Foreign Relations went to Europe recently, some of them
carried with them the feeling of hopelessness they had
felt in previous visits\to Europe in the first few years
after the war... This time it was different... The atmos-
phere was changed...

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 72 ---
There was hope in the air, industry and optimism. No
one was. fooled into doubting that there was great
danger in the ambitions and threats of Russia, but many
Europeans did see — for the first time in years — the
chance of doing something positive to protect their fu-
tures. They saw an alternative to the fatalism that had
led many to feel that Russian domination was inevitable.

The senators saw the. change in Europe, and came
back to urge passage of the European aid bills to foster
the increasing will of Europe to regain its feet and pre-
pare to defend itself. They came back agreeing with
General Eisenhower that what has happened to the spirit
of Europe in three short years was “miraculous”...

In the last half year, although there are still not for-
ces enough. in Europe to defend it, unified defense has
become a very real skeleton upon which can be built
the flesh of a force strong enough to defend Europe
against anything Russia can throw against it. All that
is needed is time — another year and a half or two
years...

The tremendous accomplishments in the short time
since Europe rose from near collapse to economic and
growing military strength are, as General Eisenhower
says, miraculous. They are beyond anything any observer
could have hoped for Europe only three short years ago.
They are justification for what we have done, and the
money we have spent. — From Milwaukee Journal, Sept. 17.

Land Reform is Ours

“Land reform" is one of those appealing phrases that
the Communists have attempted to monopolize, and
with a considerable degree of success. Of course, land
reform in the Communist book ultimately means trans-
fer of ownership from the large private landowner to
the even larger public landowner, the state, while the
landless peasant or the tenant farmer fares no better or
a good deal worse than before.

Yet “land reform" is something for which the multi-
tudes in Asia and other parts of the world justly yearn,
and they can hardly be blamed for not knowing that
Communist-style land reform is a fake. It is the only
kind of land reform that most of them have ever heard
of, because we in the West — who offer the genuine
product — have been so slow, so timid and so inept in
calling the world’s attention to the sort of agricultural
reformation for which we stand.

But we are making progress. In both word and deed
the United States has been exercising pressure — not
enough pressure, but pressure nevertheless — toward
genuine improvement of the condition of land tenure
throughout the world. In Geneva the United Nations
Economic and Social Council (the Soviet bloc abstain-
ing) has approved a resolution essentially in the form
proposed and fought for by the United States, endorsing
land reform as a means of raising the standard of living
in underdeveloped countries.

Genuine land reform means fundamentally a redistri-
bution of holdings into areas of maximum productivity,

NOVEMBER 1951

69

the size depending on the type of agriculture under-
taken and on a multitude of local conditions. It means
reduction of exorbitant rental charges; it means security-
of tenure, improvement of working conditions, clearing
of title, reform of tax systems, granting of agricultural
credit, establishment of cooperatives increase of yield,
and so on.

In occupied Japan we have given a practical demon-
stration of what we mean by land reform. Within two
years the Japanese land tenancy system has been peace-
fully revolutionized, so that today absentee landlords as
a class have disappeared. In other countries where we
have had great influence and where land reform has
been a crying necessity, such as Italy, changes have
been slower and harder to come by; but they are under
way.

Genuine land reform that preserves human dignity
and individual values is demonstrably our policy; it is
demonstrably not the Communist policy; and it is up
to us to see that the whole world never forgets that
this is so. — From The New York Times, Sept. 12.

Communism's Decline

Shrinkage of Communist strength in the free nations
of Europe is reported by Dr. George Gallup in an article
in the September issue of Pageant magazine. The Ameri-
can pollster’s conclusions are based on “opinion polls”
conducted in five western European nations this year
and on election results in 1951 and 1948. wo

In Norway, Communists polled 12 percent of the vote
in 1945; their strength there has dwindled to an estima-
ted 2.1 percent and they no longer have any seats in
the Norwegian Storting. In Denmark, the Communist
Party vote fell from 13 percent in 1945 to 4.5 percent
last year. In Holland it dropped from 10.5 percent in.
1946 to six percent this year. Swedish Communists polled
11.2 percent in 1946, but only half that percentage in
1948. Eeven in Finland, directly under the Communist
menace, the Red vote fell from 23.5 percent in. 1945 to
20 percent in 1948. In France the Communists’ loss is
reported at two percent and in Italy at nine percent.

The opinion polls this year indicate a continuance of
Communist losses, despite Moscow's strenuous efforts to
build popular strength in western Europe. Economic
improvement in western Europe probably has been the
major demolisher of the Communist propaganda, but
doubtless also the Red aggressions elsewhere and the
enslavement of the peoples forced under Communist
yoke has disillusioned and disgusted tens of thousands
in the free countries who were misled by Communist
promises now broken everywhere and Communist lies
whose falsity has been demonstrated by Communist
performances wherever they have gained dominance.
The only elections the Reds have been able to carry
have been those one-ticket, bayonet-bolstered travesties
rigged behind the Iron Curtain. — From New Orleans
Times-Picayune, Sept. 1. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 73 ---
Understanding in America

Christian Fette, president of the German Trade Union
_Federation (DGB), found “among leading men in the
American labor unions and the Department of State in
Washington great understanding for the position of the
German trade unions on a major defense contribution and
the Schuman Plan.”

Mr. Fette, who had visited the United States as guest of
the American Federation of Labor (AFL), reported in a
statement in Duesseldorf Oct. 4: ‘I carefully pointed out to
the US State Department the conditions which the German
trade unions would like to see fulfilled before endorsing
@ German defense contribution and the participation of
the Federal Republic in the Schuman Plan.

“One condition for the participation of Germans in mili-
tary security measures for Europe is the establishment of
a true unity of the free and equal peoples of Europe and
the adoption of collective security measures with the resi
of the free world. Germany must be given the same rights
and the same opportunities as other free nations.

“The people of the Federal Republic can hardly be
asked to defend a freedom which they do not yet even
possess. In view of the special experiences which one has
had in Germany, democratic control of all military for-
mations and especially of the officer corps is essential.”

According to the statement, which was made public by
the news service of the DGB Press Office, Mr. Fette also
cited the resolutions adopted at the AFL convention in

(Der Mittag, Duesseldorf, Sept. 18)

Little German Michel's Psychosis.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

UOTUVOV EET UEUS TET VUAT LED CUT ETE EEV TUES EEE Ee

German Editorials
And Cartoons

Material for this section is compiled from press digests and analyses prepar-
ed by various divisions of HICOG and OLC offices, and from official releases
of German agencies. These compilations are intended to inform the American
readers of what the Germans are thinking, without interpretation. The
inclusion of any viewpoint does not give concurrence to that view or opinion.

UUUCUPUUE CULV UEC

(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, Oct. 8)

World's Headache.

(Westfaelische Rundschau, Dortmund, Oct. 8)

SG ws!
Pes

‘—_——

\\

i

UN Security Council
and Persian Oil.
“Don't kill the goose that lays
the golden eggs!"

San Francisco, calling for conclusion of a treaty between
the democratic countries and the Federal Republic for
recognition of the latter's full sovereignty and national
independence. (See page 65 for resume of AFL resolutions.)

Mr, Fette attended the AFL convention and also visited
the Congress for Industrial Organization (CIO) in Wash-
ington, noting that these visits had drawn a closer bond
between the two large American labor organizations and
the DGB.

Southwest State Issue

The decision of the Federal Constitutional Court that
the plebiscite on the unification of the southwest German
states of Wuerttemberg-Baden, Baden and Wuerttemberg-
Hohenzollern must be held not later than Dec. 16, 1951,
was the top news in nearly all German newspapers Oct. 24.

Press reports emphasized that the high court had de-
clared the first reorganization law on a prolongation of
the. Baden and Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern state legis-
lature periods as unconstitutional and that it confirmed
the validity of the essential parts of the second law pro-
viding for the procedure of the southwest German states’
reorganization.

The press in general expressed relief that the long un-
certdinty over the proposed state was finally to come to
an end. Although the majority of the newspapers was
convinced that the many accusations against the south-
west German politicians would cease, the Rhine-Neckar

(Telegraf, West Berlin, Sept. 22)

Army Maneuvers.
Protecting Miss Germania.

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 74 ---
Zeitung (Heidelberg) feared the ‘sad spectacle of re-
ciprocal defamation and animosity” might be repeated
during the weeks preceding the plebiscite. However, the
paper held the court decision a “wise judgment’ which
would make the southwestern German population breathe
freely again.

The Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt) wrote that
everybody who has a sound feeling for justice would
receive the Constitutional Court's decision with satis-
faction, and the Hessische Nachrichten (Kassel) stated
the “wise ruling” not only clarified this “complicated
problem” but also made a valuable contribution to the
relationship between the federation and the state
governments.

The Badische Zeitung (Freiburg, Baden) wrote that the
adherents of the old Baden concept lost a “‘juristic battle”
but that they would endeavor to win the political fight,
to wit, the plebiscite. The Kasseler Zeitung (Kassel), call-
ing the court decision a ‘victory for justice," said the
Constitutional Court gained “a valuable capital of con-
fidence” by its first ruling and hoped the “Solomon's
wisdom and fairness" would serve as a model for the
forthcoming election campaign.

Release of Prisoners

Western Berlin newspapers reported Oct. 9 the Investi-
gating Committee of Free Soviet-Zone Jurists declared
that the Soviet Zone amnesty proclaimed by Soviet-Zone
President Wilhelm Pieck on Oct. 7 would affect primarily
criminal offenders. At best 4,000 to 5,000 political prisoners
would be freed,

The committee said it had learned that only convicts
sentenced up to six months would be released regardless
of whether they are criminal, political or economic of-

(Frankenpost, Hof, Sept. 29)

Michel's Part in the East-West Tug-of-War.

(Westdeutsches Tageblatt, Dortmund, Sept. 29)

1945 1948 1950 1952

Wonders of Re-education.

NOVEMBER 1951

fenders. Terms up to one year would be shortened only if
the prisoners agreed to serve a Year in Soviet Zone mines
or heavy industries. The jurists’ committee pointed out
that most political prisoners were sentenced to penal
servitude and that, therefore, only very few would benefit
from the amnesty.

The committee of jurists, the papers said, called upon
all relatives of political prisoners to report to its head-
quarters if their next of kin have not returned home after
the general discharge of Soviet Zone prisoners.

According to the committee, the Soviet Zone authorities
were holding 25,000 political prisoners, 8,000 so-called
economic criminals and 15,000 criminal offenders. The
amnesty provides for the release of 20,000.

Rights for All

In an editorial ent'tled “Once More the Ex-Soldiers,”
the Darmstadter Echo (Darmstadt, Hesse, Oct. 10) said:
“Common sense forbids us to let the professional soldiers
claim political power...

“The professional soldiers have not more and not less
rights than the Basic Law grants all.citizens of the German
Federal Republic. They should accommodate themselves
to civil life, fight for their social and economic rights, and
perform their civil duties, as many of their former col-
leagues are doing today already...

“We need no other loyalty than that which the state
laws impose upon us... We need free citizens who control
the passage of these laws and, if necessary, correct them,”

Dehler-Labor Unions Dispute

Prominently and extensively covered in the German
press Oct.19 was Federal Justice Minister Thomas Dehler's
speech over the Bavarian Radio, in which he reiterated

(Abendpost, Frankfurt, Sept. 26)

Atlantic-Pact Train—No Text!

(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, Oct. 13)

Pharoah Farouk,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 75 ---
(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Oct. 3)

“Are you expecting somebody?"

(Berlin Anzeiger, West Berlin, Sept. 26)

SWZ

_——

Mossadegh: ‘‘Come on out, lover;
he's just left!"

(Rheinische Zeitung, Cologne, Oct. 9)

Another Violent Puff at the Peace-Pipe.

(Die Welt, Hamburg, Oct. 10)

=
y pn
meee
One 4
Yi
Uff
Ny iit a

Pieck's Amnesty.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Freie Presse, Bielefeld, Sept. 13)

- a
Grotewohl Writes a Letter!

(Westdeutsche Rundschau, Wuppertal, Sept. 15)

“Take off the bandages and let
him walk.”

(Suedkurier, Constance, Oct. 13)

ror

BRECON YA
A Form of Dismantling
the British Lion Doesn't Like.

A Communist View!

[Junge Welt (FDJ organ), East Berlin,
Sept. 25]

Hgcus-pocus in West Germany.

Occupation troops go,
“Protectors” come,

72

United Europe — a la Moscow.

(Kasseler Post, Kassel, Oct. 9)

Miss Europe's
Modern Transportation.

(Weser Kurier, Bremen, Sept. 18)

On

Wi

“German Equality a Mirage?”

(Die Welt, Hamburg, Sept. 29)

Occupation Statute, Ruhr Statute,
Coal Quota.

“When will the last leaves fall?” -

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 76 ---
his charge that the labor unions were “changing our entire
political structure, shifting the political equilibrium and
finally destroying the mechanics of democracy."

It was further reported that, because of this speech, the
Executive Committee of the German Trade Union Feder-
ation (DGB) decided to discontinue temporarily its negoti-
ations with the Federal Government, at the same time
asking Chancellor Adenauer to disavow Minister Dehler's
statements,

Mr. Dehler reportedly threated to resign if the govern-
ment gives in to DGB pressure to obtain the right of co-
determination in additional industrial branches. While the
SPD sharply criticized Mr. Dehler, the Bavarian Free
Democrats aligned themselves fully with his speech.

The Berlin Telegraf commented that Mr. Dehler's speech
presented Chancellor Adenauer with the alternative of
“either dismissing his minister of justice or trying to
govern with the opposition ofthe labor unions.”

The Wiesbadener Kurier stated that neither Mr. Dehler's
“rough fighting style nor the DGB’s hypersensitivity meets
the requirements of real politics,’ and called for an im-
mediate reopening of the door to negotiations, “because
the German economy cannot afford a negotiation strike.”

Aligning itself with Mr. Dehler’s “necessary and sober
reply” to the DGB, the Kasseler Post wrote it is an “alarm-
ing sign that the DGB first claims for itself the right of
violently criticizing others and then tries to silence by
almost terroristic means those who criticize it."

Shipbuilding Boom Reported

While shipbuilding activities throughout the world in-
creased by approximately 2.5 percent to 5,500,000 gross
register tons during the third quarter of 1951, German
shipyards reported an increase of about 11 percent to
430,927 tons, according to a report in Die Welt (Hamburg,
Oct. 24). The German share in international shipbuilding
increased from 7.3 percent on June 30 to 7.9 percent on
Sept. 30.

Of the 139 ships under construction in German yards,
105 of 248,913 gross register tons had been ordered by
German customers, while the remaining 34, totaling
183,014 tons, were for export. Foreign customers included
Panama, with four ships, followed by Sweden, Norway,
Switzerland, Denmark, the United States and the Nether-
lands,

(Nuernberger Nachrichten, Nuremberg, Sept. 22)

“Where's the foundation?"

NOVEMBER 1951

(Kasseler Post, Kassel, Oct. 13)

In the British Museum.
The Egyptian mummy comes to life!

USSR-Soviet Zone Trade

Berlin newspapers reported that at a press conference
held in Berlin Oct. 15 Soviet-Zone Planning Minister Hein-
rich Rau and Propaganda Minister Gerhart Eisler revealed
details on the long-term agreement: concluded recently
between the Soviet Union and the Soviet Zone of Germany

Eisler told newsmen that the Soviet Union would cer-
tainly have been ready to conclude a trade agreement not
only with the Soviet-Zone German regime but also with
the whole of Germany. He said that the new agreement
has made the Soviet Zone economy “boycott-proof" and
has secured the fulfillment of the five-year plan.

According to Eisler, the Soviet Zone will receive large
quantities of crude iron and steel mill products, non-
ferrous metals and ores, chemicals, grain, meat and fats
which “are almost not obtainable any longer on the capi-
talist markets as a result of the imperialist war policy.”
In return the Soviet Zone will supply the Soviet Union
with industrial equipment, various types of machines,
optical and mechanical instruments, chemicals, porcelain,
glass, potash and ‘a number of other products.” So, “this
trade agreement serves the development of the peace-time
economy," Eisler emphasized.

Rau explained at length details of the agreement and
criticized the fact that despite the recent signing of the
interzonal trade agreement internal German trade does
not proceed properly. He cited discussions on an agree-
ment “for the development of extensive and unhampered
trade" with the Soviet Union and her satellites.

Plastics Production Behind Demand

The plastic material industry in Germany continues
to show favorable developments, according to the Handels-
blatt (Economic Journal), of Duesseldorf (Oct. 22).

While plastics production in 1947 was only 22,800 tons,
or one-tenth of 1943 production, it jumped to 70,000 tons
in 1949 and will probably total 160,000 tons in 1951 despite.
shortages. The production value is estimated at
DM _ 600,000,000 ($142,800,000).

In spite of the success achieved, production still lags
behind demand. German export prospects for plastics
are considered favorable. Export of 10,000 tons in the
first seven months of 1951 was principally to the Benelux
states, Switzerland and Sweden, but demand from the
United States also was great. -+-END

(Sonntagsblatt, Hamburg, Oct. 7)

os

East and West Germany.
“Why can't we play together?”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 77 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Oct. 4

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission held its 76th meeting at the Peters-
berg Oct. 4.

Present were Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick,
United Kingdom High Commissioner (chair-
man); Mr, John J. McCloy, United States
High Commissioner, and Mr, Armand
Berard, French Deputy High Commissioner,
acting for Mr, Andre Francois-Poncet.

The Council is scheduled to hold its
next meeting at the Petersberg Oct. 11.
(This meeting subsequently was postponed
to Oct. 18.) .

HICOM Meeting pf Oct. 18

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion held its 77th meeting at the Peters-
berg Oct. 18.

Present were Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick,
United Kingdom High Commissioner (chair-
man); John J. McCloy, United States High
Commissioner, and Andre Francois-Poncet,
French High Commissioner.

The Council:

1. Signed a law further amending Allied
High Commission Law No. 34. Law No. 34,
which refers to land reform as it affects
property in Germany owned by non-Ger-
man nationals, is amended in three re-
spects:

(a) Definition of the term ‘‘disposal”’ of
land is made more precise..Land is con-
sidered to have been disposed of within the
periods prescribed in the law if, during
that time, the parties to the transfer have
concluded effective agreements binding
under German law and have applied for
approval of these agreements, and if the
transfer of title has been entered in the
land register within one year from the end
of the period.

(b) Provided that at least one-third of

“the purchase price has been paid, a mort~-
gage created in favor of the transferer of
the land in order to secure the unpaid
balance of the purchase price is not for the
purposes of the law to be considered as an
interest retained by the transferer.

(c) In view of these changes, the period
granted to non-German nationals to dis-
pose of those parts of their property in
Germany which are in excess of the area
permitted by German land reform legis-
lation is extended from Dec. 31, 1951, to
Feb. 29, 1952.

Text of the amending law will be publish-
ed in the Official Gazette.

2. Scheduled its next meeting for Oct. 25
at the Petersberg and decided to meet in
Berlin on Nov. 8, 1951.

HICOM Meeting of Oct. 25

The Council of the Allied High Com-
mission held its 78th meeting at the Peters-
berg Oct. 25.

Present were Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick,
United Kingdom High Commissioner (chair-
man); John J. McCloy, United States High
Commissioner, and Andre Francois-Poncet,
French High Commissioner.

The Council will hold its next meeting
Nov. 8, 1951, in Berlin.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Official Statement

Highway Traffic Control

The Office of the US High Commissioner
for Germany advised the Federal Govern-
ment Oct. 22 that, in order to insure safety
of both Allies and Germans, American
military police have been required to check
non-occupation traffic on German high-
ways. In a letter, the Federal Government
was invited ‘‘to recommend to the local
German police in the American Zone that
they cooperate as much as possible with
the American military police in their effort
to prevent useless loss of life and property
among all persons who use the German
highways."

Following an inquiry submitted to the
Bundestag (Federal Parliament) on July 9,
the Federal Government in a letter to the
US High Commissioner's office had noted
that German motor vehicles on the Auto-
bahn between Frankfurt and Munich were
being checked by US military police as to
observance of speed limit regulations. The
letter stated further that German police
officers were not taking part in these
American control measures, and raised a
question of jurisdiction of the military
police in this connection.

The American reply, which notes that
“due to the failure thus far of the German
authorities to provide adequate traffic con-
trol, it has been impossible for the mili-
tary police to shed this responsibility,”
follows:

* * *

I have to refer to your letter, 241-07
ii/8452/51, of July 28 forwarding a copy of
an interpellation in the Bundestag of July 9,
1951 concerning traffic control by United
States military police on the Frankfurt-
Munich Autobahn.

This matter has been carefully considered
both by the High Commissioner and the
American military authorities. The latter
are most anxious to relieve the military
police of responsibility for controlling non-
occupation traffic on German highways.
However, due to the failure thus far of
the German authorities to provide adequate
traffic control, it has been impossible for
the military police to shed this responsi-
bility.

The military authorities have made every
effort to encourage the local German
authorities to take over the responsibility
of traffic control. They have likewise en-
couraged the German police to accompany
military police patrols. Wherever this is
done, the local German police questioned
and examined the documents of non-occu-
pation drivers. In the event of violations,
the German police retained the offending
driver's papers until he was brought to the
nearest German police station. In the com-
paratively few cases where German police
do not accompany our military police
patrols, it is due either to their lack of
personnel or their unwillingness to co-
operate.

During the first six months of 1951 the
military police accompanied by German
police arrested 5,278 non-occupation drivers
for speeding and 1,137 non-occupation
drivers for other violations of German traf-
fic laws. Nevertheless, the rate of fatalities

74

and injuries continues to be deplorable,
both among personnel of the United States
Forces and among the general public. The
records indicate that the. accident rate in
Germany is the highest of all countries for
which adequate statistics are available.

With regard to the legal basis for arrests
by military police of non-occupation
drivers, your attention is invited to Para-
graph 2 (e) of the Occupation Statute under
which the Occupation Authorities have re-
served the right to insure the ‘security of
Allied Forces, dependents, employees and
representatives.’ The chaotic traffic con-
ditions upon the German highways offer a
constant threat to the lives of all who travel
by road, as the tragically high rate of
fatalities indicates. The failure of the
competent German authorities to deal with
this threat has forced the military police
most reluctantly to undertake the task.

You may rest assured that as soon as
adequate measures are taken by the Ger-
man authorities, the military police will ©
be only too glad to cease their activities
in this field. In the meantime, it is sug-
gested that the federal authorities may
desire to recommend to the local German
police in the American Zone that they ~
cooperate as much as possible with the
American military police in their effort
to prevent useless loss of life and prop-
erty among all persons who use the Ger-
man highways.

In order that the American High Com-
missioner's position in this matter can be
made absolutely clear to the German public,
I am taking the liberty of releasing this
letter to the press.

Official Announcements

HICOG to Cease Employing Domestic
Servants for Personnel

Effective Dec. 1, all domestic servants
assigned to residences occupied by person-
nel of the Office of the US High Com-
missioner and US Consulates or by person-
nel of private or governmental agencies
accredited to HICOG will cease to be em-
ployed by HICOG or paid from occupation
cost funds appropriated to HICOG, the
Office of Administration announced Oct. 23.

It was emphasized that there will be no
allowances of any kind granted to HICOG
and other affected officials in lieu of the
domestic service which is being discon-
tinued. Arrangements with servants must,
after Dec. 1, be made privately and their
wages paid by the individuals employing
them.

This action will result in extensive sav-
ings from occupation costs in the US Zone
of Germany, West Berlin and the Bremen
Enclave. All servants now paid from oc-
cupation costs are included in the group
whose employment will be terminated.
However, firemen and others who protect
and maintain US-controlled or requisition-
ed properties will retain their jobs.

In a letter to the domestic servants in-
volved, US High Commissioner John J.
McCloy explains that, in line with HICOG
policy, their services are being terminated
in order to reduce expenses from occu-
pation costs.

The letter states further:

“I wish to take this occasion to express
my appreciation for the faithful service
you have rendered, and to express the

* hope that each of you has benefited from

association with Americans as we have
benefited from our association with you.

NOVEMBER 1951

--- Page 78 ---
I hope that many of you will be able to
continue to work for your present em-
ployers or for other Americans in the
future."

All dismissed employees are being noti-
fied and the Personnel Division is inform-
ing them that it will make every effort to
assist. them in finding other suitable
employment. In employing domestic serv-
ants, HICOG personnel will be required to
comply with German laws concerning such
matters.

Visiting Berlin

The following procedure has been insti-
tuted to clear HICOG personnel who are
to visit Berlin on duty status:

The originating office will submit. by
Savacall the following information to the
Administrative Liaison Office, Mr. M.B.
Lustgarten, Ext. 43150:

1. Name, rank, and title of person travel-
ing.

2. Name of Berlin HICOG office to be
visited on duty.

3, Date of arrival in Berlin, mode of
travel, length of stay in Berlin, nature of
duties in Berlin.

4, The name and telephone number of
the HICOG-BE official contact in Berlin.

The Administrative Liaison Office will
clear the request with respective office
to be visited, arrange for reservation with
Visitor's Bureau, and obtain required
clearance number to be included in the
Travel Orders.

The clearance number and verification
of clearance will be communicated to the
originater by the Administrative Liaison
Office.

(The same procedure is applicable to
leave travel. However, the task of provid-
ing billets for the visitor rests with the
sponsor.) — from HICOG Daily Bulletin
No. 246.

Alteration of MPC Currency

All personnel are cautioned to closely
examine all ‘MPC fifty cent (MPC $0.50)
notes received by them to insure that such
pieces of currency have not been altered
or raised. Particular attention should be
paid to the written portion of the number
“Fifty Cents’ in the body of the bill rather
than by simply reading the figured num-
ber 50 in the lower section of the bill.

Altered, or raised, MPC 50-cent notes
have appeared in Berlin recently and all
personnel should be alert to detect any
further attempt at passing of such altered
currency. — from BMP Daily Bulletin.

Travel to Finland

HICOG personnel traveling to’ Finland
are reminded that all Americans entering
Finland must have valid Finnish visas. In
several instances, recently, Americans,
official and private, have arrived in Fin-
land without Finnish visas, which costs
them a great deal of time, effort and in-
convenience. I

Finnish Consulates in Germany are
located in Cologne and Hamburg. By ap-
pearing personally at either of these two
offices, American citizens may receive
a Finnish visa upon the presentation of
their valid passport and two photographs.
Application blanks may be secured by
mail if the traveler cannot appear in per-
son. There is no charge for the Finnish
visa for American citizens. — from HICOG
Daily Bulletin No. ‘282.

NOVEMBER 1951

QM Handles Gas Sales

Responsibility for dispensing gasoline,
and oil in bulk, against coupons to
privately-owned vehicles registered in the
European Command was transferred from
the EUCOM Exchange System (EES) to
the Quartermaster Oct. 1.

Beginning Oct. 1, books of coupons for
100 gallons of gasoline cost $15.25 each,
and motor oil in bulk costs 14 cents a
quart. The sale of motor oil in sealed
cans, spare parts, most services and repairs
continue to be handled by the EES.

New Quartermaster gas and oil coupon
books will be sold through EES outlets
beginning Nov. 1. The courrent gas and
oil coupons will be valid until Nov. 15.

EUCOM officials cautioned motorists
that after Nov. 15, EES gas and oil coupons

will not be accepted by Quartermaster fil-.

ling stations and cannot be redeemed for
cash. Therefore, such coupons must be
redeemed before the Nov. 15 deadline. This
should be kept in mind, especially by
motorists who plan to be away from their
stations in November.

The change-over affects 67 gasoline
stations in the United States area of
responsibility in Germany. Most of these
stations are operated jointly by the EUCOM
Quartermaster and the EES. Quartermaster
service includes dispensing of gasoline,
engine oil in bulk, water for radiator and
battery, and air for tires. EES provides
lubrication and oil change, emergency
repairs, sale of parts and supplies, and
car washing service at stations equipped
to handle such work. Major repairs are
accomplished only at EES garages and
repair shops.—from EUCOM announcement.

Licenses for Use of Blocked DM
To Aid Relief Projects Abroad
For Victims of Nazi Oppression

Rehabilitation and resettlement projects
abroad for the victims of Nazi oppression
will be aided by a recent decision of the
Allied High Commission. The decision,
conveyed to the Federal Government by
letter dated Oct. 5, is to permit ‘‘succes-
sor’ organizations which have been
legally established to take into trust Nazi-
cnnfiscated properties for which no known
claimants survive, to work out with the
Federal Government schemes for the use
of the Deutsche mark funds that have
accrued from the disposal of these
properties.

Tentative discussions for this purpose
have recently been initiated with the
Federal Government by one of the suc-
cessor groups — the Jewish Restitution
Successor Organization* — but it has
been necessary for the Allied High Com-
mission to make a statement of policy
since restitution is a subject over which
reserved powers are exercised and which
is affected’by much Allied legislation.

Specifically, the High Commission has
stated that it would interposeno objections
to the issue by the Federal Government of
special licenses to permit successor organi-
zations to purchase goods within the federal
territory, up to a value of DM 20,000,000
($4,760,000) yearly, for use on rehabili-
tation and resettlement projects abroad.

The High Commission has also recom-
mended that the following ‘additional
principle should be applied:

* See ‘““OMGUS Gives JRSO the Go-Ahead*
in Information Bulletin, No. 144, Sept. 21, 1948.

75

1, All legally-established successor or-
ganizations in the Federal Republic should
be given equal facilities to utilize Deutsche
mark funds in this way,

2, Exports to be permitted to all.countries
which have accepted victims of Nazism.

3. Purchase in Germany of goods in
short supply for normal export trade should.
not be allowed.

4, Purchase of goods which might form
part of a German defense contribution
should not be allowed.

Local Bonn Personnel

In order to settle any doubts that may
exist, it becomes necessary to clarify the
provisions of Paragraph 3 (Duration of
Lease and Termination) of the lease con-
tract appended to HICOG Staff Memoran-
dum; Subject: HICOG Housing in the
Bonn Enclave —Local Personnel, dated
September 17, 1951.

While representatives of the Federal
Republic will administer the housing proj-
ects, HICOG formulates policy relative
to the projects, e.g., the assigning of living
space and the issuance of any termination
notices.

Normally it will be the policy of HICOG,
upon an employee's separation, to allow
him to remain in the project for a period
of 90 days. However, in instances where
it is imperative to evict the employee for
reasons of undesirability, or upon the
occasion of becoming a major nuisance
to the other occupants of the building, the
period may be shortened. Likewise, the
period may be lengthened in extenuating
circumstances. — from HICOG Daily Bul-
letin No. 282.

Spelling of Freiburg im Breisgau

The name Freiburg im Breisgau, located
in the state of Baden, French Zone, is
frequently confused with ‘‘Friedberg,"
which is the name of two other cities in
Germany, one near Augsburg in Bavaria
and one near Frankfurt in Hesse. Com-
munications addressed to American offices
in these places frequently go to the Office
of the US Observer for State Baden, Frei-
burg im Breisgau, both by diplomatic
pouch and by Deutsche Post and have to
be readdressed. Many long distance tele-
phone calls land there instead of in the
proper American office in those. other
cities.

In addition to this confusion, the spelling
given to the name of this city is frequently
incorrect. In order to avoid this confusion,
care should be taken by all concerned
when correspondence is prepared for this
city or when long distance calls are book-
ed. For the benefit of oral accuracy, the
first syllable of this city is pronounced
like the American word ‘‘fry’ and not
like ‘‘free.'' — from HICOG Daily Bulletin
No. 258.

‘Wage Agreement at Bonn

The Allied High Commission has accept-"
ed a tariff regulation, negotiated by the
Federal Government and the German trade
unions, as the basis for wage scales and
working conditions of persons employed
by the Allies in the Bonn Enclave and paid
in Deutsche marks from occupation costs.

The new tariff regulation, which has now
been put into effect, takes into account the
principles adopted by the High Commission
in January 1951. According to these prin-
ciples, each Allied element will exercise
the full rights of an employer but may dele-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 79 ---
gate the functions of job grading and pay
arrangements to German authorities. Terms
and conditions of employment follow Ger-
man industrial standards.

In accepting the regulation, the High
Commission has drawn attention to the fact
that the regulation may be superseded by
a ‘tariff regulation for employees of the
Allies covering the state of North Rhine-
Westphalia or the whole federal area. The
replacement of the Occupation Statute by
contractual arrangements may also make
it necessary to revise the regulation. +END

Phone Rates Revised

By agreement between the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany and
the Bundespost, rates charged for Class
“B"' (private) telephone and telegraph and
related services will be revised effective
Dec. 1, 1951, in order to normalize the pro-
vision of these services to US personnel
in Germany to the most practicable extent.

Since May 1947, when US personnel be-
gan paying for private communications
services in US dollars, Class “‘B’’ services
have been provided under a concessional
rate schedule based on the conversion fac-
tor of the Deutsche mark to the dollar of
DM 1 equals 10 cents and no adjustment
was made following currency reform in
June 1948.

Under the new regulations, the Bundes-
post will continue to provide these services
with certain concessional provisions. For
example, the subscriber will receive a tele-
phone and 100 local calls for a reasonable
monthly flat rate charge of approximately
DM 12 converted to US dollars at the
current legal rate of exchange (approxi-
mately $2.85); the Bundespost will continue
to. waive application of certain provisions
of the German civil regulations which
would result in a hardship to US personnel
because of the transient nature of their
employment in Germany such as_ the
minimum duration of contract (one year
for an ordinary telephone), and US per-
sonnel will continue to enjoy priority of
installation over all civil subscribers in
order to insure that their requests for serv-
ices are expeditiously fulfilled. However,
the flat rate charge for telephones will
vary slightly in some communities.

Rates for local calls originating from
Class ‘'B" telephones in addition to the 100
included in the monthly flat rate charge
mentioned above, long distance telephone
calls, telegrams, and other services and‘in-
stallation fees will be in accordance with
the normal civil tariffs in Deutsche marks
converted to US dollars at the current legal
exchange rate. Investigation has disclosed
that the revised rates for local telephone
services compare favorably with those in
effect in the United States and that the
charges for long distance telephone calls
and telegraph services are lower in many
cases. Further details may be obtained from
local Bundespost offices serving US per-
sonnel. — from HICOG Daily Bulletin,
No. 292.

Coffee Ration

Effective Oct. 3, the following policy
governs the ration and sale of packaged
coffee in post exchanges:

1. Personnel entitled to commissary pri-
vileges are not authorized to purchase
coffee in post exchanges. This includes
family and billet type messes.

2. The coffee ration in post exchanges
is two pounds of roasted and ground
coffee and four units of powdered coffee

INFORMATION BULLETIN

each month for personnel who are author-
ized exchange rations under the pro-
visions of Paragraph 17, EUCOM Circular
73, 1951, but who are not authorized com-
missary privileges.

3. Back rations are limited to one pound.

4, When EES ration cards are issued to
those personnel and their dependents who
are authorized commissary privileges, all
coffee rations are voided by drawing lines
in ink through the coffee line for the
entire period covered by ration card.—
from HICOG Daily Bulletin, No. 283.

Emergency Services

Telephones for emergency use are in-
stalled on the Frankfurt-Cologne Autobahn
at a distance of every three kilometers
(two miles), The telephones are attached
to white pillars which are illuminated
during the evening hours. The telephones
connect the calling person with the nearest
road guard which is manned by a Ger-
man operator.

When Americans have an accident or
car trouble on the Frankfurt-Cologne Auto-
bahn, they should go to the nearest high-
way telephone to call for assistance.

The following procedure will be fol-
lowed:

1. Pick up the telephone located on the
white pillars. A German operator will
answer and upon hearing English, he will
contact the Emergency Military Police.

2. Tell the MP the location as marked
by the nearest kilometer stone reading.
(MP stations have a map showing location
of stone markers.)

3. Your family may be notified of delay
through the Military Police station at your
request.

4, Indicate to Military Police if ambu-
lance or wrecker is needed and wait for
MPs to arrive.—from HICOG Daily Bulletin,
No. 283.

HICOG Given Authority over German
Educational Grants*

August 23, 1951.
Pursuant to authority contained in Sec-
tion 4 of Pub. Law 73, 81st Congress, it is
hereby ordered that the Chief, Exchanges
Staff, Office of the United States High
Commissioner for Germany, is authorized
to make, amend or terminate grants: (a) To
German students, trainees, teachers, guest
instructors, professors and leaders in fields
of specialized knowledge or skill, (b) to
teachers, guest instructors, professors and
leaders in fields of specialized knowledge
and skill from other European countries,
and (c) to German private or governmental
agencies or institutions, for the purpose
of carrying out exchange of persons pro-
grams between Germany and other Euro-
pean countries administered or serviced
by the Office of the United States High
Commissioner for Germany under au-
thority vested in the Department of State.
This delegation shall be effective as of
June 1, 1951,
For the Secretary of State:
W. K. ScoTT,
Deputy Assistant Secretary
— from Department of State Bulletin, Oct.
22, 1951.

* Delegation of Authority No. 42, printed
from 16, Fed. Reg. 9099, supersedes Delegation
of Authority No. 21, dated May 22, 1950 (15
Fed. Reg. 3400)

76

Recent Publications

Listed below are official publications re-
ceived in the editorial office of the Infor-
mation Bulletin during September. Request
for these publications should be addressed
to the originating agency.

Cumulative Index of Legislation, Office of
General Counsel, HICOG (Frankfurt),
Sept. 24, 1951. Supplement, containing
changes according to pages in original
Cumulative Index of July 20, 1951.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 295, Press
and Publications - Branch, Information
Services Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), Oct. 5, 1951. Covers
German newspapers and other publications
dated up to Oct. 5.

Focus of Berlin Editorial Opinion, Public
Relations Branch, Public Affairs Division,
Berlin Element, HICOG (Berlin), Oct. 8,
1951. Digest of West and East licensed
Berlin press editorial areas of emphasis
during the week ending Oct. 6.

Official Gazette, No. 66, Allied High Com-
mission for Germany (Bonn-Petersberg),
Oct. 10, 1951. Contains official texts of
legislation adopted by or under authority
of the Allied High Commission. Pages
1170-1240.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 296, Press
and Publications Branch, Information Serv-
ices Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), Oct. 12, 1951. Covers
German newspapers and other publications
dated up to Oct. 12.

Focus of Berlin Editorial Opinion, Public
Relations Branch, Public Affairs Division,
Berlin Element, HICOG (Berlin), Oct. 15,
1951. Digest of West and East licensed
Berlin press editorial areas of emphasis
during the week ending Oct. 13.

The Exchange of Persons Program in
Western Germany, Historical Division,
Office of Executive Secretary,
(Frankfurt), Oct. 16, 1951, Historical
monograph written by Henry P. Pilgert.

The History of the Development of Infor-
mation Services through Information Cen-
ters-and Documentary Films, Historical
Division, Office of Executive Secretary,
HICOG (Frankfurt), Oct. 16, 1951. Histor-
ical monograph by Henry P. Pilgert.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 297,
Press and Publications Branch, Infor-
mation Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Oct. 19, 1951.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Oct. 19.

Focus of Berlin Editorial Opinion, Public
Relations Branch, Public Affairs Division,
Berlin Element, HICOG (Berlin), Oct. 22,
1951. Digest of West and East licensed
Berlin press editorial areas of emphasis
during the week ending Oct. 20.

Buecher Vorschau (Book Review), Informa-
tion Centers Branch, Education and Cul-
tural Affairs Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Oct. 23, 1951.
Lists American books to be distributed
among US InformationCenters inGermany.

Information Bulletin for October, Special
Publications Branch, Public Relations Di-
vision, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
(Frankfurt), Oct. 24, 1951. Contains artic-
les and pictorial factures on US opera-
tions in Germany.

Weekly Publication Analysis, No. 298, Press
and Publications Branch, Information
Services Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), Oct. 26, 1951. Covers
German newspapers and other publica-
tions dated up to Oct. 26. +END

NOVEMBER 1951

HICOG »

--- Page 80 ---
C apt William D. Singleton and Master Sat. Ear! Moore of the Munich Masonic Club wait to load German orphan
children aboard “jeeps” at fun-filled “Oktoberfest.” Youngsters were wide-eyed until they were slipped money to spend
on rides and candy. Laughs and yells soon replaced wonderment. (Hornstein photos by courtesy of ‘The Munich American’‘)

Orphans Enjoy “Oktoberfest” Treat

A visit to Munich's big annual “Ok-
toberfest’ was a special treat for
112 boys from the Spengelhof Boys‘
Orphanage and 50 girls from the Evan-
gelisches Girls‘ Orphanage, who were
guests of the Munich Masonic Club.

The party day started off with gifts
of toys and candy from the German
Youth Activities group, then the
youngsters from six to 16 boarded
buses to get to the fair grounds.

At their destination each child was
given DM 2 (48 cents). It wasn’t long
before they were riding the ferris
wheel, whirling on the merry-go-
round, sliding down a toboggan, and
sticky from ear:to ear with candy and
ice cream. Their laughs and shouts
gave assurance that the visit was a
huge success. +END

--- Page 81 ---
A group of aliens who recently enlisted in the US Army here in Ger-
many left for the United States in October to take their training. The
men wait in line to board a transport at Bremerhaven. (US Army photo)