--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
JS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

Cultural Envoys

in Uniform

(see page 7)

--- Page 3 ---
International Garden
Party for Orphans

The boys in the Freiburg-Guenterstal orphanage had
always wanted some Lederhosen (short leather pants
with suspenders popular throughout Germany). Hearing
this, the children of John C. Riedl, US Public Affairs
Officer in Freiburg im Breisgau, and their German,
French and English friends decided to help them. To

e some funds they hit upon the idea of a garden
party, with booths, games, ping-pong tournaments,
American popcorn and hot dogs. More than 300 Amer-
ican, German, French and English guests came to the
Riedl home for the international Lederhosen party.
Everyone had a great deal of fun playing games, watch-
ing the children play and mingling with their friends,
After the guests had departed, the children opened the
cash box and counted over DM 800 ($190). The orphans
would get their Lederhosen. (photos by Pfost, Freiburg)

Madame A. Lambert, Mrs. John C. Riedl, and Frau Johanna Intent spectators watch Freiburg’s Mayor Dr. Wolfgang aaa
Wopperer console Brigitte who doesn’t want to go home. take careful aim before throwing at pyramid of empty cans.

French soldiers learn to play popular American game of Bingo. Pretty cooks are from Paris, London, Milwaukee and Freiburg.

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of
the US High Commissioner for Ger-
many for the dissemination of au-
thoritative information concerning
the policies, regulations, instructions,
operations and activities of the Unit-
ed States mission in Germany.

Editorial Staff
Acting Editor ...... Frank H. Jonas
Feature Editor... Liselotte Goldbeck

Editorial Offices
US Headquarters Building
Annex A, Rooms 40 - 43
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: Frankfurt Military:
8728, 8896, 8958

The Information Bulletin is as-
sembled, prepared, and published by
the Information Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

It is printed, by offset process, by
the Printing and Reproduction Sec-
tion, Operating Facilities Branch,
Administrative Services Division, Of-
fice of Executive Director, HICOG.
The plant is located in Bad Godes-
berg-Plittersdorf.

Distribution is handled by the Dis-
tribution Unit, Communications Serv-
ices Division, Office of Executive Di-
rector, HICOG. This unit is located
in US Headquarters Building, Room
949, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and official dis-
tribution should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Information Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

Correspondence concerning distri-
bution of the Information Bulletin
in Germany, other than for official
US agencies and installations, should
be addressed to the Information Of-
ficer of the nearest Public Affairs
Field Center or the American Con-
sulate General.

Correspondence concerning inquir-
ies and distribution in the United
States should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

COVER PHOTOGRAPH — Corporal Samuel Adler
has won the acclaim of critical German audiences
for his efficient leadership of the well-trained sym-
phony orchestra of the Seventh Army. This or-
chestra not only engenders good-will and under-
standing, but it is dispelling many misconceptions
concerning American culture. The concerts it has
rendered show too the United States Army in Eu-
rope, intent on the serious mission of maintaining
world peace, is composed of many soldiers, who,
in a cultural way, are assuring the successful de-
fense of ideals of the free world. See story on
page 7. (photo by William Stern, 7th Army Special Services)

TABLE OF CONTENTS
November 1952

International Garden Party .... . inside front cover
Pictorial Report

Western Allied Notes Reject Soviet Charges ..... 2
Text of US Note to Soviets

Public Affairs Programs — Grassroots Operations .. 3
Article by Paul R. Phillips

Cultural Envoys in Uniform ............. 7
Feature Article

Educational Research in Germany (Part II) ..... 9
Article by Dr. Frank H. Jonas

Germany’s Population Problems .... . . wee ee 13
Article by Dr. Liselotte Goldbeck

Where Freedom Ends . . . Boogo00 oe. 16
Radio Address by Jakob Kaiser

By Streetcar to Freedom .... . wee ee ee 17
by Pavel Aleksandrovich Bondarchuk

Freiburg America House ............. . 18
Review of Opening

Pforzheim America House .............. 19
Review of Opening

Kaiserslautern America House ........... 20
Article by Max R. Grossman

Report on Germany ... . cee eee . 22
Index to HICOG Quarterly ‘Reports

In and Around Germany .............. 26

German Editorials ................. 28

Personnel Notes ........-----.-- oa. 81

Official Announcements ............... 32

Recent Publications ............. - 2. . 32

Bowling Popular in American Colony . inside back cover
Pictorial Feature

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION
FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Western Allied Notes

The United States, United Kingdom and French High
Commissioners in Germany, in identical notes delivered
in Berlin, rejected charges against a number of West
Sector organizations which, Soviet officials alleged, were
responsible for recent disorders in the Soviet Zone.

The Western Allied notes were sent November 3 in
reply to a Soviet protest of October 1. They were ad-
dressed to Gen. V. I. Chuikov, Chairman of the Soviet
Control Commission. Text of the letter sent by US High
Commissioner Walter J. Donnelly follows:

“Dear General Chuikov:

“In your letter of October 1 you felt obliged to inform
me that in recent months disorders have occurred in
the Soviet Zone. You attribute the blame for these oc-
currences to the activities of organizations in Western
Berlin which, for the purpose of your argument, you
describe as ‘centers of espionage and sabotage’ and
which, you maintain, indulge in criminal activities
directed against the population of Eastern Berlin and
the Soviet Zone. I reject these charges, which are base-
less and a travesty of the facts.

“The organizations which you mention have, with the
exception of RIAS, been voluntarily formed by Ger-
mans who have the interest of the German people at
heart. So far from committing any crimes against the
German people of the Soviet Zone, these organizations
are concerned only to give help to the refugees from
this Zone who in increasing numbers flee from persecu-
tion, to assemble and disseminate evidence about illegal
measures and violation of the rights of man of which so
many Germans in the Eastern Zone are victims, and to
tell them the truth about the free world from which
they are separated.

“As regards RIAS, the radio in the American Sector
of Berlin, you may recall that the organization was
established under the direction of American personnel
in 1946 after the Soviet authorities, in violation of the
principle of Four Power cooperation in Berlin, refused
to allow any but Soviet influence in Radio Berlin. Your
allegations that RIAS is a center of espionage and
sabotage are without foundation. On the contrary, RIAS
fulfills a much-needed function in providing factual
information not otherwise available in Eastern Ger-
many, and it will continue to do so.

“I will not enter into the diverse accusations which you
make on the basis of the evidence provided by various
‘court trials’ in the Soviet Zone. Public opinion through-
out the world is only too well informed of the methods
whereby so-called ‘confessions’ may be extracted from
those who are accused by such ‘courts’. Moreover these
‘courts’ seem to have acquired the habit of describing
as ‘crimes’ acts which in democratic countries are con-
sidered to be a normal part of daily life. For example,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Reject Soviet Charges

a persoa only has to express an opinion contrary to the
Government in power or to repeat a piece of news
which is already known but which the regime has an
interest in suppressing, for him to be described as a
‘spy’ or ‘traitor’. Such a perversion of the accepted
meaning of words would be laughable were its con-
sequences not so serious.

“In your letter you refer to ‘forcible abduction of
activists of people’s enterprises to West Berlin where
they, and the employees of the People’s Police, and
members of the FDJ, were murdered’. If there were
any truth in this, I would condemn criminal activities
of such a kind just as strongly as you do. But you do
not cite any instances of abduction and murder. I,
however, am in a position to cite instances of abductions
from Western Berlin. I should be obliged if you would
give your urgent attention to the case of Dr. Linse who
was abducted from Western Berlin on July 8, and
inform me when he will be returned to Western Berlin.
Likewise I should welcome information about ‘a certain
Weiland’ to whom you attribute one of the ‘confessions’
made before a court in Greifswald on August 27, 1952.
I assume this to be a resident of Western Berlin named
Weiland who was kidnapped from the American Sec-
tor on November 11, 1950, and forcibly taken into the
Soviet Sector. Nothing has been heard of him since
then until I received your letter. I should be glad to
have full details about the circumstances of his arrest
and an account of what happened to him since his
arrest.

_ “I repeat that the activities of the organizations which
you mention have no concern with spying, diversionism
or terror. These organizations would not be necessary
and would cease to exist if basic human rights, such as
freedom of speech, freedom of movement and freedom
from arbitrary arrest existed in the Soviet Zone and
Eastern Berlin. Nor can their activities justify the meas-
ures taken since last May, at the instigation of the
Soviet authorities, whereby the principal channels of
communication between East and West Germany have
been obstructed or curtailed. I take the opportunity of
reminding you that I have not received a reply to
Mr. McCloy’s letter of June 30 in which your attention
was called to this serious matter. I cannot but conclude
that the purpose of your letter was to attempt, by its
many unfounded allegations, to provide a belated jus-
tification of these measures which hinder the re-unifica-
tion of Germany and which, as you are no doubt aware,
have aroused widespread and fully justified indignation
throughout Germany.”

Very truly yours
/s/ Walter J. Donnelly

United States High Commissioner
for Germany

2 NOVEMBER 1952

--- Page 6 ---
Public Affairs Programs

— Grassroots Operations

by Paul R. Phillips
Information Officer, Public Affairs Field Center, Kassel

ILM SHOWINGS, town hall meetings, youth lead-

ership training courses, visits to the Bundestag—these
and many other HICOG-sponsored Public Affairs pro-
grams were, until January of this year, the daily concern
of the Kreis (county) Resident Officers throughout the
US Zone of Germany. Begun more or less spontaneously
in the early days of the occupation under the initiative
of individual Military Government personnel, the local
public affairs programs developed after 1949 under
HICOG into the major activity of the county HICOG
Resident Officers. In simple terms, the major aim of
these county public affairs programs was to put the
common citizen in control of his own future by helping
him learn to play an active and responsible role in his
organizations, his community and county government,
and his national government.

Not only of interest to former resident officers and
those who backstopped their efforts at headquarters in
Germany and Washington but also to the US citizen
who paid a large part of the bill, is the degree of success
and the staying power of the many activities introduced
into local German life over the past three years. It must
be stated at the outset, however, that a final evaluation
of the degree of success or failure of the county public
affairs programs, even in the one county discussed in
this report, will have to await the passing of years. Nine
months after the closing of the Resident Office in this
county in Germany permits only a tentative judgment
to be made on the durability of the public affairs pro-
grams.

T WAS TO BE expected that the withdrawal of res-

ident office personnel, automobiles and small sums
of money for various local activities would have a neg-
ative effect on the programs that had been carried out
formerly when these resources were available. Also the
moral support and encouragement that many resident
officers were able to give teachers, youth leaders, and
others carrying on programs supported by the resident
offices almost ceased when the resident officer locked his
office door for the last time. The vacuum created by the
closing of the resident offices has, however, in many
cases been ably, if only partly, filled by thirty-seven
America Houses and twelve Public Affairs Field Centers

NOVEMBER 1952

in West Germany, which have continued to give what
support they could with their limited personnel to the
persons and organizations with whom the resident officer
formerly had close contact.

Also, despite the important role the resident officer
may have played in redirecting local German social
activity into new channels, his contribution should not
be over-emphasized. In other words, the resident offices,
although supporting and initiating programs aimed
toward the more democratic orientation of German life,
were by no means the sole source of local democratic
inspiration. German individuals, organizations and in-
stitutions of all kinds have been at work since 1945, with
little or no HICOG support, to achieve the same objec-
tives as the Resident Officer Public Affairs Program.
Thus the activities here reviewed should not be assumed
to be a complete description of all local action con-
tributing to the democratization of German life and
institutions.

With these factors in mind, a close-up look will be
taken at the present status of the public affairs programs
which were, until nine months ago, the daily concern of
the Resident Officer in Huenfeld county, one of ap-
proximately 175 counties in the US Zone of Germany.
Huenfeld county, a predominately rural area composed
largely of small, poor farms, is situated at the eastern

Association of Rural Youth members, representing over
20 youth centers in widely scattered villages in the county,
discuss their winter program in a Huenfeld restaurant.

--- Page 7 ---
border of the State of Hesse, adjacent to the Soviet Zone
of Germany.

HE PAST NINE-MONTHS history of the continua-

tion of resident office public affairs activities in
Huenfeld County is largely the story of one organization,
the Association of Rural Youth Centers (Arbeitsgemein-
schaft fuer Dorfjugendheime). This organization grew
out of a county-wide meeting held in Oct. 1951 of some
50 persons, teachers, youth and organization leaders,
local officials and private citizens. The Resident Office
had called these local leaders together for the purpose
of forming a small committee which would, in the
coming months, decide how small monthly grants from
HICOG should be used to support various county youth
programs. Although the to-be-formed committee’s future
purpose was clear enough— that of subsidizing worth-
while recreational and educational programs for youth
in the county and giving aid and advice to rural youth
centers— there was considerable opposition within the
meeting to creating such a committee. Religious leaders
from both confessions, leaders of established youth
groups and county officials all felt that the new group
would compete with existing organizations and that also
its work would duplicate that of the semi-official county
youth committee. The explanation that the new com-
mittee was not a youth organization with members but
rather an advisory group to help already established
organizations with their youth work and had as its main
purpose the support of programs for the unorganized
youth in the county failed to quiet many of the objec-
tions. Finally, however, twelve persons from various
sections of the county agreed to participate as members
of the new committee. Of the twelve, six were enthu-
siastic about the work the committee was to do and had
supported the move to establish it. All six had had con-
siderable experience in youth work in their communities
and realized the necessity of reaching the large numbers
of the youth in the 76 towns throughout the county who
belonged to none of the established religious, sport,
political or other youth groups.

Thus was the inauspicious beginning of the group that
in the months after October assumed a larger and larger

A Volkswagen bus, on loan to the Association from HICOG,
doubles as transportation to bring members to meetings
when not in use showing USIS films in the county.

role in planning and carrying out youth programs
throughout the county, in helping other youth groups in
their programs, and which, after January when the Res-
ident Office was closed, continued a number of the pro-
grams that had long been supported by resident office
personnel.

One of most important of these activities was the
film program. All resident offices had one or more
employees. whose full-time work was the showing
of films on community and youth problems, on the US
and foreign countries, and on economic, cultural and
political subjects to school children and to youth and
adult groups in the communities of the county. Each
resident office drew films for its programs from film
libraries containing over 300 different titles. These films,
almost all of which were in the German language, were
made mostly in the US and in Germany by HICOG. In
Huenfeld county, which has a total population of about
40,000, between 3,000 and 4,000 persons attended these
film showings every month. In comparison with other
programs sponsored by HICOG, the film program reached
an incredibly large audience and therefore was valued
as one of the most effective of HICOG’s cultural and
informational programs. With the closing of the Resident
Office, the question was one of finding, if possible, a
local German group as sponsor for one of HICOG’s
most potent programs.

ROM all appearances the county adult education asso-

ciation was the most suitable organization to continue
the informational and educational film program. This
organization, however, aside from the possible financial
burden that the film work would impose upon it, felt
that the film program was primarily informational and
therefore was not suitable to the cultural program that
the organization had been carrying out. After the adult
education group decided against sponsoring the film work,
the Resident Office offered the program to the Associa-
tion of Rural Youth Centers.

Although the Association believed the film program
would fit better into the work of the adult education
group, it agreed to sponsor the film work, at least tem-
porarily, for fear that this popular program would be
lost to the relatively isolated towns of the county.
HICOG loaned an automobile, first an Opel Kapitaen
and later a Volkswagen bus, to the Association and gave
it a grant of DM 1,000 ($238) to help it meet expenses
during the first several months of operation. In the
months since January, the attendance figures at film
showings have been approximately the same as when
the program was carried out by the Resident Office, even
though a small admission fee has been charged by the
group to help cover its costs.

Due to school vacations during the summer months
and also farm work which has kept busy most of the
adults in this farming area from early morning to late
evening, the Association is beginning its fall film Pro-

NOVEMBER 1952

--- Page 8 ---
gram with a deficit. In an effort to insure the future
of the film program, the chairman of the Association and
the county’s highest official, the Landrat (county admin-
istrative head), have sent a letter to many officials,
businessmen and organizations in the county asking for
donations to the film fund. Several large contributions
have been received at the last counting, and with excel-
lent local newspaper cooperation, it is expected that
soon the film program will be out of immediate danger.

RY WITH a full schedule of film showings, however,
the Association will probably continue to have dif-
ficulties breaking even every month. An automobile is
the sine qua non for a successful film program in this
county of 76 scattered villages, and with an automobile
go heavy expenses in present-day Germany. Gasoline
costs between 60 and 70 cents a gallon and taxes and
insurance rates, in comparison with German incomes,
are very high. Whereas the monthly salary for the
Association’s film projectionist is approximately DM 300
a month, DM 100 must be paid out for taxes and insur-
ance during this same period. Despite the month to
month struggle to balance the books, however, the
Association is optimistic about the future of the film
program.

The bulk of the Association’s work since January has
been with the rural youth centers. In the spring of 1951,
HICOG headquarters in the state of Hesse announced a
project whereby grants of up to DM 1,000 would be made
available to a limited number of committees in each of
the 45 counties of Hesse to help the committees establish
youth centers. The problem of helping the “lost genera-
tion” of German youth after 1945 has been one of
HICOG’s major activities and the rural youth centers’
project was a further effort to help rural youth establish
a home for their recreational and educational activities.
From these funds Huenfeld received DM 8,000, enough
to aid the establishment, together with local contribu-
tions, of eight rural centers. Through other small HICOG
grants and the help of the Resident Office, four addi-
tional youth centers were also established during 1951.
To develop trained leaders for the youth centers and
give instruction in program planning to the youth center
groups, the Resident Office and the Association jointly
sponsored a number of week-end training courses
throughout the fall of 1951. In the past nine months the
Association has continued these week-end training
courses as often as funds have allowed.

Since January, through the advice and stimulation of
the Association, the number of rural youth homes has
8rown to 22 and all youth homes have a voting member
in the Association. Each of the 22 youth centers is open
to all the youth of the towns where they are located.
Weekly programs include singing, folk dancing, discus-
sion evenings, film showings with USIS films, and games
of various kinds. Many of the centers also have small
libraries. In view of the slow and precarious beginning

NOVEMBER 1952

# : P+)

Youthful members of the Association voting to continue
the USIS film program in the county. Herr Adalbert
Sigulla, chairman of the Association, is standing at rear.

of the Association, its ability to almost double the num-
ber of youth homes, without further HICOG aid, within
nine months is a considerable feat. This outstanding
work of the Association has not gone unnoticed. Re-
cently one of the highest officials for the North Hesse
administrative district (comprising 17 counties) heard
about the rural youth work of the Association and spent
a day with the chairman and members of the group
going through nine of the youth homes.

HE RURAL youth centers, which give the Associa-

tion its name, are the main reason for the Associa-
tion’s existence. Through the centers the Association
reaches over a thousand young people between 16 and
25 years of age with its program, suggestions, and advice.
Although complete local autonomy exists in all the
village youth centers, with the local teacher, priest, or
pastor taking a large part in planning and directing the
center’s activities, the representatives from the centers
in the Association, with few exceptions, have recognized
the benefits of common planning and sharing of ideas
and resources. What opposition there is to the Associa-
tion has come most recently from several youth center
leaders, who, though accepting financial aid from the
Resident Office before it closed, have since charged that
the Association is “under American influence”. Since
the Association has made it clear to these persons that
it receives from American offices, mainly the America
House in Fulda and the Public Affairs Field Center in
Kassel, only what it asks for and that its decisions are
its own, several seem to have lost some of their scep-
ticism about the Association.

Although the youth center leaders who have been
most sensitive about “American influence” are, almost
without exception, carrying out their youth activities
within two miles of the Soviet Zone border, this proxim-
ity to Communists dominated East Germany is not felt
to be the cause of their opposition. In most cases it is
the fear of the local leader, generally the village priest
or pastor, that he will lose control of his most important

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
charges, the youth. It has been and will continue to be
the task of the Association to convince its opposition that
it is interested only in offering assistance to local youth
centers, not in controlling or dominating them.

NOTHER PROGRAM started by the Resident Office

and continued by the Association is the sponsoring
of trips to visit the Federal Republic’s Parliament (Bun-
destag) in Bonn. The Association from the beginning
realized the great importance of acquainting rural youth,
teachers and local officials with their new, young gov-
ernment and thereby increasing their confidence in it.
While the Association would like to send groups to Bonn
often, such trips have become infrequent since HICOG-
sponsored transportation is now virtually a thing of the
past. Since January, however, over 150 persons from the
county have visited the Bundestag under the Associa-
tion’s sponsorship and a new series of trips is being
planned for the coming months.

The trips to the Bundestag almost never fail, to leave
a strong impression on the visitors from the county.
Almost all they know previously about their Federal
capital is what they read in newspapers. And in postwar
Germany, with its heavy problems and sharp political
party differences, this is many times none too favorable.
Most return from their one- or two-day trips surprised
that the Bundestag building is so simple and inexpen-
sively furnished or that members of the opposition par-
ties were seen in friendly conversation with each other.
A great number of those returning from Bonn give a
personal report to their local groups on their impression
of parliament.

Perhaps as important as any single program being car-
ried out by the Association is the continued moral sup-
port and direction that it gives to many young teachers
and youth leaders in the county who voluntarily and
selflessly give their time guiding youth activities. The
Association has continued this important work formerly
done in part by the Resident Office and has also carried
on the very important function earlier performed by the
Resident Office in acting as a clearing house for youth
magazines, pamphlets, civic education materials, infor-
mation on youth training courses and new ideas. The
Association also continues to interest its members and
those in the youth centers in attending courses at the
youth and adult education school formerly sponsored
solely by HICOG at Bad Schwalbach in Southern Hesse.

Te ARE in general the activities that the Associa-
tion inherited from the Resident Office when that
office closed in January. Certain other activities that the
Resident Office formerly sponsored have largely disap-
peared. The public forum and town hall meeting are
examples of those activities that once received encour-
agement and support from the Resident Office but which
now, in many communities, are forgotten institutions.
On the positive side, however, the Adult Education As-
sociation, in conjunction with various officials from the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Landrat’s officé, carries out a series of lectures on local
government problems in various communities in the
county. The town hall meeting (Buergerversammlung),
however, was never popular with many local community
officials and is an infrequent event today.

The continued existence of the Association of Rural
Youth Centers and many of the programs it sponsors is
anything but secure. Its chronic problem, like that of so
many similar groups engaged in public affairs activities,
is a shortage of funds. Whether this problem proves its
undoing will depend upon its own ingenuity and the
assistance it gets from the county administration, which,
in the past nine months, has given it increased moral
support. Due to the Association’s very capable leadership,
provided mostly by an elderly former vice chairman of
Krupp’s board of directors and a 26 year-old refugee
teacher, it has won a seat as a voting member in the
semi-official county youth committee to represent the
unorganized youth in the county. As such the Associa-
tion is sharing in funds from the Federal Youth Plan
and from the Youth Collection Week.

HE ASSOCIATION has also recently been given the
support of two important organizations in the county,

_ the county Farmers’ Organization and the European Un-

ion Movement. The farmers’ group, in recognition of the
youth work done by the Association, is planning to help
the Association establish more rural youth centers and
carry out programs in them. The European Union has
offered to help the Association form a branch of the
European Youth (Bund Europaeischer Jugend) within the
Association. In this way the Association will be able to
take an active part in the German-wide European Union
organization in seeking a united Europe.

Despite the ever-present financial crisis facing the
Association of Rural Youth Centérs, it has emerged
from nine months of heavy activity as a confident and
well-organized group of 25 members from all walks of
life interested in bringing fresh wind into the public
affairs of the county. Although the Association did not
take over all the public affairs activities once sponsored
by the Resident Office, it has continued to expand the
large number it did take over and, more important, it
has made these activities common and accepted features
of Huenfeld’s social life. And this is an achievement
which could never be fully attained by the Resident
Office as the instrument of a foreign government.

Briefly then, this is how the Resident Officer Public
Affairs Program in one county in Germany looks—nine
months after. Film programs on international problems,
trips to visit the Federal parliament, helping youth learn
responsible citizenship by helping them solve their own
problems, these and other activities which were once
simply resident office programs are being transformed
by the Association of Rural Youth Centers into a tradi-
tion, a tradition that may have a permanent and salutory

effect upon local German social, political and cultural
life. + END

NOVEMBER 1953

--- Page 10 ---
Cultural Envoys in Uniform

NE OF THE sensations of Germany’s summer con-

cert season is the United States Seventh Army
Symphony Orchestra.

“Everyone knows America can produce cars,” said
a German city official after a recent concert, “but this,”
he added with a gesture toward the orchestra, “is hard
to believe.”

German music critics, who have been extremely com-
plimentary in their reviews of the concerts, state that
German music-lovers “were amazed to see privates and
corporals play classical and modern music on a high
artistic level.”

The Seventh Army Symphony Orchestra is composed,
with only a few exceptions, of young Americans who
came to Germany primarily as soldiers in the Western
defense forces. They are still infantry men, tank men,
artillery men, company clerks, etc., but music to many
is their civilian profession.

On the podium in front of them is a black-haired
stocky young man wearing the two stripes of a corporal
and the shoulder flash of the 2nd Armored Division.
He is Samuel Adler, now a resident of Worcester, Mass.,
but a native of Mannheim, Germany. Already well
known as a composer, Corporal Adler has the distinc-
tion of being the first American to serve as guest con-
ductor of the concert orchestras of Koblenz and Lud-
wigshafen.

HE SYMPHONY orchestra had its origin last spring

when the Seventh Army Special Services held audi-
tions for some 300 soldiers to select the 50 members—
a captain, a few sergeants, a young woman dependent,
one airman but mostly soldiers. Among those chosen
were many who had been members of outstanding
symphony orchestras in the United States. Capt. William
B. Doolittle, commanding officer of the orchestra and
One of its cellists, had played with the Indianapolis and
Louisville symphony orchestras.

Corporal Adler introduced a varied repertoire ranging
from great classics to modern music. Both to show

NOVEMBER 1952

the fallacy of the oft-held German opinion that
American orchestras cannot play classical German music
and to introduce German audiences to modern American
composers, the programs include compositions by the
older German masters as well as outstanding samples
of contemporary American music.

Early in the summer, it began its tour of Germany,
playing at military installations, under sponsorship of
the America Houses and in German auditoriums.
Audiences ranged from one of approximately 8,000,
mostly German patrons, to a concert in the field for
some 300 soldiers of the 28th Infantry Division. In 30
appearances in its first 34 days on tour, it played for
an estimated 60,000 persons in which European nationals
predominated.

Promotion of German-American relations, particularly
between the German public and members of the US
Army, was immediately evident from the concerts spon-
sored by the America Houses of Stuttgart, Frankfurt,
Heilbronn, Bad Hersfeld, Heidelberg and Darmstadt.
Some city authorities actively cooperated with the US
Information Centers and local Special Services officials
in planning the concerts.

In Stuttgart, the orchestra presented two out-of-door
“pop” concerts and a short time later gave a symphony
concert in Linden Museum for several hundred Ger-
mans and Americans. As much as by the latter concert
itself, the Germans seemed strongly impressed at
seeing soldiers and non-commissioned officers of dif-
ferent races and the others—all in uniform—playing
together under the direction of Corporal Adler.

IHE PROGRAM in Stuttgart attracted many who had
not been in the habit of visiting the America
House. Some of them asked when they might hear the
orchestra again. They could not afford to buy tickets,
they said, and this had been the first symphony concert
they had been able to hear in many years.
In the beautiful setting of the Palmengarten, Frank-
furt’s botanical garden, the orchestra demonstrated a

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
fluency and versatility that caused the audience, refus-
ing to leave, to call for two encores and to exhibit dis-
appointment that time would not allow more.

In the neighboring town of Offenbach, an audience of
approximately 5,000 applauded enthusiastically. The
local newspaper, reporting the event under the heading
“Music, an International Bridge,” noted the “great suc-
cess of the conductor, the soloists and the orchestra
alike” and referred to the performance of Gershwin’s
“Rhapsody in Blue” as “a brilliant achievement which
justly aroused great enthusiasm.”

Heilbronn city officials, co-sponsoring the concert of
the Seventh Army Symphony Orchestra, assisted in
reserving a theater. After a cordial reception by the
German-American audience, the newspaper Neckar-Echo,
under the heading “American Musicians Enthused Heil-
bronn,” said:

“Music life in America, about which we have rather
antiquated ideas, is by no means limited to the music-
making of jazz bands and the performances of some
important orchestras in the large cities, accessible only
to a small minority of people. On the contrary, classical
and modern music is widely cultivated in the States
today. We, therefore, welcomed the opportunity of
hearing a good American symphony orchestra which
undoubtedly exemplifies many others of equal caliber
and of observing the remarkable skill of these young
musicians who come from outstanding American music
schools.”

LTHOUGH the orchestra preserved works of such

well-known composers as Carl Maria von Weber
and Mozart, there was a marked response to the section
of the program which included compositions by the
American composers Ernst Toch, Roy Harris and Morton
Gould. “Here,” another Heilbronn newspaper commented,
“the orchestra was in its element; here the applause
rose . . . to spontaneous heartiness.”

For the first time since the recent arrival of numerous
US troops and their families in the Heilbronn area, a
large German-American audience was brought together.
Concerning this, Heilbronn’s Stimme commented: “Art,
especially music, can establish connecting links which

Conductor Adler presents soloist George Hodjinikos,

Greece, and the orchestra members to an appreciative
Passau audience at the concert rendered by the orchestra
during the Passau European Weeks Festival in September.

may reconcile difference and promote mutual under-
standing.”

In Bad Hersfeld, the Seventh Army Symphony Or-
chestra’s concert was called “the greatest success of any
musical event sponsored so far by the America House.”
Expressions of gratitude for the concert were coupled
with comments that it had done more to further mutual
understanding and respect than parades, lectures and
newspaper articles. Also Hersfeld listeners said they
were greatly impressed at seeing men of various races
work together on such excellent terms of human and
artistic understanding.

The Hersfeld press agreed in praise of the performance.
With the headline “Frenzied Applause for American
Symphony Orchestra,” the Volks-Zeitung stated, “This
concert has been a real highlight in the musical life
of Bad Hersfeld.” The Nachrichten paid tribute to “the
superior symphony orchestra in uniform” and to the
works of American composers.

I HEIDELBERG’s spacious city hall, an enthusiastic
audience of some 1,200 Germans and Americans re-
sponded with a standing tribute to the orchestra, whose
interpretative power, they declared, was “equally re-
flected in their rendering of the works of German and
American composers.” The “superior conductorship” of
Corporal Adler also came in for praise as did the artistic
achievement of the piano soloist, Cpl. Amo Capelli from
New York City.

The Darmstaedter Echo, after the concert in Darm-
stadt’s city hall, commented: “This is a young orchestra,
both in regard to the age of the musicians composing it
and in view of the fact that it was founded only two
months ago. But since it was really a very good con-
cert to which we were able to listen, it provided us with
more evidence of the excellent training which the young
generation of musicians receive in the United States.”

The applause of the listeners, according to the Darm-
staedter Tageblatt, was “as strong as it was deserved,”
especially for the American section of the program
which featured works by Kennan and Piston. The
Second Symphony by Piston, now well known in Ger-
many, was particularly well received by the public and
by music critics who praised the “brilliant orchestration
technique” of the composer and “his ability to express
clearly and precisely a musical idea.”

As it turned into the second half of the summer
season, the Seventh Army Symphony Orchestra scored
its greatest success during the “European Weeks” fes-
tival in Passau*. During the first week, the orchestra
presented one symphonic concert, played for six per-
formances of Mozart’s opera “The Marriage of Figaro”
and accompanied the Amsterdam Ballet.

HE SYMPHONY concert featured the Schumann
piano concerto, with George Hodjinikos, recognized
as the premier Greek pianist of the day, as soloist. The
concert was considered even more remarkable in its
*see “European Weeks in Passau” in Information Bulletin, O¢-

tober 1952.
Continued on page 15

NOVEMBER 1952

--- Page 12 ---
Educational Research in Germany

by Dr. Frank H. Jonas

Assistant Editor, Information Bulletin

II. The International Workshop on Educational Psychology

Wu the 1952 International Workshop on Modern
Psychologies and Education was held in the new
home of the Institute for International Educational Re-
search (Hochschule fuer Internationale Paedagogische
Forschung) in Frankfurt from Aug. 4-29, some firsts were
registered in both European and German education
circles.

For the first time the meeting brought together in a
workshop situation leading educational psychologists
from nine Western European countries, and the United
States. In addition to the six educational psychologists
from the United States, 13 came from Austria, Denmark,
England, Holland, Italy, Norway, Sweden and Switzer-
land. The 38 German participants, coming from all parts
of the German Federal Republic, were from leading
German universities, teacher education institutions, psy-
chological clinics and test development institutes.

Obviously requiring financial support beyond the
means of any educational institution, the US Education
Program of HICOG, through the Exchange of Persons
and the DM Grants-in-aid-Programs, supplied the neces-
sary operating funds and foreign staff personnel serv-
ices. The Institute contributed its facilities, including
living quarters for 27 German participants, the services
of the professional staff, librarians, translators, and
secretarial staff.

LANNING for such a workshop required careful

preparation over an extended period of time. During
May and June, Dr. Walter Schultze, Director of the In-
service Teacher Education Institute (Lehrerfortbildungs-
institut) at Hamburg, who had been chosen to head the
workshop, visited 76 West German and Berlin university
institutes, colleges and individuals to discuss with pro-
fessors and instructors their interests in the field of
educational psychology and their possible participation
in the workshop conference. The US and foreign partic-
ipants were procured through the Department of State
and the US embassies and legations in the foreign coun-
tries. The aim was to secure from each European country
the presence of one outstanding professor of educational
Psychology and a younger professor who was the pro-
mising person in this field.

Although three previous major workshops were held in
Germany in 1949 at Esslingen, 1950 at Heidelberg, and
1951 at Weilburg, the 1952 workshop, sponsored jointly
by the US Education Program in Germany and the

NOVEMBER 1952

Institute for International Educational Research, was
the first to be administered principally by the Germans
themselves. The early planning group included Dr.
Schultze, the workshop director, Prof. Erich Hylla, pres-
ident of the Institute and Dr. William L. Wrinkle,
HICOG’s educational affairs adviser.

The 1952 summer workshop was the first educational
event to take place in the Institute’s new home. Two
previously US and Institute sponsored workshops which
brought together German and US educators in the field
of testing were held in Aug. 1951 at Jugenheim (Hesse)
on the Development of Scientific Testing in German
Education and in Feb. 1952 at Kassel (Hesse) on Educa-
tional Measurement and Statistical Method.

Peculiar to the 1952 workshop was also the fact that
its subject matter was limited to educational psychology.
For the majority of the workshop staff members and
an even larger proportion of the German participants
the workshop was their first experience with this recent
American development in American education which
emphasizes group work, group planning, group coopera-

Pictured are US participants: (left to right) Russell
Smart, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York; Daniel
Prescott, Director, Institute for Child Study, University
of Maryland; Viola Theman, Northwestern University,
Chicago, Illinois; Dean A Worcester, Chairman, Depart-
ment of Educational Psychology and Measurements,
University of Nebraska; Everett Woodman, Chairman,
Division of Psychological Services and Education of
Handicapped Children, University of Illinois. Harold
Anderson, Head of the Department of Psychology,
Michigan State College and his wife, Dr. Gladys An-
derson, Associate Professor of Psychology, who was
added to the staff, were absent when shot was taken.
Mrs. Annelise Prescott, not shown on the photo, was
also added to the staff to assist with the difficult task
of interpreting. (photos by K. Hopp. AMCONGEN. Frankfurt)

--- Page 13 ---
Pictured is a typical workshop scene in one of the
Institute’s spacious classrooms. Prof. Woodman is calling
the group’s attention to the blackboard during a dis-
cussion of the relation of educational psychology to cul-

tural differences in the international relations field.

tion, and democratic learning experiences, and minimizes
the more passive formal lecture system which still largely
dominates German and European education.

N SETTING forth the aims of the workshop, Prof.

Hylla stated that if a new social order in Germany and
a new political order in Europe and the Western world
are to be established education will have to contribute
its share in two ways:

1. Educators themselves in all countries should become
internationally minded by a lively interchange of ideas;
they should make serious efforts to learn from each
other, and get stimulation from their foreign colleagues;
they should investigate the progress of education in
other countries in view not of imitating what is hap-
pening there, but of adapting what seems right and
useful to the needs and conditions of their own country.

2. Democratizing of the aims and methods of educa-
tion, the structure and administration of the educational
system, should be done on a sound psychological basis;
if done otherwise the efforts in this—as in fact in any—
direction would fail.

As a means of promoting international contacts be-
tween educational psychologists, Prof. Hylla continued,
the workshop at the same time gives them an opportu-
nity to learn from each other by bringing them together
in person, not simply for lecturing to each other, but
for a thorough exchange of opinions and for discussing
their common problems in larger or—preferably—smal-
ler groups, and living together as far as possible. The
German educators who were consulted on the workshop
plan agreed unanimously that such a gathering would
serve a real need in various ways:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

1. It would be an opportunity for the German partic-
ipants to learn the developments in educational psy-
chology outside Germany during the last 20 years.

2, It would give the foreign participants a better idea
of whatever specific German approach there is toward
the problem of educational psychology.

3. It would help to broaden the knowledge of the
foreign literature in the field, which as yet is accessible
to the German scholars only in a few places and to a
limited extent, especially in the German language.

4, It would give an opportunity to establish personal
contacts, that would be valuable not only from a gen-
eral human point of view, but also for better mutual
understanding of each others’ research and publications,

RIOR TO the opening of workshop the staff met and

developed a tentative program for the workshop.
During this two-week orientation and planning period
the foreign guests were introduced to the German educa-
tional system, its problems of instruction and organiza-~
tion, and to the status of educational psychology in Ger-
man institutions of higher learning by representatives
of the grade, secondary and vocational schools and of
the teacher colleges and the universities. Visits were
made to schools.

After the briefing period of two weeks, the planning
group, consisting of the foreign participants and the
German director, met and formulated the definite pro-
gram for the workshop period of four weeks which
included the 38 German educators.

A typical day’s program began with a lecture at nine
o'clock, with a discussion period from 10:30 to 11:00. The
lectures gave an opportunity to the foreign participants
to tell the entire group what had been and what was
being accomplished in educational research in their
respective countries. They also served as orientation by
emphasizing the most essential directions and objectives
for the smaller group discussions. Both theory and
practice were in evidence in the lectures.

NE COMPLAINT voiced by the participants was that

the discussion period was too short. Sometimes the
discussions were continued by the smaller groups when
they were particularly interesting, disrupting the group
flan but not disturbing greatly its value, since the pro-
cedure became more informal and served the interests
of the participants rather than those of the planners,
which was quite desirable, as it was expressed by many
participants toward the end of the conference.

After the lectures and the “discussions, the whole
group would break up into smaller groups to examine
and discuss a particular area in educational psychology-
Each participant belonged to a morning and afternoon
group. After the first two weeks, the groups were
changed, so that each person had the opportunity to work
in four groups. This had the disadvantage that the grouP
work had to be broken off sometimes just when it had
begun to develop thoroughly a certain problem, but it had
the advantage of bringing each participant in association

NOVEMBER 1952

--- Page 14 ---
with a greater number of conference colleagues. Since
the smaller groups reported regularly to the entire group
during discussion sessions a full experience was provided.

Seven main groups were established during: the work-
shop:

1. Problems of selection, admission, differentiation as
related to schools and universities.

2. Social interaction and social development in schools
and universities.

3. Human development and the educative process.

4. Problems of counselling and guidance as related to
schools and education in general.

5. Application of the finding of investigations of
learning to the work in schools and universities.

6. Teacher training.

7. Educational psychology and education for inter-
national understanding.

An extremely interesting workshop group discussion
was developed after the conference was underway on
international intercultural relations, which focussed its
attention directly on the vast area and vital problem of
cultural differences and on how educational psychology
could be brought to bear upon them to achieve peaceful
and constructive behavior of persons and peoples.

A special interest group was also developed on clinical
psychology which discussed certain specific child guid-
ance problems.

Sometimes a smaller group would continue to discuss
in the morning and afternoon sessions and even in the
corridors the questions brought up during the morning
discussions of the whole group which had been evoked
by the lectures. At other times small group discussions
developed spontaneously in response to an expressed
desire for information.

The groups operated in a very democratic and in-
tegrated way. The meetings began with a brief explora-

tion of methods for facilitating group interaction and
achieving maximum individual participation. Members
took different responsibilities in turn, such as chairman
and observer. Individual participants reported on their
research pertaining to the topics discussed.

Somewhat typical of the approach used in the small
group discussions was that employed by the group which
studied “Human Development and Educative Process.”
under the direction of Prof. D. A. Prescott.

Three groups on Human Development met for two-
week periods during the workshop. The approach used
differed from group to group according to need. The
methods used included discussion, lectures, role playing
and interpreting case studies. In one of the groups the
chairmanship rotated every other day.

HE APPROACH in all three groups was first to clar-

ify the theoretical concept of “Human Development.”
Consequently the first days were spent on this matter.
The relationships between Developmental Psychology
and Human Development were discussed and in one
group the history of the Human Development movement
was traced. The further group work concentrated around
the following questions:

1. What do we know about Human Development?

2. How do we communicate such knowledge to the
teacher?

3. What educational consequences should evolve from
such knowledge?

It was pointed out that, in addition to psychology,
“Human Development” draws its information from all
the sciences dealing with human beings, ranging from
physiology, neurology and endocrinology on the one
hand to sociology and cultural anthropology on the other.
There are at least a dozen such related sciences con-
tributing facts which are prerequisite to a good under-
standing of the child. A mere collecting of data from the

Prof. Worcester, voicing the American as well as a general opinion, said that being with this group was a “most
unique experience and unusual situation. Amiable and competent, these educators from Germany and nine foreign
lands developed no tensions among themselves—no one tried to dominate”. Applying in the workshop the methods
of research and teaching they advocated, the teachers had fun learning.

(AMCONGEN photo by Hopp)

--- Page 15 ---
various sciences is not sufficient. The main task is to
make a synthesis of these data, taking into considera-
tion the interaction and the interrelations of all the
factors concerned.

In one group the scientific methods used in teachers’
child study groups related to “Human Development”
were illustrated by a practical example. Multiple hy-
potheses as to the causes of one specific item of behavior
from a case record were first suggested by the group.
Then the case record was read to the group and the
data were related to the hypotheses. In this manner,
some of the hypotheses were supported, others con-
sidered irrelevant, and still others rejected. More than
thirty hypotheses were eventually reduced to a small
number of relevant ones. In this way was demonstrated
the value of trying to understand the child in an emperi-
cal way rather than to judge him against a rigid theore-
tical formulation.

IOLLOWING the close of the workshop, staff mem-

bers spent three days preparing the final report,
“Modern Psychologies and German Education,” which
had been planned and developed as the workshop pro-
ceeded. The report is not a volume on educational psy-
chology. Beginning with a statement by Prof. Hylla on
the postwar status of educational psychology resulting
from the Hitler regime and wartime restrictions on the
free international exchange of information and research,
the report contains the complete story of the workshop
and gives to the Germans some readable material on
the recommendations of the workshop for further re-
search projects.

The final section of the report presents an evaluation
of the workshop by the participants and the staff. This
evaluation was planned and conducted by the Workshop
Evaluation Committee, with the cooperation of the
HICOG Reactions Analysis Staff. (The 1952 workshop is
the first in which the Reactions Analysis Staff partic-
ipated). The report has been mimeographed in English
and in German and distributed by the Institute to Ger-
man and European educational psychologists, teacher
education institutions, school administrators and other
educational officials.

In evaluating the workshop, 97 percent of the partic-
ipants and all but one member of the staff judged it a
success. All participants recommended that it be re-
peated, and all staff members expressed interest in
participating again. Opportunity for contacts with
educational psychologists from other countries was con-
sidered the greatest value of the workshop. One Ger-
man educational psychologist wrote to the Institute to
express his appreciation. He stated that he is now plan-
ning for himself and his students projects in objective
research, for he can no longer be satisfied with his
former teaching methods.

In their conversations following the workshop, mem-
bers of the staff emphasized the significance of their

INFORMATION BULLETIN

having had an opportunity to become acquainted with
the outstanding personalities in the other national
groups. This advantage was mentioned repeatedly by the
German participants. It was apparent that the workshop
had established many lasting friendships of an inter-
national character which will contribute not only to the
advancement of unity in educational methods but also
to unity among the educational leaders of the countries
participating.

One internationally recognized German psychologist,
in his personal estimate, expressed a consensus when he
wrote that “The Frankfurt Workshop looks better every
month since August. I learned much from the interesting
foreign colleagues, especially the American ones. My
course in Educational Psychology I give now is deeply
influenced by all I heard in Frankfurt. Furthermore, it
was very nice to have many fruitful personal contacts.
I think the Frankfurt workshop was a success in many
respects.”

Noting that the small groups decided which problems
and areas they wanted to discuss, Dr. Schultze said the
wishes of the German participants were essentially met.
He emphasized the great reserve of the foreign partic-
ipants and their efforts to determine what the Germans
wanted from the workshop and to keep this in the
forefront of discussions. According to Dr. Schultze, the
German participants actually would like to have heard
the foreign guests speak more often, so that the Ger-
mans could have received more basic orientation.

IMPHASIZING that the mingling of personalities was

the decisive experience for the Germans, Dr. Schultze
stated that the output of scientific content could not be
the criterion for judging the value of the workshop. The
working method was brand new to many participants
and the group was very hetereogeneous in its makeup.
Greatest value was placed by the Germans on the dis-
cussions which developed spontaneously in the small
informal meetings outside of the regular program. These
conversations deepened their insight into the different
research tasks and methods in the different countries
and in the background of their philosophical outlooks.
The knowledge that scientific research in the field of
educational psychology can be done without getting lost
in speculation and philosophical deductions and _ that
theories can be derived only after a thorough analysis
and organizing of data which has been empirically
gathered, together with a respect for the growing human
organism, brought many Germans to a consciousness of
their own research tasks. “This awareness of our own
problems, stimulated in each one of us, was the essential
result of the workshop”, Dr. Schultze concluded.

“The. workshop,” Dr. Wrinkle added. “provided an
excellent illustration of the international cooperation
and evidence of interest of the US Education Program in
assisting German educators and educational institutions
in the advancement of German education.” +END

NOVEMBER 1952

--- Page 16 ---
Germany’s Population Problems

by Dr. Liselotte Goldbeck

Feature Editor, Information Bulletin

wae North Rhine-Westphalia’s social ministry sur-
veyed the results of the first expellee resettlement
program of 1949-1950 throughout 11 major counties of
the state, 84 percent of the resettled households stated
that their expectations have been fully satisfied, and
94 percent declared that through the move their living
conditions have improved.

North Rhine-Westphalia is one of six West German
states which were designated under three government
controlled programs to admit 700,000 expellees and
refugees from refugee swollen Schleswig-Holstein,
Lower Saxony and Bavaria by the end of 1953.

With her original population increased by one-fifth
since the end of World War II, the German Federal
Republic lost one-fourth of her original housing space.
Of approximately 10,500,000 units 2,340,000 were de-
stroyed: through war damages. To cover the needs of
bombed out West Germans as well as of the newcomers
approximately 5,000,000 more housing units are needed
aside from the recently completed projects.

Wwe EIGHT million refugees and expellees from
east German — now Soviet controlled — territories
and Soviet satellite countries flooded western Germany
in 1945, 1946 and 1947 the housing problem was partic-
ularly keen in the industrial areas. Therefore, the new-
comers were directed mainly to rural regions. Crowded
already with evacuees from the bomb shattered cities
and other endangered areas, housing and working condi-
tions there, too, became more and more difficult, and
were not improved through the influx of another
1,700,000 political refugees from the Soviet occupied zone
of Germany since 1947. In addition to the German
refugees and expellees, the German Federal Republic
at rresent shelters 2,000,000 stateless persons and 250,000
other foreigners. Another 15,000 to 20,000 Germans ar-
rive from the Soviet zone every month. Werner Middel-
mann of the Federal Ministry for Refugee Affairs
stated before the U.N. Refugee commission in Geneva
recently, that the Bonn Government has_ spent
DM _ 28,000,000,000 on support, emigration and economic
integration of refugees since 1945.

Most affected by the immigration are the border states
Schleswig-Holstein, Lower Saxony and Bavaria which
gradually developed a reputation as “refugee states,”
and desperately called for balance and redistribution of
Population.

Even though housing can be provided in many
cases the working possibilities are rare and un-
employment is high especially among the expellees. Of

NOVEMBER 1952

them only 30 percent have been able to find permanent
jobs. Another 40 percent have only temporary and very
uncertain employments, and 30 percent do not have a
chance under the present economic conditions. Under
the pressure of time and numbers the newcomers had
been steered just somewhere without consideration for
their professional skill. So it happened that persons with
agricultural backgrounds found themselves in industrial
centers, while others with special industrial skills were
tied to forlorn rural areas, and only a small number
procured adequate jobs.

Although only one-fifth of the population of the Fed-
eral Republic, the new citizens make one-third of the
unemployment total. However through: newly established
expellee enterprises, and resettlement carried through
particularly with regard to working conditions, the un-
emrloyment total among expellees dropped from 37 per-
cent in March 1949 to 30.4 percent in December 1951.

EALIZING that the agglomeration of people in eco-

nomically weak areas and the inability of most new
arrivals to find work burdened and unbalanced not only
the economy of the respective state but the economy of
the entire Federal Republic, the Federal Government ini-
tiated the three resettlement programs under which
700,000 expellees will be moved from the refugee states
to less burdened North Rhine-Westphalia, Hesse, Rhine-
land-Palatinate, Baden-Wuerttemberg, Hamburg and

Population and Area
of German Federal Republic

(Adapted from HICOG’s 10th Quarterly Report
on Germany)

State Square Miles Population*
Schleswig-Holstein 6,049 2,487,000
Hamburg 288 1,658,000
Lower Saxony 18,258 6,711,000
North Rhine-Westphalia 13,107 13,599,000
Bremen 156 581,000
Hesse 8,150 4,393,000
Rhineland-Palatinate 7,655 3,111,000
Bavaria 27,119 9,119,000
Baden-Wuerttemberg 13,924 6,647,000
Federal Republic 94,706 48,306,000

* Estimated population figures as of Jan. 1, 1952,
based on final Sept. 13, 1950 census figures, Federal
Statistical Office, Wiesbaden.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Bremen before the end of 1953. The first two programs
were confirmed by law in November 1949 and May 1951.
The third is under discussion.

EPENDING largely on the progress of special hous-

ing projects for the transferees in the new localities,
for which the states were finally granted special funds,
the resettling process during the first year was some-
what delayed. However, by August 31 of this year
425,000 persons were given new homes and 100,00 more
awaited their call. The selection for resettlement in
industrial areas, made by a special government assigned
commission, considers mainly persons with special skills
but is to also include public welfare supported persons
and pensionists.

Under the same programs approximately 30,000 for-
merly independent expellee farmers were resettled on
either newly established small farms (12,000), and
through lease (11,000) or purchase (7,000) of existing
properties. The Federal Government provided DM
417,000,000 for this project.

Some newcomers, especially Sudenten Germans, con-
tinued their industrial traditions by establishing ap-
proximately 55,000 manual trades shops and 8,000 small
or middlesized industrial enterprises, which were sub-
sidized by the government. Thus they contributed large-
ly to the increase by approximately 2,500,000 new work-
ing places between 1939 and 1951. Compared with the
population increase by expellees there are 28 new posi-
tions per 100 persons increase. The increase of positions
compared with the population growth in the various
west German states indicates their economic strength,
according to a statement published in the Federal Gov-
ernment official Bulletin last May.

Although having gained almost 40 percent of the
population increase the north German states, Schleswig-
Holstein, Lower Saxony, Hamburg and Bremen show
only 14 percent of the new position total.

AVARIA managed to draw 25 percent of the west

German industrial expansion to her territory which
is due partly to a very constructive economical promo-
tion through the Bavarian government, and partly to
the large number of Sudeten German industries rep-
resented there.

According to the Federal Government Bulletin of
May 20, 1952, this process in Bavaria has not yet been
concluded, or the profits of a higher economical strength
per capita would already be obvious. Provided that
further investments are granted apparent results are
expected by economic experts in a few years.

Although the economical integration of independent
expellee enterprises in industry and trade was not as
difficult as that of independent farmers, the 1950 pop-
ulation enumeration revealed that the percentage of
independent refugee enterprises is two and one half
times smaller in comparison to the number of native

INFORMATION BULLETIN

owned enterprises. Only in the financial, insurance and
commercial fields expellees get relatively close to local
figures.

Difficulties in integrating expellee industrial enter-
prises into the economy of the Federal Republic arise
mainly from unfavorable locations, market problems
and limited financial means which prevent the necessary
mobility.

In addition to that many expellee industries are not
too well adjusted to the West-German market require-
ments. An enumeration carried through in 1950 by the
Bonn Institute for Space Research (Institut fuer Raum-
forschung) disclosed that 80 percent of expellee and
refugee enterprises with 70.5 percent of the employees
are producing consumers goods.

Of a generally balanced distribution of the population
in the Federal Republic the government controlled
resettlement is only part and can hardly keep pace
with unofficial inter-state migration which started long
before the government programs became effective.

CCORDING to the census of 1950, 1,700,000 native

West-Germans today live in different states than
in 1939, not counting the expellees and refugees from
outside the Federal Republic. Statistics show that of
particular attraction in the interstate movement of the
population are the industrial areas and the large cities,
which draw people from their immediate neighborhood
as well as from other states inside and outside the Fed-
eral Republic. A general trend, to move back to the
cities from the rural areas, also, is indicated.

North Rhine-Westphalia, between 1949 and October
1951 gained 751,000 persons of whom 337,000 came from
the refugee states. The portion of these states which
were to be relieved through the official programs sur-
passed the two year admission figures of North Rhine-
Westphalia by 132,000.

Although an obvious relief of expellee crowded states
resulted from the process, a lasting effect can only be
expected when the government controlled resettlement
programs include general migration in their planning
as well as the fact that the refugee states will remain
essentially burdened areas through emergency admis-
sions of legal and illegal refugees, family reunifications,
and general continuously dribbling in of other persons

Returnees from war imprisonment and evacuees also
claim their rights to be accomodated in their former
communities and cannot be ignored. In some states, as
in Bavaria for instance, difficulties increase through the
unusually large number of DPs who have been turned
over to the care of the German authorities.

The Institute for Space Research, according to an
article “Balanced Distribution of Population and Reset-
tlement” in the Federal Government Bulletin of Oct. 4.
1952, suggested that further government resettlement
quotas and dates be based on the degree of inter-state
migration, the obvious tendency to move from the low

NOVEMBER 1952

--- Page 18 ---
country to economically stronger areas, and the avail-
ability of the necessary housing space.

According to Federal Minister for Refugee Affairs,
Dr. Hans Lukaschek, there are still 4,000,000 persons in
the Federal Republic in the wrong place and should be
resettled if all economic resources and energies are to
be utilized. ~

“Resettlement must not serve the abstract terms of
states but the people who are to be led from bad to
better living conditions”, Dr. Lukaschek stated one year
ago. But the measures, which at first were to be centered
around the human being have included in the meantime
another essential aspect: the sound economic structure
of the German Federal Republic.

Population of Large Cities of German Federal Republic

(Adapted from the Bulletin of the Federal Government)

The following table gives the population (in 1,000’s) of the large cities according to states in the German Federal
Republic, providing a comparison of changes between that of May 17, 1939 and those of four dates after the war:
Oct. 29, 1946; Sept. 13, 1950; July 1, 1951, and Jan. 1, 1952. The last column gives the comparative change of the
1952 figure on the basis of 100 for the 1939 figure. The published tabulation did not include figures for Berlin.

1939 1946 1950 1951 1952 change
Schleswig-Holstein
Kiel 273.7 (214.3 254.4 257.1 259.5 94.8
Luebeck 154.8 223.1 238.3 235.4 234.4 151.4
Flensburg 70.9 101.6 102.8 100.9 101.0 142.4
Hamburg
Hamburg 1,711.9 1,403.3 1,605.6 1,638.5 1,638.5 96.8
Lower Saxony
Hanover ... 470.9 355.0 444.3 458.8 467.9 99.4
Brunswick 196.1 181.4 223.8 228.5 230.4 117.5
Oldenburg 79.0 107.5 122.8 122.4 122.0 154.4
Osnabrueck 107.1 88.7 109.5 113.6 115.7 108.0
Wilhelmshaven 113.7 89.7 101.2 101.1 100.8 = 88.6
Salzgitter* 45.6 93.3 100.7 99.7 99.0 217.1
North Rhine- ar
Cologne 72.2 491.4 594.9 615.7 629.2 81.5
Essen . 666.7 524.7 605.4 617.4 624.1 93.6
Duesseldorf 541.4 420.9 500.5 523.4 540.2 99.8
Dortmund 542.4 436.5 507.3 519.8 534.5 98.5
Duisburg 434.6 356.4 410.8 419.6 426.7 98.2
Wuppertal 401.7 325.8 363.2 369.5 375.1 93.4
Gelsenkirchen. 317.6 265.8 315.5 322.5 329.8 103.8
Bochum ... 305.5 246.5 289.8 296.9 301.3 98.6
Oberhausen . 191.8 174.1 202.8 208.8 211.1 110.1
Krefeld 171.0 150.4 171.9 175.3 178.9 104.6
Bielefeld 129.5 132.3 153.6 158.5 161.5 124.7
Hagen 151.8 126.5 146.4 150.7 154.9 102.0
Muelheim 137.5 132.4 149.6 151.7 153.4 111.6
Solingen 140.5 133.0 147.8 150.4 152.1 108.2
Aachen . 161.6 110.5 129.8 134.3 136.8 84.6
Muenchen-Gladbach 128.3 110.4 124.9 127.5 129.6 101.0
Muenster 141.1 86.4 118.5 1246 129.6 91.8

1939 1946 1950 1951 1952 change
Bonn ... 100.8 94.7 115.4 120.8 125.3 124.3
Herne 94.6 974 111.6 1128 113.3 119.8
Recklinghausen 86.3 89.8 104.8 107.1 108.7 125.9
Remscheid 103.9 92.9 103.3 105.8 107.3 103.3
Bremen
Bremen. 450.1 385.3 444.5 456.9 463.0 102.9
Bremerhaven 112.8 «99.2 114.1 116.2 118.0 104.6
Hesse
Frankturt .. 553.5 424.1 532.0 553.8 564.4 102.0
Wiesbaden . 192.0 199.4 220.7 226.7 229.7 119.6
Kassel .... 216.1 127.6 162.1 1684 171.3 79.3
Darmstadt** . 115.2 76.3 94.8 100.5 104.1 «90.4
Rhineland-Palatinate
Ludwigshafen . 144.4 106.6 123.9 127.1 1314 91.0
Mainz 124.8 075.0 88.4 «91.5 95.7 76.7
Bavaria
Munich ... 840.6 752.0 831.9 857.7 870.0 103.5
Nuremberg 423.4 312.3 362.5 376.2 381.6 90.1
Augsburg .. 185.4 160.1 185.2 188.5 190.6 102.8
Regensburg 95.6 108.6 117.3 120.0 121.3 126.9
Fuerth ... 82.3 95.4 99.9 100.2 1004 122.0
Wuerzburg . 107.5 55.6 78.4 83.2 85.7 19.7
Baden-Wuerttemberg
Stuttgart ... . 496.5 414.1 497.7 515.3 521.8 105.1
Mannheim . 285.8 211.6 245.6 253.1 256.3 89.7
Karlsruhe .. 190.1 172.3 198.8 203.0 204.6 107.6
Heidelberg 86.5 111.8 116.5 117.9 119.1 137.7
Freiburg 110.1 93.1 109.7 115.5 118.9 108.0

*note “Salzgitter, A Tinderbox in Lower Saxony,” article by John G. Kormann in the Information Bulletin, September 1952.

**note “Darmstadt Survey,” article by Dr.

Frank H. Jonas in the Information Bulletin, August 1952.

Cultural Envoys in Uniform

Continued from page 8

success as only a single rehearsal was possible before
Performance of the difficult program.

Portions of Tschaikowsky’s “Sleeping Beauty” was on
the program of the Amsterdam Ballet Company, sched-
uled for Sunday evening. But there was also an original
work by the ballet’s director, a precise 45-minute num-
ber named “The Street of Dream,” never performed
Previously with a symphony orchestra.

It was late on Saturday afternoon that the orchestra
was given the music to be used for the ballet. The next

NOVEMBER 1952

morning at 8:30 o’clock the orchestra began its first and
only rehearsal of the number, despite apprehension
among the more experienced members. However, the
performance that evening was excellent, drawing praise
for the orchestra not only from the audience but also
from the cast of the ballet. The first ballerina termed
the music the best to which she had danced.

The high point of the Passau festival, as far as the
Seventh Army Symphony Orchestra was concerned, was
participating in “The Marriage of Figaro” opera with
many of the best singers of Germany and Austria, in-
cluding Willi Domgraf-Fassbender in the role of
“Figaro.” +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Where Freedom Begins

Translation of Address

by Jakob Kaiser

Federal Minister For All-German Affairs

‘WO EVENTS have attracted our attention during

the past two weeks. One of these, the Bonn visit
of the five delegates from Pankow, has received perhaps
too much public attention. The second and more im-
portant event, the fourth answer note of the Western
Powers to the Soviets, has received still too little atten-
tion.

Everyone who is familiar with the obstinate attempts
of the East to delude saw clearly that a visit from
Pankow could not be considered as a positive factor in
the reunification of Germany; it could only serve as
another revelation to the entire world of Pankow’s
role. It could show the dictators of 18,000,000 Germans
that: “We are not afraid of your propaganda. The
simulated independence of your national slogans, your
unity and peace propaganda end at the point where
freedom of speech and thought begins. They end at
Helmstedt, at Hof and at Luebeck.”

We also know that the slogans do not have the slight-
est effect on the 18 millions in the Zone either. Only
the 18 millions cannot, as we can, answer them as they
deserve to be answered. Therefore, in Bonn the Eastern
delegation was met by a genuine authority that was
created by a free decision of the people. The President
of the Federal Parliament, in dignified and clear lan-
guage, gave the answer which came from the hearts of
all Germans in both zones. I should have preferred that
the two vice-presidents stood at the side of the Federal
Parliament’s President instead of his standing alone.
I should have more than welcomed it, because they, with
the Federal Government and Parliament, fully agree
with the President of the Federal Parliament in his
judgment of the messengers from Pankow. The differen-
ces in opinion which were expressed concerned only
methods and not principles . . .

But one thing stands out clearly. No German can have
anything to do with the gentlemen from Pankow. There
is no chance for negotiations, because propaganda and
foreign bayonets can never be a substitute for authority
obtained through the free decision of the people. Neither
can the gentlemen from Pankow expect us to accept

This address by Jakob Kaiser to the people of the
Soviet Zone was made over RIAS Berlin Sept 28.
The translation is by Frank H. Jonas and Liselotte
Goldbeck of the Information Bulletin Editorial Staff.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

them as authorized agents of the Kremlin, for the
Kremlin disavows them whenever it finds it convenient
for its purpose to do so. Neither can one say that they
are acting on their own initiative, as in Tito’s case.

All of you in the Soviet Zone know this even better
than we do, and aside from all politics, those people
are and remain responsible for thousands of Germans
who perished in Soviet Zone prison Compounds and
jails or for those who have been deprived of their free-
dom. They are responsible for all those who are still
daily losing their freedom or for those who are forced
to flee from their homes. They are responsible for all
the measures which are forcing Bolshevism on the
population in the Soviet Zone, and they are also respon-
sible for signing the deed of cession which separated
from Germany our territory beyond the Oder and Neisse
line.

NN ADDITION, by the letter which it submitted, Pankow

has confirmed before the whole world its own insignif-
icance. The contents of the letter are nothing but a copy
of the latest Soviet note. They (Pankow) turn and twist
in order to evade free elections. They believe that they
can succeed in being accepted as political representatives
of Germany by the representatives of the German
people, so that they can realize their recommendation
to establish a commission consisting of representatives
from the Federal Republic and ‘the so-called “German
Democratic Republic.” It is always the same old song:
Pankow wants to be recognized and accepted as the
representative and mediator of a German state so it
(Pankow) can function as a Soviet handy-man during
future negotiations. This same wish appears again and
again in a new but not always skillful guise.

Actual progress toward German reunification can only
be made through an agreement between the Four
Powers, that is, an agreement that takes into considera-
tion the freely expressed will of the entire German
people. The Four Power conference would lead to such
an agreement...

Disbelief in the honesty and good will of the Soviets
is essentially in the background of the Western answer
to the Soviet Union, but certainly not an argument over
the agenda. When conference partners trust each other
agendas take care of themselves . . . Distrust of Ger-
many is certainly a factor too. Therefore the all-German
question, and with it the liberation of the Germans in the
Soviet Zone from the grip of Bolshevism, is simply not
to be solved by mere formulas. Continued on page 17

NOVEMBER 1952

--- Page 20 ---
In the summer of 1952, Pavel Aleksandrovich Bondarchuk, 23-year old former Russian Army junior
sergeant, boarded a streetcar in the Russian zone of Austria and rode into Vienna. Bondarchuk
worked his way from Vienna to the American Zone of Germany, where he was granted political
asylum. Even a brief account of Bondarchuk’s life in the Soviet Union and his experiences as a
Soviet soldier in Austria reveals the young man’s motives for escaping to the West. Here is his story.

By Streetcar to Freedom
by Pavel Aleksandrovich Bondarchuk

WAS born 27 August 1929, the oldest of my parent’s

three sons. As Ukrainian peasants, we all worked in
the fields. My mother died in 1934 and my father was
killed while serving with the Soviet Army during World
War II.

I was 13 when World War II started. Naturally, we
feared having the Germans occupy our area. But one
morning we awoke to discover that the Germans had
entered our village the night before.

Perhaps our experiences under German occupation
were different from other areas, but we found that even
a harsh occupation by enemy troops held liberties un-
known under Soviet rule.

In the middle of 1944, the Soviets returned. The people
wailed, ‘What a liberation!’

“War interrupted Bondarchuk’s schooling after the fifth
grade. Later, he had to keep working in order for the
family to have enough to eat. He learned to be a tractor
operator, and found this work far superior to his old
duties as a common laborer. But in the winter of 1945,
Bondarchuk fell ill with pleurisy.”

I didn’t go to the Government clinic, for their doctors
don’t really care if a man gets well. Instead, I went to
see a doctor on Sundays. We had great difficulty in
paying him the 300 rubles he charged.

“But the cost wasn’t the most serious thing about his
illness. He was forbidden to work as a tractor driver
after this because the tractor fumes were too strong
for his weakened lungs. Work as a common laborer
was unsatisfactory, so he finally was able to enter a
school for truck drivers. In 1949 he was called into the

Soviet Army. After two and a half months’ basic train-
ing, Bondarchuk was sent to Austria for duty.”

N AUSTRIA, I was treated like a prisoner. During my

three and a half.years’ service there, I had no home
leave—no leave at all! The food in the Army was not
as good as it had been on the farm. We couldn’t have
Austrian friends.

Finally, I became convinced that the only reason the
Soviet authorities feared contact between their soldiers
and the Austrian population was because they didn’t
want us to learn the falseness of Soviet propaganda
that says. how badly the Austrians live. They live far
better then my countrymen in the USSR even dream
of living.

In the Soviet Union, for instance, it is silly to own
two cows. Taxes are so high that by the time you pay
the taxes for a second cow, your profit is not one kopek
more than owning only one cow.

And I can never forget what happens when a man
makes a mistake on the kolkhoz. In 1948, a friend of
mine had an accident. He ran his truck into a horse-
drawn cart, breaking the horse’s leg and smashing the
truck’s radiator. For this accident, the Soviets took his
cow to pay for the horse. For the radiator, my friend
was sentenced to seven years in prison.

The memory of such incidents—they happen every
day in my homeland—and the severe confinement of
my Army life finally caused me to come to the West.
I have been well treated since I have been here, and I
am very grateful. + END

Where Freedom Begins
Continued from page 16

That does not mean, however, that we must only be
Passive observers. This is no vain promise for future
years. It means rather that the best of our country must
continue without letting up to seek solutions.

This obligates Germany to display initiative in pol-
itics. To this extent the controversies over the policies
on the reunification of Germany are not to be con-
demned. They should also not be interpreted as a sign
of disunity but rather as an expression of honest will
and seeking.

NOVEMBER 1952

As long as they do not rest on utopian ideas or even
on the enticements and the commands of foreign powers,
an awakening and urging strength can emanate from
them...

Moreover,- we are convinced that other nations can
trust us and our politicians in the long run only when
we ourselves do everything possible to obtain the unity
of our people. We are equally convinced that our
attempts (to achieve this unity) must include the deter-
mination to defend our freedom. In this realization we
know that we are one with you people in the Soviet
zone. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Freiburg America House

T THE opening of the new America House in Frei-

burg im Breisgau, the 47th in Germany, Dr. Paul
Waeldin, high South Baden governmental official, stated
that “I admire the United States because they promote
ideals of freedom and understanding rather than to use
their political and economic power to suppress other
peoples.” Situated at the southwest border of Germany
where the three countries of Germany, France, and
Switzerland come together, South Baden, though only a
small area comparatively, is an important cultural
center. The people of Freiburg and environs can travel
freely to Switzerland and have family ties across the
Rhine in Alsace as well as in Switzerland. This travel
goes both ways, and Freiburg itself welcomes each year
many thousands of foreign visitors. By reason of its
location and tradition, South Baden and the old univer-
sity town of Freiburg, where students from all over the
world come to study, is highly international.

For these reasons the citizens of this area are open-
minded, but they are also very critical. It usually takes
some time before they will accept new ideas or institu-
tions. When it was learned that an America House would
be opened in Freiburg people asked: “What is it going
to be, a bar for American tourists, a dancing club for
our youngsters or merely a propaganda institute intend-
ing to “Americanize” us South Badeners . . .?”

Now the America House is in operation, provisionally
in a villa rented from its owner. It has a library with

More than 250 different professional and %,.
cultural magazines are available to the
numerous readers in the America House.

13,000 books, magazines, records, film and reading rooms
and all the features America Houses usually provide.

In the basement of the Freiburg America House is the
children’s library. Children from all parts of the city like
to spend their time there. Most of them have already
made friends with the Maerchentante.

Soon after the opening, the Freiburg America House
proved to be too small. For lack of space hundreds
of people had to be turned away from the film showings
and lectures, and the librarians were not able to serve
all the new readers. More than 1,800 books and mag-
azines were given out and more than 4,200 people visited
the House in the first week it was open.

OST conspicuous to point up the inadequacy of space

is the film room, which is already too small to handle
the two or more filmshowings a day. Twice or three
times a week the full program features excellent con-
certs, informative speeches and interesting panel dis-
cussions.

People in Freiburg have already accepted the new
America House. They see that this House brings
them the culture of a fourth country to enrich their
three countries corner. The university, the French In-
stitute, and the America House, cooperating with each
other, are all very important media for international
understanding in this strategic Southwest German
corner. +END

. and then the fairy said to Pinocchio”. The young visitors of the

children’s library in the America House listen to the fascinating story
of. Pinocchio read by the story teller.

(photos by Pfost, Freiburg)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18 NOVEMBER 1952

--- Page 22 ---
Pforzheim America House

PPROXIMATELY one hundred invited guests rep-
resenting Pforzheim’s city and school administrations
as well as educational and cultural organizations gath-
ered on Oct. 6, to participate in a brief ceremony mark-
ing the reopening of the America House in Pforzheim.

Among the guests were Dr. J.P. Brandenburg, mayor
of Pforzheim; Mr. William A. Lovegrove, Cultural Of-
ficer, Stuttgart; Mr. George D. Henry, Director of the
Stuttgart and Pforzheim America Houses; and Mr. Ray-
mond Lascoe, former Resident Officer and America
House Director in Pforzheim and now America House
Director in Ulm.

Previously the America House in Pforzheim was
located in premises not very well suited to the opera-
tion of a big library and an intensive cultural program.
However, in Pforzheim, which was 70-80 percent de-
stroyed, it was almost impossible to find more adequate
facilities. After complete remodelling and redecoration,
the America House now has been made a better place
for guests and staff members. The library was enlarged
to twice its former size, a separate children’s room
established, and the combined lecture-movie hall newly
decorated. “The extraordinarily friendly rooms give
you an inkling of the spirit of American generosity”,
summed up one local paper in its article on the opening
of the refurbished America House.

N A BRIEF welcome address, Mr. Henry emphasized

that the world-wide cultural exchange program of
the United States government is designed to promote
international understanding. “The Pforzheim America
House, as the other 46 America Houses in Germany,
form part of this program. However, this program is of
little value unless it meets with the interest of the
people.” Mr. Henry noted that the population of Pforz-
heim has demonstrated its interest through its enthu-
siastic reaction to the America House program.

Wishing the America House the best of luck in its
efforts to promote human understanding, Pforzheim’s
mayor Dr. J.P. Brandenburg expressed his satisfaction
that occupation has changed to cooperation and stressed
that the America House plays an important role in
furthering such cooperation.

Raymond Lascoe stated that the open-mindedness of
the Pforzheim population has contributed a great deal
to the previous successful work of the America House
and to making it an integral part of the “gold city”, as
Pforzheim is popularly called for its world-renowned
Jewelry industries and goldsmith shops.

Impressive figures illustrating the success of the
America House between February and September 1952
were cited by Mr. Hans Kuenstler, program director of
the America House: 12,468 books were circulated (li-

NOVEMBER 1952

brary stock: 4,600); 9,536 adults and 5,309 youths visited
the library; 141 films were shown to a total of 9,475
guests; four concerts were attended by 780 persons; and
25 lectures drew a total audience of 1,073.

Presentations by a quartet of the Pforzheim City
Orchestra opened and concluded the ceremony in the
morning.

In the evening, a special musical program featured
Andor Foldes of New York, a well-known Hungarian-
born pianist, who played works by Brahms, Beethoven,
Schumann, Copland, Thomson, Bartok and Kolady

before a capacity audience in the new hall of the Pforz-
heim America House. The performance of Andor Foldes,
who the night before had participated as piano soloist
in the opening event of Radio Stuttgart’s “Light Music
Week”, was enthusiastically received.

+END

(top photo) Mayor Brandenburg and Chamber of Com-
merce president Mr. Moser (with glasses) are viewing

pictures in the exhibit room. (lower photo) Mr. Lascoe
(left) talks with Mr. Moser (center) and Mr. Tillegant,
the head of the Pforzheim City Orchestra, in the enlarged
library. (photos by Guenther Oberst, Pforzheimer Zeitung)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Kaiserslautern America House

by Max R. Grossman
Public Affairs Officer, Frankfurt

ERMAN citizens, it is becoming increasingly evident,

regard the establishment of an America House in
their communities with the same pervading pride which
comes to Americans when they learn that a county
courthouse, teachers college or art museum is to be
erected in their home towns. Thus, the creation of the
first America House in the Pfalz, in mid-October, at-
tracted many leading governmental and cultural officials.
Coincidentally, a carnival calliope in the market place
near the new House brought throngs to 3 Spittelstrasse
the next day after the opening. For these reasons, within
48 hours of the start, nearly 8,800 persons visited the
new structure. The two events,.one planned, the other
fortuitous, “introduced” the house to a sizeable cross-
section of the inhabitants of Kaiserslautern.

The city, home of 65,000 persons, is noted for its
diversified industries, the best-known local product being
the Pfaff sewing machine. The area gives many evidences
of being the German equivalent of Bridgeport, Connec-
ticut or New Bedford, Massachusetts. In recent months
thousands of US soldiers have been billeted in this area.
French state officials continue their political and cultural
interests in the environs. Locally, a new Paedagogische
Akademie (teachers college), built partially with HICOG
funds, is inspiring residents with the belief that their
city is becoming increasingly important as an educational
and cultural center.

AISERSLAUTERN was a focal point in the bitter,
brief and unsuccessful democratic revolution of
1848, and understandably independence of thought and

A bombed out store at Spittelstrasse 3, Kaiserslautern,
becomes American cultural center. Here a facade view of
the new Amerika Haus. (photo by K. Hopp, AMCONGEN)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

originality of action have marked the attitude of leaders
of this area for more than a century. The Fruchthalle
was the home of the provisional government of the
Palatinate after the 1848 defeat. Shortly before the turn
of the century this building was remodeled and con-
verted into what is generally regarded as the most im-
pressive concert hall in the state.

The city is located in a rolling valley near the Hagel-
grund, a vast forest which has inspired visitors and
writers for centuries. The America House is situated
almost in the center of the civic area. A “must” sight
is the Fackelrondell, a romantic fountain which, when
illuminated, is most impressive.

All participants assembled for the opening of the new
House conveyed the impression that the new America
House would do much to promote cultural and inter-
national amity among the various groups which make
up Kaiserslautern.

N OPENING the festivities, Thomas W. Carroll, direc-

tor of the new House, expressed his gratitude to the
many persons who assisted him in transforming what
had been a bombed-out store into the building in which
the scores of celebrities and guests were assembled. The
principal speaker was Mr. Henry A Dunlap, Chief of
the Information Centers Advisory Staff, whose topic
was “Open Doors and Open Minds” and who pointed
out that this America House—like the 46 others in the
Federal Republic and West Berlin—was a cultural in-
stitution where Americans and Germans exchanged

Lost in the wonderment of a new world, coronet braided
sisters study a children’s book in the new children’s
(photo by Max Bachem, Kaiserslautern)

reading room.

NOVEMBER 1952

a-

--- Page 24 ---
Brigadier General Oliver W. Hughes discusses contem-
porary problem with General Consul Byron B. Synder.
(photos on this page by K, Hopp, AMCONGEN, Frankfurt)

ideas and broadened their concepts of each other and
of the world in which we live.

Byron B. Snyder, American Consul at Frankfurt, said
in part, “This America House in Kaiserslautern should
be a working symbol of our mutual friendship and
mutual determination to achieve a freer and more
prosperous world. Its doors stand open to all Germans
who want to learn about America. And we feel sure
that they will meet Americans here who want to
understand and help the new free Germany.”

Other persons who participated in the program were
the following: Oberregierungsrat Alfons Mannsmann,
representing the Regierungspraesident of the Pfalz; Alex
Mueller, Mayor of Kaiserslautern; General Oliver W.
Hughes, Commanding General, Rhine Military Post; and
Dr. Ottheinz Muench, the city cultural director.

Mayor Mueller expressed simply, but eloquently, ideas
which were echoed by other speakers at the opening
exercises. He declared that the America House in
Kaiserslautern not only would bring an enrichment of
the cultural life of the city but also would promote
good will by fostering international understanding.
He expressed the hope that the young people of
his city would be especially appreciative of the facilities
and opportunities offered them by America House and
he invoked the blessing of the Lord upon the under-
taking and offered his congratulations to all who were
concerned with the project.

UESTS at the opening exercises included the fol-
lowing prominent persons: Director Rudolf Pick,
Teachers College; Dean Karl Gross of the Protestant
church; Deputy mayor Wilhelm Franke; President
Gustav Weiss, Manual Trades Association; Dr. Hermann
Lenhard, State Attorney for Western Pfalz; Dr. Karl

NOVEMBER 1952

Matheis, presiding justice; and Mr. Karl Pallmann, Vice
President of the Kaiserslautern Chamber of Commerce.
Among the American guests were Mr. James R.
Haarstad, General Manager of the Office of Public
Affairs; Mr. Philipp D. McMains, Cultural Officer; Mr.
William E. Thomas, HICOG engineer; Miss Garnetta
Kramer, Chief, Central Distribution Section; and Paul
G. Lutzeier, deputy Public Affairs officer, Frankfurt.

The reconstruction of the new America House was
most ingenious. The finished structure contains architec-
tural and decorative features which give it warmth and
personality. The library contains 6,000 titles in English
and German. French authorities bestowed a natal bles-
sing upon the House by means of a gift of 200 French
books. The periodical room, as is the case with all other
America Houses, is liberally endowed with magazines,
newspapers and brochures. The children’s library on
the second floor is attractively decorated and already
has become a great locale for adventures in reading by
Kaiserslautern youngsters. A lecture and film room is
also located on the second floor and has been busy since
the House opened.

During the first fortnight of its operative history, the
America House was visited by more than 15,000 persons,
of whom 11,000 were adults. Books withdrawn during
the same period totalled more than 1,500. Also, lectures
and film showings during the same interval attracted
nearly 900 persons. Although it is only a few weeks old,
Kaiserslautern’s America House has won a place in
the affection of local citizens. The US and local staff
claims, that the House is already “too small.” +END

Henry A Dunlap, chief of the Information Advisory

Staff, congratulates Thomas W. Carroll, director of the
newly established America House in Kaiserslautern.

21 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
Report on Germany

IORMER US High Commissioner John J. McCloy’s

Report on Germany, released on Nov. 10, terminates
the series of his quarterly reports to the Secretary of
State and the ECA-MSA Administrator. It reviews
developments in Germany during his entire term of
office as US High Commissioner, from Sept. 21, 1949 to
July 31, 1952.

The narrative portion reviews in four comprehensive
sections the political developments, the economic re-
covery of Germany, the Public Affairs programs and
developments in Berlin. A final section reviews the
progress made from 1945 until 1952 in carrying out the
aims of the US and its Allies in the occupation of Ger-
many. It covers the widely discussed denazification,
demilitarization, reparations and dismantling, and inter-
nal and external restitution programs. It reviews efforts
to bring about reforms in .the fields of decartelization
and deconcentration, licensing of trades, the German
judiciary, and the Civil Service. Finally, sections on the
Schumann Plan and the European Defense Community
describe the new relationships which the Federal Re-
public is establishing with her Western neighbors.

In addition to these sections are the regular letter
of transmittal, the chronology (Sept. 21, 1949-July 31,
1952), a section on the administration of HICOG, the
appendices which include an index to all preceding
reports, an expanded graphic annex and several pages
of photographs.

The Report on Germany was, from the beginning,
designed to appeal to a much wider audience than the
former Monthly Reports of the Military Governor, and
for this reason omitted much of the detail of those
reports. Instead, each issue presented a review of ap-
proximately ten subjects, representing either major
developments in the quarter under review, or narra-
tions on occupation programs of general interest.

Report No. Page
Political

The Change from Military to Civilian Govern-
ment
The German State
Security
Basic Political and
Elections in North Rhine Westphalia
Obstacles to German Unity.

The Federal Government Observes Its First
Anniversary

Political Aspects of the Refugee Problem ....
The Federal Republic and Western Defense ..
Elections in Germany ....
Germany’s Unification

The Federal Government
Powers

Elections in the Federal Republic .
The Radical Right

The Southwest State —
A Question of Territorial Reorganization ..

4

30
39

oo 8 ee

22
30
18

anne e

19
Assumes

Wider

35
25
30

70

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

A short but comprehensive graphic annex became a
regular feature of the report as well as graphic illustra-
tions throughout the text. The letter of transmittal
provided the reader with a summary of the contents
and developments of the period under review. Begin-
ning with the third report a chronology of events within
or relating to Germany was included. Policy documents,
speeches, communiques, exchanges of notes on Ger-
many, etc. were reproduced in the appendices.

After the first two issues, the Report on Germany has
been produced by the Policy Reports Secretary, Office
of Executive Secretary. With the fourth report, it was
decided to make a German translation and give it wide
distribution throughout Germany. The Information
Services Division, Office of Public Affairs assisted in
the production of the Bericht Ueber Deutschland (Ger-
man title), by contributing the services of the trans-
lation and distribution units of the Amerika Dienst
branch, as well as the printing facilities of their Pub-
lishing Operations Branch.

There has been a gratifying response to both the
English and German editions of the Report on Ger-
many. As they became more widely known, the issues
were given broad coverage both by West German and
American newspapers. Requests for copies of the Ger-
man editions have been received from all over Western
Germany—from libraries and public archives, busi-
nessmen, teachers, and students, governmental officials,
political organizations, discussion group and youth
organizations.

Reprinted below is an index to all issues of the report
(Nos. 1-10 and Summary). Copies of the later issues are
still available and may be obtained by writing to: Office
of Executive Secretary, US HICOG, Box 160, APO 80,
US Army.

*

True Meaning of the “Divesting Law” ...
German Unity
Currents in German Ni
HICOG Moves to Bonn .......
The Contractual Agreements .
Southwest State Elections
Political Progress ..

Demiilitarization

10
10
. Summary
. Summary

1
121

Economic
Business and Agriculture...
Labor .........
Dismantling
Decartelization and Deconcentration

Factors affecting Unemployment and Employ-
ment

Labor Participation in Management
New Foreign Investment Policy in Germany..

Two Years of the European Recovery Program
in Germany

ates

ry

Bar

NOVEMBER 1952

--- Page 26 ---
Economic Developments in the Federal Re-
public

Economic Aspects of the Defense Problem
The Problem of Interzonal Trade ..........
Western Germany’s Foreign Exchange Position
German Economic Developments .
Occupation Costs

Codetermination in the Iron, Steel and Coal
Industries .......... de eeeeseenas .

Germany’s Foreign Trade Position .
Dissolution of German Economic Combines.
Improving Germany’s Agriculture .....
European Economy and the Coal Program

cerned Economic Policy and the Trade Un-
IONS «eee eee eee

More Coal from the Ruhr

Negotiating a West German Financial Con-
tribution to Western Defense .

Economic Recovery .............
Decartelization and Deconcentration .
Reparations and Dismantling
External Restitution
Internal Restitution and General Claims Law

Management and Administration of the Office
of the US High Commissioner for Germany

Report No.

aaunne

earaa

10
Summary
Summary
Summary
Summary
Summary

Summary

Reorientation and Social Problems

Public Attitudes .
Refugees
Current German Attitudes ..

Problems of German Democratization
Progress of German Reorientation
Present Status of Denazification ...
Assimilation of Displaced Populations
Epilogue to the War Crimes Trials .
Administration of Justice .
The German Press Today ...... seeeees

Effectiveness of the HICOG Exchanges Pro-
BIAM oo. ceeeee esses eeeeeeee

Trends in German Federal Legislation
Conclusion of the DP Program
The HICOG Special Projects Program .
The America Houses in Germany
West Germany’s Stranded People .
Public Affairs Program
War Criminals .
Denazification

US Occupation Courts in Germany .
The West German Judiciary
Efforts Toward Civil Service Reform
Gewerbefreiheit

Summary
Summary
Summary
Summary
Summary
Summary
Summary
Summary

Soviet Zone and Communism

Eastern Germany ............cccceeee cece cece eee
New Phase of Communist Tactics in Germany
Developments in the Soviet Zone .
Communist Propaganda

Communist Campaign Against German De-
fense.........

Communist Youth Rally in Berlin. .
Economic Situation in the Soviet Zone

Berlin

Berlin ....
Berlin ....
Berlin and its New Constitution .
Berlin’s Initiative
Berlin ..
Berlin and Interzonal Trade
Advances in Berlin’s Economy .
Berlin Guards its Heritage ..
Berlin — Outpost of Freedom .

International Relations
Foreign Ministers’ London Conference ..
Germany Joins the Council of Europe

NOVEMBER 1952

auen

Page

27
27
12
9
29
54

61
38
51
7
23

37
37

35
31
108
122
128
131

172

15
38
42
24
46
46
56
40
67
63

59
65
56
aE}

51
56
61
94
105
146
149
154
157
163

age

57
46
67

31
Ww
42
41
46
51
52
45

1

Page

Report No. Page

The Schuman Plan ........csseeseeeeeeeeeeeeeees
Germany Re-establishes Her Foreign Service
The New York Foreign Ministers’ Conference

Progress of German Integration with the Free
World

European Payments Union ............
Council of Europe and Schuman Plan
German Representation Abroad .
Germany’s Foreign Relations ...
The Schuman Plan takes Form ........
The Federal Republic and Plans for a Eu-

ropean Army
The Schuman Plan Approaches Ratification
The Federal Foreign Office ..............
New Phase of Allied Policy in Germany ......
Termination of the State of War with Ger-

many
Adenauer Joins the Western Foreign Ministers
Germany and the European Community ..
Decisive Steps Toward European Unity
Schuman Plan ......-....++++++
European Defense Community .

Summary

Summary

Communiques and Official Statements

Official Communique of the November 1949
Paris Conference of the US, UK and French
Foreign Ministers ....

Allied High Commission's Statement on Berlin

Declaration on Berlin by the Three Foreign
Ministers, London, May 12, 1950

Statement by the Three Foreign Ministers on
Repatriation of German PWs from the
Soviet Union, London, May 12, 1950 ....

Declaration on Migration, London, May 13, 1950

Excerpt from Communique of the Three For-
eign Ministers, London, May 13, 1950 ......

Declaration by the Three Foreign Ministers on
Germany, London, May 14, 1950 ..............

Statement on German Unity by the Three
Foreign Ministers, London, May 26, 1950 ..

Communique on Germany by the Foreign
Ministers of the US, the UK and France,
New York, Sept. 19, 1950

Statement of the German Federal Govern-
ment on the Communique of the New York
Foreign Ministers Conference, Sept. 20,
1950 cee eee eee e eee eens Pe eeeee rere ee eeeeereerees

Statements of the German Federal Govern-
ment and Parliament regarding the Octo-
ber 15, 1950 Soviet Zone “Elections,” deliv-
ered Sept. 14, 1950

Communique on the Brussels Meeting of the
Foreign and Defense Ministers of the North
Atlantic Pact Countries, Dec. 19, 1950 ..

Introduction to Clemency Board Report Re-
garding War Criminals Convicted by US
Tribunal at Nuremberg, Aug. 28, 1950

Statement by Chancellor Adenauer and Res-
olution of the German Federal Govern-
ment on East-West Unity, Jan. 15, 1951 ....

Resolution of the Federal Lower House on
German Unity, March 9, 1951

Communique and Declaration of the For-
eign Ministers of the UK, US and France
at the Tripartite Meeting, Washington,
Sept. 14, 1951. te

Soviet Zone People’s Chamber Resolution on
All-German Elections, Sept. 15, 1951

The 14-Point Program for All-German_Elec-
tions Approved by the Federal Lower
House, Sept. 27, 1951

Statement before the Federal Lower House
by Federal Chancellor Dr. Konrad Adenauer
on Restitution to Victims of Nazi Persecu-
tion, Sept. 27, 1951 ........

Interview with Chairman of the Soviet Con-
trol Commission, General Vassily I. Chui-
kov, Concerning All-German Elections,
Sept. 22, 1951 ......sseseeeeseeeeeees

Communique and Agreements Relating to the
Termination of the International Authority
for the Ruhr, Paris, Oct. 19, 1951 ............

Communique of the Foreign Ministers of the
US, UK, France and the Federal Republic
of Germany, Paris, Nov. 22, 1951 ...........-

vw
21
ll

15
15
17

167
170

3s

4

6

101

109

114

107

116

147

101

109

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Report No.

Communique of the Tripartite Commission
on German Debts, Concerning the Reduc-
tion of Claims Against Germany for Post-
war Assistance, London, Dec. 11, 1951

United Nations General Assembly Resolution
on the Elections Inquiry Commission for
Germany, Paris, Dec. 19, 1951 .

Communique Issued at the Conclusion of the
Meeting of the European Defense Ministers,
Paris, Dec. 30, 1951 .............000e beeseeeeees

Resolutions Adopted by the Federal Lower
House on Occasion of its Defense Debate on
Feb. 7-8, 1952

Resolution Adopted by the French National
Assembly in Connection with its Approval
of a European Defense Force, Feb. 19, 1952

Communique on the London Meeting of the
Foreign Ministers of the US, UK, France
and the Federal Chancellor, Feb. 19, 1952 ..

Communique released after the Meeting of
the UN Commission on German _ Elections
with the Council of the Allied High Com-
mission on March 17, 1952

The Federal Government’s Reply to the Mem-
orandum of the UN Commission on German
Elections, March 19, 1952 ......... See eeeeeeeees

Communique of the Soviet Zone Council of
Ministers issued after its Feb. 28, 1952 oes
sion (Excerpt)

Soviet Zone People’s Chamber Declaration of
March 14, 1952 ........-..0+5 ee eeeeeneceeneseces

Soviet Zone People’s Chamber Appeal to the
Federal Lower House, March 14, 1952

Statement by Federal Chancellor Dr. Adenauer
on French-German Negotiations on a Solu-
tion for the Saar Problem, Paris, March 20,
1952

Tripartite Declaration Made on the Occasion
of the Signing of the Treaty Establishing
the European Defense Community and of
the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty,
Paris, May 27, 1952

Basic Documents

Executive Order 10062 Establishing the Posi-
tion of United States High Commissioner
for Germany

Executive Order 10063 Defining Certain Func-
tions of the United States High Commis-
sioner for Germany

‘Occupation Statute

Charter of the Allied High Commission (and
Annex A, Agreement as to Tripartite Con-
trols) ......se

Petersberg Protocol .

Allied High Commission Legislation

Allied High Commission Law No. 5 ..

Statement of Principles Governing the Rela-
tionship Between the Allied Kommandatura
and Greater Berlin ..

Schuman Plan for Merger of French and
German Steel and Coal Industries, Paris,
May 9, 1950 ......ccccececceeeeececeeeeeneneaees

Law Concerning the Accession of the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany to the Council
of Europe, Bonn, July 8, 1950 ..............

Law for Liberation from National Socialism
and Militarism, promulgated by the Coun-
cil of US Zone States, March 5, 1946 (Ex-
tract) seeeees

Documents on Revision of the Occupation
Statute

Instrument of Revision of the eaters ioe the
Allied High Commission, March 7,

Instrument of Revision of the Statement of
Principles Governing the Relationship Be-
tween the Allied Kommandatura and Ber-
lin, March 8, 1951 ............. seeeeeeees Bod

Revised Agreement on Industrial Controls

Regulations under Allied High Commission
Law No. 27, “Reorganization of German
Coal and Iron and Steel Industries” ..

Convention on Relations between the Three
Powers and the Federal Republic of Ger-
many, Bonn, May 26, 1952 .............5 Bo0nG

Letter from the Allied High Commission to
Federal Chancellor Dr. Konrad Adenauer
Concerning the Removal of Restrictions on
German Steel Production and Capacity,
July 28, 1952 .

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

10

10

10

10

10
10

10

10

Summary

Summary

Summary

Page

ill

91

91°

93

100

102

285

51

52

58
69
2
B

76

115,
128
141

145
149

109

279

278

24

Report No.

Policy Addresses

Text of Address of Mr. John J. McCloy, US
High Commissioner for Germany, at Dues-
seldorf, of June 16, 1950

Text of Address at Heilbronn of Assistant US
High Commissioner Benjamin J. Butten-
wieser, of June 19, 1950 ..

The US High Commissioner’s Radio Address
pee | the New York Decisions, Oct. 8,

The US High Commissioner's Labor Day Ad-
dress, Sept. 4, 1950

Address delivered by Benjamin J. Butten-
wieser, Assistant US High Commissioner
for Policy, to the Carl Schurz Society,

Bremen, on March 5, 1951

Bavarian Radio Address by US High Com-
John J. McCloy,

missioner for Germany,
April 25, 1951
Heidelberg Address by Assistant US High
Commissioner for Policy, Benjamin J. But-
tenwieser, May 26, 1951 .
Washington, D.C. Radio Address by US High
Commissioner for Germany, John J. Mc-
Cloy, June 26, 1951
Stuttgart Address by US High Commissioner
for Germany, John J. McCloy, Dec. 17,
1951
Berlin Radio Address by US High Commis-
sioner for Germany, John J. McCloy,
Dec. 31, 1951 . :

East-West Correspondence

US Note to USSR on East German Remil-
itarization, of May 23, 1950 ............. teens 3
Text of Letters Dealing with All-German
Elections Sent by the US, British and
French High Commissioners to General
Chuikov, of May 26, 1950
Letter from the three Allied High Commis-
sioners to the Chief of the Soviet Control
Commission protesting the undemocratic
Nature of Soviet Zone Elections, Oct. 10,
1950
Soviet Note to the US, UK and France, propos-
ing a Meeting of the Big Four Foreign
Ministers, Nov. 3, 1950
United States Reply to Soviet Note of ere
ber 3, 1950 dated Dec. 22, 1950
Soviet Reply to US Note on Four Power Talks,
Dec. 30, 1950 .
Letter from Soviet Zone Minister President
Grotewohl to Federal Chancellor pena!
dated Nov. 30, 1950 ........... beeeceeerecees 5
Grotewohl Note to the Four Occupying Pow-

ers, Feb. 13, 1952 .........cceceeeeee seen ee ee ees 10
Soviet Reply to Grotewohl Note, Feb. 20, "1952 10
Soviet Note to the Three Western ceed

March 10, 1952 ..............5 teeeeeee seeneeeeees 10
US Government Reply to the Soviet Note,

March 25, 1952 . 10
Soviet Note to the United States Government,

April 9, 1952 ........... erree rere erry rrr +eoeees Summary
Reply by the United States Government to

the April 9, 1952 Note from the Soviet Gov-

ernment, May 13, 1952 .............+5 seeeees. Summary
Soviet Note to the United States Government,

May 24, 1952 . Summary
Reply by the United States Government to

the May 24, 1952 Note from the Soviet Gov-

ernment, July 10, 1952 ............ Perreerrrry Summary

Graphic Annex
Population Trends ..............esseeeeeeeveeeee 2
4
7
Summary
Summary
Birth and Death Rates .. 50000 2
Refugees and Expellees .. 2
4
q
Displaced Persons ............sseeeeeseeeeeeees . 2
4
7

Page

91

103

108

121

105

115,

124

113

121

81

103

106
107

109

112

95.
96
100

265

267

271

276

NOVEMBER 1952

--- Page 28 ---
Report No.

Employment and Unemployment ..

Industry .

Wages, Prices and Money ..

Foreign Trade ...............65 beet ence eenener anes

Western Berlin Trends ............. Perreeeeerer ey

Production Indexes

Hard Coal

Production in Selected Industries ..

Financing of Imports

Food Stocks ............00eeee
Food Eranetion and Imports
Public Finance ............+06+
Retail Trade — Housing — Stock Market

Charts

Organization of the Federal Republic of Ger-
many ......

Imports and Exports ..
Unemployment, Product:

Organization for Allied Control of Western
Berlin

Organization of the Office of the United peocee
High Commissioner for Germany

Organization of the Allied High Commission

Magistrat of Greater Berlin .................655
Control of Government in the Soviet Zone ..
Organization of the Council of Europe
Elections in North Rhine Westphalia ..
Election and Appointment of Federal Organs

NOVEMBER 1952

Swmrsqeurs

ne

Summary

SeerHMHm BON

~

Summary

SwosHMHeawyn

a

Summary

re

Sweasmaee

~

Summary

COUANMROD

10
Summary
10
Summary
10
Summary
10
Summary
10
Summary

Summary

Summary

. Summary
. Summary
. Summary

Summary

BoeoNnNne

Page

58
56
82
90
94
88
72
88
64
226
60
58
84
92
96
90
4
90
66
230
62
60
86
94
98
92
6
92
a
242
64
62
88
96
100
bd
at)
a4
18
250
68
66
92
100
104
98
82
98
80
260
68
232
10
236
2
234
16
258

228

238
240
246
248

5
24
22
25

32
19

49
176
59
51
23
29
14
33
24

Report No.

Impact of BHE Refugee Party on Elections in

Schleswig-Holstein ..........-+0.06+ 4
Growth of Voluntary Youth Organizatio 4
Organized Youth in U.S. Zone and U.S. Sec-

tor Berlin ........ssseserseeveeeseeeees 4
Comparative Results of German Elections 5
Electoral Participation in Germany . 5
Fate of Top Nazi Party Leaders . 5
Fate of Top Nazi State Leaders . 5
Population Movements ............ 5
Unemployment Comparisons — Native Ger-

man Population and Expellee Population .. 5
Balance of Trade Between the Federal Repub-

lic and EPU Countries . 6
Organization of the German

MEN ...... sree eeeeeeeee PPPS e ee reeecererreersy 6
Occupation Costs/Mandatory Expenditures,

1945/46-1951-52 ........ 6
Defense Expenditure Comparisons 6
Coal, Iron and Steel Producing Areas of the

Schuman Plan Countries ... 6
Organization of the German Office of Fore: gn

AlfAITS oo. cee eeeeeee eee eeereeeererirrrrre ey 7
Comparative Results of German Elections

(Rhineland-Palatinate, Lower Saxony,

Schleswig-Holstein) 7
The Proposed Southwest State ... 7
Number and Size of Farms in Western Ger-

IMANY ec ecceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeereeereee sees 7
Sources and Consumption Levels of Major

Foods in Western Germany . 7
German Coal Production ....... 8
Solid Fuel Availabilities in Western Germany 8
Number of Exchangees sent to the United

States from Western pected and Western

Berlin . sees 8
The Ruhr 9
Hard Coal Production ... sees 9
Emigration Procedures under the IRO. 9
Resettlement and Repatriation of Displaced

Persons . se eeee 9
Grants under Spec: ‘al Projects a tenee 9
The Southwest State: Evolution of Major

Party Vote — Composition of Constituent

Assembly and former State Legislatures.... 10
Refugees and Expellees in the Federal Repub-

lie Of Germany ..........eeeeeseeeeeeeeeeneeees 10
Payments under the General Claims Laws,

US. ZONE ...... se eeeeeeee see eeee Pereeerererrerey . Summary
Internal Restitution: Distribution of Values by

Nationality or Residence of  Restitutees —

Types and Estimated Values of Property

Restituted or Compensation made Therefor Summary
Flow of Claims for Restitution under U.S.M.G.

awsso iene eee eens setae seeeeeeeeeees Summary
Final Disposition of Restitution Cases in the

U.S. Zone seseeees . Summary
Proposed Post-Contractual jon of

Bonn Mission ............++ se cenesesencaeee +--+. Summary

Photographs
Professor Theodor Heuss, President of the

Federal Republic of Germany .............. Summary
The Three Western Foreign Ministers and

Federal Chancellor Dr. Konrad Adenauer at

the Signing of the Contractual Agreements Summary
The Three Allied High Commissioners in Ses-

sion at the Seat of the Allied High Com- :

mission ........ Seance e cee e tees ee eeeteneeeeteeeres Summary
Transient Camp for Refugees trom the Soviet

Zone of Germany ....... . Summary
“The Marshall Plan Helps Here’ — Opening

Ceremony at a new Optical Glass Factory

at Mainz ...... aennseysssaneesesass seeeeeeeees SUMMary
The First Bookmobile Operated by. the “Amer-

ica House” in Mannheim is Greeted with

Great Interest by the Youth of a foe ey

Town .. eee ee ecco te ee een enersneabenennanes .. Summary
Professor rnst Reuter, Head of the West

Berlin Government and Symbol of Berlin's

Fortitude .........sseeeeeeeeeeeeee secceeeeseeees SUMMary
High Quality Goods for Export Manufactured

in Free Berlin ..........+sse00+ ee enteccnenaseaas Summary

Chronology

Page

28

$4 8 8 8 8fe889

8 8

81
28

38
4l

6

42
58
133

136
136
140

176

I

I

16
16

48

A chronology of events in or relating to Germany has been
included in each of the Reports beginning with April 1, 1950
(3rd Quarterly Report). The Chronology in the Summary Re-

port covers the entire period from September 21,

July 31, 1952.

25

1949 to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
In and Around Germany

German Social Work

Thirty West-Berlin social workers
completed recently the HICOG spon-
sored first “third year course” which
was designed to augment the basic
two year training of German social
workers and acquaint them with
American methods such as case
work, special group work, commu-
nity organization and social admin-
istration. The course was held at the
Berlin School of Political Science
under the direction of Dr. Dora von
Caemmerer, a social welfare expert
who studied in England and the
United States.

Through the initiative of Wilmer
Froistad, former Chief of HICOG’s
Berlin Social Service section, Ger-
man and American authorities co-
operated in raising sufficient funds
to finance the one year course. An
expert in social work himself, Mr.
Froistad found that German social
workers needed additional training
and therefore contacted Berlin city
authorities, schools for social work
and social women’s schools (Soziale
Frauenschulen) suggesting that they
participate in supplementary courses
of social work. It was hoped that
through additional courses German
social workers would be helped to
adopt a different approach in their
work. They were to become more
responsible of treating the individual
with respect and not act as officials
of some welfare organization who
deal with beggars. German social
workers were to be trained in the
principle of helping the needy to
help themselves.

A HICOG DM 17,000 grant and
additional funds raised by the Ber-
lin Senate finally helped in winning
in addition to the German instruc-
tors of whom some were trained in
the United States, four Americans
for teaching case and group work,
community organization and inter-
national social work which are sub-
jects the German social workers’
basic training does not include in its

INFORMATION BULLETIN

curriculum. In addition the course
provided for contacts with the ad-
ministrative staff of Berlin Welfare
agencies and practical work in
neighborhood centers.

The course which also served as
refresher course, included pedagogic,
sociology, psychology and economical
science, was termed a “modest be-
ginning” by Berlin officials, as at
present only selected leading social
workers of Berlin can be admitted
to the courses. While the first course
was conducted on part time basis on
two days a week through the past
year with the participants being ex-
cused from work, a second four
month course, which started Nov. 1
is being held on full time basis and
the students granted a monthly DM
300 compensation for losing four
months pay.

The new course is entirely fi-
nanced by the Senate of Berlin.

7,000 Youths Sent to Camps

Sixty-one units of the US Army,
Navy and Air Force stationed in Eu-
rope took part this year in sending
more than 7,000 German youngsters
to 16 summer camps in the Amer-
ican area of responsibility in Ger-
many.

These totals were revealed through
a survey conducted by the US
Armed Forces Assistance Program
to German Youth Activities (GYA)
Branch at US Army Europe Head-
quarters. Officials of the Branch who
coordinated the support action stated
that $4,315 and DM 23,765 ($5,656)
in direct contribution to the summer
camp project were obtained from
the men and women in uniform.
Vacations varying in length from
seven to fifteen days were made
possible for 4,077 boys and 2,928
girls ranging in age from eight to
sixteen years.

American military units contrib-
uted food, transportation, personnel
and entertainment in addition to

26

their money contributions to cover
more than half of the expense of
maintaining the camps for German
youngsters. Other assistance came
trom American Women’s Clubs,
German youth organizations and
civic groups. An important contribu-
tion also was made by champion
skater Dick Button who gave a ben-
efit show in Berlin to help the sum-
mer camp fund.

The US Navy took part in the
GYA Program for the first time with
a donation of DM 335 and the as-
signment of a Navy crafts instructor
to Camp Luebberstedt at Bremer-
haven. This camp was a joint under-
taking by US Army, Navy and Air
Force units. Five cooks and a pro-
gram supervisor were provided by
the Air Force, while life guards,
medics, supervisors and a utilities
NCO were furnished by Army units

and the WAC Detachment in the
Bremen Enclave.
Berlin Military Post combined

operations with Tempelhof Air Base
in the US Sector to set up the huge
Wannsee camp which took care of
1,029 boys and 737 girls of Berlin
during its five-week session.

Giessen Military Subpost and
Quartermaster Depot personnel as-
sisted German municipal groups to
set up accommodations for 245
youngsters at the Kirchvers Camp
while the US Constabulary Unit at
Hersfeld donated DM 2,000 for sum-
mer vacations in the Rhoen Moun-
tains for 439 young campers.

Approximately DM 6,000 were
contributed by a half-dozen Seventh
Army units in the Heidelberg Mil-
itary Post area where 900 boys and
650 girls were included in the camps
at Hirschhorn, Mosbach and Pforz-
heim.

Dachau and Rosenheim GYA Cen-
ters operated camps on the Munich
Military Post for 170 young people
while as many more were given aid
in cooperation with youth associa-
tions operating with other camps.
The 98th General Hospital and
Dachau Motor Pool troops provided
necessary transportation.

Pay-table contributions and direct
donations amounting to $750 were
put up by six military units in the
Nuremberg area to underwrite

NOVEMBER 1952

--- Page 30 ---
camping expenses for 303 boys and
264 girls at the Lauf GYA Camp.
Stuttgart Military Post and Sev-
enth Army commands in that area
sponsored 531 of the 881 campers
who attended the Burghardsmuehle
GYA Camp near Aalen. The fund of
DM 7,965 was collected by means of
bingo nights, carnival concessions,
auctions and cash donations.

Wuerzburg GYA _ operated two
camps for 365 children on vacation
at Brueckenau and Aschaffenburg.
Money and other aid was given by
local troops and lodger units at
Wildflecken. At Brueckenau, $170
was collected and DM 386 of the
GYA fund was used. Aschaffenburg
men donated DM 3,392 for the Gold-
bacher Pflanzenbeet Camp.

Journalism Specialists
in Germany

Dr. Ralph O: Nafziger, director of
the School of Journalism at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin, and Wayne
Jordan, formerly on the faculty of
the University of Michigan’s School
of Journalism and presently staff
member of the International Air
Edition of “The New York Times,”
are making a three-month study of
West German and West Berlin
journalism schools.

The two visiting specialists, who
arrived Oct. 3, came to Germany on
a US State Department grant in the
framework of the HICOG Exchanges
Program. They were to be joined
later by Dr. Vernon McKenzie of the
School of Journalism at the Univer-
sity of Washington.

Dr. Nafziger and Mr. Jordan were
to visit the institutes at the Univer-
sities of Muenster, Heidelberg,
Nuremberg, Munich, and the Free
University of Berlin. In Munich they
are also to visit the Munich Abend-
zeitung School.* An important part
of the study trip is devoted to dis-
cussions of common problems with
professors and administrative offi-
cers at various journalism training
centers.

In addition, the two Americans
are conferring with federal, state and

*see “School of Journalism” in Informa-
tion Bulletin June 12, 1949.

NOVEMBER 1952

city press officers, and representa-
tives of German publishers and
journalists’ organizations on prob-
lems of journalists training.

Former USSR Sergeant
in US Army

Pvt Arkadiy Rudovsky, 24-year-
old former Soviet Air Force senior
sergeant who joined the US Army
on Sept. 18 under provisions of the
Alien Enlistment Law left in early
October for the basic training center
at Ft. ‘Dix, N. J.

As he prepared to board the train
at Sonthofen in southern Bavaria,
Private Rudovsky told his American
friends that he is waiting anxiously
to see the United States that they
have described so often. “For the
first time in my life I know the
meaning of freedom and now that
I am going to a free country I am
happy,” he stated.

The veteran of almost four years
with the Soviet Armed Forces
escaped from the Russian Zone of
Austria in April 1951 and was
granted political asylum by Western
authorities. Prior to enlisting in the
United States Army, he was em-
ployed by a commercial airline in
Frankfurt and learned to speak
English there.

Private Rudovsky entered the US
Army for five years under provisions
of the Alien Enlistment of 12,500
foreign nationals prior to 1955.

Last 1952 Exchange Group
Leaves

One hundred German labor train-
ees, youth leaders, students and
teachers from all parts of the Federal
Republic and West Berlin left Frank-
furt Sept. 24 in the last large group
departure of exchangees to the
United States this year.

The group included 80 young trade
unionists and representatives of man-
agement who will study labor-man-
agement relationships in American
universities for nine months under
the sponsorship of the Office of In-
ternational Labor Affairs, US De-
partment of Labor. Their study pro-

27

gram will emphasize industrial man-
agement, personnel relations, meth-
ods of collective bargaining and
trade union organizations, as well as
visits to industrial concerns, trade
unions and public agencies interested
in this field.

Nine youth leader trainees will
participate in a nine-months project
in which they will study and observe
community programs for youth or-
ganizations, agencies and councils.
The rest of the group includes six
teacher trainees who will study edu-
cational methods and organizations
for seven months and five students
who have been awarded transporta-
tion-only grants.

The departure of this group brings
to a total almost 1,100 German high
school and university students and
young professional workers who
have gone to the United States this
past summer on HICOG’s Exchange
of Persons Program.

Former German Boats Released

The British and the US high com-
missioners informed the German
chancellor that the Governments of
the United Kingdom and the United
States have decided to return to
German ownership 53 ex-German
Merchant Marine vessels formerly
recommended for allocation to Allied
Governments by the Tripartite Mer-
chant Marine Commission (T.M.M.C.)

Of the 53 vessels being returned
to Germany, three were in the United
Kingdom, three in Norway and the
remaining vessels in the Federal Re-
public where most have been put at
the disposal of the German economy
on a charter or loan basis. They con-
stitute a variety of ships totaling
approximately 40,000 tons and in-
clude tankers, cargo vessels, whale-
catchers, tugs, icebreakers, ferries
and diving boats.

In addition to deciding the ultimate
disposal of the vessels to the former
German owners or to other German
nationals, the German Federal Gov-
ernment also will be responsible for
dealing with claims which may exist
in respect of certain of the vessels
concerning their postwar repair and
rehabilitation.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
in EAEUNUASOUSGODONGUSGUOUNGOAOELOGUENOUSLURUGEEOSUQSUOEOESOOGUODEGUOONAQNAOGUOQEUSODOONOUOEOUOGUOOUOREDUOGUDEDOGN

German Labor Unions Congress

Commenting on the five day Ger-
man Labor Unions (DGB) congress
in Berlin, West German papers of
Oct. 18-23 top-played the discussions
and the possible consequences result-
ing from the election of Walter Frei-
tag, leader of the Metal Workers
Union and SPD Federal Parliament
Deputy, as new chairman of the
DGB. From the satisfied editorial
comments on the part of papers
which politically tend toward SPD
and the DGB, to the wait-and-see
attitude of the majority of large
dailies, and the slight disappoint-
ment and warnings in the papers
close to the Christian Democratic
parties, the German press unan-
imously predicted a new and more
definite — if not more radical —
course of the DGB, and considered
Freitag’s election a final victory of
Dr. Kurt Schumacher, the late chair-
man of SPD.

Under the headline “Schumachers
Late Victory” Sueddeutsche Zeitung
(Muenchen) pointed to the previous
DGB leader Christian Fette’s concil-
iatory and negotiating qualities of
which Kurt Schumacher did not ap-
prove. According to the paper, Schu-
macher considered Fette weak, and

German Editorials

This section is intended to inform without interpretation the American
readers of what Germans are thinking. The selection has been made so as to
cover the events which caused the widest reaction in the German press, and
to give a fair cross section of German editorial opinion. The inclusion of any
event, viewpoint or opinion does not necessarily imply concurrence by US
authorities. The cartoons have been taken from a selection reproduced by
the Press Analysis Section, Press Branch, Information Division, HICOG.

ONUUAOEUOGNEUAGUDOGEEUAUUOERUOGEAUSNOGASEOCGUNOCOUQOGUENOGOONONEGODEONOUEGOOEONEOOOOOUNONOULONAUGUOUONOOUOOEONOUEUGONOUGOAOODNONOGOOOONOAUOEOES

uANANANOUONNNAES

Frankfurter Rundschau (Frank-
furt) termed Freitag’s election a sig-
nal of fight and a clear victory of
the militant groups in the DGB. Ac-
cording to the paper, he belongs to
the radical wing of the labor unions.
With the metal worker Freitag at
the top of all the labor unions, vi-
olent controversies between employ-
ers and employees can be expected,
the paper predicted.

Paratrooper General
Herman Ramcke

The belief expressed by the Ger-
man press that with the court de-
cision against SRP the problem of
radicalism in Germany was by no
means solved seemed to have gained
new ground through the statements
made by former General Herman
Ramcke before a meeting of former
SS-members in Verden. Making the
headlines in the newspapers Oct. 27

EISENHOWER AFTE

| |

—~, Ps =<
We only accept dollar notes from
America. — from Nuernberger Zei-
tung (Nuremberg), Oct. 15.

”

and 28, protests and criticism of the
Ramcke speech, in which reportedly
he claimed that “the real war crim-
inals were among those who had
made the fatal peace, had dropped
the bombs on Hiroshima and are
now producing new A-bombs,” had
not ceased on Oct. 31.

The concensus was that sustained
the Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frank-
furt) in that “Ramcke is not identical
with the German generals and not
the expression of a generally valid
conception in Germany”. “He has
not only abused the hospitality of
the organizers of the armored-SS
meeting but also played a dirty trick
on West-Germany,” stated the
Weser-Kurier (Bremen). In _ their
editorials, leading dailies commented
more or less sarcastically on the
“political tactlessness” and “irrespon-

R THE ELECTION ..:

wanted to see Freitag as chairman
of the DGB. “The Federal Govern-
ment now will have twice as much
trouble in cooperating with the
Labor Unions,” the paper predicted,
adding that “the Labor Unions
themselves will have more difficulty
to maintain their principle of (polit-
ical) neutrality. A period of increas-
ing tensions is ahead...”

Paris

INFORMATION BULLETIN 28 NOVEMBER 1953

--- Page 32 ---
sibility”
general.”

of the “politics dabbling

“Since German generals don’t have
any more armies to lead, some start
giving speeches,”Muenchner Merkur
(Munich) wrote, adding that “past
courage and ability at parachutes are
no valid excuse for brainless actions
today.” Stuttgarter Nachrichten con-
sidered the fact “that Ramcke even
chose for his silly and exorbitant at-
tacks against the West the com-
memorative week for the German
prisoners of war” as a proof for his
lack of tact. Calling persons like
Ramcke and Remer “annihilators,
peace disturbers and peace enemies,”
Aachener Volksblatt (Aachen)
claimed that such people are unfit to
handle the problems of the nation in
general and the interests of the
former soldiers in particular.

Moscow All-Communist
Party Congress

Giving wide play to the Com-
munist Party convention in Moscow,
the German press generally agreed
that neither Soviet Deputy Minister-
president Viacheslav Molotov nor
Central Committee Secretary Georgi
Malenkow in their speeches had said
anything new in regard to the
Kremlin’s policy, but indicated that
the Soviet attempts to drive a wedge
between the countries of the West-
ern World would continue.

Hamburger Anzeiger (Hamburg)
Oct. 6 thought that Stalin with his

. AND WHAT VARIOUS EUROPEAN CAPITALS EXPECT FROM HIM

Moscow

NOVEMBER 1952

prediction in his latest article in
Bolshevik of a war not between the
Communist and the non-Communist
world but among the capitalist na-
tions, probably tried to kill the
hopes of the Russian people, that in
a war between Soviet Russia and
the non-Communist powers the Com-
munist regime might be overthrown.

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frank-
furt) Oct. 7 believed that if Moscow
really expects the Western Powers
to fight and destroy each other, the
Kremlin may consider it superfluous
to conquer these countries. General-
Anzeiger (Bonn) stressed that the
congress was primarily cut to fit
Soviet domestic needs.

Die Welt (Hamburg) noted that
despite the big front which had been
put up, the congress seemed to lack
the spark of life, and Westdeutsche
Neue Presse (Cologne) dismissed the
convention as just another party
Parade, predicting that any impor-
tant decision would be made “off
stage.”

Ambassador George F. Kennan

Moscow’s fierce attacks against
and the final recall of US Ambas-
sador F. Kennan from the Soviet
capital were subject to extensive
editorial comment in the Gérman
press and front-paged in most news-
papers.

Die Welt (Hamburg) Sept. 30,
praised the American ambassador
to Moscow as the most scholarly of

Bonn

29

‘Removing the war-head: — from
Deutsche Zeitung und Wirtschafts-
zeitung (Stuttgart), Oct. 11.

American officials and the most ex-
perienced of scholars.” Quoting
Pravda’s grim attack on Kennan, the
paper commented that Soviet Russia
apparently wanted to get rid of man
who knows Russia too well and
helped to set the present American
policy toward Russia.

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frank-
furt) commented that Ambassador
Kennan in his Berlin statement,
which brought forth the Soviet pro-
tests had only said what every west-
ern diplomat in Moscow knows.
However, the paper continued, it
was still surprising that he deviated
from the tradition of diplomats not
to criticize in public the government
to which they have been accredited.
According to Frankfurter Allgemeine
the Kremlin at present feels that

Madrid

Frankfurter Rundschau, Frankfurt
INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
The Moscow prophet predicts: “War
in capitalist camp”. — from Deutsche
Zukunft (Duesseldorf), Oct. 18.

resistance against American politics
is growing in Italy, France and es-
pecially Great Britain. Therefore, the
Kremlin may have considered this
moment opportune to strike a blow
against America by demanding the
recall of the US Ambassador.

The Pirecnik Case

Although German newspapers as a
rule do not run extensive human
stories, the story of Iwan Pirecnik,
who as a result of a US Court de-
cision was returned to his Yugoslav
mother, received top play in many
papers Sept. 30. Typical for the re-
ports which stressed the human
rather than the legal and political
aspects of the case were the head-
line “Mother Love Wins” in the
General Anzeiger (Bonn) and the
subheads “The Rights of a Mother,”
“The Sorrow of the Foster Parents”
and “Farewell Will be Difficult,” all
in the same story. Editorial com-
ments generally recognized that the
court had to make an extremely dif-
ficult decision and had no other
choice but to return the boy to
Yugoslavia.

Frankfurter Rundschau (Frank-
furt) realized that the court decision
in the Pirecnik case recognizes the
rights of the family: “Our way of
life is based on the family. Only in
cases of extreme necessity may we
deviate from this principle. In this
border-line case a mother is willing
to do everything for the child she
has found again. Who would have
the right to prevent her from doing
so?”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Dissolution of the SRP

The final dissolution of the right
wing Socialist Reichsparty (SRP) by
German Federal Constitutional Court
decision three months after a tem-
porary injunction and prohibition of
all political activities of the party

- was widely reported by the West

German press and unanimously wel-
comed. The final verdict ruling the
party unconstitutional includes pro-
hibition of all subsidiary organiza-
tions, forfeiture of the SRP property
to the Federal Republic, and the
elimination of all SRP parliamentary
seats.

“While, Kieler Nachrichten (Kiel)
noted with satisfaction that “the
young German democracy has stood
another probation,” Berliner Morgen-
post (Berlin) took the court decision
as proof of the state’s “determina-
tion to defend itself against any kind
of radicalism.” Most editorial writers
took this same position.

Frankfurter Rundschau (Frank-
furt) wrote that the foremost task
now is to watch out for possible at-
tempts of incorrigible radical SRP
elements to hide out in and maybe
influence the neighbor parties such
as FDP (Free Democratic Party) and
DP (German Party). Stuttgarter
Nachrichten (Stuttgart) suggested
that “the supporters of democracy
should try to become sufficiently
attractive so that anti-democratic
parties do not even come into be-
ing” and later have to be pro-
hibited.

Realizing, too, that “the best dem-
ocracy is one that can do without
prohibitions Essener Allgemeine (Es-

“Translate the order and ask the guy
next to you whether it violates any
past, present or future law.” — from
Rheinpfalz (Ludwigshafen), Oct. 4.

30

No carpenter is needed if you have
an axe at home. — from Hamburger
Echo (Hamburg), Oct. 15.

sen) and Frankfurter Neue Presse
(Frankfurt) questioned if it was wise
of the government to call for.the
verdict even though it was justified.
Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim),
though basically pleased with the
court decision, and Berliner Morgen-
post (Berlin), warned of possible
complications in the constitutional
law caused by eliminating the SRP
parliamentary mandates, which rep-
resent some 100,000 voters.

Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim)
inquired “who would guarantee that
some day the mandates of real dem-
ocrats could not be eliminated after
such an example.” ....A court can
declare a whole organization uncon-
stitutional, and can proceed against
a single deputy after his immunity
has been withdrawn, but it is doubt-
ful from the standpoint of constitu-
tional law if it can eliminate peoples’
representatives,” the paper con-
cluded. Muenstersche Zeitung (Muen-
ster) also warned not to let the
“SRP-prohibition become only a
Police action legalized by Karls-
ruhe” but to try to convince the
former SRP voters of better dem-
ocratic aims.

Der Mittag (Duesseldorf) granted
the Federal authorities the right to
exclude the SRP from the political
life, although it was “less dangerous
internally than externally” and
caused greater harm to the German
reputation abroad, as,” there, one
has only too eagerly interpreted the
existence of SRP as a renewed trend
toward Nazism in Germany.”

NOVEMBER 1988

--- Page 34 ---
Personnel Notes

Director of Public Affairs

Alfred V. Boerner, who has served
continuously with the US mission in
Germany since June 1945, was ap-
pointed Oct. 15 as director of the
Office of Public Affairs to fill the
vacancy caused by the resignation
of Shepherd Stone. He had been
serving as acting director since Mr.
Stone returned to the United States
in July.

Specializing in policy and planning
in the informational field, Mr.
Boerner began his governmental
service on joining the Office of War
Information in 1944 as an informa-
tion specialist. He was sent to Lon-
don in early 1945 as chief of OWI’s
German Policy Section and also
worked with the Publications Branch
of the Psychological Warfare Divi-
sion, SHAEF.

On his arrival in Germany in June
1945, he was assigned to the Publica-
tions Branch, Office of the Director
of Information Control, G-5, USFET,
which later became the Information
Control Division, OMGUS. He was
chief of ICD’s Plans and Directives
Branch in 1947-48 and was deputy
director for policy of the Informa-
tion Services Division, OMGUS, in
1948-49. On transfer of the US mis-
sion in Germany from the Depart-
ment of the Army to the Depart-
ment of State in October 1949, he
was named chief of the Programs
and Policy Unit, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, continuing in that
position until his recent appointment
to director.

Mr. Boerner was born Aug. 12,
1909 in Philadelphia and received his
bachelor of arts degree from Buck-
nell University in 1932. He studied
abroad at the Universities of Berlin
and Hamburg and at the Sorbonne
in 1932-34. As a university fellow
and assistant in the Department of
Political Science, University of Mich-
igan, he received his master’s degree
in 1938. He was instructor in polit-
ical science at Keystone Junior Col-
lege 1934-36 and at Washington and
Jefferson College 1940-42. He was

NOVEMBER 1952

assistant to the president in charge
of public and governmental relations
of the Alliance Manufacturing Com-
Pany in 1942-44.

Public Affairs Officer
at Stuttgart

Frank S. Hopkins.of Washington,
D.C., has been appointed public af-
fairs officer of the American Con-
sulate General in Stuttgart, succeed-
ing Stuart L. Hannon, who was re-
cently transferred to Bern, Switzer-
land.

Mr. Hopkins is responsible for
directing the United States public
affairs program in the Stuttgart
area. This program includes such ac-

Stuart L. Hannon

tivities as the operation of the
America Houses; the exchange of
leaders, specialists and students be-
tween Germany and the United
States; the showing of educational
films and the maintenance of liaison
with the German press and radio
and with German civic and educa-
tional groups.

Prior to his appointment to the
Stuttgart post, Mr. Hopkins served
with the US Department of State
in Washington. There he was for
many years in charge of in-service
education programs for Foreign
Service personnel. Mr. Hopkins is

31

himself a career Foreign Service of-
ficer, holding the personal rank of
consul and secretary in the US dip-
lomatic service.

Mr. Hopkins has been in Germany
twice before, the last time in 1950
as consultant to HICOG on person-
nel and training problems.

Mr. Hopkins was educated at pub-
lic schools of Virginia and Maryland.
He attended the College of William
and Mary at Williamsburg, Va.,
where he received his AB degree,
and Columbia University, from which
he received his AM degree in Eng-
lish and comparative literature. In
his post-graduate studies at Johns
Hopkins and Harvard Universities,

Frank S. Hopkins

Mr. Hopkins specialized in sociology
and history.

Mr. Hopkins has spent eleven
years in newspaper work and in
book poblishing and magazine writ-
ing. Among the newspapers for
which he has worked are the Min-
neapolis Star, Richmond Times-Dis-
Patch and Baltimore Sun.

During World War II, he served
four years as director of employee
training for a large industrial plant
in Baltimore.

Mr. Hannon, who has worked with
the US authorities in Wuerttemberg-
Baden for the past seven years, tool:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
up his new assignment as public ai-
fairs officer with the American !e-
gation in Bern.

Mr. Hannon came to Stuttgart in
August 1945 from Radio Luxemburg
to become program director of Radio
Stuttgart. In January 1948 he was
sent to Greece on a special assign-
ment and returned in June of the
same year to Stuttgart as chief of
the Information Services Division
of Office of Military Government
and later Office of the US State
Commissioner, for Wuerttemberg-
Baden. He has been public affairs
officer for Baden-Wuerttemberg
since January 1951.

During his years in Germany, Mr.
Hannon delivered more than 100
radio broadcasts and lectures on
various aspects of American society
and government and Germany’s his-
toric struggle to win a stable dem-
ocracy. He introduced the first forum
in Wuerttemberg-Baden, in Stutt-
gart, in the winter of 1945, and con-
tinued to present bi-weekly forum
programs in several cities.

Before coming to Europe, Mr.
Hannon worked in the State Depart-
ment in the Balkan Affairs Section.
Earlier, he was an assistant in the
Inter-American Affairs Office, fol-
lowing several years first as educa-
tional program director and then
foreign affairs commentator for the
American Broadcasting Company.

Official Announcements

Threat to Medical Plane

Following is the text of a letter of
Oct. 8 from Maj. Gen. Emuel Mathewson,
US commander, Berlin, to Major General
Trusov, protesting the interference by
Soviet fighter aircraft with the flight of
a US Air Force C-47. A copy of the let-
ter has also been sent to A.N. Rassadin,
acting Berlin representative of the Soviet
Control Commission, with the request
that it is brought to the immediate
attention of the appropriate Soviet au-
thorities.

“This morning a C-47 type medical
evacuation airplane, No. 43-15066, belong-
ing to the United States Air Force, left
Rhine Main Air Force Base, Frankfurt,
on a routine flight to Berlin. At about
0856 hours, (8:56 a.m.), while flying at an
altitude of 7,000 feet, in the general
vicinity of Koennern, the airplane was
intercepted by two Soviet fighter type
aircraft. These fighter aircraft maneu-
vered alongside, underneath and in front
of the medical evacuation plane while
at the same time discharging machine
gun bursts in such a way as to con-
stitute a definite and hostile threat to

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the flight safety of the aircraft. Only by
taking full advantage of available cloud
cover was the hospital plane able to
elude the Soviet fighter aircraft and
make its way safely to Tempelhof Air
Base in Berlin.

“I personally interviewed the pilot of
this United States Air Force airplane,
Captain James P. Peterson, as well as
the co-pilot, Major George A. Beere, at
the moment of their landing at Tempel-
hof. I have questioned them closely as
to the instructions they were given and
to the preparations which were made
for this routine evacuation flight to
Berlin. With the aid of maps I have
examined with them in detail the course
which they navigated in their flight from
Frankfurt to Berlin. While I am not
prepared at the moment to say whether
adverse and unexpectedly high winds
may or may not have carried them at
one point from the prescribed flight cor-
ridor, I can and do say unequivocably
that any such possible error in naviga-
tion could only have been made unwill-
ingly and without intent.

“This hostile and unfriendly action of
Soviet fighter aircraft against an un-
armed airplane of the United States Air
Force on a routine administrative mis-
sion was not accidental. It was clearly
directed by some presumably responsible
Soviet authority on the grouni. Pending
completion of our further investigation
of this incident, I can only regard it in
its most serious light — responsibility for
which rests squarely on Soviet shoulders.
I demand that this unwarranted and
uncivilized behavior of Soviet aircraft
cease at once and that necessary orders
be issued by the headquarters of the
Commander in Chief of Soviet Occupa-
tion Forces in Germany to permit un-
hindered flight of United States aircraft
to and from Berlin in accordance with
existing agreements.”

Federal Works Constitution Law

In order to be able to promulgate the
Federal Works Constitution Law which
was adopted by the Bundestag and
Bundesrat, the Federal Government re-
quested that the Allied High Commission
deprive of effect Control Council Law
No. 22 on Works Councils in the fields
regulated by the Federal Works Con-
stitution Law.

The Allied High Commission has acted
on the Federal Government's request and
has approved an Allied High Commission
law depriving Control Council Law No. 22
of effect in the Federal Territory insofar
as it concerns fields regulated by the
Federal Works Constitution Law.

Text of the Allied High Commission
Law will be published, according to
HICOM’s announcement Oct. 2, in the
next issue of the Official Gazette.

Linse Case Statement

Following is the text of a statement
issued Oct. 2 in Berlin by High Commis-
sioner Donnelly:

“Pursuant to the agreement reached by
General Chuikov and myself on Septem-
ber 9 for a joint investigation of the
facts of the Linse case, a meeting took
place on September 22 between US and
Soviet representatives. At this meeting
the Soviet representatives indicated the
need for a variety of additional factual
information in order to enable them to
proceed with their investigation of the
case. We have supplied them in writing
and in considerable detail with the in-
formation requested, and particularly
with regard to the abduction of Dr. Linse
into the Soviet Zone after his kidnap-
ping in the US Sector of Berlin. In ad-
dition, we have posed certain questions
of our own to the Soviets. The next
move is now up to them.”

32

Recent Publications

Listed below are official and important
publications received in the editorial of-
fice of the Information Bulletin during
October. Requests for any of these pub-
lications should be addressed to the orig-
inating agency.

Economic Assistance to West Berlin 1949-
1951, Historical Division, Office of the
Executive Secretary, HICOG (Mehlem),
September 1952. Monograph by Hubert
G. Schmidt, assisted by Elisabeth
Erdmann, Limited distribution.

Monthly Report of the Mutual Security
Agency, Division of Statistics and Re-
ports, Mutual Security Agency (Wash-
ington), June 30, 1952. Issue deals with
Highlights — Defense Support for Eu-
rope.

Monthly Report of the Mutual Security
Agency, Division of Statistics and Re-
ports, Mutual Security Agency (Wash-
ington), July 31, 1952. Issue deals with
Agriculture in Western Europe.

Official Gazette, No. 92, Allied Secretar-
iat, Allied High Commission (Mehiem),
Sept. 15, 1952. Official texts of legisla-
tion and orders enacted by or under
authority of the Allied High Commis-
sion.

Official Gazette, No. 93, Allied Secretar-
iat, Allied High Commission (Mehlem).
Sept. 29, 1952. Official texts of legisla-
tion. and orders enacted by or under
pal of the Allied High Commis-
sion.

Official Gazette, No. 94, Allied Secretar-
iat, Allied High Commission (Mehlem),
Oct. 10, 1952, Official texts of legisla-
tion and orders enacted by or under
authority of the Allied High Commis-
sion.

Official Gazette, No. 95, Allied Secretar-
iat, Allied High Commission (Mehlem),
Oct. 30, 1952. Official texts of legisla-
tion and orders enacted by or under
authority of the Allied High Commis-
sion.

Food and Agricultural Programs in West
Germany 1949-1951, Historical Division,
Office of the Executive Secretary,
HICOG (Mehlem), 1952. Monograph by
Hubert G. Schmidt, with the assistance
of H.J. Hille. Limited distribution.

Kontakt (Contact), Vol. I, No. 5, Ex-
changes Staff, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), October 1952. Mag-
azine in German about and for return-
ed exchangees.

Report on Germany, September 21, 1949-
July 31, 1952, HICOG (Mehlem). Final
report to Secretary of State and the
ECA-MSA Administrator by former US
High Commissioner for Germany John
J. McCloy (see page of this Informa-
tion Bulletin).

Elections and Political Parties in Ger-
many 1945-1952, Policy Reports Sec-
retary, Office of Executive Secretary,
HICOG (Mehlem), June 1, 1952.

The Department of State Bulletin, Vol.
XXVII, No. 686, Division of Publica-
tions, Office of Public Affairs, Depart-
ment of State (Washington), August 18,
1952. Contents include: “Terms of Set-
tlement for German Prewar Debts,”
“German Education in Transition.”

The Department of State Bulletin, Vol.
XXVII, No. 688, Division of Publica-
tions, Office of Public Affairs, Depart-
ment of State (Washington), Septem-
ber 1, 1952, Contents include: “The So-
viet Harassment Campaign in Ger-
many: Correspondence Between Allied
and Soviet Representatives,” “Lates
Soviet Note on the Austrian State
Treaty: Department's Critique; Text of
the Soviet Note.”

Information Bulletin for October, Infor-
mation Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Oct. 31, 1952.
Contains articles and features on US
activities in Germany.

NOVEMBER 1952

--- Page 36 ---
Bowling Popular
in American Colony

Bowling alleys, recently opened in the American
housing project in Plittersdorf, between Bonn and Bad
Godesberg are becoming the most popular recreation
spot for the American community. Photos show the
bowling team of the HICOG US Marine internal security
guard playing a team of officials from the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany.

Photos by Norbert Gassner, Information Division,
HICOG, show:

(photo upper right) US High Commissioner Walter J.
Donnelly, who inaugurated the Bowling League at the
newly-completed alleys, throwing the first ball.

(photo center right) T. Sgt. Edward Grygo of Erie,
Pennsylvania (right) checking the Marine team score with
S.Sgt. Louis Komernicki, Detroit, Michigan.

(photo lower right) Excited Marines and HICOG
officials watching a slow ball.

(photo lower left) S.Sgt. Louis Komernicki expecting
all the pins to fall.

(photo below) Henry J. Pauli, chief of HICOG Engineer
Maintenance Unit, preparing to take his turn for the
HICOG team.

--- Page 37 ---
age NETONN A SE MONO te

seomansere
eth

tcenave oh
“me

eal

Leading citizens of Nuremberg and members of the American community gathered in
the American Consulate’s Public Affairs Field Center to watch the course of the American
presidential elections. Election results by states were posted on a large map of the United
States, while commentaries and reports from AFN, the Voice of America and the US In-
formation Service were broadcast in English and German. This proved to be an educational
technique in disseminating information in Germany about the American election process.

98 10 ac 2 Oss! 20M