--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION

MONTHLY MAGAZINE OF THE OFFICE OF
US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

Agreement is Signed
(See page 3)

--- Page 3 ---
fe)
5
S
2 §
°
3
9 =
5
os
e)
8
5
Q3
3
3
o Q
3

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the United States mis-
sion in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

Editor ....:.......6. H. Warner Waid

Assistant Editor .... Frank H. Jonas

Staff Writer ...... Liselotte Goldbeck
e

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 040-042
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: 8428, 8691, 8896, 8958

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Information Divi-
sion, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

Distribution is handled by the Distri-
bution Unit, Communications Service
Office, Administrative Services Divi-
sion, Office of the Executive Director,
HICOG. Located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Frankfurt, Room 949.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Information Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

German mailing address is:

Editor

Information Bulletin
Information Division, HICOG
HICOG Hochhaus
Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

_Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

June 1952
Model Classrooms in Offenbach ............ Inside front cover
Pictorial Feature
Befit a Free State ©... 6... cece cece cece eee eens 2

Statement by Secretary Acheson

Beginning a New Relationship.........................08. 3
Article by Creston B. Mullins

General Agreement ........... 0. ee eee eee eee eens 4
Text of Convention

The Chancellor's Opinion ................. 00. cece eee 10
Radio Interview with Chancellor Adenauer

Cultural Integration 2.0... 6.6 ec e eee ee aes 1
Article by Dr. Martin Mayes

America’s Good Friends ......... 6.6... c eee eee ee eee e ees 17
Article by Haynes R. Mahoney

VOA Broadcasts in Russian from Munich ................ 18
Coordinating History Books ............... 0c eee sence 19
Article by Wilfried Saliger .

In and Around Germany ........... 0.6 cece cece cee eee 22
Personnel Notes .........0... ee eeee een eee eee eee Oeeee 24
German Editorials ............. cece e eee cence eens 25
Summaries of Contractual Agreements .................. 27
Official Notices 2.2... 0... e cece cece ence eee eene 32
British Blockade of Radio Berlin .......... Inside Back Cover

Pictorial Feature

Special Insert .

HICOG Builds for the Future (Pictorial section on
the five Frankfurt and Bonn projects):

Solving Housing Problems .... I
US and German Press Reaction. . Vv
German Press Clippings (montage) ...... VI
Interiors of American Apartments........ VU
Christmas Get-Togethers ................ IX
New Homes, New School Built for German
Staff nae 0 x
What ‘German Officials Say ... XIL

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
SMUTUOTDUTDTUEOU COUT TEPER

“Befit a Free State”

Following the signing of the Contractual Agreements in Bonn May 26, Secretary of State
Dean Acheson of the United States made the following statement at the press conference.

Te AGREEMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN signed today are of great importance for each of
the four countries represented here. The Federal Republic is attaining the independence
in foreign affairs and authority in domestic matters which befit a free state; the United King-
dom, France and the United States, together with the other free nations, are welcoming a new
partner in their great effort to establish peace and security in the world, Let us take amoment
to examine what these agreements mean and what they are intended to accomplish.

The relations which follow from these agreements are fundamentally such as exist
between countries closely associated in peace and friendship, When the agreements enter
into effect, the occupation will come to its formal close and the Federal Government will
deal with other governments on a normal basis. The United States Government is convinced
that the agreements are just because problems arising from the war must be settled, and it
is right to settle them in this fashion. The purpose of the agreements is to bring the oc-
cupation to an end, and this will be their effect.

np EERE ARE STILL CERTAIN powers reserved to the United Kingdom, France and the
United States. But the important thing to remember about these powers is that they
are not retained for any reasons which have to do with the Federal Republic alone. They
are related to other factors entirely — to the necessity for the presence in Germany of
troops whose mission is the defense of German peace and freedom and of peace and
freedom throughout the free world, and to the unhappy fact that Germany is still a divided
country. When these conditions no longer exist, the powers retained to deal with them
will be withdrawn.

It is a matter of great regret and concern to the American government that the task of
restoring Germany as a whole is not completed. I feel deeply the absence on this occasion
of those who might have represented the people of that part of Germany which is still under
Soviet occupation. It would have been a more joyful occasion if they had been permitted
to join us. One of the great aims of the Western world, one of the great themes of ‘its
culture, and one of the great achievements of its people, has been freedom. Political and
social freedom of the individual, freedom of his conscience and speech, have been what
the West holds most dear.

Since the end of war the three powers have consistently worked to establish freedom
throughout Germany, and their efforts have been met with invaluable cooperation on the
part of the people of western Germany and
Berlin. Together we have succeeded in bring-
ing freedom to the greater part of Germany,
but until freedom can be extended to the
entire country, and until all German — East
and West — are reunited in freedom, the goal
will not have been reached. I can assure you
of my government's continued determination
to press steadily towards this goal, until the
unity of Germany in freedom has become a
reality.

Secretary Acheson at press conference,

N ANTICIPATION OF THE DAY when these

agreements will have been accepted by the
legislative bodies of our countries and will
enter into effect, I wish to congratulate the
Federal Republic on its new place among the
nations of the world. We are glad to have a
new partner in this great cause. On behalf of
the President of the United States and the
American people, I welcome the Federal
Republic on its return to the community of
nations,

|UIUUUUUUNUUULUUUUUULULA LULL 4

INFORMATION BULLETIN ) JUNE 1952

S

--- Page 6 ---
Delegations seated at long table (top to bottom: United Kingdom, France, United States and Germany) prior

to signing ceremony. At leit is small table for actual signing by the four representatives of the documents.

Beginning a New Relationship

BY CRESTON B. MULLINS

Public Liaison Branch, Information Division, HICOG

R. KONRAD ADENAUER, chancellor of the German

Federal Republic, sat at a long table in the Bundes-
rat chamber in Bonn at 10:25 a. m., Monday, May 26,
and affixed the fourth signature to the General Agree-
ment with the United States, United Kingdom and
France, Then with the foreign ministers of the three
Western powers he signed three other conventions.

When these documents, known as the Contractual
Agreements, are ratified by the parliaments of the four
powers, and when the European Defense Community
treaty has been ratified by the six member nations,
Germany will be restored to the community of nations
as an equal partner in Western defense.

The ceremony of signing the Contractual Agreements
took 45 minutes as Secretary of State Dean Acheson,
3ritish Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden, French Foreign
Minister Robert Schuman, and the Chancellor (who is
also the German foreign minister) put their pens to the
bound texts of the four conventions in three languages,
as well as a series of letters.

Ts INITIAL STEP toward ending the occupation and
restoring near-sovereignty to the western part of
Germany was followed the next day by the signing in
Paris by six nations of the treaty which creates the
European Defense Community and establishes a Euro-
pean Defense Force, including German contingents, as
a part of the forces of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization on the continent of Europe.
These two acts—interdependent parts of a single trans-
‘ction — culminated a year and a half of work by repre-

JUNE 1952

sentatives of the Western Allies and the German
Federal Republic to liquidate the war and the occupa-
tion, to integrate Germany with the Western democratic
bloc, and to create a Western defense force in the
form of a European army.

The immediate decision to take this bold step in
world affairs flowed directly from the Communist ag-
gression in Korea, If the weakness of South Korea was
an invitation to Soviet aggression through the satel-
lites, weakness in western Europe, with its vast in-
dustrial and political potential, presented a greater
temptation. An effective defense system was vital and
urgent. It was immediately evident that such a defense
system required the participation of Germany as an
equal partner of the other Western democracies.

HE POTSDAM AGREEMENT of 1945 had itself de-
clared Allied policy to be the “eventual peaceful
cooperation in international life by Germany.’ European
statesmen themselves, the first to have reason to fear

Continued on page'6

COVER PHOTOGRAPH — Aiter the signing of the
General Agreement, the four signers (leit to right)
UK Foreign Secretary Eden, French Foreign Minister
Schuman, US Secretary of State Acheson and German
Chancellor Adenauer pose before the bound copy on
the table. All photographs with this article were
taken by Claude Jacoby and Norbert Gassner, photo-
graphers of the Public Liaison Branch, Information
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
General Agreement:

THE United States of America,

the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

and the French Republic,

of the one part, and

the Federal Republic of Germany,

of the other part:

WHEREAS a peaceful and prosperous European community of
nations firmly bound to the other free nations of the world
through dedication to the principle of the Charter of the United
Nations can be attained only through united support and defense
of the common freedom and the common heritage;

WHEREAS it is the common aim of the Signatory States to
integrate the Federal Republic on a basis of equality within the
European Community itself included in a developing Atlantic
Community;

WHEREAS the achievement of a fully free and unified Ger-
many through peaceful means and of a freely negotiated peace
settlement, though prevented for the present by measures beyond
their control, remains a fundamental and common goal of he
Signatory States;

WHEREAS the retention of the Occupation Statute with its
powers of intervention in the domestic affairs of the Federal
Republic is inconsistent with the purpose of integrating the
Federal Republic within the European Community;

WHEREAS the United States of America, the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the French Republic
(hereinafter referred to as ‘'the Three Powers") are therefore
determined to retain only those special rights of which the reten-
tion is necessary, in the common interest of the Signatory States,
having regard to the special international situation in Germany;

WHEREAS the Federal Republic has developed free and
responsible political institutions and is determined to maintain
the liberal-democratic federal constitution which guarantees
human rights and is enshrined in its Basic Law;

WHEREAS the Three Powers and the Federal Republic re-
cognize that both the new relationship to be established between
them by the present Convention and its related Conventions and
the Treaties for the creation of an integrated European Com-
munity, in particular the Treaty on the Establishment of the
European Community for Coal and Steel and the Treaty on the
Establishment of the European Defense Community, are essential

Signatures on German version of the General Agreement.

ee an
a

Complete Text of Convention
On the Relations between the Three Powers
And the Federal Republic of Germany

steps to the achievement of their common aim for a unified
Germany integrated within the European Community;

HAVE entered into the following Convention setting forth

the basis for their new relationship:
Article 1

1, The Federal Republic shall have full authority over its
internal and external affairs, except as provided in the present
Convention.

2, The Three Powers will revoke the Occupation Statute and
abolish the Allied High Commission and the Offices of the
Land (State) Commissioners upon the entry into force of the
present Convention and the Conventions listed in Article 8
(hereinafter referred to as ‘the related Conventions’),

3, The Three Powers will thenceforth conduct their relations
with the Federal Republic through ambassadors who will act
jointly in matters the Three Powers consider of common concern
under the present Convention and the related Conventions,

Article 2

1, The Three Powers retain, in view of the international situa-
tion, the rights, heretofore exercised or held by them, relating
to (a) the stationing of armed forces in Germany and the protec-
tion of their security, (b) Berlin, and (c) Germany as a whole,
including the unification of Germany and a peace settlement,

2. The Federal Republic, on its part, will refrain from any
action prejudicial to these rights and will cooperate with the
Three Powers to facilitate their exercise,

Article 3

1, The Federal Republic agrees to conduct ils nolicy in ac-
cordance with the principles set forth in the Charter of the
United Nations and with the aims defined in the Statute of the
Council of Europe,

2. The Federal Republic affirms its intention to associate itself
fully with the community of free nations through membership
in international organizations contributing to the common aims
of the free world, The Three Powers will support applications for
such membership by the Federal Republic at appropriate times.

3. In their negotiations with States with which the Federal
Republic maintains no relations, the Three Powers will consult
with the Federal Republic in respect of matters directly involving
its political interests.

4, At the request of the Federal Government, the Three
Powers will arrange to represent the interests of the Federal

Republic in relations with other States and in certain. inter:
national organizations or conferences, whenever the Federal ~
Republic is not in a position to do so itself,

Article 4 ‘

1, The mission of the armed forces stationed by the Three
Powers in the Federal territory will be the defense of the free
world, of which the Federal Republic and Berlin form part.

2, The Three Powers will consult with the Federal Republi¢,
insofar as the military situation permits, regarding the stationing ~
of such armed forces in the Federal territory. The Federal
Republic will cooperate fully, in accordance with the preseat
Convention and the related Conventions, in facilitating the tasks
of such armed forces

3. The Three Powers will obtain the consent of the Federal
Republic before bringing into the Federal territory as part of
their forces, contingents of the armed forces of any nation not
now providing such contingents. Such contingents may, nevef= ~
theless, be brought into the Federal territory without the ©
consent of the Federal Republic in the event of external attack
or imminent threat of such attack but, after the elimination of —
the danger, may only remain there with its consent,

4, The Federal Republic will participate in the European ~
Defense Community in order to contribute to the common
defense of the free world. N

aE

Article 5

1, In the exercise of their right to protect the security of the
armed forces stationed in the Federal territory, the Three ~
Powers will conform to the provisions of the following paragraphs
of this article. 4

2. In case the Federal Republic and the European Defense Com=
munity are unable to deal with a situation, which is created by

an attack on the Federal Republic or Berlin,

subversion of the liberal democratic basic order,

a serious disturbance of public order or

a grave threat of any of these events,

JUNE 1952

--- Page 8 ---
Mr. Eden.

Mr. Acheson

and which in the opinion of the Three Powers endangers the
security of their forces, the Three Powers may, after consul-
tation to the fullest extent possible with the Federal Government,
proclaim a state of emergency in the whole or any part of the
Federal Republic. *

3. Upon the proclamation of a state of emergency, the Three
Powers may take such measures as are necessary to maintain or
restore order and to ensure the security of the forces.

4, The proclamation will specify the area to which it applies.
The state of emergency will not be maintained any longer than
necessary to deal with the emergency.

5. The Three Powers shall consult the Federal Government to
the fullest extent possible while the state of emergency continues.
They will utilize to the greatest possible extent the assistance
of the Federal Government and the competent German authorities.

6, If the Three Powers do not terminate a state of emergency
within thirty days after a request by the Federal Government
to do so, the Federal Government may submit a request to the
Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to examine
the situation and consider whether the state of emergency should
be terminated. If the Council concludes that continuance of the
state of emergency is no longer justified, the Three Powers will
restore the normal situation as promptly as possible.

7. Independently of a state of emergency, any military com-
mander may, if his forces are imminently menaced, take such
immediate action appropriate for their protection (including the
use of armed force) as is requisite to remove the danger.

8. In all other respects, the protection of the security of these
forces is governed by the provisions of the Conventions on the
Rights and Obligations of Foreign Forces and their Members in
the Federal Republic of Germany referred to in Article 8 of the
present Convention,

Article 6

1. The Three Powers will consult with the Federal Republic
in regard to the exercise of their rights relating to Berlin.

2. The Federal Republic, on its part, will cooperate with the
Three Powers in order to facilitate the discharge of their
responsibilities with regard to Berlin. The Federal Republic will
continue its aid to the political, cultural, economic and financial
reconstruction of Berlin, and, in particular, will grant it such
ao i is. set ‘out in the annexed Declaration of the Federal

epublic.*

Article 7

1. The Three Powers and the Federal Republic are agreed that
an essential aim of their common policy is a peace settlement
for the whole of Germany, freely negotiated between Germany
and her former enemies, which should lay the foundation for a
lasting peace, They further agree that the final détermination
of the boundaries of Germany must await such a settlement.

2. Pending the peace settlement, the Three Powers and the
Federal Republic will cooperate to achieve, by. peaceful means,
their common aim of a unified Germany enjoying a liberal-
democratic constitution, like that of the Federal Republic, and
integrated within the European Community.

3. In the event of the unification of Germany the Three Powers
will, subject to such adjustments as may be agreed, extent to
a unified Germany the rights which the Federal Republic has
under the present Convention and the related Conventions and
will for their part agree that the rights under the Treaties for
the formation of an integrated European community should be

* Not published here.

JUNE 1952

Mr. Schuman.

similarly extended, upon the assumption by such a unified
Germany of the obligations of the Federal Republic toward the
Three Powers or to any of them under those Conventions and
Treaties, Except by common consent of all the Signatory States
the Federal Republic will not conclude any agreement or enter
into any arrangement which would impair the rights of the Three
Powers under those Conventions and Treaties or lessen the
obligations of the Federal Republic thereunder,

4. The Three Powers will consult with the Federal Republic
on all other matters involving the exercise of their rights relating
to Germany as a whole

Article 8

1. The Three Powers and the Federal Republic have concluded
the following related Convention which will enter into force
simultaneously with the present Convention:

Convention on the Rights and Obligations of Foreign Forces

and their Members in the Federal Republic of Germany;

Finance Convention;

Convention on the Settlement of Matters Arising out of the

War and the Occupation.

2. During the transitional period provided for in paragraph 4
of Article 6 of Chapter One of the Convention on the Settlement
of Matters Arising out of the War and the Occupation, the rights
of the Three Powers referred to in that paragraph shall he deemed
to be included within the exception set forth in paragraph 1 of
Article 1 of the present Convention.

Article 9

1, There is hereby established an Arbitration Tribunal which
shall function in accordance with the provisions of the annexed
Charter.*

2. The Arbitration Tribunal shall have exclusive jurisdiction
over all disputes arising between the Three Powers and the
Federal Republic under the provisions of the present Convention
or the annexed Charter or any of the related Conventions which
the parties are not able to settle by negotiation, except as other-
wise provided by paragraph 3 of this Article or in the annexed
Charter or in the related Conventions.

3. Any dispute involving the rights of the Three Powers
referred to in Article 2, or action taken thereunder, or involving
the provisions of patagraphs 1 to 7 inclusive of Article 5, shall
not be subject to the jurisdiction of the Arbitration Tribunal or
of any other tribunal or court.

Article 10

The Three Powers and the Federal Republic will review the
terms of the present Convention and the related Conventions

(a) upon the request of any one of them, in the event of the

unification of Germany or the creation of a European

federation; or

(b) upon the occurrence of any other event which all of the

Signatory States recognize to be of a similarly fundamental

character.

Thereupon, they will, by mutual agreement, modify the present
Convention and the related Conventions to the extent made
necessary or advisable by the fundamental change in the
situation.

Article 11

1. The present Convention and the related Conventions shall
be ratified or approved by the Signatory States in accordance
with their respective constitutional procedure. The instruments

* Not published here.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Dr. Adenauer,

--- Page 9 ---
of ratification shall be deposited by the Signatory States with
the Government: of the Federal Republic of Germany.

2. The present Convention shall enter into force immediately
upon

(a) the deposit by all the Signatory States of instruments of

ratification of the present Convention and of all the Con-

ventions listed in-Article 8; and

(b) the entry into force of the Treaty on the Establishment of

the European Defense Community.

3. The present Convention and the related Conventions shall
be deposited in the Archives of the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany, which will furnish each Signatory State
with certified copies thereof and notify each such State of the
date of the entry into force of present Convention and the
related Conventions.

IN FAITH WHEREOF the undersigned representatives duly
authorized thereto by their respective Governments have signed
the present Convention,

Done at Bonn this twenty-sixth day of May, 1952 in three texts,
in the English, French and German languages, all being equally
authentic,

For the United States of
America:

/s/ Dean Acheson
For the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern
Ireland:

/s/ Anthony Eden

For the French Republic:
/s/ Robert Schuman

For the Federal Republic of
Germany:

/s/ Adenauer

Continued from page 3

Beginning a New Relationship

the rise of a new militarism in Germany, made a
courageous and far-seeing approach to the difficult issue
of admitting the Federal Republic as an equal member
of the Western democracies without permitting revival
of that militarism which had plunged the world into two
disastrous wars in the past half century.

The way was pointed in the plan advanced October 24,
1950, by French Premier Rene Pleven for the creation
of a European army. Under the Pleven Plan the military
forces. of six western European nations, wearing the
same uniform and operating under a single commander,
would form one army, under supra-national control
which would provide for Europe's own defense. Europe
would organize to defend itself, and the
German Federal Republic, which is the
West's frontline in western Europe, would
play its full part in that defense.

The foreign and defense ministers of
NATO met in Brussels in December 1950
and decided there to extend an invitation
to Germany to participate in defense as
an equal partner of the other Western
nations. As a concomitant, occupation con-
trols would be eliminated.

The Adenauer government accepted the
invitation, and the work of negotiating the
end of occupation controls and Germany's
contribution to Western defense was be-
gun immediately in Bonn. The first meet-
ings were exploratory, to determine the
ground that would have to be covered and
the attitude of each government on the
points raised. Reports were made to the
governments, and on the basis of them the
three Western foreign ministers, meeting

INFORMATION BULLETIN

in Washington last September, reached decisions which
laid down the Allied policy in the detailed negotiations
which followed.

HE FOREIGN MINISTERS issued a communique at
the conclusion of their meeting September 14, 1951.
It said in part:

The foreign ministers have reviewed the relationship of
their countries to the German Federal Republic, and have
agreed on instructions to the Allied High Commission for
negotiation of mutually acceptable agreements with the
Federal Government, the effect of which will be to transform
that relationship completely.

As a result of the agreement reached by the three foreign
ministers in Brussels last December, the High Commission
has already explored with the Federal Government the way
to establish relations between the Three Powers and the
Federal Republic on as broad a contractual basis as possible
in the light of German participation in Western defense.
The foreign ministers have now instructed the High Com-
mission to proceed to negotiations with the Federal Govern-
ment, which will, it is hoped, culminate in early agreements
among the four governments to enter into effect together
with the agreement for German participation in Western
defense through the proposed European Defense Community,
whose forces would form part of the joint defense forces
under the North Atlantic supreme command.

The foreign ministers have agreed on certain general
principles to guide the High Commission in its negotiations
with the Federal Government. As stated in the tripartite
declaration* issued today, the guiding principle of their
policy continues to be the integration of the Federal Republic
on a basis of equality within a European community itself -
included in a developing Atlantic community. Such integra-
tion would thus be inconsistent with the rentention in future
of an occupation status or of the power to interfere in the
Federal Republic's domestic affairs.

The ministers believe that the agreements now to be
reached with the Federal Government should provide. the
basis for its relationship to their countries until a peace
settlement with a unified Germany becomes possible, The
division of Germany, however, prevents the conclusion of
such a settlement at this time, This division and the security

* For full text of both the communique and declaration, see Information
Bulletin, October 1951,

Scene of the representatives of the Three Powers and of Germany as they
negotiated on final details to complete the Financial Convention a few hours
before the arrival of foreign ministers of the Three Powers for the ceremony.

JUNE 1952

--- Page 10 ---
problem confronting the Federal Republic obliges the Allies
to retain, in the common interest, certain special rights, but
only in relation to the stationing of armed forces in Germany
and the protection of the security of these forces, as weil
as to questions affecting Berlin and Germany as a whole,
including the eventual peace settlement and the peaceful
reunification of Germany.

HE WASHINGTON COMMUNIQUE of the foreign

ministers was the signal for negotiations in Bonn to
shift into high gear. High Commissioner John J. McCloy
met frequently with British High Commissioner Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick and French Commissioner Andre Francois-
Poncet at the Petersberg, the palatial former hotel atop
a peak across the Rhine from Bad Godesberg. In this
headquarters’ of the Allied High Commission the
machinery of negotiation was created,

Because of the breadth of the ground to be covered—
affecting practically every aspect of Germany's internal
and external affairs — and the detail with which each
point had to be discussed the high commissioners and
Dr. Adenauer found it necessary to delegate the detailed
work to a large corps of experts and advisers.

The basic work of negotiating differences of substance
and of drafting agreements was entrusted to four groups
of experts known as rapporteurs. Initially these consisted
of an expert from one of the Allies, called a rapporteur
and two associates representing the other Allies and
referred to as "assessors", When the stage of quadri-
partite negotiation was reached the Allied group dealt
with a German expert. Problems which could not be
solved at the rapporteur level were referred upward to
a Special Committee consisting of the political and legal
advisers to the three high commissioners when Allied
policy was in question, and to the Steering Committee
consisting of the Special Committee and the chancellor's
principal advisers when quadripartite questions were
involved,

INAL APPEAL — UNTIL the meeting of the four
foreign ministers on May 24— lay to the three high
commissioners and the chancellor,

A rapporteur group was established for each of the four
conventions which finally emerged from the negotia-
tions, These were:

1. Convention on the Relations between the Three
Powers and the Federal Republic of Germany (refer-
ted to as the General Agreement).

2, Convention on the Settlement of Matters arising
out of the War and the Occupation.

3. Convention on the Rights and Obligations of
the Foreign Forces and their members in the Federal
Republic of Germany.

4, The Finance Convention.

Sitting with the rapporteur groups were other ex-
perts from each of the four governments. These spec-
ialists frequently sat as subcommittees, resolving detail-
ed problems assigned them by the rapporteurs.

Although the initial meetings to agree on tripartite
policy were held at the Petersberg, quadripartite negotia-
tions were from the outset rotated between German and
Allied offices. This was a recognition of the fact that
the German participated throughout the negotiations as

JUNE 1952

Honor guests, including officials of the four governments,
witness the°ceremony from seats arranged behind signers.

equals and not as a defeated enemy. Anyone who took
part in the seven months of discussion or who has the
opportunity to compare the initial Allied proposals with
the final results cannot have the slightest doubt that this
principle of equality was fully realized in practice and
in fact. No charge can ever be sustained against these
Conventions as was made against the Versailles Treaty
that they represent a Diktat.

N EARLY APRIL .the deadline for conclusion of the

agreements was set for May 1, except for the financial
convention which was being negotiated in conjunction
with the EDC discussions in Paris. This was later revised
to May 20, as the latest practical date for conclusion of
the agreements in order for the US Senate to act upon
them before its recess,

Negotiators and their staffs worked far into the night
under pressure for final agreement. It became apparent
that some critical points would be left for the foreign
ministers themselves to settle at the last minute when
they came to Bonn for the signing ceremony. May 20
arrived without agreement as fresh difficulties arose
in reconciling Allied and German proposals. In some
cases points already considered settled had to be
reopened.

One of the key complications, and most difficult
problems to resolve, was the German defense contribu-
tion, which had to be negotiated in constant contact

Other spectators watch proceedings from stands erected
outside large window along one side of the chamber.

--- Page 11 ---
Chatting at the president's home are: (leit to right) US Ambassador Jessup,

of HICOG Officials led by Mr. and Mrs. ;
McCloy and including Assistant US High —
Commissioner Samuel Reber, Shephard
Stone, director of the Office of Public
Affairs; Glenn G. Wolfe, executive direc-
tor of HICOG, and Mrs. Wolfe. The offi- ,
cial party made the 24-mile trip from
Wahn to Bad Godesberg along a route
lined in some parts by thousands of inter-
ested Germans.

The foreign ministers began their ‘con-
ference in the personal office of Mr,
McCloy at Mehlem on Saturday morning
and continued until late that night. In a
press briefing that evening Mr. Reber and
Helen Kirkpatrick, public affairs adviser
for western Europe and Mr. Acheson's
personal press representative, reported
significant progress in removing the last
obstacles to agreement.

The last session was held Sunday mor-
ning and the conventions were finally,
fully drafted and agreed to. The official
time was 1:30 p.m. The final preparation

Prof. Theodor Heuss, president of the German Federal Republic, US Secretary of the texts of the conventions and the

Acheson, US High Commissioner McCloy and German Chancellor Adenauer.

with the EDC negotiations in Paris. The total reasonable
amount of the contribution had been estimated’ earlier
in the year by the “Three Wise Men" — members of
the Temporary Council Committee of NATO — and their
estimate was accepted by the Germans. The problem then
became how much of this sum to set aside to assist in
the support of the foreign forces stationed in Germany,
that is, for the forces of the United States, United King-
dom and the EDC countries including France.

The deadlock on this point was finally resolved four
days before the contracts were signed, in a marathon
session which lasted until nearly 4 a.m. on May 22. Of
the German financial contribution of DM _ 850,000,000
(equivalent to $202,300,000) per month, DM 551,000,000
($131,138,000) a month would be for the support of the
foreign forces in the first six months of the contribution
and DM 319,000,000 ($75,922,000) per month for the next
three months, On the assumption that the defense con-
tribution would go into effect October 1, this would
provide for German participation until June 30, 1953, the
end of the NATO fiscal year. Division of the German
contribution for succeeding years would be established
in subsequent negotiations.

ECRETARY OF STATE Acheson left Washington on
President Truman's plane “Independence” the evening
of Thursday, May 22, and arrived at Wahn airport near
Bonn at 5 p.m. the next afternoon. He was accompanied
by Mrs. Acheson and a party of high State Department
officials, including Ambassador-at-large Philip C. Jessup
and Assistant Secretary of State George W. Perkins.
At the airport to welcome the Secretary was a group

* For full text, see Information Bulletin, March 1952.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

press summaries had been in progress for
several days as parts of the conventions
were definitively agreed. They were completed by —
Monday morning,

Monday was a gloomy day with-a cold drizzle. The
historic university of Bonn went about its business with
little noticeable stir, except in the vicinity of the Bundes-
haus (Federal Building) where the Ministry of Interior
had taken elaborate security precautions against the ~

occurence of any hostile demonstrations. ;
Police stopped traffic four blocks around the Federal
Republic's capital building. More than 1,000 police were
on duty — 400 of them from Bonn and the remainder ©
brought in from other cities.

HE CEREMONY OF signing the agreements was held >

in the chamber of the Bundesrat (Federal Council),
a room once used as the assembly hall of the pedagogical ~ i
institute which became the West German capital building
when Bonn was selected as the provisional seat of the ~
government.

The room had been cleared of its legislative furniture,
and in the place of the oak desks and chairs a long table
had been set up, facing the windowed south side of the |
room. The flags of the German states and the Federal”
Republic, which usually hang from the opposite wall had
been replaced with two 18th century Greek-motif
tapestries borrowed from the Bonn museum. Before the”
foreign minister's table stood a small desk, on which o
reposed the bound copies of the General Agreement.

Behind the foreign ministers were seated nearly 100
members of their delegations, many of them staff person=
nel who had worked on the contracts. Beneath the stage”
were seated 50 honor guests, including diplomats,
ministers-president of the states and leaders in German”

JUNE 1952

--- Page 12 ---
business, labor and politics. No member of the Social
Democratic Party attended, however. On the stage were
60 more honor guests, while another 180 were placed in
temporary stands erected outside. the floor-to-ceiling
windows on the south side.

The press — 170 newspaper, magazine and radio repre-
sentatives — occupied the balcony and crowded in the
end of hall beneath the balcony. Fifty press and newsreel
photographers lined the windows on the south side.

—'HORTLY AFTER 10 a.m. the foreign ministers entered,

led by Hans von Herwarth, chief of protocol of the
German Foreign Office, and accompanied by their chief
advisers, With Secretary Acheson were Mr. McCloy and
Ambassador Jessup, Chancellor Adenauer had with him
Dr. Fritz Schaefer, German minister of finance, and Prof.
Walter Hallstein, state secretary for foreign affairs. With
Mr. Eden were Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, and Frank Roberts,
head of the German desk of the British Foreign Office.
Accompanying Mr, Schuman were Mr. Francois-Poncet
and Herve Alphand, permanent French representative in
NATO and French architect of the EDC treaty.

Dr. Adenauer delivered a brief address of welcome to
the foreign ministers. He emphasized that the Con-
tractual Agreements, together with the treaty establish-
ing the European Defense Community, would bring
freedom for the Federal Republic and would usher in a
new epoch of peace and cooperation in Europe. He refer-
red especially to the Germans still living under Soviet
rule, and said they should realize that the two treaties
represent the first step in the reunification of Germany
by peaceful means.

Mr. Schuman, responding, called the treaties a “work
of tenacity." "This work will have to succeed,” he said,
“if we want to spare humanity, new catastrophes, It will
succeed, if we know how to be patient with each other.
It will progressively reconstruct the confidence itself on
which it rests. We will go together the
long way of learning this confidence after
all that has divided us and made us op-
ponents in the past.”

HE FOREIGN MINISTERS then began

the task of signing the conventions
and the letters which accompanied them.
Each document had to be signed in each
language — English, French and German —
by each of the ministers. More than 80 sig-
natures, in all, were applied.

Mr. Eden was first to sign the General
Agreement; Mr. Schuman, Mr. Acheson and
Dr, Adenauer followed in that order. By
10:45 a.m, all signatures had been affixed.
The room was then rearranged for the press
conference to follow, at which more than
400 news writers heard the ministers de-
liver brief statements.

Dr. Adenauer, first to be introduced by
Wolfgang von Eckardt, head of the German
Press and Information Office, expressed the

JUNE 1952

hope that the parliaments of the participating countries
while debating the agreements would not waste time on
details but would recognize and consider the tendencies
of the agreements.

Mr, Acheson welcomed the Federal Republic on its
return to the community of nations. “It is a matter of
great regret and concern to the American government,”
he said, “that the task of restoring Germany as a whole
is not completed. I feel deeply the absence on this oc-
casion of those who might have represented the people
of that part of Germany which is still under Soviet Oc-
cupation.”

Mr. Schuman said that in these treaties “we lay the
foundation for a new cooperation between countries
which were formerly separated. This cooperation can
only be based on confidence and confidence cannot be
forced, It must develop slowly and it must be earned.”

Mr. Eden concluded the press conference with the
admonition that whether the treaty signing becomes a
historic moment “depends not only on governments, but
on peoples, It thus lies in their power to make of this
understanding a basis upon which a free and united
Europe can be built. In saying that I exclude no nation,
for our purpose is defense and security.”

'PHUS WAS CONCLUDED the solemn ceremony of

putting Germany on the road to its new sovereignty.
The final step will be ratification of the Contractual
Agreements and the EDC treaty by the parliaments of
the governments concerned. These include an American
guarantee to the EDC against the withdrawal of any
nation from the new European army it creates, President
Truman quickly submitted the contracts and EDC
guarantee to the United States Senate, with the ex-
pectation that ratification will be completed before the
Senate recesses. Final action by all the governments is
expected by fall. --END

Four hundred newspapermen, correspondents and commentators met with
the four signers at a press conference after the ceremony.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
The Chancellor’s Opinion

Chancellor Konrad Adenauer explained his own position
in a radio interview with the well known German column-
ist Ernst Friedlaender, broadcast over the stations of the
North-West German Radio on May 28, A condensed trans-
lation of the official text, as made public by the Federal
Press and Information Office, follows:

Friedlaender: Unfortunately it is only the Federal Republic
who becomes a partner of the free world. The Soviet Zone
remains unfree and separated from us. This is the very source
of concern among the German people, this is why we cannot
be glad about the Contractual Agreements and the EDC treaty.
They do not liberate the Soviet Zone, and to many Germans
it seems that they are apt to prevent Germany's re-unification,
or at least make it more difficult.

Adenauer: I think it is necessary to see the facts clearly.
True, we cannot be glad about any political event as long
as Germany is divided. There is no reason for us today
to rejoice or to triumph. But we must not allow our politi-
cal judgment to become confused. The agreements are
not an obstacle to German re-unification, Quite the con-
trary: they are the only means of getting us closer to
German unity in freedom,

Friedlaender: I think this statement needs some clarification.

Adenauer: It is very simple. In the rugged world of
political facts there are just two ways for the Federal
Republic to choose: to side with the West or to side with
the Soviets. Everything in-between is not politics, but
merely an illusion. Because this in-between situation would
make us helpless, lonesome and the football of contro-
versial forces. Helpless between the powers, we would
be a magnet for war. Now there just is no way to co-
operate with the Soviets. In an alliance with them you can
become only a satellite, an exploited tool of Moscow's
politics...

Friedlaender: Even if a German agrees to that, he may not yet
be convinced that this way, as mapped out for the Federal
Republic, also leads to German unity.

Adenauer: First of all, we must recognize that there is
no other way. If we do recognize that, we have gained
very much. Sooner or later the Soviets will have to realize
that they have to come to terms with the West, because
they cannot force it (the West) down. In such a peaceful
understanding lies our hope and our chance, However,
we will have the chance only if, at the time of this general
agreement between West and East, we have proven our-
selves a reliable partner of the West, Only in that case
will the West identify its interests with ours...
Friedlaender: Prior to the signing, the so-called revision clause
of Article 7 of the Convention on Allied-German relations
has given rise to objections extending far into the ranks of the
government coalition. How do we stand on that issue now?
Does in your opinion Article 7 contain a clause that would
automatically commit a future united Germany to join the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

10

alliance with the West? Many Germans would consider such
a commitment an obstacle to negotiations with the Soviets.
Adenauer: The agreements have been released to the
public. The final text of Article 7 says that a re-united
Germany can claim the rights under the conventions, if it
agrees to submit to the duties, This text does not give rise
to objections, I think it is good the way it is, A re-united
Germany cannot be worse off than the Federal Republic,
if its government agrees'to take over rights and duties
of these agreements.

Friedlaender: Studying the text of the conventions, some Ger-
mans may find that they are not in agreement with one or the
other clause, maybe quite a number of clauses. What advice
would you give to a politically thougtful person, particularly
a member of Parliament, who agrees with the basic idea of the
agreements, but is dissatisfied with particulars?

Adenauer: I think I have negotiated 33 times with the
high commissioners on the Contractual Agreements, some-
times in all-day sessions, The hours of negotiations by
German and Allied experts are almost innumerable. The
result comprises a tremendous lot of work, including
particularly work on details. Of course; every one of the
participating countries wanted to assert its own point of
view and look after its own interests, but they were all
ready to compromise. Without this readiness to compro-
mise the agreements could never have been concluded.
Every one had to yield on one or the other point, and the
Federal Republic makes no exception to that rule. It is
quite inconceivable that the conventions could be perfect,
from the viewpoint of any single country.

Friedlaender: Do you mean to say that the basic idea is more
important than the details; that the people should know the
details, but should not get confused by them?

Adenauer: That is exactly what I mean. In a democracy,
the executive conducts negotiations with foreign countries
and presents the result to parliament for decision. It is
impossible to lét parliament have a part in the negotiating.
It is impossible to have parliamentary debates on un-
finished treaties. Only discussions of the principles are
expedient, and that is what we have had in the Bundestag.
The House discussed the basic aspects of the treaties very
extensively. That was very profitable in the last stages
of the negotiations. Now, after the conventions have been
signed, the Bundestag has complete freedom to make its
decision, It has enough time, it has all necessary docu-
ments, and it has unlimited parliamentary sovereignty.
Friedlaender: There will be strenuous political fights in the
Federal Republic. How do you think should this campaign be
fought?

Adenauer: As fairly and as objectively as possible. True,
there are different opinions. However, political opponents
must concede to each other that they are all of good will,
otherwise democracy is bound to fail. -+END

JUNE 1952

--- Page 14 ---
US Information Center in Hamburg

Neukoelln Neighborhood House in Berlin

Cultural Integration

By DR. MARTIN MAYES
Cultural Adviser, Division of Cultural Affairs, HICOG

NERMANY’'S cultural integration with the West has
been accelerated in the past two years by the sub-
stantial contribution of HICOG's Division of Cultural
Affairs, formerly Education and Cultural Relations Divi-
sion, by assisting the Germans achieve partnership with
other democracies in those activities which extend beyond
national boundaries.

This integration has also served to mitigate the impact
of the powerful propaganda offensive from behind the
Iron Curtain, designed to split Germany from the Western
community of nations.

The furthering of this integration has been the goal of
the division's officers and consultants and those Ameri-
cans and Germans who have participated in the exchange-
of-persons projects in the areas of education, youth and
community activities, public health, social services, wom-
en's affairs, religious affairs and the Information Centers.

A PARTICULARLY significant step in Germany’s achiev-
ing cultural integration with the Free World was the
admittance of Germany to UNESCO ‘in 1951. In turn,
UNESCO decided to establish three important institutes
in Germany — one for the social studies in Cologne, one
for pedagogy in Hamburg and one for youth in Munich.
The institutes are largely financed by UNESCO but they
receive HICOG and German assistance.

Especially valuable has been the contribution made by
the voluntary agencies in helping the Germans prepare
for their role in the sphere of international cultural
activity. A few examples of these agencies may be men-
tioned, including American Council of Learned Societies,
American Council on Education, American Friends Serv-
ice Committee, American National Red Cross, CARE,
CRALOG, Commission for International Educational Re-
construction, Commission on the Occupied Areas, Ford
Foundation, Institute of International Education, National
Catholic Welfare Conference, National Conference’: of

JUNE 1952

11

Christians and Jews, National Conference of Parents and
Teachers, National Education Association of the United
States, National Social Welfare Assembly, Inc., Rockefeller
Foundation, World Council of Churches and the United
Council of Church Women, These are but a few of the many
voluntary organizations whose contributions have been
far-reaching in affecting the thinking of a people. Likewise,
a large’ number of American colleges and universities
have had their part in what has been accomplished.

These agencies have brought spiritual sustenance which
has affected the German organism, In the earlier phases
following the end of the war, many of the voluntary
agencies did much to relieve physical discomfort, hunger
and suffering. Of more lasting significance are their
influence on the changes that have been wrought within
the minds of the people.

ITH THE realization that improvement in the cur-

riculum practices in German
schools would be possible only to the extent that teachers
came to understand a more democratic philosophy of
education and the principles of modern educational
psychology, programs were planned which placed em-
phasis on the improvement of pupil-teacher relationships.
As a result there are many instances of increased atten-
tion on part of the teacher to child and community needs,
and a marked decline in the traditional authoritarianism
of the classroom.

German teachers have been given a part in curriculum
planning by education authorities to an extent unheard
of before the war. Within the past two years, a teacher-
planned program for the elementary schools of Bavaria
was approved by the Ministry of Education.

Throughout western Germany there is increased atten-
tion being given to cooperative group-learning methods
and to individualized instruction. Likewise, the social
studies have received increased recognition. The educa-

and instructional

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
American Women’s Panel in Berlin

tional program in vocational schools has been expanded
to include more adequate counseling and guidance.

Teachers at all levels have been influenced by programs
which have served to broaden the base of education by
giving consideration to general education, especially in
the universities and the vocational schools, and through
the introduction of social studies materials with a marked
broadening of objectives looking ahead to education for
citizenship.

Democratic teachers associations have been formed as
professional groups.

Improved textbooks and materials of instruction have
been produced by German educators to meet the changed
objectives in education.

Legislation providing for free tuition and free text-
books has been enacted by several states.

An increasing number of Parent-Teacher Association
groups are being formed in Germany with bylaws resein-
bling those of similar groups in the United States.

German educators were stimulated by the social studies
workshop which was held at Heidelberg and by the guid-
ance workshop at Weilburg. Both workshops were spon-
sored by HICOG and US specialists were brought to
Germany to work with their German colleagues.

ITH THE objective of stimulating the construction

of modern school buildings, HICOG arranged tours
for representative German architects to the Scandinavian
countries and to 18 communities in the Federal Republic.
School architects were brought from the United States
to serve as consultants. There have been many new build-
ings built which incorporate many ideas new to western
Germany in school-building design.

Fourteen Education Service Centers, which were for-
merly an overt operation to serve the needs of German
teachers, educators and authors of textbooks, have been,
or are in the process of being, turned over to German
authorities. The books, materials and equipment are being
supplied on loan and the operational costs become a
German responsibility.

A forward step in furthering education research was
the establishment of an Institute for International Edu-
cational Research (Hochschule fuer Internationale Paeda-
gogische Forschung) at Frankfurt, a cooperative enter-
prise of the state of Hesse, the city of Frankfurt and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

é F \\

Unitarian Medical Mission in Marburg

HICOG, to which DM 950,000 ($220,100) was contributed
from HICOG's Special Projects Fund.

The long-range objective of this institute is the devel-
opment of a group of young Germans interested in edu-
cational research as a career. Among the more immediate
objectives are:

1, The development of objective instruments for the
measurement of aptitudes, achievements and the scientific
evaluation of educational practices and problems.

2. The promotion of the research point of view and
practices in the professional programs for the preparation
of school administrators, supervisors and teachers edu-
cation institution facilities.

3. The accumulation of evidence relative to the out-
comes of German education.

HERE HAVE been criticisms that the German uni-

versities in the postwar period became noted for
their complacency. There was not enough self-examina-
tion. Little effort was made to bring the institutions of
higher education into living contact with the surrounding
community. The professors devoted themselves to science
and research. The social sciences had suffered the greatest ~
setback during the years of isolation, tending to further
the gap between the university and the public.

In a technical age, the idea of a liberal, general edu- |
cation was more and more neglected, while more and
more specialized knowledge was demanded of the stu-
dents. The result is an intellectual machine very efficient
in its own field, but not well fitted to. meet the social
problems of today on a broad political front through. the ~
development of good human relations. 4

Under Military Government, the initial emphasis was —
placed on screening the professors and getting the unl-—
versities open, without exerting greater influence toward —
broad reform. When HICOG assumed responsibility in the |
fall of 1949, all authoritative control was abandoned. The
policy during the period which followed became one of ays
discovery of the indigenous democratic elements already i
in existence and the development of these elements —
through assistance and advice. The philosophy became ™
clear that HICOG could not impose its ideas upon estab-
lished German institutions but had to improve on that”
which. was found to offer good possibilities.

JUNE 1952)
i

--- Page 16 ---
Christian Students’ Conference on Mainau

IX CARRYING out HICOG's program, student community
life was stimulated by providing student centers and
dormitories through special projects. Summer employment
was provided for many university students. Assistance
was given the national student associations, such as the
Allgemeiner Studenten-Ausschuss (ASTA) and the Stu-
dentenwerk, Summer schools were provided and inter-
national student seminars were held with a view to
stimulating international] student relationships, Professors
and student exchange projects were arranged with a view
to improved student-professor relationships.

A new emphasis to bring political and social sciences
into the university curriculum was stressed through ad-
vice to the universities, furthering of American studies
and the establishment of three institutes: the.Institute of
Social Science Research at the University of Frankfurt, the
Political Science Research Institute at Berlin, and the
Institute of Modern History at Cologne,

American institutes for research in American studies
were established at Munich and Frankfurt universities.
A Psychological Research Institute was established at the
University of Hamburg.

Assistance was given to the Free University of Berlin
with a view to the establishment of an exemplary institu-
tion which would incorporate many of the desirable deve-
lopments of other countries of the Western World.

American higher education specialists have given priori-
ty during the past two years to initiating and strengthen-
ing studium generale* programs, Conferences and many
discussions have been held with representatives of the
universities, Many have become convinced as to the value
of these programs,

‘Te NEED to do something positively for youth drew

a top priority in HICOG planning during the past
two years and there was established a high-level inter-
office committee — HICOG Advisory Committee on Youth
Policies and Programs — to coordinate all HICOG youth
plans and programs, In supporting youth activities finan-
cially, HICOG spent» approximately DM 57,453,250
($13,671,874) in 1951 and DM 52,094,040 ($12,098,372) in
1952 for youth.

* Term applied broadening the courses of certain academic studies
to make students. more aware of outside world.

JUNE 1952

13

International Youth Camp on the Lorelej

The funds expended in 1951 were for sending youths
under the Exchanges Program to the United States, ex-
change of youth leaders and workers, US specialists in
youth activities, youth projects from the Special Projects
Fund, allotments for youth from the Small Projects Fund,
Berlin school feeding program, Berlin Free University,
Armed Forces Assistance to German Youth Activities
(GYA), grants-in-aid to special youth programs, religious
youth programs, educational programs, public health youth
programs, youth social services, labor youth programs, food
and agriculture youth programs; and that proportion of
the allocation to adult education, community councils and
Information Centers which was estimated was serving
youth. In addition to these programs, the 1952 youth pro-
gram included exchange of European specialists,

During the same time, German funds for youth work
were being increased rapidly. The Federal Republic made
available DM 50,000,000 ($11,900,000) annually for youth
activities which followed closely the HICOG program.
With such aid, voluntary youth organizations expanded,
youth homes and centers were built, vocational training
was assisted and international meeting and contacts were
encouraged. Assistance was given to youth leadership
and youth literature. Marshall Plan aid enabled special
programs to be initiated for rural youth.

OUTH CENTERS and programs have spread and
found roots in many communities, serving to meet
the needs of youth for informal education, recreation and
civic activities. The necessity of coordination in com-
munity recreation programs was recognized at the Bre-
men Community Recreation Congress in October 1951,
which was attended by some 250 participants from
western Germany and Berlin. It was followed by an
awakened interest in safety and recreational facilities:
After approximately 4,500,000 West German youth af-
filiated and participated in ten large youth organizations,
united on county, state and national level, one of their
principal aims was to work within their own organizations
and beyond that with many of the so-called unorganized
youth toward the idea of European Union. This was the
theme of the Lorelei camp on the Rhine, which was
held from July to September 1951 and was sponsored
by the Federal Youth Ring, the association of voluntary

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Social Studies Workshop at Heidelberg

youth organizations, It proved an example of cooperation
among the youth organizations, the Federal Government
and ‘the offices of the Allied high commissioners. Ap-
proximately 10,000 youth from various European coun-
tries met in 10-day camping sessions, The camp proved
a demonstration of European youth for international
cooperation and Western solidarity.

Four HICOG leadership training schools were de-
veloped and provided training for more than 30,000
youth leaders. Teams of German youth from Berlin toured
western Germany building resistance to aggression from
undemocratic elements, other teams of youth were sent
by HICOG to visit the United Nations sessions in Paris.
By last April 1, 220 youth leaders and trainees had been
sent to the United States for training and observation
of American youth. Jugendaufbauwerk*, begun in 1950 by
HICOG, has grown beyond all expectation and now
coordinates and trains the leaders of more than 600
youth homes.

oo of adult education services into rural areas,
where the German adult evening school had never
reached, was one of the main goals of US aid to adult
education. State adult education associations were en-
couraged to appoint full-time directors in every county
with the chief duty of setting up a rural extension pro-
gram. In Hesse, Wuerttemberg-Baden and Bavaria it is
the rule now to find from five to twenty extension cen-
ters in every county, To these go lecturers, teachers, film
showings from the town and city adult education schools
and, more recently, special programs adapted to the needs
of farm youth and adults.

Since most German children leave full-time school at
14 years of age and thereafter have only very limited
general education opportunities in the one-day a week
vocational schools, many adult education centers have
special departments for out-of-school youth. Worker's
education is another phase which has received special
attention in adult education circles, since even in in-
dustrial centers only about 15 percent of the evening
school enrollment were manual workers.

-* Organization for the rehabilitation of war-dislocated youth, in-
cluding war service and injuries, lost of homes and expulsion from
eastern countries, with training in trade and community activities.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

Kreuzberg Sewing Center in Berlin

NCREASED understanding by the Germans of their

own public health problems is viewed today by US
and German public health experts as the most noteworthy
accomplishment in that field during the past two years.
It is also significant that Germany was voted into the
World Health Organization in May 1951, opening another
channel for international participation.

Stimulating the use of voluntary agencies has been
one of the priority functions of the American public
health staff. Those agencies and special organizations
have made important contributions in the control of
tuberculosis, cancer and poliomyelitis in Germany.

Health education has been furthered by bringing out-
standing leaders in public health from America to demon-
strate democratic methods of securing the maxi-
mum benefits of public health. Maternal and child health
has been stressed in Berlin and Hesse and will be con-
tinued through German participation in the form of well-
baby clinics, immunization and general mother-and-child
health education.

Much effort was devoted by HICOG public health per- =
sonnel in seeking to establish better working relation-
ships among the lay public, the health department and the
practicing physician. An excellent beginning has been 4
made in the formation of blood banks, especially in Ber-
lin, Numerous discussions and conferences were held for
the exchange of ideas in a democratic relationship be-
tween German physicans and other men of science and

RR Baap

oe

their American counterparts.

pase sd

HICOG social services staff member has pointed out
that the seriousness of the problem confronting the
social services is readily apparent when one considers: qf
that approximately 30 percent of the people in the Federal ©
Republic are dependent upon social welfare assistance. ~
This large segment of the population includes 1,000,000 7 —
children in institutions, 500,000 physically handicapped, —
and countless children and adults unable to adjust be=
cause of emotional instability growing out of the effects
of the undermining in the Nazi and postwar periods of
family life and economic and cultural patterns. 3
In facing the problem in Germany, the social services
staff developed two major programs. The first was finan-
cial and professional advisory assistance to Germat

JUNE 1952

--- Page 18 ---
School Demonstration Week in Weilheim

groups which train the 50,000 to 60,000 German social
workers who come in direct contact with the 15,000,000
assistance recipients. This training is in modern methods
of rehabilitation of the child or adult with the emphasis
on understanding the social, economic, cultural and inter-
personal factors which enable a human being to be-
come a participating citizen in a democracy — with the
courage to insist on his rights and the willingness to
accept his responsibilities,

The second included advisory services to governmental
and influential voluntary groups on legislation and
standards in the social welfare field. Advisory assistance
has been given on American method of operating juvenile
delinquency courts and probation and parole services,
and on standards of social work training.

Social services personnel point to a number of spon-
sored projects which have been definitely successful.
Worthy of note are the Berlin neighborhood centers
which were jointly sponsored by HICOG and German
welfare agencies and assisted by American voluntary
agencies. These centers have attracted large attendance
of the youth from both West and East Berlin, Viewing
the success of these centers, the Communists have copied
the West-Berlin examples in establishing Communist
centers in East Berlin. One such center is called Haus
der Kinder and is located on Stalin Allee (formerly Frank-
furter Allee) in East Berlin. This is an instance when the
Communists have adopted methods and programs fostered
by the social service and youth work carried on by the
Division of Cultural Affairs.

ARKED headway has been made during ‘the period

from 1950 to 1952 in encouraging German women
to participate in civic and public life, and thereby as-
sssting them to become more effective citizens. The
reason for singling out women as a group and paying
particular attention to them is because of their importance
in the reconstruction of Germany. This is accented by
the preponderance of women over men in postwar Ger-
many. At the same time the retarded civic development
of women due to the traditional concept of their second-
ary position in the social structure, which was entensified
by the National Socialist regime, provided a condition
which had to be overcome by a program of encourage-
ment, advice and assistance.

JUNE 1952

15

Modern Elementary School in Bremen

The purpose and aim in women’s affairs has been ac-
complished by the use of several recognized techniques,
including conferences of international and national scope,
citizenship courses at the regional and national level,
aid to women's organizations, aid and assistance in the
preparation and distribution of pertinent materials, and
the advisory services of women's affairs advisors at head-
quarters, regional and community levels.

The Bad Reichenhall conference in September 1950
brought German women together with outstanding
leaders of other countries for the first time. The con-
ference was attended by 200 outstanding women of 15
nationalities for the first postwar international gathering
of its kind in Europe.

In 1951 a conference of young women leaders was
held at Hindelang, Bavaria, at which German were in-
troduced to young women leaders from other countries.

NOTHER conference in 1951 brought representatives

of ten US women's organizations together with re-
presentatives of all leading women’s organizations in
the Federal Republic.

In 1952 a conference in Frankfurt of women leaders
who had returned from the United States discussed Ger-
man-American relations and ways and means by which
returned leaders could enlarge the breadth and scope
of relationships in which their experience in America
could be used to advantage.

HICOG sponsored courses on citizenship were held from
July through September 1951, offering women ten days of
concentrated instruction on various phases of citizenship.
Lecturers were brought from England, Finland, France,
Sweden, Norway and from agencies of the United Nations,
as well as from the United States. Grant-in-aid assistance
was given German organizations to conduct courses in
citizenship on a regional basis throughout the Republic.

ELIGIOUS Affairs staff personnel have actively fa-

cilitated the establishment of outside world contacts
for the Germans, Church groups were brought into work-
ing relationships with church groups in America and in
other countries. Through these relationships assistance
has been given for the building of churches and hospitals,
and furnishing help to many projects which otherwise
would not have been completed.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Youth Group at UN Briefing in Paris

Organized by the Societies for Christian-Jewish Cooper-
ation and World Brotherhood groups, Brotherhood Week
was celebrated throughout the Federal Republic from
March 9 to 16, 1952. It proved a successful demonstration
of German good-will forces for peaceful cooperation
among all groups, regardless of race, creed or nationality.
Although the need of combating anti-Semitism was empha-
sized, such intergroup problems as appropriate for inter-
group action were courageously dealt with by the speakers,

As a preface to the “Week,” President Theodor Heuss
addressed the German nation on March 7 over all radio
stations of the Federal Republic including RIAS in Berlin.
The speech was prominently displayed in all West-German
newspapers and widely commented upon in editorials. It
is estimated that there were more than 100 special Brother-
hood Week events.

Two major church groups in the Federal Republic have
distributed more than 1,000,000 cards and 105,000 journals
to. people behind the Iron Curtain, Two large meetings
which were largely devoted to youth were held in Berlin.
The Evangelical Church Congress in 1951 attracted more
than 350,000 persons, of which an estimated 250,000 came
from the East Zone, ‘

OWARD the end of 1946 news began to spread of the

opening of an American library,’ wrote the Rhein-
Neckar-Zeitung (Heidelberg newspaper) on the occasion
of the recent fifth anniversary of the opening of the US
Information Center in Mannheim. ‘People told each other
that interesting and otherwise unobtainable material could
be had in this library. In 1949, all those in the habit of
participating in the cultural life of the city were fully
aware of the fact that the America House* offered a many-
sided cultural program. Today, in 1952, you may ask any
schoolboy and he will not only tell where to find the
America House but also answer correctly your questions
about its program, purpose and importance.”

This expression, referring to the development of one
particular Information Center applies to all of them, The
Information Centers integrated themselves organically, as
it were, and with growing success, into the life of the
respective cities, Their reputation spread to widening
circles until, thanks to their own value as a cultural factor

* In Germany, the US Information Center is known as America
House, translated from ‘‘Amerika Haus."*

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

Young Women's Conference in Hindelang

in interpreting America, they became popular institutions
in the best sense of the word.

ODAY MANY newspapers speak of the Information
Centers as “a grand acquisition.’ Numerous press
comment tell of the value of their activities and success in
acquainting Germans with the’ American way of life. News-
papers well-known for their objectivity such as, for example,
the Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim), spoke highly of the
Information Center contribution “toward replacing the
one-sided, propaganda-stimulated nationalist orientation
of a period stretching over twelve years by an internation-
al outlook acquired by the use of one’s own judgement."
The Speakers and Artists Bureau has been an integral
part of the Information Centers headquarters staff since
the inception of HICOG, The bureau is a unique develop-
ment among the world-wide US Informations Centers
activities, Its purpose is to provide these centers in Ger-
many with lecture and music programs of such quality as
to implement American objectives and to enhance the
prestige of the centers.

Although providing only minimum expenses, this bureau
has drawn to Germany several hundred American profes-
sors, writers, journalists and other American and European
experts to lecture and hold seminars on various phases of
American life and Western democratic traditions. One of
the salient features has been the development of an inten-
sive music program mainly through concerts by numerous
young American artists. --END

Dr. Mayes has been in Germany since the end of
the war, As a civilian consultant to the US Air Force,
he was with the Strategic Bombing Survey in 1945
and later joined Wiesbaden's DISCC, an information
control unit. Going to Munich he was with the
Bavarian military government and state commis-
sioner's office for five years serving as chief of the
Education Branch. Recently he was transferred to
HICOG headquarters as cultural adviser. A native
of Richmond, Mo., he was graduated from William
Jewell College and received his doctor's degree from
the University of Missouri in 1933. He also studied
in Vienna and Heidelberg. For a time he published
a newspaper in his home town of Richmond and
worked for the Kansas City Star. Dr. Mayes will
return to the United States in July.

JUNE 1952 ~

So a

--- Page 20 ---
HICOG Builds
For the Future

A RES EReERRRTE
——$—L

Buildings shown, top to bot-
tom, are: —

1. Carl Schurz Housing Settle-
ment, Frankfurt.

- HICOG's Headquarters,
Bonn-Mehlem.

- US Housing Project, Bad
Godesberg.

- Muffendorfer Project for
German personnel, Bad
Godesberg.

. Tannenbusch Project for
German personnel, Bonn.

--- Page 21 ---
Glenn G. Wolfe, director of the Office of Administration,
which conceived, planned and carried out the vast HICOG
construction projects in the Frankfurt and Bonn areas.
(All photos in this section by Claude Jacoby and N. Gassner, PRD HICOG)

Jack H. Lennon, special assistant to the director of the
Office of Administration, handled all financial arrange-
ments, including procurement of land, and all the policy
negotiations with city and Federal Government officials.

Solving
Housing
Problems

N A POSTWAR, house-hungry world, Americans in

Germany are helping to solve the acute space shortage
problem. At the same time they are saving the US tax-
payer thousands of dollars annually, giving substantial
aid to the West German economy and marking another
milestone in improving German-American relationships.

In the West German commercial center of Frankfurt
and in the new American headquarters area near
Bonn, seat of the Federal Republic's government, the
Office of the US High Commissioner for Germany has
erected a total of four housing projects and an office
building for its employees, obviating the necessity of
requisitioning homes and alleviating the congested living
conditions of the German population.

The cost of construction and the outright purchase
of the land have been financed by GARIOA counterpart
funds — Deutsche marks accruing from dollar expendi-
tures — which represent US taxpayers’ aid to the Ger-
man economy.

What are these counterpart funds? Imports which were
purchased by Germany with American dollar aid, first
under the Government and Relief in Occupied Areas
(GARIOA) program and later under the Marshall Plan,
have been sold in Germany for Deutsche marks. The

Lt. Col. George G. Davies, architect of the US Army's
Corps of Engineers, attached to HICOG, was responsible
for the initial drawings, the planning of the five sites and
all the technica] work relative to the building projects.

--- Page 22 ---
DM proceeds of these sales are called counterpart funds
and are placed in special counterpart accounts to be used
for certain authorized purposes.

The GARIOA counterpart account consisted originally
of the Deutsche marks received for goods imported under
the GARIOA program of United States dollar assistance
to the German people. When the GARIOA program for
the import of goods from the dollar area was terminated
on June 30, 1950, it was decided to keep the GARIOA
counterpart account in existence by depositing in it
25 percent of the Deutsche mark received for goods im-
ported under the Marshall Plan. This percentage of
counterpart continued to be deposited in the GARIOA
account when the administration of US aid to Germany
was transferred to the Mutual Security Agency.

The GARIOA DM funds have been used for many pur-
poses, all of which expenditures, like those for the HICOG
housing projects, have stimulated the German economy
and provided employment —the primary objectives in
the use of counterpart funds. Housing in Germany is one
of the country's greatest needs, even by the most opti-
mistic outlook, followed by an extensive building program,
it will take 15 to 20 years for Germany to reach its pre-
war level of housing units. HICOG's projects are of last-
ing value to Germany and are in accord with the basic
purposes of the GARIOA counterpart program.

Title of the land and buildings for the American hous-
ing vests with the United States Government and as our
employees moved from requisitioned quarters these Ger-
man homes were once again released, providing some of
the much needed additional living units for the local
population. At present the United States Army is utilizing
many of the units that HICOG has been able to release
because of HICOG's building programs. It is anticipated
that in the near future these units will be released to
their owners by the Army.

Under the Foreign Service Act of 1946, civilian employees
of the US Government living abroad receive housing al-
lowances. The average allowance in western Europe is
between $1,500 and $2,000 per year. By providing homes
for its American employees instead of reimbursement for
rent of homes from the German economy, HICOG will
be saving the American taxpayer an estimated $600,000
yearly in quarters allowances alone.

The idea for the projects was first envisioned with
the shiftover of occupation responsibility from Military
Government to the Department of State in October 1949
and the simultaneous transfer of the headquarters from
Berlin to Frankfurt.

Planners were faced with the almost impossible task of
finding adequate housing in Frankfurt for the influx of
personnel from Berlin. The situation — duplicated in all of
West Germany's larger cities — posed enormous problems.

The city was crammed far beyond its housing capacity
as refugees and Germans from rural areas sought jobs
and homes. Seventy-five percent of all Frankfurt housing
had been partially or completely destroyed by wartime
bombs; available space was overtaxed with an average
of nearly two Germans per room.

Occupation quarters, requisitioned in 1945 from the
houses which remained, were in continual need of re-
pair, and by mid-1950 many had deteriorated to a point
where repairs on these houses built many years ago
were no longer economically justifiable. Close to 200
quarters inhabited by HICOG personnel were substandard.

Such conditions impaired morale and interfered with
working efficiency. In facing this problem, HICOG of-
ficials felt it was time, by 1950, to begin vacating requisi-
tioned property; the German Federal Republic should not
be burdened economically with additional requisitioning.

GAINST THIS BACKGROUND came the decision to

build the 420-unit housing project in Frankfurt. Trail-
blazing in German-American relationships began when
HICOG officials and Frankfurt authorities sat down to
negotiate for a plot of land on which the project could
be built. Twenty-four acres, approximately a quarter-
mile north of the headquarters building, were granted
without charge by the city for as long as the United
States required the property for housing purposes, In
return for this property loan, the city will inherit the
project block by block as US requirements diminish.

However, the Frankfurt project will continue to house
the American employees of the Consulate General in
Frankfurt. In addition thereto the Frankfurt project con-
tinues to provide 300 additional housing units for families
of other United States Government agencies which have
been brought to Germany in the expansion of our total
forces in western Europe. If HICOG had not built their
housing projects, these units would not be available for
other United States Government agencies’ use.

In every practicable instance HICOG assented to the
use of building materials produced by the partly city-
owned rubble processing company, while Frankfurt build-
ing firms and local labor were promised preference
where conditions were equal. Frankfurt’'s two archi-
tectural associations were consulted for the names of
their 10 top members. Specifications and plans were sub-
mitted to them and their estimates invited on costs,
When blueprints and specifications had been prepared
by the selected architect, all qualified contractors in the
US Zone were given a chance to bid on construction.

Mayor Walter Kolb of Frankfurt congratulates Mr. Wolfe
at ceremonies attending the dedication in November 1950
of “Die Carl Schurz Siedlung,” a project which has played
a part in further improving German-American relations.

--- Page 23 ---
x
h
ae oe ue

‘oo en He le
ae

ae

aR sh ae

 &

we ay Bu a

we ue fe
we BR Me 3H 9s

Night and day views of the new HICOG Headquarters Building in the “Mehlemer Aue” (Mehlem Meadow) area of Bonn.
Photo at left shows four of the five wings of sprawling structure. Fifth wing is to rear of the main, seven-story section.

AKING STOCK UPON COMPLETION of the project,
Germans and Americans alike could point to a
number of benefits which evolved with the building.
Employment of German construction workers reached
2,500 at the peak of the building period; a large percent-
age of Frankfurt's skilled labor was employed. Several
struggling businesses received a much-needed boost
through subcontracts. Thanks to project orders, a number
of small businesses took root and expanded considerably.
That HICOG received remarkable value for the
GARIOA counterpart funds spent would be apparent if
a rough comparison were made between cost of the
Frankfurt project and a similar one in America. Funda-
mental estimates — though difficult to arrive at due to
variance in conditions—show a 25 percent saving on
the Frankfurt buildings. Important, of course, is the
lower cost of labor in Germany.

As the Federal Republic approached national sover-
eignty and HICOG contemplated moving its headquarters
to the German capital city in order to establish more
normal relationships between the US and the German
Governments, plans to repeat the Frankfurt housing
experiment in the Bonn enclave got under way.

After many days of intensive planning and less than
nine months of high speed construction work, one Ameri-
can housing project in Bad Godesberg, two housing proj-
ects for German employees — one in Bad Godesberg and
the other in Bonn-Tannenbusch — as well as a new head-
quarters building with 130,000 net square feet of floor
space in Bad Godesberg-Mehlem were ready for occu-
pancy in November 1951. The four projects in the Bonn

One section of large cafeteria for American and German
employees. Cafeteria is on top floor of the main building

area, built at a cost of DM 99,500,000 ($23,681,000), were,
like the one at Frankfurt, financed by counterpart funds.

The American project of 458 units is owned outright,
land and all, by the US Government, which plans to
retain ownership indefinitely. The land was bought by
the United States from 60 individual owners. The two
projects for German employees, totaling 824 units, are
maintained and operated by the German Government
under an agreement with HICOG which stipulates that
only those persons HICOG deems itself responsible to
house shall be allowed tenancy. Rents are established by
the US Government and maintenance must be of the
highest standard.

The Federal Republic invested more than DM 7,000,000
($1,666,000) in the two projects and, in return, is receiv-
ing all rents from them. They are built upon land pur-
chased by the German Government and when no longer
needed by the US Government, will be returned,

The new housing projects in the Bonn area have
released housing in Frankfurt through the move of many
of HICOG's German employees from that city to Bonn.
Others, already living in the Bonn area, will eventually
move into the projects, further relieving the situation in
the old university town, which is bursting at every seam
with civil servants of the Federal Government and
members of the rapidly-growing international community.

Meanwhile the new projects in the Bonn area are
bringing Germans and Americans still closer together.
A modern cafeteria on the top floor of the Mehlem office
building is open to all HICOG employees, regardless of
nationality. German and American employees sit down
together at their noonday meal and under a special
HICOG arrangement all can pay in German currency.

ICOG'S BUILDING ACHIEVEMENTS continue to be
a source of the greatest interest to the Germans.
Large numbers have visited the sites, while contractors,
architects and builders in no way connected with the
work kept close tabs on construction. Tours were arranged
for newsmen as well as home economics groups.
Through the projects’ example, it is hoped better hous-
ing will emerge where rubble still marks the vast de-
struction of war. Perhaps the necessity of building again
can be turned into an advantage for Germany's next
generation if higher housing standards are given a chance”
to contribute to building a new, healthy mentality. +END

--- Page 24 ---
US and German Press Reaction

N NOV. 21, 1950, United States High Commissioner
O for Germany John J. McCloy announced that his
headquarters would move from Frankfurt to Bonn, seat
of the Federal Government, and that a housing develop-
ment would be built to accommodate American personnel.

One year and one week later, Mr. McCloy’s plan be-
came a fact, His headquarters was in full operation in
Bonn and the American employees of HICOG were
established in their new apartments, Everything was com-
pleted, That is, everything save the international discus-
sion which Mr. McCloy's announcement had touched off.
That discussion is still continuing.

Unfortunately, much of the discussion has been un-
informed and confusing, This has led to misconceptions
both in the United States and Germany, particularly with
regard to the cost of the apartments and their furnishings
and decorations. Many of the questions which are still in
peoples’ minds about the project are adequately answered
in the following letter from Glenn G. Wolfe, director,
Office of Administration, HICOG, to The New York Times:

Housing Americans in Bonn
Costs, Relation of Project to German Community Life Discussed

To the Editor of The New York Times:

I have read Mr. Middleton's article in the International Air
Edition of Aug. 27 concerning the construction of quarters for
the transfer of this office of the United States High Commission
in Germany from Frankfurt to Bonn. I am certain that The New
York Times, in its aim to be objective, will be interested in
the facts concerning the construction of these quarters,

In the first place, the transfer was made necessary because it
is not practicable for the United States to carry out its mission
in Germany in a locality 100 miles from the capital of the Federal
Republic in Bonn.

Since the Bonn area was severely damaged during the war,
the Federal Republic and the British and French missions have
all had to build large housing projects to house their missions.
The United States has had to do the same.

The United States decision to provide housing for its employees
in a single area was taken for the simple reason of keeping costs
at a minimum. Construction on a decentralized basis, though
desirable, would have been more than twice as expensive. As the
officer on Mr. McCloy's staff responsible for the planning of this
project, I take pride in the fact that this entire installation was
built at a unit cost of 80 cents per cubic foot, which is below
the cost of similar construction work in Western Germany today
and far below prevailing costs in the United States for com-
parable facilities.

Furthermore, this project will save the American taxpayer
hundreds of thousands of dollars annually so long as American
employees are housed there, because under the law (Foreign
Service Act of 1946) United States employees stationed abroad
are given a housing allowance if housing is not provided.

One of the great needs in Germany is housing. This project

enables us to relinquish much-needed German housing now
under requisition. The entire project, incidentally, is being
financed out of counterpart funds—that is, local German currency
generated from ECA dollar assistance to Germany which was
originally appropriated to provide imports essential to the Ger-
man economy.
_ Any centralized housing project can, of course, result in
isolation from the surrounding community. But the impression
given by your article that the Bonn project will keep Americans
stationed in Bonn from any contact with German life is contrary
to both our policy and our expectations.

Far from prohibiting contact between Germans and Americans,
all of the American facilities will be open to German officials
and the German public at all times. The project will provide
badly needed facilities to the entire region, The recreation areas,
restaurant, theater and all other facilities of this type will be
Open to Germans either free of charge or on payment of the same
fees which are charged to Americans, The community arrange-

ments are such that we have every expectation that they will
stand as monuments to the new German-American relationship.

The publication of the Office of the High Commissioner men-
tioned in the article is a factual planning study of the facilities
in the Bonn area. It does not seek to give the impression, nor is
it implied, that Americans in Germany ‘‘never had it so good."
No one can deny that the setting will be beautiful and that the
quarters are in good taste, but their cost and style are certainly
not of the luxury order. To remove any ambiguity conveyed by
your article, it should be pointed out that food and other items
needed by the American community will be provided at retail
cost, based on retail prices for these items in the United States.
The same is true for personal facilities and recreational activities.

In all these cases the conditions do not depart from the
standards normally used for Foreign Service employees eithér
in other countries or im Germany up to the present time.

The Americans living in the project will, we hope, live
comfortably, with modern facilities, in a manner befitting repre-
sentatives of their country, but without ostentation or luxury.
As for their isolation, those of us responsible for the planning
and construction of this project look forward to the proof that
it will bring about closer and more understanding German-
American. relationships instead of, as the article suggested,
keeping us ‘from any contact with German life in the capital

of the Federal Republic.” GLENN G. WOLFE,
Director, Office of Administration.
Frankfurt, Germany, Aug. 30, 1951.

OME QUESTIONS WHICH Mr. Wolfe left unanswered,

but which are still being asked, include:

Q. Exactly how much did the development cost?

A. Complete with furnishings, the project amounted to
58,000,000 Deutsche marks or $14,500,000.

Q. How many apartments were built and how many
Americans are being accommodated?

A. There are 458 apartments in the project and ap-
proximately 1,000 individuals, including HICOG employees
and their families.

Q. Just how much will the development save the
American taxpayer by eliminating the necessity for
Congressional appropriations to meet Foreign Service
rental allowances?

A, There will be an estimated annual saving of $600,000
over and above the cost of operating and maintaining
the buildings.

Q. How did construction costs compare with those in
the United States?

A. This cannot be answered exactly in terms of dollars
and cents since American construction costs differ ge-
ographically, However, the housing project was put up
at the rate of 80 cents per cubic foot, which is very much
lower than the average in the United States.

Q. Were any occupation funds used?

A. None whatsoever.

Q. To what extent were the German government and
people taken into consideration in connection with the

project?
A. In all of its phases — procurement of land, actual
construction and architectural design — the German

authorities were constantly consulted.

Q. How do the German people feel about it?

A, The general attitude is reflected in the German press.
For example, the Frankfurter Rundschau commented:
“Progressive building types, harmonious adjustment to
the surroundings and beautiful interior furnishings are
the principal characteristics of the new HICOG settlement
on the Rhine. Experts agree unanimously that it represents -

--- Page 25 ---
‘ao eer

oon

ten” in der Deichmannsant

Goneralnd! ig woensend® qusammenatbalt”
cen, tron bigs RSE ta vim das, Baw
mec fone

ettwoktren Tee
mee punaercenie
it re aaTTbONE
it ee guancenteRterone
syausen Be

vite

a
“puna

gornaven Beet]

i.
n siedelt um nach

Hochkommis 10

‘yon 3. 1 be

.

che amen"

ies, Avehite

Harmonis

yon operst Da"

cane, ds P

sn
ohh die

--- Page 26 ---
arbeie 1
t hetetiigten Ari

dex Verwatton
bert Lehe, a

tandnisvolle Zusammenarb,

Bad Gotesberg
tent bens

McCloy: Jetzt hin te
Herr Doktor prod
* Anspnd

on lem
ies Biirogebaude im Mehl e

8 Keine pr

eh-5
gende Ns

nscnes
$ Je s

~ pots Mg sce

Abkehr von ge, “Mictskascrne

a a si a ronner
aes gee PT

neat me erwarter
ate Ste

«
fandet and
ng fr Hane

Grote 6 ae oe
soo wo ee a

ige, det
angenseig® §

--- Page 27 ---
an excellent achievement of the Ger-
man firms working on this project.
Built in accordance with the modern
rules of strictest rationalization, these
buildings will serve as models for fu-
ture housing settlements in Germany.”

The Bonner Rundschau said: “The
northern outskirts of Bonn, which have
been completely neglected for years,
will be extraordinarily improved
through this new housing project.”

Q. How long did it take to com-
plete the project?

A. Mr, McCloy broke the ground
on Feb. 15, 1951, and the first apart-
ments were ready for occupancy nine
months later.

Q. Did the speed with which the
project was completed increase build-
ing costs?

A. It is estimated that the price
might have been 10 to 15 percent
lower had the job been stretched over
a two-year period. However, the past
six months, since the completion of the
project, have seen a strongly rising
index for labor materials. If the US
Government had allowed the project
to be constructed over a two-year
period it would have been necessary
to pay much higher costs for steel,
which, due to tremendous demand, has
increased in the past year 10 percent
per ton, Further, additional labor costs
would have to be paid.

* * *

German Press Comment

All Americans and Germans who
worked on this project can be proud
of the short time they needed to plan
and build it. The housing projects will
greatly alleviate the German housing
shortage, and HICOG's move to Bonn
will mean a considerable relief to the
American taxpayer. Experts say it will
save $600,000 a year. — Generalanzei-
ger, Bonn, Nov. 8, 1951.

* * *

The men who built this housing proj-
ect deserve full commendation, be-
cause what they accomplished in 10
weeks between groundbreaking and
the Richtfest is a miracle. It reminds
one of the time when cities mush-
roomed up in the West of the United
States. Here in Bad Godesberg, too,
a whole town was built practically
overnight. — Rheinische Zeitung, Co-
logne, June 2, 1951.

* * *

Tremendous difficulties had to be
overcome in building this new head-
quarters for HICOG. Since the seven-
floor structure is situated directly on
the Rhine, it had to be built on stilts,
as a precaution against the river's
floods. At the same time, however,
this solution provides covered parking
space for hundreds of cars. — West-
deutsche Allgemeine, Bochum, June 14,
1951.

Living room of three-room apartment in
the American Housing Project in Bonn.

Interiors of Apartments
In Big Bonn US Project

Dining room, seen from living room, in
another of the new three-room units,

Living room of three-room apartment
now occupied by three bachelor girls.

The combined living and bedroom in
one of the project's bachelor apartments.

We understand that the American
authorities have agreed to comply with
German wishes for the preservation of
the beautiful south facade of Haus
Deichmannsaue (headquarters of the
US High Commissioner). This is parti-
cularly gratifying, because such co-
operation on practical tasks results in
mutual respect, which facilitates fruit-
ful cooperation in other fields. — Bon-
ner Rundschau, Bonn, March 14, 1951.

ae

Undoubtedly Feb. 15, 1951, will be
recorded in the history of Bad Godes-
berg as a great day: High Commis-
sioner John J. McCloy broke the
ground for the new housing project
“Little America” on the northern out-
skirts of the town. — Rheinische Zei-
tung, Cologne, Feb. 16, 1951.

* * *

American Press Comment

“Little America” will have every-
thing you would find in a small Ameri-
can town. — The Courier-Journal,
Louisville, Ky.

* * *

These flats are modern in construc-
tion, but care has been taken in effect-
ing as many economies as possible, —
The Christian Science Monitor, Boston.

* * *

The US Government got its money's
worth in this building venture ...

This building program gave thou-
sands of German workers the pos-
sibility to make a living, gave them
decent wages, employed all branches
of the building industry, and demon-
strated in a very practical and efficient
way the achievements of American
engineering and the American way of
doing business.

This experiment startled the Ger-
mans. What they admire is efficient
planning, energetic execution and ex-
pert performance. All this they saw
achieved here to such a degree that
they were simply amazed. — The Free
Press, Colorado Springs, Colo.

* * *

The move to Mehlem gave certain Ger-
man political opportunists a brief chance
to revive their periodic accusations of
luxurious Allied living on occupation
costs paid by German taxpayers. Their
target this time was the fancy uphol-
stered furniture allegedly gracing
Mr. McCloy’‘s private office. Actually,
the Americans had long since made
the Germans take back $15,000 worth
of luxury fittings which the Germans
themselves had installed. Mr. McCloy's
office at Mehlem contains nothing fan-
cier than brown-leather chairs and
gunmetal draperies. Its principal deco-
rations: an Alpine scene, and auto-
graphed portraits from Bernard Baruch
and Winston Churchill. — Newsweek,
Nov. 12, 1951.

--- Page 28 ---
Soviet Zone Version

Communists throughout Germany,
realizing that the United States had
provided additional housing for Ger-
man families by releasing requisition-
ed quarters, endeavored by all means
to play down the good will created by
the Americans. However, western Ger-
man newspapers were very factual and
fair in their evaluation and praise of
the project; only the Communist Party
newspapers printed this distorted ver-
sion of the story.

“A check of the expenditures for the
accommodation of members of the
Western Occupation Powers reveals
that DM 20,000 to DM 25,000 has been
spent for each member of the High
Commission being transferred to Bonn.
The sum total of DM 27,000,000, origi-
nally fixed for the apartments of the
Occupying Powers, has been exceeded
by approximately 550 percent.

“The millions involved in contracts
issued by Occupation Authorities must
be met by the West German taxpayer.
A number of officials of the US High
Commission and some German employ-
ees have diverted enormous amounts
into their own pockets by selecting for
the contracts such German firms as
agreed to make out estimates and bills
in excess of the actual cost of goods
delivered and services rendered and
to pay the excess amount to those who
granted them the contracts." — Neues
Deutschland, official organ of the So-
cialist Unity (Communist) Party in
East Germany, June 29, 1951. -+END

At gay Christmas party given
at HICOG headquarters Dec, 25
by US High Commissioner and
Mrs. John J, McCloy, more than
2,000 American, Allied and Ger-
man guests were present and
joined in singing the best-loved
carols, the festive occasion pro-
ducing a new note of cordiality in
such US-German social contacts.

X’mas Get-Togethers

At lighting of the traditional
Christmas tree at US housing
project in Bad Godesberg, more
than 300 American, French and
German. children, as well as a
sprinkling of other nationals,
sang Yuletide carols and ex-
changed greetings in at least
three languages. Refreshments
followed international caroling.

--- Page 29 ---
Transfer from Frankfurt of more than 600 German employees and their dependents to reinforce the German staff stationed
in Bonn, necessitated the provision of adequate housing accommodation and to that end two large settlements were built
on conveniently-located sites not far from HICOG’s new headquarters. Pictured above is the ‘‘Riepalsche Wiese” project,

View of the big new Muffendorfer project shows the
10-story structure, one of the tallest in the country, built
to accommodate bachelors of HICOG's German personnel.

New Homes, New School Built
For German Staff

HILE THE PROBLEM oi providing suitable, con-
venient housing for its 870 German employees
transferred from Frankfurt and other cities to Bonn was
one which HICOG's planners solved by constructing the
Tannenbusch and Muffendorfer projects, it was also ne-
cessary to care for the several hundred dependents of
these personnel, particularly the children. A new German
elementary school capable of accommodating 300 students
accordingly was partly financed by HICOG at a cost of DM
360,000 ($85,680) and was opened Dec. 1 with an enroll-
ment of 200. Most of the boys and girls, from the first
to the sixth grades, are the children of HICOG employees.

Although intended primarily for such dependents, the
school is open to all children residing in the area as

Interiors of the German housing projects were laid out with eye to comfort as well as utility. Left, the corner living-
room in a three-room apartment, Center, kitchen in apartments of all sizes are ‘Hausfrau's” delight: each contains
electric range, refrigerator, adequate shelves and storage space. Right, living and bedroom in efficiency-type apartment,

--- Page 30 ---
a ROG

American and German flags are unfurled, side by side, over new elementary school in Tannenbusch, Bonn, at dedication
ceremonies last November, when first of three units was completed. Right, choir drawn from 200 pupils sings at opening.

the addition is a part of the regular Bonn school system. In it have been
embodied the most modern features of school construction. Included are read-
ing rooms and a library, which are somewhat radical departures for a German
elementary school. :

Started with the aid of the HICOG Special Projects Fund grant, the school
will consist of three units. The first was completed and dedicated last
November at ceremonies attended by high-ranking ofiicers of HICOG as well
as city and federal officials. The building is of two stories and holds six class-
rooms with adjoining small work-group studies, Lunch rooms also are provided.

Other up-to-date equipment includes exhibit cases in the halls; radio outlets
in each classroom; acoustic ceiling paneling, eye-soothing green “black-
boards" and movable work tables in place of out-moded rows of desks.

A decided innovation for a German elementary school is the library at the
Tannenbusch institution. German school officials deemed a library for the
lower grades unnecessary, but Dr. Mildred English of HICOG's Education Branch
made a point of providing for the children's library. The first of its books have
come from the CARE-UNESCO Children's Book Fund and it is hoped contribu-
tions will be forthcoming from German firms and public organizations. --END

Rector Josef Dietz (left) demonstrates
public address system and record player.
Classrooms and corridors are airy, light.
Movable tables have replaced old-fash-
ioned desks. ‘‘Blackboards"' are green.

Bonn's Mayor Peter Busen felicitates
HICOG’s Glenn Wolfe at dedication.

--- Page 31 ---


--- Page 32 ---
America’s Good Friends

By HAYNES R. MAHONEY
Information Officer, Nuremberg Public Affairs Regional Office

MERICA'S GOOD friends among the German people
al are the former “exchangees’ — the men and women
who worked and studied in the United States for periods
of three months to one year under State Department
sponsorship. But these teachers, students, professional
and civic leaders are finding a growing number of prob-
lems on their return to Germany primarily because of
their partiality for the United States. The fact that they
are working earnestly and intelligently to solve these
problems, perhaps better than any other evidence, in-
dicates the sincerity of their friendship for America.

These were the impressions gained at a meeting of
some 50 exchangees held in Hof recently through the
sponsorship of the Hof Exchange Circle.

During the opening session of the two-day conference,
the exchangees, all of whom came from the northern
Bavarian district of Upper Franconia, heard Mrs, John
J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner, and
Dr. Oron J. Hale, US state commissioner for Bavaria,
urge them to extend their American experiences and
learning to an ever widening circle of friends and as-
sociates, In the subsequent panel discussions, the ex-
changees indicated that this they were anxious to do,
but that they were running into the traditional conserva-
tism of many elements of the German people. The impli-
cation was that many Germans were more isolationist
than some Americans.

S ONE OF the conferees expressed it: “I found more

Americans interested in learning about Germany dur-
ing my trip to the United States, than Germans eager to
hear about America on my return,”

They agreed, however, that this reaction was not uni-
versal. In fact, most had been called upon to give lectures
or write articles on their experiences abroad. In particu-
lar the young people — the teen-agers and university
students who had lived a year in the United States —
found keen interest among their fellows and the youth
organizations. Many had converted ideas and methods
picked up in America to effective use in Germany. One
woman had opened a new vocational school for girls,
utilizing many American education methods, and had
even gained civic support in financing the. construction
of a new school building. A librarian had introduced the
American open-shelf system to her institution with the
enthusiastic approval of the patrons. Several of the young
farmers were attempting to use US agricultural tech-
niques on their farms.

But the fact that many Germans, particularly among
Official circles, have displayed an aversion to “new-
fangled ideas from abroad” had posed an unpleasant sur-
Prise to exchangees returning from what several called
an “inspiring visit in the United States." A man, who had

JUNE 1952

17

visited the United States as a representative of a farmers’
organization, reported that neither the state government
nor even his own organization had requested any sort
of report from him on agricultural America, At the same
time, he said that he had found avid interest among the
small groups of farmers to whom he had talked, Edu-
cational authorities were described as the least receptive
to foreign ideas, and one teacher reported that she had
been forbidden to use liberal teaching methods which
she had learned in an American classroom. University
students were generally given no credit for their studies
in the United States.

HE INTENSE interest of exchangees in utilizing their

foreign experience in Germany, however, was far
more encouraging than the reported resistance to new
concepts and procedures was discouraging. There was
general agreement that the task of the exchangee was not
to propagate American methods — which in all circum-
stances were not adaptable to Germany anyway — but
was to spread to the widest circles the useful knowledge
gained from exchange visits in order to impress upon
Germans that “every nation has something to give an-
other.’ They urged caution in advancing foreign ideas,
and in all cases to drop the “made in USA" label until
the proposal had proved workable and acceptable to the
respective government agency, firm, school or civic
organization.

Another theme which produced active interest among
the Upper Franconian exchangees was the possibility
of improving international relations through the Ex-
changes Program, They were particularly impressed by
a report on the organization of the “Columbus Society”
in Munich, primarily comprised of exchangees, which is

Guests at the conference included (left to right): Dr. Oron
J. Hale, US state commissioner for Bavaria; Mrs, John
J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner; Hans
Hoegn, mayor of Hof, and Friedrich Freiherr von Teuchert,

vice president of Upper Franconia. (HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
aimed at drawing foreign students and other visitors
from abroad into closer association with Germans by
organizing social programs and offering them visits in
German homes during vacation times. The proposal to
form chapters of this organization in Upper Franconia is
now being considered.

N IMPORTANT phase of international relation to

which the conferees at Hof felt they could make a
contribution was the promotion of better relations be-
tween American troops and Germans.

It was pointed out that US soldiers are stationed among
a people whose language they do not understand, and
whose customs are foreign to them. Often their only
contact with Germans is through some of the less de-
sirable elements of the German population.

“If leaders of American troops, with German help,
would seriously attempt to interest the soldiers in the
problems of German life, then the soldiers would soon
find more profitable ways to spend their leisure time
and would come less often to the point of drowning
their troubles," one of the exchangees said. With the
general agreement of the group, it was pointed out that
no individuals are better equipped to introduce Americans
to the better elements of the German population than the
exchangees themselves. Their knowledge of English and
recent visits in the United States would give them a

common ¢round for establishing a friendly relationship
with Americans. It was suggested that such a task might
well be taken on by local Columbus Societies or similar
organizations.

During the conference, the exchangees found their first
opportunity to practice this new experiment in inter-
national relations, when they were entertained at a-
Saturday evening buffet supper by the 15th’Constabulary
Squadron at its enlisted men’s club. After overcoming an
initial reserve, the exchangees discovered mutual inter-
ests and a friendly acceptance on the part of the soldiers,
which indicated that closer relations could easily be fos-
tered between themselves and the American defense forces.

\HE CONFERENCE, which was held on the weekend
‘of April 26, was organized by the Hof Exchanges
Circles with assistance from the local US Public Affairs
Office. It attracted almost one-half of the 150 former US
visitors living in Upper Franconia, a good turnout even
by American standards, considering the fact that all
delegates voted to pay their own expenses at the meeting.
In the two days of speeches and discussions no major
problems were solved nor startling resolutions passed.
However, the convention obviously renewed the interest
and determination of the participants in utilizing their
Stateside experiences and correcting misunderstandings
which are common among Germans about America. +END

VOA Broadcasts in Russian from Munich

HIS IS the Voice of America speaking to you from

Europe” is heard nightly in Russian. Commencing
May 22, the Voice of America launched its first Russian-
language program to originate from western Europe.

The program, prepared and broadcast from VOA's
European Radio Center in Munich, is heard from 10 to
10:15 p.m., Central European Time, or midnight to 12:15
am., Moscow Time. It brings to Soviet listeners the
voices of their own people who have taken the road to
freedom, and also sends behind the “Iron Curtain” news
and information suppressed or distorted by the Soviet
Government.

The new Russian program follows closely the in-
auguration of the Lithuanian-language program, now
heard daily from 7:45 to 8 p.m. Central European Time.
It went on the air for the first time May 15 — the 32nd
anniversary of the opening of the Lithuanian parliament.
That parliament reaffirmed the independence of the
Lithuanian Republic and adopted its constitution. Al-
though forcibly incorporated into the Soviet Union in
1940, Lithuania continues to be recognized as a sister
republic of the United States of America and other free
countries.

HE LAUNCHING of the Lithuanian and Russian pro-
grams was undertaken after careful testing of the

pilot project of VOA broadcasting from Europe, which

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

began with the Polish program Oct. 1, 1951. Effectiveness
of the Polish broadcast became apparent through the
attacks of Polish press and radio on VOA, and from
reports of Polish fugitives who say that VOA was an
important influence in their decision to flee the country.

Headed by a few hand-picked American experts on
Iron Curtain areas, the European Radio Center of the
Voice of America has hired security-tested refugees.
These men and women have recent first-hand knowledge
of conditions inside captive countries. Many have sur-
vived harrowing experiences in forced labor camps and
prisons.

YYPICAL OF these is Marian Czuchnowski, writer,
poet and journalist on the Polish staff in Munich.
After the defeat of the Polish army by the German army
in 1939, Czuchnowski was arrested by the Red army
while fleeing the Nazis. He underwent a year of grilling,
transfers, interrogations and then a three-year forced :
labor sentence. He survived typhus and pneumonia before
he was released and joined the Polish government in exile.
Returning to Poland after the war, Czuchnowski went
underground when the Soviet-puppet Lublin government
took over the country, The “shadow government” dis-
solved in 1948 and Czuchnowski returned to free-lance
journalism. He joined the staff of VOA in November, 1951.

JUNE 1952

--- Page 34 ---
A joint American-German historians’ conference was held in Brunswick May 12-23 for the purpose of
discussing the problems and coordinating in a program aimed at correcting distortions, omissions and
misrepresentations in textbooks dealing with German and American history and life in each other's country.
At the invitation of the sponsors, Mr. Saliger, chief German editor on the staff of the Information Bulletin,
attended and prepared the following resume of the views, background and aims as stated at the conference.

Coordinating History Books

BY WILFRIED SALIGER

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

HE AVERAGE GERMAN probably knows very little

about the history of the United States. When he
went to school, the history of such a young nation was
dealt with summarily on a few pages of his textbook.
What he remembers is even less, and that not neces-
sarily correct..He cannot be blamed, however. His text-
book was not necessarily correct either, and his teacher
looked at the history of other nations from the viewpoint
of his own.

To put it tersely: The average German knows, for
instance, that the United States of America was founded
around the end of the 18th century under the leadership
of one George Washington, and that it obtained its
independence through a revolutionary war against Eng-
land. After a sizeable blank in the chronological course
of American history, his memory picks up the name of
James Monroe as the initiator of a doctrine which, if his
political vocabulary is up to date, he perhaps mistakes
for “isolationism.”

He is almost sure to know that there was a war
between the states in the 1860's. But he holds that this
was simply a matter of pro-slavery versus anti-slavery,
and he probably refers to “Uncle Tom's Cabin" to
substantiate this knowledge. The rise of US industrial
power is, in the eyes of a German, somehow connected
with the Spanish-American War, without knowing exactly
whether it was the evidence or the cause of this rise.

N MORE RECENT history, Germans are inclined to
regard as unsettled political arguments what historians
have meanwhile come to acknowledge as solid truth.
Most of them are unable to say, for instance, whether
President Wilson adhered to‘ his 14-Point pledge when
the 1918 armistice turned out other than the German
government had expected. That President Roosevelt
does not rate exclusive credit for the idea of demanding
Germany'‘s unconditional surrender in World War II,
is another fact that American historians feel should be
brought home in Germany. On the other hand, a German
is likely to be surprised not to find American historians
turn red with protest at the sound of the phrase
“American imperialism."

Asked about their own nation’s impact on United
States history, most Germans cite the names of Carl

JUNE 1952

19

Schurz and Frederick von Steuben as the two outstand-
ing immigrants of German descent. American historians,
however, like to point out that the votes of German
farmers in one Illinois county saved Abraham Lincoln
from losing the 1860 presidential election. The con-
sequences of this German vote are of infinitely greater
historical importance: than the life of any single man
could be, they say. Only, it is hardly known in Germany.

Referring to American culture, the historians complain
that too many Germans can sum up their knowledge in
the single word “Jazz,'' conceding though, that the name
of Mark ‘Twain may strike a note with them. At least
before 1945, other American writers, artists, composers
and philosophers were little known in Germany. Even
today still missing is a determined effort to eliminate
the perverted impressions left by western movies and
gangster stories.

T DOES NOT require a historian to say that this is not

enough knowledge by which to judge a nation of
150,000,000 persons. Yet for many years the German
people, including many leaders, have based their judg-
ment on just that. Said a German foreign service officer
when translating an American history textbook: “Of
special interest was the chapter on the United States’
participation in World War I. The book demonstrates strik-
ingly the very decisive military, and above all economic,
contributions America made to the Allied victory. Our
leaders of 1933 could have been spared many errors and
follies if they had closely studied these pages.”

How much of that misinformation or lack of informa-
tion must be blamed on history teaching in German
schools and on biased textbooks? American historians
feel strongly about it. They urge more space in German
curricula to be given to American history, and for a
representative presentation of the American story. The
real America, they point out, is not confined to New
York skyscrapers and Detroit assembly lines, as many
Germans seem to think. The textbooks miss a positive
understanding of freedom and responsibility as elements
of American democracy. Emphasis on the great number
of racial, cultural and religious groups living together
in the United States could illustrate America more
clearly, the American historians believe.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
OOKING AT THE opposite direction, however, the
Germans have a bill of their own to present. Amer-
ican history-teaching, they say, follows exactly the same
method which the European nations are struggling to get
away from: it sees history in terms of “outstanding
personalities." The three outstanding Germans of the
last five centuries were Frederick the Great, Bismarck
and Hitler, according to the way German history. profes-
sors interpret American textbooks. At least they are
the’ three whose life stories are described in every
detail, while many others of equally important historical
rank are not even named.

In addition to over-emphasizing the personal signific-
ance of these three, the German critics fear that this
suggests a historical relationship among Frederick,
Bismarck and Hitler, which research has shown to be
unjustified. In one American textbook Hitler's biography
was found to take as much space as the entire history
of the Weimar republic.

The development of democratic ideas in Germany is
generally only a stepchild to American history writers,
the Germans say. Kant's philosophy of the society and
the liberal reforms of Karl vom Stein in the early 19th
century are overlooked, while the 1848 democratic
revolution is simply registered as a failure. Similarly,
the democratic socialist movement of the late 19th and
early 20th centuries is neglected. As a consequence, the
1918 revolution comes as a surprise to the reader, who
is naturally inclined to consider it rather a consequence
of defeat than an assertion of long-held ideas.

The history of the Weimar republic, in American
textbooks, seems to the German historians to be ident-
ified with that of the Nazi Party, climaxed by another
“failure of democracy in Germany. The resistance
movement against Hitler vanishes in the limelight of the
outrages committed in his name, and after 1945
democracy seems to spring up again from nowhere. After
that, the German critics say, a student undoubtedly
believes democracy is essentially foreign to a German,
and the history of the country is an uninterrupted story
of conquest and militarism.

N THE CULTURAL side, too, the Germans have

complaints. While due recognition is usually given
to famous painters and composers, Friedrich Nietzsche
is almost certain to be the one dominating the philosoph-
ical picture, and nationalist exaggerations in German
education are likely to be placed at the feet of historian
Heinrich von Treitschke. Establishing the order of
importance attributed to Germans in an American
history textbook, a German professor found that even
the country’s great genius, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe,
was passed over in ten lines of print, comparing
unfavorably with the 35 lines given to industrialist and
arms-producer Alfred Krupp.

These are but some of the major points which Amer-
ican and German historians find objectionable in the
history teaching of the other nation.. Yet they refer
only to two countries with no common border. Among
adjacent nations in Europe, nationalistic resentments,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

rooted in centuries of repeated wars, add even more
to the potential sources of historical inaccuracy. During
and immediately after wars, in fact, history teaching in
Europe — notably Germany and France — has been
so full of resentments that only after several years have
historians realized these methods had to be revised.

In scientific historical research, the tendency toward
a more objective presentation of history has been
encouraged since the third quarter of the 19th century.
But it found little expression in textbooks and in the
history teaching in public schools, Strong nationalistic
and even chauvinistic interpretations continued in use, |
resulting in a too favorable presentation of the author's
own nation and the discredit of others.

INCE WARS BEGIN in the minds of men, the

historians believe that this influence of nationalist-
ically prejudiced textbooks has been one of the factors
causing wars. The problem was first taken up at the
World Peace Conference in 1889, when peace groups
from most European countries passed a resolution
demanding that history textbooks be revised, giving less
space to military affairs and wars. At subsequent con-
ferences, these organizations repeatedly demanded that
students in all countries should be told the truth about
the causes of past wars.

World War I interrupted international peace coopera-

. tion and temporarily stopped the history revision move-

ment, However, when the historians began to ponder the
events which led to the outbreak of hostilities, they
realized that a good deal of the national hatred and
lack of mutual understanding could be traced back to
chauvinistic history textbooks. Not long after the war,
therefore, new and more determined efforts toward an
objective and balanced presentation of history were
made in all of the former belligerent countries. By 1919,
the French teachers organization protested against
“education to hatred,” while in Germany a group called
the ‘Federation of Determined School Reformers” set out
for a thorough revision of history teaching.

French, British and Japanese educational groups were
the first — in 1920 — to appeal to the League of Nations
for an expansion of its work to include the control of
textbooks. An international Committee on Intellectual
Cooperation was set up and, in 1926, adopted a resolu-
tion calling on all member countries to eliminate from
their school textbooks any passages objected to by

An article “Germany: Today and Tomorrow” by
Henry J. Kellermann is printed in the Department of
State Bulletin, Part I appearing in the issue of May 26.
The article is based on an address he delivered before
the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation in Philadelphia
May 5. Mr. Kellermann is director of the Office of
German Public Affairs of the Department of State and
in this position has been concerned with the policy
and operational direction of the Department of State
to the Office of the US High Commissioner and its
public affairs activities in Germany.

JUNE 1952

--- Page 36 ---
other nations. Between 1926 and 1930, however, this
procedure was applied only three times, and only in one
case resulted in an actual textbook revision. A later
draft of an international convention on history teaching
was turned down by the major powers, because their
constitutions did not allow them to enforce the provisions
of the agreement.

OTWITHSTANDING, PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZA-

TION in many countries carried on, The Scandi-
navian countries founded the Nordenbund, the oldest
of the now existing organizations in this field. While
the Nordenbund, with good success, adopted a system
supplementing the history books of its member countries
by summaries written by historians of other nations,
Germany and France tried to reach a comprehensive
agreement on the doubtful points in their historical
relations, A conference of German and French educators
in 1935 approved 40 ‘theses,’ designed to iron out con-
troversies on events of the last two centuries. Though
many points remained unsettled and the agreement
merely said that in such cases the views of both nations
should be presented, participating historians believed
that they had made a decisive contribution to lasting
peace between the two nations. But while the convention
was published in France as agreed, the Hitler govern-
ment in Germany first delayed and later prevented its
publication, so that the contract, in effect, did not
achieve the importance originally predicted for it.

A few years later, World War II repeated the ex-
perience of the first war: it stopped the work temporarily.
But this again caused a more determined renewal of
efforts after the cessation ‘of. hostilities. Germany and
France held the first bi-national history conference in
1948, followed by later annual meetings at which the
1935 convention was revised, this time attaining the
full agreement of both delegations. One year later
British and German educators met for the first time and
arranged for a mutual exchange of textbooks and ideas.
Today, the British-German workshop meetings have also
become a regular institution.

NDEPENDENT FROM SUCH bilateral contacts, UNESCO

resumed the work of the League of Nations com-
mittee, promulgating a comprehensive long-term program
of advice and assistance. A UNESCO-sponsored inter-
national historical seminar in Brussels in 1950 brought
together 60 historians from 25 nations. In six weeks of
concentrated work they mapped out a skeleton world
history which every citizen of every country should
know, realizing that the time had not yet come to write
an international, universal history.

American participation in European textbook revision
work started after World War II, though within the
United States the American Association for Peace Educa-
tion and the National Council for the Prevention of War
had already been active in this field for 25 years.
Having sent observers to some of. the bi-national
European workshop conferences, the National Council
for Social Studies voted in November, 1950, to take up

JUNE 1952

21

similar relations with. its German, professional counter-
part -organization, the Arbeitsgemeinschaft Deutscher
Lehrerverbdnde (Association of German Teacher Organiza-
tions). Textbook revision work was begun by these two
groups in the summer of 1951, and recently, yielded its
first result: a new German textbook on the “History of
the Weimar Republic,” screened and verified by an’.’.
American and a French historian.

AST MONTH WITNESSED the first American-German
workshop meeting. Under the joint chairmanship of
Dr. Robert LaFollette of Ball State Teachers College,
Muncie, Indiana, and Dr. Georg Eckert of Kant Teacher
Training College, Brunswick, Germany, professional
delegations of the two countries met in Brunswick to-
discuss some 20 outstanding German and American
history textbooks previously reviewed by individual
delegates. Both organizations being determined “not to
achieve agreements at the expense of other countries,”
as Dr. LaFollette said, nine western European countries
were invited to send prominent historians to participate.
For 12 days the flags of the individual nations flew
alongside that of the United Nations over Brunswick's
Kant-Hochschule, as symbolic of the undertaking.

The delegates found that their: task would involve
more than just getting the historical facts straight.
Some of the methods of teaching came under critical
scrutiny. While the German historians generally praised .
the make-up and illustration of American books, they
thought that pictures taken from historical motion
pictures had no place in a school book, and vigorously
objected to such learning aids as this problem: “As a
political opponent of Hitler, write a secret letter during
the 1939 election campaign, in which you tell your
American relatives about your treatment at the hands
of the SA." The Americans, on the other hand, felt
that many German textbooks were written rather for
the teacher than for the pupil, and raised the question
whether this ignoring of the student could not sub-
consciously promote an ,,Ohne mich" (count me out)
attitude toward society.

Since in modern schools textbooks are only one
of several teaching aids, the conference also considered
educational broadcasts and school films, in the presence
of representatives of all German broadcasting stations
and films producers. Particularly, the German delegation
was enthusiastic about American educational films on
racial problems.

HE AMERICAN SUGGESTIONS for more textbooks
space and a better presentation of the American
way of life were fully accepted by the German del-
egates. Acknowledging their American colleagues as

* authorities on their own history, they also agreed to

revise their teaching of United States history and
eliminate what American historians point to as obvious
errors, such as the “anti-slavery’’ Civil War, the
“American” unconditional surrender idea and many,
others. The Americans, on the other hand, consented

Continued on page 24

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
In and Around Germany

Higher Standard of Living For Farmers

“The Federal Republic's Grassland Improvement Pro-
gram will mean more and cheaper food for the German
consumers and a higher standard of living for western
Germany's farmers," according to Gordon Fraser, chief
of the MSA Food & Agriculture Division at Mehlem.

“The Grassland Improvement Program, which is only
in its second year, has already proven that food produc-
tion on western Germany's 2,000,000 farms can be very
greatly increased through proper management and treat-
ment of the nation’s 18,525,000 acres of meadows and
pastures,’ Mr. Fraser said in a statement issued May 29.

“Last year, with the help of Marshall Plan funds, the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and the agricultural
authorities of all German states established under a co-
operative program 25,000 individual field demonstrations
throughout the nation to show farmers how to increase
the yields of their grasslands. These demonstrations which
showed the result of proper use of fertilizers, good seed
mixtures, rotation grazing of livestock, intermediate fod-
der cropping, movable electric fences, and other modern
techniques gave increase in hay and feed output from
100 to 300 percent in most cases. A similar program is
also underway this year.

“Adoption of these new methods by farmers generally
will mean a vast increase in the production of livestock
feed resulting in more milk and more meat on the table
for the German consumer and will cost the farmer less
to produce. It also means that the farmer will need less
land on which to raise feed for his livestock and he,
therefore, can grow more grain, potatoes and other food
crops.”

Mr. Fraser also asserted “No other agricultural under-
taking in many years means more to increasing the in-
come standard of living of the millions of the fine and
hard working people on Western Germany's predomi-
nantly small farms.”

Art of German Youth Exhibited

The artistic talents of German children are having an
impressive showing in the northern German cities of Bre-
men, Bremerhaven, Oldenburg and Osnabrueck when four
exhibitions under the title “Children Paint Their World”
opened simultaneously in these cities June 9 for four-
week display.

Sponsored by the American Consulate General in Bre-
men and its US Information Centers in cooperation with
the British Centers the group consists of more than 600
paintings and drawings in individual and class themes
from the West German “Archive of Youth and Laymen’s
Works of Art'’—an organization which was founded at
Jugenheim, near Darmstadt, in 1950 and which works in
cooperation with UNESCO's department of art education.

The exhibit at the Bremen Information Center was

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

supplemented by a “week of youth” consisting of films,
lectures, concerts and dancing. A highlight of the week
was a discussion on “Are Our Children Artists?” on
June 12 led by Dr. Hans Meyers, director of the Archive
of Youth and Laymen's Works of Art and teacher of
plastic arts at the Teachers’ College in Darmstadt, and
Bruno W. Karlsson, general secretary of the German
Branch of the New Education Fellowship.

The same discussion, including colored illustrations and
two, films “Children Paint Their World" and ‘Children
As Artists," also was scheduled June 13 at the British
Information Center in Osnabrueck, June 16 at the British
Center in Oldenburg and June 17 at the Wilhelm Raabe
Schule in Bremerhaven in connection with the exhibits
at these locations.

Photographs of America on Exhibit

“Deutsche sehen Amerika” (Germany Sees America), \
a photographic exhibit of American life as seen by West
Berlin student and professional exchangees to the United
States, was displayed at Berlin's US Information Center
for ten days in early June.

Such scenes as San Francisco cable cars, New York by
day and night, American small-town dwellings, business ~
and residential streets, Texas towns on the Gulf of Mexico, —
and Negro dwellings in various parts of the United States ©
were included among the 170 photos in the exhibit. In /
addition, the exhibit included about 20 sketches and
drawings of characteristic American Landscape scenes,

The three West Berliners contributing the majority of
photographs for the exhibit were Heinz Arndt, an archi- 7
tect; Dr. Hildegard Roskopf, a journalist; and Ludwig ~
Sabel, press manager of the West Berlin city insurance plan, 7

Consular Section Opened in Mehlem
A Consular Section serving the Bonn Enclave consular
district has been opened at the HICOG Headquarters ©

Phillip Nielson (second from right), exchange ‘student
from Stanford University in California, presents a check
for $1000 to Miss Ilse Steinbrecher (right) for use in behal.
of the students of the Free University of Berlin. The money
was from collection by Stanford students in their VAL
Foreign Student Relief Fund Drive.’ Witnessing the pre
sentation are Woligang Richter (left), university official,

and Dr. Hans von Kress, rector of the Free University.
( HICOG-Berlin photo

--- Page 38 ---
Building in Mehlem. It will perform all consular services
except the issuance of immigration visas.

Passport services for US citizens will be available.
These include acceptance of applications for new pass-
ports, which are sent from Duesseldorf within two or
three days; renewal and extension of expiring passports;
and amendments of various types, such as inclusion of
children in the passport.

The Consular Section will record births, deaths and
marriages of US citizens so that there will be an official
American record of these events. It will notify relatives
in the United States of the death of an American in the
Bonn Enclave. The section will also perform notarial
services.

The Bremen Consulate will continue to issue immigra-
tion visas for the Bonn area, but the HICOG Consular
Section will issue all other types of visas for persons
residing in the Bonn Enclave. These include visas for
temporary visitors, transit visas, diplomatic and official
visas for representatives of other governments and inter-
national organizations.

DM 100,000,000 in Orders for Berlin

The Mutual Security Agency Mission to Western Ger-
many approved orders totaling almost DM 100,000,000.
($23,800,000) for production in Berlin of capital equipment
needed by West German companies and organizations,
Michael Harris, mission chief, announced May 29. The
orders result from a program developed by the Federal
Republic.

In announcing the approval, Mr. Harris said the financ-
ing of orders in western Berlin is a demonstration of the
faith which the Federal Republic and West German firms
have in the future of West Berlin's industry.

Mr. Harris said the long-term investment program car-
ried out in West Berlin since 1949 now was paying off
in increased production capacity. The orders approved
today utilize that additional capacity.

Under the long-term investment program more than
DM _ 500,000,000 ($119,000,000) of ECA/MSA and GARIOA
counterpart funds have been lent and spent to expand
and modernize West Berlin industries producing ma-
chinery, electrical goods, textiles and clothing, chemicals
and various products.

Of the DM 100,000,000 in new orders for Western Berlin,
DM 60,000,000 will be financed from counterpart funds
under a program announced April 8. The balance will
come from West Berlin banks and the resources of the
manufacturers themselves.

Desertion of East Zone Police

Forty-one East Zone policemen (Vopos) deserted to
West Berlin between May 1 and 22 despite stricter control
measures over the movements of members of the Soviet
Zone para-military police organization, according to Ber-
lin Element's Public Safety Division.

Under the new control measures, members of the East
Zone police are required to obtain special passes before
leaving their units. The passes restrict’ movements of

JUNE 1952

23

Nine women of the American community in Berlin were
presented membership cards in the Gray Ladies, voluntary
helpers of the professional Red Cross staff, May 30, fol-
lowing completing of the training course at the US Army's
279th Station Hospital. The nine, pictured above with Col.
Otto L. Churney (left), hospital commander, and Miss

Maude T,. Campbell (right), assistant Red Cross field
director, at the hospital, are: Mrs. Rosa H. Mathewson,
wife of Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson, US commandant
in Berlin; Mrs. Loammie G. Churney, wife of Col. Churney;
Mrs. Dorothy R. Dix, wife of C. A. Dix, chief, Trade and
Transport Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG; Mrs. Nora
Franklin, wife of Col. A. G. Franklin, USCCB; Mrs. Joyce
H. Haacke, wife of Ist Lt. A. J. Haacke, 279th Station
Hospital; Mrs. Suzanne B. Hulick, wife of C. E. Hulick,
Berlin office, HICOG; Mrs. Victoria W. Smith, wife of
W. H. Smith, Berlin Military Post; Mrs. Irene P. Waring,
wife of Robert Olaf Waring, chief, Administration Divi-
sion, Berlin Element, HICOG; Mrs, June A. Welch, wife
of Major H. K. Welch, 3rd Battalion, 6th Infantry Division.

(US Army photo)

“Vopos” to specific routes, destinations and periods of
time. The new requirement had been effected within the
past month, Public Safety officials said.

A total of 298 East Zone policemen—an average of
about 75 per month — defected to the West Sectors during
the first four months of this year.

EUCOM Incident Rate Declining

“The European Command's serious incident rate is
remarkably low — far lower proportionately than in most
large cities in Europe and the United States," Brig. Gen.
W. H. Maglin, EUCOM provost marshal, declared at the
monthly Seventh Army commanders’ conference in Stutt-
gart in April. His detailed analysis of serious incident
reports covered the period July 1 to Dec. 31, 1951.

Using charts and graphs to illustrate his talk, General
Maglin said there had been a definite decline in the
number of offenses per capita during the six months. He
pointed out that enlisted men below the top three grades
present the main problem. They comprise 72 percent of
the troops in EUCOM but were involved in nearly 84 per-
cent of all reported serious incidents.

The lower ranks own about 20 percent of all registered
private motor vehicles and are involved in nearly 40 per-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
cent of all vehicle accidents, 36.5 percent of all speeding
violations and 50 percent of all arrests for reckless driv-
ing. Top three graders represent about 20 percent of the
command's troop strength and were involved in 14 per-
cent of all serious incidents, while commissioned officers,
comprising nine percent of military personnel in EUCOM,
were involved in 2.5 percent of the crimes and offenses
reported.

A breakdown of serious incidents by hour of occurrence
showed the peak period to be between 11 p.m. and 6 am.
Nearly half of all crimes of violence were committed dur-
ing those hours and 32 percent of all incidents occurred
between the hours of 11 p.m. and 2 a.m. On a month-to-
month basis, no significant trend was noted during the
period studied.

300th Translated Book Issued

The recent publication of Frederick Martin Stern's
“Capitalism in America’ marked the 300th title to appear
with HICOG support under the Book Translation Program.
In the six years of its existence, beginning early in the
postwar period under OMGUS, the Book Translation Pro-
gram — or as it was known earlier, the Translation Rights

’ Program—has supported the publication of German
editions of a variety of US titles, dealing with both fact
and fiction.

The earlier publications consisted almost exclusively of
American titles, such as Jacques Barzun'’s “Of Human
Freedom," the Harvard Committee's “General Education
in a Free Society," Merle Curti's “The Growth of American
Thought" and Henry Steele Commager's “Growth of the
American Republic." There have been some exceptions to
this rule, one being Arthur Koestler’s “Darkness at Noon.”

Gradually the program has been broadened ideologically
to include more titles whose purpose is to provide German
readers woth books on subjects supporting the theme that
German recovery and progress are best served by ad-
herence to Western democratic principles; to enlarge and
strengthen the group of responsible Germans working
towards European unity; to emphasize America’s role in
world affairs, its contribution to international understand-
ing and its political, historical, sociological and cultural
development; and to reassert the evils of totalitarianism,
Communistic or National Socialistic.

Examples of these are James Burnham's ‘‘Coming Defeat
of Communism,” F.S.C. Northrop’s ‘Meeting of East and
West,’ Laura Inglis’ ‘Freedom of the Movies,” William
Saroyan's ‘The Saroyan Special,’ Lewis Mumford’s "City
Development,” Stern's book mentioned above and the
most recent publication, Robert Morrison MaclIver's ‘The
Web of Government,” in addition to several biographies.

The publication of these 300 titles under the program,
representing the production and distribution of consider-
ably more than 2,500,000 copies, was made possible
through German-American cooperation. These books are
long-range weapons and the measure of their contribution
and success can best be gauged only in the long run, like
the ideas they represent.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

Personnel Notes

Naval Command Changed

Rear Admiral Howard E. Orom assumed command
of the US Naval Forces in Germany June 5 following
a formal ceremony at EUCOM Headquarters in Heidel-
berg. He relieved Rear Admiral Carl F. Holden, who

-Teturned to the United States to retire from the Navy

June 30 after more than 39 years of service.

The change-of-command ceremony was held in front
of the building which houses the Navy Headquarters in
Germany. After the boss of the watch ‘piped aboard’ the

‘retiring commander and his successor, Admiral Holden

delivered a brief farewell address to the officers and
men of his Headquarters Company, and directed that
his flag be lowered from the staff over the entrance
to Navy Headquarters.

Then Admiral Orem spoke informally to the assembled
officers and men, lauding Admiral Holden for “a job
well done.” He then directed that, his flag be raised
over the Navy building. Lt. R. C. Brady, personal aide .
to Admiral Holden, closed the ceremony by presenting
the retiring officer with his flag.

Continued from page 21

Coordinating History Books

to play down the Frederick-Bismarck-Hitler trio, give
due recognition to German democratic traditions and to
meet most of the other German complaints. ‘We found
a wonderful fairness among our American colleagues,”
the German chairman said, adding with a smile that
German textbooks have only just begun to discover the
real America.

Minutes of the workshop meetings with American and
German opinions on the controversial points of history
will be forwarded to textbook authors and publishers
in both countries, and the participants in the con-
ference are convinced that their recommendations will
have a positive influence on future textbooks. Their
goal is a completely voluntary submission of manu-
scripts to the other nations, for critical scholarly ex-
amination before the books ever reach the public.

Yet the historians realize, that they have just “started
to build a platform on which American and European
historical research will meet. So far, the review has
only covered eight titles of 25 listed in the last index
of major German history textbooks, and a much smaller
proportion of US history publications. The progress of
historical research will raise new problems, and it may
well take decades before the goal of a universal history
of mankind is reached. But a new, more objective and
less belligerent history is believed definitely in the
making. +END

JUNE 1952

--- Page 40 ---
LOUOAUOVUEUAUSEOOSOOUOUEDEOEODEDEOOEOEUEE

Erinn in

Contractual Agreements

The German press reaction to the
signing of the Contractual Agreement
ranged from approval to bitter de-
nunciation, with a skeptical that’s-the-
way-it-is attitude predominating.

Stuttgarter Nachrichten (Stuttgart,
May 27) commented: ‘The opponents
of the Contractual Agreements think
that the signing creates facts, which
remove the re-unification of Germany
to the horizon of vain hopes, The ad-
vocates of the agreement, on the other
hand, argue that the Federal Republic's
inclusion in the Western defense com-
munity, which goes with the Agree-
ment, will improve the West's position
and weaken that of the Soviets.

“While one group believes that this
action by the West will force the
Soviets to take new countermeasures
resulting in new obstacles to under-
standing—armies on both sides of the
Elbe, for instance—the others say that
the West's greater capacity will com-
pensate the Kremlin's counteraction
and will make it more willing to ne-
gotiate, Unfortunately, neither group
can prove that its arguments can stand
every test. The rest is a-matter of
faith..."

Die Welt (Hamburg, May 27) wel-
comed the fact that “the Federal Re-
public has joined an international com-
munity which hopes and wishes that
the East will recognize it as what it is:
an alliance of nations who want to use
power only for their protection, but
never to threaten the security or ex-
istence of other countries. The problem
of German unity will be solved auto-
matically, if the East recognizes and
admits that. From that viewpoint the
Bonn agreement is a substantial step
forward on the way to German unity.”

“A nation whose leaders criminally
pushed it into an unprecedented ca-

JUNE 1952

German Editorials
And Cartoons

This section is intended to inform the American readers of what Germans are
thinking, without interpretation. The selection has been made so as to cover
the events which caused the widest reaction in the German press, and to give
a fair cross section of German editorial opinion. The inclusion of any event,
viewpoint or opinion does not necessarily imply concurrence by US authorities.

The cartoons have been taken from a selection reproduced by the Press
Analysis Section, Press Branch, Information Division, HICOG.

UUGELUAUSUSEONDOOUGUOUOCOEUOUODOUOOUSUONOOOSNUOOUDOCOUEOSUONOUOONE:

PUTT

UGCUUEUECOUEUEOEGEOUAUAER EA

.tastrophe cannot get ‘back up’ other

than step by step, and every step
means efforts and sacrifices,” said
Braunschweiger Zeitung (Brunswick,
May 27). “However, in the hectic
atmosphere of political rallies the slo-
gan ‘everything or nothing’ is much
more popular, especially in connection
with references to ‘well founded rights.’
But the phases of our rise are visible:
surrender, bizonal administration, Fed-
eral Republic and Occupation Statute,
Schuman Plan and now the last: Con-
tractual Agreement and Defense Com-
munity, Could we have left out one
of these without stumbling or falling?”

Main Post (Wuerzburg, May 28)
stressed that ‘the new agreement gives
us extensive independence in domestic
affairs. Regarding foreign affairs, it in-
cludes us in the system of the Western
nations and their defense organization.
with more freedom of action for us,
too, Thinking back to the horrible col-
lapse of 1945 and the following years
of distress and hard work, we know
that the past seven years witnessed
great achievements, despite many set-
backs. This policy is largely identified
with the name of Konrad Adenauer, and
we do not want to miss this opportuni-

Move over kids, here comes one more
(Germany joins the West) — Frank-
furter Rundschau (Frankfurt), May 24.

25

Contractual Agreements — Opening
the door to a better future? — West-
deutsche Allgemeine (Essen), May 24.

ty to express our thanks to Germany's
grand old man for having gone this
hard road for us and for having secured
the success of this hour."

In a similar vein, Muenchner Merkur
(Munich, May 27) emphasized that “‘no-
body, not even skeptics or opponents
of the agreement, can say that the
chancellor did not go his way imper-
turbably, with a cool mind and a calm
heart." Der Tag (Berlin, May 27) re-
ferred to Mr. Acheson's statement that
Chancellor Adenauer had proved the
most steadfast of all negotiators and
commented: “If the chancelldr defend-
ed his policy so steadfastly in long
and difficult conferences, it is evident
that he is deeply convinced this is the
best way."

Fraenkischer Tag (Bamberg, May 27)
felt that the German people would
agree with Bavaria’s Minister President
Hans Ehard, who referred to the agree-
ment as a bitter necessity. ‘Bitter, be-
cause numerous details of its provi-
sions made us once again realize that
we lost World War II," the paper said.
“Necessary, because it gives us the
hope that at least one part of Germany
will return into the family of nations
after seven years of foreign rule. Now
we will see whether equality in the
free Western world really means equal
justice for all."

“True, the Federal Republic's so-
called sovereignty will continue to be
at the mercy of the Western Allies,
but a unified Germany at the mercy
of Stalin would be much worse off,"
remarked Wiesbadener Kurier (Wies-
baden, May 27). ‘One thing is for sure:
there was no other way than that of
the Contractucal Agreements and De-
fense Community. It was inevitable
and is the lesser of two evils.”

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich, May
27) complained that the most incisive

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
provisions are not contained in the
convention on Allied-German relations,
whose preamble includes a prospect
of sovereignty for Germany, but in the
“voluminous and heavily commitment-
laden" convention on the settlement
of matters arising out of war and oc-
cupation, ‘A closer look at this con-
vention,” the paper found, “reveals a
catalogue of Allied interests, which so
far had been ascertained through oc-
cupation laws and which the Western
Powers reserve for the future.

“Where the security of Allied forces
is involved, this caution may appear
understandable, though it seems strange
that the brand new German sovereign-
ty is being restricted by very vaguely
formulated clauses. For instance, it says
in the convention: Allied military court
jurisdiction includes also dependents,
ive. civilians. Or, a very typical phrase:
Under certain circumstances, the Ger-
man customs authorities may have a
share in the control. Or, very definite
this time: The forces may procure their
supplies directly. The distribution of
accents is clear: definite, where Allied
interests are involved; flexible, if the
Federal Republic could take advan-
tage."

“The characteristic of the agree-
ment,,"" said Stuttgarter Zeitung (Stutt-
gart, May 27) “is that the Federal Re-
public must actively participate in the
Western defense system, if it wants to
be freed of the occupation regime. The
unfortunate linking of these two treat-
ies, which are offered to us either
together or not at all, has fostered the
suspicion that force is being used to
get German soldiers. In addition, there
are doubts that German divisions will
really increase the security of the
West, because their military potential
will be compensated by an immediate
rearmament in the Soviet Zone."

The same idea was expressed by
Westfaelische Rundschau (Dortmund,
May 30): “By agreement of their au-
thors, the Contractual Agreements and
the European Defense Community trea-
ty are an indivisible entity, patterned
after the formula: The Federal Republic
is to supply soldiers, and in exchange
the reins of the occupation regime will
be somewhat slackened, That is the
sober reality and the way the world
looks at it, as distinguished from a
silly government propaganda which
keeps driveling about prospects of Ger-
man unity and anew order in Europe..."

A note of warning was sounded by
Frankfurter Rundschau (Frankfurt,
May 27), which feared that “the all too
hasty signing of the treaties may pos-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Berlin to US) I may need your um-
brella soon.— Hamburger Abendblatt
(Hamburg), May 20.

sibly accomplish the opposite of what
their originators intended, Public o-
pinion in the United States, lulled by
the apparent solution of the European
problem, will perhaps more than ever
shift its attention to the Pacific area...
The false feeling of security created
by treaties which as yet are not even
ratified, may lull to sleep those Ameri-
can voters on whose help the advo-
cates of ‘Europe first’ depend.”

Headlining “His Hand Did Not
Tremble," Westdeutsches Tagblatt
(Dortmund, May 27) said: “It was a
long way from Adenauer's indignant
rejection of any German rearmament
plan to the signing of this treaty. But
the last phase of this way was traveled
at a speed which took the breath of
Parliament and left to the German
people no other role but that of a con-
fused spectator... The German people
must have patience, infinite, silent and
brave patience to achieve the only
goal that is worth making politics for:
the re-unification of Germany, the liber-
ation of the Germans on the other bank
of the Elbe, who long for the day of
liberation from the yoke of a ruthless
power. The chancellor, whom the Gods
have blinded like the companions of
Odysseus, withholds that day from
them...”

Hannoversche Presse (Hanover,
May 27) quoted the Saturday Evening
Post as saying that “if the Western
Powers had no Konrad Adenauer to
execute their policies in West Ger-
many, it would have been necessary

to invent him.” “How true that state-
ment was is becoming obvious now
that the contents of the agreements,
annexes and notes have been publish-
ed," the paper commented, "We doubt
that the Allies could have found an-
other German politician with the ques-
tionable courage, like Dr. Adenauer,
to advertise the second revision of the
Occupation Statute as a freely ne-
gotiated ‘German treaty’ and to por-
tray the more or less obedient receiv-
ing of orders as partnership with equal
rights."

In a position between the frontlines,
Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frankfurt,
May 27) felt that “the present situation
and the feelings of the majority of
politically intelligent Germans have
been most fittingly described by a
leading Social Democrat, Bremen’s
Senate President Wilhelm Kaisen.
After rejecting as ‘too extreme’ Dr,
Schumacher's statement (‘who accepts
this treaty ceases to be a German’), he
said the chancellor as an opposition
member would act in the very same
way as the Social Democratic Party,
while on the other hand Dr. Schuma- °
cher in the chancellor's position would
have no alternative but to pursue Dr.
Adenauer's policy. The new agreement
is not a gift, he said, but basically
right.”

The weekly youth organ Michael
(Diisseldorf, June 1) warned not to let
democratic principles suffer under the
controversies over the treaty. ‘There
may be different opinions about the
Contractual Agreements and EDC trea-
ty,” it said. "Which one—is right only
time will show. But it is impossible to
brand everyone opposing the treaties
as a communist—which unfortunately
has been done—nor is it permissible
to assert that those who advocate the
treaties have no sincerety, decency and
integrity. We are about to lose again
what our people came to recognize
after 1945. At that time we started ‘to
search for the Hitler in ourselves,’ as
a great Swissman expressed it, and we
learned that tolerance is the great de-
mocratic virtue."

Soviet Russia courts Germania — Rheinische Post (Duesseldorf, NWR), May 9.

26

JUNE 1952

--- Page 42 ---
Official Text of Su

mmaries of Conventions

Drafted under Contractual Arrangements

Following are summaries of the con-
ventions establishing the new relation-
ship between the German Federal Re-
public and the United States, the United
Kingdom and France, signed in Bonn
May 26 by the foreign ministers of
the four governments, together with
summaries of associated documents.

The summaries are arranged in the
following order:

I. The Meaning of the Contractual
Arrangements.

II. Summary of the Convention on
Relations Between the Three Powers
and the Federal Republic of Germany
and Documents Annexed to It:

A. Summary of the Declaration of

the Federal Government On Material

Aid to Berlin and of the Letter from

the Three Powers to the Federal

Chancellor regarding Relationship

Between the Federal Republic and

Berlin.

B. Summary of the Charter of the

Arbitration Tribunal.

Ill. Summary of the Convention on
the Settlement of Matters Arising Out
of the War and the Occupation.

IV. Summary of the Convention on
the Rights and Obligations of Foreign
Forces and Their Members in the
Federal Republic of Germany.

V. Summary of the Finance Con-
vention.

VI. Summary of Letters Forming a
Part of the Contractual Arrangements.

VII. Special Arrangements for the
Entry into Force of Parts Of the Con-
tractual Arrangements.

* * *

I. The Meaning of the
Contractual Arrangements

The effect of the Contractual Arrange-
ments is to include the Federal Republic
in the community of free nations as an
equal partner,

The Convention on Relations and the
related Conventions aim to liquidate a
situation which arose out of the war and
the occupation. In addition, they regulate
the stationing in the Federal Republic of
substantial foreign forces to assist in the
common defense. It has consequently been
necessary not only to establish broad prin-
ciples, but to make provisions of a detailed
character, such as normally appear in peace
treaties and military conventions.

In considering the Contractual Arrange-
ments as a whole, it should be.borne in
mind that they have had to take into ac-
count an unprecedented situation.

In the first place, as long as there is no
agreement between the Three Powers and

JUNE 1952

the Soviet Union, the unity of Germany
cannot be realized nor can all-German prob-
lems be settled. Hence the problem has
posed itself of according to the Federal
Republic full authority over its external
and internal affairs while preserving the
means of negotiating German unity and of
maintaining rights of the Three Powers in
Berlin. Subject to the realization of these
aims, the Three Powers have no desire to
infringe German sovereignty or German
equality of rights,

Secondly, an unusual situation has been
created by the need to station in time of
peace a very large-number of troops for
defense purposes in a foreign country. The
presence of troops of the Three Powers in
Germany is vital to the defense of Ger-
many. This naturally imposes a burden on
Germany, although already it is bringing
an important economic advantage in the
shape of the expenditure of foreign cur-
rency, a factor which with the passage of
time will play an increasingly important
role, On the other hand, it must not be
forgotten that the dispatch of these troops

abroad imposes a severe military and
financial burden on the other Western
Powers, who have committed very im-

portant military and air forces to this
theater. In order to fulfill their role these
troops and air forces must be operational.
They must have facilities for training, they
must be provided with lines of communica-
tion, and their essential military require-
ments must be met; furthermore, they must
have the assurance of the requisite liberty
of action if need arises, Otherwise, Ger-
many cannot be defended and these troops
will be exposed to unnecessary hazards
unacceptable to their governments. The
problem has been to reconcile the preserva-
tion of rights of the Federal Republic and
its citizens with the legitimate operational
requirements of the foreign defense forces.

Thirdly, in view of the fact that a general
peace treaty cannot now be concluded, the
agreements take the unprecedented step of
liquidating the war and the controls of the
occupation regime before conclusion of a
final peace settlement. Hence the appear-
ance of a number of provisions which
would normally have been included in a
peace treaty. The liquidation of a long and
bitterly contested war is not a simple mat-
ter, but the provisions have been designed
to meet to the minimum acceptable extent
the principal aims of the Allies while at
the same time imposing the least possible
burden on the structure and economic
stability of the Federal Republic.

It should be borne in mind that these
agreements have been freely negotiated on
the basis of complete equality. The very
length of the negotiations bears out the
truth of this statement, In the course of these
discussions, concessions have been made
by each party. While paying due regard
to essential requirements, all sides have
been inspired by the desire not to overlook
the large issue at stake nor to prejudice the
integration and defense of the West by
intransigence on issues which, while not
of major significance, have some impor-
tance. If, so shortly after the end of the
war, these Conventions open up a new

27

‘defense of the

chapter in Germany's relationship with the
Western Powers and if they enable the
West to be effectively
organized, it is to be expected that the
parties will see in their proper perspective
the sacrifices which these concessions
represent,

Because of the special status of the city,
the Contractual Arrangements do not apply
to Berlin. However, in consonance with
their new relationship to the Federal Re-
public, the Three Powers have published a
declaration that they will grant the Berlin
authorities the maximum liberty compatible
with the city’s special situation,

* * * .

II. Summary of the Convention

on Relations Between the Three

Powers and the Federal Republic

and of the Documents Annexed
to It

The Convention on Relations is the po-
litical agreement establishing the basic
principles which will henceforth govern the
new relationship between the Three Powers
and the German Federal Republic.

The Convention comprises a predmble
and eleven articles only. Its provisions
have three major effects: the Federal Re-
public is granted the widest authority over
its internal and external affairs, the rights
retained by the Three Powers are defined,
and the objectives of a common policy are
set out.

Freedom for the Federal: Republic

The granting of freedom to the Federal
Republic is achieved in the following way:

The Occupation Statute is repealed.

The Allied High Commission and the
Land (State) Commissions are abolished.

Henceforth the Three Powers will
conduct their relations with the Federal
Republic through ambassadors.

The foreign armed forces stationed in
the Federal territory are no longer oc-
cupation forces, their sole mission now.
being to secure the defense of the free
world.

The Federal Republic, released from all
control, will thus be able, on its own re-
sponsibility, to develop its democratic and
federal institutions within the framework
of its Basic Law.

Limited Rights for the Three Powers
However, because of the current inter-
national situation, the existing division of
Germany and the present impossibility of
concluding a peace treaty, the Three Powers
must necessarily retain certain rights. The
Convention on Relations restrictively spec-
ifies these rights. They relate to the sta-
tioning of armed forces in Germany and
the protection of their security, to Berlin
and to Germany as a whole, including the
problems of unification and the peace settle-
ment. The Convention goes on to place
obligations on each party to preserve these
rights. Thus, while the Federal Republic
must abstain from any action prejudicing
these rights and agrees to facilitate their
exercise by the Three Powers, the latter, in
return undertake to consult the Federal Re-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
public in respect of their implementation.
Likewise, although the Three Powers have
the power, in certain circumstances en-
dangering the security of the forces, to
declare a state of emergency over all or
part of the Federal territory, they can do so
only if the Federal Republic and the EDC*
are unable to meet the emergency. In such
circumstances they will utilize to the
greatest possible extent the assistance of
the Federal Government and other German
authorities, Furthermore, the measures they
may take during this exceptional period are
restricted to the minimum necessary to
restore the situation. As regards Berlin, the
Federal Republic promises to furnish its
utmost cooperation for the political, cul-
tural, economic and financial reconstruc-
tion of the city.
Federal Republic an Equal Partner

Finally, the new status of the Federal
Republic fits into the framework of a com-
mon policy, the objectives and implica-
tions of which are made clear in the Con-
vention. The immediate objective is to
integrate the Federal Republic, on a basis
of equality, in the European Community
now being shaped, which is itself a part of
the community of free nations. This is why
the Federal Republic agrees to conduct its
affairs in conformity with the principles

stated in the Charter of the United Nations -

and the objectives defined by the Statute of
the Council of Europe, asserts its intention
to become a member of the international
organizations of the free world and freely
undertakes to participate in the European
Defense Community.

A second objective is the reunification
by peaceful means of a fully free Germany.
Thus, the four signatory states are resolved

_ that the peace settlement for the whole of
Germany ‘shall be freely negotiated by all
the parties; they also agree that a unified
Germany shall enjoy the rights and be
bound by the obligations conferred and
imposed upon the Federal Republic by the
new agreements and treaties contributing
to the creation of an integrated European
Community.

Revision Clause

The Convention on Relations contains an
important revision clause which also ap-
plies to all the related Conventions, Under
this clause, the terms of the Conventions
shall be reviewed at the request of one of
the four states in the event of German
unification, the creation of a European
federation or any other occurrence which
the four states jointly recognize to be of
fundamental significance. The parties will
then open negotiations with a view to
modifying the Conventions to the extent
necessary to take into account the changes
that have occurred in the situation.

A. Summary of the Declaration
of the Federal Government on
Material Aid to Berlin

Under the provisions of the Convention
on Relations, the Federal Republic under-
takes to provide continued material aid to
Berlin. Because of Berlin’s importance as a
part of the free world and in view of the
ties connecting the Federal Republic with
Berlin, the Federal Republic desires to
strengthen Berlin in all fields, particularly
as regards improving the productive ca-
pacity ‘and level of employment in Berlin.

The Declaration specifies the forms of
aid which the Federal Republic will con-
tinue to extend to Berlin.

* European Defense Community.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

This aid includes:

1. Financial aid to ensure the main-
tenance of a balanced budget.

2. Equitable treatment in allocation of
materials in short supply.

3, A fair share in external aid received
by the Federal Republic.

4, Assistance in developing foreign
trade, as well as such favored treatment
in trade matters as circumstances warrant.

5. Maintenance of an adequate money
supply of Deutsche marks (West) and of
adequate stockpiles of supplies for emer-
gencies.

6. Maintenance and improvement of
trade and of communications and trans-
port facilities between Berlin and the
Federal Republic.

7. Inclusion of Berlin in international
agreements concluded by the Federal Re-
public, wherever this is possible.

Summary of the Letter from the Three
Powers to the Federal Chancellor Regarding
Relationships Between the Federal Republic
and Berlin

This letter, sent to the Federal chancel-
lor by the three high commissioners on
behalf of their governments, expresses the
desire of the Three Powers to assist in
strengthening the bonds between the Feder-
al Republic and Berlin, insofar as the
present situation permits.

The letter states that the Three Powers
are conscious of the need for Federal aid to
Berlin and of the desirability that Berlin
and the Federal Republic adopt similar
policies. In view of this, the Three Powers
assure the Federal authorities that they will
exercise their rights in Berlin in such a
way as to facilitate Federal aid to Berlin,
to permit representation of Berlin and of
the Berlin population outside Berlin, and
to encourage the adoption of similar poli-
cies in Berlin and the Federal Republic.
In regard to the adoption of similar poli-
cies, the Three Powers will have no objec-
tion if Berlin adopts, in accordance with an
appropriate procedure, the same legislation
as that of the Federal Republic.

B. Summary of the Charter of
the Arbitration Tribunal

The Convention on Relations creates the
Arbitration Tribunal, an institution particu-
larly characteristic of the new relationship.
Its composition and machinery are describ-
ed in a Charter annexed to the Convention.
All the provisions concerning this court are
designed to secure absolute equality of
treatment between the Three Powers and
the Federal Republic in disputes which may
arise over the interpretation of the Con-
tractual Arrangements.

The Tribunal is composed of nine mem-
bers to be selected from the highest ranking
judges and the most eminent jurists. Three
members will be appointed by the Federal
Republic; each of the Three Powers will
appoint one member; and the three others,
called neutral members, will be appointed
by agreement between the Three Powers
and the Federal Republic. They must not
be nationals of any of the four signatory
states. These nine members will elect a
neutral member president whose term of

- office is two years.

The Tribunal will sit either in plenary
session or in chambers of three members.
Decisions are taken by majority vote. The
Tribunal must always be composed of an
uneven number of members, including an
equal number of the members appointed by
the Three Powers and of those appointed
by the Federal Republic. On the same

28

- principle, the chambers will be composed

of one of the members appointed by the
Three Powers, one appointed by the Federal
Republic and one neutral member.

The permanent seat of the Tribunal will
be within the Federal territory, The loca-
tion will be fixed by subsequent adminis-
trative agreement.

The Tribunal has jurisdiction over all
disputes between the Three Powers and the
Federal Republic arising from the applica-
tion of the various conventions, which the
parties have been unable to settle by
negotiation, The only disputes excluded
from its jurisdiction are those connected
with the exercise of the special rights in
regard to Berlin, all-German matters and
the stationing of troops, which are retained
by the Threee Powers. The Tribunal will
also resolve problems concerning the com-
petence of certain judicial or administrative
authorities provided for in the Conventions.
Only the governments of the four signatory
states may be parties before the Tribunal,
In rendering its decisions, the Tribunal will
apply the generally accepted rules of inter-
national law governing the interpretation
of treaties.

The powers of the Tribunal are very
extensive. It may order a party that has
taken legislative or administrative meas-
ures in the Federal territory inconsistent
with the Conventions to deprive them of
effect or annul them. It may even itself
deprive them of effect or annul them if the
party concerned fails to carrv out the
Tribunal's decision. It may annul judicial
decisions enforceable in the Federal ter-
ritory if they violate the basic principles
of the Conventions. In general, if the
unsuccessful party fails to take the steps
called for by the Tribunal's judgment, it
may authorize the other party to take
appropriate measures to remedy the situ-
ation in compliance with the judgment. It
also has the power, before deciding on the
merits of a case, to order such measures
to preserve the status quo as it deems
necessary. Its judgments are final and not
subject to appeal.

The Charter ialso establishes the rules
for proceedings before the Tribunal. Pro-
ceedings will consist of a written part
and an oral part and will closely follow
the form of those before the International
Court of Justice.

It should also be noted that in addi-
tion to its judicial functions, the Tribunal
may, at the joint request of the govern-
ments of the Federal Republic and of the
Three Powers, issue advisory opinions on
the correct application of the Conven-
tions.

* ok *

Ill. Summary of the Convention

on the Settlement of Matters

Arising out of the War and the
Occupation

The title of this Convention accurately
summarizes its contents. It deals, in
twelve chapters, with matters arising out
of the termination of the war and the
occupation. Many of these matters are
covered only provisionally, Their settle-
ment at this time was impossible because
the Three Powers had no mandate to
negotiate for, or to bind, the many other
countries which were at war with Ger-
many and which would naturally be
entitled to participate at a final settle- -
ment, The Three Powers have acted so
as not to prejudice the position of such
countries at a final settlement.

JUNE 1952

--- Page 44 ---
Four Categories
The subjects dealt with in this Conven-
tion fall into four main categories.
Firstly, there are a number of questions

which are normally handled in a peace
treaty.
Secondly, there are questions which,

although not normally found in a peace
treaty, would, because of the particular
situation obtaining in Germany, inevit-
ably have been covered if one had been
signed at this time (e. g. restitution to

and compensation for victims. of Nazi
persecution).
Thirdly, there are provisions for the

orderly handover to the Federal Republic
of important responsibilities and func-
tions hitherto exercised by the Three
Powers, such as civil aviation,

Fourthly, of lesser importance, is a
single chapter regulating the provision for
a brief transitional period, of facilities
for the embassies of the Three Powers and
their staffs, in order to ease acuté accom-
modation difficulties.

Chapter 1 — Position of Allied Legislation
and Agreements

The main purpose of Chapter 1 is to
lay down principles governing rights and
obligations flowing from Allied action
during the occupational period. With this
end in view provisions are made for the
continued validity of Allied legislation,
subject to a right of the German author-
ities to amend it, repeal it Gr deprive
it of effect. This right is limited only
where its exercise would prejudice the
rights of the Three Powers under the
Convention on Relations or where the
contracting parties have otherwise agreed
for some particular reason.

There are also provisions for the con-
tinued validity of international agree-
ments concluded by the Allied authori-
ties on behalf of their respective zones,
and of acts done within Germany by
them,

Provision is made for the winding up of
occupation courts having criminal and
civil jurisdictions, and for the continued
validity of their judgments.

War Criminals

An important article deals with war
criminals. The Three Powers had planned
to hand over custody to the Federal Re-
public in the same way as was done in
Japan. In addition, it was planned to set
up a Mixed Board, with equal Allied and
German participation, to consider the
termination or reduction of sentence of the
war criminals. Because of constitutional
difficulties on the German side custody
could not be haaded over to the Federal
Republic now. However, the Mixed Board
is to be set up and will begin work as
soon as possible after entry into force of
the Convention.

It will be seen that most of the provisions
of Chapter 1 are such as would normally
be handled in a peace treaty.

Chapter 2 — Deconcentration and
Decartelization

Provisions, relating to deconcentration and
decartelization, are contained in Chapter 2.
The aim of this chapter is to ensure:

Effective decartelization legislation.

Deconcentration of the coal, iron and

steel and film industries.

Deconcentration of I, G. Farbenindustrie.

Deconcentration of the Grossbanken (Big

Banks),

The protection of persons who have taken

advantage of Allied legislation which is

JUNE 1952

now disappearing to establish themselves

in a trade or profession but who do not

have the qualifications which German
law may in the future impose.

Much of the work in, these fields is
already complete. For example, 24 of 28
contemplated new unit steel companies
have already been formed. The Federal
Government has many times declared its
support for the program of deconcentration
to destroy excessive concentrations of
economic power.

Provisions of this sort are not normally
found in a peace treaty. The necessity for
them in the case of Germany arises from
the fact that the excessive concentration
of economic power which formerly existed
directly contributed to the growth and
aggressive power of the Nazi regime. ,

Chapter 3 — Restitution Inside Germany

The machinery for restituting identi-
fiable property to victims of Nazi perse-
cution, which has been established under
Allied legislation, is preserved under
Chapter 3, but the existing Allied courts
of ‘appeal are replaced by a mixed court
having equal German and Allied member-
ship, and neutral members.

Chapter 4 — Compensation for Victims of
Nazi Persecution

Under Chapter 4, the existing German
machinery for compensating victims of
Nazi persecution, who have suffered the
loss of unidentifiable property, imprison-
ment or damage to life or limb, is preserved
and provision is made for its supplemen-
tation,

Undertakings in Line with Bundestag
Declaration

The undertakings which the Federal Re-
public assumes in Chapters 3 and 4 are in
line with the unanimous declaration of the
Bundestag (Federal Parliament) of Oct. 15,
1951, concerning the need to make moral
and material amends to victims of Nazi
persecution, This is a problem peculiar to
Germany.
Chapter 5 — Restitution Outside Germany

Chapter 5 deals with the restitution of
property removed from other countries
during the war by German occupation
forces. In practice, much property which
was readily identifiable has been returned
already under Allied procedures. But there
is a residual problem which is to be met
by the establishment of a German agency
to handle governmental claims and of
procedure before the ordinary German
courts for handling individuals’ claims.

Chapter 6 — Reparations and Former
German Assets Abroad

The essence of the provisional solution
found for the reparation problem is the
preservation of the status quo pending a
final settlement by the peace treaty be-
tween Gérmany and her former enemies
or by earlier agreements. ‘The reparation
problem is a typical case where it would
have been impossible to reach a final
settlement now because of non-participa-
tion in the negotiations of the many coun-
tries other than the Three Powers whose
claims would have to be considered before
a final settlement could be reached. The
maintenance in force of Control Council
Law No. 5 (insofar as not already deprived
of effect) and AHC Law No. 63 was agreed
upon. These laws regulate questions of
title to property taken by way of repa-
ration, and their disappearance without
suitable replacement would have involved
serious legal complications.

29

‘The field with which this part of the
Convention is principally concerned is that
of former German assets abroad. In this
respect the Three Powers have wide re-
sponsibilities under international agree-
ments, notably the Agreement on Repa-
ration concluded with thirteen other coun-
tries in Paris on Jan, 14, 1946, Their re-
sponsibilitiés precluded the Three Powers
from agreeing to an unlimited right of the
Federal Republic to negotiate with other
countries concerning foreign assets, but
agreement was nevertheless reached per-
mitting broad powers of negotiation.

Chapter 7 — Status of DP's and Refugees

In the field of displaced persons and
refugees there are provisions for a proper
status for homeless foreigners, and the
admission and distribution of non-German
political refugees. These are not normal
peace treaty provisions, but the situation
existing in Germany after the last war, in
this respect as in many others, was also
not a normal one.

Chapter 8 — German Determination to
Settle Prewar External Debt

The question of Germany's prewar ex-
ternal debts has been under consideration
for a year by the Debt Commission in Lon-
don, on which the Federal Republic, the
Three Powers and other creditor nations
of Germany are represented. In Chapter 8
the Federal Republic reaffirms its deter-
mination to reach a settlement of these
debts and agrees to take no action which
could prejudice it, notably in the field of
foreign exchange control.

Chapter 9 — Waiver of Claims

A waiver by the defeated country, on
behalf of itself and of its nationals, of all
claims arising out of the war or out of
any subsequent occupation period against
former enemies or occupiers is another
normal peace treaty point. Such a waiver,
subject to confirmation at a peace settle-
ment, is given in Chapter 9, In the course
of the London Debt Conference, the Three
Powers have notified the German represen-
tative that they are ready, if a general
settlement of German external debt is
reached, to forego more than $2,000,000,000
worth of debt owed to them by the Federal
Republic for ‘postwar economic assistance
to Germany,
Liquidation of JEIA

The chapter also provides that the Fed-
eral Republic will indemnify the Three
Powers in respect of claims arising out of
the operations of the former Joint Export
Import Agency. This agency was set up
by the Three Powers to rehabilitate the
foreign trade of western Germany and has
made an important contribution to the re-
covery of the German economy. An agree-
ment, confirmed in this chapter, has al-
ready been concluded between the Federal
Government and the Allied High Commis-
sion for the transfer to the Federal Re-
public of the assets of JEIA which are of
substantial amount.

Chapter 10 — Restoration of Foreign
Property Rights

Chapter 10, referred to as the Foreign
Interests Chapter, provides to the greatest
extent possible for the restoration of
property rights and interests in the Federal
territory to Germany's former enemies and
their nationals wherever these rights were
affected by the war. This principle is
normal in peace treaties. To this end some
legislation has had to be maintained in
force. The more important of this legis-
lation provides for the enjoyment now by

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
United Nations patent holders of rights
which, but for the war, they would have
enjoyed earlier; for the regulation, pending
a settlement of Germany's debts in Lon-
don, of the position of certain foreign
creditors, and for the prevention of hard-
ship to foreigners in the incidence of
agrarian reform legislation.

Lastenausgleich:
for UN Nationals

There are provisions of a normal peace
treaty character for the exemption of
United Nations nationals and their property
from special levies or taxes designed to
meet Germany's war burdens. In the case
of the levies under the proposed Lasten-
ausgleich (equalization of war burdens) law,
only a partial exemption is given because
that law is intended partly to meet charges
arising out of the war, and partly to deal
with social inequalities in Germany. Thus
UN nationals will be exempted from pay-
ments under the Lastenausgleich in the
first six years out of thirty, three of these
six years being already past. Victims of
Nazi persecution who are not UN nationals
will get the six-year exemption on the
first DM 150,000 of property restituted to
them, while German corporations controll-
ed by UN nationals will enjoy the six-year
exemption, in proportion to the share-
holding, if the UN shareholding is 85 per-
cent or more.

Only Partial Exemption

Arbitral Commission

The contracting parties have also con-
sidered it wise to follow peace treaty
precedent by establishing an Arbitral Com-
mission whose purpose will be to settle
any disputes which may arise under the
external restitution and foreign interests
chapters of the Convention. The Commis-
sion has three members appointed by the
Three Powers, three by the Federal Re-
public and three neutral members,

Chapter 11 — Facilities for the Embassies
In Chapter 11 provision is made for the
continued enjoyment by the Three Powers
of the use by their embassies of certain
buildings and other property now occupied
by them, The Federal Government has
agreed to its continued use because it
wished to ensure that the serious lack of
accomodation in Germany generally, and
in Bonn in particular, should not make
impossible the establishment of British,
French and United States Embassies.

Chapter 12 — Full German Control Over
Civil Aviation

Finally, in Chapter 12 provision is made
for the assumption of full control over civil
aviation by the Federal Republic. The
chapter also contains an undertaking by
the Three Powers to provide technical
services to the Federal Republic on request
during the initial period.

* * *

IV. Summary of Convention on
the Rights and Obligations of
Foreign Forces and their Mem-
bers in the Federal Republic

This Convention regulates the status of
foreign forces which are to be stationed
in the territory of the Federal Republic as
- a contribution to the common defense of
Europe and of the free world. It covers
all rights and obligations of the foreign

forces, except for those set forth in the
Convention on Relations (Articles 2, 4
and 5).

INFORMATION BULLETIN

A Normal Forces Convention

In basic purpose and content, the Con-
vention is similar to the normal convention
on the stationing of troops which is con-
cluded between sovereign states when one
stations troops in the territory of another.
Such a treaty, like the present one, will
clearly have to provide for methods of
identification of members of the forces,
jurisdiction arrangements, measures en-
abling the forces to enforce their own dis-
cipline, arrangements for the crossing of
frontiers by the forces, and related pro-
blems. Analogous intergovernmental agree-
ments have been drawn up to regulate the
activities of the US Air Force in Britain,
the US Forces in their Caribbean bases in
British territory, and are also found in the
NATO Agreement about the stationing of
forces by one participating country in the
territory of another. An agreement on the
same lines for the European Defense Com-
munity (EDC) is at present being nego-
tiated.

Special Strategic Considerations

Outside these fundamental similarities,
the case of the Federal Republic is ex-
ceptional. For obvious geographical and
political reasons, the Federal Republic is
regarded as a forward, exposed, strategic
area. It follows that the troops to be
stationed in its territory will be abnor-
mally numerous and diverse, and that they
will be deployed in peacetime in positions
which, in certain eventualities, might early
become the scene of military operations.
Some special provisions have, therefore,
had to be incorporated in the Convention
which do not appear in similar agreements.
These provisions affect the sovereignty
of the Federal Republic only in the same
way as any freely negotiated treaty limits
the freedom of action of the contracting
states.

Convention in Four Parts

The Convention is composed of 50
articles, divided into four groups:

Part 1 — General Provisions (Articles 1-5)

Part 2 — Jurisdiction (Articles 6-16)

Part 3 — Administration and Support (Ar-

ticles 17-48)
Part 4— Transitional and Final
visions (Articles 49 and 50)

Supplementing these articles are two
annexes:

Annex ‘‘A‘' — Offenses against Security.

Annex ‘'B'' — Radio Frequencies.

The ensuing notes are arranged according
to their public interest rather than in strict
order of the parts; however, parts and
articles are referred to.

Pro-

Forces to Consider German Interests

In an article applicable to the whole
Convention, the Forces undertake, in utiliz-
ing the rights and immunities accorded to
them, to give due consideration to German
interests, taking into account particularly
the capacity of the German economy and
the essential domestic and export require-
ments of the Federal Republic and West
Berlin.

Logistic Support

Important provisions in Part 3 cover the
mechanics of day-to-day relations between
the Federal Government and the foreign
Forces. To meet the defense needs of the
Forces, the Federal Republic will satisfy
their requirements in accommodation,
goods, materials and services, labor, public
services, transportation services and com-
munications, A Joint Supply Board, made
up of representatives of the Federal Re-
public and those of the Three Powers

30

concerned, will be established. The Board
will draw up agreed periodical programs
for procurement of goods, materials and
services in the Federal territory, either
directly by the authorities of the Power
concerned or by the German authorities.
These programs, which will not include
minor procurements, can be exceeded by
an agreed margin. They will receive such
preferential treatment as is necessary for
the satisfactory: fulfillment of the defense
mission of the Forces and can reasonably
be reconciled with the essential civilian
and defense needs of the Federal Republic.
Goods purchased from funds provided by
the Federal Republic may not be moved
from the Federal territory, except those
required for military purposes for the
support of the Forces, or military equip-
ment which military units normally carry
with them on moving.

Accommodation

The accommodation requirements of the
Forces will be fulfilled within the frame-
work of agreed programs and German
law will form the basis of any requisition-
ing, which will be carried out by the Ger-
man authorities, While the Three Powers
will retain accommodation and property
under their control at the effective date of
the Convention, privately owned accom-
modation and movable property. now in
use by the Forces will be derequisitioned
as soon as the Federal authorities have
provided acceptable alternatives. The Forces
will continually review their needs to keep
accommodation requirements to the es-
sential minimum. Special attention will be
paid to the return of accommodation to
private persons. Privately owned dwellings
will be released if they are not used by the
Forces for a period of six months. Requi-
sitioned movable property will normally
be released at the same time as the accom-
modation in which it is held, or earlier if
no longer required by the Forces. The
German authorities will be consulted if
new construction programs for the Forces
are neccessary. Building projects financed
from German Defense Contribution funds
will, in general, be carried out by the
German building authorities in conformity
with German law and regulations.

German Labor Protected

Labor employed by the Forces (normally
through the German authorities) for defense
needs will, in general, be subject to Ger-
man labor law. German employees will be
subject to all the obligations arising from
membership of the Federal Republic in
the EDC. Their duties with the Forces will
be of a noncombatant character. To ensure
their full military effectiveness, the Forces
may continue to employ civilian service
units composed of Germans for a maximum
of two years after the effective date of the
Convention. Before the end of this period,
an examination of this arrangement will
be made to find the best method of re-
placing these units while avoiding a re-
duction of the strength and effectiveness
of the Forces. For the protection of their
interests employees of the Forces may set
up Works Councils whose task will be to
make suggestions and to present grievances
or complaints to the appropriate authorities
of the Forces, Grievances unresolved after
the Works Councils have been heard by
these authorities will be the subject of dis-
cussion between the authorities on both sides.

Freedom of Movement

For military purposes the Forces will
have unrestricted freedom of movement in
the Federal territory, except where the

JUNE 1952

--- Page 46 ---
Convention states otherwise, but deviations
from the German traffic code will be
allowed only in cases of military neces-
sity. In view of the crowded conditions
which may be expected to arise in the air
space over the Federal territory, the
Federal Republic and the Three Powers
will form a Standing Commission to co-
ordinate civil and military air activities.
Arrangements for maneuvers, which the
Forces must, of course, be permitted to
conduct in the Federal territory, will be
made in consultation with the German
authorities.

German Law to be Observed by Members
of the Forces

Provisions in Part 2 operate on the
principle that the members of the Forces
are obliged to observe German law, except
where otherwise agreed. As is customary
under a convention on the stationing of
forces, troops will face military courts for
criminal offenses, but German courts will
have jurisdiction over them in non-criminal
proceedings. Members of the Forces will,
for example, thereby be liable to legal
action for any future failure to maintain
their children by German mothers. The
authorities of the Forces will give all pos-
sible assistance in enforcing judgments of
German courts and authorities in non-
criminal proceedings. Arrest and search
of troops will be the responsibility of the
Forces, except in cases of emergency, and
then the offenders will be handed over by
the German police to the Forces. Private
vehicles used by members of the Forces
must be insured in accordance with Ger-
man law.
Security of the Forces

No Allied courts will have jurisdiction
over Germans. In the provisions designed
to safeguard the security of the Forces,
primary reliance is placed on the authority
of the Federal Republic. However, since
existing German law does not contain pro-
visions completely covering the security
of the Forces, it has been agreed to amend
the Penal Code to afford them the neces-
sary protection in this field (Annex ‘‘A’),
The relevant provisions will be enforced
by German courts, In the same context,
Article 4 of Part 1 foresees full cooperation
between the German authorities and those
of the Forces to safeguard the security of
the Federal Republic, the Three Powers,
their Forces stationed in Federal territory
and their members and property. Cooper-
ation will extend to the collection, exchange
and protection of the security of all per-
tinent information.
Taxation and Customs

Taxation immunities accorded to the
Forces are based on a normal principle in
international relations that one government
does not tax another. Clearly, the Federal
Republic would not wish to derive profits
from the presence of the Forces in its
territory, Safeguards against violations by
the Forces and their members of the fiscal,
customs and import-export regulations of
the Federal Republic are embodied in a
Series of specific and severe provisions.
Setting out from the principle that the
Forces shall, in general, be subject to
German customs legislation, they cover
inter-alia cooperation between German
customs officials and the Forces, inspection
at border crossing points, rationed goods
supplied to the troops and legal action
against offenders.
Radio Frenquencies

Annex “B" will bring operation of the
tadio communications and broadcasting

JUNE 1952

stations of the Forces into conformity -with
prevailing international agreements and
will establish a Frequency Committee with
equal reprensentation (and including a re-
presentative of the EDC), under rotating
chairmanship. The Committee will concern
itself with the allocation and coordination
of frequencies and other technical matters
relating to the radio stations of the Forces.

Reference to Arbitration Tribunal

All disputes between the Federal Govern-
ment and the Three Powers which arise
out of this Convention may be submitted
to the Arbitration Tribunal, except (1)
where the Convention provides for other
arbitral machinery (e. g. in the case of
extraditions) and (2) where its provisions
exclude arbitration (e. g. in regard to cer-
tain actions which may be necessary in
advance of'a grave emergency).

Relationship to EDC and Review

This Convention and the EDC Treaty
will in no way prejudice each other, Any
conflicts between their respective pro-
visions will be settled between the con-
tracting parties to both treaties,

Review of this Convention may take
place at the request of one of the signa-
tories when two years have elapsed after
its effective date.

Other Provisions

In addition to the main provisions already
discussed, the Convention contains a num-
ber of articles on connected matters, among
them the following:

1. The Forces undertake to apply public
health and safety standards at least equal
to those in the appropriate German regu-
lations (Article 21).

2. Fullest cooperation between the Ger-
man authorities and the Forces will be the
rule on all questions affecting health and
sanitation (Article 30).

3. It is agreed, with due constitutional
safeguards, that in proceedings before
courts of the Federal Republic or the Forces
disclosure will not be permitted of Ger-
man state or official secrets nor of any
information which might prejudice the
security of the Forces, except with the
consent of the authorities concerned
(Article 15).

4, The Forces have agreed to relinquish
their present requisitioned hunting and fish-
ing rights one month after this Convention
comes into force. However, the Federal
Government will assist the Forces in ob-
taining hunting and fishing facilities for
recreational purposes. Members of the
Forces will conform to German seasonal
laws, recognize German shooting plans,
use the services of licensed hunters and
pay agreed fees. In return for fishing
privileges the Forces will assume a fair
share of the restocking program of the
respective Laender (state) authorities,

x  *k
V. Summary of the Finance

Convention
The Finance Convention regulates the
financial arrangements for the foreign

forces stationed in the Federal Republic,
taking into account the buildup of German
EDC contingents.
The Convention:
States the obligation of the German
Federal Republic to make a continuing
contribution to Western defense com-
parable to the contributions of other
participants.
Establishes the availability, until June 30,
1953 (end of NATO fiscal year), of a

31

portion of that contribution to- assist in
meeting the costs of foreign forces in the
Federal Republic,

Governs the use of that portion of the.
German contribution. es 5
Specifies facilities and services to.-be
made available without charge to the
foreign forces.

Provides for a mutual waiver of damage
claims between each of the governments
of the Three Powers and the Federal
Government and. establishes procedures
for settling private claims’ for damage
arising from the activities of the foreign
forces.

Establishes a basis for payment for
accommodation, goods and services pro-
vided for the foreign forces.

Provides for the possible establishment
of a joint capital construction budget to
cover construction requirements for both
German EDC contingents and foreign
forces.

Provides for the gradual transition of the
French, Belgian and Luxembourgian
Forces in the Federal Republic: to the
status of European Defense Community
forces.

Level of Contribution

The Federal Republic agrees to make
an annual contribution to Western defense
comparable to that of other Western
countries on the basis of NATO criteria.
This will be done by making a financial
contribution to the European Defense Com-
munity and by assisting in the support of
foreign forces stationed in the Federal
Republic other than EDC forces.

From the effective date of the contractual
arrangements until June 30, 1953, . this
contribution shall be at the rate of DM
850,000,000* per month. After that date, .
the contribution will be determined under
the same principles and procedures and
by use of the same NATO criteria which
apply to the defense expenditures of other
countries participating in Western defense,

Division of the Contribution

For the first six month after the effective
date of the contractual arrangements, an
average share of DM 551,000,000 of the
sum of DM 850,000,000 will be used to
assist in the support of foreign forces
stationed in the Federal Republic, For the
next three months, an average of DM
319,000,000 will be used for such support.

The.division of the contribution between
German EDC contingents and foreign forces
reflects ‘the build-up of German EDC
contingents in an increase in the share for
these contingents. The division of the
contribution has been made in such a way
as to meet the increasing requirements of
the German contingents in accordance with .
a build-up schedule determined by SHAPE.

The question of what portion of the
German financial contribution to be made
after June 30, 1953 will be used to assist
in the support of non-EDC forces in Ger-
many is left to be settled in later ne-
gotiations.

Division of the share allotted to foreign
forces before June 30, 1953, will be made
by the governments of the United States,
the United Kingdom and France after
consultation with the Federal Government.
This sum will transit the budget of the
European Defense Community but will be
neither an obligation of EDC nor be subject
to its control.

* The current official exchange value of the
ieisie mark (DM) is 23.8 cents, or DM 4.2
to $1.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
Use of Funds

The Three Powers undertake to hold
defense expenditures from Deutsche-mark
support funds to the minimum compatible
with military efficiency and to utilize the
funds efficiently and economically.

Facilities and Services Provided Without
Charge

When friendly forces of one country are
stationed in the territory of another, it is
customary for the host country to allow
the visiting forces to enjoy without charge
such public services and facilities as are
normally enjoyed without payment of a
specific charge by residents of the host
country. Accordingly, the Federal Republic
agrees that the foreign forces shall enjoy
without charge a number of services such
as use of German public agencies, roads
and bridges, police, public health and fire
protection. Military aircraft may use free
of charge the civil airfields owned by the
Federal Republic.

These arrangements are similar to those
applied by-all NATO member countries.

Where, however, services are of a special
character, payments may be agreed upon.

Damage Claims

Each of the Three Powers and the
Federal Republic waive claims for damage
to governmental property caused by per-
sons in the service of the other.

German agencies and agencies of the
forces of the Three Powers will cooperate
in a jointly agreed procedure for handling
private damage claims against the forces
arising after the entry into force of the
Convention. Claims against the Allied
Forces arising before the entry into force
of the Convention are to be settled by the
Federal Republic.

Payments for Accommodation, Goods and
Services

The Convention provides that the foreign
forces will pay the prevailing prices, rates
and rentals in the Federal Republic, How-
ever, in those cases where any military
users, such as EDC contingents, receive
deductions or price benefits, those deduc-
tions or benefits are to be granted to all
of the foreign forces.

In some special fields, such as labor,
requisitioning, transportation and com-
munications, rates will be determined by
agreement between the Federal Govern-
ment and the foreign forces or by Federal
legislation.

Receipts irom Disposal of Property

The Convention establishes procedures
for the disposal of property no longer
needed by the forces. In general, receipts
from the disposal of property purchased
with funds from occupation cost budgets
will accrue to the Federal Government.

Procedural Provisions

A joint Three Power-German Coordi-
nating Committee is established and will
assist in settling any difficulties arising in
the implementation of the Convention.

Review of the terms of the Convention
may be initiated by any signatory.

Subsidiary administrative agreements
may be concluded to implement the Con-
vention.

Transitional Provisions

To allow for the transition in status of
French, Belgian and Luxembourg forces
stationed in the Federal Republic to the
status of EDC forces, the Convention pro-
vides that these forces shall have the same
status as other foreign forces until June 30,
1953 (end of NATO year).

INFORMATION BULLETIN

VI. Summary of Letters Forming
a Part of the Contractual
Arrangements

In addition to the Conventions, there
are published today (May 26) a number
of letters pertaining to particular aspects
of the Conventions. These letters are
summarized below.

Control Council Legislation

1, A letter from the three foreign minis-
ters to the Federal chancellor advises
that, in accordance with Article 2 of the
Convention on Relations which specifies
their rights in relation to Berlin and to
Germany as a whole, they will require
certain Control Council legislation not to
be deprived of effect in the Federal ter-
ritory, A letter from the Federal chancel-
lor to the foreign ministers states the
opinion of the Federal Government that
the Control Council legislation mentioned
above are internal matters of the Control
Council and cannot be the subject of Ger-
man legislative authority.

Taxes on Successor Organizations

2, In an exchange of letters with the
foreign ministers, the chancellor confirms
that the Federal Government will settle all
claims for taxes or levies imposed by
Laender (states) or local authorities on
successor organizations and trust corpo-
rations set up to represent claimants for
internal restitution.

Validity of International Agreements

3. An exchange of letters between the
high commissioners and the Federal chan-
cellor concerns the continuing applicability
and validity of international agreements
concluded on behalf of the three western
zones by the occupation authorities. With
the high commissioners’ letter is a list of
these treaties and agreements.

A reply from the Federal chancellor re-
cognizes the continuing validity of these
treaties and the Federal Republic's obli-
gation to implement them.

Status of the Saar

In this connection, the chancellor de-
clares and the high commissioners confirm
the agreement of their governments that
the inclusion in the list of certain treaties
and agreements referring to the Saar does
not constitute recognition by the Federal
Republic of the present status of the Saar.

Exercise of Reserved Rights

4, A letter to the Federal chancellor
from the three high commissioners on
behalf of their governments emphasizes
that the exercise by the Three Powers of
their rights concerning Germany as a whole
does not adversely affect the relations
established by the Conventions generally.
Further, the exercise of these rights does
not permit the Three Powers to derogate
from their undertakings.

Radio Frequencies

5. Letters from the Federal chancellor
to each of the high commissioners confirm
that the Federal Republic will apply the
principles of the International Telecom-
munications Convention of 1947 so as to
avoid harmful interference with the radio
services or communications of the Three
Powers which operate on frequencies
allotted under the Agreement of Copen-
hagen of 1948,
Private Prewar Obligations

6. A letter from the Federal chancellor
to the three high commissioners invites
them to inform their governments that the

32

Federal Government is prepared to ne-
gotiate a multilateral agreement with other
governments for the settlement of ques-
tions regarding private prewar obligations
and contracts and acquired rights. The
Federal Government considers that in the
field of insurance and reinsurance bilateral
discussions with other governments are
appropriate.
* *

VII. Special Arrangements for
the Entry Into Force of Parts of
the Contractual Arrangements

During the discussions leading up to
signature of the Conventions, the Federal
chancellor raised the question whether
some provisions of the Conventions might
be put into effect before the time provided
for in the Conventions themselves.

The three foreign ministers have in-
formed the chancellor, in a letter published
with the Conventions, that when the Con-
ventions have been ratified by all the par-
ties to them, the three governments will
be prepared, if there is any. undue delay
on the part of other powers in ratifying
the EDC Treaty, to hold a meeting with
the Federal Government to consider and
to determine whether arrangements may
be made to put some of the provisions
contained in the Conventions into effect
prior to the entry into force of the Con-
ventions. -++END-

Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of June 12

The Yist meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held June 12
at the Quartier Napoleon, headquarters of
the French authorities in Berlin. Present
were Mr. Andre Francois-Poncet, French
high commissioner (chairman); Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, UK high commissioner, and
Mr. Samuel Reber, acting US high com-
missioner,

The meeting was attended by the
French, British and US commandants in
Berlin.

The high commissioners heard a report
from the Berlin commandants on the cur-
vent situation in the city. They confirmed
the actions of recent occurrences and ap-
proved the preparations which have been
made to meet possible future exigencies.
Special attention was given to the econ-
omy in Berlin. In this connection, the
high commissioners reaffirmed their de-
termination to take, together with the
Federal Government, steps to ensure the
preservation and development of the
economic life of the city.

The high commissioners deplored the
unnecessary and ‘unjustified suffering
which is being caused to the German
people living along the border between
the Federal Republic and the Soviet Zone
by the actions of the Soviet and East
Zone authorities.

Official Announcement

Visas for Japan

The Allied High Commission has an-
nounced that, effective immediately, the
Combined Travel Board in Bad Salzuflen
has ceased issuing visas for entry into
Japan. Such entry visas are now obtain-
able from the Japanese Embassy, Hotel
Excelsior, Cologne.

JUNE 1952

--- Page 48 ---
Erecting barbed wire on June 3

(HICOG-Berlin photographs by Schubert) The British are stealing our ideas! — from Hamburger

Abendblatt (Hamburg), June 3.

Removing barricade on June 10

--- Page 49 ---
After signing the Contractual Agree-
ments in Bonn, Chancellor Adenauer
enplaned for Paris to sign for Germany
the treaty for the European Defense
Community. (HIC photo)