--- Page 2 ---
RECEIVED
APR 8 1052

Secre

ISsue.

The Southwest State Plan for Safer Highways s i © FEBRUARY
Role of the University

New Schools Arriving 1952
Missi: naries in Fritzlar Cooperative Community

--- Page 3 ---
28th Division Weleomed

To Germany

On hand to greet the first contingent of the 28th
Infantry Division upon its recent arrival in Bremerhaven, @
Germany, was Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, SHAPE
commander-in-chief, shown (leit) reviewing EUCOM
Honor Guard, which was also present for the occasion:

Other US Army photos, taken at staging area near
Mannheim, picture troops listening to orientation talk by
Lt. Col. Dana, division G-3 officer (above); distribution
of sleeping and other equipment (below, left) and am
overshoe-fitting (center). In photo (below, right) Maj. Geny
Daniel B. Strickler, the 28th's commanding general, and
Col. R. W. Springer, commanding officer of Mannheim Mili+
tary Sub-Post, observe division at Mannheim debarkmenty

The 28th is the fourth and last US division to be
assigned to General Eisenhower's NATO Army. + END)

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the Allied occupation
in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

EditOresunncreteens H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor . Alfred L. Meyer
Jean Kinnaird Helen McLaughlin

Cherry Lou Fellner Liselotte Goldbeck
Wilfried Saliger

Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 040-042
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: 8428, 8691, 8738, 8896, 8958

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Special Publica-
tions Branch, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG. It is
printed by the Publishing Operations
Branch, Information Services Division,
alt 39 Schelling Strasse, Munich.

Distribution is handled by the Mail
and Message Center, Communications
Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 060, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
guiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

German mailing address is:
Editor

Information Bulletin

Public Relations Division
HICOG Hochhaus
Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public'Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

e

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

February 1952
The-Sonthwest' State 6. tA cies os 'oa os 2 Oa Sows oe eee 3
Article by Chester B. Lewis and Robert D. King
German Women Learn about UN ...................00005 8
Blan ‘for-Safer Highways) 25 oP escits igo ins wa ooo 9

Article by Joseph L. Lingo and John M. Gleason

Missionaries ime Britzlar vs! 2 546 oss) s sis pices s/o wats aes Oe aT 13
Article by Earl H. Luboeansky

ING@W- Schools vATPIVING 56 o3 siy'28 25 core scmaiecas sels evans siete 17
Article by Liselotte Goldbeck

Employment and Wage Guide for Household Help ........ 19
Article by Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG

Rolesot the University. chie cis cave nie calc noaueees ti tues aL
Address by John J. McCloy

Cooperative Community (pictorial) ....................85 24
Feature by James F. Keim

Personnel Notes vax acess cancriaiten. Jer cabin sets eet aeae 26
Significance: of Moral Values: .....0...0 4.0.00, sean inate 28
OutputiRises ito New Highs couse. <2, .asicu eh papis nent tae 29)
Economic review by Commercial Attache Section
Calendar of: Coming Hventsy<.sidus.. tes sac eacah ceeicis« ore ae 3t
RIAS Scores with East Zone Program .................... 33
In and ‘Around Germany 2:29 iisis.sscuseareenaa ge Sak eee 34
Big Ulistein PlantMestored. 5. o.:..30s.+..'sap caus Maia oat aan 38
Washington Report 3). eiccp tg vas seid sae nae eae 39
German Ha torials es): 8, sistant yeeros Saeed Saaremaa es SO 41
OTCIAL SINGH Cage a8. ci52 cre Stato oni usin oiiaas alba sleahtt ae 46
COMMUNIGUES ai). sien et ons we aisle sn Hesbibes, Ree 46
Laws and Regulations fy 0-66 eso. sou saiwisena te emeyen 46
DHALEMONIS 65 <ioarous ops str ek asinine na CUA oualeo ane acae 46

AMMOURCEMENE sie ere pie eles oh oatehs ch eee ae aa
Recent Publications ¢ fon24042 «aso sow dees ac eww ad sat 47

Index to Information Bulletin for 1950 and 1951 ............. 48
(Supplement to Indexes in issues of May 3, 1949, and
May 1950)

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
PUBLIC RELATIONS DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
LEGEND:
| PRE-OCCUPATION STATE
| OF BADEN

FRANKFURT

4

PRE-OCCUPATION STATE
OF WUERTTEMBERG

bee
RHINELAND -
PALATINATE

an
Tet

TUEBINGEN
ATHTTUTTPOTTENA TULA LUOL LEGA HAUOHL CT

TTEMBERG-
TT

OLL

_ Map shows the area that will be included in the Southwest State. The division between the US and French Zones is 4
indicated by the broken line across the area between Karlsruhe and Ulm. To the north is the US Zone state of Wuert- —
_ temberg-Baden. To the south are the two French Zone states of South Baden and Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern. The —
avarian county of Lindau (not shown), touching on the eastern tip of Lake Constance, had been attached during the —
occupation period to Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern to permit the French occupation authorities direct contact between —
their zones in Germany and Austria. Lindau County has been returned to the jurisdiction of the state of Bavaria. —

FORMATION BULLETIN A) FEBRUARY 1952 —

--- Page 6 ---
The Southwest State

By CHESTER B. LEWIS and ROBERT D. KING
Political Affairs Division, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden

HE TERM “SOUTHWEST STATE" has for five or

more years been alternately the symbol of hope
and the political whipping boy for South German poli-
ticians. To some the idea offered promise of an economi-
cally and politically stronger area; for others the new
state has seemed to threaten loss of independence and
tradition,

The climax was reached on Dec. 9, 1951 when voters
in the area went to the polls in a special plebiscite to
decide whether a new state would be created or the
prewar states of Wuerttemberg and Baden would be
restored, The results, a victory for the proponents of
the new state, set in motion the complicated process of
establishing an entirely new government and the eventu-
al dissolution of the existing three state governments
and boundaries created under the occupation,

Geographically, the new state, equal in area and popu-
lation to the New England states of Connecticut, Rhode
Island and Massachusetts, will comprise the prewar
states of Wuerttemberg and of Baden, and the small
former Prussian province of Hohenzollern which under
Hitler was administratively attached to Wuerttemberg.
It will embrace an area of 13,800 square miles contain-
ing approximately 7,000,000 persons, exclusive of the
refugee population, and will extend from the Rhine on
the west to Bavaria on the east. It will touch the Main
River and the Palatinate on the north, and Lake Con-
stance and Switzerland on the south.

Beginning of Occupation

French-occupied states of South Baden and Wuerttemberg-
Hohenzollern, comprising the southern part of Wuerttem-
berg including Hohenzollern.

Creation of the new state of Wuerttemberg-Baden was
proclaimed officially on Sept. 19, 1945, with the issuance
of Military Proclamation No. 2. At approximately the
same time the new states of Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern
and South Baden were formally announced by the French,

Despite the amalgamation and creation of the new
states, it became apparent within the next few months
that neither the French nor American governments
necessarily regarded the new boundaries as permanent.
In a statement issued at the Moscow Conference on
May 24, 1947, concerning the future political structure
of Germany, US Secretary of State George C. Marshall
said: “In the final settlement of Laender (state) bound-
aries the historic, economic and cultural aspects must
be taken into account.” ‘

The French Government in a memorandum dated
Jan. 17, 1947, concerning the constitutional reorganiza-
tion of Germany submitted to the Council of Foreign
Ministers made the following statement: ‘The plan of
territorial structure must, therefore, to a certain extent
take into consideration the existing status quo and the
essential economic facts as well as historical tradition,”

Early History
The people of Wuerttemberg and Baden are proud of
their history, which may be traced back to the Roman

In the final phases of World War II
French forces foe the first to enter How the People Voted on Dee. wD 1951
both Karlsruhe and Stuttgart and were a
thus in control of the capitals of bd
Wuerttemberg and Baden. teste, on Vetine:Disuiets Movers: clpation Seigtale Restoration
July 7, 1945, in deference to Amer- Moreent) ie Reread)
ican demands, the French withdrew District I:
from both cities to positions south of South Baden ............ 868,387 70.5 37.8 62.2
the east-west line from Ulm to Karls- District II:
ruhe, In this way, vital US rail, water- Worthy Baden. <u: 255 5a: 995,251 67.2 57.1 42.9
way and particularly highway com- District IIT:
munication’ tase’ from >Prankfurt to a 771,836 52.3 91.4 8.6
Munich) SalZ Daigo sage ae Nonk Warsiaahsrg z 1,632,317 50.7 93.5 6.5
of Karlsruhe and Stuttgart were kept
intact under American control, but at alee aati pra all
the same ime both Wuertemberg and pigvariaden see ee 1,863,638 68.6 47.8 spp a
Baden were split into two parts. Voting Districts III & IV,

Following World War II the area Prewar Wuerttemberg,
was divided into the present American including Hohenzollern ....__ 2,404,153 50.9 92.8 7.2
occupied state of Wuerttemberg- Total Vote for Southwest
Baden, made up of the northern parts State Area ............04-: 4,267,791 58.7 69.7 30.3
of Wuerttemberg and Baden, and the

FEBRUARY 1952

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
emperors. More than three centuries of Roman domina-
tion left its mark, Vestiges of Roman. architecture, pro-
tective walls and roads are evident throughout the area.

As early as the first century after Christ the Sueve
tribe flooded over this part of Germany. Later joined
by the Alamans and other tribes, the district took the
name of Alamannia by which it continued to be known
until around the 11th century when the name Swabia
began to prevail. In 496 A.D. the Alamans were defeated
by Clovis and surrendered the northern part of the area
occupied by them to the Franks. Dukes under Frankish
kings became the governing forces.

The 12th century saw the beginning of Baden as a
distinct administrative, if not geographical area. The
date and event generally regarded as marking the be-
ginning of Baden is 1112 when Hermann, grandson of
Berthold, Duke of Corinthia, took the title of Margrave
of Baden. With the fall of the Hohenstaufen dynasty in
1268, the last great ruling house of the Duchy of Swabia,
Baden went its separate dynastic way.

Yet, in spite of these conflicting interests, many smaller
sovereign areas in the vicinity were administratively
combined under aegis of the Holy Roman Empire in the
latter part of the 15th century to form, until 1806, the
territory now occupied by Wuerttemberg and Baden.

In 1806 Napoleon made the Duchy of Wuerttemberg
a kingdom and gave it certain additional surrounding
territory. At the same time he unified the Grand Duchy
of Baden, also bringing into it a number of small, sover-
eign counties and feudal estates lying to the north. The
two states, together with the Hohenzollern province, all
later confirmed by the Congress of Vienna in 1815,
thereafter remained intact for nearly 140 years until
1945 when they were, like ancient Gaul, divided into
three parts.

Constitutional Democracies

Local politicians are fond of saying, not altogether
facetiously, that Wuerttemberg and Baden were democ-
racies before Columbus discovered America. There is
little doubt that the governments and constitutions of
peoples in the area have been among the most liberal,
and progressive in Germany. Charles James Fox, Whig
leader and prime minister of England, once said that of
the constitutions in Europe only those of England and
Wuerttemberg were worthy of the name.

Beginning in the 11th century a series of Swabian city
leagues were in existence until 1534. The fourth and last,
called the Great Swabian League, organized in 1488 by
Frederick III, included 22 Swabian cities and had a
formal constitution, a federal council and a federal
court, Under the treaty of Muensingen in 1482 the area
which became the Duchy of Wuerttemberg 13 years later
was declared “indivisible” forever thereafter. In the
treaty of Tuebingen drawn in 1514 “the rights of the
people of Wuerttemberg’ were written into a formal
constitution which continued in existence for almost
300 years.

A Baden constitution in 1818, followed closely by a
new Wuerttemberg constitution in 1819, incorporated

INFORMATION BULLETIN

many of the ideals of the American and French Revolu-
tions, further limited the power of the crown and pro-
vided for popular assemblies. Both of these constitutions
survived the Bismarck era to be supplanted in 1919 after
World War I by new constitutions proclaiming that the
“power of government emanates from the people.”

Until 1871 the Duchy of Baden and Kingdom of Wuert-

‘ temberg retained their sovereignty and remained outside

the direct control of the Prussian Emperors. It was Bis-
marck, the “Iron Chancellor," who promoted the idea
that France had designs against the Germans, resulting
in the Franco-Prussian war in 1871 which propelled the
two states into the integrated German Empire.

Model for Unification
Although talk of a Southwest State had been heard for
years in the area, it was not until around 1947 that the
desire to create. a Southwest State developed among
political leaders. The impetus came directly out of Wuert-
temberg-Baden's experience in successfully operating a
government combining two geographical areas under a
single constitution and with the cooperation of parlia-

mentary representatives from both areas.

The Bonn Basic Law for the Federal Republic includes
two articles pertinent to boundary revision and the
Southwest State problem. Article 29 on general territorial
reorganization makes boundary revisions subject to
federal law and provides for popular referendum by
plebiscite. Article 118 specifically permits reorganization
of Wuerttemberg-Baden, South Baden and Wuerttem-
berg-Hohenzollern by agreement among the three states,
contrary to the provisions of Article 29, but provides
finally that ‘failing agreement, the reorganization shall
be regulated by federal legislation which must provide
for a referendum.”

The authors of this article, because of their po-
sitions in OLCWB's Political Affairs Division, have
been the principal American observers of the Ger-
man progress toward the formation of the South-
west State. Mr. Lewis, former city manager of Enid
and Mangum, Oklahoma, arrived in Stuttgart April
29, 1945, with the US Mission to the French occu-
pation of the city. Eight days later, when control
of the city was turned over to the American mili-
tary authorities, he was named head of civil ad-
ministration, continuing as division chief until
HICOG replaced Military Government in October
1949. Since then he has been chief of the Political
Affairs Division.

Mr. King a former aeronautics consultant with a
New York law firm, came to Germany in July 1946
as deputy prosecutor to Charles M. LaFollette in
the Justice Case at Nuremberg. After completion of
the case, he was a commercial law adviser in the
Legal Division, OMGUS, in Berlin, before going to
Stuttgart in May 1948 with the Legal Division,
OMGWB. On the advent of HICOG in October 1949
he became legislative adviser to the Political Affairs
Division,

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 8 ---
Dr. Reinhold Maier.

Dr. Gebhard Mueller,

Dr. Leo Wohleb,

The minister-president of Wuerttemberg-Baden and the state presidents of Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern and South Baden,
respectively (left to right), cast ballots in plebiscite. Long, bitter tussle centered about these three. (DPA photos from OLCWB)

Subsequent to its passage, the Basic Law was formally
approved by the military governors of the three Western
zones, In a letter dated May 12, 1949, as one of the
reservations of approval, they wrote that the powers set
forth in Articles 29 and 118 “shall not be exercised and
the boundaries of all the states excepting Wuerttemberg-
3aden and Hohenzollern shall remain as now fixed until
the time of a peace treaty.” The following August, with
the first postwar parliament and government in office in
3onn, the struggle over the reorganization began in
earnest in southwest Germany.

On the surface it has been a political battle centering
around three strong personalities, each of whom heads
one of the three states involved. These men — Dr. Rein-
hold Maier, minister-president of Wuerttemberg-Baden,
Dr, Gebhard Mueller, state president of Wuerttemberg-
Hohenzollern, and Dr, Leo Wohleb, state president of
South Baden — have not only been responsive to public
opinion in their own states but they have also helped to
shape that opinion.

A little beneath the shouting and the tumult of the
campaign the basic issues were well understood by the
people. Slowly but surely these issues emerged until
they dominated the political overtones and finally de-
termined the outcome, Their names are “economics” and
“tradition.”

Economic Factors

Economically, Wuerttemberg-Baden is one of the wealth-
lest states in Germany. It has been since 1948 one of the
four states assessed under the Federal Financial Adjust-

FEBRUARY 1952

ment Law (Laender-Finanzausgleich). This is a variation
of the Robin Hood principle which takes from the rich
to support the poor, Wuerttemberg-Baden's assessment
in the four years the law has been in effect totals more
than DM 219,000,000 ($52,122,000), It has contributed by
far the largest share for redistribution to other states
under the law.

On the other hand, South Baden has received funds
under the law totaling about DM 3,500,000 ($833,000) in
the same period. Many Wuerttemberg-Baden voters held
the view that it would be no more expensive and pos-
sibly cheaper to take in their poorer neighbor as a part
of the family.

Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern, not as wealthy as Wuert-
temberg-Baden, has longed to reunite with the rest of
Wuerttemberg. Most of the heavy industry in former
Wuerttemberg was located in the northern half which,
when the state was divided in 1945, became a part of
Wuerttemberg-Baden. With many of its smaller industries
dependent upon its northern neighbor in another zone of

-occupation, the advantages of a Southwest State were

apparent.

Only in South Baden — an area of scenic beauty, small
industries and famous wine — did real opposition to the
idea of an amalgamated state develop. Although many
sympathizers in the Baden portion of Wuerttemberg-Baden,
particularly around the former Baden capital of Karlsruhe,
opposed a Southwest State in favor of reunited Baden,
they were not able to defeat the issue in the plebiscite

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
ing out, 69.7 percent favored “union of "
the three states,’’ to use formal lan-
guage of the ballot. Equally important
was the vote in the individual election
districts. According to the Second Fed-
eral Reorganization Law under which
the plebiscite was conducted, a majority
for the “union” in at least three of the
voting districts as well as a majority in
the whole territory was necessary for
the establishment of the new state.

Voters in Districts II, III and IV re-
turned majorities for the Southwest
State of 57.1 percent, 91.4 percent and
93.5 percent, respectively, Only in
District I did the “union” fail to carry.
There the “Old Badeners” under the
leadership of State President Wohleb
voted for the restoration of the state of
Baden by a majority of 62.2 percent.

-2wei unter...

Das ist gut /

“United Europe?
The First Step — Southwest State.” Right, “Two under... (one hat) Southwest
State. That is good!’ Under hat are coats of arms of Baden and Wuerttemberg.

~ SUDWESTSTAAT

Poster appeals were part of campaign. The one at left reads

Victory for the Southwest State forces
had been indicated in an earlier and
entirely informational plebiscite held

when the North Badeners voted by a comfortable majority
for the Southwest State.

The basis of South Baden’s opposition has never been
entirely clear. The argument most frequently heard was
that a stronger reunited Wuerttemberg would dominate
its weaker partner in the new state and its heritage of
tradition and culture be absorbed and finally lost.

South Baden’s strong Roman Catholic majority also
felt that the church in a larger state with a Protestant
majoriy would not fare so well. Many priests openly
opposed the-new state from their pulpits, urging their
parishioners to vote against the new
state and for a reunited Baden.

Results of Plebiscite

The plebiscite on Dec. 9 offered vot-
ers a choice between “union of the
three states— Baden, Wuerttemberg-
Baden and Wuerttemberg-Hohenzol-
lern—into one federal state" or re-
storation as separate states of Baden
and Wuerttemberg including Hohen-
zollern on their prewar boundaries.
For administrative purposes four elec-
tion districts were established by
federal law, namely:

District I--the present state of South
Baden.

District II—the Baden portion of the
state of Wuerttemberg-Baden.

District III—all of the state of Wuert-
temberg-Hohenzollern.

District [V—the Wuerttemberg part
of Wuerttemberg-Baden.

With 58.7 percent of the 4,267,791
eligible voters in the entire area turn-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

6

Sept. 24, 1950. There, asin the later vote,
only South Baden voted against the Southwest State with a
majority of 59.6 percent. North Wuerttemberg, South Wuert-
temberg (including Hohenzollern) and North Baden returned
majorities for the new state of 93.5 percent, 92.5 percent
and 57.3 percent, respectively. In the intervening time of
more than one year between the two plebiscites, South
Baden, under State President Wohleb's leadership, cam-
paigned vigorously in behalf of its position.
When it became apparent that the states could not agree
on a plan for forming a new state, the Federal Govern-
ment, acting pursuant to Article 118 of the Basie Law,

On walls of cities, towns and villages throughout the three states appeared a
vast variety of posters, among them (left) ‘We can't go on like this, therefore
Southwest State” and (right) “Together we'll have it better! Southwest. State.”

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 10 ---
stepped into the picture and passed on May 4, 1951, two
laws designed to insure that a final plebiscite would be
held. The first of these laws, popularly called the Blitz-
gesetz, extended the terms of the Wuerttemberg-Hohen-
zollern and Baden state legislatures, while the other,
called the Second Reorganization Law for the Southwest
State, established the conditions under which the plebi-
scite would be held and set up a timetable for forming
a new Southwest State Government if the issue carried
in the election.

The date of the plebiscite was set for Sept. 16, 1951.
That was the situation in July 1951 when State President
Wohleb, in a last minute attempt to hold off or prevent
a showdown, challenged the constitutionality of both laws
before the newly established Federal Constitutional Court
in Karlsruhe.

Just one week before the scheduled election, the court
issued on Sept. 9, 1951, an interim injunction postponing
the plebiscite until it could rule on the constitutionality
of the challenged laws. The court's decision on Oct. 23,
upheld the law in the main, although it declared the
Blitzgesetz unconstitutional. The way was now clear for
the plebiscite on Dec. 9.

Completion of Unification
Under the law which now has the blessing of the Con-
stitutional Court, the process of creating a new Southwest
State government is to be completed not later than May 9,
1952. The three state governments, their legislatures and

constitutions will go out of existence simultaneously with
establishment of the new government. .

The process began within three weeks after the plebi-
scite with formation of the Council of Ministers, a body
of eight members representing the three states, which will
supervise election of the Constitutional Assembly and
make all necessary decisions until the provisional govern-
ment comes into being.

The date for the Constitutional Assembly election has
been set for March 9, 1952, with the new body scheduled
for its first meeting not later than March 25. A minimum
of 120 members will be elected under the applicable pro-
visions of the first federal parliament's election law. The
Assembly's first duty will be to adopt a constitution for
the new state. This will be followed by election of a
minister-president on or before April 25. Thereafter, not
later than May 9, a provisional government will officially
launch the new state.

What of the future? The German political leaders who
have forged the new state and the people who voted for
it have faith that it will bring added prosperity and soli-
darity to Southwest Germany. Coming at a time when
the whole Federal Republic of Germany is about to regain
sovereignty, they have no doubt that the new state will
develop the liberal and progressive character of its ante-
cedents.

They feel, along with former Secretary Marshall, that
the ‘‘economic and cultural aspects’ have been taken
into account. -+END

Opinion Research Specialists Confer

A plan to coordinate public-opinion research efforts
has been made in Germany, a country where for a long
time public opinion was officially ignored as immature
or immaterial.

Under the sponsorship of the German Institute of Public
Affairs of Frankfurt, more than 100 prominent German
public-opinion research specialists, sociologists, civic and
industrial leaders as well as experts from other European
countries and the United States, met in Weinheim,
northern Wuerttemberg-Baden, Dec. 14-16 to discuss
their work, establish contacts and plan for the future.

Public-opinion research, first introduced by US Military

Government as early as 1946*, is now being carried on’

by some 20 independent or university-affiliated institutes
in all parts of the Federal Republic. Some of them have
won fame for recording the German people's feelings
about such decisive problems as trade liberalization,
European integration and German defense contribution.

The meeting featured a thorough discussion of all
fields of opinion research, from polling on political prob-
lems of day-to-day interest to market analysis and
management surveys of employee and customer opinions.
A comparative study of the various research and polling

* See ‘‘What Do You Think?" in Information Bulletin, April 1950,

FEBRUARY 1952

methods employed showed that the sociological upheaval
caused by the wartime and postwar population move-
ments faces the German public-opinion researcher with
extraordinary difficulties. His technical and financial
problems are not less serious, and he has to work with
a greatly reluctant and disinclined public.

Yet all delegates agreed that the experiences of recent

‘ German history as well as the new dangers threatening

the young republic make a timely and careful analysis
of public-opinion trends more imperative than in any
other European country. German experts maintain that
a modern poll, held in the early 30's, could have revealed
in time that the Nazis were on the verge of seizing
power in the country.

The assembly established three standing committees
to deal with procedural and scientific matters, public
relations and coordination, with the goal to improve the
work of the widely scattered institutes and increase the
weight of the German public-opinion research movement,
whose prominent members are now represented in the
European Society for Opinion and Market Research
(ESOMAR) and the World Association for Public Opinion
Research (WAPOR). A new meeting has been scheduled
for next fall.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
German
Women
Learn

About
UN

Four leading German women,
speaking in four Wuerttemberg-
Baden cities, explained the workings
of the United Nations and the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to
more than 1,200 women residents of the Stuttgart, Mann-
heim, Ulm and Kuenzelsau areas at four Human Rights
Day meetings held Dec, 10.

The speakers, all members of the German committee
on UNESCO, were Dr. Mathilde Gantenberg of Mainz;
Mrs, Thea Harmuth of Duesseldorf; Mrs. Annedore Leber
of Berlin and Dr, Maria Schlueter-Hermkes of Cologne.
Dr. Gantenberg, former state secretary in the education
ministry for Rhineland-Palatinate and now a member of
its house of representatives, spoke in Ulm; Mrs. Harmuth,
trade union leader, in Stuttgart; Mrs, Leber, publisher of
youth literature, in Kuenzelsau and Dr. Schlueter-
Hermkes, author and leader in the Catholic women's
organization, in Mannheim.

Purpose of the four meetings, which were arranged
by OLCWB Women's Affairs Branch in Stuttgart, was
to inform a wide segment of the population about the
United Nations so that when Germany becomes a full
member, many German women will be ready to take their
places as participants in its program.

TRCUNANDSCHAFTS

SECOETARIAT : 5
SERCH SODALRAT RAT

Women from Mannheim and surrounding area listen to Dr. Schlueter-Hermkes,
German author, on UN, UNESCO structure.

(Photo by courtesy “Stars and Stripes’)

In preparation for the local meetings, Mrs, Leber held
a series of training sessions for 50 Wuerttemberg-Baden
women, briefing them on the UN structure, From this
group were chosen discussion leaders for the gatherings
on Human Rights Day and for subsequent meetings with
adult education groups and other private organizations
and in the Wuerttemberg-Baden schools,

Following the lecture period, the women divided into
discussion groups which arrived at these general findings:

More written information about the United Nations
and UNESCO should be provided,

The Federal Republic's education ministry should publish a
UN booklet for use in schools,

Instruction on the UN's organization and purpose should be
included in all school curricula and should be obligatory for
children 10 years of age and up. Teachers should be thoroughly
informed on the subject.

Films on the United Nations should be provided throughout
western Germany,

Of particular interest to the women was the vast scope of the
UN's aid to war-damaged countries and their displaced popula-
tions, and its efforts to preserve peace in Palestine, Indonesia
and Kashmir, + END

Section of crowd which overflowed auditorium in Anna Haag House, Stuttgart, for one of four Human Rights Day meet-
ings held in Wuerttemberg-Baden cities to acquaint German women with UN and UNESCO organizations. (Schwarz photo)

--- Page 12 ---
Plan for Safer Highways

Resume of Report

EPH L. L

By JOS

GO and JOHN M. GLEASON

Visiting Consultants, Public Safety Division, HICOG

‘ERMANY TODAY IS FACED with
a critical situation in regard to
the safe and expeditious movement of
traffic on its streets and highways.
The problem is serious from the view-
point of both accidents and congestion.
Although it is impossible to obtain
complete and accurate statistics on
the number and types of traffic ac-
cidents in the entire federal area,
enough figures are available to in-
dicate that the German traffic ac-
cident rate is one of the highest of
any nation in the world.
During 1950 a total of 247,567 traffic
accidents of all types was reported to

for their study.

This article is a resume of a re-
port on West German road traffic
made by Joseph L. Lingo, director
of the Purdue University Public
Safety Institute in Lafayette, Ind.,
and John M. Gleason, chief of police
in Greenwich, Conn., and immedi-
ate past president of the Interna-
tional Association of Chiefs of
Police. Both have been visiting
consultants with the Public Safety
Division, Office of Political Affairs,
HICOG, which has forwarded cop-
ies of the report to the German
transportation officials in Bonn

preciation or understanding of its
potential as a dangerous weapon when
mishandled.

As a pedestrian or bicyclist they
cannot comprehend the real meaning
and relationship between speed and
stopping distance, acceleration, centri-
fugal force and other natural laws of
vehicle operation.

The majority of German roads have
been constructed and reconstructed
along lines of good engineering prac-
tices, but with little or no regard to”
the traffic engineering or road users‘
needs. The responsibility of the engi-
neer for safe and efficient highway

the Federal Ministry of Traffic. Of
that total, 6,314 resulted in deaths. Since only the more
serious accidents are investigated and reported in most
areas of Germany, the critical aspects of the problem
become even more apparent.

It is estimated that one person is killed on German
streets every 85 minutes, or an average of 17 traffic
. deaths a day. Figures indicate that a representative Ger-
man city experiences over a yearly period approximately
five times as many traffic accidents as a city of compa-
rable population in the United States. At the same time
the vehicle mileage in the German city is much less
than in its American counterpart.

This useless slaughter of human lives and wasteful
expenditure of money is a serious blow to the German
people in their struggle for economic rehabilitation.

“VERMANY HAS A VERY high number of vehicles in
comparison to the road mileage of the country.
Latest figures indicate a total of approximately 2,282,000
registered motor vehicles of all types, using the 80,000
miles of improved roads in the federal area. This figure
does not include the many millions of bicycles, vehicles
from other countries, vehicles of the Allied forces and
other vehicles of every imaginable type. This great
diversification of vehicle types is one of the major
factors responsible for the high accident experience.
Another important factor is the basic psychological
attitude of the people. People, whether walking or rid-
ing on wheels, must be safety conscious and courteous.
Road courtesy must be continually practiced by every-
one — drivers and pedestrians — if a traffic safety pro-
gram is to succeed.
A great number of persons have never owned or
driven a motor car and, consequently, have no real ap-

FEBRUARY 1952

transportation is far greater than has
been generally realized in Germany. In fact, there is
practically no recognition of traffic engineering as we
use the term in America.

Traffic engineering consists essentially of using facts
based on complete and accurate records in order to re-
duce accident rates. The need for full cooperation with the
traffic police is rudimentary; unfortunately, the German
concept of cooperation between official agencies has not
been conducive to the sound application of these practices.

Because of the necessity for restoring bombed-out
bridges, the construction of new roads and adequate
maintenance of existing roads were practically at a
standstill until 1949. In Bavaria alone some 750 bridges,
out of 3,000, were destroyed during the war. Since 1949,

Two US traffic experts, Prof. Joseph L. Lingo (right),
director of Purdue University's Public Safety Institute,
and Police Chief John M. Gleason of Greenwich, Conn.,
(second from right), meet with Brig. Gen. H. Maglin,
EUCOM provost marshal, and Joel B. White, Jr., HICOG
public safety officer, on recent survey. (US Army photo)

--- Page 13 ---
some roads have been rebuilt and standards of mainte-
nance have improved. However, there is still a great
need for additional road construction, widening of pre-
sent roadways and the elimination of many dangerous
traffic hazards, It is estimated that only about one-
fourth of the money available in 1938 for road building
and maintenance is being spent today.

E HAVE OBSERVED many instances where the

present and potential needs of traffic were given
only secondary consideration in planning the reconstruc-
tion of streets and highways in bombed-out areas.

Much of this reconstruction has been carried out
along the same lines as in the past, with primary interest
on some esthetic or historical consideration,

The narrow building-lined streets in most German
towns and cities, with the abrupt curb-side exits, en-
trances from plants, buildings, homes, barns and walls,
are certainly traffic hazards, Also the German farmer
uses the roadway adjacent to his home and barn as part
of his barnyard, as his ancestors did for many generations.

In many areas it is virtually impossible for a broken-
down vehicle to pull off the traveled portion of the
highway because of drainage ditches, lines of trees or
walls of buildings too close to the roadway. There are
many miles of trees — planted on both sides of the
roadway — whose low overhanging branches cause much
of the truck traffic to drive in the center of the pave-
ments. This induces many drivers to pass slow-moving
trucks on hills or curves and is responsible for many
accidents.

The lack of adequate street lighting is hazardous to
driving and walking conditions after dark. The high in-
cidence of nighttime pedestrian injuries and deaths is a
sad testimonial to this fact.

RAFFIC VOLUME ON MANY of the secondary roads

is reaching the saturation point during peak traffic
hours. Where these roads traverse cities and towns, the
situation has reached alarming proportions. The lack of
adequate through-routes and well-defined bypasses
creates many serious hazards and much congestion.

The many miles of cobblestone roads, which have been
in use for generations, present definite traffic hazards.
These roads are slippery when wet and become veritable
ice rinks during cold weather.

The types and condition of numerous vehicles on the
highways constitute an additional hazard. Some are
antiquated, badly worn, in poor repair and often un-
safely loaded with both passengers and cargo. Because
many of the passenger vehicles are of substandard size
and light ‘construction, accidents in which they are in-
volved usually result in a high degree of severity.

On the other hand, the roads are crowded with trucks,
many of which are pulling one or two heavily loaded
trailers, The type of trailer hitch used on most of these
vehicles is not of the type which prevents serious sway-
ing and whipping, particularly where a second trailer
is attached, The extreme length of these truck-trailer
units makes passing difficult.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Any approach to the problem of reducing accidents
and relieving congestion must be positive and construc-—
tive. Motor vehicle transportation is an integral part of ©
the social and economic life of the country, and road _
safety is inseparable from efficient highway transportation, =

HE UTOPIAN SOLUTION of the German traffic ©
problem would involve’ rebuilding all or nearly all —
of the existing streets and highways except the super-—
highways, which is impossible from both a financial and ::
practical standpoint. The alternative is to apply those —
measures that will produce more efficiency, in terms of
traffic capacity and safety, on present facilities. In this”
category are such items as minor reconstruction and
street widening, improving and modernizing traffic- —
control devices and methods, the establishment and —
proper enforcement of such traffic restrictions as one- —
way streets, parking regulations, prohibited turning —
movements and adequate bus and streetcar stops. There —
is-also a vital need in German cities for off-street parking ©
facilities,
Of all the phases of a balanced program of traffic
safety, the most expeditious way to affect immediately
noticeable results is through enforcement as well as
encouraging voluntary law observance by all operators ~
and pedestrians. Enforcement must involve the frequent
apprehension and fair, proper punishment of violators in’
order to develop self-discipline in the mind of thé public, —
We feel that German traffic law enforcement can be
greatly improved by:

1. More appreciation of the seriousness of the
problem by all concerned,

2. Appropriation of finances to attack the prob-
lem (including necessary motorized equipment for
enforcement officers),

3. Development of uniform policies in enforce-
ment administration.

4, More enforcement effort by the police,

5, More immediate and aggressive prosecution
of traffic violators by courts.

6. More publicity on court-case dispositions and
penalties,

Police students in Bavaria train at one of five rural police
schools, In simulated accident, students learn to write 4
reports, administer first aid. (PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

--- Page 14 ---
Student policemen at the Fuerstenfeldbruck police school
near Munich, largest of Bavarian training schools, study
criminal code as part of six months’ intensive training.

7. More adequate penalties and utilization of the
corrective function in an educational as well as
disciplinary manner.

N THE CATEGORY of investigating accidents we feel

that an exceptionally good job is being done. Gener-
ally, the police reports are detailed, exact, factual, pain-
stakingly done, but there the operation stops. There is
little or no analysis to show the why, how, when and
where, and to use these facts as the basis of present
and future traffic enforcement activities. True selective
enforcement is unknown and untried.

Important development in the program of traffic safety
in Germany has been the establishment of Traffic
Institutes by the police in some states. These institutes
are maintained to sponsor the establishment of technical
training and service institutions. They are directed by
the government but participated in by private interests
as well. They provide a type of training and services to
police and other governmental agencies in traffic safety:
matters which would otherwise not be available.

Perhaps the most important step in helping to bring
about the much needed coordination between the police
and other official and public agencies was taken in 1949
when the minister-president of North Rhine-Westphalia
conceived the idea for organizing a type of safety or-
ganization known as the Public Safety Council (Verkehrs-
wacht).

At first the organization was organized in the state of
North Rhine-Westphalia. In 1950 it was expanded into
the Federal Public Safety Council with local chapters
in each of the 11 German states and in Berlin.

This organization is composed of individual representa-
lives and persons representing all types of groups and
organizations interested in traffic safety. It is financed
through voluntary contributions from insurance, auto-
mobile, petroleum and other interested agencies. As a
Tesult of meetings and conferences with local safety
Council officers and persons interested in the project,

FEBRUARY 1952

we were able to assist materially in the organizational
efforts and a number of specific recommendations along
these lines were presented to the officials.

There is a definite opportunity for more cooperative
effort between the courts and the police. The police
justifiably complain that the backlog of open cases and
the fact that they have no regular knowledge of dis-
positions do little to help morale or to further continuous
traffic activities. In some of the larger communities it
may be well to try to sponsor separate traffic courts
and judges.

It becomes a very pertinent matter to the police pro-
gram of accident prevention whether or not penalties
are severe and certain. There is also a great need for
more direct cooperation between the police and the
courts in the preparation of traffic cases,

We feel that the problem is of serious enough magni-
tude in the loss of life and financial costs for the com-
munity to provide the necessary motorized equipment,
motorcycles, cars or a combination of both to carry on
an effective enforcement program. A great deal can be
done with very little equipment when the police authori-
ties are thoroughly sold on its value and necessity.
There has been too much of a passive attitude displayed
on this score in most areas.

With the addition of a few cars and radios, many of
the presently station-bound police can be turned into
the highways and byways to carry on some of this
activity. The instigation of a good, written traffic-warn-
ing system, with proper follow-up records, can do much
to bring the public's attention to some of their careless
and accident-causing habits. The present system of
traffic-training institutes now in effect in some of the
more progressive police departments can and should be
augmented, made more universal.

4 Ronen IS IN GERMANY a great need for improved
techniques of driver examining and licensing.
Licenses for drivers should be issued for a definite and
shorter period than at present, in order to check and

Police officials of Berlin, Bremen, Mannheim and Wies-
baden who had visited US under HICOG's Exchanges
Program attend follow-up conference with HICOG Pub-
lic Safety experts. Such conferences are held periodically.

--- Page 15 ---
control all drivers and particularly to indicate those
drivers who have a bad accident or arrest experience.
There: is much need for better driver records, for in-
creased use of the suspension and revocation of licenses
and for giving particular attention to those drivers who
are responsible for a high number of accidents.

The many accidents on German highways due to
vehicle defects and mechanical failures serve to point
up the need for a much improved and more frequent
inspection of vehicles. At present this activity is being
carried out in a rather haphazard manner with little real
effectiveness. The police should give more attention to
checking vehicles, particularly in regard to lights, brakes
and other obvious defects.

Legislation should be passed and strict enforcement
exerted to compel many of the heavy trucks to expel
their exhaust gases into the air above the truck body
and not into the faces of other motorists from the side
exhausts. When inquiries were made on this minor mat-
ter, the theory advanced was that upshooting exhaust
gases would kill the blossoms of overhanging fruit trees
along the roadside.

Another project for the chiefs-of-police associations
to support might include the universal training of all
policemen in at least the rudiments of first aid and the
carrying of small but necessary equipment in police
vehicles. Such vehicles should also be equipped with
traffic torches or red flares for use in night accidents.

In cases where the police receive any encouragement
from the educational authorities, efforts should be made
for police officers to appear in the schools. Much good
in accident prevention and public relations can come of
those programs. This program is very well carried out in
a few isolated German cities, but is the exception rather
than the rule.

Certain efforts have been started which indicate some
interest on the part of both private and official agencies

in the problem of promoting public understanding in the
traffic safety field.

In Bavaria, a compulsory lesson on traffic safety has
been ordered for all schools by the ministry of education,

In Bremen and Bremerhaven, the local traffic police
conduct weekly safety classes in certain schools and a
puppet show dealing with traffic safety is conducted in
the schools by a specially trained police team.

In Hamburg a police officer has been appointed for
each school district to aid the teachers in training the
children along traffic lines. The police also present a
puppet show, dealing with safety, to the lower grades in
the schools.

In North Rhine-Westphalia the ministry of transporta-
tion has ordered that instruction in traffic rules and traf-
fic dangers be currently incorporated in the lessons of
the school students. There, also, the local police assist in
providing actual traffic instruction and demonstrations.

HE NEED FOR A PUBLIC relations program is par-

ticularly important to police because their traffic
safety operations involve the greatest danger of a hostile
public reaction. We feel the police suffer this hostile
public attitude today more as a result of a system rather
than the direct actions of either individuals or depart-
ments. The police or thejr program will advance only
to the extent they have general public support,

The German press is ever on the alert for any phase
of public action that has an appeal to all. The saving of
lives is in that category. Accident-prevention activities
lend themselves to human interest stories, editorials,
feature articles, cartoons and just plain factual releases.
Perhaps the German police may in some cases establish
a rapport with the press which they do not now enjoy.
A little cooperative action on this score by press and
police could do much for bettering relations and selling
safety. +END

Bavarian School Law Upheld

The constitutionality of the state law on Organization
of Elementary Schools in Bavaria, as revised to include
HICOG recommendations, has been upheld by the Bava-
rian Constitutional Court. In a decision Jan. 10, the court
rejected the appeal of the Social Democratic (SPD) and
Free Democratic (FDP) political parties, which had carried
to court their struggle over the issue of confessionaliza-
tion of the schools.

The law had been passed by the Bavarian legislature
on July 5, 1950, after two years of controversial dis-
cussion, during which certain criticisms by US educational
officials in Bavaria had been accepted. Virtually every
paragraph questioned by the representative of the Office
of the US State Commissioner for Bavaria before the legis-
lative committee on Feb. 4, 1950, was changed accordingly.

After the bill was passed, the SPD and FDP filed an
appeal, alleging that sections applicable to the selection

‘

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

of teachers for interdenominational schools and the con-
tracting with religious groups to furnish religious in-
struction at denominational schools, are contrary to the
Bavarian state constitution and contrary to the character
of interdenominational schools.

The Bavarian Constitutional Court ruled that the dis-
puted sections only contain provisions to insure that
parents’ wishes are respected in the establishing of inter-
denominational schools, which must be self-evident in
a democratic government.

The court further decided that the provisions of these
sections are in no way directed against interdenomi-
national schools, but offer parents and guardians in
communities with mixed religious affiliations the op-
portunity to establish such institutions if the majority
so desires. + END

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 16 ---
Missionaries in Fritzlar

By EARL H. LUBOEANSKY
US Resident Officer, Fritzlar-Homberg

T WAS SOMETIME in the eighth century — the early
I 700's, historians believe — when the English St. Boni-
face came as a missionary to the area which now includes
the ancient town of Fritzlar, in northern Hesse. Today,
more than 1,200 years later, Fritzlar has some modern
missionaries, who, like Boniface, are also preaching the
Christian tenet of brotherly love — but with a variation
in theme demanded by the times, Their mission is propa-
gation of faith and understanding among nations.

When 175 young persons from Austria, Belgium, Den-
mark, England, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Luxem-
bourg, the Netherlands, Norway, the Saar area, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland and the United States met in Fritzlar
recently, it was the result of some determined missionary
groundwork by a group of youthful German war veterans
from Fritzlar-Homberg, who, realizing the dangers of a
politically-divided Europe, decided to. carry their belief
in the need for mutual trust among nations to a concrete
attempt to prove its workability on a small scale,

In the years since the war, young people of Fritzlar
have had occasion to meet youth of many nations travel-
ing in Germany, and their visits were always the occasion
for good fellowship and a good time all around. Old preju-
dices inherited from long-forgotten forbears were dis-
solved in the wine of camaraderie, and lasting friendships
blossomed easily among one-time enemies. The desire to
know European youth from many countries began to grow
among Fritzlar's younger element, and eventually led to
the plan for an international meeting there.

The idea caught fire. Soon an organization committee
was set up which included the mayor, the chairman of
the city youth circle, the chairman of the local sport club,
the youth activities specialist of the US resident office,
the resident officer, the leader of the Youth Home
(formerly German Youth Activities center) and a one-
time German general.

Financing presented the chief obstacle, but at last an
adequate fund composed of contributions from the Ger-
man Federal Republic, HICOG, Fritzlar-Homberg county
and the city of Fritzlar was raised. More than 100 German
families offered to house and feed the young visitors for
the eight-and-a-half-day conference.

Invitations went out to all the countries of free Europe.
It was useless to send them to youth behind the Iron
Curtain, the committee decided, since the only way they
could come would, be by slipping through one of the
curtain’s cracks, a tricky business at best.

N OPENING DISCUSSIONS about problems facing
- youth of the world today, and especially the youth
of Europe, it was agreed that a politically united Europe
1s a must for the solution of these problems. Thus, the

FEBRUARY 1952

main conference theme became “How can the youth of
Europe contribute to the Union of Europe?"

Six contributing factors to a unified Europe were gone
into — music as an artistic force, the value of sports,
the role of the present generation, the political, social and
moral factors, Each discussion was divided into three
parts — a talk on the particular theme by an expert, a
workshop analysis and later a three-hour general session
with the entire conference delegation, The simultaneous
translation of the discussions into English, German and
French through use of the earphone mechanism was an
important aid to the success of the concluding sessions.

Excursions, film programs, sport, social and cultural
events were included in the conference program, some
of these extra events providing the value of mass appeal
without the evils of mass demonstration. The European
Rally, for instance, had 2,000 German youths from all over
West Germany as participants, and the closing ceremony
was presented before 1,000 youth and adults in the Fritzlar
market place. The radio program, Eintritt Frei (Free
Entry), with the youth conference as the theme, was put
on and recorded before 2,500 persons, a third of the
population of Fritzlar.

A Friday evening program, “European Youth Sing and
Play," an outstanding performance by all national groups
represented at the conference, was presented before an
audience of 1,000 young persons of Fritzlar-Homberg
county, A total of 1,500 heard Haydn's oratorio “The
Seasons."

Other programs, each offering contacts with a different
group, were the opening ceremony and dinner, special
church services, evening dances with German and inter-
national spa guests in nearby Bad Wildungen, a visit to
Kassel with foreign youths as the city of Kassel’s guests,
the film program put on by the Fritzlar theater manage-
ment and the US resident office, and the informal dance

Earl H. Luboeansky, US resident officer for Fritzlar-
Homberg area and author of this article, addresses gather-
ing at opening dinner meeting of European Youth Week,
a program which gave 175 young persons from several
countries an opportunity to discuss European unity.

--- Page 17 ---
Foreign youth visit ancient Fritzlar market place where
English saint, Boniface, preached in the eighth century.

and social evening for the foreign guests and their Fritzlar
hosts. A week-long tent camp near the ancient Wallen-
stein castle with 30 foreign and 15 German participants
followed the conference windup.

NUMBER OF OUTSTANDING speakers addressed the

young people's gathering. They included Dr. Otto
Blessing (Germany), general secretary of the Europa-
Union; Albert Lohest, chairman of Belgium's European
Union of Federalists; Dr. Ernest Schenk (Germany), mem-
ber of the central committee of the Europa-Union; Dr.
Ernst Steffan, a representative of the Swiss European
Movement; and Dr. Luciano Bolis, of the Italian branch of
the European Movement and press representatives at the
Council of Europe.

Typical of these speakers’ reactions to what they saw
and heard in Fritzlar was that of Mr. Lohest, who in a
statement published in La Cite, Brussels newspaper, said:
“It was the close personal contact which stood out above
all at the Fritzlar meeting, not only the friendship among
the youth but the more solid contact with the people of
Fritzlar. The foreign guests were quartered with German
families and ate with them at the same table. All the
guests felt themselves courted and beloved, wooed and
pampered. I shall never forget the roses which I found
every evening in my room.

“The American officials also took a great interest in
the meeting, and the American state commissioner for
Hesse came from Wiesbaden in order to debate directly
and personally with the guests.”

The address of Dr. James R. Newman, US state com-
missioner for Hesse, and the informal question and answer
session later at the home of the US resident officer were
especially beneficial in defining America’s role in Euro-
pean affairs. Four young American farm-exchangees also
did much to counteract false impressions entertained by
some Europeans regarding American intentions in Europe.
In two talks during the week, the resident officer
emphasized the US desire to assist Europe in solving her
problems and pointed especially to its interest in aiding
Germany to ready herself for active participation in the
world family of free, democratic nations.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

Swedish group appears at widely-varied entertainmen :
featuring songs, skits and dances by different nationals, |

Chauncey G. Parker, assistant US high commissioner |
for operations, at the concluding torchlight ceremony in”
Fritzlar’s beautiful old market place, told of US endeavors.
toward union and said that lessons learned by America
might well be applied in Europe. He emphasized that the —
United States is urging European union for Europe's good
and with no interest other than Europe's.

HE YOUNG CONFEREES made many objective criti-7
cisms in the final evaluation of the conference, such

as the need for a more thorough discussion of the ™
social-economic problems of Europe. All were of the
opinion that personal contacts among the various young
persons attending the session should be continued and_
plans for a similar meeting in 1952 were unanimously
approved.
A declaration and appeal prepared by a special com=
mittee and accepted in a general acclamation called for
the building of a United States of Europe as a social order’
based on law and the dignity of the individual to guaran=
tee for all these basic demands of mankind — freedom,
peace and economic security. 3
Daily receipt of mail in Fritzlar from conference partici= ”
pants after their return home, including letters of thanks, _
copies of foreign newspapers and individual expressions”
of opinion as to the value of the meeting, has been
ample proof of its outstanding success. By
Wrote Ernst Schroeder, of Adlkofen, near Landshut,
Germany: “I also met during the youth week two persons”
from the Bavarian language group. Each of us three had,
however, a different nationality, one Italian (South Tyrol),
the other Austrian (Tyrol) and I German. We did not lose
many words on that difference. Instead we sang together
on a Fritzlar street our common folk songs and in this”
way solved a political problem... :
“There in a tavern sat together philologists from Ox-)
ford, high school graduates from Luxembourg and @
secretary from Hamburg discussing with an Indonesian”
medical student from Leiden the race problem in Holland. ©
At another table a student of history from the Sorbonne
(university) talked with a Lower-Bavarian teacher about”
the relations of France to Bavaria in history...”

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 18 ---
Refreshments at home of the US resident officer provided
informal get-together which was among outdoor diversions.

Said Henriette Gros and Beatrice Niewenglowski, of
“What a reception we received in Fritzlar! It was
the first time we had been in Germany. We were a little
bit afraid to face the first contact with our long-time
enemy — but we did not need to be afraid! The German
family accepted us so wholeheartedly!"

Rotraud Muller, of Innsbruck, Austria, said: ‘Every
single participant brought along with him the inner con-
viction that was necessary to make this meeting an affair
which would be different — it was not a directed mass
meeting, but a ‘microcosm’ of a future Europe.”

Paris

OLLOWING ARE EXCERPTS from an editorial by

Curt Gasteyger, published in Die Tat, in Zurich,
Switzerland; “It is clear that smaller youth meetings in
the face of stiffer competition from larger mass gather-
ings must take the back stage, although these meetings,
especially for the participants, are of greater significance
and afterward are of more worth than those where the
individual is often absorbed in the masses. There, where

Crowds jam streets for closing torchlight parade marking
conclusion of week-long discussions, (Photos by Clausius)

each can express his opinion, where a real discussion and
true understanding are possible, there is where the effects
go into the depth and not the breadth...

“Such a youth week, in which smaller groups from
12 West European countries took part, was in a small,
pretty town in the neighborhood of Kassel — Fritzlar.
Such was the name of the place, with a little more than
7,000 inhabitants, which provided in a unique fashion
the possibility for youth of Europe to participate in dis-
cussions and not conditions... In the foreground was the
so-called ‘European Discussion’ — that is, speeches by
political leaders and educators followed by discussions
which often allowed the immoderate differences in opinion
to be brought out into the light of day, in order to find
a common ground for understanding and to build up
from that point.”

Planning is already underway for this year's meeting
in Fritzlar. It is expected that the Fritzlar session will be
duplicated next summer in a number of other European
communities as well. -+-END

Movies Attract

ORE THAN 3,000,000 East Berlin and Soviet Zone

residents have seen Western-produced movies and
HICOG documentary films at special showings in West
Berlin between May 1950 and January 1952.

Special reduced-rate programs at 21 theaters attracted
more than 2,000,000 persons, while six performances at
the Waldbuehne open-air amphitheater in 1950 and 1951
drew 90,500 Easterners, ;

Film showings for Eastern youth at Titania Palast and
programs presented in 195 other West Berlin theaters
during the Communist-sponsored World Youth Festival
last year attracted more than 1,100,000 visitors. Thousands
of others viewed open-air performances of documentaries
and feature films presented at points along the East-
West sector border by a mobile projection unit.

Twenty-five HICOG documentaries were shown over
the Northwest German Radio's television hookup before

FEBRUARY 1952

15

East Zoners

audiences estimated to total more than 77,500 persons.
Special movie performances in Berlin's border theaters,
which attracted the bulk of Eastern audiences, were
started in July 1950 through the voluntary cooperation
of West sector movie distributors and four theater own-
ers whose movie houses were located within easy walk-
ing distance of the East-West dividing line. The total
number of theaters cooperating in the project is now 21,
with a total seating capacity of 15,000 persons,

In the daily showings, scheduled at 1 p.m. and 3 p.m.,
the theaters have presented 393 feature films produced
by West German, American, British, French and Italian
movie companies. Performances for Eastern visitors in-
clude a newsreel and a documentary film. Only holders
of identification cards issued by the Soviet Zone and
Soviet Sector authorities are allowed to purchase tickets
with East marks for these showings.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
Above, two of the four pavilions of
the Arlinger Elementary School in
Pforzheim have been completed and
boast large, airy halls, many win-
dows, Playgrounds are extensive,
lawns broad. Right, on top a hill
in Untertuerkheim borough, Stutt-
gart, is jts modern, newly-built
“Lug-ins-Land" Elementary School.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Left, partial view of Habenhausen Ele-
mentary School, one of five being built
in Bremen to replace war losses. One
third of all Bremen schools were des-
troyed in the war, which left only 20
percent of classroom space usable,
The state of Bremen's school reform
law is the most progressive in Western
Germany. (Photos by Jacoby, PRD HICOG)

--- Page 20 ---
New Schools Arriving |

By LISELOTTE GOLDBECK

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

REEN "“BLACKBOARDS" WITH yellow chalk, mov-
able desks, square and airy classrooms, one-story
“pavilions” with glass-walled halls and wings are among
the innovations which can be seen in some of the new
school buildings constructed in Germany since the war.
This modernization in school planning and construction
has resulted to a marked degree from the efforts of Ameri-
can educational authorities in introducing German archi-
tects and administrators to the progressive ideas which
have been initiated in the outside world during the past
20 years.

Their acceptance is not unanimous. Some communities
oppose change from the prewar standards and others do
not have sufficient money in their treasuries to finance
extensive building programs. Some architects and plan-
ners had their own ideas. But HICOG, through its ex-
changes, community activities and educational programs
of the past two years, has provided the means by which
the varying ideas could be inspected, studied and dis-
cussed before the final blueprints for new buildings were
started.

Small groups of German architects were sent to the
United States under the HICOG Exchanges Program to
observe the progress which had been made in converting
the red-brick school house into an airy structure of glass
and steel.

Two groups of architects and financial officials were
sent to the Scandinavian countries in October 1950 and
February 1951 to inspect similar buildings there.

Twenty-three German architects and school adminis-
trators were taken on a nine-day tour last summer to
inspect recently-built elementary and vocational school
buildings in 12 cities of Western Germany.

HEN UNDER THE SPONSORSHIP of the Education

Branch of HICOG's Education and Cultural Relations
Division, some 40 leading German architects, educators,
city planners and public health officials met last fall to
work out a program of basic standards for the construc-
tion of modern school buildings. Their four-day conference
at Jugenheim, Hesse, produced a. resolution setting these
basic requirements:

Community planning should include the construction of
schools which will also be cultural neighborhood centers.

Grammar schools (grades one to six) should be one-
Story buildings, considered by school experts best for
modern teaching methods.

Shapé and size of classrooms must provide a minimum
Space of 15 square feet per pupil to conform with basic
hygienic as well as educational requirements.

Cross ventilation, good lighting and good acoustics are
essential,

FEBRUARY 1952

Movable furniture, used widely in progressive teach-
ing, should replace the stationary desks,

Landscaping of schoolgrounds should be done by ex-
perts and facilities for outdoor teaching should be in-
cluded in initial planning.

Buildings should be planned with a view to future
extension if required.

The curricula of teachers’ colleges should include the
study of modern school design and the use of new teach-
ing equipment.

Formation of a central “school building research insti-
tute’ would aid materially in the further development
of the program on a national scale.

HE SCHOOL-BUILDING SITUATION has been ex-

tremely critical in Germany. Hundreds of buildings
had been destroyed by the ravages of war. Hundreds more
had been damaged but temporarily repaired. Millions of
expellees and refugees from the East had added heavily
to school enrollments.

In Western Germany in 1950, the elementary school
enrollment, comprising 90 percent of all children between
six and 18 years of age, was .6,314,460 pupils, crowded
into 28,780 schools with a total of 100,440 classrooms. This
averaged 64 pupils to each classroom, as compared with
the US standard of 25 in the lower grades graduating up
to 40 in the upper grades.

During the HICOG-sponsored tour of the 12 cities last
summer, the German officials showed particular interest
in the one-story “pavilion-type’ school, with three or
more wings ranged along an airy hall. The large, square-
shaped classrooms open on wide well-kept lawns, which
are used as playgrounds or for open-air teaching.

Eight classrooms and a music room are provided in each
of the two pavilions completed at Pforzheim's Arlinger
Elementary School, in whose construction glass was used
extensively to provide maximum light. Modern ventilation
system is another advance: the pavilions are draft-proof.

--- Page 21 ---
There is movable furniture in all classrooms, and eye-
soothing green “blackboards” with yellow chalk replace
the old-time harshness of black and white. Technically,
acoustic paneling, ceiling heat, bilateral lighting and cross
ventilation are equally radical departures from the past.

LARGE-SCALE TRANSITION, however, from the old

to the new, is a long-time process, not only because
of the German wariness about “luxury buildings” or
“risky experiments’ but also because of the German
tenacity for the standard barracks-type school—a grim,
stone structure with its dim, badly-ventilated classrooms
and strictly disciplined atmosphere of “education without
frills.”

The designer of the modern, broad-windowed school
at Leverkusen on the Rhine told members of the HICOG
tour that “school officials refused to accept these .new
ideas at first, but we convinced them finally, and they
are gradually getting used to them.”

One of the visitors, noting the concrete flower boxes
atop the radiators in each classroom, injected a humorous
note. “We criticize our parents for educating us in bar-
racks; now it seems we must be careful lest our children
criticize us for rearing them in greenhouses." The pupils
nonetheless are delighted with the floral arrangements.
Asked who took care of them, a little girl said proudly,
“We do, of course. After all, they are our flowers.”

The comb-like layout—a series of wings along a cor-
ridor—is popular in such cities as Bremen, Kiel and
Leverkusen, and farther south, in Stuttgart and Wein-
heim. South German architects and administrators, how-
ever, are more conservative. Concerned too about public
reaction and expense, they claim that the one-story
“pavilion” or “ranch-house” type school is more costly
than a multi-storied one. They are also influenced by es-
thetic considerations, believing that building styles should
conform with local scenery and traditional architecture.

O SUPPORT THEIR ARGUMENT, some Wuerttem-
berg-Baden school and city leaders showed tour
members the Arlinger school at Pforzheim, a modern two-
storied pavilion structure built after a Swiss model, Even

The Sebastian Bach Elementary School in Weinheim,
newly completed in choice surroundings, is a structure
of three wings, each containing four classrooms. Costs
of construction exceeded DM 300,000 ($71,400) and were
covered in part by donations from a local businessman.

» lecture once in a while, and when I do, I must have my

\ ;

German architects and city planners on HICOG-sponsored
tour to study modern developments in school construction, ©
hear one of the architects responsible for Schwetzingen
vocational school explain new features of that project.

with the inclusion of many new technical features, they
said, the construction cost per classroom was only DM
37,000 ($8,806), half as much as the classroom cost for the
new Bremen and Leverkusen schools. E

In that area there is opposition to large, square class-
rooms because they require cross ventilation and addi-
tional windows in a second wall, thereby calling for addi-
tional expenditure. Commenting on the matter of room —
shape, a teacher in Stuttgart’s new elementary school
Lug-ins-Land said, “I prefer the rectangular room. I can- 7
not teach by group work alone, but must also give a}

pupils’ attention. If the room is square, I cannot watch ©
the sides.” :

Three and four-storied vocational schools were in-
spected at Bruchsal and Schwetzingen, also in Wuerttem-_
berg-Baden. Buildings there provide along both sides of
their halls 40 or more classrooms, workshops and showers
for more than 600 students. Each project is based on
similar plans, selected from an architects’ contest, and
cost DM 2,000,000 ($476,000) and DM 2,500,000 ($595,000),
respectively. q

The problem of building style, most German architects
agree, is less important with respect to secondary and |
vocational schools, since modern, multi-story buildings |
are acceptable for older students.

In the Jugenheim conference discussion regarding
style, Prof. Guenter Wilhelm of the Stuttgart Technical
University said, “If we want to make progress in essen-_
tial things, prejudices guided by taste or emotions must ~
be overcome. Although the simplest and best fullfillment —
of all basic school requirements is provided by the one- 4
story building, combinations of one and more-story struc-~
tures can offer excellent possibilities. The question is not
whether the multi-storied school is less expensive, but
what can be achieved by either one."

As the Jugenheim conference drew to a close, Dr. An=_
ton Fingerle, member of the Munich school board, re-
marked, “A school house should not look like a school
house any more.” -+END 7

FEBRUARY 1952 |

--- Page 22 ---
Employment and Wage Guide |
For Household Help

Prepared by Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG

N THE GERMAN ECONOMY the terms and conditions

of employment offered by a German employer to serv-
ants in his household are determined by law, partially
by generally recognized customs and partially by agree-
ment between the employer and the individual employee.
Presented here is certain basic information concerning
conditions which would be normal and usual if the
employer were German.

The following is a brief general outline of these con-
ditions based on German law and information supplied
by the trade unions and German governmental agencies.

Wages. Wages, normally determined by private agree-
ment between the employer and the employee, may be
a flat monthly rate, which is usually the case when
food and lodging are supplied, or an hourly rate in the
case of part-time workers or those living and eating
away from the place of work.

For general household workers receiving board and
room in addition to’ wages, the monthly net wage usu-
ally paid to adults varies between DM 60 and DM 80,
depending upon the locality, local labor supply and
degree of skill required by the employer. Personnel
specially skilled in cooking, serving, etc., usually re-
ceive higher wages up to DM 100 or more. When the
employer requires that a uniform be worn, the provision
of the uniform is the responsibility of the employer
together with any laundry or cleaning charges involved.

US citizens who are members of HICOG are not
subject to German laws which require that the
employer collect taxes or social security deductions
on behalf of German government agencies and that
the employer contribute a share equal té that of the
employee for social security assessments.

Domestic servants of HICOG members are not,
however, exempt from German tax or social secur-
ity legislation and are expressly required, when
employed by authorities having extraterritorial
exemptions from German law, to contribute their
own and the employer's share of the social security
assessments,

The foreign employer may undertake to refund
such additional amounts to the domestic servant on
a voluntary basis without thereby waiving any of
his extraterritorial exemptions from German law.
It is recommended that such an arrangement be
made between employees of HICOG and _ their
domestic employees.

It is the responsibility of the employer to insure
that the employment of domestic servants is reg-
istered with the nearest German labor office (Ar-
beitsamt. — from HICOG Staff Memorandum, Nov. 28.

FEBRUARY 1952

19

The net wage quoted above does not include the em-
ployee’s share of social insurance payments nor does it
include the tax obligations of the employee. These are
normally paid by the employer as a part of the gross wage.

For unskilled household help employed by the hour,
the usual wage varies between.DM 0.90 and 1.10 an hour.
Under this type of arrangement, the employee pays the
employee's share of social insurance and his own taxes.
The employer pays the employer's share of social in-
surance in addition to the hourly wage agreed upon.

Hours Worked. The number of hours worked a day for
household help living in are set by custom. They nor-
mally do not exceed 10 working hours a day between.
6 a.m. and 9 p.m. Work in excess of 10 hours a day is to
be compensated for by equivalent time off during first or
second day following day on which overtime was per-
formed. Rest and meal periods are provided.

One afternoon a week, starting no later than 3 p.m.,
and every second Sunday are to be granted as free time.
If Sundays are normally free, one afternoon every two
weeks starting no later than 3 p.m. is to be allowed as
free time. In addition, adequate time off for religious
observance is normally granted.

Holidays. German legal holidays are recognized by
granting alternate holidays as free time.

Leave. Minimum leave for full-time employees is fixed
by State law and accordingly varies somewhat. However,
the usual period is less than 18 years of age — 18 work-
ing days; more than 18 years of age — 12 working days.

One additional day of leave is usually granted by the
employer for each completed two years of service up
to a maximum of three additional days.

Annual leave may be taken after six months of employ-
ment, the wages for the leave period to be paid by the
employer in advance plus an allowance of DM 3 a day
for food during leave (applicable to persons living in).

Notice Period. The first two weeks of employment are
customarily regarded as a probationary period during
which an employee may be dismissed at the end of any
day. After completing two weeks of satisfactory service,
a notice period of two weeks—usually given on the
15th of the month — is considered appropriate.

References. Upon the request of the employee, an
employer is obligated to furnish a reference showing the
place of work, duration of employment and type of work
performed. This is important to a German worker in en-
abling him to establish an employment record.

Social Insurance. German workers are required to con-
tribute a certain percentage of their wages for social-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
insurance protection. Their employers contribute an
equal amount. These contributions provide sickness, old
age and unemployment benefits for the workers. House-
hold help is covered by accident insurance without
additional contribution.

In the case of the illness of household help, the em-
ployer continues payment of full wages during the first
three days of illness after which the employee becomes
eligible for sickness insurance benefits. Since the insur-
ance benefits are less than the normal wage, the emp-
loyer frequently supplements the benefits by partial pay
for a limited period such as a month to six weeks.

Each worker has in his possession a social insurance
card which is normally given to the employer upon
entering employment and in which the employer enters
annually the gross wages earned by the employee and
the amount of social insurance deductions. Upon resig-
nation or dismissal the card is returned to the employee,
the employer indicating by date and signature the date
upon which employment terminated. The amount of
social insurance deductions is determined by the social
insurance agency based upon the gross wage received.

The social insurance agency (Ortskrankenkasse) is
notified of the entrance into employment of an individual
within three days. For duration of the employment, the
employer's and employee's shares of social insurance
are sent to the social insurance agency monthly.

An exception to compulsory social insurance contribu-
tions from employers or employees is in the case of
persons working less than 24 hours a week or earning
less than DM 45 monthly. In such cases contributions
are not required but are to be paid at the employee's
request in order ‘to insure insurance benefits if the
employee is not otherwise covered.

Taxes. Three types of taxes are paid by the German
employee after his income reaches certain levels: income
tax, church tax and Berlin tax. The amount of the tax
depends upon the tax rate, which varies with the amount
of wages and certain personal circumstances of the
employee, such as matrimonial status and number of
children. These, together with certain other factors such
as refugee status, determine the tax group into which
the ‘individual is placed and is recorded on a tax card
which is in the employee's possession. Group I includes
single persons without dependents; Group II, married
persons, and Group III, persons with minor children. The
tax rate in sub-groupings in Group III varies in accord-
ance with the number of children. Of all groups, Group I
carries the maximum rate.

Inspection of the tax card furnishes the employer with
exact information as to the tax group into which an
employee falls. The amount of tax depends upon the
group and the wage received.

As in the case of social insurance, the employment of
an individual is reported to the tax office with such
information as the amount of wages paid. The appro-
priate tax is thereupon fixed by the tax office and sub-
sequently deducted from the wages paid and forwarded
periodically to the tax office.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

Taxes are computed on the basis of gross income. In
the case of hourly paid personnel, the rate paid an hour
is the gross hourly rate, the gross weekly or monthly
rate being the hourly rate muliplied by the number of
hours worked a week or month respectively. For em-
ployees receiving room and board as part of their com-
pensation, the gross monthly rate for tax purposes is
computed by adding the net monthly cash wage, the °
employee's share of social insurance contributions, taxes
when paid, and DM 36. The latter represents the standard
monthly value set by social insurance agencies for board,
room, heat and light.

It is merely a matter of custom that employees living
in are usually employed on the basis of a net cash wage
since their actual wages are gross wages. Taxes are
payable on all gross weekly incomes of DM 29 or above
and on all gross monthly incomes of DM 131.75 and above.

Net and Gross Wages. The following chart shows net =
cash wages from DM 60 to 100 in increments of DM 10 ©
for servants living in, with the appropriate social insur-
ance, charges, taxes (Group I), gross monthly wage
exclusive of allowance for board and room and cash
outlay necessary for the employer. The employee's gross
monthly wage is computed by adding columns 1, 3 and 4.
The employer's monthly expense is computed by adding
columns 1, 2, 3 and 4 (taxes).

tet | Social Insurarce | Gross | Employer's
Monthly | Employer's Employee's Taxes (Group |) Monthly | Monthly
Wage Contribution | tncome church Berlin | Wage | Expense
1 2 a ee Se 5 | 6
60 10.80 | 10.80 - - — | 70.80 | 81.60
70 | 1260 | 12.50 _ = — | 82.80} 95.20
80 12.60 | 12.60 | 0.50 0.05 0.75 | 93.90 | 106.50
90 15.00 15.00 | 1.65 0.20 0.75 | 107.60 | 122.60
100 15.00 15.00 | 2.75 0.30 0.75 | 118.80 | 133.80

The same information is given for hourly-paid workers
having worked a 48-hour week at three different hourly
rates. However, a lesser number of hours worked would
not necessarily mean a pro rata reduction in social
insurance contributions and taxes. In the chart the gross
weekly wage is the hourly rate multiplied by the number
of hours worked, in this case 48. The net weekly wage
(column 6) is the result of subtracting the sum of ‘
employee's social insurance contribution (column 4) and
taxes (column‘5) from the gross weekly wage (column 2).
The employer's weekly expense is obtained by adding ~
columns 2 and 3.

Gross | | Net

Social Insurance | | Employer's

Hourly Weekly Employer's Employee's) Taxes (Group 1) Weekly | Weekly
tate | Wage Contribution | Income Church —_ Berlin Wage Expense

“tT | 2 3 _4 | 5b. i 7
90 | 43.20} 4.20 4.20 1.55 0.35 | 36.94 | 47.40

1.00 | 48.09} 4.90 4.90 | 2.30 0.35 | 40.20 | 52.90

1,10 | 52.80 | 5.60 5.60 | 3.01 0.35 | 43.54 | 58.40

! i

Procurement. The local labor office (Arbeitsamt) acts
as a registry office for those seeking work and as a
referral agency for employers seeking suitable employees,
Household help are frequently employed directly. If this
is not the case, a request for referral is sent by the em-
ployer to the local labor office with pertinent information
to aid selection such as qualifications desired and the
requirement to live in. +END

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 24 ---
Role of the University

Address
By JOHN J. MeCLOY

US High Commissioner for Germany

URING THE PAST YEAR, I have had many invi-
t tations from the authorities of this university to visit
Freiburg and I have continuously promised myself the
pleasure of coming. I am deeply grateful for the op-
portunity to be here today.

You will quickly. realize that I am neither a scholar
nor a scientist. My New York-Pennsylvania accent will
convince you that I am not a philologist or expert in
languages. I am aot a Transcendentalist or an Ex-
istentialist. My philosophy, such as it is, is of a less ad-
vanced school. My faith, however, rests firmly in the
youth of this world and particularly in the youth of
Germany.

Now to say that one places his faith in youth is
somewhat like saying the future lies ahead of us. As
an old professor of mine once said to me when as-a
student at Harvard I made a similarly profound remark,
such statements are like the utterances of Balaam's ass,
entirely sound—but they presuppose no human intel-
ligence on the part of the creatures from which they
proceed.

There is, however, a real basis for my statement. It
lies in my own experience in Germany. I have had
many contacts among the youth of Germany since I
have been here—in schools, in youth homes, in youth
gatherings at universities and elsewhere. From these
contacts I have received concrete evidence that the
young people of Germany have the stuff and the deter-
mination to live a free and tolerant life in something
wider than an exclusively national state. That is why
it is not a conventional platitude when I say: It is in
the German youth that I place my faith for the political
edvancement of the community.

ik THE YEARS BEFORE 1933 the University of Freiburg

was one of the great institutions of learning in Europe.
Many distinguished names were associated with this
university. Today, I recall only one, Professor Husserl,
the philosopher whose Phaenomenologie made Freiburg
known around the world. Germany's progress out of the
Nazi ruins is symbolized by the fact that here today
we can honor Professor Husserl’s name. To me it is a
special privilege to do so, for his son

city, therefore, it is especially appropriate for us to honor
such French and German statesmen as Schuman and
Monnet, Adenauer and Hallstein, whose vision and cour-
age have just given the free world great hope. The rati-
fication of the Schuman Plan can become an historical
event of prime importance.

We all know, however, that France and Germany have
more than coal and steel to give to the world. Together
they can nurture and strengthen the roots of civilization
and peace. The University of Freiburg, strategically
located at the French-German crossroads, has a_chal-
lenging opportunity to be a center of thought and
action in the new community of Europe.

Today, I would like to discuss briefly the role: of the
university, that is, the role of the student and scholar
in Germany,

In a different way and for different reasons you stand
today at the beginning of an epoch such as faced young
Americans a hundred years ago. A new world was in
the making, and new challenges faced the young men
of the day. New ideas and new concepts had to be
developed. In 1837, Ralph Waldo Emerson, one of the
noblest minds America has produced, talked to the
students of Harvard University on the role of the
American scholar. I want to quote a few of the remarks
he made to the young people and scholars of his day:

Man is not a farmer, or a professor, or an engineer,
but he is all, Man is priest, and scholar, and states-
man, and producer, and soldier.

Action is with the scholar subordinate, but it is es-
sential. Without it he is not yet man. Without it thought
can never ripen into truth... Inaction is cowardice.
And again:

I do not see how any man can afford, for the sake of
his nerves and his nap, to spare any action in which
he can partake...The true scholar grudges every
Opportunity of action passed by as a loss of power.

MERSON BELIEVED THAT the student and scholar
must learn, must know the facts; that he must be
fearless in standing up for truth, for freedom and in-

is a valued member of my staff.

Here in the southwest corner — to
keep out of trouble I have not said
southwest state* — of Germany, the
Civilizations of France and Germany

ave always been interwoven. In this Jan. 21.

The accompanying address was
delivered by Mr. McCloy before
the faculty and students of the
University of Freiburg at Frei-
burg im Breisgau, South Baden,

dividual rights, He believed that the
student and scholar must participate
in the life of his community. Emerson
encouraged the young American schol-
ar of his day to have new thoughts
and beliefs and to advance them with
courage and vigor. .

Is that not the challenge facing the

* See ‘The Southwest State,’ page 3,

FEBRUARY 1952

young European today? It would be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
dangerous indeed, if under the hard pressure of getting
a job and making a living, the young European student
and scholar did not rise to meet his wider obligation to
the community — the European Community of free men
and women. At a time when regressive forces, forces of
negation and totalitarianism, seek to put man’s mind in
chains, inaction on the part of the young, free European
would not only be cowardice as Emerson says — it would
also be suicidal.

At this moment great opportunities are open to the
German students and German scholars. The Schuman
Plan, the European Community, the coming together of
the Free World to defend its freedom mean that horizons
are widening, chances are growing. The continent
rather than a country is your home. But all these op-
portunities cannot be realized if people assume that all
that is needed is the vote of parliaments elsewhere or
the Bundestag (Lower House) in Germany. Work, im-
agination, sacrifice on the part of the people will be
needed to give spirit and life to these new developments.

Such is the compelling challenge to the European
student and scholar: to become proficient in his chosen
profession or work; to recognize his obligation to the
society in which he lives; to be a democratic leader in
though and action. No village is too small, no city too
large in which to make a contribution to the new com-
munity of free men.

HE IMPORTANCE OF the participation of every

citizen in the life of the community may be seen in
the following example, which takes me into the political
arena.

I need not tell you why the outside world watches for
any evidence of the rebirth of Nazism in this country.
It is my belief that the German people, which has also
suffered terribly as a result of Nazi rule, ought to be
in the forefront of those opposed to any recrudescence
of Nazism.

My office frequently undertakes studies to determine
the strength of neo-Nazi movements in the Federal Re-
public. Our research, I am glad to say, suggests that
only 13 percent of the German people would today sup-
port a Nazi-like party or movement. Of course, it is
incomprehensible that even 13 percent of the German
people would again support such aberrations. Never-
theless, this percentage shows there is no immediate
threat.

The real danger, according to our surveys, lies in the
apathy of millions of men and women in this country,
in their failure to recognize that they must act in defense
of their own liberties. Here, for example, are some of the
results of our surveys:

1, Eighty-seven percent of the people questioned stated
they would not support a neo-Nazi party. That is en-
couraging.

2, But, in order to get at the deeper problem, the
following question was asked: “Suppose a new party —
similar to the NSDAP would try to come to power in
the Federal Republic, what would be your attitude
toward it?"

INFORMATION BULLETIN

22

Here are the results:

Only 20 percent said “I would do everything I could
to prevent it.”

Thirty percent: ‘I would not like to see it happen,
but I would not do anything to prevent it.”

Twenty-three percent: “I would not care.”

Ten percent: "I would like to see that happen, but
I would not do anything for it.”

Three percent: “I would welcome it and do every-
thing I could to support it.”

Fourteen percent expressed no opinion on the matter.

T STRIKES ME as rather alarming that such a sizable

part of the population should be so indifferent to. the
political structure of their country. This is particularly
important in Germany where political lethargy in the
recent past induced the excesses which wrecked this
country. Since 1945 many Germans have said that the
personal risk during the Hitler years and the fear of
punishment prevented action on their part. Today there
are no concentration camps in the Federal Republic.
And there is no fear of punishment, Men are free to
speak and to take a stand.

There will be no concentration camps, either Nazi
or Communist; there will be no punishment, Nazi or Com-
munist, if every.German citizen, now and in the years
ahead, is active in the defense of his own liberties.
Nobody in this country should ever again be prepared
to say: “I couldn't do anything about it; I was only an
ordinary citizen.”

Public opinion surveys are obviously not conclusive
about the state of a people's mind. I repeat, never-—
theless, that not enough Germans are alert to resist
extremist movements. Much remains to be done before
all of us can be confident that democratic habits and
tendencies are secure in Germany.

It is a fact that since 1945 there have been some
strong, democratic developments in this country. There
are outstanding groups, organizations, men and women
who are working vigorously to strengthen the Federal
Republic as a progressive, liberal force in the European
Community. Partnership in that community gives reason
to believe that the German people will be in a better
position to develop their democratic institutions and beat
off any attack of repressive forces.

But as I have said, every student and scholar carries
the obligation, whoever he is and wherever he may be,
to play a leading role in this conflict. The memory of the
Goettinger Sieben should be a living inspiration for all
German scholars today. The memory of the Geschwister
Scholl should be an inspiration to every German student.*

T THE UNIVERSITY OF FREIBURG, the introduction
of the Studium Generale has marked an important
step in German higher education. Men like your Pro-

* "Goettinger Sieben'‘ were seven professors, including the two
Grimm Brothers of fairy-story fame, who were forced to leave the
University of Goettingen in 1837 by order of the king of Hanover
for not yielding to a royal decree. This decree meant a change in
the state's constitution and limitation of civic rights. ‘‘Geschwister
Scholl’ refers to the beheading of a brother and sister during the
Hitler regime for anti-Nazi activities at the University of Munich. See
‘Inge Scholl, Schoolteacher,"’ in Information Bulletin, April 1950.

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 26 ---
fessor Tellenbach have demonstrated courage and vision
in helping to mold university life to fit the changing
world in which we live.

Your Professor Grewe, who plays such an important
role in the negotiations on the bilateral agreements in
Bonn, is a fine example of the scholar tackling the
realistic political problems of the day,

I would also like to mention the example of Freiburg’s
Academic Council. The close contact which the univer-
sity representatives on it have with the delegates from
the state legislature, churches, unions, chambers of com-
merce, professional organizations and the press undoubted-
ly goes a long way toward preventing the isolation of
the university from governmental, political and economic
life.

The class in the Freiburg Law College given jointly
by a Swiss and German professor demonstrates the
friendly relationships of your university with the Swiss
universities, and your effort to benefit from the centuries
of undisturbed democratic development of free Switzerland.

E ALL HAVE MUCH to learn from each other.

I consider it a credit to my country that in the
19th century American higher education was so highly
receptive to the influence of the German university.
Scholarship and research were the essence of the German
university. Our students and scholars came to Germany
to see and to learn, and on their return they stimulated
a new era of American education.

Today the German university, for the sake of its own
future, must be eager to study and to accept the ex-
perience of non-German universities. The postwar Ger-
man university must go further to meet the problems of
the young generation in this country.

Few, if any, suggest that the German university lacks
a high standard of learning or of scientific achievement.
There is full recognition of the high intellectual level of
German faculties. Many believe, however, that there
should be more contact between the German university
and the community; that the university could do more
to prepare the student for active citizenship. The Hum-
boldt concept of the university, applied to today’s needs,
would fill the gap, If the noble Humboldt were alive

today, he would undoubtedly relate the humanistic ideal *

of education to the social community.

Studium Generale is a development of the Humboldt
concept. It brings teacher and student together. They
live together, discuss together, work together. In this
common experience the professor has greater opportunity
to influence the student; the fresh and adventurous spirit
of the student helps liberalize the views of the scholar.
This academic community in which people live in mutual
respect and tolerance then becomes a model for the
greater community, for later life.

Freiburg, as I have mentioned, has given other Ger-
man universities an excellent example of the Studium
Generale, I recognize, of course, the large resources that
are needed to establish colleges of this type within the
German university. But if the German university needs
such colleges in order to fulfill its mission, the German

TEBRUARY 1952

23

Cover Photograph

Little Lawrence E. Sommers, III (left), and tiny
Darlene Johnson try out the children’s slopes at the
new Rostalm ski school at EUCOM's Berchtesgaden
Recreation Area, established recently to give chil-
dren an opportunity to enjoy the sports and recrea-
tional facilities of the US Army's “winter wonder-
land“ in southern Bavaria.

With them is Ruth Stabhagen, a qualified Bava-
rian skier and instructress, who is in charge of the
Rostalm children's school. She keeps a nurse's eye
on the youngsters from the moment they are com-
mitted to her care.

Only children and non-expert skiers use the Rost-
alm school slopes, which are 10 minutes by bus
from the village of Berchtesgaden. If the children
tire of skiing, there are sleds and winter toys availa-
ble with which they can amuse themselves. In the
“All States” ski cafe, the tots can assemble for a
glass of milk while waiting for transportation back
to their respective hotels.

Lawrence is the five-year-old son of Lt. Col. L. E.
Sommers, commanding officer, BRA, and Darlene is
the three-year-old daughter of Maj. Darwin L. John-
son, Special Services officer. (US Army photo)

people and authorities must find the means to meet the
need. The main task is now theirs.

HE PEOPLE OF THE United States have shown great

interest in the problem of the German university.
During the past few years we have been priviliged to
assist many education institutions. We have tried to help
Studium Generale, to build student union houses, to
establish institutes for political science, ‘sociology and
pedagogy. We have put great effort into the Exchanges
Program to send thousands of scholars and students to
the United States and other countries; we have tried
to expand the program of visiting professors and students
to Germany.

I wish that our resources were such that we could
increase these activities. We shall continue to do what
we can. But the German university will only flower and
fufill its obligation to the German people and to the
world community if new and determined efforts are made
from within Germany to fit the university into the needs
of the second half of the 20th century.

At the German university in the next decade we can
hope that the community ideal will be firmly interwoven
with the ideal of scholarship. We can hope to see a
flowering of the social and political sciences in Germany
in the study of the most important problem of all: how
men — all men — can live in freedom and tolerance. May
this old institution continue to sow the seed. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN:

--- Page 27 ---
Residents of new community “Rotweg” near Stuttgart discuss prog-
ress of the building project with Mr. Keim (center with pen), author

of this feature. Only four years ago these refugees, who had come US High Commissioner McCloy, accompanied
mainly from Hungary and Yugoslavia, were described as “lost people by German Officials, visited Rotweg project last
of a lost world,” (Photos, unless otherwise credited, from PRB OLCWB) December. (Photo by courtesy “'Stuttgarter Zeitung’')

Mass was celebrated at an open-air altar in Schiotwiese
in the spring of 1949 following the dedication of bell
for a proposed church which has not yet been built

Barber Werner, president of Cooperative Building Asso-
ciation, watches one of his sons ply family trade in
their new shop in modern, 13-apartment housing project.

NEW REFUGEE SETTLEMENT, which may someday house
20,000 persons, is rising in central Wuerttemberg-Baden to
give new life and hope to thousands of ethnic Germans displaced
from their former homes in southeastern Europe after the war
and of Stuttgarters bombed out of their homes during the war,
Known as ‘‘Rotweg," the settlement was initiated in 1948 by
a one-armed barber, a miller and a farmer — refugees from
Hungary and Yugoslavia — as a Cooperative Building Associ-
ation. Their idea was to improve the living conditions of the
persons crowded into “Schlotwiese,’‘ a refugee camp near Zuffen-
hausen, suburb of Stuttgart.

Gernot Albin, one of the first rural teen-agers to go to the
United States under the US Exchanges Program and now a re-
sident of the new settlement, described the situation as follows:

“In 1948-49, a serious situation existed at the refugee camp
Schlotwiese. It was a camp like numerous other camps that
were established at that time in Germany — a camp that seemed
to be of lost people in a lost world.

“The inhabitants of those sheds at Schlotwiese were mainly
expelled Germans from southeastern Europe. In spite of their
situation and their financial need, these people, descendants of
generations of hardy farmers, had not lost faith in God. They
knew that ways could be found to change their situation. But
also they recognized that the first step for changing their cir-
cumstances had to be taken by themselves."

N THIS SETTING, the Cooperative Building Association was

born. The barber, Joseph Werner, who originally came from
Hungary and settled in Schlotwiese in 1944, became president

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 28 ---
Temporary dwellings, actually little more than series of
connected sheds, sheltered the Bischoff and Pill families
before big cooperative construction effort was completed,

PaO

By JAMES F. KEIM
Adviser on Rural Youth Reconstruction
OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden

of the association, The directors included Michael Bischoff, the
miller, and Andreas Pill, the farmer, both from Yugoslavia,

With the support of the camp director, Peter Pill, the three
formed the association with 30-odd members. Each member paid
DM 300 ($71.40) and pledged 48 hours of manual work, A site,
with a 99-year lease, was obtained by the Zuffenhausen Citi-
zens’ Committee, and the city put up DM 50,000 ($11,900) to
back the project. Further support came from the German federal
agency “'Soforthilfe’ and from allocations of ERP funds, totaling
DM 325,000 ($77,350).

Work started April 1949 on the first apartment house for the
18 most needy families. Maj. Gen. Charles P. Gross, US state
commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Baden, officiated at its dedi-
cation the following December. By that time, the cooperative
had more than 200 members. With the opening of membership
to bombed-out residents of Stuttgart, the association grew by
the end of 1950 to 450. More buildings were started.

“When I visited the settlement recently," Gernot Albin said,
“I found the many children now living in the new apartments
laughing. They are beginning to learn what a happy, sunny
childhood is like. They had never known anything like that
before."

Nine apartment buildings, housing 3,500 persons, had been
completed by the beginning of 1952, and four more were nearing
completion. The community has plans for building a hospital,
a department store and a movie theater. There is a church bell
but no church. Community members take collections every
Sunday, hoping that in the near future they will have enough
Contributions to lay the cornerstone for a church. -+END

PEBRUARY 1952

These modern, three-story apartment houses have given
new hope to refugees and are providing their children
with first knowledge of what a happy childhood is like.

Five families occupied this single room at Schlotwiese be-
fore construction of apartments at Rotweg, Settlement may
someday house 20,000 ethnic German displaced persons.

Reunited in new apartment, Albin family looks at photos
which young Gernot, exchangee student (second from right),
brought on return from year's study in the United States.

--- Page 29 ---
Personnel Notes

Draper Returns to Europe

William H. Draper, Jr., who as a major general
served for two years as economic adviser to Gen. Lucius
D, Clay in the occupation of Germany, has returned to
Europe as President Tru-
man's special representa-
tive with the rank of am-
bassador. He will act as the
senior US civilian official
concerned with the North
Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion and with the economic
and military aid program
under the Mutual Security
Act,

Mr. Draper took over his
new duties this month at
the Lisbon meeting of the
NATO foreign ministers, at
which time the resignation
of Charles M. Spofford,
former “roving ambas-
sador," became effective.

Before taking on the new assignment, Mr. Draper
resigned as chairman of the Long Island Transit Author-
ity, to which he was named by Gov. Thomas E. Dewey
of New York, following the latest disastrous Long Island
Railroad crash,

Mr. Draper, 57, is an investment banker on leave as
a vice president of Dillon, Read and Company. He was
active in the early efforts to set the Selective Service
program in operation before the United States entered
World War II, during which he commanded an infantry
regiment in the Pacific theater. After leaving General
Clay's staff in 1947, he became under secretary of the
Army, charged with occupation policy for both Germany
and Japan.

He returned to private business in New York City in 1949.

William H. Draper, Jr.
(Byers photo)

Patricia Van Delden Going to Japan

Patricia Van Delden, chief of the HICOG Information
Centers Branch, was personally lauded by US High Com-
missioner John J. McCloy for her “tireless and imaginative
work" in developing the Amerika Haus (US Information
Center) program in Western Germany before her de-
parture on Jan. 15 for Washington. She is being reas-
signed by the Department of State to Tokyo to direct
the growing US Information Center program in Japan.

She has been succeeded by Henry A. Dunlap, former
director of the HICOG reference library.

In a letter to the energetic Information Centers chief,
Mr. McCloy said that among his most rewarding ex-
periences in Germany had been his visits to the America
Houses.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

“It is always apparent that Germans of all ages and)
groups respond enthusiastically to the Amerika Haeuser
and that they have become a part of German life," he?
wrote. “I have always been impressed by the fact that®
whenever budgetary cuts have made us consider the
possibility of restricting the Amerika Haus program, §
the Germans thémselves have protested strongly against 7
any cuts. 3

“I know that you have made an outstanding contribu-
tion to the development of the Amerika Haus in Ger-
many. Your tireless and imaginative work has borne rich ©
fruit. The many tributes I have received from all over 7
Germany to the Amerika Haus are tributes to you per=
sonally. 43

“For HICOG and the Department of State, I wish to
express the deepest appreciation and thanks for your
outstanding success in spreading understanding of the
United States in Germany and in stimulating the growth
of democratic institutions in Germany."

A native of Los Angeles, Calif., Mrs. Van Delden took 7
over direction of the Information Centers system in”
January 1948, when there were 25 installations, many of |
them small reading rooms and libraries. The program —
rapidly developed to a peak period of 27 Information”
Centers and 164 branch libraries last year. Under a
recent reorganization in preparation for a permanent ©
embassy program, the system has been reduced to 15)
Information Centers and 39 branches, supplemented by
_20 “bookmobiles” (truck-mounted libraries).

Under Mrs. Van Delden's direction, the Information
Centers have added to their primary library functions”
a broad variety of community services, including lectures,
English lessons, study and discussion groups, dramatic =
presentations, visiting artists’ performances and_ film
showings as well as providing books, films and exhibits |
to many local German cultural institution. Annual at- 7%
tendance at all Information Center functions increased |
from 3,700,000 persons in 1948 to 13,885,000 in 1950. ;

Mrs. Van Delden studied at the Universities of Munich, ©
Vienna and Zurich during the 1930's and married a-
Dutch engineer in 1939. Living in Holland during the
war, she worked in the Dutch underground and was |

Mrs. Patricia van Delden, former chief of the US Infor-
mation Centers in Germany, points out location of In-~
formation Centers and bookmobiles in western Germany
to Henry A, Dunlap, her successor. Black line on map~
in background shows how the Iron Curtain divides East
from West Germany. (HICOG PRD photo by Jacoby)

--- Page 30 ---
awarded the Order of Orange Nassau by the Nether-
lands Government. Her husband was arrested by the
Gestapo in 1942 and imprisoned in a Silesian concentra-
tion camp which was later overrun by the Russians. His
fate has never been learned.

After the war, she worked in the United States for the
National War Fund, which provided relief for war-torn
countries, and later returned to Europe to serve with the
Intergovernmental Committee for Refugees in Vienna
prior to joining the Information Centers program in
Germany.

Mr. Dunlap, graduate of Canisius College, Buffalo, N.Y.,
holds bachelor of science degrees in library methods
and political science, He assisted in establishment of the
OMGUS, later HICOG, reference library, which under
his guidance rapidly expanded reference services availa-
ble to HICOG personnel.

Since 1949, Mr. Dunlap has also served as US archivist
for the Allied High Commission at the Petersberg. In
addition to setting up the US archives, he assisted -in
publishing the Tripartite Official Gazette of the Allied
High Commission, Last November, he relinquished these
duties to become deputy staff secretary, HICOG.

New Deputy State Commissioner in Bavaria

Paul A. Neuland, 42, former US observer for the state
of Baden with offices in Freiburg, French Zone, has
assumed a new post as de-
puty state commissioner
for Bavaria.

Mr. Neuland was born in
Washington, D.C., studied
at Fordham University and
Boston College, receiving
from the latter the degrees
of bachelor of arts and
master of arts. For two
years, he was an instructor
in literature at St. Joseph's
College and Georgetown
University, and later stu-
died at the University of
Innsbruck in Austria and
the University of Poitiers
in France. From 1939 to
1941, he attended the For-
eign Service school of Georgetown University.

A veteran of almost six years in the US Army during
World War II, he ended his overseas military service in
Germany and in 1946 entered the Department of State.

Paul A, Neuland.
(PRB OLCB photo by Maske)

Religious Specialist Leaves

Dr, Franklin H, Littell, member of the HICOG Religious
Affairs staff in charge of evangelical affairs since 1949,
has returned to the United States to assume the position
of dean of the Boston University chapel. In his new
position, he will be a member of the faculty and also of
the Council of Deans of the university.

Dr. Littell was educated at Cornell College, Union Theo-
logical Seminary and Yale University. A native of Syra-

FEBRUARY 1952

27

cuse, N.Y., he was director of religious affairs at the Uni-
versity of Michigan prior to his appointment to Germany.

Point IV Administrator Named

Stanley Andrews, foreign-relations expert of the US
Department of Agriculture, has taken over the mission
of the late Dr. Henry G. Bennett, Point IV administrator,
who was killed in a plane Z
crash at Teheran in Decem-
ber while inspecting and
expanding the program of
assistance to underdevelap-
ed countries in the Middle
East, Africa and Asia.

Mr. Andrews was a top
US Military Government
food and agriculture offi-
cial in Germany from 1945
to 1949. Before assuming
his new position, he was
director: of the Office of
Foreign Agriculture Rela-
tions, Department of Agri-
culture. In this post, he
visited many of the Far
Eastern areas and consulted widely on Point IV tech-
nical-assistance programs.

Mr. Andrews was born near High Point, Mo., in 1895.
He was a newspaperman for many years and is a former
editor of the El Dorado News and Times and the
Arkansas Farmer. He owned and managed radio station
KARK. His home is in Little Rock, Ark.

Stanley Andrews.

Boehringer Named Commercial Attache

A commercial attache section in the Office of Economic
Affairs, another step toward resumption of normal Ger-
man-American commercial relations, has been established
at HICOG headquarters in Mehlem.

Carl H. Boehringer is the attache, and under his direc-
tion the section — in addition to the customary economic
reporting activity — will assist American firms in develop-
ing commercial relations in West Germany and will aid
German firms in expanding their American trade.

Another area of activity concerns problems affecting
American property interests in Germany. This operation,
it is anticipated, will include reporting and reviewing
German legislative activity as well as related internal
and international developments. The section will work
closely with US consulates throughout the Federal
Republic and in West Berlin.

Mr. Boehringer, 48, has spent 21 years in the Foreign
Service, specializing in economics and commercial work,
He arrived in western Germany recently from Tokyo,
where he was counselor for economic affairs in the
Office of the US Political Adviser for Japan.

He was born in Bay City, Mich., and attended Michi-
gan State College and the Foreign Service school at
Georgetown University. He has held posts at Singapore,
Batavia (now Jakarta), Manila, Osaka, Chungking, Nank-
ing and Tokyo. -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Significance of Moral Values

UMAN RIGHTS, UNDERSTOOD to mean basic moral

values which presume rights and obligations, are
essential to the culture of Western Europe,” Dr. George
F,. Donovan, HICOG Public Affairs adviser, told a group
of German representatives of Hessian men’s and
women's groups at a meeting Jan. 15 in Frankfurt on
"The Significance of Moral Values in the Life of the
Community.”
- Fifty-one persons representing Protestant, Catholic and
Jewish religious groups, trade unions, industry, educa-
tion, youth activities, university, radio, press, theater,
motion picture, men's and women’s organizations, and
inter-faith relations attended the conference. It was the
14th of a series held in Hesse last year with HICOG
Public Affairs assistance.

Declaring that such a fundamental interpretation is
shared by all peoples of the Western World, Dr. Dono-
van pointed to the deep meaning of the cultural heritage
of German religious life which he called “a reservoir of
traditions and principles crystallizing into reality in the
long history of the German people, especially in the
medieval period, the 16th, 19th and 20th centuries.”

“Two contributions from this storehouse are part of
our treasury today,” he said, ‘one is in the importance
and the other in the definition of human rights. The for-
mer reveals that human rights are essential to the under-
standing and to the salvation of Western life. With them
there are law, order, justice and peace in the world;
without them there are lawlessness, disorder, injustice
and war. They are the two alternatives — one or the
other; there is no compromise.

“Human rights are defined as those principles which
are derived from a natural law and ultimately from the
eternal law of God, and they give men life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness. It is up to
men, however, to freely accept and
guarantee these rights in the many hu-
man relations, including political, eco-
nomic, social, educational and religious.”

R. DONOVAN REFERRED to the

Frankfurt meeting as a symbol of
the understanding and cooperation made
possible on the community level among
groups of diverse occupational, profes-
sional, educational and religious quali-
fications and interests. “It is team work
in a very practical sense," he empha-
sized. Such an effort to encourage
democratic leadership and action for
the common good, and plans to coordi-
nate results of the conference with si-
milar programs in other West German

INFORMATION BULLETIN

George F. Donovan.
(PRB OLCH photo)

28

states “reflect the national understanding which recog-
nizes and supports the individual and the self-expression
of community leaders.”

He stressed the importance not only of the rights, but
also of the obligations of the citizen when he is obsery-
ing, judging and adulating public issues. ‘Social alert-
ness which recognizes human rights — their defense as

well as their comparable responsibilities — is absolutely —

required of today’s citizen,’ he said.

In conclusion, Dr. Donovan pointed to the impres-
siveness of the international background of the con-
ference. “Some of the members of this group are already
planning to integrate the thinking and the views of this
meeting with international programs and groups with
which they are associated. This renewed and widened

horizon in Germany's attitude toward other nations of :

the world is a striking sign of global responsibility and
interest.”

R. DONOVAN, FORMER president of Webster Col- —
the Public —

lege in Missouri and recently with
Affairs Division of OLC Hesse, organized Germany's

first postwar international conference on human rights 3

in Limburg, Hesse, and represented HICOG at inter-

national meetings on human rights and cultural coopera- —

tion in Luxembourg, Rheims
Dublin, Ireland.

The role of moral principles in German life was also

and Paris, France, and

stressed by three German leaders in panel presentations ~

which were followed by group discussions,

Fritz Krueger, director of the Christian Association for
the Promotion of Culture, Frankfurt, emphasized the
understanding and the cooperation which exist among
Germans who are in such organizations as the group
he represented and the Council of Christians and Jews.

A paper by Leopold Goldschmidt,
Frankfurt

appreciate intelligently the problems
and responsibilities of western Germany,
Dr. Willy Borngaesser, pastor of the
Marktkirche, a church in Wiesbaden,
expressed grave concern over the in-
difference of many Germans
public responsibilities and asked for a
greater participation, especially
young people, in public life.

mittee of five members to coordinate work
of the conference with similar organi-
zations in western Germany. -+END

and Berlin newspaperman, —
gave priority to the function of mass ~
media which should be an instrument —
in encouraging the German citizen to ~

toward —
of @

A recommendation of the conference —
was the formation of a steering com- —

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 32 ---
Economic Review

Output Rises to New High

Prepared by Commercial Attache Section

IHE ACCELERATION OF INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY in West Germany during the last quarter of 1951

reached a climax and postwar record in November, when, after substantial seasonal rises in September
and October, the index of industrial production reported output at 148 percent of the 1936 level. Coal and
steel availabilities were sufficient to curb the prolonged reports of basic material shortages, and all sectors
of industry in West Germany reversed mid-year slumps.

Consumers’ goods industries repeated the sizable increases in output during the preceding three months to
fill Christmas orders. Basic industries also showed substantial increases in production during November
in response to measures taken to ease the restraints on output which these industries have been facing. For
well over a year, raw material shortages and insufficient investment capital have hampered attempts to ex-
pand output of investment and general production goods.

Cooperative efforts of German and Allied government committees, industry and labor to minimize the
deterring effects of these handicaps on industrial production have resulted in increased coal production
and promulgation by the Federal Parliament in December of an investment aid law for basic industries. Preli-
minary data indicate, however, that December output, normally slow, will drop considerably below the
peak of November. (Preliminary figure for December production index is 137.) Advance statistics on
production in the states of North Rhine’Westphalia and Hesse show substantial drops for the month.

* * * * *

Labor market developments in De- ” 5 ports came from the United States and
cember showed cutbacks in employ- ns review is based on con-| - meant higher coal prices for the many
ment in seasonal industries, predomi- tributions submitted by reports industries using American coal imports.

. ffi i ffi f E i . A A
nantly in outdoor work, which sharply ny and the. Once pear With only 22 working days in De-

boosted registered unemployment in Affairs, HICOG. cember, total coal production declined
the Federal Republic by 347,000 to a to 9,754,200 metric tons to register a
total of 1,654,000 — slightly lower slight decrease in daily average pro-
than at the close of 1950. In terms of the wage and salary- duction to 403,100 metric tons, Measurable production
earning labor force, the unemployment rate climbed to losses have dropped further in December, mine employ-
10.2 percent as against 10.7 percent in December 1950. ment continued to rise, and absenteeism declined again.

Mounting idleness primarily affected building and On the other hand, underground output per manshift did
construction, allied building trades, and agriculture, ac- not improve in the course of the fourth quarter of 1951.
counting for about two-thirds of the December un- It stood at 1.45 tons in both October and November, and
employment increase. : about 1.43 tons in December.

Although a seasonal employment decrease in building The Coal Production Committee and its sub-commit-
was to be expected, the extent of the drop during De- tees continued to meet in December to work out short-
cember indicates that financing difficulties may have and long-term measures for increasing coal production.
been partly responsible, inasmuch as mild weather pre- Attention was focused on the introduction of a premium
vailed in most areas. Seasonal factors reduced employ- or bonus plan. Representatives of the Coal Mining
ment in manufacturing during December as is customary. Management (DKBL) and the mining union reached

Lower employment was recorded in building materials agreement on a productivity bonus effective Jan. 1, 1952.
production, food processing industries, textile and Under the plan, each underground worker will receive

clothing, woodworking, and in those branches of the
metal-working and electrical equipment industries which
cater to the Christmas trade.

a 0.1 percent increase in his gross earnings for each
kilogram of coal mined above the average production per
underground manshift at the respective mine shaft in

Coal the base period of September-November 1951. In effect,

Hard coal production in West Germany during the this will amount to a one and one-half percent increase
last quarter 1951 was well over that of the previous in wages for each one percent rise in productivity. The
year, with 3,000,000 tons more domestic coal available agreement, of an indefinite duration, may be terminated
than in the corresponding months of 1950. Substantial after March 31, 1952, by either party upon one month's
imports in the fourth quarter of 1951 augmented inland notice. The question. of payment of taxes on these ad-
coal availabilities by 4,400,000 tons. Most of these im- ditional earnings is still under discussion.

FEBRUARY 1952 29 INFORMATION BULLETIN

.

--- Page 33 ---
Within the framework of the underground mechani-
zation program adopted early in 1951 to increase the
use of machinery and equipment as an immediate
measure for increased coal production, the committee
decided upon the mechanization of 40 coal faces in the
Ruhr by April 1, 1952, under the supervision of the DKBL.
The Federal Ministry of Economics is taking special
steps to see that all required supplies and equipment
are delivered promptly to implement this immediate
mechanization program.

To further the miners’ housing program, the committee
has stated that in 1952 funds will be available for con-
struction of 40,000 housing units for miners. It is ex-
pected that 8,000 units will be finished with ECA counter-
part funds and 32,000 units with the proceeds of the
DM 2 per ton price increase and matching funds from
industry, In connection with the work of the Sub-Com-
mittee for Social Problems, the mining companies, with
the agreement of the DKBL and the mining union, have
introduced a plan providing family subsistence allowances
to improve the living standards of miners with large
families.

Steel

The tight steel supply has eased for domestic in-
dustry in the course of the last few months as free dol-
lars have been made available for coal imports, and
barter agreements for German steel products against
United States coal imports have decreased accordingly.
Production of steel during December showed a slight

decline in daily output as well as a drop in total
production for the month.
While the chemical industry continues to increase

production slightly, with some branches of the industry
working at capacity, enlarging capacity and replacing
equipment has been hampered by the slow delivery of
iron and steel materials. Aluminum output was curtailed
in December because of restrictions on the consumption
of hydroelectric power. 5

Improved hydro power availability, particularly in
Bavaria, has partially relieved the coal position in the
public supply system, but the rationing of power to in-
dustry continues. Gas supplies from the grid system
were five percent above last year’s output, but not suf-
ficient to meet all industries’ demands from the grid.
Municipal gas supplies met requirements without the
application of restrictions which had been expected, be-
cause of increased deliveries of coal to the municipal
plants. Restrictions on water consumption within the
industrial area of the Ruhr are still being applied. Ex-
pansion of gas projects and improvement in various
water systems continue to be delayed by lack of funds.

The December rate of railway operations remained at
the normal seasonal level after the end of harvest traffic
in late November. Aided by favorable weather and by
still reasonably adequate locomotive coal stocks, the
Bundesbahn (state railroad system) was able to meet
demands without serious difficulties.

The freight car construction program, delayed previ-
ously because of unavailable capital, will get under way
in 1952 with the release of DM 45,000,000 in counterpart

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

funds. These funds will be matched by the Federal
Government with DM 50,000,000 plus DM 50,000,000 from
the Bundesbahn's own funds to assure construction of
approximately 14,000 vitally needed freight cars.

Since currency reform, insufficient amounts of invest-
ment capital for basic industries have been a primary
bottleneck to their expansion. To alleviate this situation,
the Federal Parliament passed a law in December which
authorizes the raising of DM 1,000,000,000 from German
trade and industry to satisfy this urgent need for capital
investments in the coal mining, steel, power and water
supply industries, and in the railway freight car industry.
Foreign Trade

The foreign trade of the Federal Republic in November
showed imports at $302,000,000 and exports at
$279,000,000. Imports, while larger than in October, are
well below the September-October average of $328,00,000,
with imports from the EPU area up by $13,000,000 in
November, and dollar imports up $7,000,000. Exports
showed a decline for the second consecutive month,
with noticeable drops in key sectors, particularly in tex-
tiles, chemicals, ironware, machinery, and electrical
equipment.

Exports to the EPU area fell by $14,000,000 to
$217,000,000 while exports to the dollar area, particular-
ly Latin American countries, decreased again for the fifth
consecutive month. A new procedure for reporting ex-
ports, which was introduced in October, however, makes
it difficult to analyze whether the decline of the past two
months is real or statistical. There is some evidence
that there is less pressure on some firms to export be-
cause of greater internal demand commensurate with
increasing industrial production.

While midyear slackening in world demand may be
reflecting itself now in lower exports of certain cate-
gories of German goods, increased prices of some items
may be meeting resistance abroad. Although these factors
do not seem to accord with the apparent continuing
demands for goods on the world market, even an ex-
tremely high December export figure would show a
decrease in the quarterly volume of exports when com-
pared with the volume of the third quarter.

West Germany's EPU payment surplus in December
amounted to $42,900,00, as against the November surplus
of $9,600,000. This brought Germany's cumulative surplus
to $43,200,000 at the end of December.

On Dec. 15, a foreign trade circular was issued out-
lining a new procedure for effecting commercial imports
into the Federal-Republic. The new procedure, effective
on Jan. 1, is designed to give a comprehensive check of
current imports and foreign exchange commitments. The
procedure essentially follows the pattern that has here-
tofore existed, except that once an original procurement
authorization is obtained, it represents a binding pro-
mise of foreign exchange, subject, of course, to modifi-
cation under emergency conditions.

Also on Jan, 1, the expanded German liberalization
list, which was approved in Paris by an OEEC steering
group, went into effect. The average percentage of liber-
alization will be 57.1 percent. +END

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 34 ---
Calendar of Coming Events :

Feb. 24-25 — Hamburg: Northwest German
Broadcasting Symphony Orchestra; Ida
Hendel, violin; Issay Dobrowen (Stock-
holm), conductor.

Feb, 24-25 — Munich (Bav): Carnival pro-
cession.

Feb, 24-25 — Regensburg (Bav): Carnival
procession in historical costumes.

Feb. 24-26 — Baden-Baden (SB): Gala Mainz
Carnival,

Feb, 24-26 — Luebeck (SH): Carnival sports
events.

Feb, 24-26 — Iphofen (Bav): Carnival.

Feb, 24-27 — Throughout Western Germany:
Peak of carnival ceremonies with Rose
Monday procession.

Feb. 24-March 6 — Hanover: Ice ballet.

Feb, 25 — Essen (NRW): Costume festival.

Feb. 25— Mannheim (WB): Grand stage ball.

Feb. 25 — Bonndorf/Black Forest (WB): Tra-
ditional carnival.

Feb. 25 — Goslar (LS): Miners’ carnival.

Feb, 25 — Eichstaett (NRW): Walpurgis
festival.

Feb, 25 — Wolfach (Bav): 150th anniversary
performance of foolish comedy, ‘The
Women of Trippstrill.”"

Feb, 25-26 — Throughout Bavaria: Aleman
fasnet (carnival) with famous Narren-
sprung (Jester's jump).

Feb 25-26 —- Bremen: Concert; Gaspar Cas-
sado, cello.

Feb, 26 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW): Tra-
ditional ‘‘Violet Tuesday" procession.
Feb. 26 — Cologne (NRW): Traditional ball

of the United Tuesday Ball Societies.

Feb, 26 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): Carnival;
ski jumping.

Feb, 26 — Aachen (NRW): Town Guard
Commandant's ball.

Feb, 26 — Bonn (NRW): Masquerade; fare-
well ball of Town Soldiers Corps.

Feb, 26 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Carnival
session of Prince Carnival’s Honor Guard.

Feb. 26 — Mainz (RP): Grand carnival Tues-
day masquerade,

Feb, 26 — Karlsruhe (WB): Stage ball of
Baden Theater.

Feb, 26 — Munich (Bav): Grand carnival
Tuesday ball with Prince and Princess
taking leave.

Feb. 26 — Offenburg (WB): Burning of straw
and witch dance with carnival pageant.
Feb. 26-27 — Clausthal-Zellerfeld (LS): Harz

ski championships.

Feb, 26-27 — Hinterzarten (WB): Black For-
est ski championships.

Feb. 27 — Duelken (NRW): Traditional
Schoeppen Markt on Ash Wednesday.
Feb, 27 — Mainz (RP): ‘'General hangover"

breakfast,

Feb, 27 — Duisburg (NRW): Grand herring
dinner of Prince Carnival's Honor Guard.

Feb, 27-March 2 —- Hanover (LS): German

_ Industries Sample Fair.

Feb, 28 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert; Ger-
trude Pitzinger, alto; Otto Schmidtgen,
conductor.

Feb. 28 —- Recklinghausen (NRW): Horse
races,

Feb, 28-March 2 — Oberstdorf (Bav): Third
international ski flying week.

March 1 — Gladbeck (NRW): Concert; Elly
Ney, piano; Ludwig Holscher, piano.

March 1 — Muggenbrunn (WB): Black For-
est junior ski championships,

FEBRUARY 1952

Feb. 24 to April 15, 1952

March 2 — Hundsbach (WB): Black Forest
ski championships.

March 2 — Rottach-Egern (Bav):
national downhill race for the
Wallberg Shield.

March 2 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Watzmann
downhill ski run.

March 2 — Braunlage
championships.

March 2 — Warmensteinach (Bav): Wher-
man Bros. Memorial ski jumping.

March 2 — Mittelberg/Allgaeu (Bav): Spe-
cial slalom. .

March 2 — Siegen (NRW): Concert; Tibor
Varga, violin,

March 2 — Essen (NRW): Concert; Vasa
Prihoda, violin; G. Koenig, conductor.
March 2 — Stuttgart (WB): Concert; Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; works by Bruckner.
March 2-3 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic

Orchestra; Leo Blech, conductor.

March 2-3 — Hamburg: Philharmonic Or-
chestra; R. Prick, violin; R. Sommer, cello;
Jos. Keilberth, conductor.

March 2-4 — Cologne (NRW): Spring fair;
textile and clothing.

March 2-7 — Nuremberg (Bav): Third Ger-
man toy trade fair.

March 2-7 — Berlin: Six-day bicycle races.

March 3 — Cologne (NRW): Concert; con-
temporary music; Hans Rosbaud, con-
ductor,

March 3 — Bonn (NRW): Concert; Tibor
Varga, violin.

March 3 — Darmstadt (Hes): Symphony
concert; Ida Hendel, violin.

March 3 — Luebeck (SH): Beethoven con-
cert; P. Esser, violin; A. Steiner, cello;
Hilma Holstein, piano.

March 3 —- Coblenz (RP): Symphony con-
cert; D. Fischer-Dieskau, baritone; O.
Winkler, conductor.

March 3 — St. Andreasberg (LS): Giant
slalom.

March 3-4 — Mannheim (WB): Academy
concert equiem" by Verdi.

March 4 — Muehlheim/Ruhr (NRW): Con-
cert; E, Erdmann, piano; G. L. Jochum,
conductor.

March 4-5 — Paderborn (NRW): Concert;
Handel's ‘Messiah.’

March 4-5 — Viersen (NRW): Munich
Radio Symphony Orchestra; E. Jochum,
conductor.

March 5 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert;
Bach's "St. Matthew's Passion.”

March 5 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert by
Bach Society.

March 5-6 — Duisburg (NRW): Symphony
concert; Tibor Varga, violin; G. L.
Jochum, conductor.

Inter-
Golden

(LS): Jubilee ski

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse,
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
‘WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.

WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern,

31

March 5-6 — Munich (Bav); Philharmonic
Orchestra; works by Mozart, Boccherini,
Malipiero, Stravinsky.

March 6 — Berlin: RIAS Symphony Or-

chestra; contemporary works; Mascia
Predit, soprano; Igor Markevitsch,
conductor.

March 6 — Munich (Bav): Academy con-
cert; Georg Solti, conductor.

March 6 — Muenster (NRW): Symphony
concert; Wilhelm Kempff, piano; Dr, R.
Wagner, conductor.

March 6 — Munich (Bav): Concert; Stutt-
gart Chamber Orchestra.

March 6 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Con-
zert; works by Hindemith; Mozart, De-
bussy, Strau8.

March 6 — Sinsheim (SB): Fillies Mart.

March 7 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Cycle
concert; Reine Gianoli, piano; Karl Schu-
richt, guest conductor.

March 7 — Bamberg (Bav): Bamberg Sym-
phony Orchestra; G. Cassado, cello; Jos.
Keilberth, conductor.

March 7 — Rheydt (NRW): Concert; works
by Haydn, Bruckner, Weber. G.. L.
Jochum, conductor.

March 7-9 —-Lenggries’ (Bav): German ski
championships.

March 8 — Bischofsgruen (Bav): Grand
“Fox Hunt."’ Night ski jumping.

March 9 — Bayrisch Zell (Bav): Hans Krapp
Memorial jumping.

March 9 — Munich (Bav): Guest concert
by Bamberg Symphony Orchestra; Jos.
Keilberth, conductor.

March 9 — Stuttgart (WB): Symphony con-
cert; F, Leitner, conductor.

March 9-10 — Berlin: Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra; Sir John Barbirolli, conductor.

March 9-10 — Reutlingen (WB): Concert;
works by Cherubini, Beethoven, Mozart.

March 9-11 — Cologne (NRW): Spring fair,
household goods and hardware.

March 9-14—Frankfurt (Hes): International
spring fair.

March 9-30 — Wuppertal (NRW): Art ex-
hibition by Heinz Battke of Florence. °
March 10 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-

cert; Verdi's “Requiem.”

March 10 —-- Bonn (NRW): ‘Von deutscher
Seele,"’ cantata by Hans Pfitzner.

March 10 —- Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; Ida Hendel, violin; Johannes Schue-
ler, conductor.

March 10 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony
concert; Gaspar Cassado, cello.

March 10 — Cologne (NRW): Northwest
German Broadcasting Symphony Orches-
tra; Antonio Janigro, cello; Igor Marke-
vitsch, conductor.

March 10-11 — Cologne (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; Wilhelm Kempff,’ piano;
G. Wand, conductor.

March 11 — Offenburg (WB): Wine mart.

March 12 — Wesel (NRW): Concert; Adrian
Aeschbacher, piano. :

March 12 — Bottrop (NRW): Concert; works
by Berlioz, Schumann, Franck. E. Trenker,
conductor,

March 12 — Flensburg (SH): Concert; E.
Mainardi, cello; H. Steiner, cello.

March 13 — Hildesheim (LS): Concert;
works by Beethoven, Sutermeister; Wolf-
gang Schneiderhan, violin.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
March 13 — Kiel (SH): Concert; Mozart,
Boccherini, Martin, Hindemith; E. Main-
ardi, cello.

March 13 — Cologne
Kathleen Ferrier, alto;
accompanist.

March 14 — Kassel (Hes): Concert in com-
memoration of 125th anniversary of Beet-
hoven's death.

March 14 — Krefeld (RNW): Concert; Wil-
helm Kempff, piano; R. Hubertus, con-
ductor.

March 14 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Chamber
music; ‘Pro Musica Antiqua‘ (Brussels).

March 14 — Munich (Bav): International
ice hockey; Germany vs. Switzerland.

Mach 15-16 — Feldberg (WB): International
ski jumping for Curiccala -Cup.

March 15-31 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Ladies
apparel sales week.

(NRW): Concert;
Gerald Moore,

March 16 — Darmstadt (Hes): Concert;
Quintetto dell’ Accademia Chigiana
(Italy).

March 16 — Warmensteinach (Bav): Farmer
Reichenberger (11.65 mile) memorial race.

March 16-17 — Berlin: Concert; RIAS Sym-
phony Orchestra; Kathleen Ferrier, alto.

March 16-17 — Hamburg: Northwest Ger-
man Broadcasting Symphony Orchestr
Joerg Dennis, piano; Sir John Barbirolli,
conductor.

March 17 — Karlsruhe (WB): Symphony
concert; works by Beethoven, Ravel,
Dvorak; Vasa Prihoda, violin.

March 17 — Bonn (NRW): Beethoven con-
cert; Friedr. Wuehrer, piano.

March 17-18 — Bremen: Philharmonic con-
cert; Wilhelm Kempff, piano.

March 19 — Remscheid (NRW): Concert;
works by Beethoven, Mozart, Reger.

March 19-20 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; works by Beethoven, Reger.

March 20 — Luebeck (SH): Beethoven con-
cert; Wilhelm Kempff, piano.

March 20 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Cho-
ral concert; works by Stravinsky, Hon-
egger, Egk.

March 20-21 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Sym-
phony concert; Clemens Krauss (Vienna),
guest conductor.

March 21 — Wiesbaden (He): Cycle con-
cert; Gerda Floessner, piano; Carl Schu-
richt, guest conductor.

March 21 — Essen )NRW): Concert; works
by Beethoven; Gustav Koenig, conductor.

March 21-24 — Cologne (NRW): Furniture
trade fair,

March 22 — Kaiserslautern (RP): Concert;
Haydn's ‘The Creation.”

March 23 — Aachen (NRW): Concert, 100th
anniversary of municipal orchestra.

March 23 — Bonn (NRW): Concert in com-
memoration of 125th anniversary of Beet-
hoven's death.

March 23 — Heidelberg (WB): St. Werner
procession. .

March 23 — Saeckingen (WB): Fridolin
festival.

March 23 — Altglashuetten (WB): Slalom
and challenge trophy ski jumping.

March 23 — Bisenstein/Bav. Forest (Bav):
Giant slalom team race from Arber.

March 23 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): Inter-

national Franz MHaslberger Memorial
jumping.
March 23 — Unterammergau (Bav): Giant

slalom on the Puerschling.

March 23-24 — Hamburg: Philharmonic con-
cert; Jos. Keilberth, conductor.

March 23-24 — Berlin: Philharmonic con-
cert; Georg Solti, soloist and conductor.

March 23-April 12 — Nuremberg (Bav):
Easter sales fair.

March 24 — Luebeck (SH): Concert; works
by Stravinsky, Haydn, Schubert, Jolivet.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

March 24 — Frankfurt (Hes): Museum con-
cert;' Kathleen Ferrier, alto; Nino San-
zogno, conductor.

March 24 — Cologne (NRW): Symphony
concert; Tiny Wirtz, piano; G. Wand,
conductor.

March 24 — Freiburg (WB): Symphony con-
cert; Wilhelm Kempff, piano; Heinz Dres-
sel, conductor.

March 24 — Munich (Bav): Concert; Win-
terthurer Streich Quartet.

March 24-25 — Brunswick (LS): Chamber
music; W. Stross, violin; R. Metzmacher,
cello; Hertha-Kluge-Kahn, piano.

March 26 — Heidelberg (WB): Beethoven
concert; Ninth Symphony. -

March 26 — Solingen (NRW): Beethoven
concert; Elly Ney, piano.

March 26 — Muenchen/Gladbach (NRW):
Beethoven concert; Elly Ney, piano,

March 27 — Berlin: Philharmonic concert;
“Sixteen Slav Dances’ by Dvorak; Jos.
Keilberth, conductor, e

March 27 — Krefeld (NRW):
concert; Elly Ney, piano.

March 27-28 — Munich (Bav): Radio Sym-
phony Orchestra; Eugen Jochum, con-
ductor. .

March 30 — Freiburg (WB): Radio Sym-
phony Orchestra of Baden-Baden; Hans
Rosbaud, conductor.

March 30 — Stuttgart (WB): Stuttgart Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; works by Bruckner.

March 30-31 — Berlin: Philharmonic Or-
chestra; E, Finke, cello; Eugen Jochum,
conductor.

March 30-31 — Hamburg: Concert; ‘‘The
Creation" by Haydn.

March 30-31 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Giant
slalom on the Jenner.

March 31 — Hamburg: Concert; Haydn's
“The Seasons."

March 31 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; H. Uhde, baritone.

March 31 — Freiburg (WB): Symphony con-
cert; Heinz Dressel, conductor.

March 31 — Cologne (NRW): Northwest
German Broadcasting Symphony Or-
chestra; Geza Anda, piano; Ferenc
Fricsay, conductor.

March 31-April 1 — Bremen: Philharmonic
concert; A. Kupper, soprano.

March 31-April 1 — Mannheim (WB): Aca-
demy concert; Wilhelm Kempff, piano;
Eugen Szenkar, conductor.

March-April — Dortmund (NRW): Exhibi-
tion of modern Westphalian paintings
and plastic art.

March-April — Aachen (NRW): Borderland
exposition.

March-April — Hamburg: Spring festival;
Hamburg Cathedral.

March-April — Mainau in Lake Constance
(SB): Spring flower show.

April 1 — Rheine (NRW): Concert; works
by Beethoven, Gluck, Brahms.

April 1-2 — Bonn (NRW): Bach's
Matthew's Passion."

April 2 — Paderborn (NRW): Concert; Wil-
helm Roth, violin,

April 2 — Reutlingen (WB): Concert; Mu-
sica Nova; works by Hindemith, Bartok,
Herrmann, -

April 2-3—Munich (Bav): Beethoven concert.

April 3-4 — Muenster (NRW):, Concert;
Bach's ‘St. Matthew's Passion.”

April 3-4 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert;
Beethoven's ‘Missa Solemnis.""

April 4— Wiesbaden (Hes): Cycle concert;
H, Stanske, violin; Karl Elmendorff, guest
conductor.

April 4 — Hanover (LS): Symphony concert;
guest performance by Academic Choir of
Finland.

Beethoven

“St.

32

April 4 — Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert; Ros] Schmid, piano.

April 4 — Kaiserslautern (RP): Beethoven
concert; Branca Musulin, piano.

April 4 — Rheydt (NRW): Beethoven con-
cert; Georg Solchang, piano; G. L.
Jochum, piano.

April 5 — Bamberg (Bav): Symphony con-
cert; A, Kupper, soprano; Jos. Keilberth,
conductor,

April 5 — Tuebingen (WB): Concert;
Schutz's ‘St. John’s Passion."
April 5-6 -—— Neuheim/Huesten (NRW):

Bach's ‘St, Matthew's Passion."

April 6 — Essen (NRW): Concert; Bach's
“St, Matthew's Passion."

April 6 — Bottrop (NRW): Concert; ,,Zin
deutsches Requiem” by Handel, Brahms.

April 6 -- Berchtesgaden (Bav): Giant
slalom.

April 6 — Feldberg (WB): Leni Wagner
Memorial race,

April 6 — Rottach/Egern
parties race,

April 6-7 — Berlin: Concert; Bach's ‘'St.
Matthew's Passion;"’ Ferenc Fricsay, con-
ductor,

April 6-7 — Hamburg: Concert; Bach's ‘St.
Matthew's Passion.”

April 6-7 — Heidelberg (WB): Concert;
Bach's ‘St. Matthew's Passion."

April 7 — Aachen (NRW): Concert; Bach's
“St, John's Passion."

April 7 — Cologne (NRW): Concert; works
by Reger, Beethoven, Verdi,

April 7 — Darmstadt (Hes): Concert; Ros}
Schmid, piano.

April 8 — Coblenz (RP): Mozart concert;
Rossini’s ‘’Stabat Mater.”

April 9 — Muehlheim/Ruhr (NRW): Con-
cert; Bach's ‘St. John’s Passion."

April 9-11 — Cologne (NRW): Concert;
Bach's ‘St. Matthew's Passion."

April 10 — Munich (Bav): Bamberg Sym-
phony Orchestre; guest performance; Jos.
Keilberth, conductor.

April 10-11 —- Bremen: Concert; Bach's ‘St.

Matthew's Passion."

April 10-11 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert:

Bach's “St, Matthew's Passion.”

(Bav): Roped

April 11 Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert;
Bach's “St. John's Passion."
April 11 — Nuremberg (Bav): Concert;

Bach's ‘’St. John's Passion."

April 11 — Munich (Bav): Concert; Bach's
“St. Matthew's Passion.’

April 11 — Hildesheim (LS): Concert; Bach's
“St. John’s Passion."

April 11 — Dortmund (NRW):
Bach's “St. Matthew's Passion.’

April 11 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert by
Bach Society.

April 11 — Solingen (NRW):
works by Bruckner, Mozart.
April 11—Kassel (Hes): Good Friday concert.
April 11-14 — Bad Kreuznach (RP): Inter-

national hockey tournament,

April 12 — St, Andreasberg/Harz (LS): Tra-
ditional Easter bonfire.

April 13 — Bergen (Bav): Giant slalom.

April 13 — Feldberg (WB): International
Easter ski jumping.

April 13 —- Lonau (LS): Traditional Easter
bonfire.

April 13-14 — Berlin: Philharmonic concert;
Ricardo Odnoposoff, violin; Hans Knap-
pertsbusch, conductor,

April 13-14 — Baden-Baden (SB): Spring
flower festival,

April 15 — Viersen (NRW): London Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; Sir Adrian Boult,
conductor,

April-May — Essen (NRW): Art and archi-
tecture exhibition. + END

Concert;

Concert;

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 36 ---
RIAS Scores with East Zone Program

ETTERS AND TELEPHONE CALLS from residents of
the Soviet Zone of Germany have demonstrated to
officials of RIAS that its daily broadcast “Information
from the Soviet Zone” has a large and interested listen-
ing audience.

RIAS, the US-operated radio station in Free Berlin, *
inaugurated the five-minute feature program on Nov. 6,
offering short news items and announcements concerning
the Soviet Zone. It comes on every morning at 6:40
o'clock, immediately following a regular newscast.

The word “information” was chosen for the title to
make clear that the broadcast is not part of the normal
news operation since it is usually impossible to recheck
completely the accuracy of a report from the Soviet
Zone. The response has indicated a satisfactory degree of
reliability.

Listeners in the Soviet Zone, according to the letters
and telephone calls received at the station's office, re-
gard the broadcast as a means of publicizing Communist
activities in factories and offices and on farms, Many
of the listeners contribute reports on events in their own
localities, Excerpts from some of the letters are:

“TI want to express my pleasure over the fact that I,
too, could contribute something to be heard by others.
Herr Doctor X tells me —I was unable to listen myself —
that you reported the affair of Professor Y. There is lively
discussion of the case in our little group in the in-
stitute.”

Concerning a trade union leader in Dresden who em-
bezzled funds: “Employees here are convinced that RIAS
knows everything and keeps a complete record of who does
what. Higher party functionaries and the police inquired
whether the report was correct. Its accuracy was confirmed.”

ONCERNING THE BROADCAST of excerpts from

the criminal record of a staff member of a con-
valescent home in Ueckermuende: “The doctor in charge
called a staff meeting, following the RIAS broadcast,
and demanded that the staff discover who the pro-
vocateurs were who on behalf of American monopolistic
capitalists had delivered the false information about Doc-
tor S to RIAS. In addition, a meeting of SED (the Com-
munist Social Unity Party) functionaries was held at
which it was stated that Doctor S had proved his friend-
ship for the Soviet Union during the war.”

Regarding a report on compulsory overtime in the
ABUS Works at Wildau: “Since you have twice told
about disagreeable conditions in the ABUS in, your
broadcast at 6:40 a. m., I want to offer you further in-
formation... We would be very glad, dear RIAS, if
you would report this new affair in your 6:40 or some

%* See “'RIAS, the Truth Crusader,’ Information Bulletin, Decem-
ber 1950.

FEBRUARY 1952

other Soviet Zone bradcast.’” On the same subject: the
works director “was visibly angry over RIAS' broadcast
on the ABUS."*

Concerning a report on a vote on wage deductions for
the East Berlin construction program in the IFA Works
at Potsdam: “Comrade Krueger, SED propaganda leader
in the plant, was all set to give the editors of the
Maerkische Volksstimme a report on the success of the
vote on Dec. 21. Then he learned that RIAS had al-
ready announced the result. His report was rewritten
and given to the Volksstimme on Dec. 22."

NOTHER INDICATION of the new program's effective-

ness: a few hours before a delegation from the staff of
the telephone office in East Berlin arrived in Secretary
General Ulbricht's office to present demands of East
Berlin postal employees, “Information from the Soviet
Zone” reported that the meeting was to be held. Many
post offices, which had not been informed of the meet-
ing, called the postal trade union leaders to ask what
the outcome of the meeting was. The RIAS report also
was mentioned in the discussion in Ulbricht's secretariat.
Ulbricht's personnel assistant preferred to express no
opinion on the matter. -++END

Maj. Gen. Lemue] Mathewson, US commander, Berlin,
views chicken incubation equipment at “Green Week"
exhibition at West Berlin fairgrounds. At his left is Karl
Wiemer, fair director.

(PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

--- Page 37 ---
In and Around Germany

Germans Send UN Soldiers Gifts

A Soviet Zone refugee couple living in West Berlin
sent a box of Christmas gifts to RIAS (US-operated
radio station) to be forwarded to seven UN soldiers
fighting in Korea,

Erwin Johanna Musche wrote in the accompanying
‘note that the gifts were a token of one couple's ap-
preciation that these soldiers were spending their Christ-
mas Eve holding back the forces of oppression.

The gifts included cigarette lighters, billfolds and
cigarette cases. The recipients were to be two American
and one British, French, Turkish, Australian and South
Korean soldiers,

The Musches wrote that the idea came to them while
listening to a Christmas Eve program over RIAS, Their
own children, aged 16 and 17, were abducted toward the
end of the war from their Soviet Zone home. There has
been no news of their fate.

The letter added: ‘We thought of the mothers in
America, of the mothers both in the free world and in
the suppressed countries, Our thoughts went to Korea
where tears and blood are being shed, Thus we had the
idea which you (RIAS) can help to put into effect.

“Belatedly we wish you, dear RIAS, a Merry Christ-
mas and a Happy New Year. Let your voice never falter:
should you fall silent, our force would wane."

The gifts were sent via Army channels to the Far East.

Child Education Exhibit

The German public became acquainted with American
theories and practices in child education during the
recent Mannheim Hausfrauenverband (Housewives As-
sociation) fair.

The show, which attracted 30,000 visitors, demonstrated
the changing position of women in Germany since the

Fifteen US state Defense Bond Drive chairmen touring
Europe to observe European defense efiort visit US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy at his Mehlem headquarters.
Problems of German contribution to Western defense were
explained by Mr. McCloy and a number of prominent
(PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)

Federal Government officials,

Antonio Del Pero, Italian vice consul in Berlin, accepts
from Capt. Henry Gettmann, GYA officer, check for $270
representing proceeds of variety performance arranged
by GYA Inter-Club Shows of Berlin Military Post for child’
victims of Po River valley flood disaster. Others are, 1.-r.,
Klaus Schiddel of GYA Inter-Club Shows; W. F. Fitzgerald
of AFN and Paul Neukirchen, senior GYA center group

leader in West Berlin, (US Army photo)

19th century, with a parallel emphasis on the education
and welfare of children, The Mannheim US Information
Center sponsored an exhibit entitled ‘Helping Children
Grow," which was arranged by the Association for
Childhood Education International, of Washington, D.C,
It included books and pamphlets on various problems of
education and child development as well as 140 pictures
showing children at work and play in American schools
and parks,

Of greatest interest was the display of modern Ameri-
can factory-made toys designed for children between two
and seven years, These practical and scientifically de-
signed toys are educational and stimulate the exploring
spirit of children,

Although pioneer work in the design of educational
toys was carried on in Germany in the 1920's and early
1930's most of the craftsmen have left the country. Both
parents and teachers commented on the German manu-
facturers’ preference for small, brightly-colored mechani-
cal toys which have no educational value, hold only
temporary interest and are easily broken.

One visitor, an ex-manufacturer of toys, stated that
he had produced unpainted building blocks and large
wooden vehicles but was forced to close down, because
there was no demand in Germany for this type of toy.
An explanation of this contradiction may be that the
majority of parents cannot afford to buy superior toys.

A display of model kindergarten equipment impressed
teachers with the amount of thought devoted to the
planning of playrooms and classrooms in the United
States. Public high school and vocational school teachers
brought their classes to see the American exhibit which
held considerable appeal for children; many asked about
library and youth activities at the Information Center.

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 38 ---
Photo Credit

Due to an oversight, credit for the fine series of
photographs illustrating the article, “Bonn, the Na-
tional Village,” in the January issue of the Infor-
mation Bulletin, was not given to Claude Jacoby,
staff photographer for the Public Relations Division,
HICOG, who took the many views of the federal
capital used in the article.

Otis Firm Expands Berlin Branch

Additional investments totaling DM 1,800,000 ($428,400)
in the Flohr;Otis firm (Berlin branch of the Otis Elevator
Company of New York) have been hailed by HICOG
Economic Affairs officials as a “gratifying indication of
confidence in West Berlin.”

The money was supplied by both the Otis company
and by DEMAG A. G., of Duisburg (West German Otis
subsidiary) and will be used to finance expansion of
local manufacturing facilities, \

HICOG Berlin Element representatives said: ''The fact
that half of these funds came from western Germany
and half from the United States is additional proof that
Western businessmen are willing to make collaborative
efforts to aid in the continuing improvement of West
Berlin's economic situation,”

The total now invested in the Flohr-Otis Berlin fa-
cilities, which employ 1,200 workers, is DM 4,400,000
($1,047,200). A special grant of DM 500,000 ($119,000)
was made from US GARIOA funds last fall to finance
construction of a workers’ lunchroom and other facilities
and also to replace war-damaged parts.

Rhine-Main Teachers Visit Offenbach Schools

Eleven American and four German teachers from the
Rhine-Main American Elementary School were invited

Miss Julia E. Hyman (left), agricultural reports officer
in HICOG's Office of Economic Affairs, presents check
for $100 to her administrative officer, Miss Regina Rice,
as March of Dimes contribution. Donation swelled fund
raised by HICOG employees.

(PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)

during visit to Offenbach schools. At left, in front row,
are Zeno Stangwilo, US resident officer, Offenbach, and
the city's Education Councilor Jakob Remy, (USAFE photo)

by Offenbach German teachers to visit their schools,
Offenbach teachers had previously visited the Rhine-
Main school.

Escorted by Offenbach US Resident Officer Zeno S,
Stangwilo, the group was welcomed to a fine, modern
school of a type unique in Germany, located in Tempel-
see, suburb of Offenbach, Jakob Remy, education
councilor in Offenbach, welcomed the group and Adolf
Baier, architect of the building, explained the plans and
arrangements,

The visiting teachers were impressed by light, cheer-
ful colors in the classrooms and by a well-equipped
modern gymnasium which also serves as the main cor-
ridor and entrance-way of the building. The school,
situated in a wooded area, has a spacious playground.

Especially interesting to American teachers were class-
room arrangements such as blackboards that raise or
lower for the use of small children, with a section which
folds back for writing on either side.

The group also visited a more traditional but pleasantly
arranged building, the Bach school, which has been
rebuilt, within the last five years. The home economic
students from the upper grades prepared and served
refreshments to the visitors while the teachers exchanged
viewpoints and experiences in classroom methods.

Town Meeting Brings Results

The Bavarian village of Grassmannsdorf, recently con-
fronted with the problem of building a school house,
called a town meeting to work out details for a plan.

A grant of DM 20,000 ($4,760) from the Bavarian
government had been promised but that was insufficient
for such a project. So, the villagers banded together to
cart sand and stone, cut and haul in wood from nearby
forests, and generally use every means possible to
stretch the available money.

The cooperative plan was a success. A new school
house with a large classroom, another room for group
study, a washroom and a library on the first floor and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
with the teacher's apartment on the second floor, has
now been completed, well ahead of schedule.

Statistics on War-Damaged Buildings

More than 2,931,000 dwelling units in more than
1,162,000 buildings were destroyed or seriously damaged
in the German Federal Republic during World War II, it
was disclosed by the Federal Office of Statistics recently.

North Rhine-Westphalia with 527,200 damaged build-
ings was at the top of the list, Rhineland-Palatinate with
128,900 next.

Of the states in the US Zone, Bavaria and Wuerttem-
berg-Baden suffered the heaviest building losses with
109,000 and 95,700 respectively. Hesse had 81,200 and
Bremen 29,750 buildings destroyed and damaged.

Forty-two percent of this war damage had been com-
pletely restored and 52 percent partly rebuilt at the time
of the statistical survey in September 1950.

Progress in Bavarian Education

Six new adult education centers have been organized
and 100 new rural extension centers established in Ba-
varian border counties as an outgrowth of a two-month
program carried out by a team of adult educators: and
community organization specialists.

The five-man team toured under the auspices of the
Bavarian Adult Education Association, which received a
special grant from the Community Activities Branch,
OLC Bavaria, to carry through the project.

Purpose of the visit was to organize and coordinate
work started by community planning committees along
the border area.

In each of the 26 counties a conference was held with
local leaders to stimulate the adult education program
by helping on financial and education problems. These
meetings were attended by 1,314 persons, including 26
state legislators or their representatives, nine US resident

Group of German and American teen-agers discuss plans
for German-American Teen-Age Club at informal gathering
in Heidelberg US Information Center.

(US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

36

= raf
Cheerleader Mitzi Lee Neville is presented with cheer-
leader charm at victory banquet in Berlin's Thomas A.
Roberts high school honoring Berlin Cubs as EUCOM's
high schoo! six-man tackle football champions. Col. S.
Sawicki, chairman of school board, presented letters as
well as team and other awards. (US Army photo)

officers, 167 mayors, 64 clergymen, 101 adult education
directors, 22 school superintendents, 423 teachers, 39
trade union representatives, 16 peasant organization re-
presentatives and 72 representatives of the local press.
In many instances, the attendance drew a quarter of the
population.

The conferences generally included three talks: ‘The
Need and the Program of Adult Education," “Community
Organization as a Means of Solving Public Problems,”
and “Our Responsibility in the East-West Crisis.” They
were followed by community activity and adult edu-
cation films. Lectures on the East-West question drew
the greatest interest. In a few cases FDJ (Communist
youth organization) groups tried unsuccessfully to sabo-
tage the program by threatening to publish the names
of persons attending the lectures.

One member of the Bavarian state legislature said,
‘This trip has accomplished what neither the political
parties nor the democratic organizations had so far been
able to do — to arouse interest and participation in
burning political issues and current problems.”

Conference Leadership Course

The Kempten county youth organization recently con-
ducted a course for 35 boys and girls to give them ex-
perience in conference leadership. A film and lectures
provided background on conference methods, which they
later put into practice by holding actual discussions.

The Bavarian youngsters showed considerable en-
thusiasm for the course and have arranged for other
practice sessions.

Two New Youth Libraries Opened

Youth libraries were recently opened in two US In-
formation Centers — at Augsburg and Heidelberg — to
help meet the need for special informational and educa-
tional aids to bridge the gap between the children's
libraries and the main library.

FEBRUARY 1952

|
4

--- Page 40 ---
The Augsburg installation is the first joint German-
American youth library in the country. The Augsburg
City Council decided several months ago to establish a
municipal youth library, but no suitable space could be
found. The American director of the center suggested
a joint library. The German portion of the library is
financed by the city, while the US financial assistance
is limited to the space allocation.

Details were worked out by American and German
officials, The library is organized along American library
lines with open shelves, reference services, book re-
views and other special activities.

The joint library has become one of the most popular
places in Augsburg for the younger generation, with
daily attendance averaging 200 young persons, On
Wednesdays, special activities for children bring ap-
proximately 400 to the US Information Center.

The Heidelberg youth library is located in an old
storage vault in the cellar of the local US Information
Center. A flagstone floor, brightly painted walls and
flexible lamps for direct or indirect lighting make it a
popular place where students can browse through the
700 books, youth magazines, pamphlets and photographs.
Hinged reading tables can be folded flat to the wall to
provide space for round-table discussion groups, film
showings and folk dancing.

Events specially planned for young people between
the ages of 14 and 18 are film showings and film dis-
cussions, an English course, an American literature
group, and folk dancing. Many teachers have arranged
special programs in their schools or bring their classes
to the US Information Center.

Berlin School Hot Lunches Continued

Through a noon lunch program an estimated 95 per-
cent of the school population of West Berlin receives
an average of 360 extra calories daily in the form of
enriched soups, stews, chocolate, cocoa and rolls — food

Arrangements for granting use of the Casa Carioca ball-
room to Bavarian Red Cross for charitable ball are made
in office of Col. Stephen S. Hamilton, Garmisch Military
Post commander, L.-r. are Lt. Col. James T, Avery, Jr.,
GMP executive officer; Lt. Fred Duncan, assistant hotel
operations officer; Prof, Alexander C. Cap, liaison officer
between German and American authorities; Col. Hamilton;
Councilor Franz Fux, Bavarian Red Cross president, and
Hans Arnold of Garmisch council. (US Army photo)

French Coast Guard cutter Aillette approaches ‘Kaiser

Lock’ on visit to port of Bremerhaven. (US Army photo)
which in many cases has meant the difference between
extreme hunger and adequate nourishment.

A check for DM 2,125,000 ($505,750) has been pre-
sented by Cecil B. Lyon, director of Berlin Element,
HICOG, to Mayor Ernst Reuter as the first quarterly
US contribution for West Berlin's 1952 school feeding
program.

This American assistance will total DM 8,500,000
($2,023,000) for the year and will be used for food pur-
chases. The Berlin city government will give DM 5,000,000
($1,190,000) to cover administration of the program and
cost of preparation and distribution of the food.

This is the fourth year that American funds have
helped provide more than 68,000,000 noontime hot
lunches to 325,000 Berlin pupils during the school year.

Political Activity by Veterans’ Groups Opposed

The majority of West German residents oppose politi-
cal activity by recently organized war veterans’ groups,
according to an opinion survey.

Opinion samplings were taken by a private German
organization and the results were studied by the HICOG
Office of Public Affairs’ Reactions Analysis Staff.

Of the 1,200 persons questioned, 56 percent opposed
political activity by veterans’ groups, only eight percent
favored it, 16 percent were indifferent to the issue, and
20 percent had no opinion. Seventy-five percent of the
veterans interviewed opposed political activity by such
groups,

Freising Stages Traffic Safety Drive

Strong emphasis on traffic safety is being given by both
Americans and Germans in the city and county of Frei-
sing in Bavaria. :

Traffic safety courses are being carried out in all public
schools and German and US military police have set up
various checkpoints for inspecting lights and other equip-
ment on motor vehicles and bicycles. During a recent
traffic safety week all Freising movie theaters showed
a film “Murder without Intention” and a demolished auto-
mobile and several smashed bicycles were exhibited at
the town square as grim reminders. -+END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 41 ---
Big Ullstein Plant Restored

(F\HE DEUTSCHER VERLAG, the largest printing and
publishing house in Germany, was returned to its
original owners, Ullstein A.G., at a ceremony in Berlin
Jan, 23, after being in US custody since the end of the
war. Previously it had been operated by the Nazis for
11 years following seizure through forced sale in 1934.
Cecil B. Lyon, director of Berlin Element, HICOG, re-
marked at the presentation ceremony: “It is a deep pleas-
ure and spiritual satisfaction to witness another victory
of justice over injustice, even though, as in this instance,
it is perhaps not humanly possible, even through com-
plete restitution, to right such grievous wrong.”

Management of the publishing house was turned over
to Rudolf Ulistein, only surviving son of Leopold Ulistein,
who ‘founded the firm in 1877. The Ullstein corporation
also was represented by Karl Ullstein, grandson of the
founder and son of Hans Ullstein, one of the five brothers
who managed the firm from about 1900 until its seizure
by the Nazis. Also representing the US Government was
Joseph P. McNulty, chief of Berlin Element's Property
Control Branch,

In his remarks at the presentation, Mr. Lyon said:
“You gentlemen have now returned to Germany, which
in an unhappy and sordid éhapter of its history drove
from its cities and towns some of its finest, most repre-
sentative and most able citizens. Resuming management
of your properties after 18 years, you will find them con-
siderably restored over the condition they were in at the
close of hostilities.

“Berlin today is meeting a new totalitarian challenge,
and stands courageously as the symbol of free resistance
to that threat. In meeting this situation, your enterprise
has already contributed in providing the facilities for the

Rudolf Ullstein (second from left) prepares to sign docu-
ments finalizing return of Deutscher Verlag and other
properties in West Berlin to Ullstein publishing firm.
With him, l.-r., are Joseph P. McNulty, chief of Berlin
Element Property Control Branch; Karl Ullstein, his neph-
ew; Ernst Strunk, former custodian, and Cecil B. Lyon,
Berlin Element director.

(PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

creation of a large segment of a free and independent press ©
in Berlin. These new newspapers in turn made it possible
for your enterprise to recover and go forward since 1945,

“I am confident that in resuming its management you ~
will be concerned to find a solution that is just and
reasonable in your common interest with these new pub-
lishers in firmly reestablishing a responsible and demo-
cratic press in Berlin. It is, therefore, a great pleasure 2
today to confirm your repossession of a famous enterprise
and officially to release the properties to your trust. In
so doing, be assured of our continuing interest and accept ;
our congratulations and best wishes.”

ARL ULLSTEIN EXPRESSED the pleasure and grati-
tude of his family at recovering their properties and
their appreciation for the assistance they had been given a
in putting the enterprise back into operation since the |
war. He assured Mr. Lyon of their determination to co- ~
operate fully in the common task of continuing the de- 7
fense of democracy in Berlin. 4
Return of the Ullstein properties marks restitution of q
private ownership of one of Europe's largest and most ~
famous publishing houses. Under the founder of the firm ©
and during the period in which it was managed by his 7
five sons, Ulistein A.G. pioneered in the publication of
newspapers and periodicals, developing a reputation for 7
its liberal policies and progressive labor techniques. q
At one time the firm employed more than 10,000 per-
sons. Among publications for which it became famous
were the daily newspapers, Berliner Morgenpost and ‘
BZ am Mittag, and the illustrated weekly, Berliner Illu-
strirte Zeitung. The Ullsteins were also the last owners —
and publishers of the Vossische Zeitung, founded in the ©
18th century. !
Following their seizure of the firm in 1934, the Nazis
sought to capitalize on the name Ullstein, but finally |
changed the corporation’s name to Deutscher Verlag in 4
January 1938.

EAVILY DAMAGED NEAR the end of World War II, @

the Ullstein A.G. plants in Kreuzberg und Tempelhof ©
lost most of their remaining facilities through Soviet dis-~
mantlings. In August 1945, the properties were taken”
under property control custody by US Military Govern-
ment. Reconstruction and rehabilitation of plant facilities 4
were undertaken immediately. i

Before the plant could go into operation following the
end of the war, presses, linotype machines and other
equipment had to be salvaged and repaired. At the present ©
time the Ullstein firm employs approximately 3,000 per-—
sons and, in addition to its own books and periodicals,”
prints five of West Berlin's daily newspapers. It has been”)
since the end of the war under the custodianship of Ernst 7
Strunk, formerly chief engineer of the plant. +END |

FEBRUARY 1952 7

--- Page 42 ---
Washington Report

Marshall Plan Aims

The US High Commissioner for Germany, John J. Mc-
Cloy, made the following statement over NBC television
on Jan. 6:

A review of developments in western Germany covering
the past four years strikingly shows that the great ob-
jectives of the Marshall Plan have been largely accom-
plished.

A very few years ago western Germany was broken,
chaotic and near starvation. .

The transformation which has occurred since then
might almost be called a miracle. With Marshall Plan
help, West Germany has largely re-established itself as
a solid, productive country. Its production has increased
from 1947 threefold until it has become the second
largest industrial producing country in Western Europe.
Despite the fact that western Germany borders Soviet-
controlled areas, Communism has been definitely
blocked.

Germany has likewise made tremendous strides in the
production of food, despite the loss of the rich East Ger-
man farm lands. The influx of 10,000,000 refugees
seriously aggravated the food shortage and seriously
intensified the grave housing problem, for so much of
Germany's housing was lost during the war. Western
Germany's record of rebuilding is phenomenal, yet in
some sections people are still living five or six to a
room. One house in every five built since 1948 has
received Marshall Plan aid.

Economic problems of large order still persist. These
must be solved and the economic gains must be con-
solidated to establish a firm front against Soviet pres-
sure — pressure which is probably greater here than
anywhere else in Europe. We must continue to promote
an expanding economy capable of sustaining the de-
fense burden. To this end, the Mutual Security Agency,
successor to the Economic Cooperation Administration,
is designed to help build for defense. To a large extent,
the staff used by ECA will be used to carry forward
these aims.

Western Germany still heavily depends upon outside
areas for much of its raw materials and some 40 per-
cent of its food supplies. This requires an ever-active
industry and markets if the country is to maintain an
economic — and in the long run a political — balance.
But the German people are hard-working and
imaginative. Moreover they see now what they failed
to see for a long period after the close of the war — a
glimpse of hope. Others can help, but the chief aid
must come from within.

In Germany this economic progress is reflected in
political progress for they are related. A freely elected
parliament has been functioning for more than two
years, the German Government is a respected active
force in international meetings, and the press and people

FEBRUARY 1952

39

are free. Although the Federal Republic is not yet a
member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, it .
is working on plans to make an appropriate defense
contribution and to participate in the European Defense
Community.

In the face of incessant opposition from the East, the
question here is no longer so much whether Germany
should participate in a Western defense system but
rather what should be the form and extent of her parti-
cipation.

As for the extent of true democratic progress in Ger-
many, I think we can also take some satisfaction. I have
said that reactionary forces from the extreme right have
also been blocked but some are still about, and one
day they may again make their bid for power. I doubt
that they will again prevail — they certainly will not
if Germany becomes, as I believe she will, definitely
aligned with the democracies of the West. The habit of
democracy in Germany may not yet be ingrained, but
it is growing.

In short, on the basis of the economic and political
progress already made, I feel one can have real faith
that a satisfactory way will be fourd to meet the com-
plex and heavy problems that lie ahead of the German
Federal Republic and that it will develop into a con-
structive and reliable force for democracy in this part
of the world.

Monte Cassino Altarpiece Returned

A great altarpiece of the Assumption of the Virgin, lost
from the Benedictine Monastery of Monte Cassino during
the war, has been recovered by HICOG officers and
returned to the Italian Government for restoration to the
Abbot of Monte Cassino. The announcement was made
recently by the US Department of State. .

The altarpiece has suffered unfortunate damage, but
the original beauty of the composition is also apparent.
It is approximately nine feet high and five feet wide and
was painted by the Neapolitan artist and celebrated
scholar, Paolo de Matteis (1662-1728), who worked at
Monte Cassino during the years 1692 and 1706-9. It was
originally placed over the altar of the Fifth Chapel of
the Basilica of Monte Cassino, which was known as the
Chapel of the Assumption.

“Free Elections” in Germany?

Divided Germany is the center of the cold war in
Europe. The democracies want the German republic to
cooperate in Western defense against Soviet aggression.
Russia and her satellites want all Germany to stay “‘neu-
tral’ — that is, to serve as an open avenue for the march
of Red imperialism. Germany herself, split both geo-
graphically and economically, wants national unity.

Against this complex and dangerous background, the
United States, Britain and France announce their plan
for a United Nations investigation of the possibility of
“genuine free elections’ throughout Germany. The people
of Eastern Germany doubtless yearn for a truly represen-
tative national government. But they are not the masters

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
of their destiny. Their government at Berlin is a puppet
of Moscow. Russia's Vishinsky reacted violently against
the idea of a UN inquiry into German electoral conditions
when it was first suggested. His reaction to the detailed
program, which would admit inspectors to every part of
Germany, may be imagined.

It is the Korean truce dispute all over again. The Iron
Curtain cuts across Germany, as the Bamboo Curtain cuts
across Korea. In Communist eyes, these curtains have
been sacred and impenetrable.

There is just a hope that the East German regime may
follow the new lead of the Red negotiators at Panmunjom
and accept “neutral” inspectors behind the curtain. The
problem here is to “find the neutrals.’ What countries
would both sides in the cold war deem genuinely neutral?
Peiping and Moscow actually insist that Russia is a neutral
in the Korean war.

Despite the gloomy outlook, the Western Big Three are
tight to urge a program for free national elections in
Germany. If it is rejected under orders by the Soviet
puppets, the way may be cleared for the Adenauer gov-
ernment to throw in its lot with the democratic West. —
from the Cincinnati Times-Star, Dec. 4.

Assessing DP Program

When the displaced persons program came to an end
on Dec. 31, 1951, the Washington office of the US Dis-
placed Persons Commission reflected that ‘probably no
debt in the history of the United States is being repaid
with such great interest as the $100,000,000 debt of the
displaced persons." ,

The commission noted that the program has “provided
America with potential citizens who will help us in our
fight against Communism. Many have known Communism.
They have lived under the heel of totalitarian dictators.
They want only freedom and a chance to live as respec-
table free men under a free flag. They are willing to fight
to help us maintain our freedom.”

The Congress authorized 336,000 visas for International
Refugee Organization-eligible displaced persons. Although
the original Act of Congress provided visas for 301,500
DPs from western Germany, Austria and Italy, 14,000 un-
used visas from other programs under the act reverted
to the program, making a total of 315,000.

The Washington DP commission has estimated that in
American dollars, the program cost $100,601,000. Of the
amount, $88,704,000 is the US contribution to the Inter-
national Refugee Organization which was earmarked for
the care, maintenance and transportation of refugees to
the United States. .

On an individual basis, the commission. estimates that
it cost $299.41 to resettle each DP in the United States.
The American taxpayer's contribution has been fixed at
$1.93 but in terms of each American citizen, only 67 cents.
Ultimately, the initial US investment will return in the
form of personal income taxes at an estimated $35,500,000
a year. On the basis of this figure, it will take less than
three years for the total cost of the program to be repaid
in full by the DPs themselves.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

40

The remaining programs are for processing refugees
of ethnic German origin and war orphans. Robert J. Cork-
ery, European coordinator, predicts that the German eth-
nic program will be completed before the announced
expiration date of June 30, 1952. Of the 54,744 visas allowed
for ethnic Germans, 30,000 have been issued. On the other
hand, only 2,500 visas of the 10,000 authorized for orphans
have been processed,

The commission has concluded that aside from the finan-
cial outlay, the program has other meanings. ‘First, there
is the spiritual satisfaction that derives from knowing that
we are helping our fellowmen in the hour of their greatest
need. Secondly, America benefits by acquiring sorely
needed skills and talents of the displaced persons—skills
and talents that will be utilized in our factories and on
our farms to help carry on the gigantic task of defense
and civilian production.” — from “The New York Times."

The Last DP
The last of the visas issued under the amended Dis-
placed Persons Act of 1948 has just been granted to an

Estonian family of four. The law originally was designed |

to end last June 30, but Congress wisely extended it for
six months, to Dec. 31, to permit additional thousands
of refugees, driven from their homes by European op-
pressors, to start new lives in the United States.

Under the DP Act, 312,554 such refugees have been
admitted to this country. Thousands of others went to
Canada, Israel and other countries. We can be proud of
the role our own nation has played in seeing to it that
the people who resisted first the Hitler tyranny and
later the Stalin tyranny have not been forgotten by
more fortunate human beings.

This is not to say that the job has been perfect, or
that the response has always been adequate. There
remain in the displaced persons camps of Germany
nearly 130,000 men, women and children, some of whom
could not qualify for admission to America, and some
of whom found that no visas were left. For some of
these latter, the New World still offers hope, particularly
the “ethnic Germans" and orphans, for whom special
provisions have been made. And the International Refu-
gees Organization has reported that surprising progress
has been made toward caring in western Germany for
the so-called “hard-core cases'‘— the aged and invalid
DPs who are unable or unwilling to move elsewhere.

A creditable job has been done. The IRO and the US
Displaced Persons Commission have seen their efforts
reach a degree of success which at times seemed
unattainable. Various church and religious groups in this
country have worked unrelentingly to assist and care for
the refugees. Thousands of American individuals have
stood as sponsors for the bewildered and harried new-
comers. In time, one can hope that the DPs who have
come to America will have their own contribution to
make to the life and well-being of the nation. Certainly,
as the great program closes, all Americans will wish
these citizens-to-be the best of luck in what still is, after
so many years, the land of opportunity. — from New York
Herald Tribune, Jan. 3, 1952. -++END

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 44 ---
And Cartoons

tion, Information Services Division, HICOG.

ATIFICATION BY THE GERMAN Federal Parliament

in January of the Schuman Plan for a continental
merger of coal and steel resources was hailed by the
German press as a memorable step toward the realization
of “Europe.” But a much harder struggle was expected,
according to the editorial comment, over the European
Army issue (Pleven Plan), since on that problem the
opposition in the Bundestag (Lower House) was much
more resolute and articulate, with considerably more
support in broad sections of the population. Government
party circles themselves were far from united on the
question of Pleven Plan acceptance.

Most of the West German press swelled with prid2
over the decorum and statesmanship with which the
parliamentary ratification debate had been conducted. In
a historic hour, said the majority, a German parliament
had made a momentous foreign policy decision in an
atmosphere of political maturity such as had seldom or
never before been seen.

The decision itself was also generally approved, al-
though a number were at pains to point out that it had
not come to pass without decided and well-founded
opposition and that even those who had voted “yes” had
done so with many a mental reservation.

Nevertheless, declared the press, Germany, by enter-
ing the Montan Union with its eyes open, had taken a

TTT TELL TEHTU MEO LUTE ELLE ELE eo

German Editorials

Material for this section is compiled from press digesis and analyses prepar-
ed by various divisions of HICOG and OLC offices, and from official releases
of German agencies. These compilations are intended to inform the American
readers of what the Germans are thinking, without interpretation. The inclusion
of any Viewpoint does not give concurrence to that view or opinion. The car-
toons have been taken from a selection reproduced by the Press Scrutiny Sec-

TELLER LPC CE

(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg,
Jan. 14)

TULLE

Liberty Welcomes “Winnie.”

calculated risk which had demonstrated its growing
stature in the world of international politics. “It has
launched its bark upon the unknown seas of a supra-
national future," said Ernst Friedlaender, prominent
columnist, ‘and there is no turning back."

It was pointed out that the Montan Union, although
ostensibly economic, was political in its motivation and
aims, and that the final political objective was a complete
break with Europe's fratricidal past. That France and
Germany had finally been persuaded to renounce a
certain measure of sovereignty in such a noble cause
was a fact of paramount historical importance which
represenied the birth of a new Europe. True, the Montan
Union was far from ideal from the German point of view.

It nevertheless stood for a grasp of realities such as
had hitherto been sadly lacking in the European scene
and an end to the period of “mealy-mouthed and tongue-
in-cheek asseveration,” according to the Frankfurter
Neue Presse (Frankfurt). Slowly but surely, if all went
well, the press believed, Europe would now progressively
move in the direction of an embracing political federation,
via such matters as further ‘Schuman Plans” for agri-
culture, power and international communications.

Press doubts centered mainly on the possibility that
the Federal Republic had, by this act of courage and dis-
play of European good will, definitely sacrificed the

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Westfaelische Rundschau, Dortmund, Dec. 29)

*

5g VALS
WOOAY

“Oh, Sam, don't leave me!”

FEBRUARY 1952 Al

(Abendpost, Frankfurt, Jan. 19)

Adenauer's “Kampi.”

(Frankenpost, Hof, Jan. 12)

re:

The Doctors Disagree.
Adenauer: “This will cure him."
Schumacher: “That will kill him.’

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
(Essener Allgemeine Zeitung, Essen, Jan. 6) (Westdeutsche Neue Presse, Cologne, Jan 4) (Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, Jan. 2)

Winston opens his heart The new maid's job.

to Harry.

(Hannoversche Presse, Hanover, Jan. 17)

(Hannoversche Presse, Hannover, Jan. 8)

European Army.
“If he doesn't like the dress, Churchill.
he won't pay the bill!" A good trick if he makes it!

Adenauer's Ideal Bundestag.

(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, Jan. 5)

(tee te pene Eee pity (Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Jan. 8)

& Re Niemoeller in Moscow.

Ath Seenanded game “Polly wanna cracker?”
would be better.

France.

i its?
Finally a shoe that fits? (Nordsee Zeitung, Bremerhaven, Dec 15)

(Nuernberger Nachrichten, Nuremberg, Dec. 31)
(Abendpost, Frankfurt, Jan. 10)

Soviet Russia. The Little Man: “A swell act,
Getting ready for a date? but I don't even dare applaud!” Fishing in the Seine.

INFORMATION BULLETIN 42 FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 46 ---
chances for German reunification and immolated 18,000,000
Eastern Germans on the altar of continental understanding.

Most papers thought that Europe was worth the risk,
despite the fairly general view that it was to a great
extent ‘a voyage into the unknown," as the influential
Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt) put it. The Sued-
deutsche Zeitung (Munich) pointed out that the fact that
the parliament had given the Schuman Plan an impres-
sive majority, despite its qualms, was a significant de-
monstration of the German will to bury the past.

The Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim) deprecated
gloomy prognostication regarding the possible conse-
guences of Germany joining the Montan Union, declar-
ing that Rubicons can and have been “‘recrossed” in the
past, when history willed it so. “The force of circum-
stances has often, in Central European history, done
away with artificial barriers — witness the policies of
the Caesars, the Reformation, Napoleon and Versailles...
No political arrangement is permanent unless it ulti-
mately justifies itself.”

The nationalist Kasseler Post (Kassel), together with
most other ‘rightist’ papers, ‘considered ratification
“somewhat risky but on the whole justified ... “However,”
it added, “woe to them who use this blank check to
swindle or disappoint the German people." Essener All-
gemeine Zeitung" (Essen) said that judgment must be
withheld pending experience of how the Montan Union
would work out in practice, and the extent to which
others would meet Germany halfway.

Stuttgarter Zeitung *(Stuttgart) called it a ‘noble ex-
periment” which would have a weighty and beneficial
influence on the future course of Europe's history “if not
abused."

The Social Democratic Party (SPD) press appeared
somewhat nonplussed by the resounding defeat ad-
ministered the opposition on Schuman Plan ratification.
Most SPD papers ‘continued to argue the “party line”
that it represented a victory for France's dreams of
European hegemony, but there were others, such as the
Hamburger Echo (Hamburg) and the Hamburger Morgen-
post (Hamburg) which took a more moderate view. The
Echo expressed a pious hope that “our fears.may prove
unjustified” and the Morgenpost's thesis was that ‘time
will tell.”

The Christian Democratic Union (CDU) press lauded
the fairness with which the debate had been conducted
and charged that the SPD opposition, in its resistance
to the Montan Union, was governed by doctrinaire party
egoism rather than regard for the national welfare. “Dr.
Schumacher's followers are chiefly concerned lest their
dreams of a socialist state go up in smoke,” declared
the Rheinische Post (Duesseldorf).

Meanwhile, the German press appeared agreed that
the coming defense debates in the Federal Parliament
would be much more agitated than those on the Schu-
man Plan, and that the Federal Government would find
it much more difficult to win assent from both delegates
and the public in general on such matters as the Pleven
Plan for a European Army, a German defense contribu-

FEBRUARY 1952

43

(Rhein-Neckar Zeitung, Heidelberg, Jan. 12)

“Tally ho!”

tion and rearmament in general, The SPD press supported
the party demand that a two-thirds parliamentary majority
should be required in such weighty matters.

The Federal Government was generally reproved for
what many papers called lack of frankness in things
that vitally concerned every German. Theodor Blank,
federal security commissioner, was a particular target in
this respect, being charged with a fondness for faits
accomplis, although it was recognized that he was proba-
bly largely following orders from “higher up.”

All in all, the press considered that popular approval
for proposed defense measures was highly uncertain
and predicted a “tough struggle." The press welcomed
the fact, however, that on an international plane, at
least, the problem of German rearmament had “‘finally
emerged from the phase of secret conferences and wild
conjecture” and become “a concrete subject for real
debate." The general problem, as the press viewed it,
was to guarantee the freedom of the Western World
without violating the freedom of the individual.

The greater part of the press noted with satisfaction
that matters were, in general, shaping up well and that
the realization of a European Army had moved ap-
preciably nearer in the last few weeks. Many papers
stressed the fact that the present Bonn parliament was
essentially “‘civil-minded" rather than militaristic in its
outlook and was about to adopt defense measures re-
luctantly but determinedly because they were necessary
to maintain peace. Such a gratifying attitude, so different
from that of Germany's past, would go a long way toward
reconciling and allaying the fears of those who still fear
the possibility of a resuscitation of the old Prussian spirit.

Commissioner Blank’s statements that the responsible
head of the German contingent in the European Army
would be a civilian, subject to parliamentary control,
and that the Federal Republic was resolved to make
a radical break with Germany's militarist past, were also
considered reassuring in this respect. Newspapers noted
with gratification from other Blank statements that the.
future army would be composed of genuinely “European”
soldiers, uniformly recruited and uniformly treated.

INFORMATION BULLETIN,

--- Page 47 ---
No Sympathy for Swastika

“The three high commissioners have
sent a written protest to the Fed-
eral Government," reported Bayrische A
Rundschau (Kulmbach). “In view of
the Allied policy of non-interference
with German domestic issues, this ac-
tion by Petersberg (seat of the Allied
High Commission) is quite unusual.
The reason for it was a speech by
Federal Transport Minister Christoph
Seebohm at the Kassel convention of
the German Party (DP), of which he
is a member.

“Seebohm is said to have stated that
the German boundaries of 1937, being
a consequence of the Versailles Treaty,

~

(Freie Presse, Bielefeld, Dec. 7)

Minister Seebohm: "I bow
in reverence.”

speech. And the Bonn journalists
have sarcastically requested the Fed-
eral Information Office to supply them
with all the necessary corrections and
qualifications to go with ministerial
speeches ....

“The federal transportation minister,
in turn, reacted in the same way other
cabinet officers did before him: he
held the press responsible for ‘dis-
torted reports’ on his speech and, in
general, explained some statements
and qualified others...”

“Unmistakably he referred to the
swastika!’ said Sueddeutsche Zeitung
(Munich). "He thought he owed that
symbol a bow because hundreds of

could not be reconized, since the Ger-

man people had previously refused such recognition. He
is also said to have alleged that the Allies had created a
‘social atom bomb,’ called the Postdam Agreement, and
to have spoken very critically about the denazification.”

“Finally he said he would bow in reverence before any
symbol under which Germans have lost their lives. This
latter statement has aroused the Social Democratic Party
(SPD), which tabled a motion in parliament demanding
Seebohm’s dismissal. By his statement, the SPD con-
cludes, Seebohm has glorified the swastika. The minister
himself announced meanwhile that he did not mean
the swastika, but referred to ‘German national symbols,

* not party symbols’...

“There is no doubt," the paper went on to comment,
“that by this statement a responsible German politician
has once more broken all the china that he could get
his hands on — and that at a time when the chancellor
is trying to create a favorable international climate for
German interests. We must say, the gentlemen in the
cabinet make it hard for their boss to rehabilitate Ger-
many diplomatically.”

Schwaebische Landeszeitung (Augsburg) wrote sar-
castically: ‘For some years it has been said in Bonn that
Chancellor Adenauer always hesitates to read the Mon-
day morning papers because he fears that one of his
ministers might have made another unfortunate Sunday

(Rheinischer Merkur, Coblenz, Jan. 18)

“Try the other wall, Mao.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

44

thousands of innocent people were
brutally murdered under it. But Dr. Seebohm was. not
content with a restoration of the 1937 boundaries either.
He said it had been forgotten that the German people
never recognized the boundaries established by the Ver-
sailles Treaty. That is a fact, but the minister did not say
that it led'not only to the publication of a book entitled
‘Mein Kampf,’ but also to the ruins of Kassel from which
Seebohm delivered his speech."

Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim) wondered how long
Seebohm could be tolerated as a cabinet officer. “It
would be wrong to allege that Dr. Adenauer does not
fire his transport minister for reasons of personal or
political sympathy. The real reason is simply concern for
the continued existence of the government coalition.”

“But that method is wrong — at least in the long run.
Because in the long run Seebohm’s retention in the
cabinet will mean a mortgage on the Federal Govern-
ment and. its policy, particularly its foreign policy.”

Rhein-Echo (Duesseldorf) wrote: ‘The decisive cri-
terion of a speech is the effect for which it has been
designed. We have no doubt at all what effect was aimed
at in this atmosphere of revival of a long buried past...
And, moreover, who wants to dispute that, between 1933
and 1945, Germany was governed and led into disaster
under the swastika?”

Reaction to Southwest State Plebiscite

The favorable vote of the plebiscite for the creation
of the Southwest state (see page 3) was generally wel-
comed by the German press.

“The common state that these three states will form
will be regarded by foreign observers as the answer to
their question: Are the Germans willing and able to
have a democratic self-government, which implies respect
for the rights of a minority?" said Suedkurier (Constance).
“This is the first German state not established by order .
of an occupation power but by a majority vote of the
population."

Der Tag (Berlin) thought that the plebiscite was a test
case also for a reorganization of the entire Federal Re-
public. “‘Rhineland-Palatinate, Schleswig-Holstein, Ham-
burg and Lower Saxony including Oldenburg still have

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 48 ---
state boundaries established by the
Occupation Powers which, however,
are not a satisfactory permanent solu-
tion.” The paper advised the public
in the new state that ‘a good deal
of political tact" will be necessary to
reconcile the opposing groups.

Stuttgarter Zeitung (Stuttgart), on
the other hand, felt that the political
differences in the Southwest had been
“artificially created by the election
propaganda of the past months.” The
paper could see no difficulty in bridg-
ing this gap, if all are willing to work
together. ‘Cooperation is most essential, since we are
facing challenging tasks. The three parts of the new
state have lived separate lives for six years. Hundreds
of laws and regulations were enacted.during that period
and now have to be.adjusted. First of all, we expect the
new state to reform its administration...

“In an era of broad-minded thinking and in view of
the efforts made in Strasbourg to unite Europe, the argu-
ments of the ‘Old Baden Movement’ with their adherence
to traditions established by Napoleon (who separated
Wuerttemberg and Baden) and their talk of ‘Wuerttem-
berg annexation and dictatorship’ were grotesque
anachronisms,“ commented the Neue Ruhr Zeitung
(Essen, Dec. 11).

The Tagesspiegel (Berlin), however, said that “the re-
sult of the plebiscite is unsatisfactory, since a majority
for the new state could not be secured in South Baden.
State President Wohleb even talked of an ‘oppression’ of
his state." But many papers, including the Koelnische
Rundschau (Cologne), said that “there is no use arguing
about the justness of the plebiscite method of four
separate voting districts. The forthcoming elections on a
constitutional assembly for the new state deserve our
full attention."

Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt), cast light on the
consequence of the Southwest state decision: "The
February elections in Southwest Germany will coincide
with certain decisions on the future of Europe. The elec-
tion campaigns, therefore, will be run on arguments for
and against these decisions, and attempts will be made to
portray them asa kind of popular test vote on foreign poli-
tics. Moreover, the outcome can swing the majority in the
Federal Council (Bundesrat) from the government parties
to the coalition, and the Federal Council, too, has a say
in foreign politics. We see: the reorganization of the South-
west area has had stronger repercussions than expected.”

(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, Jan. 17)

Will Eisenhower change his mount?

FEBRUARY 1952

(Frankenpost, Hof, Jan. 12)

Niemoeller's Dream.

AS

Niemoeller and Wirth

The German press weighed the
values of the trips by Pastor Martin
Niemoeller, president of the Protestant
Church in Hesse, to Moscow, osten-
sibly to discuss church relations, and
by former German chancellor, Dr. Jo-
seph Wirth, who signed the Russo-
German cooperation agreement at Ra-
pallo in 1922, to Berlin to negotiate
with the Soviet Zone government. Al-
though neither pastor Niemoeller nor
Mr. Wirth was backed by any political
party or group in West Germany and
both visits were no more than personal affairs, great
political importance was attached to them in Germany.

Hamburger Abendblatt (Hamburg) warned that “there
is a certain political twilight about these trips, and it is
this twilight that comprises the great danger. Numerous
Germans will be inclined to sympathize with Niemoeller
in Moscow and Wirth in East Berlin rather than with
Hallstein (leader of the German delegation to the Pleven
Plan conference) in Paris. Not. because they might by
ahy chance be pro-Communist, but simply because they
believe that Germany is faced with a decision: either
integration with the West or German unity. German
unity is dearer to them, and it seems to be the smaller
risk... They instinctively favor an immediate reunifica-
tion of Germany, and it would be more than simplifica-
tion to say that they fell for Communist propaganda...”

Die Welt (Hamburg) also felt that the dangerous conse-
quences of the visits were the fault of European poli-
ticians: “If the state of affairs in Europe were different,
visits by such people as Niemoeller and Wirth would
be without political significance. They could not be
dangerous, simply because their necessity or expediency
could not be proved, The way things are, however, we
must tell our politicians in Europe: it is your faults
which permit the Kremlin to create such a disturbance
with visits by two persons without any political com-
mission..."

But many papers believed that the Soviets would not
achieve the desired success. ‘If the Communists think
they can upset the West by Niemoeller’'s and Wirth’s
pilgrimages to Moscow and the Soviet bosses in the East
Zone, they are badly mistaken,” said Frankfurter Rund-
schau (Frankfurt). "The Western World has known for
a long time that a Soviet political offensive against the
integration of Europe would be started early in 1952 and
that ‘all-German consultations’ would be one phase of it.”

Messrs. Niemoeller and Wirth themselves were sharply
criticized for “unknowingly playing the Russian game.”
Der Tagesspiegel (Berlin) wrote that "by allowing them- |
selves to be misused for Soviet maneuvers, the Hessian
church president and the former chancellor have proved
how much they lack political instinct. Moreover, as
Chancellor Adenauer put it, they stab the Federal gov-
ernment in the back at a moment when it more than ever
needs the confidence of the people.” +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Jan. 10

The 84th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Jan. 10. Present were Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner (chairman); John J. McCloy,
United States High Commissioner, and
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner.

The Council had a general discussion
on various matters currently under con-
sideration by committees of the High
Commission.

The next meeting of the Council is
scheduled to be held at the Petersberg
Jan. 17.

HICOM Meeting of Jan. 17

The 85th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg Jan. 17, Present were Sir Ivone
Kirkpatrick, United Kingdom High Com-
missioner (chairman), John J, McCloy,
United States High Commissioner, and
Andre Francois-Poncet, French High Com-
missioner,

Certain decisions of the Council will
be announced within the next few days.

The next meeting of the Council is fixed
for Jan, 24 at the Petersberg.

Laws and Regulations

Existence, Terms, Validity, Intent
Of Occupation Orders Defined

Among legislative texts in the current
issue of the Official Gazette of the Allied
High Commission is an interpretation of an
expression used in the Allied High Com-
mission Law on judicial powers in the
reserved fields (Law No. 13 amended).

This law provides, inter alia, that Ger-
man courts faced with the question of the
existence, terms, validity or intent of any
order of the Occupation Authorities or
Forces or of any authority to which they
have succeeded, must suspend action and
refer the question to the Occupation
Authorities for decision.

The legal interpretation now published
(as Allied High Commission Law No. 71)
makes it clear that all cases where the
existence, terms, validity or intent of such
an order has to be determined must be
referred to the Occupation Authorities
whether the subject matter of the order
is in the reserved fields or not.

The interpretation has been published to
obviate any wrong impression that only
those cases where the subject matter of
the order is in the reserved fields need be
referred to the Occupation Authorities.

Berlin’s Status Outside Federation

The Allied High Commission has annulled
certain passages of the federal law concern-
ing the position of Berlin in the financial
system of the federation (Third Transfer
Law). The validity of the remaining provi-
sions of the law is not of course affected
by this action, and indeed the general
‘effect and purpose of the law, which the
High Commission entirely approves, is in

INFORMATION BULLETIN

no way changed by the annulment of these
few passages.

The annulment applies only to a small
number of provisions which

1. Implied that Berlin was included in the
area of validity of the Basic Law.

2, Expressly applied federal law to Berlin
as such,

These were thus wholly incompatible
with Berlin's status outside the Federation
and with Allied policy on this question.

At the time of the approval of the Basic
Law, the Allies, in effect, suspended those
clauses which would have included Berlin
within the Federal Republic, and cor-
responding clauses in the Berlin Consti-
tution were also suspended when that con-
stitution was approved.

Similarly, the Allies, while having no
objection to the adoption by Berlin of
federal legislation in accordance with an
appropriate procedure notified to the Berlin
authorities, have always insisted that the
provisions of a federal law cannot apply in
Berlin, as such, but can take effect only
by an act of the Berlin legislature, repeal-
able by the Berlin House of Representatives
in the same way as adopted.

This policy of the Allies regarding Berlin
is based on the particular circumstances
existing in the: city and on the Allies’
special position there. It is the obligation
and intention of the three powers to retain
this special position and their rights arising
from it after the contractual arrangements
now being negotiated have entered into
force, As was announced in the com-
munique issued after the meeting between
Dr. Adenauer and the three foreign
ministers in Paris Nov. 22, 1951, the three
powers will retain, under contractual agree-
ments, their rights relating to Berlin,

The importance of the special position
of the three powers in Berlin was ex-
plained to representatives of the Federal
Government, of the Bundestag (Lower
House) and of Berlin at a meeting with
representatives of the Allied High Com-
mission, which was held in November to
discuss certain points arising on the then
current draft of the present law. Various
provisions of that draft were later modified
to meet the High Commissions’ views,
but the provisions now annulled were in-
serted after that meeting and contrary to
the views already expressed by the Allied
High Commission.

In all the circumstances the Allied High
Commission has had no alternative but to
annul the passages in question of this law.

Transactions and Activities
Of the Allied Forces’
Licensing Agencies Designated

An Allied High Commission regulation,
published in the Official Gazette of the
High Commission, designates the agencies
which are empowered to issue licenses
under Allied High Commission Law No, 40
(Restrictions on Transactions and Activities
of Members of the Allied Forces).

In general, members of the Allied Forces,
including civilian Occupation Personnel
and their families, may not enter into
private business or commercial transactions
within the German economy; they are

46

restricted in the acquisition of German cur-
rency, real estate and other property, and
they are under restrictions relating to the
export and import of other than property
for their personal uses. Thus they may
not use their special position in relation
to German law for personal advantage
or gain.

However, there may be legitimate oc-
casions on which the transfer of non-
consumable goods (e. g., imported auto-
mobiles owned for less than six months)
or on which the import or export of goods
beyond the limited range permitted by
general authorization (e. g., the import or
export of privately owned technical equip-
ment used in a specialized private pursuit)
may appropriately be licensed for members
of the Allied Forces. The possibility of
transactions of this sort exists because of
the special status of the Allied Forces in
Germany and thus the following Allied
agencies have been named as the author-
ities empowered to issue licenses:

a) In the United States Zone:

Office of the United States High Com-
missioner for Germany,

APO 80, c/o Postmaster, N. Y., N. Y.

b) In the British Zone:

Office of the United Kingdom High Com.
missioner,

Wahnerheide, B.A.O.R. 19,

Official Statements

US Note on Retention of POWs

Following is the text of a note delivered
to the Soviet Government in Moscow by
the United States Jan. 8, urging USSR
cooperation in the United Nations effort
to gain repatriation of German and Japanese
prisoners of war still retained in Eastern
Europe and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics:

On Dec, 11, 1951, the Hon. J. G, Guerrero,
chairman of the ad hoc Commission on
Prisoners of War established by the reso-
lution of Dec. 14, 1950, of the United Nations
General Assembly, addressed a letter to
the United States Government. In this
letter Mr. Guerrero indicates the decision
of the commission to invite those govern-
ments directly interested in the problem
to establish contact with the commission
with a view to studying jointly the
measures which it would be possible to
take in this connection and requests the
US Government to designate a representa-
tive with whom the commission could
confer during its session which is scheduled
to start in Geneva on Jan, 21, 1952. It
is the understanding of the US Government
that the Soviet Government has also
received an invitation to participate. The
United States has already informed the
commission of its intention to send a
representative to this meeting.

It is the hope of the US Government
that the Soviet Government, despite refusal
to date to associate itself with the afore-
mentioned resolution or to assist the com-
mission in its attempts to obtain factual
information, will now agree to cooperate
to the fullest extent possible in this most
recent attempt to find a_ satisfactory
solution to the POW issue.

The human tragedy involved in the con-
tinued detention of hundreds of thousands
of German and Japanese nationals taken
into Soviet custody in the course of the
war, who have been neither repatriated
nor accounted for, hardly needs elaboration.

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 50 ---
It is therefore the earnest hope of the US
Government — a hope which we know
is fervently shared by the families of
these unfortunate individuals — that the
Soviet Union will join other interested
nations in affording the Commission every
assistance in its efforts to bring about the
return of all those still alive and to account
for those who have died.

Statement by HICOG

The followirg statement was issued
Jan. 9 by the Office of the US High Com-
missioner for Germany.

The Soviet Government has on many
occasions committed itself in principle to
ihe complete repatriation or accounting for
prisoners of war. Although the USSR has
failed thus far to honor these commit-
ments in practice, it is hoped that it will
revise its hitherto negative attitude and
cooperate with the United Nations POW
Commission by attending the Geneva
meeting Jan. 21. The past six and a half
years have witnessed continuous effort on
the part of the Western Powers to solve
this urgent international problem and
return POWs to their homeland and
families. The four powers adopted a reso-
lution at the Moscow conference'in April
1947, fixing the final repatriation date as
Dec, 31, 1948. This date passed with
hundreds of thousands of POWs taken
into Soviet custody during the last war
still not repatriated or accounted for.

Despite the fact that the Soviets signed
the 1949 Geneva Convention which re-
quires the protection and repatriation of
these people, the trickle of returnees con-
tinued to be far short of the total known
to be held. It was a bitter blow to count-
less families throughout the Federal Re-
public when the official Soviet News
Agency, Tass, proclaimed on May 5, 1950,
that all but approximately 13,000 POWs
had been released.

This shocking disregard for international
commitments and human welfare gave rise
to vigorous new efforts on the part of the
Federal Government during the course of
last year to gain the release of their
countrymen. The Chancellor immediately
reported to the Bundestag (Lower House)
and highlighted the gross inaccuracies of
the Tass report. A multi-party resolution
rejecting the Soviet claims and appealing
to the Allied High Commission and the
United Nations for assistance was adopted
by all members of the Bundestag (Lower
House) excepting the Communists.

This urgent appeal has been underscored
many times by the Federal Government,
the opposition party (SPD)‘and countless
private associations and groups, notably
associations of former prisoners of war
who themselves experienced Soviet reten-
tion and forced labor practices. It was in
Tesponse to this appeal in the interest of
millions of Germans that the United States,
United Kingdom and France sent notes to
the USSR in July 1950, urging that complete
information regarding the fate of all de-
tained persons be furnished and that an
international commission conduct an in-
vestigation to verify such. information.

Despite Soviet refusal to cooperate, the
Western Powers continued to press the
matter by supporting a resolution at the
UN General Assembly session in 1950,
under which a commission was established
on Dec, 14, 1950, to get the facts and obtain
release of the large numbers of POWs
still detained.

FEBRUARY 1952

The Federal Government has produced
and is now in the position to augment
conclusive evidence regarding the large
numbers of Germans still held under one
guise or another by the Soviets. It will
be the main purpose of the coming Geneva
meeting to review this and other evidence
which has been assembled by the UN
Commission and to urge international
cooperation in a final effort to remove
this tragic and unnecessary source of
human suffering.

Official Announcement

Commissary Tax

Shoppers in commissaries throughout the
European Command began to pay a share
of the stores’ operating expenses when the
four percent surcharge ordered by Congress
on all commissary purchases went into
effect Jan. 3.

EUCOM announced that authority for the
service charge is contained in the Defense
Department's appropriation bill for 1952
passed by Congress last fall. It officially
went into effect on the first of the year,
but because commissaries were closed for
inventory at that time, the charge was
effective Jan. 3. Commissary shoppers at
military installations in the United States
began paying a five percent service charge
on Jan. 1. It applies only to individuals
and non-appropriated fund agencies and
not to authorized organizations drawing
supplies from commissary warehouses.

EUCOM quartermaster officials said that
the charge would not be hidden in the
price of goods themselves but would be
added to a customer's bill at the end of
the month. The service charge will be
computed by commissary accounting depart-
ments.—from EUCOM announcement.

Recent Publications

Listed below are official and important
publications received in the editorial office
of the Information Bulletin during January.
Requests for these publications should be
addressed to the originating agency.

Weltfrieden (World Peace), Information
Services Division, HICOG (Frankfurt),
November 1951 (available from Special
Publications Section, ISD). Text in Ger-
man of radio address by President Tru-
man in Washington Nov. 7.

Unsere Staerke ist Freiheit (Our Strength
is Freedom), Institut fuer angewandte
Publizistik, Munich, November 1951.
Pictorial East-West comparison in Ger-
many since war.

Kontakt (Contact), Vol. 1, No. 2, Exchanges
Staff, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
(Frankfurt), November 1951. Magazine in
German with articles on activities of the
HICOG Exchanges Program.

International Workshop on Guidance, Edu-
cation Branch, Education and Cultural
Relations Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), December
1951. Compilation of reports, resolutions
and recommendations of workshop at
Weilburg, July 15 to Aug. 17, 1951.

Soziale Beziehungen in der Industrie (Social
Relations in Industry), Office of Labor
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Dec. 18, 1951.
Monthly publication of articles in Ger-
man on labor relations.

47

Moege: diese Welt mit Gottes Hilie eine
Wiedergeburt der Freiheit erleben (That
this World under God Shall Have a New
Birth of Freedom), Press Office; Senate
of Berlin, December 1951 (distributed by
US Information Centers, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, Frankfurt). Record of the
first year of the Freedom Bell in Berlin.

Amerika und der europaeische Geist
(America and the European Spirit),
published by the US Information Service,
‘Vienna, December 1951 (available from
Special Publications Section, Information
Services Division, HICOG, Frankfurt).
Five articles in German from the Satur-
day Review of Literature, New York.

Arbeitsbedingungen in den Vereinigten
Staaten (Free Enterprise in the United
States), reprinted from Neue Zuercher
Zeitung, Zuerich, Switzerland, December
1951 (available from Special Publications
Section, Information Services Division,
HICOG, Frankfurt).

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 307,
Press and Publications Branch, Infor-
mation Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Jan. 4, 1952.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated to Jan. 4.

Die Vereinten Nationen (The United Na-
tions), Information Services Division,
Offce of Public Affairs, HICOG, Frank-
furt, January 1952 (available from Special
Publications Section, Information Ser-
vices Division, HICOG, Frankfurt).

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 308,
Press and Publications Branch, Infor-
mation Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Jan. 11, 1952.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Jan. 11.

Der Monat (The Month), No. 40, Infor-
mation Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Berlin), January 1952.

Abseitsstehen ist Feigheit (Standing Aside
is Cowardice), Information Services Divi-
sion, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
(Frankfurt), January 1952 (available from
Special Publications Section, ISD). Text
in German of address by John J. McCloy,
US High Commissioner for Germany, at
Freiburg University Jan. 21, 1952 (see
page 99 for English text).

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 309,”

Press and Publications Branch, Infor-
mation Services Division, Office of Pub-
lic Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Jan. 18,
1952. Covers German newspapers and
other publications dated up to Jan. 18.

Realites Allemandes (Facts of Germany),
No. 35-36, High Commission of the
French Republic in Germany, Jan. 22,
1952. Report for November and December.

Zwei Abruestungsvorschlaege (Two Disar-
mament Proposals), US Archiv-Dienst,
Information Services Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG (Bad Nauheim),
January 1952 (available from Special
Publications Section, ISD, Frankfurt).
Document in German of proposals for
disarmament submitted to the’ United
Nations by the West on Nov. 19 and by
the Soviet Union on Nov. 24.

Buecher Vorschau (Book Review), No. 62,
US Information Centers Branch, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt),
Jan. 23, 1952. List of American books
to be distributed among the US Infor-
mation Centers in Germany.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 310,
Press and Publications Branch, Infor-
mation Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Jan. 25, 1952.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated to Jan. 25. -++-END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
INDEX

Information Bulletin
For Issues of 1950 and 1951

(Supplement to Indexes in Issue No. 160 of May 3, 1949, and in Issue of May 1950)

A

Across-the-City Student Exchange Begins, description
of program of American and German schools in
Wiesbaden

Adding the Human Element, description of departure
of 350 German students, teachers and leaders for
year's study in United States, with text of address
by John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner ......

Agreement on Relations of Control over German In-
dustry, text of HICOM release

Agricultural Outlook, article by Gwynn Garnett,
chief, Food and Agriculture Division, Office of
Economic Affairs, HICOG, outlining program to
meet deficit in Germany's food production .

AGRICULTURE
Agricultural Outlook
Bavaria Was Never Like This
Brannan Urges Greater Food Production .
Farmers from America ..
Freedom for Farm Women
Keeping Youth on Farms
New Markets for Meat .....
Phoenix at Reichswald
Science for the Farmer
Seeds of Understanding
Tale of the Potato Bug .. :
Traditional Green Week Returns to Berlin .
Young Farmers Return .. .

All-German Art Contest, pictorial story of prize-
winning paintings in contest sponsored by Belvins
Davis, US art patron, in Munich

ALLIED AREAS
French Point of View, The
Hedler Case, The ..
Major Responsibility, The
Moral and Material Resistance
Through British Spectacles
Women of North Germany

Allied Communique on Revis.on of the Occupation
Statute and Implementation of the New York Agree-
ments, text of HICOM releases ......-..++eeeeeeee

ALLIED HIGH COMMISSION
Agreement on Relations of Control over German

Industry
Allied Communique on Revision of the Occupation
Statute and Implementation of the New York
Agreements
Allied Policy on Germany
Allied Watch on the Rh.ne
Anti-Rearmament Law ..
Constitutional Development
German Scientific Research .
Germany Approaches National Sovereignty .
New Status of Germany
Reorganization of Germany's Iron and Steel in-
dustries
Settlement o!

Allied Policy on Germany, text of communique issued
by the foreign ministers of France, United Kingdom
and United States Sept. 19 following meeting in
New York City ......- .

Allied Watch on the Rhine, article by Haynes RK
Mahoney, staff writer, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, describing the
functions and operations of the Allied High Com-

mission
Alternative to “Pre-Medieval Barbarism,’’ article by
Otto Stolz, assistant chief editor of ‘‘Welt der
Arbeit,” official trade-union journal, in support of

Schuman Plan
Ambassadors in Khaki, article by Dr. W. P. Shofstail,
adviser to US Armed Forces, GYA Branch, OPOT
Division, EUCOM, reviewing GYA training course
at Oberammergau .........ceec eee eeu ees eeee een enes
America Book, The, article by Helen McLaughlin,
staff writer, Information Bulletin, on favorable re-
ception of “The America Book for Youth," pub-
lished in German by informational agencies of the
US Government .....eccccceeseeceeeeeeeeeesen seuss
America Comes to Heidelberg, pictorial story of open-
ing of new US Information Center in Heidelberg
America is Different, article by Friedrich G. K.
Grohe, student at Darmstadt Institute of Techno-
logy, giving impressions from year and half study
in the United States ......0...0.c.0cccce sees eeeee

INFORMATION BULLETIN

March 1951
October 1950
May 1951
March 1950
March 1950
December 1951
August 1951
September 1950
May 1951
October 1951
April 1951
October 1951
August 1951
December 1950

September 1950
March 1951

May 1951
April 1950
March 1951
April 1950
March 1951

November 1950
November 1950

April 1950
April 1951
May 1951
April 1951
October 1950
March 1950
June 1950
January 1950
October 1951
April 1951
November 1950
August 1951
July 1951
October 1950
March 1950
June 1951
January 1950
July 1951
December 1950
September 1950

American Affairs Institute, article by David L. Hog-
gan, assistant to the director, American Institute
at Munich University, reviewing founding of first
school in Europe to specialize in American affairs

American and German Theater, adaptation of lecture
by Frederic Mellinger, visiting consultant, US In-
formation Centers, on comparison of theatrical acts
in United States and Germany ..............e0.005

AMERICAN ASSISTANCE
All-German Art Contest .
American Affairs Inst.tute .
American Christmas Spirit
Bavaria’s Law Library .
Berlin, Christmas 1950 .
Berlin Festival 1951 ...
Berlin's Neighborhood Houses
Bridge for Dieburg, A
The CARE Legend ..
Design for Use, USA
Fellowship of Love .
Frankfurt Stopover
Free Artists in Berlin .

Freedom Bell Tolls Message of Hope and Faith
“Freedom Prizes for Artists
Friendship Camps ...........
Germans Guard Civil L.berties
Hollywood Stars Speak German!
Inge Scholl, Schoolteacher ....
Invitation to a New Conscience .
Law Books for Universities
Medical Mission ...
Midway on the Main
Model Classroom Set Up in Bavaria
Occupation Costs
Penicillin Produced in Germany .
Promoting German Trade .
Relief by Parcel Post ..
Resident Officer Saves Child
Santa in Blue .......
School Clean-Up Day .
Student Participation in
Study-Time at Berlin Fair

“Tide of Toys" .
“Tide of Toys‘
UNICEF .
US Architects Display Ideas .
Voluntary Assistance
The Wichita Special
Working Together

Also see ECONOMIC COOPERATION ADMINISTRA-
TION, EXCHANGES PROGRAM, GERMAN-AMER-
ICAN RELATIONS, PUBLIC WELFARE

American Christmas Spirit, The, review by Beth
Burchard, Information Bulletin staff writer, of
Christmas parties and presents given by Americans
to German children and needy

AMERICAN INFORMATION

» America Book, The c
America Comes to Heidelberg ..
American and German Theater
Books for Bayreuth .
Campaign for Truth .
Dateline: Germany
Declaration of Fr.endship
Democracy Stalks the Library .
Design for Use, USA ......
German Newsmen Tour Army Bases
Germany Goes to the Movies .
Homes for Better Living .
Information Uncensored
Literary Trip to America
“Mach mit‘* — at RIAS ..
Mannheim Informat.on Center Formally Dedicated
Only American Radio Station behind the Iron

Curtain
RIAS, The
Stuttgart US Information. ‘Center
TV Comes to Berlin ...........
US Information Center in Hamburg
Windows to the West .

American Policy in Germany, text of address by Ben:
jamin J. Buttenwieser, US assistant high commis-
sioner, before annual spring conference of American
school teachers in Berchtesgaden

America's Faith in Europe, address by Dr. Frederick
H. Burkhardt, deputy director, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, at the International Youth Camp
on the Lorelei .......... 0. cece eee eee eee ee

February

June

April
February
January
November
December
August
January
November

September
December
November
June
October
March

April
September
November
September
August
January
January
July
February
February
December
August
October
November
May

May
January
November
March
February
August

January

July
December
June
August
January
March
August
February
May
September
January
September
December
May

April
September

March
December
March
September
October
August

May

October

FEBRUARY

1950

1951

1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951

1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950

1950

1951

1952

--- Page 52 ---
Anti-Polio Drive Spreads, description of expansion of
Munich's ‘Pfennig-Parade”’ throughout Bavaria to
fight infantile paralysis .........cseeseeeeeeeeeuees

Anti-Rearmament Law, summary of statute issued by
Allied High Commission (with text of law) .

Approach to Clemency Decisions, excerpts from letter
by US high commissioner to Mrs. Eleanor Roose-
velt on reasons for his decisions on clemency
pleas of men convicted at Nuremberg war crimes
(ACI) opodaddbsocsecoebocedouedBosddossoqoadoossadee

ARMED FORCES
Ambassadors in Khaki
Armed Forces Day Celebrated .
At Home on the Sea ...
Basketball Comes Back .
Big New Housing Projects
Bridge for Dieburg, A
Detroit on the Isar ...
Eisenhower Inspects West Zone Defenses
Erlangen Gives Pool to US Army .
EUCOM Handicraft Contest
Europe's GIs Go to US School
Exercise Combine
Exercise Shamrock
Fire Alert
German Newsmen Tour Army Bases
GI-German Relations .

Hell on Wheels
High German Oifici
Main
Highway Patrol .
Ivy Fourth, The .
Latvians Move On .
MDAP Aid to Denmark .
Memorial to Airlift Dead .
Mission of Peace, A .
Model Father's Club
Morocco Comes to Wetzlar
Mutual Defense Assistance Program
Rhine-Main's Adopted Children
Santa in Blue ......
School Clean-Up Day
Small Animal Clinic .
Soap Box Derby Goes German .
Spot of History, A, ..
Stateless Europeans Enlist
Talmud Returns, The .
Vigil on the Border
“Vittles Bowl" Festivities in Frankfurt
WACS in Bivouac ...
Youth Aid US Air Base

Armed Forces Day Celebrated, pictorial feature of
parades and displays by US Amy units ...

Art Exhibition in Bonn, pictorial story of exhibition
of Berlin painters and sculptors

Art Lover's Tour, An, article by Dr. Heiny Leiter-
mann of the German Tourist Association on im-
portant art centers in Germany

Art of Giving Thanks, The, sermon by E. Theodore
Bachmann, deputy chief, Religious Affairs Branch,
Education ‘and Cultural Relations Division, HICOG,
at Thanksgiving service of Americans in Frankfurt

As I See America, article by Ernst Reuter, mayor
of Berlin, on recent visit to the United States ....

At Home on the Sea, pictorial feature on US Navy
Labor Service Units in Bremerhaven

Attitude toward Jews, declaration of the Federal

Republic of Germany as pronounced by Chancellor .

Konrad Adenauer
Altractions for 1951, preview by Dr, A. Stark, Ger-
man Central Tourist Association, on outstanding
events for year ....cceeeeee neces eceseeeeeeeeen ees

Back from America, article by Louise Conner, Ex-
changes Staff, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
with excerpts from reports from German youth
following visits to the United States

Basketball Comes Back, article by Capt. Frances C.
Brand, assistant GYA officer, Stuttgart Military
Post, on US soldier's assistance to revive German
court game ..

Batter Up, pictorial feature on American softball game
in Frankfurt ..

Bavaria to Repeat “School Week," pictorial feature

Bavaria Was Never Like This, pictorial feature from
“Erding Journal"' on experiences and ideas two
Bavarian farm youth brought back from year's
study in the United States :

Bavarian Schools on View, atticle by Dr. Martin
Mayes, education adviser, OLC Bavaria, on in-
auguration of school-week program ...........4.+

Bavaria’s International Look, pictorial feature of
gigantic youth meeting in Munich ..............56

FEBRUARY 1952

August

June

January
June
April
March
July
November
February
June
October
July

July
November
May
March
September
October
October

July
April

July

June
October
August
February
June
June
September
August
December
August
February
August
February
September
November
April
January
October
March

June

September

December

January

May

April

October

January

August

March

July
August

December

July

January

1950

1950

1951

1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951

1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951

1951
1950

1950

1951

1951
1951

1951

1951

1951

1951

1951
1951

1951

1951

1951

Bavaria's Law Library, article on the efforts of Judge

Leo M. Goodman of the US Court in building a

research library of legal documents in Munich .. November 1951
Bavaria’s Sounding Board, summary of two meetings

in Augsburg area of Bavaria
Bells are Ringing, The, description of art of casting

church bells
Berlin, Christmas 1950, article by Wilmer Froistad,

chief, Public Health and Welfare Branch, Berlin

Element, HICOG, on the many Christmas programs

sponsored by American groups for the children

and needy in Berlin
Berlin Festival 1951, preview by William F. Keefe,

deputy chief, Public Relations Branch, Berlin Ele-

ment, HICOG, of month-long cultural program in

Berlin
Berlin Film Festival, preview of international ex-

position in Berlin
Berlin Industry Exhibition, pictorial preview of huge

international display in Berlin ..............0060++ September 1950
Berlin Nutrition Program, article by Margaret Fedde,

nutrition specialist, Food and Agriculture Division,

Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG, and Dr. Erwin

P. Brauner, chief, Public Health Branch, Office of

Public Affairs, HICOG, on result of program for

better feeding of children in Berlin .
Berlin Women’s Club, review of relief work of

organization
Berlin Youth Rebuff Bavarian Reds, article by Francis

C. Lindaman, chief, District II, Field Division, OLC

Bavaria on successful speaking tour in northern

Bavaria by nine young men und women of Berlin November 1951
Berliners Acclaim 1936 Olympic Games Star, reprint

from ‘‘Stars and Stripes'’ of article by Dwight

Schear, Berlin correspondent, of talk by Je’

Owens to huge basketball crowd in Olympic

Stadium oo... eee ceeeeeeeee ee cee eee eeee eee eee ee eeaee September 1951
Berlin's Cultural Festival, review by William H.

Conlan, Berlin Element, HICOG, on German press

and public reactions to contributions of the United

States and other countries to the festival in Sep-

tember
Berlin's Neighborhood Centers, article by Wilmer

Froistad, chief, Public Health and Welfare Branch,

Berlin Element, HICOG.
Berlin's Whitsun Auto Show, pictorial story :
Big Brothers and the “Little Leaguers," pictorial

feature by John Zecca, resident officer at Mann-

heim, on US Army unit's aid for orphan boys .. January 1951
Big Difference, The, article by Aksel G. Nielsen,

chief, Youth Activities, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden,

on conference which illustrated contrast between

East and West in their organization of youth .. January 1951
Big New Housing Projects for Bavaria, resume of

German construction program with Marshall Plan

ASSistAnCe .....cecseceecee ete eee eet ecseeeeteneees July 1951
Birth of a City, The, article by C. F. von Rospach,

deputy chief, Public Relations Branch, OLC Bava-

tia, on re-establishment of famous Gablonz glass

industry in Bavaria by refugees from Czechoslovakia January 1951
Bonn Project to be Ready by Fall, pictorial feature June 1951
Books at Your Service, article by Henry A. Dunlap,

chief librarian, Office of Executive Secretary,

HICOG, and US archivist, Allied High Commis:

sion, on scope and services of HICOG Reference

Library eee eee eec ees eeceeeu see eeeeeu sen etseeuetees May 1950
Books for Bayreuth, article by Donald S. Root, US

resident officer for Bayreuth, Bavaria, on program

to alleviate shortage of books in school libraries August 1951
Boost for Trade, A, article by Fred Welty, staff

writer, Public Relations Division, Office of Public

Affairs, HICOG, describing program for German-

American Trade Promotion Company .........+.++ December 1950
Brannan Urges Greater Food Production, summary of

tour in Germany by Charles F. Brannan, US secre-

tary of agriculture
Breaking Down the Barriers, article by Information

Bulletin staff on development of German-American

relations
Bremen Helps Its Youth, article by Cherry Lou Fell-

ner, staff writer, Information Bulletin, on the youth

recreational program ..
Bridge for Dieburg, A, article by Werner E. Schroe-

der, staff writer of the US Resident Office, Dieburg,

Hesse, on the construction by US troops of a

bridge for neighboring farmers
Bridgebuilders in Straubing, article by Lt. Richard

L. Canady, Sixth Armored Cavalry, Straubing, on

work of American Women's Welfare Club. for

June 1950

January 1951

December 1950

August 1951

May 1951

August 1951

April 1950

November 1951

January 1951
July 1950

August 1951

May 1950

December 1951

November 1951

better German-American relations . May 1951
Building Strength against Communism, concluding

chapter of the booklet “Confuse and Control,”

published by the Department of State .. June 1951
Bundestag Parliament Group Sees Link with West,

summary of impressions by six German legislators

following visit to the United States .............. March 1951

49 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
¢€

Campaign of Truth, article by Edward W. Barrett,
assistant secretary for public affairs, Department
of State, on meaning of freedom ....

CARE Legend, The, article by James Stanley, CARE
Mission to Germany, on operations and results of
large American relief association .

“Challenge to the Christian World,

summary of
radio address by Captain Charles R. Jeffs, USN,
US state commissioner for Bremen, stressing fun-
damental decency and freedom of man

Child Guidance, article by Haynes R. Mahoney,
chief, Bad Nauheim Branch, Public Relations Divi-
sion, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, on con-
ference for inauguration of more democratic meth-
ods of supervising children in public schools ....

Child's Play Becomes Woman's Work, article on
refugees’ doll industry of Bavarian Mothers’
Service

Christmas Shooters,

The,
Schoening, US resident’ officer at Berchtesgaden,
Bavaria, describing traditional Christmas custom

article by Everett W.

of shooting off ancient pistols .
Church Social Problems, excerpt from monograph
“The History of Religious Affairs by Dr. Beryl
R. McClaskey for the Historical Division, Office of
the Executive Secretary, HICOG .
Citizens Meet their Government,

The,
town meeting in Ruesselsheim when members of
Hessian cabinet answered questions and grievan-

article on

ces of industrial city's workers
Classroom Discussions, article by Noble Hie

bert,
adviser on educational affairs, Education and Cul-
tural Affairs Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC
Wuerttemberg-Baden, on efforts to modernize Ger-
man teaching methods
Classroom on Tour, pictorial feature of American
school students visiting Stuttgart industrial plants

Coal in Postwar Germany, statement by the US
Element, Coal Control Group, Essen, reviewing
entire coal situation

Coal Productivity, statement

by Michael_ Harris,
chief, ECA Special Mission to Western Germany
Co-Determination, Keystone of Trade Union Policy,
article by Lloyd White, special adviser, Office of
Labor Affairs, HICOG, on German idea of labor-

management relations
Common_ Problems Common Front, article by
Helen McLaughlin, staff writer, Information Bulle-
tin, on discussions and results of international con-
ference for young women at Hindelang, southern
~ Bavaria
Communication Rehabilitation,
Eugene H. Merrill,

pictorial
chief, Communications Branch,
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG, depicting re-

story by

storation of facilities and services since wat

Communications System Expanding Steadily, sum-
mary of growth of German operation with ECA
assistance

Communique of the Foreign Ministers’

Conference
in Paris, text of communique issued by the foreign

ministers of the three Allied Powers in Paris
Nov. 22 after their meeting with Chancellor Konrad
Adenauer of Germany ....
Communist Party, fifth in series taken from Poli-
tical Parties in Western Germany” by Civil Ad-
ministration Division, OMGUS
Communist Press in Western Germany, article by F.
Gardner Cox, Jr., Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
reviewing Communist propaganda tactics and de-
scribing their newspaper-type publications
COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES
Bavarian Schools on View .
Bavaria's Sounding Board
Books for Bayreuth
Bremen Helps its Youth ...
Community Council Arrives .
Democracy in Munich
Dream-Come-True House
Education in Citizenship
Erksdorf, Model of Cooperation
Expellees' Glove Firm .
Farm Youth Speaks Out .
Fellowship of Love ...
From Huts to Houses .
Germans Form Study Group
Good Neighbor Week
House of Clay ...
House of Neighbors
House that Youth Built,
Junior Chamber Arrives .
Meeting ‘'Their Governmen!
Model Classrooms Set Up in Bavaria
Movies on American Life Popular ....

The .

INFORMATION BULLETIN

January
\

August

April

September

August
December
July

May

October

May

December

November

December

November

January

March

December

Janvary

September

July
June
August
December

September
September
October
May
August
April
December
August
February
May

June

June
August
December
August
June

1951

1950

1950

1950

1951

1950

1951

1951

1950

1951

1951

1951

1951

1951

1950

1951

1951

1950

1950

1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950

50

New Accent on Youth .
“Parade’’ of Progress
Pfennig Parade, The ..
Phoenix at Reichswald
Power of Open Forums
Quiz Comes to Nuremberg .
Schluechtern Plan, The
School Clean-Up Day ..
School Kids Meet the Mayor
Sonthofen Case, The ..
Swabia Speaks Up ..
They Got the Bus Rolling
Town of Two Nations ..
Young Citizens Hold Forum
Community Council Arrives, article by Jack P. Hou-
lihan, special consultant, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, on inauguration of community councils ..
CONFERENCES,
Child Guidance
Common Problems — Common Front
Congress for Cultural Freedom ....
Famed Lorelei Beckons Youth to Peace and Unity
Farm Youth Speaks Out .
Freedom to Meet ..
Fulda Art Congress .
German-American Co!
Germans Form Study Group
Germany and Europe .....
Guarding Human Rights Today
Health and Human Relations .
May Day in Berlin
OLCWB State Seminar for Resident Officers
Resident Officers
Resident Officer's Conferences
Second RO’s Conference
Special Labor Congress .
Teachers Go Back to School .
Women's Responsibilities ...
World's Students Talk Things Over
Young Citizens Hold Forum
Congress for Cultural Freedom, review by Wolf von
Eckardt, deputy chief, Editorial Project Branch,
Information Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, on discussions and results of inter-
national gathering of prominent artists, writers and
scientists in Berlin
Constitutional Developme:

article by Anton F.
Pabsch, Political Affairs Liaison Office, US Element,
Allied High Commission, Bonn, and 'S. L. Wahr-
haftig, Internal Political and Governmental Affairs
Division, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG, de-
scribing organization of a democratic and repre-
sentative government in Germany, with profiles of

top officials: of Federal Republic .
Control of Government in the Soviet Zone, text of
report by the Political Affairs Division, Berlin
Element, HICOG, on how Soviets retain control of
their East German regime (with chart)
Cornerstone of a Better Future, address by Andre

Francois-Poncet, French high commissioner for
Germany, over Bavarian radio ..............0608
Cost of Schooling, study by Wallace H. Strevell,

chief, Education Research, Education and Cultural
Relations Division, HICOG, on what the Germans
their two-track educational

are paying to run
system

Courage to Love, address (translated from German)
by Dr. Theodor Heuss, President of the Federal
Republic of Germany, before Wiesbaden Council
of Christians and Jews, urging strong inter-faith
relations

CULTURAL ACTIVITIES
All-German Art Contest .....
America Comes to Heidelberg
American and German Theater .
Art Exhibition in Bonn .
Art Lover's Tour, An
Berlin Festival 1951 ..
Berlin Film Festival .
Berlin's Cultural Festival
Congress for Cultural Freedom
Free Artists in Berlin
“Freedom” Prices for Artists .
Fulda Art Congress .......
Goethe House Restored .
Hollywood Stars Speak German!
International University Theater .
Invitation to a New Conscience
Mainz Psalter Returned
Mannheim Information Center Formally Dedicated
New Career — at 71
Porcelain, Old and ‘New.
Returned Masterworks .
Search for Looted Art .
Singers with a Message .
Stars over West Berlin
Tomorrow's Artists
Young Thespians ..

November
March
June
October
March

July
December
February
October
March
November

May

September
November
September
September
August
September
April

July
August
December
November
November
June
March
January
August
November
August
November
November
November
November

September

January

March

April

January

January

April
December
June
September
December

November
September
December
June
April
June

May
March
April
June
September
October
June
January
September
May

July
February
October

FEBRUARY

1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951,
1950
1951
1951

1951

1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951

1950

1950

1950

1951

1951

1950

1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951

1952

--- Page 54 ---
Wagner Returns to Bayreuth ..........
World's Oldest Stained-Glass Windows
World's Worst Theater 600000
Czechoslovakia a Concentration Camp, Refugee Of-
ficial Says, summary of press conference by Maxi-
milian Jiri’ Lom, former official of Czechoslovakian
ministry of foreign trade, after flight from East. ...

D

Dachau Camp, pictorial feature by Claude Jacoby,
staff photographer, Public Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, of transient camp for
displaced persons, refugees and expellees .

Dateline: Germany, Information Bulletin staff article
describing work of the American news correspond-
ents in Germany ...... see eewecaeeueeeeeeeeeneees

Decartelization Law Prosecutions Filed, summary of
first anti-cartel action taken by HICOG against
German COnCErnS .....eeeseeeeceseeeeeten seen neces

Decartelization Law Violators Fined, summary of
verdict and sentence in first HICOG decartelization
action against German firms ..... vee

Declaration of Friendship, text of resolution adopted
by US Congress and summary of effort to get it to
Russian people

Declaration of Rights of Displaced Persons, sum-
mary of draft law of German federal government

Declaration on Germany, summary of press comment
concerning declaration of London Conference of
Foreign Ministers (with text of declaration)

Defense of Common Freedom, address by John J.
McCloy, US High Commissioner, before Bremer-
haven Chapter of the National Defense Transpor-
tation Association, Nov. 3

Defense of Democracy, text of address by US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy at the’ opening of
the US Information Center in Hanover, May 22 ..

Deggendori Marks 1,200th Anniversary, article by
John J. Greeley, US resident officer at Deggendorf,
on eastern Bavarian town's celebration plans ....

Democracy Comes to Dachau, article by William J.

Caldwell, chief, Public Relations Branch, OLC Ba-
varia, on improvement of German-American re-
lations

Democracy in Munich, pictorial feature of develop-
ment of civic activities in Munich by means of
PUblic FOTUMS 6.0... sseeeeeeee eee eeeeceeeseeeueen ees

Democracy Stalks the Library, article by Robert
Behrans, director of the US Information Center in
Stuttgart, on introduction of open-shelf system in
German ‘libraries

DEMOCRATIZATION
Attitude toward Jews
Berlin Youth Rebuff Bavarian Reds .
“Challenge to the Christian World” .
Democratization of Education
Exchangees Applaud US Visit
Fellowship of Love ..
Forbidden City, The
Freedom Bell Tolls Message of Hope and Faith
Germans Guard Civil Liberties .

Guarding Human Rights Today
“IT Hate Communism"
Inge Scholl, Schoolteacher
Leadership Training for Youth .
Man's Passions and Prejudices .
Nationalism and the Modern State
New Trends in Education
Practicing the Golden Rule .
Preservation of Democracy .
RIAS, the Truth Crusader :
Stamping Out of Racial Prejudice Urged .
Teachers Go Back to School .
US Films Ride the Rails .
What are We Doing for German Youth?

Democratization of Education, summary of survey by
Dr. Hermann E. Wells, president of the University
of Indiana and chairman of the Commission on the
Occupied Areas of the American Council of Edu-
cation, on development of democratic education in
Germany

Denmark's Harbors Modernized, pictorial story. of
ECA assistance :

Design for Use, USA, pictorial feature on exhibit of
American household articles in Stuttgart

Detroit on the Isar, description of Karlfeld Ordnance
Depot for rebuilding US Army vehicles

Deutsche Post, pictorial story of service offered by
the German postal system to Allied personnel in
Germany

Displaced Persons, article by Charles T. Reyner,
chief, Office of Public Information, International
Refugee Organization, describing work of IRO in
Germany :

FEBRUARY 1952

April
December
April

October

August

March

July

October

August

September

July

November

July

August

May

March

February

October
November
April
March
August
April
September
November
March
November
September
April
December
December
August
April
September
September
December
July
November
June

May

March
January
May

February

July

February

1951
1950
1951

1951

1950

1950

1950

1950

1951
1950

1950

1951

1950

1950

1951

1950

1951

1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951

1950
1950
1951

1951

1950

1950

51

DISPLACED POPULATIONS
Birth of a City, The’.
Czechoslovakia a Concentration Camp
Dachau Camp .
Declaration of Rig!
Displaced Persons
100,000th DP Sails for Canada .
Emigration from Germany
Ethnic Germans Emigrate .
Expellees’ Glove Firm
From Huts to Houses ..
From Nissen Huts to New Homes ..
German Refugees and Expellees .
Gift of Self-Respect, The
Homes Across the Seas
Integration on its Way
Latvians Move On
Manhunt for 6,000,000
800 New Dwellings for Refugees Dedicated
New Homes for Refugees .
Newsmen Survey Refugee
Phoenix at Reichswald
Refugee Camp ..
Refugee Enterprise
Refugee Glassmakers
Refugee Shoemaker .
Refugee Helping Themselves
Rehabilitation for Emigration
Schluechtern Plan, The
Sonthofen Case, The .
Stateless Europeans Enlist
Sudetens Come Home
They Rode ‘Freedom Train
US Replies to Czech Note

+ Voluntary Assistance ....

Distorting German History, article by Dr. Robert M.
W. Kempner, former US deputy chief prosecutor at
the War Crimes Trials in Nuremberg, reporting on
current publishing industry in Germany (reprinted
from ‘New York Herald-Tribune’’)

Dollar Drive, article by Fred Welty, press officer,
Public Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, on efforts to have German exports balance
imports

100,000th DP Sails for Canada, pictorial feature of
ceremony marking departure ..

Drama of German Recovery, article by Aileen S.
Miles, staff writer, Information Bulletin, on use of
ECA counterpart funds to assist German economic
recovery

Dream-Come-True House, article by Helen McLaugh-
lin, staff writer, Information Bulletin, on dedication
of Anna Haag Home for girls in Bad Cannstatt,
‘Wuerttemberg-Baden, with text of Mrs. Haag's
often-given address on the benefits of the Marshall
Plan

East German Schools Sovietized, summary of special
HICOG report
East Side, West Side, All Around Berlin, review by
Paul G. Hoffman, retiring ECA administrator, of
impressions and comparisons gained on tour of all
sectors of Berlin
East Zone Government, analytical review by Henry
B. Cox, foreign affairs specialist, Office of German
Political Affairs, US Department of State, on the
Soviet-created regime in eastern Germany (reprinted
from ‘Department of State Bulletin’)
ECA Agreement Signed, summary and analysis of
pact signed by Germany to participate in ECA pro-
gram (with text of agreements)
ECA Aid to Germany, text of statement by Robert
M. Hanes, chief, ECA Special Mission to Western
Germany, before Congressional comittees in Wash-
ington
ECA on Tour, pictorial feature of touring exhibit
documenting ECA assistance
ECA Serves . .., pictorial story of ECA assistance in
EULOPC .eeeeceee cesses eee eeeeseeeeetee ete eteeene tes
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Alternative to ‘‘Pre-Medieval Barbarism"
Attractions for 1951 ..
Berlin's Whitsun Auto Show
Boost for Trade, A
East Side, West Side, All Around Berlin .
Economic’ Prospects for Germany .
Economic Review (January)
Economic Review (February)
Economic Review (March)
Economic Review (April)
Economic Review (May)
Economic Review (June)
Economic Review (July)
Economic Review (August)

January
October
August
September
February
June

July
December
May
December
August
March
March
March
February
June

Ma

December
June
April
August
April
July
December
September
May
October
October
March

March

June

June

July

September

May

November

March

February

April

March

June
January
July
December
November
July

April

May

June

July
August
September
October
November

1950

1950

1951

1950

1951

1951

1950

1950

1950

1950

1950

1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 55 ---
Economic Review (September)
Economic Review (October)
Economic Review (November)
Economic Review (December)
Economy of Berlin
Employment at All-Time High (July)
Exports Again Exceed Imports (June)
Exports Again Top Imports (May)
Finding Dollar Markets .
Freedom of Trade ....
German Scientific Research .

German, US Press Look at Schuman Plan .
Germany Makes Restitution
Germany Today — Economically and Financially
“Gewerbefreiheit"’ ([reedom of opportunity to work)
Industrial Activities Slacken (August) :
Industrial Production Again Up (September) .
Only Port in the American Zone ...
Output, Exports Set Records (April)
Patents System
Production, Employment
Promoting German Trade
Ruhr Industry's Problems .
Schuman Plan and Germany, The
Schuman Plan Treaty Signed
Settlement of Bizonal Fusion
Settlement of German Debts
Soviet Zone Five-Year Plan
Summary oi the Essential Provisions of the Schu-
man Plan Treaty Constituting a European Coal
and Steel Community ..
Tourist ‘Dollar Drive’ .
TV Comes to Berlin ..
600,000 Visitors Buy 98,000 Cars, Trucks at Auto
Show
West German Steel Industry

Also see INDUSTRY

ECONOMIC COOPERATION ADMINISTRATION
Berlin Industry Exhibition
Big New Housing Projects for Bavaria
Communications System Expanding Steadily .
Denmark's Harbors Modernized
Dollar Drive
Drama of German Recovery .
ECA Agreement Signed .
ECA Aid to Germany
ECA on Tour .
ECA Serves .
175,000 Enter ECA. Contest
ERP Marks Second Anniversary
ERP Providing Homes
“Buropa-Zug"’ in Mu
Europe Builds
Exports to US Top $100,000,000 .
George C. Marshall House ...
Germany's Need for ERP Aid in 1950-51 .
Housing for Europe's People .
Improving Water Highways .
Individual’s Role in ERP .....
Industrial Expansion Aided .
Lights for Free Berlin
Midway with ERP
800 New Dwellings for Refugees Dedicated
New Homes for Refugees .....

OEEC Truck Caravan
Operation “‘Show-How :
Road to Recovery Seen in Berlin .
1,442,647 See ‘Train of Europe" .
Sonthofen Case, The
Third ECA Investment Program Begins .
Vocational Training for Youth of Europe
Wanted: Publicity Campaign
“We Must Export..."
Also see ECONOMIC AFFAIRS

Economic Prospects for Germany,

article by Jean
Cattier on his retirement as director of the Office

of Economic Affairs, HICOG, and chief of the

ECA Special Mission to Western Germany .
Economy of Berlin, text of address by Maj. Gen.

Maxwell D. Taylor, US commander, Berlin, at

German World Economic Society meeting, ana-

lyzing the economy of the city

EDUCATION
Across-the-City Student Exchange Begins
American Afiairs Institute
Bavarian Schools on View
Bavaria to Repeat ‘School Week”
Child Guidance
Classroom Discussions .
Classroom on Tour .
Cost for Schooling .
Democratization of Education
East German School Sovietized
Europe's Gls Go to US School
Exchangees Applaud US Visit
Fellowship between Schools .
Food for Thought

INFORMATION BULLETIN

December
January
February
March
December
September
August
July
November
October
October
June
June

July

April
October
December
June
June

September
July
October

April
February
September

May
September

September
July
March
January
June
July
February
April
March
April
April
June
April
May
September
February
November
November
February
March
May
February
January
April
October

September
December
April
May
January
May

July

December

March
February
July
August
September
October
May
January
March
May

July
August
October
February

1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1951

1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950

1951
1950
1951

1951
1950

1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950

1951

1950

1951
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
19514
1951

52

Free Tuition
Inge Scholl, Schoolteacher
International Aspect, An ...
International University Theater
Internationalism Builds Better Schools .
Law Books for Universities ..
Leadership Training for Youth
Lesson to be Learned, A
Little Michel's Fear
Maryland U. Honors US
Midway on the Main ...
Model Classrooms Set Up in Bavaria .
Modern Schools Planned
New Trends in Education
Present Status of Universities .
School Financing
Student Participation at Berlin's Free University
Study-Time at Berlin Fair .

Survey Exposes Soviet Zone
Teachers Go Back to School .
Training for Citizenship ...

What are We Doing for German Youth? .
Wooden Road to Safety
World's Students Talk T
Youth Seli-Help ...

Education in Citizenship, article by Walter Galling,
US resident officer for Schwaebisch-Gmuend, Wuert-
temberg-Badem, on innovation of town meeting and
other civic action by city officials ..

“Ein Glas Milch, Bitte’ (A Glass of Milk, Please),
article prepared by Public Relations Branch, Public
Affairs Division, OLC Hesse, on increasing milk
consumption in Hesse and use of more sanitary
methods of processing and delivery

Eisenhower Inspects West Zone Defenses, pictorial
feature of inspection tour in Germany of the NATO
supreme commander

Emigration from Germany, article by George Weisz,
deputy chief, Displaced Populations Division, Of-
HICOG,

fice of Political Affairs,
problem in Germany
Employee Morale, article by Chester E, Beaman,
chief, Employee Relations and Services Branch,
Personnel Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, HICOG em-
ployees
175,000 Enter ECA Contest, pictorial feature of paint-
ings by school children concerning Marshall Plan aid
Erksdorf, Model of Cooperation, article by James
B. Peabody, US resident officer for Marburg,

on emigration

outlining assistance given

Hesse, on progressive village school

Erlangen Gives Pool to US Army, pictorial feature
of city's effort to cooperate with US Armed Forces
on local controversy

ERP House Building for Refugees

story

Progresses_ in
Schleswig-Holstein, pictorial (Note: "New
Homes for Refugees’’)
ERP Marks Second Anniversary, text of address by
US High Commissioner John J. McCloy at opening
of ERP exhibit in Passau, Bavaria .
ERP Providing Homes, article by William T. Neel,
US resident officer for Heidelberg, Wuerttemberg-
Baden, about ECA-assisted housing project at
Waiblingen, near Heidelberg
Ethnic Germans Emigrate, article provided by the
US Displaced Persons Commission on the pro-

cessing of a typical family to the United States
Contest,

EUCOM Handicraft
GYA activity
“Europa-Union" Plebiscites, article by Allen C. Sie-
bens, governmental affairs officer, Office of Po-
litical Affairs, HICOG, on strong favorable vote in
referenda concerning European integration in Brei-
sach in South Baden and in Castrop-Rauxel in
North Rhine-Westphalia
“Europa-Zug" in Munich on Eve of Tour, pictorial
feature of train with graphic exhibits of Marshall
Plan assistance
Europe Builds, pictorial story of touring motor ECA
exhibit at Bremen (Note: ‘Europe Builds” in Oc-
tober 1950 issue) .
Europe's GIs Go to US School, pictorial story of US
Army's Ordnance School at Eschwege for military
men of other European nations
Evangelical Bridge, article by James C. Flint, Re-
ligious Affairs adviser, Berlin Element, HICOG, on
German Evangelical Church Congress in Berlin
Exchange Students Visit New York, pictorial story..
Exchangees Applaud US Visit, summary of statements
by Germans who had returned from study in the
United States under the HICOG Exchanges Program
Exchangees from America, pictorial feature of six
American teen-agers arriving for year’s study in
Europe
Exchangees Say...,

pictorial feature on

The,
chard, staff writer, Information Bulletin, of reports

summary by Beth Bur-

January
April
December
March
September
September
December
June
November
July
September
August

November
February
November
June

May

April
November
August

September

September

June

July

January

April

October

October

September

June

April

December

July

September

May

September

July

September
December

August

December

FEBRUARY

1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950

1951

1950

1951

1950

1950

1951

1951

1950

1950

1950

“1951

1951

1951

1950

1951

1950

1950

1951
1950

1950

1951

1952

--- Page 56 ---
and statements from Germans after return from
study and observation in the United States ........
EXCHANGEES PROGRAM.
Adding the Human Element .
America is Different .
As I See America .
Back from America
Bavaria Was Never Lil
Bundestag Parliament Group Sees Link with West
Exchange Students Visit New York .
Exchangees Applaud US Visit .
Exchangees from America .
Exchangees Say..., The
Farmers from America ..
Fellowship between Schools
Fellowship of Love ....
German Viewpoint, The
Hesse’s Elder Statesman Views Life in America
Hitchhiking through America
Impact of Exchanges Program .
Looking Stateward ..........
Mannheim Plans for Tomorrow .
Message from America .
Modern Schools Planned
Nation of Neighbors .
Nation of Youth ..
Seeds of Understanding .
View of Labor, A ..
Young Farmers Return .
Exercise Combine, pictorial review of fall maneu-
vers of US Armed Forces and Allied troops ......
Exercise Shamrock, pictorial story of US Armed
FOrces MANCUVETS .......6seeees eee eee eee ees teens
EXHIBITIONS :
Art Exhibition in Bonn
Bavaria to Repeat ‘School Week
Berlin Film Festival :
Berlin Industry Exhibition
Berlin's Whitsun Auto Show .
Design for Use, USA .
ECA on Tour :
ERP Marks Second Anniversary .
“Europa-Zug" in Munich on Eve of Tour .
Europe Builds ........
Frankiurt's Spring Fair .
Free Artists in Berlin
George C, Marshall House .
Homes for Better Living .
Individual's Role in ERP .
New Gadgets for 1952
OEEC Truck Caravan
Orientation via the Eye
Partnership in Sacrifices
1,442,647 See ‘Train of Europe” .
Study-Time at Berlin Fair
Traditional Green Week Returns to Berlin .
US Architects Display Ideas
600,000 Visitors Buy 98,000 Cars, Trucks at Auto
Show
Expellees’ Glove Factory, pictorial feature of cooper
atively operated plant by Sudeten refugees in Of-
fingen, Bavaria
Exports to US Top $100,000,000, summary of ECA
report on Germany's 1950 trade with the United
States coe ceeee cece cece eee eee eens cece eee r eee ee eeee

Extradition Policy in US Zone, summary of statement |

by US High Commissioner in reference to two cases

F

Face is Familiar, The, article by William F. Keefe,
staff writer, Public Relations Branch, Berlin Ele-
ment, HICOG, on the industry of dubbing German
dialogue into foreign-made films ......--++.+-00++

Faith — Barrier to Tyranny, text of address by Dr.
George N. Shuster, US state commissioner for
Bavaria, at the Catholic Day ceremonies in Passau

Fallacy of ‘Stockholm Resolution,” text of letter by
John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner, in reply
to one from Soviet Zone group, pointing out hypo-
crisy of Communist-sponsored petition allegedly
in behalf of peace .....e.seseecsesueeeeeeeee ett ees

Famed Lorelei Beckons Youth to Peace and Unity,
article by Liselotte Goldbeck, staff writer, Infor-
mation Bulletin, on the international youth camp
near St. Goarshausen on the Rhine ..-....+s.eee

Farm Youth Speaks Out, article by James F. Keim,
Community Activities adviser on rural education
and agriculture, Public Affairs Division, OLC
Wuerttemberg-Baden, on rural youth leadership
training conferences ........-.seeeeeeeseseueeueenee

Farmers from America, article by Trudy Ktiegsmann,
staff writer, Public Relations Branch, Public Affairs
Division, OLC Hesse, on experiences of three
young Americans living on Hessian farms .......-

FEBRUARY 1952

October

October
September
May
August
December
March
December
August
December
October
September
October
April
April
September
October
December
July
November

October
December
February
May

November

May

August
August
May
September
July

May
March
June

May
September
April
December
November
September
May
October
October
July
October
September
November
March
November

May

May

February

January

May

December

October

September

August

September

1950

1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1951

1951

1950

1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950

1951

1950

1951

1951

1951

1950

1950

1951

1950

1950

Fellowship between Schools, article by Capt. Frances
C. Brand, assistant GYA officer, Stuttgart Military
Post, on visits of German and ‘American students
to other schools in Stuttgart ............00eeeeeeee October 1951

Fellowship oi Love, article by Leroy Vogel, chief,

Education Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC
Hesse, on relief and exchange work of Brethren
Service Commission ........ss+0seeeeeseeeseneeeees April 1950

Fighters against Inhumanity, article by John T. But-
terwick, Berlin Element, HICOG, on German or-
ganization in Berlin to oppose inhumane methods,
especially behind the Iron Curtain .............006 October 1950

Finding Dollar Markets, text of address by Benjamin
J. Buttenwieser, US assistant high commissioner,
at opening ceremonies of Export Week in Munich November 1950

Fire Alert, pictorial feature of crash and fire pro-
tection at Rhine-Main Airport near Frankfurt ...... March 1950

Five-Year Inventory, A, text of address by Benjamin
J. Buttenwieser, US assistant high commissioner,
at US Information Center in Heilbronn, Wuerttem-
berg-Baden .....ccssseesseseeseeee eeu een seeder eens August 1950

Five Years after Potsdam, text of address by Ralph
Nicholson, director of Office of Public Affairs,

HICOG, at Institute of Foreign Affairs at Earlham
University, Richmond, Ind., reviewing postwar
occupation activities in Germany ...........0.0000 June 1950

Food for Thought, article by William F. Keefe, staff
writer, Public Relations Branch, Berlin Element,

HICOG, on school-feeding progam in Berlin ...... February 1951

Forbidden City, The, article by Haynes R. Mahoney,
press officer, Public Relations Division, HICOG,
on West Berlin's reception of youth slipping away
from Communist Youth Festival in East Berlin,
with excerpts from discussions between US High
Commissioner McCloy and group of Communist
youth visiting RIAS ..........

Foreign Ministers’ Declaration on Germany, state-
ment after meeting in Washington Sept. 10-14, with
text of communique

Frankfurt Housing Project, pictorial story of plans
for HICOG apartment houses .......s.c0eeeeeeeeee February 1950

Frankfurt Stopover, pictorial story of American-
supported Red Cross-aid station in Frankfurt's main
railroad station

Frankfurt Synagogue Dedicated, pictorial feature by
Claude Jacoby, staff photographer, Public Rela-
tions Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
on dedication ceremony . ;

Frankfurt's Spring Fair, pictorial feature .

Free Artists in Berlin, article by Eline McKnight,

American art patron, on selection of works of

Berlin artists for exhibition in the United States December 1950
Free Tuition, digest of radio talk by Dr. Herman L.

Offner, educational adviser, Public Affairs Division,

OLC Bavaria, describing waste of potential and

available ability due to education tuition costs January — 1950

Free Vote ior Unity, text of statement by US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy at press conference
in Berlin Feb. 28 on US policy of fostering a politi-
cally united Germany

Freedom Bell Tolls Message of Hope and. Faith,
article by Lowell Bennett, chief, Public Relations
Branch, Public Affairs Division, Berlin Element,
HICOG, on dedication of American-presented bell
in Berlin

Freedom for Farm Women, article by Katharine Holz-
claw, Food and Agriculture Division, Office of
Economic Affairs, HICOG ........0e.cceseeee

Freedom of Trade, text of address on decartelization
by Robert R. Bowie, general counsel, HICOG, at
opening of US Information Center in Hamburg .... October —_ 1950

“Freedom” Prizes for Artists, article by Peter F.

Szluk, deputy chief, Employee Relations and Serv-
ices Branch, Personnel Division, Office of Adminis-
tration, HICOG, on establishment of art awards in
Berlin

Freedom to Meet, address by Dr. James R. Newman,
US state commissioner for Hesse, at a youth con-
ference in Fritzlar, Hesse

French Point of View, The, address by Andre Fran-
cois-Poncet, French high commissioner for Ger-
many, before the Frankfurt Press Club ........... March 1951

Friendship Camps, article by Mary M. Coppock of
the Brethren Service Commission at Kassel on
international works camps

From Huts to Houses, article by Alfred Gourge, staff
writer, Public Relations Branch, Public Affairs
Division, OLC Hesse, on housing project of Hun-
garian-German expellees near Darmstadt .......... December 1950

From Nissen Huts to New Homes, pictorial feature
on refugees’ reclamation of former military areas
in Hesse for agriculture purposes ..............- August 1951

Fulda Art Congress, pictorial feature by Dr. Leo
Weismantel, director, Teachers Training College
at Fulda, Hesse, on congress of art instructors ..... April 1950

September 1951

October 1951

September 1950

November 1950
April 1951

April 1950

November 1950

May 1951

June 1950

September 195!

October 1951

53 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 57 ---
G

General Taylor Leaves Berlin, review of farewell
ceremonies for US commander in Berlin ..
George C. Marshall House, pictorial description of
ECA-financed hall at Berlin exhibition grounds ...
German-American Convention, summary of fourth
annual gathering of the Federation of German-
American Clubs in Augsburg, Bavaria, in May ....
GERMAN-AMERICAN RELATIONS
Across-the-City Student Exchange Begins
Adding the Human Element
America is Different .
American Christmas Spirit
Anti-Polio Drive Spreads .
Bavaria’s New Library .
Brannan Urges Greater Food
Breaking Down the Barriers .
Bridge for Dieburg, A ...
Bridgebuilders in ‘Straubing .
Classroom on Tour -
Courage to Love ..
Democracy Comes to Dachau ..
Deutsche Post
Erlangen Gives Pool to US Army .
Exchangees Applaud US Visit .
Exchangees Say..., The
Farmers from America .
Frankfurt Stopover ...
Freedom Bell Tolls Message of Hope and Faith .
“Freedom” Prizes for Artists
German-American Convention .
GI-German Relations
Hand of Friendship ..
High German Officials See Big Paradrop at Rhine-
Main ..
Lesson to be Learned, A ..
Maryland U. Honors US ..
Memorial to Airlift Dead .
Midway on the Main .
Mutual Understanding
Objective: Friendship
Occupation Costs ....
Pfennig Parade, The .
Private Citizen Mrs. McCloy
Promoting German Trade ..
Proposal for Terminating State of War with Germany
Spirit of Carl Se The
Spot of History, A
Termination of the State of War with Germany
Tide of Toys - :
Tide of Toys .
Tokens of Friendship
West Greets West ...
Wichita Special, The .
Windows to the West
Working Together ..
Youth and Civic Responsibility
GERMAN CIVIL AFFAIRS
Citzens Meet their Government, The
Co-Determination, Keystone of Trade Union Policy
Communist Press in Western Germany
Courage to Love
Fighters against inhumanity
Germany Makes Restitution
Hedler Case, The ... .
Hesse to Combat Intolerance .
Hesse's Elder Statesman Views Life in America -
Lesson to Learn, A ..
Liberty is at Stake .
Local Self-Rule .
Medical Associations .
Police Reform
Public Politically Inert .
Stamping Out of Racial Prejudices Urged
Students More Liberal than their Elders
Way of Democracy .
“What.Do You Think?
GERMAN CONDITIONS
Agricultural Outlook
Building Strength against Communism
Coal in Postwar Germany ......
Distorting German History
East Side, West Side, All Around Berlin
Economic Prospects ior Germany .
Economy of Berlin
“Ein Glas Milch, Bitte’ (A Glass of Milk, Please)
German-Jewish Relations .
Germans Guard Civil Liberties .
Germans Jolted, But Morale Stable .
Germany Today — Economically and Financially
Germany's Need for ERP Aid in 1950-51 on
Germany's Problems ............
“Gewerbeireiheit’ (freedom of opportunity to work)
Health Problems in Bavaria ...
Hollywood Stars Speak German! .
“I Hate Communism” .

INFORMATION BULLETIN

February

November

July

March
October
September
January
August
November

November
May

May
January
May

July
October
August
October
September
September
November
June

July
October
July

July
June

July
August
September
September
September
January
June

June

July
‘August
March
February
December
May

May
September
November
February
August
August
March

May
December
September
January
October
June
April
September
September
December

March
June
December
March
November
July
December
September
September
March
September
July
November
August
April
August
May
September

1951

1950

1950

1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951

54

Majority of Germans Side with West in Cold War
Need for Immunization
Occupation Costs ...
Old Farming Custom, An
Plight of Book Publishers .
Public Welfare’s Mailbag
Report to America .
Road Back to Health
Royalty Lends a Hand
Science for the Farmer
Surveying the Occupation .
Training for Citizenship .
Wanted: Publicity Campaign .
West German Steel Industry .
GERMAN FESTIVALS
Art Lover's Tour, An .
Attractions for 1951 .
Berlin Film Festival 1951
Berlin's Cultural Festival .
Christmas Shooters, The .
Deggendorf Marks 1,200th Anniversary .
Rothenburg Wine Ceremony ..
Wagner Returns to Bayreuth
World's Oldest Stained-Glass Windows
Workers Turn Over Bonn Projects .. :
Zugspitze Observatory Marks Golden Jubilee .
GERMAN GOVERNMENT
Allied Communique on Revision of the Occupation
Statute and Implementation of the New York
Agreements
Allied Policy on
Anti-Rearmament Law
Attitude toward Jews ..
Bundestag Parliament Group Sees Link with West
Constitutional Development
Declaration of Rights of Displaced Persons
ECA Agreement Signed
Foreign Ministers’ Declaration on Germany
Free Vote for Unity
German Participation in International Bodies ..
Germany Approaches National Sovereignty .
Germany's Civil Service
Hessian Ministers-President Honored
International Situation and Germany, The
New Status of Germany
No Conditional Unity
Patents System
Settlement of German Debts .
‘Who's Who in the Federal Cabinet . :
German-Jewish Relations, reprint of interview (trans-
lated from German) given by Prof. Theodor Heuss,
President of the Federal German Republic

German Newsmen Tour Army Bases, pictorial feature _

German Participation in International Bodies, list of
international organizations in which the German
Federal Republic is a member or has participated,
or to which an invitation was under study

German Refugees and Expellees, article by Guy J.
Swope, chief, Displaced Populations Division, Office
of Political Affairs, HICOG, presenting comprehen-
sive review of situation .

German Scientific Research,

article by Helen Mc-
Laughlin, staff writer, Information Bulletin, on cur-
rent policy concerning restrictions and promotion
Of research .....s.eecesseeeeeee ees se vesetee een eeee
German, US Press Look at Schuman Plan, roundup

of editorial comment
German Viewpoint, The,

article. by Heinrich von
Brentano, CDU member of the Federal Parliament,
on impressions of US visit
Germans Form Study Group, article by Matthew D.

Smith, Jr., US resident officer for Dillingen,
Bavaria, on inauguration of series of conferences
on social and economic problems
Germans Guard Civil Liberties, article by Wilfried
Saliger, chief, German Editorial Section, Public
Relations Division, HICOG, on the introduction
and growth of the Civil Liberties Union in Germany
Germans Jolted, But Morale Stable, text of radio in-
terview by John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner,
with Ed Haaker, NBC correspondent
Germany and Europe, resume by Liselotte Goldbeck,
staff writer, Information Bulletin, of discussion at
the first international conference of the European
Movement in Hamburg
Germany Approaches National Sovereignty, article
by Richard A. Yahraes, chief, Public Relations
Branch, Petersberg-Bonn, on the documents which
provide basis for the Federal Government
Germany Calling Overseas, article by John D. Ryals,
Communications Branch, Industry Division, Office
of Economic Affairs, HICOG, describing telephone
service between the United States and Germany
Germany Goes on Television, pictorial feature on
NBC project of recording scenes of life in western
Germany

August
November
January
December
October
June
July
April
December
August
February
June
January
September

December
January
‘August
November
December
August
July
April
December
July
January

April
October
June
October
March
January
September
February
October
April

July

April
November
December
November
November
February
January
July

June

September
September

July

March

October

June

April

August

March

September

December

April

March

March

1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951

1951

1951

1950

1950

1951
1951

1951

1951

1951

1950

1951

1951

1950

1951

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 58 ---
Germany Goes to the Movies, article by Haynes R.
Mahoney, chief, Bad Nauheim Branch, Public Re-
lations Division, HICOG, on coe sy films of
American life .

Germany in a United Europe, text of address by US
High Commissioner John J. McCloy before annual
Pilgrim's Dinner in London

Germany in World Defense, address by US High
Commissioner McCloy at the Third Resident Offi-
cers’ Conference in Frankfurt ........+eeeeseeeeee

Germany Makes Restitution, article prepared by Pro-
perty Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,
bn returning German-looted property to rightful
owners

Germany Today — Economically and Financially,
text of address by Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, US
assistant high commissioner, before the Investment
Bankers’ ae of America at White Sulphur
Springs, W.

Germany Views "Foreign Ministers Communique,
summary by Wilfried Saliger, chief, German Edi-
torial Section, Public Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, of editorials from Gérman
press .

Germany's Civil Service, text of address by Maj.
Gen. Charles P. Gross, US state commissioner for
Wuerttemberg-Baden, at the Evangelical Academy's
Conference on the German Civil.Service ....

Germany's Need for ERP Aid in 1950-51, excerpt from
annual report of the Economic Cooperation Ad-
ministration particularly in reference to Germany

Germany's Problems, article (translated from Ger-
man) by Paul-Henri Spaak, president of the Coun-
cil of Europe, following tour of western Germany

“Gewerbefreiheit™ (freedom of opportunity to work),
article by Vaughn Smartt, staff writer, Public Re-
lations Division, HICOG, describing conflict bet-
ween medieval licensing restrictions and modern
progressive trend toward individual's right to
choose and do work he desires ..

Gift of Self-Respect, The, article by Kay Boyle,
noted American author, on work of German woman
among refugees in East Holstein with help of con-
tributions from Americans .

GI-German Relations, digest of radio address by
Brig. Gen. Edmund B. Sebree, commanding general,
Munich Military Post, advocating better relations
with the Germans among US Army personnel. .

“Glueck auf’ (Luck to you), article by John J.
Slocum, chief, ECA and Economics Branch, Public
Relations Division, HICOG, on life and conditions
of miners in the Ruhr .

Goethe House Restored, article by Robert P. Ball,
press officer, Public Relations Division, HICOG,
on rebuilding of birthplace of Johann Wolfgang
Goethe in Frankfurt .

Good Neighbor Week, article by John W. Jergensen,
US resident officer formerly at Friedberg, Hesse,
describing local social experiment for community
cooperation and better housing . .

Guarding Human Rights Today, address by Benjamin
J. Buttenwieser, assistant US high commissioner
for policy, at conference on human rights at Lim-
burg, Hesse

H

Hand of Friendship, review by Aileen S. Miles, press
escort officer, Public Relations Division, HICOG,
of six-week survey tour of Germany by panel of
11 prominent American women ........0+++0+eeee0+

HEALTH AFFAIRS
Berlin Nutrition Program
“Ein Glas Milch, Bitte’ (A Glass of Milk, Please)
Health and Human Relations .
Health Problems in Bavaria
Medical Associations .
Medical Mission . :
Medical Reform in Prisons Urged .
Need for Immunization .
Old Farming Custom, An .
“Parade of Progress"
Penicillin Plant Dedicate
Penicillin Produced in Germany
Road Back to Health ...... teen :

Health and Human Relations, review by Dr. Muriel
W. Brown and Donata Helmrich-Hardt on the re-
sults of the international conference sponsored by
Josiah Macy, Jr., Foundation at Hiddesen, North
Rhine-Westphalia

Health Problems in Bavaria,

B. AL

article by Dr.
Kogan, public health adviser, OLC Bavaria, on
failure of Germans to apply modern preventive
methods

FEBRUARY 1952

January
May

September

June

July.

October

November
November

August

April

March

October

November

June

February

November

July

August
September
November
August
March
November
October
November
December
March
September
January
April

November

August

1951

1950

1951

1950

1950

1950

1950

1950

1951

1951

1951

1950

1951

1951

1950

1951

1951

1951
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950

1951

1951

Hedler Case, The, summary of German press reac-
tion to acquittal of a member of the Federal Par-
liament to charges of making undemocratic remarks

Hell on Wheels, pictorial feature of the Second Ar-
mored Division

Hesse to Combat Intolerance, text of reply by Chri-
stian Stock, minister president of Hesse, to Dr.
James R. Newman, US state commissioner on dese-
cration protest (note ‘‘Stamping Out of Racial
Prejudices Urged,"* July 1950)

Hesse's Elder Statesman Views Life in America, ar-
ticle by Alfred W. Gourge, staff writer, Public
Relations Branch, OLC Hesse, on observations of
Christian Stock, former minister president, during
US visit ....

Hessian Ministers-President Honored, description of
ceremony marking the sixth anniversary of the
inauguration of a German government in the state
of Hesse

HICOG Begins Building Bonn Housing,
feature of ground-breaking ceremony .

HICOG Houses its Employees, article by Dorothy
Chadbourn, special HICOG feature writer, on US
apartment buildings in Frankfurt

HICOG Housing Project, pictorial story of interior of
new apartments for HICOG personnel in Frankfurt

HICOG in January, text of PRD-AFN broadcast on
HICOG activities during month .

HICOG in March, text of PRD-AFN review of HICOG
activities

HICOG Learns German, article by William G. Moul-
ton, professor of German linguistics at Cornell
University and special consultant to the Empl yee
Relations and Services Branch, Personnel Divi:
Office of Administration, HICOG, on the HICOG
German-language study course

HICOG Moves to Bonn, article by Henry A. Good-
man, press officer, Public Relations Division,
HICOG, on the construction of the US housing and
office projects in the Bonn Enclave and the move-
ment of HICOG employees and families from
Frankfurt ...eccee cece cece ence een eee enceeneceee

HICOG OPERATIONS
Batter Up
Bonn Project to be Ready by Fall
Books at Your Service .
Employee Morale
Frankfurt Housing Project
General Taylor Leaves Berlin.
HICOG Begins Building Bonn Housing
HICOG Houses its Employees
HICOG Housing Project
HICOG in January
HICOG in March
HICOG Learns German
HICOG Moves to Bonn.
HICOG Staff Planning
Historical Studies .
New Consulate General in Hamburg .
One Year of HICOG ...
Orientation via the Eye
Report to the People
Report to the People
Stuttgart US Information Center .
US High Commissioner for Germany and his Staff
“What Do You Think?‘
Workers Turn Over Bonn Projects

HICOG POLICY
Allied Policy on Germany ...
American Policy in Germany
Big New Housing Projects for Bavaria .
Declaration on Germany .
Employee Morale
Five-Year inventory, A.
Free Vote for Unity ..
German Scientific Research .
Military Security Board
Mission for 1950 ......
New Rules for Allied Personnel
Occupation Costs
Our German Problem Today
Reorientation of Germany, The
Report on Germany — Our Progress, Problems and

Objectives .
Resident Officers’ Bible

. Six Points of US Policy.

Speeches of US High Commissioner Delivered in
Stuttgart and Boston ....
Tasks for the Coming Year .

HICOG Staff Planning, article by David Wilken,
chief, Personnel Division, Office of Administration,
HICOG, on personnel management ..............++

HIGH COMMISSIONER
Adding the Human Element
Defense of Democracy ...
ERP Marks Second Anniversary .

pictorial

April

October

September

September

December

March

February
September
March

May

October

December

July
June

May
January
February
February
March
February
September
March
May
October
December
June
November
September
October
July,
Jantfary
February
March
February
April

July

October
May
July
July
January
August
‘April
October
February
February
January
January
January
June

October
December
May

March
November

June

October
July
June

1950

1951

1950

1951

1951

1951

1951
1950
1950
1950

1950

1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950

1951
1950
1951

1950
1950

1950

1950
1950
1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 59 ---
Extradition Policy in US Zone...
Fallacy of “Stockholm Resolution”
Germans Jolted, But Morale Stable
Germany Goes on Television
Germany in a United Europe .
International Aspect, An ....
Landsberg, A Documentary Report
New Approach to History
New Status of Germany .
Penicillin Plant Dedicated .
Press Replies, The .
Report on Progress .
Reverence for Life
Ruhr Industry's Problems
Six Points of US Policy .
Speeches of US High Commissioner Delivered in

Stuttgart and Boston . :
Stuttgart Speech
Tasks for the Coming Year . :
US High Commissioner for Germany and his Staff

High German Officials See Big Paradrop at Rhine-
Main, pictorial feature of tour by German officials
of US Air Force installations in Germany

Highway Patrol, report on first year's operation of
EUCOM'’s Military Police unit for handling Amer-
ican vehicle traffic on German roads

Historical Studies, article describing functions and
preparations of Historical Division, Office of Ex-
ecutive Secretary, HICOG, in drafting monographs
recording the history of specific operations of the
office of the US High Commissioner for Germany

Hitchhiking through America, article (translation from
German) by Otto Baer, HICOG exchange student,
on experience in the United States

Hollywood Stars Speak German!, article by Beth
Burchard, staff writer, Information Bulletin, on
adaptation of American-made motion-picture films
for showing in Germany

Holy Year Pilgrimage, Information Bulletin staff pre-
view of preparations for Germans and US person-
nel to attend religious ceremonies in Rome

Home ior Young Girls, pictorial feature of Nurem-
berg project .

Homes across the Seas, article by Edoardo Canali,
International Refugee Organization, on emigration
of refugees to Canada

Homes for Better Living, review of the American
display at the International Housing Exhibition in
Hanover, Lower Saxony

Homes for the Wanderer, article by Hillard Anthony
Rhoades, chief, Public Relations Branch, OLC Hesse,
on home for homeless boys near Wiesbaden

5,000,000 Homes Needed, summary of survey by Law-
rence H. Cox, president of the National Association
of Housing Officials in the United States, on build-
ing and city planning for better housing in the US
areas of Germany ..

House of Clay, pictorial feature of community hous-
ing project in small Bavarian town of Riedheim

House of Neighbors, article by Margaret Day Anthon,
representafive of American YWCA, on activities
of Neukoelln neighborhood house in Berlin

House that Youth Built, The, article by Raymond
Lascoe, US resident officer, Pforzheim, Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, on construction of youth center ....

Housing for Europe's People, pictorial story of ECA
assistance for building houses

Humor irom the Soviet Zone, collection of jokes as
told by refugees about activities and conditions
in eastern Germany

“T Hate Communism," interview by Henry A. Good-
man, staff writer, Public Relations Branch, Berlin
Element, HICOG, with LeRoy Everett of Kansas
City on his reactions as an American Negro to
conditions behind the Iron Curtain

Impact of Exchanges Program, article by Anne Turner,
public liaison officer, Exchanges Staff, and James
G. Rogers, reports officer, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG

Improving Water Highways, pictorial story of ECA
assistance for developing waterways and hydro-
electric power in Europe

Index, list of articles published in the Information
Bulletin during 1949

Individual's Role in ERP, text of address by Robert
M. Hanes, chief of ECA Special Mission to Western
Germany and director of the Office of Economic

at opening of ERP exhibits in

Affairs,
Stuttgart
Industrial Expansion Aided, review of assistance to
German industrial firms from ECA counterpart funds

HICOG,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

January
October
September
March
May
December
February
May
November
September
November
February
September
August
May
March
March
November
February

July

April

November

October

May

January

August

March

September

January

January

May

June

June

February

August

September

December

March

February

1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950

1951

1950

1950

1951

1950

1950

1951

1951

1951

1951

1950

1950

1951

1950

1950

1951

1951

1951

1951

1950

1950
1950

56

INDUSTRY
Agreement on Relaxations of Control over German
Industry... May
Bells are Ringing, The . January
Berlin Industry Exhibition . September
Birth of a City, The .... January
Coal in Postwar Germany December
Coal Productivity ...... November
Communication Rehabilitation . January
Communications System Expanding Steadily - March
Deutsche Post July
Expellees' Glove Firm . May
Frankiurt's Spring Fair . April
Germany Calling Overseas March
“Glueck auf!’ (Luck to You) November
Industrial Expansion Aided . February
Lights for Free Berlin ... January
Mailman Gets a Home, The . April
New Gadgets for 1952 . October
New Markets for Meat . April
Penicillin Plant Dedicated September
Penicillin Produced in Ger! January
Porcelain, Old and New June
Refugee Enterprise December
Refugee Glassmakers June
Refugee Schoemaker April
Relief by Parcel Post February
Reorganization of Germany's Iron and Steel In-
dustries August
Ruhr Steel and Coal for Western Defense March
Today's Coal Situation . September
Transportation Revival April
Women in Industry .. March
Also see ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION AGENCIES
Books at Your Service .. May
Communist Press in Western Germany September
Dateline: Germany ... March
Distorting German History March
Face is Familiar, The May
Germany Goes on Television March
Germany Views Foreign Ministers’ Communique October
Index ves May
International Aspect, An . December
International Brotherhood and the Radio August
Literary Trip to America, A
“Mach mit'’ — at RIAS
Movies on American Life Popular June
New Accent on Youth November
New Networks for Germany . January
Newsmen Survey Refugee Situation ve. August
Only American Radio Station behind the Iron
Curtain March
Plight of Book Publishers . October
Press Replies, The November
Radio Institute .. January
RIAS, the Truth Crusader . December
Soviet Zone Press, The ... March
Information Uncensored, article by Jean Kinnaird,
staff writer, Information Bulletin, on the operation
and influence of the US Information Centers in
Germany December
Inge Scholl, Schoolteacher, article by Beth Burchard,
staff writer, Information Bulletin, on special demo-
cratization school project in Ulm, Wuerttemberg-
Baden ...cccecceeceeeeeeeseusteeen sen eeneeeesen sent April
Integration on its Way, article by Max Zackmann,
deputy chief, Displaced Populations Branch, OLC
Wuerttemberg-Baden, on the assimilation of 9,000,000
expellees and refugees in western Germany ...... February
Intelligent Understanding, address by Mrs. John J.
McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner, before
the American Women's Club of Berlin on problems
facing Germans February
International Aspect, An, texts of three speeches de-
livered by John J.'McCloy, US High Commissioner,
before a student audience at Kiel University, be-
fore a group of labor leaders and trade-union mem-
bers in Hamburg and at the dedication of a new
studio at Radio Bremen December
International Brotherhood and the Radio, address by
Ralph Nicholson, director, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG ceeceeeeeesseeeeseteeeetueceeeesernesneeen August
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
Allied Policy on Germany October
Alternative to ‘’Pre-Medieval Barbarism”* June
America's Faith in Europe . October
Art Lover's Tour, An . December
Bavaria's International Loo January
Berliners Acclaim 1936 Olympic Games Star September
Boost for Trade, A December
Communique of the Foreign Ministers’ Conference
in Berlin . December
Congress for Cultural F : September
Cornerstone of a Better Future . April
Dateline: Germany ..... March
Declaration on Germany July
FEBRUARY

1951
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1950

1951
1951
1951
1950
1950

1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950

1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951

1951

1950

1951

1951

1950

1950

1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1951
1950

1951
1950
1951
1950
1950

1952

--- Page 60 ---
Displaced Persons
Dollar Drive .....
ECA Agreement Signed
Emigration from Germany .
“Europa-Union” Plebiscites
Europe's GIs Go to US School .
Fallacy of ‘Stockholm Resolution’
Famed Lorelei Beckons Youth to Peace and Unity
Fellowship of Love ....
Finding Dollar Markets
Foreign Ministers’ Declar many .
Friendship Camps ..........0.ssseeseseeeeees
German Participation in International Bodies .
German, US Press Look at Schuman Plan
Germany and Europe
Germany Calling Overseas .
Germany Views Foreign Ministers’
Health and Human Relations .
Holy Year Pilgrimage ..
International Aspect, An .
International Situation and Germany, The
Internationalism Builds Better Schools .
Invitation to a New Conscience .
Lesson to Learn, A .....
MDAP Aid to Denmark .
Medical Mission
Morocco Comes to Wetzlar
Patents System ...........
Schuman Plan and Germany, The .
Schuman Plan Treaty Signed
Settlement of Bizonal Fusion Agreement
Soviets Delay Repatriation of German PWs .
Summary oi the Essential Provisions of the ‘Schu-
man Plan Treaty Constituting a European Coal
and Steel Community
Tourist ‘‘Dollar Drive’’ .
UNICEF .
US Press Cites Fraud in Communist ‘‘Peace Petition’
Vigil on the Border . wees
Voluntary Assistance
“We Must Export... .’’
Winter Tourists
Women's Responsibilities
World's Students Talk Things Over .
Also see GERMAN-AMERICAN RELATIONS
International Situation and Germany, The, text of
radio address (translated from German) by Dr. Kon-
rad Adenauer, chancellor of German Federal Re-
public
International University Theater, article by Herman
Hahn, theater specialist, Education and Cultural
Affairs Division, OLC Bavaria, reviewing week-
long international student theatrical conference at
Erlangen University .........seeee0ee seeeeeneeenene
Internationalism Builds Better Schools, article by Dr.
James Morgan Read, chief, Education and Cultural
Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
citing contributions of Germans to American edu-
Cational progress ......ssseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeteeeenes
Invitation to a New Conscience, article by Maurice
E. Lee, staff writer, Information Bulletin, on ac-
tivities of UNESCO in Germany ...............00
Ivy Fourth, The, pictorial feature of the Fourth
Infantry Division ........cseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneneees

Job Seekers in Berlin, pictorial story by Claude
Jacoby, staff photographer, Public Relations Divi-
sion, HICOG, on employment counseling and un-
employment relief in Berlin ..........seeeeeeeeeeeee

Junior Chamber Arrives, article by Eugene L. Wey-
land, US resident officer for Fulda, Hesse, on in-
auguration of junior chambers of commerce in
Germany

Keeping Youth on Farms, article by Haynes R. Ma-
honey, press officer, Public Relations Division,
HICOG, on program to assist farm youth ..........

LABOR AFFAIRS
Alternative to “Pre-Medieval Barbarism’*
Co-Determination, Keystone of Trade Union Policy
“'Gewerbefreiheit" (freedom of opportunity to work)
International Aspect, An ....

Job Seekers in Berlin .
Labor-Movement Pattern .
Labor Picture ..
Labor's Responsibilities
May Day in Berlin

FEBRUARY 1952

February
June
February
July
September
July
October
September
April
November
October
October
July

June
December
March
October
November
January
December
November
September
April
December
October
November

.June

January
April

May
September
September

April
February
January
September
April
March
May
January
November
November

November

March

September

April

July

June

August

October

June
December
April
December
June
November
January
July

June

1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951

1950

1950

1950

1951

1951

1950

1951

1951

1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950

800 New Dwellings for Refugees Dedicated .
Special Labor Congress ..
Trade Unionism Growing
‘View of Labor, A
Worker Goes to School, The .
Youth Aid US Air Base ..
Labor-Movement Pattern, text of address by Harvey
Brown, director, Office of Labor Affairs,
HICOG, at convention of the Railway Machinists’
General Chairmen’s Association in Chicago
Labor Picture, article by Harvey W. Brown describ-
ing impressions on survey of labor conditions in

western Germany .......... ce deeeeeeetaeeseaeeeaee

Labor's Responsibilities, address by Harvey W.
Brown at Woodworkers’ Union convention at
Stuttgart

Labor's Unfinished Tasks, review by Harvey w.
Brown of German labor conditions on his retire-
ment as director, Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG

Landsberg, A Documentary Report, text of documents
dealing with final actions of the US High Com-
missioner and the commanding general of the
European Command on war-crimes sentences of the
Military Tribunals (US Military Government) at
Nuremberg and the Military Courts (US Army) at
Dachau

Latvians Move On, pictorial story of Latvian labor
service force at Rhine-Main Air Base

Law Books for Universities, article on presentation
of sets of US law documents to German law libraries

Leadership Training for Youth, article by Haynes R.
Mahoney, chief, Bad Nauheim Branch, Public Re-
lations Division, HICOG, on introduction of demo-
cratic methods in teaching leadership among young
Germans

LEGAL AFFAIRS
Approach to Clemency Decisions .
Bavaria's New Library
Decartelization Law Prosecutions Filed .
Decartelization Law Violators Fined .
Extradition Policy in US Zone .
Freedom of Trade ............
Landsberg, A Documentary Report
Law Books for Universities ..
New Industrial Habits for Old
Patents System ...........-
Reich May Be Sued, Court Rules .
Returned Masterworks ..

Lesson to be Learned, A, article by Mary Merchant,
principal of the American Elementary School in
Frankfurt, on friendship between German and
American school children

Lesson to Learn, A, text of address (translated from
German) by Wilhelm Kaisen, president of Bremen
Senate, at opening of new US Information Center
in Bremen

Liberty is at Stake, summary (translated from Ger-
man) of a pamphlet distributed by the Social
Democratic Party .

Lights for Free Berlin, article by John H. Gayer,
communications and electrical adviser, Berlin Ele-
ment, HICOG, on the ERP-assisted reconstruction
of electric power plant dismantled by the Russians

Literary Trip to America, A, pictorial feature on the
introduction of the book ‘‘The America Book for
Youth" in Germany .

Little Church behind the Curtain, The, article by
Maurice E. Lee, staff writer, Information Bulletin,
on the American Church of Berlin

Little Michel's Fear, article by Gisela Konopka,
sistant professor of social work at the University
of Minnesota and visiting consultant to the Medi-
cal Affairs and Public Welfare Branch, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, on progress made in Germany in
child-guidance work

Local Self-Rule, digest of radio broadcast by the late
Dr. Albert C. Schweitzer, chief, Political Affairs
Division, OLC Bavaria, advocating decentralization
Of government .......s-seceeeeeenteneeceeeeeeneens

Looking Stateward, interview by Liselotte Goldbeck,
staff writer, Information Bulletin, with Magda
Maier, daughter of the minister-president of Wuert-
temberg-Baden, on preparation to enter American
college on a scholarship .........eseeeeeceeeeneene

“Mach mit'' — at RIAS, pictorial feature by Fred G.
Taylor, director of American-operated radio station
in Berlin, on station’s quiz-entertainment programs
to aid needy refugees from Soviet Zone ..

Mailman Gets a Home, The, pictorial-text story by
Thomas E. Nelson, Communications Branch, Indus-
try Division, Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG,

October
August
November
February
August
March

November

“January

July

October

February
June

September

December

May
November
July
October
January
October
February
September
November
January
April
January

June

December

May

January

May

March

November

January

July

April

1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951

1950

1950

1951

1951

1951
1950
1951

1950

1951
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950

1951

1950

1951

1951

1951

1951

1950

1950

1951

1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 61 ---
on extensive housing program of German postal
and telecommunications system

Mainz Psalter Returned, story of restoration of great
cultural treasure to Germany

Major Responsibility, The, address by Sir Ivone Kirk-
patrick, UK high commissioner for Germany, before
Frankfurt Press Club ......sseseesesseeseeneeeeeees

Majority of Germans Side with West in Cold War,
summary of public-opinion survey by Reactions
Analysis Branch, Information Services Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

Manhunt for 6,000,000, article by Hugh G. Elbot, Dis-
placed Populations Division, HICOG, on operations
of International Tracing Service

Mannheim GYA Center in German Hands, pictorial
feature on transfer ceremony

Mannheim Information Center Formally Dedicated,
pictorial feature

Mannheim Plans for Tomorrow, article by Dorothea
Lensch, visiting consultant from Portland, Ore., on
the recreation, youth and community activities in
Mannheim, Wuerttemberg-Baden

Man's Passions and Prejudices, text of speech by
Yehudi Menuhin, noted violinist, at recital in Ber-
lin, pleading for racial tolerance

Maryland U, Honors US, German Leaders, pictorial
feature of ceremony for presentation of honorary
degrees

May Day in Berlin, pictorial story of traditional May
Day labor rally in western Berlin

MDAP Aid to Denmark, pictorial feature of presen-
tation of planes in Copenhagen ............0sss000+

Medical Associations, resume of report by Dr. Franz
Goldmann, associate professor at the Harvard
School of Public Health, Cambridge, Mass., after
survey of medical associations in Germany

Medical Mission, pictorial feature on work and ad-
vice of summer visit to Germany of mission spon-
sored by the US Department of State and the
Unitarian Service Committee

Medical Reform in Prisons Urged, summary of survey
by Dr. James B, Spradley, American prison director
and special consultant for Prisons Division, Office
of General Counsel, HICOG, on German prison
system .

Meeting “Their Government," article by Paul R.
Phillips, US resident officer at Huenfeld, Hesse, on
community project of sending citizens groups to
state and federal capitals to meet public officials
and observe their work ..

Memorial to Airliit Dead, article by Lowell Bennett,
chief, Public Relations Branch, Berlin Element,
HICOG, on ceremony honoring airmen who died in
supplying city during Soviet blockade in 1948-49

Message from America, summary of activities of 16-
year-old Wolfgang Bernhardt of Berlin in telling of
his visit in the United States

Message to German Youth, excerpts from ‘radio ad-
dress by Rear-Admiral Charles R. Jeffs, USN (ret.),
US state commissioner for Bremen, on opportunities
for YOUtH .ei.ce.ccceeecce cece etee essen eeeeeeenes

Midway on the Main, article by Dr. Leroy Vogel,
chief, Education and Cultural Affairs Branch, and
Hillard Anthony Rhoades, chief, Public Relations
Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC Hesse, on ex-
change of professors between Chicago and Frank-
furt Universities .

Midway with ERP, article by Lucien D. Agniel, as-
sistant information officer, ECA Special Mission to
Western Germany, on results of first two years
operation of ECA in Germany

Military Security Board, article by Maj.
P. Hodges, commissioner,

Gen. James
Military Security
Board, describing its purpose and functions

Minor Political Parties, last in series taken from
“Political Parties in Western Germany” by Civil
Administration Division, OMGUS

Mission for 1950, text of address by Ralph Nicholson,
director, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, before
National Conference on the Occupied Countries in
Washington Dec. 10, 1949

Mission of Peace, A, review of first visit by General
Dwight D. Eisenhower to Germany as supreme
commander of the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation

Model Classrooms Set Up in Bavaria, description of
modern school furniture and equipment set up by
OLCB in town of Peissenberg

Model Fathers’ Club, article by Bernard Quinn, staff
writer, Public Information Division, EUCOM, on
summer camp for American youth in Heidelberg

Modern Schools Planned, summary of impressions of
German architects following survey in Scandinavian
countries under HICOG Exchanges Program .

INFORMATION BULLETIN

April

June

March

August

May
November

September

November

December

July
June
October

March

November

October *

December

August

February

February

September

April

February

February

February

February

August

June

May

1950

1950

1951

1950

1951
1951

1951

1951

1950

1951

1950

1951

1950

1950

1950

1951

1951

1951

1951

1950

1950

1950

1950

1950

1951

1950

1950

1951

58

Moral and Material Resistance, text of address by
Andre Francois-Poncet, French high commissioner,
at second conference of US resident officers in
Frankfurt

Morocco Comes to Wetzlar,

feature of

pictorial
French Moroccan regiment stationed in US Zone
Movies on American Life Popular, review by Carol

H. Denison, chief, Audio-Visual Aid Section, Edu-
cation and Cultural Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, on response of German
audiences to US documentary films

Mutual Defense Assistance Program, pictorial story
of vehicle maintenance instruction given by US
Ammy soldiers to officers and soldiers of other
cooperating nations

Mutual Understanding, article by William J. Hoff-
man, US resident officer for Obertaunus and Usingen,
German-American

Hesse, on program for better
relations in Oberursel

Nationalism and the Modern State, digest of radio
address by Stuart L. Hannon, chief, Information
Services Branch, Public Affairs Division, OLC
Wuerttemberg-Baden ....0....cccceeseeeeeeeeeeeee

Nation of Neighbors, article by Otto Herr, news
editor and political commentator, Radio Frankfurt,
on his air tour of the United States .. :

Nation of Youth, article by Wilfried Saliger, chief,
German Editorial Section, Public Relations Division,
HICOG, on his three-month study in the United
States

Need for Immunization, article by Lt. Col. W. R.
deForest, chief, and Dr. V. K. Volk, special con-
sultant, Medical Affairs and Public Welfare Branch,
Education’ and Cultural Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG on German laxity in
applying modern preventive methods

New Accent on Youth, article by Haynes R. Ma-
honey, chief, Bad Nauheim Branch, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, on im-
pressions resulting from press tour of youth in-
stitutions and independent projects in US Zone of
Germany

New Approach to History, address by John J. Mc-
Cloy, US High Commissioner for Germany, at the
University of Mainz

New Career — at 76, feature describing painting
done by Mrs. George L, Erion, mother of American
Official in Stuttgart ..........6..ccceseeeeeeeeee eee

800 New Dwellings for Refugees Dedicated, pictorial
story of refugee housing project in Luebeck,
Schleswig-Holstein .......0..:0e:eseeeeeeecseeetene

New Consulate General in Hamburg, feature on con-
struction and dedication of new building

New Gadgets for 1952, pictorial feature of the Ger-
man Inventors and Novelty Fair in Munich........

New Homes for Refugees, article by John E. Mc-
Gowan, chief, ECA and Economic Affairs Branch,
Public Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, on extensive ECA-assisted housing pro-
gram. in. Schleswig-Holstein (Note: “ERP House
Building,” September 1950)

New Industrial Habits for Old, article by Francis D.
Murnaghan, Jr., Decartelization and Deconcentra-
tion Division, Office of General Counsel, HICOG,
on program and progress in decartelization effort in
Germany

New Markets for Meat, pictorial feature by Claude
Jacoby, photographer, Public Relations Division,
HICOG, on German food-processing plants for ex-
port to the United States ..

New Networks for Germany, description of intro-
duction of frequency modulation techniques in
Germany .......cseeceeceeeecee secu eeeeneeeeeeetens

New Rules for Allied Personnel, summary of new
law regulating money and commercial activities of
non-Germans

New Status of Germany, text of radio address by
John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner, on steps
to be taken to give more sovereignty to German
Federal Republic .......

New Trends in Education, article by Haynes R. Ma-
honey, staff writer, Public Relations Division,
HICOG, on progress being made in improving
school teaching methods in Germany..............

Newsmen Survey Refugee Situation, pictorial story
of PRD — sponsored tour of refugee camps (Note:
“Refugees Helping Themselves, August 1950) ....

No Conditional Unity, statement (translated from
German) by Dr. Konrad Adenauer, chancellor of the
German Federal Republic, rejecting proposal from
Soviet Zone regime on unity discussions

November 1950
June 1951
June 1950
September 1950
September 1951
August 1950
August 1951
October 1951
November 1950
November 1950
May 1951
October 1950
October 1950
September 1951
October 1951
May 1950
November 1950
April 1951
January 1951
January 1951
November 1950
April 1951
August 1950
February 1951

FEBRUARY 1952

--- Page 62 ---
oO

Objective: Friendship, text of radio address by Dr.
George N. Shuster, US state commissioner for
Bavaria, over Radio Munich .

Occupation Costs, summary of basic pertinent facts
showing that the United States is paying far more
of the costs of the occupation than Germany

Occupation Vignettes, collection of brief interesting
stories of life in Germany

OEEC Truck Caravan, article by Howard Calkins,
chief, Public Relations Branch, Public Affairs Di-
vision, OLC Bremen, on visit of touring motor
exhibit to Bremen ...-....ssccceeceeeeeeu etna eeees

OLCWB State Seminar ior Resident Officers, article
by Cecil Headrick, US resident officer at Nuertin-
gen, OLC Wuerttemberg-Baden, Summarizing state
conference

Old Farming Custom, An, article by J. E. McKee,
professor of sanitary engineering at the California
Institute of Technology and sanitary engineering
specialist, Medical Affairs and Public Welfare
Branch, E&CR Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG, describing poor sanitation precautions
taken in Germany and need for applying modern
techniques to correct conditions

Oldest Consulate in Germany, article by Robert P.
Chalker, consul, US Consulate General in Bremen,
on history of consular office in Bremen

One Year of HICOG, pictorial and chronological
review of first year of American activities in Ger-
many under the Office of the US High Commissioner
for Germany fees

Only American Radio Station behind the Iron Cur-
tain, pictorial story by Claude Jacoby, staff photo-
grapher, Public Relations Division, HICOG, of RIAS
in Berlin «

Only Port in the American Zone, pictorial story of
port of Bremen Boo

Operation ‘'Show-How!" article by Aileen S. Miles,
staff writer, Information Bulletin, on technical
assistance provided Germany by ECA .....-...00+

Orientation via the Eye, article describing purpose
and operations of Exhibitions Section, Visual Pres-
entation Branch, Operating Facilities Division,
Office of Administration, HICOG

Our Department of State, text of remarks by Dean
Acheson, US secretary of state, in Washington ....

Our German Problem Today, digest of address by
Henry A. Byroade, director, Bureau of German
Affairs, Department of State ........00ceeeeeeee eee

“Parade"’ of Progress, article by Gerhard M. Werner,
executive secretary of the Munich German-Ameri-
can Men's Club, on fund-raising campaign in
Bavaria to fight infantile paralysis

Partnership in Sacrifice, address by Benjamin J.
Buttenwieser, assistant US high commissioner for
policy, at opening of Frankfurt fall fair

Patents System, article by Victor L, Billings, Legal
Advice Division, Office of General Counsel, HICOG,
on reestablishment of patent office in Germany and
readmission to international organizations

Penicillin Plant Dedicated, description of ceremony
at new plant with text of address by John J.
McCloy, US High Commissioner (Note: ‘Penicillin
Produced in Germany," January 1950)

PERSONALITIES
Constitutional Development
Hessian Ministers-President Honored
Inge Scholl, Schoolteacher .
New Career — at 76
Private Citizen Mrs. McCloy
Who's Who in the Federal Cabinet .

Piennig Parade, The, review of Bavarian adaptation
“March of Dimes’’ fund-raising meth-
infantile

of American
ods to care for and treat victims of
paralysis ..0....ceeeceeeeee eee
Phoenix at Reichswald, article by Cherry Lou Felliner,
staff writer, Information Bulletin, on land consoli-
dation and farm commun
in North Rhine-Westphalia
Plight of Book Publishers, article by Haynes R. Ma-
honey, chief, Bad Nauheim Branch, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, de-
scribing postwar revival and problems in Germany
Police Reform, article by James L. McGraw, chief,
Public Safety Branch, Internal Political and Govern-
mental Affairs Division, Office of Political Affairs,
HICOG, on postwar improvement in German police
organizations and methods . .

FEBRUARY 1952

@September

January

February

October

March

December

May

October

March

June

May

July

July

January

March

October

January

September

January
December
April
October
June
June

June

October

October

April

1950

1951

1950

1950

1950

1950

1950

1950

1950
1950
1950
1950
1950

1950

1951

1951

1950

1950

1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951

1950

1951

1950

1950

POLITICAL AFFAIRS
Allied Communique on Revision of the Occupation
Statute and Implementation of the New York
Agreements .
As I See America .
Communique of the

in Paris
Communist Party
Communist Press in Western Germany .
Constitutional Development . .
“Europa-Union" Plebiscites
German Viewpoint, The ...
Germans Guard Civil Liberties
Germany Approaches National Sovereignty .
Germany's Civil Service ....
Hesse's Elder Statesman Views Life in America .
Liberty is at Stake +
Local Self-Rule ..
Minor Political Parties .
Public Politically Inert .
Radical Right, The
Socialist Unity Party, ie.
Termination of the State of War with
US Policy in Europe

Porcelain, Old and New, article by George W.
Ware, chief, Vocational Education Section, Edu-
cation and Cultural Relations Division, HICOG, on
the history of the porcelain industry and the evalu-
ation of porcelain in Germany

Power of Open Forums, article by Ellis H. McKay,
US resident officer at Mellrichstadt, Bavaria, de-
scribing development of local interest in democratic
progress through community meetings

Practicing the Golden Rule, text of address by Capt
Charles R. Jeffs, USN (Ret.), US state commissioner
for Bremen, to graduating class of American High
School in Bremerhaven

Present Status of Universities, address by Dr. James
M. Read, chief, Education and Cultural Relations
Division, office of public affairs, HICOG, over
Radio Stuttgart .

Preservation of Democracy, text of address by Maj.
Gen. Charles P. Gross, US state commissioner for
Wuerttemberg-Baden, on July 4 in Stuttgart ......

Press Replies, The, summary of editorials from Ger-
man newspapers commenting on radio address Oct.
6 by John J. McCloy, US High Commissioner (Note
“New Status of Germany,’ November 1950) ....

Private Citizen Mrs. McCloy, article by Rosemarie
Sponner, press officer, Public Relations Division,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, on activities of
wife of the US High Commissioner for Germany ..

Promoting German Trade, review of progress achieved
during the first year of the German-American Trade
Pomotion Company

Proposal for Terminating State of War with Germany,
text of President Truman's letter to US Congress

PUBLIC OPINION
Citizens Meet their Government .

Declaration on Germany .
Europa-Union Plebiscites .
German, US Press Look at Schuman Plan .

Germany Views Foreign Ministers’ Communique
Hedler Case, The ...........ssceseeeecr ee eee serene
Majority of Germans Side with West in Cold War
Movies on American Life Popular .
Press Replies, The ...
Public Politically Inert .
Students More Liberal than their Elders
Stuttgart Speech
US Press Cites
Petition’ ........
“What Do You Think?

Also see "GERMAN EDITORIALS AND CARTOONS:
in each issue

Public Politically Inert, summary of US-Zone public-
opinion survey by Reactions Analysis Branch, In-
formation Services Division, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG

Public Welfare’s Mailbag, summary of letters received
by the Public Health and Welfare Branch, Edu-
cation and Cultural Relations Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG, asking for assistance .

Puppet “People's Police’ Protested, text of US,
British and French notes to the Soviet Union con-
demning creation of Soviet-sponsored German army
in eastern Germany

Germany .

Fraud Peace

in Communist

Q

Quiz Comes to Nuremberg, article on inauguration by
LeVan Roberts, US resident officer for Nuremberg,
of quiz program

April
May

December
January
September
January
September
April
March
April
November
September
May
January
February
March
September
March
December
June

June

March

September

June

September

November

June

July

August

May
July
September
June
October
April
August
June
November
March
July
March

September
April

March

June

July

1951
1951

1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951

1951

1950

1950

1951

1950

1950

1950

1951

1951

1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950

1950
1950

1950

1950

1950

1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 63 ---
R

Radical Right, The, excerpt from the seventh Quar-
terly Report on Germany by the Office of the US
High Commissioner, concerning the Socialist Reich
Party

Radio Institut

condensed text of address by Ralph
Nicholson, director, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
at ceremony in Nuremberg Nov. 18 marking return
of Radio Technical Institute to German management

RECONSTRUCTION
Big New Housing Projects for Bavaria .
Bonn Project to be Ready by Fall
Communication Rehabilitation .
Democracy in Munich ..
ERP Providing Homes ..
Frankfurt Housing Project
Frankfurt Synagogue Dedi
Friendship Camps ..
From Huts to Houses .
From Nissen Huts to New Homes .
Gift of Self-Respect, The .
Goethe House Restored ..
HICOG Houses its Employees .
HICOG Housing Project
HICOG Moves to Bonn .
Homes for Better Living .
5,000,000 Homes Needed
House of Clay
Housing for Europe's People
Mailman Gets a Home, The .
Modern Schools Planned ...
800 New Dwellings for Refugees Dedicated .
New Homes for Refugees
Phoenix at Reichswald .
Schluechtern Plan, The .
School Clean-Up Day
Sonthofen Case, The
Spot of History, A .
US Architects Display Ideas
Workers Turn Over Bonn Projects

Refugee Camp, pictorial story on transient camp in
Giessen, Hesse

Refugee Enterprise, article by Herman Frankel, US
resident officer at Aichach, Bavaria, on industries
started and carried on by refugees

Refugee Glassmakers, article on revival of noted
lens-making firm, formerly in Jena in Soviet Zone,
in new plant with ECA aid in Zwiesel, Bavaria

Refugee Shoemaker, article by Information Bulletin
staff on development of prospering shoe manufactur-
ing plant in Berlin by refugee from Breslau .

Refugees Helping Themselves, article by Beth Bur-
chard, staff writer, Information Bulletin, summing
up press tour of refugee camps and their activities

Rehabilitation for Emigration, article by Archie S.
Lang, chief, Displaced Populations Branch, OLC
Bavaria, on IRO vocational training centers .

Reich May Be Sued, Court Rules, summary of dicision
of the US Court of Restitution Appeals .........+

Relief by Parcel Post, pictorial feature by Eugene
Merrill, chief, Communications Branch, Office of
Economic Affairs, HICOG, depicting postal channel
for carrying gift packages from Americans to
GerMANs ... se se ceeeeecenecceeereeenseceeceeeeeeees

RELIGIOUS AFFAIRS
Art of Giving Thanks, The .
Bells are Ringing, The .
Church Social Problems
Courage to Love ..
Evangelical Bridge .
Faith — Barrier to Tyranny .
Frankfurt Synagogue Dedicated .
German-Jewish Relations ...
Hesse to Combat Intolerance
Holy Year Pilgrimage ....
Little Church behind the Curtain, The .
Stamping Out of Racial Prejudices Urged .
Talmud Returns, The .
Working Together ..

Reorganization of Germany's Iron and Steel Indus-
tries, text of HICOM orders

Reorientation of Germany, The, text of address by
Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, assistant US high com-
missioner for policy, prepared for delivery before
the Anti-Defamation League of the B'nai B'rith in
Chicago, May 14, 1950 (Invitation canceled by
committee prior to scheduled time of delivery) ...

Reply to Friendship Resolution, resume of Soviet Gov-
ernment’s action on resolution from the US Con-
gress

Report. on Germany — Our Progress, Problems and
Objectives, text of statement by John J. McCloy,
US High Commissioner for Germany, before House
of Representatives’ Special Subcommittee on Eco-
nomic Cooperation Administration

INFORMATION BULLETIN

September

January

July

June
January
March
April
February
November
October
December
August
March
June
February
September
December
September
January
May
February
April

October
July
August
December
February
November
July

May

December

June

April

August

April

April

February

January
January
July
January
September
December
November
September
September
January
March
July
November
August

August

June

September

October

1951

1951

1950

1950

1951

1951

1950

1951

1951

60

Report on Progress, text of radio address by John
J. McCloy, US High Commissioner, in Washington
Report to America, address by John J. McCloy, US
High Commissioner, from Washington over nation-
wide radio negworks ......... cece e cece eee e eee eee
Report to the People, text of PRD- ‘AEN broadcast on
HICOG's activities in November ............0++005
Report to the People, text of PRD-AFN broadcast on
HICOG activities in December
RESIDENT OFFICERS
Anti-Polio Drive Spreads
Bavaria’s Sounding Board .
Big Brothers and the “‘Little Leaguers'
Books for Bayreuth ...
Bridge for Dieburg, A .
Christmas Shooters, The .
Citizens Meet their Government, The
Community Council Arrives .........
Deggendorf Marks 1,200th Anniversary
Democracy Comes to Dachau
Democracy in Munich ...
Education in Citizenship
Erksdorf, Model of Cooperation .
ERP Providing Homes
Germans Form Study Group .
Good Neighbor Week .
House of Clay
House that Youth Built, The .
Junior Chamber Arrives
Meeting ‘‘Their Governmen .
Moral and Material Resistance .
Movies on American Life Popular
Mutual Understanding ...........
OLCWB State Seminar for Resident Officers .
“Parade"' of Progress ..
Pfennig Parade, The
Power of Open Forums .
Quiz Comes to Nuremberg .
Resident Officers
Resident Officer Saves Child .
Resident Officer's Bible ....
Resident Officer's Conference
School Clean-Up Day ......
School Kids Meet the Mayor .
Second ROs' Conference .
Surveying the Occupation .
Swabia Speaks Up .......
Tasks for the Coming Year .
They Got the Bus Rolling ...
Through British Spectacles
Touring the Border ..
Town of Two Nations .
US Films Ride the Rails .
Wichita Special, The ..
Young Citizens Hold For
Youth at the Helm
Youth Help Run City for a Day
Youth Learns Government .
Youth Week
Resident Officers, summary of first zonal conference
in Frankfurt
Resident Officer Saves Child, pictorial story of suc-
cessful effort to get right food for dying orphan .
Resident Officer's Bible, article by George Vadney,
senior resident officer at Kassel, on fundamental
points for each resident officer to understand and
practice in his work .. wee
Resident Officers’ Conference, resume of the third
annual gathering of American field representatives
Returned Masterworks, article by Theodore Allen
Heinrich, cultural adviser, Property Division, Office
of Economic Affairs, HICOG, describing Wiesbaden
Collection Point for returning German-looted art
and exhibition of famous paintings brought back from
temporary safekeeping in the United States
Reverence for Life, text of statement by John J.
McCloy, US High Commissioner, to group of Ger-
man youth leaders, and resume of their response

REVIEWS AND REPORTS
Church Social Problems ..
Coal in Postwar Germany
Control of Government in the Soviet Zone .
Democratization of Education ...........
East Side, West Side, All Around Berlin
Economic Review, monthly in each issue from May

1950 to December 1951
Five Years after Potsdam
Germany's Need for ERP Aid in 1950-51 .
HICOG in January .
HICOG in March
Medical Association
Medical Reform in Prisons Urged .
One Year of HICOG
Radical Right, The
Report on Progress
Report to the People
Road to Recovery See

February

July
January

February

August
June
January
August
November
December

September
October
April
August
February
May

June
August
December
November
June
September
March
March
June
March
August
January
February
December
August
August
July
November
February
February
November
October
November

June
February
November
August
January
‘August
January

January

February

December

August

January

September

July
December
March
March
November

June
November
March
May
March
October
October
September
February
January
April

FEBRUARY

1950

1951
1950
1950

1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1950

1950

1950

19507

1951

1950

1950

1951
1951
1950
1950
1950

1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951

1952

--- Page 64 ---
Resident Officers .........
Socialist Unity Party, The .
Status of Denazification
Stuttgart Speech
Survey Exposes Si
Trade Unionism Growing
Women in Industry
Youth Organizations Developing
Rhine-Main's Adopted Children, pictorial feature of
difficulties of admission of adopted children to the
United States . .
RIAS, the Truth Crusader, article by Aileen S. le:
staff writer, Information Bulletin, on operation of
the American radio station in Berlin, particularly
describing its work in counteracting Communist
propaganda ceeeeeeeee
Road Back to Health, article by Lt. Col. Walter R
de Forest, chief, Medical Affairs Section, Education
and Cultural Relations Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, on postwar medical advance in
Germany
Road to Recovery ‘Seen in Berlin, review of year
of Marshall Plan aid
Rothenburg Wine Ceremony, pictorial story of annual
festival in historic Bavarian town
Royalty Lends a Hand, pictorial feature of a former
German prince launching a woodworking shop,
partly to train apprentices and partly to produce
finished products «......sseeseneaeeececaeateeeueee
Ruhr Industry's Problems, text of address by John
J. McCloy, US High Commissioner, at dinner of
Ruhr industrialists, political leaders and bankers
in Duesseldorf-Graffenberg ........... dete te eeneuee
Ruhr Steel and Coal for Western Defense, pictorial
feature

s

Santa in Blue, article by Sgt. Josephine J. Stong,
staff writer, Public Information Office, Hqs. USAFE,
on Christmas plans by personnel of the US Air
Force in Germany

“Save Our Children!" text of letter from Soviet Zone
describing Communist falsehoods being taught school
children ....... pudonodcqusbpdoosb6 aD DoydsbD=0000000

Schluechtern Plan, The, article by Beth Burchard,
staff writer, Information Bulletin, on special project
in Hessian community to provide housing and in-
dustry for refugees from Eastern areas .

School Clean-Up Day, pictorial story by George H.
Godfrey, senior resident officer, Munich, on assist-
ance of US soldiers and airmen to Munich citizens
in cleaning rubble from war-damaged school
buildings .......06cecceeeseecseeeeaeeeeneeeeee

School Financing, study by Wallace H. Strevell, chief,
Education Research, Education and Cultural Re-
lations Division, HICOG ..

School Kids Meet the Mayor, article by Zeno Stang-
wilo, US resident officer at Geinhausen and
Schluechtern, Hesse, on interests promoted among
youth in municipal affairs

Schuman Plan and Germany, The, article by Sidney
Hf. Willner, chief, Decartelization and Deconcen-
tration Division, Office of General Counsel, HICOG

Schuman Plan Treaty Signed, analysis prepared by
Office of Public Affairs, Department of State ....

Science for the Farmer, article by Dr. Conrad Ham-
mar, deputy chief, Food and Agriculture Division,
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG, on improve-
ment needed in German farming methods ....

Search for Looted Art, article by Ardella R. Hall, arts
and monuments officer, Division of Overseas In-
formation Centers, Department of State, on art
known to have been stolen from German-occupied
countries and still missing ............00+

Search for Truth, excerpts from speech by Mrs. John
J. McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner,
before a group of German women’s clubs in Frank-
furt on women’s responsibilities .......

Second RO's Conference, resume of three-day pro-
gress meeting of resident officers in Frankfurt ....

SECURITY
Anti-Rearmament Law .
Approach to Clemency Decisi
Armed Forces Day Celebrated ..
Eisenhower Inspects West Zone Defenses .
Europe's GIs Go to US School
Exercise Shamrock .
Fire Alert .
German Newsmen
Germany in World Defense ....
High German Officials See Big Paradrop at Rhine-

Main
Highway Patrol .
Landsberg, A Documentary Report .

FEBRUARY 1952

January
March
March
March
February
November
March
April

August

December

April
April

July

December

August

March

December

January

July

August

March

July

April
May

August

September

March
November

June

May

June

June

July

May
March
September
September

July
April
February

1950
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950

1950

1950

1950
1951

1950

1950

1950
1951

1950

1951

1950

1950

1951

1950

1951
1951

1951

1951

1951
1950

1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951

1951
1950
1951

Medical Reform in Prisons Urged
Military Security Board
Mission of Peace, A ...
Morocco Comes to Wetzlar ..
Mutual Defense Assistance Prog
Police Reform ............+
Stateless Europeans Enlist .
Status of Denazification .
Touring the Border ..
Vigil on the Border .
Wooden Road to Safety .
Youth and German Defense . .
1,442,647 See ‘'Train of Europe,’’ review of visit to
Berlin of train-illustrated assistance provided by
Marshall Plan
Seeds of Understanding, Interview by William J.
Caldwell, chief, Public Relations Branch, Public
Affairs Division, OLC Bavaria, with young Ameri-
can working on a German farm
Settlement of Bizonal Fusion Agreement, summary of
Department .of State announcement and text of
British note
Settlement of German Debts, text of HICOM release
Singers with a Message, review of second annual
singing contest sponsored by EUCOM's German
Youth Activities, with text of address by Benjamin
J. Buttenwieser, assistant US high commissioner
for policy .
Six Points of us Policy, address by John J. McCloy,
US High Commissioner, over Bavarian radio
Small Animal Clinic, pictorial feature on veterinarian
service to pets of American personnel ....
Soap Box Derby Goes German, pictorial story of us
Amny-sponsored GYA adoption of American youth
sport ..
Socialist Unity Party, The, excerpts from HICOG
report describing Communist activities in eastern
Germany . .
Sonthofen Case, The, article by Alfred T. Schadde,
Public Relations Branch, Public Affairs Division,
OLC Bavaria, describing method of citizens of Ba-
varian county of Sonthofen raising funds by self-
imposed taxes and with ECA assistance to build
houses for refugees and tourists .
Soviet Obstruction, statement by Henry -A. Byroade,
director, Bureau of German Affairs, Department of
State, on Soviet failure to cooperate in establishing
a democratic government in Germany
SOVIET AREA
Building Strength against Communism ....
Control of Government in the Soviet Zone
Czechoslovakia a Concentration Camp,
Official Says ..............-
East German Schools Sovietized .
East Side, West Side, All around Berlin
East Zone Government
Fighters against Inhumanity .
Forbidden City, The
Humor from the Soviet Zone .
“I Hate Communism” ...
‘Mach mit'* — at RIAS .
No Conditional Unity
Puppet ‘‘People’s Poli
Reply to Friendship Resolution
RIAS, the Truth Crusader .
“Save Our Children!" ..
Socialist Unity Party, The .
Soviet Obstruction
Soviet Zone Five-Year Plan
Soviet Zone Press, The ..
Soviets Delay Repatriation of German
Survey Exposes Soviet Zone Education .
Tale of the Potato Bug .....
They Rode ‘Freedom Train" .
Touring the Border ..
Why “Vopos" Desert .
Youth under Communism . .
Soviet Zone Five-Year Plan, critical analysis of
Soviet-sponsored program, showing inconsistencies
and omissions (condensed translation from Berlin
edition of ‘Die Neue Zeitung’)
Soviet Zone Press, The, article by F. Gardner Cox,
Jr., of the Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, de-
scribing the newspapers in eastern Germany and
how the Communists run them .
Soviets Delay Repatriation of German PWs, text of
note delivered July 14 to Soviet Foreign Office by
American Embassy in Moscow regarding prisoners
of war still in Soviet custody
Special Labor Congress, article by Albert H. Berman,
chief, Manpower Analysis Branch, Office of Labor
Affairs, HICOG, on election of new president by
the German Trade Union Federation ..............
Speeches of US High Commissioner Delivered in
Stuttgart and Boston, text of addresses by John J.
McCloy

Refugee

October
February
February
June
September
April
September
March
June
April
April
February

September

December

September
July

May
May

February

August

March

December

June

June
March

October
May
November
March
October
September
August
September
April

September
December
January
March
June
October
March
September
February
September
October
June
August
May

October

March

September

August

March

1950

1950
1951

1951
1951

1950

1950 ©

1951

1950

1951

1951
1950

1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950

1950

1951

1950

1951

1950

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 65 ---
Spirit of Carl Schurz, The, address by Benjamin J.
Buttenwieser, assistant US high commissioner for
policy, before the Carl Schurz Society in Bremen

Spot of History, A, description of community center
in Wiesbaden on derequisitioning of part to Ger-
man authorities ..

Stamping Out of Racial Prejudice Urged, text of let-
ter from Dr, James R. Newman, US state commis-
sioner for Hesse, to Christian Stock, minister-
president of Hesse, concerning failure of state to
prosecute desecrators of Jewish cemeteries

Stars over West Berlin, article by Maurice E. Lee,
staff writer, Information Bulletin, of revival of
German astronomical group after departure from
Soviet domination

STATE, DEPARTMENT OF
Allied Policy on Germany
Building Strength Against Communisi
Campaign of Truth .......
Declaration of Friendship
Declaration on Germany .
East Zone Government .
Foreign Ministers’ Declaration on Germany
Nation of Youth
New Consulate General in Hamburg .
Oldest Consulate in Germany
Our Department of State ..
Our German Problem Today
Proposal for Terminating State of War with Germany
Puppet “People's Police’ Protested .

Reply to Friendship Resolution.......
Settlement of Bizonal Fusion Agreement .
Soviet Obstruction

Soviets Delay Repatriation of German PWs.
Termination of the State of War with Germany
US Consulates Come Back ...... oogd
US Policy toward Germany Clarified .
US Replies to Czech Note

Stateless Europeans Enlist, pictorial feature of first
aliens to enlist in US Army .........0ee00eeeeeeee

Status of Denazification, review extracted from fifth
quarterly report of the US High Commissioner ....

Student Participation at Berlin's Free University,
article by Dr. Carl G. Anthon, higher education

adviser, Berlin Element, HICOG, on program at the
Free University of Berlin, with resume of presen-
tation of grant by Ford Foundation ..........006+++
Students More Liberal than their Elders, summary of
public-opinion survey by Reactions Analysis Branch,
Office of Public

Information Services Division,
Affairs, HICOG .......
Study-Time at Berlin Fair, pictorial feature of tour
of home economics students from German school to
American model house at Berlin Industry Exhibition
Stuttgart Speech, summary of reactions of world
press to major policy speech by John J. McCloy,
US High Commissioner, in Stuttgart .........0..-++
Stuttgart US Information Center, pictorial story of
opening of new center
Sudetens Come Home, pictorial story of arrival in
Bavaria of ethnic Germans expelled from Czecho-
slovakia
Summary of the Essential Provisions of the Schuman
Plan Treaty Constituting a European Coal and Steel
Community, text of official release from Paris
Survey Exposes Soviet Zone Education, analysis by
Public Affairs Division, Berlin Element, HICOG, on
political regimentation practiced in eastern Germany
Surveying the Occupation, radio broadcast by Char-
les M, Emerick, US resident officer for Fuerth,
Bavaria, on impressions of six years in Germany
Swabia Speaks Up, article by A. B. Trowbridge, US
resident officer for Heidenheim, Wuerttemberg-
Baden, on the forming of citizens’ committees in
rural communities

Tale of the Potato Bug, summary of Communist pro-
paganda campaign alleging US spreading of pest in
Soviet Zone and description of failures of Soviet
and East-German regime to take effective action to
combat such infestation

Talmud Returns, The, article by Bernard Quinn, Fea-
ture Section, Public Information Division, EUCOM,
on publishing of 19-volume sets of the sacred docu-
ments of Judaism to replace those destroyed by the
Germans during the Nazi times

Tasks for the Coming Year, text of address by John
J. McCloy, US High Commissioner, at second con-
ference of US resident officers in Frankfurt .......

Teachers Go Back to School, review of activities and
Tesults at series of teacher institutes held in Bavaria

INFORMATION BULLETIN ‘

March

February

July

July

October
June
January
August
July
March
October
October
September
May

July
January
August
July
September
September
June
September
December
October
March
October

September

March

October

July
November

March

March
May
April
February

February

February

September

November

November

November

1951

1951

1950

1951

1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951

1951

1951

1951

1950

1950

1950

1950

1950

1951

1951

1951

1951

1950

1950

1950

1950

Termination of the State of War with Germany, text
of proclamation issued by President Truman ......
TEXTS OF SPEECHES AND STATEMENTS
Adding the Human Element (McCloy) .
‘American Policy in Germany (Buttenwieser)
America's Faith in Europe (Burkhardt)
“Challenge to the Christian World" (Jeffs) .
Coal Productivity (Harris) .
Communique of the Foreign Ministers’ Conference
in Paris ..
Cornerstone ff a Better Future (Francois- auouce)
Courage to Love (Heuss) .....
Defense of Common Freedom (McCloy)
Defense of Democracy (McCloy) .
ECA Aid to Germany (Hanes)
Economy of Berlin (Taylor)..
ERP Marks Second Anniversary (McCloy): .
Faith — Barrier to Tyranny (Shuster) .
Fallacy of ‘Stockholm Resolution’ (McCloy) .
Finding Dollar Markets (Buttenwieser)
Five-Year Inventory, A (Buttenwieser)
Five Years after Potsdam (Nicholson) .
Foreign Ministers’ Declaration on Germany
Free Tuition (Offner) .........
Free Vote for Unity (McCloy) .
Freedom of Trade (Bowie) .
Freedom to Meet (Newman)
French Point of View, The (Francois-Poncet) .
German-Jewish Relations (Heuss) .
Germans Jolted, But Morale Stable (McCloy).
Germany in a United Europe (McCloy) .
Germany in World Defense (McCloy)
Germany Today — Economically and Financially
(Buttenwieser)
Germany's Civil Service (Gross)
Germany's Problems (Spaak) .
GI-German Relations (Sebree)
Guarding Human Rights Today (Bu
Individual's Role in ERP (Hanes)
Intelligent Understanding (Mrs. McCloy)
International Aspect, An (McCloy) .
International Brotherhood and the Radio (Nicholson)
International Situation and Germany, The (Adenauer)
Labor-Movement Pattern (H. Brown)
Labor's Responsibilities (Brown) .
Labor's Unfinished Tasks (Brown) .
Lesson to Learn, A (Kaisen) '
Local Self-Rule (Schweizer)
Major Responsibility, The (Kirkpatrick)
Man's Passions and Prejudices (Menuhin)
Message to German Youth (Jeffs).
Mission for 1950 (Nicholson) .
Moral and Material Resistance (Francois-Ponce'
Nationalism and the Modern State (Hannon) .
New Approach to History (McCloy)
New Status of Germany (McCloy)
No Conditional Unity (Adenauer) .
Objective: Friendship (Shuster) .
Partnership in Sacrifices (Buttenwieser) .
Penicillin Plant Dedicated (McCloy)
Practicing the Golden Rule (Jeffs)
Preservation of Democracy (Gross) .
Proposal for Terminating State of War with Germany
Radio Institute (Nicholson)
Reorientation of Germany, The (Buttenwieser) .
Report on Germany — Our Progress, Problems and
Objectives (McCloy)
Report on Progress (McCloy) .
Report to America (Mc Cloy) .
Reverence for Life (McCloy) .
Ruhr Industry's Problems (McCloy)..
“Save Our Children!" (Letter from Soviet Zone)
Search for Truth (Mrs. McCloy) ....-
Singers with a Message (Buttenwieser).
Six Points of US Policy (McCloy) .
Soviet Obstruction (Byroade) . .
Speeches of US High Commissioner delivered in
Stuttgart and Boston (McCloy)...... wee
Spirit of Carl Schurz, The (Buttenwieser).
Stamping Out of Racial Prejudices Urged (Newman)
Surveying the Occupation (Emerick)
Tasks for the Coming Year (McCloy)
Through British Spectacles (Kirkpatrick)
Today's Coal Situation (Buttenwieser)
Unity and Strength (McCloy) .
US Policy in Europe (Reber) .
US Policy toward Germany Clar
US Replies to Czech Note .
‘Way of Democracy (Ehard) .
‘Women's Role Today (Buttenwieser)
Youth and Civic Responsibility (Mrs. McCloy)
Youth and German Defense (McCloy)
Youth's Greatest Opportunity (McCloy!
That Man's Here Again, summary of US income tax
laws
They Got the Bus Rolling, article by William T.
Neel, US resident officer in Heidelberg, on success

December

October

April
November

December
April
January
November
July

April
December
June
December
October
November
August
June
October
January
April
October
September
March
September
September
May
September

July
November
August
October
November
May
February
December
August
November
November

December
January
March
December
February
February
November

November
February
September
October
September
September
September
August
January
June

October
February
July
September
August
January
March
May

May

June

March
March
July
February
November
November
September
January
June
March
October
March
July
March
February
July

January

1951

1950
1950
1951
1950
1951

1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1950
1951

1950
1950
1951
1950
1951

1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951

1950
1951
1950
1951
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1950
1951
1951

1951

FEBRUARY 1952

wr,

--- Page 66 ---
through town meeting of citizens of Wuerttemberg-
Baden town of Mueckenloch to get transportation
service ..

They Rode “Freedom Train,’ pictorial feature of
train and refugees after their flight from Czecho-
slovakia to Selb, Bavaria .

Third ECA Investment Program Begins, summary by
Jean Cattier, chief, ECA Special Mission to West-
ern Germany .

Through British “Spectacles, text of address by Sir
Ivone Kirkpatrick, British high commissioner, at
second conference of US resident officers in Frankfurt

“Tide of Toys," pictorial story on distribution to
German children of toys collected by the American
Legion

“Tide of Toys,’ pictorial feature on distribution of
toys, collected by the American Legion, to needy
German children

Today's Coal Situation, statement by Benjamin a,
Buttenwieser, assistant US high commissioner for
policy

yokens of Friendship, resume of contributions by
Germans for relief to flood victims in Kansas......

Tomorrow's Artists, pictorial feature on children’s
art classes sponsored by the American Friends
Service Committee in Frankfurt........-.+.0-000+

Touch Football, pictorial feature of football game
between HICOG personnel and American press
correspondents

Touring the Border, article by W. J. Caldwell, chief,
Public Relations Branch, OLC Bavaria, on work of
US resident officers, along the German-Czech border

Tourist Dollar Drive," summary of efforts by Ger-
man agencies to attract foreign visitors............

Town of Two Nations, article by Frank J. Gates, US
resident officer for Tirschenreuth, Bavaria, of con-
ditions in town divided by German-Czech border

Trade Unionism Growing, summary of trade-union
reports on increase in membership in Germany..

Traditional Green Week Returns to Berlin, pictorial
feature of annual agricultural fair:

Training for Citizenship, review of various teaching
methods used in US areas of Germany..........-+

Transportation Revival, article by William A. Fagan,
chief, Transportation Branch, Industry Division,
Office of Economic Affairs, HICOG, on postwar
rebuilding of railroad and waterway facilities in
Germany

TV Comes to Berlin, review of demonstration of
American television equipment and operation......

U

UNICEF, article on United Nations aid to needy chil-
dren, especially in Germany...........0..c00eeeeee

Unity and Strength, address by John J. McCloy, US
High Commissioner, delivered in German Jan. 1
over RIAS and German radio stations with New
Year's message

US Architects Display Ideas, description of exhibition
showing America’s latest designs for building
needs in Germany ........0seseeeeeeeseneeeeeeeeens

US Consulates Come Back, article by Mildred A.
Smith, US Consulate General in Frankfurt, on re-
establishment of offices in Germany..

US Films Ride the Rails, story by Sidney s. Siskind,
chief resident officer, Regensburg, OLC Bavaria,
on showing of US documentary films in specially
adapted cars of railroad trains

US High Commissioner for Germany and his Staff,
two-page photograph of top officials in HICOG
organization

US Information Center in Hamburg, pictorial story of ©

opening of new center in northern German port city
US Policy in Europe, address by Samuel Reber,
director, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG, before
international group in Mumich.............s0ee0e0+
US Policy toward Germany Clarified, statement by
Henry A. Byroade, director, Bureau of German
Affairs, Department of State... :
US Press Cites Fraud in Communist
summary of editorials from 4eading newspapers in
the United States
US Replies to Czech Note, text of US note concerning
the Czech train on which refugees escaped to west-
ern Germany
US State Observers, article by Bradford Well In
ternal Political and Governmental Affairs Division,
Office of Political Affairs, HICOG, on functions
and responsibilities in western Germany
US Women Leaders Touring Germany, preview of
six-week survey by group of 11 representative
women leaders from the United States.............

FEBRUARY 1952

October

October

April

November

September

September

February

December

June

February

March
November
March

June

April

September

January

January

November

October

June

February

October

June

March

September

October

October

1950

1951

1951

1950

1950

1951

1951

1951

1951

1951

1951

1950

1951

1950

1951

1950

1950

1951

1950

1951

1950

1950

1950

1950

1950

1951

1951

1950

1951

1950

1951

Vv

View of Labor, A, article by Lowell Bennett, chief,
Public Relations Branch, Berlin Element, HICOG,
on impressions of Berlin labor specialists who had
visited the United States under the Exchanges
Program ..

Vigil on the Border, article by Maj. Warren E. Crane,
executive officer, 7751st MP Customs Unit, EUCOM,
on customs enforcement .........sssseeeeeneen ees

600,000 Visitors Buy 98,000 Cars, Trucks at Auto
Show, pictorial feature of International Automobile
Show in Frankfurt

“Vittles Bowl" Festivities Frankfurt, pictorial
story of parade and activities with Thanksgiving
Day football game ....

Vocational Training for Youth of Europe, pictorial
story of youth training under ECA program........

Voluntary Assistance, article by Aileen S. Miles,
staff writer, Information Bulletin, describing work
of American and world welfare groups, in conjunc-
tion with IRO, to help European exiles............

Ww

WACs in Bivouac, pictorial feature of annual over-
night bivouac by WAC Detachment of Frankfurt
Military Post

Wagner Returns to Bayreuth, article by Mildred A.
Smith of the staff of the US Consulate General in
Frankfurt, on the revival of the Bayreuth Festival

Wanted: Publicity Campaign, summary of ECA report
on needs for German tourism.........++++++seeeeee

Way of Democracy, text of address (translated from
German) by Dr. Hans Ehard, minister-president of
Bavaria, before state legislature on neo-Nazistic
symptoms in Germany .......0secseeseseeeu seen ees

“We Must Export..." article by Fred Welty, staff
writer, Public Relations Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG, on promotion of Germany's post-
war foreign trade.........0e-0eee eee eeeeeeeeeneteee

WELFARE ACTIVITIES
American Christmas Spirit, The
Anti-Polio Drive Spreads .....
Berlin's Neighborhood Centers .
Berlin, Christmas 1950
Berlin Nutrition Program .
Berlin Women's Club
CARE Legend, The ...
Dream-Come-True House
Fighters against Inhumanity
Food for Thought.
Frankfurt Stopover .
Friendship Camps
Home for Young Girls .
Homes for the Wanderer
House of Neighbors ..
Job Seekers in Berlin
Little Michel's Fear
Occupation Vignettes .
Pfennig Parade, The ..
Public Welfare’s Mailbag
Refugee Camp ..
Relief by Parcel Post .
Resident Officer Saves Child .
Rhine-Main's Adopted Children
Santa in Blue
Student Participation ai
“Tide of Toys” .
“Tide of Toys"
Tokens of Friendship.
UNICEF .

West German Steel Industry, survey and review of
industry in western Germany (reprinted from
monthly report of the Control Commissioner for
Germany, British Element)

West Greets West, feature on the exchange invi-
tation of the city of Santa Rosa, Calif., to Germany

What are We Doing for German Youth?, article by
Haynes R, Mahoney, staff writer, Public Relations
Division, HICOG, on task of building a democratic
tradition in youth affairs .

“What Do You Think?", article by Dr. Leo P. Crespi,
chief, Reactions Analysis Branch, Information Serv-
ices Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, on
operations and reports of public-opinion surveys in
Germany ........00+ veteeeeeee

Who's Who in “the Federal Cabinet,

thumbnail
sketches of the officials in the German government
Why “Vopos" Desert, summary by Public Affairs
Division, Berlin Element, HICOG, of reasons given
by members of Soviet-Zone police forces for deserting

Wichita Special, The, pictorial feature by T. W.
Seelye, US resident officer for Mosbach, Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, on adoption of German town by city
in Kansas........0cccceseceeeceeeeseeesueeeeneeees

February

April

May

January

May

March

October

April

January

March

January
August
January
December
August
April
August
September
October
February
September
October
August
January
June
June
November
February
June

February
February
August
December
October
May

May
September
January

September

November

May

April

June

August

February

1951

1951

1951

1950

1950

1950

1951

1951

1951

1950

1950

1951

1951

1950
1951

1951

1951

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 67 ---
Windows to the West, article by Haynes R. Mahoney,
chief, Bad Nauheim Branch, Public Relations Divi-
sion, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, on purpose,
development, program and activities of US Infor-
mation Centers in Germany .

Winter Tourists, preview of German activities and
accommodations ...

Woman's World, A, article by Beth Burchard, staff
writer, Information Bulletin, on work with women's
affairs in Wuerttemberg-Baden

Women in Germany, article by Herta Gotthelf, exe-
cutive member of the Social Democratic Party, on
German women in political life.

Women in Industry, resume of report by two visiting
American experts, Sara Southall and Pauline M.
Newman, on the participation of German women
in industry .

Women of North Germany, report on women's affairs
in British Zone (reprinted from monthly report of
Germany,

the Control Commission for British
Element)

WOMEN'S AFFAIRS
Berlin Women’s Club
Common Problems — Common Front
Freedom for Farm Women
Hand of Friendship...
Intelligent Understanding
Search for Truth
US Women Leaders Touring Germany
Woman's World, A
Women in Germany
Women in Industry
Women of North Germany
Women's Responsibilities
‘Women's Role Today .

Women’s Responsibilities,

review of international
meeting of women leaders in Bad Reichenhall,

Bavaria
Women's Role Today, address by Benjamin J. Butten-
wieser, assistant US high commissioner for policy,
at annual convention of German-American Clubs
in Heidelberg
Wooden Road to Safety, pictorial feature by Harald
Guenther, staff reporter, Public Relations Branch,
OLC Bremen, on traffic education week for children
Worker Goes to School, The, article by Joseph T.
Taylor, chief, Labor Affairs Division, OLC Hesse,
on trade-union school at Oberursel .
Workers Turn Over Bonn Projects,
ditional German festival_marking

review of tra-
completion of
roof framework of HICOG housing construction

near Bonn
Working Together, article by Dr, Sterling W. Brown,
general manager, National Council of Christians
and Jews in New York, on Christian-Jewish cooper-
ation in Berlin
World's Children Pledge Friendship, pictorial feature
on presentation of friendship pins to members of
the Brownie scout troup in Berlin
World's Oldest Stained-Glass Windows, article by
Elisabeth von Witzleben on famous windows in
cathedral at Augsburg, with colored prints (trans-
lated from Deutschland Review, publication of
German Tourist Association)

World's Student Talk Things Over, pictorial story of
international seminar on student government and
self-help at Koenigsstein

World's Worst Theater, article by Wilfried Saliger,
chief, German Editorial Section, Public Relations

the political

Division,
Germany

HICOG, on cabaret in

Young Citizens Hold Forum, article on the initial
program for new voters to meet city and state
public officials

Young Farmers Return, article by Margaret Glick,
Brethren Service Commission, on activities of
young Germans on the farms following exchange-
program visit to the United States .

Young Thespians, pictorial feature of

children’s
theater in the US Information Center in Berlin ....

Young Visitors irom America, pictorial story of
various student groups from American universities
touring Germany

YOUTH ACTIVITIES
Across-the-City Student Exchange Begins .
Ambassadors in Khaki ....
America Book, The .
America's Faith in Europe
Back from America
Basketball Comes Back .
Bavaria Was Never Like This .

INFORMATION BULLETIN

August

January

March

April

March

April

April
November
May

July
February
March
May
March
April
March
April
November
July

November

July

April

August

July

August

April

December

November

April

November

May

October

November

March
January
July
October
August
March
December

1950

1950

1951

1951

1950

1950

1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1950
1950
1950
1951

1950

1951

1951

1951

1951

1951

1951

1950

1950

1951

1951

1951

1951

1950

1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1951

64

Bavaria’s International Look
Berlin Youth Rebuff Bavarian Reds .
Big Brothers and the ‘'Little Leaguers’
Big Difference, The ..
Bremen Helps its Youth
Child Guidance .
Classroom on Tour
Dream-Come-True House .
EUCOM Handicraft Contest .
Exchange Students Visit New York .
Famed Lorelei Beckons Youth to Peace ‘and Unity
Farm Youth Speaks Out .
Fellowship between Schools .
Forbidden City, The .
Freedom to Meet .
Friendship Camps .
Home for Young Girls
Homes for the Wanderer
House of Neighbors
House that Youth Built, The
Keeping Youth on Farms ...
Leadership Training for Youth
Lesson to be Learned, A ..
Literary Trip to America, A
Little Michel's Fear ...
Mannheim GYA Center in German Hands .
Mannheim Plans for Tomorrow .
Message from America ...
Message to German Youth .
New Accent on Youth
Reverence for Life ..
“Save Our Children!"
School Kids Meet the Mayor .
Singers with a Message ....
Soap Box Derby Goes German
Tide of Toys”
“Tide of Toys’
Tomorrow's Artists
UNICEF
Vocational Training for Youth of Europe .
What are We Doing for German Youth?
Wooden Road to Safety
World's Children Pledge Friendship .
Young Citizens Hold Forum
Young Farmers Return .
Young Thespians
Youth and Civic Responsibility
Youth and German Defense .
Youth at the Helm
Youth Help Run City for a Day .
Youth Learns Government
Youth Organizations Developing
Youth Self-Help
Youth under Communism .
Youth Week
Youth's Greatest Opportunity .
Youth Aid US Air Base, pictorial feature on work
of Labor Service Units at Rhine-Main Air Base ...
Youth and Civic Responsibility, resume of activities,
and text of speech by Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife
of the US High Commissioner, at meeting of the
German-American Youth Club in Nuremberg .....
Youth and German Deiense, letter by the US High
Commissioner to a young German replying to his
letter on defense of western Germany

Youth at the Helm, article by Raymond Lascoe, US

resident officer for Pforzheim, Wuerttemberg-
Baden, on results of first "Youth Day"
Youth Help Run City for a Day, summary of ex-
periment in Bremerhaven and essays by some of
youth officials ....

Youth Learns Government, article by Herbert Grat,
US resident office for
“Youth

Youth Activities specialist,
Giessen, Hesse, on results of county's first
Day"...

Youth Organizations Developing, summary by Lee S.
Wilson, retiring chief, Youth Activities Branch,
Education and Cultural Relations Division, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG, on growth of youth groups

Youth Seli-Help, article by Everett G. Chapman,
Community Affairs adviser, Education and Cultural
Relations Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG,
on efforts of German youth to get broader education

Youth under Communism, article prepared by In-
formation Bulletin staff from official sources on
organization and program of Communist youth
group in eastern Germany .

Youth Week, pictorial feature by Nicholas Semaschko,
Jr., resident officer at Esslingen, on special local
youth program ... .

Youth's Greatest Opportunity, address by US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy at the University
of Frankfurt ....

Zugspitze Observatory Marks Golden Jubilee, Pieerey
feature

January
November
January
January
December
September
May
September
July
December
September
August
October
September
September
October
August
January
June
June
October
December
June

May
November
November
November
February
February
November
September
January
July

May
August
May

May
February
January

February
August
January
August
April
August

March

February

August

January

August

April

August

May

January

July

January

FEBRUARY

1951
1951
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951
1951
1951
1950
1951

1951
1950

1950

1951

1951

1951

1951

1950

1950

1950

1950

1951

1951

1952

--- Page 68 ---
Soldiers, airmen and sailors stationed in Germany dug way down in their pockets to make Christmas 1951 the gay

ever for thousands of needy children and grownups. Above, left, Santa taiks with a litile friend at party for tots of US
personnel in Berlin. Right, members of Second Armored Division treat small fry at Sonthofen county children's home.

Armed Forces Play Santa to Young and Old

Left, more than 400 wide-eyed children v. ing the Baumholder post watch antics of puppets. Center, Air Force officers
youngsters Christmas toys at children's home in Wiesbaden. Right, gifts of food and clothing purchased by
n of the Second Armored are given to refugee family, one of many in Bad Kreuznach area receiving holiday cheer.

left, little girl is aided with her Christmas feast at Seventh Army party in Stuttgart at which soldiers enter-
300 children. Center, tiny blonde at Waiblingen orphanage beams at new doll as admiring host tells her, “You
tty, too. Right, proud boy (holding shoe) shows pals the several gifts he received. (US Army and USAFE photos)

--- Page 69 ---
v4iS ISSUE:

Young East-Zone
Skeptics

Symbol
Of Appreciation

Parallels
And Contrasts

German Women
Evaluate Visits
To the States

Toward
German Unity

‘he Prize Package:
Freedom

ormany’s Defense
Contribution

MARCH
1952

US Information Center
for the Ruhr

(See page 3)