--- Page 2 ---
PHIS ISSUE:

Educational Research
in Germany
Page 3

The Legacy of
Cari Schurz

Page 7

Four Years after
Currency Reform
Page 9

German-American
Friendship

United Germany
Page 15

Berlin Festival
Page 18

Passau Festival
Page 19

o

a* *
—*

ee!
e, a Past = a
. iS < “ge
as Berlin -Thdustry Exposition..

--- Page 3 ---
Industry Exposition in Berlin

Approximately 15,000 persons daily, including many from
eastern Germany, filed through the George C. Marshall House,
inspecting the exhibits and utilizing the services provided by
the United States at the annual Berlin industry exposition in
late September. These photographs, made by Karl Heinz Schu-
bert of the Information Branch, Public Affairs Division, Berlin
Element, HICOG, show:

(upper left) At the office maintained by the US Department
of Commerce for providing marketing information service
available to German businessmen and exporters, Ludwig Erhard
(center), federal minister of economics, meets E. Paul Hawk
(right), deputy assistant director, Office of International Trade,
Commerce Department, and two deputies, Henry J. Dempsey
(eft), chief of the World Trade Intelligence Section, and
Nathan Ostroff, assistant general counsel for international
affairs.

(photo upper right) Looking at a sign reading “America,
are you better off? You askK—we answer” above the section
used by American labor officials to answer questions on living
standards of American workers are (left to right) Hermann L,
Deuss, consultant in the Office of Labor Advisers, MSA, in
Washington; Herbert W. Baker, chief of the Labor Affairs
Branch, Berlin Element; Herman Block, vice president of the
International Union of Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers
of America; Thomas F. Murphy, general treasurer of the Inter-
national Union of Bricklayers, Masons and Plasterers ot
America, and Stanley Wollaston, executive assistant to the
US secretary of labor.

(photo left) Receiving exhibit literature from an employee,
dressed in period costume and seated in an ancient German
automobile, are Ambassador William H. Draper, Jr. (left), US
special representative in . Europe with the Mutual Security
‘Assistance program, and US High Commissioner Walter J.
Donnelly.

(photo below) Ambassador Draper inspects a model of the
Kraftwerk West, electricity-producing plant in West Berlin,
reconstructed during and after the Soviet blockade with ECA
assistance.

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of
the US High Commissioner for Ger-
many for the dissemination of au-
thoritative information concerning
the policies, regulations, instructions,
operations and activities of the Unit-
ed States mission in Germany.

Editorial Staff
Editor ... ..H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor.....Frank H. Jonas
Feature Editor... Liselotte Goldbeck

Editorial Offices
US Headquarters Building
Annex A, Rooms 40 - 43
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: Frankfurt Military:
8728, 8896, 8958

The Information Bulletin is as-
sembled, prepared, and published by
the Information Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

It is printed, by offset process, by
the Printing and Reproduction Sec-
tion, Operating Facilities Branch,
Administrative Services Division, Of-
fice of Executive Director, HICOG.
The plant is located at 2 Rheingau
Allee, Frankfurt.

Distribution is handled by the Dis-
tribution Unit, Communications Serv-
ices Division, Office of Executive Di-
rector, HICOG. This unit is located
in US Headquarters Building, Room
949, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and official dis-
tribution should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Information Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

Correspondence concerning distri-
bution of the Information Bulletin
in Germany, other than for official
US agencies and installations, should
be addressed to the Information Of-
ficer of the nearest Public Affairs
Field Center or the American Con-
sulate General.

_ Correspondence concerning inquir-
les and distribution in the United
States should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

_Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

COVER PHOTOGRAPH — The Berlin Industry Ex-
position opened Sept. 19 with a ceremony in the au-
ditorium of Berlin’s huge fairgrounds. Shown is
Mayor Ernst Reuter of Berlin addressing the 1,000
official guests at the ceremony. The design above
the array of flags is the characteristic symbol of the

annual exposition — three factory chimneys bel-
lowing forth smoke. For details of the exposition,
see opposite page. (BE HICOG photo by Schubert)

TABLE OF CONTENTS
October 1952

Berlin Industry Exposition . . inside front cover

Review

Insistence of Free German Elections Reiterated. ... 2
Text of US Note to USSR

Educational Research in Germany (PartI) ...... 3
Article by Dr. Frank H. Jonas

The Legacy of Carl Schurz. ............. «7
Address by Walter J. Donnelly

Four Years after Currency Reform. ......... 9
Review by Dr. Rodney C. Loehr

German-American Friendship ............ 13
Article by Paul R. Phillips

For a Free and United Germany. .......... 15
Address by Hermann Ehlers

Cultural Festival in Berlin. ...........2.. 18
Review

European Festival in Passau. .........2.2.. «19
Review

In and Around Germany. .............. 21

Personnel Notes ................... 24

Outside Germany .................. 26

German Editorials. ................. 27

Official Announcements ............2... 81

Recent Publications ..............2.4.. 32

Soviet Zone Delegation ...... . . inside back cover

Pictorial Report

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Insistence of Free German Elections Reiterated

The United States, United Kingdom and France reiterated Sept. 23 in identical notes
delivered to the Soviet Union their insistence on the essential role of free German elec-
tions as a key to progress on German unification. Drafted after consultation with the
German Federal Government in Bonn, the notes were in reply to a Soviet note of Aug.
23. They told the Russians clearly that the three powers were ready almost at once to take
up the problem of free German elections as a foundation for establishment of an all-Ger-
man government which could negotiate a peace treaty. Text of the US note follows.

1, The United States Government has
carefully considered the Soviet Govern-
ment's note of August 23 about Germany.
It had hoped that the note would have
marked some progress towards agree-
ment on the essential question on free
all-German elections. This is the first
question which must be settled among
the Four Powers so that Germany can
be unified, an all-German Government
formed and a peace treaty concluded.

2. Possibly in order to divert attention
from this issue, the greater part of the
Soviet note of August 23 is, however,
devoted to wholly unfounded attacks
upon the Atlantic Pact, the European
Defense Community and the Conven-
tions signed at Bonn on May 26. As the
United States Government has often
emphasized, these agreements are purely
defensive and threaten no one. The
Bonn Conventions and the EDC Treaty,
far from being imposed on the German
people, are a matter for free decision by
freely elected partiaments, including of
course that of the German Federal Re-
public. Insofar as the Bonn Conventions
reserve certain strictly limited rights to
the three Western Powers, a fundamental
consideration has been specifically to
safeguard the principle of German unity
and to keep the door open for agreement
with the Soviet Union on the unification
of Germany.

3. The United States Government must
insist on the necessity of starting Four-
Power discussions at the only point
where they can in fact start, which is
the organization of free elections. In its
note of July 10, the US Government
drew attention to the obvious fact that
this is the first point which must be
settled if any progress is to be made
towards uniting the Soviet Zone with
the Federal Republic, which constitutes
the greater part of Germany. In its first
note, as in its last, the Soviet Government
has evaded this clear issue. Instead of
putting first things first, it now relegates
to the background the problem of elec-
tions and proposes that the Four-Power
conference “should discuss in the first
place such important issues as a peace
treaty with Germany and the formation
of an all-German government.” But until
elections are held, no all-German gov-
ernment can be formed, nor can Ger-
many be unified. Until an all-German
government is formed which will be in
a position to negotiate freely, it is im-
possible to discuss the terms of a Ger-
man peace treaty.

4. In complete accord with the views
of the United States, French and United
Kingdom Governments, the Soviet Gov-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

ernment originally said that “the prep-
aration of the peace treaty should be
effected with the participation of Ger-
many in the form of an all-German
government.” The Soviet Government
has now shifted its ground. It now sub-
stitutes for this, the participation of
representatives of the Soviet Zone and
the Federal Republic in the Four-Power
Meetings “during the discussion of rel-
evant questions.” The United States Gov-
ernment cannot accept this proposal. A
Peace treaty for the whole of Germany
cannot be negotiated with, and accepted
by, any German representatives other
than the all-German government which
would have to carry it out. Such a gov-
ernment can only proceed from free
elections. It is moreover well-known
that the East German administration is
not representative of the German popula-
tion of the Soviet Zone. This fact is not
controverted by the assertion in the
Soviet note of August 23 that this admin-
istration acted “at the request” of that
population in enforcing recent measures
further dividing East and West Germans
in defiance of their clear desire for unity
in freedom.

5. The United States Government is
compelled to remind the Soviet Govern-
ment that conditions have altered rad-
ically since the Potsdam Agreement in
1945, which laid down certain political
and economic principles to govern the
initial control. The Soviet conception
of a peace treaty drafted by the Four
Powers and imposed upon Germany is
entirely unsuitable in 1952. The United
States Government could never agree to
a peace treaty being drafted or nego-
tiated without the participation of an
all-German government as any other
procedure would mean a dictated treaty.
That indeed would be “an insult to the
German nation.”

6. The United States Government again
insists that genuinely free elections with
a view to the formation of an all-Ger-
man Government must come first. It
has, however learned by hard experience
in recent years that terms such as “free
elections” have one meaning in common
parlance and another in the official
Soviet vocabulary. The contrast between
the concept of free elections which
obtains in Western Germany and that
which prevails in the Soviet Zone is
clear. It is for the German people to
choose between these alternative ways
of life. But they must be able to make
their choice in genuine freedom and
full responsibility. Only genuinely free
elections can reflect the will of the Ger-
man people and permit the formation
of an all-German government with the

2

necessary freedom of action to discuss
and accept a peace settlement.

7. In order to create the conditions
necessary for free elections, there has
been Four-Power agreement that- there
should be a commission of investigation.
The Soviet Government has now pro-
posed that this commission should be
composed of representatives of the
People’s Assembly of the “German Dem-
ocratic Republic” and of the Bundestag
of the German Federal Republic. A com-
mission of investigation must, however,
be genuinely impartial. A German com-
mission would be no more able than
a Four-Power commission to meet this
requirement. The underlying principle
of the present Soviet proposal was con-
tained in one which emanated from the
Soviet Zone on September 15, 1951. This
was rejected by the Bundestag, which
then suggested investigation by a United
Nations Commission. It was thus the
freely elected representatives of fifty
millions of the German people who
themselves proposed the creation of a
neutral investigation commission under
United Nations supervision. Nevertheless,
the United States Government repeats
its readiness to discuss any practical and
precise proposals, as stated in its note
of the 10th of July.

8. The United States Government con-
tinues to seek a way to end the division
of Germany. This will not be accom-
plished by premature discussions about
a peace treaty with a Germany not yet
united and lacking an all-German Gov-

ernment. The United States Govern-
ment therefore renews the proposals
made in its note of July 10 for an

early Four-Power Meeting—which could
take place in October—to discuss the
composition, functions and authority of
an impartial commission of investigation
with a view to creating the conditions
necessary for free elections. The next
step would be to discuss the arrange-
ments for the holding of these elections
and for the formation of an all-German
government, as proposed in paragraph
11 (IV) of the United States Govern-
ment’s note of May 13. When free elec-
tions have been held and an all-German
government formed, the peace settle-
ment can be negotiated. The United
States Government. in concert with the
French Government and the United
Kingdom Government and after con-
sultation with the German Federal Gov-
ernment and the German authorities in
Berlin, most earnestly urges the Soviet
Government to reconsider its refusal t0
join the other powers in a singleminded
effort thus to come to grips with the
problem of free elections in Germany.

OCTOBER 1988

--- Page 6 ---
Educational Research in Germany

By Dr. Frank H. Jonas

Assistant Editor, Information Bulletin

I. The Institute for International Educational Research

HE INSTITUTE for International Educational Re-

search (Hochschule fuer Internationale Paedogische
Forschung) in Frankfurt illustrates that a dream, with
planned and persistent pursuit of an idea, can develop
into reality.

Forty years ago, Erich Hylla, a young elementary
school teacher in Breslau saw the need for educational
research in Germany. He kept developing the idea of an
institute for further advanced educational study all dur-
ing his graduate work, high school and college teaching,
secondary school administration, and scientific research,
writing and publication.

His Intelligence Testing, published in 1927, is still re-
cognized as a standard work. Aptitude and achievement
tests, developed in 1926 and 1932 in collaboration with
Dr. Otto Bobertag, were republished in 1945 and used
subsequently in 70,000 cases in the state of Hesse.

In 1926, Mr. Hylla spent a year in the United States at
the International Education Instityte of Columbia Uni-
versity. In 1928, he published his book in German,
Schools in a Democracy, a description of the American
school system. He also translated into German John
Dewey's Democracy and Education.

H's DREAM was rudely shattered by the Nazis in
1933, when he was summarily dismissed from his
position as head of the department of elementary ed-
ucation and teacher training in the Prussian ministry of
education, a position he had held since 1922. He had
also been appointed in 1930 professor of psychology and
education at the Teachers College in Halle.

Although driven by the Nazis into private life and
study, he was allowed to go to the United States as
guest professor in comparative education at Columbia
University from 1935-1937 and at Cornell University in
1938. This experience was to pay off during the postwar
years in the joint American and German efforts to mod-
ify some German educational practices and to give
Americans a better understanding of these practices and
Problems.

The war prevented Mr. Hylla’s returning to the

United States in 1939, finally drawing him into German
military service in 1944 and landing him in a nominal
American imprisonment in 1945. After his release he
became school superintendent in Landsberg, where his
Old friend Prof. Thomas Alexander, then chief of public
School affairs in the Education Branch, OMGUS, found

OCTOBER 1952

him and took him on the Military Government staff as
a German consultant.

Mr. Hylla, serving as consultant in higher education
in Frankfurt in 1947, met Dr. William L. Wrinkle, then
chief of the secondary education section in the Public
Education Branch, OMGUS, and now HICOG’s educa-
tional affairs adviser. Before coming to Germany, Dr.
Wrinkle had been professor of secondary education and
director of the campus experimental high school at the
State College of Education at Greeley in Colorado, hav-
ing served that institution for 23 years. Through his ex-
perience in administering educational programs in Ger-
many, Dr. Wrinkle arrived independently at the same
conclusions about educational research in Germany as
were entertained by Mr. Hylla.

HIS MEETING brought reality to the old dream,

now shared by both men, resulting in the association
which was to gain the necessary support from German
and American sources for the creating of the Institute
for International Educational Research. The develop-
ment of the idea of a graduate school of this type in
Germany could never have proceeded to its present suc-
cessful conclusion without the close cooperation and
teamwork of these two educators.

The chance to win German sponsorship came when
Dr. Erwin Stein, then minister of education and culture
in Hesse and now a judge on the Federal Constitutional
Court in Karlsruhe, proposed that an international in-
stitute for educational research and advanced studies
in education be established in Hesse, a_ legislative

Discussing plans for the international summer educational
workshop are (left to right): Dr. Wrinkle, Mr. Hylla and
(AMCONGEN photos by Hopp)

Dr. Schultze.

--- Page 7 ---
Rear view of the war-wrecked building before reconstruction but after accumulated rubble had been hauled away.

proposal included in the draft of a teacher education
reform bill which never became law.

Professors Hylla and Wrinkle, sensing official German
interest in such an institution, approached Dr. Stein in
Wiesbaden. As a result, the Society for Educational Re-
search and Advanced Studies in Education was or-
ganized, with Dr. Stein as president and Mr. Hylla as
executive secretary. This society, which was composed
of Hessian educational leaders interested in this move-
ment, sponsored the Institute.

Heinrich Seliger, Frankfurt city superintendent of
schools, assisted the group in search of a building. The
city donated a bomb-damaged, five-story building, with
an adjoining gymnasium, which had formerly been an
elementary school. At the time the building and site
were valued at DM 1,200,000 ($285,600).

The State of Hesse agreed to maintain the Institute
permanently and to date has made two appropriations
totaling DM 400,000 ($95,200) for operating expenses.

N AUGUST, 1950, a grant of DM 800,000 ($190,400) was

made from the HICOG Special Projects Fund for the
reconstruction and adaption of the building and in
January, 1951, another grant of DM 336,000 (479,968) was
made for operations and equipment. Later, as building
costs rose, the city of Frankfurt donated DM 150,000
($35,700), matched by a like further amount from the
HICOG Special Projects Fund. Had not an old building
been reconstructed, the building costs would have been
three times as high. In November, 1951, a HICOG grant
of DM 177,000 ($42,126) was approved for equipment and
operations.

The building, now fully equipped, is a monument to
joint American and German efforts to encourage re-
search in specific educational fields that have been neg-
lected and undeveloped, not only because of a totalitar-
ian regime and a devastating war, which sealed off
Germany from the rest of the Western world for more

INFORMATION BULLETIN

than a decade, but also because of the resistance of
traditional outlooks and procedures

The physical properties of the new institution are
modern and complete. In addition to lecture and class
rooms, libraries, staff and administrative offices, there
are 28 rooms for students and apartments for professors,
The former gymnasium has been remodeled into an
auditorium seating 240 persons, with modern technical
facilities and film equipment. There are two libraries,
one to serve the research needs of the institution, and
the other, subsidized by the,city of Frankfurt and ad-
ministered by the Institute, to serve the teachers in
Frankfurt who wish to consult and borrow materials
related to their interests and work.

S A CORPORATE foundation under public law, the

International Educational Research Institute enjoys
an enviable legal position for a public institution in
Germany. Except for the financial support of the state
of Hesse for its maintenance and the single represen-
tative of the Ministry of Culture and Education on its
board of trustees, the Institute is independent of govern-
mental control. Only a few institutions in Germany
enjoy this favorable position.

Not an integral part of any university, the Institute
has university standing, although it grants no degrees
or diplomas. The students are mainly graduate students,
usually for in-service training for a period of one year,
such as 8 teachers to whom the state of Hesse has agreed
to grant leaves of absence at full pay to attend the In-
stitute. However, students from universities may also
use the facilities for advanced degrees.

All students are allowed to publish their findings
under their own names. Such relationships are expected
to develop with the University of Frankfurt, which is
only a few blocks away, and with the University of
Marburg, the other university in Hesse, both of which
are represented on the board of trustees. Germans from
outside Hesse will be included in the student body, as

OCTOBER 1952 |

--- Page 8 ---
Street side of the same building after reconstruction had been completed and it had been opened for research work.

well as students and teachers from foreign countries,
who meet the requirements for what in the United
States would be called graduate studies.

A’ THE MOMENT, a plan is afoot to prepare research
projects that will appeal to the German state ed-
ucational ministers, who in turn will be asked to send
competent people to the Institute for a year’s work at
problems of practical interest and value to school ad-
ministrators. In this way, the student body will be built
up and maintained, and the work of the Institute, though
on the highest academic level, will be applied to prac-
tical problems in German education.

Teacher training in Germany is carried on by the
numerous teachers colleges scattered throughout the
country, and for secondary schools, by the universities,
which do little for empirical research, but usually em-
Phasize philosophy and the history of education. The
Institute, on the other hand, concentrates on empirical
research, which means going out and getting firsthand
facts about schools, school children and students. It is
this type of research that has been seriously lacking in
Germany.

Admission is also possible for teachers of all school
types and school administrators who have completed
their preservice education and have had successful in-
service experience.

Administration of the new institution is democratic.
The senate is made up of the three full professors, one
of whom is at the same time director of the Institute,
and the associate professors. The lecturers and scientific
assistants elect two representatives to this body.

id bees DIRECTOR has indefinite tenure, a provision

which is unique in higher German educational in-
stitutions. He can be removed only after two years by
his own resignation or by a two-thirds vote of the sen-
ate. The usual practice in German universities is for

Presidents to be elected by the faculty for a term of one
year,

OCTOBER 1952

A board of trustees and an executive committee gov-
ern the Institute. The board, in addition to the Hessian
Ministry of Education representative, includes five rep-
resentatives of the Society for Educational Research and
Advanced Studies in Education, Inc.; one from the phil-
osophical faculties of the Universities of Frankfurt and
Marburg appointed for a two-year term; one from the
Teacher Institutes and the Institute for Education of
Vocational Teachers in Hesse; one each for the two
central organizations of Hessian teachers appointed for
two-year terms; and two representatives appointed by
the US High Commissioner for Germany.

The executive committee is composed of the director
as chairman, the president, treasurer and secretary of
the board of trustees.

In addition to the American representation on the
board of trustees, the appointment of faculty members
and the election of the director are subject to the ap-
proval of the representatives of the US High Commis-
sioner.

IHHE STAFF currently consists of two full professors

and two research assistants. Mr. Hylla, in addition to
his duties as director, is head of the department of
educational psychology. Dr. Hans Heckel, formerly a
member of the state ministry of Lower Saxony in charge
of school legislation, recently joined the staff to direct
research in school legislation. The Executive Committee
has unanimously requested the Board of Trustees to
appoint Dr. Walter Schultze, at present director of the
In-Service Teacher Institute in Hamburg, as a third
full professor for research in curriculum instruction and
learning materials.

Rolf Bargmann and Dr. Hans H. Anger are research
assistants in the department of educational psychology.
Mr. Bargmann is also the school’s statistician. Both Mr.
Bargmann and Dr. Anger spent a year in the United
States on Rockefeller fellowships studying American
testing and sampling methods with leading testing or-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
ganizations and testing authorities in New York, Prince-
ton, Washington, Chicago, Stanford and Detroit.

The statute creating the Institute cites its purposes:

1. To engage in educational research, publish its re-
sults and use them for the improvement of education.

2. To promote advanced preparation. of specialists in
educational research and to prepare persons for special
tasks in education, school administration and super-
vision.

3. To advise and assist educators and educational
organizations in the conduct of educational research
studies as well as in the utilization of the results of such
Studies, and to cooperate with other German, foreign
and international agencies and organizations in the con-
duct of comparative studies in education.

4. To promote the theoretical and practical introduc-
tion of teachers in all types of schools to the methods of
educational research.

N AN ADDRESS entitled “The Need for Research in

German Education,” made at the foundation day cel-
ebration of the Institute, Mr. Hylla noted some of the
gaps in German education. Quoting the words of Johann
G. Herder, one of Germany’s great educators, that “ed-
ucation is self-discipline, example, and in addition
nothing but love,” Mr. Hylla stated these qualities of a
teacher, essential as they are, are not enough, for “they
must be supplemented by deep insight into the in-
dividuality of each student, and by a clear understand-
ing of the social task of the school and education in
general.”

Though insight and understanding are lacking every-
where, they are certainly lacking in Germany, he stated,
adding that “without clear understanding of the func-
tions which education should serve, the ends to be
achieved, and the way children learn, his (the teacher’s)
efforts may be only partially effective and of doubtful
value.”

Insight and understanding. are based on pertinent
facts, and in too many cases these pertinent facts are not
known, he continued, declaring “what is needed to dis-
cover these facts in the field of education is educational
research.” Pointing out “there is almost no research of
this type in German education,” Mr. Hylla listed the
reasons for the lack of this kind of research as the lim-
ited finances of the universities, the Hitler regime which
deprived Germany of free and unprejudiced contact
with other countries, a negative attitude toward empir-
ical research as a valid basis for the solution of educa-
tional problems, and the cultural differences between
nations.

AMPLIFYING HIS fourth reason, Mr. Hylla explained
the essential tasks of the Institute. The results of
research, especially in the fields of education and social
science in general, reached in one country may not be
applicable to another country because the historical

INFORMATION BULLETIN

background, the social structure and educational system
and the educational problems of the individual nations
are different. There is no essential difference between
the physical reaction of an American, an Englishman
and a German to penicillin, but the reaction to pedagog-
ical facts and methods is often very different in different
countries. It is, therefore, necessary not only. to become
familiar with the results of education] research reached
in other countries; it is necessary to examine them crit-
ically in view of the German situation before they are
applied in Germany.

The first major task of the Institute is to discover facts
about German education and methods for their use in
Germany.

The second important task of the Institute is the
teaching of research and the making known through
publications the results of research.

The international character of the Institute is found in
its activities in the field of comparative education. Ger-
man knowledge about education in European countries
is so “incomplete, theoretical and subjective that it is
neither of any practical use nor of value in the devel-
opment of a common European understanding.” Study-
ing the educational systems of other countries should
lead to this kind of understanding and to an improve-
ment of German institutions.

NOTHER PROBLEM of basic importance is educa-

tional guidance, especially the development of
methods of discovering and describing individual dif-
ferences. Objective and reliable methods for this pur-
pose are almost wholly lacking in Germany. The last
somewhat standardized German revision of the Binet
test was made 20 years ago and is now out of date. Cul-
tural autonomy of the German states leads to variations
in the German school systems. For this reason group
tests for measuring achievement at all levels of the
schools are more indispensable than ever. Such’ tests,
with the exception of very modest beginnings, do not
exist in Germany today.

The Institute is also to carry on research in the field
of curriculum and textbooks, examining the subject
matter offered and the methods which are used in Ger-
man schools, and determining which no longer have the
values they once may have had and which should be
replaced by other subject matters and methods better
adjusted to present and future needs.

The Institute of International Educational Research is
the answer to the desire for some changes, providing
at the same time a scientific and democratic method in
bringing them about. The Germans now have the mate-
rials and resources to select objects for study and to
find the facts about these objects; they now have the
means and equipment to examine critically and test ob-
jectively the suggestions for changes and the claims for
alternatives. The Germans may now find out for them-
selves the validity of a more democratic approach to ed-

Continued on page 3

OCTOBER 1952

--- Page 10 ---
The 100th anniversary of the arrival of Carl Schurz in the United States was observed at an
inspiring ceremony in Paul’s Church in Frankfurt Sept. 17. Schurz, after involvment in the un-
succesful German revolution of 1848, left in 1852 for the United States where he became a Union
general in the Civil War, a US senator from Missouri and secretary of the interior. At the centen-
nial ceremony sponsored by the Steuben-Schurz Society of Frankfurt, the principal speakers were
Mr. Donnelly, Franz Bluecher, German vice chancellor, and Dr. Walter Kolb, mayor of Frankfurt.

The Legacy of Carl Schurz

Address
By Walter J. Donnelly

US High Commissioner for Germany

H™ IN the Paul’s Church, rebuilt upon the frame
and foundation of the past, we get a feeling that
Germany’s opportunities for the future are excellent,
despite the challenges, present and pending, which sur-
round us.

Let us remember where we are: Within a few hundred
yards of your famous cathedral; across the street from
the world-renowned Roemer, symbol of the medieval
majesty of Frankfurt and trade-mark of your city; only
a few steps away from the birthplace of your greatest
literary figure, Goethe; close to acres of devastation
caused by the war, and within sight of many new build-
ings. We seem to be at a point in space and time which
represents Germany’s past, present and future.

In such a setting and with such a frame of mind, I
am grateful for the opportunity of bringing the greet-
ings of my government to this audience and for the
privilege of following the remarks of your mayor and
the vice chancellor with a few comments about Carl
Schurz.

T IS PLEASANT also to report, as we meet here, that

in the United States too the attention of thousands of
persons is being directed to Carl Schurz and his almost
incredible achievements. During the many months of
Preparation for this centennial, your scholars and ours,
I am certain, have devoted much time and research to a
study of the man whose genius and versatility were so
great that they fill us with admiration.

He was a loyal, sensitive German; a school teacher’s son
and a scholar in his own right. Spiritually, he was
related to the heroes who fought to enlarge human
liberty during the revolution in the American colonies
and in France. He fought for a noble cause here — and
lost. Then, like so many others who preceded and fol-
lowed him, he became a reluctant American. Reluctant
in the beginning, because his heart was still in Germany.

But He learned that the struggle for human freedom
goes on continually in every arena and there are op-
Portunities everywhere to fight for the better life. He
absorbed in a period of months a knowledge of Amer-
ica’s history and literature which itself is a measure of
his genius. Within a remarkably short time he emerged

OCTOBER 1952

as a famous editor, lawyer, minister, statesman, general
and secretary. For a man to come to a strange land
where a strange language is spoken and then to become
pre-eminent in six different professions is a career
which can only fill us with wonder.

IKE ALL of you, I am delighted to share in the

heritage of Carl Schurz. In this centennial year the
writers and speakers all over the world quote from Carl
Schurz’ writings or will recount his achievements — from
immigrant to minister in less than 10 years — from
beginner to master of the written English language in
the same brief period — from hesitant conversationalist
to famous orator — all in so short a time. But he was
also a warm and friendly human being who knew and
endured suffering; whose greatest desire was neither
for glory nor for recognition for himself, but rather a

Mr. Donnelly delivering address at Carl Schurz centennial

--- Page 11 ---
determination to make life easier and happier for the
common man.

We all know what happened to the democratic revolu-
tion in 1848. Generations later it appeared to be only
a footnote to your history. Political unity came to Ger-
many. The industrial revolution made this a great in-
dustrial country. In the age of imperalism and tech-
nology Germany had become a great world power. It
was not immediately evident that the road her leaders
had chosen would engulf Germany in two disastrous
world wars.

We can only wonder how different Germany’s history
* might have been if Schurz and his friends had succeeded
100 years ago.

ODAY, WE SEE Germany arising from the ashes

of the catastrophe brought about by Nazism. We are
impressed by the desire of the vast majority of Ger-
mans to establish here a country which is democratic,
economically sound and dedicated to friendly interna-
tional cooperation — the sort of country which Carl
Schurz tried to establish here 100 years ago. The world
is watching with great fascination the operation of your
new Federal Republic. It is watching Germany assume
the rights of full partnership in the free world. But it
is watching also to see whether Germany will now
assume her just share of the political responsibilities
which are ever the burden of all democracies. This latter
task is something which your people must undertake of
their own free will.

If Carl Schurz were alive today he would probably
not come to the United States. It is my impression that
he would find here in Germany a challenge for his great
powers which would induce him to devote his life to
creating the kind of nation about which he dreamed in
1852.

He would sense, instantly, I am certain, that the grim
cost of the last war to Germany was not only in the
millions who lost their lives; not only in the devastation
which has left many areas desolate. Schurz would know
that Germany must regain the respect in which this
land had been held for centuries as a result of the
achievements of her composers, musicians, painters.
writers, scientists and philosophers.

MODERN Carl Schurz would happily dedicate his

life to the establishment of the spiritual and social
scene which would make Germany a gathering place for
men of good will and constructive purpose from all over
the world.

Schurz would also realize from his firm grasp of
history and from his love of freedom that Communism
and Nazism are twin children of totalitarianism to be
fought with all the weapons of reason, and he would
wish to stay here to prevent their resurgence.

He would discover a great many things which would
delight him. For one thing, he would see in Bonn — the
city where he was a student and where he began his
revolutionary activities — the seat of a federal republic.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Examining Schurz display (left to right) Mayor Kolb, Mr,

Donnelly, Vice Chancellor Bluecher. (PLB-ID HICOG photo)

He would, I believe, look at the national constitution
and find it to be inspiring. He would see in your leg-
islative halls representatives who were as determined
as he to establish here an enduring democracy and carry
out the will of the people.

Carl Schurz would find no unanimity of agreement
about how the new government should be strengthened
but he would find, for the most part, persons who held
honest and honorable differences of opinion as to how
the goals should be obtained. The important thing he
would discover, I am sure, is that his countrymen are
determined that democracy in Germany must work; that
it should be a united nation; that it should unite with
other free nations in the great and enduring enterprise
of the democratic world. Schurz, I am sure, would be
inspired by the first and most impressive manifestation
of Europe’s desire for union and peace, the Schuman
Plan and by its assembly’s meeting in Strasbourg to
draft the first European constitution.

He would see, as all of us observe, that Germans have
lost neither the desire to create nor the will to work.
We would be awed, I am certain, at the speed at which
reconstruction is taking place.

AM CERTAIN that Carl Schurz would also rejoice

at the number of persons who are going abroad to
study and learn from the best there is of Western
civilization. I think also, when he learned how many
million Germans had emigrated to the States between
1848 and 1932, he would regret the loss which the home-
land sustained in persons of genius and talent and of
democratic instincts. .

At the same time, I believe he would have found in
the German contribution to American democracy proof
that democracy can flourish here. And, I believe, he
would help his government to inspire its leading scholars

Continued on page 12

OCTOBER 1952

acini iat tea

ee

--- Page 12 ---
Dr. Loehr has written a monograph, entitled “The West German Banking System”, covering the devel-
opment of the financial institutions in western Germany since the end of World War II. It is one
of the series of studies being published by the Historical Division, HICOG. Its distribution will be
made in the near future. From material assembled for the monograph, Dr. Loehr, who is on leave
from his position as associate professor of history at the University of Minnesota and was in
1943-45 history Officer for the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, has written the following article for the
Information Bulletin, reviewing one of the most vital phases in Germany’s postwar monetary record.

Currency Reform after Four Years

A Review

by Dr. Rodney C. Loehr

Special Historian, Historical Division
Office of the Executive Secretary, HICOG

NLY SEVEN years after the end of the war, the

Deutsche mark is considered one of the “hard”
currencies in the world today, and Germany’s surpluses
in the European Payments Union are almost an embar-
rassment.* Much of the credit for this spectacular re-
covery goes to German human and material resources
and to the economic aid furnished by the United States,
but the magic lamp. that changed the situation overnight
was the currency reform in the early summer of 1948.

When the nazi regime was overthrown, German
finances were in staggering disorder. Germanys’ total
national debt had shot up from 31 billion reichsmarks
in March 1939 to 800 or 900 billion marks by April 1945.
At the same time Germany’s real wealth had fallen
from 370 billion marks to about 250 billion, and produc-
tion had dropped to appproximately 30 percent of the
1936 level.

Of even greater immediate significance was the tre-
mendous rise in the supply of money. During the decade
1935-1945 currency in actual circulation jumped from
about 5 billion marks to 50 or 60 billion, and bank de-
posits climbed from 30 billion marks to somewhere be-
tween 150 and 240 billion. Thus, 200 to 300 billion reichs-
marks were immediately available to buy a social pro-
duct estimated at 35 billion reichsmarks in terms of 1945
Prices.

T= INFLATIONARY dangers involved in this situa-
tion were recognized by Allied and German experts.
As early as November 1945, an American plan was pla-
ced before the Allied Control Authority, but it proved
impossible to get Four Power approval for any currency
reform program. Since under the Potsdam Agreement
Germany was to be treated as an economic unit, and
since a currency-reform program in one zone only would
recognize the breakdown of Allied unity and suggest the

“The EPU report for August showed the Federal Republic of
Germany had a surplus of $37,000,000,

OCTOBER 1952

partition of Germany, the Western Powers were reluc-
tant to introduce a currency-reform program that would
not cover the whole country. However, after the Soviet
representatives walked out of the Allied Control Council
in March 1948 and refused to participate in quadripar-
tite rule, the way was cleared for tripartite currency
reform.

Meanwhile, the situation in western Germany had not
developed according to the pattern of past inflations.
The Allies had kept price controls and strict rationing
and had levied very high taxes in an effort to absorb
excess purchasing power. Prices of rationed commodities
remained stable for the portion that flowed through
the legal market, but an increasing part of the social
product entered the black market where barter became
the normal method of exchange. Under a barter system
money lost its meaning, and since each barter transac-

Definition of Terms

“Billion” as used in this article has the Ameri-
can meaning of “thousand-million” as different
from the English and German meaning of “mil-
lion-million” for the same word.

“Reichsmark was the monetary unit of Germany
prior to the Occupation and continued in circula-
tion until June 18, 1948. Its value was equal at par
to 23.8 cents, as established by law in 1924, and
later increased to 40.33 cents.

“Allied Military mark” was the paper currency
introduced by the Occupation Forces at the end
of the war for payments to Occupation personnel
and purchases in Allied installations. For this
Furpese, it was replaced in mid-1946, i.e. the
Military Payment Certificate for Americans.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
tion was unique, there was no price system in the black
market. Because money was only of limited usefulness,
there was little incentive for its accumulation.

HE AVERAGE worker, for example, was better off if

he worked only long enough to get funds to cover
the purchases allotted by his ration card and then spent
the rest of his time working in his garden, “scrounging”
in the countryside or trading in the black market. The
resulting absenteeism further reduced production.

The average businessman also had little incentive to
produce for the legal market. Larger profits led only to
higher taxes which in some cases mounted to more than
100 percent of annual income. Taxes on such a scale led
to tax evasion, hoarding and barter. The businessman’s
incentive was to hoard raw material and workers and
to keep his business alive for the day when money again
had some meaning.

Hanging over all was the great mass of bank deposits,
untouched by taxes and only partially blocked by con-
trols. As long as these bank deposits could be drawn
upon to feed hidden inflationary fires, no system of con-
trols, rationing and income taxes could dispel the danger.
Currency reform must cover not only actual currency in
circulation but also the “over-hang” of bank deposits
and the swollen government debts.

FTER THE establishment of the Bank deutscher

Laender (Bank of German States) and the withdrawal
of the Soviet Union from the Allied Control Council in
March 1948, the Western Powers were in a position to
introduce the long-awaited currency reform. The orig-
inal American proposal had envisaged an exchange of
old reichsmark for new currency at a rate of 10 for 1,
tax-reform measures and an equalization of war bur-
dens. Only part of this plan was used, that dealing with
currency conversion. A few elements from the German
“Homburg” plan, which envisaged the blocking of bank

accounts instead of currency conversion, were added to
the American plan.

Under the plan that was finally adopted, all currency
was converted and bank deposits were partially con-
verted and partially blocked. An important matter was
the conversion rate, since the rate would determine the
amount by which currency and bank deposits were re-
duced. A rate of 10 percent had been planned, but after
two grants of head money and the release of a fraction
of the blocked accounts, it was decided to freeze the con-
version at 6.5 percent. The reason for the revised rate
was that, following currency conversion, a threat to
internal financial stability developed which the original
rate would have further encouraged. At the rate adopted,
currency and bank deposits were reduced by 93.5 per-
cent.

The effects of this drastic money deflation bordered
on the miraculous. The reform had been indroduced on
a weekend in the middle of June 1948.* Economic de-
terioration stopped practically overnight, and production
began to rise. Goods that had not been seen in the legal
market for years were in shop windows within a few
days. Money incentive reappeared, and the black market
was dealt a severe blow.

UT THE EFFECTS were not uniform. People whose

property had been in savings or money accounts
saw their holdings nearly wiped out, but those whose
property had been in goods or real estate were not
touched. The aged, infirmed or sick who depended upon
pensions, old people’s homes or insurance policies were
dealt a terrific blow. Businessmen now found themsel-
ves short of middle and long-term credit. Another dif-
ficulty was that currency reform maintained the rela-
tionship between prices and wages that had been frozen
by the Nazis in 1936 and continued after the war. In

*First public announcement was made in radio broadcasts
and at press conferences at 6 p.m., Friday, June 18, effective
Sunday, June 20.

Germans lined up in late June 1948 to get their first installment of DM 40 for old reichsmark: (left) in Berlin
(photos by US Army and Byers, JEIA)

(right) in a Ruhr school house at Duisburg-Hamborn.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 14 ---
foreign markets prices had: moved freely during those
years. As a result, some German prices were too high
and others were too low in relation to foreign prices.

Banks had likewise been hurt by the currency reform.
Their liabilities in the form of deposits had been re-
duced, but the bulk of their assets, consisting of claims
against the Nazi Reich, were lost. In order to provide
banks with assets to balance against their deposit liabil-
ities, “equalization claims” were created. These were
claims against the states or the Federal Republic that
could be transferred only under special circumstances
and that bore three percent interest.

At first currency reform was not extended to Berlin
which was still under Four Power control. However,
efforts to reach agreement with the Soviet Union con-
cerning currency reform for Berlin were unsuccessful.
The Russians took the position that Berlin was econom-
ically part of the Soviet Zone and that they alone would
issue and manage the currency for Berlin as a whole.
To have endorsed such a proposition would have meant
the loss of Berlin by the three Western Powers.

W BEN THE SOVIET authorities sought to include
Berlin in their currency reform program, the
Western Powers were forced to reject the Soviet claims
and to proclaim a currency-reform program of their
own in the week following currency reform in the
western zones. The way was left open for a compromise
with the Russians when it was provided that East marks
would be accepted at par with Deutsche marks for cer-
tain specified purposes. Since East marks rapidly depre-
ciated in value and yet had to be accepted at par, it
became necessary to subsidize certain activities from the
Berlin city budget. The existence of two legal currencies
also caused bookkeeping difficulties for businessmen. This
situation was ended in March 1949 when the Deutsche
mark was made the sole legal tender for the western
sectors of Berlin.

Currency reform in its technical features involved the
substitution of a new kind of money for that already in
circulation. The old paper money, whether reichsmark,
rentenmark or Allied Military mark, no longer was
legal tender, but only waste paper. Perhaps the most
interesting of the technical problems was the value to
be placed on the mark in relation to other currencies,
Particularly the dollar.

Since the new mark had not been defined in terms of
gold or tied to a particular currency, it could not auto-
matically be translated into other currencies. For some
years following Germany’s surrender, the reichsmark
had had no fixed value and did not function as an inter-
national currency. Then in May 1948, just prior to cur-
rency reform, a 30-cent mark was established for
imported foodstuffs. At the time of currency reform, the
30-cent rate was made the uniform conversion factor,
although deviations were still authorized

The 30-cent rate for the mark had been set after com-
Paring German internal and world market prices. Prices

OCTOBER 1952

Lt. Col. Edward J. Drinkert, then finance adviser of OMG
Wuerttemberg-Baden, observed some of the old reichs-
marks being ground into pulp. After being turned in for
the new Deutsche marks, the reichsmarks, with a face
value totaling 1,800,000,000 marks collected in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, were processed into mimeograph paper for
the bank. (OMGWB photo)

of controlled items in Germany gave a 40- to 60-cent
value to the mark. But uncontrolled prices could be
adjusted to world prices, and it was considered that a
30-cent mark, although it would increase the price of
foodstuffs, would give the best competitive rate for the
mark.

Y SEPTEMBER 1948, rumors of coming European

currency devaluations led to a study of the position
of the mark if general devaluation should take place. If
Germany maintained the value of its currency, its
money would become more expensive in comparison
with the devalued currencies and its export position
would be weakened. If its currency was devalued to the
same degree as others, it would keep its competitive
position with these currencies and strengthen its com-
petitive export position with non-devalued currencies.
A devalued mark, however, would increase the internal
German prices of commodities imported from non-
devaluing countries. Since most of the food imports
came from the dollar area, a devalued mark would
either increase the price of food and the cost of living
or involve subsidies, which in turn would raise taxes.

In solving this dilemma, the basic premise of the
experts was that West Germany must achieve a very
large increase in exports before the end of 1951, if its
economy was to become viable. West Germany’s greatest
competitors were the West European industrial nations,
and if these countries, particularly Great Britain, de-
valued their currencies, it was recommended that West
Germany should devalue its currency by approximately
the same amount.

On Sept. 18, 1949, Great Britain devalued sterling by
30.5 percent in terms of the dollar. Countries in the
sterling area, including Denmark, Norway, Sweden and
the Netherlands, quickly followed. Other continental

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
nations soon devalued their currencies, but by smaller
percentages. France, which had a double-decker ex-
change rate, established a single rate that represented
a devaluation of 22.2 percent. The problem for West
Germany now was not the question of devaluation, but
the amount that the mark was to be sliced. After
study the Allied High Commission announced that it
would not object if the Federal Government established
a rate of 4.2 marks to the dollar, a devaluation of
20.6 percent.

URRENCY REFORM was probably the most im-

portant single economic reform of the postwar
period. All accounts agree that it arrested overnight the
growing decay of the German economy. Its effects bor-
dered on the miraculous. Before currency reform Ger-
many was rapidly sinking into a barter economy and
headed for the primitive standard of living that such
an economy entails. With currency reform Germany
regained overnight a modern exchange economy, with
the ease of exchange of goods and services and the
stimulation to production that a money economy rep-
resents.

Although the American share in currency reform was
not a modest one, the reform was planned and executed
through the cooperative action of the three Western
Powers and the German authorities. There were two
phases to currency reform: the decision to reform the
currency, and the technical details of the conversion.
The need for currency reform had been recognized
immediately upon the start of the Occupation. But dif-
ferences of opinion among the Four Powers and the
impossibility of instituting the reform in the western
zones alone without seeming to recognize a permanent
split between East and West had delayed matters until
the Russian withdrawal from the Control Council. Once
the Russians had ended all pretense at Allied unity, it
became possible for the Western Powers to initiate
reforms without the hazard of a Russian veto. Even so,
the decision to proceed with currency reform was a
courageous act, for Russian reaction could not be wholly
foreseen.

HE PRINCIPAL technical problem of currency

reform was the conversion rate to be chosen. In real-
ity the conversion rate determined the percentage by
which the money supply would be reduced. There were
no exact standards of measurement that would automat-
ically select the correct rate. The choice of rates was
fundamentally a political decision, based upon the advice
and judgement of the experts. It would be possible, of
course, to argue that some other rate should have been
chosen. But the real question is not whether the best
possible rate was chosen, for no one can say with exact-
itude what the best possible rate was, but rather
whether the rate chosen accomplished the desired result.
Judged on this basis, currency reform was a spectacular
success. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Bibliography

Listed below are articles published in the Information
Bulletin concerning postwar currency situation in Ger-
many and the inauguration of currency reform in 1948.

Financial Policy in Occupied Germany, No. 3, Aug. 11, 1945.
Statement of policy, objectives and functions.

Inflation, No. 22, Dec. 22, 1945. Analysis of possibility of inflation.

Can a Potentially Dangerous Focus of Resistance be Eliminated
by Price Control?, No. 29, Feb. 16, 1946. Resume of reports
on black market and price control.

The Black Market, No. 37, April 15, 1946. Summary of public
opinion survey.

The Specter of Inflation, No. 41, May 13, 1946. Summary of
public opinion surveys by the Information Control Division,
OMGUS.

Finance, No. 59, Sept. 16, 1946. Outline of US plan in series of
proposed Central German agencies.

Financial Intelligence, No. 72, Dec. 16, 1946. Review by Frede-
rick C. Dirks, chief of Statistical Research Unit, Finance
Division, OMGUS, of task of uncovering and tracing German
finances.

Stagnant Inflation, No. 94, May 26, 1947. Analysis of currency
and prices.

Marks Still Legal Currency, No. 104, Aug. 4, 1947. Summary of
amendment to MG currency law.

Germany’s Unhealthy Economy, No. 121, Dec. 1,
illustrating need for currency reform.

The Black Market and Barter Deals, No. 128, Feb. 10, 1948. Re-
view of current situation.

The Food Strikes, No. 135, April 20, 1948. Review by Nels Ander-
son, consultant, Manpower Division, OMGUS, of demonstra-
tion against high prices and food shortages.

Currency Reform, No. 138, June 29, 1948. Description with texts
of official statements on introduction, June 20, 1947, of new
currency.

Stabilization Necessary Now, No. 138, June 29, 1948. Statement
by Jack Bennett, financial adviser, OMGUS, on inauguration
of currency reform.

Reform Forsters Recovery, No. 138, June 29, 1948. Statement by
Sir Cecil Weir, economic adviser, Control Commission for
Germany (British Element), on inauguration of currency
reform.

Money Reform Clears Way for New Start, No. 140, July 27,
1948. Summary of German opinion.

Protests Raised against High Prices, No. 143, Sept. 7, 1948. Sum-
mary of German actions.

Impact of Currency Reform, No. 145, Oct. 5, 1948. Review of
first six months of operation.

Workers’ Families Conserve New Marks, No. 145, Oct. 5, 1948.

Large Cash Deposits Held by Banks, No. 148, Nov. 16, 1948.

Bank deutscher Laender, No. 152, Jan. 11, 1949. Review of forma-
tion of banking system.

Finance Adviser Ends MG Service, No. 153, Jan. 25, 1949. State-
ment by Jack Bennett, retiring finance adviser, OMGUS,
reviewing finances under occupation control.

DM Shows Strength, No. 154, Feb. 8, 1949. Value compared with
Swiss franc.

DM Value Not Given in Outside Exchanges, No. 159, April 19,
1949. Warning against “hot” money.

1947. Review

The Legacy of Carl Schurz

Continued from page 8

and scientists to devote their energies to rebuilding their
homeland.

We are gathered here this morning to honor Carl
Schurz’ memory and achievements. He has left us 4
legacy of ideas and ideals. His deeds have won him
immortality. It is proper that we should pause from our
daily duties and count the blessings — as Germans and
Americans — which we have been granted because this
great man lived and because our two countries shared
his genius. +END

OCTOBER 1952

--- Page 16 ---
German-American Friendship

— for the Price of a Stamp

by Paul R. Phillips

Information Officer, Public Affairs Field Center, Kassel

“Larned, Kansas, and Witzenhausen, Germany,
have established a contact that promises to ripen
into one of those community friendships that is the
objective of the UNESCO Town Affiliation program”.
The Daily Tiller and Toiler, Larned, Kansas, March
24, 1952.

“Within the past few weeks an active exchange of
correspondence has developed between Witzenhausen
and Larned, Kansas, which will soon tie a strong
bond between these two cities separated by a great
ocean.” Werra Nachrichten, Witzenhausen, Hesse,
Germany, April 5, 1952.

Te WORDS from the local newspapers in an Ame-
rican and German town are only a few among the
thousands that have appeared in the press in recent
months about the newly-found friendship between Ger-
mans and Americans who are making international
relations a matter of personal concern. Although the
stimulus for this town-to-town and person-to-person
exchange of “diplomatic notes” originated with the
Larned UNESCO group, the people of Larned are now
having trouble matching letter for letter with their
enthusiastic correspondents in Witzenhausen who live
in northern Hesse but not many miles from the Soviet
Zone of Germany.

About two years ago a housewife member of the
Larned UNESCO group wrote the letter which tied the
first bond between the 724-year-old town of Witzen-
hausen and the city on the Kansas plains. The house-
wife received her inspiration for the project through an
organization known as “Operation Democracy.” This
organization’s main purpose is to facilitate direct con-

Group of letter-writers in Witzenhausen view films of
(photo by Thiermann, Witzenhausen)

Larned.

tacts between American and European communities to
promote friendly understanding and cultural exchanges.
Small UNESCO groups, like the one in Larned, have
taken it upon themselves to put into practice this pro-
gram of carrying “the man-in-the-street Voice of Ame-
rica” to the communities of Europe. If the Larned-
Witzenhausen exchange-of-correspondence project can
be taken as an example, the program has already achiev-
ed great success in accomplishing this purpose.

The Witzenhausen group has taken its task of develop-
ing its new American friendships seriously. Werner
Grosskopf, the dynamic manager of Witzenhausen’s
Adult Education Association, has made his office the
clearing-house for the community’s letter exchange with
the citizens of Larned. When the project began in
earnest in the spring of this year, Mr. Grosskopf col-
lected names of persons in Witzenhausen who wanted to
exchange news and ideas with the townsfolk of Larned.
He soon had collected the names of more than one
hundred persons, young and old alike. These names he
sent to Mrs. Edwin Doll, the housewife in Larned, for
distribution to those in her community who were inte-
rested in making German friends. At the same time Mrs.
Doll sent Mr. Grosskopf a list of names of people in
Larned who wanted to exchange letters with the “buer-
gers” of Witzenhausen.

Within the past several months the letters from
Larned have been arriving in ever increasing numbers
in Witzenhausen. So that all those in Witzenhausen re-
ceiving letters can share with each other their contents,
Mr. Grosskopf has organized meetings twice a month
for reading the incoming mail. Characteristic of the deep
sense of purpose behind these biweekly meetings of the
“Letter Club” are the invitations to the meetings sent
to all members. For the meeting of June 30 the invita-
tion showed a map of Kansas, with the adjoining states
of Oklahoma and Missouri, and with a big black dot
labeled “Larned.” Opposite the map was a square label
“Witzenhausen.” Between the black dot and the square
were drawn a number of lines, symbolically represent-
ing the bonds of friendship between the people of the
two communities.

The invitation to the August 2 meeting was equally
impressive as an indication of the value attached to the
“letters from America” by the Witzenhausen group. This
time Witzenhausen was represented as a medieval castle
and Larned as the Statue of Liberty. Between the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
Member of Witzenhausen’s “Letter Club” reads letters

from friend in Larned. (photos by author)

castle and the Statue of Liberty were again drawn lines
representing the bonds of friendship between the two
communities. On the invitation was written, in part, the
following:

“To all friends of the ‘Letter Club’ — Please bring
your letters from Larned and be prepared to discuss how
we can increase our correspondence in the future. In
order to increase our knowledge about the United States.
we will as usual see several films about America.”

The invitation ended with the following words: “The
constant exchange of good-will and ideas will bring the
nations of the earth closer and closer together. Coopera-
tion is the best way to common understanding, to be-
come good friends, and to maintain peace.”

The several newspapers that appear in Witzenhausen
have made an important contribution to making the
“friendship through letters” program a success both in
Witzenhausen and Larned. Articles have appeared reg-
ularly during the past several months, giving progress
reports on the project's latest developments. On two
occasions articles explaining the program and its pur-
poses, the UNESCO organization in Larned that spon-
sors the American side of the operation, and describing
Larned with text and pictures have covered more than
a third of a page in two of the local papers. Since only
one page in these two papers is devoted to local news
daily, such coverage gives an idea of Witzenhausen’s
interest in their friends in Larned.

The Larned newspaper, The Daily Tiller and Toiler,
has been no less interested in the letter exchange pro-
ject than its counterparts in Witzenhausen. Periodically
articles have appeared in the Larned newspaper review-
ing the UNESCO group’s progress to bring Germany and
America closer together through direct contacts. At
other times the newspaper has published lists of names
of persons in Witzenhausen who are still looking for

INFORMATION BULLETIN

correspondence partners, and has featured the beautiful
old town of Witzenhausen both in words and pictures.

The project recently produced an unexpected develop-
ment which has served to tie the two communities more
closely together. Earl Kruger of Larned, presently sta-
tioned in Wiesbaden, Germany, with the US Air Force,
made a three-day visit to Witzenhausen to meet thé
persons with whom his neighbors were exchanging let-
ters. He was treated like a long-lost relative and for
three days was shown all there was to see in and around
the picturesque city of Witzenhausen.

A special meeting of the “letter club” was called and
the “Kansas ambassador” spent an evening with Larned’s
Witzenhausen friends answering questions about his
home town. His trip to Witzenhausen was covered thor-
oughly by the local press and was written up also in the
Stars and Stripes, the Army newspaper in Germany, and
in the Wiesbaden Post, the Air Force local newspaper.

While Earl’s visit brought something of Larned to
Witzenhausen, the Witzenhausen group is working on
a scheme to reciprocate by sending a tape recording of
their voices, in greetings and in songs, to Larned. With
the help of John Healy, director of the Eschwege Amer-
ica House and the center’s tape recorder, a “talking
letter” will be sent to Larned together with several of
the folk songs common to the Witzenhausen area as
sung by members of the letter club.

This plan and the many others which are being devel-
oped by the groups in Witzenhausen and Larned to
foster mutual understanding indicate the desire of the
two communities to make their recently established
friendship one of long duration. Judging by the activi-
ties of the past few months, the two towns should
enjoy a long and close relationship. +END

Earl Kruger (second from left), from Larned, stationed
at Wiesbaden, visits Witzenhausen’s landmarks with
Werner Grosskopf (left), leader in letter exchange idea.

OCTOBER 1952

--- Page 18 ---
The principal address before the German Federal Parliament (Bundestag), in Bonn Sept. 7 in ob-
servance of the third anniversary of the first session of the highest elected legislative body in
Germany was delivered by its president, Dr. Ehlers. Below is a condensed translation of the text
of the address as published in the official Bulletin of the Federal Government. The translation is
by Dr. Frank H. Jonas and Dr. Liselotte Goldbeck of the editorial staff of the Information Bulletin.

For a Free and United Germany

Translation of Address

by Dr. Hermann Ehlers

President of the German Federal Parliament

ORE THAN ANY other nation we are being asked

today if we really have an inner justification to
celebrate a national commemorative holiday. In fixing
this day with substantial reserve, the Federal Govern-
ment did not proclaim a national holiday, though one
can hardly draw a fine line in such cases. Nations need
discernable and clear outlines for their national events.
Other nations have been more fortunate in the choice of
national commemorative days, because they have had
events in their national history that naturally lend
themselves to such observation. I am thinking of the day
of the destruction of the Bastille in Paris and of the
Declaration of Independence of the 13 colonies in North
America...

In this respect, as in many other matters, we in Ger-
many have been even worse off in our recent history.
One must conclude that, after a considerable lapse of
time, the attempts of the Weimar Republic to make
August 11, 1919 a national holiday met with little or no
success. We owe it to ourselves and to the German
people to explain why this happened. Certainly the fault
did not lie in the quality of the Weimar constitution.
Though one may criticize it for this or that, in general
one must say that if it could have been carried out
without disturbance and if it had not been undermined
at its foundations from the very beginning by the most
diverse forces, it could have provided the basis for a

Continued on page 16

On the occasion of the Sept. 7 commemoration, Prof.
Theodor Heuss, president of the German Federal Re-
public, made the following statement which was publish-
ed in the Bulletin of the Federal Government.

W: DO NOT know yet if the seventh of September
will be wedded to the conscience of the German
people, so that it becomes self-evident to celebrate it in
thankfulness. It lacks the dramatic accent of history. We
ourselves would wish that after the Germans had been
Presented an excess in dramatics and theatrics ending in
a wildly composed national tragedy, they would regain
a feeling that, according to Hoelderlin’s words, sobriety,
too, and particularly sobriety, is “holy.” We do not mean
the sobriety of an unimaginative philistine, rather that
of a man who approaches his daily duties and their re-
alization with clear consciousness.

When the German Federal Parliament, which was
chosen by the people in a free election, met on Sept. 7,
1949, the people of the Federal Republic had created its
first legitimate organ, its spokesman before the world
and the administrator of its fate, as far as this can be
encompassed by laws. That was an extremely important
and incisive step after the distress, sorrow and the
historical doubtfulness of the precedents. We are well
aware of the visionaries who expected far too much

OCTOBER 1952

and the discontented whose silent but at times also
noisy scorn accompanied the beginning. One must not
become confused either by the resentments of those
who were disappointed or by the cheap polemics of those
who would like to come to the forefront again.

Although some points in the events and the decisions
of these three years will remain debatable in the polit-
ical discussions of the day, an appraisal by history
sometime will emphasize strongly these years. It does
not make too deep an impression on us that abroad
one speaks of the “German miracle,” for we know
that honest admiration and apprehensive astonish-
ment are included in these words. Besides, it is not a
question of a “miracle” but rather of something very
simple and wholly sound, the diligence of the German
himself, of the farmer, the worker, the merchant, the
teacher and the civil servant. And also of the politician!
I think I see a lessening of the stupid talk about the
“people in Bonn.” The professional demagogues, nat-
urally, go on trying to keep it alive. But wherever the
feeling for correct judgment still exists, one will see and
should also admit the great work, which was done dur-
ing these three years by the Federal Parliament, the
Federal Council, the Cabinet, and the experts of the
so-called “ministerial bureaucracy.” +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
For a Free and United Germany

Continued from page 15 |

{
liberal German nation. We should cease to reject super-
ficially the Weimar Republic and its (constitutional)
order... Looking back, we are more willing today than
we were in the years from 1919 to 1933 to recognize that
the establishing of the Weimar Constitution on August
11, 1919 was an extremely significant event in our his-
tory...

DAY WE ARE again confronted with the problem
of justifying a national commemorative day. The
whole problem is brought into the open when (we recall)
that twice during the past three years we have made the
first meeting of this German Federal Parliament (Bun-
destag) and once the election of the president of the
Federal Republic the basis for this day. This change in
reasons could cause one to form the opinion that in this
political situation we had better not celebrate any an-
niversary or holiday at all.

When we recall that almost 20,000,000 persons in the
Soviet occupied zone are required to celebrate the an-
niversary of the establishment of their constitution, and
that it is no accident this day falls on the same day of
the “liberation by the Red army,” then we understand
in what a grotesque and desperate situation we find
ourselves as a whole German people.

For the time being this national commemorative day
can only be a day for the Federal Republic...

The limits in time and substance the Federal Republic
has set for itself are found unequivocally in the Basic
Law. We do not have the least desire to forget this fact.
Anyone who can read the Basic Law feels that the wait-
ing of all Germans for a single German state is vibrating
throughout it from beginning to end...

We cannot foresee what the occasion will be in the
future for a national holiday of a unified Germany. If
we may imagine such an event, it could only be the day
when this unity is granted to us... We Germans have
learned from the misfortune which has befallen us that
a national event would be bad as a basis for national
celebration if it were only national in character and if
it were to seal off one nation from the others. We want
to understand the longed-for event which will restore
our outward unity — for spiritually we have never been
separated — as a contribution to an ever-growing large
community of nations for the benefit and need of all...

HERE IS NO German politician,... who would not

have to understand and realize that the desire for
unity is the most urgent objective of our policy. There
is no defensible political or ideological reason that per-
mits any other political decision. Yet if anyone should
come to any other conclusion, he would exclude himself
from the political community of this people and this
state... But everyone who participates in this discus-
sion (the question of German unity) should know that

INFORMATION BULLETIN

the overwhelming majority of the German people, which
is represented in this body, would understand that a
unity under the terror of the knout would be no unity
but only the final assassination of the German people.
For us the concepts of unity and of inner and outward
freedom are inseparably connected...

Now someone may object, and certainly many will do
so in this instance, that the worst way to further the
idea of unity would be to celebrate a national anniver-
sary of the German Federal Republic. In this way, the
objectors would say, the partition of Germany would be
glorified and celebrated.

Apropos of this argument there is the question of the
spiritual justification for the method we have followed
in building the German Federal Republic... We know
that at first the political will of our people did not create
this state, which includes only a part of Germany; it
resulted from the political and military collapse and
from occupation policy. If some persons outside of Ger-
many had read the book Congress of Vienna, A Study
in Allied Unity by the Englishman Harold Nicholson,
Perhaps the optimistic notion of holding and governing
Germany mutually in political impotence would not
have occurred.

UT WE MUST state that in 1948 for the first time

there appeared the possibility of undertaking a polit-
ical centralization of the three western occupied zones
that would go beyond the narrow confines of the states
and the economic cooperation between the zones.

It can be said today that it would have been extremely
unwise and even irresponsible not to take advantage of
that political prospect. It is to the credit of the min-
isters-president of the West German states and the
members of the Parliamentary Council that despite all
individual problems and doubts they made possible the
inception of a German body politic. At that time they
underscored the provisional nature of this new govern-
ment in many ways, most significantly perhaps by pro-
viding a tempcrary Basic Law instead of a constitution.

We could have already learned from our experience
after the First World War that the self-abnegating and
time-consuming method of gradual and piecemeal re-
construction is the most promising one. Anyone who
would want to tell the German people today that another
method would be more fitting and promise greater suc-
cess would be on the road which we once took to the
ruination of our people...

No one should say that a temporary central political
organization, created for a limited period, does not need

. Political consciousness. No one among us would
want another authoritarian government or a totalitarian
dictatorship .. .

DEMOCRATIC STATE — and we can only conceive

this particular kind of state today — is rooted in the
minds and hearts of its citizens only when they feel that
it exists for their benefit.

OCTOBER 1952

--- Page 20 ---
What this house is charged to do — if it is to do its
duty — is to examine and re-examine what is legal and
what is possible; to modify demands, distinguishing be-
tween what is transient and what is essential; and to
bring about acceptable compromises on what is possible,
and — within this framework — relative justice.

We Germans will still have to strive hard to apply the
concept of democracy in (exercising) our national polit-
ical responsibility as it ought to be applied legally, which
means that each agency of the state which derives its
responsibility from the entire people must remain re-
sponsible to the entire people.

A group of persons who thought they had been treated
unjustly, and who probably were, recently told me that
many of its members were considering joining radical
parties as self-defense. That means self-defense against
this national government and its slowly stabilizing order.

The political interest, which every state must demand
and which our state can also expect, does not include
approval of all the measures taken by the state and its
government. Our constitutional system entitles everyone
to pursue his goals through legal means which are pro-
vided for political behavior, particularly through the
election process .. .

UT THERE WAS more behind that threat; it was the

giving of notice — not made here for the first time
in our generation — to get rid of this state and its order
by force and by radical means in order to achieve the
demands of individuals and groups. This announcement
attacked the established order which was granted to us
because of our common life. A nation which would not
take itself seriously enough to see this would fail to do
the duty entrusted to it. Whoever threatens this national
existence with radicalism and totalitarianism will bring
it onto that road which we have already once trod to
the disaster of the German people. We would have been
very poor students of our recent history if we did not
resist with all the constitutional and legal means at our
disposal the new attempt to establish despotism among
us,

Also, in thinking about the stability of our own dem-
ocratio order, let us not forget for one moment our Ger-
man brothers in the East who are forced to forego all
of these political and civil freedoms which have accrued
for us. Nothing depresses us more than the ever recurr-
ing realization that today we can do very little to help
them. We are convinced that we cannot even remotely
consider force as a means to improve their position,
because we know that only greater disaster would
result for all of us...

Colleagues of the Federal Parliament who are present
at this ceremony can testify that three years ago they
approached a very unpopular task. It would be wrong to
assume that all the blame for the public’s repudiating
anonymously or openly this parliament’s work should
be laid at the door of this particular parliament . . . I do
not think I am wrong in saying that during the past
three years a certain change has taken place among our

OCTOBER 1952

people, at least among those who are willing to learn
and change their minds, in that many have acquired an
understanding for the task and the work of our parlia-
ment.

[oONSIDER IT MOST gratifying that during these
years it was the younger generation rather than the
older people who experienced such a change of mind...
Many a deputy who at first approached his assigned task
with concern and even resignation has been freshly
inspired to do his work with all of his strength, going
even beyond his strength, by his talks with young people
during the past year.

Oft repeated rumors are circulating among our people
that this parliament, either in its election or in its polit-
ical decisions, is not capable to meet the demands that
are put on it.

We do not deny that, not only in Germany but in all
nations of the free world, not even to mention the total-
itarian states, the burning question is whether elections
really provide those persons, charged with legislative
responsibility, including the executive too, whom the
voters really want in the office. It may be that in view
of population figures, density and structure in the mod-
ern state, the time has passed when it seemed possible
at a given time to send to parliament a certain rep-
resentative of a certain number of citizens. I even doubt,
except in small localities perhaps, if the possibiity to do
so has ever really existed. What is possible, however, is
the activation of the political responsibility of the
people,... and the delegation in a legal manner of a
political task which the people, from the standpoint of
mere practicality, is not in a position to fulfill.

WORD MAY BE said at this point about the prob-

lem of the political parties...It is the function of
political parties in our country, as in other nations, to
organize the political will of the people. Anyone who
is charged with public responsibility knows that this
will exists, though quite often ill-defined and unorgan-
ized perhaps, but nevertheless for the most part with
definite objectives. Since constitutionally we have only
one possibility to achieve the political will, and that is
to exercise influence on legislation and the government
under the rules provided for doing so, the political party
is an inescapable necessity for us.

The organization and the work of the various political
parties may invite all kinds of criticism ... But by ob-
serving and checking each other they are still, taken
together, the most effective protection we have against
establishing a monopoly of power by any one group
or party. Therefore, we should not dismiss them so
lightly as is done now and then.

Since the political intent of the people is organized by
the parties, we must take the delegation of the political
responsibility which follows equally seriously. We are
not living under a dictatorship.

Also, it must be clear to the whole people, particularly
in a democratically and legislatively governed state, who

Continued on page 24

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
Cultural Festival
in Berlin

O AND GET yourself a ticket,” advised the Berlin

newspaper Der Tag in its review of the German
premiere of the American folk opera “Porgy and Bess.”
The Berliner Anzeiger exclaimed, “It’s a wow,” and the
Telegraf said, “We do not know where to start and cease
praising.”

These were but a few raves of the almost universal
approval paid by the Berlin theater critics. The public
response was fully as enthusiastic. For each of the 13
performances, the huge Titania Palast was jammed and
the applause was thunderous. In addition, special per-
formances were presented, including one after midnight
for actors and singers of other theatrical attractions in
Berlin, and members of the cast gave generously of their
time and talent for appearances, single or in groups,
throughout free Berlin.

“Porgy and Bess,” with music by the late George
Gershwin, lyrics by DuBose Heyward and Ira Gershwin,
and produced by Robert Breen and Blevins Davis, was
brought to Berlin as one of America’s contributions to
the second Berlin Cultural Festival. In all, ten nations
were represented among the several hundred dramatic
performances, concerts, recitals, sporting events, exhibi-
tions and other cultural attractions presented during the
31-day festival from Aug. 31 to Sept. 30.

NE OF THE biggest hits of the first week of the

festival was the New York City Ballet, whose six
performances brought such comments as “a triumph of
dancing ...a masterpiece, a joy for eyes and ears” Nacht-
depesche; “tremendously fascinating since the entire
corps shows grandiose skill” Der Tagesspiegel; “enthus-
ing... beautiful... ravishing in its elegant precision”
Berliner Anzeiger. Der Tag commented: “We will have
to seek for a long time among German ballét. groups
until we find such a fanatically trained, unique ensem-
ble... What art, what culture, what a harmony of move-
ment, what a virtuous concert of soloists and teams.”

Astrid Varnay, Metropolitan Opera soprano, who has
achieved German acclaim for her roles in last year’s

The chorus of “Porgy and Bess,” led by Eva Jessye, pre-
sents a special concert for refugees at the refugee camp
in Berlin-Tempelhof.

(HICOG Berlin photo by Schubert)

Jebob, the goat which appears at end of “Porgy and Bess”
play, strolls down a Berlin business street with Miss
Price and Mr. Warfield. (HICOG Berlin photo by Schubert)

festival and at the Bayreuth festivals, was enthusiast-
ically received in Wagner’s “Tristan and Isolde,” as was
another Metropolitan soprano, Polyna Stoska, in Verdi’s
“The Force of Destiny” and Richard Strauss’ “Ariadne
auf Naxos.” Among others who demonstrated the finer
attainments of American culture were Eugene Ormandy,
conducting the RIAS Symphony Orchestra; Kenneth
Spencer, baritone; Alexander Brailowsky, guest pianist,
and Adriane Bronne, violinist. Two concerts were given
by the US Army Field Band, currently on tour in Europe.

ILLIAM Warfield and Leontyne Price in the title

roles and band leader Cab Calloway in the role
of “Sportin’ Life” attracted major attention in the “Porgy
and Bess” performances, but as Der Tag put it: “It
would be unjust to cite the names of individual actres-
ses or actors. Each of them deserves highest praise.” In
its review, Der Tag also commented: “None of us has
heard a thing like that... There is action, precision,
rhythm, and there are voices unequaled in the devotion
to the play.”

Telegraf wrote: “It became a triumphant demonstra-
tion of the equality of races and international reconcilia-
tion and thus fulfilled the noblest task art has to per-
form ...The scores breathe original vitality... A ravish-
ing performance...and an overwhelming impression.
turbulent and yet disciplined.”

Berliner Anzeiger: “They act and sing and live their
parts like they breathe and do things they do not have
to learn. These Negroes are not only wonderful singers,
but also born actors... There is an immense vitality.”

OCTOBER 1952

--- Page 22 ---
WIR FOROERN
oe VEREINIGTEN STAATEN von EUROPA

ae

Auditorium of Nibelungen Hall during the concert presented by the US Army Field Band from Washington, D.C.

European Weeks in Passau

ITHIN ITS picturesque setting at the eastern tip of

Bavaria and against a two-thousand-year back-
ground as a trade, religious and cultural center, Passau
brought within sight and hearing of people behind the
Iron Curtain, as well as for the enlightment of visitors
from the West, a panoramic pageant of Western cultural,
entertainment and current issues.

Titled “European Weeks,” the program, lasting from
Aug. 30 to Sept. 21, presented forty events, featuring a
Mozart opera, band and organ concerts, symphony and
chamber music, choral singing, a classical play, a folk
festival, and political speeches on current issues of
national and international significance.

“The unique and singular musical experience for us in
the European Weeks was Mozart's ‘Marriage of Figaro’
which had been promised in its Passau setting,” wrote
Josef Wizina, music critic of the Passauer Neue Presse
after the first of five performances.

T= PRESENTATION of this Mozart opera was in the

same theater in which the first German performance
was staged in 1789, but technical difficulties prevented
use of the original German version of the text. However,
nothing was lost in artistic value and expression, and
the atmosphere was left undisturbed, stated the news-
Paper review.

The individual performances of Willi Domgraf-Fass-
baender as “Figaro,” Hanni Loeser as “Susanne,” Gerola
Moewes as “Cherubim” and others, including Gertrude
Hopf, Stefan Zajedans and Inge Weinzierl, won praise
from the critics and applause from the audiences.

Working .with the opera in all five performances was
the US Seventh Army Symphony’ Orchestra under the
direction of Cpl. Sam Adler. The orchestra’s amiable

OCTOBER 1952

cooperation and efficient playing led the Passauer Neue
Press to say the premiere revealed an “unusally interest-
ing and arresting profile,” and to comment on the fact
that “the instrumental tasks” were entrusted to “an
American military orchestra which had had little prac-
tice in opera music.”

The Passau critic added: “While this uniformed but
undeniably well-informed orchestra played . . . one lis-
tened in amazement to the great deal of severe and un-
mistakably peculiar poetry in the sound emanating from
the orchestra’s direction. All the deviations from tradi-
tional style were accepted willingly. After the brilliantly
played overture, the ‘new style had taken’, and Sam
Adler can claim for himself and his musicians a great
share of the tremendous applause which followed the
D-major finale.”

T= SEVENTH Army Symphony Orchestra partic-
ipated in the festival’s opening day events by giving
a concert of its own, featuring the Schumann Piano Con-
certo, with George Hodjinikos of Greece as soloist. The
soldier orchestra accompanied the Dutch Ballet from
Amsterdam, which the Sueddeutsche Zeitung of Munich
noted approvingly danced “in front of the Iron Curtain.”

Among the numbers were parts of Tschaikowsky’s
“Sleeping Beauty” and an original work “The Street of
Dreams” ‘by the director of the ballet. This was a dif-
ficult work lasting 45 minutes, and even the most op-
timistic in the army orchestra were apprehensive about
its rendition. But the performance was excellent and
drew praise for the orchestra, not only from the au-
dience, but from the cast of the ballet, the first ballerina,
Mascha Stom, calling the music the best she had danced
to.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Other orchestral groups which played later during the
festival weeks were the Bavaria orchestra, which the US
cultural office brought in to replace the renowned RIAS
symphony orchestra when the latter could not come due
to transportation difficulties, and the Augsburg Chamber
Music, which delighted an appreciative audience with a
lovely and precise rendering of the 18th century music
of Scarlatti, Marcello, Locatelli, Telemann and Haendel.

DDITIONAL US representatives on the European

cultural program were the US Army Field Band and
the Winged Victory Choir of the 43rd Infantry Division.
According to the Passauer Neue Presse the 123-piece
military band’s performance met with a “tremendously
enthusiastic” reception. The Winged Victory Choir gave
a repeat Labor Day performance after its previous well-
received rendition on Sunday.

Capacity crowds were drawn by the Vatican Sistine
Chapel Choir of all men’s voices, which sang mostly
Palestrina music; the Marcel Courant choir from Paris
and the Regensburg Domspatzen (cathedral sparrows),
choir of the Regensburg Cathedral.

Individual performances were given by the American
pianist Jacque Abrams, the 23-year old Italian organist
Dr. Luigi Ferdenando Tagliavini, and the Belgian organ-
ist Flors Peters. Daily concerts by Max Tremmer of
Passau were given on the giant church organ, one of the
largest in the world.

The comparing of Passau to Athens by Prof. Eugen
Kogon, one of the many lecturers, took on reality when
the Classical Theater Group of the University of Sor-
bonne in Paris played the Greek tragedy “The Persians”
by Aeschylus, with its admonition to conquerors that
disaster befalls him who would invade another land.

IGH OVER the stage of its spacious civic auditorium,

Nibelungen Hall, where most of the performances
were held, was the slogan, translated from German as
We Stand for a United States of Europe. Instead of re-
senting this political intrusion on a cultural program,
the festival visitors heartily welcomed it,. surprising even
the somewhat skeptical sponsors by turning out 3,000

Winged Victory Chorus of 43rd Div., led by Sgt. Joseph
Baris. (photos by Heiner Duyfjes from America House, Passau)

bs]

ge SRR FF 2 2

= =

Members of Seventh Army Symphony Orchestra sur-
round Hanni Loeser of Vienna who sang the leading role
of Susanne in Mozart opera “The Marriage of Figaro.”

strong to hear Dr. Kogon, president of the European
Union in Germany, speak on the Unification of Europe.

In reviewing this highlight of the lecture program,
which included mainly speakers from Italy, Switzerland
and Holland identified with the European Union move-
ment, the Passauer Neue Presse stated Dr. Kogon pre-
sented “the ideological, historical and political problems
of the movement to unite western Europe” with “great
spiritual elan” and with “sustained and impassioned
eloquence,” and he told the story of the European Union
in a “clear and stirring” manner.

In the same issue, the Passauer published an article by
Beardsley Ruml of New York entitled “America and
European Unification” in its front-page editorial space
usually devoted to the sometimes critical editorials of
H. C. Franz, and of its publisher, Dr. Hans Kapfinger.
The Passauer Neue Presse, largest newspaper in easter
Bavaria, practically dominates the area with 16 local
newspapers under its control.

HIEF PROMOTER of European Weeks in Passau

was the city’s mayor, Dr. Stefan Billinger, whom the
Munich Sueddeutsche Zeitung applauded for making the
festival possible without financial aid from the German
Federal Government and at a nominal expense to the
citizens. The city allocated DM 10,000 (equivalent to
$2,380) and HICOG added a substantial financial con-
tribution. Assistance in planning and organizing the
festival was given by American officials of the US Publi¢e
Affairs Field Center in Regensburg and the America
House in Passau.

When asked if he thought the festival had been a
success and had accomplished its cultural and political
mission, Mayor Billinger answered with a resounding
“yes” and declared the 1952 European Weeks were noW
officially referred to as the first annual European Weeks
in Passau and every effort will be made to continue the
event in 1953. +END

OCTOBER 1952

--- Page 24 ---
In and Around Germany

Goethe Prize Given Zuckmayer

Carl Zuckmayer, German-born au-
thor who has been living in the
United States since 1938, was
awarded the 1952 Goethe prize by
the City of Frankfurt in a ceremony
at Paul’s Church Aug. 28, the birth-
day of Frankfurt’s famed son Johann
Wolfang von Goethe.

The citation reads: “The City of
Frankfurt-on-the-Main awards the
Goethe prize of the year 1952 to the
poet Carl Zuckmayer in appreciation
of his whole poetic work which roots
deeply in the old Main-Rhine cul-
tural area, and which, at the same
time, represents the spirit of a nat-
ural-humane, vital, world-open and
peaceful Germany.”

With: the DM 10,000 ($2,380) prize
Mr. Zuckmayer plans to finance

study visits to foreign countries for
needy younger writers to help them
out of their long-time isolation,
widen their views and regain con-
nection with other cultural develop-
ments in the world. They will be
under no obligation, Mr. Zuckmayer
said after receiving the prize, and
may freely choose their travel route.
This may give them the inspiration
they need, he hoped, although the
selected writers are not expected to
evaluate directly their travel im-
pressions in a special dissertation on
their journey.

Mr. Zuckmayer was born in the
little Hessian town of Nackenheim
and went into exile during the Nazi
regime. .

The Goethe prize was established
by Frankfurt in 1927 to be awarded
annually, but a city-council decision

Commissioner Donnelly Lauds Berlin’s People

The following statement was issued
Sept. 10, by US High Commissioner
Walter J. Donnelly upon the comple-
tion of his first official visit to Berlin:

Since arriving in Berlin Monday
evening, I have had opportunity to
look into some of the problems fac-
ing this city and to acquaint myself
with some of the American, Allied
and German leaders here, on whom
the immediate responsibility rests
for the continued freedom and well-
being of Berlin.

The way in which the Berlin
People are going about their daily
tasks despite the pressures and dif-
ficulties to which they are being
subjected by Soviet harassments has
impressed me deeply. It is typical
of the steadfastness and courage of
this city, which has aroused the ad-
miration of the entire free world.

IT also had the opportunity to visit
a reception center and transit camp
for some of the refugees from Com-

OCTOBER 1952

munist oppression in the Soviet
Zone and to hear from them per-
sonally about their experiences
there. I found them bearing up with
extreme courage and fortitude and
aware that the Berlin authorities are
bending every effort to assist them.

I am sorry that my stay could not
be longer this time, but I plan to be
back often. I have stated on several
occasions since I arrived, we intend
to continue the same firm policy
which American authorities here
have maintained in the past. We do
not intend to give up any of our
rights of access to Berlin, and we
will not hesitate to make this clear,
as both Mr. McCloy and General
Mathewson have done repeatedly.

I am glad that we have here two
such experienced and able represent-
atives as General Mathewson and
Cecil Lyon, with whom I have
worked closely in the past, im-
plementing American determination
to stay in Berlin.

21

of 1951, provided that it be granted
every three years to outstanding
Personalities in literature. Last win-
ner before Mr. Zuckmayer was
Thomas Mann. Professor Albert
Schweitzer, who was awarded the
Goethe prize in 1928, was present at
the ceremony for Carl Zuckmayer.

Youth Display at Rosenheim

A display of “home talent” was
presented recently at the America
House in Rosenheim with an open
competition of amateur art work by
high school students in eastern Ba-
varia. Seventy-two boys and girls
from 12 to 17 years of age from
Rosenheim, Kolbermoor, Traunstein
and Berchtesgaden submitted 110
entries, mostly water colors:

The ten best entries were selected
by a jury of Germans and Amer-
icans, and the winners were pres-
ented certificates or merit and
prizes. Because of the popularity
and the favorable comments from
visitors and the local press, the dis-
play was extended one week beyond
its scheduled showing. One Munich
art professor commented that the
participants had demonstrated a
surprising maturity in the selection
and treatment of their subjects.

Check Given Free University

Three American representatives of
the World Brotherhood organization
took part in ceremonies marking
presentation of more than $2,000 to
Berlin’s Free University.

At the ceremonies Dr. Everett R.
Clinchy, president of World Brother-
hood, also presented a copy of the
book “Mr. President” to the univer-
sity. The volume was personally in-
scribed by President Truman, and
will be included in the University’s
new library.

In addition to Dr. Clinchy, Willard
Johnson, director of the European
Division, and Hermann Ebeling,
head of the organization’s branch in
Germany, represented World Broth-
erhood at the ceremonies. The check
for $2,606 was presented by Dr.
Clinchy to Prof. Georg Rohde, dean
of the Liberal Arts Faculty of the
Free University.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
Funds turned over to the univer-
sity by the World Brotherhood rep-
resentatives were donated in the
United States by subscribers to New
York’s German-language newspaper,
the Staatszeitung und Herold.

Presentation of the volume “Mr.
President” for the Free University
Library marked conclusion of the
States-wide “Books for Freedom”
campaign sponsored by World Broth-
erhood. The drive resulted in collec-
tion of 35,000 books which were dis-
tributed to the Free University, ref-
ugee camps, student and youth cen-
ters and municipal libraries.

The new library under construc-
tion at the Free University is being
built with a $1,309,500 grant from
the Ford Foundation.

Travel Control Transferred

Travel control in the German
Federal Republic was taken over
Sept. 1 by the federal authorities
under an agreement between the
Allied High Commission and the
Federal Government.

Under this agreement marking the
culmination of the progressive trans-
fer of travel control functions to the
German authorities, the Combined
Travel Board of the Allied High
Commission closed its headquarters
in Bad Salzuflen Aug. 31.

German offices in the Federal Re-
public and abroad had already taken
over the practical work of control-
ling exit from and entry to Ger-
many and of issuing German pass-
ports and visas. The Combined
Travel Board has, however, hitherto
been responsible for the policy as-
pects of travel control and has super-
vised the negotiation of travel agree-
ments affecting the Federal Republic
and foreign countries. These func-
tions will now be the responsibility
of the Federal Government.

Because of quadripartite and in-
ternational agreements, however,
the Allied Powers are obliged to
continue interzonal travel documen-
tation and to retain some of their
travel offices and agencies. These
are the Allied offices in Berlin and
Saarbruecken and also the offices in
Austria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary
and Poland. In addition, the Allied
Powers will perform travel doc-
umentation functions in the USSR,
Bulgaria, Rumania and China.

ALF Position on
Co-Determination

A letter, signed by William Green,
president of the American Federa-
tion of Labor, was published in the
Industriekurier, economic journal of
Duesseldorf, Sept. 11, as a statement

General Matthew B. Ridgway (right), SHAPE commander, meets Chancellor
Konrad Adenauer (center) on the former’s first visit to Bonn Sept. 2. At left

is US High Commissioner Walter J. Donnelly.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(PLB-ID-HICOG photo)

22

of the AFL position on the vital
German labor question of “co-deter-
mination.” The letter was in reply
to a request from a member of a
German firm following a discussion
at a meeting of the International
Law Organization.

Translation from German of the
letter as published in the Industrie-
kurier follows:

“I am glad to hear that you be-
came acquainted with Professor
Jaeger of the Georgetown Univer-
sity on the occasion of a meeting
of the German Section of the Inter-
national Law Organization of which
you are a member.

“As a result of your conversation
with Prof. Jaeger, you now ask
whether the A.F. of L. desires co-
determination in industrial firms
and, if this is the case, how it con-
ceives of such co-determination,

“Above all, the A.F. of L. does not
desire any co-determination in in-
dustrial firms. We feel that the right
of those who own such firms should
be free and complete without inter-
ference by other elements. Similarly,
the A.F. of L. desires to settle its
own affairs freely and without in-
terference by another element.

“Since we have never attempted
to achieve co-determination in in-
dustry, we do not have any material
dealing with it. I therefore regret to
be unable to serve you any material
of this kind.”

Action Teams Leave

Two eight-person groups consist-
ing of leading representatives of
the Baden-Wuerttemberg cities of
Schwaebisch Gmuend and Ulm have
left Sept. 4 for 90 days of study and
observation in the United States.

The trip of these “cooperative ac-
tion teams” marks the continuation
of an exchange program initiated be-
tween Germany and the United
States last year. Under this program,
groups composed of community
leaders representing the most im=
portant spheres of community life
study the life and problems of
American cities which are com=
parable in size to the cities from
which the various teams come.

OCTOBER 1952

--- Page 26 ---
The two groups are spending ap-
proximately three weeks in each of
three selected cities, studying and
observing local government and civ-
ic groups under the guidance of or-
ganizations such as the social science
department of a major university.
They attend meetings of such or-
ganizations as the league of women
voters, mother’s clubs, parent-
teacher-associations, labor unions
and city councils. They also attend
public hearings on local and state
legislation and observe the work of
the local press.

The cooperative action team of
Schwaebisch Gmuend is composed
of Hermann Kah, mayor; Gabriele
Martis, county welfare agent; Her-
mann Huehn, Protestant minister;
Richard Czerny, teacher; Horst
Weickmann, newspaper editor; Au-
gust Michael, school director and
city councilor; Ingeborg Starkulla,

teacher, and Otto Ritter, Catholic
priest.

Ulm is represented by Dr. Walter
Hailer, mayor; Josef Brauner
teacher; Kurt Fried, newspaper
publisher; Otto Rall, police chief;
Herta Wittmann, city councilor;

Herbert Wiegandt, library director;
Elisabeth Reyhing, teacher; Hans
Zeller, city councilor. Anne Feineis,
who spent one year in the United
States under the HICOG exchange
program, accompanied the Ulm team
as interpreter.

Funds Given Service Center

A check for DM 10,000 ($2,380) was
presented Sept. 4 to Dr. Walter
Koblitz, director of the Adult Ed-
ucation Service Center in Inzig-
kofen near Sigmaringen, Baden-
Wuerttemberg, by Payne Templeton,
senior cultural officer, American
Consulate General in Stuttgart, as
the first instalment of DM 20,000
which HICOG has granted to the
center.

This institution was founded in
1950 to devise new methods and ma-
terials for adult education through
the use of groups of selected spe-
cialists. Before the results of such
research are made available to the
adult education teachers in the field,

OCTOBER 1952

they are tried out in practice in the
Inzigkofen adult education school
which is closely affiliated with the
Adult Education Service Center. The
school is primarily intended for the
training of adult education teachers.

The Adult Education Service Cen-
ter in Inzigkofen is the only one in
the Federal Republic where theoret-
ical studies and practical tests are
closely combined.

Soviet Charge Rejected

Soviet claims that US authorities
in Berlin had countenanced “provoc-
ative acts by fascist elements”
against the Soviet tank memorial in
the southwestern tip of the US Sec-
tor caused an interruption of discus-
sions for rehabilitating the mon-
ument.

The tank (above photo), situated
on a high stone pedestal in the mid-
dle of the Potsdamer Chaussee (Pots-
dam Boulevard), arterial highway
out of Berlin toward the west, was
erected during the Russian occupa-
tion of the entire city in the early
summer of 1945 near the area where
the Soviet army finally broke through
the weakest point of defense into the
former German capital.

In a note delivered Sept. 6 to Ser-
gei Dengin, representative of the

23

Soviet Control Commission in Ber-
lin, Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson,
US commander in Berlin, termed
Soviet accusations “provocative and
ridiculous.”

These accusations, General Mathew-
son said in his letter, “constitute, for
the time being, a definite barrier to
further consideration” of the pos-
sibility of allowing Soviet personnel
to rehabilitate the monument.

Access to the tank for the purpose
of rehabilitating it had been request-
ed by Mr. Dengin in a letter dated
Aug. 26. In the same note the Soviet
representative claimed that the bod-
ies of 10 Soviet servicemen were
buried under the memorial and
repeated earlier charges that US au-
thorities had countenanced deface-
ment of the monument by “fascist
elements.”

General Mathewson said in his
letter: “I have noted with some sur-
prise the statement that the bodies
of 10 Soviet servicemen are buried
under the monument” and recalled
that there had been no mention of
any such bodies by Mr. Dengin, ver-
bally or in writing, in previous ne-
gotiations on the subject. The US
commander also. reiterated his
opinion that it would be preferable
for the monument to be moved to
the Soviet Sector or Zone.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
Personnel Notes

Chief of Exchanges Staff

Sam H. Linch has been appointed
chief of the Exchange of Persons
Staff, Office of Public * Affairs,
HICOG. Mr. Linch, who has been
assistant chief of Exchanges Staff
for the past three years, succeeded
Ralph A. Burns.

At the same time, Everett G.
Chapman has been named assistant
chief. He has served as special ad-
viser to the chief since he trans-
ferred from the Education and Cul-

Mr. Linch first came to Germany
in 1947 as a consultant on radio
and visual education to assist Ger-
man schools in the use of teaching
aids. In the Office of Military Gov-
ernment for Germany (US) he
served successively as chief of Text-
books and Materials of Instruction
Section, deputy chief for administra-
tion in the Education and Cultural
Relations Division, and deputy chief
of the Cultural Affairs Branch in
the same division.

In 1949, Mr. Linch was appointed
as asistant chief of the HICOG’s Ex-
changes Division. In this capacity he
also served as chairman of the In-
ter-divisional

A graduate of Emory University
in Atlanta, Mr. Linch was a teacher,
principal and _ superintendent of
Georgia schools between 1933-46. In
1945-46 he served in the US Navy in
radar training and in public rela-
tions. His home is in Atlanta.

Mr. Chapman, educated at South-
western University and Occidental
College in California, was teacher
and principal of Los Angeles adult
schools and counselor at John Muir
College, Pasadena, Calif. He came
to Germany in 1949 as deputy chief
of the Adult Education Section. He
served as chief of the Youth Recon-
Education

tural Relations Division in 1950.

Advisory Committee
for the Exchange of Persons.

struction Section, and
Cultural Relations Division from

A Free and United Germany

Continued from page 17

must take the responsibility, what this responsibility
inculdes and what its limits are.

This is the reason why it makes sense to celebrate this
national anniversary day in memory of the first session
of the first German Federal Parliament. This house has
the legislative power, and it-must exercise this power
decisively and fully, naturally keeping in mind the
jurisdiction of the Federal Council (Bundesrat) ...

HE RIGHT OF all citizens to get in touch with the

parliament either individually or as a member of a
group has as its purpose the informing of the legislators
as to what the people want. But it must be entirely clear
that there must not be any transfer of responsibility. A
parliament that would only appear to continue to ob-
serve its rights and authority and only pretend to ex-
ercise legislative sovereignty would foresake its con-
stitutional task, and in addition, would endanger the
whole foundation of the state....

Who would deny that there is much that ought to be
changed and improved. But we must demand that all who
criticize do so with the intention to improve and help,
and not only to tear down. We feel that quite a number
who express displeasure with this state do not have a
constructive purpose in mind... We are particularly
suspicious when we feel that some persons are trying
again by some subterfuge to make attractive to us that
which once led Germany to destruction. If we oppose
such advisers, then we can do so convincingly only if
we base our political action on permanent and fun-
damental principles and not merely on a_political-
technical idea.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Our Basic Law emphasizes fundamental rights. We
know that fundamental rights on paper do not mean a
thing if they do not grow out of a comprehensive pic-
ture of the world and the state, and if they are not
firmly anchored in the hearts of the people. I do not
want to.enumerate the rights, but we should remember
today that behind each one there stands the concept of
justice. I am thinking at this moment of the many who
would like to tell us now that in their particular cases
justice has not yet been realized. They should tell us
that again and again, and we are obligated to hear it.
But the knowledge of the imperfection of our political
behavior or the actual impossibility to realize this jus-
tice in behalf of the individual must not divert us from
respecting the concept justice as the law that must stand
above the work of this state if we want to continue to
exist. That concerns us, but it also concerns those who
have authority over German individuals who are wait-
ing for justice and freedom in any part of the world.
Justice in the world must be indivisible.

F JUSTICE IS realized in the responsibility before

men, then the responsibility before God stands behind
it. We have not been called here to hear theological
statements about God. But I think that we have learned
during bitter years that responsibility before an ab-
solute power above men and nations is necessary if
clear-cut political decisions are to be made in the inter-
est of life and the freedom of men ... Let us celebrate
this national commemorative day with becoming
simplicity, in thankfulness for what has been given us,
and in readiness for the responsibility before our people.
Let us continue to work as a German people, conscious
of our responsibility before God and men, and willing
to preserve our national and political unity and to serve
the peace of the world as an equal member in a united
Europe. +END

OCTOBER 1953

--- Page 28 ---
Albert M. Doyle

1949 until joining Exchanges Staff
in 1950. His home is in La Canada,
Calif.

Consul General Retires

Albert N. Doyle, American consul
general in Frankfurt since July 1950
and supervising consul general for
Germany, has retired after 30 years
in the US Foreign Service. His re-
tirement was effective Sept. 30.

His successor, C. M. Pigott, whose
last post was in Bilbao, Spain, is at
present on leave in the United States
and is expected to arrive in Frank-
furt early in December. In the in-
terim the office is being directed by
Consul Byron B. Snyder

The Department of State has also
announced the appointment as super-
vising consul general for Germany
of Herve J. L'Heureux. who has
been for the past four years chief of
the Visa Division of the State De-
partment. Mr. L’Heureux who is ex-
pected to arrive in October will be
stationed in the Office of the US
High Commissioner in Mehlem.

The decision to appoint a super-
vising consul general for Germany
without responsibilities as principal
officer for any particular consular
office was based on various factors,
including the large size of the Amer-
ican consular offices in Germany
and the increase in their work load
following the transfer to them of
many functions formerly performed

OCTOBER 1952

by the offices of the US state com-
missioners which were closed
June 30.

Pending final ratification of the
Contractual Agreements, the Amer-
ican consuls general in the Amer-
ican zone have been appointed state
commissioners, the American consul
general in Frankfurt being the US
state commissioner for Hesse and in
addition the US state observer for
Rhineland-Palatinate.

During the operations of the Dis-
placed Persons Program conducted
under the Displaced Persons Act of
1948 and later amendments, the
American consul general in Frank-
furt was also coordinator for the
DP Visa Program in Germany, Aus-
tria and Italy.

The main part of the general pro-
gram came to an end on Dec. 31,
1951, and the so-called ethnic pro-
gram expired on June 30, 1952. Dur-
ing this period 315,000 visas were is-
sued under the general program, and
54,000 visas under the ethnic pro-
gram.

Mr. Doyle, since joining the For-
eign Service in 1922, has served at
Amsterdam and Rotterdam, the
Netherlands; Brisbane and Sidney,
Australia; in the State Department
from 1941 to 1945, and as foreign-
service inspector from 1947 to 1950.

Acting Labor Attache Leaves

R. F. Bertram, who has held ex-
ecutive positions in the US labor
affairs organization in Germany
since 1948, has resigned his post as
acting labor attache of HICOG to
return to the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority as head labor relations of-
ficer, a position from which he has
been on leave of absence.

Mr. Bertram joined the Office of
Military Government for Germany
(US) in September 1948 as executive
officer of the Manpower Division. In
October, 1949, he became chief of
the Labor Management Techniques
Branch, Office of Labor Affairs,
HICOG, and in January, 1950, was
made chief of the Labor Division.
He became deputy director of the
Office of Labor Affairs in May, 1950,

25

and acting director in September,
1951. With the changes in HICOG
preparatory to establishment of an
embassy in Germany, Mr. Bertram
was named Acting Labor Attache.

In an interview shortly before
leaving Mehlem, Mr. Bertram de-
scribed briefly the work of the
former Office of Labor Affairs. “It
was responsible for observing devel-
opments in the field of labor, and
for assisting in the development of
sound democratic trade unions in
Germany,” he explained.

“To do this, the office helped trade
unions develop and improve their
educational activities, especially in
the training of youth. It aided un-
ions in studies of the labor courts,
unemployment among youth, ap-
prenticeship training and other basic
questions facing German labor,” he
continued.

The Exchange-of-Persons Program,
Mr. Bertram pointed out, has spon-
sored several hundred German trade
unionists, labor and management of-
ficials and governmental office hold-
ers on study trips to the United
States to observe labor-management
relations in America.

“Probably one of the most val-
uable projects in this field is the one
under which groups of young work-
ers go to the United States for ten
months to study social science with

R. F. Bertram (left) as he greets US
Secretary of Labor Maurice Tobin
on latter’s to Bonn last summer.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
special emphasis on the place of
labor in the American society,” he
said. “These young workers, who
could normally not qualify for the
trip under the student program be-
cause they did not have the required
high school training, go in groups of
25. They attend American univer-
sities, where they study under a
program designed for them.” Mr.
Bertram also cited international
youth camps sponsored in part by
the Office of Labor Affairs which, he
said, were “designed to aid in cem-
enting the ties among European
working groups.”

Mr. Bertram said that the office
has also helped trade unions expand
the use of films in their educational
programs, and has aided unions in
rebuilding their libraries.

A graduate of the University of
Chicago, Mr. Bertram received his
bachelor and master of arts degress-
in economics there in 1936. He was
with TVA in Knoxville, Tenn., for
12 years before coming to Germany.

Outside Germany

Statement on European Unity

Secretary of State Acheson read
the following statement on Eu-
ropean unity at his news conference
in Washington Sept. 17:

“During the past week we have
witnessed two closely connected
events which have far reaching sig-
nificance for the future of free Eu-
rope. The first was the initial meet-
ing of the Assembly of the European
Coal and Steel Community. The
second was the decision by this as-
sembly to study immediately the
formation of a European political
authority.

“It is not possible at this time to
predict where these studies will lead,
nor to anticipate the nature and
scope of the political structure which
may be created. The important fact
is that this decision demonstrates,
perhaps more forcibly than any ac-
tion yet taken, the strength and

INFORMATION BULLETIN

momentum of the movement toward
European unity.

“The United States will continue
to encourage and support the efforts
of the statesmen and peoples of Eu-
rope to achieve a close and endur-
ing unity, because we are convinced
that this unity will contribute sub-
stantially to the strength and pro-
sperity of our European friends and
to the success of our mutual efforts
to maintain peace in the world.”

EPU Report for August

The monthly report of the Eu-
ropean Payments Union reveals
major shifts in western European
trade, with a new allignment of cre-
ditor and debtor nations.

The EPU report for August, made
public in Paris Sept. 17, shows that
Great Britain has all but eliminated
its large monthly deficits and that
Belgium has become a debtor for
the first time.

The Federal Republic of Germany
had a surplus of $37,000,000, and the
Netherlands showed a credit of
$20,200,000.

The largest debtor for the month
was Turkey with a deficit of
$34,200,000. France had a deficit of
$23,100,000. Great Britain, cut its
deficit from $98,600,000 in July to
$4,700,000 in August. The ._Belgium-
Luxembourg deficit was $6,500,000.
Italy, usually a creditor nation, had
a deficit of $900,000.

Sweden, finished August with a
perfect balance.

Example from East Germany

Soviet Russia’s brutal suppression
of civic and religious liberties in
East Germany clearly warns the
free world of what to expect if she
gets control over the entire country,
The New York Times believes.

In an editorial Aug. 31 entitled “In
Soviet Germany,” the Times noted
that Soviet methods in East Ger-
many provide the world with an-
other “object-lesson” on how
18,000,000 people were converted
into a Soviet-ruled anthill.”

26

“All the pretenses the Soviets have
been making in their - diplomatic
notes and propaganda that they de-
sire a unified democratic and peace-
ful Germany are knocked into a
cocked hat by their intensified drive
to complete the Sovietization of
what they ironically call the ‘Ger-
man Democratic Republic,’ the
Times said.

“As a state that politically anom-
aly is neither German, nor dem-
ocratic, nor a republic, it is a Com-
munist dictatorship run by Soviet
citizens and Kremlin  viceroys
backed by Soviet bayonets,” the
Times added.

The Times noted that the pattern
of Soviet infiltration in East Ger-
many has been much the same as in
other once free countries: “Domina-
tion of the leading political party
and the advent of the people’s po-
lice,” followed by outward control
by the Soviet army.

“The rest has followed and is fol-
lowing automatically,” said the
Times.

“This involves the suppression of
all political and human rights and
freedoms, including freedom of
speech and press, and the complete
regimentation of the people in all
aspects of their lives. Industries
have been confiscated and either
nationalized or incorporated into
Soviet trusts to direct German pro-
duction into Soviet hands to the
tune of billions of dollars and to
reduce German living standards to
the Russian level.

Accompanying this has been a
tragic alientation of German youth
from family and church and their
conversion as military and political
puppets of their Soviet masters, the
Times noted.

“In brief, ’concluded the Times,
“to the Germans affected, Hitler’s
national socialism has been replaced
by a Bolshevist system equally
brutal and even more primitive. And
it is this system which the Kremlin
would impost on all Germany in the

name of ‘unity’.

OCTOBER 1953

--- Page 30 ---
SNUAUENGATETEAEAUEUURONUAOUOERUAGEGUOUGUOUOGOGOGGAUGGOGEGOGUEOUGEAOUUODEGOCUSUGOUEOLGEUOAUOUOUEOQGOCDEQOQUONEUCQOOONEGOGEOAGUOHUGEOUOHUOUOEOOEOOGLE

‘
E

EAT Ul

Strasbourg Assembly

#The “unexpected” election of Bel-
gian Socialist leader Paul Henri
Spaak as president of the Assembly
of the European Coal and Steel
Community was featured Sept. 12 by
many German newspapers which
stressed that, after the voting results
had become known, Franz Josef
Strauss, member of the German
parliament and secretary general of
the Christian Socialist Union, as-
sailed the Social Democrats both for
“having betrayed German solidarity
in a decisive moment” and for hav-
ing “sold down the river the prin-
ciple of German equality” in the
coal and steel pool.

The press also noted that Bonn
quarters were extremely disap-
pointed that the German candidate,
Dr. Heinrich von Brentano, had not
been elected. These quarters were
said to have pointed out that, inas-
much as a Frenchman was president
of the Coal and Steel High Author-
ity and an Italian chairman of the
Coal and Steel Court, it would only
have been fair to have a German
head the third Coal and Steel or-
ganization.

Mail from the East Zone. — Sued-
deutsche Zeitung (Munich), Sept. 20.

OCTOBER 1952

German Editorials

This section is intended to inform without interpretation the American
readers of what Germans are thinking. The selection has been made so as to
cover the events which caused the widest reaction in the German press, and
to give a fair cross section of German editorial opinion. The inclusion of any
event, viewpoint or opinion does not necessarily imply concurrence by US
authorities. The cartoons have been taken from a selection reproduced by
the Press Analysis Section, Press Branch, Information Division, HICOG.

PUUEOUAGOUGASGUOONSOLGOCGUSUOUOUEOOSEONURUOUQUOOUELOGE:

The ballot of the Sept. 11 election
in Strasbourg was 38 votes for
Spaak and 30 for Brentano. Papers
stressed that all French, Belgian,
Luxembourg delegates, as well as
two Italian Liberals, all eight Ger-
man, the Dutch and Italian Socialists
had cast their ballots for Spaak,
while the twelve members of the
Bonn government coalition and the
coalition of Bavarian and Center
Parties, eleven Italian and seven
Dutch delegates had voted for Bren-
tano.

While some papers welcomed
Spaak’s election and characterized

“him as a good European well qual-

ified for his new job, Bonner Rund-
schau (Bonn) and Rheinische Post
(Duesseldorf) deplored that the Ger-
man candidate for that position fell
through. Surprisingly, Rheinische
Post, while criticizing the French,
paid tribute to the SPD’s “European
way of thinking” which prompted
its members vote for Spaak.

After praising Spaak for his de-
votion to the cause of a “new Eu-
rope,” Bonner Rundschau in _ its
editorial deplored that Spaak’s elec-
tion has revealed to the eyes of the

“Whether equipment or length of
service, these fellows don’t agree on
one single point.”..“They do, Mr.
Ridgway, they all want dollars.” —
from Norddeutsche Volkszeitung
(Bremen), Sept. 4.

world the deép split between the
Federal Government and the SPD
Opposition. “We feel free to say,”
the paper stated, “that it was neither
impressive nor prudent to demon-
strate to the whole world the split
within the German representation in
that so-called supra-national au-
thority.”

Refuting the CDU’s criticism of
SPD voting for Spaak, Telegraf
(Berlin) declared that the Coal and
Steel Pool is a European organiza-
tion in which European thinking is
bound to prevail, “as was repeatedly
stated by the CDU.”

Rheinische Post emphasized that
Germany should have had at least
one leading position in the three
important coal and steel bodies.
“This (the election of a non-German)
is a misfortune which jeopardizes
the idea of a united Europe. If the
reports on the election of the as-

Soviet Zone Delegation to Bonn. — from Der Mittag (Duesseldorf), Sept. 12.

27

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Strategy. — from Westdeutsche Neue
Presse (Cologne), Sept. 11.

sembly president are correct, the
French must be blamed,” but, the
newspaper added, the Social Dem-
ocrats, by casting their ballots for
Spaak, “had set an example in the
European and international way of
thinking.... They stuck to the...
principle of their party and elected
the Belgian Socialist Spaak.”

Stuttgarter Nachrichten (Stuttgart)
declared that it makes no difference
what nationality the president of the
Coal and Steel Assembly is, “as long
as he is a European — by birth as
well as in thought.”

Berliner Anzeiger (Berlin) while,
welcoming the fact that the Socialist
delegates, regardless of their Ger-
man, Italian or Dutch origins, pre-
ferred the Belgian Socialist to any
of their own countrymen, yet felt
that one might also gain the impres-
sion that supra-national ideas were
only a cover for “international so-
cialist cooperation.”

Coal and Steel Talks

After stating that the Coal and
Steel Poel is but the beginning of a
united Europe, Mannheimer Morgen
(Mannheim, Sept. 10) warned that
one should not be too impatient if
the integration of Europe appears
to proceed at a snail’s pace. One
should, instead, keep in mind that
“coal and steel is a better combina-
tion than blood and steel.”

Since Aristide Briand’s and Gustav
Stresemann’s failure to bring about
European unification, blood and’steel
descended upon the people “when
Hitler tried to enforce his own ideas
of a united Europe. ... Standing
among the ruins caused by the last
war, we can now seize our last

INFORMATION BULLETIN

chance and try and begin again,
where Briand and Stresemann left
off.”

The paper hopefully concluded
that one day the’ elections to “the
Constituent Assembly of the United
States of Europe” will be held.

Wiesbadener Kurier (Wiesbaden)
explained that the “Coal and Steel
Parliament” should be considered
the forerunner of a “European Par-
liament” and optimistically went on
to say that even if the European
countries were to form a political
unit, in the spirit of the Schuman
Plan, there would be ample opportu-
nities for the member nations to
preserve their individual ways of
life.

“Their ways of life are part of
these (European) nations, whose cul-
tures should not only be preserved
but should also gain new impetus
from such a (European) community.”
The paper felt that, without foster-
ing the national ideals of each coun-
try, Europe will perish, “even with-
out an aggression from the East.”

Koelnische Rundschau (Cologne)
much less optimistically expected the
six members of the Ministers’ Coun-
cil to be caught between the alle-
giance they owe to their countries
and their loyalty toward their newly
acquired duties. The paper said it
was hard to predict if the Ministers’
Council was “actually suited” to
work toward European integration,
or “whether its mission consists ex-
clusively in putting on the brakes on
the excessive zeal of the nine (mem-
bers of the High Authority.)”

Anniversary of the Republic

The commemoration Sept. 7 of the
third anniversary of the Ger-
man Federal Government was
used by many West German news-
Papers to comment editorially on
Germany’s status. (The Federal Gov-
ernment was set up Sept. 7, 1949 but
the Federal Republic did not come
into existence until a formal cer-
emony at Bonn Sept. 21, 1949. See
“Birth of a Republic” in the In-
formation Bulletin, October 1949.)

The press particularly reported on
a ceremony in the Parliament hall

28

© r;
a Call
-&
7 :
Ro .
~
a re

Chuikov: Linse! Linse! Didn’t I read
that name in some West Berlin pa-
per? from Hannoversche Presse
(Hanover), Sept. 11.

which was attended by Dr. Theodor
Heuss, the federal president; Dr.
Konrad Adenauer, federal chancel-
lor; representatives of the former
diplomatic corps, political parties,
federal offices, religious and other
organizations. The main speech was
made by Dr. Hermann Ehlers, pres-
ident of the Parliament. A statement
by President Heuss was printed in
the Federal Government Bulletin.

Bonner Rundschau (Bonn) hailed
Dr. Ehlers’ speech. Despite the fact
that political parties have their
faults, the paper continued, they still
are an institution necessary to ex-
press the political will of the people.
“So long as a political party honestly
and successfully tries to meet this
requirement, it will render useful
service to the people.”

The Federal Republic was but a
preliminary step on the road toward
an all-German state and that all
spade work would have to be done
in cooperation with other nations.

Most of the other editorials con-
tained statistics illustrating German
recovery since 1949, but many writ-
ers believed that “the best way to
become aware of western Gere
many’s progress was not in ret-
rospect but by a glance into the
Soviet Zone.”

Warm tribute was paid to Chan-
cellor Adenauer for his efforts to get
western Germany back on its feet.
The course of his foreign policy
was considered to have decisively
contributed to this success.

According to Sueddeutsche Zeitung
(Munich), one should “always re-
member that three years ago a chaos
of occupation zones had been re~

OCTOBER 1988

--- Page 32 ---
placed by a state which led to gen-
eral recovery.” Sueddeutsche Zeitung
also pointed out that Article 4 of the
German Basic Law, granting all
citizens the right to be “conscientious
objectors,” could not be reconciled
with the Bonn conventions.

Only a few papers criticized the
establishment of the national observ-
ance, stating that there was no rea-
son for such a day as long as Ger-
many was still divided. German re-
unification was said to be the Fed-
eralGovernment’s foremost task, and
most editorial writers reminded their
readers that the western German
state was “but a torso awaiting its
completion.”

Schwaebische Donau-Zeitung (Ulm)
believed that “a western Germany
which is steadily growing stronger
will attract the Soviet Zone, so that
it will gradually become easier to
overcome the obstacles in the way
of reunification.”

One of the few negative com-
ments, with the natural exception of
the Communist papers, was voiced
by the Aachener Nachrichten which
felt that on Sept. 7, 1949 the political
division of Germany had _ been
“sealed” and that all positive reports
on progress and recovery were “but
a futile attempt to hide the actual
facts.”

Call on Chancellor

The first official call by US High
Commissioner Walter J. Donnelly
and NATO Supreme Commander
Matthew B. Ridgway on Federal
Chancellor Konrad Adenauer was
the topic of editorial comment in
several German papers Sept. 10. The

The Federal Republic’s Third Anni-
versary. — from Ruhr-Nachrichten
(Dortmund), Sept. 6.

OCTOBER 1952

papers stressed that this visit
heralded the beginning of increased
activities in the field of foreign
policy in Bonn, which would cul-
minate in the parliamentary debates
on the Bonn and Paris (EDC) trea-
ties.

In a front page editorial Frank-
furter Allgemeine Zeitung (Frank-
furt) pointed out that General Ridg-
way’s first official call on Chancellor
Adenauer would soon be followed
by a visit of Federal Minister of
Finance Fritz Schaeffer to US Sec-
retary of Treasury John W. Snyder.
The paper claimed that although the
two visits would seem to have no
bearing on each other, yet they
should be considered as part of the
same political program.

After referring to Minister Schaef-
fer’s estimates re the Federal Re-
public’s financial contribution to the
EDC and stating that any additional
contribution made by a partner for
the purpose of securing freedom in
the Western world, should also be
considered as a defense contribution,
the Allgemeine Zeitung opined:

“Fully conscious of its national
duties, the Federal Republic is
happy to provide aid to Berlin. This
aid is being furnished at the request
of the Western Powers who want to
see Berlin safe from Eastern at-
tempts at starving the city. For that
reason, this aid — and here Schaef-
fer will stick to his previous de-
mands — will have to be accepted
as part of the German defense con-
tribution.”

General-Anzeiger (Bonn), hailed
the official call as the first great
event in the Federal Republic’s for-.
eign policy coming at the beginning
of the “new political season.” “Bonn
sees (in the meeting) a very im-
portant political act,” the paper
stated. “It is generally believed that
Adenauer’s return to Bonn will
bring politics back to full gear, and
that the Americans will play an im-
portant part in steering West-Eu-
ropean affairs.”

Die Welt (Hamburg-Essen), with-
out mentioning specifically the con-
ference but keeping to a vein some-
what similar to that of General-
Anzeiger, expressed expectations of

29

important foreign policy decisions
within the near future. In a warning
the paper admonished parties not to
make campaign issues out of the
parliament debates on the Paris and
Bonn agreements, and concluded,
that “nobody can want a cheap
Propaganda success for his party if
such success can only be gained by
breaking a lot of china in the foreign
policy locker.”

Commenting on the impressions
gained by onlookers during the
Ridgway-Adenauer meeting, Mann-
heimer Morgen (Mannheim) noting
“that General Ridgway presses for
speed,” pointed out that “he is even
more anxious than was his predeces-
sor General Dwight D. Eisenhower
to have European army units estab-
lished. The general impression (at
the meeting) was that, despite all
difficulties, the construction of EDC
will make considerable headway in
the months to come.”

German-Israeli Agreement

The signing of the German-Israeli
Restitution Agreement in Luxem-
bourg was widely reported by the
West German press Sept. 11. Papers
stressed that the agreement provided
for the Federal Republic’s payment
to Israel of DM 3,000,000,000 (equiv-
alent to $714,000,000) over a period
of 12 to 14 years; and that Jewish
international organizations were to
receive DM 400,000,000 ($95,200,000)
while other Jewish victims of the
Nazi regime not represented by

either Israel or any international
DM

organization were to get
50,000,000 ($11,900,000).

We're forever blowing bubbles. —
from Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidel-
berg), Sept. 17.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
The press pointed out that the
payments would be made in the
form of deliveries of industrial pro-
ducts and that the Federal Republic
had agreed to pay DM 400,000,000
($95,200,000) while other Jewish vic-
tims of the Nazi regime not rep-
resented by either Israel or any in-
ternational organization were to get
DM_ 50,000,000 ($11,900,000).

The press pointed out that the
payments would be made in the
form of deliveries of industrial pro-
ducts and that the Federal Republic
had agreed to pay DM 400,000,000
($95,200,000) as first instalment with-
in the next two years. They further
noted that the Templers, a German
religious group which had emigrated
to Israel in the 19th century, would
receive indemnity for property
seized by the Israeli government.

The newspapers also widely re-
ported on the world reaction to the
German-Israeli agreement. It was
stressed by most papers that the re-
action in Jerusalem and Washing+
ton had been very favorable, but
that the Arab nations were ex-
tremely displeased with the agree-
ment. In this connection, the press
ran brief reports on a statement
made by Federal Press Chief Felix
von Eckardt who stressed that the
agreement was in no way directed
against the Arab nations and that
the Federal Republic was anxious to
continue its traditionally friendly
relations with the Arab world.

While some papers generally em-
Phasized Germany’s moral obliga-
tion toward the Jews, Welt (Ham-
burg-Essen) explained what political

She confessed to have been in the
pay of the West. — from Die Zeit
(Hamburg), Sept. 4.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

and economic effects the German-
Israeli restitution agreement might
have on Germany. According to the
paper, Israel had taken a German
agreement already for granted, at
the time when it had drafted a plan
for its own economic development.
“Had there been no agreement on
German restitution. payments, this
entire plan might have been jeop-
ardized,” Welt stated “...and Israel
might have had to abandon it alto-
gether.” Criticizing the negative at-
titude of the Arab states toward
German restitution to Israel Welt
also stressed that “the German
people were morally obliged to the
Jewish people, and that no third
party had the right to interfere.”

Stating that Federal Chancellor
Adenauer’s and Israeli Foreign Min-
ister Moshe Sharett’s signatures un-
der the restitution agreement “close
one of the darkest chapters of Ger-
man history,” Stuttgarter Nachrich-
ten (Stuttgart) wrote: “Both, the
Federal Republic and Israel, always
have been and still are conscious of
the fact that money ...cannot make
up for the millions of Jewish lives
lost as a result of the Nazis’ race
hatred.” The paper hailed the treaty
partners for having settled the re-
stitution issue “despite the anti-Se-
mitism which again is rearing its
ugly head in Germany and, to a
greater extent, even in foreign coun-
tries.”

Rheinische Post (Duesseldorf)
pointed out that it had never been
partisan to the idea of collective
German guilt, adding: “What is
more, we were always vehemently
opposed to the idea of having the
German people identified with the
Nazi regime. It is, however, ... quite
impossible to deny that the ‘Nurem-
berg Laws’ with their horrible ef-
fects on the Jews were made by
Germans, and that Germans — some
fully aware of what they were doing
— profited by the despoliation of
Jewish property.”

The paper also pointed out that
few Germans ever realized the reac-
tion that “these wrongs” created
abroad, and that even today these
crimes against the Jews have not
been forgotten.” The paper finally

30

So much music and so little har-
mony! — from Hamburger Anzeiger
(Hamburg), Sept. 13.

believed that there had to be a sign-
ing of such an agreement in order to
convince the world that “we do not
want to be associated with what
took place in Germany during those
days.”

Hailing the German-lIsraeli re-
stitution agreement as a German at-
tempt to make up for at least part
of the material damage done to
the Jews, Frankfurter Allgemeine
(Frankfurt) deplored statements re-
portedly made by correspondents of
leading British papers... that “the
Israeli government will sign the
treaty only because it needs funds
for its own economic development,
...and that the treaty will in no
way change the people’s attitude
towards Germany.”

The paper emphasized Germany's
desire to have friendly relations
with Israel; it also raised the ques-
tion as to when those Jews who
have now returned to Germany, will
be helped to “rebuild their ex-
istence.” The paper felt that “the
fate of our Jewish citizens should be
as near to our heart as that of the
Israeli people.

Frankfurter Rundschau = (Frank-
furt) pointed out that a large part of
the Israeli people will accept res-
titution payments from “the murd-
erers of their parents and children”
only because this restitution will
frove to be beneficial to their coun-
try’s economy. With regard to res-
titution inside Germany, the paper
expressed fear, that any assistance
to the Nazi victims will be further
delayed, because of the time-con-
suming way in which the German
parliament plans to settle the issue.

OCTOBER 1952

--- Page 34 ---
“We should have welcomed,” the
paper concluded, “if the restitution
laws now in force in the American
Zone, were to apply to the entire
territory within the Federal Re-
public.”

American Influence

Die Zeit (Hamburg, Sept. 6), under
the headline “Tired of the Occupa-
tion,” published an article by the
German author Friedrich Siegburg
on the imprint the Occupation had
left on the German way of life:

“The American Occupation Forces
brought along their own way of life,
and isolated themselves The
hoped-for close contact has failed to
materialize. Nevertheless, the influ-
ence of the Occupation upon our
way of life is enormous... While we
believe to have remained untouched
by their way of living, we actually
have been influenced more deeply
than at any time during our most
recent history.

“Our defenselessness against the.

external influences of the American
way of life is astounding. Whereas
the political and economic superior-
ity of the United States did not wipe
out the Americans’ subconscious
high regard for the Old World, we
willingly and without any further
ado have succumbed to the least val-
uable aspects of American civiliza-
tion.

“There is much we could learn
from the American political and so-
cial way of thinking. America’s pro-
ductive energy, efficiency and sense
of international responsibility would
have been well worth our imitation.
But US influence was primarily con-
fined to such things as loud shirts
and ties, cowboy pants and soft
drinks. The victors had hoped that
we would embrace the ideas of
Abraham Lincoln, but we contented
ourselves with American cigarettes.

“Many of us have long ago become
sick and tired of the flashy exterior
of Americanism... The influence of
the American way of life on our ex-
istence has assumed dimensions
which exceed by far any reasonable
Proportion. ..”

OCTOBER 1952

On to new adventures. —. from
Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim),
Sept. 20.

Car] Schurz

Westdeutsche Neue Presse (Dues-
seldorf) commented that there are
few historical dates on which two
nations remember the accomplish-
ments of one man: “September 17,
the date of Carl Schurz’ arrival in
America, is one of these days, since
in the United States as well as in
Germany one still appreciates this
fighter for democratic freedom.”

Hannoversche Allgemeine Zeitung
(Hanover) hailed Carl Schurz as a
fanatic foe of slavery and as one of
Abraham Lincoln’s most faithful
friends. “The height of his life was
reached when he supported Lincoln,
when be became commander of a
division in the Civil War, and, fi-
nally, when he became US secretary
of interior... On May 15, 1906, when
Schurz died, German democrats
mourned with the United orate a
man who possessed the rare gift' to
combine political idealism with re-
alism, and to whose never ending
diligence freedom owed so much.”

German Unity

In Hamburger Abendblatt, Stutt-
garter Nachrichten and _ Berliner
Morgenpost Sept. 27/28, the German
columnist Ernst Friedlaender discus-
sed the problem of German reunifi-
cation.

“Nothing in. the realm of facts in-
dicates that German reunification in
freedom can be realized in the im-
mediate future. From the very begin-
ning, the Soviet notes on Germany

31

were prompted not by the desire for
German reunification, but by the
fear of the Federal Republic’s in-
tegration into the West. Isolation of
the Federal Republic and, thus,
weakening of the West, is the goal
of Soviet policy.

“The Western powers are deter-
mined to obstruct that policy. That,
and not the reunification of Ger-
many, is their basic concern... It
sounds doubtlessly well to praise
the restoration of German unity as
a more exalted and better goal than
the integration of parts of Germany
into parts of Europe. But do these
goals allow any comparison at all?...
By no means. The road to Europe is
free. The road to German unity,
however, is not even visible....”

Official Announcements

Meeting with SHAPE Chief

On the occasion of his first official visit
to the German federal chancellor, Gen-
eral Matthew B. Ridgway, Supreme Com-
mander, Allied Powers, Europe, also took
the opportunity to meet with the Allied
high commissioners. The meeting took
place Sept. 2, at the office of the French
high commissioner, Mr. Andre Francois-
Poncet, who was currently chairman of
the Allied High Commission.

General Ridgway was accompanied by
General de Division Aerienne Bodet, Bri-
gadier Sir James Gault, and Mr. Douglas
MacArthur, members of the SHAPE staff.

Meeting with Chancellor

The Allied High Commissioners met
the federal chancellor Sept. 4, at the of-
fice of the French high commissioner,
Andre Francois-Poncet.

The high commissioners and the chan-
cellor exchanged views on the most re-
cent note of the Soviet Government on
Germany.

Soviets End Patrol Block

The US Headquarters in Berlin was
notified Sept. 11, by Soviet authorities
that General V. I. Chuikow, chairman
of the Soviet Control Commission in
Germany, had issued instructions to per-
mit the unhindered passage of Allied
military police relief units along the
main highway from West Berlin to the
Dreilinden checkpoint.

During the previous several days, some
of the relief units had been prevented
from traversing a small segment of the
highway which is in the Soviet Zone.
The Allied vehicles used a_ circuitous
route lying entirely in the US Sector to
reach the checkpoint.

Extra Charge on Special Trains

All personnel traveling on fast long-
distance and luxury German civil trains
must pay an extra charge of two Deutsche

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
marks, and should do so when buying
their tickets. When purchasing a rail
ticket, travelers should determine if their
train is an “F” or “FT” train and if so,
pay the extra charge then and get the
receipt to show the conductor when the
ticket is checked on the train. — an-
nouncement from Hqs. US Army Europe
Sept. 10.

Soviet Car in US Sector

Following is the text of a letter sent
Sept. 18 by Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson,
US commander in Berlin, to A.N. Rassadin,
acting Berlin representative of the Soviet
Control Commission in Germany:

On the afternoon of Sept. 13,'a Soviet
armored scout car of obsolete American
design and manufacture entered and
cruised about the district ot Neukoelln
in the US Sector of Berlin.

As I have reiterated on several occa-
sions, Soviet personnel are welcome at
any time to visit the US Sector and
enjoy its facilities, but in the present
instance they came under circumstances
hardly calculated to kindle a hospitable
spirit among the residents of Neukoelln.
All five Soviet soldiers riding in the scout
car were armed, and when the Berlin
Police came to the assistance of the car
commander, its occupants pointed their
weapons in a threatening manner at
some passers-by who had stopped to
observe.

Despite the unusual nature of this visit,
and despite the provocative and bel-
ligerent behavior of the Soviet soldiers,
it should be noted that the occupants
of the vehicles were not subjected to
any interrogation or prolonged and point-
less detention. To the contrary, the
vehicle was being assisted toward its
destination by US military police only
one hour after it first entered the US
Sector.

I should like to hope that the efficiency,
courtesy and speed with this awkward
situation was handled by US Sector
authorities has not escaped your notice.

Vopo Murder Protested

In a letter delivered Sept. 25 to Soviet
headquarters in East Berlin, US High
Commissioner Walter J. Donnelly pro-
tested against “a flagrant violation of
the interzonal boundary by the East Ger-
man Police under Soviet control which

resulted in the murder of a German
official.” Text of the letter addressed to
Gen. V. I. Chuikov, chairman of the
Soviet Control Commission in Germany,
follows:

“I must draw your attention to a
flagrant violation of the interzonal
boundary by the East German Police
under Soviet control which resulted in
the murder of a German official.

“At approximately 4:30 on the af-
ternoon of July 29, 1952, west of and close
by the Willmars-Stedtlingen road in the
United States Zone of Occupation at a
distance of about 80 to 90 meters from
the zonal border, a German official of
the Customs Frontier Service, Gerhard
Palzer, -was apprehended by three or
four members of the Volkspolizei from
the Soviet Zone of Occupation. These
members of the Volkspolizei, who were
armed with rifles, attempted to take
Palzer across the zonal border. After a
short hand-to-hand struggle Palzer suc-
ceeded in tearing himself away from
the men of the East Zone Volkspolizei,
and he fled into a nearby field. Im-
mediately thereafter the Volkspolizei
fired several shots at Palzer at close
range and murdered him. The body
showed a wound on the right thigh
and a wound in the back of the head
penetrating the throat, with. an exit
level with the mouth.

“Incontrovertible evidence has been
obtained from eyewitnesses that the act
was committed within the United States
Zone of Occupation at a distance of at
least 80 meters from the zonal border.
In addition to statements by witnesses,
further evidence of this outrageous
transgression of the United States Zone
and wilful murder by Soviet-controlled
Volkspolizei is furnished by two rifle
cartridge cases found at the place where
the crime was committed, as well as
by blood stains found there.

“I protest vehemently against this
murder by East German officials com-
mitted on the territory of the United
States Zone of Occupation. I demand
that the responsible Soviet Zone police
be punished immediately and that you
take necessary measures to prevent
future violations of the zonal boundary.
I furthermore insist that responsible
Soviet Zone authorities make prompt
and full indemnity to the family of the
victim of this atrocious and wanton
murder.”

Recent Publications

Listed below are official and important
publications received in the editorial of-
fice of the Information Bulletin during
September. Requests for any of these
publications should be aidressed to the
originating agency.

Monthly Report of the Mutual Security
Agency, Division of Statistics and Re-
ports, Mutual Security Agency (Wash-
ington), May 31, 1952. Issue deals with
economic developments in western
Europe.

Berlin: Development of its Government
and Administration, Historical Division,
Office of the Executive Secretary.
HICOG (Mehlem), August 1952. Mono.
graph by Elmer Plischke, assisted by
Elisabeth Erdmann. Limited distribu-
tion. (Note Mr. Plischke’s article “Go-
vernment and Politics of Berlin,” sum-
marizing the content of this monograph
in the Information Bulletin, January
1952)

Official Gazette, No. 91, Allied Secretariat,
Allied High Commission (Mehlem),
Aug. 30, 1952. Official texts of legisla-
tion and orders enacted by, or under
authority of, the Allied High Commis-
sion.

Documents on German Unity, Vol. II,
Policy Reports Secretary, Office of the
Executive Secretary, HICOG (Mehlem),
Sept. 1, 1952. Supplement to first volume
issued Nov. 1, 1951.

Buecher Vorschau (Book Preview), No. 71,
Central Distribution Section, US In-
formation Centers Branch, Division of
Cultural Affairs, Office of Public Af-
fairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Sept. 11, 1952.
List of books to be distributed among
the America Houses in Germany.

Information Bulletin for August, Informa-
tion Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), Sept. 15, 1952. Con-
tains eleven articles and features on US
activities in Germany.

Information Bulletin for September, In-
formation Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Sept. 30,
1952, Contains ten articles and features
on US activities in Germany.

Educational Research in Germany

Continued from page 6

ucation, for example, the selecting of students for ad-
vanced study by supplementary use of objective tests,
the giving of more opportunity to capable children of
lower income groups for higher education, and the
studying of the individual difference and development
of the child.

OOKING FORWARD to long years of service at an

age (65) when most men are put on shelves by their
universities in the United States, Mr. Hylla said ap-
propriately for this juncture:

“In conclusion,... will the Institute by its work con-
tribute to the basic thing in education, the love and de-
votion of the individual teacher for his individual stu-
dent? I am convinced it will, by providing the teacher
with tools and methods so that he may understand his
students better. It will help to make his love and his

INFORMATION BULLETIN

work more efficient and more satisfying by giving him
clearer insights into the purpose and functions of educa-
tion in society. The devotion to man and the love of
truth are not identical, but they have one thing in com-
mon: both are spiritual values, well fit to counteract one
of the basic evils of our time, the over-emphasis on
material values. If I were to place an inscription over
the door of the Institute I would suggest:
‘In Love for Man and in Search for Truth’.”

The Institute of International Educational Research
was unofficially opened in August with its directing and
housing the International Summer Educational Research
Workshop, the fourth to be held in Germany since the
end of the war, but the first to be principally under
German direction. Formal dedication of the Institute is
expected to be made next spring.

(The second part of Dr, Jonas’ article, to be published in
the November issue of the Information Bulletin, will deal
with the International Summer Education Research Work-
shop).

OCTOBER 1958

--- Page 36 ---
Still carrying flowers given them by Communists in Berlin, members of the delegation arrived Sept. 19 on a Polish
plane in Duesseldorf. They are (left to right) Heinrich Homann, deputy chairman of the Soviet Zone National Dem-
ocratic Party; Karl Hamann, minister of trade of the Soviet Zone; Ernst Goldenbaum, a vice president of the Soviet
Zone governing chamber; Otto Nuschke, deputy minister president of the Soviet Zone; Hermann Matern, a vice
president of the Soviet Zone governing chamber, and Matern’s aide, Fred Oelssner, member of the SED (Communist

Party) political bureau.

Soviet Zone Delegation
Pays Brief Visit to Bonn

The visit of a delegation of five officials of the Soviet
Zone regime to Bonn to present a letter, purporting to
give East German ideas for reunification, was treated in
the West German press to extensive comment, ranging
from severe criticism to doubts as to sincerity in the
proposal. Headlines generally were unfriendly toward
the delegation.

With his customary bluntness, Ernst Friedlaender in
an column Sept. 20, in Hamburg’s Abendblatt and Stutt-
gart’s Nachrichten, termed the receiving of “the Trojan
patrol from Pankow” in Bonn an obvious mistake and
said it was no more than an instrument of Russian for-
eign policy. Frankfurt’s Neue Presse wrote that the visit
was not nearly the sensation which some persons had
hoped and Mainz’Allgemeine Zeitung described the note
only a pretense to seek — unsuccessfully — talks with
non-Communist members of the German Parliament. _

Some editorials, after the Soviet Zone delegation re-
turned to East Berlin, noted that the members had a
Press conference to “correct” some of their statements
made in Bonn. Cologne’s Rundschau noted Nuschke’s at-
tempts to renounce his admission in Bonn that the
Soviet Zone secret police was semi- autonomous.

More cautious appraisal was evident in some news-
Papers, including Munich’s Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Stutt-
Bart's Zeitung and Frankfurt’s Allgemeine.

Nuremberg’s Zeitung attacked the Soviet Zone delega-
tion for attempting to use German prisoners-of-war in
Russia as a bait to lure the West and for adopting the
Soviet propaganda slogan that the German PW’s are
condemned criminals.

(ID-HICOG photos)

(above) Otto Nuschke on arrival by automobile in Bonn.

_ (below) Soviet Zone delegation’s automobiles are stopped

by irate demonstrators on Rhine River bridge at Bonn.
The first sign reads: “No talk with Nuschke and party.”

--- Page 37 ---
The presence of a French traffic policeman, in characteristic blue uniform and with white
baton, on the business streets of Frankfurt in mid-September attracted crowds of curious
German bystanders. The policeman, Pierre Maurice d@’Hardivillers, whose regular post is
around Place de l’Opera in Paris, was invited by the Frankfurt Police Department to de-
monstrate Parisian traffic control. Saying that he was impressed with Germany so far,
Frenchman d’Hardivillers commented: “Traffic is much slower here because of the speed
limits, and I seem to get impatient. But the situation is difficult because the streets are
too narrow for big-city traffic.” (photo courtesy of The Overseas Weekly)