--- Page 2 ---
rMtiS ISSUE:
— US Information Center
co for the Ruhr
Symbol (See page 3)

Of Appreciation

Parallels
And Contrasts

German Women
Evaluate Visits
To the States

Toward
German Unity

‘Vhe Prize Package:
Freedom

‘ormany’s Defense
Contribution

MARCH
1952

--- Page 3 ---


--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The Information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of the
US High Commissioner for Germany
for the dissemination of authoritative
information concerning the policies,
regulations, instructions, operations
and activities of the United States Mis-
sion in Germany.

Editorial Staff:

Editor. sieanar este H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor .... Alfred L. Meyer
Jean Kinnaird Helen McLaughlin

Wilfried Saliger Liselotte Goldbeck
e
Editorial Offices:

Headquarters Building, Rooms 040-042
Frankfurt, Germany

Telephones: 8428, 8691, 8896, 8958

The Information Bulletin is prepared
and published by the Information Divi-
sion, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG.

Distribution is handled by. the Distri-
bution Unit, Administration Services
Division, Office of Executive Director,
HICOG, located in Headquarters Build-
ing, Room 961, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and distribution
should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin ‘

Information Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

German mailing address is:
Editor

Information Bulletin
Information Division, HICOG
HICOG Hochhaus
Frankfurt/M, Germany

Correspondence concerning inquiries
and distribution in the United States
should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

e

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

March 1952
Rediscovering the New World °............6...be0.e0c eee 200
Address by Karl Arnold
Rubr's.-Intormation “Center: ses cakacasioeuurseen caine 3
Allis Not Wellin Soviet Zone!) 5.0220 30.15,.0) . avs cen 6
Young East-Zone Skeptics o/955.45; sea aicacdos bik ene uv
Resume of Public Opinion Survey
Communist Campaign Exposed .............0.0.cceceeeee 9
Freedom Also for the Soviet Zone .....................5 10

Statement by Jakob Kaiser

Symbol Of Appreciations 105i). shies. ocecstee atwie eet 11
Article by Wiliried Saliger

German Women Evaluate Visits to the States .......... 13
Article by Liselotte Goldbeck

Toward. German ‘Unity 342). 0e ice fava winex evn teeoe earns 15
Address by Samuel Reber

AWA eae ser 72)alateseiaks Wraictale wa sate sine cts etal ase Rea Maigret OTA a 19
Article by Tom A, Noonan

Old German States Held Extinguished .................. 21

ECA Housing Exposition Goes on Tour .................. 22

Germans to Take Over Prison Journal .................. 26

Germany's Defense Contribution ........................ 27

The’ Prize: Package: Freedoms? 25.0 fence cielo bs adiore 29
Review by Jean Kinnaird

Annual Trade Almost Balanced 31
Economic review by Commercial Attache Section

Invand: Around:Germany.<¢ ia isi.) sce coisas eel awit 34

Calendar of ‘Coming Events :ii3..c00.-0, 4,0 a aces teenie 39

German Editorials and Cartoons ........................ Al

Musical Tesi: ig rnin tas ay odie es rok ale tea ery al 47

Report by Members of NATO's Executive Bureau (text) .. 48

(Olticlal Notices: sania sa saan naked ats PE LS
Communiques 75.3. 30.22..e0 ROR
Laws and Regulations sce ow
Official Statements 2... 3.0. --< cian istok, bre ets
Recent Publications 52

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Rediscovering the New World

Translation of Speech

By KARL ARNOLD ia

Minister-President, State of North Rhine-Westphalia

at opening of US Information Center at Essen (see opposite page).

HEN I LOOKED THROUGH the pages of the in-

vitation which I had received for today's dedication,
I became aware of the great variety of means which will
be used at this place to improve and strengthen the ties
between the New World and the Old. Inadvertently, at
that moment, I could not help thinking of the history
book which had accompanied me through my school days.

I remember very clearly the extensive passages on the
Low German and Franconian emperors, on the fate of
Brandenburg under the Great Elector and on a more recent
historical event, the German War of 1866. I conclude from
the fact that I remember a picture of George Washington
— the man whose birthday the United States is celebrat-
ing today — that the book also had something to say
about the history of the United States. It is the only re-
collection I have of anything the book contained about
the history of the United States.

However, I doubt that this lack should be attributed to
the forgetfulness of the student alone. I should rather
think that neither the book nor the teacher gave much
attention to the subject America." The study of Karl
May* was the only addition at that time to my knowledge
of the New World, and I am impolite enough to assume
that among the students of the same age there was almost
none whose knowledge differed considerably from my own.

In the meantime we have had — at least from 1945 on —
a much more lasting and a “more comprehensive lesson
about the New World — a lesson taught by life itself.
Aside from our own experiences of CARE packages, the
Marshall Plan, the Airlift and the protection that American
units constitute to western Germany and Berlin, the men-
tion of one name suffices to explain what the United States
means to the world: Korea.

The Communist attack has been confronted with a deter-
mination which justifies the hope of the free nations that
they will live to see a peace of genuine cooperation with-
out fear. Without the sacrifices made on this battleground
between East and West, mainly by American soldiers
who are fighting not only for Europe but for the world,
the hope for peace would at best be a self-deception with
no real value. The fate of the Free World will be decided
by the fate of the United States.

N ORDER FOR US to understand and appreciate the
powers of this country which have placed it in this
decisive role in the world-wide struggle between Western
and Eastern ideologies, it is not sufficient to polish up the
recollection of George Washington's picture in an old

* German novelist of imaginative, exciting tales about American
Indians.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

history book. It would be wrong to believe that the
America of our days is a mixture of Coca-Cola, Holly-
wood and optimism — a description which we sometimes
still come across in feuilleton-type travel reports.

I believe that this continent has shown a surprisingly
different face to everybody who during recent years has
gained a knowledge of modern American literature, Those
who, furthermore, have come to know that America since
approximately 1935 is the leading nation in the scientific
world with regard to research in pure mathematics — a
field of science which requires intensive theoretical work
without practical value — will have to revise their narrow
views on research work in the United States which they
believed to be limited to certain purposes only — for in-
stance, to the development of atomic weapons.

They will then recognize that we will have to overcome
the “terrible simplifications’ blurring our sight of the
United States and they will realize that, after 450 years,
we will have to discover the New World for the second
time, For this New World begins to return to Europe the
goods, though changed and converted, which were brought
to her by the Old World in past centuries.

If it is correct that the decisive changes take place in
the field of culture and not on the battlefield, this process
will require our utmost attention. The literature which
undertakes to investigate this phenomenon is growing, not
only in Germany but everywhere. This is neither a fad nor
the expression of those who like to keep up to date. On
the contrary, it follows the concept that a historic process
of tremendous proportions is under way.

HIS BUILDING IS DESTINED to place means at our

disposal which will help us to form an opinion of
our own. Thus we no longer will have to rely on the eyes
of other observers. American literature, American science,
American music and painting are available here and docu-
mentary films will give us an idea of landscape and
work in the New World. This building is destined to be-
come a center for free exchange of opinion and for in-
dividual forming of opinion, free from compulsion,

Thus the very idea that caused the construction of this
building symbolizes the ideal of those states which in 1787
gave themselves a constitution ‘determined to promote
the general welfare and to strengthen the blessings of
freedom for us and our descendants.”

I should like to express the thanks of the state of North
Rhine-Westphalia for the generous gift of the American
people and to extend greetings to a nation which in recent
years has proved that no sacrifice is too great in the cause
of freedom all over the world. +END

MARCH“ 1952

--- Page 6 ---
View of the United States’ newest Information Center, opened Feb, 22 in Essen, in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia.

Ruhr’s Information Center

NEW US INFORMATION CENTER, designed espe-

cially for the steel and coal laborers of the Ruhr, was
dedicated at Essen on Washington's Birthday as a center
of international understanding in Germany's most im-
portant industrial area.

German governmental and labor officials, speaking at
the dedicatory ceremony in the new red-brick building,
declared the center—known locally as Amerika Haus
Ruhr— would improve German-American relations by
enabling Germans to form freely their own opinions about
America and Western democracy, to learn about Ameri-
can labor-management relations, and to “rediscover” the
New World whose Old-World heritages have been mod-
ernized and returned to Europe.

“The principles of democracy are deeply rooted in the
American people and have shaped the American way
of life," said Christian Fette, chairman of the German
Federation of Tradé Unions. “It will be an essential func-

MARCH 1952

tion of this US Information Center to give the German
people an insight into the democratic way of life of
the United States. Its facilities and manifold programs
can have a very positive influence on our own young
democracy.”

Karl Arnold, minister-president of the state of North
Rhine-Westphalia, said: "This building is destined to
place means at our disposal which will help us to form

‘Cover Photograph

The bas-relief on the front of the US Information
Center symbolizes “woman” (upper left), “man”
(lower left) and “child” (lower right), making up the
“family” which is the “basis of society. The design is
by Professor Lungwitz of the “Folkwang Werkschule”
(art school) of Essen. (All photos by Claude Jacoby
of Public Relations Division, HICOG).

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Oy eae

--- Page 7 ---
Choice of 300 American magazines and trade publications
On open shelves is offered in periodicals room. Standing
is Henry A. Dunlap, chief of HICOG's Information Centers
Advisory Staff, looking over a magazine with visitor.

Browsing in 10,000-Book library are, 1.-r., Rudolf F. Ber-
tram, director of HICOG's Office of Labor Affairs; Edick
Anderson, Jr., director of the “Amerika Haus Ruhr,” and
LaVerne Baldwin, American Consul General in Duesseldorf.

Large, airy, well-lighted main reading room of Essen's
newly-opened Information Center, the first in Germany-
wide chain to be constructed especially for that purpose.
Interior decoration was designed by a New York firm.

an opinion of our own. Thus we no longer will have to
rely on the eyes of other observers. American literature,
American science, American music and painting are avail-
able here and documentary films will give us an idea
of landscape and work in the New World. This building
is destined to become a center for free exchange of opin-
ion and for individual forming of opinion, free from
compulsion." (For full text, see page 2.)

Also speaking at the dedicatory ceremony Feb. 22
before a large opening-day crowd including leading Ger-
man, American and Allied officials were R. F. Bertram,
acting director of the Office of Labor Affairs, HICOG;
Henry A. Dunlap, senior adviser of the Information Cen-
ters Advisory Staff, HICOG; Brigadier J. Lingham, British
state commissioner for North Rhine-Westphalia, and Dr.
Hans Toussaint, mayor of Essen. Presiding was Edick
Anderson, Jr., director of the center,

MERIKA HAUS RUHR is housed in the first building

to be designed and constructed in Europe for a US
Information Center — others being located in renovated
or reconstructed buildings initially intended for other
purposes. Located on a rubble-cleared plot in the heart
of Essen, the center's building is a modern U-shaped
structure of dark red brick. The two-story left wing houses
the library and an exhibition hall; the center section,
also of two stories, contains the foyer, a conference room
and periodicals reading room; the right wing of one story
has a 300-seat theater for motion-picture and stage per-
formances,

Headquarters for US information service to the thickly
populated Ruhr, the center and its facilities serve an area
of 4,000,000 persons, many of whom are employed in the
extensive coal mines and steel plants of west-central
Germany.

The Amerika Haus Ruhr specializes in serving the
working people of the coal and steel industries and their
families, although its facilities are comparable to the
work being carried on by the other 17 USIE centers in
Germany. These facilities include an open-shelf library
with 10,000 volumes principally of American literature,
a library of more than 300 documentary films on labor
unions and other aspects of life in America and the
Western world, a children's library, a record library and
player, and an extensive collection of the latest American
magazines in the periodicals room.

The project for the building of the US Information
Center in Essen was initiated when Patricia Van Delden
was chief of the Information Centers Branch of HICOG.
Mrs. Van Delden was recently transferred from Frank-
furt to Tokyo to direct similar USIE operations in Japan.

Construction of the center was begun in January 1951
on a site leased to HICOG by the city of Essen. It was
financed entirely from Marshall Plan counterpart funds.
The building was designed by Prof. Hermann Gehrig, an
Essen architect, and built by the German construction
firm of Philip Holzmann, A.G. The interior decoration
was designed by a New York firm.

MARCH 1952

--- Page 8 ---
N POINTING TO THIS center as a means of giving

the German people an insight into the American way
of life, German Trade Union Chairman Fette expressed his
thanks to the US Government for the center and extended
his gratitude to the American labor unions which, he
said, helped the German unions and workers at a time
when such assistance was not very popular.

“T cannot, however, limit my expression of gratitude
to the American unions; it would be unjust not to speak
about the attitude of the entire American nation in this
connection," Mr. Fette continued. “We should always
gratefully remember the aid we received from the Ameri-
can people, later officially continued as the Marshall Plan.
I think that this attitude of a victor nation of World
War II represented a substantial contribution to under-
standing among the nations.”

Denying frequent allegations that the Germans are by
nature not suited for a democratic government and way
of life, the labor-union chief said, “The overwhelming
majority of the German people are about to firmly im-
plant democratic principles in their country. They reject
dictatorship, from whatever side it may come. Millions
of Germans in the eastern part of our country long for
the day on which they will be reunited with their brothers
and sisters in the West in a free and united Germany.
Their suffering under Soviet dictatorship is a demon-
strative lesson which makes us day by day appreciate
more the value of freedom."

Mr. Fette pointed out that the Amerika Haus Ruhr
would be called upon to play an important part in help-
ing to avoid anything which might impair the growth of
the German democracy by disseminating information
about the United States. “Knowledge about other coun-
tries is the basis of confidence, and confidence is the
basis of cooperation and peace,” he concluded.

CHOING MR. FETTE'S. thought in a brief talk out-

lining the purpose of the US Information Centers,
Mr. Bertram said that Americans are interested in making
Germans acquainted with the United States not because
they want to force their way of life upon the German
people, “but because we know we have to start with
knowing each other better if we want to build a peace-
ful community of free nations.”

The goal of building a European community, he con-
tinued, requires the difficult task of tearing down exist-
ing economic, social and political barriers. ‘The disappear-
ance of these barriers is particularly essential for the
working population, whose standard of living will con-
stantly increase as the European economy enlarges.

“Here in Essen, in this congested industrial area, we
hope to have an opportunity to give a comprehensive
outline of the functions of workers, trade unions and
other organizations within an American community. We
do not want you to simply copy our methods, but we
hope we can show you what ways and means we in the
United States employ in this field." The HICOG Labor
Affairs director also said, “We know that we can learn
much from you, and we hope that you will learn from
us, too.” +END

MARCH 1952

Visitors from all walks of life now gather daily in new
center's reading rooms to scan daily newspapers, maga-
zines and books. Erected in heart of congested indusirial
Ruhr, center's regular callers include steel and coal workers.

oe

Marshal] Plan assistance to Germany is depicted in dis-
play in exhibition hall and attracted the interest of many
on Washington's Birthday, when dedication ceremonies
were attended by distinguished German, US gathering.

Scale model of complete, modern American industrial plant,
reproduced for the certain appeal it would have for the
inhabitants of Germany's most highly-industrialized area,
is detailed to visitors by a member of new center's staff.

--- Page 9 ---
All is Not Well in Soviet Zone

LL IS NOT WELL in the Soviet-created governmental

regime in Eastern Germany, as is revealed by a zone-
wide campaign of "'self-criticism’ now under way in the
Soviet Zone and East Berlin. The campaign has furnished
extensive evidence of breakdowns in the Soviet Zone's
system of regimentation and control.

In a recent issue of Junge Welt, central organ of the
Communist German youth organization (FDJ), a reader,
one Sigrid Becker, said in a letter to the editor that “the
World Youth Festival is past and with it our youth work.
The basic units are getting steadily smaller. A growing
number of friends are leaving the FDJ, and increasing
numbers are losing the desire to take part in our work...

“Put short and sweet,’ Miss Becker added, ‘we can't
overstuff our friends with dry political talk.”

In the same issue, Junge Welt complained about scan-
dalous events in an FDJ district office in Leipzig where
the functionaries “responsible, of all things, for agitation
and propaganda” regularly tuned in to the RIAS Hit
Parade program.

“Friends who passed by and heard a radio playing
went in and enlarged the circle. And what's more," Junge
Welt indignantly declared, “the district secretary knew
about it but did not dream of stopping this extremely
peculiar type of agitation and propaganda work." The
functionaries were relieved of their posts.

HORTAGES AND THE POOR quality of certain ma-

terials are frequently criticized. The East Berlin news-
paper Neues Deutschland, for instance, admitted in a
recent issue that the so-called MAS (Maschinen-Ausleih-
Stationen, or Machine-Lending Stations) will be unable
to execute their work-contracts with the farmers if the
necessary replacement parts cannot be procured. So far
East German industry has been unable to fill orders for
spare parts because of lack of raw materials, Neues
Deutschland wrote.

Taegliche Rundschau, the Soviet army newspaper in
Berlin, complained that because of a shortage of welding
wire, the Kjellbergwerk Finsterwalde was forced to switch
from a three-shift schedule to one shift only. Even then
many of the workers, “mostly skilled specialists, had to
be put on odd jobs, railroad work, street repairs, etc.”

“Letter to Editor” columns usually reveal quite plainly
that serious production deficiencies still prevail in the
Soviet Zone. BZ am Abend (Berlin) recently published
the letter of a Christa G. of Niederschoenhausen in which
the writer complained about the quality of stockings
issued against ration coupons. “One morning I was forced
to change my stockings twice because both pairs started
to ladder (run) the moment I put them on,” she wrote.
“Don't we have any better material than that?”

Another woman wrote that she bought shirts for her
three boys for eight coupons each. “Although the shirts
were washed only once and the boys wear them only for
school, the backs of the shirts are already tearing. Can't
we yet produce better quality garments?”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

RGANIZATIONS, FACTORIES AND institutions often

publish in the columns of the East press appeals to
the public to help out by supplying some item that is
normally unobtainable. Cries for as little as one or two
pounds of nails are not unusual.

Neue Zeit, organ of the East Berlin CDU, recently
printed the letter of a reader who expressed his astonish-
ment at the fact that the administration of the Nationale
Aufbauprogramm (National Reconstruction Program) had ‘
to appeal to the public to help out with a car battery
to get their telephone system working. “Are we really
so poor,” the reader of the Neue Zeit wrote, “that we
have to alarm the public because of one miserable
battery?”

The much-publicized building and reconstruction pro-
grams throughout the Soviet Zone seem to have made
little progress, according to many articles and reports.
Der freie Bauer wrote “that so far it has in no single
year been possible to complete the building program. It
was a mistake not to win the farmers over to the land
reform building program."

In repeated letters and articles workers complain about
senseless planning which forces them to build something
somewhere one day, to tear it down the next day, and
to rebuild it somewhere else on the third day. In Freiheit,
official organ of the SED of Saxony-Anhalt, a worker
angrily declared: “Don't those people up there in Berlin
know what they want to build? We get a draft and we
start. Then we get another draft, and we tear down what
we have just built because there has been some ‘mis-
planning.’ Thus, on the one hand, valuable material and
a lot of money are wasted while, on the other hand, we
are expected to get an impossible amount of work done,"
the writer concluded.

RIBUENE, THE PAPER of the FDGB (Federation of

Trade Unions), complained about the inefficiency and
“ideological weakness" of its functionaries. They were
criticized for not stressing heavily enough the importance
of introducing Soviet working methods into factories in
the Soviet Zone.

In a recent issue, Tribuene wrote, “Our functionaries
talk a lot about general introduction of Soviet working
methods but they are unable to explain to anybody what
these methods mean to us and how they are to be
employed. The responsible colleagues and functionaries
have not been able to initiate a mass movement, and the
personal obligations on the part of workers to adopt
Soviet working methods were either ignored altogether
or only partly fulfilled because they were almost entirely
stifled by red tape."

In another issue Tribuene criticized the “opportunistic
attitude” of the secretariat of the central board of the
Industry Union ‘Building-Wood,’ “which enabled class
enemies to work among our building workers and to
strengthen their ‘backward’ opinions.” +END

MARCH 1952

--- Page 10 ---
Young East-Zone Skeptics

Resume of Public Opinion Survey

By REACTIONS ANALYSIS STAFF
Office of Public Affairs. HICOG

HE EAST-ZONE TEEN-AGER, enmeshed in the web

spun of Communist vitriolics against the West, par-
ticularly America, is showing a strong tendency to reject
the incessant biased instruction to which he is subjected
in the Communist-directed school system of eastern Ger-
many.

When the Communist World Youth Festival brought
East Zone boys and girls to the Berlin area last summer,
thousands skipped Communist activities for a time and
moved freely about the free sectors of West Berlin.

One hundred of these young visitors to West Berlin
were queried in a sampling taken by German inter-
viewers from HICOG’s Reactions Analysis Staff on the
youths’ attitudes toward their classroom instruction, In-
direct questioning, such as “what causes you the greatest
difficulties in school” and “do you believe what you hear
about America and Russia is true," was employed to
obtain their individual views on the curriculum as offered
in the Soviet Zone.

An analysis of the findings shows an awareness of Com-
munist doctrines as well as an ability to assess the worth
of the instruction. It also shows the youth generally reject
these theories, basing their doubt on personal experience
or local evidence, on a trust in Western progress and free-
dom, and on hope’ for deliverance from oppression.

HE PUPILS INITIALLY indicated their dislike of the

political atmosphere pervading the classrooms when
asked a general question on what caused them the great-
est difficulty in school, Four out of 10 specifically
mentioned “political pressure.”

One student stated: The basis of all instruction is politi-
cal now, the teachers are not satisfactory inasmuch as
they have to work under political pressure.

Another said: I cannot state my opinion freely: all the
class papers that we ever write concern polilical topics
in which we must lie; only those are promoted who are
members of the FDJ (Communist youth organization) and
work for it.

Most of the other difficulties mentioned were also
derived from the East zone political situation: three in
10 disliked the compulsory Russian language course; two
in 10 had trouble with the propaganda-weighted ‘current
events" class. Only a quarter of the complaints were
traditional pupil gripes, without political implications.

The integration within the school system of the FDJ
as a means of applying political pressure was readily
evident, On the average eight in 10 pupils belong to the
youth group, while respondents estimated that about

MARCH 1952

14 percent of the members were “convinced” of the FDJ
aims.

The role of these neophyte Communists is considered
influential by three out of 10 of the respondents. Half of
those pupils questioned denied the FDJers had any in-
fluence. The students listed the following ways in which
the FDJ student leaders influenced others:

One has to do whatever they order.

They watch over us.

They try to convince the others.

They work on those who waver.

They try to get everybody interested in active effort.

They always want their way.

The pupils’ account of the group's functions suggests
almost a literal translation into schoolroom action of
party leadership devices as preached by Stalin. This
minority group of convinced young Communists uses
force, fear, exhortation and “example” to pressure the
unconvinced, the wavering and the laggard to accept the
Communist teaching. If they do not exert influence it is
only because they have encountered resistance,

CRANES MADE IN the school curriculum were also
meeting with opposition. The young East Germans
indicated too much time was spent on current events, and

Four members of the so-called ‘Free German Youth,”
who risked punishment to cross from the Soviet Sector
into Free Berlin to see the ECA's television colorcasts
at Radio Tower grounds, study Marshall Plan emblem.

--- Page 11 ---
the Russian language, and generally all instruction revolv-
ing around political aims. On the other hand, languages
(including German), the natural sciences and art were
neglected — courses usually accepted as the mainstay for
a balanced and traditional education.

In the survey, 69 percent of the pupils noted that they
often disagree with their teacher about certain things that
they hear in class. Eighteen percent said they differed
“sometimes,” nine percent said ‘‘seldom” and four percent
not at all. Such figures could indicate a healthy, youth-
ful skepticism: however, the reasons for these particular
differences denote the youngsters’ awareness of, and
resistance to, political propaganda.

This is how they differed:

About current political and ideological problems: One
pupil wrote: In history and current events, I have a dif-
ferent interpretation and I found confirmation of it in
Berlin,

Another said: In current events they only tell us about
things that would serve the Russians’ objectives and
these aren't true at all.

About what they tell us of America and the West:
Comments made were: They tell us in current events
that the Americans are oppressors.

RIAS (US-operated radio in West Berlin) tells only lies
and we shouldn't listen to it.

About what they tell us of Russia: One student had
the opinion: They liberated us and want to be our ex-
amples.

Another said: The USSR and her inventions should set
an example for us.

About the conditions in the East Zone: Said one youth:
I asked the teacher once about the people's police and he
said that it had to be that way — it is self-defense — and
that it was of no special importance since they were only
people's police.

About the reports on Korea: One statement said: They
quarreled a lot about who was the aggressor or about
war preparations of the West.

Another student expounded widely on the topic of
peace and war-mongering. He wrote:

The rally of the peace-loving youth — it's nothing but
a military parade. They say that the Western world wants
war and the Eastern world wants only good and wants to
liberate the Western people. They tell us that they are
rearming for a new war in West Germany, and the Soviet
Union only wants to fight for peace. They talk about the
army training grounds of the Americans in West Ger-
many and say nothing like that exists in the East zone.

HE POLL SUGGESTED open disagreement was throttl-
ed by the power of the police state. Only one out of
every 10 of the school children said he openly indicated
to others his differing ideas. Three in 10 said they never
voiced their disagreements. Typical remarks were:
I keep it to myself, otherwise I'd be expelled from
school,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

I keep it to myself for fear they'd say that I am not
“democratic.”

I keep my mouth shut because my brother has already
been arrested once.

The remainder discussed their differences occasionally
and always with discretion. One student stated: We could
protest against it since we still have the old teachers to
whom we can talk openly — besides the whole class is
united in it.

Another (said): I talk to the teacher because he doesn't
believe what he has to tell us either, and he is glad if we
oppose it, too.

Nine out of 10 pupils said their home was the one
island of free speech and thought. The children generally
talked their problems and differences over with their
parents, but aside from sympathy and mental support most
of the advice the youngsters received was of a passive
nature, The older people felt the situation was dangerous
or hopeless and few advocated active resistance.

UPILS WHO WERE INTERVIEWED also noted that

their teachers gave a dishonest picture of conditions
in the East zone of Germany. Only two in 10 said that
their instructors presented an accurate picture. The others
stated flatly that their teachers knew better but were tel-
ling lies or else varnishing the truth.

The kind of instruction given in the East zone public
schools was sharply brought out by replies to queries on
what was taught about America and Soviet Union. Seven
in 10 asserted that they heard only “bad” things about the
United States and 94 percent stated they were told only
the good about the USSR. Further questioning disclosed
that more than half of the youngsters tempered this in-
struction with disbelief, but the barbs hit their intended
mark in some cases.

Examples of comments made in answer to the question
“What do you hear that is bad about America?" were:

America wants war and is opposed to peace — they
draft all 18-year-old youth.

It is a totally imperialistic state, the economic setup
is very bad, capital is tied in with the government.

America is judged from the Marxist point of view only,
workers are exploited and a small upper class lives a
tiotously easy life.

It is a country with very bad social conditions,

It is a country where the Negroes are oppressed because
of their race.

In order to get West Germany in debt too much food
is sent here. The Marshall Plan is flooding West Germany
with goods and Germany is nothing but an American
colony.

America attacked Korea for merely economic reasons;
the Americans encouraged South Korea to wage war in
order to get a market outlet.

HE BLACKENING of America and the whitewashing

of Russia in East German schools were demonstrated
in the pupils’ replies to ‘‘What good things do you hear
about Russia?"

MARCH 1952

--- Page 12 ---
Russia is a country of peace, they care only for the well-
being of the workers.

I can't mention everything —Russia is just a paradise
to all mankind.

Only Russia is peace-loving, she uses all efforts for
peaceful reconstruction and she wants to protect us from
the bad influence of the Western world.

Russia continues to rebuild and to develop herself.

Russia liberated Germany from Hitler; she helps East
Germany in every respect.

Russia doesn't know class differences — each individual
has equal rights and equal possibilities.

Russia is on a high cultural level.

N.ORDER TO TEST further the amount of Communist

propaganda absorbed by East German youth, the pupils
were queried on key themes in the USSR’s anti-American
drive — responsibility for the present East-West tensions
and the purpose of the Marshall Plan.

On the “Cold War" issue eight to one named the Soviet
Union over the Western Powers as answerable for the
situation.

The Marshall Plan question indicated that the Soviet
authorities have failed in their attempt to detract from
the purpose of the project. The East zone youth, almost
without exception, gave favorable interpretations of US
motives for the economic aid program. They answered
that the purpose of the aid to Europe was to rebuild all
that was destroyed during the last war, to erect a bulwark
against Communism, to promote Western unity and to
help West Germany in particular.

Only five comments implied that America was pursuing
her own selfish interests, but even there the European
benefit also was not denied. Nine percent of the students
know only the Communist interpretation of the Marshall
Plan, but insisted that this is not their own opinion; they
would prefer to find out for themselves. Three in 10 were
insufficiently acquainted with the plan to comment. +END

Communist Campaign Exposed

OMMUNIST OFFICIALS IN the Soviet Zone are em-

ploying a wide range of propaganda devices in a
stepped-up campaign to win the women of West Berlin
and western Germany to support the Communists’ “peace”
drive, according to a special report made public in March
by the Public Affairs Division, Berlin Element, HICOG.

For the past several months, the report said, Com-
munist organizations have intensified efforts to persuade
women leaders to get behind special programs which
have been camouflaged as innocent community move-
ments. In the Federal Republic women represent well
over half the voting population.

True substance of these programs is disguised behind
“peace” propaganda and in many cases they pass as
campaigns for the protection of children or as drives in
support of some other seemingly worthy cause.

German women from the East zone have been sent to
the Federal Republic to carry on the work of recruiting
and establishing new contacts for the camouflaged Com-
munist programs. Lists of these women and of West
German women known to be trusted Communist aids
have been circulated among responsible West German
women leaders.

East German female propagandists who have come to
West Germany have received special schooling in courses
ranging from two to 10 weeks in duration. These courses
are of two types: first, those slanted especially for female
Communist party members; and, second, those held for
Freundinnen, women who have expressed sympathy for
one or other of the disguised programs sponsored by the
Communists.

Both types of schooling are designed to train organizers
who can exploit anti-remilitarization sentiment to obtain

MARCH 1952

support for the so-called ‘peace campaign.” As an inte-
gral part of the Communist program, efforts are made to
influence non-Communist individuals and groups.

OR 1952 THE COMMUNIST authorities in East Ger-

many plan organization of more special schools
organized along the lines of those already existing, but
set up to handle classes of up to 100. Groups listed by
the report as special targets of the broadened Communist
propaganda campaign include religious organizations,
working women and housewifé-mothers.

The last have come in for significant consideration. An
organization called the “Society for the Protection of
Children" was organized in April 1951 as one of the
initial moves in the stepped-up campaign. Propaganda
aimed at mothers has increasingly stressed the “peace”
goal as an idedl, and has also emphasized that peace at
any price is better than rearmament, which is described
as always leading to war.

Members of the society aided in organizing the ‘“Con-
gress for the Protection of Children,” held in East Berlin
from Jan. 4 to 6. They also helped in disseminating infor-
mation concerning the “vacation and health camps" set
up in the Soviet Zone last summer. The “Congress for the
Protection of Children'' was intended as a highpoint of
Communist attempts to create the impression that popular
opinion is behind the over-all “peace campaign.”

A further effort in this direction will be made at an

‘international congress to be held in Vienna between

April 6 and 12, As a subsidiary campaign, efforts will be
made to increase the number of West German youngsters
attending East zone summer camps this year from a
total of 2,000 to approximately 10,000.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
Jakob Kaiser.

Freedom Also for the Soviet Zone

Text of Statement

By JAKOB KAISER
Federal Minister for All-German Affairs
on “Bundestag” Vote for All-German Assembly

Y.AN OVERWHELMING majority vote, the Bundestag

(Federal Parliament) passed on Feb. 6 the “Draft of
a Law on the Principles of Free Elections for a Constitu-
tional German National Assembly.” Both the government
coalition and opposition parties approved of the bill. This
accord of opinions demonstrates that there is no dis-
sension in the determination to reunite Germany, in-
cluding the Soviet Zone, and also that the entire nation
is resolved to do everything in its power to pave the
way to free elections.

The Federal Government will now forward this bill to the
Allied Powers. It is up to the Western Powers and the Sovi-
et Union then, to enact it in all of Germany, The Federal
Government is confident that the Western Powers will
approve it. It is up to the Soviet Union to do the same.

The electoral law provides that the entire area of
Germany constitutes one single electoral district, and
each party may submit only one list of candidates. This
is necessary, because we are well acquainted with the
Communists and their tactics. We know. that, despite all
safeguards and international controls, they will try to
the very last moment to intimidate the population. We
have experienced these tactics. For this reason, the nomi-
nation of candidates must be kept as far as possible from
their influence.

The Federal Government and Bundestag are agreed
that the National Assembly should do more than draft
a constitution, It should, at the same time, “bring about
and secure a liberal, lawful, democratic and federal order
in all of Germany.” That means freedom will come to
the Soviet Zone the moment the National Assembly
convenes. We know that the period of transition will
certainly be not easy. But all difficulties will be over-
come by the nation’s determination and confidence.

We know, too, that the Communists spare no trouble
to undermine confidence in the Federal Republic, Day
after day they try to make the people believe that we
have left the Soviet Zone in the lurch. The population
there, however, realizes that the facts prove the contrary.

N THE BUNDESTAG on Feb. 6, I expressed the wish of
the Soviet Zone population, which is also our own, most
clearly: “All contractual obligations and a-
greements with the free world can be under-
stood only to the effect that they bring all of
Germany — that means our entire nation —
closer to unity, freedom and peace. The
reunification of the German people must
not be impeded, it must be facilitated.”
That is not only my personal opinion. It
is shared by all the people of the Federal
Republic, and the free world is in full sym-
pathy with it. This was expressed lately by
the establishment of an impartial United
Nations commission, We wish that this com-
mission could go to Berlin in the near
future. From Berlin it has the best chance to

10

survey the whole of Germany, and only on German soil can
it gain the proper understanding of the German situation.

Undoubtedly Berlin will be prepared to grant extra-
territorial rights to the commission for the fulfillment of
its task. In that case the Communists will have even
less reason to refuse the commission the right of entry
into their zone. But the people of the Soviet Zone shall
know that the representatives of the free world are right
outside their door, waiting to be let in.

The people of the Soviet Zone may be assured: The
Federal Republic's policy is specifically aimed at the
reunification of Germany, But that requires that the
Federal Republic be strong. There is no doubt that the
basis of this strength must be economic and social se-
curity. However, in view of our postwar experiences we
do not think highly of the confidence of the defenseless
in the armed. And nobody can deny that Communism
is armed to the teeth. We certainly do not want to do
the same, but at least we want to be able to defend our-
selves, if we were attacked. .

During the past few days this has been the subject
of a debate in the Bundestag. As becomes a democratic
parliament, the house discussed the subject thoroughly
and openly, and radio broadcasts made the entire nation
a witness. It is inconceivable that such a debate — about
the people's police, for instance — could be held in the
so-called Volkskammer (‘People’s Chamber"), A dictator-
ship simply cannot afford that.

HE PURPOSE OF the Bundestag debate was that the

German people consider the prerequisites and meth- ~
ods of a future defense, In view of past experiences and
of the present situation, opinions were bound to clash
violently. But in one respect there is agreement among
the overwhelming majority of the Bundestag: both gov-
ernment coalition and opposition know that Germany
would have to contribute to its own defense, if it were
ever attacked. The differences of opinion concern only
the prerequisites of such defense.

Unfortunately no responsible politician could rise and
say that there is no threat from the East. On the other
hand, there is hardly a speaker who does not express
hope for an understanding. This understanding, as we
all know well, is the hope of the Soviet Zone. It is our
hope, too. However, for six years we have been pow-
erless and defenseless. The Soviet Union has misused
this time to draw the Soviet Zone of Germany closer
and closer into its sphere of power.

We have learned one thing since 1945: a nation like
the German, living amid a heavily armed world, cannot
exist totally defenseless. There is a tremendous differ-
ence, however, between the capacity to defend oneself
and the capacity to attack. We want only defense, For
this reason Germany's demand to defend itself cannot
be an obstacle to the reunification of the German nation.
It cannot be an obstacle if everyone who talks of unity
honestly means a reunification in freedom +END

MARCH 1952

--- Page 14 ---
Symbol of Appreciation

By WILFRIED SALIGER

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

N ANONYMOUS GERMAN in Munich scrawled on
the back of a money order: ‘A wonderful idea!" and
sent it off, a money order for DM 10 ($2.38).*

Some 400 miles away, in embattled Free Berlin, an old
man stopped at the post office on his way home from
the welfare agency and wrote: “I am 80 years old and
on public relief, but I think I can spare DM 3 (71 cents)
for this good purpose.”

Again elsewhere in Germany, a woman made a close
check of her billfold and decided, sighingly, that she
could not afford it—no, not now, three weeks before
Christmas, But she kept it in mind, and soon after the
first of the new year she took DM 20 ($4.76) out of her
husband's pay envelope, went to the post office and
wrote: "I would have been glad to give more, but
honestly, I can't."

A few days later, these money orders, along with
thousands of others from all parts of Germany, wound up
on a desk in Cologne's Old University building, where a
sign on the door says: Dankspende des deutschen Volkes.

HAT HAD HAPPENED? What made Germans in all

parts of the country suddenly take some marks
from their tight budgets and give them away, very often
anonymously? They felt that they owed a debt of grati-
tude to millions of anonymous men and women all around
the globe who had joined in a common effort to help
Germany out of its greatest need and distress after 1945.
And though their position was still far from enviable,
they wanted to show the world that they
were grateful for what they had received.

Hostilities had just ceased in the spring
of 1945, when a Swiss chaplain crossed the
Rhine into Germany and brought a knap-
sack full of medicine to help combat an
outbreak of disease. He did not know then
that he was starting a world-wide relief
campaign, conceived of a world-wide wat
and as unique in its extent. A few weeks
later supplies started to come in from
Germany's two neutral neighbors, Switzer-
land and Sweden, and before the summer
had passed the victors of World War II
opened the German ports to relief ship-
ments from their own countries.

* Deutsche-mark amounts have been converted to
dollars at the official exchange rate of DM 4.20
equaling $1, It should be kept in mind, however,
that — generally speaking — the German workman
looks on the mark the same way an American looks
on the dollar.

MARCH 1952

Churches, welfare organizations, youth groups and the
governments stepped in and organized the flow of don-
ated food, clothing and household goods, which in-
creased from day to day. Six years later, by the summer
of 1951, gifts from private citizens abroad to German
friends or welfare organizations had reached the
DM 1,000,000,000 ($238,000,000) mark. All countries in the
free world were represented on the list of donors, ex-
cepting only the few which were equally bad off as
Germany, such as Austria and Greece.

ANKING FIRST AMONG the donors was the United
States, where 60 percent of all private relief ship-
ments to Germany originated, not counting the vast
government-sponsored Marshall-Plan and GARIOA (Gov-
ernment and Relief in Occupied Areas) programs. The
runners-up were Switzerland and Sweden, with per-
capita shares even exceeding that of the United States.
The 150,000 inhabitants of Iceland sent their contributions
as did formerly German-occupied Norway and the Nether-
lands, as well as faraway South Africa and Haiti.

However, even the most generous outside help cannot
rebuild a country. It has to be put to proper use, which
the German people did. Foreign shipments of food and
clothing relieved them of the most pressing needs, in-
creasing their ability to rebuild. With a maximum of
effort, Germany was back on its feet only six years after
the complete collapse of 1945, a rehabilitated nation in
the world community.

President Theodor Heuss inaugurating the ‘Dankspende” drive in Bonn
Nov. 27, 1951, Left to right: President Heuss; Hanns Hartmann, director
of the Cologne radio station; Robert Goerlinger, mayor of Cologne; Louise
Schroeder, former ac
represented the Protestant Church in Germany. (Photo by Georg Munker, Bonn)

ing mayor of Berlin, and Bishop D. Hans Meiser, who

toy

--- Page 15 ---
The flood catastrophes in Kansas and Italy in 1951
provided the young Federal Republic with an opportunity
to extend a helping hand to other distressed populations,
to prove that it understands the principles of humanity
from which it has benefited. Immediately upon receipt
of the first news of these disasters, German motor pumps
were flown to Kansas, and a hospital train left for Italy.
But even so, the feeling persisted among German citizens
that their nation should find some way to express its
gratitude to the countless anonymous donors, who would
never know the people whom their gifts had helped, or
how much a nation had depended on them.

ERMANY'S PRESIDENT THEODOR HEUSS found a

way: to buy works of contemporary German art
with funds donated by the German people, and to give
them to these nations as a symbol of German gratitude
for their help. Contemporary German art had suffered
under the Nazi regime. Hitler classified it from the stand-
point of his ideology and ruthlessly ruled out every-
thing which did not suit his concept. He banned the works
of internationally famous artists such as Beckmann and
Marc, removed them from the German art galleries and
dumped them on the world markets. But the unexpected
happened: from that very day on world interest in
modern German art increased and kept increasing as the
political disputes about its cultural value went on.

And now German art, threatened by a creeping paral-
ysis since the sociological upheaval of two lost wars
had set a rapid end to private patronage, would have a
new, great and worth-while task: to portray, through the
medium of art, the life of the present German generation
to the peoples of the world. These works, carefully
scrutinized by an expert jury, would tell them of a new
Germany and, at the same time, would enrich the cultural
treasures of these nations and of the world.

Under the personal supervision of President Heuss,
and the trusteeship of prominent personages of German
public life, a non-profit foundation was established in
Cologne, called the Dankspende des deutschen Volkes,
literally translated a “Donation in Gratitude of the Ger-
man People." It is the instrument of the campaign for
which President Heuss appealed to the German public
at a ceremony in Bonn on Nov. 27, 1951. “This is not a
political affair, it is primarily a human one," he said.
"Gratefulness exalts a nation, because it is the attitude
of free men.”

HE RESPONSE FROM the German people was im-
mediate and strong. Two days after the opening
ceremony the first contribution was received from “one
who waits for the equalization of war burdens."* He

* The “Equalization of War Burdens" is a German legislative pro-
posal, under which property losses through events of the war and
its direct consequences are to be equalized, Capital levies will be
imposed on individuals who suffered no or insubstantial losses, for the
benefit of those who lost most or all of their property. Due to the
enormous difficulty of such a program, the bill has been under con-
sideration almost four years.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

12

apparently did not quite know how much he should give,
so he sent DM 7.77 ($1.85) to match the foundation's
bank account number 77,777. More remittances followed,
and by the end of the first week they came in at the
rate of 100 a day. Within less than two months
DM 192,000 ($45,730) had been collected, from contribu-
tions ranging from DM 1 (23.8 cents) to DM 500 ($119)
from individuals, and up to DM 50,000 ($11,900) from
firms and organizations.

But the campaign is only just getting started. Local
governments throughout Germany are preparing to
organize citizens’ committees to support the drive,
theaters will stage non-profit performances for the benefit
of the Dankspende, and sports clubs will contribute the
proceeds of coming sports events. Trade unions, business
organizations and youth groups are joining in the effort
to spread the campaign over the country. Their task is
to set up local channels for collection, to provide facili-
ties — not to “sell” the idea.

“Selling'' seems to be superfluous. The majority of the
people have understood the simple appeal ‘to contribute
in the same spirit in which the world helped us: without
any political implication, in the spirit of a peace which
is rooted in the hearts of mankind.” Part and parcel of
a democracy in the making, there are opponents of the
Dankspende. There are those who endorse the idea, but
want to have it done their own way. There are others,
who say they will participate only if their particular
friends abroad receive a gift of gratitude. And there are,
of course, also the antagonists whose arguments and
polemics against ‘western gangsters” can hardly conceal
their defiance. But they are the proverbial exception
which confirms the rule.

HIS SUMMER, WHEN it is expected the foundation's

goal of DM 1,500,000 ($357,150) will have drawn
nearer, a jury of 12 prominent German art experts will
convene to scrutinize the thousands of paintings, drawings
and sculptures offered by German artists. They will select
the best ones, giving a representative cross-section of
contemporary German art.

And then these works of art will be presented to the
nations to whom Germany feels indebted, to their gov-
ernments, churches, welfare organizations, and to many
individuals who spearheaded the drive to help the
defeated country. In art galleries all over the world they .
will be on display as witnesses of a time when charity,
brotherhood and friendship finally overcame hatred and
war, and as memorials to the gratefulness of a nation
which was the first to benefit from this revolution of
thought.

“Based on my experience since the inception of the
Dankspende I can positively say that the desire to thank
is a deeply felt and strong one among the German
people,” said President Heuss, “In this short time already
the foundation’s success has proved that the German
people are overcoming bitterness, disappointment and
apathy.” +END

MARCH 1952

--- Page 16 ---
German Women
Evaluate Visits
To the States

By LISELOTTE GOLDBECK

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

NE HUNDRED SEVENTY-FIVE German women, con

vinced of the value of exchange visits between
Germans and Americans through their own trips to the
United States, have initiated a fund to help finance an
American woman's stay in Germany this year. Meeting
Feb. 18-19 in Frankfurt to evaluate their experiences in
the United States, the German women, ranging in age
from 25 to 60, were unanimous in the belief that an ac-
celerated program which would bring more Americans
to Germany would be an important contribution to better
understanding between the two nations.

Sponsored by the Women’s Affairs Advisory Staff of
the Division of Cultural Affairs and the Exchanges Staff,
the conference was the first of its kind held for all
women leaders and specialist exchangees from every type
of project area, including women's affairs, education,
youth and religious activities, public health and welfare,
law, agriculture and home economy, journalism and
mass media, labor affairs, political and public affairs.

The two-day conference began with a general session
opened by Miss Ruth F, Woodsmall, head of the
Women's Affairs Branch of HICOG's Office of Public
Affairs. Principal speakers were Mrs. John J. McCloy,
wife of the US High Commissioner for Germany; Dr.
Hanna Kiep, women's affairs officer with the German
diplomatic mission in Washington, who flew to Germany
for the conference, and Dr. Ralph Burns, chief of the
HICOG Exchanges Staff,

Te SESSION WAS DIVIDED into four workshops,
all on the following topics: (1) Application of ex-
periences gained during exchange visits to the United
States; (2) Problems and difficulties encountered in ap-
plying experiences in Germany; (3) Recommendations
for future planning and suggestions for selecting ex-
changees; (4) What each exchangee should know about
Germany; (5) Suggestions for helping US experts and
exchangees during their stay in Germany, and (6) How
the exchanges program can be made more effective in
achieving better understanding between Germany and
the United States.

“Building German-American Understanding” and the
role of German women returnees in the poitical present
were the themes of Mrs. McCloy's address. She empha-
sized the responsibility which the German exchangee

MARCH 1952

German women leaders attending Frankfurt conference to
evaluate exchange studies in the United States assemble
for general session, One-third of the 6,600 German ex-
changees have been women.

(PRD HICOG photos by Jacoby)

ise Urbaub of Nuremberg addresses conference after
series of workshops, Women were of unanimous opinion
that program is valuable aid to mutual understanding.

Mrs. John J. McCloy (left) and Dr. Hanna Kiep, German
women's affairs officer with Federal Republic's diplomatic
mission in Washington, were among the principal speakers.

--- Page 17 ---
Mrs, Hedwig Walter of Stuttgart reports on findings of
workshop of which she was chairman. Seated are Mrs.
Antje Lemke (left), Wiesbaden, and Mrs. Nora Melle, Berlin.

women have in combatting the unfounded criticism pre-
sently centering on the Western rearmament program.

Pointing to the need for women to examine facts
before forming opinions, Mrs. McCloy said: “I know
there are many who let themselves be influenced by
cheap propaganda, but no one can afford such immature
thinking today. We know, for example, that some Ger-
man groups hold the opinion that there is a rearmament
race taking place now, which is bound to cause war,
from one side or the other, whoever is the first to feei
strong enough. Such criticism is unfounded and even
false.”

“Checking the facts,"she went on, “we will find that
America joined two world wars because it was forced
to do so by declaration of war. Twice in recent history
the United States stood unprepared and it experienced
ruthless conquerors trying to take advantage of this
fact. Experience has shown us that this state of non-
preparedness led to war. Today our policy is that of
a timely and proper appraisal of the danger in order
to prevent war.”

R. KIEP DECLARED that the exchanges program has

been “the charity package for the mental malnutri-
tion from which German women suffered’ in the years
of the Nazi regime, “The hopeful and encouraging ex-
periences of a lived democracy has given us strength
and courage again,” she said, “and the helping hands
of American women are aiding us in building a better
future.”

Dr. Kiep also emphasized the importance of a greater
flow of American women to Germany as a means of
strengthening ties between the two countries.

Approximately 45 percent of the world-wide exchanges-
program allocations by the US Congress has been for
West Germany, Dr. Burns told the conference. “This is
proof of the high esteem in which Americans hold the
German people and of their belief that there is a strong
democratic potential here in Germany,” he said.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

14

“The US mission in Germany is to help the Germans
to help themselves, That is why we help the Germans
in action, why we sent 6,600 Germans to the United
States, plus some 500 to other European countries.”

Henry J. Kellermann, chief of the Department of State's
Office of German Public Affairs in Washington, called
German women exchangees to America ‘ambassadors of
their country working for better mutual understanding.‘

N WORKSHOP DISCUSSIONS, the conferees were

agreed on the necessity of utilizing press and radio
facilities more widely as a means of informing a greater
segment of the German public about life in America and
about the workings of democratic institutions.

They were also of the opinion that exchangees selected
for visits to the United States should be thoroughly in-
formed about conditions in Germany, including such cur-
rent problems as the East-West tension, living standards,
attitudes toward American troops in Germany, the re-
fugee situation, party systems, the German Basic Law
and housing and educational problems so as to be better
able to impart information to the Americans with whom
they come in contact.

Approximately one-third of the 6,600 German ex-
changees have been women, and the 175 in attendance
represent many of the most active and forceful women
in the new Germany. Such political leaders as Federal
Parliament members Aenne Brauksieppe, Elinor Hubert,
Herta [lk and public spokesmen such as Anna Haag,
Nora Melle and Elfriede Mueller, who have been vital
forces and workers in Germany's reconstruction and
democratic development, gave the conference greater
significance. +-END

Germany, US to Exchange Teachers

Twenty-five German secondary school teachers from
western Germany and Berlin will go to the United States
and the same number of American high school teachers
will come to Germany next September to teach in each
others’ schools for a year.

This teacher-trainee project, marking a new type of
program which is literally a head-for-head exchange, is
being arranged jointly by the Deutscher Akademischer
Austausch-Dienst (DAAD) of Bonn and HICOG's Ex-
changes Staff. DAAD is a private German organization
recognized by the Federal Republic and represents the
association of state culture ministers in matters of foreign
educational exchange.

Under this new program, German teachers of English
and American teachers of German will be mutually ex-
changed between communities of comparable size and
type for a school year. The German school will continue
to pay the salary of its teacher while in the United States,
and the American school will also pay its teacher while
in Germany. The United States Department of State will
provide transportation for both groups of teachers as
well as a cost of living allowance to the German teacher.

MARCH 1952

--- Page 18 ---
Toward German Unity

Address

By SAMUEL REBER
Director, Office of Political Affairs, HICOG

E STAND TODAY on the threshold of a new era

for the German community. It is by intention that
I am speaking not simply of the German Federal Re-
public, but of the whole of Germany. It may be that for
some time a part of Germany may not share in the new
venture in freedom, and that Berlin, because of its unique
situation and significance for all of us, may not yet
participate to the fullest extent. But I am confident that
the forces which have thwarted German unity and freedom
will not be able in the long run to stay this natural
evolution which is carried along by the will and the
aspirations of millions of Germans, East and West,

It is. a heartening fact that the people of Berlin, despite
their partial isolation and the dangers inherent in their
position, have strongly supported the movement for in-
tegration of Germany with the free. West and have
repudiated the various proposals put forth from the
Soviet Sector of this city which could only trap Germans
into ‘a specious unity without those accompanying free-
doms which are the goals of Western policy.

What are the events which have led to this trans-
formation by the German community and what is the
attitude of the United States in regard thereto? These are
questions we often hear and to which I shall try to give
some answers tonight.

Faced by the economic dislocation and poverty brought
on by the last war and the menace of totalitarian ag-
gression already expanding through large areas of the
world, Europe's efforts to rebuild economic and political
stability were thwarted by internal disruptions and stres-
ses and restrained by the almost paralyzing knowledge
that it stood with no defense against the danger of being
overrun from the East. In this atmosphere of uncertain-
ties and wavering confidence the Western nations,
together with the United States, however, undertook the
task of building a strong and unified European com-
munity to be made secure against aggression.

Convinced that the establishment of a sound economic
structure is essential not only tg military strength, but
to political stability, the United States undertook through
the Marshall Plan and its other programs of economic
and financial assistance to improve the standards of life
in Europe as well as in other regions. Our purpose was
to expand the areas of democratic freedoms and create
conditions of strength to serve as a

programs of our assistance which have gone far in the
achievement of an economic rebirth in western Europe.

ERE IN BERLIN the people have the unique oppor-

tunity to compare what the West has been able to
accomplish in contrast to the conditions of economic
servitude and poverty of other areas where freedom and
democracy are stifled. Germany and western Berlin have
taken part in this economic revival and have indeed
made their contributions toward it. This does not mean
that there do not still remain serious economic problems
which have yet to be solved, including those of un-
employment, refugees, adjustment of price levels to wage
scales, etc. But I am convinced that the progress made
through the past few years gives evidence that these
obstacles will be overcome in the future as have other
more serious ones in the past.

It is further true that Europe is today faced- with the.
necessity of carrying additional financial burdens im-
posed by the need of creating a military community
strong enough to withstand the danger of aggression, The
North Atlantic Community has developed a mechanism
by which it is expected that the defense programs of the
individual countries can be adjusted to their economic
potentialities, and realistic goals have been worked out
by the Temporary Council Committee for each country.
The same machinery was utilized to assist in the prepa-
ration of a reasonable program for the Federal Republic's
defense contribution at the time when that becomes
operative.

As an example of the care and profound study which
are now being devoted to this aspect of European defense
and economic problems, attention is invited to the report
of the “Three Wise Men" on Germany, recently published
(see page 27), which clearly shows that the economic
problems of the individual states of Europe are not
being overlooked at the time when the interests of all
are being consolidated for their mutual benefit. To
achieve the goals set for the individual states will re-
quire carefully balanced and economic use of all their
resources. But the important thing which has been found
is that it is possible to accomplish these goals and to
create a sound economic as well as military basis for the
new partnership of peace.

Side by side with the economic re-

barrier to Communist encroachments
from within as well as from abroad.
Ps is the meaning of our economic
policies since the war, and I need do

This address was delivered by
Mr. Reber at the Hochschule fuer
Politik (Academy for Politics) in
Berlin March 7.

construction of Europe there has been
required the building of a strong de-
fense structure not for any purposes
of aggression or military adventure,
but to guarantee the peace. The foun-

no more than refer in general to these

MARCH 1952

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 19 ---
dations of this structure of security were laid in the North
Atlantic Treaty concluded less than two years ago. Since
that time the efforts of the participating states, as Mr.
Acheson pointed out in his report to the American
people, have been devoted to translating the words of
the treaty into solid substance of strength and of unity.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization will command
greater resources and greater strength than any potential
enemy or group of enemies.

Western Europe, together with America, has the most
advanced science, the greatest industrial production and
the largest pool of skilled manpower in the world. There
remains only the need for a strong spirit and a deter-
mined will to mobilize these resources for effective
defense, and great strides have been made in this di-
rection. I need only cite the progress just achieved in
Lisbon in the consolidation and strengthening of these
forces for peace.

E HAVE MADE it clear that Germany has been

invited to share the responsibilities and the pro-
tection afforded by this security system. The Federal
Republic and Berlin have been given assurances that
they will be defended in event of attack. The creation
of the European Defense Community, which will merge
the military forces of the continent into a single force
under a common command, gives the opportunity for the
Federal Republic to assume its responsibilities for de-
fense as well as to receive the benefits of the common
effort.

This European Defense Community is closely interlocked
with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and each
is important to the other. Thus a means is provided by
which western Germany can be closely associated with
the entire defense arrangement for western Europe with-
out the re-creation or the danger of any revival of ad-
venturistic militarism in this country. The provision for
mutual consultation with these bodies will, furthermore,
give the Federal Republic a voice consistent with its new
status of equality and its dignity as a full member of the
European community of nations.

It has been repeatedly stated that the goal of the Western
Powers and that of the United States is the integration
of western Germany on the basis of equality within the
European community, itself included in the developing
Atlantic community. If for no other reason, a German
contribution to common defense would require the
granting to the German people the status of freedom and
equality in the European framework and a feeling of
partnership, But furthermore, the United States and its
associates have been convinced that the development of
democratic freedoms among the German people fully
justifies the restoration to Germany of an honored and
respected place in the free community of democratic
peoples. ,

We should like to see all of Germany included in this
community and to assist in bringing about the peaceful
unification of Germany under conditions of freedom. Al-
though this goal cannot be immediately achieved, we are
nevertheless determined to put an end to the occupation

INFORMATION BULLETIN

16

of western Germany and to grant the Berlin govern-
mental authorities the maximum authority possible.

Through the series of contractual agreements now
under discussion with the Federal Government the oc-
cupation regime will be liquidated. German s6vereignty
will be restored to the fullest extent possible under
present world conditions. This means the abolition of
controls over Germany's external and internal affairs,
and the new agreements will establish a firm political
basis for Germany's relations with the democratic states
of the world.

IO MANY PERSONS these negotiations have appeared
to drag on unjustifiably and, by their very slowness,
not to have taken into account the realities of the de-
veloping situation. However, the complete transformation
of a relationship built up during an occupation, the
liquidation of the past, the substitution of German au-
thority for Allied authority in the many fields where it
has been exercised, the establishment of a mutually ac-
ceptable basis for the continued presence in Germany
of large defense forces of other nationalities, and the
approximation of the conditions of a peace settlement
as nearly as circumstances permit, all these have re-
quired long and extremely technical series of negotiations.
But as one who has been closely connected with these
negotiations from the beginning of last year, I feel
justified in reporting that the principal obstacles to the
conclusion of the new relationship have now been re-
moved and that I can with a considerable degree of
assurance forecast the early conclusion of the contractual
agreements.

The United States’ interest in Europe is that the free
peoples should unite in a community transcending narrow
political frontiers. We believe, and I am sure the vast
majority of Germans believe, that Germany's future role
is that of an integral part of that community. I have just
said I believe we are in the final stages of the negotia- -
tions which will give the Federal Republic an honorable
and an equal status among the Western democracies.
It is not surprising that difficulties have developed in
our striving toward these ends, nor that doubts and
questionings have arisen both on the part of Germans
and among other peoples who are embarking upon this
venture, Rome was not built in a day, nor can an inte-
grated Europe be created by fiat in a few short months
or years.

I should like to refer frankly to some of the doubts
that have appeared relative to this new European com-
munity and Germany's place in it solely so that you may
understand and help in the future to overcome them.
As Germany revives and recovers strength there are
fears in some quarters as to how she will use her new
found power. These fears have been candidly expressed
in the recent debates on the European Defense Com-
munity in the French National Assembly. These mis-
givings are present among other peoples who were only
yesterday the victims of misused German national power.
They are voiced in my own country.

MARCH 1952

--- Page 20 ---
Now I believe that the Germans have come a long
way in their political thinking since the philosopher
Hegel proclaimed in this city that the Prussian state was
the ultimate realization of the Idea in history. The old
Prussia is gone, and -with it, I trust, such metaphysical
exuberances which only brought disaster to Germany
itself. But events of the last two decades are still vivid
in the minds of many Europeans; their remembrance can-
not immediately be erased.

N OFFERING TO GERMANY so soon after the last

war a place of fellowship and equality among the
democratic nations, I believe it must be admitted by all
fair-minded Germans that the Western nations are taking
a risk. Many are ready to take this risk. We have faith
in the new German democracy. The people of this city
have given magnificent evidence of its reality and
vitality. But we-recognize that, in entrusting to an inde-
pendent German government a large measure of free-
dom to shape its own course in the future, we are re-
nouncing safeguards in the past retained under the oc-
cupation against the dangers inherent in German power
if it should ever again be corrupted by totalitarian rule.
Our objective is .a free and democratic Germany, worthy
of trust, capable of exercising its freedom in a manner
which will harm neither itself nor its neighbors, and we
are convinced that this is the new Germany.

At this critical juncture of their approach to a new
status, the German people are voicing their desire for
an end to the occupation. Now such aspirations are quite
understandable and proper. Yet I would like to be per-
mitted to suggest that freedom entails restraint, both self-
restraint and limits imposed by the sheer necessity of
the situation under which freedom is exercised. I am told
that many a German poet and thinker has extolled the
peculiar virtues of “German Freedom” as the antithesis
of license, embodying a deep sense of duty and self-
limitation, We recognize, of course, that the Nazis per-
verted this noble concept, distorting it into the obliga-
tion of complete subservience to a lawless and licentious
regime.

I am merely recalling here that freedom is not an ab-
solute—it is always conditioned. Any people, to deserve
it, must earn it by their own achievement from the harsh
circumstances of their time and destiny. The thought ex-
pressed by one German writer that “only amid storms can
the noble plant of humanity flourish" is consoling to
those of us who view with some trepidation the plight
of the world today. We must all, in these tempestuous
times, enlarge our horizons and think less in terms of
individual or national prerogatives than of the things
that bind us all together.

We have, almost imperceptibly, come to live in an era
when full sovereignty is an anachronism. All free nations
have, to some extent, renounced a substantial portion
of their sovereign right. Not always gladly, I admit —
the compulsion of circumstances has been there. But we
have done it because it was necessary to do so to pre-
serve and enlarge our freedoms. We have come to realize
afresh, in our world of precarious power relationships,

MARCH 1952

17

what Benjamin Franklin meant when he said of the
original 13 American commonwealths: ‘We must all
hang together or we shall all hang separately." Any real
cooperation — among nations as among individuals —
implies some sacrifice of cherished privileges. Today it
is glaringly apparent that without renunciation of some
of our time-honored rights as sovereign states there
can be no lasting freedom for any of us, nor any world
fit for freedom-loving men to live in.

The world is moving rapidly into an era when only
through the pooling of sovereignty can the common
tights and interests of all be assured. No nation detracts
from its freedom because, of its own will, it renounces
sovereign rights which stand as an obstruction on the
road to broader freedoms and the general security.
I believe, for instance, that the Federal Republic in enter-
ing into the European Coal and Steel Community, and in
tegistering its support for the European Defense Com-
munity, has acted to enlarge its freedom and in the spirit
of those “good Europeans” of the past who appealed to
their countrymen to look beyond and above their own
national frontiers.

HAVE FAITH in the new German democracy. It has

been one of our great objectives to foster and assist
a democratic rebirth of the German nation. But I believe
we should not underestimate the enormous difficulties
in the way. We harbor no illusion that one nation can
“re-educate” another, or that any program of reorienta-
tion or cultural influence from outside can transform the
minds of a people. We have given abundantly of our
means and assistance, but we realize that education must
be rooted in self-activity and experience. It is to German
education and to German leadership and not to our as-
sistance and support that the Germany of the future will
turn and these will shape its destinies.

I believe that the great new political destiny of the
German people in the years ahead can consist in cement-
ing the ties of copartnership with their European neigh-
bors and with the Atlantic community, thus achieving a
new vision of their own national aspirations and a new
reality for their national life.

In the unity of Europe which is being forged today
there is ample scope for the energies and aspirations of
all European peoples. For Germans there is the compel-
ling fact that such a solution provides a way out of the
dilemma in which their own tragic career as a nation
has placed them, perhaps the only way out. That the
integration of Europe into a federal union presents
appalling difficulties cannot be denied. This fact has been
only too apparent in the recent debates in Bonn and
Paris in connection with the ratification of the Schu-
man Plan, and even more strikingly evident in the
political struggles in both capitals over the European
Defense Community.

Yet in both countries the Schuman Plan has been
ratified, and the European Defense Community has been
approved, albeit with reservations. At London the for-
eign ministers have acted with success to alleviate a
threatening impasse and bring Germany and the West

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 21 ---
closer together, and at Lisbon the NATO Council has
given its formal approval to the European Defense
Community.

When reviewed in the long perspective of history,
the thousand years of internecine strife that has torn
this war-stricken continent, I believe that the reality
of paramount importance today is that the French and
German peoples have had the courage and the vision
to take these momentous steps toward the future. That
both peoples have doubts and questionings is under-
standable. That they have, notwithstanding, acted af-
firmatively is the fact of supreme significance.

, Europe will unite, not because this or that nation wills
it so, but because it is driven on by great historic com-
pulsions. The shattering effects of two world wars com-
bined with the gradual loss of Europe's one predominant
position in the wor}d economy and as the seat of colo-
nial empires, have resulted in a situation where a divid-
ed Europe is scarcely viable. A policy of drift would
mean increasing insecurity, rising economic pressure,
political radicalism, ‘crisis governments" and suicidal
nationalism. Union is no universal panacea for Europe's
ills, but its pooled security and more rational ordering
of economic life offers the only hopeful prospect now on
the horizon.

MERICA WISHES TO SEE a reunited Germany within

a united Europe. It desires to make an honorable
and just peace with a united Germany. Of late there have
been proposals from the Eastern sector of Berlin, spon-
sored and supported by the Soviet Government, that
action be taken by the responsible powers to miake peace
with Germany. For years, peace has been the goal of
the Western Powers and the aspiration of every German.
For years the unremitting opponent of peace in Europe
has been the Soviet Union.

While deluging the West with an unparalleled cam-
paign of ‘peace’ propaganda, it has sabotaged every
constructive effort to establish peace in the heart of
Europe. In protracted negotiations with the Western
Powers over the past few years, the Kremlin has made
clear its intent and design respecting Germany, that
Germany should have peace and unity only at the price
of subjection to Communist tyranny. It is only too clear
today that the Soviet government rejects a free, united
Europe, and above all, a free Europe that will include
Germany.

The Western Powers have insisted, and will continue
to insist that, highly as they regard the priority of unity
and peace settlement, there can be no peace worthy of
the name that does not presuppose a Germany unified
on the basis of full political freedom. We are today pre-
pared to consider any real offer from the East which will
achieve this end.

I do not know when a free and united Europe will be
achieved. But I believe that it will become areality. Europe
must come to occupy a position of strength in the free world.
It will need to summon all of its resources and all of its
statesmanship to the task of creating a unity of ordered
power based on law, Such a Europe will be no threat

INFORMATION BULLETIN

18

to the security of the Soviet Union, nor of any people.
But it will be a challenge to any system of totalitarian
tyranny that seeks to build power upon the deception
and enslavement of the masses.

Germany today stands at the threshold of a new
freedom which will be realized so far as the will and
authority of the Western Powers extend. We may hope
that this development will inspire that portion of the
German people who are still in bondage with the hope
that they too, ultimately, may share this freedom. As
the West prepares to relinquish its occupation controls
and accept Germany in a partnership of mutual trust and
good faith, by this decision it makes known its belief,
however tempered by doubt, that the German govern-
ment and the German people will not abuse this trust
but will use their newly acquired freedom with restraint
and wisdom.

GREAT SLOGAN and watchword of our American

democracy has been “unity in freedom. It was
for this that two of our great presidents contended
— Washington to achieve it for the original 13 colonies,
and Lincoln to maintain it for the expanding nation.
In our own generation this concept has been projected
to the entire world. It was the dream of Woodrow Wil-
son, as it has now become the slowly emerging, if
imperfect reality of the United Nations.

For Germans this idea of “unity in freedom” may well
convey a twofold meaning, applicable both to their own
nation and to the emergent European commonwealth of
which they form a part. It is in the unwearied striving to
translate this idea into living reality that the German
people, in my opinion, may ultimately rise to the stature
of greatness and vindicate the dreams of their truest pa-
triots and noblest thinkers. +END

Steel-Products Sale Revised

Representatives of the Allied High Commission, the
Federal Government and the steel industry have agreed
on a plan liberalizing the sale and rebate system for
75 percent of West Germany's rolled steel products. The
changes will free both consumers and producers from
dependence on the large dealers in steel products.

The new plan provides that steel producers may sell
any amount of rolled products to any customer; any
consumer or small dealer wishing to buy at least 250
tons of any rolled steel product (the minimum actually
depends upon the particular product) may place the
order directly with the steel mill, and any consumer
using at least 12,000 tons of rolled steel products an-
nually, and, generally any dealer who handles at least
6,000 tons, is entitled to buy all rolled steel products
directly from the mill.

Previously only 10 dealers were qualified to buy all
rolled products directly from the mill as they were
obliged to have handled a certain amount of that par-
ticular product in the previous year and to have met a
separate qualifying quota for each rolled product they
wished to buy directly from the mill.

MARCH 1952

--- Page 22 ---
‘Wir alle”

Magazine for Youth Leadership

By TOM A. NOONAN
Youth and Community Activities Adviser, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

RS, HERMINE RASCH-BAUER of Wiesbaden pointed

to the stack of opened letters on her desk and
smilingly commented: ‘We're in that unheard of position
of a group which gets too many compliments. But don't
mistake me; we like them tremendously, but it does take
a lot of extra time to read them."

Mrs, Rasch-Bauer, head of the editorial board of aGerman
working committee publishing a monthly youth leaders’
magazine called Wir alle (We All), was referring to the
dozens of favorable comments which come to her desk
every day from readers throughout West Germany.

A rural county youth worker wrote: "First I want to
say that I have read your periodical carefully for more
than a year and I have found it to be of extraordinary
usefulness to all the youth workers in our county. We
like your practical and stimulating suggestions and hope
to continue to receive Wir alle for a very long time.”

From a school administrator in Hanover came: ‘We
beg to inform you that we have read Wir alle for a long
time and would like to request enough additional copies
for the reading rooms of the city youth homes...”

Said the mayor of Constance: "... inform you that the
city and county youth leaders as well as myself are
among your appreciative readers."

The county youth council director of Waldshut in South
Baden wrote: “I am convinced that our youth work in
the county could be much more successful if Wir alle
were distributed not only to youth leaders, but also to
all influential persons and officials in our community. May
I submit the following list ..."

Die Neue Zeitung, American-published newspaper in
the US Zone and Berlin, commented: “This periodical
courageously and with frankness tries to answer ques-
tions which touch youth today," and the Bersenbrucker
county paper in Quackenbrueck said: “Your excellently
edited magazine belongs in the hands of every youth
leader as his best helper."

A youth psychologist in Feuerbach, Wuerttemberg-
Baden, wrote: “I am very happy about Wir alle and
have watched its development from the beginning. I am
very interested in your intensive work to express in
printed words that which makes creative work between
people possible... I appreciate the well-rounded approach
you bring to so many problems and your efforts to bring
many points of view objectively — you do not speak as
the representative of any one direction, but always think
of human beings as such,”

From a Berlin youth leader and teacher came: "Only
since last spring have I been lucky enough to be one of
your permanent readers, but I can say with joy and
approval that you have created an organ which is giving
youth leaders and teachers a fundamental knowledge
which we can find nowhere else... I see your periodical
as a link between our isle of Berlin and our friends in
western Germany ... I wish and hope you will remain
for us what we can hardly explain in words and for your
future work all the best."

A teacher in Fulda said: ‘Your layout and contents
are excellent. The social and political reports come in a

Mrs. Hermine Rasch-Bauer (left) is head of editorial board of a German working committee which publishes the popular
youth leaders’ monthly magazine ‘Wir alle." Attractive covers of recent issues of the publication are shown at right.

| Wir all,
wiralle

--- Page 23 ---
At typical editorial conference chaired by Mrs. Rasch-
Bauer, illustrations for an article on youth homes are dis-
cussed by (l.-r.) Freimuth Wigbert, Annalise Klarner,
Volker Quer, Mrs. Rasch-Bauer, Margarete Naundorf and

Hilda Brahey. (Community Activities photos by K. Hopp)
form which leads to discussion. They awake in my boys
an understanding of the necessity of political and civic
activity of each citizen...”

HERE ARE MANY MORE such quotes, varying

slightly, but all in the same vein. Wir alle, whose
full German title, translated, is “We All Work with
Youth for Youth," observed its third anniversary of pub-
lication with the current March issue, which is devoted
to a report on youth guidance work in Germany today.
The magazine has a circulation of 22,000 and reaches
approximately 100,000 readers each month.

Although Wir alle has been published in its present
form only since March 1949, it actually goes back to
early postwar days. Its development closely parallels that
of the whole West German youth picture of the past
seven years.

With the end of the war, it was obvious to American
youth experts and German youth leaders that, if German
youth was to be won for democracy, a program for train-
ing their leaders in the techniques and philosophy of the
democratic way was essential. Youth organizations,
which had either been suppressed entirely or absorbed
into the Hitler Youth program, reorganized with increas-
ing rapidity, and the need for trained leaders grew pro-
portionately. During 1946 alone, the number of licensed
youth groups climbed from zero to 60,000, and in the
following year, that number had doubled.

Since Hitler Youth leaders had rewritten all previous
material available to youth workers to conform with the
Nazi line, something had to be done to provide printed
matter in keeping with democratic concepts. German
educational and community specialists entering the field
of youth work in those days were unaware of the prog-
ress which had been made outside Germany in the fields
of human growth and development, group work and
student-centered education.

In an effort to find out what new publications were
adaptable to German needs, and most important, to
gather material for youth leadership training courses, the

INFORMATION BULLETIN

20

US Military Government's Youth Activities Section in
Hesse established a publications commission in Wies-
baden in February 1947, Mrs, Rasch-Bauer (then Miss
Bauer), a trained kindergarten teacher who had been
serving as a publications specialist with the Hessian State
Youth Committee, and Heinz Soell, a German teacher
specially trained under the US Army's program for Ger-
man war prisoners at Fort Getty, R.I., were its original
members.

Mrs. Rasch-Bauer is well able to make a comparison be-
tween totalitarian methods and democratic ones, During
the Nazi regime, her father died in a concentration camp,
and she was suspect because of her democratic ideas,
After the war, she went to the United States for special
study under a Rockefeller exchange plan and became so
imbued with the American way that she has been a lead-
ing exponent of the democratic ideal in her homeland.

N THE BEGINNING, the publications commission was

not only a pilot project for the production of youth
publications, but also conducted training courses and
demonstrations throughout the state of Hesse, and thus
became familiar with the problems and needs of youth
leaders. It was in the summer of 1947 that the idea of a
youth leader's digest to be compiled from American, Eng-
lish, French, Swiss and other sources was first conceived.

The work of finding, adapting, translating and com-
piling material was a big task. It was later submitted to
various youth workers to be double-checked for its use-
fulness and application to German conditions.

“This was a slow process,’ Mrs, Rasch-Bauer recalled,
“and it required considerable patience and tact on the
part of all of us.”

Two issues of the digest were printed before currency
reform of June 1948 and a paper shortage halted the
operation. It was almost two years later that Wir alle
resumed publication, but it has continued monthly since
March 1949 without interruption. This month's issue was
the thirty-seventh consecutive one.

Wir alle is no longer solely a digest of youth work
data gleaned from foreign publications, although it con-
tinues to keep German leaders informed on develop-
ments in other countries. It is now written principally
by German youth leaders and youth experts, and deals
largely with youth problems in Germany. Each issue is
built around a central theme such as the Family in a Free
Society, Social and Employment Problems Facing Young
People, Summer Camping and Rural Youth Problems.
Many articles are written by young Germans who have
visited the United States under the Exchanges Program.

Youth workers in 14 other countries are kept inform-
ed through Wir alle of the operation of various youth
programs and the new ideas being tried out in the Ger-
man youth field. Mrs. Rasch-Bauer revealed the editorial
board recently received a letter from a member of the
UNESCO committee for England suggesting that Wir alle
be translated into English for use with youth groups in
the British Isles. “We are very enthusiastic about such
a venture,” said Mrs. Rasch-Bauer. “The big problem is
to find a sponsor who will underwrite it.”

MARCH 1952

--- Page 24 ---
Books and pamphlets produced by “Wir alle’ publications commission for use in training youth and community leaders.

ORK OF THE WIESBADEN publications commission
is suported by HICOG grant-in-aid funds, princi-
pally because approximately 95 percent of all youth
work in Germany is carried on by volunteers. Up to now,
Wir alle has been distributed free of charge, but in
April it will go on sale for 75 pfennigs (about 18 cents)
a copy, in an effort to make the magazine self-sustaining.
In addition to Wir alle, the publications commission
has also produced the following booklets and pamphlets
for community leaders:

The Camping Handbook, a compilation of methods
and standards for camping.

Jugendbewegung (Youth Movement), a short history
of the German youth movement which began about 1900.

Die Jugendgruppe (The Youth Group), a booklet of
suggestions for organizing boys groups.

Meine Gruppe und Ich (My Group and J), an adap-
tation of the Girl Scout leaders handbook which is now
used as a textbook at kindergarten training schools.

Sprechen wir uns aus (We Discuss), a handbook on
discussion leadership and methods.

Jeder ein Parlamentarier (Everyone a Parliamentarian),
an illustrated edition of Robert's Rules of Order.

Wie bauen wir (How We Build), a portfolio of com-
munity center designs, geared to the use of expandable
units.

Kitzinger Jugendplan (Kitzingen Youth Plan), a report
on how the resources of a Bavarian community were
mobilized to serve youth. .

Wir spielen (We Play), a compilation of 55 game!
picked for their ability to help teach cooperation and
fair play.

Geschichte der Frauenbewegung (History of Women's
Movement), a short history of women's organization for
civic action in Germany.

Gruppen Fibel (Group Primer), a primer for group
workers which outlines briefly basic group-work con-
cepts and principles.

Generation ohne Sicherheit (Generation without Securi-
ty), a collection of 32 short autobiographies which tell
how the years between 1929 and 1945 have affected the
thinking and values of young persons. +END

Old German States Held Extinquished

The Court of Restitution Appeals, in a recent opinion, held
that a law passed by the Nazis in 1934 deprived the Ger-
man states of their right to exercise sovereignty and that
the present states, which were established after the war,
cannot be considered the legal successors to the old states.

Nevertheless, the court held that assets of the old
states which are now in the possession of the new states
remain liable for the debts of the old states.

The ruling was handed down in a restitution claim
initiated by August Bauer against Mrs. Julie Schubert and
the State of Bavaria for the recovery of real estate in
Fuerth valued in 1934 at approximately Reichsmarks 14,900.
The property was confiscated from the Jewish owner in
September 1933 by the Bavarian political police and sub-
sequently the Bavarian state was entered as the owner.
In April 1934, the Bavarian state sold the property to
Mrs. Schubert and her husband, who has since died.

MARCH 1952

21

The restitution chamber ordered the property returned
to Mr. Bauer and held that the German Reich is obligated
to furnish an account of the profits on this property from
September 1933 to April 1934. The Oberlandesgericht
(state high court) reversed this part of the decision inso-
far as it was directed against the State of Bavaria.

The Court of Restitution Appeals pointed out that
under the Bavarian constitution adopted in December
1946, the Military Government laws and the German
Basic Law do not show any successorship or revival or
continuation of the old State of Bavaria in the present
State of Bavaria “or any intention that there should be."

While the court held that the present State of Bavaria
is not the legal succesor of the old State of Bavaria, the
court noted that the State of Bavaria must make amends
for all of the damage to the extent of the assets which
it received from the former State of Bavaria.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
ie,

ECA Housing
Exposition
Goes on Tour

TRAVELING ECA housing exposition is currently

being taken on a six-month tour of 15 western German
cities which are benefiting under the ECA Development
Projects program following a week-long opening show-
ing in the German federal capital city of Bonn.

The exposition is a collection of models and plans for
housing projects submitted in the recent competition®*
under the program to select architect-contractor teams to
construct apartment and other residential type projects in
the 15 German cities under an allocation of DM 37,000,000
($8,806,000) in ECA counterpart funds. The competition
grew out of ECA's effort to bring forth new ideas in hous-
ing construction and building techniques with the aim
of building more and better housing in the face of sharply
rising costs.

Inaugurated by the German Federal Ministry for Hous-
ing in conjunction with the ECA Special Mission to western
Germany, the competition planners selected 15 German
cities, divided into two groups. Group A — Frankfurt,
Hanover, Munich, Nuremberg, Brunswick, Mannheim,
Stuttgart, Bremen and Krefeld — was allotted DM 2,700,000
($642,600) for each project. Group B — Aachen, Luebeck,
Freiburg, Reutlingen, Mainz and Kaiserslautern — was
allotted DM 1,800,000 ($428,400) for each project.

* See ‘‘More Homes for Germans” by Bernard Wagner in Information
Bulletin, December 1951 issue.

Walter Lubbering (center), apprentice carpenter of Berlin,
clad in the traditional costume of his trade, points out
modern features of housing exhibit to Federal Housing
Minister Eberhard Wildermuth (left) and F, L. Mayer
(tight), chief of Industry Division, Office of Economic
Affairs, HICOG.(Mr. Wildermuth died March 9, just 10 days
after this photograph was taken.) (ECA-HICOG photo by Heine}

|

Traveling ECA housing exposition is being shown in
15 West German cities during spring and summer months.
Above is one of many models of low-cost housing projects

included in the display. (PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)

Designs were submitted in the form of complete bids,
ready for execution. The winning team in each city was
awarded the contract for construction. Four other prizes
were awarded, those in Group A cities being slightly
higher than in Group B. Prizes went to 90 of the 736 entries.

HE ROOF-RAISING CEREMONY for the first of the

15 housing projects was held at the Langwasser hous-
ing settlement in Nuremberg Feb. 28. During the ceremony,
Mayor Julius Lossman expressed the city's gratitude to
the American ECA Mission for its allocation of the funds
to construct the project. He said that the Langwasser
settlement would provide homes for 228 families, primarily
refugee and bombed-out workers who otherwise could not
afford the expensive rents for apartments in the over-
crowded Bavarian city.

Joe F, Hackett, US resident officer for Nuremberg,
commended the architect, Franz Reichel, for his prize-
winning designs and the local contracting firms which
enabled the Langwasser project to be the first of the ECA-
financed units to reach the stage of the Richtfest, the Ger-
man term for the point where construction of the roof
begins.

The 14 three-story buildings of the Langwasser project
are being erected on the edge of a forest in the Nuremberg
suburbs; they will include 228 apartments, each with
two-and-one-half rooms, bath and balcony. Together with
other private building projects now under construction
or planned, the area will eventually become a community
of 30,000 persons, complete with shops, churches and
schools connected to Nuremberg by trolley or bus.

The housing exposition was exhibited in Bonn, Frank-
furt and Nuremberg during March. The remainder of the
schedule follows: Munich, April 2 to 9; Kaufbeuren, April
18 to 23; Stuttgart, April 30 to May 5; Reutlingen, May
10 to 14; Freiburg, May 21 to 27; Mannheim, June 5 to 10;
Mainz, June 18 to 23; Aachen, June 28 to July 3; Krefeld,
July 10 to 16; Hanover, July 23 to 29; Brunswick, Aug. 5
to 11; Bremen, Aug. 18 to 26, and Luebeck, Sept. 2 to 8,

MARCH 1952

--- Page 26 ---
President Heuss addressing commemorative meeting of the Carl Schurz Society in Bremen, (Photo by Leonhard Kull, Bremen)

Parallels and Contrasts

Carl Schurz was born in Liblar, near Cologne, March 2, 1829, but after involvement in the
unsuccessful German revolution of 1848, left Europe in 1852 for the United States where he became
a Union general in the Civil War, a US senator from Missouri, 1869-75, and secretary of the interior,
1877-81, in the cabinet of President Hayes. One of the first ceremonies commemorating the centen-
nial of his arrival in the United States was a dinner in Bremen Feb. 7 under the auspices of the
Carl Schurz Society. Principal speakers were Dr. Heuss and Rear Admiral Charles R. Jeffs (USN,
Ret.), United States state commissioner for Bremen.

Translated Text of Address
By DR. THEODOR HEUSS

President, Federal Republic of Germany

AY I START with a personal remark: when and how him as the interpreter of an endangered German liber-
and through whom the personality of Carl Schurz alism, there was a deep tone of concern in his reports. To
made its first impression on me? I have to mention a him, Carl Schurz had become the embodiment of Ameri-
name in this connection, which may be known to the ca‘s conscience. Perhaps he overestimated Schurz’ sig-
older generation of Bremen citizens, or at least to the nificance, out of his personal friendship for him, but other
historians of this city: Theodor Barth, legal adviser to Americans may have been seen in a similar light by the
the Bremen Chamber of Commerce, who, at the age of 29, Americans themselves, Barth's judgment may reflect
was appointed representative of the Bremen Senate in earlier conversations about Schurz’ years of fighting at
the Federal Council (Representation of States) of imperial the side of Abraham Lincoln. It could not, therefore,
Germany, to fight Bismarck’s shift to a protective customs claim general validity.
policy. He did this job gladly and ardently, though
unsuccessfully, but to the satisfaction of Bremen. F YOU READ the correspondence of Theodore Roose-
This man Theodor Barth, whose friendship I enjoyed velt in the years after 1900, you will note that this,
during my political adolescence, went to America several old man Schurz, certainly a revered figure of yesterday,
times, including once in 1907 to dedicate a Schiller had become a nuisance to, and subject of ridicule by,
monument —I believe it was in St. Louis. He was very Roosevelt and his friends. The legend surrounding him
proud of this invitation. The conditions in Germany since Lincoln's days had become a somewhat embarrass-
worried him. He had not been reelected to Parliament. ing burden to the younger generation, along with his
When he went to America that time, he did not meet constant warnings of the spreading young imperialism,
Carl Schurz, whom he used to visit regularly. Schurz which he sensed in Roosevelt's aggressiveness. These
had died in 1906. When Barth returned, inspired by the warnings were not always comforting. He feared that
reception German organizations in America had accorded the soul of the American nation could suffer, and here

MARCH 1952 23 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
he met with Barth’s concern about Wilhelm II and his
chancellor Buelow. -

What do I mean to say by this? In the years around
the turn of the century the parallelism of American and
German history became imperiled. Would it break?
Would the two nations meet as enemies? Nobody would
have dared to predict then, that within 10 years after
Carl Schurz’ death the two nations would be at war with
each other. A completely inconceivable development!
Inconceivable also to Theodor Barth, who understood
the Anglo-Saxon nations politically and spiritually bet-
ter than any other German politician. His, too, was a
merciful death before the catastrophe.

I will not speak about Carl Schurz, because I have
been told that my audience is so well versed in the story
of his life that I would probably only repeat well known
facts. To some extent that is a little unfortunate. On the
occasion of Schurz’ 100th birthday anniversary back in
1929, I delivered a memorial address in Frankfurt’s
St. Paul's Church, and it would have been much easier

for me to get this manuscript out of the records than to *

ponder, in a life of work and constant changes, what I
should speak about. I cannot talk about America, I have
never been there. I had booked a passage once, and I
was to be introduced over there by a friend, but he fell ill.

As I said, I cannot talk about America from firsthand
experience. Maybe it is not necessary, after all, since the
discovery of America has become a continued mass oc-
cupation, and we in Germany are by no means in want
of four-week experts on American life. But if I do not
know America, I do know many Americans. And I have
leamned, first of all, that there is no such thing as “the
American.” The popular collective terms —the Germans,
the Frenchmen, the Americans —are somewhat brittle.
I have learned that there are very smart Americans and
rather stupid ones, There are daredevils and cautious
ones, polite ones and rude ones. There are highly edu-
cated ones and there are those who acquiesce in the
role of a rustic.

NITIALLY, AFTER 1945, the impression of the typical

American was dominating, not due to the people in-
volved, but rather attributable to the uniforms they wore.
We had to discover — which we did pretty soon — how
many camouflaged civilians wore such uniforms. At that
time I was minister of cultural affairs in my home state
of Wuerttemberg-Baden.

What kind of a situation were those men in? They had
a green book in their desk drawers, instruction number
so and so. In a friendly conference with an American
official I once said jokingly that, actually, this green
book should be entitled “Instructions for the Domestica-
tion of Uncivilized People." The joke was not taken
amiss — it is an amiable American characteristic not to
take things amiss, which is a German speciality, But that
is how they came to Germany: with a prepared, para-
graphed opinion as to how they should go about the
business of introducing something like order, education,
freedom, democracy, etc., in this country.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

24

And then, step by step, came the discovery that this
was not quite correct, and that apparently not either. It
was followed by individual observations and highly
fruitful analyses of these regulations. They had an
ideology, a catalogue of certainties, and now they learned
from the realities. It would be wrong to assume — and I
do not want to be understood to that effect — that I want
to mock events and mistakes, which were inevitable in as
vast an undertaking as the occupation by foreign armies
of a spiritually confused and physically destroyed nation.

On another occasion here in Bremen, I spoke of this
strange and unique historical development, that the
American people — the American taxpayers — paid their
taxes up to May 8, 1945, to destroy the German state,
and from that day on to save the German people. *

ET US TALK NOW for a moment about ways and
means of getting out of the spiritual situation of the
war and its immediate consequences, which the nations
have not yet overcome. Where are the difficulties? They
lie in the difference between the German and American
aspects of history. We Germans live more from the past,
which is a strength as well as a burden. American feeling
is basically rooted in the present, and confident of the
future. The Germans like to call that superficial. However,
it is a great power.

Our farmers in Germany are proud if their farms have
for centuries been in the possession of the same family.
The German farmer is a conservative element, and it has
only been in the past few decades, under the influence
of modern techniques and education, that he has parted
with traditions which Americans have never known. The
farmer in the New World has won and is winning new
land. The agricultural expansion of the time following
the Civil War has taught him to think in terms of crops
per acre. The idea of grandfather, great-grandfather or
the old family farm, cannot stop him. I do not mean to
establish values here, I am simply outlining the dif-
ference of the psychological positions.

Historians, if they choose to engage in the game of
drawing parallels, usually point out that timely coin-
cidences in German and American history are of a
symbolical significance. In 1763 Frederick the Great of
Prussia asserted himself in the Hubertusburg Peace
Treaty, thus strengthening a new development not readily
apparent at that time: the possibility of a shift of the
hegemony in Germany to Prussia. In the same year 1763
France lost its dominance over the Mississippi area. The

Prussian war had had the consequences of a war in’

America. Nobody understood that more clearly than
Frederick himself, who passionately watched the develop-
ments on the other side of the ocean and was the first

European sovereign to express, in the Prussian-American ~

trade agreement, the need for political and economic com-
plementation, which the Americans had admitted to exist.

HE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR, the fight for a demo-
cratic way of life in the endangered old Union, is
often compared with the simultaneous German fights
for a new unity. We want to be careful in establishing

MARCH 1952

5

--- Page 28 ---
Memorial plaque dedicated in the little Rhineland town
of Liblar in 1929, on the occasion of the centennial of hig
birth, reads: “Carl Schurz was born here March 2, 1829.
He was a fighter for unity and freedom in Germany and
the United States of America. Erected by the Carl Schurz

Association, Berlin.” (PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)

historical parallels, because motives and tempers in Ger-
many and America were certainly widely different. But
here as there the similarities of the historical develop-
ments were more strongly conceived than the differences.

I-am talking about this because the banality of the
propaganda ideas should be banned from American minds.
You remember, after World War I the world believed
the German misdevelopments were primarily the fault
of Treitschke, of Nietzsche, and of General von Bernhardi,
whose books nobody had ever read..This strange as-
sociation of these three was made a propaganda trium-
virate, which, in the light of later events, must be called
dilettantism. After World War II, with Frederick the
Great and Bismarck both having been promoted to film
heroes by Hitler, they became part of American propa-
ganda, too, They should stop that now! History may
teach and advise, but its misuse would only confuse
the minds,

What we find striking about Americans — I can speak
only of individual experiences—is the molding power
of a popular optimism. I have frequently met “neo-
Americans," people who had to leave their German home
country. Most of them, including those who had to work
hard for their existence, were caught by the optimism
of the country, People who had lived here as skeptics,
with a dose of snobbishness, had suddenly become men

MARCH 1952

25

of aggressive elasticity. People who had wanted to see
everything complicated and ingenious now realized the
simple possibilities of the sound human intellect and
were not afraid of it at all.

I receive many American visitors, and to give me an
idea how I should act so as not to be embarrassed, I get
in advance memoranda on their biographies. It is remark-
able what kinds of vocations these people have had in
their lives. It is a matter of course to them to have been
at one time engineers, later farmers, then diplomats, at-
torneys, journalists, and I do not recall what else. It
is not out of an adventurous curiosity, but rather because
it is natural to them to tackle any new task and try
to meet it.

I have always found that inspiring, The Germans still
have to learn not to consider that a shortcoming. They
are always looking for an “expert,” and there is nothing
that can be done about that. Think, for instance, of the
Beamte (professional civil servant), who represents our
state. I once told a leading American, who complained
about our civil service: In your country, Carl Schurz
has created the Beamte. You have them, too, only you
have not noticed it. But we have noticed that there are
American Beamte.

N AMERICAN POLITICS it was not an accidental

decision to practically discard the Monroe Doctrine,
which had been established in 1823 with two basic con-
cepts: one, the Americans wanted to have their con-
tinent protected against the political influence of Euro-
pean countries and, two, the Americans would not care,
politically, what happened in the rest of the world.

Many persons have forgotten — or have never known —
how the Monroe Doctrine came about. It was directed
against Russia, which at that time owned Alaska and
wanted to have California as well. The Russo-Alexan-
drian imperialism threatened America’s west coast.
Behind it the Americans sensed the policy of the ‘Holy
Alliance" — so foreign: to the young Americanism — and
the entire European system.

This political doctrine outlasted the giant achievement
of the 19th century: the development of the United States
through the western expansion, through the discovery of
its tremendous resources and through immigration. One
of the other speakers has mentioned that Friedrich List,
who built one of the first American railroads, partici-
pated in early coal mining, and, in his “Outlines,” inter-
preted to the Americans the system of their developing
economic policy. In this growth of America, Europe
helped by giving enterprising, young and politically
active men and women, as well as money.

That was in the early days of a developing mutual
interdependence. Now the picture has changed completely.
The debtor country has become the creditor country,
with an enormous increase of power, but also of responsi-
bility, which the Americans have come to feel. Please
do not think that, by pointing out this change from a
debtor country to a creditor country, I mean to identify
myself with the theory of historical materialism. History
cannot be attributed only to economic or technical forces.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
All the slogans which we know from the Soviet Zone
regarding “dollar imperialism” or “American monopoly
capitalism’ are merely propaganda gossip for simpletons.

We must see and understand the spiritual components
of these things, we must understand how the responsibili-
ties are distributed in this mutual relationship between
Germany and America. They are the source of both
the difficulties and the historical significance of the
present world-wide political efforts.

America, the child of Europe, is shaping the fate of its
citizens’ home countries, willingly helping today and dis-
appointed tomorrow, generously meeting the attacker of
yesterday, but tenaciously insisting on certain principle
demands. We all have given thanks for gifts of charity
from humanitarian associations and churches. We should
not forget that being grateful is a virtue. But on the other
hand we feel, too, that the precarious situation of the
German people, with its spiritual, material and economical
aspects is impatiently, irritatedly, not given proper

recognition, This contributes to the instability of these
efforts, but we must not lose patience. They are efforts
between statesmen. However, they require the back-
ground of understanding and quiet popular opinions,
which these statesmen have to watch closely.

MUST RESTRICT myself to merely indicating this

background. But let me once more bring into focus the
ingenious figure of Carl Schurz. His memory is not here
to give one or the other advice. He was a political figure
of his time, his work as a statesman was relatively short
but very fruitful. But the power of this man — amiable as
prudent, vivid as enthusiastic — was not generated by his
merits in legislation, it stemmed from his attitude and
convictions.

I will conclude my speech very simply: he believed in
the good. And thus he became a moving force, outlasting
the temporal limits of his work. His memory should move
us, too. +END

Germans Take Over HICOG Journal

NOTHER HICOG-SPONSORED pioneer project is in

the process of going over to German hands to be
continued as a permanent part of German public ad-
ministration — The Prison Journal, known in German as
Zeitschrift fuer Strafvollzug. Beginning with the next issue;
it will be edited and produced by a staff of German
prison and parole officials.

When American prison and parole experts tackled the
task of training both old and new personnel for a
modern and democratic prison system in the Federal
Republic, they found that one of the foremost needs was
for a periodical publication on the problems of treatment,
education and guidance of prisoners. Such a magazine,
they felt, would be a substantial help in disseminating
valuable experiences of workers in this field in and out
of Germany, and in promoting a more active interest
among the personnel.

The Prisons Division, HICOG, initiated this publication
and provided it with grant-in-aid funds for the first two
years of operation. Edgar M. Gerlach, deputy chief of
the division, was assigned as editor, assisted by an edi-
torial staff of 20 German state prison chiefs, wardens,
parole officers and prison workers of all ranks.

In the foreword to the first issue, Chester A. McLain,
then general counsel of HICOG, said:

“The task of the re-education of prisoners is not limit-
ed to wardens or teachers or chaplains. It is a concern
of all of the personnel. For that reason I hope that the
editorial staff will endeavor to have articles printed
which are provocative and interesting, and which will
include discussions of the everyday problems of the
guards, They are the ones who have the intimate, day-by-
day contacts with the prisoners. They are the ones who
have the most opportunity to exercise influence."

The demand for the magazine justified the enterprise.
The first issue’s press run of 1,000 copies had to be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

increased immediately to more than 4,000, and the
current issue will have a distribution of 6,250. About 50
percent of all prison and parole personnel in the Federal
Republic are now subscribers.

. The contents of The Prison Journal covered many
policy problems, such as the treatment of juvenile delin-
quents and first offenders or the employment of psychia-
trists and sociologists on prison staffs, as well as matters
of day-to-day prison operation, ranging from radio recep-
tion during spare-time hours to the proper nutrition of
the prison population.

Articles were contributed not only by German prison
experts, guards and instructors, but through an exchange
of information with similar publications in other Euro-
pean countries and the United States the magazine was
able to run reports by foreign experts, thus giving Ger-
man prison staffs an insight into the prison systems of
other countries. Numerous pictures and cartoons made
the magazine an appealing information medium. The
printing was done first in the Darmstadt Prison and later
in the Berlin-Tegel Prison as part of the normal working
program of the penal institutions.

S THE TWO-YEAR financing guarantee of HICOG

draws to a close, there is agreement among German
officials that the publication has been a full success and
should be continued. The editorial board has been re-
organized to include representatives of prison administra-
tions of all West German states and Berlin.

The Prisons Division, HICOG, recently turned over the
editorship to German hands, having only a representa-
tive on the editorial board. A moderate subscription rate
is now being charged which, it is hoped, will enable the
magazine to become entirely self-supporting when HICOG
financial support is withdrawn on June 30.

MARCH 1952

--- Page 30 ---
Germany’s Defense Contribution

Full Text of Report is published on page 48

ECOMMENDATION THAT THE German Federal Re-

public is capable of contributing DM 11,250,000,000
(equivalent to $2,677,500,000) to the global effort of the
Western defense during the fiscal year of July 1952 to June
1953 was contained in a report prepared by the members
of the Executive Bureau of the Temporary Council Com-
mittee of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

The report, made public Feb. 20 by the Allied High
Commission at Petersberg, was drafted by W. Averell
Harriman of the United States, Sir Edwin Plowden of
the United Kingdom and Jean Monnet of France, who
as members of the Executive Bureau are known as “The
Three Wise Men." The report was transmitted to the Al-
lied High Commissioners following hearings in Paris.

The hearings were held at the request of the Federal
Republic and the Allied High Commission as a means
of determining Germany's fair share in the burden of
Western defense, using the same factors and considera-
tions as were used in establishing the contributions of
members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

During the hearings the German Federal Republic
submitted a memorandum suggesting a defense contri-
bution of DM 10,800,000,000 and this was taken into full
consideration by the members of the Executive Bureau,
who sat in their individual capacities and not as an
official organ of the TCC.

Right, the Feb. 5 conference between the Allied High Com-
missioners and the federal chancellor on the contractual
agreements to replace the Occupation Statute. Facing
camera, left to right, are Eli W. Deveboise, general coun-
sel, HICOG; Deputy US High Commissioner Maj. Gen.
George P. Hays; US High Commissioner John J. McCloy,
and Samuel Reber, director, Office of Political Affairs,
HICOG. Third from right, in foreground, is Sir Ivone Kirk-
patrick, United Kingdom High Commissioner, flanked by
his aids, (PRD HICOG photos by Claude Jacoby)

Below, France's representatives, facing camera, included,
left to right, Deputy High Commissioner Armand Berard;
High Commissioner Andre Francois-Poncet and Louis
de Guiringaud, director of the French High Commissioner's
Office of Political Affairs. At extreme left, in foreground,
is the Federal Republic's chancellor, Dr. Konrad Adenauer.

“Tt is our best judgment," the members of the Execu-
tive Bureau said, ‘that the global contribution by the
Federal Republic to defense within its financial and
economic capabilities, in the financial year 1952/53
beginning July 1 and which would be comparable with
the contributions of the principal member countries of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, is DM 11,250,000,000
measured at October 1951 prices.

“We consider that this represents a fair share for
Germany in the common effort. However, the increased
effort it represents over 1951/52 is comparable with the
added burdens undertaken by other countries in the
early stages of their defense buildup."

ART OF THE EXPENDITURES for Berlin are included

in the recommended defense contribution. The bur-
den of Berlin has been taken into account as ‘an excep-
tional factor in assessing the ability of the Federal Re-
public to contribute to defense." However, the report
said, ‘most of the budgetary and other support given
to Berlin does not fall within the definition of defense
expenditures.”

While conceding that there is no precise way of
measuring the absolute or relative contribution to the
common defense effort being made by the various coun-
tries, the members of the Executive Bureau said that
data on total production and the relation of defense ex-

--- Page 31 ---
penditures to that figure ‘do give important indications
of comparative burdens.”

In a table attached to the report the members of the
Executive Bureau listed past and prospective levels for
gross national product, defense expenditures and the
ratio of defense expenditures to gross national product
for Germany, the United States, the United Kingdom and
France. This table shows that for the 1952/53 fiscal year
Germany would be expected to contribute 10.5 percent
of its gross national product while the United States
would contribute 17.6 percent, the United Kingdom 12.8
percent and France 11 percent.

The report deals extensively with Germany's ability
to contribute at the recommended level. It emphasizes
that ‘the principle in determining the maximum defense
contribution had been that there be an equitable sharing
of the defense burden among the participating countries.
The concept of maximum defense contribution requires
that the strength of the basic economic structure of
each country be preserved while recognizing the need
for expanding total output.”

HE FACTORS ON WHICH the defense contribution

of NATO members are arrived at are total economic
output and its composition, possibilities of expanding
that output, real per capita income, practical possibili-
ties of diverting additional resources to defense, balance
of payments, the government's financial situation and
special factors, These all figured in determination of the
Federal Republic's contribution.

In the case of Germany the dominant consideration
was the great strides made in recovery, particularly
since 1948. Gross national production has increased at
the rate of 16 percent a year since then, the report
points out, and industrial production in 1951 was more
than double that of 1948. Furthermore, the successful

The following covering letter was addressed to
Mr. McCloy, chairman in February of the Allied High
Commission, by Mr. Harriman, US member of the
Executive Bureau.

On Jan, 25 the members of the Executive Bureau
of the Temporary Council Committee received a re-
quest from the Allied High Commission, in agreement
with the Government of the Federal Republic, to exam-
ine the German capacity to make a global contribu-
tion to Western defense in 1952/53. We have subse-
quently received a memorandum of the German
Federal Government, transmitted by the Allied High
Commission on Feb. 1, and we have twice met with
the vice chancellor and the ministers of finance and
of economics, in Paris, on Feb. 4 and 10.

I transmit herewith on behalf of myself and my
colleagues, Sir Edwin Plowden and Monsieur Jean
Monnet, our report and recommendation to the Allied
High Commission and the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany for a German defense contri-
bution in 1952/53, In the preparation of the report and
recommendation we have acted in a_ personal
capacity.

It is our suggestion that the Council of the Allied
High Commission determine the extent to which any
part or all of this report should be made available to
the public.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

28

Representing the Federal Republic in quadripartite talks
is Chancellor Konrad Adenauer (center), who is flanked
by Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Walter Hallstein
(left) and Herbert Blankenhorn, advisor to the chancellor.

monetary reform of 1948 has helped to overcome the
chaos of the immediate postwar years.

In foreign trade, too, the Federal Republic has recov-
ered to the point where the need for foreign aid is sub-
stantially less than formerly. Exports have increased to
the point where in 1951 the over-all payments position
was in approximate balance. All this evidence of eco-
nomic recovery, the report says, is “a tribute to the
energy and hard work of the German people.”

The members of the Executive Bureau recognized the
special problems with which Germany is faced, notably
the influx of 9,000,000 persons either through expulsion
or flight from the Eastern zone. Although the addition
of these 9,000,000 persons to the population of the
Federal Republic was the principal reason for the
existence of 1,400,000 unemployed during 1951, their
absorption into the economy of western Germany has
contributed to the higher production which is the salient
fact of Germany's economic recovery. The unemployed

must be counted as a potential asset for Germany's —

expanded future production, the report adds.

REDICTING SUBSTANTIAL EXPANSION of German ~

production in coming years, with present unemployed
manpower as the reservoir from which labor will be
drawn, the report links the increase in Germany's defense
effort with the effect which this expansion will have on
the balance of payments. “Exports should continue to
tise as a result of increased production and favorable
prices in Germany as well as high demand from other
countries. Increasing production of coal will contribute
to an improvement in the balance of payments.”
Discussing the prospective expansion of the German
economy, the members of the Executive Bureau regarded
as conservative the Federal Republic's estimate that the
gross national product will increase 11.4 percent between
1950/51 and 1952/53. “Although the exceptionally high
rates of increase of the past few years cannot be antici-
pated," the report said, “it must be recognized that Ger-
many is still in the stage of recovery from a dislocated
economy and low level of production. It is the experience
of all countries in such circumstances that progress is
very rapid under the stimulus of adequate demand.”
The defense program itself is expected to contribute
materially to expansion of the total output. “In view of
all these aspects of the

MARCH 1952 ~

(Continued on page 48) -

--- Page 32 ---
The Prize Package: Freedom

Review

By JEAN KINNAIRD

Staff Writer, Information Bulletin

HEN EDITH SAMPSON concluded a month's lecture

tour through western Germany, she left not only
good will but also took away with her the heartfelt
thanks of the Germans for her work in the United
Nations on behalf of the welfare and return of prisoners
of war.

Members of her audience told of their appreciation for
focusing UN attention on the Soviet Union's adamant
refusal to account for prisoners in Soviet custody. This
feeling was reiterated as she spoke to 19 different audi-
ences, met with press representatives and with less for-
mal groups and as she chatted to guests at dinner or
teatime.

During the period from Nov. 17 to Dec. 17, Mrs. Samp-
son, as a visiting US specialist under the HICOG ex-
changes program, varied her talks at nine US Information
Centers and before 10 women's organizations as follows:
“My Experiences with the UN," “Security Begins at
Home" and “United Nations Work for Peace.’ She par-
ticipated in two round-table discussions: “What German
Women Have Done since 1945" and “Women in the
United Nations.” Several radio commentators interview-
ed her and she broadcast a New Year's message to the
women of Germany. ‘

PRESIDENT TRUMAN NAMED Edith Sampson, well-
known Chicago attorney, as alternate US delegate
to the fifth General Assembly meeting in 1950. At the
time, she said, “some enemies of the free world got hold
of the free world and began to exploit it. I did not like
it very well.”

In the face of Communist agents’ threats and their
vituperative comment that she was only appointed be-
cause of America's oppression of the Negro and because
“she was doomed to be a dismal failure,"" she proved
the hollowness of their campaign. With her keen mind,
trained and practiced in criminal law and domestic re-
lations, she took up her post by steeping herself with
factual materials;

She pressed in the United Nations for an impartial
commission on prisoners of war with the power to check
evidence and records in an effort to find a humanitarian
solution and to ease the anxiety of families still await-
ing news five years after the war. Mrs. Sampson defined
international interest in the problem in her committee
statement during the General Assembly meeting: ‘Mil-
lions of people in all countries, who are not in any way
connected with these particular prisoners of war, can
feel and understand the suffering of others. They cannot
be disinterested in what we, as their representatives, do
about this human problem. Those who themselves have

MARCH 1952

suffered and struggled hardest for their human rights
will feel this situation most acutely. They know that the
rights of men are involved in the struggle for the rights
of any group of men."

HIS YEAR, ON Jan, 21, the commission began meet-

ings in Geneva with the hope that the Soviet Union

could be prevailed upon to return those still alive and
to account for those PWs who have died.

At the US Information Center in Frankfurt she spoke
to an audience that overflowed into an adjoining room,
She said that, at the beginning of a world tour with the
Town Hall of the Air during 1950, “I did not realize that
two-thirds of the population of the world are colored
people...I realize that people may not be the same
color, may not speak the same language and, having
talked with people, people all over the world are look-
ing for the same thing, peace and security."

In the course of the Town Hall's itinerary in Asia, she
related that she saw "'so much chaos and so many people
who had never tasted milk nor fresh water, nor had ever
lived in a house—people who were not interested in
Communism but in their next meal...I knew then that
we in America had freedom but I had never been able
to evaluate it.”

During the past year she has directed her energies
toward informing others about the United Nations and
what the individual can do to bring peace and security
to the world. “I am not optimistic that peace will come
tomorrow; this situation that exists in the world today is
different, different from anything we have ever had and
it will take years and years before we work out anything
that will be lasting. We are not interested in peace

Mrs. Else Demma (left), chairman of Berlin Association of
Professional Women, and Mrs. Helen B, Nixon (center),
head of Berlin Element Women's Affairs Section, greet
Mrs. Sampson on her arrival at Tempelhof Airport on her
second visit in two years. (PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

--- Page 33 ---
Mrs, Sampson visits with American troops stationed in

Berlin on her month's tour of Germany. (US Army photo)
alone, but peace with freedom," Mrs. Sampson told her
German audience, adding that “I feel at home with
people who see eye-to-eye with me, people who are
looking for peace and security.”

OOKING BACK OVER her trip through West Ger-
many, Mrs. Sampson reported: “All I did was ex-
plain that we can have peace only through strength, be-
cause the enemies of the free world have no respect for
anything but strength. I believe the German people owe
it to themselves to join in their own defense. I told
them that the United States has bolstered and built up
Germany with our skills and techniques and now that
the country is economically sound, it would be a prize
to an enemy. If the Germans remain stripped of defenses
they can be picked off like apples off a tree. As mem-
bers of the free world, they must prepare themselves in
the event of aggression.

“I told the German people that there isn't an Ameri-
can in the Occupation Forces who wouldn't rather be
home in the United States. Everybody knows we Ameri-
cans aren't aggressive or imperialistic. I said that there
isn't a Negro soldier in Germany making $70 or $105 a
month of army pay who hasn't left a $350 or $400 a
month job back home. They are here at a great sacrifice."

The audiences and those familiar with Mrs. Sampson's
personality realize that her informal manner creates a
friendly atmosphere for discussion, She has humor, charm
and an ability to approach ticklish questions with can-
dor. Generally, the discussion and question-and-answer
period proved challenging to both the audience and thé
speaker. Besides repeated questions on the situation of
PWs in the Soviet Union, the other problems discussed
concerned illegitimate children left in. Germany by oc-
cupation troops, particularly those of Negro troops; prog-
ress in improvement of race relations in the United
States, and a comparison of the rehabilitation of Ger-
many with that of Japan.

In some cities she spoke twice a day in her tour, which
included Wiesbaden, Friedburg, Darmstadt, Frankfurt,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

30

Berlin, Freiburg, Tuebingen, Stuttgart, Nuremberg, Mu-
nich, Heidelberg, Kassel, Hamburg, Bremen and Hanover.

RS. SAMPSON, WELL REMEMBERED in Berlin from

a visit there two years ago, drew capacity crowds,
There she followed the same busy schedule she had in
other cities. She spoke to four groups including the Ber-
lin Club for Professional Women, representing the most
highly trained women of that city, and visited American
troops stationed there.

British, French and US representatives arranged her |

program in their particular areas. By the time the tour
ended, Mrs. Sampson had met leading German political
figures, men and women in the federal and state parlia-
ments, and mayors and civic leaders in the various com-
munities. Her contacts ranged from lawyers, business
and professional women to religious leaders, educators
and journalists. Mrs. John J. McCloy, wife of the US
High Commissioner for Germany, entertained her at
luncheon with women guests from the parliament and
government ministries.

With the Negro battalion at Hanau, Mrs, Sampson |

shared Thanksgiving turkey dinner. Wherever she went

the audience always included many Americans now

stationed in Germany, including Negro troops whom she
called “the best ambassadors we have ever had, not
because you are good soldiers but because you are
good exhibits.” .

Proud of the fact that the United States “has done
something about race relations,” she pointed to the fact
that in the 1860's slaves did not go to school, nor do they
today in Europe. “We are moving out of the darkness,"
she said, “80,000 of my people are in colleges in Ameri-
ca today.”

When she finished speaking Mrs. Sampson left much
for her audience to think about:

“We will not be fooled, we have the prize package —
freedom. We can only keep it by protecting ourselves
and by holding it closely and high.

“We need to improve our knowledge, to live more
intelligently, to live as humanly as possible.” -+-END

HICOGlers Aid Needy Students
A check for DM 2,000 (equivalent to $476) has been

given the German-American Women's Club student aid —

fund by the disbanding Hicogler Club, social organiza-
tion of employees of OLC Bavaria.

Sidney S. Siskind, president of the Hicogler Club, hand- —
ed the check to the co-presidents of the German-American _
Women’s Club, Mrs. Robert L. Taylor and Princess Pilar —

of Bavaria, at a ceremony in Munich Feb. 21.
This sum, to be used as a revolving student loan fund,
represented the liquidated assets of the Hicogler Club

and was presented with the full approval of its member- —

ship in the furtherance of good relations between Ger-

mans and Americans in Bavaria. The remaining assets of ;
the club, which amounted to $138, were contributed to the 4
recent Munich Military Post March of Dimes campaign. ~

MARCH 1952 —

--- Page 34 ---
Economic Review

Annual Trade Almost Balanced

Prepared by Commercial Attache Section

ESTERN GERMAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS were highlighted in January by the ratification of the
Schuman Plan by the Federal Parliament. Publication of 1951 annual trade figures disclosed a substantial
increase in exports, a relatively small increase in imports, total trade of $6,977 million and a deficit of only
$29 million. Industry, moving in the usual year-end seasonal pattern, produced at a slower rate during
December than for the earlier two months. January output, however, broke the seasonal trend of the previous

two years with a small over-all increase and postwar record production in coal and steel.
Continued slowdowns in outdoor occupations, meanwhile, increased unemployment again in January.
Prices showed but little or no change during December, when the consumer goods price index rose only

one point.

* x

* * *

Foreign Trade and Payments
End-of-year foreign trade returns
disclosed that the Federal Republic
trade deficit for 1951 was a relatively
small sum of $29 million, compared
with the $723 million deficit of 1950.

tributions

Affairs, HICOG.

This review is based on con-
submitted by
officers in the Office of Economic
Affairs and the Office of Labor

November levels. Total exports in-
creased primarily because of higher
exports of finished goods, especially
ironware, machinery and_ textiles,
which are the same categories showing
decreases over the past several

reports

Imports increased 30 percent in value

over the 1950 total to $3,503 million, while the volume
stood at the level of the previous year. Exports, mainly
manufactured goods, expanded phenomenally during the
year, totaling $3,474 million, or 75 percent over the 1950
total of $1,981 million. Trade returns for December were
again distorted by a delayed processing of statistical
documents by customs authorities since the introduction
of a new export procedure in October 1951. The De-
cember export figure of $378 million includes exports
actually made in October and November of as much as
$30-40 million.

A comparison of exports during the third and fourth
quarters of 1951 shows a very slight decrease in value
in the last quarter, which, in view of rising export
prices, indicates a somewhat larger decrease in volume.
Actual December exports, however, even allowing for
a statistical deviation, are estimated at a new postwar
record of $335-340 million.

December imports, on the other hand, valued at $328
million, a sum exceeded only by the abnormal September
imports purchased before new taxes, were caused by
particularly heavy arrivals of raw materials. The re-
liberalization of trade with the European Payments Union
(EPU) area, effective Jan. 1, 1952, has not as yet created
any abnormal demand for import licenses and it is ex-
pected that import increases will be relatively smaller
than those realized when liberalization was originally
introduced. Control measures taken by the government,
such as the new tariff rates, the new licensing proce-
dure and the system of forfeitures payable when an
importer does not use the full value of the license, will
all serve to have a retarding effect on imports.

The increase in December imports was almost ex-
clusively in raw materials (coal and iron ore) and semi-
manufactures, while finished goods imports remained at

MARCH 1952

31

months.
“Exports to the EPU area, which averaged $237 mil-
lion during the last quarter of 1951, were $275 million
in December, indicating postwar record exports to that
area. December imports of $198 million from the EPU
area, however, are still considerably below the $224 mil-
lion average import level of the 1950 fourth quarter.

Imports from the dollar area continued at the high
level of recent months and totaled $84.5 million in De-
cember. Considering the low level of ECA financed im-
ports averaging $13 million monthly in the last quarter
expenditure of free dollars has been considerable. Ex-
ports to the dollar area, which reached $35 million in
December, showed a distinct tendency at the end of the
year to level off with some downward tendency. *

In December, the terms of trade moved in Germany's
favor as the average unit price index for imports moved
down to 128 while that for exports reached 130.

The Federal Republic at the end of January had an
EPU surplus of $53.7 million. This surplus, however, con-
sisted only of January accumulations since the No-
vember and December surpluses, totaling $43.5 million,
were used to repay pre-EPU balances in the settlement

* of Jan. 14, 1952.

The dollar accounts covering current trade fell con-
siderably at the end of the month, but the No. 2 account,
covering troop and tourist conversions and private re-
mittances, moved upward.

Accounts with other countries showed a surplus in
January compared with a deficit in December.

Industry

With industrial output characterized by the usual end-
of-year variations the production index dropped 11 points
(7.6 percent) in December 1951 to 137 percent of the 1936
level. Increases in January, however, with postwar rec-
ords in key sectors, did not repeat the pattern of pro-
duction during the previous two years.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
January coal production totaled 10,663,200 tons to av-
erage 407,310 for daily production excluding coal from
Sunday and extra shifts. Steel was produced at the rate
of 48,000 tons per day to register 1,255,500 tons for the
month. Production of aluminum in January was estimat-
ed at 100 to 200 tons above the 5,500 produced in De-
cember, and the production of other primary non-ferrous
metals remained the same. In the chemical industry, in-
sufficient production, namely of sulpur, phosphorus,
kogasin, gatsch, polyvinylchloride and halogenated hy-
drocarbons, continued in January.

In line with the recommendations of the International
Materials Conference (IMC) and OEEC committees, Ger-
many is making every effort to alleviate the acute short-
age of sulphur by increased recovery, The firms of Kop-
pers and the Gelsenkirchener Bergwerks-A.G. (Ruhr) de-
veloped a process to regain sulphur from coke plants;
a plant is now operating at Dortmund with a capacity
of nine tons of sulphur daily.

Increased availability of hydroelectric power and in-
creased generation from brown coal plants, which may
be attributed to the use of new units, permitted an in-
crease of power consumption during January to 3,100
million kilowatt hours. This is practically equal to con-
sumption during October which was at the highest rate
in 1951 before rationing was applied extensively. Re-
strictions on power consumption are still applied, particu-
larly for the aluminum and heavy chemicals industries,
and were expected to be lifted not before the latter
part of February.

Labor

Recent inclement weather delayed a revival of build-
ing and construction and boosted unemployment past
mid-January, the turning point last year. Registered un-
employment in the Federal Republic was raised in
January by 172,000 to a total of 1,825,000, slightly in
excess of the level of January 1951. The manufacturing
industries offered little counterbalance to increasing
building unemployment and some major consumer goods
branches reverted to short-time schedules.

During the latter part of the month, the effect of the
retardment in the building season was particularly mark-
ed as only male unemployment continued to climb.
Lower female unemployment in this period is attributed
to hirings for. the winter clearance sales and for the
tobacco and fish canning industries. At the end of
January, the unemployment rate in terms of the wage
and salary earning labor force stood at approximately
11.3 percent against 11.5 percent in January 1951.

Real weekly earnings* of normal workers in manufac-
turing and construction in the Bizonal Area** which
climbed impressively in 1949 and 1950 by 22 and 17 per-
cent respectively, probably gained only slightly at best
during 1951.

Between the close of 1950 and September 1951, for
which data have just become available, the index of real
wages remained virtually constant with a rise of one
point or hardly one percent from 107.5 to 108.5. In all
likelihood, this margin was not improved materially, if

* The quotient of the index of average gross weekly earnings
divided by the consumer price index.

** Bizonal (US-British Zones) earnings data are used because the
federal series extends back only to March 1951 and because the con-
sumer price index, used in the computation of real wages, is bizonal.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

32

at all, by the end of 1951 in view of the usual absence
of a significant change in real earnings during the final
quarter of a year. Furthermore, few major collective
agreements were concluded in the last three months of
1951 and the increases thus achieved were comparatively
small.

The lag in real earnings in 1951 is due primarily to
the sharp boost in consumer prices rather than to the
absence of a pronounced wage movement. In the first
nine months of 1951, average gross hourly wages in-
creased proportionately far more than in the same period
of 1950 (12 percent as against five percent) while average
gross weekly wages rose 10 percent. The 1951 gains in
money earnings were, however, virtually completely
nullified by the sharp climb of nine percent in the
consumer price index by September.

In the third quarter of 1951, actual money earnings
dropped by about one percent. While average gross
hourly wages of manual workers in manufacturing and
construction rose to DM 1.50, average gross weekly
wages dropped to DM 70.08 because of a reduction in
weekly working time from 48.1 to 47.2 hours which also
lowered the amount of overtime pay.

Food and Agriculture

All foods continue in adequate supply, though some
slight price increases were recorded. Opening stocks of
breadgrains, coarse grains and sugar for calendar year
1952 were substantially above last year’s and sugar only
slightly below. These stocks plus prospective trade
agreement imports, free dollar purchases and indigenous
deliveries should be adequate to meet all requirements
in the next few months.

For many commodities there should be an improvement
in the supply position and some reduction in prices,
since the return to partial liberalization of trade within
the EPU area effective Jan. 1, 1952, will facilitate import
of these commodities. This will be especially true of
fats and oils. There are already indications that prices
for margarine are being reduced and the internal price
for butter may be reduced to enable butter to compete
more favorably with margarine. It is expected, however,
that there will be no significant decrease in the price
index for food and agricultural commodities.

Total vineyard area increased in 1951 to 164,328 acres
(81 percent of prewar) and producing area to 129,733
acres (72.5 percent of prewar). Wine must production
in 1951 was 81,893,000 gallons (420,000 metric tons of
grapes) — slightly above prewar and only four percent
short of the 1950 record postwar vintage. Quality of
wine must is not up to 1947-1949 vintages but is good,
with 10 percent of the vintage rated very good, 45 per-
cent good, 35 percent fair. Amount of exportable quanti-
ties is large.

Phylloxera infestation of vineyards continues high
(86,500 acres are infested sufficiently to require control
measures). DM 750,000 ($178,500) in ECA counterpart
funds under the 1949/50 program has been allocated for
aiding in eradicating this pest. DM 550,000 ($130,900) is
being distributed to the various states for insecticides
and phylloxera-resistant grafts; the remainder will be
used for research.

Recent press reports (numerous newpapers published

over a six-week period have been screened) and discus-

MARCH 1952 **

--- Page 36 ---
sions on proposals for western European agricultural union
(often referred to as a “Green Pool’ or “Schuman Plan
for Agriculture”) indicate that the Federal Government
supports the principle of agricultural union as a vehicle
for speeding up the political unification of western
Europe. The parliamentary opposition and its followers
oppose the proposal, arguing that political equality must
precede economic partnership.

Farm organizations favor a gradual pooling, provided
it does not interfere with protectionism and the peasant
way of life. The views of the trade are largely unstated
but, insofar as they have been made public, the trade
seems to be in favor of the idea. General consumer
opinion is unformed and will probably depend on pros-
pects of economic consequence of an agricultural union.

West Berlin

In keeping with anticipated seasonal fluctuations, the
index of industrial production* declined from a postwar
high of 51 percent of 1936 in November to 47 percent in
December. The decline was due chiefly to seasonal
developments in the clothing industry where the index
fell to 47 in December after having been at 100 in Oc-
tober and 90 in November. The index figure for the
electrical industry rose by two points to 65 in December.

Registered industrial employment (excluding the large
number of home workers employed by clothing manu-
facturers) declined by about 3,000 persons during Decem-
ber, and totaled 166,000 at the month's end.

Employment in West Berlin increased by more than
3,000 during the second half of January, thus reversing
the seasonal downswing. The increase was caused
principally by increased employment in the textile
industry for summer clothing manufacture and by retail
store hiring for winter clearance sales.

As of Jan. 31, the reported number of gainfully
occupied in West Berlin stood at 892,820 as compared
with 889,774 on Jan. 15. The number of registered un-
employed has been reduced to 281,429, which constitutes
just under 24 percent of the_total labor force.

The West Berlin Senate (executive body) has intro-
duced into the City Legislature a draft law adapting to
Berlin a federal law enacted in December 1951, con-
cerning the financing of an emergency program to pro-
vide employment. The federal law provides for a DM 200
million ($47,600,000) program to create employment for
recipients of unemployment relief benefits, with priority
to be given to areas in which unemployment exceeds
the West German average. This program will be executed
by a federal agency to be established for the promotion
of employment and for unemployment insurance. The
federal law also authorizes the federal minister of finance
to advance DM 80 million ($19,040,000) for the program
immediately. This sum is to be repaid by the new agency
within three months after its establishment from un-
employment insurance funds which will be transferred
to it from the states, where they are now held.

Since the unemployment rate in West Berlin con-
siderably exceeds the average of the Federal Republic,
Berlin is one of the areas accorded priority under the
law. Of the DM 80 million which has been advanced by
the federal minister of finance, DM 9 million ($2,142,000)

* Estimated from value of manufacturers’ current deliveries; not ad-
justed for changes in inventories; excludes building, food and stimu-
lants, and electric power and gas production.

MARCH 1952

33

has been allocated to Berlin. The Senate anticipates that
Berlin will receive approximately DM 27 million
($6,426,000) of the total DM 200 million program. Details
of the employment program planned for West Berlin,
however, have not yet been announced.

An expanded construction and repair program is con-
templated during the coming fiscal year under a draft
law recently submitted for approval to the City Legis-
lature by the West Berlin Senate. The bill provides for
the expenditure of DM 170-180 million (more than
$40,460,000) for the purpose of constructing 10,000 new
housing units, repairing 44,000 units and acquiring an
additional 1,500 units by conversion of presently unused
space, such as attics. (In comparison, it is estimated, that
during the calendar year 1951 about 5,900 new dwelling
units were completed, construction of an additional 4,600
new units was begun and 20,135 units were repaired at
a cost of about DM 155 million — $36,890,000.)

The Senate proposes. to raise the necessary funds from
a number of sources, principal among which is an appro-
priation in the federal budget of the next fiscal year in
the amount of DM 40-45 million (more than $9,520,000),
possibly to be derived from the currency emergency levy.
Another DM 35 million ($8,330,000) would be obtained
from the 90 percent portion payable to the city of mort-
gage obligations incurred prior to the currency reform.
The remainder would be from direct private investment,
the issuance of mortgage bonds, an anticipated contribu-
tion from the Federal Republic and perhaps a counter-
part-fund allocation.

The building program provides principally for small
apartments of two and one-half rooms or less. Under
existing legislation, monthly rentals will range from
DM 32 to DM 71.50.* Although the program is designed
to secure the maximum number of housing units, its
accomplishment would still not meet Berlin's require-
ments, according to Senate estimates, which indicate that
at least 80,000 additional housing units are now required
in the Western sectors of Berlin. This estimate, however,
does not include replacement of 60,000 temporary units,
nor the housing which will be required for the continu-
ing influx of refugees from the East.

The 1952 “Green Week" exhibition, an annual event
sponsored by the West Berlin agricultural and foresters
associations, ended on Feb. 3 and was considered highly
successful from both the agricultural and political. points
of view. Featured were exhibits of agricultural machinery
and implements, displays and programs devoted to agrar-
ian science and forestry, livestock exhibits and horti-
cultural displays. Films and pamphlets, including con-
siderable United States material, played a leading part
in the traditional exhibition.

During the 10 days the exhibition was open, all prewar
and postwar attendance records were broken, about
485,000 visitors being recorded. Although agriculture is
of negligible significance in Berlin itself, the special im-
portance of the “Green Week" exhibition is the oppor-
tunity it provides for contacts between West and East
German farmers, and for promotion of Western produc-
tion methods and equipment. The East-West significance
of the event is evidenced by the fact that it attracted
almost 270,000 Soviet Sector and Zone residents, nearly
twice the number attending last year. +END

* Rentals are not comparable to US standards.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 37 ---
In and Around Germany

Chaplains Organize Apple Airlift

The vitamin deficient children of snow-bound Iceland
were munching fresh apples in January, after a US Air
Force C-119 “Flying Boxcar” had airlifted 6,800 pounds of
fruit from Frankfurt’s Rhine-Main airport to Reykjavik.

A gift from the German people, the apples represented
the pick of last year's crop in Hesse and were donated
by hundreds of farmers in church parishes throughout
that state. The drive was organized by the Relief Program
of the Protestant Church, in reciprocation for the kindness
shown by Icelandets to Germany after World War II. The
little Atlantic republic had been one of the first foreign
countries to help Germany by relief shipments of fish
and cod liver oil for German children.

“Operation Apple“ was arranged by the USAFE Chap-
lains Office to help the German church authorities solve
the problem of shipping the three-ton gift to faraway
Iceland. The 433rd Troop Carrier Wing carried out the
assignment.

The Rev. Friedrich Kreppel, who organized the apple
collection, and Chaplain (Major) John H. Deutschlander
of the USAFE Chaplains Office accompanied the flight
to Iceland. They said Bishop Sigurgeir Sigurdsson, head
of the Icelandic Church, expressed the gratitude of his
people for this good-will offering by both Germany and
the United States.

Youth Program Important

The establishment of democratic sports organizations
has been a major accomplishment by the Americans in
furthering the West German youth movement during
recent years,

That is the opinion of Austin J. Welch, former chief
of youth activities for HICOG, who added, “All youth
now has the opportunity to join the numerous sports
organizations in West Germany. Many sports leaders
have taken part in the HICOG Exchanges Program and
have attended the youth leadership schools. Sports are
available to everyone and are free of political party
domination.”

Mr. Welch left Frankfurt recently for the United States
where he will be a regional supervisor of recreational
centers for the US Department of Army.

He termed the establishment of the 10,000 county and
local youth committees as “the most favorable develop-
ment in the youth field." Approximately 1,534,000 youths
belong to organizations in the US Zone, while through-
out West Germany there are some 4,000,000 members.

Mr. Welch was instrumental in the establishment of
four youth leadership training schools under HICOG
sponsorship in Germany. These schools have graduated
some 30,000 youth leaders who returned to their com-
munities with many practical techniques and new ap-
proaches to their work.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

34

West Berliners bound for the US under a Mutual Security
Administration program for increasing industrial pro-
ductivity check itinerary at Berlin's Tempelhof airport.
They are, 1.-r., Erwin Schunn, Rudolf Cesarz, Horst Reh-
bein, Ruth Luedemann, Horst Stenzel, Walter Richert, Wer-
ner Nuernberger and Gerhard Lorenz. (PRB BE-HICOG photo)

White Book on Division of Berlin

A White Book containing a complete collection of —
documents pertaining to the Communist-enforced division
of Berlin and Western efforts to reunite the city, will be
published to serve as a “solid basis’* for the work of the
United Nations Commission appointed to investigate
whether conditions in West and East Germany allow the
holding of genuinely free elections. The commission has
been invited to start on its,assignment in Berlin.

The compilation of these documents is the first work-
ing project of the West-Berlin city government's new
“All-Berlin Bureau," Mayor Ernst Reuter announced,
Under a three-man board of representatives of the major
democratic political parties, the agency will also give
advice and assistance to East zone residents and refugees,
and will gather and disseminate authentic news from
Berlin's Soviet Sector and the Soviet Zone of Germany. —

Printing Plant Returned

The HICOG printing plant in Munich, which was
requisitioned by the US Army in May 1945, has been
returned to German control.

The new management, the Muenchener Buchgewerbe-
haus, GmbH, arranged to retain almost 700 of the ap-
proximately 800 German employees in the plant.

American military authorities took over the plant when
it was a bombed-out, smoldering ruin. Five months later —
the first edition of the American German-language news-
paper Die Neue Zeitung was printed there. Since then
other publications, including Die Amerikanische Rund-
schau, Die Neue Auslese, Heute and Der Monat have
been issued. All but Der Monat have been discontinued
and Die Neue Zeitung is being printed in Frankfurt and —
Berlin. The Information Bulletin has also been printed
there since February 1950. q

DM 1,490,000 Rentals Handed Over ;
A check for DM 1,491,752 (equivalent to $355,037) re-
presenting payments for property and services provided
to non-military agencies and individuals serving US Forces”

MARCH 1952

--- Page 38 ---
in Germany was turned over Feb. 27 by the US Army to
representatives of the Federal Ministry of Finance.

The bulk of the money came from payments of rent
and upkeep on requisitioned real estate occupied by news
services and other accredited agencies and their employees.

Under a plan that went into effect July 1, 1950, EUCOM
has been holding the collected funds in suspense and the
German government has been reimbursing German prop-
erty owners, utility companies, other agencies and indi-
viduals. EUCOM comptroller officials said that, in future,
funds collected from non-military sources would be turned
over to the Federal Government at regular intervals.

The check was presented at a ceremony in Heidelberg
to Dr. Heinz Oeftering, deputy to the German finance
minister, by the deputy EUCOM comptroller, Col. Charles
R. Hutchinson. In expressing his appreciation, Dr. Oef-
tering remarked how unusual it was for an occupying
force to give money to the government of the country it
occupied.

HICOG was represented at the meeting by Chauncey
G. Parker, assistant US high commissioner for Germany,
and Joseph T. Bartos of the HICOG Management and
Budget Division.

Costume Jewelry Exports Boom

Glassware and costume jewelry, traditionally identified
with the name of the small town Gablonz* in Czecho-
slovakia, is back on the world markets, this time “Made
in Germany.”

Glass blowing and related arts were family tradition
with the ethnic German population of Gablonz. Before
World War II, they sold 98 percent of their production
to foreign countries, doing an export business of almost
$50,000,000 a year.

Expelled from Czechoslovakia after 1945, the Gablonz
workers resettled in various parts of West Germany and
started to build up their businesses from scratch. By
1949 they already had managed to sell DM 32,000,000
($7,600,000) worth of goods a year, but only 0.5 percent
could be exported.

The next year the total business had risen to
DM_ 57,000,000 ($13,600,000), and exports were up to
20 percent of the output. In 1951 the exports boomed to
47 percent of the DM 70,000,000 ($16,900,000) sales.

While this industry was concentrated at Gablonz and
vicinity before 1945, its some 1,000 small enterprises are

* See ‘The Birth of a City’ in Information Bulletin, January 1951.

Distribution of donated clothing among representatives of
local charitable organizations was made a few days before
Christmas by Mrs. Lucie Fratz (center), custodian of funds
(Heinrich Tryba photo from KRO Fuessen)

and goods.

,and Christopher Elschenbroich.

Miss Oklahoma White, who is on extended leave from
public schools of Oklahoma City to teach in the US Army
American School of Garmisch Military Post, teaches Eng-
lish language to six Bavarian children of high-school age.
Left to right are Gabriele Ackermann, Claudia Wehdeking,
Cornelia Reincke, Miss White, Werner Preis, Brix Marek
(US Army photo)

now scattered over five states of the Federal Republic,
the majority being located around Kaufbeuren, Bavaria,
and Schwaebisch Gmuend, Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Damage Compensation Determined

The Allied High Commission has approved Regulation
No, 1 under Law No. 47, which determines the amount
and payment of compensation for loss due to personal
injuries and for damage to requisitioned and other
properties caused by the Occupation Authorities or
Occupation Forces.

The new regulation provides that damage to requi-
sitioned property includes excessive wear and tear and
certain alterations made at the insistence of the occupy-
ing power if they render the property unsuitable for
further use. Changes in property value and replacement
costs will be taken into consideration.

A schedule sets forth normal annual depreciation for
a variety of household, industrial, hotel and catering,
and agriculture and forestry equipment to serve as a
guide in determining the value of movable property.
Normal depreciation will be considered and if the
damage is reparable, compensation is not to exceed the
cost of repairs.

Assessment of compensation for personal injury will
make allowance for costs of cure, temporary or per-
manent loss of earnings as a result of the injury, and
permanent increase in needs. Compensation will be
awarded in case of death and for loss of support of
surviving dependents.

Bosch Deconcentration Settled

A new and final agreement has been reached between
the Decartelization and Industrial Deconcentration Group of
the Allied High Commission and Robert Bosch G.m.b.I1.,
Stuttgart. automotive electrical industry combine.

Under the order Bosch is required to sell its stock in
Noris Zuendlicht A.G., Nuremberg (one of its major sub-
sidiaries), and in a number of smaller concerns. Instead

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 39 ---
of divesting itself of certain other plants, the Bosch
combine shall make freely available to its German com-
petitors (except automobile and engine manufacturers)
certain Bosch patents, thereby protecting the German
consumer by encouraging conditions of free competition.
In view of the new agreement Bosch will withdraw its
appeal from an earlier order now pending in the Court of
Decartelization and Deconcentration Appeals in Frankfurt.
Bosch previously dissolved 15 plants and facilities in
the French and US Zones, liquidated two subsidiary
companies, and disposed of its shares in Westfaelische
Metallindustrie A.G., an important competing manufac-
turer of automotive electrical equipment. When the final
action is completed Bosch will retain only éight of the
20 plants of its subsidiaries and only seven of the 26
plants and facilities in Germany owned by it in 1947.

200 Refugee Families Helped

Under a special CARE program for aiding East German”
refugees in West Berlin, Mayor Ernst Reuter presented
200 CARE packages to refugee families at a special cere-
mony Feb. 27.

The packages were purchased with a contribution of
$1,000 from William Graf of New York City. Mr. Graf
donated the funds under a program initiated Dec. 1, 1951,
with a letter of Mayor Reuter addressed to CARE and
containing an appeal for special aid for Berlin's refugees.
Under this special program, approximately 7,000 CARE
food packages have been distributed among refugee
families in West Berlin reception camps.

The 200 families getting last month's distribution of
food packages were selected by the Berlin Welfare Depart-
ment; all of them have two or more children. The children
later attended an informal celebration at which each
child received a special gift of candy or food.

During the special ceremony Feb. 27, the 1,000,000th
CARE package to be distributed in West Berlin since
CARE began operations there in August 1946 was turned
over to one of the refugee families. Assistance given to
needy West Berliners and to refugees in the past five and
one-half years represents approximately $10,000,000 worth
of food, clothing and blankets, purchased with voluntary
contributions from individual Americans.

In addition to the 1,000,000 standard food parcels, CARE
has shipped several thousand books to various Berlin

Mayor Reuter presents CARE package to one of 200
families at special ceremony for aiding East German
(PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)

refugees in West Berlin.

schools and universities, as well as $700,000 worth of
relief supplies in surplus dividend distributions which
were turned over to private individuals and welfare or-
ganizations.

Exchange of Railroad Equipment

The Allied High Commission announced March 7 that,
following a request from the German Federal Ministry for
Transportation and the German Federal Railways, the
transport subcommittee of the High Commission and the
Hungarian Transportation Ministry have concluded an
agreement to exchange Hungarian railroad equipment
held in western Germany since May 8, 1945, against
German equipment of equal value held in Hungary.

The German Federal Ministry for Transportation and
the German Federal Railways were represented at the
negotations with the Hungarian representatives.

Approximately 50 locomotives (all unserviceable), 300
passenger coaches and 2,000 freight cars will be returned
from western Germany to Hungary while Hungary will re-
turn the equivalent value in German rolling stock. Three
months will be required to carry out the exchange.

Publishing License Changed

Military Government licenses have been discontinued
in the three western sectors of Berlin for the publishing
of books and other non-periodical printed matter.

The new regulation, which was effective Feb. 15, pro-
vides for a general license authorizing any person not
otherwise prohibited by occupation or German legislation
to publish books, posters, pamphlets, printed music and
other non-serial printed or otherwise mechanically re-
produced publications. The publisher must comply with
the provisions of Allied Ordinance No. 501 (control of
written, printed or inscribed matters) and must submit
one copy of each publication to appropriate Allied sector
authorities.

The new general license does not affect current regu-
lations concerning the publication of newspapers, peri-
odicals and other serial publications, for which an in-
dividual license is still required.

Tiny Rumanian Prodigy Sails for US

A tiny Rumanian-born girl who has been called a
modern European Mozart by music critics in Italy will
soon appear as a concert violinist before American audi-
ences. She is five-year-old Florica Remetier, who sailed
from Bremerhaven Jan. 29 with her parents for a new
home in the United States. The Remetiers will live in~
Los Angeles, Calif.

Florica was a year old when her parents, Marcel and
Theodora Remetier, fled Rumania to avoid Communist
persecution, and since then her home has been a displaced
persons camp in Italy where her father worked as a photog-
rapher. It was in the camp’s surroundings of cold, meager
rations and scanty clothing that Florica developed her
amazing talent. :

Despite their poverty, the Remetiers managed to enter ~
their tiny prodigy in the Naples Academy of Music where ~

insaSeph ED peony

MARCH 1952 2

--- Page 40 ---
she completed a four-year
course in less than a year.
Encouraged by her progress,
her father, who is also a
talented musician and lin-
guist, took her to Rome.
There she gave her first
violin recital, which she fol-
lowed by concerts in Naples
and Salerno.

Florica plays classical mu-
sic only, and her preferences
are Bach, Beethoven and Mo-
zart. Her father usually plays
her piano accompaniment.

Newspapermen who inter-
viewed her at the US Dis-
placed Persons Commissions camp near Bremen prior to
the Remetiers' departure, found her a completely unself-
conscious, excited five-year-old, looking forward to an
ocean voyage and "a nice new home." She hoped, she
said, that “Americans will want to hear me play, too.”

Florica Remetier.
(Photo by Bethke)

Two voluntary agencies, United Service for New Ameri-
cans and the American Joint Distribution Committee,
assisted the Remetier family to emigrate to the United
States. They were processed through the US Displaced
Persons Commission in Italy.

Nuremberg Toy Fair

Six hundred German exhibitors, including several from
West Berlin and six from the Soviet Zone, showed their
wares at the third postwar toy fair in Nuremberg March 2
to 7. The majority of exhibitors, however, represented
Bavarian toy producers — between 60 and 70 percent
of the “German toy industry is located in Bavaria, em-
ploying more than 8,000 workers,

The 1952 fair was more than twice as large in size,
number of exhibitors and professional visitors as the
first postwar fair in 1950, and about one-third larger
than the second fair in 1951, Although its financial suc-
cess, in terms of German and foreign orders is more
icult to measure as no central compilation of con-
tracts or orders was made, professional. estimates indi-
cate that it was hardly greater than the 1951 fair be-
cause of increasing international competition in the toy
industry, .

In a speech opening the fair, Dr, Hans Ehard, minister-
president of Bavaria, announced that the Bavarian Mi-
nistry for Economics will allocate DM 200,000 ($47,600)
for the construction of a new exhibition hall, so that
subsequent fairs may be larger. This year, more than
100 would-be exhibitors had to be turned away because
of lack of space.

Toys on display showed considerable technical and
artistic improvement over the past two years. They in-
cluded juvenile telephone circuits, hill-climbing cars,
self-operating model railroads, model helicopters, car
radios, radio-controlled power boats and many others.

MARCH 1952

It is estimated that among the 6,000 visitors to the
fair, one-third were foreigners, including some Ameri-
cans, Australians and Argentinians.

Fifty percent of German toy products are exported.
To attract foreign buyers, a number of exhibiting firms
this year allowed discounts up to 50 percent for export
contracts. In contrast, it was noted that most European
(non-German) buyers have reduced purchase budgets
because of currency restrictions.

New Coal-Steel Records Set

Hard coal, pig iron and ingot steel reached new post-
war production highs in the first month of the new year.

During the week ending Jan, 26, the German hard coal
mines turned 2,500,000 tons, giving a record daily aver-
age of 417,841 tons.

The average daily pig iron production rose by 7.3 per-
cent during January to a new postwar monthly produc-
tion record of 1,020,185 tons. Ingot steel was up 11.4 per-
cent over the preceding month, reaching an unprecedent-
ed 1,255,510 tons.

With restrictions on the German heavy industries re-
moved and additional investment capital available, the
German government is confident of an annual steel out-
put of 15,000,000 tons for 1952, and hopes for 16,000,000
tons one year later.

German Exchangees Leave

Fourteen Germans recently journeyed to the United
States to observe different phases of American life under
the HICOG Exchanges Program or the Mutual Security
Agency's technical assistance program.

Dr. Wolfgang Preiser, professor of penal and inter-
national law at the University of Frankfurt, will spend
four months as a lecturer at the law school of George-
town University, Washington, D.C.

Another Frankfurt University professor, Dr. Julius
Schwietering, is visiting professor of German literature

Ambassador William H. Draper, Jr. (left), special Baropean
representative of the Mutual Security Agency, discussed
Germany's defense contribution with US High Commis-
sioner John J. McCloy in the latter's headquarters in
Mehlem March 8. Mr. Draper also conferred with other
HICOG and EUCOM officials during his two-day visit to
the Federal Republic.

(PRD HICOG photo by Gassner)

--- Page 41 ---
at Columbia University in New York City during the
spring term and then he will lecture at the University
of Chicago in the Department of Germanic Languages.

Annedore Leber of Berlin, writer, lecturer, publisher
and only woman member of the executive committee of
the All-German-UNESCO commission, is observing the
US National Commission of UNESCO, its work and in-
fluence on American public life. Upon her return. she
will report on the activities of UNESCO and the United
Nations to the national and local German commissions,

Under the MSA setup Heinz Berdis of Reutlingen,
Wuerttemberg, will attend the spring class of the Harvard
Trade Union Program. The course will deal with actual
policy matters which confront the union leader in the
discharge of his duties in the organization, negotiation
and administration of agreements, relations with govern-
mental agencies, arbitration and community relations.

Ten West German journalists and editors are spend-
ing six weeks in the United States under the MSA pro-
gram hearing industrial and government experts explain
how the productivity of the American worker has been
raised to its present high level. Those participating in
the study include: Dr. Walter Fritz Pahl of Hamburg,
editor of Gewerkschaftliche Monatshefte, worker's month-
ly magazine; Gerda Schilling, Krefeld-Fischelm, subeditor
of the DGB-News and Auslandsnachrichten (foreign re-
ports); Richard Baring, Munich, independent author and
columnist; Hellmut Droschka, Frankfurt, subeditor and
special feature writer of Die Neue Zeitung; Hans Maurer,
Frankfurt, engineering advisor and editor; Hans Herbert
Meyer-Mark, Munich, management consultant; Franz
Kluge, Berlin, correspondent for Die Berliner Wirtschaft;
Walter Funk, Berlin, correspondent for Der Tag; Rudolf
C. Schwartz, Bad Godesberg, information officer of the
Federal Ministry for the Marshall Plan, and Dr. Hans
Flemming, Munich, publicity man of the German Pro-
ductivity Center in Frankfurt.

Additional US Economic Aid

The German Federal Republic was alloted in early
March an additional $30,000,000 US economic assistance
for procurement of essential dollar commodity imports.
The money was provided under an appropriation made
by the US Congress pursuant to the Mutual Security Act
of 1951, which authorized economic assistance to western
European countries in order to support the freedom and
stability of Europe.

During the current fiscal year which ends June 30, the
Federal Republic had been allotted aid amounting to
$34,300,000. The $30,000,000 allotment announced in
March brings the total fiscal year assistance to
$64,300,000. Cumulative US economic assistance to
western Germany under the Marshall Plan and the
Mutual Security Program now totals $1,347,000,000.

Artists Form International Organization
Willi Feldmann, chairman of the Arts and Professions
Union in the German Trade Union Federation, has been

INFORMATION BULLETIN

é
elected president of the newly established International
Federation of Entertainers, an association of stage artists
and entertainers in Great Britain, the Netherlands, Den-
mark, Norway, Austria and the Federal Republic of Ger-
many. The new organization has its headquarters in
Amsterdam, Netherlands.

Boston Symphony to Visit Germany

The Boston Symphony Orchestra will come to Ger-

many to perform three concerts between May 13 and 15.
The visit to Germany will be part of the Boston Sym-
phony's European tour this spring, during which it will
play in London, Amsterdam, the Hague, Brussels and
Paris. Charles Munch, musical director, and Pierre
Monteux, head of the San Francisco Symphony for 17
years, will conduct.

Before coming to Germany the Boston Symphony will
present two concerts in Paris May 6 and May 8 as a
part of the Congress of Cultural Freedom's exposition
of the arts, "Masterpieces of the 20th Century.”

The Boston Symphony will be flown to Frankfurt from
Brussels by the US Air Force on May 13 and will per-
form that evening in the Grosses Haus, Frankfurt. The
following night it will present a free concert in Frank-
furt for members of the US armed services. On May 15
the orchestra will give a concert at Titania Palast in
Berlin, The following day the 104 musicians will travel
to Strasbourg for another concert. +END

Mrs. Vincent M. Wade of Garching, Bavaria, receives Gold
Star pin from Lt. Col. Lawrence E. Sommers, commanding
officer of Berchtesgaden Military Subpost, along with
Purple Heart posthumously awarded her husband, Sergeant
Wade, who married the German girl when stationed in
Bavaria. He died fighting in Korea and is byried in
Garching. Their son, Alexander Vincent Wade, aged three,
stands by his mother. (US Army photo)

i
'

--- Page 42 ---
Calendar of Coming Events

March 25 — Siegburg Harald
Kreutzberg dances.

March 26 — Heidelberg (WB): Beethoven
concert; Ninth Symphony.

March 27 — Berlin: Philharmonic concert;
“Sixteen Slav Dances’ by Dvorak; Jos.
Keilberth, conductor,

March 27-28 — Munich (Bav): Radio Sym-
phony Orchestra; Eugen Jochum, con-
ductor,

March 29 — Mainz (RP): Concert; Missa
Solemnis by Beethoven.

March 30 — Stuttgart (WB): Stuttgart Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; works by Bruckner.

March 30 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Giant
slalom on Jenner.

March 30-31 — Berlin: Philharmonic Or-
chestra; E. Finke, cello; Eugen Jochum,
conductor.

March 30-31 — Hamburg; Concert;
Creation’ by Haydn,

March 30-31 — Dortmund (NRW): Concert;
works by Ravel, Martin, Berlioz; Ger-
hard Puchelt, piano.

March 31 — Hamburg: Concert; Haydn's
“The Seasons."

(NRW):

“The

March 31 — Hanover (LS): Symphony
concert; H, Uhde, baritone.
March 31 — Freiburg (WB): Symphony

concert; Heinz Dressel, conductor.

March 31 — Cologne (NRW): Northwest
German Broadcasting Symphony Or-
chestra; Geza Anda, piano; Ferenc Fric-
say, conductor.

March 31-April 1 — Mannheim (WB):
Academy concert; Wilhelm Kempf,
piano; Eugen Szenkar, conductor.

March 31-April 1 — Bremen: Philharmonic
concert; A. Kupper, piano.

March-April — Dortmund (NRW): Ex-
hibition of modern Westphalian paintings
and plastic art.

March-April —- Aachen (NRW): Border-
land exposition.

March-April — Hamburg: Spring festival;
Hamburg Cathedral,

March-April — Mainau in Lake Constance
(SB): Spring flower show.

April 1-2 — Bonn (NRW): Bach's "'St.
Matthew's Passion.”
April 2 — Paderborn (NRW): Concert;
Wilhelm Roth, violin.
April 2 — Reutlingen (WB): Concert;

Musica Nova; works by Hindemith, Bar-
tok, Herrmann.

Apri! 2-3. — Munich
concert.

April 2-3 — Duisburg (NRW): Symphony
concert; works by Beethoven; Wilhelm
Kempff, piano; G. L. Jochum, conductor.

April 2-7 — Kassel (Hes): Spring fair.

aoa 2-12 — Nuremberg (Bav): Easter sales
air.

April 3-4 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert;
Beethoven's “Missa Solemnis.”

April 3-4 — Muenster (NRW): Concert;
Bach's ‘St, Matthew's Passion.”

April 4 — Wiesbaden. (Hes.): Cycle concert;
H. Stanske, violin; Karl Elmendorff, guest
conductor.

April 4 — Rheydt (NRW): Concert; works
by Beethoven; George Solchang, piano;
G. L. Jochum, conductor.

April 4 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; guest performance by Academic
Choir of Finland,

(Bav): Beethoven

MARCH 1952

March 25 to May 15, 1952

April 4 — Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert; Ros] Schmid, piano.

April 4 — Kaiserslautern (RP): Beethoven
concert; Branca Musulin, piano.

April 5 — Bamberg (Bav): Symphony con-
cert; A. Kupper, soprano; Jos. Keilberth,
conductor,

April 5 — Tuebingen (WB):
Schutz’s “St. John's Passion.”

April 5-6 — Recklinghausen (NRW): Palms
kirmes.

April 6 — Essen (NRW): Concert; Bach's
“St Matthew's Passion.” .

April 6 — Bottrop (NRW): Concert; “Ein
deutsches Requiem" by Handel, Brahms.

April 6 — Berchtesgaden (Bav): Giant sla-
Jom.

April 6 — Feldberg (WB): Leni Wagner
Memorial race.

April 6-7 — Berlin: Concert; Bach's ‘'St.
Matthew's Passion;"’ Ferenc Fricsay, con-
ductor.

April 6-7 — Hamburg: Concert; Bach's “'St.
Matthew's Passion."

April 6-7. — Heidelberg (WB):
Bach's “'St. Matthew's Passion.”

April 7 — Aachen (NRW): Concert; Bach's
“St. Matthew's Passion."

April 7 — Cologne (NRW): Concert; works
by Beethoven, Reger, Verdi.

April 7 — Darmstadt (Hes): Concert; Ros!
Schmid, piano.

April 7 — Ulm (WB): Beethoven concert;
Elly Ney, piano.

April 8 Coblenz (RP): Mozart concert;
Rossini's ‘‘Stabat Mater.’

April 9 — Muehlheim/Ruhr (NRW), Con-
cert; ‘St. John’s Passion.”

April 9-11 — Cologne (NRW): Concert;
“St. Matthew's Passion.”

April 10 — Munich (Bav): Bamberg Sym-
phony Orchestra; guest performance;
Jos. Keilberth, conductor,

April 10-11 — Bremen: Concert; Bach's ‘’St.
Matthew's Passion.”

April 10-11 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert;
“St. Matthew's Passion."

Concert;

Concert;

April 11 — Darmstadt (Hes): Concert,
Bach's ‘St. John’s Passion."

April 11 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Concert;
Bach's “St. John's Passion."

April 11 — Nuremberg (Bav): Concert;

Bach's "St. John's Passion."
April 11 — Munich (Bav): Concert; Bach's
“St, Matthew's Passion.”
April 11 — Hildesheim (LS):
Bach's ‘'St. John's Passion."’
April 11 — Dortmund (NRW): Concert;
Bach's ‘St. Matthew's Passion.”
April 11 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert
by Bach Society.

Concert;

Key to the state abbreviations in
calendar:
Bav — Bavaria.
Hes — Hesse.
LS — Lower Saxony.
NRW — North Rhine-Westphalia.
RP — Rhineland-Palatinate.
SB — South Baden.
SH — Schleswig-Holstein.
WB — Wuerttemberg-Baden.
WH — Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern.

39

April 11 — Solingen (NRW):
works by Bruckner, Mozart.
April 11 — Kassel (Hes.): Good Friday

concert.

April 11 — Oberhausen (Hes):
Bach's ‘'St. John's Passion."
April 11-14 — Bad Kreuznach (RP): Inter-

national ice hockey tournament.

April 12 — St. Andreasberg (LS): Tradi-
tional Easter bonfire.

April 13 — Feldberg (WB): International
Easter ski jumping.

April 13 — Bergen (Bav): Giant slalom.

April 13 — Lonau (LS): Traditional Easter
bonfire,

April 13 — Reit im Winkel (Bav): Easter
ski jumping.

April 13 — Riezlern
koepfle” ski race.
April 13-14 — Bad Ems (Hes): Golf tourna-

ment.

April 13-14 — Berlin: Philharmonic concert;
Ricardo Odnoposoff, violin; Hans Knap-
pertsbusch, conductor.

April 13-14 — Baden-Baden (SB): Spring
flower festival.

April 14 — Schliersee (Bav): Ski jumping
on the Spitzing jump. ~

April 15 — Viersen (NRW): London Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; Sir Adrian Boult,
conductor. .

April 15-20 — Frankfurt (Hes): Congress
of the German Society for Education.
April 16-17 — Munich (Bav): Philharmonic
concert; works by Mozart, Bruckner.
April 16-18 — Marburg (Hes): Convention

of Agricultural Society.

April 16-19 — Tuebingen (WH): Conven-
tion of German teachers of mathematics
and natural sciences.

April 16-May 17 — Essen (NRW): Exhibi-
tion; German Homeland in the East.

April 16-Oct. 31 — Rheydt (NRW): Horti-
cultural exhibition,

April 17 — Leverkusen (NRW): Concert;
works by Beethoven, Bruckner; Elly Ney,
piano.

April 18 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Cycle con-
cert; works by Smetana, Katschturian,
Tchaikovsky; G. Cassado, cello.

April 18 — Hanover (LS): Concert by Ber-
lin Philharmonic Orchestra; Dr, W. Furt-
waengler, conductor.

April 18 — Essen (NRW): Piano recital;
Alfred Cortot.

April 18 — Bremen: Beethoven concert;
M. Stein, piano.

April 19 — Munich (Bav): Concert; Wolf-
gang Schneiderhan, violin.

April 19-20 — Berlin: Concert by RIAS
Orchestra; Conrad Hansen, piano; Karl
Boehm, conductor.

April 20 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Choral
concert; works by Egk, Stravinsky, Hon-
egger.

April 20-23 — Frankfurt (Hes.): Furriers’
trade fair. -

April 21 — Kochem/Mosel (RP): Traditional
folk festival.

April 21 — Bonn (NRW): Concert; works
by Berlioz, Schubert, Lorenz, Tchai-
kovsky; Hermann’ Scherchen, conductor.

April 21 — Flensburg (SH): Concert; works
by Paganini, Helmboe, Ravel, Tchai-
kovsky; H. Stanske, violin; H. Steiner,
conductor.

Concert;

Concert;

(Bav): ‘Hahnen-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 43 ---
April 21 — Frankfurt (Hes.): Museum con-
cert; works by Brahms; Elly Ney, piano.

April 21 — Cologne (NRW): Northwest
German Broadcasting Symphony Or-
chestra; works by Sibelius, Katschaturian,
Vogel, Skrjabin; Adolf Steiner, cello;
Hans Rosbaud, conductor.

April 21-22 — Mannheim (WB): Academy
concert; works by Schubert, Paganini-
Molinari, de Falla; Eugen Szenkar, con-
ductor.

April 21 — Schleching (Bav): Giant slalom
on the Geigelstein,

April 21 — Mittenwald (Bav): International
cities ski races,

April 23 — Aachen (NRW): Concert; works
by Mozart, Beethoven, Britten; Dr. F,
Raabe, conductor.

April 23 — Muehlheim/Ruhr (NRW): Con-
cert; Nuovo Quartetto Italiano.

April 23 — Duisburg (NRW): Concert;
Wolfgang Schneiderhan, violin; C. Han-
sen, piano.

April 23-24 —
Pasquier Trio.

April 24 — Muerister (NRW): Symphony
concert; works by Mozart, Martin, Bialas.

April 24 — Wuppertal (NRW): Symphony
concert; works by Pfitzner, Stravinsky,
Tchaikovsky; L. Hoelscher, cello.

April 24 — Kiel (SH): Concert, works by
Bach, Stravinsky; Gerhard Puchelt, piano;
Georg C, Winkler, conductor,

April 24 — Cologne (NRW): Concert;
Alfred Cortot, piano. —

April 24 — Neuss (NRW): Concert; Works
by Haydn, Strauss, Egk, Rimsky-Korsa-
kov; H. Pillney, piano.

April 24-25 — Munich (Bav):
“Catulli Carmina’ by Orff.
April 25 — Krefeld (NRW): Concert; works
by Saint-Saens, Schoenberg, Shostako-

vich; Alfred Cortot, piano.

April 25 — Wiesbaden (Hes): “St. Elisabeth
Oratorio" by Haas.

April 25-27 —— Baden-Baden (SB): Congress
of Rotary Clubs.

April 25-May 4 — Passau (Bav): Spring fair.

April 26 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert;
Nuovo Quartetto Italiano.

April 26-May 4 — Weiden/Opf. (RP): Spring
festival,

April 26-May 4 — Stuttgart (WB): German
Inventors’ Fair.

April 26-May 4 — Throughout Western
Germany and West Berlin: Week of Ger-
man Theater, with speech by the Federal
President.

April 27 — Nuremberg (Bav): Youth sing-
ing contest; sponsored by GYA.

April 27-28 — Hamburg: Concert by North-
west German Broadcasting Orchestra;
works by Bruckner, Bach; Hans Schmidt-
Isserstedt, conductor.

April 27-May 4 — Cologne (NRW): Inter-
national Photo and Movie Exhibition.
April 27-May 6 — Hanover (LS): German

technical trade fair, 1952.

April 28 — Hanover (LS): Concert; Elly
Ney, piano.

April 28 — Karlsruhe (WB): Symphony
concert; works by Kaminsky, Mozart,
Reger; Stefan Askenase, piano; Otto
Matzerath, conductor.

April 28 — Coblenz (RP): Symphony con-
cert; Eugen Szenkar, conductor.

April 28 — Cologne (NRW): Concert;
works by Stravinsky, Mozart, Beethoven;
Otto Winkler, conductor.

April 28-29 — Flensburg (SH): General
Synod of the Protestant-Lutheran Church
in Germany.

April 30 — Bochum (NRW):
before the May Day Festiv
tional celebrations since 1388.

Hanover (LS): Concert;

Concert;

“Evening
tradi-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

April 30 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert;
Alfred Cortot, piano,

April 30 — Marburg (Hes): May Day cele-
brations of students and citizens.

April 30 — Throughout the Harz moun-
tains (LS): Walpurgis celebrations.

April 30-June 2 — Duesseldorf (NRW):
Great arts exhibition, “Iron and Steel,”
with contest,

April 30-May 17 — Frankfurt (Hes): Ex-
hibition ‘German Art for the Olympic
Games, 1952."

April-May — Friedrichshafen (SB): Inter-
national Lake Constance fair.

April-May — Essen (NRW): Exhibition of
art and agriculture.

April-May — Hamburg: Exhibition; Italian
handicrafts,

April-May — Heidelberg (WB): Reopening
of Netherlands paintings section of the
Kur-Palatinate Museum.

April-May — Gross-Gerau (Hes): Spring
mart with homeland play.

April-September — Essen (NRW): 1,100th
anniversary.

April-September — Marburg (Hes): Arts
exhibition and display of St, Elisabeth's
Jewel Room,

April-October — Landau/Pf. (RP): Horti-
cultural exhibition.

April-December — Throughout Western
Germany and West Berlin: horse races,
trotting and flat races.

May 1 — Bad Neuenahr (Hes):
festival,

May 1-4 — Wiesbaden (Hes): International
tennis tournament.

May 1-4 — Hoechst/Odenwald (WB): May

Youth

mart with traditional apple blossom
festival.
May 1-Sept. 30 — Osterode/Harz (LS):

800th anniversary.

Early May — Schwetzingen (WB): 200th
anniversary of the Rococo theater; festi-
val plays.

Early May — Viersen (NRW): Berlin Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; Dr. Wilhelm Furt-
waengler, conductor.

May 2 — Wiesbaden (Hes): Cycle concert;
works by Mozart, Toch, Mahler; Wolf-
gang Schneiderhan, violin,

May 2-5 — Norden/Ostfr,
suntide market.

May 4 — Essen (NRW): Concert; works
by Hindemith, Mozart, Strauss, Wolfgang
Schneiderhan, violin.

May 4-5 — Bonn (NRW): Concert; works
by Ravel, Brahms, Berlioz.

May 4-5 — Reutlingen (WB): Concert;
works by Vivaldi, Monteverdi, Lotti,
del Lusto, Wolf, Schumann; Lotte Fischer,
alto.

May 4-5 — Mittenwald (Bav): International
giant slalom on the Dammkar.

May 4-5 — Berlin: Concert by RIAS Or-
chestra; works by Mozart; Ferenc Fric-
say, conductor.

May 4-11 — Stuttgart (WB): Week of
German students of arts.

May 5 — Darmstadt (Hes): Concert; works
by Monteverdi-Orff, Mahler; Henry Wolff,
Julius Patzak, soloists.

May 5 — Flensburg (SH): Verdi's “'Re-
quiem,"

May 5 — Freiburg (WB): Symphony con-
cert; Cecilia Hansen, violin; Franz Kon-
witschny, guest conductor.

May 5 — Hanover (LS): Symphony con-
cert; works by Beethoven, Brahms, Mo-
zart; G. Wand, guest conductor.

May 5 — Heidelberg (WB): Symphony
concert; works by Wagner, Brahms,
Hindemith; Christian Ferras, violin.

May 5 — Cologne (NRW): Concert; Ora-
torio by Debussy.

(SH): Whit-

40

May 5—Nuremberg (Bav): Concert, Nuovo
Quartetto Italiano.

May 5-6—Bremen: Concert; Mozart's Mass
in C minor.

May 6 — Aachen (NRW): Concert; Koek-
kert Quartet.

May 6 — Leverkusen (NRW):
Alfred Cortot, piano.

May 6 — Solingen (NRW): Concert; works

Concert;

by Weber, Chopin, Dvorak; Branka
Musulin, piano,
May 7. — Kassel (Hes): Concert; Ninth

Symphony by Beethoven.

May 7 — Muehlheim/Ruhr (NRW): Con-
cert; works by Vivaldi, Karthaus, Brahms;
Rosl Schmid, piano.

May 7-8 — Duisburg (NRW): Symphony
concert; works by Mozart, Schumann,
Stravinsky; Alfred Cortot, piano.

May 7-8 — Hanover (LS): Concert; Nuovo
Quartetto Italiano,

May 7-8 — Hamburg: Overseas Day.

May 8 — Stuttgart (WB): Southwest Ger-
man Music Dealers’ Association; con-
vention.

May 8 — Munich (Bav): Musical academy;
works by Petrassi, Brahms, Tchai-
kovsky; Nino Sanzogno, conductor.

May 9 — Krefeld (NRW): ‘Missa Solem-
nis," by Beethoven.

May 9 — Frankfurt (Hes): Congress of the
German Airports Association.

May 10 — Darmstadt (Hes): Concert; Al-
fred Cortot, piano.

May 10 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert
by Bach Society.

May 10 — Muenchen-Gladbach (NRW):
Beethoven's “Missa Solemnis."' .

May 11 — Dortmund (NRW): Concert;
“The Seasons’ by Haydn,

May 11 — Duesseldorf (NRW): Concert;
Edwin Fischer, piano.

May 11 — Muenster (NRW):
Beethoven's “Missa Solemnis.”

May 11 — Stuttgart (WB): Stuttgart Phil-
harmonic Orchestra; works by Bruckner.

May 11-12 — Bremen: Winterthur Chamber
Orchestra; Edwin Fischer, Enrico Main-
ardi, soloists.

May 11-12 — Hamburg: Northwest Ger-
man Broadcasting Symphony Orchestra;
works by Tchaikovsky, Bartok, Walton;
H. Roloff, piano; H. Schmidt-Isserstedt,
conductor.

May 12 — Karlsruhe (WB):
concert; works by Brahms,
Otto Matzerath, conductor.

May 12—Luebeck (SH): Winterthur Cham-
ber Orchestra; Edwin Fischer, Enrico
Mainardi, soloists.

May 12 — Wuppertal (NRW): Concert;
works by Beethoven, Bruckner; Eduard
Erdmann, piano.

May 13 — Bad Nenndorf (NRW): Haydn's
“The Seasons."

May 14 — Aachen (NRW): Concert; works
by Tchaikovsky, Strauss, Prokofieff.

May 14 — Bremen: Concert; Nuovo Quar-
tetto Italiano; works by Schubert, Bee-
thoven, Debussy.

May 14-15 — Munich (Bav): Concert; Han-
del's “Messiah.”

May 14-15 — Freiburg (WB):
contemporary music.

Middle of May — Karlsruhe (WB): Spring
festival.

May-June — Nuremberg (Bav): Exhibition;
West German Contemporary Art.

May-Aug. — Oberdollendorf (NRW):
Open-air performances at the Heidter-
bach ruin.

May-Aug. — Tecklenburg (NRW): Open-
air performances in the castle ruin.

May-Sept. — Hameln (NRW): Pied Piper
(Ratcatcher plays). +END

Concert;

Symphony
Bruckner;

Concert;

MARCH 1952

--- Page 44 ---
And Cartoons

VUE

US authorities.

Analysis Section, Press Branch, Information Division, HICOG.

TR

Three Wise Men's Decision Criticized

“The recommendation of the three NATO experts (to fix
the German defense contribution at DM 11,250,000,000*)
is not the last word; it can be changed in negotiations.
No NATO country has accepted the Three Wise Men's
recommendations without criticism, and nobody can ex-
pect Bonn to do so. But it is a proposal which deserves
to be discussed and which permits of a mutually ac-
ceptable compromise agreement." Thus Frankfurter Neue
Presse (Frankfurt, Feb. 19) summed up German press feel-
ing about the NATO plan for Germany's financial defense
contribution.

There was strong criticism of the non-deduction of Berlin
aid expenses, however. "Berlin rendered a defense con-
tribution at a time when there was no NATO and no
Korea," wrote Mannheimer Morgen (Mannheim, Feb. 20).
“Financially this was to the debit of the German taxpayers,
morally to the debit of the steadfast and optimistic popula-
tion of Berlin. These advance services have not been
recognized to the extent the people had expected. The
recommendation of the Three Wise Men has done a dis-
service to the popularization of the defense idea.”

Schwaebische Landeszeitung (Augsburg, Feb. 20) echoed:
“The Western Powers have always called Berlin the
advanced outpost of Western defense. Therefore, the Ber-

PUERCO CC

German Editorials

This section is intended to inform the American readers of what Germans
are thinking, without interpretation. The selection has been made so as to
cover the events which caused the widest reaction in the German press, and
to give a fair cross section of German editorial opinion, The inclusion of
any event, viewpoint or opinion does not necessarily imply concurrence by

The cartoons have been taken from a selection reproduced by the Press

HE

(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, Feb. 20)

The Three Wise Men.

lin aid should be considered a defense contribution and
deducted from the over-all amount.”

Considering how this money should be raised, Rhein-
Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg, Feb. 21) warned of new
taxes. “We, at the borderline between East and West, can
under no circumstances afford it to endanger social peace
and monetary stability. There is at this time no other
choice but to cover any additional amounts for occupation
or defense costs through increased productivity.”

Frankiurter Allgemeine (Frankfurt, Feb. 23) made a
detailed analysis of the recommendation, arriving at the
conclusions of the majority of the press. “The recom-
mendation of the ‘Three Wise Men’ contrasts pleasantly
with previous Allied statements on this matter which did
not leave a single point of our economic policy uncriti-
cized and, figuring roughly, tried to push us into an annual
defense contribution of DM 13,000,000,000. The latest
recommendations, however, refrain from any critical com-
ments about the German economic and financial policies.
It is even conceded that our course has been extraordi-
narily successful."

“In the first part of their recommendations, the ‘Three
Wise Men’ have attempted with commendable objectivity

* See ‘Germany's Defense Contribution” on page 27.

German Opinion in Cartoons

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Jan. 23)

(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, Feb. 20)

(Mannheimer Morgen, Mannheim, Feb. 14)

Conny Adenauer Woos in Vain.

MARCH 1952 Al

Occupation.
Two's company, three’s a crowd.

A Family Tree at Lisbon.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 45 ---
(Der Mittag, Duesseldorf, Feb. 4)

The Choice!

(Westdeutsche Neue Presse, Cologne, Jan. 30)

yor, ues HH
ii

ac)
=

No Admittance without Uniform.

(Hamburger Freie Presse, Hamburg, Feb. 15)

German Army.
Marianne's Nightmare.

(Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, Jan. 30)

)

ReAN

France and Germany.
Stumbling on the threshold.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(Westfaelische Nachrichten,
Muenster, Feb. 22)

oe) YD

Dr. Kurt Schumacher's
Convalescence.
“Tea or coffee, sir?”
“New elections!"

(Nuernberger Zeitung, Nuremberg,
Feb. 11)

Three Unwanted Waifs.

(Die Zeit, Hamburg, Jan. 24)

=
*

“Soviets will join
Olympics — on condition.”

(Hamburger Freie Presse, Hamburg,
Feb. 23/24)

&

S

Joe's Carnival
(Fasching”) Costume.

(Nuernberger Zeitung, Nuremberg, Jan. 25)

rrereereeee
EUROPA- ARM

nme
rreeeeeee

Lily Marlene Says No!

42

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Feb. 9)

The Chancellor
Between France and Opposition.

(Weser-Kurier, Bremen, Jan. 23)

How Times Have Changed.

(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, Feb. 9)

“Maybe I bet on the wrong horse!”

(Ruhr-Nachrichten, Dortmund, Feb. 14)

“Now, you kids, I've had enough!"

(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, Jan. 24)

vem) |
i

Miss Germania’s Carnival Costumes.
“T want to go as a peace angel!”

MARCH 1952

--- Page 46 ---
to outline the positive and negative factors influencing
our economic capacity. In the second part, however, they
have dropped this principle and have indulged in rosy
assumptions about future economic developments in the
Federal Republic, to come to the final conclusion that
Germany can afford to pay a defense contribution of
DM 11,250,000,000 plus Berlin aid.”

Grotewohl Letter Rejected

With rare unanimity, the German press rejected East
zone Premier Otto Grotewohl's latest move, a letter to
the four Occupation Powers asking an early conclusion of
a peace treaty.

“Since the East zone government's campaign for all-
German discussions was to no avail, they are now trying
to bring about the early conclusion of a peace treaty,”
said Badische Zeitung (Freiburg, Feb. 15). “This requires
a conference of the four Occupation Powers. When the
East zone foreign minister said the Soviet Union would
certainly respond to such a request, he actually reversed
the facts: if he had not known that the Soviet Union
would respond, he would never have made the proposal.
In all probability he actually had been instructed by Mos-
cow to make it."

Similarly, Koelner Stadt-Anzeiger (Cologne, Feb. 16)
wondered that ‘at the same moment that the Bundestag
submits an all-German election law to the four Occupation
Powers, the Grotewohl government suddenly loses all
interest in such all-German elections. The new goal is a
Four-Power conference, at which the German people
would be represented merely by observers.”

Westfalenpost (Hagen, Feb. 15) thought it a remarkable
development, saying that “at least Grotewohl has had
to admit what he has always strictly rejected: that Ger-
many’s reunification is not a purely domestic German
affair, but is up to the Four Powers to deal with.”

In similar vein, Die Freiheit (Mainz, Feb. 15) commented:
“Of course, the move was inspired by Moscow. But that is
immaterial. Important is it that Moscow is trying to
achieve discussions with the Western Allies on the p:ob-
lem of German reunification. The answer can only be:
free all-German elections under international control.”

Moderate Optimism over London Conference
When Federal Chancellor Konrad Adenauer returned
to-Germany from his London meeting with the foreign
ministers of the United States, Great Britain and France,
he found the German press willing to acknowledge the
results achieved, but somewhat reluctant to share his
optimism. ‘He needs optimism as he needs air to breathe,

(Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg, Feb. 14)

Foreign Ministers’ Conference
We need a fourth man!

MARCH 1952

(Hamburger Abendblatt,

A Difficult, Feat!

43

to get his foreign policy ahead," explained Schwaebische
Landeszeitung (Augsburg, Feb. 21). “He has every right
to point out the steady progress, but it is dangerous to
tell the people again and again that now they are over
the hill.”

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich, Feb. 22) said: ‘What has
been achieved in London is a compromise. It does not
dispose of the Franco-German crisis, but at least it permits
the Lisbon NATO conference to be held with some chance
for success. If any one may book that as his success, it
is the US secretary of state. The Franco-German dispute
had threatened Truman‘s and Acheson's over-all policy’
in Europe.” o

The paper was joined in this opinion by Hamburger
Abendblatt (Hamburg, Feb. 20), which felt that “a solution
had to be found which secured Dr. Adenauer's domestic
position, shaken by the parliamentary defense debate, and
at the same time did not endanger the close relationships
between Washington and London, on the one hand, and
Paris, on the other. The formula has been found.”

Analyzing the Four-Power communique, Rhein-Neckar
Zeitung (Heidelberg, Feb. 20) said: “Psychologically, the
German chancellor's greatest success was the Allied con-
cession to have the so-called war crimes sentences review-
ed by a quadripartite board and the undertaking of the
French government to negotiate with the German govern-
ment on the fate of those Germans who are still held in
France."

This decision was hailed by Rheinischer Merkur (Kob-
lenz, Feb. 22) as “a turning point in postwar history." The
paper said that “finally the government has succeeded in
making it clear to our former enemies what we want:
not clemency or unconditional freedom for those who com-
mitted crimes in our name, but a stern but just investiga-
tion of each individual case. There must not be the slight-
est suspicion of abuse of law."

French Saar Policy Attacked

The appointment of Gilbert Grandval as “chief of the
French Diplomatic Mission at Saarbruecken with the rank
of ambassador,” caused a violent reaction in the German
press.

Summarizing the majority opinion, Bremer Nachrichten
(Bremen, Jan. 29) said: ‘The chancellor has always shown
restraint in dealing with the Saar issue, and he has held
the view that it must not be allowed to become the source
of conflict between France and Germany. The opposition
has attacked him for that and has pointed out that France
strives to establish a fait accompli at the Saar. M
Grandval's appointment must be considered a step in that

Hamburg, Feb. 5) (Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, Jan. 30)

evr

France and Germany.
Ain't love grand!

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 47 ---
(Suedkurier, Constance, Feb. 14) (Main-Post, Wuerzburg, Jan. 26)

A Heavy Load

Liberty in the East. for the Peace Angel.

direction. It leaves the chancellor's policy of Franco-
German friendship in the lurch at a moment when vital
decisions on the German-Allied agreements and a German
defense contribution are imminent..."

Similarly, Muenchner Merkur (Munich, Jan. 29) argued
that “even though the final settlement of the Saar question
remains reserved to a peace treaty, according to Robert
Schuman’s official opinion, no unprejudiced European can
understand what else M. Grandval could do in ambassador's
uniform between the Seine and the Saar but prejudice the
political decisions of the future in favor of the French.
They are decisions about which the Germans at the Saar,
in the Federal Republic and in the East zone think quite
differently than Gilbert Grandval, for instance..."

“Tt has been a cold shower to the partisans of the
Schuman Plan and similar conceptions that such an ex-
ponent of European ideas as Robert Schuman has lent his
hand to such a policy,” complained the German labor
organ Welt der Arbeit (Duesseldorf, Feb. 1), while the
Stuttgart Deutsche Zeitung (Jan. 30) put it even more
bluntly: “If the French had been out to make it impossible
for the chancellor to adhere to his past line of policy,
because he will not find a parliamentary majority for it
under these circumstances, this would be the surest means
of accomplishing that. The Americans will not fail to
recognize that the chancellor did his utmost and that it
was French policy which raised the decisive obstacle..."

“The French press writes of ‘Germany's unchanging
attitude’ and accuses the federal chancellor of ‘following
in the footsteps of his predecessor’ (i.e., Hitler),"" Han-
noversche Allgemeine (Hanover, Jan. 30) commented:
“Dr. Adenauer’s past attitude toward the Schuman Plan

(Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Feb. 20)

How France Sees
the German Army.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Bible Students Draft-Exempt!

(Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen,

Soe

Michel Feeds—
Marianne Milks.

(Main-Post, Wuerzburg, Jan. 25)

(Aachener Nachrichten, Aachen,
Feb, 6)

Wy
AS
John Bull: “Maybe I'd better

see what's going on!"

and a German defense contribution, however, proves
beyond doubt that the Federal Republic was ready to make
extraordinary, almost irresponsible sacrifices.”

Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg, Jan. 29) tried to
interpret the chancellor's reaction, speculating that “Bonn
wants to see clearly whether M. Schuman is strong enough
to assert himself against his anti-European opponents in
France.”

Standing quite by itself, Frankfurter Allgemeine (Frank-
furt, Jan. 30) said: “The most annoying thing about the
German reaction to the appointment of the French ambas-
sador is the disappointment some German sources display.
We Germans have no right to be disappointed. Whatever
may be said about the French policy toward the Saar, it
has always since 1945 been of a rare candor and straight-
forwardness. They have never concealed that their aim is
the separation of the Saar from Germany, and they have
never permitted any doubt that not even the Schuman
Plan, European Army and United States of Europe would
make them deviate from that line... A part of the German
public, including the highest quarters in Bonn, have for
years believed in the impossible, that it would work
‘somehow,’ once the agreements have only been signed..."

Communists and Neo-Nazis Denounced

In a surprise move, the German police raided local
offices of the Communist Party (KPD) and the neo-Fascist
Socialist Reich Party (SRP) throughout Germany on Jan. 31,
searching for documents proving the unconstitutional
character of the two radical parties. The search had been
ordered by the Federal Constitutional Court at Karlsruhe,
with which the Federal Government has filed an action

(Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgart, Feb. 16)

German Army.
Making mountains out of molehills.

MARCH 1952

--- Page 48 ---
(Frankenpost, Hof, Feb. 12) (Westiaelische Rundschau, Dortmund, Feb. 5) (Telegraf, Berlin, Feb. 17)

“We forced him to surrender uncon-

ditionally — but how do we get him to ‘ The Only Part that Works
rearm unconditionally?" Equality! is The Brake.

asking that both parties be prohibited as hostile to the by an unimpeachable court warrant. The paper felt that
republic and undemocratic. in too many previous cases administrative action against

the two parties or individual members had been reversed
by the courts. “Any such correction has the effect of a
defeat of democracy and a triumph of its opponents," it
said. Weser Kurier also rejected comparisons between this
search and Gestapo raids under Hitler, saying that such
comparisons “can be made only by people who were
fortunate enough never to make the personal acquaintance
of the Gestapo.”

“We do not dare to affirm the question whether this
move has been expedient,” said Frankfurter Rundschau
(Frankfurt, Feb, 1). “The government's charges against the
KPD and SRP were publicly announced around the middle
of November and filed at Karlsruhe about the end of that
month. The two parties, therefore, had from 10 to 12
weeks to remove all incriminating material from their
offices. We can imagine that they made full use of this
opportunity, and the malicious remarks with which some
party leaders received the police officers seem to sub-
stantiate our view.”

Legislator with Nazi Record
The unmasking of an extreme rightist member of the
German Federal Parliament as a one-time prominent Nazi

On the other hand, Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frankfurt, was used by the German press as a basis for editorial
Feb. 1), representing the majority opinion, said: “The comments on the neo-Fascist question.
argument that the action came rather late... may be Bundestag delegate Dr. Franz Richter, member of the
justified from a political point of view, but not from a Socialist Reich Party (SRP), was arrested in the Bonn
juridical one. A judge must first of all thoroughly check parliament building on Feb. 20 after judicial authorities
the legal substance of the indictment, and only after he had disclosed that his real name was Fritz Roessler, that
has convinced himself that it is well-founded can he order he had held a high rank in the Nazi party prior to 1945,
such a demonstrative action as this search and seizure of * and that he had never obtained a doctor's degree or been
material...The judges in Karlsruhe have resolutely a schoolteacher, as he alleged. Richter-Roessler was
availed themselves of their powers. The Leipzig court known in postwar German political life as a radical
(constitutional court of the Weimar Republic) lacked this nationalist who publicly glorified Nazism, attacked the
resoluteness. If democracy had defended itself with equal Allies as “colonial masters” of Germany, accused the
determination then, disaster perhaps would not have struck German government of collaboration with the enemy and
us. Nothing is more dangerous in such situations than used the Bundestag rostrum to preach anti-Semitism.
sentimentalism.” Following his arrest he resigned his Bundestag seat.

Weser Kurier (Bremen, Feb. 1) expressed relief that He is to face trial on charges of falsification of docu-
finally a police action against radical elements was backed ments, wrongful assumption of titles, falsification of his —

(Echo der Woche, Munich, Feb. 23) (Hamburger Echo, Hamburg, Jan. 31) (Die Zeit, Hamburg, Feb. 7)°

Oslo. co
Soviet Observer: “Report Americans Austerity in Britain. European Army.
going downhill rapidly!" “Watch your waistline, darling!” “He can't let go now!"

MARCH 1952 45 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 49 ---
(Ruhr-Nachrichten, Dortmund, Jan. 24)

Getting too big for the baby pen?

identity, continued fraud and knowingly giving false
affidavits.

“The arrest of the rightist radical delegate from Lower
Saxony who called himself Dr, Franz Richter, while his
real name is Fritz Roessler, casts a spotlight on the
political swamp and mud of remaining old and reviving
new Nazism," said Westfaelische Rundschau (Dortmund,
Feb, 21). “The extreme rightists in the Bundestag and
several state legislatures have been in a shady atmo-
sphere for some time. Around them gather political row-
dies along with disgruntled officers and incorrigible
world reformers of the nationalist type. Characteristic of
the leadership of the various neo-Fascist groups, how-
ever, are people of criminal record, who think they can
traffic in rightist radicalism.”

Westfalenpost (Hagen, Feb. 22) thought the Richter-
Roessler case “‘an excellent example of the boasting and
big talk which characterized much of the Nazi era and are
now being revived in the Socialist Reich Party.”

The Hamburg weekly Die Zeit warned that the case
was not as funny as the SRP seemed to think. “Roessler
may have adopted a false name in 1945 due to the then
existing state of emergency, as the SRP put it, but he
did not have to retain that false name until now. About
two years ago the Bundestag, presumably with the con-
sent of delegate Richter-Roessler, passed a clemency act
under which anyone who went under a false name and
false documents (due to the so-called emergency of 1945)
could revert to his lawful identity without punishment.
Roessler did not use that chance. Evidently he preferred
his salary as Bundestag delegate to a proper identity,
which was not worth much in his case, though.

“In the long run, however, it was bad business. Now
his real identity has been established, and the salary is
gone, and left is only the hope that the courts of the
Federal Republic will be much mote lenient to him than

(Westfaelische Nachrichten, Dortmund, Feb. 14)

{Tetegraf,; West Berlin, Jan. 26)

International Turkish Bath
“Hot enough for you?”

(Welt der Arbeit, DGB, Cologne, Jan. 25)

(Berliner Anzeiger, West Berlin, Jan. 26)

A Spreading Rash.

the courts of his beloved Third Reich would have been
if he had swindled his way into an office then — for
instance, to the party rank he really held.”

A number of papers such as the Stuttgarter Zeitung
(Stuttgart, Feb. 22) raised the question how such occur-
rences could be prevented, citing the case as evidence
of “the chances the election system of proportional
representation offers to unscrupulous persons. Roessler
settled down as a schoolteacher in Lower Saxony after
1945, and was elected to the Bundestag on the ticket of
the German Rightist Party. The voters cannot directly be
blamed for this, since they did not vote for him. They
voted for a ticket, which did not give the background of
this Mr. Richter.” The paper demanded that all electoral
candidates be screened by the local authorities prior to
their nomination. .

Ruhr-Nachrichten (Dortmund, Feb. 21) was concerned
about the repercussions the case would have abroad.
“Certainly critics of the Federal Republic will use this
as a welcome opportunity to warm up their old stories
about Germany being infested with former leading Nazis.
That is nonsense... The critics must be told that these
groups are now a tiny minority (contrary to the time
before 1945) and that they would disappear completely
if they were given no chances for agitation.”

Also Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frankfurt, Feb. 22)
emphasized that “the only important thing is not to
charge this incident to the republic, which is just about
to give these people their deserved punishment. We must
recognize that this is a heritage left to us by the past,
by war and the collapse (of 1945). The public and eco-
nomic administrations by and large are sound and must
be allowed to get rid of these people.”

Nuernberger Zeitung (Nuremberg, Feb. 22) summed up
the issue in the question: “Now, should we laugh or display
indignation?” +END

{Schwaebische Landeszeitung, Augsburg, Feb. 2/3)

‘Make up your Mind, Harry!

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Another “Flying Enterprise?”

Egypt's Choice.
“Take care!’

MARCH 1952

--- Page 50 ---
Musieal
‘Ties

N CHRISTMAS EVE, 40 young German boys and

girls stood in one of the largest churches in Paris
singing the traditional carol “Stille Nacht, Heilige Nacht’
(Silent Night, Holy Night). The youngsters sang not only
with their voices but with the hearts of all young people
of good will. The group was the “A Coeur Joie” (Joyful
Heart) Choir of Karlsruhe — boy and girl scouts perform-
ing under the leadership of Guenther Malzacher, a student
of music and theater.

Mr. Malzacher started a small group of 15 boys and
girls after the French “A Coeur Joie” visited Karlsruhe
during the 1950 Christmas season. With the assistance of
the Karlsruhe College for Music several concerts were
given during the year and the choir was increased to its
present size, The group became sufficiently known to be
the only choir of its type in Germany

Part of Karlsruhe's “A Coeur Joie’ Choir on the steps of
the Church of the Sacred Heart (Sacre Coeur) in Paris.

Mr. Malzacher commented later, “Believe me, a visit
to the Montmartre at 10 o'clock in the evening with
40 boys and girls is a rather difficult thing, Naturally we
gave several warnings — ‘stay together,’ ‘do not speak
with anybody,’ and ‘you must be back in about half an
hour.’ After these 30 minutes you find in the bus four or

five and the rest ‘perdu,’ as the French-

to receive an invitation to perform in
France.

The choir sang selections in English
French and German in early December
before the International Club of Karls-
ruhe, then began preparations for the
holiday trip to the French capital.

HE BIGGEST OBSTACLES were

Material for this article was con-
tributed by George W. Bartels,
who at the time of the group's
tour was US deputy resident offi-
cer in Karlsruhe. He has been trans-
ferred to Schwaebisch-Gmuend as
US resident officer. Photographs
taken on the trip were furnished
by USRO Karlsruhe.

man says. Yes, that’s one of the pleas-
ures of the choir leader.”

The Christmas Eve performance was
exciting. The choir leader said, “Natu-
rally it was hard for us not to be
at home, but Christmas in a° foreign
country with the certainty that you
are among friends whom you have
won over by songs was a splendid
compensation.”

raising funds for the trip and con-
vincing 40 families that it was all right
for the children to be away from home at Christmas time.
The group arrived in Paris by bus Dec. 22 and remained
there three days. They stayed with French families and
made trips through the city visiting the great monu-
ments, important cathedrals and other points of interest

‘A Coeur Joie” Karlsruhe, under the direction of Guenther
Malzacher, sings on the beautiful lawns of Versailles.

“On the 25th, he added, “we gave
our second concert in Paris. The church was crowded
with people. When we sang our Negro spirituals the
audience applauded — this was the first time in history
that any applause was given in that church. After these
selections the French choir sang together with our choir,
two songs — one French and the other a German one.”’

TERRE OST, DIRECTOR of the Paris "A Coeur Joie"

Choir, wrote: “You do not know what a deep im-
pression your Christmas trip has left on Paris. They all
speak of your visit and your songs, still today. You Ger-
mans and we French are a good example that friendship
among nations can exist. We young men are standing in
the service of peace, understanding and love."

The next stop was at Lyon, the center of the “A Coeur
Joie” movement, where there are 20 choral groups of
that type. The evening concert was given in the uni-
versity before students from 10 or more countries, musi-
cians and boy scouts. Other concerts were presented at
Chambery, French winter resort, and Voiron, where a
course for choir leaders was under way.

The concert tour was made possible through M. Francois
Bourel, the spiritual father of “A Coeur Joie” in Germany,
the Ministry of Culture, which helped finance the trip, and
various Germans, Americans and Frenchmen. +END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 51 ---
(Continued from page 28) :
Germany’s Defense Contribution

problem,” the report adds, “it is reasonable to expect an
economic expansion in Germany that is well above the
expectations of certain other major countries."

Solution of the financial problem presented by the
defense effort will be facilitated by the anticipated rapid
increase in the level of total output.

“The structure and rates of taxation,” the report points
out, “are such as to increase public revenues by a large
proportion of the rise_in national product. “If additional
revenues are needed," the members of the Executive
Bureau asserted, “tax measures bearing on luxury consump-

tion and less essential investments would both reduce
the potential deficit and would be appropriate on economic
and social grounds to a period of defense buildup.”

“Taking all factors into account," the report concludes,
“including comparison with the defense efforts of other
countries, the recommended defense contribution for
Germany is, in our judgment, within its politico-economic
capabilities on the basis of the criteria used by the
Temporary Council Committee. The requirements of an
effective defense cannot be met without effort. The recom-
mended defense contribution would place Germany among
the larger nations which in their relative contribution to
the joint effort are leading the way in providing for the
common defense.”

Text of Report by

The Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany and the Allied High Commis-
sion have requested the members of the
Executive Bureau of the Temporary Council
Committee of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, acting in their personal capa-
cities, to examine the financial and eco-
nomic capacity of the Federal Republic to
make a global contribution to Western
defense in the financial year 1952/53 which
would be comparable with the contributions
of the principal member countries of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

It was requested that our recommendation
be based on the same factors and considera-
tions which were used in arriving at the
defense contribution of other countries. A
memorandum was submitted by the Federal
Republic suggesting a defense contribution
of DM 10,800,000,000 for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 1952, together with
various economic and financial data.

The procedure we have followed has
been the same as that followed in the ex-
amination of the position and abilities of
other countries. Likewise we have used
the same definitions for the defense con-
tribution as has been applied by the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization to all coun-
tries. This does not imply that any
government expenditures excluded by such
a definition necessarily have a lower order
of priority, or that they can be neglected
in assessing the ability of any country to
contribute to defense. As requested, we
have considered the defense contribution
only for the year 1952/53, recognizing that
the amounts for future years and their
method of determination must be establish-
ed at a later date.

Equitable Sharing of Burden

The major task of the Temporary Coun-
cil Committee has been to determine the
maximum defense contribution within the
politico-economic capabilities of the coun-
tries participating in the common defense
effort so as to develop the defensive
strength required to deter aggression. A
basic principle underlying that common ef-
fort has been the equitable sharing of the
defense burden among the participating
countries since an effective collective ef-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

* programs

* * * * *

fort is possible only if all countries play
their full part.

The concept of maximum effort within
politico-economic capabilities means, how-
ever, a recognition of the need for ex-
panding total output so that the defense
of the participating countries
could be carried ‘out without weakening
the basic economic structure of such
countries. It was recognized that tempo-
rarily slower progress toward some other-
wise attainable improvements in the social
and economic life of the various countries
would be involved. However, it was con-
sidered that such slower progress was
inevitable, given the need to achieve the
task of providing an environment of such
security within which the aspirations of
the free peoples for peace and human prog-
ress will be realized.

In assessing the maximum politico-eco-
nomic capabilities of the various countries
for the Temporary Council Committee, a
large number of factors had to be consider-
ed, The principal ones were the total eco-
nomic output of the country and its compo-
sition; the possibilities for expanding that
output; the real per capita income; the
practical possibilities of diverting ad-
ditional resources to defense; the balance
of payments position; the government
financial situation; and certain special
factors in cases of particular countries.

It is evident that these diverse con-
siderations cannot be incorporated in any
simple formula to give a ready calculation
of the appropriate defense effort. They do,
however, provide the basis for broad quali-
tative assessments. It is on the basis of
such qualitative assessments, after careful
study of all the relevant factors, that the
levels of defense expenditure for all coun-
tries were appraised. We have been guided
in considering the size of the German con-
tribution by the same motives and factors.

Advance in German Economy

The striking feature of the German econ-
omy is the important advance it has made
in the last few years in attaining a level
of production consonant with its resources
and technical skills, Although still lagging
behind other countries, the volume of pro-

48

Members of NATO’s

Executive Bureau

duction already is above that of 1938 and
substantially exceeds the level of 1936.

On the other hand, mostly because of
the influx of refugees, the population of the
Federal Republic is not far from 25 percent
larger than prewar so that while current
production levels appear quite favorable,
the volume of total output must take care
of the needs of this enlarged population.

Production had fallen to extremely low
levels as a result of wartime destruction
and the dislocations of the immediate
postwar years, and the recovery process in
Germany started later than in other coun-
tries. Since 1948, however, progress has
been exceptionally rapid. The gross na-
tional product in real terms has risen at an
average of 16 percent a year. Although
rates of increase were larger in the earlier
years, industrial production in 1951 was
more than double that of 1948.

On the financial side, too, the chaos of
the immediate postwar years has been
overcome. A successful monetary reform
has been carried out and the Federal Re-
public has achieved a high degree of finan-
cial stability. It is significant that the shock
of the Korean crisis in mid-1950 affected
the cost of living much less in western
Germany than in most countries.

Similarly, with respect to the balance of
payments, the serious problem which faced
the Government of the Federal Republic
has yielded to the policies and efforts
directed toward its solution. The need for
foreign support has substantially declined.
Exports have had a striking expansion over
the past three years and, though they
leveled off toward the close of 1951, the
over-all foreign payments position in that
year was in approximate balance. The
balance of trade with the dollar area in
1951/52 is expected to show a deficit of less
than $300,000,000 against which there will
be considerable net dollar receipts on in-
visible accounts.

Tribute to German People

In summary, it is apparent that the econ-
omy of the Federal Republic has made great
strides in overcoming the tremendous dil-
ficulties of a few years ago, a tribute to
the energy and hard work of the German
people. Nonetheless, the German economy

MARCH 1952

--- Page 52 ---
is confronted with several special problems
which we have carefully weighed in asses-
sing its ability to contribute to the common
defense on a fair and equitable basis.

It must be recognized, however, that dif-
ficult problems exist in every country and
these have had to be taken into account in
appraising their defense efforts. This is not
to deny that the German problems with
regard to the large influx of refugees, the
vital needs of reconstruction and the sup-
port of Berlin have a special force.

Probably the most important of these,
which affects the economy in many ways,
is the problem of the 9,000,000 persons that
have been added to the population as a
result of their expulsion or flight from the
East. The refugee problem is significant
from an economic standpoint quite apart
from the tragic situation created for many
families. It is the essential reason why
there is still heavy unemployment, averag-
ing about 1,400,000 workers during 1951,
despite the fact that industrial production
is above prewar levels.

Both the population increase involved
and the heavy unemployment are reflected
in a lower per capita income than would
otherwise obtain and a level of per capita
income that is somewhat below that of
comparable countries of western Europe.
The added population has meant also that
a high level of investment was required to
provide not only housing but opportunities
for productive employment. The fact that
a significant number of refugees have not
yet been integrated into the economy has
resulted also in a need for relatively high
taxes to finance a high volume of transfer
payments.

On the other hand, this inflow of popula-
tion has also had favorable effects in the
German economy. The bulk of the new
population has been absorbed into the
economy and is making an important con-
tribution to increased production. In fact,
it is largely because they have contributed
to a larger working force that the level of
total German production is above prewar.
Their role in the attainment of higher pro-
duction will continue as the further absorp-
tion of refugees takes place.

Problem of Reconstruction

A special problem of comparable impor-
tance is that of continued reconstruction
and investment requirements, The damages
incurred by Germany in the course of the
war were extremely severe and a greater
volume of reconstruction remains to be
done than in other countries. As has been
mentioned above, investment needs have
been augmented by the large inflow of
refugees. Great progress has been made in
fulfilling these various capital require-
ments, as is shown, for example, by the
Present level of construction of approxi-
mately 350,000 dwelling units a year.

The high proportion of investment which
made that progress possible has been one
of the factors accounting for a com-
paratively lower level of consumption.
The economy is now well beyond the initial
stages of recovery. It is the experience of
other countries that the percentage of
investment can decline as economic re-
habilitation proceeds, although its absolute
level may be maintained or even increased.
From now on, it is probable that in Ger-
many it will be possible to meet essential
Tequirements for investment with a some-
what smaller proportion of an expanding
total national product.

The problem of Berlin is one of great
difficulty, arising from the combination of

MARCH 1952

its special geographic situation and the
hard core of unemployment which exists
there. We commend and attach great
importance to the efforts of the Federal
Republic to maintain and improve the
economic position of Berlin, and to ‘the
continuance of financial aid by the Federal
Republic for this purpose.

Part of the expenditures of Berlin ac-
tually fall within the commonly applied
definition of defense expenditures and such
expenditures, whether met out of federal
support or out of the Berlin municipal
budget, should be included as part of the
defense contribution of the Federal Repub-
lic, Most of the budgetary and other sup-
port given to Berlin, however, does not fall
within the definition of defense expendi-
tures, but it does largely exceed what is
normally done to assist distressed areas,
and this burden has been taken into ac-
count as an exceptional factor in assessing
the ability of the Federal Republic to
contribute to defense,

Use of Unemployed Resources

In assessing the comparative capability
of the Federal Republic, the existence of
considerable unemployed resources in Ger-
many must be counted as a potential asset.
There is a considerable difference in the
burden represented by additional defense
effort that can be provided by the output
flowing from formerly unemployed people
and previously idle capacity than when it
must be provided by diversion from the
existing use of resources.

Of course, difficulties stand in the way
of the immediate use of unemployed re-
sources. An important difficulty in Ger-
many is the severe shortage of dwelling
units which seriously limits the mobility
of labor. Although a similar problem exists
in other countries, it is not of the same
degree of severity as in Germany. There
is a problem of training labor as well as
one of redistribution of skilled manpower.

In addition, production facilities and
equipment must be provided if the un-
employed are to make an effective contri-
bution. Consideration must be given to the
extent to which bottlenecks in various
sectors of industry might hamper further
expansion. The recent increases in coal
output and the forecast of a sizable further
expansion during the present year are en-
couraging. The problem of power will
require special attention.

Adequate direction of the large volume
of investment to enable the bottleneck
problems to be solved will be necessary so
that effective use can be made of industrial
capacity. All those things will take time,
but in the end, the existence of unemployed
resources provides the reservoir out of
which an expansion of total production can
occur.

Effect on Balance of Payments

The extent to which Germany's defense
effort can be increased is in some measure
dependent upon the likely effect of this
‘expansion upon the balance of payments.
The increase in economic activity to which
defense expenditures will lead will involve
some increased demand for imports to meet
consumer demand and to furnish additional
raw material.

Imports may be further stimulated by the
lifting of restrictions which have been
applied to trade with the member countries
of the European Payments Union. Never-
theless, there will be important compen-
sating factors. Exports should continue to
tise as a result of increased production

49

and favorable prices in Germany as well
as high demand from other countries. In-
creasing production of coal will contribute
to an improvement in the balance of
payments.

The direct impact of the defense con-
tribution on the export industries in the
period under consideration will not be
such as to affect markedly export pros-
pects. As in the case of the over-all
balance, the problem of the dollar balance
of payments is less severe than for most
North Atlantic Treaty Organization coun-.
tries.

Dollar income can be expected to in-
crease as a result of increased transfers
by American troops stationed in Germany,
and possibly by United States off-shore
purchases, It is not to be expected, there-
fore, that either the over-all or the dollar
balance of payments will prevent the
attainment of a higher level of German
defense expenditure or that they are
likely to set limitations of the kind ex-
perienced by certain other countries.

Output Expansion Expected

In summarizing the prospects for the
German economy, therefore, it is apparent
that a relatively high rate of expansion
in total output can be expected. It is
estimated in the memorandum of the
Federal Government that the over-all in-
crease of the gross national product from
1950/51 to 1952/53 would be 11.4 percent.
This’ estimate appears to be overly con-
servative.

Although the exceptionally high rates
of increase of the past few years cannot
be anticipated, it must be recognized that
Germany is still in the stage of recovery
from a dislocated economy and low level
of production. It is the experience of
all countries in such circumstances that
Progress is very rapid under the stimulus
of adequate demand. The carrying out of
the defense program itself should contrib-
ute materially to the expansion of total
output. The conclusion that a higher
rate of expansion than that forecast is
probable is strengthened by a comparison
with the rise in national output occurring
in countries where unused resources are
not available to nearly the same extent

-and where bottlenecks are more severe

than in Germany.

The fact that industry plays such a
predominant part in the western German
economy, constituting almost half of the
national product, is an added reason for
expecting a more rapid expansion. With
regard to the expansion anticipated in
non-industrial sectors, particularly .serv-
ices, a considerably larger increase than
that projected by the Federal Govern-
ment is probable. The progress made in
the recovery of industry so far will allow
a greater share of additional resources
for expansion in the service sectors. The
development of transportation and distri-
bution cannot lag far behind industrial
expansion. Consumers’ services are now
expanding rapidly with the rise in con-
sumers' incomes. Furthermore, the rapid
Tate of residential construction also con-
tributes to raising the level of services
as the newly constructed homes become
occupied,

It appears, therefore, that inadequate
weight has been given to the contribution
that services will make to the develop-
ment of the national product. In view of
all these aspects of the problem, it is
Teasonable to expect an economic ex-
pansion in Gernmiany that is well above

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 53 ---
the expectations of certain other major

countries,

Solution of Budgetary Problems

The rapid increase in the level of out-
put will facilitate the solution of budg-
etary problems connected with the in-
crease in the defense effort’ particularly
since the structure and rates of taxation
are such as to increase public revenues
by a large proportion of the rise in
national pioduct. Nonetheless, it must be
recognized that there is a financial prob-
lem’ to be overcome in secu.ing an ade-
quate level of defense especialy in the
initial stages of the defense buildup.

Because of the present sound state of
the gove:nment finances and the recently
enacted tax increases the Federal Republic
is in a favorable position to face this
problem. Present budgetary plans for
1952/53 for all levels of government, as
submitted, include provision for debt re-
tirement at a substantially higher rate than
in previous years and the deficit foreseen
is of modest proportions. The steps now
being taken to provide for an increase in
the share of taxes collected by the states
which are transferred to the Federal Gov-
erfment have been designed to make pos-
sible the financing of increased defense
expenditures by the Federal Government.
There is no question but that the level of
taxation in Germany is already high. It is
noted, however, that out of the additional
revenue estimated by the Federal Govern-
ment, three quarters are expected to come
from the expansion of the national product
as forecast by the German authorities.

It is recognized that the proposed budg-
ets of the country, states and commun-
ities contain a considerable amount of ex-
penditure which cannot easily be reduced,
partly on account of the special help given
to refugees and to Berlin, However, bear-
ing in mind that a large part of the fore-
cast increase in tax receipts is at present
budgeted to be spent on non-defense items,
measures such as have been taken by
other countries could produce some econ-
omies in non-defense expenditures. Should
additional revenues be necessary, for
defense purposes, tax measures bearing
on luxury consumption and less essential
investments would both reduce the po-
tential deficit and would be appropriate
on economic and social grounds to a period
of defense buildup. There is full agreement
that inflation must be avoided and that
fiscal policies must be supplemented by
adequate credit policies to this end.

In the light of these considerations the
budgetary problem raised for the Federal
Republic by a fair and equitable defense
effort appears to be of manageable pro-
portions.

Obstacles are Less Severe

We have given full recognition to the
present level of production in Germany
and the call made on it by the special
burdens it has to bear. We have felt, on
the other hand, that additional tasks can
be more easily met when their fulfillment
can bring in hitherto unused resources
than when a diversion of such resources
and restriction of other uses is required.
Furthermore, other requirements are of a
lower relative weight than in the past and
the obstacles to further development ap-
pear less severe than in most countries.

It is our best judgment that the global
contribution by the Federal Republic to
defense within its financial and economic
capabilities, in the financial year 1952/53
beginning July 1, and which would be

INFORMATION BULLETIN

comparable with the contributions of
the principal member countries of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, is
DM 11,250,000.000 measured at October
1951 prices. The foregoing is governed by
the definitions of defense expenditures
used by the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation,

We consider that this represents a fair
share for Germany in the common effort.
Moreover, the increased effort it represents
over 1951/52 is comparable with the added
burdens undertaken by other countries in
the early stages of their defense buildup.

There is no precise way of measuring
the absolute of relative contribution to the
common defense effort being made by the
various countries. The ways in which the
efforts are being contributed differ as to
the burden they represent on available and
potential resources, There are also im:
portant human and social values to be con-
sidered as well as the more strictly eco-
nomic and financial ones.

_ However, despite recognized statistical
limitations, the data on the total produc-

tion of the various countries and the
relation of defense expenditures to total
Production do give important indications
of comparative burdens. The relevant data
for the principal countries showing the
percentage of total output that will be
devoted to defense, the portion of the
expansion of output going to increased
defense, and the rates of increase in
defense expenditures are given in the
attached table.

Taking all factors into account, includ-
ing comparison with the defense efforts
of other countries, the recommended de-
fense contribution for Germany is, in our
judgment, within its politico-economic
capabilities on the basis of the criteria
used by the Temporary Council Committee.
The requirements of an effective defense
cannot be met without effort. The recom-
mended defense contribution would place
Germany among the larger nations which,
in their relative contribution to the joint
effort, are leading the way. in providing
for common defense.

Comparative Gross National Product and Defense Expenditures
(October 1951 prices)

1950/51 1951/52 1952/53
(actual) (estimated) (estimated)

United States in billions of dollars
a) Gross national product 291 305 323
b) Defense expenditures ...... 20 44 57
c) Defense expenditures in Proportion to national

product ................ even cess : 6.9% 14.4%o 17.6%0
United Kingdom in millions of pounds (£1 = $2.80)
a) Gross national product ... 12,750 13,100 13,450
b) Defense expenditures 965 1,431 1,731
c) Defense expenditures in proportion ‘to national

product ...............8. bce eee beeen ee 7.6%0 10.9%/0 12.8%
France in billions of francs (Frs. 350 = $1)
a) Gross national product . 10,250 10,800 11,400
b) Defense expenditures ... wee 750 1,145 1,250
c) Defense expenditures in proportion to national

product .......... 0.0. eee eee eee 7.3°%o 10.6%/0 11°%0
Germany in billions of Deutsche marks (DM 1 = 23.8 cents)
a) Gross ‘national product 96.3 101.8 107.3*
b) Defense expenditures .. _ —_ 11.25
c) Defense expenditures in proportion to national

Product 1.2... . cece cee cece eee eee eee eee eee = - 10,5%/o*

%* The proportion of German defense expenditures to gross national product would be less if,
as the members of the Executive Bureau believe, the German gross national product reaches a
level significantly higher than the German official forecast given above.

NOTE: Gross national product is taken at ‘‘factor cost."

The defense expenditures shown above

represent actual expenditures for 1950/51 and estimated expenditures for the two following years.
Actual expenditures for the current year will not be known until the fiscal year is over. It is
currently expected that expenditures in the present year may lag slightly in the United Kingdom
because of production difficulties that have been encountered in the case of major equipment
items, though those lags will be made up in the following periods. In the United States, produc-
tion difficulties have also been encountered. In the case of France, it seems evident that the budg-
eted defense expenditures for the present year will be exceeded, due to heavy costs being in-
curred for the war in Indo-China,

Increase in Defense Expenditures from Year to Year
(October 1951 price)

United States 1951/52 1952/53
a) Percentage increase in defense expenditures above previous year 120°/o 30°%o
b) Proportion of annual increase in national product absorbed by

increased defense expenditures ............... 0.000 e eee eee eee 171°%0 72l0
United Kingdom
a) Percentage increase in defense expenditures above previous year 48°/o 21°%/0
b) Proportion of annual increase in national product absorbed by

increased defense contribution ....... ba dbo bss sepdoodDOOpDOD0D 133%o 86°%/o
France .
a) Percentage increase in defense expenditures above previous year 53%0 9%o
b) Proportion of annual increase in national product absorbed by

increased defense expenditures ............. 00.00 ee eee ee eee 72/0 17%

+END

50 MARCH 1954

--- Page 54 ---
Official Communiques

HICOM Meeting of Feb. 22

The Council of the Allied High Commis-
sion met (86th meeting),.informally Feb. 22
at the Office of the US High Commissioner
at Deichmannsaue. ,

Matters of routine Council business were
discussed.

Discussions of Feb. 23

Following the meeting Feb. 22, between
the Allied High Commissioners and the
Federal Chancellor, representatives of the
Federal Government and of the Allied High
Commission met Feb. 23 at Mehlem to
continue discussions on the financial con-
tribution of the Federal Republic to Western
defense.

The results of the discussions are being
transmitted to the foreign ministers in
Lisbon,

Meeting with Chancellor

The Allied High Commissioners and the
Federal Chanceller met March 11 at the
Hotel Dreesen, Office of the French High
Commissioner, Andre Francois-Poncet.

The High Commissioners and the Chan-
cellor examined the progress made by: the
experts in the negotiation of the contrac-
tual arrangements. They discussed anumber
of points, submitted to them by the ex-
perts, concerning the technical conventions
which are to be attached to the general
agreement. In particular they considered
the question of the customs and tax exemp-

tions to which the Allied Forces stationed:

in Germany and their members will be
entitled.

The High Commissioners and the Chan-
cellor will continue March 12 their exami-
nation of additional questions not covered
March 11,

The High Commissioners and the Chan-
cellor had a preliminary exchange of views
on the Soviet note published March 11 by
the press agencies. They were in agree-
ment in recognizing that this new initiative
of the Soviet Government should have no
effect on the pursuit of their negotiations.

Meeting with Chancellor

The Allied High Commissioners and the
Federal Chancellor continued March 12 the
discussion which they commenced March 11
concerning the current contractual arrange-
ments negotiations.

In the course of these two meetings they
reached agreement in principle on the
various points put to them by the nego-
tiators. In their subsequent meetings, the
experts will formulate appropriate wording
for the agreements reached.

The High Commissioners and the Chan-
cellor noted with satisfaction: that since
their return from London important prog-
tess has been made in the negotiations
and that there is reason to suppose that
these will soon be concluded.

HICOM Meeting of March 13

The 87th meeting of the Council of the
Allied High Commission was held at the
Petersberg March 13. Present were Andre

MARCH 1952

Francois-Poncet, French High Commissioner
(chairman); Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick, United
Kingdom High Commissioner, and John J.
McCloy, United States High Commissioner.

The Council:

1. Approved, at the request of the Federal
Government, an Allied High Commission
law depriving of effect in the Federal Re-
public Article 6 of Control Council Law
No. 45 which required the approval of
local offices of state food and agriculture
ministries for all leases of agricultural and
forest land. This provision is inconsistent
with the new federal law which will go
into effect on April 1, 1952, and which
merely requires holders of leases to report
their leases to the local authorities.

2. Agreed, at the request of the United
Nations Commission concerned with all-
German elections, to meet the commission
at the Petersberg on Monday, March 17.
The commission is meeting authorities in
Germany to discuss the arrangements that
will be necessary to enable it to carry out
an investigation in the Federal Republic,
in Berlin and in the Soviet Zone to ascer-
tain and report whether conditions in these
areas are such as to make possible the
holding of genuinely free and secret elec-
tions throughout these areas.

Laws and Regulations

Restitution Claims on UFA/UFI

Published in a recent issue of the Official
Gazette of the Allied High Commission is
an amendment to Military Government
legislation on restitution of identifiable
property which clarifies the effect of resti-
tution claims on the liquidation or dis-
position of motion picture property under
Allied High Commission Law No. 32 (dis-
position of former Reich-owned motion
picture properties) or under a Federal law.

An article has been added to US Military
Government Law No. 59, UK Military Gov-
ernment Law No. 59 and French Military
Government Ordinance No. 120, providing
that motion picture property which is sub-
ject to restitution claims may nevertheless
be sold, when sale of the property is ne-
cessary under the Allied or German film
deconcentration programs. In such cases
the satisfaction of legitimate restitution
claims is assured by the fact that the pro-
ceeds of the sale will take the place of the
property for restitution purposes. This
procedure applies to those properties
whose sale is essential to the successful
carrying out of the program to establish
an independent, competitive film industry.
The liquidation committee is not prevent-
ed from restoring small individual pro-
perties to restitution claimants if this
would not interfere with the film reorgani-
zation program,

The present amendment was necessary
because certain restitution claims have
been made in regard to motion picture
property subject to Law No. 32, which
might have interfered with the carrying
out of the deconcentration of the UFA/UFI
film combine. The amendment removes the
possibility of disruption of the deconcen-

51

tration program, while protecting the legi-
timate interests of restitution claimants.

German Traffic Ordinance

Those parts of the German traffic ordi-
nance which, as specified in Allied High
Commission Law No. 49 (Traffic Code for
the Allied Forces), are applicable to mem-
bers of the Allied Forces, are published
in full, in English, French and German, in
Issue No. 74 of the Official Gazette of the
Allied High Commission.

Under Law No. 49, violation of the pro-
visions applicable to him renders an of-
fender liable to a prison sentence of up to
three months and a monetary fine.

“The Allied Forces,"' to which these pro-
visions apply, are defined in Allied High
Commission Law No. 2, Only when ob-
servance would impede the proper per-
formance of their official duties, are mem-
bers of the “Occupation Forces" (that is,
the armed forces of the Occupying Powers
and auxiliary contingents of other powers
serving with them) and their drivers ex-
empt from these provisions. Other mem-
bers of the Allied Forces are subject to
the provisions at all times.

The provisions cover basic rules of con-
duct on the highway, traffic regulation
systems, road signs, traffic restrictions and
speed limits, manner of driving vehicles,
use of carriage-ways (traffic lanes), giving
way and overtaking, drivers’ signals and
warning signals, right of way, starting and
stopping, parking, entering and leaving
driveways, loading and unloading of ve-
hicles, unattended vehicles, sound signals,
use of lights and reflectors, riding and
equipment of pedal cycles and use of cycle
tracks, vehicles drawn by animals, public
conveyances, conduct as to pedestrians,
regulations for marching columns, riding
and leading of animals, special rights of
police and fire vehicles and miscellaneous
rules for the protection of traffic.

Official Statements

Notes on Children

The Office of the United States High
Commissioner for Germany delivered
March 3 a note concerning the disposition
of United Nations orphaned or unaccom-
panied children in the US area of control
in Germany to the Czechoslovakian Mili-
tary Mission to the Allied Control Authori-
ty in Berlin. This note, which was handed
to the Czechoslovakian Mission by the US
Element, Allied Liaison and Protocol, is
in reply to a Czechoslovakian note dated
Feb. 7, The text of the US and Czecho-
slovakian notes follows.

Text of US Note

The United States Element, Allied Liaison
and Protocol, presents its compliments to
the Czechoslovak Military Mission, and
referring to the Czechoslovak communi-
cation of Feb. 7, 1952, concerning the dis-
position of the United Nations orphaned-
or unaccompanied children in Germany,
has the honor to advise as follows:

It has been the policy of the United
States Occupation Authorities in Germany,
in considering the disposition of United
Nations orphaned and unaccompanied
children, to regard each child as an in-
dividual whose personal interests must be
safeguarded. It was with this policy in
mind that Law No. 11 was enacted by the
Office of the United States High Com-
missioner for Germany. This provides a

INFORMATION BULLETI®.

--- Page 55 ---
basis for the re-establishment of unac-
companied children in accordance with
the principles of due process in law.

It establishes a procedure for the thor-
ough examination of each individual case,
in keeping with the broadest humanitarian
consideration, taking fully into account all
of the factors surrounding each particular
case as well as the legal rights of all
proper parties in interest; to this end, ju-
dicial process, including notice of hearing,
is served on the child's nearest blood re-
lation of age and on any blood relation
of the child who has had or is known to
desire to have either actual or constructive
custody of the child. As a further guaran-
tee of the interests of all concerned, this
process also includes notice served on the
international organization entrusted by the
United Nations with responsibilities for
displaced persons.

In keeping with this United States policy
and in accordance with the procedures
outlined, the question of the resettlement
or repatriation of Hannelore Pospisil was
placed before the United States Court in
Augsburg. The court found that this child
was born to a 16-year-old Sudeten German
mother, The child’s father was drafted into
the Austrian army and was killed. A foster
mother, also a Sudeten German, was
assigned Hannelore Pospisil by the Ger-
man authorities then occupying the Su-
detenland. She was expelled to Germany
after the war with many other Sudeten
Germans and brought the child with her.
Hannelore has been in the home of this
foster mother for the Jast 10 years.

On July 2, 1951, the court accordingly
decided the interests of the child would
best be served by allowing her to remain
happily in the custody of this foster
mother. This decision was upheld by the
US Court of Appeals on Dec, 3, 1951.

In connection with these hearings it
might be pointed out in passing that the
mother of the child, although duly notified
of the date of the hearing, did not appear
before the court but was represented by
a member of the Czechoslovak Military
Mission, a man who has since sought
asylum in the German Federal Republic.

The accusations in the Czechoslovak
note are accordingly declared without foun-
dation. It is evident, furthermore, that the
primary purpose of the communication in
question was undoubtedly political propa-
ganda.

The United States Element, Allied Liai-

son and Protocol, avails itself of this
opportunity to express to the Czechoslovak
Military Mission the assurance of its
high consideration.

Text of Czechoslovakian Note

The note from the Czechoslovakian Mili-
tary Mission, dated Feb. 7, 1952, stated as
follows:

A number of children whom the Hitlerite
Fascists took from their parents during
the time of Czechoslovakia's occupation
are still forcibly being held in the Ameri-
c¢an occupation zone in Germany. The
desperate efforts of the parents as well as
various interventions on the part of the
Czechoslovak authorities to make the
American Occupation Authorities return
these children to their homes, have in
many instances been in vain, In absolute
contradiction with the most fundamental
principles of humaneness, but also in com-
plete contradiction with binding treaty
obligations the American Occupation
Authorities have refused to comply with
these requests,

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Recently the American Occupation
Authorities in Western Germany have
staged special court proceedings, which
have no other objective but to: give this
illegal and criminal procedure an’ appear-
ance of legality. This of course means
nothing else but that the American Occu-
pation Authorities in Western Germany
are openly acceding to the legalization of
the Nazi. brutalities committed against the
Czechoslovak people, .

Typical example of this procedure of
the American occupation organs is the
case of the minor Hannelore Pospisilova,
who is a Czechoslovak citizen. During
the occupation of Czechoslovakia Hanne-
lore Pospisilova was forcibly taken from
her mother, who was arrested and im-
prisoned by the Gestapo. After the liber-
ation of Czechoslovakia by the Soviet
army, the Czechoslovak Red Cross ascer-
tained that the child was staying in
Western Germany and on the basis of
this information, the child's mother asked
for it to be repatriated, But the American
authorities in Western Germany did not
comply with the request and unlawfully
handed the case over to the United States
Court of the Allied High Commission for
Germany, in Augsburg, which rejected the
application for the return of the child on
July 2, 1951, The United States Court of
Appeals of the Allied High Commission for
Ggimany took the same decision on Dec. 3,

By this procedure of legalizing the Nazi
brutalities against the people of Czecho-
slovakia, the American Occupation Authori-
ties, who in the endeaver to transform
Western Germany into a base of aggression
against Czechoslovakia, the Soviet Union
and other peace-loving countries, are
ever more openly leaning upon the forces
of defeated Fascism, have once more con-
vincingly confirmed their hostile attitude
toward the Czechoslovak people.

On instructions from its government, the
Czechoslovak Military Mission protests
most sharply against this procedure of
the American Occupation Authorities in
Western Germany and emphatically de-
mands that the Czechoslovak citizen, the
minor Hannelore Pospisilova, as well as
the other Czechoslovak children who are
still being held in Western Germany by
the American Occupation Authorities, be
immediately returned to their parents in
Czechoslovakia.

The Czechoslovak Military Mission
avails itself of this opportunity to express
to the Allied Liaison and Protocol Section,
US Element, the assurance of its high
consideration.

Recent Publications

Listed below are official and important
publications received in the editorial of-
fices of the Information Bulletin during
February and early March. Requests for
these publications should be addressed to
the originating agency.

Film Catalogue, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), January 1952. List of
documentary films available on a non-
commercial basis in Germany from the
US consulates, public affairs offices, US
Information Centers and Film Utilization
Section, Office of Public Affairs, Head-
quarters Building, Frankfurt.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 311,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-

52

tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Feb. 1, 1952,
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Feb. 1.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No, 312,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Feb. 8, 1952.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Feb. 8.

Information Bulletin for January, Special
Publications Branch, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Atfairs, HICOG
(Frankfurt), Feb, 13, 1952, Contains 64
pages including 11 articles and regular
sections.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 313,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Feb. 15, 1952.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Feb, 15.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 314,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Feb. 22, 1952.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Feb. 22.

Realities Allemandes (Facts of Germany),
No. 37, High Commission of the French
Republic in Germany, Feb. 25, 1952, Of.
ficial French report for January.

Report on Germany, 9th Quarterly, Office
of the US High Commissioner for Germany
(Mehlem), Feb. 26, 1952, Official US
report for period of Oct. 1 to Dec. 31, 1951.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 315,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), Feb. 29, 1952.
Covers German newspapers and other
publications dated up to Feb. 29.

Revision of the Occupation Statute for
Germany, Historical Division, Office of
the Executive Secretary, HICOG (Meh-
lem), February 1952. Limited distribution.

The Employment of German Nationals by
the Office of the US High Commissioner
for Germany, Historical Division, Office
of the Executive Secretary, HICOG
(Mehlem), February 1952. Limited Dis-
tribution.

Vocational Education and Apprenticeship
Training in Germany, study by George
W. Ware, Division of Cultural Affairs,
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG (Frank-
furt), February 1952.

Information Bulletin for February, Special
Publications Branch, Public Relations
Division, Office of Public Affairs, HICOG
(Frankfurt), March 4, 1952. Contains 64
pages including 11 articles, regular sec-
tions and index for 1950 and 1951.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 316,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt), March 7,
1952, Covers German newspapers and
other publications dated up to March 7.

Buecher Vorschau (Book Preview), No. 65,
US Information Centers Branch, Office
of Public Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt),
March 10, 1952. List of American books
to be distributed among the US Informa-
tion Centers in Germany.

Weekly Analysis of Publications, No. 317,
Press and Publications Branch, Informa-
tion Services Division, Office of Public
Affairs, HICOG (Frankfurt). March 14,
1952, Covers German newspapers and
other publications dated up to March 14.

MARCH 1952

--- Page 56 ---
MARCH 1952

Construction and operation of a “‘half-track" vehicle are
explained to visiting German newsmen. (US Army photos)

Lieutenant Clark describes equipment issued every soldier
to (1.-r.) Dr. Hans Drexler, Erwin Boll, Dr, Sylvester Drexler.

Field equipment issued troops is inspected by newsmen
with aid of Cpl. Samuel Day, Jr, (left), of 43rd's PIO.

--- Page 57 ---
British, American, Soviet and French
flags (left to right) were lowéred~to
half-staff before the Allied Control
Authority building in Berlin in tribute
to King George VI, who died Feb. 6.
(PRB BE-HICOG photo by Schubert)