--- Page 2 ---
ae

| Stimson Memorial Chapel
Bad Godesberg

THIS Issue
The McCloys Bid “Auf Wiedersehen!” to Germany
Trath and Freedom Education for All 19 5 2

New Aniering biscee at icles and Tichioeen

--- Page 3 ---
Success greets the inauguration of the bookmobile of Berlin’s America House. The three-and-half ton traveling
library made its initial trip June 23 to Neukoelln borough’s Herrfurth Platz where a large crowd was waiting its
arrival. Within two hours, nearly all the 1,500 books on its shelves had been borrowed. The bookmobile, similar to
the first one inaugurated in Mannheim (Information Bulletin, April 1952), services patrons who live at great distance
from the America House (US Information Center).

Bookmobile
of

Berlin’s

America

The bookmobile waits before Ber-

lin’s America House, located only @

few blocks from Kurfuerstendamm,
Stocking the Berlin’s “Fifth Avenue.

shelves of the Christopher Legge, director of Berlin’s America House,
bookmobile in installs security straps before the truck starts for some
preparation for the first distant borough.
trip are Dr. Ursula Brunn
(Left) and _ Ilse - Maria
Borchert, librarians of the
America House.

Photographs by
Karl Heinz Schubert
Berlin Element, HICOG

Two elderly Berliners, for
whom the trip to the
America House is difficult,

--- Page 4 ---
Information
Bulletin

The information Bulletin is the
monthly magazine of the Office of
the US High Commissioner for Ger-
many for the dissemination of au-
thoritative information concerning
the policies, regulations, instructions,
operations and activities of the Unit-
ed States mission in Germany.

Editorial Staff
Editor ............. H. Warner Waid
Assistant Editor ..... Frank H. Jonas
Feature Editor... Liselotte Goldbeck

Editorial Offices
US Headquarters Building
Annex A, Rooms 40 - 43
Frankfurt, Germany
Telephones: Frankfurt Military:
8428, 8896, 8958

The Information Bulletin is as-
sembled, prepared, and published by
the Information Division, Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

It is printed, by offset process, by
the Printing and Reproduction Sec-
tion, Operating Facilities Branch,
Administrative Services Division, Of-
fice of Executive Director, HICOG.
The plant is located at 2 Rheingau
Allee, Frankfurt.

Distribution is handled by the Dis-
tribution Unit, Communications Serv-
ices Division, Office of Executive Di-
rector, HICOG. This unit is located
in US Headquarters Building, Room
949, Frankfurt.

Correspondence dealing with in-
quiries, manuscripts and official dis-
tribution should be addressed to:

Editor

Information Bulletin

Information Division

Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

APO 757-A, US Army

Correspondence coricerning distri-
bution of the Information Bulletin
in Germany, other than for official
US agencies and installations, should
be addressed to the Information Of-
ficer of the nearest Field Public
Affairs Center or the American Con-
sulate General.

_ Correspondence concerning inquir-
les and distribution in the United
States should be addressed to:

Division of Public Liaison

Office of Public Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D.C.

Reprint of any article, unless spe-
cifically noted, is permitted. Mention
of the Information Bulletin as the
Source will be appreciated.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

July 1952

Bookmobile in Berlin. . .
Pictorial Feature

inside front cover

William J. Donnelly as High Commissioner. . . .

Biographical Sketch

The McCloys Bid “Auf Wiedersehen” to Germany

Summary by Robert Lochner

Chronolgy .

Colleagues on High Commission Pay Tributes

Bibliography of McCloy Articles .
Tribute of Federal Government
Selections from German Press . . .
Farewell Addresses in Berlin

ERP Benefits to Germany . 50
Radio Address by Franz Bluecher

Truth and Freedom
Address by Dean Acheson

Education for Al ........
Address by Michael S. Harris

School Village on the Bergstrasse. . . .

Description of Project

Louise Childs, Social Worker in Berlin .

Pictorial Feature
Cultural Articles Returned .
Report on Presentation
Rhineland America House ..... .
Article by James G. Rogers
Tuebingen America House... .
Review of Opening

America House Exhibits Go on Tour . .

In and Around Germany. .... .

Personnel Notes . .

German Editorials .

Recent Publications

Homes for Refugees . . . .

10

11

13

15

16

18

19

21

22
23
25
26
32

inside back cover

OFFICE OF THE US HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR GERMANY
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
INFORMATION DIVISION

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

APO 757-A, US ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
ee er rrr rere T TUTTI IIL WLLL WM LLULL LLU

Walter J. Donnelly

as

High Commissioner

HE appointment of Walter J. Donnelly as US

High Commissioner for Germany was an-
nounced by President Truman in Washington
June 18. Mr. Donnelly, who has been High
Commissioner and American Ambassador in
Austria, was scheduled to assume his new du-
ties in Bonn about August 1.

The naming of Mr. Donnelly was greeted
cordially by the German press. The Frankfurter
Allgemeine (Frankfurt) said he “is one of the
few American diplomats who have been suc-
cessful in Europe... because they seem so_
completely un-American.” The Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich) concluded that “the ambassador as
a negotiator with the Soviets on the Allied Control Council in Vienna has gained an idea of the
American stake in Europe.” Die Welt (Hamburg) commented that “he is no novice in diplomatic
controversies with the East.”

The Frankfurter Allgemeine continued: “A politically experienced Viennese once said that
Mr. Donnelly could well be a diplomat from the time of the Congress of Vienna (1815). This
statement made by a conservative Austrian means deep respect for the political skill of the
immaculate personality of the US High Commissioner in Vienna... It is a great advantage in
Mr. Donnelly’s career that he is one of the few American civilians who has had experience in
‘peaceful discussions’ with the Soviets.”

Mr. Donnelly will be accompanied to Bonn by his wife, the former Maria Helena Samper de
Herrara of a prominent Bogota family, and their four children, George James, 14; Maria Theresa
and Paul Henry, nine-year-old twins, and John Stephen, seven.

R. Donnelly is a career Foreign Service officer with nearly 30 years of experience in interna-

tional commerce and diplomacy. Beginning his government service in 1921 as a special agent
of the US Department of Justice, he transferred to the Commerce Department’s foreign service,
serving during the next 19 years in Boston; Ottawa and Montreal, Canada; Bogota, Colombia;
Havana, Cuba, and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

When the Commerce Department’s foreign service was merged with the State Department’s
Foreign Service in July 1939, Mr. Donnelly was commissioned a career Foreign Service officer,
continuing at the American Embassy in Rio de Janeiro and later at the embassies in Panama
and in Lima, Peru. He was appointed ambassador to Costa Rica early in 1947 and later that year
became ambassador to Venezuela, a position he held until his assignment to Austria.

Mr. Donnelly was born Jan. 9, 1896 in New Haven, Conn., and after graduation from public
secondary school there worked on a newspaper for two years. He served during World War I as
a second lieutenant in the US Army. He received a scholarship to the University of Caracas,
Venezuela, in the summer of 1920 and later was graduated from Georgetown University’s Foreign
Service School in Washington, D.C.

ALL, with dark hair and eyes, Mr. Donnelly has been described by newspaper correspondents
as the best-dressed diplomat in Vienna. As has been his pratice in the countries to which he has
been assigned, he familiarizes himself with the history and literature of the people, making
extensive trips to study the customs and cultures of even the most remote communities. te

SUNN te

INFORMATION BULLETIN ‘9 JULY 1952

--- Page 6 ---
(photo above) Mr. McCloy, with Mrs. McCloy and their two children at the rail of the sundeck of the SS America, waves farewell
as 3,000 well-wishers on the Bremerhaven wharf sing the German song “Auf Wiedersehen!” (AMCONGEN Bremen photo by Kull)

N A WHIRLEWIND tour

of the American Zone, US
High Commissioner John J.
McCloy and Mrs. McCloy
said farewell to thousands of German and American
friends, in more than a dozen cities between June 23
and 26. Subsequent farewell ceremonies were tended in
Berlin, Heidelberg, Frankfurt and the Bonn Enclave
before their sailing from Bremerhaven July 21.

Starting out in the small town of Langenbruecken near
Bruchsal in Baden-Wuerttemberg, Mr. McCloy and his
official party inspected a vocational school built in part
with money from HICOG’s Special Projects Fund. After
a welcoming song by a choir of school children, Mr.
McCloy addressed a large crowd of children, teachers
and townspeople first in German and then added some
impromptu remarks in English.

US State Commissioner Charles P. Gross gave a lunch
for the McCloy party and the members of the Baden-
Wuerttemberg government in Stuttgart. Despite the
busy schedule, Mr. McCloy found time for a brief private
conference with Minister President Reinhold Maier.
Members of the US 28th Division met with the High
Commissioner and local German officials in Goeppingen
to discuss troop relations with the German population.

Dv a ceremony in the city hall of Ulm, Mr.

McCloy presented Mrs. Inge Aicher-Scholl a HICOG
Special projects grant-in-aid of DM 1,000,000 , ($238,000)
to assist in the foundation of the Geschwister Scholl
Stiftung’s Hochschule fuer Gestaltung.* Paying tribute to

——_—

“see “In; ”
April ua Scholl, School Teacher” in Information Bulletin,

JULY 1952

Summary of Farewell Tour

by Robert Lochner
Chief, Press Branch
Information Division, HICOG

Hans and Sophie Scholl, ex-
ecuted by the Nazis in 1943
for their attacks on the Nazi
system and their advocacy
of democracy and a freely united Europe, the High. Com-
missioner said that in all his years in Germany nothing
had given him deeper satisfaction than to be able to help
the new experimental school of their surviving sister,
Inge Aicher-Scholl.

The HICOG grant from US counterpart funds, matched
by DM 700,000 from the Scholl Foundation and DM 200,000
from the city of Ulm, is’the fourth largest to be given
under the Special Projects program. The purpose of the
school is the education of young people for social re-
sponsibility and the creation of a democratic way of life
in the technical age. It is planned that courses given by
the school will include a foundation in the humanities,
political and social sciences, history, philosophy and
culture.

The specialists graduated from the school are to have
a background in the liberal arts as well as the technical
fields of industrial design, architecture, town planning
and graphics. Affiliated with the school will be an in-
stitute for the development and improvement of the
design of industrial and consumer products, such as
furniture.

Mrs. Aicher-Scholl and her parents were the guests of
honor together with the McCloys at a dinner which Ulm
city officials gave after the ceremony.

ERMAN huntsmen greeted fellow-hunter McCloy
with an old German hunting tune as the special
train pulled into Augsburg the next morning. After a

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 7 ---
Mrs. Aicher-Scholl (right) receives DM 1,000,000 check for
financing her new school in Ulm, with Mr. and Mrs.

McCloy. (AMCONGEN photo by Gebhard)
tour of the famous Fuggerei, the museum and other
sights of the city, a luncheon gave city officials a chance
to talk over their problems with Mr. McCloy.

Munich followed next with a farewell talk to German
and American staff members of the staff of US State
Commissioner Oren Hale, a press conference and a
major address in German at a state reception given by
the Bavarian government. After Minister President Hans
Ehard had thanked Mr. McCloy for his work in restoring
Germany to the family of nations — as an “ambassador
of good will who overcame the occupation regime” —
the High Commissioner reported on his recent trip to the
United States. He summarized the attitude of the Amer-
ican people toward Germany under these four head-
ings:

1. Readiness for German partnership with the free
peoples of Europe and the world in the common defense
against aggression.

2. Recognition of German energy and skill in the re-
construction of this country.

3. Support of my government’s policy of pressing for
the peaceful reunification of Germany on a basis of
freedom.

4. Some concern over Germany’s reliability as a part-
ner of the European-Atlantic community.

Concerning the last point Mr. McCloy stated that he
answered these doubts by pointing to the democratic re-
vival of Germany under the Federal Republic. He ex-
pressed his confidence in Germany in the following
words:

“As for the future, I stated that it was inconceivable
to me that the great projects of the free European-
Atlantic community would not be realized; it was in-
conceivable that this new free Germany would not
participate in such a community. Moreover, it seemed
inconceivable that the Germany of today could be neu-
tral in the conflict between freedom and slavery.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HE MAGNIFICENT Reichssaal in the old city hall of

the beautiful, undestroyed medieval city of Regens-
burg was the setting for an early morning reception by
this city close to the Iron Curtain. The world-famous
boys’ choir, the Regensburger Domspatzen, opened the
festive hour of friendly farewells to the departing High
Commissioner. Here again, Mr. McCloy combined a short
address in German with an informal, off-the-cuff report
in his native language on the US aims in Germany and
the future German-American relations.

A brief tour of the many splendid churches and other
old structures of Regensburg concluded the visit to the
old Emperor’s City.

The ruins of Nuremberg provided a stark contrast —
yet Mr. McCloy was able to compliment the city govern-
ment at a luncheon in his honor on the astounding pro-
gress made in cleaning up the city and restoring such
architectural gems as the Church of St. Lawrence.

A children’s choir surprised the McCloy party with the
current popular German tune “Auf Wiedersehn” in front
of the America House in Nuremberg before German
police escorts accompanied the convoy of cars to the
city limits on the way to Rothenburg.

HE HISTORIC scene of the saving of the city in the
Thirty Years’ War was performed for Mr. McCloy,
the latter-day savior of Rothenburg,* in front of the old
city hall. Amidst a costumed crowd Mr. McCloy had to
take a drink from the giant “Humpen” (three-quart
tankard) which the mayor of the town had emptied in

‘see “Rothenburg Wine Ceremony”
July 1950.

in Information Bulletin,

Franz Stadelmayer (right), mayor of Wuerzburg, address-
es guests at a farewell dinner in Wuerzburg. Next to”
him are Mrs. McCloy and Shepard Stone, directur of
HICOG’s Office of Public Affairs; and across table aré

Mr. McCloy, Mrs. Stadelmayer. (HICOG photo by Heine)

JULY 1952

--- Page 8 ---
one gulp centuries before to prevent the destruction of
the town on the basis of a bet won.

A replica of the “Humpen” was presented to the High
Commissioner to take home as one of the most cherished
remembrances of his years in Germany. In a brief ad-
dress in German, Mr. McCloy stressed that the Con-
tractual Agreements recently completed were designed
to prevent a situation from ever arising again where
someone has to intervene to save such a beautiful town
as Rothenburg from threatened destruction.

A dinner given by city and church officials in Wuerz-
burg provided the setting for Mr. McCloy’s fourth fare-
well speech in German in one day — farewell from a
city which, like so many others in Germany, he said he
expected to visit again in the not too distant future “in
the finest role any man can have, as a free and private

citizen.”
B ACK ON the special train after a tour of the magnif-
icently illuminated Marienburg (castle) high above
Wuerzburg, the party proceeded during the night to
Wiesbaden, where the farewell visit to Hesse started
with a visit to Wiesbaden’s new housing projects, its
splendid new swimming pool on the hills outside town,
and the treasures of the Berlin art galleries at the local
museum. In Wiesbaden the party was greeted by US
State Commissioner James R. Newman and members of
his staff.

At a state reception in the newly restored grant Kur-
saal, Mr. McCloy spoke about Germany’s internal institu-
tions as the determining factor in what kind of a nation
the new Germany will be. “In large measure the con-
tribution that Germany will make and receive in the
common progress of the European-Atlantic community
will depend upon the character of Germany’s internal

Chronology

Prepared by Public Liaison Branch
Information Division, HICOG

Mr. McCloy’s three year service as senior US rep-
resentative Germany has left a record of solid accom-
Plishment in realizing US policy aims in Germany.

At the time he arrived, on July 2, 1949 in Berlin,
there was no central government in the area of the
western zones, no contact between Germany and other
countries except through the Occupation authorities, se-
rious problems of production, unemployment and trade,
and widespread doubt as to the ability of Germans to
rule themselves democratically. The Soviet Blockade of
Berlin had been lifted only one and one-half months,
and the sixth meeting of the “Big Four” Council of For-
eign Ministers, had just broken up in Paris without
reaching agreement on means of restoring the economic
and political unity of Germany.

Continued on page 31

JULY 1952

o

Mr. McCloy admires tankard presented him by Dr. Erich
Lauterbacher (center), mayor of Rothenburg. At right is
Robert Lochner, Press Branch chief who served as inter-
preter for Mr. McCloy and wrote the summary publis-

hed here. (HICOG photo by Heine)
institutions,” he said. “To win the loyalty of German
youth, to inspire confidence abroad, to keep pace with
changing developments in the world, German institutions
must be moved by the spirit of democratic progress.”

Stressing that the liberal, tolerant spirit is the best
guarantee of freedom and that the developing European-
Atlantic community must be pervaded by it, Mr. McCloy
warned: “Within the Federal Republic, agitators of the
left and of the right clothe themselves in the trappings
of extremist nationalism and assert that freedom is their
goal. You are aware, I am certain, of the dangers these
elements represent to all that you have achieved since
1945 and to the future partnership of Germany with
other free nations.” Thunderous applause by the mem-
bers of the Hessian legislature and the government
greeted Mr. McCloy when he closed with the words: “I
shall leave Germany in the belief that the German
people will take their place among the other peoples
dedicated to freedom.”

DRIVE along part of the lovely Bergstrasse took

the party next to the site near Jugenheim where the
Schuldorf Bergstrasse* is now being built, partly with
American help, as a new experiment in German school
architecture and educational structure. A large crowd of
school children, teachers and government officials gave
Mr. and Mrs. McCloy an enthusiastic welcome.

Consternation, however, was expressed by the Amer-
ican military police and German motorcycle escorts
when on the return of the convoy to the railroad station
in Darmstadt they discovered that their main “prize,”
Mr. and Mrs. McCloy, had disappeared en route. It tur-
ned out that Mrs. McCloy, in the slight confusion of
the departure from the Schuldorf, had suddenly asked to
be taken to nearby Bensheim to visit the McCloy’s old
cook, now retired. Sighed one worried German policeman

*see “School Village” on page 15.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 9 ---
At review given in his honor in Berlin, Mr. McCloy, with
(left to right) Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson, US com-
mander in Berlin; Capt. George D. Eggers, commanding
officer of troops at review, and Brig. Gen. Maurice W.
Daniel, commanding general of Berlin Military Post,

pays respect to the Stars and Stripes. (US Army photo)

at the Darmstadt station: “Only an American woman
could so cheerfully upset the whole schedule on a sud-
den impulse.”

A Weinprobe (wine tasting) at famous Kloster Eber-

speeches — to the action-crammed four-day tour. Cul-
minated by a “192ler Steinberger Kabinett Trockenbeer-
auslese,” some of the finest Rhine wines were paraded
by Minister Heinrich Zinnkann, who was host as re-
presentative of the sick Minister President Georg August
Zinn. A walk through the old church and the famous
dormitory of the monastery late in the evening furnished
a fitting climax to a farewell trip of the zonal states that
was characterized by deeply moving manifestations of
German friendship and hospitality which every partic-
ipant will long remember.

FTER a few days at his desk in the HICOG head-
quarters at Mehlemer Aue near Bonn — interrupted
only by the traditional Fourth of July reception and a
trip to witness the dedication by Secretary of State
Acheson of the American Memorial Library in Berlin —
the retiring High Commissioner with Mrs. McCloy and
a party of HICOG officials journeyed to Berlin where a’
rapid succession of events from a military review in the
morning to a farewell reception with.more than 1,200
guests in the evening filled the entire day of July 11.

Mr. McCloy delivered major addresses at the Technical
University where he was given an honorary doctorate of”
engineering, before the Berlin Senate and over radio
station RIAS (texts of the speeches are printed on pages

bach near Ruedesheim provided a relaxing finale — no

28 - 31).

He met with Maj. Gen. Lemuel Mathewson,

Colleages on High Commission Pay Tributes

OLLEAGUES on the Allied High

Commission paid tribute to US
High Commissioner McCloy and
praised his work during the past
three years in Germany. The trib-
utes were paid at two separate func-
tions shortly before the American offi-
cial’s departure for the United States.

At the 92nd meeting of the Coun-
cil of the Allied High Commission
July 16 in Mehlem — the first since
the body moved its headquarters
from Petersberg — Sir Ivone Kirk-
patrick, the UK High Commissioner,
with a few words, presented Mr.
McCloy in behalf of his French col-
league and himself a gold cigarette
case inscribed: “To John McCloy, in
happy memory of collaboration on
the banks of the Rhine, from his
friends Andre Francois-Poncet and
Ivone Kirkpatrick.”

The farewell speech at the meeting
was given by Mr. Francois-Poncet,
the French High Commissioner. A
translation of his speech follows:

INFORMATION BULLETIN

HERE is no need to use many

words to express all the feeling
which the departure of Mr. McCloy
inspires in my colleagues and in my-
self. Our unhappy faces speak for
themselves. With Mr. McCloy’s de-
parture the Allied High Commission
loses its principal asset. Mr. McCloy
devoted himself to his task with such
a conscience, patience, outstanding
energy, industry, much enthusiasm,
eminent spiritual qualities, inde-
structible optimism and adaptabil-
ity which made him almost the solu-
tion of the problems long sought by
savants — perpetual motion.

No one did more than he to lead
the Federal Republic, purged by
democracy of Nazi errors, into the
family of Western nations, into the
solidarity of free peoples. No one
did more than Mr. McCloy to induce
Germany to accept the Schuman
Plan, the European Defense Com-
munity and the Contractual Agree-
ments. We can say that he played a
historical role. I do not believe that
this role has come to an end, gov-
ernment service will certainly need
him again, because, in all countries
of the world, even in the United
States, the McCloys are not very
numerous.

For us, besides, Mr. McCloy has
been more than just an excellent
colleague. He has always been a per-
fect friend. Liberal, loyal, cordial,
jovial, all of these adjectives sound
like him. We always found him in
good humor, always ready to under-
stand, a smile always on his lips and
his hand extended. A good husband,
a good father, a good hunter, a good
fisherman, he has always had not
only the talent to convince minds
but also to conquer hearts — and
today I would like to extend to him
the assurance of our most profound
esteem of our most sincere affection.
At the same time I wish him good
luck, success in the future, — while
I am certain that his future career
will be as successful as his past
career — because, he is what the
Germans call a Sonntagskind, a
“Sunday child.”

McCLOY, thanking his col-
leagues, said that the excellent
cooperation within the High Com-
mission was an augury of what the
free world could accomplish by
working together. Few official bodies
had had problems more difficult or

JULY 1952

--- Page 10 ---
US commander in Berlin; Cecil B. Lyon, director of
HICOG’s Berlin Element; Mayor Ernst Reuter of Berlin,
leading American, Allied and German officials. He also
paid a courtesy call on General Vassily I. Chuikov, chief
of the Soviet Control Commission in eastern Germany, to
whom he voiced a strong protest against the kipnaping
of Dr. Walter Linse in West Berlin a few days before
and demanded the immediate release of the anti-Com-
munist leader. The Soviet chief professed no knowledge
of the kidnaping.

Visiting headquarters of the European Command in
Heidelberg, June 14, Mr. McCloy conferred with Gen-
eral Thomas T. Handy, commander in chief, and other
EUCOM officials. At an honor-guard review, he told the
troops: “The development of strength and responsibility
of the Armed Forces of the United States is a pattern
of the enormous development of the strength and
responsibility of the country itself... I am speaking
not only of their (the soldiers’) capacity as fighting forces
but also as the great political responsibility and great
political influence that they have had. I suppose nowhere
in this world have they exercised that influence more
than in Germany.”

T A FAREWELL press conference in Bad Godesberg
July 16, Mr. McCloy, expressing his belief that So-
viet Russia’s Iron Curtain can be raised through world-

At dedication of the Stimson Memorial Chapel (see cover
photo) in Bad Godesberg, Mr. McCloy delivers the prin-
cipal address. (HICOG photo by Gassner)

wide pressure, asserted a “powerfully expressed public
opinion, backed by political strength” can force the Com-
munists to remove the Iron Curtain.

“I don’t know exactly how it will be done, or when,”
Mr. McCloy said, “but I think even a totalitarian govern-
ment can be moved by that kind of worldwide pressure
not to mention the attractions exerted by the free nations.

more apt to cause differences but physical

and mental

constitution in history, Mr. McCloy has played a

they had succeeded in solving them
and had seen Germany move for-
ward at tremendous speed, econom-
ically, politically and socially. Speak-
ing with emotion, Mr. McCloy said
that the gift which had been made
to him would always be a reminder
of the many friends who had sat
with him in the council conferences.
The friendship and devotion of those
who had worked with him would
forever be a very precious memory.

At a farewell dinner the following
evening at the La Redoute Club in
Bad Godesberg, honoring Mr. and
Mrs. McCloy, the British High Com-
missioner paid the following tribute:

AS OUR two guests stand on the

deck of a west-bound ship they
will be looking back not only on a
receding German shore, but on three
years’ work — three years of effort,
of adventure and of achievement.

I am so egotistical as to believe
that Mr. McCloy may have inherited
from his Scottish forebears some of
the qualities he has brought to bear
on the German problem. Zest in
work and play, uprightness, tenacity
of purpose, fortitude and the robust

JULY 1952

which overcomes all weariness of
the flesh or discouragement of the
spirit. We have had reserve moments
of anxiety and peril. But he has
never faltered.

These rugged Scottish qualities are
tempered by virtues of his own:
loyality, charm, tolerance and a
broad humanity.

In his work he has throughout
been sustained by his dear wife. For
her no trouble has been too great.
She has given everything. All who
know her will endorse the notable
tribute paid to her by the chancellor
in his speech on Tuesday.

As the McCloys see Germany’s
coast fade into the mists they will
also see a panorama of unfolding
events: the creation of the Federal
Government, the economic rehabil-
itation of Germany, the progressive
relaxation of Allied controls, the
consolidation of the democratic
order, the Schuman Plan and finally
the marathon negotiations which
brought this epoch to an end. When
they arrived, Germany was still an
outcast, a broken, bankrupt, subject
nation. They leave her only three
years later a prosperous and respect-
ed member of the western associa-
tion. In these events of truly cosmic
importance, which have no parallel

7

leading part. He can look back on
them with legitimate pride and sat-
isfaction.

But as we become older and wiser
we realize that mere success is not
the most important thing in life. It
is more important to be able to give
and to receive affection. Without
love and without affection life is
arid and the fruits of success taste
bitter.

On the receding shores of Germany
the McCloys will not only look back
ona panorama of successful achieve-
ment. They will also see bidding
them farewell a large concourse of
men and women whose hearts they
have won. Among them his colleagues
of the Allied High Commission, a
family bereaved, his own staff, the
Berliners, whose interests he has so
stoutly and effectively defended, and
countless Germans in every corner
of the land who have been succored
or comforted by sympathy and un-
derstanding.

A sense of loss will afflict this
throng, as gazing out onto the ocean
they see the hull of the ship sink
over the horizon. Many German
throats will echo Mr. McCloy “Auf
Wiedersehen” but from my post on
the waters edge I shall prefer to ad-
dress him in Scots. I shall say: “Will
you no come back again?” + END

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 11 ---
The Kremlin is very much aware of public opinion,
according to the departing High Commissioner, who
pointed out that “they even use the basest lies to in-
fluence it and they don’t like pressure against them
exerted in public opinion. They do everything in their
power to turn this type of pressure from themselves.”

He told the newsmen he believes the German people
are convinced that they have to play their part in the
defense of free Europe, even though they are as reluc-
tant as any of the other free nations to take up arms;
expressed his conviction that the potentialities for the
new German democracy are excellent, and added that
the Federal Republic is on its way toward becoming a
liberal, progressive member of the family of free Euro-
pean nations.

RANKFURT’ where Mr. McCloy had his headquarters

during most of the three years he was “the supreme
United States authority in Germany,” was visited July
17. There he had an informal conference at breakfast
with his successor, Walter J. Donnelly, then US High
Commissioner and ambassador to Austria. He also re-
ceived an honorary Goethe plaque from the City of
Frankfurt — the second American to be so honored —
and appointment as honorary senator of the faculty of
the University of Frankfurt.

Later in the day, Mr. McCloy and his party toured the
Hessian refugee camp at Giessen and questioned several
persons being processed there following their flight from
eastern Germany in search of political sanctuary in the
West. He told them, “I hope all you refugees find adjust-
ment in the West,” adding “We offer you hope and
trust in the future.”

Mr. McCloy took leave of the American and German
employees of HICOG at a meeting in the Mehlem head-
quarters building July 18, saying he was leaving “one
very precious heritage” to his successor — “that you all
serve him as loyally, effectively and efficiently as you

On arrival at the America House in Nuremberg, McCloys
are greeted by German children’s choir, led by Parker

Watkins of Hall Johnson Choir. (HICOG photo by Heine)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

As Senate President Kaisen and Mrs. McCloy look on,
the retiring High Commissioner signs guest book of

Bremen Senate. (AMCONGEN photo by Kull)

have served me.” He also participated in the dedication
of the new Stimson Memorial Chapel (note cover photo-
graph), named in honor of his wartime superior, Sec-
retary of War Henry L. Stimson.

As Mr. and Mrs. McCloy, their daughter Ellen and
son John prepared to leave their Bad Godesberg home
July 20 for the train, a surprise community farewell
was staged by American families living in the Plitters-
dorf apartments development. A souvenir book was
presented the High Commissioner, a bouquet of flowers
to Mrs. McCloy, and a choir sang his college song “Lord
Jeffrey Amherst” and “Home, Sweet Home.”

N THEIR arrival in Bremen the next morning, the

McCloys were entertained at breakfast in the City
Hall by a small group of German officials headed by
Senate President Wilhelm Kaisen. At a subsequent re-
ception in the Kaminsaal, Mr. McCloy was presented
a set of documents pertaining to the presentation more
than 100 years ago by the Bremen community of @
stone for the Washington Monument in Washington.
Mrs. McCloy received a hand-woven tapestry depicting
the Bremen waterfront.

Military honors from the Bremerhaven Port of Em-
barkation were paid to Mr. McCloy as his party drove
up to the wharfside and boarded the SS America. The
great passenger liner pulled away from the dock for the
trip to the United States at 2:15 p.m. on July 21 as the
McCloys, standing along the rail of the sundeck, waved
“Auf Wiedersehen!” to the 3,000 well-wishers who sang
the German tune of the same name. +END

JULY 1952

--- Page 12 ---
oe oor ero TTI MLO MULUUUUUUMUMM MD LUUUUUUUUMLMU MUU UUU UMMM DUO LUM Ts

Bibliography of McCloy Articles

The Information Bulletin has
published more than 40 articles
and features concerning US High
Commissioner John J. McCloy
and Mrs. McCloy and texts of
their addresses. The list follows:

Establishing the Position of Unit-
ed States High Commissioner
for Germany, text of Executive
Order No. 10062 of June 6, June
14, 1949, page 2.

Sacred Rights of Free Expression,
text of Mr. McCloy’s broadcast
at release of Radio Stuttgart to
German corftrol, Aug. 9, 1949,
page 2.

Western Germany has very great-
ly Progressed since the Surren-
der, address by Mr. McCloy
Aug. 10 from New York over
nationwide radio network, Aug.
23, 1949, page 9.

US Attitude on Bonn, text of Mr.
McCloy’s statements in radio
interview Sept. 3 with NBC cor-
respondent, Sept. 20, 1949, p. 11.

Message to HICOG Personnel, ad-
dress by Mr. McCloy Oct. 4 to
HICOG personnel in Frankfurt,
November 1949, page 3.

Crusade in Europe, text of Mr.
McCloy’s talk Oct. 13 for March
of Time broadcast, November
1949, page 46.

Germany Today, interview by Mr.
McCloy for U.S. News and
World Report, December 1949,
page 23.

Report on Progress, text of Mr.
McCloy’s radio address Jan. 23,
from Washington, February
1950, page 15.

Speeches of US High Commis-
sioner, addresses delivered Feb.
6 at the US Information Center
in Stuttgart and Jan. 26 before
the United Council on World
Affairs in Boston, Mass., March
1950, page 65.

Free Vote for Unity, statement
by Mr. McCloy Feb. 28 at press
conference in Frankfurt, April
1950, page 2.

Germany in a United Europe, ad-
dress by Mr. McCloy April 4
before Pilgrims’ Society in Lon-
don, May 1950, page 37.

Private Citizen Mrs. McCloy, ar-
ticle by Rosemarie Sponner on

ERP Marks Second Anniversary,
address by Mr. McCloy April 22
at Passau, June 1950, page 20.

Rothenburg Wine Ceremony,. pic-
torial story of ceremony mak-
ing Mr. McCloy an honorary
patron, July 1950, page 2.

Defense of Democracy, address by
Mr. McCloy May 22 at US In-
formation Center in Hanover,
July 1950, page 33.

Ruhr Industry’s Problems, address
by Mr. McCloy June 16 in
Duesseldorf, August 1950, p. 23.

Reverence for Life, statement by
Mr. McCloy 18 to delegation: of
youth leaders in Frankfurt,
September 1950, page 39.

Germans Jolted, But Morale Sta-
ble, text of Mr. McCloy’s inter-
view July 22 for NBC’s “Voices
and Events,” September 1950,
page 59.

Executive Order on US High
Commissioner for Germany
Amended, text of change in
Executive Order No. 10062 (see
above), September 1950, page 61.

Fallacy of “Stockholm Resolution,”
reply to Soviet Zone youth
group on communist appeal,
October 1950, page 8.

Adding the Human Element, ad-
dress by McCloy’s Aug. 9 to
group of German exchangees
going to the United States, Oc-
tober 1950, page 63 .

New Status of Germany, address
by Mr. McCloy Oct. 6 over Ger-
man, RIAS and AFN radio sta-
tions, November 1950, page 39.

Tasks: for the Coming Year, ad-
dress by Mr. McCloy at Second
Resident Officers Conference in
Frankfurt, November 1950, p. 85.

An International Aspect, texts of
Mr. McCloy’s addresses Nov. 24
to a student audience at Kiel
University, Nov. 25 before a
group of labor leaders in Ham-
burg and Nov. 26 over Radio
Bremen, December 1950, p. 53.

Unity and Strength, address by
Mr. McCloy Jan. 1 over RIAS
and German radio stations, Jan-
uary 1951, page 8.

Youth and German Defense, text
of Mr. McCloy’s letter replying
to young German, February
1951, page 15.

ing of American Women’s Club
of Berlin, February 1951, p. 17.

Six Points of US Policy, address
by Mr. McCloy April 25 over
Radio Munich, May 1951, p. 29.

New Appproach to History, ad-
dress by Mr. McCloy April 23
at University of Mainz, May
1951, page 51.

Report to American, address by
Mr. McCloy June 20 from
Washington over nationwide
radio networks in the United
States, July 1951, page 23.

Youth’s Greatest Opportunity, ad-
dress by Mr. McCloy May 25 at
University of Frankfurt, July
1951, page 45.

US High Commissioner Inter-
viewed’ by FDJ Youth, excerpts
from transcript of Mr. McCioy’s
discussion with Communist
youth Aug. 17 in West Berlin,
September 1951, page 6.

Germany in World Defense, con-
densed transcript of talk by Mr.
McCloy July 16 at Third Res-

ident Officers Conference in
Frankfurt, September 1951,
page 73.

Report on Germany, text of Mr.
McCloy’s statement June 25 be-
fore House of Representative’s
Special Subcommittee in Wash-
ington, October 1951, page 29.

Defense of Common Freedom, ad-
dress by Mr. McCloy Nov. 3 at
dinner meeting of Bremerhaven
Chapter of the National Defense
Transportation Association, No-
vember 1951, page 17.

Germany’s Future, address by
Mr. McCloy Dec. 17 before the
state legislature of Wuerttem-
berg-Baden, January 1952, p.7.

New Year’s Message, address by
Mr. McCloy Dec. 31 over RIAS
in Berlin, January 1952, page 17.

Test of Democracy, excerpts of
extemporaneous remarks by Mr.
McCloy Dec. 10 before Resident
Officers Conference in Frank-
furt, January 1952, page 35.

Role of the University, address by
Mr. McCloy Jan. 21 at Univer-
sity of Freiburg, February 1952,
page 21.

The Three Great Steps, address
by Mr. McCloy May 10 at ded-
ication of new school at Bern-

activities of wife of US High Intelligent Understanding, address kastel, Rhineland-Palatinate,

Commissioner, June 1950, p. 11. by Mrs. McCloy Jan. 9 at meet- May 1952, page 9
S000
JULY 1952

9 INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 13 ---
ERP Benefits to Germany

Translation of Radio Address

by Franz Bluecher
Federal Vice-Chancellor and Minister for ERP Affairs

HE FOUR-YEAR recovery and assistance program

of the Marshall Plan comes to an end in its present
form as of today (June 30). However, it does not mean
that the American. assistance will be discontinued. That
is sufficient reason to say something about the efforts of
the American people to protect the European countries
against the dangers of Bolshevism through social prog-
ress, based on economic strength, and thereby to create
the best weapon for safeguarding peace.

I purposedly speak of the American people, for it
was the American taxpayers who, aside from private
aid programs, since 1945 raised $39,000,000 for distressed
areas all over the world. Approximately $13,000,000,000
were poured into Europe under Marshall Plan. That
was areal sacrifice particularly for the lower Wage-
earners in America. They have thus made it possible to
provide a $1,500,000,000 support to the Federal Republic
and Berlin.

The aid program for Germany was established when
we were still completely isolated and existed without
equal rights by the side of the other nations. The Mar-
shall Plan first granted us the position of an equal mem-
ber in the European family of nations, and so, the moral
and political effect was extremely strong. It gave us the
courage to hope. The strict economic program (in Ger-
many) since 1948, of course, provided the conditions for
the aid measures to succeed.

NDER THE circumstances of that time, however, the

Marshall Plan aid, in fact, decided the speed of the
recovery in 1948 and 1949, as we did not yet have any
foreign trade, that was worth mentioning, and con-
sequently no foreign currency. Many of the needed
goods we could only find in the United States. The
utilization of the ERP aid, therefore, resulted from our
situation. Unnecessary items could not be imported, and
their procurement would not have met American ap-
proval. It has been my personal aim to report in short
intervals thoroughly and in detail on the use of those
means.

At any rate, it can be said that the improvement of
the supply for a destitute population at that time would
not have been possible if not backed by the American
support.

This address was delivered by Minister Bluecher over
the German radio on June 30. The translation was made
by the editorial staff of the Information Bulletin from
the German text issued by the Press and Information
Office of the Federal Government.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The money, payed in Germany for the imported
goods, made the counterpart funds. They have been
used, as far as they were available, to rebuild the Ger-
man economy under the participation of all ministries
concerned, the states and the trade unions. The counter-
part funds, particularly in the beginning, had to fill the
tremendous gap in our financial revenues which inev-
itably occurred right after the currency reform (June
1948). To demonstrate the importance of the American
aid a few simple figures may help:

More than DM 5,000,000,000 (equivalent to $1,190,000,000)
from counterpart funds for the imports of American
goods could be made available for the German economy
until today. The imports of food, raw materials and
ready-made goods under the postwar aid program
amount to DM 261 ($62.12) per capita of the population,
and the counterpart funds from ERP to DM 110($26.18)
per capita.

EALIZING that only by overcoming national con-

troversies and eliminating economy and currency
barriers Europe can survive, and be successfully de-
fended against possible dangers, the European Recovery
Program from the beginning aimed at not only helping
the individual European countries but at promoting
European unity.

The Organization for European Economic Cooperation
in Paris, which was organized simultaneously with ERP,
has proved successful. Considering that it took more
than 50 years until Germany’s economical unity was
established through the German Customs Federation
in the past century, will help to properly rate the prog-
ress which has been made toward European economical
unity since 1948.

It is, to a large degree, due to OEEC in Paris that
Germany could resume trade in free competition with
other countries. Thereby our economy was released
from its isolation. The increase of our exports since
1948 would not have been possible to that extent if the
work of OEEC had not made the market open for us a
little faster. The fact that recently a German was elected
president of the European Payment Union proves better
than figures and statistics the progress we have made.

Therefore, it is natural that we say a word of thanks
today. However, for the future there can only be one
program: Although we know from resolutions of Amer-
ican legislatives that the coming American fiscal_year
will bring us further help, we have to realize how much
economical and social reconstruction is left for us to do,

Continued on Page 14

JULY 1952

--- Page 14 ---
The American Memorial Library is being constructed in the Kreuzberg borough of Berlin as a
“presentation of the American people to the people of Berlin” under a HICOG Special Projects
Fund grant of DM 5,000,000 (equivalent to $1,190,000). Ceremonies marking the laying of the cor-
nerstone June 29 were highlighted by the dedicatory address by US Secretary of State Acheson.

Truth and Freedom

by Dean Acheson

US Secretary of State

T IS not only a building which we are dedicating to-

day, but a symbol of our common cause and of our
joint undertakings. More important, perhaps, it signifies
the fact that the freedom we seek to promote is ul-
timately a very simple, very unpretentious and very
personal affair. It is freedom to learn, to study, to seek
the truth. This is the essence of a free society. This is
the source of our greatest strength.

Our American forefathers early recognized the close
connection between knowledge, truth and freedom. They
recognized that the intellectual and spiritual inheritance
of any generation must be acquired by that generation.
Concrete things, such as land and wealth, can be inher-
ited from the preceding generation. But the only way
really to receive an intellectual and spiritual inher-
itance is to relearn it, tg reacquire it. We know that it
is possible for a single generation to lose the most im-
portant elements of the culture that has been handed
down to it.

This was something which the pioneers who came to
our country understood and with which they were deeply
concerned. Even as our forefathers cut the trees down
and protected themselves against attack, they saw how
quickly their own heritage would be lost unless some-
thing earnest and drastic was done. Beginning in those
early years and continuing throughout the history of
American migration across the wide continent, it was
of primary and not secondary importance to provide
schools, colleges, meeting houses and libraries at each
new outpost. And with roots in those early heroic ef-
forts, these institutions have kept alive, and expanding,
and available to all who earnestly seek it, our rich in-
heritance.

E ARE indebted to the Old World for the basis

of our cultural heritage, but we have extended the
frontiers of knowledge to the common man. Knowledge
in our eyes is not the privilege of the expert or of the
mighty — it is the property of everyone who strives
earnestly to attain it.

In America, the public library symbolizes this philos-
ophy. It is for these reasons that I feel it is particularly
appropriate that an American memorial should take the
form of a public library.

The Memorial Library is also a tribute to Berlin’s
cultural heritage which has been generously shared

JULY 1952

with us. We remember that our own cultural heritage
owes much to Germany and to Berlin. We have ben-
efited greatly from your academies and your learned
men. The fame and influence of Berlin’s Academic of
Science and of the Arts, its University, its music, its
great publishing trade, have been deeply felt in Amer-
ica. Not only the youth of Germany, but young men and
women from all over Europe and from the United
States came to Berlin to receive their training in your
educational institutions, and in turn, to carry the mes-
sages of the Humboldts, of Virchow and Mommsen all
over the world. The wealth of creative activity which
characterized the life of Germany and of Berlin in the
early part of the century, and particularly in the twen-
ties, continues to exert its influence around the world.

Two thousand years ago it was written: “And ye shall
known the truth and the truth shall make you free.”
Today, as then, truth and freedom are inseparably
joined. Tyrants may seek to throw up barricades against
the truth. But truth will prevail, and with it, freedom.

HERE are nations today who seem to be deathly
afraid of this freedom. Free access to knowledge,
open shelves, unchecked selection of books — all this is

Secretary Acheson strikes the cornerstone for the new
library with the ceremonial hammer. Grouped in back of
him are workmen in their white ceremonial dress.

(BE HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 15 ---
anathema to them. They have placed their books under
lock and key, they ban the written and spoken word
when it originates with uncontrolled sources. They
punish severly those who seek the truth wherever it
may be found.

Nothing can point up in more telling fashion the
nature of the conflict which divides our world today
than this: where others retire behind barbed wire, we
open wide the doors to knowledge so that the truth
may guide us.

The American Memorial Library will remind future
generations of the spirit of fellowship which. the people
of America and the people of Berlin have demonstrated
in maintaining jointly the. freedom of the city. We
Americans have always felt a deep kinship with those
who are staunch in the defense of their liberty. Genera-
tions of early Americans, in the face of almost constant
danger, never wavered in their determination to defend
their liberty, if need be, with their bare hands. The
Freedom Bell which tolls from your city hall in Schoene-
berg and our Liberty Bell in Philadelphia are symbols
of this determination.

HIS memorial declares the sympathy and respect of

the American people forthe unfaltering struggle of
the people of Berlin under the inspiring and confident
leadership of Mayor Ernst Reuter to defend their lib-
erties in the face of the threats and intimidation of a
system which makes denial of free thought a primary
tenet.

While we honor those who are engaged in the defense
of their freedom, we never forget those Germans who
have been deprived of their liberty. With those Ger-
mans of the Soviet Zone who, despite all threats and
hardships, have kept burning in their hearts the flame
of liberty, truth and the rule of law, we look forward
eagerly to that day when they may rejoin the free world in
a Germany united in peace and honor. In the mean-
time, through.their courage and steadfastness they are
aiding in the restoration of German unity and freedom.
To these people and to us, Berlin remains a symbol of
the goal of German unity.

A few weeks ago, as you know, the Government of
the United States, together with the Governments of
France and Great Britain, concluded a very important
agreement with the Government of the Federal Repub-
lic. For all practical purposes, this agreement will give
the Federal Republic the powers of self-government and
the status of equality in international relations, which
are the prerogatives of free nations.

The agreement does not apply to Berlin, although Ber-
lin will benefit indirectly from the new arrangements.
It is our intent that the people of Berlin enjoy to the
fullest extent possible the rights and privileges enjoyed
by free men everywhere.

HE responsibility for such restrictions as remain rests
squarely on these who do not wish to recognize the
rights of all Germans — East and West — to free elections,
to live in freedom under one government, and one con-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

stitution. The responsibility must rest with those who do
not wish to acknowledge the great progress made in
western Germany towards political sovereignty and
prosperity, and who wish to turn back the clock on this
progress. The responsibility must rest with those who
feel that they can serve their own ends only by keeping
the rest of the world in a state of intimidation or ser-
vitude. They shall not succeed.

Whatever the political or legal status of Berlin is to be
for the time being, it will affect in no way United
States’ support for the welfare of the city and the safety
of its citizens.

We have joined the Governments of France and Great
Britain in reaffirming our abiding interest in the protec-
tion of Berlin.

We have given notice, in plain and unmistakable
language, that we are in Berlin as a matter of right and
of duty, and we shall remain in Berlin until we are
satisfied that the freedom of this city is secure.

We have given notice, in plain and unmistakable
shall regard any attack on Berlin from whatever quarter
as an attack against our forces and ourselves.

I mention another memorial in Berlin which the Ber-
liners themselves have dedicated. It is the memorial to
those valiant men — Allied and German — who gave
their lives during: the Airlift so that this bastion of free-
dom might survive.

NE of the significant details about the airlift which

has gone almost unnoticed is the fact that it brought
to Berlin, along with food and other essential goods,
approximately 4,000 technical volumes donated by
American universities and institutions, and designed to
assist in the establishment of the library of the Free
University. In addition, it brought to Berlin an average
of 60 tons of paper weekly for use in producing books
and periodicals and at the gravest period of the airlift
210 tons of newsprint weekly to permit the continued
publication of Berlin’s free press. This was a powerful
demonstration of the understanding that learning and
truth are part of the very breath of life in a free society.

This is the spirit inherited and carried forward by
the institution we are here to dedicate. The airlift
memorial is a monument to the dead; this building will
be a monument to the living. Both monuments are sym-
bols of freedom.

It is my hope that the doors of this library will never
be closed to those who earnestly seek the truth, and that
it may serve, as far as possible, the entire population
of Berlin — both East and West — and that every citizen
may find here the knowledge and truth which are so
basic to our freedom.

I should like to leave with you words spoken by
Thomas Jefferson in connection with the founding of
the University of Virginia. Jefferson said:

“This institution will be based on the illimitable free-
dom of the human mind. For here we are not afraid to
follow the truth wherever it may lead nor to tolerate
error so long as reason is left free to combat it.” +END

JULY 1952

--- Page 16 ---
Edueation for All

Address

By Michael S. Harris

Chief, MSA Special Mission to Germany for Economic Cooperation

ODAY, with the help of MSA, 400 libraries of books

on social, economic and cultural problems will be
established in plants and factories. We hope that this
is only a beginning and that it will extend to other
plants. It will depend on the people in the plants to
enlarge these libraries and make them even more use-
ful to the members in the plant.

I have one request to make. Do not let these libraries
become mere ornaments in the offices. Let these books
pass from hand to hand. And if through these books the
work of the trade unions in our common aim is ad-
vanced, then they will have accomplished their purpose
and we will have made a good beginning.

There are several remarks I should like to make about
the United States and the American trade union move-
ment. I speak not only as chief of the MSA Special Mis-
sion to Germany for Economic Cooperation but also as
one who has been associated with the American trade
unions.

A HOUGH compared with Europe America is a
young country, the trade union movement of Amer-
ica has just as long and honorable a history as the trade
unions of European countries. The pamphlet “Im Kampf
um Soziale Freiheit”* issued by the Bund Verlag (pub-
lishing house) of the DGB shows that trade unions were
organized in America as early as 1793. Even before then
as early as 1741, strikes of craftsmen took place in the
attempt to improve conditions and to achieve a better
life.

Europedns generally regard the American trade unions
as organizations interested solely in winning better wage
and hour conditions. This is only partially true. The
American labor unions have played a significant role
in the development of American democracy.

One of the little known aspects of the work of the
American labor movement is its pioneering efforts in
behalf of free public education.

In the year of 1827 the crafts unions of Philadelphia
formed “The Mechanic’s Union of Trade Associations.”

* Title in German for “Brief History of American Labor,” see
Information Bulletin, May 1952, back cover.

This address was delivered by Mr. Harris before a con-
ference of shop stewards June 4 at Berg-Lehrlingsheim,
Bochum-Hordel, North Rhine-Westphalia, on the occa-
sion of the presentation of 400 libraries, on behalf of the
Mutual Security Agency, for the use of the employees
of industrial plants in Germany.

JULY 1952

One of the demands of this organization was for free
and equal public education. Furthermore, a good deal
of the credit for the establishment of free public schools
in Massachusetts and the general public school system
as it has since developed belongs to the trade unions.

HE American unions thus early recognized that the

job of the trade union movement is to provide full
opportunities for a better life to every man, woman
and child.

In the modern complex world, equal opportunities for
education are necessary if we want to provide equal
work opportunities. It doesn’t do any good to say that
everybody has the same opportunities, if education is
limited on the basis of heredity or income.

A democratic society means that every man and
woman should have from childhood on, the same op-
portunities for education, training and occupation.
Otherwise, you get a closed society with a caste system

Mr. Harris (center) with Philip Heller (left), MSA labor
information officer, and Georg Reuter, DCG vice pre-
sident, examine some of the books placed in the 400

libraries. (MSA photo by Udo Hoffmann)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 17 ---
in which each generation must follow the same oc-
cupation as the preceeding generation.

We know that a caste system results not only in a
loss to the individuals but that society itself is the
great loser. Competent and imaginative individuals are
prevented from making the contribution to society of
which they would be capable. These facts are today
recognized by all people. The world would be much
poorer without the contribution — spiritual, intellectual
and moral — of scientists, statesman and others who
come from the ranks of labor.

HERE is a great deal of propaganda being carried

on by certain countries of Europe to the effect that
America is a land of capitalists and imperialists. We
will not attempt, today, to answer any of the lies which
are turned out in such a steady stream by the lie fac-
tories of the East, but I would like to point to several
figures about public education in America.

In 1940, a total of 26,293,224 attended school. Approx-
imately 75 percent of all those between the ages of 5
and 20 years of age. In 1950, the enrollment rose to
28,391,000.

All these children who go to high school are not the
children of plutocrats. They are the children of Amer-
ica, the children of farmers, workers, professionals, as
well as of the richer groups. The mere fact that such
a high proportion can go to college and universities
shows how wide and significant are the educational op-
portunities in America. The record is there, for all to
see.

In most states education is compulsory up to the age
of 16. In a number of states up to the age of 18, in a
very few states up to the age of 14. Thus you see that
public education is free, mandatory and _ universal
throughout the country. The net work of our high
schools — equivalent to your Oberschule and Gymna-
sium — reaches into almost every community and pro-
vides free education for millions of young Americans.

In addition we have a system of free colleges and
universities in all major cities as well as in every state
of the union. These colleges are attended by millions
of children of workers and farmers. These free univer-
sities and colleges have turned out men and women

who have become outstanding leaders in all fields of
American life.

| aed of this comprehensive free educational system
is the system of free public libraries which reaches
into every city, town, village and hamlet. These li-
braries have collections of books dealing with every
field of science and culture. Most libraries have special
sections of books in other languages. An individual can
become a member of a library without any cost what-
soever, and may borrow up to seven books for as long
as a two to six weeks’ period. In 1945 there were
22,890, 988 persons who were members of this free li-
brary system and borrowed books free of charge.

We hope that this action today will be an important
step in the development of a system of free libraries
bringing the richness of our common culture to every:
man and woman in Germany.

A well-known labor leader once said: “Knowledge is
power.” The labor movement is dedicated not only to
winning higher wages and lower hours. It is dedicated to
the idea that each individual should have the fullest
opportunity for self-development; that the possibilities
of a full life are today at hand and should be made
available to every man and woman; that the traditions
of Western civilization and our culture which is a prod-
uct of the contributions of all peoples should not remain
the property of a few but the shared, common expe-
rience of all.

T= American people have shown through such ac-
tions as the Marshall Plan and other measures that
they are sincere in their desire to cooperate with the
other peoples of the world: that they are ready to sac-
rifice in order to make possible common efforts at re-
construction and progress. We have shown again and
again that we favor freedom of communication, freedom
of exchange, and the right of free people to live together
in peace and friendship. This position is identical with
that of the international free trade union movement.
Our goal is the same. It is peace and freedom, security
for all people and respect for dignity of the individ-
ual. + END

ERP Benefits

Continued from Page 10

and what funds are required for the security of our
country and the liquidation of the past. In addi-
tion to that, there is the problem of how to settle old
public and private debts without which we cannot ex-
pect to be integrated gradually into international cur-
rency and capital transactions.

OR THAT reason our work in the future must con-
tinue to aim at holding onto a sound currency. We
must do everything to strengthen capital accumulation

INFORMATION BULLETIN

and stock market; to-obtain inner harmony and procure
new working places; to increase Germany’s productivity
and production, so we can soon live on our own re-
sources.

The balance of payments must not only be the objec-
tive of financial but also of social and foreign politics.
May the new word “trade, not aid” be realized, and may
everywhere the unnatural barriers fall, which through
overcharged customs fees and similar measures hinder
the freedom of trade. Then the aim will be reached
which the American people has set for itself by the
European Recovery Program. +END

JULY 1952

--- Page 18 ---
School Village on the Bergstrasse

MODERN educational project, known as Schuldorf

Bergstrafe* to serve the three neighboring com-
munities of Jugenheim, Seeheim and Bickenbach, prom-
ises to become a symbol of improving German-Ameri-
can relations.

This project is well on its way to realization with the
help of American funds along with the assistance of
American initiative, advice and encouragement. Amer-
ican participation is confined mostly to showing the pos-
sibilities to the German authorities who do the planning
and direct the development of the plans.

However, this project is more than a school — it is a
community enterprise with emphasis on the word com-
munity, the working-together of many hands to achieve
a common aim.

US High Commissioner McCloy, who was unable to
attend the cornerstone-laying ceremony May 28, visited
the building site June 26 during his farewell tour of the
American zone. He took the occasion to emphasize the
interest of the United States:in the welfare of the youth
of Germany.

OR financing the construction of this project, the

United States, through HICOG’s Special Projects Funds,
contributed DM 800,000 (equivalent to $190,400), the State
of Hesse DM 2,169,000 ($516,222) and the three com-
munities DM 231,000 ($54,978). The communities’ con-
tribution is quite significant in that communities in Ger-
many retain little tax money and financing of their
educational operations comes mostly from the state.

In addition, participating in initiating and planning
the enterprise have been the County and District of

* Schuldorf means a school village or a community school
complex, and this one is located on the Bergstrasse (Ridge
Road), the area along the way of an old Roman road to the
east of, and paralleling, the Rhine River between Heidelberg
and Darmstadt.

Darmstadt, the Hessian Ministries of Education, Finance
and Agriculture, the US District Resident Office in
Darmstadt, the Office of the US State Commissioner for
Hesse and HICOG’s Office of Public Affairs.

The school complex, ultimately to consist of 17 build-
ings will consolidate not only the geographical areas of
Jugenheim, Seeheim and Bickenbach but also their
educational requirements — the elementary and second-
ary schools, a kindergarten, special classes for retarded
children, home economics, agricultural and vocational
courses. It will serve as a demonstration school for the
teachers’ college in Jugenheim.

Students may receive in this school complex the entire
instruction required by German law. They may qualify
for entrance to a German university, higher technical
school or the Jugenheim teachers college. Or, taking the
other track peculiar to the German educational system,
they may finish their schooling at the age of 14 years
when they become apprentices or do part-time work.
In the latter, they must attend a vocational school one
day a week for ‘two or three years.

HE project also will previde facilities for adult ed-

ucation and a community center for residents of the
three communities. For this purpose will be a combined
gymnasium and auditorium, as well as special classrooms
for technical instruction, kitchen, physician’s room, of-
fices for administrators and for teachers.

Among the standards established for the school village
is that educational opportunities are to be offered all
without discrimination as to sex, race, creed, social or
economic status.

In its cornerstone is deposited a document conveying
the message that “the Schuldorf BergstraBe will continue
for centuries to remain an ideal educational institution
for the youth, a place where citizens can receive the
benefits of culture in a free and peaceful world.” +END

At the cornerstone-laying ceremony May 28 (left photo), German-American cooperation was lauded by Georg Wing,
county administrator, while among listeners at right were (left to right) Ludwig Metzger, state minister of education
and culture; Dr. James R. Newman, US state commissioner for Hesse, and Christian Stock, former minister president.
Fe High Commissioner and Mrs. McCloy (in center right photo) inspected the building progress during their visit

une 26.

(AMCONGEN photos by K. Hopp)

Pes pore

--- Page 19 ---
Visits Potsdamer Platz where three sectors meet.

Louise Childs

American Social Worker in Berlin

Louise Childs, 25-year-old social worker from Chicago,
is serving as an “interne” at the Neukoelln Neighbor-
hood Center in Berlin where her duties include sharing
with center workers the supervision of kindergarten
children, assistance to youth and mothers’ sewing groups,
instruction in English and recreational classes. She also
speaks to German organizations and over radio station
RIAS.

Miss Childs’ selection and travel to Berlin were spon-
sored by the American Women’s Club of Berlin but she
lives at the center and receives the same nominal pay
as German social workers. The sponsorship is part of a
project of the women’s organization to “enable qualified
Negroes to come to work in Berlin in order to increase
understanding and friendship between Germans and
Americans.”

Miss Childs was born Sept. 1, 1926 in Marion, Ala. and,
after graduation from the local high school in 1944, went
to Manchester College in North Manchester, Ind., from
which she was graduated in 1948 with a bachelor of
science degree. In August 1948 she went to Chicago to
do casework for the Cook County Welfare Bureau, con-
tinuing there until last February when she was given a
leave of absence to go to Berlin.

(For previous articles in the Information Bulletin see “Berlin

Women's Club,” April 1950; “Berlin's Neighborhood Houses,”
January 1951; “House of Neighbors,” June 1951.)

Photographs by Claude Jacoby
Formerly of Information Division
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG

Inspects women’s prison with international group.

--- Page 20 ---
Studies German with fellow worker. Speaks directly to Germans over RIAS.

t

a

--- Page 21 ---
Cultural Articles Returned

N KEEPING with the US Government’s practice of

returning recovered art to the rightful owners, sev-
eral German-owned cultural objects, found in the United
States, were restored recently to the German Govern-
ment.

Brought to Germany by Miss Ardelia R. Hall, arts
and monuments officer of the US Department of State,
the objects included a small painting of St. Katherine
by Rubens, belonging to the Kunsthalle of Duesseldorf;
an Egyptian gold ring, dating from the first century
A. D., from the Ferlini Treasure of the Berlin Museum;
a fifty-page manuscript in the handwriting of Frederick
the Great from the Prussian State Archives, and rare
books from the Prussian Meteorological Institute.

Presentation was made by Dr. Edgar Breitenbach,
HICOG cultural institutions officer, at a ceremony in
Bonn May 16, and acceptance was by Prof. Franz Wolff-
Metternich of the Federal Republic’s Foreign Office
Cultural Department. The Federal Republic was to re-
turn them, as soon as practical, to the institutions to
which they belonged.

N AN acceptance note to Miss Hall, Professor Wolff-

Metternich said: “We all know only too well that in all
the confusion caused by a war the inherited treasures
of art are exposed to great dangers and that many of
these precious objects that actually belong to the whole
world can be removed in such times from their original
location.

“But we have made the very satisfactory experience
during and after the war that there are men of good
will in every country on earth, who — unaffected by the
passions of the moment — strive towards the realization
of higher ideals and towards justice.”

ISS HALL, in her remarks at the ceremony, said:

“I would like to point out in connection with the
Rubens and the other objects how the success of the
program in the United States has been due to the gen-
erous and country-wide cooperation of American cit-
izens and particularly of American scholars in museums,
libraries and universities with the agencies of the gov-
ernment.

“The Rubens painting was recovered with the initial
assistance of the Los Angeles County Museum in
California. The manuscript of Frederick the Great was
referred to the Department of State on the advice of
Dr. Theodore Allen Heinrich, a former monuments, fine
arts and archives officer and director of the Wiesbaden
Central Collecting Point. The Egyptian gold ring of the
Meroitic Period was recognized as property of the Berlin
Museum by one of the leading American Egyptologists
in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts in Massachusetts.

An article “Search for Looted Art” by Miss Hall was
published in the September 1951 issue of the Information
Bulletin, along with a bibliography of previous articles
on this subject.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

The return of the rare books were made possible by the
University of Pennsylvania and Princeton University
in New Jersey.

“Many of these scholars in American museums and
universities were deeply concerned for the protection
and preservation of historic and artistic property from
the beginning of the war. The art scholars in Europe,
who being closer to the impending dangers that threat-
ened, exerted continous and heroic efforts to preserve
the treasures which we have inherited from the past,
And with works of art and books that could be moved
to safety, they were extraordinarily successful. It is
only. a very small proportion of the vast collections of
Europe that escaped from their vigilant care.

“The recovery of these relatively few lost pieces
comes about from the continuing interest. It can be our
confident expectation that the same concern of all
people and the same informed help of all scholars in
cooperation-with the governments can combine to amel-
iorate and limit the extent of the losses of movable
works of art and retrieve for psoterity these lost frag-
ments of our joint cultural heritage.”

Referring to the objects returned at the Bonn cer-
emony, Miss Hall said: “As you probably know, they are
not the first works of art to be restored by the United
States Government to Germany... Nor indeed will
these objects now being delivered to the Federal Govern-
ment be the last... It is a continuing program for the
recovery of those objects which through one or an-
other of the hazards of war became scattered and are
still missing. Should they appear in the United States,
every effort is made to recover them. They are returned
through diplomatic channels to the governments of
the owners.” +END

Examining some of the rare books returned from the

United States are (left to right): Professor Wolff-
Metternich, Dr. Breitenbach and Miss Hall.
(HICOG photo)

JULY 1952 r

--- Page 22 ---
Rhineland America House

By James G. Rogers

US Information Officer, Rhineland-Palatinate

IRST US Information Center to be established in the

historic Rhineland and the first in the French Zone
under the HICOG program to extend its information
services to Germans throughout the Federal Republic,
the Koblenz America House was dedicated June 7 with
ceremonies in which German, French and American
officials participated.

The Information Center was formally opened by
Albert M. Doyle, US consul general in charge of the
Frankfurt Consular District and supervising consul gen-
eral in Germany. The principal address was made by
Alfred V. Boerner, deputy director of the Office of
Public Affairs, HICOG.

The basic theme of the ceremony was the vital neces-
sity to international peace and understanding of the
interchange of ideas, cultures and information by the
peoples of the world.

N THIS connection, several speakers recalled the cen-

turies-long importance of Koblenz — situated at the
confluence of the Rhine and Moselle rivers — as a meet-
ing place where the world’s traders, travelers and
learned men had exchanged not only goods but ideas
and knowledge. They expressed the conviction that the
new Information Center would be greatly aided in its
mission by the traditional open-mindedness of the
Rhineland.

Quoting Victor Hugo’s declaration that great rivers
carry ideas with them, J. Rattaud, director of French
cultural activities in the Rhineland-Palatinate, saluted
the America House for being “not just a house of Amer-
ican propaganda but a place were the genuine exchange
of ideas is promoted.”

German officials representing the state of Rhineland-
Palatinate and the city of Koblenz greeted the new
American installation as a means of bringing to the
German people the breadth and scope of American
thinking and experience. Speaking as the represent-
ative of Minister-President Peter Altmeier, Dr. Wilhelm
Sommer, chief official of the Koblenz governmental dis-
trict, saw the America House as “performing the work
of interpreting America to the German people, since
not everybody can visit the United States.” He declared
that World War II would have been impossible had the
German people, and especially Hitler and his “one-
sided” advisers, possessed more knowledge of the poten-

tials of the “continent with the inexhaustible possibil-
ities.”

JULY 1952

Dr. Hermann Wedell, director of the Koblenz Volks-
hochschule (adult education school), told the audience
that he regarded the America House not as a competitor
but. as a colleague in the field of adult education and an
“open door to the wide world.” Citing the Franco-Ger-
man cultural exchange carried on under French sponsor-
ship, Dr. Wedell said: “This America House will now
make possible a wider field of education through knowl-
edge of American culture and science.”

N HIS address, Mr. Boerner traced the modern par-
adox of great technical advances that shrink distances
between nations and the simultaneous growth of intel-
lectual and spiritual barriers between the peoples of the
world. Declaring that it was the substitution of egotistic
nationalism and naked force for cooperation and mutual

Alfred V. Boerner (left), who delivered the principal ad-
dress at the opening of the America House in Koblenz,
inspects the center with Henry A. Dunlap (center), chief
of HICOG’s Information Centers Advisory Staff, and
Mrs. Sofie Bernard, director of the center.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 23 ---
Views of two of the rooms of the new Koblenz America

understanding that had led to the catastrophe of the
recent war and its consequences, he pointed out that
the function of the America House was not only to
deepen the cultural and human relations between
Germany and the United States but to help in the reali-
zation of a general European understanding and cultural
cooperation.

Mr. Boerner contrasted the efforts of the West to
achieve peace and understanding in the postwar period
with the course taken by the rules of the East.

“In the West we demobilized our armies and set to
work to rebuild a heavily damaged world. But those
in power in the East wanted nothing of free coopera-
tion, of the free exchange of ideas, of the free flight of
man’s spirit. Having raised themselves to power on the
fists of force, they feared the strength of free thought
and the free word. So, once again, the isolation of an en-
tire people from the rest of the world was begun. Once
again, the borders of the free world were confronted
with deep chasms, with symbols of hate, and finally
with the Iron Curtain. Then, despite the lessons of the
war just ended, naked force and aggression again
emerged.”

Under these circumstances, the speaker said, the free
world realized that it was sufficient only to want
peace and began the difficult task of defending itself
against the new threat. He declared, “Peace must be
secured and defended until all peoples of the world
realize that war and aggression are an unprofitable
game. And this can only be accomplished by free co-
operation supported by the sincere wish to keep and
protect the freedom of the human spirit.”

INFORMATION BULLETIN

House: (left) the periodicals reading room where current

issues of leading American magazines are available, and (right) corner of the youth library.
(HICOG photos by Gassner)

NVITING the citizens of Koblenz to use the America
House facilities to the fullest, Mr. Boerner re-
quested them to make known their suggestions and
wishes in order to help the America House in its mission
of furthering cooperation and understanding.

“European integration, the spiritual and cultural unity
of the Western peoples, and their cooperation in all
areas of freedom are a goal so great that we must spare
no effort to reach it,” the American speaker asserted.

Also participating in the dedication ceremony were
George .Selke, chief of the Cultural Affairs Advisory
Staff, HICOG; Henry Dunlap, chief of the Information
Centers Advisory Staff; and Dr. Max Grossman, public
affairs officer of the Frankfurt Consulate General. Mrs.
Sofie Bernard, director of the Koblenz America House,
presided at the ceremony.

The Koblenz America House occupies an entire sec-
tion of a newly erected building. Among the services
offered in the three floors of the institution are a 7,000-
book main library, a youth library of 2,000 volumes, an
auditorium with stage and motion picture projection
facilities, a periodical room and a 700-film picture lib-
rary. All furniture and furnishings were designed spe-
cially for the new institution.

In the first month of its operation, the new America
House has been used by the citizens of Koblenz to an
extent indicating whole-hearted acceptance of the in-
vitation extended at the opening ceremony. Library
users during this period numbered 16,747, attendance
at film showings totaled 4,414 persons while lectures and
concerts drew 1,900 visitors. +END

JULY 1952

--- Page 24 ---
Tuebingen America House

AMARE and academic frankness between American
and German spokesmen on what constituted culture
and cultural exchange marked the opening ceremonies
of the America House in the university town of Tue-
bingen. This is the second US Information Center to be
established in the French Zone of Germany.

Delivering the keynote address June 20 in the audito-
rium of the Museum where the center is located, be-
fore a capacity group of prominent French, German
and American officials, Stuart Hannon., chief of the
Public Affairs Section, American Consulate General,
Stuttgart, identified culture with the Aristotelian con-
cept of “an association of free men.”

Mr. Hannon stated that “culture and democracy or
culture and social equality are not imcompatible, as
people have tried to prove from time to time. However,
a real problem of our time is to bring culture into ac-
cord with the daily life and experiences of the average
man.” This is the task of the America Houses, Mr.
Hannon asserted, making it clear that by culture he
meant a “universal culture and not a local or prejudicial
version thereof.”

NVITING everyone to take a “deep breath” of this
“cosmopolitan breeze” emanating from the Tue-
bingen America House, Prof. Walter Erbe of the Univer-
sity of Tuebingen spoke on “Cultural Work between
Nation and Nation.” Dr. Erbe pointed out that Europe
and America are not separate cultural units, and that
the “belief in self-contained cultures shut off from
others is the most anti-cultural disease and absurdity.”
He warned against regarding the culture of Europe as
the sum total of separate cultures existing in the same
area and considering Europe and America as separate
cultural entities.

In welcoming the audience, Kennedy B. Schmertz,
director of the new center which was financed entirely
from funds appropriate by Congress, restated the func-
tion of America Houses. Declaring that the America
Houses want to offer the German population an op-
portunity to get acquainted with the thinking of the
United States, he emphasized that these units are not
meant as institutions engaging in competition with al-
ready existing institutions, but that they will adjust
themselves to prevailing conditions and carry on their
activities on a basis of “continual give-and-take.”

MONG the guests were Col. Corbin de Mangoux,

deputy French state commissioner for Wuerttem-
berg-Hohenzollern, Dr. Gebhard Mueller, former state
President of Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern, Prof. Erwin
Buenning, dean of Tuebingen University, Patrick Mallon,
American consul general in Stuttgart, and Harvey M.
Coverly, deputy US state commissioner for Wuerttem-
berg-Baden.

JULY 1952

Modestly admitting that Germans had lost the knowl-
edge of foreign lands possessed by former generations,
Dr. Wolf Muelberger, mayor of Tuebingen, heartily
greeted the establishing of America Houses in Ger-
many. By contributing to the development of new ways
in all spheres of spiritual, social and economic life, Dr.
Muelberger said that they would fill this gap.

Recognizing that culture was a whole in which Eu-
rope and America — Germany and America — were
integral parts and not separate units, the principal
German and American speakers agreed that there
should be cultural exchange between peoples but
without the prejudices which impell one to convert the
other.

They explicitly accepted the America Houses, as Pro-
fessor Erbe put it in his address, as the medium to make
“available many types of cultural services to the broad
public in order to inspire mutual understanding and ap-
preciation between nation and nation.”

Kennedy B. Schmertz (center), director of the Tuebingen
America House, discusses features of the new center
with two French officials, Rene Cheval (left), director
of the French Institute in Stuttgart, and M. Du Pontavice,
French resident officer for Tuebingen.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 25 ---
French, German and American officials attending the opening ceremony of the Tuebingen America House included
(front row, left to right): M. Du Pontavice, French resident officer for Tuebingen; Patrick Mallon, American consul
general in Stuttgart; William Lovegrove, cultural officer of the American Consulate General in Stuttgart; M.
Whitechurch, French protocol officer; Harvey M. Coverly, deputy US state commissioner for Wuerttemberg - Baden;
Col. Corbin de Mangoux, deputy French state commissioner for Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern; Dr. Gebhard Mueller,
former state president for Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern; Oskar Kalbfell, mayor of Reutlingen; Dr. Lambacher of the
Wuerttemberg-Hohenzollern Ministry of Culture; Prof. Erwin Buenning, dean of Tuebingen University; Prof.
Walter Erbe of Tuebingen University; Stuart L. Hannon, chief of the Public Affairs Section, American Consulate

General in Stuttgart.

URNING to international relations in his closing state-

ments, Mr. Hannon said that “the common man of
Germany and Europe, like his fellowman in America,
has much less to fear if he is united in good citizenship
and in the resolve to maintain good international rela-
tions...

“The European Defense Contract, the Contractual
Agreement, NATO, the Council of Europe, the Schuman
Plan ... have strengthened western Europe and opened
new roads to understanding of the complex international
problems and solutions for it...

“We do not believe that Communism can ever attain
the strength of Christianity, that Sovietism with its evil
devices and blind power can ever break the bonds be-
tween a democratic Germany and the American dem-

(AMCONGEN photos by Schwarz)

ocracy... and when Germany and France find their
common historic path — and find it they must — and
unite their unique talents in maintenance of friendship
and freedom, it will be surely the strongest foundation
that Europe has ever known, a renaissance of the West-
ern spirit.”

Assuring his listeners that the United States is at the
side of the free nations of Europe and would remain so,
Mr. Hannon said all free nations must work for the
reunification of Germany and the return of that “peace
which was endangered in 1933, destroyed in 1939, and
betrayed during the past five years,” in the hope “that
this peace and prosperity of the future will then belong
to, will have been earned and richly deserved, by the
United States of Europe.” +END

America House Exhibits Go on Tour

Several exhibitions, on tour of the America Houses,
are attracting crowds to these US Information Centers
in Germany. The exhibits were produced by the In-
formation Division workshop in Frankfurt or obtained
on loan from private cultural agencies. These exhibi-
tions, of which most will continue on tour into the
spring of 1953, include:

Educational Toys — a traveling exhibit of the Amer-
ican Federation of Arts in Washington, consisting of
about 50 full-scale models of modern instructive and
creative toys designed in the United States for children
up to ten years of age.

Household Equipment — a photo-montage exhibit of
modern design in American homes as seen in furniture,
lamps, textiles, ceramics, kitchen equipment and toys.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

Indian Journey — a collection of photographs by Ger-
man architect Eckart Muthesius, presenting a graphic
study of the landscape, people and architecture of In-
dia. With the exhibit, America Houses are being furn-
ished a selection of news photos taken during Eleanor
Roosevelt’s recent visit to India.

English Handwriting — a group of 48 panels, loaned
by the British Council, a semi-government cultural
agency, tracing the development of penmanship from
early Christian inscriptions to the manuscripts of con-
temporary statesmen and writers.

By Steerage to the USA — depicting the immigration
of Germans to the United States in 1850, based largely
on photo enlargements of old prints and steel engravings
loaned by a German collector of Americana.

JULY 1952

--- Page 26 ---
In and Around
Germany

Success of RIAS Service

When the RIAS locator service
established contact between 15-year-
old Karin Hakos and her uncle,
Franz Hakos, on May 15, it solved its
3,000th case. Franz Hakos, who had
been seeking the daughter of his
deceased brother and sister-in-law
since the end of the war, heard the
RIAS broadcast in his home in the
Soviet Zone and got in touch with
the radio station.

Since RIAS went on the air on
Sept. 13, 1948, there have been 725
fifteen-minute broadcasts, _ listing
30,000 search notices. Therefore, 10
percent of the announcements has
resulted in success, or more than
four every broadcast.

RIAS locator department, under
the management of Imgaard Som-
platski, cooperates closely with the
German Red Cross in Berlin and
Munich. Both agencies cross check
each other’s requests against their
enormous files. RIAS files have more
than 100,000 entries.

RIAS has lists of the following
categories of persons: children seek-
ing their parents and vice versa,
prisoners-of-war still in Russia
whose names are brought in by re-
turning PW’s, returnees being sought
by relatives or vice versa, refugees
looking for their relatives, and
former soldiers whose deaths have
been reported and whose relatives
are being sought.

That RIAS is being heard in Rus-
sian satellite countries is revealed by
the record of the locator service. In
addition to the 13,000 letters from
East Berlin and the Soviet Zone, 700
have been received from foreign
countries, principally Czechoslovakia
and Poland. Letters arrive regularly
in small numbers from faraway Aus-
tralia, Chile, Peru and South Africa,
as well as from Austria, Belgium,
France, Great Britain, Holland, Italy,
Switzerland and Yugoslavia.

JULY 1952

Train of Europe in Italy

The four-millionth visitor to the
Train of Europe, a mobile exhibit

sponsored by the Organization for
European Economic Cooperation in
conjunction with its 18 member
nations and the US government, was
recorded in Rome, Italy, June 17.

The Train of Europe, which now
features an exhibit on the theme of
NATO Cooperation, has been touring
Europe since it was completed in
April 1951. During this time, a total
of 4,000,000 Europeans from five
countries have passed through its
corridors to view exhibits devoted to
the themes of European economic
recovery, integration, defense and
unity.

The train, which has five long cars
filled with displays pointing out the
advantages of cooperation between
the nations of western Europe, has
already toured Germany*, Denmark,
Norway, France and Italy and is
scheduled to tour Trieste, Austria,
Holland and Belgium.

* see “Europa Zug in Munich on Eve of
Tour,” Information Bulletin May 1951,
and “1,442,647 see Train of Europe,” Sep-
tember 1951.

USIS Books Sent to Helgoland

Reading material is being supplied
by the Hamburg America House to
the 150 current residents of the Is-
land of Helgoland. These, all men
living in houseboats off the island,
are working to rehabilitate the island
from the bombing destruction caused
during and after the war.

The first shipment of US Informa-
tion Service material comprising 60
books in the German language and
copies of American magazines and
the United States’ German-language
newspaper Die Neue Zeitung, was
accompanied by the America House’s
chief librarian, who reported that the
recipients were deeply impressed by
American interest in their welfare
and delighted with the reading mate-
rial as a welcome relief.

Similar consignments of books
from the America House are being
made regularly to ships sailing from
the port of Hamburg. After each
voyage the books are exchanged for
new titles. Crews and officials have
expressed enthusiasm for this exten-
sion service.

US Secretary of Labor Maurice Tobin, during a European tour, visited the
German federal capital June 26. Entertained at the HICOG hotel in Bad
Godesberg, Mr. Tobin (center) receives a description of the Rhine scenery
from Anton Storch (right), federal labor minister, and R. F. Bertram, acting

labor attache of HICOG.

23

(HICOG photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 27 ---
US Law Library in Munich

German and American officials, on
the second anniversary of the found-
ing of the US Law Library in Munich,
paid tribute to the library’s value in
helping to promote better under-
standing between the two countries.

A total of 12,500 visitors have used
the facilities of the US Law Library
it was announced by Presiding Judge
Leo M. Goodman of the United States
Court in Munich. Two years ago, on
June 15, 1950, Judge Goodman form-
ally dedicated the Law Library of
the HICOG Court to public use.* The
library contained only 1,700 books
then. Today its collection has grown
to 8,000 volumes.

During the past two years the li-
brary has become the largest institu-
tion of its kind in the Federal Re-
public of Germany. It is a center of
research and study in the fields of
Anglo-American Law, International
Law, Conflict of Laws and Compara-
tive Law.

* see “Bavaria’s Law Library” in Infor-
mation Bulletin, November 1951.

i
4

The library was started by Judge
Goodman in order that the Bavarian
people might have access to the lit-
erature in these important fields of
the law, since most of it had been
destroyed or had disappeared during
the war. Because of the limited funds
available the development of the li-
brery was made possible only by
soliciting donors in the United States
and in Germany. The principal Amer-
ican contributors have been Colum-
bia University, Harvard University,
Duke University, St. John’s Univer-
sity, University of Pennsylvania,
New York Public Library and Li-
brary of Congress. The principal
German donors have been the Ba-
varian State Library, Library of the
Bavarian Ministry of Justice, Library
of the German Patent Office, State
and University Library in Hamburg
and others.

Army’s State Relations Offices

State relations offices established
by the US Army for the coordination
of US Military -German relations,

Eight American teen-agers, living with German families in Berlin during
July, were entertained shortly after their arrival by several exchange
students who had returned from the United States. The teen-agers’ visit
was sponsored by the American Field Service and families of the returned
exchange students. Grouped around the piano are (left to right): Joachim
Seybold of Berlin, Mary M. Sherman of Chevy Chase, Md.; Gudrun Link
and Hannelore Ringer of Berlin, Carol Koselke of La Porte, Ind.; Waltraud
Gurr, Katharina Stuelten and Christa Gaedecke of Berlin; Martha Bicking
of Silver Spring, Md.; Penfield D. Sinclair of Syracuse, N. Y.; Hans Plickert
of Berlin; Don R. Dunkin of Milwaukee, Wis.; Catherine Cramer of Ardmore,
Pa. Seated at the piano is Juergen Drews of Berlin. Not in the photograph is

Jo Helen Rose of Midwest City, Okla.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

(BE HICOG photo)

24

were opened July 1 in Wiesbaden,
Stuttgart and Munich. These offices,
representing the Civil Affairs Divi-
sion of the European Command, are
responsible for conducting direct
liaison between the US Military
Forces and the German state gov-
ernmental agencies and German
civilians in German states of the US
Zone.

The Wiesbaden officeserves Army
and Air Force installations, including
military commanders of posts, sub-
posts and troop units in mutual US
Military - German civilian matters
which cannot be resolved on local
levels in Hesse. The Stuttgart office
has the same function in the former
state of Wuerttemberg-Baden while
the Munich office-serves Bavaria.

The state relations officer for Bre-
men is the personal representative of
the commanding officer of Bremer-
haven Port of Embarkation in mat-
ters of Military-German relations at
Bremerhaven.

Prior to the opening of the state
relations offices, which officially use
the German word Land for state, US
Military - German relations were
handled by the US state commis-
sioners’ offices, representing the US
High Commissioner for Germany.

Ranking personnel and addresses
of the newly opened offices are:

Wiesbaden — Lt. Col. W. I. Goodwin
and Major George P. Moore, 1 Guten-
bergplatz.

Stuttgart — Lt. Col. R. H. Stimson
and Marcus L. Hoover, 24 Olgastrasse.

Munich — Col. W. D. Williams and
Kenneth E. Van Buskirk, 28 Ludwig-
strasse.

Bremerhaven — Lt. Col. John E.
Grassel, Room 25, Headquarters
Building.

Campaign for United Nations
A personal campaign in promoting
better understanding of the work of
the United Nations is being con-
ducted by Reinhard Oebicke, 25-
year-old student at the College of
Economic and Social Sciences in
Nuremberg, since he returned from
study in the United States under the
HICOG Exchanges Program.

JULY 1952

--- Page 28 ---
Following his work studies at the
University of Arizona where he
studied during the 1950-51 academic
year under sponsorship of the Ari-
zona Federation of Women’s Clubs
and the US Department of State,
Mr. Oebicke visited the United Na-
tions headquarters in New York. He
was given permission to attend a
four-week seminary where he par-
ticipated in lectures and discussions
and contacted officials of the UN
staff.

Since his return to Germany in
September 1951, he has been in close
contact with the UN public-relations
office and has received UN publica-
tions which he distributed in the
dormitory clubroom at the Nurem-
berg college. He was asked to form
a voluntary correspondent speakers
unit in Nuremberg.

Earlier this year he gave seven
lectures on the United Nations at
the America Houses in Nuremberg,
Hof, Coburg, Bayreuth, Bamberg
and Wuerzburg, speaking on the
subjects “The United Nations, its
History, Organizations and Import-
ance for Germany” and “The United
Nations and its Endeavors for Hu-
man Rights.” He was also scheduled
to speak at the America Houses in
Erlangen, Augsburg, Stuttgart and
Darmstadt.

Funds Given for School Feeding

A check for DM 855,759 ($203,671)
has been presented to Berlin city
officials to finance the Berlin School-
Freeding Program in the last quar-
ter of the 1951-52 school year.

The check was presented by Dr.
Carl G. Anthon, Berlin Element ed-
ucation adviser, to Senator Joachim
Tiburtius, head of the Berlin Educa-
tion Department.

Funds allocated for the School-
Feeding Program have enabled city
authorities to provide one hot meal
daily during the current school year
for about 290,000 school children
and students in West Sector high
schools, vocational institutions and
universities. The DM 855,759 pre-
sented to Dr. Tiburtius represent the
final installment of a special DM
8,500,000 ($2,023,000) grant from US
funds

JULY 1952

Personnel Notes

Shepard Stone Leaves

Shepard Stone, director of the
Office of Public Affairs, HICOG, for
the past two years, has returned to
the United States.

Mr. Stone was born in Nashua,
N.H., and was graduated from Dart-
mouth in 1929. He received a doctor
of philosophy degree in European
history from the University of Berlin
in 1933 after graduate work there
and at the University of Heidelberg.

Returning to the United States he
wrote on foreign affairs, and partic-
ulary German problems, for The New
York Times until 1942, when he
joined the intelligence staff of the
First Army, and served in England,
Normandy and Germany until the
end of the war. He remained in Ger-
many until December 1945, when he
was discharged with the rank of
lieutenant colonel.

He became the assistant Sunday
editor of The New York Times, from
which position he took leave in No-
vember 1949, to join the HICOG staff.

James E. King Resigns

James E. King, Jr., executive sec-
retary of HICOG since its establish-
ment in 1949, resigned from the US
Foreign Service to return to the Uni-
ted States.

i b , >»

Under Mr. King, the Office
of Executive Secretary served as
the central secretariat of HICOG,
with over-all responsibility for the
coordination of its activities. The of-
fice has included the US Element of
the Allied General Secretariat, a
unilateral Staff Secretariat, Policy
Reports Group, Historical Division,
Protocol Division and the HICOG
Reference Library.

Mr. King joined the Department of
State immediately after his release
from the US Army in December,
1945, serving in the Department’s
Division of British Commonwealth
Affairs. He joined Military Govern-
ment in January, 1947, and became
secretary - general of OMGUS in
January, 1948. Subsequently, he was
named deputy chief of staff at
Nuremberg and Bad Nauheim.

Chauncey Parker Joins MSA

Chauncey George Parker, direc-
tor for administration of the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction,
has been appointed chief of the
Mutual Security Agency’s Economic
Mission to Italy.

Mr. Parker, who served from De-
cember 1950 to April 1952 as assistant
US high commissioner for Germany,
was sworn in July 14 in Washington
to succeed M. Leon Dayton, who was
transferred to head the MSA Econ-
omic Mission to Turkey.

\

General Matthew B. Ridgway (left), making his first visit to Germany as
supreme commander, Allied Forces, Europe, witnesses an honor-guard review

in his honor at Heidelberg June 25.

25

(US Army photo)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 29 ---
at

JUADODUNRUUONUDDOOESOSUONNEOOGODDUGUEODOUOUDOOOSNOUONOO NOG

German Editorials

This section is intended to inform without interpretation the American
readers of what Germans are thinking. The selection has been made so as to
cover the events which caused the widest reaction in the German press, and
to give a fair cross section of German editorial opinion. The inclusion of any
event, viewpoint or opinion does not necessarily imply concurrence by US
authorities. The cartoons have been taken from a selection reproduced by
the Press Analysis Section, Press Branch, Information Division, HICOG.

NOUUUODUOEONELS

Tribute of the Federal Government

Following is a condensed translation of an article ‘printed in the Bulletin,
daily informational periodical of the German Federal Government, in its
July 16 issue under the title “The Work of Mr. McCloy.”

When on the realization of the
Schuman Plan, European statesmen
discuss means and ways to promote
also the political integration of Eu-
rope beyond that treaty, and before
the agreement on the European De-
fense has been ratified, there must
not be forgotten the one man whose
foresight, initiative and guidance
have contributed decisively to this
development. He is Mr. McCloy, the
former US High Commissioner, who
left Germany a few days ago.

Mr. McCloy was called to replace
the regime of military governors and
transfer it into a regime of civil au-

thority which provided the condi-
tions for Germany’s social, econom-
ical and cultural recovery. At the
same time, Germany was to be in-
troduced as an equal partner into
the membership of free, civilized Eu-
ropean nations.

As a man, who knew and appre-
ciated the German people’s good
natural traits and deeper spiritual
traditions, which have been destroyed
or perverted by the despotism of
National Socialism, Mr. McCloy
brought along certain ideas for his
job. His wife, who is the grand-
daughter of a German American,...
supported him openheartedly and

BE Biss 28 Re

History of the uncle from America. — Der Mittag (Duesseldorf), July 20.
(Uncle is a term used by German children of refer to a male adult, not
necessarily a relative, whom they are told is kind to them.)

INFORMATION BULLETIN

26

Auf Wiedersehen, auf Wiedersehen ..
(based on the medieval legend of
Lohengrin) — Koelnische Rundschau
(Cologne), July 22.

effectively during his assignment in
Germany.

This fact, too, established inner
relations with the nature of the Ger-
man people and, consciously or un-
consciously, affected Mr. McCloy’s
policies. Symbolic of his respect for
the real historical values of Ger-
many was his courageous step in
1945 that prevented the destruction
of Rothenburg, the pearl of German
medieval towns.

As assistant secretary of War to
Secretary of War Stimson, in whose
memory he had the church built in
the American section of Bad Godes-
berg, Mr. McCloy fought the inten-
tions represented by the Morgenthau
Plan to make the German people a
people of farmers and herders, and
thereby leave it open to atrophy and
distress. He came to Germany at a
moment when his military predeces-
sor, General Clay, already had pre-
pared a change in Military Govern-
ment policies, as the German people
through their attitude proved, that
they were capable and willing of a
new democratic development.

Mr. McCloy’s determination and
strong will together with an unusual
psychological understanding have
been able to cause a change between
1949 and 1952, the results of which
now begin to show. The development
of the German Federal Republic into
an increasingly respected democratic
state was seen by Mr. McCloy only
in connection with the development
of an all-European community, which

JULY 1953:

--- Page 30 ---
History of a German river. — Han-
‘noversche Presse (Hanover), May 30.

he promoted as strongly as Ger-
many’s integration into it as an
equal partner...

It has been said that Americans
are better Europeans than the Eu-
ropean themselves, and that they
realize Europe’s hour of fate more
unprejudiced than Europeans ever
would. Mr. McCloy, who was gifted
with a second sight as to the histor-
ical meaning of that hour, had to
iron out, time and again, critical dif-
ficulties which endangered the in-
tegration of Europe. As he now re-
turns to his country he can do so in
the belief that his work is so stable
that another can continue and com-
plete it.

In Germany he left numerous and
important donations which serve al-
most exclusively the cultivation of
spiritual values and their interna-
tional exchange. They will sustain a
deep effect on the future.

The German people demonstrated
their appreciation to him through
numerous honors and through a
farewell, which was so cordial and
honest as if it was meant for one of
their own men.

Selections from the Press

Frankfurter Neue Presse (Frank-
furt, June 30) praised the personality
of High Commissioner McCloy and
his positive influence on US-German
relations, saying: “What made him
even a valuable friend to us Ger-
mans was his and Mrs. McCloy’s
Personal ‘climate.’ No explanation is
necessary for any one who had the

JULY 1952

opportunity to visit the house of the
US High Commissioner. For all the
others we would only like to say
that we would consider ourselves
lucky had we found a half-way sim-
ilar atmosphere in our relations with
the only half-sovereign German au-
thorities... Mr. McCloy understood
all German worries and helped
where he was in a position to do
so... He was, to put it briefly,
human...”

Expressing regret that the rush of
business left little time for the Bun-
destag (Federal Parliament) to say
goodbye to Mr. McCloy, the Ruhr
Nachrichten (Dortmund, NRW, July
17) continued: “If any man in the
Western camp deserves our gratitude
and our respect, that man is the
American High Commissioner. And
not only because he used to distrib-
ute substantial dollar checks but
also because the masses were con-
vinced that Mr. McCloy had the
German people and their interests
at heart.”

The Deutschland Union Dienst,
press services of the CDU/CSU polit-
ical parties, wrote: “One can say
that few Germans received from
their countrymen such unanimous
recognition for their work as was
given to this good man from Amer-
ica... His name will forever remain
a part of German postwar history as
the name of a good friend.”

The Frankfurter Randschau (Frank-
furt) in an editorial entitled “A Great
Civilian,” said: “Mr. McCloy has
proved to the German people that
democracy and civil courage are not
vain illusions... We salute Mr.
McCloy, and we salute his wife, Mrs.
Ellen McCloy. Many of our people
will remember her warm-hearted
intuition.”

Resident Officers

The more important newspapers in
the American zone of Germany gave
the departing US resident officers an
excellent sendoff.

The Munich daily, Sueddeutsche
Zeitung, ran a_ typical headline,
“They came as reeducators but left
as friends.” Badische Neueste Nach-

27

‘ Difficult to love. — Rhein-Neckar
Zeitung (Heidelberg), June 10.

richten (Karlsruhe) said simply but
potently “Farewell to a Friend.”
The large dailies, generally char-
acterizing these officers as “the best
type of American, fair and dem-
ocratic, whom we have learned to
esteem,” also cited their personal
feelings and singular contributions.
These papers declared that most of
these young men were leaving a
“second home” with a “heavy heart.”

Many papers reviewed the work
of resident officers, having a pleas-
ant word for each of them, with the
Nuernberger Nachrichten (Nurem-
berg) and the Mannheimer Morgen
(Mannheim) sounding the keynote
by praising “their work in establish-
ing good relations between US and
German authorities.”

More realistically perhaps other
papers pointed out practical achieve-
ments, noting that the resident of-
ficers had been largely responsible
for specific grants from the HICOG
Special Projects Fund for public
welfare buildings such as the Stu-
dent’s Home in Karlsruhe and the
Youth Home in Ingolstadt.

While most newspaper comment
stressed the work of resident officers
in the fields of youth activity and
public forums, declaring that they
had done much to clear up distrust
and misunderstanding surviving
from the immediate postwar period,
Frankfurter Rundschau, largest
Frankfurt daily; deplored the dis-
continuance of the offices and said
they should have been retained in
spite of the change in official Amer-
ican and German relations.

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 31 ---
Farewell Addresses in Berlin

On July 11, High Commissioner McCloy delivered three addresses in Berlin, speaking to an audience of faculty
members and students at the Technical University at 10:30 a.m.; addressing the members of the Municipal Senate
at 1:30 p.m., and talking over the powerful RIAS radio station at 8:45 p.m., to the Germans, especially those re-
siding in the Communist-dominated East Zone. The complete texts of his three addresses are printed on these pages.

Technical University

Text of the speech delivered at the
Technical University follows.

you HAVE bestowed a_ great

honor upon me, and I am
deeply sensitive to its significance.
To be honored by any established
free educational institution in Ger-
many, considering the tradition of
learning which attends German
scholarship, is honor enough. It is a
double distinction when it is bestow-
ed by one of the free universities of
Berlin, the city of beleaguered truth.

The action you have taken is also
noteworthy because a well-known
scientific institution is conveying a
scientific degree on one who very
narrowly escaped disaster in his
undergraduate physics and math-
ematics courses. My situation today
somehow reminds me of the remark
which the great painter Whistler
made about his dismissal from the
United States Military Academy at
West Point, after he had failed to
pass an examination in science. He
used ruefully to remark: “If silico
had been a gas, I would have been
a major general.”

On reflection, however, there is
real propriety in this joinder of
science with the unscientific. It lies
in the thought that the scientist to
reach his fulfillment can never lose
touch with the people, and the un-
informed must always be sensitive
to the freedom and opportunities
which science can open to them. The
first scientist, as we all know, was
Prometheus, and his immediate con-
cern was to apply his knowledge to
the benefit of mankind.

IODAY one hears much of the

failure of the human spirit to
keep pace with the developments
of science. It is said we have out-
distanced ourselves by devising in-
struments which morally we are not
fit to use.

To this doctrine I do not subscribe.
If we can open new vistas in science,
we can open them in other fields, if
not simultaneously at least in due
course. The fact that the key to
scientific discovery is easier to find
than the key to human behavior
does not justify slowing up scientific
research until we find and apply the
true moral category. Indeed, it is

INFORMATION BULLETIN

impossible to do so. The “endless
frontier” of science is all about us
and as long as there exists a frontier
there will exist men who will at-
tempt to penetrate it. The problem
is to accept the atomic age as a
stimulant to search for better behav-
ior patterns.

The world has gone far in dealing
with problems arising from the In-
dustrial Revolution. Despite the
horrors of two great wars there have
been advances since that revolution.
Quite apart from over-all improved
living standards a greater emphasis
has been placed on humane conduct.
Institutions have been formed for
the welfare of mankind whose gen-
esis and maintenance can be directly
traced to new methods of industrial
production.

Some comfort, I believe, can be
taken also in the fact that, unlike
the Industrial Revolution which
swept over the world without notice
of its coming and certainly before
any appreciation of its impact was
evident, we have taken warning of
the changes and the implications of
a new technical era. This in itself
is progress.

Francis Bacon long ago said
“Knowledge means Power.” Others,
including your own Immanuel Kant
have pointed out that it means re-
sponsibility—responsibility “to es-
tablish the rights of humanity.” Pro-
fessor Bixler, the American religious
philosopher, advanced the same
thought when he said: “Knowledge
can also mean Insight.”

T° BE sure, present day behav-

ior and present day politics
defy full scientific analysis and
measurement. There are no “pointer
readings” that we can apply to polit-
ical behavior, but it would seem that
we can apply methods, methods of
truth, of objectivity, of unprecon-
ceived analysis. These are hand-
maidens of science. They can also
serve statesmanship even though the
sources of human behavior are ob-
scure. Statesmen or politicians
should approach their problems with
the detachment which the scientist
seeks to achieve.

Indeed as science successfully ad-
vances the lesson to be learned is
that we should apply to other fields
even more consciously the methods

28

by which science attains its success,
Science and politics are all a part
of human behavior and if scientific
method is not the exclusive key to
moral advancement, it is reasonahle
to assume that we shall not get very
far if we totally exclude it.

Yet today, in certain areas of the
world, we see that amazing energies
are being applied by political leaders
in the distortion of science and the
scientific method. The tenet of these
totalitarian leaders is that power can
create belief and that belief is more
important than truth.

At a time in world history when
the tragedies caused by prejudice
are still fresh in people’s minds we
see a new attempt ruthlessly to force
beliefs, and if facts belie the beliefs
to “create” facts to support a pre-
conceived thesis.

This has been attempted before,
but never on quite so grand a
scale. That people will respond to
such stimuli is nothing new—recent
history, right in this city, has proven
that. The tragedy is that today these
efforts may bring even greater dis-
aster.

c IS not the object of the Soviet

Union to prove that the United
Nations Forces in Korea have in-
stituted bacteriological weapons; or
that Americans rather than the
Communists first attacked in Korea;
or that the Americans have distrib-
uted potato bugs in the East Zone to
effect a potato shortage there. It is
the object of the Communist leaders
to create some degree of acceptance
of such a belief. It is not enough for
us to say “what nonsense!” The
boldness of these enormous effron-
teries to intelligence bespeaks a con-
fidence gained from achieving ac-
ceptance by propaganda for so many
other false though less outlandish
propositions.

As our recent experience has too
vividly proven it is no great fact
to make science follow behind polit-
ical dogma, but it remains the most
deadly threat yet devised to our
existence. All the hydrogen bombs
in being or in contemplation are a
far smaller danger to mankind than
the vast propaganda organization
and method by which men’s minds
are poisoned with hate and the dis-
regard of truth. To what debase-
ment of the human intellect would

JULY 1952

--- Page 32 ---
we all fall if there were not institu-
tions such as this where facts and
information can still be taught and
learned, where error can still be
revealed.

I cannot end these brief remarks
without again expressing my grat-
itude to the faculty and students of
this university. This gratitude in-
cludes my thanks for the friendly
contacts I have always had with
many Berlin students and professors.
Among the deepest and most re-
warding experiences I have had in
Germany have been the hours of
discussion and meetings with the
young men and women students of
this city and the Federal Republic.
Despite the economic hardships in-
volved in their study they have been
open-minded, eager and optimistic.

Among the studenis here today,
among the students that I have met
in the last three years have been
many who have come from the East
Zone. They have come to search for
truth. They know the truth can be
found only in a free society.

STUDENT and faculties in Berlin

and in the Federal Republic
are bound to face great challenges
in the future. They are responsible
for developing the intellectual, spir-
itual and political leadership of Ger-
many. That leadership, I am sure
we all agree, must be tolerant and
humane. The universities of West
Berlin are in a unique Position to
nurture such a spirit. They, and not
the Communist propaganda institu-
tion on Unter den Linden, are the
true carriers of the noble Humboldt
tradition.

The young men and women in the
schools and universities of Germany
will have new opportunities and
they will have a chance for new
dreams. The world into which they
go will find the solution, I feel cer-
tain, to some of the problems we
have mentioned here today. It is the
pulse-beat of our times that horizons
will be added, that national barriers
will fall, and that all men and
women of good will will live in
brotherhood and peace and freedom.

Berlin Senate

Text of the speech delivered to the
Berlin Senate follows.

RR MRS. McCloy and me this
is a day of deep feeling, touch-
ed with sadness. Three years ago
we came to Berlin for our first offi-
cial visit. Now it is hard to leave it.

During the past three years I
have made many trips to Berlin.
More satisfying than the work done
here was the sense of courage and
Strength in our common struggle for

JULY 1952

During the traditional Independence
Day reception they gave in Bad
Godesberg, Mr. and Mrs. McCloy are
joined by their 11-year-old daughter,

Ellen. (HICOG photo by Gassner)

freedom which every visit to Berlin
inspired. There is something in the
Berlin air that is hard to find
elsewhere in Europe. Symbolically,
perhaps, we spent every New Year's
in Berlin because there was no
better way each year to make a
new start.

Berlin is a big city; it is a cos-
mopolitan city. Its people, despite
the terrible pressures under which
they live, have courage, wit and
wisdom. It is a city utterly un-
designed for totalitarianism—either
Nazi or Communist. There is as
much political understanding and
steadfastness in the conversation of
two Berlin taxidrivers as there is in
many ministries of the world.

Since 1945 something revolutionary
has happened to the reputation of
Berlin in the rest of the world.
Under the last Hohenzollerns it was
feared. Under Hitler it was hated.
Now it is universally admired.

BERLIN today is a light in the
darkness. The men, women and
young people of this city have giv-
en the world an example of courage
and sturdiness against overwhelming
odds; of dedication to the free way
of life. And the free nations have
made clear their attitude toward the
city. The British foreign secretary
pledged support here two months
ago. And only the other day Sec-
retary of State Acheson repeated the
guarantees against attack.

For a few minutes today I’d like
to talk about the economic situation
in this city. We know that this is a
serious problem. You have 297,000
unemployed. You have fewer oppor-
tunities to sell and buy than they

29

have in the Federal Republic. You
are in this difficult situation because
the Communists, who talk so much
about the worker and his prosperity,
are in reality trying to strangle this
city and its people. They seek to
impose hardship and misery and
they are doing everything possible
to destroy the economic life of this
city.

We have acted to help Berlin eco-
nomically. Together with the Ber-
liners, whose vitality is intense, we
have improved conditions here far
above those in the East. If the Com-
munists would give us a reasonable
chance we could in a very short time
bring this city—and when I say this
city I mean all of it, East and West
—up to the full prosperity. of the
Federal Republic. But in spite of
handicaps we shall do everything in
our power to increase production at
Berlin plants. That is the healthy
way to put people to work. We shall
increase our efforts to make plane
travel to and from Berlin cheaper
and more convenient. We feel the
same sense of obligation toward the
economic prosperity of this city as
we do toward its political security.

BERLIN needs work, Berlin needs
orders. It must get that work,
it must get those orders from the
Federal Republic and from the rest
of the world. Potentially Berlin
offers one of the greatest sources of
unused, skilled labor in the world.

I address myself to the business-
men, to the ministers of economics
in Europe, to the buyers in the
United States and in all free nations:
Buy in Berlin. Buy in Berlin be-
cause the Berliners are in the
forefront of our common struggle
for a free and peaceful world. You
will get quality in Berlin. You
will be helping in a struggle in
which your own fate is being de-
cided. Every order placed in Ber-
lin is a contribution to the free-
dom and unity not only of Ger-
many, but also of the Free World.

Now, may I say a few words about
recent events here. It is the common
people who suffer when the Com-
munists show their “honesty” and
“humanity” by cutting thousands of
people off from their little gardens
along the zonal boundary. It is the
families of Berlin who are harried
by the Communists when they cut
off the telephones connecting rel-
atives and friends in the other sec-
tor of Berlin. You are the ones who
must fear when those who falsely
preach peace and brotherhood steal
to your homes and kidnap men be-
cause they are active in the fight for
freedom.

The Communist leaders who do
these things are hurting the people
of free Berlin. But they are also

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 33 ---
doing something they should seek
strongly to avoid. They are arousing
the resolution of hundreds of mil-
lions of people throughout the world.
Someday the Communist leaders
will learn that harm to one free
Berliner stirs indignation throughout
the world. These kidnapings, these
harrassments must stop. There must
be evidence of humanity among the
Communist leaders before anybody
will place an iota of faith in their
words, their notes, their protesta-
tions. When they do we can get
somewhere.

LADIES and gentlemen of the Ber-

lin government: Before leaving
Berlin I want to thank you for
our many friendly exchanges, for
the steadfastness which you, the
parliamentarians of Berlin, have dis-
played in the cause of freedom. You
set an example which the parlia-
ments of all countries, big and small,
should follow. You, Dr. Suhr, have
shown high qualities of democratic
leadership in the governing bodies
of this city.

Mayor’ Reuter: Circumstances
have brought us together many
times during the past few years. We
have had some minor differences,
but never any major ones. We have
had complete understanding and
agreement on the critical problems
facing this city and the free nations.
You are rightly known in the world
as a man of courage, of political
wisdom, as a champion of freedom.

When one talks about freedom in
Berlin another name comes inev-
itably in mind—General Lucius
Clay. His actions during the Berlin
blockade will always mark him as
an indomitable defender of the
liberties of this city.

Many memories come back at a
time such as this. I shall never forget
the May Day celebrations when
hundreds of thousands of free Ber-
liners demonstrated, near Branden-
burg Gate, their devotion to free-
dom.

I shall never forget the meetings
with the young workers, with the
university students of Berlin, meet-
ings at which one could sense their
dedication to the cause of liberty.

I shall never forget the young
FDJ people who came across to
West Berlin from the East in order
to breathe freedom, talk in freedom
and take inspiration from it.

yy THIS great city there have

been beautiful hours in your the-
aters, your opera houses and concert
halls. There has been the friend-
liness of the people. There has been
and there is always that special Ber-
liner Luft (Air).

The people of the United States
feel close to the people of Berlin.
The American representatives in this

INFORMATION BULLETIN

city, civil’ and military, are made to
feel at home here. Those of us who
leave will always want to come back.
All of us hope that the day is not
too far off when this city will be
united in peace and freedom; when
Berlin will be a great crossroads of
Europe; when artistic, economic and
political activities will flourish in
Berlin in keeping with the spirit
and talents of its brave citizens.

RIAS

Text of a radio address delivered
over Radio Station RIAS follows.

C- IS easy for those of us who

live in freedom to speak -re-
sounding phrases to those who are
not free. In the West it is simple for
us to make promises, but in the East
it is bitter for you when hopes are
disappointed. For that reason I
shall try to speak with restraint
today.

Very soon, after serving three
years as United States High Com-
missioner for Germany, I shall re-
turn home. Shortly thereafter my
successor will arrive in Germany. It
would be unthinkable for me, how-
ever, to leave Germany,without talk-
ing over RIAS to you. What I shall
say to you is what all Americans
would say if they could speak for
themselves today.

First of all, millions of people in
the Free World feel gratitude and
admiration for you—men, women
and young people— in recognition
of the steadfast endurance you are
displaying against Communist dic-
tatorship. We know the hardships
this entails and the limitations it
produces. Your determination to
gain freedom gives us determination
to protect it where it exists and to
try to extend it where it is sup-
pressed.

The free world knows that most
of you are not in a position to put
up militant resistance. We know,
however, that among millions in the
East Sector and in the East Zone
there is a deep religious and spir-
itual resistance and that you will
not give in to the pressure and
threats against you. Since in your
hearts and minds you will never ac-
cept dictatorship and its concepts,
you are already on the road to free-
dom. The day will come when you
will be united in peace and freedom
with the rest of Germany and the
rest of Europe.

"THERE are deep reasons for this
belief.

It is the logic of modern history
that the peoples living in the area
of the East Zone and of the Federal
Republic belong together. Just as
Hitler’s brutal attack on the East

30

flaunted the lessons of history and’
led to the slavery in which you now
live, so does history prove that other
peoples cannot for long rule over
Germans in areas where the Ger-
mans should rightly rule themselves.

The force of history is such that
right must and will replace wrong
and it is right for Germany to be
united in freedom.

There is a second reason why the
present enslavement of the East
Zone cannot last. In our modern
world dictatorship over foreign
peoples has had only temporary suc-
cess. It is never lasting—no more
than Hitler’s was. Soviet dictatorship
over non-Russians is also bound to
end. There is no reason why it
should not end peacefully. It is un-
natural and impossible for the Soviet
rulers long to continue their rule
over the Germans, the Poles, the
Czechs and many other peoples who
seek freedom.

There is another reason why free-
dom in peace will come. That is the
solid growth of the European-Atlan-
tic community.

During the past year free peoples.
of Europe and the world have been
coming together to pool their re-
sources and manpower, to unite
their purposes and their defenses so
that the Communist aggressors will
hesitate to move against them. By
its nature and intent this community
is non-aggressive and no non-ag-
gressor need ever fear it.

THE European-Atlantic commu-
nity, however, is more than a
defense community; it is and will
become increasingly a strong eco-
nomic, political and psychological
center of attraction. It will exert
peaceful influence everywhere. Inev-
itably this peaceful community will
attract peoples who seek freedom.
The day will come when the
Kremlin will be unable to withstand
this natural, powerful but peaceful
pressure. It will some day recognize
that in place of sham peace cam-
paigns, instead of disruptive moves
to weaken the free peoples, an
honest peace with the Free World
will better serve Russia’s interests.
An honest peace must have certain
conditions. One of them is the unifi-
cation in peace and freedom of Ger-.
many. It is a firm basis of American |
policy that the German people
should be united and that we should
do everything possible to aid that:
unification. We have set forth that
pledge in the Contractual Agree-
ments and we mean it. We mean it
because the peaceful unification of
Germany in freedom will help bol-
ster peace throughout the world.
In the coming weeks there may be
more exchanges of notes or talk of
preliminary investigation of selec-

JULY 1952

--- Page 34 ---
tion conditions in the East Zone. We
shall take every honest step. to
achieve free elections and unifica-
tion. We shall not, however, allow
ourselves to be trappéd by Soviet
threats and tactics. We shall not fal-
ter in our firm advance towards the
erection of a strong, united European
community. We know that the
people of the East Zone desire and
support this policy.

There is another Allied policy
which, I am certain, has the ardent
backing of the people of the East
Zone. And that is unflinching, firm
support for West Berlin.

‘HE American people are giving

important aid to the economy
of Berlin to counteract Soviet
strangulation efforts against the
brave people of that city. You know
of the guarantees which Britain,
France and the United States have
given to Berlin. They were only
recently repeated by Secretary
Acheson on his recent visit to Ber-
lin. The reason for the association
of the West with the fate of Berlin
is clear. Berliners have made their
city a symbol of freedom for the
entire world and Berlin is the sym-
bol of German unity.

Freedom and unification of the
people of Germany will not be a
threat to the peoples in the satellite
nations now living under Soviet
domination. Freedom for those peo-
ples—the Poles, the Czechs, the
Hungarians, the Rumanians, etc.—
will not be a threat to Germany.
The blood and tear-stained history
of Eastern Europe in the last cen-
tury is a warning to us all. I believe
that the German people and the
Slavic peoples must live together in
respect and friendship; that they
must never again allow hatred to
guide their affairs. There is room
enough in central and in -eastern
Europe for all; there is only one
way for all peoples and that is
tolerance and peace among them.

MY FINAL words are directed

to the youth of the East Zone.
The young men and women, the
boys and girls of the East Zone are
certain to see the day of German
unification in freedom and peace.
The fact that you will be free cit-
zens of a free Europe imposes ob-
ligations on you.

We know that a majority of the
young people of the East Zone, de-
spite the blue shirt that many of
you must wear, seeks the free
way of life. You have a special
responsibility not to allow yourselves
to be misused against the best in-
terests of a united Germany and a
United Europe. It is not the shirt
you wear, but the things you do that
1s important. I repeat, do not allow
yourselves to be misused against your

JULY 1952

parents, your neighbors and against
your comrades in the free world.

The day is coming when all of us
will live together in greater prosper-
ity and in peace and freedom.

Chronology
continued from page 5

Departing from Germany July 21,
1952, he left behind him a Germany
on the verge of full and equal par-
ticipation with five other European
nations in the European Defense
Community and the Schuman Plan,
a Germany on the verge of acquiring
virtually complete authority over its
internal and external affairs and
effectively aligned with the West
against the Soviet danger. He left a
Germany which has demonstrated its
willingness and capability to main-
tain a democratic form of govern-
ment and to reject radicalism from
right and left.

Broadly speaking, US policy aims
in the last three years have been:

1. To help Germany toward stable,
democratic government and greater
sovereignty.

2. To lead Germany to closer as-
sociations with other free nations.

3. To assist Germany in becoming
economically healthy.

4. To cement US-German friend-
ship.

5. To further German unification
in freedom.

1. Developing Democracy

The US view has been that the
Germans could best learn democracy
by doing, that it was essential to
grant the Germans progressively
more responsibility for handling
their own affairs. The rightness of
this view has been borne out by
events. The turning over of more
responsibility to German authorities
has been attended by an increase in
support for moderate, democratic
parties. In the Bundestag (legislative)
elections of Aug. 14, 1949, the people
of the future Federal Republic over-
whelmingly rejected radicalism.
They have maintained this attidude.
On the extreme left, the Communist
vote has dropped from between 10
and 15 percent to around five per-
cent. On the right, extremist and
neo-Nazis had a brief rise to about
10 percent in Lower Saxony in 1951,
but have not been able to follow
this up in other areas.

31

Aug. 15,
destag.
Sept. 7, 1949 — First assembly of Bun-
destag and Bundesrat (Federal Council)
in Bonn.

Sept. 20, 1949 — Federal Government
formed under Chancellor Adenauer.
Sept. 21, 1949 — First meeting of Allied
High Commission at Petersberg. Basic
Law and Occupation Statute come into
effect.

Nov. 24, 1949 — High Commissioners and
Federal Chancellor sign Petersberg Pro-
tocol, first agreement concluded since
the war with a German government.
Under it, Federal Government assumés
responsibilities in establishing represen-
tation abroad, furthering democratic
government in Germany and in assisting
establishment of competitive economy.

Nov. 29, 1949 — US High Commissioner
abolishes licensing of political parties in
US Zone. Soon followed by British and
French.

May 26, 1952 — Conventions restoring
Germany authority over internal and
external affairs signed at Bonn.

2. Integration of Germany into
the Western Community

The Schuman Plan and the Euro-
pean Defense Community are the
culminate of US efforts toward a
united Europe associated with the
free world, in which the Federal
Republic has equal rights and equal
responsibilities.

May 11, 1949 — US Secretary of State
announces in a press conference that
US policy aims to fit.Germany into the
family of free European nations.

Aug. 24, 1949 — Atlantic Pact goes into
eae

et. 26, 1949 — Federal Republic appli
to join OEEC. P i)
Nov, 22, 1949 — Petersberg Protocol opens
way for Germany to join international
organization. Germany joins Interna-
tional Ruhr Authority of the Ruhr.
May 13, 1950 — Foreign Ministers’ Con-
ference in London emphasizes that Ger-
many should progressively re-enter Eu-
ropean community.
June 20, 1950 — Negotiations on Schuman
Plan begin in Paris.

July 13, 1950 — Federal Republic joins
Council of Europe.

Aug. 23. 1950 — Mr. McCloy promises
that Europe’s defense will be strength-
ened and suggests joint effort.

Sept. 19, 1950 — New York Foreign Min-
isters’ Conference announces that Allied
forces in Germany will be increased and
state of war with Germany will be
ended. Allies will treat attack on Federal
Republic as attack on themselves.
Sept. 28, 1950 — GATT tariff conference
begins at Torquay, England, with Ger-
many participating for first time.

Nov. 8, 1950 — Chancellor Adenauer de-
clares Germany willing to contribute
Western defense on basis of equality.

Nov. 25, 1950 — Mr. McCloy states that
German defense contribution will nei-
ther be bought nor coerced.

Dec. 19, 1950 — NATO countries in Brus-
sels agree on plans for defense force
under General Eisenhower. Germany
will be invited to participate. High Com-
missioners authorized to negotiate with
Germans, including problem of changes
in occupation status logically attending
defense contribution.

Dec. 21, 1950 — High Commissioners in-
form Chancellor Adenauer of Brussels
decisions.

Jan. 9, 1951 — Petersberg discussions on
defense contribution begin.

April 18, 1951 — Schuman Plan treaty
signed in Paris.

Aug. 3, 1951 — First phase of talks on
defense contribution and _ contractual
agreement ending occupation completed.
Report to governments.

Sept. 14, 1951 — In Washington, Foreign
Ministers announce that Occupation

1949 — Elections to the Bun-

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 35 ---
Status will be ended and new relation-
ship begin with German participation
in Western defense.

Sept. 24, 1951 — Second round of nego-
tiations on contractual agreements begin
at Mehlem.

Oct. 19, 1951 — State of war between
the United States and Germany is
ended. Participating governments an-
nounce Ruhr Authority will be dissolved
on coming into effect of Schuman Plan.
Dec. 30, 1951 — Paris meetings on Eu-
ropean Defense Community treaty con-
cluded.

Feb. 7, 1952 — Bundestag approves Ger-
man defense contribution.

Feb. 19, 1952 — Meeting of Foreign Min-
isters with Chancellor Adenauer in Lon-
don concluded. Way cleared for con-
tractual agreement and EDC treaty.
May 26, 1952 — Conventions ending oc-
cupation signed in Bonn.

May 27, 1952 — EDC Treaty signed in
Paris.

3. Economic Progress

Another important aim of US
policy has been to help Germany to
get back on its own feet economical-
ly. This has been done partly by
relaxing restrictions on German in-
dustry and partly by granting direct
financial aid to enable Germany to
import necessary food and raw
materials. The counterpart funds
resulting from this aid have been
made available for investment in
such key sectors as housing for pro-
ductive workers, particularly miners,
and needed capital investment in the
basic industries such as mining and
power. Nearly $1,500,000,000 in direct
US aid has flowed into Germany
since the war.

The results are impressive:

The index of production has risen
from 87 in July, 1949, to 136, in July
1952.

Unemployment has remained
steady at about 1,500,000 while the
working force has increased from
about 14,500,000 to 16,000,000. The
number of employed has increased
from 13,500,000 to 14,500,000.

Germany’s export trade has in-
creased from $260,000,600 to
950,000,000.

The US High Commissioner has
taken the initiative in relaxing re-
strictions on German industry.
Nov. 22, 1949 — Petersberg Protocol ends
dismantling in the Federal Republic.
Dec. 15, 1949 — Chancellor Adenauer and
Mr. McCloy sign ECA agreement.

Jan. 16, 1950 — It is possible for Ger-
man Government to announce end of
food rationing.

Sept. 4, 1950 — Mr. McCloy states that
German trade unions are entitled to
full support in efforts to gain a higher
standard of living for the worker.
Sept. 14, 1950 — Law No. 27, incorpo-
rating US plans for breaking up the old
Ruhr coal and steel syndicates, approved
by High Commission.

Sept. 28, 1950 — In keeping with New
York Foreign Ministers’ decisions, all
restrictions lifted on shipbuilding for
export. August Thyssen plant output
increase approved.

April 3, 1951 — Prohibited and Limited
Industries Agreement replaced by new,
more liberal industrial agreement.

Oct. 19, 1951 — Announcement is made
that Ruhr Authority and all restrictions

INFORMATION BULLETIN

on German coal and steel industries will
be removed on entry into force of the
Schuman Plan.

May 26, 1952 — Conventions ending oc-
cupation provide for removal of controls
over German industry.

During this period, the United
States has also been able to persuade
the Federal Government to introduce
effective measures to prevent ex-
port strategic goods to the Soviet
orbit.

4. US-German Friendship

By his official acts and his per-
sonal example, Mr. McCloy has
always furthered good relations be-
tween Germans and Americans. Ger-
mans know him to be a good friend.
Through the Special Projects Fund
he has helped countless worthwhile
causes in Germany. Exchanges have
cemented friendship between the
two countries rooted in personal
contact. America Houses have be-
come a valued part of German cul-
tural and community life.

Feb. 6, 1950 — At Stuttgart, Mr. McCloy
by the policy of friendly coopera-
ion.
May 28, 1950 — Allies in Berlin remain
steadfast in face of Whitsuntide Com-
munist-youth rally.
May 22, 1950 — Mr. McCloy opened
Hanover America House, first outside the
US Zone.
Oct. 24, 1950 — Freedom Bell is dedicated
in Berlin.
April 24, 1951 — Mr. McCloy announces
US authorities will not return political
refugees to Soviet orbit countries.
May 1, 1951 — Radio Free Europe begins
broadcasts to countries behind the Iron
Curtain.
June 18, 1951 — Plan for future 15 per-
manent America Houses, 35 branch li-
braries, 3 bookmobiles and 3 Institutes
for American Studies announced.
Aug. 17, 1951 — Mr. McCloy presents
check for DM 5,000,000 to mayor of Berlin
for construction of American Memorial
Library. He meets and talks with FDJ
members from East Germany.

5. Unification in Freedom

This is the only principle point of
US policy in Germany which has not
yet been achieved. It has not been
achieved because the Soviet author-
ities have as yet not consented to
the free elections necessary to ensure
that the unification will be a unifi-
cation in freedom.

Feb. 28, 1950 — Mr. McCloy states that
unification of Germany remains a major
objective of US policy. He criticizes
suppression of free elections in the East
Zone.

May 26, 1950 — In a letter to Soviets,
Allied High Commissioners propose steps
toward unification. Suggest discussions
on election law.

June 21, 1951 — Paris Conference of Dep-
uty Foreign Ministers ends without
agreement on an agenda after 73 fruit-
less meetings.

Oct. 18, 1951 — Mr. McCloy reiterates
US desire for unification. Calls integra-
tion into West best way to achieve unity.
Dec. 20, 1951 — UN General Assembly
appoints neutral commission to inves-
tigate election conditions in Germany.
This commission is never admitted to
Soviet Zone.

Feb. 22, 1952 — Allies transmit to So-
viets draft election law and ask again
for steps toward unity.

32

Recent Publications

Annual Economic Review, Office of Eco-
nomic Affairs, HICOG (Mehlem), A-
pril 14, 1952. Review of economic de-
velopments in the Federal Republic
of Germany during 1951.

Report of the Bank deutscher Laender
for the Year 1951 (English edition),
Pressestelle, Bank deutscher Laender,

Frankfurt/M, Taunusanlage 4/5, May
28, 1951. Official German financial
statement.

Information Bulletin for May, Informa-
tion Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), June 13, 1952.

Realites Allemandes (Facts on Ger-
many), No. 40, Chief Office of Political
Affairs, High Commission of the French
Republic in Germany, June 13, 1952.
Official French report for April.

Convention of Relations between the
Three Powers and the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany and Related Conven-
tions, Office of Executive Secretary,
HICOG (Mehlem), June 13, 1952. Text
of documents at Bonn on May 26.

Annual Labor Report, Office of Labor
Affairs, HICOG (Mehlem), June 15,
1952. Review of labor developments in
the Federal Republic of Germany
during 1951.

Der Geist von 1776 (The Spirit of 1776),
Special Publications Staff, Information
Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), June 27, 1952.
Pamphlet explaining to the Germans
the significance of the Fourth of July
in the United States.

Information Bulletin for June, Informa-
tion Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Frankfurt), June 30, 1952.

Der Monat (The Month), No. 46, Informa-
tion Division, Office of Public Affairs,
HICOG (Berlin), July 1, 1952. Monthly
international magazine in German for
July.

Background Letter, Publications Branch,
Information Services Division, Control
Commission for Germany (British Ele-
ment), July 7, 1952. Compilation of the
official statements and notices con-
tained in the 79 Background Letters
issued at frequent intervals during 1951.

Report on Germany, 10th Quarterly,
Office of the US High Commissioner
for Germany, July 11, 1952. Official US
report covering the quarter of Jan. 1
to March 31.

Bibliography of ECA/MSA Housing

Articles published in the Information
Bulletin concerning ECA/MSA assistance
to housing projects in Germany include:

Housing for Europe’s People (pictorial),
February 1950, page 57.

New Homes for Refugees by John E.
McGowan, May 1950, page 11.

ERP House Building in Schleswig-Hol-
stein (Pictorial), September 1950, pages
8-9.

800 New Dwellings for Refugees Ded-
icated, October 1950, page 57.

The Sonthofen Case by Alfred T.
Schadde, December 1950, page 17.

ERP Providing Homes by William T.
Neel, April 1951, page 33.

Big New Housing Projects for Bavaria,
July 1951, page 2.

From Niessen Huts to New Homes (pic-
torial), August 1951, page 36.

Phoenix at Reichwald by Cherry Lou
Fellner, October 1951, page 3.

More Homes for Germans by Bernard
Wagner, December 1951, page 21.

ECA Housing Exposition Goes on Tour,
March 1952, page 22.

MSA Miners’ Housing Program,

1952, page 24.

May

JULY 1952

--- Page 36 ---
Homes for Refugees

Life began anew for the family of Karl Fischer, 42-
year-old mechanic of Nuremberg, on moving into the
first of the 15 housing development projects sponsored
and financed by the ECA/MSA Mission to Germany.
Behind them were ten years of hardship, including loss
of their home in Czechoslovakia, the father’s seven years
as a prisoner of war in Russia, the mother’s three years
as a slave laborer followed by expulsion in 1948, life in
a crowded Bavarian refugee camp and commuting 24
miles daily to work.

Located in suburban Nuremberg-Langwasser, their
new apartment has three rooms, kitchen and bath, and
rents for DM 54 ($13) a month. It is one of 200 apart-
ments in the Nuremberg project in progress in 15 cities,
costing DM 40,000,000 ($9,520,000) from ECA counter-
part funds, to demonstrate new construction methods at
low cost for healthy, modern, low-rent dwelling units
for workers. The apartments are for bombed-out and
refugee workers like the Fischers, a family of five.

(For bibliography see opposite page)

(above) Neighbors watch the Fischers
leave their former quarters in the
refugee camp. Here six other families
occupied the same room with them.
(below) View of the MSA/ECA hous-
ing developing where the Fischers
have their new apartment.

(MSA photos by Heine)

lacking in old quarters Before.and after: Mrs. Fischer - - - pleased with her new stove.

‘eg oR |

--- Page 37 ---
Mrs. Ellen McCloy, wife of the US High Commissioner, participated in the
cornerstone-laying ceremony of the Apprentice Training Center in Berlin
June 13. Construction of this center, which will initially provide training
facilities for approximately 200 West Berlin youths, is being financed by a
HICOG Special Projects Fund grant of DM 470,000 ($111,860), supplemented
by DM 200,000 ($47,600) of German Government funds. (BE HICOG photo)

3